

0 
Boy, do we need a humor writer! 
Heg, if gou think gou could be the future resident jokester at 
Scholastic 
contact Rmg Weber at 239-5029 


Scholastic 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine .. 

:cffot.::/···Wliht'§ fu;.nw~? As 
NotreDaill{()pyrlS Jp ill19!38 f&@~Ji;i ...... 
is.~l8~ igfilhstMiciligan,L9u Holtz h~ tc} an~\1/ei the qtiJti6p Af) :'h?i.\\ he wm fillthe :vacancies nllboth lines. . . . . . . . b>7Jjrri]q~ggio/ Page12 · · · 
'fli::-t~~!·w,i.:~j;t.i:t-;!i=z~1htij~.f .• 
. ~~tliipg)o fa(to gelrid ofthe nickname. . . . . ~y~evJn, ~oughalffageJS · · 
News See Ya Later ... Tailgaters?In light of task force reports, stricter enforcement of univer­sity policies regarding tailgaters awaits this season. Although some students remain wary, a 
seven-game home schedule will give security all it can handle. by Brian Cody /Page 7 
Features That Insane Irish Spirit A new spirit group named Irish Insanity is roaming the campus, hoping to revive what founder Erich Straub considers flagging student spirit. 
by Maggie Sieger /Page 10 

Sports Sportsweek A roundup of lesser-known varsity sports. /Page17 
Departments Week in Distortion Don't be surprised when you see Jill Adamonis cringe when the Michigan band strikes it up. /Page 3 
On Other Campuses Proposition 48: A failure? /Page 4 Music Offerings from a new wave of women artists are popping up all over./ Page 5 
Movies "Married to the Mob,"_J new film by Jonathan Demme, is worth your while. /Page 6 Calendar What's going on at Notre Dame/St. Mary's, the region and Chicago/ Page 20 Ernie Pook's Comeek "Maybonne's Diary" /Page 24 
Life in Hell 

Editorial "Not to be taken lightly": Notre Dame should ban night games. /Page 23 
EditorlarSt~ff.. ... Sports: ~evin $oughal · News: Andy• Hilger News: Mike Wieber Copy: Joe Maloney Features: Maggie Sieger Departments: Amy Weber 
Production . . ..\ ... ,•.: 

Systems Manager: Matt langie ••• Graphics Arts Mariager Vivienne P:acli(la . 
< •·••·.··• 

Scholastic is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 nd printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/ycar and back issues arc available at $1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in 

cholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts arc All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic. 
All ri hts reserved. Re roduction in whole or in 


Letters 
Dear Readers, 

to those of you who pick up the magazine in the dining halls from those of us who 
Those of you who are familiar with listen and look for reaction as we sit down Scholastic' s format over the past few years across the table. are right now in the process of stumbling The reasoning behind this exercise is upon a feature that is new to you: the letter two-fold: firstly, in a wave of egotism, 

we've gotten the desire to tell you a little 
about us, to tell you a little about how we 
operate, to tell you a little about why and 
how a story or a photograph or a drawing 
comes about. 
Secondly, we'd like to encourage you to 
tell us a little about you, a little about how 

you operate, a little about how a Scholastic 
feature affected, or didn't affect, you. 

Every week, this space will explain. It will relate problems that may or may not have found satisfactory solutions. What it will not do is tell you about one of our editor's summer vacation or the pain of a broken heart or anything too personal. We're not quite that self-indulgent We're talking about the magazine·here. We may be egotistical, but I'm letting you know our limits right now. 
Right here, on this letters page, is the only opportunity for us to speak directly to you. And vice versa. Think of it this way: we're talking to you. So you're perfectly welcome to talk back to us. 
If what you read here about the magazine business interests you, or if something you see in the magazine annoys or intrigues you, tell us, tell everyone. Write. 
Through the very existence of this page, we're letting you know that the magazine doesn't appear on Thursday from some giant vacuum. Let us know the equivalent. But one request please send me no letters for publication that do not relate to Scholastic or an issue that the magazine discusses. Not that we don't care. On the contrary. Come talk to our editors. We're always trying to gauge student concern~ And maybe then we'll tell you about our summer vacations. We just won't print the oh-so-sordid details. 

The magazines such as Time and Newsweek, and of course, Sports Illus­trated, which we attempt ( often not too successfully) to emulate, all follow similar policies concerning letters. So I'll look to the pros for my precedent, which is after all where we got the idea for this new tradi­tion. 
Regards, Kathleen McKernan Editor in chief 
Scholastic 
. 

WEEK IN DISTORTION/ Amy Weber 

I HATE MICHIGAN, TOO 
Don't be surprised ifyou see senior Jill Adamonis cringe when the 
Michigan Band strikes it up 
A h ... the days of football are almost upon us: the days ofplaid-pant­wearing, brat-eating and fanatically standing for three hours, because you want to. This Saturday, Notre Dame's Fighting Irish take the field for their season opener against long-time rival, the University of Michigan. Breen Phillips Hall Resident Assistant Jill Adamonis recalls the younger days (her younger days, that is) of the Notre Dame/Michigan rivalry. Jill's house might as well have been one that Rockne built: her grandfather and father went to Notre Dame and her mother attended Saint Mary's College. You know where that family will be on football Saturdays. And you can bet Jill and her sister, Amy (ND class of '92), don the blue and gold whenever the opportunity arises. Except, of course, when the Fighting Irish battle the blue and maize Wolverines of Michigan: the Adamonis clan suits up in green so no one mistakes their loyalty. Now it seems Jill, already an aspiring third-generation Domer at the age of nine, worked diligently at becoming a fine clar­inetest. She practiced and practiced, knowing one day she would be able to list this talent on her ND admission applica­tion. She might even be able to write that "personal" essay on how wonderful playing the clarinet makes her feel, how it sets her heart free and allows her-to reveal her inner self. (Any of you who can remember writing that essay should know the feeling.) Jill was a member of her grade school band back in Dayton, Ohio, and she never gave the band director any problem. Until one cool, October day that is. Jill had perfected her clarinet assignment for that day's band practice and was ready to perform. She enjoyed practicing with the entire band; it always gave the piece coherence. Jill was no longer just an 

#'~ 
individual playing a few notes. Now, she was a member of a team that made real 
music. 
Memorizing the timing and direction to "Hail to the Victors" had not been too difficult the night before and she was anxious to hear what the piece really sounded like. It was so difficult to tell the true melody when she played alone. The band director signaled for the music to begin, and after the first stanza, Jill Adamonis placed her clarinet on the music stand, refusing to play. 
The director stopped the practice and turned to Jill, one of his better performers, and asked what the problem was. Why had she deliberately stopped playing her clarinet in the middle of the song? Jill informed him that she couldn't play this particular piece of music. When th~ director pressed the fourth-grader for the reason, Jill simply stated, "That's the Michigan Fight Song." Puzzled, the director requested further information. Jill said flatly, "I won't play the Michigan Fight Song; I hate Michigan." 
Needless to say, the band director was a little upset with little Miss Adamonis. No 
.. -·­

nine-year-old was going to tell him what music she would and would not play. In the true, mature, spirit of grammar school discipline, the band director informed this young rebel that he was going to call her father. Jill wasn't worried. 
The director, indeed, did call Mr. Ada­monis to inform him of his daughter's obstinance. He told Jill's father that Jill was not listening to instructions. Mr. Adamonis was not happy. His older daughter had never given anyone any problem, so he asked for a further explana­tion. It was at this time that the band director revealed Jill's miscue: she had refused to play "Hail to the Victors" that day in band practice because it was the Michigan Fight Song and she hated Michigan. 
Jill was right, she didn't have any reason to be worried. Her father paused a mo­ment, then he chuckled and said, "I don't blame her for not playing it. I hate Michigan, too." 
Jill remained in the school band a few more years. And she never had to play the Michigan Fight Song.II 

On Other Campuses 




And Study They Did 
The Effects ofProposition 48 after two years 
EDITED BY MARK FLAHARTY 
Proposition 48 is working. It has been two years since the NCAA adopted Bylaw 5-1-(j) -better known as Proposition 48. The proposition makes incoming freshman student-athletes ineligible to par­ticipate in varsity sports for one year if they fail to meet a certain grade and test score standard. It now appears, in a study conducted by the Ann Arbor News, that those students admitted under the stigma of Proposition 48 are doing an unexpectedly good job of not only staying in, but also succeeding in school. The survey of all 105 Division I-A football schools shows that 79 percent of all "Prop-48 's" are still in college competing both on the field and in the classroom .... Way to go guys! 
Top high school athletes are no longer the only ones 
being heavily recruited by the nation's top universities. These days, colleges are courting black students with good academic records as aggressively and resource­fully as they do successful athletes. At a time when racial tensions are at an unusual high on campuses this comes as refreshing news. During the last two years, a number of campuses across the country have been disrupted or embarrassed by racial conflicts, the Chi­cago Tribune reported. To appease this tension, universities have intensified their efforts to attract more black students and faculty members to their campuses. 
For the eighth year in succesion, the price for a college education has increased more than the nation's general rate of inflation. The average student will pay approximately 7 percent more for tuition this academic year, reports the College Press Service . At the same time, inflation has risen only 4 percent since a year ago. A question asked by many concerned students is: Can I afford this increase? Bruce Carnes, deputy undersecre­tary of education, had this to say in response: "People want to get a college degree and will pay whatever it takes to get it." ... This is true Bruce, but let's be reasonable! 

A University of Illinois student was arrested last week for breaking into the First Presbyterian Church in Champaign. Holland Wade Holt, 19, was arrested early last Tuesday morning in connection with the incident, the Daily Illini reported. Police found Holt locked in a stall in the women's bathroom. His reason for the break-in: "I had to use the bathroom." ... Wrong answer Holland! II 



MUSIC/ Keith Tadrowski 
Chalk one up for the women 
Tracy Chapman, Jane Siberry and the Sugarcubes are part ofa new wave ofwomen in the record industry. 
Mankind is in trouble. And by the word mankind, I strictly mean man. First, women obtained the right to vote, then they started taking men's jobs and now they're producing the best music. When rock music started, it was an exclusive men'~ club, with Elvis Presley and Chuck Berry at the helm. But today, strangely enough, it seems women are producing a majority of the most interest­ing and creative music. One of the finest albums of the year is the debut album by Tracy Chapman, a stun­ning blend of folk and rock formed with skeletal rhythms and strummed acoustic guitar. One of Chapman's finest aspects is her haunting lyrics which tackle such unlikely topics as wife beating ("Behind the Wall"), race riots ("Across the Lines"), and suicide ("She's Got Her Ticket"). Perhaps her lyrics could become over­bearing at times, but she saves them by juxtaposing her words with catchy melo­dies; in "Talkin' bout a Revolution", her next single, the listener barely realizes that this upbeat song is an ode to anarchy and the uprising of the poor. With such powerful songs, Chapman has definitely 
Sugarcubes, a new band from Iceland vocals, and jangly guitars keep this three proved to "be someone", as she longs for 
which has just released its debut album, female band interesting. Book of Love's in her great, but overplayed hit, "Fast Car". 
Life's too Good . Singer and frontperson new disc Lullaby includes a number of Jane Siberry, a Canadian performer, is as of the band, Bjork wraps her voice around great dance songs with breathy female . 
repected as David Byrne and as popular as 
the band's guitar rock with incredible vocals, including the Exorcist theme put to Madonna in her home country, but still 
intensity and uncommon phrasing, often a house beat. 
remains virtually unknown here -?n the 
complemented by the monotone of her With other exciting artists such as Kate States. It's a pity because Siberry is 
male sidekick Einer. Bush; Sinead O'Conner, Laurie Anderson, producing some of the most innovative 
Whether playing the role of a woman who and the Voice of the Beehive (yet to be music on the market. Her third and best searches for car accidents or singirig of an released in America), men seem to be in a 
album.The Walking, again displays her 
affair between a five year old girl and a creative slump. The war of the sexes quirky arrangements, bizarre harmonies, 
bearded man, Bjork is completely compel­may not be over, put at this pace, women and extended synthesizer folk which made 
ling. The world of the Sugarcubes is a might just win in the music war. 
her other albums so enjoyable. 
strange surrealistic dimension where 
Her lyrics are probably the only writing in suicidal naked men are tempted by rock that could genuinely be classified as strawberry cake and God has sideburns and Keith Tadrowski is a senior engineering . 
poetry; her complex storytelling often a quiff. The band claims to have never major from Oakbrook, IL. His music requires a number of readings through the heard rock music and perhaps this is what column will be appearing regularly. ¦ 

Movies/Scott Selig and John Mikulak 
Married to the Mob 
Pythagoras and Weird Beard (revealed for the first time) move from music to movies, andfind an interesting offering from Jonathan Demme 

Welcome to yet another exciting year with Pythago­ras and Weird Beard. This 
year we'll be reviewing movies and video. We figure that our column will be invalu­able since movies are about the only enter­tainment alternative in these days of speak­easies and neo-fascist policies. 

Yes, inebriated of film are we, and thus we present our review of Jonathan Demme's new film, Married To the Mob~ starring Michelle Pfeiffer, Matthew Modine, and Dean Stockwell. The film is a gangster comedy that has Pfeiffer, the widow of a former Mafia hit man, leaving the suburbs and heading for the city to escape her past connections to the mob. Life isn't that easy, though, as Pfeiffer's unpredictable move to the bizzare world of New York's Lower East Side is not enough to hide her past. First, she cannot escape the lustful advances of her late husband's mafia boss and secret killer -played by Stockwell. Secondly, Pfeiffer becomes the object of an FBI surveillance team that hopes to nail the mafia boss. full of garish elements that glorify the between the region's Miskito people and 
The character interplay works well in this neon-plastic fantasies that define common the Sandinista government, and explores film. Modine, an FBI agent who falls in culture. the role of the CIA in the Miskito's war love with Pfeiffer, is charming in a puppy Married To the Mob is a witty and· with the Sandinistas. The film includes dog way; Stockwell presents agreat intelligent comedy and is well worth the rare footage from previously inaccessible caricature of Robert DeNiro's Capone from $4.75 ticket price. It is showing at the Miskito communities near the frontier The Untouchables ; and Pfeiffer gives the Forum III Cinema on US 31 North (near between Nicaragua and Honduras along the comedic performance of her career. Burger King) at 7:00 and 9:30. We highly Coco River. Thousands of refugees in this 
Director Jonathan Demme should be recommend this flick and, hey, the sound­area are now being repatriated from camps credited for deftly blending multiple plot track is just as good! in Honduras to their homelands with the lines and employing witty camera work help of the United Nations. that compliments the intelligent humor of Editor's choice: The film was directed by Ana Carrigan. the script. Demme has a fondness for the She is the author of Salvador Witness, a hand-held shot in this film, along with The University of Notre Dame Institute biography of Jean Donovan, a lay mission­tilted angle shots (reminiscent ofBatman), for Pastoral and Social Ministry is sponsor­ary from the Cleveland Diocese who was and circular camera sweeps. Along with ing the film Peace Peeping Up: Ending one of the four American church workers fellow directing pal, John Waters, Demme Nicaragua's Other War tonight at 7:30 in murdered by Salvadoran National Guards­revels in all that is crass in pop culture, and the Center for Continuing Education. It men in December, 1980. It should be an similar to his previous film Something traces the recent history of Nicaragua's interesting flick, and it's only a hop, skip, Wild, the sets of Married To the Mob are Atlantic coast, examines the relationship and a jump away. Check it out.¦ 

See Ya Later, 
Tailgate rs 
Stricter enforcement of university policies regarding tailgaters awaits this season's home 
football schedule 
BY BRIAN CODY 

-and post-game festivities will 
in full force come this Saturday 

gainst arch-rival Michigan. Green Field, normally quiet and serene, will be transformed into a festive mass of people, cars, ... and beer. This year, however, tailgaters and public drunkenness will be under heavy scrutiny of the administration as well as the security department. 
The Security Department and the Office of Student Affairs will be pressing for stricter enforcement of tailgate parties, especially violations concerning underage drinking. Although there is no new tailgater policy, a crackdown on student­run tailgaters is a major priority. "Students or halls have never been allowed to sponsor tailgaters," said Rex Rakow, director of security. 
Students, however, are unclear about the new planned crackdown. "I heard that there is no new tailgater policy, but that there will be a stricter enforcement of the rules and regulations governing football weekends," said sophomore Mark Brady. 
But the Alcohol Policy and Regulations for 1988-1989 contain few ambiguities concerning tailgating violations. Students who are cited for underage drinking on campus will receive a $300 fine, and any further violation will result in suspension or dismissal from the University. If a student run organization violates this regulation, it will face suspension as an organization for the rest of the academic year and up to one additional year. 
Residence halls that violate this measure will lose their two, all hall semi-formals 
? 


and, if there are further violations, the hall will lose any matching funds from the university for one year. Outside organiza­tions and alumni are allowed to sponsor tailgaters and if students attend these tailgaters, they are warned about Indiana State Law as stated in the Alcohol Policy. 
Rakow said that while tailgaters on Green Field during football weekends have an exceptional status within the larger framework of the alcohol policy, drinking within the boundaries of the main part of campus by-students or alumni will not be tolerated. The Report of the Task Force on the Whole Health and the Use and Abuse of Alcohol addressed this issue when it recommended that "The rule prohibiting the consumption of alcohol in the inner part of the campus should be strictly enforced." 
As in the past, security inside and outside of the stadium will consist of the Notre Dame Security, the local South Bend Police, the St. Joseph's County police, and the Indiana State Troopers. A private security agency was at one time used for the home football games. In the last few years, though, this outside force has only been called upon when an overabundance of people was expected at the stadium. 



Rakow declined to give out the information about the total cost and the amount of security personnel at the home football games. 
Rakow did, however, emphasize that drunkenness will not be tolerated at the football games,· inside or outside of Notre Dame Stadium. Enforcement of this part of the policy has had problems in the past. 
"We want people to have a good time, but we don't want people to take it to ex­tremes. Vulgarity and obscenities by rowdy groups will not be tolerated inside or outside the stadium," stated Chuck Hurley, new member of the Notre Dame Security Force and former member of the South Bend Police Department. 
Some students question whether this can be done. Singling out of the student body by security is a major concern of students. "My experiences at football games show many instances of extreme intoxication by students as well as alumni and parents," said sophomore Amy Thomas. 
"Would the alumni be given exemption 
status if they were found to be intoxicated? I think that there would be a tendency to single out the student body, and not 


individual's behavior will single them out and appropriate action will be taken," he said. 
If a student is found to be intoxicated or in possession of alcohol while inside the stadium, he or she will be removed and could face arrest and referral to Student Affairs. Ifa student is found to be intoxi­

. cated or in possession of alcohol upon entering the stadium, the student's ticket could be confiscated. The same goes for non-students; that is, possible arrest, removal from the game, or confiscation ·of ticket. If necessary, an intoxicated individual would be provided with medical assistance. 
Still, doubts among students linger. "How is security going to measure if someone is drunk or not? Also, people have been com­plaining that we have lost school spirit, and now it seems that these new restrictions on how we express ourselves at the football games will further decrease our spirit," junior Mike Quigley said. 
"They want to put a halt on our so called 

I 
I Sc.m,e l!litu,r..1·11rnlt!I :1.ar llh!ey W111;1n I c1ri11.ckdown iein ·tntl9i111te1r, ·w!llt ,d.;;~mpllil•n :s·!u,et,nt 11ptrilt.
.i . ............"'"""'"'"' ..............""""""""""'"' . ............"'"'"""""""' . ......... """""""'" ..............""""""'"' .....
8 
Scholastic 

---------------~ ----D ~ ,: . 
. . ­


rowdiness, but what is the purpose of the newly established group Irish Insanity? This seems like a contradiction," added junior Mike McCleary. · 
Rakow, however, sees security's function more in crowd control rather than enforce­ment or prosecution. "Most people are well behaved and courteous of others before, during, and after the football games," he said. "But, of course, there always is a handful who get out of hand and go overboard in their behavior," said Rakow. 
A change in the policy of pass outs is another change for this season. Until this year, the pass out policy allowed spectators to leave the game at any time and then re­enter as long as they had their ticket stub. For the upcoming 1988 football season, pass outs will not be allowed. Security hopes that this will cut down on alcohol intake during the game. 
"Now you can't leave the game at 
halftime to go out to your car and have a 
couple of beers," said Rakow. He also 


One policy recommendation by the Report of the Task Force not instituted was the cancellation of all night home games. The Task Force felt that night games promoted intoxication by providing more ' available hours to consume alcohol. "Since alcohol consumption and public drunkenness increase substantially when home footqall games are scheduled in the evening and the combination of greater alcohol consumption, automobile operation and darkness increase danger to all University guests, the scheduling of evening football games shall be prohi~ 
:I 

ited." Despite this recommendation, so far both Michigan and Stanford have been scheduled as evening games for this year. 
·"Notre Dame is a class act, and we want to exemplify Notre Dame to people outside of our community. We want everyone to 
enjoy all of the football games without too many incidents. I hope it will be an enjoyable, successful, and safe season for everyone," concluded Rakow. 
¦ 



That Insane Irish Spirit 
A new campus group is stirring up spirit at Notre Dame. 
BY MAGGIE SIEGER 
For the past two weeks, Erich Straub, a junior in St Edward's Hall, has been "running around campus 
trying to get people together" for his new spirit group, Irish Insanity. The group is devoted to encouraging student craziness before, during and after Notre Dame sporting events. 
The idea for Irish Insanity grew from Straub's campaign for junior class presi­dent last spring. "I ran for the office and my platform had a lot of ideas for school spirit," Straub said. "About 10 years ago, the Notre Dame student body was given the Most Valuable Player award during a basketball game. That was a big deal 

Director) Bill Hickey and found out that 
because it had never happened before. Last With games like Miami and Michigan, 
there was a picnic scheduled for tomorrow we're expecting more people and it would year, Al McGuire, on national T.V., 
before the pep rally. That hasn't been be nicer outside. 
basically said (the student body) was 

lame." publicized. It seems no one knows what "It seems as though more people from anyone else has planned and there's a lot of North Quad go to the pep rallies. They go 
But Straub is quick to defend existing 

wasted potential for co-ordinating events." to dinner and then go on over. I don't
student enthusiasm. "It's not that Notre Dame spirit isn't great," he said. "Notre The picnic has been arranged so students know for certain, though. This is just on the can go immediately to the pep rally after 
Dame has the best tradition in college basis of informal polling." 
eating. "The picnic will be on Stepan
athletics. But, we need more creativity, Mike Paese, Notre Dame student body 
Field. People will finish eating around 
more spontaneity. (The students) can do vice-president, said student government 
more than we're doing." 6:30, which is when the crowd for the pep loaned Irish Insanity $100 for a band 
The 20 member group has two basic ,rally starts to assemble. So, hopefully, during the pre-pep rally picnic. "That has we'll retain a lot of students for the pep 
purposes, according to Straub. The first is kind of fallen through," said Straub. "I'll 
rally," said Kevin Mochen, president of the
to create more communication among the return the money if nothing works out." pep rally committee. 
various campus organizations that are Straub has also talked with Notre Dame involved in encouraging spirit The second This week's pep rally will be held Band directors about the possibility of the is to "get people crazy." outdoors on Stepan Courts because of the band marching around each quad ­numbers expected at the rally, according to
"The best thing at a footballor basketball picking up students for subsequent pep game is for the crowd to be nuts," Straub Machen. "This first (pep rally) will be rallies -rather than along its usual path. outside and then we'll move back into 
said. "Of course, Saturday is green day so "A while ago, marching around the 
Stepan Center," said Mochen. "It mainly 
that we're not confused with Michigan's campus to pick the students up was 
has to do with the temperature difference 
colors. Everyone should wear green to the traditional," said Laura Silva, Notre Dame as the season progresses. But, we'll see if
game." band member. "It's a nice idea." we can get (the Miami pep rally) outside. 
"I talked with (University Food Service The band will march around South Quad before heading to the pep rally Friday evening, according to Notre Dame Lepre­chaun Ray Lopez. "I've had some contact with (Irish Insanity)," Lopez said. "We've discussed different ideas for the year. I think the concept is a good one." 



Lopez said he has a few tricks tucked away for the football season. "They're the Leprechaun secrets that are passed down each year. The seniors may recognize some old tricks and there are some new ones as well." 
"We've got two new cheers that I think the students are really going to like," he continued. "One has to do with the House that Rock built and the other mentions the one thing on this campus that everyone talces the most pride in. I'll let you guess what that is." 
"Irish Insanity's job is more outside the stadium," said Straub. "We have a lot of activities planned for the football season and we hope that the momentum will carry us into basketball." 
Irish Insanity, along with several other student groups, will be selling blue and gold "Domer Hankies" all this week in the dining halls and before the pep rally and game, said Tom Tisa, senior class presi­dent. "If the sale of the hankies and the face painting are successful this week, we'll continue with them throughout the season," Tisa said. 
"I think (Irish Insanity) is a fun idea," said Lisa Jochum, senior class vice-president. "Heck, if they want to do all the work and organization -more power to them." 
Tonight, Irish Insanity will perform skits in the dining halls during dinner to herald the arrival of the first home game weekend. Free face painting will be done Saturday. Other planned events are being kept secret by the group. 
"The Student Union Board is looking into working with Irish Insanity to promote and expand the possible events and activities that can be offered (to the student body)," said Brian Reilly, SUB board manager. 
Notre Dame Student Activities, which has no formal connection with Irish Insanity, has plans for Saturday, as well. Along with a local radio station, they will sponsor a Football Season Kickoff Party on South Quad from 11 a.m. until 6 p.m. 
"Student Activities is soliciting student organizations to give exhibitions and student muscians and bands to perform at this event," said Joe Cassidy, director of Student Activities. "With the kickoff later in the day, we thought the party would be a good way to provide some entertainment and give the student groups a chance to show off." 
"Everyone has been really supportive," Straub said. "I went to the first Hall President's Council meeting and basically asked for money for the face paint. They gave it to us." 
"I think (Irish Insanity) is great. One of the HPC goals is to get everyone in­volved," said Steph Hyashi, co-president of Breen-Phillips Hall. "The more people involved, the better it's going to be. Besides, (the students) have been ragged on a lot recently, even on National T.V. I think everyone's riled up about that." 
Irish Insanity is interested in gathering support for the smaller, non-revenue sports, like volleyball and soccer, as well as basketball and football. 
"We had a bunch of people go to the women's volleyball game Wednesday against Stanford to help support the team," said Straub. "It's important that people know (Notre Dame students) are behind their teams." 
The Michigan game is crucial for Irish Insanity. "It's the first time we get to show what we're capable of," said Straub. "For example, if people at the athletic depart­ment can see that we're serious, we'll be able to get more support." 
"Remember, we're not saying Notre Dame is a bum school and the students aren't doing their jobs," he continued. "We just want a little extra from everyone.'¦ 


' 




II 

Lou Holtz had to steal from other positions to reconstruct his team 

BY JIM MAGGIO 
Dateline: September 12, 1987; Ann Arbor, Michigan. The ninth-ranked Michigan Wolverines enter this day's game against Notre Dame having won their past 18 home openers. The Michigan Stadium crowd of 106,098 expects a decisive win against an unher­alded Irish squad. Final score: Notre Dame 26, Michigan 7. Dateline: September 10, 1988; South Bend, Indiana. The customary 59,075 fans will jam Notre Dame Stadium Saturday night, many expecting another easy Irish victory. After all, they manhandled Michigan in Bo Schembechler's own stomping grounds only a year ago. Should we expect anything less from Notre Dame in the House that Rockne Built? "We were the recipients of seven turn­overs in that game," recalled Lou Holtz, the Irish head coach. "It wasn't a case last year of 'Well, we really whipped them up front on offense and defense.' Take away about five or six big plays, and you'd have had a very even game." 
Most observers, Holtz included, do not expect the Wolverines to be nearly as generous on Saturday, especially when you consider Michigan's high pre-season rankings, which include number one in The Sporting News poll. One of the reasons for the high rankings is that the Wolverines can boast both offensive and defensive line units that rank among the best in college football. 
With five starters from last year's 
. standout offensive line gone, Notre Dame's front line has been reconstructed this season. The Michigan game will be an important test for the inexperienced Irish trenchmen because it will give the coaches a chance to see how the line works as a unit under pressure. Although Holtz has admitted concern about the offe nsive line, he's not about to abandon ship. 
"For the most part, the offensive line has 
progressed very well individually," said Holtz. "The problem at the present time, though, is that they haven't played together as a unit It's not that all of them fail on every play, but on virtually every play, one of them fails. I think that if they wereall having difficu_Ities on every play, we'd have a real crisis situation." 
Senior tri-captain Andy Heck is the sole returning starter on the offensive line. The 6-7, 258 pound tackle had been at tight end the past three seasons, but he feels the transition will benefit both himself and the team. 
"It's been a pretty easy switch for me, to be honest," said Heck. "I feel I'm more suited for tackle because, let's face it, I wasn't the fastest tight end around last year. So instead of being a slow tight end, now I'm a quick tackle. That should help us." 
The line will need that help against Michigan's stellar defensive line, led by All-America tackle Mark Messner and All­Big Ten honorable mention selection John Herrmann. Combined, they were in on 20 


i' 

tackles and one sack against the Irish last year. 
The men who will join Heck in the trenches against the Wolve~nes are junior tackle Dean Brown (6-3, 283), junior guard Tim Grunhard (6-3, 279), sophomore guard Winston Sandri (6-4, 253), and sophomore center Mike Heldt (6-4, 258). The tight end combination of sophomore Frank Jacobs (6-5, 234) and freshman phenomenon Derek Brown (6-7, 235) will give the line added size on the outside and should help the blocking scheme a great deal. As a freshman, Jacobs had more playing time than any other receiver except Tim Brown and Andy Heck. 
When Michigan talces over on offense, the Notre Dame defensive front will line up against a Wolverine offensive line ranked by many to be the best in the nation. Michigan returns five starters from last year's unit, led by center John Vitale (6-1, 
273) and tackle Mike Husar (6-3, 287). 
How do the Irish shape up against the Michigan offensive line? "I'd be less than honest ifl didn't say that our defensive line is a tremendous question mark for us," said Holtz. "It's going to be critical to any success we have." 
Injuries have slowed the progress of the defensive line. Tackles Tom Gorman (6-6, 255), Bob Dahl (6-5, 248) and Ted FitzGerald (6-5, 271) all have been sidelined with injuries.Junior tackle John Foley (6-4, 251) will be lost for the season 

' .· 

September 8, 1988 
-

f 
~ -. --·---··---­

game effectively last season (42.7% completion rate, one touchdown, four interceptions in '87), Rice has been throwing the ball well in fall drills. This, combined with his ability to run the option, has helped Rice secure the number one slot. , 
"Tony Rice is an excellent leader," said Holtz in support of his quarterback. "He commands the football team exceptionally well. He has a lot of confidence, and they (the players) have a lot of confidence in him." Rice will have two very capable backups. Senior Steve Belles (6-4, 211) has improved enough in both the spring and fall drills to earn number two status, while sophomore Kent Graham (6-5, 228) is an excellent passer (66.7% in '87) and was used frequently last season in passing situations. 
Rice will hook up with a highly-touted 
,.•.•~o;::. :lf ~!Jii/i. 
L•.•••··• 
R.The.reasonfor... Notre.••< < ij~~~~s ~I4fitn~.~1 Q~~ ~~~n < HY~r1w~.i0~x.~~~rt,iRHt~.;RJ'•;1
tbe stuJle11tllodY•·•~ridillythei 
.. ~??I~;1.1.t~~~: .~.~~h i.iW /:i.rffiF.... §.H?~•··i.~!.~1~te~.i~~~.t.i~Kf.\..• P.s~~~~•~l~•0fK~.' fu~~t.re i~ir~.<
.•.·1.~••:~.f0~\;<iirf,tI~Kg9~~!.fv.•·ffr
•.t~.rR~·~P~f.gv~K~.fr~~.f.".~·•~•~' .·.. ·. 
· we will J>e a firie ·.football ... Uf··••·•·•• +ti~n:i\('c•••·•{•·•·•··.. /.•.·•·· 
·· .;.I.:,ouHoltz 
corps of receivers. Sophomore Ricky Watters (6-2, 201), was a tailback last season but will look to fill Tim Brown's shoes at flanker. Senior Steve Alaniz (6-2, 
196) gets the nod at split end, while Ray Dumas (6-1, 176) and Raghib "Rocket" Ismail (5-10, 175) figure to see plenty of action there as well. Pat Eilers (5-11, 197), Aaron Robb (6-1, 192), and Rod Smith (6­1, 183) will back up Watters at flanker, while the combination of Frank Jacobs and Derek Brown at tight end gives Rice two added receivers who'll be hard to miss in the open field. 
Like last year, however, the Irish will probably run. And when they do, Rice will dish the ball off to a deep backfield. However, whether or not the backfield will be at full strength on Saturday remains to be seen. Injuries have sidelined junior fullback Anthony Johnson (sprained ankle) 



~:• ~ ' c•_;,.,,---• ~ C 
C 

-I .-• 

and sophomore tailback Tony Brooks (stress fracture in his foot), and their status for Michigan remains uncertain. 
"Sure, their injuries might hurt us, but we have enough to give Michigan a true test," assured senior tailback and tri-captain Mark Green (6-0, 184). "We're pretty sound going in." 
Green led the Irish in rushing yardage last season (861 on 146 carries), and he heads a unit that racked up 199 yards on the ground in the '87 clash with the Wolver­ines. 
If Brooks is unavailable on Saturday, Watters will split time at flanker and tailback to relieve Green. Junior Braxston Banks (6-3, 211) will start at fullback for Johnson, backed up by sophomore Ryan Mihalko (6~2, 234). 
During the '87 season, the Irish backfield 
September 8, 1988 
' -.
--------·-------·-----~----­

averaged 252.1 yards rushing per game ­14th in the nation. Green knows as well as anyone that in order for this year's unit to be as successful as last years, they will need plenty of help up front. 
"It all starts with our offensive line," explained Green. "They'll have to out-hit and neutralize them for us to be effective." 
On defense, whatever Notre Dame lacks in experience up front could be made up for by a linebacking squad that Holtz calls "as fine a linebacking unit as I've ever been associated with." Anchored on the inside by two seniors, tri-captain Ned Bolcar (6-2, 
232) and Wes Pritchett (6-6, 251), they will be keying on a Wolverine rushing attack led by three juniors -Tony Boles, Tracy Williams, and Allen Jefferson-who last year played in the shadow of all-time Michigan rushing leader Jamie Morris., 
Junior Mike Stonebreaker (6-1, 228) returns from a year of academic ineligibil­ity, and sophomore Donn Grimm (6-2, 
224) adds depth to the inside linebacking 
corps. On the outside, senior Frank Starns (6-4, 
237) and sophomore Andre Jones (6-4, 
215) get the starting nod, followed by senior Darrel "Flash" Gordon (6-3, 214) and sophomore Scott Kowalkowski (6-2, 226). They will be instrumental in helping the interior linemen provide an effective pass rush against the Wolverines. 
The Irish secondary will have its hands full with Michigan's receivers. Flanker John Kolesar and split ends Greg McMurtry and Chris Calloway all return as the Wolverines' leading receivers from a year ago, with McMurtry and Kolesar each averaging over 20 yards per catch. 
However, the big question for Michigan is who will throw the ball, as their quarter­back situation is up for grabs. Senior 
· Demetrius Brown is being challenged by sophomores Wilbur Odom, Ken Sollom, and Eric Bush. 
"It real! y doesn't matter who starts for them," explained strong safety Corny 


Southall (6-2, 194), who intercepted Brown 
twice in Ann Arbor a year ago. "We're 
going to go in there with the attitude that 
we'll stop their offense as a whole." 

Southall is one of three returning starters in the secondary. Free safety George Streeter (6-2, 212) and cornerback Stan Smagala (5-11, 186) team up with senior D'Juan Francisco (5-11, 187), who, like Southall, was converted from running back. "At first, we didn't think he (Fran­cisco) was tough enough to play defense," said Southall. "But he's proven to every­one that he is a heck of a defensive player." Cornerback Todd Lyght (6-1, 181) and free safety Pat Terrell (6-0, 195) add depth to a unit that contained Michigan's passing game extremely well in '87 as well as picking off four interceptions. 
Once again, Notre Dame's special teams must find a new placekicker and punter, as well as return specialists to replace Tim Brown. 
Junior Reggie Ho and sophomore Billy Hackett will split the kicking duties, as Ho will be kicking extra points and short-to­medium range field goals while Hackett will take care of kickoffs and long-range field goals. The punting job will go to one of three players -seniors Sean Connor and Pete Hartweger and sophomore Jim Sexton. All three have impressed the coaches in fall workouts. Mark Green will handle the kick return duties while Ricky Watters is slated as the punt returner. 
But talent only goes so far, and when it comes down to a rivalry the size of Notre Dame-Michigan, something else is needed. 

''The reason for Notre Dame's greatness has been overachievement, both by the student body and by the football team," said Holtz. "When you take good athletes that are overachievers, you're going to have a great product. If we become overachievers, we will be a fine football team." 
But if the offensive line can't move the ball 10 yards in four plays or less, the overachievers are in for a long season.II 
16 



COMPILED BY JIM MAGGIO AND JEFF TILTON 
sportsweek 
The Irish men extended their undefeated 
streak to three with wins over Maine and 
Lafayette in the Met Life Soccer Classic in 
Lafayette, Pa. These two victories earned 
them the championship in the weekend 
tournament. 
After falling behind 2-0 at the half in the 
title game against Lafayette, the Irish 
rallied to defeat the Leopards. · Goals were 
tallied by STEVE LAVIGNE, ROLF 
BEHRJE, and JOE STERNBERG largely 
due to the efforts of RANDY MORRIS. 
MORRIS' two assists made him Notre 
Dame's all-time assist leader with 31. 
BRUCE MCCOURT, JOHNNY GUIG­. 
NON, and MORRIS were named to the all­
tournament team. 
The Irish are headed for their toughest 
match thus far on Friday when they travel 
to Indiana University at Bloomington to 
face the Hoosiers at 7:30 p.m. They return 
home on Sunday to battle Xavier at 1:00 
p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium. 
MIMI SUBA's two goals was also the first ever by an Irish player. JOY SISOLAK, SUSAN ZILVITIS, and KATHLEEN SULLIVAN provided the additional scoring. 
The Irish looked to continue their winning ways on the road Tuesday against St. Joseph's oflndiana. They travel to Bloomington on Friday to challenge Indiana University and conclude their road trip on Sunday at Lake Forest in Illinois. 
i)!:rt1i~~~s,~R~ss;:~m~mR¥}c;:,, 
The cross country team will face the Georgetown Hoyas in their home opening meet this Saturday, at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. The Irish defeated the Hoyas last year and went on to place seventh in the NCAA team championships. 

Leading coach JOE PIANE's '88 team is DAN GARRETT, the fifth-year senior captain who earned All-America status last season by placing sixth overall in the NCAA's. RON MARKEZICH and MIKE O'CONNOR also return to comprise a strong supporting cast. 
The Irish women will also open the '88 season on Saturday, as they host the Georgetown Hoyas at Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
New women's coach TIM CONNELLY will have four of last year's top six runners returning this fall. Senior captain THER­ESA RICE is expected to be Notre Dame's top performer, as senior TERRY KIBEL­STIS, junior LINDA PILAR, and sopho­more JENNIFER LED RICK round out the returnees. 
:!~il:]i!;;~mJSm~~§:!:Jm~~EM~~~!A\\Ii 
The Irish began their season this past 
weekend by rolling past the Indiana 
Hoosiers on Saturday, 15-9, 15-7, and 15-7 
at theJACC. 
Coach ART LAMBERT's team was 
paced by senior ZANETIE BENNETT, 
who led the way with fourteen kills against the Hoosiers. Seniors MAUREEN SHEA (nine kills) and MARY KAY WALLER ( eight kills) were very effective, and junior KATHY CUNNINGHAM chipped in with six kills and eight digs. 
Following their clash yesterday with fourth-ranked Stanford, the Irish travel to Carbondale, IL, this weekend to compete i the Saluki Invitational. On Saturday, they take on Bowling Green at 10 a.m. CDT an Arizona at 4:30 p.m., while Sunday will bring challenges from Iowa at 12:00 p.m'. CDT and Southern Illinois at 7:00 p.m. 
The Irish competed as a varsity unit for the first time last weekend in the Irish Invitational, finishing seventh out of eighteen teams in the 36-hole tournament with rounds of 346-354, a total of 700. 
Notre Dame was led by sophomore · ROBERTA BRYER, who fired rounds of 83 and 87 for a 170 total. Freshmen KRIS LAZAR and LIZ PODEN followed with respective 36-hole totals of 175 (85-90) and 180 (90-90). 
The women compete in their second varsity event on Tuesday, Sept. 13, in the 18-hole Lady Greyhound Invitational at Indianapolis, IN. The four lowest scores in that event will determine the team score. 



Raghib Ismail has the kind of speed that Irish coaches like to see. But it probably won't be a long, long time before his touchdowns bring opponents down. 
BY KEVIN BOUGHAL 

Nicknames and football naturally go together. The Redskins have ''The Hogs," Miami had 
"The Killer Bees," and Notre Dame has ''The 
No-Name Defense" and Darrell "Flash" Gordon. Well, 
a new nickname may soon be uttered around the 
campus -''The Rocket." 

When Raghib Ismail was in the eigth grade, his track 
coach said he came out of the blocks like a rocket. 
After that the name stuck. Now "Rocket" Raghib 
Ismail's 4.28 in the 40 yard dash is adding even more 
speed to Lou Holtz's already fast group of freshman 
football players. 

But the Rocket realizes speed is not the only thing that 
is important in a game like football. 

"The football field is not like a track," said Ismail. "It 
doesn't mean as much to be fast. It's better to be able to 
explode and cut. Take Ricky Watters. His ability to 
explode and cut is what makes him such a great back." 
But he does admit that his self proclaimed "average" 
speed will not hurt him. 

The Rocket came to Notre Dame with a very impres­
18 

~ -, ..... 
" ~-• =~-~,-,...-re,:-~~--~~.....:_ .• ~~ ----,-•""7>-:::----~=•-.f'J'{:._!•,>::-1.:• -,..-~.;..,~~~~-~:~~'-':°'.+;,"::_,,.,~ _ _ __-1;._,::!}~;/~i•~..;;,c,\:''~1},'flO~!:'.~• j•,'.,_,, r•l',•~'J' • ,;;,., ~ ~r' , ' 

sive resume. Ismail was rated the top 
running back in Pennslyvania by the 
Touchdown Club of Atlanta, listed in the 
top 17 running backs in the nation by the 
Dallas Times-Herald and named to the 
USA Today 's Super 100 list. He also was 
named to the Parade Prep All-American 
squad. 
However, the college life, and particularly the life of a Division I college football player, has been a tough transition for the young speedster from Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. Like many freshmen at Notre Dame, Ismail came from a small school where everybody knew one another. 
"It's been a tough transition from high school to college," said Ismail. "High school was pure fun. Besides having to learn all the new things for football, you have to keep up with all the school work. And there is a lot of school work." 
Ismail has had to adjust to not only a different style of football, but a new position as well. He played running back in high school, but this year has moved to receiver. The hardest thing he has had to adjust to is the speed of the game at this level. 
"In high school, the quarterback would just pitch the ball to me and I would just run with it," said Ismail. "But at this level, I can't do that. It's the little things that get to me here. Like when you go out for a pass and tum around, the ball is there waiting for you in your face. It's tough to adjust to. To be successful at this level, you have got to be able to master the little things. You've got to be able to adjust your pattern to the defensive secondary as you are running, which is very difficult." 
"The coaches have been really great people and helpful teachers. They realize groups and writing. 
The adjustment to living away from home has been very difficult for Ismail, too. Because football and studying take up so much time, Ismail does not have time to meet people. 
"All the players tell me when the second semester comes around I will have plenty of time to meet people. Right now, I don't get back from practice until 8:30, and then I have to study the playbook and do my homework." 
Several schools were interested in 
acquiring Ismail, but in the end it came 
1!~11 ~igij/sfhd<>i,:th~.. ~µirt~.tr .. ..·.JJ~~.lf•··1rQ"1d.•j.µst••.Pit9ti•.•t11,+,.••··. ..l~an·.t91ri~.·•an.clJ.·wouldju~t.··· run \Vitllit•..•..•.~ut~tthis :1~v~I, I can't d}jithat.. It'sOiheJittle things ~~'.~'t.:jet.·•tc>,m~.•·•here...•·.. 
Like wlj~6{()Uig<to~J·fora. 
pass.....and:·,turn··.•aroulld,••·th!·•.·•· 
1Jalliswaiting,for•yo11,in>· ·•.yoµr·face••.•~•.•.•)o.·•lJe···•·~·UC•Ces.~. ·.ful ···•·at.· this.·••lfvel, !o.11·•havtg()ffo 
be ableto.master:fhe little< 
t!/!~!~gs~.··.••··•· <••.• 

that we have to learn the whole ~stem and '-'----"-'----'--'---'-'-;;;.;_--"-'-"---'---'--_;;.;.;.'----'"""---" 
they'll do anything to help you learn it. All that they ask is that you listen to what they say and don't question them." 
Adjusting to the added school work has been difficult. Although he expects to be a communications major and maybe a broadcaster after graduation, he first must get by Calculus 105, the only subject in the Freshman Year of Studies that is giving him any trouble. He wants to be a broad­caster because he likes speaking in front of down to three choices -Syracuse, Penn 
State and Notre Dame. 
"A lot of my friends from high school 
went to Penn State," said Ismail. "If I had 
gone there, I would have known a lot of 
people. But because it is only a couple · hours from my home, I think I would have 
gotten homesick more often." 
lsmail's little brother, Qadry, started 
college at 17 years old and chose to attend 
Syracuse. He is being redshirted this year. 
Qadry had the best high school hurdling time in the nation, but he is not quite as fast as the Rocket. He only runs a 4.4 in the 40 yard dash. 
Qadry could have come to Notre Dame on a track scholarship and tried to walk on the football team, said Ismail, but instead he decided on Syracuse. 
Although the Rocket has never seen a Notre Dame football game in person before, he heard about the team. His high school coach, Mickey Gorham, graduated from Notre Dame in 1958. He played on the football team until a knee injury ended his career during his freshman year. But Gorham never directed·Ismail toward Notre Dame. 
"He never told me what school to go to and he never really talked much about Notre Dame unless I asked him. I felt it was a once-in-a-lifetime chance to go to Notre Dame, and I really wanted to get a good education. I didn't want to look back in six years and think that I made a mistake." 
Like all freshmen, Ismail is looking forward to his first home football game. 
"Anthony Johnson has been telling me how great it feels to come out of the tunnel on game day," said Ismail. 'Tm looking forward to it." 
The Rocket has been practicing with the first team for the past few weeks and hopes to play with the special teams unit against Michigan. 
Before games, Ismail likes to relax in his room and listen to orchestra and symphony music. "When I listen to classical music, it helps me to visualize what will happen in the game and what I will have to do." 
When the season is over, Ismail is looking forward to seeing what the social life here is like. 
"So far, I've really only met the guys in my section. But if the rest of the people.on the campus are as nice as those guys, I will feel really comfortable here." 
This weekend, the Rocket may be launched against Michigan. But even .if he is not, we will surely be hearing from him in the future. II 


i 
I 













ACTIO 

Video Council and the Notre 

'University Park East 

Who Framed Roger Rabbit 


1:00,3:00, 5:00 Dame Educational Media Depart-IL 
Midnight Run ment. 7:00p.m. in Cushing 
. 7:15, 9:30 

Engineering Auditorium. 
!~f2~giiji;~Ylt111~§,( · • Bull Durham 1:40,4:40,7:00,9:40
Sieben's Oktoberfest Thursday September 8, and Fri­
C111cago 
day September 9 

Scottsdale Mall 
First Annual, featuring Dick Theml and the Alpines Thursday, 
16-9p.m., and Charlie Rex and the 
1:45,4:00,6:45,9: 15 
: Musical Rex Friday 8:30-1 l:30p.m. 
Nightmare Oh Elm Street IV
Holiday Theater 
at Sieben's, 436 West Ontario. 
1 :30.3:30.5:30,7:30, 9:30 George Benson, September 10 Tiffany, September 12 
Whoopi Goldberg, Living on the 
Town and Country
Johnny Cash with June Carter, Edge of Chaos The Last Temptation of Christ The Carter Family and John 
September8, 9, 10 at 7:30p.m. 
1:00,4:00,7:00, 10:00 Carter Cash, September 11. 
Chicago Theater 175 North State 
Tuckerca11(312)734-7266 or (219)769­Street. Call 559-1212. 
2:00,4:307:00,9:306600 Die Hard 1:30,4:05,7:00,9:40
Cabaret Metro 
Soutl1 Be11d Area
Hi-Fi & the Roadburners, The Indigo Girls, September 9. 
The Way Moves, September 10. 
Big
Blues with Katherine Davis 
The Slugs, September 11. 
1:30,3:30,5:30,7:30,9:30
and Erwin Helfer of the Chi­
Gloryhounds, Private Affair, 2 Young Guns 
cago Boogie Ensemble at the
Back Beat, September 14. 
1: 15.3:20,5:25,7:30, 9:25 
Center Street Blues Cafe, Sep­
3730 North Clark, call 559-1212 Bambitember 9 and 10. 
1:30,3:00
Park West 
Dead Pool 
The N's and Outs featuring Billy 
The Bears, featuring Adrian 5:30.7:30,9:30
Nicks, the Center Street Blues
Belew. With Velvet Elvis. Sep­Coming to America
Cafe. September 13 and 14.
tember 10: 7:30p.m. 
1:00,3:15. 5:30,7:45,10:00 Jules Shear and the Reckless · A Fish Called Wanda Sleepers. September J 4, 8:00p.m. 
. 1:30,3:35,5:45,7:45,9:50322 W. Armitage Nightmare on Elm Street IV
The Forum 
1 :15,3:15,5: 15,7: 15,9: 15
Biddy Milligan's 
Married to the Mob Terrance Simien and the Mallet 
1:30,4:15, 7:00, 9:30 Playboys. September 9. 
Betrayed · 
University Park West
Tic Tah, the Remarks and Home 1:30,4:15, 7:00, 9:25 Mac & MeSlice. September 10... 
Hero and the Terror 1 :35 7644 North Sheridan. Call 761­1 :45,3:45,5:45,7:45 Stealing Home 6532. 
3:3 0,5:3 0,7:30, 9:30 Hot To Trot
Rosemont Horizon 
100 Center Theate 
1 :45,3:45.5:30,7: 15,9:00 AC/OC and White Lion. Sept. 9, CocktailBig Top Pee Wee 6920 Manheim Rd., Rosemont, 1 :30,3:30,5:30,7:30, 9:30 
I""" 

I ­I, 
Final Word 

Just Wondering 
1988 Grad John Walters wonders a lot, and offers a little advice 
By John Walters 
Iwonder a lot. I wonder why Cheerios float but Raisin Bran does not I wonder why the Atlanta Falcons are in the NFC West, and the Phoenix Car­dinals are in the NFC East. Kipling dis­cussed east and west, concluding that never the twain shall meet, but Rudyard never met Pete Rozelle. Perhaps he was referring to Mark Twain and the writer's distant cousin, ChuChu, a burlesque dancer from Poughkeepsie. That reminds me of the SYR date I once had, a cute English major. I leaned over her fuzzy navel and asked if she liked Kipling. She giggled, glanced .coyly at me and whispered, "I don't know, I've never kippled." Oh, the ceaseless inner torment as unsolved mysteries scatter randomly about the clouds in my mind like valence electrons in the 7th series element, unnilquadium. But I don't have to explain that feeling to you now, do I? Sleepless nights are spent wondering whether Rick Astley was just a bad dream. I toss and tum, confused as to why the prefix "cheese" is in­cluded in the moniker of that old brunch favorite, cheese blintz. Are there other blintzes out there about which we don't know? Do the Russians have blintzes? Why not ask Mr. Hickey to incorporate all of the blintz varieties into a theme meal, Blintzkrieg Brunch? As you have discerned, my mind often concerns itself with matters of the mun­dane. For instance, I wonder what Fenton Hardy writes on the numerous absentee excuses that the Bayport High nurse must receive: "Please excuse my amateur sleuth sons, Frank, dark-haired and eighteen, and Joe, blonde and one-
year Frank's junior, who most recently aided their father, world famous detective Fenton Hardy, in the Tower Bridge Treasure"? 
Today, however, four years since my first day in Dillon Hall, I wonder about more important items, approximately 1800 of them: the Notre Dame freshman class. "What are they wondering?", I ask myself. 
By this time, you have been pre-oriented, re-oriented and even Far-East oriented on surviving and thriving under the Dome. You need an advice column like Carl Lewis needs assertiveness training, like 


Michael Jackson needs airplay, and like 
Mike Tyson needs round two. 
Still I wonder (always wondering), you've 
heard all of the advice, but are you listen­. ing? I recall sitting in Cushing Hall in 
October of 1984, as Chemistry professor 
Dr. Emil T hofman addressed the class. 
Attempting to bolster our sagging spirits, he spoke of former struggling students of his who had ventured on to become success stories. With typical freshman skepti­cism, my friend noted that none of those mentioned went on to become chemists. 


It seems as if every day you have a 

· session with your faculty advisor, student advisor, rector, R.A., or even Mom. So many of you are willing to discuss your every problem, that you begin to wonder whether this is college or the Donahue show. Be patient with them. They are just excited about what lies ahead of you. They understand your homesickness and apprehension, but know that, like chem-­istry or calculus, it will not last forever .. 
Notre Dame is the world's best roller­coaster: At first, it is intimidating and scary, it hits highs and lows, but when the ride ends all too soon, you say, "That was great, can we do it again soon?" 
You have just embarked on the ride and as you climb the fist ominous hill, yoil are unable to discern what looms over the horizon. Don't be afraid, don't cover your eyes; keep your head up and drink in the experience. Here's to Notre Dame, to you, and to the privileges of youth.II 
John Walters used to go to Notre Dame. The damage is fairly obvious. 
22 
Editorial 


Not to be taken lightly 
"Since alcohol consumption and public drunkenness increase substantially when home football games are scheduled in the evening, and the combination ofgreater alcohol 
consumption, automobile operation and darkness increase danger to all University guests, 
the scheduling ofevening football games shall be prohibited." 
-Report of the Task Force on Whole Health and the Use and Abuse of Alcohol. (Section Three, III., Sd.) 
The Musco lights are rolling rnto town again, and it means one thing: a night game. Stu­dents love night games. Alumni love night games. But the people who love night games the most are, of course, the network luminaries. 
But the problem with the night game is also its joy: the tailgaters will stretch all Saturday afternoon and evening, which means rowdier crowds, more drunk drivers and massive alcohol consumption. It will happen • although to what degree remains to be seen -but it will happen. 
Sacred cows are vulnerable to the task force's obvious and vehement recommendation. The first is football. Night games mean bigger ratings and bigger network contracts. All that means that Notre Dame gets to maintain its high-profile program. The second is money. The football program can't run without it. The third is alcohol, which has been tied to the tailgating experience for years, and the fourth is alumni, the primary suppliers of all this alcohol. 
Running a distant last is the administration's rhetorical sacred cow: the whole health of the student. The only carrot-and-stick being responded to of late is insuring these Saturday night specials -which is more or less tied to sacred cow number two. 
Scholastic is in complete agreement with the task force on banning the night game. First of all, it's consistent with "whole health" rhetoric. Second, it's simply more polite to the residents of the area. Third, the game of football should be played in the afternoon ­especially in Notre Dame Memorial Stadium. 
Although-two night games have already been scheduled for this year, something still can be done before next season. But our guess is that students will still be drinking their Saturday football afternoons away in future years, listening to alumni explain to them what an SYR was. 
Scholastic 
· September 8, 1988 
Ernie Pook's Comeek by Lynda Barry 

8 1j 1.. 'tJ vi" J.J A: • 8 IA. A. A ':J © 1qrr 
MY COUSIN MAR.L.~S READ SOME DA':jS IN HER. SISTER <MA~B0NNE:5 DiAR~ WI-IICH I SAID WAS SORT OF Cfl.UDDl:1 AND SHE SAID SHUT VP, I Kt-low Yov'll.'c INTERESfED. 
OK, +c\=;2. THEN IT WAS A MAKE our PARTY. JOE:!.. Go, SHARON J TON,Y GoT MARG'1 AND 
RI C\-\f\R.O GOT MAy SoNNE'. THElj F{<.t=Nc.H ED l~ TIMES TO Tl-IE' SoNG ''LA-LA MEANS I L.oVE Yol).'1 IT WAS BEAUTIFUL. 

SHE SAIDJ 01<, #"l, LAST FRIDA';$ THE TEE:N­
AGeR RICHARD HAD. A HooKElj PARTl.j AN() 
MA':jBoNNE WENT. THE~ HAD BOONES FARM 
App1,E ·WINE AND MA'j80NNE HE:LD HE~ NOSE ro PR.EVE.Nf THE. TASTE AND DRANK A FULL ff...lNTST0NE~ GLASS IN ONE TR.~. 

OK:lt' 31 RICHARD SAID FoR. MM BONNE TO fVT \-\ER. Wl-bLE 1-\AND ON 1-11S PANTS Bur MA~B0NNE 1-\AD 1'0 BARF AND THEN ,J.leR. R,ETAll'IEP-VvENT IN THE TOILE:T, Now SH-E 
DOESN'T \(tJ0W IF RICHAllD WAS JUST USING 
\-\E'lt OR IF HE'.s HEP. 6o~F~IEND. 
I SAID To MAf2.l-~SJARE YOIA GOING TO TEL.L? AND MA(W:IS SAID TO ME;Afl..E ~0Ll ~ETAP-DED? 

Scholastic
24 



~OW 'fo ~tl~ 6+IOUR5 AOA'1,5 OA\JS AW£EK, 9 Motvrl-is 4 Y~f\R, r,,, '1o()'R£ 1'B ~eARS OLP 
IT AIN'T C::ONNA BE EAS~, 'pvT LOO\< AT IT "'r\-\\5 WA:)_: ':;IOU &ET LITTS OF PRACTlCE. 
soMe ~vN! rMMA,uRet
HOW TO KE.EP 'jOUR BRAl1'.] ALIVE. IN SC.HOOL: DRAW. .,.., ,:Oou<?_ NOTl;Bool<, II',.., "ouR TEXTSOOt::. 

HIDE. T\-\E BLACKB:JA RD ERASERS .oN ~ouR. DE:Sk. IN 'THE C.LASS KISS·ASS'S De.SK. 
WHAT TO DRAW: HORSES. 

PVT GARDEt-J SLUGS IN THE. ~ MDNSTERS. Roc.KETSHIP5. DINOSAVRS. 
DRINklt\JE, FOUIJ~ ~ 
WARS. MA-Z.E:S, C.A~S. c,-ries Of' THE FUTURE., V0LC.A>JOE.S. t-'IESS':) SC.R•~U:S. NOISES. t\f\AKt. UP 'joUR CX.UtJ WORDS
SLATTER BALL BEARINGS 01--J 

DOR IN011-\E. PLE.DSE. OF
THE FLOOR. 

ALLE.GIANC.t. 
FIND STl<A!:j 00&5 AND PUT I PL\JCI:: ALUMINUM FRO
'E;f,I\ IN THE C.OAT CLOSET; 
T\-\E FAc.E OF THE ':lOO­
\c>lOW-WHI\T5 OF AMNc~IA 

Learn to h'lew 1ike. a kiHe.n without moving your lips. Drives teachers CYa'2lj­

SPECIAL PROJECT 
-~(XJ C.Af-.l MAkE. A USELESS TE:XTBo0I:: 
Bl=AR.ABL.E B':'.) DRAW•>J0 Mo\JSTACHE5 /WO Bt..AC\::tt.J(, Oc.IT TEE.Tl-\ IN !:VER.::, PICTURE.. 

YOU DO 
DOl--l'T GET PASS NOTES.
PREGt-JP.tJT. 
t.3HISPER.
DON'T GE.T 
DOODL.r..
AN':::lor-Je ELSE. 
DA'::)DREAM. 

~OU WHEN ~OU. ff NALL~ ESC~l'E FROM ~WOOL
PRE.GNAI\JT. 

LODK CXJT' TI\E. \;.)INDOW. 


REMEMBER, 
WHEN ~OIJ'RE. 
RE.f\Lllj 
C:,o ING 
CRAl~: 
WHATEVER 

,------------, DON'T (;,E:TC.Au6HT. 
FOR 'jOUR. INFoR.MATto/J
* ljo:J'l:e NDT C.,01tJG To GO 
To Hl=L.L, 
1r ',ES, BE.Ii.le:> AN AO<JL., 15 A 
• DR.I'(,, &lT TIie CR.GASM $ A0.E. TE.R.R.11"\C. 

WARNING, To ~oviJG 
I 
C0,-.)5\JME.R.S: 
X·Rf'¥.6 SPSX DQ,-.)'T WORK. 
(.At,..) 

DON'T (,ET MARRIED RIGHT AWA':J. 
SKIP 

DO"1'T JOIN "'TI-IE ARM'::i.
SCHCOL 

DDN'T (,ET MARRIED RIGHT AWA':) AND HAVE A
OC.CASI0f-lALL':l. 

MESS OF .8ABIE.5. D0NT BORE klDS OR BE. MEAN TO THEM. 


BULK RATE US POSTAGE 
PA ID 
Notre Dame. Indiana Permit No. 10 
·---. 

;Wb?,t_.··:.cf~ll.·,:.:YQ.Jl\b·u·Jr.,.'Ytth··,· tw.enty 
· .'f :\\~~S~~,t~~~f }1~{:1tt" . . '' 
'·'<·:·\> , 
:/,>~ '?};,':: ·\t 
•'• ,..;, \·, ; \':... -~ -~-' ; ~,-._-,. '. 
. 

)< < •· C• . ·. ···• '. > \ ,,'):,(,•,•, }:,: ;,.: 
•

1:26,hburs'.. and 40 rminutes •. ·-wo·~th ·6f''fines.'·at I 
. 

';.~:,:;·.•?··.+.\.· \.·.,./ ,,Eeserve;~p~~;Xr~~~\ ·•, .j:/
~}-'i ~~.:,;.." , •.· 
(7 

rt.::·~·:.:/),: :i::~3.2 dipn~ts":af'1h'~ ·dinid~}liall"ti"/ 
:? <<~<·'·;· \·, J • ..... \••' 
:';f·-·.·.•:,:::~J.\Ii2·f.·i:%:·:Qf;:ii::-,seas·on,·s.. ··ro·otb..hl·I\.. P·aS.S. 

i~f~~~DXt:;. ~Jf 1;:ri/'1;:~i~1naneo~~1'::1ee 
• \}t<:_,; <•.: ;_ -,. ·;\ f{ /) .c·~,:-.-~.) ·., ' ~ ', // ~--·; 
~,'jjllll'S~rtpUon fO s.~lfOii~~ic 
1

:;{:.,c: 0!·;:i/ (l?~1ur~--,p~~rentS. .. wUI.>19,ve·· you). i~i~'.~~~;·syn.d:;: .. ,.: .;earsg(~.Ghdl~sti~-t;;-_·~·
i:&aiiie:::• \:· · ·······": ·· · 1icic1r~s~· <
l~itY.={'. .i..;_'-"'._·------,--,----;:.""""-=----------------'------------------~ 
' 
.i 

( ,,'.,-' / . t>•.''.> ,,\ 'f, 
. ·, ·.. --l:.~··>,\ l .,,,_._ ·'·,·.;.,) ,.,1; i: /: ,". (_, __ ,'._· ::__k,~---···•-~"· .. ,.,. ·: 
(Bleas~·~ITlqke::Ghects p'ayaP.l~tn·,: .-.: 
.£·. ,, ~~:•S6hbl~stfc M·~gcttine 
i/ :,}laF0Ftl1fie,:Student..Certter
{;::;:<;:,: i:~-.--•. ···<·.:~:><:··?>'"'·'~<.'/)/., "···-:-.._ 
? .· ~:.:Notte Dafrie:.<JN.·46556 . 
' ', ~--,:,_-'"' .,., . ~ ,, { ,~-~:.:,_.,..";; ·,, ' ·•, · ',{ ·;a-/~;_..;.:_:_ '.. ·t.~{2,.:./--;:, ·. --::-. :.,,, \, 
'-\-. )?,:: ,: ..,f•~-:-;,.:·_~----•,:.:·::·: .-.:, 
/,EncJo~ed·'.is'-a ch_~;rJ;r•.. $4Q:OO:x)' -,:years
:: :-><',·, ->~-..:>~:>-,_ -.. \.:\_ ·_::. -;'----~--.. _:: .:-./ ·'.:·<···:,_::c-0.__-.,:..,,_ -\.> <<>:-..:·/::.:s:::-:.-··-.-\ ·•· .. --·-.,_":',--·:•< :.-,-_.,,,,_ .-·.__.,_'.-,.:_<\,\,, -··,,, 




