


Well, let's see. · · Just take this quiz and ad_d up your correct answers. 
T. F 
· Q 'Q "I think I need apassport, but I can't apply until I know mytravel plans. Apassport will be one of the last things Iget · before I go." · · 
O O "There Is no need to write out-a ·detailed itineraiy of my · travels and leave it with someone else before I QO. They . -know what countries I'm visiting, and the American Em­
bassies should have no trouble finding me if there is a problem here at home." · 
·-• , • C 
O O "Drug laws in countries abroad are alot easier than in the 
U.S.. and normally not well enforced." · . -· . 
O O "No ina~er what happ~s. the U.S. Embassy can bail me out of jail or other serious trouble. After all ••. I am an . . American citizen." _· . 
If you answered •FALSE" to all of the above, then you are aseasoned traveler who can probably look forward to ··a smooth, successful trip abroad. Hyou answered "TRUE" 
to any or all,p/ease read on•. 
False. Apply for your passport early. The U.S. passport is good for .· 
five years and you need not have specific travel plans at the time you
apply.' . 
False. Experienced travelers would not think of leaving the country
_without advising family, friends or business associates of their itineraries -not only for their own protection and welfare, but also for their peaceof mind and for those left at home.. . . · . · .. .· . 
False. . Drug laws are generally . more severe abroad, wiih mandatory . prison sentences common for possession of even the smallest amounts of marijuana. Most foreign countries stringently enforce their drug laws. 
False. Consular olfi~ers cannot provide your bail or get you out of ..lail. Should you be arrested or run into serious difficulties with foreign . aw enforcement authorities, you should ask that the nearest American Enibassy or Consulate be ad'lised immediately of yo~r plight · · · · ·. 
·How did you do? If you would like more information, fill out and mail this coupon for the State Department's fact­filled booklet '.'Your Trip Abroad" (single copies only). 
r---------------,·
-i<, • ·. Send to: . · .
I. . • ., ~J ' . · Correspon_denc~ Management Division 
• . 1,,,-,-:--, . Bureau of Public Affairs . ·1·· · · i · . U.S. Department of State · . 
,,zv" · . Washington, O.C. 20520 . 
I Please send me acopy of "YOUR TRiP ABROAD" 
I Name---------::,,---::--:-----­
· I 
Please Print 
Adr1rP.c;s __-:-------'-------­
·•• I ·City · State · Zip ·. · · I 
L----~---.;.--~:...J 
I 
·•·· 
I · 
I · 
1­


scholastic 
Vol. 120, No. 12, May 4, 1979 · Notre Dame; ln_diana 
Clarification 

The April 20 Scholastic printed an article by Professor John Lucey 
. in which two paragraphs were in­correctly placed. The article should read: 
. "Continon~ealth · Edison, the electric utility serving the Chicago 
. area, has the largest nuclear elec· tric generating capacity of any U.S. utility. The cost of electricity gen­erated by. its nuclear plant in 1977 was 1.31 cents· per kilowatt hour. The utility's most efficient coal fired plants produced power at an average cost of 2.09 c_erits per kilo­watt hour. Experience with other utilities has been .. comparable. _ 
' ~•-~ . •,
' 

"Today's ec~nomics see~ to favor nuclear power over coal. What about tomorrow's? Commonwealth Edison projects that coal fired elec­tricity will cost about 15 to 20 per cent more than,: nuclear for _the 
. next • ten._ t~ twenty• years."·_ • 
FEATURES 4 Something Different . . . 10 A Family Affair  Valerie Stefani Phyllis Washington  
FICTION 6 Short Pieces: Friends, The Sidewalk, Birth 12 Poetry: Grandpa and the Rats 15 With Apologies;. • •  Fr. Frank Quinlivin, C.S.C. Bernie Valenti Chuck Wood  
REGULARS 8 Gallery  Phil Johnson Tom Balcerek Liz Donovan  

Jake Morrissey  
Photographs:  . Theresa Rebeck  
Mike Guay, 5; Phillip Johnson, 13 Artwork: Bill Reis, 4, 11; Bernie Valenti; 12  13  Final ·word .  Jake Morrissey  
Front Cover: Bernie· Valenti  
Back Cover: Tom Paulius ·  

Editor . Staff _ . _ _ . . , 
John Morrissey Cynthia Dykhoff, Keith Caughlin, Anthony Walton, Eileen Durkin, Eddie Holden, Clay Managing Editor Malaker, Tom Lucid, Greg Vansueh, Kevin McCarthy, Mary Clare Toffanetti, Bill Scholl, Theresa Rebeck Jim Trausch, Mike Walsh, Greg C. ·Gregory, Leo J. Mulcahey, Dave Mayernik, Sean F. Art Director · Faircloth, Paul Hurley, John Bondaruk, Michelle Gerard, Dodee Carney, Paul Mullaney,· 
Mike Cantwell . _. Lou Severino, Joe Carey, Jason Joyce, _Paul Mortenson. 
Production Manager 
Bernie Valenti . 
News Editor .. 
Hall Representatives: .
Elizabeth Donovan .. 
Eddie Holden, Mark Sniegowski, Sean_, ;Berry, Brad· Engelland, Keith Caughlin, Ann
Culture Editor 
Gleason, Sonia Chopko, Bill Swift, Craig 'Smith, Kevin Courtois, Glenn Killoren, Dave _Dave Satterfield Bartish, Lisa Jaquez, Mike' Szkrybalo, John Ryan, Mary -Fran Welch;· John Cuckovich,
Sports Editor· 
Greg G. Gregory, Leo J. tv_iukah_ey, Dave Mayernick, Dan Letcher.
Mike Kenahan 
Fiction Editor 
Tom Balcerek 
Copy Editor 
The opinions expressed in S~holastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholasti~Bob Southard and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire· staff and editorial board of
Layout Editor 
Scholastic or. the University of Nofre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the studentLisa Hartenberger body. · .. ..
Photography Editor 
Phil Johnson 
Business Manager 
Kimberlie Gumz· · -. The magazine. is represented for national advertising by. National Educational Advertising Advertisement Manager Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published fortnightly'd_uring the school year _ Marcy Weigle . · except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, 
Notre Dame, Ind: . 46556. · The. subscription rate, is _$5.00 a year . and ·back issues are . Advisory Board · available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.. Elizabeth Christmanf. Mario Pedi, Thomas 46556. All unsolicited inaterialbecomes the property of Scholastic. · _ Werge, Thomas Jeinielity; John Miriam copyright© 1979 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro-Jones, S.C., Edward Fischer. duced without permission. ·-. >,-·· ---:. _. --· · .. •· 
MAY 4, 1979 
3 
One warm, sunny .day last Septem­ber, a friend and I were trying to decide what to do with our free afternoon. After rejecting such sug­gestions as jogging (too tiring), sunbathing (too boring), or split­ting a couple of six-packs of beer (too fattening), we decided to go horseback riding. A short walk by my fingers through the Yellow Pages 


Sometl)ing 
c;:l)ifferent ... 
by Valerie Stefani. 

provided us with the telephone num­
her of the Diamond "D" Ranch in 
Niles, Michigan. I called the ranch 
for directions and twenty minutes 
later we were on our way to spend­
ing a thoroughly enjoyable and re­
laxing afternoon outdoors. 
Since that afternoon of horseback 
riding at the Diamond "D" Ranch, 
I've discovered a variety of interest­
ing, enjoyable, and inexpensive ac­
tivities and events in the Michiana 
area that are tailor-made for a free 
afternoon, evening, or even a whole 
day. These activities also cover a 
wide range of interests, from canoe­
ing and hiking to antiquing and 
shopping. So now that the snow has 
gone and spring has arrived, dis­
cover Michiana and enjoy yourself. 
If the · thought of cantering 
through green ·pastures on a sunny afternoon appeals to you, try horse­back riding at the Diamond "D" Ranch. Horseback riding is not only fun, it's a great form of exercise .too. Located at 3223 Dunning Rd .. in Niles, Michigan, .the Diamond "D" Ranch boasts a stable of some twen­ty horses available for riding. The majority of riders who visit the ranch have little or no experience at horseback riding, so there is no pressure to perform like a trained equestrian. If you are a beginning ride_r, the guide will help you choose a suitable horse. You are also al­lowed to choose a saddle style­·English or Western-or you· can. even ride bareback. While the more 
experienced horseman may choose to 
ride either English or bareback, the 
beginner will probably feel more 
comfortable in a Western-style sad­
dle. Riding attirJ,is casual, although 
jeans and boots a\e advisable along 
with a light sweatei; or windbreaker 
for windy days. \ · 

The Diamond "D" is located about 
fifteen miles from the campus and is 
currently open on Friday through 
Sunday from 9 :00 a.m. until 5 :00 
p.m. Beginning in June, the ranch will be . open on·· Tuesday through Sunday during the same hours. ·The price is $4.00 per, hour, and while the riding schedule · isn't too crowded, -it's best to call ahead and make a reservation. 
If horseback riding isn't your cup of tea, but sailing and boating are, try canoeing for a change of pace. The Sport Corner, located twelve miles from the campus at 320 N. Redbud Trail in Buchanan, Michi­gan; offers both canoe and kayak rentals. Open seven days a week as soon as the weather is warm, usually around the middle of April, the Sport Corner caters to both the in­experienced as well as the avid canoeist. For your first canoe. outing, you might try a "float''. down the quiet waters of the St. Joseph River. Experienced canoeists will find the rocky "white waters" of the Dowa­giac River enjoyable as well as challenging. 
· Single rates per day are $8.00 for a kayak and $9.00 for a canoe. 


Group rates (six or more people re­quired) are available for canoe rentals only, at a charge of $8.00 per day. The Sport Corner also provides a convenient delivery-and-pick-up service. After meeting at the Sport Corner (customers may leave their . cars in the store lot for the day), a 
. representative wiU drive canoeists and canoe to the river. When they finish their journey downstream, they can call the Sport Corner (phones. are available near every waterway), and a driver will pick them up and return them to the store. The charge for this service is .40 cents per mile and the waterways most commonly used are all within ten to twenty miles of the store. Again, it is advisable to call ahead for directions and to make a reser­va tion. 
If canoeing sounds a little too strenuous, yet the idea of spending time communing with nature ap­peals to you, try hiking. The Michi­ana area boasts several parks and preserves, both public and private, that are perfect for a lazy stroll or a rigorous hike. · 
Fernwood, Inc., located at 1720 Range Line Rd. in Niles, Michigan, is a orie-hundred acre, privately owned nature arid garden preserve.· In addition. to its hiking trails and arboretum,. Fernwood also offers various arts and crafts workshops_ and exhibits as well as horticultural · classes for both adults and children.. A couple of weeks ago, a girlfriend · and I visited Fernwood 'for an after­
noon of hiking. After a forty-five •· until 4:30 p.m. and on Saturday and minute drlve, mostofit over clearly Sunday from 10 :00 a.m. until 5 :00 . marked, though admittedly rough, p~m.; the grounds themselves are country roads, we arrived. at Fern-open from: ·sunrise to sunset; and wood. At the entrance to the pre­serve is the Meeting House where all guests must park their cars and pay ; :-, ij· a $1.00 · registration fee. (Annual · memberships may also be purchased at a cost of $10.00 per person. Mem-· bership privileges include: free year-round admission to the grounds;. first priority to attend workshops and classes · over nonmembers; and a frequent newsletter which high­lights current activities and classes.). 
Our registration completed, we set out on the -"Guide Yourself Nature Trail" suggested\ to us by_ the _re~ ceptionist. Approximately one-half mile in length, the trail took about forty-five minutes to complete. We Bog Garden, a short distance behind the Meeting · House. Though · the name conjures up a picture of a murky swamp highlighted by stark rock formations, the garden is actu­ally a delightful myriad of flowers, ferns, and heather. Steps carved out of the native tufa storie provide a path down into the garden. From here we proceeded downhill ori the trail which runs parallel to the St. Joseph River. Fernwood lies.· in the valley of the St. Joseph River, and the countless number of streams that crisscross the preserve originate from the land's natural springs and flow directly into the river. 
Continuing along the trail, we passed the Pond, its shallow waters inhabited by varieties of fish, frogs, and turtles; After a short walk up­hill, we entered the woods where over twenty different varieties of trees and shrubbery, along with all 
types of small wildlife, can be seen. StiHfollowing the trail, we eventu­ally emerged from the woods a short distance away from the Meeting House. 
_My visit to Fernwood provided me with the perfect escape from the 
·pressure and anxieties of school. The beauty and serenity of the grounds exude an atmosphere of total relaxation an_d provide one with that rare feeling of peace and quiet. ,, Some important notes to remem­her: Fernwood is open year-round; the Meeting House and gift shop are open ori. weekdays from 9 :00 a.m. 
picnics, pets, and smoking outdoors are not permitted. 
For those who aren't lucky enough to own a car, the South Bend Park District also has preserves and con­servatories that are within biking distance of the .campus. The Rum Village Nature Center, located at the south end ot town just off U.S. 31 on Ewing St., is a public park which houses an indoor nature cen­ter and exhibit along with fifty-five acres of woodland and hiking trails. It is open on Sunday through Friday from 10 :00 a.m. until 5 :00 p.m. and admission is free. And for those rainy afternoons, you can visit the Morris-Ella Conservatory, an indoor greenhouse, located at 2105 Mish­awaka Ave. The conservatory is open seven days a week from 9 :00 a.m. until 3 :30 p.m. and admission is free. 
If the idea of expending energy on physical exercise doesn't overly ex­cite you, but the· thought of spending money shopping does, try visiting an unusual public market, the Farm­er's Market. Located at 760 S. Eddy 

' St. in South_ Bend (about three miles from the campus), the Farm­er's Market is open year-round on Tuesday and Thursday from 7 :00 
a.m. until 2:00 p.m. and on Satur­day from 7 :00 a.m. .until 3 :00 p.m. 
I visited the Farmer's Market re­cently and was greeted with a wide array of products, ranging from fresh produce, meats, and bakery goods to pottery, jewelry, and wood­en · handicrafts. The market com­prises two long rectangular-shaped buildings· which are connected at both ends. On either side of the wide middle aisles are individual stalls 
(continued on p. 14) 

began by visiting ·the Rock and Farmers market 
5 .
MAY. 4, 1979 
Fiction : ·short pieces \ 


.The Sidewalk 
The ·woman propped herself against th~ doorway, Friends :•. leaning on her left shoulder, half out of E:xha~tion and. 
.,·., half out of boredom. Her eyes made an·mtricate study . He rocked back and forth slowly, bouncing himself · of the sidewalk in front of her-its cracks and sears ofLthe wan by his shoulder b~ades. It was; an activity ·' : and stains. · She saw some greeri moss growing in one prompted in part by boredom and in part by an effort , ' · of the cracks, and she marveled both at its ugliness to stay awake..· . . . . ._ .-. and· its tenacity. 
He was tired, so much so that his '.facial muscles It had been a strange day. They had started bring­
. sagged.. He knew he was walkirigjhe thin line bet\yeen ing the rolls and coffee in about eight but had told her simply. being in the bus· station and loitering. If _he ··to gather her things and get.ready to go with~ut first gave in to hi~ _exhaustio1i and _sat down, .he knew he feeding her. , She had been packed since last night---:­would be loitering within minutes.·· · · . ·. the few things she had-and had lain awake almost all 
As welcome'as sleep would·be; he knew he would be night drinking ~n the noise and srriell• and _thi~king of roused by the cops quickly and pushed outside into.the her·release. Fresh air, that was· what she wanted most cold; -That would be worse.: · -· · · after 30· days, fresh air.· . , Sometimes he had slept in :thejohns·sitting on. the · Privacy, quiet, a real bed, decent food, ~ long bath, 
. stool;1 but that had, become a popular enough . practice all would be· riice. Thirty days,. dried-out skm, ten extra 
.· after, the police began assigning men to: the station, pounds, and her debt was paid. · · · . · that .they took all the doors off and· the cops patrolled They had given her an envelope with her name and 
: in there too.;. ,: . ·,:. :-.. , .. ,~,-. ,,,;,::: , _.. .. , · .. ,: ,_c , $5.31. No one was there when they let her out and it .·-He watched all the people constantly changmg but was cold. Thirty days had brought a change. in the basically.the ·same-poor people,·_old people, kicls ·;,md wea..ther, and she was notdressed for it. She buttoned soldiers. He :noticed that everyone looked tired· all' the her collar around her neck and went out, down the time.:.They could sleep'in the station if they·had'i{lay-'stairs and between the buildings to Jefferson Street. over:· A ticket·gaye you that right. · . . . . : . The pleasure of being outside _was ·eaten up by the 
Lost in such thoughts ·arid his bouncing motion/he ··: cold arid she looked for somewhere to get inside again. didn't immediately·.see the three-foot-fall person :who .The Grillprovided,·_for 71 cents, the roll and.coffee the stood directly,in front of him now: studying him very ' County had denied-her that morning.. solemnly.· · -' :•. "-.-;_~:-: : .-. .: . · · -. . · · · She got some dimes and called friends; waking them 
i 
. · She see~~d ·to be ab~_orbed ii::t watching him bei!1g •up, looking for a ride. She finally ended up ·on the bus absorbed by,his_thoughts .. She.was a darling chil4.with. ; with the lady next ,to her commenting on her poor blue eyes aiid long lashes; She was covered with bus ; . choice of ·clothes for the weather. : . . , . . . . . andbusstation'grim~. ·:·_ . ·. ·,:• -.:': _, .. She got-out on the block_and looked.to:see what 
He smiled at her· and, after first being startled t~at action was up, .who was there ·to see and to be seen, he was now presenf to her, she smiled back; They began . what. transactions were going on, what lies were being to ·play .a silent game._ of smiling and'.frowning: a~d . told, who had money today. . . \¥inking at each· other;~<. : : · : . . . . ·: Slie·had no:news other than the fact that she was 
· . Suddenly.· he realized · thafthis interaction could . out, but craved to know what had gone on during the maybe be seriously misinterpreted and 'get him in ·,big · \ -· 30 days. · . ·. '· trouble; He started to·scaii thefoom for whomever the,.: · .·· In tlie next hours she borrowed· a sweater, spent child'belongedJo; _No onf\Vas paying everi ·the slight-' . $4.00 on food and :cigarettes and a dririk·and a small est· attention to.· the little girl or. her friend; so th_ey . package of hair rollers. She told of the others in'jail, continued their game. , . . _ . _·· .•. . : . :;._ · ' delivered their messages, and heard the news:,;The news 
. He rolled.his eyes,:ptiftecfup his cheeks; mad_e click-> -was always really the same, only the. characters 
ing sounds, with his tongue. : All of :this she joyously .'. changed. _ : : . . . .. imitated. Finally; he. did his ·Very best.;;,;_he wiggled his 'J It hurt, iri a.way, fo see that you could be gone for ears. They truly -jumped ·up: a~d down when he ~id .; 30 days and not really be missed and that you.-could this. · -• .. · . -•· · · ·· ·.· · · <f-..·:• ··. ·..: · ' ·' , .step back-in-as if nothing had:happeried;'because life :,., . This ,the little:giri>found 'so fascinating' that she·:! on the street never went anywhere. ·AU the'hectic activ­
:· 'watched arid watched arid ·finally bolted off to pound on i : ity never changed the fact that nothing changed: · 
··. the. arm of a sleeping womanto wake her, whHe poi_nt'.' j i • ing at him and describing this latestfeat loudly;: , _ · ··:: ·'.:, . . ·. The:woma1(awoke;· grabbed'the· little•girl, ·never .• -· looking where she . pointed/' slapped . her· and plunked;: . ; her hard in the riext seat.·>_.:., . · , ·•. . · • · . . · · : :·• ' As the little gfri's sobs· began-t~ grow, iie· pushed open the door and wentdut into ~he cold night air. • 0 
-. .,':.:_..; :~.~. ...,;... . 
6 

ScHOLASTic 
by Fr. Frank Quinlivin, C.S.C. 
By'5:00 her money was gone, and she could find no one to lend her anything. The borrowed sweater started 
Birth.· 

to give out as it grew ~ark, and she knew she was going 
to be cold and hungry again soon. 
The doorway gave some protectiori, and she raised . her eyes from the sidewalk to her reflection in the _ window. "Not bad!" she thought. She was heavy with • 
jail potatoes and bread, her hair needed work, her eyes ·He_ played with his drink, stirring it endlessly, while were tired; but·she had a pretty face. No marks, no the:ice·cubes melted and watered it dowri. He didn't I scars, nice color, good -proportion. · want to drink it-=-not yet___:.not too soon, nor too fast. . She thought suddenly of her daughter, whom every-.He ran his fingers over the side of the glass, pushing
f. 
· one said looked so like her. Welfare had placed her the sweat down and onto the bar where it made rings
i .and was reluctant fo even grant visiting rights to an · ·on the wood. · .· I· . unfit mo_ther." She loved that child more than anything, · . This stupid drink had cost the price of almost three
I 
.but she was out of reach, away from her. · beers, but he needed something inore extravagant thani She_ looked back again at the sidewalk, the cracks, a beer, something more mellow, more subtle. · and the moss.· She puffed a cigarette to help warm her ·. · _He knew he looked like hell :when he came in and
I . 
and faced the truth that she had no one and no future, that the bartender had·studied him ·carefully. By order-
I 
just an endless present. ing and paying for amixed drin~ he had succeeded in 
i A car came by slowly, and the man inside looked at surprising the man and buying himselfsonie tinie and a her. Shemet·his gaze.with a blank expression. "Cop," : little less scrutiny;,,-.
!I . 
! she thought.. He -went on, but in a minute was back . His bones ached, and lonesome cries about infidelityi again. This time he stopped. He rolled down the win-. and broken hearts from the jukebox swept over him as dow on the passenger side and leaned his face out. ' . feelings rather than distinct words and stories.. · "How much?" he asked as he motioned her toward He let' his eyes swing around the semi~darkness of 
the car. the bar. Everything was softened by the colors from "How much, for what?" the neon beer signs and the jukebox. He wondered how His hand appeared with a twenty dollar bill. "Will the place arid the people would look in the bright light that buy me some action?" of day. Much harder, much more used, he was sure. "Depends...." . The atmosphere in the bar served as an external cos­."On _what, baby?" metic, while the alcohol and music served to heighten "On whether you're a cop or not." the illusion. : · . . . . ·__ . · · "Come on, honey; do I look like a cop?" He lit a cigarette without thinking ~ut itand·had .. "Yeah. Are you?" . to reach down the bar for an ashtray. · He slid it 
•· "Look; do you want this or not?;' . through the little rings of water he had made and saw .. -. She reached out her hand and took it. She watched,. his pattern destroyed. He smeared the water around 
. expectantly as he reached for his badge. She feigned ~nd then .sought to create a single. puddle. Suddenly to run .back _towards the doorway but another came : ·· embarrassed by what he was doing, he reached in his around the corner and grabbed her arm. pocket. for. a handkerchief and mopped• up his mess, . _"You sure don't learn, do you? Didn't you just get pretendiJ_!g_n<>tto see what he was doing._ . . · out· this morning?-Thirty days isn't enough to get you· This was·a good place because no one bothered you, 
· off this street?" · . • · · . n~· one 'Yanted_ to make small·talk; rio one called out
I .She never answered. Never even looked at them. She yourname. The jukebox was·not.at full volume; .
l ·_ stood head down, eyes on the sidewalk. When the cuffs · .. He n1:1rsed his drink;-not.like a_ wino-with a paper-were_ on, and -they started to take her, ·too roughly, wrapped bottle, to make the drink.last, butto make the around t:J:te corner to the other car, she broke her step, . ·tinie last: To fill mit_:the tinie by doing something, by _enough to make them yank her, so that she could step drinking a drink. _. ·..· · -. · .· • .· 
I . . over: the moss; so she wouldn't have to .step on the · . The drink finished, ·he lit one more cigarette and moss. . . began to" push his thoughts. back slowly, gently into ; : place, to leave. as: quietly and unnoticed as he had ar­:-rived. However, the bartender saw the finally empty ; • glass arid started toward him. ---. · · .. · . He signalled "no more,'' destroyed his cigarette put­'.: . ting it out, and scra(ched his chair along the floor while : backing ·up; He pushed on the wrong side of the door, 
· caught _his :mistake, and walked out into the blinding r .Ught, into the heat, andinto thenoise. D · _ 
~--••--•U• 
MA.i 4, 1979 · 7 

Gallery 
8 



Jake Morrissey 

"The air whispers a new song as we depart and as we begin our new journey. Not knowing where ND Upward Bound: the new winding road will take • 
· us, we carry along yesterday, 
~ 
.. today, and the dream of what 
tomorrow might bring." 
These are the words of Diane 




A Family Affair 
Niemie, a former student of the Up­ward Bound program, printed in a book of collected writings from the summer of 1977 by .the Upward Bound students. The book contains only small examples of the kinds of · by Phyllis Washington thirigs that result from the efforts of the students in the Upward Bound ington, D.C. · Students include, on the young men and women to take program. Students submit poems their applications, proof of family part in college life· is one of the and short stories which they have income, information about their aca-factors motivating· them to want to written to be· printed up each sum­demic history and status, and other go to college. The Upward Bound mer in a booklet. Diane describes, in general information; office at Notre Dame is located on two sentences, the feeling the Up­The program is divided into a the· second floor of the Rockne Me­ward Bound program leaves 'in many summer session and a twenty-four-morial Building. It is a small office. ofits students when they finish: week follow-up session during the In fact, it's likely that many of our 
Upward Bound helps the students school year. The twenty-four-week own Notre Dame students don't even to discover the creativity and the follow-up session, currently ending know that it's there, but it is very talent they already · have inside of for preparation of the summer pro-important to many black, white, them but don't often look quite deep gram, has most of its activity sched-latino and Indian youths. enough to find. Upward · Bound uled on Saturday mornings. The stu-Not only is the whereabouts of 
· makes some of t~em consider, for dents gather in. 105 O'Shaughnessy Upward Bound's office largely un­· the• first time, the possibility >of go­Hall at_ 9:00 a.m. to eat doughnuts recognized, but so is its high rating ing on to college. Upward Bound and drink orange juice before their among other Upward Bound pro­makes . others expand their desires classes. At 9:30, they break into grams. The success of the Upward of attending college. Upward Bound their separate groups, according to Bound students in college after leav­makes all of its students use their high school class, and move to ing the program ?-t Notre Dame is potential by helping them to acquire other classrooms to begin their just one of the factors that ·make all of the skills necessary to be work. Saturdays are used for getting the Notre Dame Upward Bound pro­admitted into college or some other help with school assignments, pre-gram so highly respected. Eighty to type of educational institution be­paring for tests, and general organ-ninety percent of all Upward Bound yond the high school level. ized tutoring. The sophomores al~ students have gone into some kind The Notre Dame Upward Bound ternate Saturdays between mathe-of secondary education. On a follow-. program consists of an average of matics and reading, and the juniors up study of former Notre Dame Up-. ninety-to ninety-five students per alternate · their Saturdays · between ward Bound students from the year. Most students enter the pro­mathematics and writing. The se-· classes ·of 1975-1978, there were gram· in their freshman or sopho­niors, however, are preparing · for sixty:eight students who enrolled in more· year. of high school. They are Math 103 and 104 and English 109 four-year institutions and. eleven recruited from . various South Bend that they will take this summer at students .who enrolled in two-year high schools and from a few Elkhart Notre Dame for credit iri their own institutions. Although the students . high schools. The maJority of . the colleges. (In order for the credits to · are encouraged to look at schools students attend LaSalle High School transfer, they have to get . a C or all over the country, most choose to in South Bend but there are other better.) · · attend· colleges in Indiana. Froi:n students who attend John. Adams, . -Saturdays are sometimes used for this · follow-up, the most popular Riley, Washington, and ··· Elkhart watching film clips on different ca-postsecondary institutions for stu­Memorial. reers such as science, social work, dents are Indiana . University in To. enter the program, students engineering· ·and medicine, among · Bloomington and in South Bend,· In­must first fill out an application and other fields. Saturdays are also used ·. diana State University in Terre obtain a transcript from their . for filling out financial aid forms, Haute, · and Ball State University. schools. The two criteria for deter-. visiting · colleges, or· taking occa~ Out of the seventy-nine students mining the eligibility of Upward · sional field trips. . . from those four classes mentioned, Bound students are that the students Upward Bound programs are usu-sixty-three of them are still enrolled · must show signs of potential for col­ally centered on university or . col-· in college, twelve of them will be · lege· and that their family incomes lege campuses so that the students ·graduating in May, and two of them must meet certain guidelines set up will be in a college environment and.·· have already graduated. -· by the Office of Education in Wash-among college students. Allowing . Roland Smith, director of the 
10 SCHOLASTIC . 
r
.. 
r 
r 
Notre Dame Upward Bound pro­
gram, spoke about former students 
and gave an idea of how they're 
faring. Mr. Smith stated that about 
half a dozen are teachers in the Elk­
hart Public School System. "One of 
our most noted graduates is Carl 
Ellison, who also happens to be a 
graduate of Notre Dame. Carl has a 
dual title. He's the Director of Hu­
man Resources _for South Bend, and 
he's the Director for Redevelopment 
in South Bend." Another Upward 
Bound graduate is James King, the 
Assistant Director -· for Upward 
Bound, under Roland · Smith. Mr. 
King is a graduate of Indiana Uni­
versity in Bloomington;. He's recent­
ly trying to get a Notre Dame Up­
ward Bound · alumni club started 
with the help of the director of the 
Notre Dame alu~~i club. . 
Cleophus Washington, one of the students currei:iut enrolled in the program, spoke abo,ut why he thinks ND Upward Bound is so highly . rated: "It's because our Upward Bound is known for having class:" Every year, the Upward Bound pro~ grams in Indiana get together to compete in sports eyents. They call it the Olympiad. "We were the best in everything," boasted cieophus. "The other branches started to say that we put more emphasis on sports and not enough on . a~ademics, ._ but · we proved that we were number one in academics too when· we took the · college bqwl." Upward Bound· pro­grams also compete in math bowls and competiti_ons that involve other subjects as. well as . competing iri · sports. 
Cleophus is a· sophomore at La~ Salle and he's one of eight children in his family. He started last sum­mer in Upward Bound, and he spoke very highly of Notre Dame's Upward Bound because it's helped him a great deal with his schoolwork and 
MAY 4, 1979 
. it's allowed him· to make a multitude During the summer sessions, _stu­of friends. "When I first came into dents .stay at Holy Cross Hall for the program," he said, "I had four six weeks. They are encouraged to classes a day in the summer: geom-eat three meals a day provided for etry, biology, writing, and a Ian-them iri_ the North Dining Hall so guage lab. These courses have helped that they'llhave healthy bodies and me a lot this year, especially biol-minds; Cleophus made sure to point ogy. I've run across a lot of things one thing out about the. summer in school that I remember from last session. "We eat lovely here during summer. I didn't have any personal the summer," he said, "so you really problems for them to help me with, don't want to skip meals." Just as but they've helped me to deal more Notre Dame students have copies of with people. Since I've been in the physical examinations on file at the summer program, I've helped a few Notre Dame_ Health Center,· so do of my friends by telling them the the summer Upward Bound stu­purpose of Upward Bound, and I tell dents. They also have access to the them to take tiine to decide what library, the Rockne Memorial, and they want to do with their Hves." the ACC. · · Cleophus wants to major in prelaw, The purposes of the summer ses­and he'd like to stay in Indiana for sion are numerous, and _much activ­college so that he won't be too far ity takes place during those· six. away ..from home. weeks. The most important purpose, Another student, Bernadette Stew-of course, is to h·elp the students to 
art, will attend Indiana University sharpen their academic skills. Basic. 
in Bloomington this fall. She cur-courses in .English, . mathematics, 
rently attends LaSalle High School. reading, writing, and science _occupy. 
"I've· been _in Upward Bound for a good portion of each day for the 
about two years now," she· said, "and students.. ·They are enrolled in 
I've learned a lot." Her best friend courses according to their group. 
· helped her to get involv_ed in Upward The beginning group is for students Bound a couple of years ago. In her spending their first summer with·· first year, she concentrated on build-the program, the intermediate group ing her learning skills, and she made is for students who will be returning a· lot of improvements in school: "I to high school in 'the fall; ·and the· had a hard time in English and in · "bridge" group is for students who · math, and they've helped me a lot," will be college freshmen in the falL she said. Bernadette is the· oldest of Some of these· courses can be taken six . children .. '.Her mother went to for high . school_ credit or, for the college but didn't finish, and she'd seniors, for· college credit. Class like to see Bernadette go. So, Berna-attendance is . required, evening dette is going, and she'll major in study hours are set aside, and niid­fine arts,· hoping • to be an interior term and final grades are given out designer. for each course, one grade for The summer sessions. seem. to be · achievement and one for efftirt. 
the periods that most Upward Bound Even though• the summer sessions 
students prefer. Perhaps it's because are devoted to strict and· intense 
the· sun is shining, the weather is . learning and to building academic 
warm,  and  they  can  enjoy  each  skills, the afternoons are filled with  
other's  company  in . various  other  . social, cultural,  and athletic activ­ 
fun activities.  · · ities.  Most of the activities are held  
in  the  late  afternoons,  early  eve­ 

nings, ·and ·on Saturdays. Wednesday afternoons are specifically reserved for special events or field trips to plays arid other community~oriented. cultural affairs, and, once a year, a field trip is taken to the Chicago col~ lege fair. The athletic activities in~ elude basketball, bowling, ice ·skat­ing, softball, swimming and other sports. Other ·activities include movies on Sunday evenings in the Engineering Auditorium, cookouts 
(continued on p_'. 14). 

Grandpa lived on abig farm with an old barn with lots of junk inside it where me and my brothers played 
GRANt>pA
peeling white paint over splintered gray siding beaten old beams, high rafters (with a rope to swing on) and a corncrib where the rats ran Al'lb Tbe where me and my brothers played 



RACS

Grandpa didn't care what me and my brothers did 
so long as we stayed out of trouble we were too little. to go out in the fields and help by Bernie Valenti so we stayed around the house, around the barn Grandpa'd come up to the house from the field all hot and sweaty, his red veined cheeks . fireball twenty feet high heat on our faces , his huge hard hands sweaty'wet, gripping so bright it hurt to look at it we had to move back the beer bottle he'd open as soon as he stepped ·inside heat and roar and squealing rats spilling out screaming 
burning fur stank more than the gas roasted rats Grandpa'd just gone in the house one time · running out of death trap trapped dead before they when me and my brothers were ready to do what knew it spinning out a dozen holes around the furnace we'd been planning all morning burning frying chewing themselves to death trying to we were going to get rid of Grandpa's rats kill. the pain of blistering death · · 
Grandpa knew he had rats. (nearly every farmer does) we were welded to the ground, unable to move: and he knew they lived in the huge old rusting furnace awed ·by what we'd done · he'd put out by the barn years ago when Grandpa came the rats ran in the corncrib, but lived in the furnace shouting and swearing, he was upon us in ·the smelly old furnace which had been rusting so long before we could move he was whipping us we could hear them squeaking at night . beating us like he'd never done before down in and under the furnace 
"But grandpa," I cried, wiping my eyes, "the rats!" 
· Grandpa was always so busy, and all we did was play me and my brothers were big enough to help He stopped and looked at the fireball, now subsided so we figured out how, without being asked his arm upraised, he lowered it and saw what we'd done we worked all morning, we got together what we needed heturned and ran back to the house five gallons of old tractor oil and five of gasoline we found some road flares in the barn my brothers and I stopped crying and started watching and we had some firecrackers we'd been saving the fire and the·rats · we knew what we were. doing we were helping Grandpa ran back to us with his rifle and started shooting and having fun the rats who ran from their holes untouched · · · 
(rat tunnels run deep, we couldn't bu·rn them all) we cleared all the garbage from around the furnace the fire crackled the rifle popped and Grandpa knew (we didn't want to let things get out of control) we had helped · we poured the oil down into the furnace (it was heavier 
and would burn longer and go down further) we stood and watched the fire and the rats die we knew what we were doing we waited we poured the gasoline down into the furnace (it would · 
explode and light the oil into white-hot heat) 

we put the road flares and firecrackers in the furnace (they were to blind the rats, melt the rats, arid pop the dirty rat eardrums of those deep inside) 
we ran back to the side of the barn and waited until we could smell the gas from there then I held the. one firecracker we'd kept and my brother lit it the fuse sputtered then caught I threw it at the bomb we'd made 


pop wwhoooommmmpppffffFFFFLLOOOOOOSSSSSSHH 
it was glorious. 




The Final.Word 

. , by Jake Morrissey 
Dear Maw and Paw, 

The big hand is on the six and the littie hand is between the three and the four and it's dark out­side, so it looks like it's going to be a long night for Jake. I've got a pile of. work next to me taller than I am, but I'll do it later. I figured you deserved your annual letter from what's-his-name at Notre Dame. • 
My humor sounds forced, doesn't it? It is. Life in the fast lane isn't going too well, I'm afraid. This year has not exactly been terrific, and there's a sadness that· ­goes to the very depths of my being. How is it that · hope, strong,' vibrant hope, can be chipped away little by little until there's nothing left? That's what I feel now. My hope, such as it was, is gone; I've missed my chance. 
My biggest disappointment is, I think, Scholastic. It is an awful feeling to realize that the magazine you have been working on for a year isn't anywhere near where you hoped it would be. One day you realize that it's just some cheap imitation of ideas, good ideas, that you collected one by one and were confident in your ability to·execute them.· And rather than fight for them, I blithely sat· by and watched them drop from reality, one by one. And the problems. The little prob­lems that become big ones, and the decisions are al­ways criticized .. I don't think I mind criticism; what I mind are. the petty comments, the snide remarks, the 

. unconsidered responses. And I listened to them all, and it got to the point that I cared so much about produc­ing a good. magazine that I steeled myself against car­ing, so that whenever I was criticized for not doing enough for the magazine, I didn't think it bothered me 
· much. But I was wrong. It made me cringe. And it probably always will. I hated being Scholastic editor. I wouldn't wish it upon my worst. enemy. 
I'm bitter and don't know why and then look around me and then I understand. I am convinced that, pound for pound, I have never met so many self­centered, selfish, obnoxious, bigoted Catholics in my life, from the administration on down. I can't de­cide which minority they despise more, and they stalk the almighty dollar with an energy that is super­human. When will they learn that being "the best" does not always mean the most? When will they realize· that it is not necessarily how much money you have but what you do with it that counts? I'm not sure if this place, and the people in it, will ever learn! 
, I just reread this letter. I don't really mean to sound like a whining brat (at last, the true Jake comes through), but I think I really do believe every word of 
•this letter. And that's sad. 
But there are good people around here, and maybe some part of them will rub off on this place. I'm sorry I'm sounding so harsh, but I think nothing will ever be changed or accomplished by whispering. 
Well, I've gotta go. Academia beckons. Take care of yourselves and drop me a line if you get a chance. Say hello to those two world-traveling sisters of mine, and tell them to take it easy and I'll see all of you soon. 
Much love, Jake 
P.S. I just came across a letter I got last semester from a surgeon in New Jersey who strongly objected to the language in one of the short stories we printed. He said he treated prostitutes and drug addicts daily and was · appalled to find that a Notre Drune publication would print that kind of language. "I happen to love Notre Dame," he wrote. I didn't realize until now that the Notre Dame he loves doesn't exist, and I don't think it ever did. D 
MAY 4, 1979 

Something Different . . . featuring a host of great buys. Start­ing in the produce section; I saw several stalls displaying bushels of delicious-looking red apples priced at approximately $2.50 per bushel. Not one to pass up a bargain, I bought a bushel, along with some 
terrific homemade cider. Farther down the aisle, I stopped to view an array of homemade oak cradles, picture frames, and whatnots. Next to this was a stall featuring elab­orate wooden dollhouses along with miniature chairs, tables, beds, even a grandfather clock, all designed to charm any little girl's heart. 
Crossing over into the other building, I passed several stalls fea­turing fresh meats and poultry, Far­ther down the aisle was a stall specializing in handmade leather goods and American Indian jewelry. · · There is also a small restaurant lo­cated in the market which serves home-~tyle meals from 6:00 a.m. until 2 :0~ p.m. on Tuesday and Thursday and from 5:00 a.m. until 
3:00 p.m. on Saturday. On leaving· the market, I was way­
laid at the most tempting stall of 
all, one featuring homemade choco­
lates, caramel corn, and hard 
candies. Truly a perfect finish to an 
enjoyable shopping spree. 
For those shoppers who enjoy an­
tiquing and haggling over prices, try the Thieves' Market. At this flea market you can find anything from old books and knickknacks to second-hand furniture and jewelry. Also within biking distance of the campus, the Thieves' Market is lo­. cated at 2309 E; Edison Rd. in South Bend, and it is only open on Satur­day· and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. 
until 6:00 p.m. 

··All of these activities are great 
for a free afternoon or day, but 
what about a free evening? A stu­
dent's free evening is usually spent 
either taking in a movie or drink­
ing at one of the local bars. Since 
·Corby's is usualiy too crowded and 
the decor· at the Goose's Nest too 
disturbing, the relaxed and enjoy­
able atmosphere at· the 100 Center 
Beer Garten is a delightful treat. 
Open from May 19 through Okto­
berfest, weather permitting, the 
Garten offers 'both American and German beer, soft drinks and sand~ · wiches. Set on an island in the mid~ die of the St. Joseph River behind the 100 Center shopping mall in Mishawaka, the B~~Garten enables you to leisurely sip a~rew without fear of being jostled by an over­enthusiastic crowd or drenched by an errant glass of beer. The Beer Garten will be open on Monday through Thursday from 11:00 a.m. until midnight and on Friday and Saturday from 11:00 a.m. until 1:00 
a.m. ., The 100 Center will also feature riverboat rides down the St. Joseph 
.River during the same months as the. Beer Garten. The one-hour ride aboard an authentic seventy-six pas­senger riverboat costs $1.50 -for adults and $1.00 for children. Start­ing times are tentatively listed as follows: Monday through Friday at 2:00, 6:00, and 7:30 p.m., and on Saturday !ind Sunday at 12:00, 1:30, 3:00, 6:00; and 7:30 p.m. D 
Valerie Stefani is a senior majoring in American Studies. This is her first contribution to Scholastic. 

Upward Bound .' . . 
on Friday evenings, and discos after the cookouts. An open house that the students plan is held every sum­mer on the lake side of Holy Cross 
·Hali along with a cookout for fami-. lies, and the summer closes with an awards dinner to honor ·outstanding students. 
Notre Dame Upward Bound has an exchange with Marquette Univer­sity · once a year. When. the schools 
dent Carter recommended a cut in the ·funding for Upward Bound pro­grams and others like it. We're try­ing to get ·him,not to cut it, but to increase it." . Thrc;mgh Federal fund­ing, Upward Bound pays for the cost of meals, rooms;, activities, and basi­cally anything that it can· afford for the students. Notre Dame contrib­utes by waiving the tuition for "bridge" school students enrolled in . college· courses during the summer. 
get together, they compete in aca-. · In• addition; many of the students 
demics and sports. ~•we have a floating trophy," said Roland Smith; "but Notre Dame's had it for the past two years. Our rivalry .with Marquette kind of parallels the rivalry that · exists between the two schools.". 
Where · does all the money come 

receive $7.00 per week during the · summer and $15.00 per month dur­ing the academic year for additional 
.minor expenses. 

The students at the Notre Dame 
Upward Bound program thir1k of 
themselves. as a . family ... Students 
publish a weekly newspaper called 
from :to run Upward. Bound pro-.· "The Family" during the summer grams and others like it?· Upward ·containing submitted articles, poems, Bound · programs are Federally . , editorials, • ·and all t~e other things 
funded, but a cut·in the funding is currently being considered. "We've been_ writing letters to Joseph Cali­fano," said Cleophus, "because Presi­
that make up a sII1all newspaper. . They call their softball games : .,Family softball games:· When they have swimming parties, they . call 
it Family swimming. They have Family meetings and Family gat~­erings. That's what they mean when they say in their brochure that "We are a family in this program." Once you're in Upward Bound you're in a family with people who care about you as brothers, sisters, mothers and fathers · do. And if you .. need more evidence of this relationship · in Upward Bound, here's proof of that statement from another one of Upward Bound's stu­dents, Akbar Nabaa: 
The Family 
The Upward Bound,family must hold together in any way, if we . did not we would.not.be here today. Anything we must know we . tell. the. family, so we can · 
· . grow, , the family sticks together . far :and wide, that whoever will come will be on our side, so stick together . Upward Bound· because· we are one big FAMILY. D 
, 
. SCHOLASTIC 





With Apologies to Lewis Carroll 
'Twas Badin and the ACC Did Keenan-Stanford in the Zahm; All Corby were the Cavanaughs, And the Moreau Eastgate. 
"Beware the Morris Inn, my son! The jaws that bite, the claws that toss! Beware the NDU, and shun The frumious Holy Cross!" 
He took his Pangborn sword in hand Long time the Haggar foe he sought. So Dilloned he by the Morrissey, And stood in Student Lot. 
And as in Bulla Shed he stood, The Morris Inn, with Walsh of flame, Came Flanner through the Brownson Wood, And SND it came! 
· One, tw~ ! One, two! and La Fortune The Pangborn blade went Golden Dome. He left it dead, and with its head He _went Knights of Columbus Council Home. 
by Chuck Wood 






r; 
· MAY 4, 1979 


