DISCE- QUASI- SEMPER- VICTURVS-VIVE - QUASI- CPAS- MORITURVS
Vol. LI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, February 16, 1918.	No. 17.
Phantom Bars.
GEORGE D.-HALLER, ’19.
C001-- gusty autumn days, -
The dry brown leaves up-swirling, Papers blown down the alley-ways, Leaves, papers, dust, all in a circle whirling.
So with this child’s-toy world
Its kings, beggars, demons, stars, -Its angels and street-sweepings hurled
Tearing at phantom bars.
---------„
On Using the Dictionary.
BY DELMAR EDMONDSON, T8.
ICTIONARIES are both, advantageous and dangerous. To become too intimate with Webster means to lose “the common touch”; to face the possibility of becoming incomprehensible to those who know
not the delights of juggling polysyllabic bits upon .the tongue. Dressing . our ordinary, homespun thoughts in an ornature of verbal camouflage, a failing often accepted as typically Bostonese, is as much a dissipation as inordinate imbibition. One may linger, too long at the bar; so one.may linger too long with the dictionary. 'In a word, largiloquence may make speech as unintelligible as liquor. In the latter case the tongue is hindered-by the temulent .condition of one’s own mind; in the former, by the nescient condition of other minds. Too many syllables are as apt to be obstruent as too many drinks, or too many teeth. This paragraph, by the way, illustrates fairly .well what I-am trying to express.
Mr. Herbert Spencer comes to mind as an especially trying example of one who writes by the square inch. He selected words rather for their length than for their fitness. He was
very loath to call a spade a spade. In the absence .of an English equivalent he would resort to the exotic source and call it a spadu. Reading two pages of his Psychology is a real day’s work. And, for one who never had a speaking acquaintance with Ptolemy, it is about as enlightening as delving into the inscriptions on ’ Cleopatra’s Needle. Had Spencer written “Twinkle, twinkle, little star,” he would have started, no doubt, something after this fashion: “Coruscate, coruscate, exiguous luminary.”
We can imagine Mr. Spencer going over his - manuscript minutely, hunting for the plain and simple. And how much out of place a harmless little monosyllable must have felt in such pretentious company. Very likely it was relieved when the author, wondering how he could have been so careless, seized upon it with a groan of anguish, jerked it out of line, and replaced it with a haughty word of more distinguished - lineage. We can further picture Mr. Spencer arising in the morning, taking up his dictionary ’ and plucking from it a choice bouquet of verbiage for that day’s consumption. “These words,” he might have said, “I shall embody in my writing to-day. Not one person in ten could possibly know what they mean.” He must have died unhappy in the thought of the vast number of words he hadn’t had time to use. Too bad he couldn’t have known all extant words intuitively. That would have been a great help toward expediting his work.
Some men find their styles cramped by strict adherence to the mere 450,000 words that English comprises, and take upon themselves the initiative cf concocting their own words. These neologists.are the Luther Burbanks of language. They employ numerous methods. One way is to wed two words not related within the fourth degree of kinship by a hyphen, as in the case of “molly-coddle” and “muck-raker.” Another is to dissect two words as painlessly as possible and jam the .parts together as freight cars are linked. Lewis Carroll followed this formula in
274	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
producing “chortle” from “chuckle” and “snort.” Theodore Roosevelt is the proud father of the examples first cited. At least they are imputed to him; so I presume he is the one who did it. T can’t think of him permitting himself to be blamed for a deed of which he was not the perpetrator. Theodore isn’t that kind of a man. ■
You. may have remarked men in. whom familiarity with- the dictionary has -bred a contempt therefor. You may have, marvelled at the disrespect which the}- displayed toward the most appalling words. You may have . listened in awe while they, with infinite relish, rolled a mellifluent tidbit over their vocal cords. It is a wonderful gift, this ability to manipulate the elongated words which the average person regards as philological curios, to be admired in print, but never, by any sacrilegious chance, to be called into conversational service. Micawber is the classical example of the man of turgid speech. He used -words, not for rhetorical convenience, but for pedantry-, and for the effect the}7 produced on less ostentatiously learned hearers. Very likely, had it been possible, he would have selected the more striking members of his vocabulary7- and hung them on his- chest, as a general decorates his coat with medals. Thus he could have displayed ever-evident insignia of his erudition.
But ■ here arises the danger in dictionary-using. The egregious word-seeker often has at his command a large number of terms of which he can- avail himself successfully only in writing, and which betray him into frightful blunders in pronunciation while conversing. Words, unless watched, become viciously unmanageable. Mrs. Malaprop was absolutely oblivious to orismology. The meaning of words was no. object to her.. It was the sound of them . that intoxicated her. Her sentences she capari-' soned., with phrases that did very well for decorative purposes but which .made her speech a jargon. This, of course, is' a rare instance, ' but the moral may be drawn none the less.
^Better, almost, that a . dictionary be left entirely alone than that it be. used, carelessly. Well enough to. teach your m ind not. tor .flinch . every time it meets a word of three or . more syllables. .Nd one. wishes to confine’his literary wanderings within the pale, of the primer: > There comes a time when a. man is ho longer , entertained. _ c - by genteel-ruminations oh: whether or not the
cat- does see thie rat. All well and good. But in..
’ digging into the dictionary for a word make a conscious effort to take away the whole nugget. Do not be. content to scrape up just enough dust to make clear what- you are reading, for such dust will not adhere in the memory7. It is easily scattered by the winds of time.- Defi- ; nitions have an. elusive; way about them. Time | after time my mind has galloped up to a word j which I had looked up several times before ’ only to shy away and refuse to take the hazard. Wliy? Because on the other occasions I had ] not taken note of derivation and pronunciation J nor given proper attention to impressing the definition . on my memory7., Observing the derivation helps mightily7 toward storing a word on the mental shelf from whence it may be taken and shoved into the breach when need -arises. I liad not intended to make this essay i didactic, but it has become so on my hands.
So let what is written pass. .
Now, the above caution registered, we may consider one of the favorable phases of dictionary-using. The potentialities of a com- : prehensive knowledge of words for abusive use are not sufficiently recognized. . To a section- | boss, if he but knew it, a vocabulary of Shakespearian .calibre would be of almost infinite ; value. All of that species that I have had the opportunity to hear in action seemed to feel that, to obtain respect and compliance, they must express themselves in the choicest extracts of profanity. And. profanity is not learned from any book. All the words, or most of them, may be found in the dictionary, but they must be assembled by the individual indulger in' the * manner that best satisfies his taste and fits his particular mode of expression.
: But think to what advantages large words might be put' in: ejaculation. And with perfectly-proper regard for morals. If a sectionboss; for-example, in ' imitation of Daniel O’Connell’s, method of confounding the flowerwoman, called- one of his under-men a ; hypotenuse: or" a pyrheliometer, - of something’ . j equally-abstruse and .equally effective, what’ | could the poor laborer do but. turn, blanching -under the sting pf the-insult, once more to his , work? Or, if "a-teamster rained down upon his horses such terms as “You diatessaron you,” • dr, “You lithagogue you;” what purist-could, , in fairness, frown and call: the S. P. C. A. officer?-. .	. •
The .other advantages- of dictionary-using are niore obvious. A- Obvious,; in . fact, beyond the; -
' .'T'ty--.'AA-	'	- A
A- »A - ' '"n-n ' 'A	•	< . -y I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
* need of emphasis. It pays to make a colleague ; ^of the dictionary. It pays to become so mindful of little things that you feel as if you have lost something when a word is passed uncompre-' hended. Instead, become acquainted with the word so that when you meet it again you will be able to take its hand and look it in the face \ with • the consciousness that you understand each other perfectly, that word and you. A holy and wholesome thing it is to take • a dictionary in one’s loving embrace before placing an exploring foot on the threshold of literature.1 ’’ -With proper treatment it will serve faithfully * and well. Good old dictionary! The food on which Pegasus and the Muse of Letters are fed.
The Pond-Lily Express.
Peter knocked his pipe against the side of the canoe and pushed a cushion higher up on his lazy—back. “And just to think,” he sighed, “that this is our very last.”' ’
The. girl reclining opposite him smiled a faint reply. She was very cozy in the nest of pillows that Peter had heaped around her, and she was amusing herself by running her fingers .through the wavelets that slapped against the boat, which rocked to and fro languidly.
Peter had tied the canoe to a big willow that ' hung out over the lake like a palm-; through its branches he could see the first white-'stars of the early evening. '	’	'
“I don’t suppose you will ever once think of me after this night,” said Peter. .“I may,” returned the girl, demurely.
Another canbe was approaching; Peter could hear a phonograph. It was playing the summer’s favorite; Peter loved that song, but now its galloping measures wounded his heart like a dirge. .	,	.
' Why must .vacations have an end? he.- reflected.' Why is. a man’s bliss taken from him just when it becomes really delectable? \
“Aren’t you going to talk to me?queried the Lady of the Cushions.	;
“Oh, of course,” said Peter, with a start; and so he did,, up to the very minute when the Pond-Lily Express came roaring around the lake,—that relentless Pond-Lily Express which was to bear him back to the bustling law office, and away from the lake, the canoe, and the girl.,	.	.	L. G. H.
Shulz—Deserter.
s BY GEORGE D. HALLER, ’19. ~	’
“That was some picture, Hilda!”' Eric. Schulz’ usual apathy had been for once dispelledj and for the moment he was all exultation, ruffled blonde hair, and pale eyes snapping under the white brows. The couple, arm. in . -arm, were shuffling slowly to the.open air with the crowd, past the glaring billboards which shrieked the picture of a soldier in action from the famous play, “The Collapse of a Continent.” -“Maybe you think you enlist,” was Hilda’s heavy 'sarcasm. Eric was silent. He hadn’t thought much of that. His work in the boiler factory kept him from thinking during the day, save when he glanced across the room at Hilda’s flaxen mop of hair, and his evenings were usually dumb periods of bliss alongside Hilda at . the “Imperial" Dreamland,” where .the . -pictures were changed daily. The thought was . jerked out of his mind now as the slow wits were called upon suddenly to essay a safe passage for Hilda and. himself across the throbbing thoroughfare.
But Hilda was not to be denied. “Don’t you think that officer in that car there looks mighty fine?” she queried, with what she thought rather clever innuendo. Eric was un-’ responsive. They passed a recruiting station, and at the sight of the trim, erect, uniformed figure, something stirred dully in Eric’s breast. Perhaps it was the martial spirit of some ancestor, mayhap the faithful fighting retainer of some bold marauding knight of bygone days. •
‘ ‘ I know,” he said; “ I go to enlist to-morrow.” Hilda’s full, red lips fell dully. “Ach Gott! .Are you verecht? . What of our little cottage - you have been planning?” • She fell into the . idioms of her childhood in her excitement. “My country—” Eric started (the phrase had been in the ‘ movie ’) —‘ ‘ Ach, your country 1 Vat of your father’s country? Vat of your . cousins in the German army? Vat, of -your grandfader, the soldier, of Sedan?” Hilda, was-aroused now. She had stirred up' a tempest and vaguely she blamed herself; so she took it _ out on Eric. But to no avail, the stolid mind . was determined, the stubborn will set. . L
Next day the foreman at the-boiler works missed. Shulz. 11 Where’s that ‘clumsy loafer.;" that hangs around you?” he asked -Hilda. “Ach, the fool, he has gone +0 enlist,” was the
276	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
answer. The foreman’s eyes swept from the flaxen mop of hair over the full ros}' face, the strong capable form of a Juno, and he whistled softly. He saw his opportunity now, since the ever jealous gaze of Schulz was removed. “Say, fraulein, how about the movie with me to-night then?” Hilda saw the chance to revenge herself on Brie. “Sure,” she replied. That evening as the movie opened, Schulz in uniform, stood sullenly to one side as the foreman walked in with Hilda, arms' familiarly interlocked. A dull rage smoldered within him as he turned away.
Weeks later, at the camp away off in the North, where the unit was guarding a water . trade route,- Schulz was the butt of the camp. His blonde hair and white eyebrows, his pink cheeks and his name—they called him “Boche,” and in other ways made his life miserable. Dumbly sorrowing in the displeasure of his beloved Hilda, an alien among the jolly Southerners who made up the detachment, he was naturally thrown into himself more and more. He began to brood. In the long hours of night duty, he read a much deeper significance into the aloofness of his' companions than was really warranted. His mind became warped, his views twisted. In reply to the merry taunts of the others, in desperation he boasted of his German blood. This was perhaps his greatest mistake. He began defending the Germans, and in his slow way offered raw assertions for argument. He separated himself from his companions. He ate in silence, and in his off-hours,- lay alone, in his tent, brooding. ■
To be brief, the self-made tension grew, and one day, foolish Schulz deserted. Detachments were sent -out hurriedly, but Schulz had disappeared, He secured in some way a x suit of civilian clothes,—in which he looked as if he had-robbed a scarecrow, and the wild glare in his eyes was not reassuring. Several evenings later, he waited in the shadow of a doorway as the factory workers came out.
Hilda came alone. She had long since seen through-the foreman’s intentions and^having a good store of common sense, had managed to get rid of' him. Schulz hurried up and took her by the arm. “Well, Hilda, I’m back and - we can get that- little cottage now.” Hilda dropped her purse in her start. When she had • recovered herself somewhat, she faced him:
“Eric Schulz, where isstyour uniform? Have . you deserted?” Eric’s dumbness confessed the
fact for him. “Well, Eric Shulz, if you think a Kranz would have anything with a coward—” Rage made her breathless. “And me telling them girls of my soldier fellow. Don’t you know ^‘they’ll shoot ‘you?” The indifferent throng carried them along. The}^ came to rhe bright front of the “Dreamland.” “Let’s go in, Hilda.” “No,” she answered. “Come to the park, we will talk.”
Sitting there in the cool darkness, screened by a bush from the nearest arclight, Eric dumbly listened to the flow of words that came chokingly fast from Hilda. “You think I would have a little kind to tell how his fader was a coward and ran from the army? You think I am not proud my fader died at Sadowitz? And mine old grandmuder who still prays every abend for her . dear dead soldier. You think never in my heart be a great love like that? That every day my little kind run to me and ask what you did in the Great War and I have to say “Sh!” and brush a tear away from running in my mouth. Ach Gott!” And she wrung her hands. “Every day you are gone I feel so lost, yet I am proud and a big lump it comes in my neck, and I am all warm inside—and now— now you run away, you spoil all!” .
Shulz was feeling strange. Something muttered in his throat, and his hands and feet felt far away. “What are you going to do?” the; tear-starred -face asked him. Somehow he thought her very dear and beautiful then, the sparkling drops on her face, the heavy locks touched by the silver of the moon. He stirred heavily, uneasily. Explanation would be futile, A he realized.	■
He stood up. She rose too. • His face was set and a certain glory lighted it. “ I’m going back.” That was all; he turned but she caught his arm, and drew his face to hers and kissed him, moistly, firmly. She ran off into the dark. Schulz stood a moment dazed; then he too plodded off, the .other way.
A day later the: detachment commander’s report to .the district office contained the following note: “Private E. Schulz; seven days absent without leave, sentenced to six months’ docked pay,.one month guardhouse.”
Brainless Brain Food.
' The treeless leaves were on the ground,— , '	.The leafless trees ..were standing,round;	‘ -
. Nearby a dogless bone was found, .	'
And eaten by a-bdneless hound. v T. b.
TSE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
277
-J.
Varsity Verge.
Sorin’s Grave.
Tn row on row the dead lie there, '
A cross their only monument; ' Delivered now from earthly care, ‘ They taste the fruit of lives well-spent.
On one white cross is writ the name
Of him who’ set the wilderness
With learning’s jewel, Notre Dame, ■ Whose splendor all mankind confess.
His grave no sign of honor bears, To mark a hero’s resting-place; -No lauding epitaph declares
The glory of his deeds of grace. .	’
'	w. H. R.
* * *.
’Twas Ever Thus!
Two sisters lived in Missouri,	.
The home of the army horse;
They both wished to make life successful,— -Their methods were different, of course.
Now Jane was the brains of the duo, Her rule for success was work
Which she found in a shirt-waist fac’try, ’ Where darkness and microbes lurk.
Jane’s sister got started as Mary;
She changed to Marie, then to Mae;
In intellect she was deficient,	’
She longed for a life high and gay.
At the desk of a quick lunch counter Mae batted a thousand or so;
A deluded homo said “Wilt thou?”
And she promptly answered, “Let’s go.”
She was married and went housekeeping
With pink rugs, quartered oak, and a maid;
It cost her a lot, but she did-it,	.
Broke in the 400,—and stayed.
In the height of Mae’s good fortune, She remembered her sister, Jane.
She summoned her one fine morning, And sang to her this refrain:—
CHORUS.
Oh, sister dear, you’ve labored hard, And success your efforts have crowned.
So as a token of my regard'
A place for you I’ve found.
Reward comes to those who persevere, And you’ve always had my best wishes;
So in our exclusive atmosphere,	.
We’ll allow you to wash the dishes.	.
.	.	- T. j. T.
' John Anderson.
. John Anderson, my jo, John, When first I fell for you You didn’t drink or swear, John, .	You didn’t smoke or chew.
But now you do them all, John,
'	’Tis pity ’tis, ’tis true,
' A.nd I have heard it said, John, - You do your neighbors, too. '	' '
John Anderson, my jo, John, . We used to sit thegither .	.
Upon my mother’s porch, John,	-
And spoon wi’ aneanither:	.
’ ' But now you’re off at night, John, I don’t know where you go,
. You say you’re at your lodge,—ah,	.
John Anderson, my jo! . .
' J- o’T.
*' * *
-	Limericks.	’
He came in, all dolled up, for per,	• .
He was going down town to see Her, -But the rector said, “ Nix, , I	_
It is five weeks or six	.
Since you came down to morning prayer, b-r-r.”
c. H. K.
He was dressed in his choicest apparel, And went in with his chest like a barrel, But he bowed his young head
- When the king to him read:
“Jones, Math. II., No duties, Prof. Farrell.”
c. H. K.
* *
Mothers’ Day. .	,	’
Yesterday was Mothers’ Day, our nation’s chief decreed;	.
’Twas set apart to stir the heart of him. who failed to' heed *
The passing years, the bitter tears, that touched his mother’s soul; _	.
The woeful sights—the watchful nights she prayed would keep him whole.	*
If tongue or pen of gifted men could picture what she lives,	. .
Our duty all, our efforts small, would fail of what she gives.
For every day is Mothers’ Day and adds more to our debt,	. .	. .	. - -
Which, try we may, we can. never pay—alas! that . we forget!	T. b. .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Some of Our Winter Birds.
■ BY BROTHER ALPHONSUS," C. S. C.
Reprinted from the “American Midland Naturalist.1'
Snowflake.
Plectrophenad nivalis'
The records obtained in eight winters for the snowflake are interesting. For three winters the species was not found. In 1913—14 there were ten records, more than in all the other winters put together. From these figures we may see that the Snowflake.is very irregular and unusually very rare. Just why this should be I am at a loss to know, for Notre Dame lies within a snow-belt about forty miles wide. One would expect a snow-loving species to be more regular in its appearance in such a place
Crow.	; -
Carmis brachyrhynchos.
The Crow, like the Blue Jay, does not seem to be notably affected by the weather in winter. If anything the Crow is less influenced by the storms of winter. For eight seasons there was comparative regularity in the Grow’s daily appearance, only occasionally one month fell considerably behind the records of the other winter months.	.	.
The Crow seems to be as gregarious in winter as ai any other time of the year. The necessity of finding food brings ’ them near farm houses, where they feed-in the fields or gardens. They seem to be less fearless in winter and may be approached while feeding without being easily frightened.	,	:
The Crows choose certain woods as rookeries, where they may often be seen flying above the trees. Their distant cawing on winter days is one of the pleasing sounds in nacure at that season of the year; As spring approaches, the Crows are seldom seen, for then they begin to ' build their nests in tall forest trees. ~
Blue Jay. . \ \	. Long observation of this species will make a
'	Cyanocitla cristah. .	- student acquainted with a large number of.
za, ,	,. x	. utterances, some rarely heard.	.
Ihe observations of this species, covering	.	- ~
eight winters show that the Jay. is somewhat
irregular in its distribution. : The bird -may appear infrequently in one or more of the winter
< J . Melanerpes erythrocephalus. .
This woodpecker is hot a regular winter months, and sometimes will absent .itself-for a .. species,-and, w^	’ writer for two
week or longer. These periods of absence seasons—1913-1914 and 1914-1915—in twelve ,
occur both in mild and severe weather, and from this fact I conclude that the Jay is not notably influenced by weather conditions. It would be interesting to determine the cause of the longer periods of absence. I can not account for the Jay’s non-appearance for a number of con--secutive days, except it be due to that inherent element in all things—change.
The habits of the Jay in winter are, like most other species, peculiar to the season. The life of birds in winter seems io be more individual, and there is Jess demonstration of their instincts. This is shown by the comparative quietness of the Jay during the winter months—its belllike note is seldom heard, nor is therexthe uproarious calling of autumn-tide.	-
Usually the Jay does not fly high, nor does it go far, frequently taking short flights from tree to tree, and displaying its beautiful blue coat. In the bare branches, in winter, the Jay is a strikingly handsome bird. Another peculiarity of its flight is its ascending by jump-like efforts to I he top of a tree.
White-Breasted Nuthatch.
Sitta carolinensis. ■	•
The White-breasted Nuthatch is one of the most regular winter species. February is the month in which this Nuthatch is least abundant, sometimes there is an absence long enough to be regarded as a peiiod of migration. In 1915 the bird was not seen for fifteen days in February. In what respects is this month so different from the other winter months as to cause this Nuthatch to .migrate? Not the severity of the weather, or the scarcity of .food, or the approach of spring, I thinkj can be alleged as the reason for the migrating of the White-breasted Nuthatch. I have stated elsewhere, that I believe this bird is a wanderer, and to this fact I would ascribe its migratory habit in winter and early spring. ’	.	-
Like other winter species the White-breasted Nuthatch is more reticent, and utters its notes with less variety and loudness in winter than in the other season of the* year, especially in spring.
I?
1
4:
1 s

's 4

; Red-Headed Woodpecker.7
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	279
years of observation. Manuals of ornithology ' state that the abundance of food suitable for this species will cause it to stay during the winter. But if- that Be true, why was this food not found but twice in twelve winters, although these were- both consecutive seasons? I can not believe that such was the case, and therefore I do not think that-the problem of'the bird’s presence can be solved by the food question. Of course the species was not present in large numbers, never more than a few individuals were seen; and this fact might point to a solution of the problem. Individuals of othe. species, such as the Meadowlark,. Robin, Bronzed Grackle, may be seen by careful observers in winter; and if this is so, why would not the presence of the Red-headed Woodpecker for two winters be due to the same peculiar causes as led these othei species to stay in. small ’ numbers?	.
-	Snowbird.
J unco hyemalis.
A comparison of two sets of years, each containing four years, shows much irregularity for the Snowbird. During the first period the total number of records was 60, and for the four last years there were 137 records. Here is something rather hard to explain. Why. should there be such a notable difference in the number .of records of a common species in the two sets of years? It cannot be that the four first seasons were more severe and the snow more deep. I am inclined to believe that a number of winter species go farther south. than our latitude, perhaps very few individuals remaining with us during the severest part of the winter. And when any species is present only in small numbers, it may not be found over a large area. These facts .may account for the scarcity of the snowbird during parts of some winters. However, there may be other causes, more or less inexplicable, butmone the less certain, that, if known, • would account for the irregularity and scarcity of this and other winter species.
. Downy Woodpecker. .
■ Dryobates- pubescens mediamts. '	’
Some interesting figures were obtained for this species in eight winters. The four first show as the total number of records—47; with an average-each winter’of about 11 records;-. the four last have a total of 99 records, and. an average yearly record of about 24. -I.could not begin to account for such a great disparity in
distribution as is disclosed by these figures. Were the weather conditions so different in both sets of years as to cause this notable difference? As already stated in regard to other species, I think not. Neither was it a food question. What then are the possible determining factors in the distribution of the Downy Woodpecker? Well, I have observed that at other seasons of the year this species may often be long absent—why, I cannot say. But this is. a fact, and such a thing may occur in winter, as well as in spring, let us say. My opinion, then, is that .migration is one of the principal factors in ’ the ’ small distribution of this species' at certain seasons of the year, winter among them.
.	Tree Sparrow. '	.
. Spizel’a monticola.	■
The study of this, the commonest of our winter sparrows, has been very interesting to me. In four winters I made blit- 28 records for the species; in four other winters I made 87 records. These observations suggest a number of interesting questions. First, what was the probable cause of the great, difference in dis- -tribution between the two sets of years? I think the Tree Sparrow can never be found in abundance during winter, but is always present in a few small flocks. Second, I am disposed to believe that the species shuns places where snow is deep, and will therefore be absent from such • localities for long periods of time. ’ I admit, however, that such reasons as these do not fully account for the disparity noted above. To my mind the movements of birds in winter are more-or less involved in mystery. Hgw. true it is that science may observe and name, but many things it can nevei explam. But this mysterious element is a lure always beckoning the student, to make .more ar.dent efforts to grasp the coveted knowledge.
- ' ‘ . ------------1--------1—-	_ - _
Birds’ Nests in .Winter. - • - ‘
Homes of birds now flown to milder clime, .
You speak to me of song and feathered throng .
Whose melodies in memory’s ear is rhyme ' ' .
Of soft sweet sounds that ring out clear and long.
In fancy’s eye those lovely forms are seen—
Winter renews the summer’s radiant hues ..
Shining in' the sunlight from the leafy green, ■ And fills the air with every song we choose.
. .-	’	■■ / ■	- ’	-	;	-	. B. A. --
280
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC-

DISCE-QUASI-SEA\PER-VICTURVS-VIVE QU/XSI CR/XSMORiTYWS
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
epoch-making in many ways, and he will be long remembered, not only as an exceptional director of athletics but for the man that he is as well. That his old success may attend him in his new enterprise and in all that he undertakes, is the hope of his friends at Notre Dame.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
3$
VOL. LI.
FEBRUARY 16, 1918.
NO. 17
. Board of Editors.
Delmar J. Edmondson, ’i8
Charles W. Call, ’18 John A. Lemmer, ’18 John L- Reuss, ’18
George D. Haller, ’19 Thomas F. Healy, ’19
Brother Austin, C. S. C., ’18
Leigh G. Hubbell, ’18 T homas J. Hanifin, ’19
- —Many who had criticised the Knights of . Columbus as. a social organization that was doing no useful work have greatly changed their opinion since
K. of C. Work in the Camps, they have seen ..	-	the great good
which is being accomplished by the society in the military camps. When our entrance into the , war ' necessitated the founding of large training stations, throughout the country, the Knights of Columbus were among the first to come forward and help our soldiers. Millions


1
1
of dollars have been raised by the organization
—With the close of school this year, Notre
Dame is to lose the best director of athletics she has ever had. Coach Harper has announced _	-	his" intention of
The Loss of a	....	.,
~	~	. quitting the gridGreat Coach. ?	,	..
iron and the diamond in order to take up the management of a large cattle ranch out West. While all at the University Wish him well,' they cannot but feel that they are losing the sendees of a master. When Coach Harper came here in the fall of 1913, he was little known in athletic circles.
to carry out the plans of their work. Their task has become far more extensive than was at first anticipated, arid yet it is being done with a tact and efficiency that is eliciting high praise
A
from all sides. Centers of recreation have been built in all the camps, where the men may find relaxation and amusement, and many of the members of the order following the theatrical profession are giving their services gratis for the entertainment of the soldiers. Thus the men need not leave the camp to seek amusement, and they are therefore protected against the temp-
The schedules he arranged and the teams he , Nations that they would- invariably meet with developed at Notre Dame promptly astonished the inter-collegiate world. Nor was his brilliant beginning any-mere flash in the pan; each year he has turned out star teams, however unpromising the material with which he had to
■ begin. His remarkable feat in developing out of new men the victorious football team of ' last season is a fitting climax to his consistent success. In the years of his work here he has, of course, made a few mistakes and has. incurred some passing criticism now and then, as all men w;ho do things must, but the errors have been altogether incidental and negligible.
Coach Harper’s ability to develop winning
in the cities near which the camps are located. The society is taking care to look after, not only the temporal welfare of the • soldier, but, what is more’. important, after his spiritual ' welfare also. From the ranks of the order numerous priests have gone to minister to the spiritual wants of the men in training. Accommodations have been made providing for the celebration of Mass at several places in each camp on all Sundays and holy days, so that no Catholic soldier needs neglect at all his religious duties. Surely the Knights of Columbus are doing their “ bit, ” and great praise and credit is due them for the work they are achieving. Every Catholic should co-operate with them in
J
teams,’ however, is not his only or his highest
recommendation. His gentlemanly qualities, every possible way, so that they may be able to . his true sportsmanship, and what is so rare continue and, extend their good work.
in coaches—his appreciation of the proper ,	'
position of athletics in the life of the college	'	- ■ *.;	\ -	- j
man, have endeared him unforgettably to every- —A very lamentable feature in our American | one at the University. fHis career here has been business at present is the-greed and disloyalty t a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	281
of the small dealer. Circumstances have combined in such a way as to Other Shylocks, make him the absolute dic-
'	tator of his own prices. He
is beyond the scope of law, and his position is almost impregnable. The Government in the very beginning of the war saw the necessity of special legislation to control the larger producing corporations,’ such as. the packing houses, and enacted that legislation at once. The profiteering of the commercial giant was thus reduced to nil. But in his place has arisen the commercial pygmy whose weapons, though not so large, are wielded more directly and more sharply upon those most easily wounded. He is the small dealer, whose greed for profits vegetates and fattens on the lean limbs of starving children. Prompted by a ruthless avarice, he has become to American life a veritable parasite, whose presence is repulsive to every good, honest citizen. While American sons "are' .sacrificing themselves for the cause of the nation their mothers and sisters at home become the victims of fraud and deception at the hands of unscrupulous dealers; who have of course the brazen effrontery to call themselves Americans. The inflation of prices on the necessaries of life is a practice not only unpatriotic but well nigh treasonable. Recent investigations have revealed that this custom is very common among our smaller storekeepers. These predaceous merchants are on a par with the worst type of internal enemies, and when detected they should be treated with no less severity. Enemies of the Government, robbers of hungry children, profiteers of patriotism, they should be by legislation, prosecution and punishment, promptly and unceremoniously eliminated.	‘
Book Review.
Differential Equations. By Edward J.
Maurus, Professor of Mathematics in Notre -Dame University. Ginn and Co., Boston.
51 pages. Price, 75 cents.	-
In his little book “Differential Equations,” Prof. Maurus has condensed this subject in a very masterly way. The treatise is well calculated to serve as a text for engineering students, who will find it very easy to comprehend the definitions and the well-ordered divisions of the different parts. A good collection of new examples adds much to its value.. A work of such practical importance deserves the recognition of all those interested in this subject.—j. E. v. - .	.
. Jesse C. Harper.
"Jesse C. Harper, maker of Notre Dame athletic history and recognized as one of the great coaches, severs his connection with the University next June. Leaving' of his own volition and amid deep general regret, Coach -Harper will devote his entire time to “coaching” steers on the large cattle ranch in western Kansas, in which he has purchased a half-interest.
Erom a chaotic -state of athletics, Harper uplifted the Gold and Blue to a plane of equality, with the best schools in the East and the West. Business ability, strategic football wizardry, exceptional knowledge of the minor sports— these, coupled with dogged* - persistency, have accomplished a record in Notre Dame sport annals. Harper began his career- at Morgan Park Preparatory Academy and matriculated at the University of Chicago in 1902. Under the veteran, Alonzo A. Stagg, he eagerly absorbed the rudiments of the various minor sports. Lack of weight kept him from general recognition, but his characteristic plugging won for him a place as end on the Chicago Varsity in his senior year. Harper played four successive seasons on the baseball team and in this department the future mentor starred consistently.
In 1906 he took charge of athletics at Alma College, in Michigan, and in. two years had turned out a championship team and won the State Championship for Alma. Harper then accepted an offer from Wabash College and soon had his team winning state titles in baseball and basketball. In 1912 Notre Dame sought his sendees and the then comparatively obscure mentor accepted. In this same year he monopolized the headlines with great victories over the Army, Penn State, and Texas,—producing a forward-pass combination in Rockne and Dorais which will long be remembered. 1914 saw a reversal in material and Yale and the Anny were the victors. But Harper and his men came back strong in 1915 and crashed through every defence, losing to one team, Nebraska, on a fluke. In 1916 Notre Dame buried Nebraska but lost to the Army.	.	'	, -
Harper looked forward to his formidable 1917 schedule, convinced that his combination would be impregnable. The opening of the season saw the bulk of Harper’s stars donning the khaki, and a mere half dozen veterans headed by Capt. Phelan, who held draft papers, faced the tackling dummy. Despite these reverses the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
famous Harper “brace” was always in evidence, and Notre Dame battled the heavy Wisconsin eleven to a tie, but two weeks later bowed to the terrific attack of the Cornliuskers. Harper schemed, devised and put his warriors through long sieges of work before taking his apparentty defeated team on its Eastern invasion. But Oliphant el al did not put over the conceded slaughter, and the “pony backfield” of the Blue and Gold, headed by the diminutive Brandy, startled the football world by their decided victory over West Point. Later, to ■ prove that the victory was not a fluke, Notre
Dame again upheld the honor of the West by defeating the team that' held. Pitt scoreless. And all this can be attributed largely to the work of Coach Harper—the wonder man of the West.
Harper has demonstrated his ability. He has won by sheer merit a position in the foremost ranks of the country’s great mentors. Possessed of a commanding personality, sterling integrity and unwavering directorship, he is respected and honored by all at Notre Dame. An examination of his schedules bears testimony to the high esteem with which he is recognized in both the East and West. He has produced great teams, and in doing so has won our admiration by the absolute intergrity of his methods.
Maryknoll Ordinations.
On December 5 th, the Catholic Foreign Mission Society of America called to sacred orders several of its aspirant members. At the hands of Bishop Cusack of Albany, three of .the students, Francis Xavier Ford, Alphonse Stephen Vogel and William Francis O’Shea, received Holy Priesthood; Robert J. Cairns, Deaconship; Anthony P. Hodgins,.Subdeaconship; and two others received Minor Orders.
To those who-have at heart the conversion of the pagans, it is reassuring to note that
. America’s preparations to place a mighty army
for democracy in Europe have riot compelled among whom are- not a few exponents of the
the abandonment of her noble purpose to send soldiers of Christ- to the heathen nations of
Asia and Africa. .
Local News.
—The members of Corby Hall offered up a general communion Thursday, Feb. 7, in memory of Tom Spalding.. Tom is being remembered spiritually by prayers and communions in all the halls; '


at the Farmers’ Trust Imi, Thursday evening,
January 31. The party topped celebration by occupying seats Theatre.
—Last Saturday afternoon
the evening’s at the Oliver
the Banjo-
Mandolin Club furnished entertainment at a dinner given by the Indiana Club of South Bend in honor of. a Canadian Lieutenant recently returned from the Front.
—The Kub Klub, the freshman journalist organization, held its regular meeting Friday evening of last week. Talks were delivered by various members of the organization on points of interest in the newspaper world and several plans were proposed for future social events.
—John Lemmer, president of the Senior Class and student in the Philosophy department, will . represent Notre Dame at the annual oratorical contest which will be held in Indianapolis, on February 22. His winning of the Breen Oratorical Contest entitles him to that -honor.	-
—Rev. James French, C. S. C., and Rev. Wesley Donahue, C. S. C., of the Holy Cross Mission Band,- will conduct the mission to be held at St. Patrick’s Church, February 17 to March-3, inclusive. Separate sendees will be conducted for the men and women of the parish during the evenirigs of the mission, the children’s service taking place in the afternoons.
—-Badin Hall, Notre Dame’s newest resi- * dence ■ quarters, was the recent recipient of a piano,, the gift of Dr. Mullany of South Bend. As “Music hath charms, etc.,” the piano should prove a source. of solace to the Freshmen
■3

1 "lift
Irving Berlin school. The Badin Hallers wish to extend their thanks to Dr. Mullany through the Scholastic. .
While. helping. to. make the world safe' for	—The Washington- Hall Club, under the
.democracy, we can arid should at the same time able leadership of- Professors James- Sullivan . continue our-efforts, to make it safe, for Christi- .
anity. To bring' the message^ of . the. Prince of Peace to the" heathen is Maiyknoll’s mission, and we wish her Godspeed !	. J ;
and-Daniel Carr, lias, completed arrangements for a luncheon arid sfnoker to be held at the hall Wednesday' ’evening?'. The program committee, headed /by Carl .Eigelsbach, promises
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	.283
something unique in the way of entertainment.
—Brownson 'Hall, with the Vohs, Martin, Hoar combination featuring, defeated Walsh, Sunday in a fast game, 25 to 18. Kirk and Devine assumed the bulk of Walsh’s responsibility, ringing baskets from difficult angles, while Brother Casimir’s men displayed a well-drilled style of team work. The future should bring out classy mid-season competition for the Interhall Basketball trophy.
—Mr. George B. Hewetson delivered an interesting illustrated lecture on Russia in • Washington Hall, Saturday evening. He traced the history of Russia from its very beginning to the present time, showing the circumstances which led to the recent -revolt of the people under the leadership of Lenine and Trotsky. An added feature was the portrayal of Siberian prison scenes, famous in the dark story of Russian Czardom.
—The following men survived the first, debating preliminaries which were held last week. J. Lemmer, A. Sheridan, J. Abbott, T. Duffy, L. Stephan, J. Meyers, E-Sweeney, B. Carney, T. Beacom, P. Conaghan, A. Cusick, T. Hurley, T. Wyss, C. Palmer, ,G. Harbert, T. Healey, W. Kelley, J. Buckley, . J. Hogan, E. Hunter, R. Switalski, A. Slaggert, V. Nagel, F. Boland. The dates of the second preliminaries will. be announced later.
—Last week the Scholastic published a report of the Prep-Plymouth basketball game. Not being at the game, we were compelled to rely upon a member of the Prep association for the score, which we reported as 35-22 in favor of Plymouth. We have been informed since that our Prep team was literally snowed under and that Plymouth score should have been placed in the fifties and the Prep. score somewhere below six.. We would like to assure >•
our. Prep friend who gave the misleading report that, we are heartily ashamed of the lack of sportsmanship which prompted the deception. Another .repetition of the same kind will be dealt with in these columns in a way befitting the fault. We trust that the guilty party and ' any others who contributed to the spreading of the same false report will appreciate, our leniency fn not mentioning names and amend their methods in the future.
—At a meeting held Thursday noon the financial committee .of the Sophomore class, -headed by Chairman Tobin, filed a report of
the net proceeds realized at the Sophomore Cotillion, which proceeds are to be turned over to the Notre Dame ambulance fund. As a result, the class is enabled to contribute over eighty dollars, an amount considerably exceeding the contribution of any other class or organization. The Sophomores are deserving of high praise for their splendid patriotic motive in so substantially aiding the N. D. Ambulance Bund.
— Tuesday evening, the University was' favored by a peformance of a modernized version of Edward Everett Hale’s American Classic, “The Man Without a Country,” featuring Miss Florence LaBadie. The production is a masterpiece of double photography and draws a vivid comparison of the treasonable attitude taken by present-day pacifists as interpreted by the conduct of the principal character-of Hale’s book. Tbe play is of an intense patriotic interest and leaves an impression of the sense of duty upon the witness. Undoubtedly “The Man Without a Country” is the finest, clearcut, war story witnessed here recently.
—Plans for the Senior Ball, the most exclusive event of the Notre Dame' social calender, are well under way. The formal dinner dance will be given in the Tapestry room of the Oliver Hotel on Wednesday evening of Easter week/ thus allowing members of the Alumni Association and friends of the Seniors to more conveniently attend. The committees in charge are planning a unique entertainment to add to the pleasure of the event. The senior four-year men are represented' on the general arrangement committee by. the following: Charles Williams, Leonard Meyer and James P. Logan. The representatives of. the Senior- law class are David Philbin, Raymond Murray and Thomas Kelly. .	. -	.
—A victory and a defeat on the part of the two Carroll Hall teams during the week illustrated with emphasis the important part floor conditions play in the final outcome of a game. The Carroll First Team lost to the Junior H. N. S. team of St. Patrick’s parish Monday night on the South Bend floor by about the same score with which they defeated the St. Patrick crowd on the. floor of the: big:gym a short time ago.. On the other hand the “Teenie Weenies” defeated their opponents . from the same parish, in the big .gym-Sunday by practically the same score by 'which they
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
284
were defeated a short time ago on the more restricted St. Patrick’s floor. The opposing teams are evidently ver}’’ evenly matched when floor conditions play such a large part in deciding their games.
—The Senior lawyers were hosts at an enjoyable smoker and entertainment tendered to the law school at Walsh Hall Monday evening. In the absence of President McGlynn, who has joined the colors, Secretary McGrain presided. During the course of the evening a symposium of talks on Lincoln were creditably delivered by the following members of the Senior Class: “The Boyhood of Lincoln,” David Philbin: “Lincoln’s Gettysburg Address,” C. Giblin; “Lincoln as a Humorist,” Tom Kelly; “Lincoln as a Humanitarian,” W. Kelly; “Lincoln as a Statesman, ” Richard Dunn; and “Lincoln, the Lawyer,” Joseph Riley. Harry Godes and Leo Ward pleased with several syncopated numbers. Frank Holslag, formerly with several of the warring armies in the capacity of a war correspondent, delivered the feature talk of the' evening. Mr. Holslag told of the conditions' in the European countries and cited vividly specific instances of action to which he was a witness.	.
—Sorin social activities were ended Tuesday evening in anticipation of the Lenten season with a Mardi Gras festival which fairly outshone the New Orleans celebration. Bodie Andrews and Bernie Heffernan gave an exhibition of modern aesthetic dancing with emphasis on the aesthetic rather than on the dancing. Mr. Heffernan also attempted to treat the auditors with a bit of elocution but they refused to be< treated and as a result the official “bouncers” did a neat little job. “Dud” Pearson repeated his circus barking number, bringing up visions of sawdust and pink lemonade. “Pete” Ron-chetti charmed the crowd with accordion renditions delivering the. selections with, his usual finesse. Col. Hoynes insisted that the Oueens-bury rules be rigidly followed in the several boxing matches which ensued while the artists of the evening were getting rid of their theatrical accoutrements.. Sandwiches and ice cream followed and the Lenten lid was then formally clamped for the stipulated period.
—The following letter from Franklin D. Roosevelt, Assistant Secretary of the Navy, will be of interest to some of our students. In addition to the patriotic services of a contrir
bution such as suggested in the letter there is also added interest that will come of possessing a real war relic, after the termination of the present conflict:	.
January 21, 1918. Dear Sir:
. The Navy is still in urgent need of binoculars, spy glasses and telescopes. The use of the submarine has so changed naval warfare that more “eyes” are needed on every ship, in order that a constant and efficient lookout may be maintained. Sextants and chronometers are also urgently needed.	.
Heretofore, the United States has been obliged to rely almost entirely upon foreign countries for its supply of ’ such . articles. These channels of supply are now closed, and as no stock is on hand in this country to meet the present emergency, it has become necessary to appeal to the patriotism of private owners to furnish “Eyes for the Navy.”
Several weeks ago, an appeal was made through the daily press, resulting in the receipt of over 3,000. glasses of various kinds, the great majority of which has proven satisfactory for naval use.- This number, however, is wholly insufficient, and-the Navy needs manythousands more.
May I, therefore, ask your co-operation with the Navy, to impress upon your subscribers, either editoriallj'-, pictorially or in display, by announcing, in addition to the above general statement, the following salient features in connection with the Navy’s call:
All articles should be securely tagged giving the name and address of the donor, and forwarded by mail or express to the Honorable Franklin D. . Roosevelt, Assistant Secretary of the Navy, care of Naval Observatory, Washington, D. C., so that they may by acknowledged by him.
Articles not suitable for naval use will be returned to the sender. Those accepted will be s keyed, so that the name and address of the donor will be permanently recorded at the Navy Department, and every effort will.be made to return them, with added historic interest, at the termination of -the war. It is, of course, impossible to guarantee them against damage 01 loss.	,	•	• i
As the Government cannot, under the law, accept services, or material without making some payment therefor, one dollar will be paid for each article accepted, which sum will constitute the rental price, or, in the event of loss, the purchase price, of such article.	’
—At the jrequest of. John A. Mcllhenny, v | president of the United States Civil Service -	[
Commission, we print the following as being of possible interest to our readers:
Washington, D. C., Jan., 191S—The United States Government is in heed of several hundred expert cost accountants to Till vacancies in the accounts section of the finance department of the equipment division of the signal Corps, War Department, and, in other branches, for duty in .Washington, D. C., or in the field, according.to an.announcement just issued by the. ’ United States. Civil Service Commission. The salaries ;

THE-NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
offered range from. $2400 to $6000 a year. Men only are desired.
The duties of appointees to the Signal Corps will consist of the determination of production costs to j ■ airplanes and airplane motors, either as supervisors in charge at one or more of the several plants, or as assistants, or appointees may be assigned to duty in Washington, D. C.
J	Applicants will not be assembled for a written ex-
amination, but will be rated upon the subjects of edu-■ cation and experience, as shown by their applications and corroborative evidence.	—
’	The Commission states that on account of the
" urgent needs of the service applications for these *’	positions-will be received until further notice and that
paper’s will be rated promptly and certifications made, as the needs of the service require.
Complete information and application blanks may be obtained by communicating with the secretary of 1	the local board of civil service examiners at the post
- office in any of 'the larger cities or with the United v States Civil Service Commission, Washington, D. C.
Personals.
—The thanks of the University are due Mr.
• Charles Casgrain of Detroit, Mich., for the gift of a beautiful \plaster cast medallion of _ Dr. Orestes A. Brownson. The medallion, which is of hei oic size, is a beautiful work of art, as well as a faithful portrait.	‘
—Lieut. “Cy” Casper, former Notre Dame star half-miller and member of the champion. ship two mile-relay team, is anchor man on the.
speedy Camp Dodge- relay team. “Cy, ” besides thrilling the Dodgeites with his sensational finishes on the cinder path, is also a member of the Port’s quintet of basketeers.
!	—Among the numerous letters received by
Father Canavaugh, from his “old boys” now serving in the army is one from George A.
„ Lynch. Lynch says: “My army career is pro-
‘ gressing, I am happy to say. In fact, I have been recommended for promotion/ and expect _ to be a Major before sailing for France. There is no doubt that my training as a “skiver” at Notre Dame .will be of great benefit to me in scouting and reconnaissance work. If I can display as much strategy on the battlefields of Europe as I did in evading the pitfalls and ambuscades of the Prefects at Notre: Dame, I believe I will prove an American Von Moltke.” > George graduated in Law ’13. He was one of the best actors ever -on a Notre Dame stage and something of a playwright. His present address is: Company H, 310th Infantry, Camp Dix, New Jersey.
285
Letters from Camp.	;
Camp Dewey, Great Lakes, Illinois, Jan. 17, 1918.
Rev. John Cavanaugh,	-
Notre Dame, Indiana.	'	.	.
Rev. Dear Rather:
I just received a copy of The Scholastic, and it felt like thirty minutes at N. D. while I was reading it over.	'	.
The mailing room of The Scholastic has my address wrong, however. I am in Co. L, 3rd Reg., Camp Dewey, at present, and have been here since Thanksgiving'Day. We have been quarantined with measles since New Year’s Day. All we do is lie around in'the barracks eating and sleeping. I have made application to get into the Naval Flying Corps, but do not know how I shall come out with it, as the Flying Corps is composed of men in the Reserves, and I am in the Regular Navy. If I fail to get in on my own efforts, I might ask you to help me.
We have had practically no training, as we have been shut up for over two weeks and before that I was home on a furlough. -	,
I met a Notre Dame man here about a week ago, a , Mr. Roy Phillips, who said he used to drive for yon. He is in the Ground School Section of the Aviation Department.	.	.
I saw in the papers that Bachman and Ward Miller also are up here in detention camp at present.
If I do'not get into the Flying Corps, I expect to go to sea at once, that is, as soon as. we get out of quarantine. They will no doubt send us to the .West Coast, as I believe the ships and navy yards on the East Coast.are full to capacity,	- -	-
I don’t'care much where they do send me, although I believe I .would rather go to the West Coast. There is considerable 'romance about this life, speculating as to where you will be sent. I shall send you a picture of myself, as I see they, are wanted for the Dome'. . . . . '
Very sincerely,
-	, .	/ Ira W. Hurley.
Camp Sherman, Chillicothe, Ohio. ’ _ 322 Machine Gun Battalion, ~	'	• Dec. 2, 1917.
Rev. Father Moloney,	.	. .
Notre Dame, Ind.--	'	'
Dear Father:—	.	-
Undoubtedly you will be surprised upon, hearing from me. I am now located at Camp Sherman, Ohio, . and commissioned a lieutenant in the machine gun -battalion, after attending three months, at Fort. : Benjamin Harrison last summer. I have met several .. old Notre Dame boys here, and always am glad of the . opportunity of talking Notre Dame to them; as you ■ are probably aware,—once an N. D. man, always an . N. D. man. .	■	.	.
We have three TC. of C. recreation buildings for the convenience of the men. The. last two buildings. ~ were completed just a few. weeks ago. Previous, to-... that, they had Masses in both the. K. of, C„ main building and the Y. M’. C. A? auditorium. . The audi-. tprium seats three thousand. It would do you good, -
-	_	-	-	-	‘	s
'	'	-J
■	7	-	’	-	•	. i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	t
Father, to see the boys go to Holy Communion. I remember one Mass in particular about three weeks back. The hall was packed, and I don’t believe there were ten in church that didn’t receive Holy Com-■ munion. They claim about forty per cent of the boys
here are Catholics. ' The General'issued orders to what will reflect credit on Notre Dame—Notre Dame,
company commanders to allow the Catholic boys to attend Mass on holydays.
The Thanksgiving Mass was attended by Archbishop Moeller, General Glenn and his staff. There are many Catholic officers here. ,	-
I presume you have heard by this time of-Bud .could see me when I meet them. “Yes, Sir.”—“No,
Oshe’s having been ,lected municipal judge down in Zanesville? -Now he. is talking of being married. Strange how an election will affect a man.
... With kindest regards to you, and wishing you good health, I am, ,
■	Your old secretary,
. Lieut. W. J- Hemmer,
Camp Decatur, Great Lakes, Illinois, Co. 19, Barracks 847 N. • Mr. Mark Me Caff ery,	.	_
Notre Dame, Indiana,	v
Dear Mac:	■	"
“Join the navy and learn a trade.” I am now a member in good standing of the organization stationed at Camp Decatur. I have one rnore wreek of detention to serve and then will be transferred to the Petty Officers’ School. I. enlisted as a machinist’s mate (aviation), but have been transferred “for the good of the service,” which, translated, means to play football and stay here for track w'ork.
There are twenty-four men in our barracks. and I’m. the Barrack’s Chief. There is “Jimmy” Wolff, brother of Louis, Ed Ryan of Sorin, “Point” Downing, “Dutch”. Wrape, “Ike” Lower, and a host of other N. D. men.	-	.
We received 6ur. uniforms Monday, and haven’t had an idle minute since. Yesterday morning they struck upon the navy slogan, “Join the navy and
learn a trade,” and so they put us to shoveling snow. ’ We were at it all day and far into the. evening, and ■ nobody .took time out, , except'for the important business of eating. We have three -feet here and the" white stuff is still filtering down.	"
Well, Mac, old'-boy, it’s time, to put on the proverbial “feed bag,” sb I’ll have to close.	,
.	“Bach” (Charles Bachman, ’17).	•
two, and while we won’t hear from our third for a week, I feel that I hit it light on the nose.
I say my Rosary every night at Taps. I pray for my friends and people, and included in my intention is my wish that I may succeed, and do nothing but
founded by Father Sorin and endowed by the Mother of God. The three best years - of my life have passed, Father. A fellow couldn’t help but pray . when he thinks of the school on the St. Joe.
. . . Lieut. Byrrie and Bush are fine. I wish you
sir.
Very sincerely, “Rupe” Mills.
Camp MacArthur, Waco, Texas, -	'	• December 26, 1917.
My dear Father Moloney:—
Your communication of the 12th at hand. I'should have answered sooner, Father, but I have been very busy. I am glad to have the opportunity of helping you in your endeavor to get a list of the Notre Dame men in the service. I am a Jesuit product from Holy Cross, Worcester, Mass., where the same thing has been done. And-1 am taking the liberty of sending you under separate cover a copy of our Christmas Purple. On page 184 you will find our list.
While I have the chance I wish‘ to say a word of praise for .two of your boys,. Shorty Durrell of San Antonio, and Vincent Vaughan of Lafayette, Indiana. Durrell is secretary and Vaughan assistant secretary at the K. of C. Bldg. here. They are both good, capable ' men and are doing splendid work here. . . Vaughan

1
1
fills the bill perfectly in every respect ..and* was very highly- complimented' by. the visitor from K. of C. Headquarters. ■ He is not only a veri^ capable secretary but is a fine. Catholic .boy in every respect, serves my Masses and receives Holy. Communion every Sunday. . He is a credit to Notre Dame, and if God spareshim he will be heard from sbm. day. I hope you will remember him in your, prayers.'	..	'.	.
Now for the lis't.. We have here in Camp, as far as I have been able to find - out, two N_ D. men. Here they are: 1st. Lieut. John Martin, Co. E, 127th Infantry, and Private Archie Duncan, Battery E, 121st Field Artillery. .	_	'
. .With sincere wishes for a Happy New Year and hoping I can be of further assistance to you, l am,
.	' . . .'	Sincerely yours,"
.	- .	.	' _ Wm. Davitt:
V
u
O. T. C:, 29th Division, Anniston; Ala.
Dear Father Cavanaugh:	.	.
'.... I reported at camp about three weeks ago, and the first chance I had to write was last Sunday. I’m just made for this camp.- I’m not setting it on
Athletic Notes.
\ ‘ , M? A. C. Game. ■	■
.Peeved at their poor showing .on the M. A. C.
fire, but I .walk as vertical as-any of’m, and use my , ,, • — 1 < r	1 tt ,- ,
% ,	„ ,, . ,,	_ court the week before, Coach Harper s-basketeers
head as well. I m m the artillery arm and like it fine. .	.. .	5	,	.
I wasn’t in camp two days whenT saw that with all. threw their efforts into .high and hosed out 'their experience -in the'National Guard it wouldn’t the Aggies in the Notre Dame gymnasium on take me long to catch up with most of the men here. Thursday night, February 7th. It took all the
I think I’m as good a soldier as any in the? outfit.	' "	'
' There’s one thing we have learned/ and that is to shine
determination and speed the Gold and Blue could muster, however,' to beat the Lansingites.
shoes. Believe me you can see your face when I .	.	.	.
get through with the “ole” brush. We took puf\hird One basket was the margin of victory, 25 to .
examination to-day. I have done very well in the first 23 being the score.	.	.
THE NOTRE- DAME SCHOLASTIC
287
* Playing center for M. A. C. was" an elongated <	' artist named Higbee who all but offset the heroic
efforts of. the sons of Notre Dame. It makes no difference whether it was luck or skill that J ' enabled him to drop seven sensational goals through the Notre Dame basket in the course
'	of the game. Just one more'such feat would
A	have counteracted the strenuous offense of
the local tossers. It was unfortunate for M. A.C. that Higbee got into bodily contact with Hayes, the Notre Dame guard, as the game neared
■ its end, for Referee Cook ejected both from the 'w game. ’	-
. Bahan was the bright star for Notre Dame. His five baskets were appreciated by his fellowplayers and spectators alike. Stine never t -played a better game at guard. Captain Ron-chetti kept the whole M. A. C. team worried by his rushing tactics, and his eye for baskets ►	. from the ford line would pass , an optical test.
. Bader, though basketless, played a strong passing game, and “-fed’’ the ball to Bahan with fine discrimination. Murray did well at forward for M. A. C. The score:	'
Notre Dame (23)	M. A. C. (23) .
__; Bahan_________________„....L	F......_____ .Brigham
' Bader._.7..._........ R	F__________ ..—Murray
Ronchetti_______________C__________________Higbee
Hayes___________________L	G______________Garratt
Stine.._____________1__.R G________________Kurtz
Substitutions: For Notre’ Dame: Smith for Hayes.
’■	M. A. C.; Snyder for Brigham; Archer for Higbee.
.	Goals: For Notre Dame: Bahan, 5; Ronchetti, 2;
Hayes, 2; Stine, 1. For M. A. C.: Murray, 2; Higbee, l”s 7; Kurtz, 1. Fouls: Ronchetti, 5 out of 8; Murray,
3 out of 7. Time of halves: 20 minutes. Referee:
- Cook, Indiana. Timer: Rockne.	'
;	■	Reds vs. Blues. .	■
* Try as they would the Blues could not offset
<0 . the sterling performances of Hari Gilfillan of the Reds, whose...30 points won for his side the Red and Blue meet of February Sth The . final score of 49 to 48 is a great, tribute to the selective powers of Coach Rockne, who divided his squad about as equally as a human could.
. Aside from the-superhuman work of Gilfillan ’ , the meet was devoid off anything out of the ordinary.- Captain Mulligan and .McGinnis demonstrated they are. ready for all comers
' in the forty yard dash. Vohs sprung a surprise - .. by-winning the pole vault; Murphy showed > f . promise as a two-miler; Calk stepped the fastest half mile of his career; Miller, Meredith and -P. Barry staged a merry fight in the quarter mile, ■"•yp The summary: ' ...
‘	. 40-yard dash—Mulligan, Blue, first;’. McGinnis,
Blue, second; Gilfillan, Red, third. Time, 4 3-5 sec. .
- 220-yard dash—Gilfillan, Red, first; Mulligan, Blue, second; .Miller, Red," third. Time, 25 sec.
440-yard dash—Miller, Blue, first; Meredith, Red, second; Barry, Blue, third. Time, 55 3-5 sec.
880-yard dash—Call, Blue, first; McDonough, Red, second. Time, 2 min. 6 1-5 sec.
2 ■ mile run:—Murphy, Blue, first; O’Connor, Blue, . second; Harbert, Red, third. Time, 11 min. 58 sec.
. 40-yard high hurdles—Gilfillan, Red, first; Shugrue, Blue, second; Kennedy, Red, third. Time, 5 3-5 sec..
40-yard low hurdles—Gilfillan, Red, and Shugrue, Blue, tied for first. Tifany, Blue, third. Time, 5 2-5 sec. ..
'High? Jump—Gilfillan, Red, first; Kennedy, Red, -second; Walters, Blue, and Dooley, Red, tied for third. Height, 5 ft, 3 in.
Pole vault—Vohs, Red, first; Powers and Rademacher, Blue, tied for second. Height, 10 ft. 7 ii-2 in.
Shot put—Gilfillan, Red, first; Dooley, Red, and Ronchetti, Blue, tied for second. Distance, 37 ft.-11 in.	...
" Broad jump—Gilfillan, Red, first; McGinnis, Blue, . second; Kremp, Red, third. Distance, 22 ft, 61-2 in.
'	Novice Events. .	...
40-yard dash—Dooley, ""first;	Kremp, second^ •
Hogan, third. 4 4-5 sec.	.	.	.
440-yard dash—Smith, first;	Insley, second;
Keenan,‘third, 57 3-5 sec.
One mile run—Jenney, first; Shanahan, second; . Jones, third. Time, 5 min. 42 sec.
Total score—Reds, 49; Blue 48.-	•
Referee -and Starter—Knute. Rockne.
Preps vs. Michigan City.
Last Wednesday evening the Prep basketball team won a decisive victory over the Marquette team of Michigan City, in the big gym by a . score of -67 to 5. The visitors appeared to suffer an attack of stage fright in the very beginning, from which, they never completely recovered. Their guarding was poor, their offense listless and their general playing “pep-less.” DeSio and Kirk starred for the Preps, each caging in the neighborhood of a dozen - baskets. A return contest will be played in.
Michigan City, and it is expected that the Marquette team will put up a real contest on ' , their home floor. The visitors were slightly outweighed by the locals.	-	'
’	Interhall Athletics.
With repeated flashes of the old Corby style, . Father Haggerty’s basketeers gleaned a decisive victory at the expense of Badin last Sunday morning. Sanford, Conway and Ward ' were the calcium boys for Corby, all of them consistently finding the hoop. Maher and Duffy were Father McGarry’s best bets, putting up a scrappy opposition to every Corby formation.
The fray ended with a score of 36 to 16.	.
28g
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Safety Valve.
Student (coming home at 11130 P. M. when all the steam is off). Some patriotism! Why don’t they keep the fires burning till the boys come home.” * * * -Philology.
The orgin of Valentine is known well, I ween The printer pied a line o’ type and mispelled vaseline. . * -* * Music Hath Power.
I heard you sing last night and, dearest girl, . I’m thinking every minute,
The world would be supreme if you and I And no one else were in it.
And'you could have your home in Portland, Maine, A pretty home ’twould be, While I in San Francisco would abide
Beside the rolling sea.
You would be queen of all that you surveyed And I the reigning king,
And I might go .to see you, were it not Last night I heard you sing.
(From a Freshman Story.)
And gazing up into the heavens I beheld the most beautiful consternation I had ever seen, Orion. Kelby saw it too, for though a fog hung over the valley he had a keen power of deception.	. -	'
If you can knock when all the world is praising, If you can growl when other meh are kind, -
If you can frown when everyone is smiling ~ And criticise most everything you find. .	.
If you can eat with all your brothers fasting And sleep when every other human wakes, If you can cuss when all your friends are praying
And laugh at every weary heart that aches.
If you can bite the gentle hand that feeds you And break the arm that oft has brought you aid, If you can find no- spark of good’or kindness,
. In anything that ever yet was made. ,	-
If you can loaf when other souls must study •-
And go to work when it is time for play, . As’sure as there are prunes and small green apples,
You’ll be a prefect in a hall some1 day. - • ’ . - * ■ - -•. - * * '
The compositor .who made the Israelites long for the bell hops of Egypt is with us. “A cup of coffee’is , allowed in the morning and a collision in the evening.”
' High Aspirations. \
If I were a corn on your little toe	'
. How happyva boy Td be, f - - -
For every c time you went but to walk'1	•
-	’ I’d know, you would think of me. _	•
•And at night-when the silent, shadows came
’- You’d rub my. face,.I know,	. r
■ ^And bundle me up in a corn plaster; '
. . • ' If Lwere a corn on your toe; : ?	? -
.. ’• If I were a wart on the back of your neck,' : ,	I-think I should die with glee, < ■ . . > .	“
/	. For eyery time you .would turn your head r-_. ’
. You’d just have to think of me, For a collar button, too, I’d serve .	’
And be glad of the chance.by heck! . And I wouldn’t care how the collar pulled.
"If I were a wart on your neck. - * * *
■	-Why Always These?
As I have no more to say I will close.
As the bell is ringing for dinner I will say good-bye.
As this is my last sheet of paper I must stop.
When These are Just as Plausible.
As I have just swallowed a quart of arsenic, I stop.
As my uncle has just been stabbed in the Loop, I-must say good bye.
As: my aunt- has just inhaled the ice-cream freezer, I say farewell.
r
They have good teams at old N. D.
And they’ve played some tough old games, But the funniest they ever played
Was twixt guys with funny names. .
Gibasiewicz kicked off to Klapheke
Who in his Finske nabbed it, ■
But he ran like an Eisemann
So Musmaker soon g(Rabb)ed it.
He kicked it-a Mileskie sure, .
- But.’twas caught bjr Oberwinder Who shook a tackler or two Orf
. With his hand out like a fender.
Then Pappas Smol'a smile or two,
Sez he, "I’ll Kremp their Ley, Because I’ve brought McGirl out here
To-day to watch me play.”
"Welhelmi!” cried Szcepanick
• As he Hews right through the line, And the "scoop” had almost Mador-When Makielski downed Devine.
. Old Wolf then put his Scates on	,	.
, And he made a dive for Lamb.	-
Ronchetti says " Tis Follet”
. But he didn’t give a—.
Then Reardon tried to Hoppe,	. - .
.: For he felt his leg a Menden, . ■	.
But soon was laid Louitzki, For bum legs you can’t depend, on. _ * ’ ’ -1 - * - ' ,
. .	. Pickle Time. . ’
It’s only a piece of a pickle, dear girl, .	- -
•	; But it still has teeth m'arks where you bit it,
.And.1 have it locked up in a box in my trunk, ’
For fear some unworthy, might git it. .
■ - 1	‘L	V
7 And twelve times a-day I delve in my trunk, Oh, I’d die on the spot should I miss it, .	. '
And just where the’ marks of your tootsies are deep, ’ -1, lift up the pickle and kiss it.'	. /
L And I stagger about and my head seems, to reel,
Oh, dearie, don’t think l am fickle,
.; ;:. For the truth of the whole matter seems to be this, < That I’m pickled far.worse than the pickle. ' <	”