THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
SALUTE: CAL CRIMP
Michigan Bell makes few moves in Southfield without consulting Engineer Cal Crimp (B.S.E.E.. 1957). Cal makes studies on where to put new central offices, how to expand old ones, what switching equipment to order.
To make these decisions, Cal must interpret forecasts of customer growth. He must also know his equipment and operating costs closely. Such responsibility is not new to
him. On an earlier assignment, for instance, he skillfully directed a drafting section of 32 people.
Cal Crimp of Michigan Bell Telephone Company and the other young engineers like him in Bell Telephone Companies throughout the country help bring the finest communications service in the world to the homes and businesses of a growing America.
BELL TELEPHONE
COMPANIES
MONSTER i sponsored by the CONTEST J P/W PEN PEOPLE
30 TWENTY Xi- 20
MONSTER RALLY KUS
GIVEN AWAY
N
I Fraternities, Sororities, Chowder & Marching Societies, etc.
JUST FOR COLLECTING SIGNATURES
: EACH KIT CONTAINS: :
20 5 20 MEGAPHONES!!
... for keeping order amongst the rank and file
NOISEMAKERS
60
from Las Vegas . . . for keeping disorder amongst the rank and file
yourself Effigy
... a bald-headed store dummy who can look like almost anybody
Do-it-
YARDS OF BUNTING
... the good, colorful kind
300
BLANK BUTTONS ... fill in your own cause
4i HERE'S ALL YOU DO TO WIN
-i Pass the hat and buy one Parker Arrow pen or borrow one—the new clean-filling, smooth-writing cartridge pen. It only costs S3.95.
3 Mail your list to: Monster Contest, P.O. Box 5049, St. Paul, Minn.
We'll mail kits to winning groups, within 30 days. Sorry, but only one kit to a college or university and only 20 kits nationwide. Be sure to appoint a group leader and include his or her name and address with your entry.
A MONSTER-RALLY KIT FOR YOUR GROUP: 41
2 Use this pen to acquire at least 200 (two hundred) signatures of fellow students. They need not be perfectly legible and we'll even accept artful aliases. Neatness does not count, but length does (the 20 longest lists of names win). Duplicate prizes in case of ties.
4 Consolation prizes will be awarded to each group submitting 50 signatures or more. You'll receive one FREE Parker Quink cartridge for each name (we're no dopes, they'll all have to buy Parker Arrow pens to put 'em in).
5 Decisions of judges final. All entries become the property of Parker. Contest void in Nebraska, Wisconsin, and anywhere else prohibited by law. All entries must be postmarked on or before midnight, Nov. 9,1962, and received on or before Nov. 16,1962.
4* PARKER —Maker of the world's most wanted pens
©1962 THE PARKER PEN COMPANY, JANESVILLE, WISCONSIN
October 1-9, 1962
5
On Campus WShuIman
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf’, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
The SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 104 October 19, 1962 No. 4
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
HAPPINESS CAN’T BUY MONEY
Founded 1867
Can Education bring happiness?
This is a question that in recent years has caused much lively debate and several hundred stabbings among American college professors. Some contend that if a student's intellect is sufficiently aroused, happiness will automatically follow. Others say that to concentrate on the intellect and ignore the rest of the personality can only lead to misery.
I myself favor the second view, and I offer in evidence the well-known case of Agathe Fusco.
Agathe, a forestry major, never got anything less than a straight “A”, was awarded her B.T. (Bachelor of Trees) in only two years, her M.S.B. (Master of Sap and Bark) in only three, and her D.B.C. (Doctor of Blight and Cutworms) in only four.
Academic glory was hers. Her intellect was the envy of even7 intellect fan on campus. But was she happy? The answer, alas, was no. Agathe —she knew not why—was miserable, so miserable, in fact, that one day while walking across campus, she was suddenly so overcome with melancholy that she flang herself, weeping, upon the statue of the Founder.
By and by a liberal arts major named R. Twinkle Plenty came by with his yoyo. He noted Agathe’s
condition. “How come you’re so unhappy, hey?” said R. Twinkle.
“Suppose you tell me, you dumb old liberal arts major,’’ replied Agathe peevishly.
“All right, I will.” said R. Twinkle. “You are unhappy for two reasons. First, because you have been so busy stuffing your intellect that you have gone and starved your psyche. I’ve got nothing against learning, mind .you, but a person oughtn’t to neglect the pleasant, gentle amenities of life—the fun things. Have you, for instance, ever been to a dance?”
Agathe shook her head.
“Have you ever watched a sunset? Written a poem? Smoked a Marlboro Cigarette?”
* * *
Agathe shook her head.
“Well, we’ll fix that right now!” said R. Twinkle and gave her a Marlboro and struck a match.
She puffed, and then for the first time in twelve or fifteen years, she smiled. “Wow!” she cried. “Marlboros are a fun thing! What flavor! What filter! What pack or box! What a lot to like! From now on I will smoke Marlboros, and never have another unhappy day!”
“Hold!” said R. Twinkle. “Marlboros alone will not solve your problem—only half of it. Remember I said there were too things making you unhappy?”
“Oh, yeah,” said Agathe. “What’s the other one?”
“How long have you had that bear trap on your foot?” said R. Twinkle.
“I stepped on it during a field trip in my freshman year,” said Agathe. “I keep meaning to have it taken off.”
“Allow me,” said R. Twinkle and re
moved it.
“Lands sakes, what a relief!” said Agathe, now totally happy, and took R. Twinkle’s hand and led him to a Marlboro vendor’s and then to a justice of the peace.
Today Agathe is a perfect!jr fulfilled woman, both intellectwise and personalitywise. She lives in a darling splitlevel house with R. Twinkle and their 17 children, and she still keeps busy in the forestry game. Only last month, in fact, she became Consultant on Sawdust to the American Butchers Guild, she was named an Honorary Sequoia by the park commissioner of Las Vegas, and she published a best-selling book called f JKos a Slippery Elm for the FBI.
© 1962 Max Shulman
JOHN McCABE Editor
JACK AHERN Associate Editor
JIM WYRSCH ..............News	Editor
TOM HOOBLER ........ Features	Editor
JOHN BECHTOLD ........ Sports	Editor
JOHN PESTA ........... Layout	Editor
JAY WARD ........... Business Manager
PAT SAXE .................Art	Editor
STEVE ENRIGHT .......... Assistant Art
JIM GALVIN.............. Copy Editor
RICHARD ROGGEVEEN .................
............... Advertising	Manager TOM DALUM .................. Circulation
BRIAN BECK...............Photography
TERRY WOLKERSTORFER ...............
	   Assistant	Sports JOE RYAN ........... Assistant	Sports
DONALD COSTELLO .... Faculty Advisor REV. JOSEPH HOFFMAN ...............
.................. Faculty	Advisor
COPY STAFF: AI Dudash, Dick Notebacrt, John Pope, Jack Rowe, Bob Zielsdorf.
FEATURES STAFF: Brian Barnes, Jim Bonnybury, Dick Gibbs, Frank McConnell, Larry Sicking, Carl Wiedemann.
NEWS STAFF: Ken Caspar. Dick Connelly, Bob Sumpbins, Dick Richard Weirich.
Arnold, John Buckley, Joe Vince DeCoursey, Jed Kee, Maher, John McAlearney,
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is ?5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the propei ty of the SCHOLASTIC.
OFFICE OPEN:
The makers of Marlboro are pleased that Agathe is finally out of the woods—and so will you be if your goal is smoking pleasure. Just try a Marlboro.
Sunday, 7:30-12:00; Monday, 1:30-5:30, 7:30-12:00,• Tuesday, 7:30-9:30; Wednesday, 1:30-5:30; Thursday, 1:30-5:30; Friday, 1:30-5:30; Saturday, not open.
6
The Scholastic
EDITORIAL
With the opening of the Ecumenical Council on October 11, the Church has begun a vitally important analysis of dogma and practice, stressing opportunities for greater Christian unity. Pope John’s invitation to leaders of other Christian faiths indicates the encompassing energies being expended to penetrate to the roots of our tradition. Granted a more passive role than actual participation in the deliberations at the Council, we as laity still have obligations as an integral segment of the Mystical Body. In this manifestation of what Gregory Baum, O.S.A., has called the “collegiality” of the Church what can we do? Simply to study the problems being probed, to attend Mass and to pray. Until the laity is allowed a freer hand in Church matters, only in these ways can we fulfill our part with the apostolic hierarchy in this tremendous endeavor: as Philip Scharper says, “to work with God in fashioning a better Church and society.”
In the October 20 issue of Ave Maria, there appeared a thought-provoking article, “Is the Catholic College Graduate Committed?” concerning the reading habits of Catholic college graduates.
Of the graduates surveyed, only 68% were reading any books at the time. Of those reading, a small percentage were reading Catholic books. While the quality of reading was high (Guardini, Van Zeller, etc.), the popular and contemporary far surpassed the number of classical or historical books.
Though our situation is quite different from that of graduates, most of us fail to exploit the opportunities to be had from a wide range of serious reading. Few bother to read many books outside of those assigned in class; most read what is fashionable rather than profound. Even those with a large number of books have few good Catholic works (for instance, few have books on the Council). The current general concern for greater lay action has apparently not yet permeated our campus.
While it is almost a cliche to talk about the “commitment of the Catholic student today” there are real problems that must be examined. The need con
tinues for a more complete expression of the student’s role in the University and in his faith. Some feel that such abstract thought and obscure talk is entirely irrelevant; in a sense it is. However, public discussion of what is important in our lives (whether we will it or not) is a necessary corollary and a stimulus to private reflection. Here in college we have the leisure to confront ourselves frankly; for many this opportunity to become more human is lost. Students must begin to understand themselves, and in this reflection serious reading can play an essential part.
Besides acquiring a delightful addiction to some of Milwaukee’s finest liquid products, the 1000 or so fun-loving trippers to Madison last week end were treated to an unequalled display of hospitality by the fraternities and sororities of the University of Wisconsin. Home was never so good.
Those pleasantries have brought into relief the need for some reciprocal arrangements on this campus. If, for example, Michigan State would be audacious enough to endorse a student trip to South Bend, we would be hard-pressed to provide even the minimum of worthwhile entertainment or inexpensive lodging. Why not have the Student Senate write its counterpart in East Lansing, Pittsburgh, or Chapel Hill inviting their respective student bodies to the Athens of the Midwest for a week end of glorious and wholesome fun? Rooms on campus could be made available (floor space is abundant in some rooms), dates could be provided from the plethora of beauties at St. Mary’s, and something more glamorous than a Washington Hall movie could be scheduled for Saturday evening. In all events a better welcome than was given North western’s band last year — it was mauled by several hundred freshman goons — is in order.
This week the Scholastic is initiating a discussion of problems in student spirit and religious tradition at the University. Rather than avoid these perennial problems we feel that it is within our scope to face these situations, and to attempt clarification of the issues in our search, as students, for the identity of this University.
October 19, 1962
7
Forum
Leahy vs. Carberry Editor:
In the past, I had always maintained that girl cheerleaders and a mixed cheering section did not belong at Notre Dame. I felt that their presence would destroy the unity and effectiveness of the cheering section, turning the game into another excuse for a social event. I also felt that if girls were to be included in the student section, it was wrong to do this simply as an antirowdiness measure.
The events of these last few seasons have changed my views on this subject Since we are no longer trying to play football as it was once
Welcomes Notre Dame Men
FINE JEWELRY • FINE SERVICE FAIR PRICES
DIAMONDS
Keepsake * Artcarved * Orange Blossom
WATCHES
Omega * Rolex * Longines ■ Wittnauer Patek Phillipe
14K GOLD JEWELRY
Charms * Bracelets * Pendants * Crosses Pins • Cultured Pearls
FASHION JEWELRY
Trifari * Monet * Eisenberg * Siamese Sterling and Gold Filled Charms
Credit (with no interest) and Layaway — available to
NOTRE DAME MEN
Open Monday and Thursday till 8:30 P.M.
121 W. Washington CE 4-1311
played here, perhaps we might as well salvage the social aspect of the afternoon. It is obvious that much of the students’ boorishness stems from the frustration and boredom attendant upon watching our team play (this year’s Purdue game was the most lifeless football contest I’ve seen). A little less concentration on the game might not be damaging.
However, on a larger scale, the “tradition” which you refer to in last week’s editorial concerning an allmale cheering section comes from a time when Notre Dame was doing a fairly good job of “winning over all” — a time when a 7-3 season was a poor year. (How many students would have been overjoyed with a 7-3 mark this past season?)
Our class (’63) won’t be the first to graduate with a losing record in football for their four years (last year’s seniors had that honor), but we will be the first class in Notre Dame history never to have seen a winning football season!
Faced with the fact that ND is decidedly not winning “over all” — nor even half of all — a few choices present themselves:
1)	Return to Leahy-type football, the genuine “football factory,” with large numbers of scholarships and massive recruiting;
2)	Take Professor Carberry’s advice (Scholastic, Oct. 5) and admit, contrary to published opinions, that academic excellence and big-time football (though not necessarily athletic) excellence are incompatible, with a consequent lowering of the caliber of the opposition so that we would be playing “Ivy League” football or the kind of game played on a
DANCE
You’ll find that learning to dance at Arthur Murray’s is
and coats
WILL YOU ACCVTA
UMimtONt
open daily 12 noon-11 p.m.
AKTMR HURRAY
120 East Wayne • Call: CE 2-3339
low-pressure level by Catholic colleges in California;
3)	Continue to pretend that we are playing “Big-Time” football and that we can beat these opponents, but integrate the cheering section to prevent general psychological damage to the Student Body from watching a majority of losses (and watching such spectacles as that of last Saturday’s game, when, with fourth down and five on our own 40, and 6:00 left in the game, trailing by seventeen points, we punted — a clear concession of the game);
4)	Follow the lead of Chicago and a number of other schools and simply discard the game as no longer necessary to an academic institution.
It would seem that some decision must be made soon. Otherwise, there seems little point in calling our fight song a “Victory March,” when two out of every three games it has been played after these last three and a half years were losses.
Gerald J. Hewitt 201 Sorin
Abortion?
Editor:
In view of your abortive attempt to present the information given you concerning the Patriot of the Year elections (Scholastic, Oct. 12, 1962), I have found it necessary to have this information reprinted and distributed to the seniors at the expense of the Washington Day budget. The responsibility for this expenditure can only be placed with the Scholastic whose handling of this matter served only to confuse and to mislead.
I was truly ashamed to have had this article written under my name. Besides quoting me with grammatical errors, the continuity and coherence of this article was so distorted as to lend the impression that it had been edited by a literary indigent.
Perhaps the fact that the Scholastic failed to grasp the importance of the Patriotism Award — it did not merit comment on an editorial page devoted entirely to St. Mary’s social relationships — is indicative of this magazine’s inability to present to the student body the news and information it rightly deserves.
Francis J. Fornelli, General Chairman of the Washington Day Exercises
Madison Miscue Editor:
I have received a number of complaints from seniors regarding the room accommodations for the senior trip in Madison. In answer to these complaints, I have outlined the hotel
The Scholastic
situation in Madison on that particular week end.
In the early part of June, contact was made with the Madison Chamber of Commerce and upon their recommendation the most suitable hotels and motels in the area were contacted. The Loraine Hotel proved to be very unreceptive to the idea of housing a large group of students. Their uncooperative attitude turned me to the University Housing Bureau, to the Inter-Fraternity President, and to every motel in the area. The general reply was “No Vacancies.” The Holiday Inn of Janesville offered to accommodate us. This was fine except for the fact that Janesville was 46 miles outside of Madison. As a last resort, I turned to the few remaining places that were not so highly recommended but were said to be suitable for our purposes. The Belmont offered to accommodate 150 of our seniors. Still needing more space, I turned once again to the Loraine Hotel. The manager said that he could handle sixty students in doubles with baths. This fulfilled our needs. The next step was to determine a cost per student, per night. Since the costs of the rooms were to vary according to what was available, an average of the total was taken and the calculated $5 was thought to be very reasonable. The committee felt that since we couldn’t manufacture accommodations, the advantage of being able to be housed in Madison would surely overshadow any discrepancies that might arise in relation to room accommodations. However, we didn’t anticipate trouble with the hotel managers. This aggravated the situation and greatly disturbed many of the seniors, as well as myself. The people at the Belmont were very arrogant and uncooperative, and the manager of the Loraine Hotel did us a great injustice when he set up those dormitory type facilities.
Jack DeMarco
Senior Trip Chairman
School for Scandal
Dear Editor:
I have just read “Mardi Gras: Some Considerations” and cannot withhold my disappointment in your judgment for having sanctioned this article. Does the Scholastic honestly believe its mission is to report excerpts and distorted ideas which will inevitably lead to misconceptions? Must you persist in tearing down the image of Notre Dame and the work that its students take upon themselves in her behalf? Surely there is some important news that your weekly can produce that will not breed doubt and scandal.
Your figures for the article were not accurate and my average did not
“dip.” All allocations can be accounted for and I would appreciate knowing your challenges. It is unbelievable that you should not consider consulting the parties you so wrongly accused before printing your expose. Further, it seems strange that your article should appear after both past chairmen have graduated and left the campus.
I firmly believe the Scholastic is doing a great harm by always pointing an incriminating finger at those who are trying to do a service for the University. An organization should be criticized but not intimidated. I am sure the Mardi Gras welcomes suggestions but the slap of disfavor the Scholastic has issued will have an atrophic effect on this charity organization — surely this was not your intention.
Jim Smith
—1962 Mardi Gras General Chairman
The figures used in the article were from the 1959-1960, 1961-1962 Mardi Gras books. If those books were wrong then we are wrong. Furthermore Mr. Smith was consulted several times last spring concerning the article and he refused to give the Scholastic any co-operation.	—Editor.
When, in the Course of Human Events . . .
Editor’s note:
In this letter a member of the
“Mother, meet Ronnie. . . . His father works for the government in Washington. Isn’t he cute . . . I”
faculty presents his personal opinion on a topic to this date considered from but one perspective.
The recent difficulties in Mississippi have disturbed some of our citizens on the campus at Notre Dame, and in other sections of the country. These difficulties were preceded by a visit to the Notre Dame campus by a Mr. Higgs, speaking as a guest of the Young Democrats, where Mr. Higgs described the actions of those few liberals in the South who are working with the Negro to integrate the South.
As a Southerner, it was difficult for me to understand the reason for Mr. Higgs’ attitude. Were he a Negro, it would be understandable, but Mr. Higgs is an educated, cultured white man, obviously from the upper class of the South. If he is not from the upper class, he is either from its fringe, or he learns very quickly, since he is only 26 years of age. Nevertheless, Mr. Higgs is devotedly working to undermine what could have been his position in Mississippi. Perhaps he truly believes in his mission, or his actions could be for some reason which only Mr. Higgs could explain, if he would. Mr. Higgs is definitely a mystery. Should he become more prominent, he will be forced to reveal his hidden reasons. I pray for him that those reasons are not sinister.
The plight of the Negro in the United States is one in which all of (Continued on page 29)
October 19, 1962
9
It’s now a fact: every Ford-built car in ’63 has self-adjusting brakes
“Give us a brake," Ford Motor Company engineers were told, “that will automatically compensate for lining wear whenever an adjustment is needed—and make it work for the entire life of the lining."
Tough assignment—but not insurmountable. Today, not only does every Ford-built car boast self-adjusting brakes, but the design is so excellent that adjustments can be made more precisely than by hand.
This Ford-pioneered concept is not complex. Key to it is a simple mechanism which automatically maintains proper clearance between brake drum and lining.
■ Self-adjustment takes place when the brakes are applied while backing up. This adjustment normally occurs but once in several hundred miles of driving. The brake pedal stays up, providing full pedal reserve for braking.
Another assignment completed—and another example of how Ford Motor Company provides engineering leadership for the American Road.
MOTOR COMPANY The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan
PRODUCTS FOR THE AMERICAN ROAD • THE HOME THE FARM • INDUSTRY • AND THE AGE OF SPACE
10
The Scholastic
campus at a glance
•	The football game was not the only excitement provided on the senior trip to Madison, Wisconsin. An overpublicized “riot” in the early morning on the day of the game proved a release for the tensions built up in study-ridden heads.
At 12:45 a.m., Saturday morning, all the bars along State Street closed, and released masses of college students into the street, many of them from Notre Dame, some from other colleges, but most from the University of Wisconsin.
The town was crowded that night, the hotels were full, and many had no place to go; so the students started wandering up and down the streets in search of something interesting.
And they found it; some coeds in Allen House, a Wisconsin dorm facing State Street, began waving lingerie from their windows to get the attention of the men down below. Lured by the attraction, the crowd coagulated on the sides of the street, with cries of “We want panties!”
Then the girls withdrew their bait, much to the dismay of the interested audience. The crowd started crossing the street, disturbing traffic, so the police herded them back to the sidewalks. The Wisconsin students then started a minor pep rally, which soon faded out; a Notre Dame cheer was raised.
Suddenly the crowd ran a block down a side street to another women’s dorm, Lowell House, hoping to persuade the girls there to part with their dainty undergarb. Disappointed, the mass was about to break up, when the caretaker of the dorm began spraying water on the crowd. In return the mob, now angry, threw beer bottles, which broke a window and inflicted a minor cut on the caretaker’s head. Then the crowd drifted around a corner, where they turned in a false fire alarm, crying, when the trucks arrived, “We want water!” Then the police brought in a paddy wagon, and indiscriminately picked up 15, as an example to the rest of the crowd. Three of those arrested were from Notre Dame, and six from Wisconsin. Needless, to say, this method of breaking up the crowd was successful, and the students quickly dispersed.
The crowd was never vicious or raging, and usually calm if noisy. But six people were hurt during the outburst, two policemen, a fireman, two university employees, and one of the
rioters. One ND student, asleep in the back seat of his car, awoke to find himself 30 feet out in the middle of Lake Mendota.
•	During the past week, Farley Hall students brought dynamic participation into hall Masses by celebrating a special Liturgical Week. Fr. John Miller started the week off Sunday evening with a talk at a hall meeting about how the Mass, as a banquet, demands of the congregation an offering and response. This theme was developed in each Mass during the week.
At Mass during the first three days, students sang English hymns and joined in offertory and communion processions, while senior Y.C.S. members commented on the significance of each part of the sacrifice. On the final two days, the students sang High Masses. It is expected that similar participative Masses will soon begin in other halls.
• One of the more recent and promising appearances in the field of nationwide news publications is a monthly magazine edited by Catholic laymen, Report. Slated to appear early in 1963, the editor, Carl B. Schmitt (Ph.D., Harvard), has this to say: “There is a need for serene reporting of the news, taken over a longer span of time, placed in the context of other events and against the background of the places where it happens, and
rounded out with outlines of the men and women who make it. . . . There is much that we read about our world and our times — events that happen in a specific place and at a given moment. But there are other dimensions as well that are too often overlooked, unconsciously or willingly, eternal values, supernatural significance. Report will look with Christian eyes at the events of our secular society. It is not a devotional magazine nor a magazine of Catholic news. We are not seeking to indoctrinate, but simply to give the truth — truth that is often distorted by those who report by erasing the supernatural from our world.” A Report subscription campaign at Notre Dame is currently under way.
• The University has officially designated next Wednesday, Oct. 24, as “Peace Corps Day at Notre Dame.” Mr. Samuel F. Babbitt, Director of the University Division of the Peace Corps, will hold a meeting with interested faculty members at 4:00 Wednesday afternoon, and will be the main speaker at the “Peace Corps and Notre Dame Student” lecture-discussion program at 8:00 in the Law Auditorium.
Sponsored by the International Commission of the Student Government, the program is designed to familiarize the ND student with all aspects of the Peace Corps, and promote active participation in it. The evening program will be highlighted by Mr. Babbitt’s talk, a 28-minute movie on the Peace Corps Overseas Volunteers, and a question-answer period. This program will be open to all students of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College, as well as interested people in the South Bend area.
• Dylan Thomas’ comedy drama Under Milk Wood will be presented on Sunday at 2:30 p.m. in Washington Hall by the Student Government Academic Commission.
This production has received rave notices from the N.Y. Herald Tribune and the New York Times among others. The producers, Theodore Mann and Jose Quintero, also produced the Pulitzer Prize winning Long Day’s Journey into Night and The Ice Man Cometh.
Reserved seat tickets will be available at the door Sunday at a student discount price of $1.25.
; (Continued on page 28)
October 19, 1962
11
Freshman Year
Up from
Chaos? (
The new Freshman Program has Considered as a whole the program created an almost separate col- has one important advantage. The lege within the University. This “new < testing program is more extensive, college” has its own dean, Dr. Wil- ( giving rise to more effective counsel-liam Burke; its own administration; ing. And the program avoids the and its counseling staff, while utiliz- ■ frenzied switching of colleges at raid-
ing the teaching facilities of the various colleges.	:
In outline the program is simple.' The basis for selecting students has" not changed essentially though the separate colleges of the University exercise much less influence over admissions. The entering freshman de; dares an intent, i.e., the field in which he expects to major. On this, basis he is assigned to one of two course sequences.
Science or engineering intents take a year of chemistry, physics, calculus, and English, as well as the philosophy-theology combination. Those dedaring for business and liberal arts take the philosophy-theology split year as' well as English, math, a lab science, and a social science elective. At the end of this one-year program the student will apply to the college of his choice. He is not restricted to the one he originally indicated. If accepted, the applicant will enroll in this college and declare his major.
Here the first problem of the new system arises. Each college has a quota which must be filled but not exceeded. Certain colleges may be forced to accept students not up to their standards. At the same time, students who have proven their ability to pursue their “intended” field may be passed up in favor of more promising students who have changed intent.
Feiffer
HOM MOT TOO 3AL7 Oi&F. 6ALLUP Me POSi HOU POlOM 3% 00 FISCAL, RE5R5U-
year, giving the counselors more time to work with the students.
Another favorable point is that students need not declare their major until they have sufficiently matured and been given the proper counseling. However, the student who knows what he wants is prevented from concentrating on a major program immediately.
Examination of the separate colleges gives further insight into the new freshman year. The freshman intending to major in the College of Arts and Letters does not lose by putting off his major declaration until the end of his freshman year. This college has been operating on a common freshman year for some time, time.
In the College of Commerce, marketing and accounting have been dropped from the freshman year. But these courses can be easily scheduled in the later years.
In the College of Engineering, major difficulties arise. The engineering program at Notre Dame, one of the best in the country, is run on a very strict time schedule. To compress it into the last three years may be asking too much of many students. Brought up in support of the new program is the ideal of the “well-rounded man.” However, though engineering “intents” are getting a better science background (engineering
and science “intents” are grouped together for science courses according to ability and not major), they are taking fewer good liberal arts courses.
The program will bring one benefit to the Engineering and Science colleges. Previously both schools have had high drop-out rates, greater than the other colleges. With the intensive counseling under the new Program fewer students will be choosing majors for unsound reasons. This has been a difficult problem, particularly in the pre-professional department of the College of Science.
There have been two immediate effects of the new program on the College of Science. The first is a temporarily heavy load of students, as both Business and Arts sophomores and freshmen “intents” are taking their science this year. The other is a revamping of their programs for the science “intents” so that every continuing science ..student will have strong backgrounds in math, chemistry, and physics. This, plus the deferment of biology and geology until the second year, will allow an ease of movement between departments for those who have difficulty selecting their major. For pre-professional “intents” the program distributes the course load more evenly over the four years. It seems, however, that this is a renovation of the College of Science rather than a part of the Freshman Program.
A major result of the new program is the fact that the College of Engineering has been hurt. The only reason that the College of Science does not fall into the same category is they have completely revised their program. Course sequences have been improved by giving the science “intent” a firmer background than the science major of the past received. The College of Science has moved ahead of the rest of the University and has given other colleges, especially the weakened College of Engineering, an excellent example of what can be accomplished.
—Robert S. Donovan Anthony J. Doheny
SOW R0P5R Mi HOU UP AWoe-f^our	PHERIC TS5TIM6, QOlM 31 0$
ROPER?	MEPICA.ee, UP4% OU HOUR
HA&ie HAS HOU UP Zf. OU OUR FMR£ 70
REACH AGREEMENT AT 65WJA, UP I fl Of)
12
The Scholastic
Stay-Hall
from the
Down Senate
Last week end many Notre Dame students saw, first hand, a phenomenon totally unknown to them. NDer’s were housed, entertained, and cordially and enthusiastically accepted by members of the fraternities at the University of Wisconsin. Nearly everyone who enjoyed Wisconsin’s hospitality was surprised at the warmth and friendliness these students had toward each other as well as toward outsiders. The genuine interest they had for making everyone comfortable and at ease was evidence of their basic attitude toward each other. Everybody seemed to pitch in and help in any way they could to arrange events and make them successful. The concern of each member for the well-being of every other was apparent, whether it meant getting someone a date, or helping an underclassman solve a physics problem.
It was a rare Notre Dame student who didn’t ask himself why this spirit of fellowship and generosity was not so apparent here at Notre Dame. It seems that in our rapid expansion a good deal of impersonality has crept in, gradually undermining the solidarity of the old Notre Dame community. With the great size of Notre Dame, it was only natural that there would ensue a loss of feeling of belonging, a loss of true community spirit. But this loss does not have to be permanent.
If students here believe that this spirit of fraternal companionship is vital to the fulfillment of their everyday lives, then it can be regained. Although we hardly want to set up
seventeen fraternities at Notre Dame, we do, however, want to capture the spirit that is proper, not only to fraternities, but to any community of Christian men. This spirit can only be built on close personal contact and the sharing of an educational experience. Again, the most obvious, logical way to achieve this is through the residence halls, where there is a natural basis for this intimacy. It is not merely the fact of living together that generates this spirit, but rather, a conscious effort of each individual to look beyond his self-interest and direct his actions to the happiness and well-being of others.
Developing the structure through which this community can best be realized is worthless unless students are prepared to take up this cause as individuals, and work through this structure to the achievement of their goals. By now, you are probably familiar with the working of the new, suggested Uniform Hall Constitution. The new Constitution encourages the development of this spirit through the unique organization and powers of the House Committee.
Instead of large lectures and campus-wide mixers and dances, the Student Government Commissions this year will offer a variety of small-scale, informal programs to individual halls to assist the House Committee in initiating and executing a program of their own, suited to the hall’s particular needs. But the new Constitution and the Commissions’ emphasis on hall activities are, at best, only stimuli through which halls can activate themselves.
If there is going to be any real progress and change at Notre Dame, it will only come from the convictions of us, the students. Attempts to impose change from without cannot be successful. Institutional changes can only assist a deeper, vital committment on our part to the value and necessity for change.
Ultimately, the success and realization of a meaningful change depends upon us, individually and collectively, as students of this University. On a practical level, we can begin this participation by taking genuine concern in the elections this Monday. It is not simply a question of performing the mechanics of voting. Rather, it involves a deep consideration of a candidate’s ability to make a significant contribution to the lives of his fellow students.
But the success of the new hall program does not depend solely on the election of seven men to membership on a House Committee. It requires continuing interest and effort on the part of the members of the hall, through both their vocal and active participation in the life of the hall.
If we are happy with the lives of isolation and boredom we now lead, the life that includes an occasional beer and two movies a week, emotional frustration and lack of fulfillment, then we can continue to ignore each other, and reject all possible solutions to our problems because we are too ready to excuse ourselves from the responsibility for running our own lives.
Or we can enjoy the normal, exciting, and fulfilling life of a fraternal Christian community by frankly analyzing and admitting our own faults, becoming engaged in hall activities, taking on tasks and duties, trying to understand others and ourselves, and by having a deep concern for the welfare of our fellow students. Then we must act this week, this month, and this year, or our chance to judge and decide will have passed. Our four years at Notre Dame will be over and empty.
mmm-	ties sr- this week lippww
sot	was cautious^esw hopeful,
the	al^p oisturbep. laioreuce
■iOli)	MORE SO TIM) LAST WEEK.
POPULAR	LESS W HEAR ASO
AM U	AT THIS TIME. \
GET THOSE REPORTS OVER TO PLAlMDJG
AMP HAVE THEM COORPWA1EP IMO A POPULAR POLICE LETS PUSH THOSE RATINGS OPf

IT'S TIME TO GET THE COUDTRM MOVIU6 AGAlU
EH,CHIEF? \
October 19, 1962
13
NFO:
The Farmers Revolt
by John Kirlin
John Kirlin is a senior Political Science major from near Waterloo, Iowa. The author’s father is vicepresident of the local NFO chapter. This article puts in perspective the economic and political issues NFO raises.
On August 28 the National Farmers’ Organization (NFO) assembled in Des Moines, Iowa. Over 20,000 members, the largest meeting of farmers ever held, voted for what they called an “all out holding action” to obtain higher prices for their products. The initiation of this holding action on September 1 brought NFO into the news.
But the NFO story had been unfolding since 1955 when it was first organized in Southern Iowa. The factors that caused its emergence had been developing for thirty years. At first NFO was only a protest movement. During the winter of 1955-56, it grew phenomenally, however, and soon had 180,000 members in thirteen ■ states. The main action undertaken at this time was to petition the government to rescind the lower price supports planned for 1956 and to restore the higher 1955 rates of support, and in this it was successful.
At the Second National Convention, held in late 1956, the character of the organization was changed. While retaining the two fundamental points established by the first national convention — that only farmers could
be members and that the NFO was a service organization which could not engage in business activities — the method of collective bargaining was accepted as the means to be used in future NFO action.
However, before we can come to an understanding of the NFO and its relation to American farming we must grasp some of the elements of the present state of agriculture in the U.S. Indirectly, 40% of the jobs in private industry relate to agriculture. Investment in agriculture is nearly $200 billion, equal to three-fourths of the value of the current assets of all corporations in the United States, or three-fifths of the market value of all corporation stocks on the New York Stock Exchange.
In the Midwest, some farmers are speaking of a depression. Secretary of Agriculture Freeman said that “in 1952 farm income was 52% of average nonfarm income. Now (1961) it’s down to 43%. Since 1952, the cost of living has increased about 11%; the cost of food has increased about 2%. At the same time, the return to the farmer has dropped 15%.” Perhaps more alarming is the decline in the number of farms — from 5.4 million in 1950 to 3.7 million in 1959. During this same period, the farmers’ share of the consumers’ food dollar dropped to 39c, and the average farmer made 82c per hour in 1960, compared to $2.29 for the average factory worker.
Secretary Freeman traces the farm
ers’ plight to the fact that the farmer has never had any bargaining power in the market where his products are sold. He is an anachronism — a competitive element in an economy which is largely noncompetitive and therefore at a great disadvantage. While the 3.7 million farmers compete directly with each other, there are only about 326,000 manufacturing firms, among which a very few are pre-eminent enough to dominate the market; and recent events have shown even these giants unwilling to compete among themselves. In fact, recent investigations, such as that conducted by the Select Committee of Small Business, U.S. House of Representatives, indicates that the market is not only noncompetitive but that it is in fact determined to the farmer’s detriment by collusion of processors and retailers. On September 15, Secretary Freeman initiated an investigation of such collusion and of USDA market reports which have shown themselves inaccurate and perhaps a factor in market manipulation. Hopefully, this will result in legislation and reforms which will at least restore competition among those who purchase agricultural products.
The NFO hopes to be able to give farmers the bargaining power necessary to enable them to determine the prices at which their products are sold. Until the farmer is able to do so, he will not get a fair return on his investment and labor. Under the
14
The Scholastic
Capper-Volstead Act of 1922, producers of agricultural products are exempted from the provisions of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act insofar as they can, within the limits defined by the 1922 act, act together “in collectively processing, preparing for market, handling, and marketing in interstate and foreign commerce . . . ” their agricultural production.
With this legal basis, the NFO has outlined a plan for collective bargaining that was accepted by far more than the necessary two-thirds of the members at the National Convention of 1958. In the words of Oren Lee Staley, NFO president, the farmers must: first, “pool their production in sufficient quantity so that the present marketing system cannot meet its requirements without the production represented by NFO members. Secondly, farmers must realize that they must use their bargaining power and that they lose their bargaining power when their products leave the farm. Therefore, they must price their products on the farm and hold for those prices. Thus, the reason for the holding actions. Thirdly, when the present marketing system cannot meet their needs they must bargain with the NFO and at this point agreements will be signed (when approved by a two-thirds vote of approval of the members affected) to stabilize prices and marketing conditions in the future.”
Considering these separately, the NFO believes that if it can control 25%-30% of the production of an agricultural product, it can force the processor into an agreement. Of course, they hope to control a greater percentage than this, as the more that is held off the market, the faster the existing supply will be expended, consequently forcing processors to agreements. The NFO has been concentrating its, holding actions on meat animals because the meat inventory is usually only sufficient for three to five days, which would imply that any sizeable holding action would soon have some effect.
The NFO has held several test holding actions on specified items of production for short periods of time in the past, largely in order to aid in recruiting new members. The all-out holding action that was inaugurated on September 1 has now been recessed. It appears that in this instance the organization did not have the strength necessary to carry out its plan, although they claim that several meat packers were signed to contracts, subject to the signing of the rest of the meat packers. Several times, notably during the first week, it appeared that the holding action
was having a great effect upon the market and prices rose appreciably. The efforts on the part of processors to make receipts of animals appear normal, thus impeding the holding action, were very noticeable, especially the shuffling of livestock from one buying point to another which results in multiple counting, and the attempt to send all available livestock to the terminal markets, where prices are established for the entire marketing system.
If and when a processor exhibits a willingness to negotiate a contract, the NFO will enter into negotiations, basing them upon price levels already approved by the members as giving them a fair return. When a contract has been negotiated it will be submitted to the members who will be affected by it and must receive a two-third majority vote of approval to go into effect. If at some future time the NFO would be in virtual control of the market, it has considered the problem of keeping production in balance with market needs. President Staley says, “Farmers cannot legally control production as such; only the government can do this. However, it is never more than a small percentage (estimated by the USDA at 3%-4% per annum) of production that is held over the market to keep the prices down on the rest of production. By a two-thirds vote of approval of the members, a surplus disposal program may be enacted which would make it possible to divert that small percentage to underprivileged groups, school lunch programs, and distressed areas overseas. Also, by a 2/3 vote of approval, pools based upon quality could be established by letting on the market that production for which we could get a price and diverting the remainder from the normal channels of the market.”
He maintains that there are two factors to be considered in this matter: “First, we do not have overproduction as long as we have hungry people in this nation and throughout the world. To a degree, it is a matter of poor distribution in the present marketing system. The second point to be considered is that farmers have produced the most when they are striving to meet their obligations because the prices they received for their products were not sufficient to cover their operating expenses. Therefore, it is likely that if the familytype farmers receive a good price for their products they will produce less instead of more.”
If American agriculture could be reinvigorated, returning to its place as an active sector of the nation's economy, it could be an agent of re
newal for the whole economy. Farmers now spend $25 billion for goods and services needed for production, plus $15 billion for family living. Each year they spend $2.5 billion to $3 billion on new farm machinery, compared to about $1 billion spent for new machinery each year by the basic iron and steel industry. Spending $3.5 billion for petroleum products, farmers use more petroleum than any other single industry. What would be the effect if they were given a fair return on their investment and labor? If farm prices rose 10% it would double net farm income though the retail price rise should be only 4%, according to the USDA. Taxpayers (Continued on page 31)
October 19, 1962
15
“Sorry, i lost my glasses. I guess I’ll have to take your word for it.”
Wishful
Thoughts
“I'd like to thank you for all the constructive criticism that appeared about us in last week’s SCHOLASTIC.”
“Right . . . FACE!”
time out
There is a variety of entertainment around South Bend this week end, none of it too exciting.
On campus tonight, the Lehigh Valley Club is showing They Came to Cordura in the Engineering Auditorium at 7:30. Sometime Sunday the Canton Club will present It Started in Naples, also in the Engineering Auditorium.
For those lovers of the stage, the Presbyterian Players will play a Noel Coward comedy entitled Blithe Spirit. The play will be on tonight and Saturday and curtain is at 8:15. In case you would like to know where it is being played, it’s in the Social Hall of the First Presbyterian Church, 333 W. Colfax. The price is $1.25.
The Avon. A couple of goodies can be seen this week in The Bellboy and the Playgirls and Geisha Playmates. Almost all of June Wilkenson is in the first one, and while we couldn’t find anything on the Geisha Playmates, the title seems self-explanatory.
(Playgirls'. 7:15, 9:40; Playmates'. 6:15, 8:35.)
The Colfax. A true war adventure is on hand here. Jeffrey Hunter stars in No Man is an Island along with Marshall Thompson, Barbara Perez and Melvin Strang. Jeff plays a Navy lieutenant who is left on Guam and fights the Japs like a guerrilla for three years. It’s definitely the best war picture in town.
(No Man: 1:00, 3:00, 5:00, 7:00„ 9:00.)
The Granada. If a Man Ansivers starts its second big week with Sandra Dee and Bobby Darin doublecrossing their way through a couple hours of enjoyable comedy. While the acting is unbelievably poor, some of the situations are such a riot that the acting becomes secondary. The plot is much too complicated to go into here, but briefly: Sandra thinks that Bobby doesn’t love her any more and her mother gives her some hints on how to make him a better husband. One
of these is to get a lover, or rather, to invent one. The humor increases as the plot thickens. And the acting sickens.
(If: 1:15, 3:15, 5:20, 7:20, 9:20.)
The State. Here’s the one you’ve all been waiting for — a Walt Disney double feature!! For the first feature they’re bringing back Lady and the Tramp. In case you’ve forgotten, it’s a feature-length cartoon about a little rich dog who falls in love with a poor dog. We can’t remember much more ourselves. The second picture is Almost Angels. Contrary to popular opinion, it is not a movie about Saint Mary’s girls. It is a musical comedy centered around a bunch of small boys at camp, or something like that. Besides making mischief (they have a pillow fight set to a cha-cha) these boys, who are played by the Vienna Boys’ Choir, also do some beautiful singing. In fact, most of the music is classical, having been composed by Mozart, or one of that crowd. Thursday is the operetta Rosemarie starring Ann Blyth and Howard Keel.
(Lady: 1:00, 3:50, 6:45, 9:35; Almost: 2:20, 5:15, 8:05.)
Washington Hall. There isn’t any movie at Washington Hall this Saturday but the typesetter is very methodical and hates to leave anything out. Besides, this is using up space in what already is a short column. The movie that would have been shown isn’t any good anyway.
Inside Filmland — Thibeaux Expands. Vincent Thibeaux has assumed operation of the Amusu indoor theater, New Iberia, La., from owner Lee Fung, who is retiring from the theater business, because of health. Mr. Thibeaux’s other theater operation is the Gil in Lafayette, La.
“Good night, Chet.”
“Good night, Herman.”
Dick Gibbs and Brian Barnes
yes, I know
by SALLY
It’s the feminine horn?, time again for you to learn how the other half is living. They are doing fine, I am happy to report — except for the looming terror of the flu. We are all to get shots (pending our parents’ permission); and to anyone as fainthearted as I am, this promises to be the most nerve-shivering ordeal of the entire semester. Last year I strongly suspect I would have turned around and slithered swiftly out of the little Inoculation Room if the waiting line crowd hadn’t completely blocked off the doorway. (But you may be sure most St. Mary’s girls are braver than that.) We hope you are all healthy on your side of the road.	,
Your junior class and ours cure going to stage another brains bout this Sunday. Last year’s SMC-ND pretend College Bowl was so much fun (though you did slaughter us!) that we’re trying again.
Secrets, and surprises, and mysterious hints. ... At our Founders’ Day banquet last Thursday night, president Sr. Maria Renata announced that there are big plans astir for new buildings and improvement projects on campus. . . . The truth will be unveiled sometime this week, and Colleen will tell you all about it. Till then I guess we’ll have to bite our fingernails.
Tonight, this very Friday the 19th, a rather unusual program under the Cultural Exchange Grant will be presented in the Little Theater at 7:30: a performance of Goethe’s Hermann und Dorothea in German by the West-deutsches Turneetheater, a group of touring professional actors. It is free so all of you culture-hungry but bare-pocketed Bohemians can enjoy it. If you can sprechen Sie deutsch (or can’t but are curious), then by all means come.
And on the 23rd, Professor Joseph Kitagawa of the University of Chicago will speak at 7:30, also in the Little Theater, on “Buddhism in the Modern World.” This might be more interesting to the general Englishspeaking student body (no, he is not going to speak in Japanese).
Don’t forget Dr. Bird’s lecture on Courtly Love (Monday at 1:00) or the print sale (Tuesday and Wednesday).
October 19, 1962
17
Spirit and
Tradition: I
Very few persons have ever attempted to render a precise and complete definition of the “Notre Dame spirit.” In those instances when one asks for a definition, he usually receives the somewhat stock reply that “Notre Dame spirit is something manifest at pep rallies, football games, the Grotto, in class—but it is not readily definable.” The result of this phrase’s nebulous meaning is its applicability to almost any situation which might arise. If the Fighting Irish conquer an opponent on the gridiron, we chalk up another point to Notre Dame spirit. On the other hand, should a student get into a fight downtown and be arrested, officials of the University will declare that the actions of this student were not an expression of the true Notre Dame spirit. Hence, the phrase has now come to be used in sermons to denote the impetus given to all actions which are good and to no actions which are bad. The Notre Dame spirit has become, by means of verbal gym
nastics, the local synonym for actual grace.
The term “spirit” can denote loyalty to one’s Alma Mater, or an attitude concerning it. Perhaps we can say that the spirit of Notre Dame is the attitude which those attached to the University manifest in their work. It will be seen that this attitude is actually a series of molded attitudes. The University administration is motivated by one attitude, the faculty by a second, the student body by a third. While the administration and the members of the Congregation of Holy Cross are motivated by religious principles, the faculty is motivated generally by intellectual principles. The student body is moved by a totally different series of desires, aims, and principles. From this group of attitudes we derive the Notre Dame spirit, and I propose that this spirit is actually that group of attitudes which is possessed by all elements of the Notre Dame community and which is manifest in the actions of the whole. Thus,
the spirit animating the faculty alone is not necessarily the “spirit of Notre Dame.”
Too often many of us equate the spirit of the student body with the spirit of the entire University. While it is generally true that the entire populace of the Notre Dame community desires to see the Irish victorious on the football field, it is not generally true, for instance, that all of us consider daily Mass a part of the spirit of the school. While I believe that the injection of more religious principles would be beneficial to our spirit, it is just not true to state that these principles are presently part of that spirit. It is of importance here to realize that Notre Dame is a dynamic structure, composed of dynamic personalities, not a static organization into which each of us fits as a part of a machine.
Like all communities, Notre Dame is in a constant state of evolution, and the primary factor in the evolution of the spirit of Notre Dame is
by
Robert McGowan
18
The Scholastic
Tradition, for it is this aspect of life at our University which is held up to us so frequently as a guide. Our Tradition, like our spirit, has been glamorized, publicized, and commercialized. And it has been so treated as to make it more a myth or legend than a reality. Aspects of life at Notre Dame are held up as “traditional” even though no one—not even those who have been here quite a while— knows when they became a vital part of this community. The desire to be the best in football is certainly a tradition, for it has been part and parcel of Notre Dame since the days of the great Knute Rockne. The desire to be a great university in every sense of the term “great,” however, has not been a part of our tradition. Rather, the concept of Notre Dame as a great university is a recent innovation, arising from the realization by those connected with Notre Dame that we are, in fact, a great educational institution.
In the tradition of a university, we
find its heart, and in its spirit we feel its pulse. In this dynamic community which we call Notre Dame, each element—the religious congregation, the faculty, the students—tries to inject into the entire organism its particular attitude. The priests and Brothers of Holy Cross attempt to inject into our spirit and tradition a religious fervor and a manly devotion to God and Our Lady. The faculty attempts to inject into life at Notre Dame a sincere desire to learn, an appreciation of the wonders of Art and the Sciences, a humility before Truth. What is it that the student body adds to the Notre Dame spirit and tradition?
The most basic element of a university is the student. It is for him that the institution has been founded; for his intellectual and academic advancement have the religious, the faculty, the administrators been gathered together. The ND student body may properly be considered as injecting into Notre Dame life an atmos
phere which is social and athletic. No one has ever sincerely praised the Notre Dame student for his consistent heroic sanctity. But the social and the athletic are the areas most indigenous to the student life. While certain relatively small groups within the student body may devote themselves primarily to the religious or the academic, it is only in the social and the athletic that we find an area involving an almost mass movement of the students.
It is this mass movement which we will consider in the issues which follow. Of significance will be the impact of student activities on the evolving spirit and tradition of Notre Dame. Why, for example, do those students most capable of positive, significant, intellectual, social, and religious leadership waste these capacities? Why is it that the first pep rally of the year can bring forth so great a student response, while succeeding rallies receive but sporadic support? These questions next week.
October 19, 1962
19
Ame x* i c a »
poet, is dead. Time’s maenads have tom him to pieces in the underworld where he is now bedfellow with the scientific, artificial, evil and legal Death of whom he moaned: o
dying is fine) by Death
?o babv i
wouldn’t like
Death if Death were good
And recalling this is all the more sad because here was one poet who shouted and sang, shouted and whispered, as much as anyone had, the affirmation of life in every strange and common detail, cummings was a poet of invitation always; he beckoned the listener to pass with him through the kaleidoscope of his vision. But now his only consolation, his instrument destroyed, his glass shattered, is that at last he may ask person to person his own felt question about Buffalo Bill: how do you like your blue-eyed boy Mister Death (?)! And we too may echo the same query inasmuch as cummings’ eyes were, of all colors, at least blue.
cummings was a poet of insistence and persistence. He explored new forms that were particularly characteristic of him with a determined will to consistency and thoroughness. His analysis of experience was not altogether unique. On the other hand, the form itself, the very7 pressure and insistence of his art served to reveal a certain trans-dimension of modem experience. To categorize it under a name is extremely difficult. Shall we call a kaleidoscope, for what it does, cynical or sentimental? tragic or comic? profound or trivial? For cummings’ art does this much. This unusual quality, I believe, is what has made cummings one of the most widely read poets of the century, not, however, among “most people.” To read cummings
20
The Scholastic
•i
by Michael Murray
long enough is to discover that this strange trans-quality of his experience is the raison d’etre of his equally strange forms. He was a formal innovator of considerable rank. The special direction of his invention was the elaborating of the visual sense by typography, cummings’ experiments along these lines are well known to all. But it is important to remember in this matter that this indeed was experiment and some of it simply works better than others. The doubtful value of pieces like “so little he is” (#9 in New Poems, 1938), or the first two from 50 Poems (1940), “!blac” and “fl”; of “two from Xaipe (#12, 1950) — which incidentally shows that he persisted in these extremes relatively late in his development — may be contrasted with others of undeniable value like “the hills/ like poets put on/purple thought against/ the” ending with “so/ duneyed master/ enter/ the sweet gates/ of my heart and/ take/ the/ rose,/ which perfect/ is/ With killing hands”; or a poem like “the moon looked into my window” (I); or certainly with the 34th piece, also from 50 Poems, “my father moved through dooms of love.” Inasmuch as there is much experiment in cummings there is much of his art which remains only on the fringe of vision not yet focused and peripheral. He was able to twist the strings of his lyre to achieve some never heard of sounds, and, as with any significant poet, he required a lot of tuning, because he was never satisfied. cummings was not the first to
set out in new ways across the broad white field of the page. Mallarme’s “Un Coup de des” was a classic at the end of the last century, and it has continued to influence the development of French poetry as late as “C comme CHALLEUR” (Kalitka) by a minor French poetess, Muriel Jack. For English poetry, however, cummings is the true father of this technique. He really went further than the French academics ever dreamt.
On the other hand, it is also important to emphasize some of the very traditional elements in cummings’ creations, especially as they are likely to be blurred by some of his more sensational lights. One of the most imposing examples is the Chimneys section from his earliest work, Tulips and Chimneys (1923). It is composed entirely of sonnets; six of “Realities,” six of “Unrealities” and five of “Actualities.” Among these, “the Cambridge ladies who live in furnished souls” (“Realities” I) and “when thou hast taken thy last applause, and when” (“Realities” VI) are near masterpieces and will undoubtedly remain with us. They clearly show that cummings knew well the power of imposed limitations. Another aspect of the traditional strain in cummings’ work — which may seem strange to those to whom traditional means dull and academic — is his very tropologi-cal imagination. His use of the trope can find the truest comparison with the best Elizabethans. Turns like the following are some of what I mean: “the valleys of the sea”; “a heart of
star by him could steer”; “the wrists of twilight would rejoice”; “septem-bering arms of year extend”; “his sorrow as true as bread”; (from “my father moved through dooms of love”) and so on. Figures like these permeate and substantiate a great deal of cummings’ best art. And this again is what I mean when I say that cummings is a poet of insistence. It is unfortunate, but today we have almost to say that to give this wealthy kind of language a convincingness a very strong shamelessness is needed, the kind which is both insistent and creative, cummings certainly had this and in this regard he has contributed to a certain renaissance of tradition.
Is it the proper time to ask what heritage cummings had left before his voyage? We are perhaps too close to tell precisely; we lack the perspective of years. Can we yet distinguish between what is dying novelty and what is permanent legacy? Not with absolute sharpness, I believe. There is a certain similarity which cummings bears to Picasso in this sense. Both are fantastically experimental and prolific artists. But for anyone who has had the fortune to see the complete Picasso exhibit at the Tate and elsewhere some years ago, it was strikingly apparent that here were works of junk interspersing those of highest genius. Where one wishes to begin drawing the finer lines is still open. This much, however, is certain: e. e. cummings stands as a major figure in American letters. The rest remains to the analysis of death.
October 19, 1962
21
Spartans: Size. Speed9 Spirit. Saimes
by GARY SABATTE
To the winner of the Michigan State-Notre Dame game each fall goes the “Megaphone Trophy.” This year there’s more than the trophy at stake; there’s revenge. Last year, the Irish — envisioning a return to national prominence on the football scene — saw such hopes shattered as the Duffy Daugherty-coached Spartans wore down a tired Irish Une with seemingly endless substitutions, and outlasted Notre Dame 17-7.
Tomorrow Notre Dame hopes to repay this humiliation as the two teams clash in Notre Dame Stadium at 1:30 CST. Particularly disturbing to Irish followers is MSU’s dominance of the series since 1954. The Spartans have won six out of six contests since then. However, Notre Dame holds a 16-11 over-all edge in a rivalry that started in 1897.
Michigan State, fresh from a 28-0 victory .over arch-rival Michigan, comes into tomorrow’s fray with a 2-1 record. The Spartans also beat North Carolina — but fell unexpectedly to an inspired Stanford eleven, 16-13.
The biggest headache this year, cry
Spartan coaches, centers in the loss of much of State’s highly-regarded depth. Coach Daugherty lost 20 letter-men from last year’s squad, 14 of whom were regular starters on either the offensive or defensive elevens. Because of these losses, Daugherty has scrapped the platoon system he has been using for years in favor of a first team-second team alignment. Says Daugherty: “We are going to have to get our best eleven players on the field at one time. Platooning is a luxury we won’t be able to afford this fall.”
However, there are more assets than worries for Michigan State. The Spartans still possess a huge, mobile line anchored by 263-pound center Dave Behrman, an All-American and All-Big Ten selection last year. Behrman, in full gear, weighs over 280 pounds but is astoundingly quick and agile for his size. Another standout in the line is senior tackle Jim Bobbitt, a barrel-shaped 5-8, 245-pound performer who could easily snare All-Big Ten honors this year. In spring drills, Bobbitt and Behrman were named co-winners of the most improved lineman award.
The Spartans still have excellent speed in the backfield. Swift George Saimes, senior fullback and team captain who rated first team All-Big Ten and several second team All-American honors last season, returns ■, to become the principal Spartan run- ? ning threat. At tailback will be junior j Sherman Lewis, a small but power- ] ful 154-pounder whose blazing speed ] is evidenced by the fact that last year he won the Big Ten indoor	<
broad jump and 300-yard dash events.	•
Returning as Spartan quarterback is Pete Smith. Although Michigan j State is essentially a running team, Smith last year completed 42 of 94 j passes for 630 yards and five touch- j downs.	}
Daugherty is a proponent of what j many call the “grind” type of foot- ’ ball; in the Spartan system, Daugh- j erty’s warriors operate from an offense which emphasizes the winged-T. Featured in this attack are all the power plays — the dives, the bellies and the traps. Passing is used somewhat sparingly and the Spartans play the ball-control game. All success hinges on the efficiency of Michigan State’s traditionally big line.
NOTRE DAME MUST CONTAIN STATE’S BIG LINE TOMORROW
22
The Scholastic
1
LINEMEN OF THE WEEK
Center Ed Hoerster and junior guard Bob Lehmann share the Lineman of the Week title, merited by their aggressive defensive play in the Wisconsin game. On the season’s tackle chart, Hoerster leads the defensive squad with 22 and Lehmann is a close second with 21.
Against the Badgers, Hoerster made seven tackles and recovered one
fumble. He was the winner of the Hering Award for the “Most Improved Center” in spring practice, and has a 3.17 average in pre-med.
Lehmann downed eight Wisconsin ball carriers to lead the team in that department, and also recovered a fumble. A 6-0, 215-pounder, Lehmann is an alumnus of Flaget High School in Louisville, which also produced Notre Dame and Green Bay star Paul Hornung.
Bob led returning guards with 258 minutes of playing time last year, and made 41 tackles. Off the playing field, he maintains an excellent 3.72 average in the school of Mechanical Engineering.
IRISH BACK OF THE WEEK
Three interceptions and five tackles against Wisconsin’s Badgers gave defensive halfback Tommy MacDonald
an almost uncontested claim to honors as Notre Dame Back of the Week.
One of MacDonald’s interceptions was made in the end zone and prevented an almost certain Badger score; he re-
turned the other two for a total of 33
yards, and set up the lone Irish score with the last.
Don Ross, Navy scout, called MacDonald “one of the best college defensive halfbacks I’ve ever seen.” Significant is the fact that Angelo Dabiero led the team in interceptions with five for 78 yards in 1961, and MacDonald has pilfered three in his first game.
A 5-11, 185-pound junior from Downey, Calif., MacDonald won his football monogram as a sophomore, won the Hering Award as the “Most Improved Back” during spring practice, and then won the starting third base job with the Irish baseball squad last season.
Voice in the Crowd
“Tomorrow the unbeaten Fighting Irish square off against the unbeaten Spartans of Michigan State ... in a game that could well be the collegiate football Game of the Year.” This appeared in last year’s preview of the Notre Dame-Michigan State game. At that time Duffy Daugherty’s “machine” was the top-rated team in the country while the fourth-ranked Irish needed only one more win to return to their former position of football supremacy. That was last year! Notre Dame has never recovered from the now historic defeat of October 21, 1961. Since that date they have managed to win only three of nine games with the end of this aimless drift nowhere in sight.
WHAT HAPPENED?
One year ago the quarterback corps seemed a strong point. Daryle Lamonica had directed the club brilliantly through three victories. Lamonica was backed up by a highly-touted soph with unlimited potential named Frank Budka. Today Lamonica, Budka, and newcomer Denny Szot are taking turns getting crushed by opposing linemen and having tosses intercepted.
Notre Dame's all-senior line had held Southern California to a minus four yards rushing in the game played the week before last season’s “big one.” They had opened the holes to make it possible for the Irish to lead the nation in rushing. That this year’s line has not measured up to them is painfully obvious to all. Michigan State gained more yards rushing against arch-rival Michigan last week than Notre Dame has gained all season. The blocking for Irish passers and runners has been nonexistent in the last two contests.
WHAT WILL HAPPEN?
All this points to an impressive Spartan victory tomorrow and the third straight loss for a “sick” Irish squad. No idle promises of better things to come at the pep rally tonight or excuses that the schedule is impossible will bring renewed hope to downtrodden Notre Dame football followers. The team itself must realize that they were beaten in the Purdue and Wisconsin games not by the superiority of these Big Ten clubs but by their own stupid mistakes. I cannot believe the players are as bad as they looked in these two games. However, they will be finally judged as second-rate college players if they continue to miss blocks, drop passes, pass erratically, etc. This team does not have the material to be national champs, but it is better than a 3-7, 2-8, or 1-9 squad.
The worst possible thing the student body can do at this point is give up on the team. They might not win with the most loyal support, but they will not win with an apathetic cheering section.
However, regardless of the famed Notre Dame spirit, only the team can beat Michigan State tomorrow. The Irish have not given up trying in the last two games, but they have not started to play. Notre Dame is a well-drilled football team as was shown in the Oklahoma opener. However, their over-all performance does not show this.
Many feel Notre Dame is an unimaginative football team. This might be true. However, rarely have I seen a better call than Budka’s fourth-and-one pass play in the first half of the Wisconsin game. Lamonica’s, Budka’s, and Szot’s play selection is not the cause of the failure of the Irish; it is the execution of these plays that is the reason for two sloppy defeats. It is true that even the best drop beautiful touchdown passes but they also catch most of them.
TOMORROW
I will not predict tomorrow’s score. Reason would compel me to choose the Spartans by three touchdowns, at least. However, logic has not dominated the past three seasons at Notre Dame and it won’t this one. Poor coaching, player dies, bad breaks, de-emphasis, and other reasons are used to explain these seasons. However, the fact remains that no Notre Dame team in these years that played up to 90% of its potential for 60 minutes has been beaten and it never will be.
— John Bechtold
October 19, 1962
23
as we see it
Lind vs. Saimes
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
by JOE RYAN
Ticket scalpers at Notre Dame have had a heyday in past weeks. From the first day of school to the moment Ron Bliey stepped out of bounds on the one-yard line against Purdue, Notre Dame was in a “bull market.”
Students lucky enough to have extra Michigan State tickets watched joyfully as Purdue ducats sold for $15 and $20 on the day of the game. From “Moose” Krause to “Freddie Freshman,” students and faculty alike found themselves with plenty of visitors but no place to put them. Robert Cahill, Notre Dame’s ticket manager, managed to fit 61,292 people into a stadium whose capacity is 57,039.
The chances of a similar scene occurring tomorrow aren’t as good as they might have been had the Irish beaten Purdue or Wisconsin. However, the State game was the first to sell out, beating the Purdue sellout by 17 days: the last ticket was doled out on August 31, seven weeks before game time.
According to ticket manager Cahill, calling the attendance for a particular game a record is quite arbitrary. Usually, for a sellout, Mr. Cahill takes the capacity figure, then adds the number of press passes distributed for the game, throws in the number of ushers on duty and the campus and South Bend police admitted, and arrives at the total attendance.
The 61,292 attendance figure reached against Purdue may well be broken when State sallies in tomorrow. The MSU rivalry is more bitter than that with Purdue, and both schools have the bulk of their alumni in this area.
Though interest in the Irish eleven has waned in the past weeks, MSU finds itself with the opportunity of winning or sharing a Big Ten title now that Ohio State has proven itself vulnerable. For this reason, some lucky ticket holders may still be quite happy on Saturday.
From the Notre Dame-Wisconsin game came the encouraging news that Mike Lind’s knee is apparently sound, and with it the prospect that one of the nation's hottest fullback duels may be renewed tomorrow.
Both Notre Dame Captain Lind and Michigan State Captain George Saimes were rated prime candidates for AllAmerica fullback in pre-season polls, and with good reason.
The careers of Lind and Saimes have paralleled each other in many ways. As a sophomore Lind gained 167 yards, Saimes 161; both scored a single touchdown.
In 1961 the two vaulted into national prominence. At Notre Dame, Lind was second in rushing only to All-Star Angelo Dabiero, the eighth leading Irish ground gainer of all time. Despite missing three games because of injuries, Mike toted the ball 87 times for 450 yards, four touchdowns, and an excellent 5.2 yards-per-carry average.
At Michigan State, the Golden Greek gained 451 yards — one more than Lind — in 82 attempts, scored eight touchdowns, and won honors as the All-Big Ten fullback and the MSU most valuable player.
Irish Captain Mike Lind cracks the line for one of his four 1961 TD’s. His success tomorrow is one of the game’s keys.
Both Saimes and Lind block well, and both are excellent defensive players — Lind was credited with 41 tackles as a comer linebacker last season.
Lind played what was certainly the greatest game of his career in Notre Dame’s 19-6 win over Oklahoma a year ago, scoring on a 23-yard sprint and a two-yard slant off tackle, and picking up 121 yards in 18 rushes for a seven-yard average.
Saimes played his most spectacular game, ironically, against Notre Dame, beating the Irish almost single-handedly last season. Saimes, the Michigan State twist champion, used his great moves and blistering speed to score on a pair of 25-yard touchdown runs, and made severed last-ditch tackles.
This season has been a different story. Saimes has run well, looking very impressive against arch-rival Michigan; Lind, because of a knee injury, first saw limited action against Wisconsin.
The Irish are sure to have their hands full with George Saimes; but if Mike Lind is ready to go, so might the Spartans.
MSU All-American fullback George Saimes takes off on a 24-yard scoring burst against ND in last season’s game.
24
The Scholastic
TYLER JR.'S PICKS OF THE WEEK
NORTHWESTERN VS. OHIO STATE: The Buckeyes have the depth to once again assume the top spot in the Big Ten in the Game of the Week.
MARYLAND VS. MIAMI: In the Upset of the Week, the Terrapins’ Dick Shiner will best Miami’s famed George Mira.
ARKANSAS VS. TEXAS: The nation's best team will hand Arkansas its first defeat in the Southwest game of the year.
IOWA VS. WISCONSIN: Even the Var-Bar might be dead after the Badgers’ Rose Bowl hopes are shattered.
MICHIGAN VS. PURDUE: The Boilermakers will come back from last week’s stunning upset.
ALABAMA VS. TENNESSEE: The Crimson Tide rolls on against the first fairly-good team they have faced.
PENN STATE VS. SYRACUSE: The Nittany Lions will bounce back against a game, but inexperienced, Syracuse eleven.
OTHER GAMES:
USC over California UCLA over Pitt Washington over Stanford Georgia Tech over Auburn Duke over Clemson LSU over Kentucky Mississippi over Tulane Minnesota over Illinois Kansas over Oklahoma
Last week: 12-3, 80% To date: 30-10-2, 75%
Rugby
Fine first game play by juniors Tom Gerlacher and Keri Stinson led the Notre Dame rugby squad to a 18-3 trouncing of Wisconsin, in a match held before several hundred Badger fans in Madison last Saturday.
Gerlacher booted three field goals for nine points and Stinson scored three more on a try. Tom Tomjack and Chris Carmouche also scored tries for the Irish.
The game was the first on the team’s three-game fall schedule. They next venture to Philly to play Villanova on Nov. 3. Captain Bob Mier brings the team to Notre Dame for its final fall game against St. Louis University on Nov. 10.
October 19, 1962
25
Welcome Notre Dame Students
■
DOYLE'S BARBER SHOP
706 E. Jefferson ■
We specialize in flat-tops and Ivy League haircuts.
Appointment if desired. AT 7-1447
Need a chest, bookcase, record cabinet, bulletin board?
BUY THEM UNPAINTED —
SAVE y2 OR MORE!!
' •
Free Delivery!
•
WILLIAMS UNPAINTED FURNITURE
312 S. Michigan
NEWS. SPORTS and MUSIC for the Collegiate Man and Woman
WSND
AM and FM
640 and 88.9
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE
ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Don’t meet your Waterloo at the typewriter—perfectly typed papers begin with Corrasable! You can rub out typing errors with just an ordinary pencil eraser. It’s that simple to erase without a trace on Corrasable. Saves time, temper, and money!
Your choice of Corrasable light, medium, heavy weights ai Onion Skin in handy 100 sheet packets and 500-sheet boxes. Only Eaton makes Corrasable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
EATON PAPER CORPORATION PITTSFIELD, MASS.
Available at NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Cross
Country
In their first meet of the 1962 season, the Notre Dame cross-country team beat the University of Indiana at Bloomington, by a score of 22-35 (low score wins). The Irish swept the first three places and seven of the first 12.
Frank Carver, the only returning monogram winner on the squad, finished in a tie for first place with sophomore Bill Clark. Their time for the four-mile course was 20:51. Another sophomore, Bill Welch, came in third. Indiana copped the next three places, but junior Jim Webster placed seventh for the Irish. Three more sophomores, Al Whitine, Rich Fennelly, and Pat Conroy finished 9th, 10th, and 12th, respectively, for Notre Dame.
Coach Alex Wilson is very optimistic about this year’s squad and believes this team to be one of his best. The outlook is also promising for future teams, because of an abundance of sophomore talent available.
Captain Bill Yaley, the only senior on the squad, has been out with pneumonia since practice began but should be back in a few days. Juniors Jack Mulligan, John Salzman, and Kevin Walsh and sophomore George Carroll add depth to the team.
The next test for the Irish harriers will be the Notre Dame Invitational Meet on October 19. This will be followed by a dual contest against Michigan State, also to be held at Notre Dame, and the Indiana State CrossCountry Championships at Indianapolis on November 2. The Chicago Track Club will follow on November 9 at home.
Invitational meets for the Irish later in November will include the Central Collegiate Conference Championships in Chicago on the 16th; the IC4A meet in Madison Square Garden in New York City on the 19th; and the NCAA Championships to be held at East Lansing on November 26. Each of the invitational meets will consist of a five-mile run.
— Rex Lardner
The Scholastic
26
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pizza
9
CE 4-6688
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED BROKEN FRAMES REPLACED
•
DR. M. MITTERMAYER
Optometrist
228 S. MICHIGAN
BLOCK BROS.
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
Jewelers to Notre Dame faculty and students for over 40 years
• •
Featuring:
A WIDE SELECTION OF N.D. JEWELRY
EXPERT. REASONABLE WATCH & JEWELRY REPAIRING
NATIONALLY ADVERTISED DIAMONDS AND WATCHES
•
Gift packages shipped ta all parts of the world
PAPERBAGS
AND PAPERBACKS
AND PAPERBACKS
(AND MORE COMIN6 EVERY DAY)
You'll find them of the Notre Dame Bookstore
October 19, 1962
27
STAY WITH A N.D. MAN
BLUE & GOLD MOTEL
1 BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD EXIT ON U.S. 31
•
Reservations: CE 4-0136
•
CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. ’38
LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. ’38
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan St.
SEE OUR PAPERBACK BOOK DEPARTMENT over 9,000 titles to choose from
Soccer
Tomorrow, Notre Dame’s unheralded soccer team faces Indiana Tech on the soccer field behind the tennis courts at 10:00 a.m. Last year, Indiana Tech was one of the top ranked teams in the Midwest, though beaten 4-0 by the Irish in last season’s play.
The Irish soccer squad has been in existence for only three years and has not yet achieved varsity status. Despite this late start, Notre Dame is rapidly developing one of the finest soccer teams in the nation. They have scored several impressive triumphs in their brief history.
In last week’s action, the Irish lost to one of the top-rated teams in America, the Washington University Bears, at St. Louis. With 2,000 fans on hand at Francis Field, the Irish, missing three starters (Herman Friedmann, Peter Aizupitis, and Xavier Monge) were ahead 2-1 at the end of the first half, only to lose 3-2
when Washington scored two goals in the third quarter.
Hans Hermans played one of his finest games at goal for Notre Dame in the contest. Joe Carenza, St. Louis head coach, wanted to nominate Hermans for All-American honors after the game, but Hans is ineligible because he is a graduate student.
In previous outings, the Irish tied St. Louis University (the nation’s top team) 3-3 after whipping Goshen College 9-1 in their first game of the season. In the St. Louis encounter, Herman Friedmann, playing left wing, scored twice for the Irish with Bob DuBois, the team captain, registering the final marker. In the game played on Goshen’s home fields, Notre Dame displayed an offense that many believe the best in the country.
Notre Dame has hopes that a conquest of Tech tomorrow will start them on the way towards their goal of a bid to the National Soccer Cham-
pionship games in St. Louis during Thanksgiving week.
Campus
(Continued from page 11)
•	The Notre Dame student body evidently endorses the Student Senate’s stand on the matter of female cheer-j leaders. Of 500 students polled, 306, । or 61%, were against female infiltra-। tion of the cheerleading ranks. Only । 160, or 32%, were in favor of break-| ing tradition. The remaining 34 voiced | no opinion.
Students in B-P clung the most to tradition. Ninety-one opposed the idea and only 18 were for it. At the other end, Fisher Hall split even, 36-36.
•	A noncredit course, Currents in I Modem Religious Thought, is avail' able to students of St. Mary’s and Notre Dame. This course consists of lectures by members of St. Mary’s and Notre Dame faculties and will be held every Monday evening beginning
Oct. 22, from 8:15 to 9:45. Lectures
will be held in Room 14 at the South
Erik the Red had no choice-but Vitalis with V-7 will keep your hair neat all day without grease. Naturally. V-7 is the greaseless grooming discovery. Vitalis® with V-7® fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dryness, keeps your hair neat all day without grease. Try Vitalis today!
Available at
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Bend-Mishawaka Center of Indiana University, on North Side Blvd, at Greenlawn.
• January will mark the appearance on campus of a new N.D. publication — Science Quarterly. This scientific journal will attract prospective contributors to its first issue by sponsoring a contest offering cash prizes totaling $30 for the best three articles submitted.
28
The Scholastic
Forum
(Continued from page 9)
us are concerned. Even the most active segregationist is concerned. It does not suffice to explain away his position by saying, and I quote Mr. Martin’s recent Scholastic article on Mr. Higgs, “the white Protestant envies and fears the supposed freedom, irresponsibility, and sexual potency of the Negro, compelled by a semipuritan consciousness to condemn these things while secretly desiring them.” Such an idea is utterly ridiculous. “Envies and fears and secretly desires.” Has Mr. Martin been reading too much Erskine Caldwell, or where did he get his ideas? How many times has he spoken to Southern whites in calmer times without teasing them into violent statements?
Mr. Martin’s article holds out the hope that the Southern student will come forward to right the wrong. Why should he? Can you not understand that the problem goes very deep into the social, political, and cultural life of the South? Is it impossible for you to realize that the white population has a side which must be considered? Cannot the South’s position have been achieved from “postjudice” rather than prejudice?
Another reason which is given for a more liberal policy in the South, is our status in world politics, our need to have a certain number of friends in the United Nations. By allowing these considerations to determine our domestic policy, we are surrendering our sovereignty. Our foreign relations exist only to sustain our domestic policy, that is our present status. If our foreign policy ultimately interferes with our domestic policy, then it is time for a change. Furthermore, it is time for us to discontinue counting African votes in the United Nations, if those votes are going to threaten our domestic policy or if they are going to threaten our position with the European powers.
Last but not least, I refer to Mr. Higgs’ reference that the press and TV are censored in Mississippi. To any discerning person who listened to the broadcasts by the national press and radio from Mississippi, it is quite evident that there is a reverse censorship. When Mr. Barnett asked for equal time on TV to refute President Kennedy, he was told that such would not be dignified. It is all right for our networks to show Khrushchev, Gromyko, and Castro, but not the governor of one of our states, who only wanted to present his position to the American people.
October 19, 1962
Can the federal government actually assert that there was collusion between the Attorney General and the courts during our recent crisis? The courts should be free, not directed by the federal government. I can understand how there could be a majority against Governor Barnett in the Fifth Circuit, but not a unanimity of a court of Southern judges.
I am not going to comment on the ugly spectacle of federal marshals attired in gas masks looking like men from Mars, while they had a clean looking Southern boy spread-eagled on the floor of the Lyceum; I will only bring it to your attention. Had the people of Mississippi had evil intent, I am sure that neither 900 marshals nor 16,000 troops could have prevented a terrible bloodletting, the like of which we have not seen in many, many years. Push not any further.
—Coriolanus
* NOTRE ★ DAME * STUDENTS
Eat At EDDIE'S DINING ROOM
1345 Ironwood Drive
10% Student Discount
Ralph Marterie
The leader of the No. 1 band on campus and in ballrooms is coming to your campus again this year as Marlboro’s musical ambassador of good will. Don’t miss Ralph and his Marlboro Men when they come to your campus.
Marlboro
on
CAMPUS FAVORITE IN ALL 50 STATES
29
Program Guide WSXD-FM
Sunday, October 21
5:00 Grieg: Peer Gynt Suite
Hanson: Concerto in G Major
6:00 Haydn: Symphony No. 86
Mendelssohn: Concerto in E for Violin
7:00 Borodin: In the Steppes of Central Asia
Tchaikovskv: Svmphonv No. 4
8:00 - 12:00	'
Opera on the Air Donizetti — Lucia di Lammermoor
Monday, October 22
5:00 6:00 7:00
8:10
9:00
Broadway Cavalcade Invitation to Music The Modern Sound Beethoven: Symphony No. 1 Glazounov: Birthday Offering Duhas: Sorcerer’s Apprentice Berlioz: Harold in Italy
10:00 Rimsky-Korsakov: Coq d’or Suite Debussy: Sonata No. 3 Respighi: Pines of Rome
11:00 Ravel: Concerto in D for left hand Moussorgsky: Pictures at an Exhibition
Tuesday, October 23
5:00	Broadway Cavalcade
6:00	Invitation to Music
7:00 Basic Issues and Conflicts in the Middle East
Speaker: Shaul Ramati: (Israeli Consul in Chicago)
8:10	Handel: Water Mus'ic Suite
9:00	Copland: Billy the Kid
Soler: Concerto for two Oigans Brahms: Symphony No. 2 in D
10:00 Barber: Summer Music for Woodwind
Bartok: Concerto for Orchcstta
11:00 Saint-Saens: Suite Algerienne Faure: Ilegie for Cello and Orchestra Rachmaninoff: Concerto No. 2
Wednesday, October 24
5:00	Broadway Cavalcade
6:00	Invitation to Music
7:00	The Modern Sound
8:10	Grieg: Concerto in A Minor Gounod: Faust Verdi: Prelude and Ballet Music
9:00	Tchaikovsky: Francesca da Rimini Franck: Psyche
10:00	Schubert: Symphony No. 7
11:00	Khachaturian: Concerto for Cello and Orchestra Debussy: La Mer Thursday, October 25
5:00	Bioadway Cavalcade
6:00	Invitation to Music
7:00	Folk Music with Mike Byrne
8:10	Chabrier: Espanol Rhapsody Orff: Carmina	* Beethoven: Overture “King Stephen*
9:00	Shapiro: String Quartet No. 1 Beethoven: Concerto No. 2
10:00	Wagner: Die Meistersinger Oveituie Vivaldi: The Four Seasons
11:00	Brahms: Concerto in D for Violin Varese: Ionisation
(AH selections are subject to change or substitution)
FREEFALL!
Available at NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
BUY A PapersMate PEN GETA REFILL FREE!
30
The Scholastic
NFO
(Continued from page 15) now spend tax dollars equal to 3% of their retail food expenditures on agriculture. This would not be necessary if NFO were successful, so the increased cost to the consumer would be small. The economic advantages of the success of the NFO or some similar organization seem almost obvious.
NFO has brought hope and opti-
mism to the farmers of the Midwest. Everywhere it is discussed, and especially among the younger farmers who have been forced to take a factory job in town to supplement their farm income and have come into contact with unions, there is confidence in its success. Farmers want to remain free of the control of any program, yet they also want to stay in business. Three polls conducted by The Farm Journal in 1957, 1959, and 1962 have each shown a majority of
farmers in favor of the complete, but gradual, withdrawal of government from agriculture while a substantial fraction of the others favored a lessened government role in agriculture. Trapped between the proven disaster of the Republican Benson-type farm program and the rigid control proposed by the Kennedy administration, many farmers are turning to the NFO as a nonpolitical, nonpartisan, more real and more lasting solution to their problem.
“HOUR OFTER-SHHUE EOTIOR.SIR”
“Jason, you dolt! You know.I use only Mennen Skin Bracer after-shave lotion.’’
‘.‘Of course, sir. And this...”
"I’ve told you that Skin Bracer cools rather than burns.- • Because it’s made-with Menthol-lce."
"Quite, sir. And this...” '
“Indeed so, sir. And...”
"Besides, that crisp, long-lasting Bracer aroma has a fantastic effect on girls."
“Tonight I need Skin Bracer. I’m going to the Prom. So take that stuff away and get me some Skin Bracer!"
* ACTUALLY. YOU DON'T NEED A VALET TO APPRECIATE MENNEN SKIN BRACER. ALL YOU NEED IS A FACE I
“But sir, this is Skin Bracer. They’ve just changed the bottle.
Shall 1 open it now, sir?"
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
October 19, 1962
31
THE SAFE WAY to stay alert without harmful stimulants
NoDoz keeps you mentally alert with the same safe refresher found in coffee and tea. Yet NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable. Absolutely not habit-forming. Next time monotony makes
you feel drowsy while driving, working or studying, do as millions do ... perk up with safe, effective NoDoz tablets. Another fine product of Grove Laboratories.
POWER-KNIT
it’s the end!
Only Jockey T-shirts are Power-Knit to keep their fit
The Jockey Power-Knit T-shirt is /nan-tailored . . . from the exclusive nylon reinforced Seamfree® collar that stays snug and smooth ... to the extra-long tail that stays tucked in. It’s
Power-Knit with extra top-grade combed cot- R" ton yarn to take the roughest kind of wear a ' man can give it. . . and still not bag, sag or stretch out of shape. It’s a Jockey ... ~ the man’s T-shirt... Power-Knit to * | keep its fit.
Regular one-man-band this coat. Scotchgard® treated to give the brush-off to rain or snow. Acrylic pile lining zips in or out to keep you in tune with the temperature. Short and trim; staccato-styled in fine Gabardine; new Fall iridescent shades; $29.95 at swingin’ stores.
HJockeif
POWER-KNIT T-SHIRTS
ft
COOPER’S. INCORPORATED. KENOSHA. wiSC.
Tempo Weathercoat
32
The Scholastic
FOCUS
Spiritual Life at Notre Dame
Lloyd W. Teske, C.S.C.
University Chaplain
IN making any comparison between the religious life of Notre Dame students “then” and “now,” I am in danger of falling into two traps. On the one side there is the temptation of viewing the past with a nostalgic tinge; and on the other side there is the danger of making a hasty judgment based on superficial observations of my brief six weeks back at Notre Dame. My conclusions, therefore, should be taken with the awareness of these two pitfalls.
Looking back, I can base my comparison on one of the two periods in Notre Dame’s past. I can look back to the war years when NROTC uniforms and V-12 Marine olive drab predominated over casual civilian dress; or I can look back to my own days as a student—far too many years ago than I like to admit—when Father O’Hara was our prefect of Religion. Since the welt years, from the religious aspect as well as from all other aspects, could hardly be considered normal, I prefer to keep in mind the years when I was a student, in the early thirties. In taking this point of departure, I am aware, too, that my judgments of what went on then are different from a student’s point of view; my judgments of the “now” are those of a priest. Moreover, my judgments of thirty years ago reflect my youth; my judgments to today reflect— somewhat regretfully—middle age.
Now, after this long apology, I can get down to specific observations.
Several of the aspects of religious life of the students remain unchanged. There appears the same filial and virile devotion to Our Lady as manifested by the stream of students who visit the Grotto and the number of candles that keep vigil there. . . . The confessional lines of today resemble those of yesterday, the extra Sunday Masses taking care of the larger enrollment now. With the help of ushers, the Communion rush is more orderly but seems comparable in size to that of former times.
The one pronounced and obvious difference lies in the student’s response to intelligent participation in the Mass. The Notre Dame religious program cannot, I think, claim
October 19, 1962
Al Killilea
We are faced with the obvious fact that much of the organized religious program here no longer means anything to anyone. Those who attend to student spirituality have been able to take only a few negative gestures: the Religious Bulletin has been halved, Sorrowful Mother devotions dropped, and a couple of lonely Masses in Sacred Heart Church cancelled.
Actions more positive are currently being talked about, but many imaginative priests appear to be stymied because of uncertainty about student response. Against such a backdrop of impatient concern and bewilderment, it seems vital that the student body offer a few positive suggestions on what might make religion at Notre Dame more meaningful.
Much of the lack of student cooperation in the campus religious program is due not to any spiritual lethargy, but rather to a reaction against a patronizing tone often assumed by our priest-advisors. We feel many priests, especially in the past, have taken a dim view of the Notre Dame student spiritually. We are currently besieged with frequent invitations to confession. We are told that if we don’t have any problems, we have a serious problem. We are assured we are flouting God’s graces if we don’t get excited about such stop-gap measures as the fall Missions. Many Masses in the halls are stripped down to 20 minutes for our accommodation. We are told the success of our exams and our team depend on daily Mass attendance.
In this constant appeal for students to take advantage of a spiritual bargain there is implied the conviction that nothing more can be expected from Notre Dame men. It isn’t expected that many students might seek something besides absolution from a confessor; therefore, run them through during the Mass. It isn’t expected that students might attend daily Mass for any reason other than a chance to acquire more and more grace; therefore, hurry through the nonessentials and let them be about their other business.
The results of such a view of the student constitute our problem today: with only this marginal encouragement, some students come to expect nothing more from themselves; others, with more confidence, seek to nourish their spiritual life outside of, sometimes in opposition to, the prescribed system. Obviously what must be done to remedy this problem is to stop favoring quantity at the
33
sole credit for this development. It represents the greater social consciousness today of Catholics generally and' the reflection of that consciousness in social worship which received great impetus from the Mediator Dei of Pope Pius XU and has been developing in parish life ever since. •
While formerly the emphasis at Notre Dame was on ' daily Holy Communion and personal union with Christ, today’s emphasis goes beyond personal union to a desire . for union with Christ and His Mystical Body in common worship. I have been especially impressed by the number«. of students who, without fear of ridicule, carry their daily missals about the campus with their textbooks, and by the enthusiastic participation in the dialogue Masses, particularly the weekday Masses and the first four Sunday Masses in Sacred Heart Church. This aspect of the religious' life of Notre Dame students is certainly a mark of ad-’ vancement and growth.	■
One phase of the former spirituality marked by em- -phasis on Holy Communion has suffered, it seems to me, . from this emphasis or. social worship. That is the practice ■ of adoration before the Blessed Sacrament exposed in the. Lady Chapel. Growth in social awareness should not have had this result. Some congregations, particularly of clois- >' tered religious, have adoration as their sole purpose and- •; hence are recognized by the Church as playing a vital role in the Mystical Body of Christ. The social “function ? of private prayer, particularly of adoration of the Blessed \ Sacrament, seems to have been de-emphasized. 1 ?
Another tendency which I have detected and which,.-is the reverse side of the coin of the. de-emphasis of" adoration is an “activism,” a desire, good in itself, for? apostolic work. But without the spirit of prayer, without-' daily Mass and Holy Communion to foster personal uniom with Christ characteristic of the earlier spirituality, • the wellsprings of social action soon become dried up. Social spirituality cannot negate the individual’s constant striving for closer union with Christ. Rather, social spirituality must build on such a union.	' •	• . '
My observations, obviously, are generalizations.. I am quite certain that many Notre Dame students 'who are most active in social works are also deeply spirituaUas individuals. If they weren’t their efforts would be sporadic and short-lived.	'	•-./
I may have slipped into a pitfall. If so, it-is that of forming too hasty a judgment. •	•
. expense of quality. The student must be given a chance to find meaning as well as grace in his religion, and this must be /done in a way that will have significance to the . entire. Notre Dame community. If we really are a community, if this be anything more than a University Bulletin ..euphemism, then surely we must recognize this unity in our religious life, and most importantly, in the Mass.
•	Indeed7 the Mass best expresses the community of Chris; ti’aris. .
•	• • ‘ .We presently give little emphasis to community in the .' Mass at Notre Dame. In no scheduled student Mass on campus is it permitted for us to join together in song, , despite the fact that it is song that brings fraternity to life, and that in sadness or joy, a full heart needs to sing. We don’t encourage students to chant our Sunday High
. Mass.
,•*' • Eager to admit the distraction of confessions at Mass, ■ we’ve done little to emphasize that value of the Mass that / might lessen the work of the confessor. We could easily • arrange for each student entering the chapel to place an ;'unconsecrated host in the ciborium. At the offertory, in •bringing these same hosts to the altar, we would make •concrete and vivid our awareness that at the Mass all of , us are offering ourselves as part of the sacrifice. It’s hard to believe that a student, so dynamically made aware that he is offering to Christ all that he is, would want to make a present of some of the indiscretions prevalent locally, despite the fact that confession is always convenient. One wonders if the present religious indifference would long endure if all were helped to grasp the insight of Paul Claudel:	•
Your tears, and your faith, and your blood, with His in the chalice,
These, like the water and ivine, form the matter of His sacrifice.
You needn’t be a liturgist to appreciate how a participative Mass can transform a crowd of individuals into a vibrant Notre Dame community. Such a change must begin through the imaginative and patient work of our religious advisors and chaplains. As students seeking this sense of community, we ask them to have confidence in our desire not only to be instructed, but to give God to one another.

34
Dave Brubeck
I'm in a Dancing Mooo
RayConniff
The Way Tou Look Tonight
Miles Davis
If I Were a Bell
The Brothers Four
Marianne
Andre Previn
Like Love
Duke Ellington
Perdido
Carmen McRae
Paradiddle Joe
Roy Hamilton
Angel Eyes
Gerry Mulligan
What Is There To Say
TheHi-Lo’s!
Everything's Coming Up Roses
Lambert, Hendr^
Cloudburst
Buddy Greco
The Lady Is a Tramp
Great new record offer (*3.98 value). .just *1.00 when you buy Sheaffer’s back-to-school special!
Now when you buy your Sheaffer Cartridge Pen for school, you get 98<? worth of Skrip cartridges FREE...a $3.93 value for just $2.95. Look for Sheaffer’s back-to-school special now at stores everywhere. On the back of the package, there’s a bonus for you ... a coupon good for a $3.98 value Columbia limited-edition record. It’s “Swingin’ Sound”, twelve top artists playing top hits for the first time on a 12" L.P. This double-value back-to-school offer good only while they last! So hurry, choose your Sheaffer Cartridge Pen from five smart colors... and mail your “Swingin’ Sound” record coupon today.
SHEAFFER’S BACK-TO-SCHOOL SPECIAL! New cartridge pen with 98< worth of cartridges FREE. *3.93 VALUE FOR *2.95
SHEAFFERS
©X»6J. W. A. SMEAFFE» PEN	“ADISON, IOWA.
inr om
r?
Flavor! Full flavor in a filter cigarette.
That’s why Winston is America’s best-selling . filter cigarette. Next time, smoke Winston.
PURE WHITE, MODERN FILTER
PLUS : FILTER - BLEND UP FRONT
I	f	- ■	■
Wtastan. tastes

like a eigwete shonM S
. I'-.j If J K. vmHs lub.KU. c.nupiin Wm-tun-Sil. III. N I'