Vol. XX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 28, 1887.	No. 37.
Manual Training.
Lecture delivered, May 21, before the Notre Dame Scientific Association by Prof. A. F. Zahm.
Gentlemen:—You are not all artists nor artisans, and do not wish to become such; but you are all concerned with school questions, and will be naturally interested in the discussion of a new and popular system of education. To judge from the general public expression, the world has received a new impulse of especial import to you and to the coming generations. The loud and earnest conflict that for two centuries resounded incessantly has concluded most happily for students and for mankind. The day of dogmatisms and dull abstractions for children is rapidly passing away, and the first rudiments of knowledge are acquired with all the wild enthusiasm and fascination of a game. A new element has entered into education. Objective instruction which-was decried as superfluous or unnecessary is winning favor rapidly everywhere in Europe and-America. It begins at earliest infancy in the Kindergarten^ and continues, in some form, through the entire school course.
The history and methods of the Kindergarten are, no doubt, familiar to you; the whole has been elaborated in the present century, and has given eminent satisfaction wherever tested by competent teachers. It is recognized as the most natural and efficient means of giving to the mind a broad and even development, and of preparing it for the more difficult studies of later years. The bare education of the senses, independent of books, is of infinite importance to the student of literature, science and art; it is the only basis of a perfect culture.
The true meaning of scholarly culture is not an intimate acquaintance with the classical authors of ancient or modern times, nor a familiarity with the natural and supernatural sciences; nor yet a refined appreciation of tone, color, form and the graces of motion, but rather a harmonious blending of therm all. The student we admire most is universally accomplished. His appearance is manly
graceful, animated, healthful. He is an expert at all the games and gymnastic exercises. He can row, swim, dance, drill, run and jump well, shoot, ride horseback, pitch all the curves, catch them and bat them, and perform most of the feats of a professional gymnast. He can face the rough, imperious winds of winter and the summer’s heat indifferently ; the pains of a disordered system he knows not, nor the feverish fantasies of a troubled sleep; the beauties of language and the deepest, abstruse discussions are his revel-land; the graces of etiquette, the sweetness of song and speech and gayety come to him unstudied.
Now, if you will agree, for argument’s sake, to this definition of a polite education, we shall come straight to the subject, namely, the value of manual training as an auxiliary to general culture.
The manual training school, as generally conducted, is designed to impart instruction in the use of all the typical hand tools for working wood and iron, and embraces drawing and design, pattern making, carpentry, moulding and founding, brazing and soldering, forging, bench and vice work, machine tool practice, and the use of instruments for measuring and testing. You will readily perceive that this differs radically from the old system of apprenticeship, for the reason that in the latter a boy works continually at one trade which he wishes to master as a means of earning a livelihood while in the former his purpose is the cultivation of his bodily and mental powers, and the acquirement of a sound and extensive education, which he may apply, to professional ends or not, as cir cumstances or his own inclinations dictate.
We may, then, take two views of the subject: one professional, the other educational. There is no question as to the superiority of this over the old apprentice system for the instruction of engineers, but it is rapidly extending to the public schools for all classes (even for young ladies, though I believe none have as yet received a degree of engineering) ; and, as a matter of course, meets with much opposition from old conservative people, whose impaired sight cannot distinguish good from evil. But in spite of old customs, and prejudices,. and that relic of barbarism—contempt of labor—the
598
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
new system has spread with increasing rapidity;
“ The principle of the manual training school exists in the Kindergarten^ and for that principle we are indebted directly to Froebel; and indirectly to Pestalozzi, Comenius, Rousseau and Bacon. But it was reserved for Russia to solye the problem of tool instruction by the laboratory process. The initiatory step was taken in 1868 by M. Victor Della Vos$ Director of the Imperial Technical-School of Moscow, with such success that it was soon taken up by all the other technical schools of the empire.” The system was introduced into the United States in the year 1876, by Dr. John Runkle, then president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and was found peculiarly agreeable to the Yankee. The great West called for it, and up went an institute at St. Louis; then to the-North and South in every direction it spread triumphantly, until it has reached all parts of the Union. It has been adopted in some form in at least twenty-four states, and has been inaugurated in connection with the public schools of the following cities: Boston and Milford,Mass.; New Haven,New Britain and the State Normal School, Conn.; Mont Clair, N.J.; Cleveland and Barnesville, Ohio; Moline, Peru and the Cook County Normal School, Ill.; Eau Claire, Wis.; Omaha, Denver, San Francisco, New Orleans, Memphis, and lastly in the grand old Quaker city, Philadelphia, which receives boys from the age of fourteen upwards..
Many of the older institutions of this kind have a world-wide reputation, and have supplied some of the ablest engineers in America. The workshops of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and of Cornell, Stevens Institute, the University of ■ Virginia, the Washington University, St. Louis, and of all the state industrial colleges, and of our own cherished University, have had the most flourishing prosperity from their first inception, and the demand has been so great as to nearly double their number annually. The last year witnessed the completion of two splendid institutions of this kind established by private enterprise. One is the Chicago manual training school, a large, handsome, well-lighted building, in which four rooms, measuring some forty by sixty feet, are appropriated to tool instruction; the other is the Rose Polytechnic Institute of Terre Haute, Ind., founded by Mr. Rose, of that city, by a donation equivalent to more than $500,000. From these facts you will be able to realize the importance attached to this kind of training, and the enthusiastic reception it enjoys everywhere.
The opinion of all who have carefully considered the question is, that the mind and hand should be co-educated, and that they interact beneficially. In the best schools of this kind, the student alternates book-work with hand-work. The wearied, mental faculties are relieved by a few hours’ exercise in the drawing-room, the workshop, or the experimental laboratory—an hour which develops as much brain power as an hour devoted to Virgil dr Euclid. The student is taught, for instance, to , make a drawing of some article of use, or of ornament,, then to execute it in wood, to mould and
cast it in metal, and, finally, to complete it with the most accurate machine tools.	.
In the execution of a task of this kind he acquires an incredible amount of information and skill. The sense of neatness, of symmetry, of elegance,'of outline, of mathematical and artistic proportion are inculcated from first to last. The philosophy of all the tools, the value and properties of the materials, an enlarged vocabulary, and many of the principles of kinematics, analytical mechanics and the. physical sciences are absorbed almost unconsciously. And when he returns to his books, it is with a freshness and vital energy unknown to the diligent book-student.	•
A stomach, too, he has of the best temper and capacity, upon which, next to a good conscience, mainly depend the pleasures of existence. Within the walls of this little chamber are bred more of the moral and mental maladies than the world dreams of; it is the birthplace of the most oppressive gloom and dark forebodings, of suspicion and anger, discontent, ill and rebellion. Here, too, is formed that precious jewel for which men search all the world in vain; for which they try the harsh, inhospitable ocean and the rude mountain depths, the dull, drear plains and the wild, impenetrable forests; for which they test every herb and spring, physicians’ compounds, potions and lotions without end; that one perfect jewel whose single worth outvalues all the 'wealth, power and pomp of the combined earth.
But, you will ask, do not athletic exercises promote these same results? They do, indeed, and hence are so extensively encouraged; but athletics fail in some essential points of the ideal physical development. Straight lines, sharp angles, circles, plane surfaces and solid figures of definite size, form and proportion are dealt with far more here than in the out-door exercises, not excepting even- the military drill. ‘ The use of the ruler, the compass, the scale, the callipers, the square, gives to the eye and hand a wonderfully accurate sense of form and magnitude. It is a very common thing for our students to work correctly to the one-thousandth of an inch, or even- to the one-ten thousandth. In the reciprocating parts of machinery, for example the connecting rod of an engine, if there is any error whatever in the execution of the work, it will be manifested by a- disagreeable, knocking noise, heating and wearing of the running parts. After some months’ practice, an amateur can, with unaided eye, strike the centre of a one-inch circle to within the one sixty-fourth of an inch; he can divide a given figure into equal parts to a. nicety, and detect a mistake that could not be appreciated by another person even when pointed out. The powers of vision are aided by the sense of touch, which, strange to say, is in many cases far more delicate and reliable. It requires a good eye to distinguish the space included between two points or surfaces separated by the one-thousandth of an inch—a coarse measure, however, for the hand. An eye of such experience sees in every article of manufacture an individual history. The ear also receives a training that will enable a man to judge of the condition of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
599
working machinery as far as the sound •will travel, and with more precision than a physician can judge of the human system. In like manner, the student acquires habits of attention, observation, self-reliance, power of imagination, judgment, and reasoning that will manifest-themselves in all his other studies.
In mathematics, physical science, and even in literature, there is much in common with the daily experience of workmen. It may astonish you to hear that uneducated carpenters, masons, and machinists are familiar with many of the operations— though not the names—of geometry, trigonometry, analytical mechanics, surveying, descriptive geometry, and the fundamental conceptions of the differential calculus. They are obliged daily to calculate areas and solid contents, to solve the several cases of plane triangles both graphically and by means of the circular parts, to make drawings involving the principles of orthographic projection, to use the mechanical powers intelligently. They seem to have an almost intuitive knowledge of the laws of statical couples, moments, center of gravity, free and constrained motion of bodies. They solve problems, sometimes at a glance, that would puzzle the college student of mechanics or phoronomy. I do not mean to say that their computations have the precision of a scholar’s, or that they always employ the some formula (though they frequently do), but that they traverse mentally the same route, and in substantially the same manner, as the great explorers of mathematics; and that a boy who has had such exercise is far better prepared for a course in those branches than he could otherwise be.
The teacher can invariably recognize a student of careful objective training by his wonderful faculty of forming distinct, vivid mental images of all the geometrical figures. Such a student would never think the area of a rectangle, for instance, equal to one half the product of the base by the altitude, because he could actually see it in his mind divided into units, and compute them arithmetically. So also he could see the convex surface of a cylinder unfolded to a rectangle; he could follow the sine of an arc throughout a complete revolution, thus avoiding the blunders so fi*equent in the class-room. He could likewise follow in his mind’s eye the lever, the pulley, the wedge, and all their combinations; he could appreciate the effects of forces, reactions, velocities, just as an artisan does, which in many cases is half the solution of a difficulty.
And-how immeasurably more easy it is to acquire these notions experimentally! a pulley is placed in his hands, which doubles his power; he uses the lever and suspects its law at once. A triangular piece is formed into a pyramid, a circular sector’ into a cone; a circle is divided into six equal parts, or passed through any three given points, and the impression lasts forever. The properties of materials attract his watchful eye, or, are forced upon his notice in a most striking manner. He. learns very quickly to distinguish between cast iron and wrought iron, machine steel and tool steel, because the penalty of ignorance is severely mortifying. A boy who has labored two hours mak
ing a tool of wrought iron is chagrined to see it bend or lose its edge the first time he attempts to use it.	•
Mistakes are excellent teachers here as elsewhere, and are especially serviceable to beginners. One drills a hole too carelessly, which costs him an hour of tedious filing to correct; another strikes his little fly wheel with a hammer and breaks out thespokes; another heats his tool in the forge and carelessly blows it up to incandescence, causing it to flow away through the ashes; then, stopping the bellows, searches all through the fire for it, and marvels at its disappearance; another proposes to melt some lead in a ladle, and after an indefinite period of fretting and murmuring at the persistency of the lead finds it to be a piece of polished iron. Such impressions are not likely to fade with the day, nor are they at all exaggerated, as may be ascertained from living witnesses. And yet much of the knowledge acquired thus easily and perfectly is the same as that expected to be memorized in the classes of natural science.
(conclusion next week.)
The Amoeba.
The rhizopods, or root-footed animals, stand lowest in the scale of animal life. Scarcely more than a drop of jelly-like protoplasm, the most lowly of these little creatures live, move, eat and multiply. Some, like the amoeba, are merely soft, unprotected particles of viscous matter, having not even . a covering membrane, and resemble greatly a small piece of slime mould. In the sediment formed at the bottoms of pools or ponds we often find these singular little gelatinous bodies which are continually altering their forms.	.
The amoeba moves about by means of little finger-like projections of its own body, any part of which it appears to have the power of shooting out and withdrawing again into the general substance of the mass. The body in itself is colorless; and the color sometimes seen about the surface is, owing to the diffusion of a colored substance, taken up by a foot. The central portion is nearly always colorless. The mode of obtaining food in these marvellously simple little animals is perfect in its way.
When the animal meets with any minute object, as diatoms desmids, etc., that will prove nutritive, it extends one of these little branches which touches the object and. gradually surrounds and covers it up. The amceba has no organs (especially adapted) of digestion, and it simply absorbs the nutrition from its captive, and the foot is then-drawn in. Its reproduction is as simple or simpler than its process of assimilation. Any portion of the body extended as a pseudopodium and separated from the body absorbs food just as its parent had, and is perfect in itself, continuing to grow and to divide its own body. When movement is desired, a foot is extended, along which the rest of the body is; drawn.	H.
6ob
THE, NOTR& DAMk SCHOLASTIC.
The Arsenal at Springfield.
H W. LONGFELLOW.
This is the Arsenal. From floor to ceiling, Like a huge organ, rise the burnished arms;
But from their silent pipes no anthem pealing Startles the villages with strange alarms.
Ah! what a sound will rise, how wild and dreary, When the death-angel touches those swift keys!
What loud lament and dismal Miserere Will mingle -with their awful symphonies!
I hear even now the infinite fierce chorus, The cries of agony, the endless groan, Which, through the ages that have gone before us, In long reverberations reach our own.
On helm and harness rings the Saxon hammer, Through Cimbric forest roars the Norseman’s song, And loud, amid the universal clamor, O’er distant deserts sounds the Tartar gong.
I hear the Florentine, who from his palace
Wheels out his battle-bell with dreadful din, ' And Aztec priests upon their teocallis
Beat the wild war drums made of serpent’s skin;
The tumult of each sacked and burning village;
The shout that every prayer for mercy drowns;
The soldiers’ revels in the midst of pillage;
The wail of famine in beleaguered towns;
The bursting shell, the gateway wrenched asunder, The rattling musketry, the clashing blade;
And ever and anon, in tones of thunder, The diapason of the cannonade.
Is it, O man, with such discordant noises, With such accursed instruments as these, Thou drownest Nature’s sweet and kindly voices, And jarrest the celestial harmonies ?
Were half the power, that fills the world with terror, Were half the wealth, bestowed on camps and courts, Given to redeem the human mind from error,
There were no nee J of arsenals or forts:
The warrior’s name would be a name abhorred!
And every nation, that should lift again Its hand against a brother, on its forehead Would wear forevermore the curse of Cain!
Down the dark future, through long generations, The echoing sounds grow fainter and then cease;
And like a bell, with solemn, sweet vibrations, I hear once more the voice of Christ say “ Peace!”
Peace! and no longer from its brazen portals .	_
The blast of War’s great organ shakes the skies! .
- But beautiful as songs of the immortals, • The holy melodies of love arise.
L’Arsenal de Springfield!
[Traduction far s. f.)
Voyez! c’est 1’Arsenal. Les armes entassees
Comme un orgue geant mon tent jusqu’au plafond;
Mais les touches d’acier immobiles, glacees, Se taisent. Tout ici dort d’un sommeil profond.
Grand Dieu! quel roulement, quels eclats de tonnerre, Quand 1’Ange de la mort touchera ce clavier!
Oh! quel Miserere, s’elevant de la terre, Molera ses accents au concert meurtrier!
J’entends encor le choc du fer, les cris sauvages, Les plaintes des blesses dont le sang coule a flots, Les longs gemissements qui, traversant les figes, Arrivent jusqu’a nous en funebres echos!
Le marteau du Saxon sur les casques resonne, Le chant guerrier du Cimbre epouvante les airs,"
Et, parmi les clameurs, le gong horrible sonne
Sous la main du Tartare au fond des noirs deserts!
J’entends le Florentin branlant d’un bras rapide La cloche dont le bruit retentit dans les camps,
Et 1’Azteque en fureur qui, sur sa pyramide, Bat l’atroce tambour fait de peaux de serpents!
J’entends les hurlements de douleur et de rage, Les rftles des vieillards, des enfants egorges, Les rires de 1’orgie au milieu du pillage,
Et les cris de la faim dans les irurs assieges;
Le feu sec des mousquets, le sifllement des balles,
Les bombes, les obus crevant de toutes parts,
Le cliquetis du fer,—a de courts intervalles, Le canon dont les coups tonnent sur les remparts!
Quoi 1 par ces bruits confus et ce fracas d’armure, Homme, est-ce toi qui fais taire le chant pieux
Que chantent a 1’envi les voix de la nature,
Et troubles le concert qu’en roulant font les cieux?
Si, pour chasser 1’erreur et son cortege sombre, On donnait la moitie des immenses tresors
Que devorent 1’armee et ses engins sans nombre, On n’aurait plus besoin d’arsenaux ni de forts.
L’homme aurait en horreuf le nom de guerrier m&me, Et si, contre son frere un peuple armait sa main, A jamais sur son front courbe par I’anath&me
Ce peuple porterait la marque de Cain.
Lentement dans la nuit le vrai jour se revele, Les echos afiaiblis par degres meurent tous, Et vibrant dans les cieux, suave et solennelle,
La voix du Christ redit: “ La paix soit avec vous! ”
Le bruit retentissant du grand Orgue de guerre N’ebranle plus les airs, et, jusqu’au dernier jour, Comme un chant des Elus, de tous les coeurs sur terre, S’eleve harmonieux 1’hymne du saint amour.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
601
Vagaries of the Day.
BY REV. S. FITTE, C. S. C.
(Conclusion.)	'
.	HI.
But by far the most dangerous form of socialism is the system of common proprietorship in land. More than once in ancient times, particularly in Rome, well-meaning men, or oftener ambitious, unprincipled demagogues, proposed the enactment of agrarian laws, under the pretense of relieving poor, needy people. We have but to mention the name of the Gracchi to show how sometimes even good citizens, blinded by a false philanthropy, may be led astray, and, in spite of the honesty of their intention, compromise by wicked means the success of a noble cause. These theories of old, renewed in our own day, found a terse, though deceitful formula in the works of Rousseau, who said: “You are lost, if you forget that the fruits belong to all, and the land to no one.” The same fallacious utopia has had recently a zealous, passionate advocate in Mr. Henry George, who seeks to defend it in books and speeches under the name of “Nationalization of Land.”
The idea has received an impulse from recent legislation of the English Parliament to settle, if possible, the land question in Ireland. Not that the Irish tenant farmer is an agrarian socialist, or a socialist of any kind; what he wants is to oust the landlord, and have the farm to himself. If you demand of the average Irish landlord a share of his land, he will give you six feet of it; and be himself exacts a heavy rent for a little croft from the farm laborer in his employment. The sirens of nationalization have sung to him in vain. Nor did the framers of the Land Act intend to abrogate or assail private property in land; they wished only to adjust, by the best practical measures, a long dispute between two classes of property-holders, which continually threatens the peace of the State. They are, indeed, anxious to get rid of coercion, and, at the same time, avoiding confiscation, try to find “a golden mean” calculated to satisfy the legitimate claims of both parties. But the natural consequence has been a general disturbance of ideas, and an increase of hope and activity among the apostles of agrarian plunder.	•
By these theorists it is proposed to confiscate— either openly or under the thin disguise of a predatory use of the taxing power—every man’s freehold, even the farm which the settler has justly reclaimed from the barren wild by the sweat of his own brow. Moreover, it is emphatically added, with the exultation of insolent injustice, that no compensation is to be expected or even allowed. That the State has, by the most solemn and repeated guarantees, ratified private ownership, and undertaken to protect it, matters nothing; nor even that it has itself recently sold the land to the proprietor, signed the deed of sale, and received
the payment. That such views can be seriously propounded anywhere outside of a robber’s den or a lunatic asylum, still more, that such schemes, contrary to natural equity, can find admirers, or even self-respecting hearers, is a proof that the economical world has become a prey to a strange and morbid perturbation.
In the first place, how do the nationalizers mean to carry into effect their strange plans of confiscation? They can hardly suppose that large classes will allow themselves to be stripped of all they possess, and turned out with their families to beggary without striking a blow for their freeholds. There will at once be civil war, in which it is by no means certain that the agrarian philosopher and his disciples would get the better of the owners and tillers of land. Utopians forget that they have, in practice, to deal with the world as it is, and human nature as it stands.
In the second place, as it is to the government, that all land, or the rent of all land, is to be made over, we must ask the agrarian socialist, as well as the general socialist, what form of government he means to give us? The theorists themselves denounce, as loudly as any other critic, the knavery and corruption of the politicians, who would hardly be made pure and upright simply by putting the management of fabulous revenues into their hands. Paying rent for all real estate to the “bosses” would certainly be a singular way of regenerating society. ‘ Once more, then, what is the kind of government which the nationalizers have in view? It would be instructive if they could furnish us, at the same time, with a sketch of the Land Department of their future Republic, with its staff, the use which it will make of its funds, and the means by which it will be controlled and preserved from corruption.
Again, why is property in land singled out for forfeiture? and why are its holders selected for robbery and denunciation? Because, say the nationalizers, the land is the gift of God to mankind, and ought not to be appropriated by any individual owner. But this would preclude also appropriation by a nation, even by a tribe, as well as private ownership by individuals: still let it pass. In every article which we use, in the paper and type of the very book which advocates confiscation as a right, there are raw materials and natural forces which are, undoubtedly, as much the gift of God as the land. God made the wool to grow on the sheep’s back, of which your coat is woven; He created the calf from whose skin the leather of your shoes has been made. He it is that has endowed water and fire with the power of producing the steam that energizes the engine of your mill or factory. Land is worth nothing, it is worth no more than the sa'me extent of sea, till it is brought under cultivation by labor, which must be performed by some particular men. This, Canadian Colonization Companies are learning to . their cost. If the State, in resuming possession of- the land, were compelled, like a landlord'in Ireland, to give compensation for improvements, it would have to pay the full value of the land.
6'02
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
But the value itself is the creation of individual labor and capital, in this case, as in the case of a manufacture. Circumstances, such as the growth of neighboring cities, may favor the landowner: in fact, circumstances may favor any owner or producer. They may also be injurious to any owner or producer, as they have been of late to the landowners and agricultural producers in England. And unless the State means to protect the holder of property against misfortune, it has surely no right to fine or punish him for his good fortune.
Nor is there anything specially unjust, or in any way peculiar, about the mode in which the laborer on land is paid by the landowner, or the workman by the capitalist. Every laborer or workingman draws his pay from the moment when he begins his work. He draws it in credit, which enables him to get what he wants at the store.
All kind of land will, of course, fall under the same rule, and be subject to a similar taxation. The lot on which the mechanic has built his house will be confiscated as well as the ranch, or the farm. Not only so, but the produce, being equally with the land the gift of the Creator, will never possibly become objects of lawful ownership, and we shall be justified in repudiating our milk bills because cows feed on grass.	•
Is it true that poverty is the offspring of landownership or the land laws? Anyone who is not sailing on the fanciful wings of a theory can answer that question by closely looking at the facts before him. Poverty springs from many sources, personal and general—from indolence, infirmity, disease, intemperance; from the failure of harvests and the decline of local trade; from the growth of population beyond the means of subsistence, or from the stagnation of labor, a result of over-production. If the influence of the last causes is denied, let it be shown what impelled the migrations by which the earth has been peopled, and the population of this country so rapidly increased. Poverty has existed on a large scale in great industrial or commercial cities in which the land laws could effect but little, and even in cities like Venice, which had no land at all. The supposed increase of poverty itself is a fiction; at least it is often a fallacy. The number of people, in all civilized countries, living in plenty and comfort has multiplied a hundredfold; and though with a considerable increase in numbers there is necessarily a certain increase of misfortune, even the poorest are not so badly off now as they were in the times of primitive barbarism, when famine stalked through the unsettled tribes, or during the period of the Middle Ages, though there was then no « monopoly” of land.
’ We, cannot all be husbandmen, or personally make any use of land. What we want, as a community organized in a social state, is that the soil shall produce as much food as possible, so that we may all live in plenty; and facts, still more than reason, show that a high rate of production can be attained only where “tenure” is safe, and private ownership secure. The greater the security of tenure, the more of his labor and capital the’hus.
bandman will put into the land, and consequently the larger the harvest will be. The spur which proprietorship lends to industry is proverbially keen in the case of ownership in land. Originally, almost all ownership was tribal; and if tribal ownership has, in all civilized countries, given place to private ownership, this is the verdict of experience in favor of the present system. To suppose that a company of land-grabbers seized upon public property and set up a monopoly in their own favor is a fancy as baseless as the assumptions of Rousseau are sophistical. That we have all a right to live upon the land is a statement in one sense absurd, unless the cities are to be abandoned, and all men are to return to a primitive state; in another sense true, though subject to the necessaiy limit of population and subordinate to other rights since acquired. But what the nationalizers practically propose is, that a good many of us, instead of living, shall, by reduced production, be deprived of food, and die. The first consequence of their universal confiscation will be a universal disturbance of husbandry, and thus, while their age of improved morality, according to Rousseau or George’s gospel, will open with a general robbery, their era of felicity will start with an immense famine.
Do they intend that the tenure of those who are to hold the land under the State’s control shall be secure? If they do, nothing will have been gained: private property, and what they call by the odious name of monopoty—though there are hundreds of thousands of proprietors—will return under another form. The only result of their “grand” reform will amount to a change of the name from freeholder to something like to a concession in perpetuity by the State. And this, moreover, cannot be obtained by any other means than at the expense of a shock to agricultural industry, during which the probable effect would be starvation, riots and bloodshed. If we mistake not, nothing so practical as a plan for making the “happy” change without ruinous disturbance appears ever to have entered their “deeply economical minds.” But the truth is, that some of them, we are sorry to say, openly revel in the charming prospect of widespread mischief.
When we speak of nationalizing, it is well to j remember that though territory is still national, na- I tions no longer live upon the produce of their own ? .territory alone. Therefore it is that those planmakers of the future are really too narrow-minded; for, if they want to succeed in changing society, they ought to study more carefully the architecture i of modern nations so as to embrace in the sphere \ of their innovations not only agriculture and property in land, but the industrial and commercial world as well. But this they will never do; or if they try to realize it, the unfruitfulness of the result will I certainly be in proportion to the greatness of their | efforts. _	.	-	.	I
■ It is true, we meet with another milder school | of agrarian socialists, who propose to confiscate | “only” what is called the “unearned increment of land ’’—that is, any additional value which, from, time to time, may accrue through the :action;Q
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	. 603
surrounding circumstances and the general progress of the community, without exertion or outlay on the part of the individual owner. Certainly very sharp and skilful inspectors would be required to watch the increase and to draw the line. A question might also arise whether, if unearned increment is to be taken away, accidental “ decre-. ment” ought not to be made good. But here, again, we must ask, why landed property alone is to be treated in this way? Property of any kind may grow more valuable without effort or outlay on the owner’s part. Is the State to seize upon all the premium on stocks? A mechanic buys a pair of boots, but the next day the leather goes up, is the State to exact a percentage off the mechanic’s boots?
The fact is, that the vision of certain economists is distorted, and their views are greatly narrowed by hatred of the landlord class. Too many landlords are idle and useless members of society in old countries, under the operation of lingering feudal laws; but owners of other kinds of hereditary property are often idle and useless too, and it is not to the Italian nobles only that the dolce far niente applies. That the land should have been so improved as to be able to pay the owner as well as the cultivator does the community no harm. This we see plainly where the owner, instead of being a rich man, is a charitable institution; hence only the ignorant or the vicious would accuse monks of laziness, and only bankrupt governments have confiscated the goods of monasteries, which is the patrimony of the poor. Nor is ever any outcry raised when the same person, being owner and cultivator, unites with the wages of one the revenue of the other. The belief that there is some evil mystery, or dark spirit in rent, has been fostered by the declamatory dissertations of economists, who seem to have been entrapped by their ignorance of any language but one. Rent is nothing but the hire of land, and there is no more mystery about it than there is about the hire of a horse; no more dark spirit than in a machine or a tool. In Greek, the word for the hire of land and of chattels is the same.
The desire of confiscating the property of landowners is, in European countries, closely connected . with the objects of political and social revolution.
But public spoliation, though it might commence, would not end here, nor would there be any ground, still less any legislation, for fixing this as its ultimate limit. Let a reason be given for confiscating real estate, and the same reason will hold good for confiscating personal estate, the laborer’s wages, we may add the copyright of the author, and the plant of the journalist who courts popularity or panders to envious malignity by advocating the pillage of his neighbor. If property is theft, the property of the savings bank is theft like the rest, and laborers, not less than capitalists, form an association of. robbers.
But nothing can be more opposed to the nationalization of land than peasant proprietorship. Why is this ? Perhaps, because no other class more than that of farmers feels and realizes how hard
it is to earn one’s living in tilling the ground, and, consequently, how just and inviolable is the right of possessing and keeping peacefully the piece of land which they have purchased, little by little, by the sweat of their brow. This is, doubtless, the reason why the nationalizers, when approaching the peasant proprietor, find him deaf to their schemes of confiscation: the tiller of the soil has, so to speak, attached a portion of his heart, nay, his whole soul, to that blessed land where he was born, where he grew to manhood together with his old parents, and where, in working night and day under the sky and the blessing of Almighty .God, he raised his own family and improved the soil for himself, in order to have a quiet place to rest and die. Still, there are some country people who look upon those theories with unbounded hope. The political arguments in their favor are too well known; but stronger than politics, and more invincible than any eloquence is the adamantine resistance offered by farmers to communism of all kinds. Economical considerations may be against their convictions, since, for instance, a farmer on a great scale in Dakota or Minnesota, will raise as much grain with a hundred laborers as is raised by ten times the number of French peasants. Socially there may be arguments both ways; but the life of the peasant in France, and even in Switzerland's hard, and almost barbarous, while he can scarcely tide over a bad harvest without falling into the money-lender’s hands. But Europe, in this respect, cannot be compared to America. Here on this continent, especially in the East, the tendency of country people seems to be, when they can, to exchange life on the farm, which they find dull and lonely, for. the more social life of large cities. Perhaps the time may come when agriculture in the United States will be carried on scientifically, and upon a large scale, so as to furnish abundant food for the immense crowd of people living in cities and engaged in industrial or commercial pursuits. Then, also, the life of the staff on a great farm will cease to be unsocial, while it will exercise far higher intelligence than does spade labor, which, in truth, calls for no intelligence at all.
From what has been said it is plain that we have endeavored to refute communism, socialism and the system of nationalization of land rather by. making some practical remarks based on experience, than by setting forth theoretical considerations in contrast with the vagaries of the day. Such theories, indeed, can never become popular in any country of the world, still less in the United States, whose people, naturally conservative, are possessed of too much good common sense to be ever deceived by those dreams born of a morbid imagination. The sound judgment of Americans, and much more the clear-sighted intelligence of our farmer^Avill always protest against or smile at those « castles in the air ” built up, not by new Crusaders finding their actuating motive in the true interests of the people, but by the wandering knights of a false political economy unconsciously fighting with windmills,
604
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
mMSlMMK
IK -
Notre Dame, May 28, 1887.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twentieth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms., Si.50 per Annum. • Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
The Philopatrians.
On last Wednesday evening, the Philopatrian Society gave its “Fifteenth Annual Entertainment.” In accordance with the time-honored custom of this Junior association of the University, the exercises of the evening were dedicated to the Very Rev. Alexis Granger, C. S. C., the revered Prefect of Religion. It will be seen by consulting the programme, which is printed entire in our local columns, that there was no lack of variety in the number of pieces presented, and one may easily realize that the young performers .provided an enjoyable couple of hours for the large audience of friends and students assembled.
The entertainment began at four o’clock with a Marche d^ouverture by the Band, after which Master E. Berry stepped upon the stage and, in behalf of his fellow Philopatrians, made the following neat address of welcome and of dedication :
The Philopatrians very cordially bid you all welcome to their entertainment this afternoon... Feeling honored and encouraged by your attendance in such large numbers, they
will earnestly endeavor to meet the expectations of even the most exacting in respect to the exercises. They will try so to act their parts that not one of you will have occasion to turn away uninterested or disappointed. But, at the outset, permit me to say for them that they do not propose to fill you with fear, and trembling, and terror, by bringing out here, upon the stage the ghost of Hamlet, the shade of Cresar, or the mummy of Raineses. It is too near supper-time for that. They do not propose, at the expense of your sensibilities, to show their skill in rendering any of the horrible and blood-curdling tragedies occasionally seen on the popular stage. They do not want to direct your attention to bloody daggers in the air. They do not wish to lead you to the subterranean meeting-places of hoi low-eyed spooks. They do not ask you to accompany them to the witch-haunted caverns of mountains beyond the sea. In fact, they are themselves studiously careful to keep away from such places and the subjects that suggest them.
But they do call your attention to the claims upon prose and poetry, upon history and song, of those antique centres of art and love, of war and politics, of romance and commerce—Portage Prairie and Bertrand. Enough for the Philopatrians to deal with the fading glories of a brilliant and glorious past. Enough for them to honor the times, and perpetuate the memory of the brave men and great warriors who once hunted .the timid deer, outran theburly bruin, and caught the scaly sunfish along the romantic banks of the sinuous and timber-crowned St. Joe.
Enough for the Philopatrians to deal with local affairs and concerns—with Notre Dame, with the St. Joe, with the lakes and groves—with these classic shades and hallowed scenes, where the bees work geometrically, the birds fly in conic sections, and the bulls bellow in Doric Greek.
In short, the Philopatrians fully believe in the utility of laughter, as a sanitary agent, and they intend, to the best of their ability, to amuse you and to make you laugh. They think that “ if you be wise ” and want to “ get fat,” you will laugh. At any rate, they may be permitted to join with the authorities in hoping that this entertainment may do its share toward rendering it unnecessary for you to take medicines, or to go to the Infirmary until after the approaching examination.
In dedicating the entertainment, the Philopatrians turn with one accord to the Very Rev. Alexis Granger, so sincerely loved and respected by all the students, and by all who know him,'for his kindness, for hi« benevolence, for his Christian graces, for the salutary example of his devoted and self-sacrificing life. To Father Granger, then, the Philopatrians dedicate these exercises as a slight mark of the personal regard they entertain for him—as a token of their appreciation of the noble traits and virtues of his kind heart and edifying life.
Mr. S. Murdock, representing the students of the Senior department, then delivered a very thoughtful and appropriate address to Very Rev. Father Granger. He spoke of the noble, apostolic work accomplished by the Rev. Father during the forty and more years of his life-time at Notre Dame; the incessant and loving care with which during that long period he had watched over the spiritual interests of the students; how his name is held in grateful remembrance by hundreds of students throughout the land, and concluded with the expression of the earnest wish of all that many more years of strength and usefulness might be his to continue his beneficent intercourse and association with the inmates of Notre Dame.
After music by the Orchestra and an interesting prologue by Master J. Wile, the Philopatrians opened their prominent part of the evening’s entertainment by the presentation of a comedy in two acts, entitled “Humbug”—a new name for a play so well. known. that .it needs no description. Barring a little, hesitancy in one or two parts, it
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	605}
was presented in a very creditable manner, and delighted the audience. The interest centred upon the character of “ Ginger Blue,” taken by Master I. Bunker, whose portrayal of the “Egyptian Mummy” afforded great amusement to all present. Master E. Berry as “ Captain Rifle,” and F. Lane as “ Dr. Galen ” enacted their roles well, as also did the others mentioned in the programme.	'
After an overture by the Orchestra, a delightful piano duet was played by Messrs. Tivnen and Keating-. This was so well rendered as to merit a most enthusiastic encore, the applause being prolonged until the performers were obliged to re. spond, which they gracefully did, and played another excellent morceau from their extensive repertoire.	'
The curtain then arose upon the opening scene . , of the event of the evening,
THE PRINCE OF PORTAGE PRAIRIE,
“a grand spectacular'drama in three acts,” as'the programmes said. ■ The splendor of the costumes; the grand scenic effects; the war dances of Indian braves; the artistic and well-executed military evolutions of the armies of the Marquis of South Bend and the Duke of Goshen; the sensational battle scene; the burning of Bertrand; the slaughter of the people and their magical restoration to life, all combined to make the drama truly spectacular and awake the applause of the audience. The players were “well up” in their parts, and the energy and enthusiasm which they displayed made their representations very effective. Among those who distinguished themselves we have space only to mention the following: E. Berry, as “The Prince”; J. McIntosh, as “Alexander”; J. Monarch, as “The Duke of Goshen”; T. Wilbanks, as “Marquis of South Bend”; J. Casey, as “Dr. Pangloss ”; D. J. Stephens, as “ The Hermit of the Valley,” and A. Redlich as “ The Barber of Mish-' awaka.” Each of the other performers also did well, but our limited space compels us to refer the reader to the programme for their names and roles. The successful presentation reflected great credit on the youthful Philopatrians and the skilful management of their worthy director, Prof. Lyons.
On the conclusion, Rev. President Walsh made a few appropriate remarks, complimenting those who had taken part in the entertainment, and praising the motive which had prompted the dedication of their efforts to their good spiritual guide and friend, the Verv-Rev. A. Granger.
M.
Pleadings.
(Continued.)
Covenant is a form of action which may be brought to recover damages for the breach of a contract under seal. However, to take advantage of an oral agreement essentially modifying an original covenant, the covenant must be abandoned and assumpsit, brought. Covenant is brought by
one who, personally or by his agentj executed a deed under seal. It makes little or no difference whether , the contract be express or implied. It is the pecu- • liar remedy for the non-performance of a contract under seal when the damages are unliquidated and depend, as to amount, on the verdict of a jury. It-is the remedy on a collateral covenant to pay the? debt of another person. A'court of equity usually. . grants relief where covenant does not lie in the -class of cases coming within the general or ap- ; parent scope of covenant. One who binds himself by a personal covenant is liable in an. action of covenant for its breach, even though he describes himself as a “trustee,” “agent,” or “administrator.”. Under non est factum the. defendant may show any facts contradicting the making of the deed.,
The action of debt lies to recover.a sum certain. It lies in the debet and detinet when it is stated that, the defendant owes and unjustly withholds or detains; or in the detinet when it is stated that he detains the thing demanded. In the detinet for goods it differs from detinue, which requires the specific property in the goods to be vested in the plaintiff at the time the action is brought. It lies in the. debet and detinet for money due on a record, judgment, specialties, recognizances, simple contracts, and the like. It lies in the detinet for goods, for money due a testator, or against an executor on the testator’s contracts. A leading distinction between debt and assumpsit is that debt is founded upon the contract and assumpsit upon the promise. Assumpsit offers a more comprehensive remedy, and is more frequently called into use in practice. Debt may be brought upon simple contracts, and upon contracts under seal or of record. It lies for money loaned, paid, had and received, and due on an account stated; also for rent due, for work, and labor, for fees, for goods sold, for use and occupation,, and on a quantum meruit. It is generally concurrent with indebitatus assumpsit. It is immaterial in what manner the obligation was incurred, or by. what it is evidenced, if the sum owing is susceptible of being definitely ascertained. It may be brought upon statutes by a party aggrieved, dr by a common informer, as in the case of a quitarn action. _ This {qui tam) action imposes a penalty, as fixed by statute, for the doing or not doing of certain specified acts, and gives the penalty in part to any. person who sues for the same, while the other, part goes to the State, to the school fund, or to some charitable institution. The plaintiff or informer describes himself as suing as well for the State as for himself. Nil debet is the general issue.in debt' when the action is on a simple contract, or a stat-, ute, or when a specialty is merely matter of inducement. Non est factum is the common .plea to deny the execution of a specialty. When the action is on a record, nul tiel record—no such record —is the usual plea to deny its existence. . \ > f
Detinue is an action for the recovery of personal chattels from one who lawfully acquired:? possession of them, but who wrongfully holds and retains them, together with damages for the unlaw- ' ful detention. It is distinguishable from replevin,; which lies when the original taking was unlawful^
6o6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
It lies to recover goods capable of being identified and distinguished from all others. The action of o
replevin, however, has been so extended in its operation as to render resort to detinue very exceptional. The general issue is non dctinet. The wrongful detention is the gist of the action, and o	o	y
not the original taking, o	o	*
Scire facias means “ that you make known.” It is the name of a writ founded upon some public record and the proceedings incident to the operation of such writ. The public records to which it is applicable are divided into judicial and non-judicial. The judicial are judgments in former actions and recognizances in the nature of judgments. The writ of scire facias is based upon a judgment, for the purpose of reviewing the same, when, on account of lapse of time, the judgment is presumed to have been executed or released. Hence, execution is not allowed without giving notice by scire facias to the defendant to come into court and to show why execution should not issue against him. Or it may lie to make party to the judgment a person who derives a benefit from or becomes chargeable under the execution, although he was not a party to the original action. The purpose of the writ is to bring a former action to an execution or finalty. AV hen taken on a recognizance its purpose is to have execution. As it is not the commencement and basis of an action in this case, it is a judicial, and not an original writ. Letters patent and corporate charters are non-judicial records. When a non-judicial record is the foundation of the writ, it is the commencement of an original action, and its object is to repeal or forfeit the record. Quo 'warranto is the remedy usually resorted to for the purpose of effecting forfeiture of corporate charters and offices, although the same end may be reached by scire facias. The writ of quo -warranto is an order issued by a superior court, requiring a person or corporation to show by what authority it discharges certain duties, or exercises certain franchises. The return of the sheriff is scire feci—“ I have made known.” Should a scire facias, considered as a process, not run in the name of “ The People,” it would be void on its face and might be reached by a general demurrer or motion to quash.
Personal, actions of the ex delicto class are case, replevin, trespass and trover; and some of the authorities place detinue under this head.
Case, or trespass on the case, refers to a class of actions in which the writ is framed with reference to the special circumstance of the case. By statute Westminister 2, 13 Ed. I, c. 24, where any cause of action arose for which no remedy had been pro. vided, and suitable . to which there was no precedent among the forms then in use, the clerks in chancery were directed to draw up a hew form, making it as analogous as possible to the forms adapted to similar cases. The writ of trespass was most frequently taken by them as a precedent, and in course of time it was extended so as to include all kinds of actionable wrong, whether proceeding from malfeasance, misfeasance' or non-_ o -	.	-
feasance. This latitude enabled litigants to bring fictions of trespass on the case in the King’s Bench.
Thus it became permissible to bring this action for breach of a parol undertaking, now changed to assumpsit, and also for a finding and unlawful conversion of property, now changed to trover. Numerous actions derived from other originals than the writ of trespass, such as nuisance, deceit, and the like, were also brought under the name and according to the form of the “ action on the case.” But case differs from assumpsit and covenant, in that it is not founded upon contract, and it differs from trover, in that trover is applicable only in the case’ of an unlawful conversion. It differs from detinue and replevin, in that its sole object is to recover damages. It differs from trespass, in that it is the proper action for injuries committed without force, or for forcible injuries which indirectly do damage to the plaintiff. Evidence showing the injury to be trespass does not • support case. The general issue is raised by the plea “ not guilty.” It is not necessary in case that the action should be supported by precedent. It is sufficient if it come within the. recognized principles governing the action. Under* the Code, which abolishes the distinction between forms of action, all actions are in form a special action on the case. Assumpsit and case are concurrent remedies for numerous injuries resulting from nonfeasance, misfeasance and malfeasance. Either lies for a false warranty on the sale of goods; for breach of duty by an attorney or a common carrier; against a bailee for negligence, and the like. In assumpsit it is necessary to allege that the defendant undertook and promised to do, or not to do, the particular act upon which the action is based; but this allegation is omitted in case.
Replevin is a form of action by which it is sought to regain possession of personal chattels unlawfully taken by the party against whom the action is brought. It differs from detinue, in that it requires an unlawful taking. . It differs from all other personal actions, in that it is brought to recover possession of the specific property claimed to have been unlawfully taken. Originally it lay to recover chattels taken as a distress. In time its application was greatly extended. The institution of this action is ascribed to Glanvil, Chief Justice under Hen. II. It was designed to prevent beasts of the plough, cattle and other chattels of tenants in arrear from being unjustly or excessively distrained by the landlord. Distress was considered merely a pledge or security for the rent, for damage feasant, or for service due from the tenant to his superior lord. It could not be sold by the distrainor. He had to hold it until payment or other satisfaction was made. .But by statute 2 William and Mary, 1, c. 5, the distrainor assisted by the sheriff, might have the distress appraised and sold for the best price, unless replevied by the owner or tenant within five days after seizure. Beasts of the plough and tools of trade were declared exempt from distress. It is now sufficient to'maintain the action if the. taking has been against the right of the complainant. . Where the property has passed into the adverse custody under contract,'the remedy is by detinue dr trover? when it is sought to recover

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	607
it or its value. It must be alleged in the pleadings that the defendant took and detained the snoods. _	o The plaintiff must have an immediate right of possession. Replevin in the cep it is the common law remedy, and where the statute enlarges the remedy so as to make it apply to property wrongfully detained, it is replevin in the detinet. At common law the taking must be wrongful. Where the chattels come lawfully into the defendant’s hands, and are wrongfully detained, the statutory remedy of replevin in the detinet, and not replevin in the cepit, must be sought. But should the delivery be induced by fraud, the taking would be treated as tortious, and no title could pass. Where property goes into a person’s possession under a contract, and is wrongfully detained, the remedy is by assumpsit or trover; but when the statute authorizes replevin in the detinet, it matters but little how possession was obtained, the detention being- wrongful. At common law chattels in the custody of the law, i. e., in possession of an officer, under a valid legal process, cannot be replevied, but in numerous States this has been changed by statute. At common law the general issue is “ non. cepitR' under the statutes it is “ non detinet^ although “ not.guilty ” is a common plea.
(conclusion next week.)
Books and Periodicals.
The Conversion of St. Augustine and other Sacred Poems, by Eleanor C. Donnelly. With a Preface by Rt. Rev. Michael J. O’Farrell, D.D., Bishop ofTren ton, N. J. Published and sold to aid in the Erection and. Completion of the Church of St. Monica, at Atlantic City, N.J.	■
The high position which Miss Donnelly occupies in the world of letters is sufficient to secure for any work that emanates from her gifted pen a numerous array of admiring readers. The little book above mentioned—of some 70 pages—contains some of the more recent poems of the talented author, which, like others, perhaps better known, are remarkable for their richness of thought, beauty of expression and warmth of devotion. The charitable object of the publication—to aid in the erection of a new church in honor of St. Monica, ■ by the sea-shore—will furnish an additional motive for its increased circulation.
—From J. C. Groene & Co., 24 Arcade, Cincinnati, we have received a very pretty song, called “ There’s no one Like Mother to Me” by Charles A. Davis.	.	■
—The Ave Maria announces the publication of two new story-books for Catholic boys and girls— “Once upon a Time” and “Tales for Eventide.” Both are made up of stories originally published in the Ave Maria, and will be found very acceptable to youthful readers. They are designed as • premiums or gift books, and will, therefore, be nicely got up in every particular, and sold at a low price. From personal inspection of specimen pages and the cover designs, we can say that they will
be among the prettiest books of the season. They will be ready about the first of June.
—One of the most substantial movements that could take place in many cities would be for our monied people to build handsome and convenient houses: not “princely mansions,” but houses of low and moderate cost, such as are needed by thrifty mechanics and clerks and business men of moderate means. The investment is first-class, and the benefit extends to the whole community. Those people who intend to build should inquire among their local builders until they find one who has “ The Builders’ Portfolios.” Such a builder can show the inquirer an immense number of excellent plans for modern houses, barns, etc.; and also can give correct local prices for building from any of the plans. Builders who have not yet procured “ The Builders’ Portfolios” should write at once to the Co-operative Building Plan Association, 63 Broadway, New York.	.
—Appleton Morgan, in the June number of The Popular Science Monthly, resumes the discussion of the question, “Are Railroads Public Enemies?” and gives attention to discrimination by long haul and short haul, stock-watering, and the acquisition of eminent domain. Professor William James, in “Some Human Instincts,” argues to show that instead of having fewer, as is . currently assumed, “man has more instincts than any other mammal”; and enforces his argument by describing several kinds of instincts in man, with their actions and reactions upon one another. The manner, as well as the substance, of Mr. Serviss’s “Astronomy with an Opera-Glass,” can hardly be too highly commended. In the present * paper, the author, by the aid of maps, tells, with lucid description and exact indications, what to look for, and how, among “ the stars of summer.” “Gofio: Food and Physique,” by Dr. C. Fayette Taylor, describes a peculiar food of the Canary. Islands, which is very healthful and nutritious. Mr. Henry J. Philpott continues his essays on “ Social Sustenance,” with a paper on “ Combination of Effort.” A paper of great economical interest on “Industrial Education and Railway Service” is summarized from a report made by Dr. W. T. Barnard to the President of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, bn the feasibility of establishing shop-schools for apprentices in railway arts. In “ Grains of Sand,” Mr. George Wardman describes the origin and preparation of the sand that is used in glass-making. Interesting papers are given on “Appearance and Reality in Pictures,” by Dr. Eugen Dreher; and the customs of -the Transylvanian Saxons regarding birth and... death. The subject of the biographical sketch and accompanying portrait is the late M. Jules . Jamin, of the Institute of France, who was an eminent physicist. The “Higher Education of" Women” is discussed in the Editor’s Table; the question of compulsory Greek in the college course receives apother word; and the important announce-	.
ment is. made that with, the July number the Hon. David A. Wells will begin a series of articles op . causes of the depression of trade and indiistry, - .
6o8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—We take the air-line.
—The Philopatrians did nobly.
—To-morrow is Pentecost Sunday.
—It is now in ordei’ to hear from thePhilodemics.
—The Evangeline made the riffle last Thursday.
—The lone fisherman is getting lonelier every day.
—New wires and lamps have been placed in the electric crown and crescent.
—Prudhomme has been elected 2d nine Captain in place of Nelson, resigned.
—Master H. Pierce, of New York city, is the latest arrival among the Minims.
—“ Don’t kill the birds! ” might be said to the band on its visits around the lake.
—The devotions of the Month of May will be concluded next Tuesday evening.
—Read the elegant French version of one of Longfellow’s beautiful poems on page 600.
—The movement to add apple-green to the college colors has at least one enthusiastic backer.
o
—There is a lull in the bull-frogs’ tune, but ne’er a cessation in the coxswains’ lusty “ Stroke!”
—This would be a good time to lay those cement walks between the College and the Presbytery.
—The little judges’ boat on the lake has been repainted and shelaced and_re-christened the “ Oska Becke.”	’
—We were sorry that the tc Green Stockings ” would not descend from their kite-like elevation on Thursday last.
—The oratorical contestants are down to work in earnest, and already in the hall can be heard the eloquence weakening the parquette chairs.
—Now, that “May is gliding onward into Time,” we can indulge a mild feeling of gratulation that the spring-poem and spring-joke will shortly retire from circulation.
—The Commodore begs leave to ask all boatclub members to take into solemn consideration the fact that oars, tools, brooms, etc., are not rubbish to be thrown into the lake.
—The Philopatrians return thanks to Rev. President Walsh, Rev. M. J. Regan, Profs. Edwards and Hoynes, for favors received in connection with their late entertainment.
—The Scholastic was the first paper in this country to give an extended notice of Volajmk— “the universal language”—which is now creating such a furore. See Vol. XVIII, No. 12.
—One of the startling situations in the play on Wednesday evening was the metamorphosis of the “ Prince,” in the second act, where he appeared as anIndian brave bidding defiance to his enemies.
—The genial Director of the Tailoring Establishment announces that he has just received a new supply of goods. Those wishing elegant Com
mencement suits in the latest style should give him a call.
—Two hundred and eighty-two (282) new chairs have been added to the “ reserved seats ” in the galleries of Washington Hall. The “ family circle ” will be especially benefited by this improvement.
—Very Rev. Father General has had plans made for enlarging St. Edward’s Hall. The work will commence on Monday next. The addition will give a grand frontage, and altogether enhance the 00	o 7	o
beauty of the building.
—The Philopatrians enjoyed a delightful sociable in the Junior reception-rooms after their play on Wednesday evening. Music by the Crescent Club Orchestra and refreshments contributed to the pleasure of the occasion.
—E fact of common occurrence—but singularly illustrative of the vagaries to which the human mind is subject—is that what at first is esteemed as a highly exceptional privilege may be, after a brief, unrestricted enjoyment, looked upon as an indefeasible right.
—The Minnehaha crew defeated the Evange-_____________________________________ o
line in a well-contested game of ball on Thursday afternoon. Houck’s running catch of a long fly, Bec’s phenomenal delivery, and the terrific batting of the Minnehahas^ were the features of the game. The score was 15 to 13.
—Lieutenants Doss and Macatee; Sergeants Campbell, Meehan, O’Kane, and Preston; Corporals Welch, Inks, and Cooke; Privates Bronson, and Clifford, of Company “ B,” Hoynes’ Light Guards, composed the squad which drilled so excellently under the supervision of Captain Craig during the play on Wednesday evening.
—An excellent likeness of Rev. Dr. Lambing— author of “History of the Church in the Diocese of Pittsburgh,” “ The Orphans’ Friend,” etc., etc., and founder and first Editor of the “ Catholic Historical Researches ”—has been placed in the gallery of distinguished American Catholics. Dr. Lambing’s services to the Church deserve to be remembered. Notre Dame takes special pride in numbering him among the best and truest of her friends.
—Among the visitors during the week were: H. J. Huiskamp, Ft. Madison, Iowa; C. H. Dittman, New York city ; Mr. and Mrs. James Sullivan, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. J. B. Faulkner, Michigan City, Ind.; Miss Mary Kaul, Lancaster, Pa.; Mr. Wm. Crotty, Rockford, Ill.; Mr. Jacob Wile, Laporte, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. L. Brown, Omaha, Neb.; Mr. Patrick Coady, Iowa; Messrs. Barry, Mc-Gurn and Maguire, of Englewood, a suburb of Chicago.	’
—Catholic colleges throughout the United States and Canada are under obligations to Professor J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, Ind., for the excellent dramas, so well fitted for commencement exercises and other festive occasions, which he has composed, compiled or translated. Among those which have met with special favor we may mention “ The Miser; a Comedy,” “ The Upstart; 3
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	. fey
Comedy;” « Falsely Accused: a Domestic Drama,” and “The Prodigal Law Student: a Drama in Four Acts.” Professor Lyons’ latest, and one of his best, is “The Proscribed Heir: a Drama in Three Acts.” This is a spirited translation of a bright French play, and like all the above mentioned is for male characters only.—Boston Pilot.
—The lecture on “Fra Angelico,” delivered before a select circle in St. Edward’s Hall by the eminent art critic and writer, Miss Eliza Allen Starr, was an intellectual treat which will long be remembered by those who had the privilege of listening to her almost inspired words. There was not one present who did not feel himself elevated to a higher sphere by a knowledge of the beautiful character of the angelic artist; and many, for the first time, learned to appreciate the spirit displayed in the works of the noble and saintly Dominican lay-brother, who, in his humble unconsciousness of his varied talents, refused a bishopric and chose rather to continue, in the quiet seclusion of the cloister, a life of devotion to the perfection of Art. The words of the gifted lecturer were illustrated by numerous engravings, photographs and copies of the works of the great painter-monk, which the audience had an opportunity to inspect.
—The interest in baseball has been increasing among the Juniors during the past few weeks. The popular excitement of the 21st inst. brought to mind the multitudes, the uproar and the feverish interest that used to mark the great games on the Junior grounds when the champion clubs of each department contested for the pennant. But all this was intensified when the “ Reds”—the “ sluggers ” of the Senior department—undertook to knock out “Lefty,” the ambidextrous pitcher of the Junior department, but “Lefty’s” erratic curves proved too much for the Seniors. The game was called at the end of the sixth inning, the score standing 7 to 5 in favor of the Senior Club. Were it not for several costly errors made by the Juniors, the score would certainly have been reversed.
Struck out: by Inks, 12; by White, 4; by Smith,1. Passed Balls: Jewett, 6; Preston, 6. Double Play: Meehan, unassisted. Bases on Balls: Inks, 6; Smith, 3; White, 2. Two Base Hits: Austin, Warner. Three Base Hits: Long. Wild Pitches: White, 1. Time of game: 2.15. Umpire: T. O’Regan.	'
—The Minims’ 1st nines played the third of the series of games for the championship on Thursday afternoon. The “ Blues ” were first to the bat, and secured 6 runs. The “ Reds,” by good batting and profiting by their opponents’ errors, scored 13. This made the “Blues” feel very bhie^ so much so that they thought of forfeiting the game. But they picked up courage like little men, and, although no heavy batting was done, they kept climbing up gradually, and after two hours’ hard playing gained the victory by a score of 20 to 19. The following is the
Score by Innings :—1 234567S9	.
Reds:—13 1 o 1 1 2 o o 1=19 Blues:—6 1341001 4=20
—On Thursday, the 19th inst., the second of the series of baseball games for the championship was played on the Seniors’ campus, but the report was received too late for insertion last week. The “Blues” left the grounds as victors, thus tying the record in the race. To Combe’s catching and O’-Regan’s fielding they owe most of their success; the former doing .some remarkably fine “ back- . stop ” work and timely batting. Dorsey also fielded and batted in fine form. Captain Nester injured his ankle in running to 3d base in the 2d inning, and consequently could not come up to his usual high standard of play. Still he managed to cover xst base without an error, and also accepted twelve chances. For the “Reds,” Cooper’s pitching was at times excellent; but, owing to lack of support at the right time, his opponents managed to knock out enough runs to win the game. The “Blues” played a strong and steady game, and fully earned their victory. The following is the score:
—The first of the series of games for the Junior championship was played on Thursday. The fol-
lowing is the score: Blues.
Campbell, s. s. and 2d b.
Warner, 1st b............
Smith, p. and s. s.......
Long, r. f................
White, 2d b. and p........
Meehan, 3d b............
Boland, 1. f..............
Preston, c................
Tarrant, c. f.............
R.
1
1
3
1
1
1
1
1*
P.O.
5 12 o o
o
6
A.
+ I
I O
9 3 o 4 1
E. S.B. B.I. I.B. 110	5
12	2	5
2	+	25
2	0	3	5
0	2	15
10	2.5
OO24 1324 2	12	4
Reds.	a.b.
Myers, s. s................... 5
Cooper, p.....................  5
Burns, c..................... 5
Cartier, 2d b.................. 5
Cusack, Cap. istb.............. 5
Jordan, 3d b................... 4
Triplett, Lf.................. 4
Luhn, c. f................... 4
Quill, r.f................... 4
Total........................
R.	I.B.	S.B. P.O.	A.	E.
1	3	o	02	1
1	2	o	1	11	q
01	1	14	1	2
230422 121600 000212 000000
I 1 o 000 O O O O O I
41 6 12 2 27 17 8
Total.....................
Reds.
Inks, p...................
Clark, s. s...............
Jewett, c..............
Hayes, istb...............
Cook, 2d b................
Welch, 3db................
Anderson, c. f........
Austin, r. f..............
Tewksbury, 1. f...........
12	27	23	10	13	16	42
R.	P.O. A.	E.	S.B.	B.I. I.B.
3	O	12	O	O	2	6
I	I	O	I	2	4	5
o	13	5	o	o	i	6
o	S	o	2	o	1	6
2	3	1	0	0	1	6
1	1	2	1	1	1	6
3000513 2000024 3100235
Blues.
O’Regan, s. s..............
Combe, c...................
Nester, Cap. 1st b.........
Weber, c. f................
Duffin, p..................
Paschel, 2d b..............
Dempsey, r. f....'.........
Dorsey, l.f................
Orr, 3d b................-
A.B. R. LB. S.B. P.O. A. K. 5	I	I	I	2	6	I
5221410 6	I	2	I	II	I	I
5O2OIOO 5	i	i	o	i	i	i
5 11 04 00 5	1	1	o	1	o	1
4 13 2 210 4000012
Total.........................15	27 20 4 10 16 47
Total.................... 44 8 13 5 26*11 6 '
Score by Innings:—1 23456789 Reds:—3 1000020 0=6
Blues:—3 o 1 1 o 1 1 o 1=8
Earned Runs: “Blues,” 1. Wild Pitches: Cooper, 2j

6io	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Duffin, 3, Passed Balls: Burns, 2; Combe, o- Two Base Hits: Combe, 1; Cartier 1. Double Play: Nester to Paschel. Base on Balls: Nester, Dorsey, Cooper, Luhn. Struck out:, Orr (3), Dorsey, Dempsey (3). Paschel (2), Duffin, Nester, Cusack. Hit by Pitched Ball: Nester, Burns. *Triplett, out for running out of base lme. Time of game: 2.10- Umpire: E. Porter. Scorers: D. A. Lat shaw, and J. I. Kleiber.	.
—The Fifteenth Annual Entertainment of the St. Stanislaus’ Philopatrian Association was given on Wednesday evening. The exercises were made complimentary to Very Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., and were conducted according to the following
PROGRAMME : Part i.
Grand Philopatrian March................N.	D. U. C. B.
Song and Chorus.........................Philharmonics
Address of the Evening.......................E. Berry
Address of the Senior Department..........S. Murdock
Music.....................................'. Orchestra
Prologue.....................................J- Wile
Part ii.
“ HUMBUG.”
{A Comedy in Two Acts.) Characters.
Ginger Blue...............................I. Bunker
Dr. Galen....................................F. Lane
Captain Rifle................................E. Berry
Charles.....................................W. Henry
O’Leary...................................B. O’Kane
Schoolmaster.............................  W.	Konzen
Mr. Patent.......................1........R- Nations
Lucius.............................................H.	Bronson
Trumpeter.................................J. Badger
Music.....................................Orchestra
Duet (Piano)...............Messrs.	Tivnen and Keating
“THE PRINCE OF PORTAGE PRAIRIE.”
(-4 Grand Spectacular Drama in Three Acts.)
The Prince (Facile Princeps)..................E. Berry
Alexander (the Nephew of His Uncle)........J. McIntosh
Duke of Goshen (who believes in Civil Service
Reform).............................J. Monarch
Marquis of South Bend (Blue Ribbon Protective
. Tariff)..................................T. Wilbanks
Hermit of the Valley (an old fogy—no proscriber
of the classics)...............  D.	J. Stephens
Dr. Pangloss (Pedagogue Antiquus).............J. Casey
G. Von Blinkensnyderhbuzinblitzer (Burgomaster
of Edwardsburg, a good liver, and aLand Leaguer)...........................W. Konzen
Necromancer of Niles (a saucy sorcerer, but no Nihilist)...................................F. Dunford
Ambassador.................................M. McCart
Barber of Mishawaka........................A. Redlich
A Water Spirit (not Spirit of Nitre)..........E. Doss
Uncle Josh (the original Arkansaw Traveller, a
classical musician).......•........W. J. Henry
A. B. Butler (To the Prince—much reduced)... .J. Badger Bennet (a Herald—an Explorer)............. - J- McNulty
1st Courier (who is no Dudel...............W.	Ramsey’
2d “ (a Free Trader)......................... .F. Glenn
3d “ (a Protectionist)...................H.	Brownson
4th “ (a Greenbacker).........................F. Wile
A- Bugler (who’ blows his own horn)...........T. Noud
Captain (who is up to snuff)...;..............A. Hoye
Fitz Porter (Commodore of the steam propeller -
“ Bertrand ”)......................A. Schloss
1st Servant (Wooden Man also Stage Prop). .F. Taliaferro 2d “ (Tin Man also Stage Prop).............. H. Walker 3d	(Steel Man also Stage Prop)......-... W. Rea
4th “ (Brass Mah also Stage Prop).. ..-. — H. Lane Coquillard, Editor.of “Bertrand Eagle”......1. Bunker-Jones, Admiral of St Joe Lake Navy.............L. Preston Lieut. Daniel Boone Pompey, inclined to be musical, J.Doss Jligby, 1st Lieutenant of Zouaves__________.L.	Macatee
Bacon, 2d Lieutenant of Zouaves................B. Inks
Claffictis, Sergeant..........................L. Decker
Gilbert, Corporal..............................J. Coad
Metzger, Courier...........................L. Dunning
Sitting Bull, materialized Indian Chief....S. Nussbaum Tecumseh, 1st Spy..........................B. O’Kane
Peshua, 2d Spy........................................R.	Nations
Nitau, Indian Scout, Pedestrian................J.	Roper
Spartacus.............................................D.	Draper
GRAND TABLEAU.
Epilogue................................................
Closing Remarks.........................................
Music......................................N. D. U. C. B.
Boll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. M. Akin, Ashton, Aubrey, J. Burke, Becerra, P. Burke, Baca, Barnes, Bush, Beaupre, C. Brown, J. Brown, -Colina, Craig, Cusack, C. Combe, Coady, Craft, Dwyer, S. Dorsey, W. Dorsey, Dore, Dillon, Dreever, Dickenson, A. Duffield, Dempsey, Eyanson, Finckh, Ford, Fehr, Gordon, Gallardo, Gibbs, Griffin, Houck, Hummer, Hull, Hagerty, Judie, Kreutzer, Kleiber, Kingsnorth, Kramer, Langan, A. Leonard, Luhn, Luther, McManus, J. McDermott, T. McDermott, Mulkern, V. Morrison, McNamara, J. Meagher, Myers, Neill, Nelson, J. Nester, F. Nester, Alfred Nicholl, Andrew Nicholl, O’Rourke, O’Regan, O’Connell, O’Kane, Orr, Padilla, P. Prudhomme, Paschel, Poole, Prichard, T. Pender, Quigley, Rheinberger, Rodriguez, Regan, W. Sullivan, Schautz, Triplett, Woodman, M. White, W. White, Weber, Wagoner, Whelan.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
.Masters Adelsperger, Austin, Anderson, R. Bronson, H. Bronson, Blessington, Bodley, Bull, W. Boland, Baca, H. Boland, Burns, Berry, Brannech, E. Campbell, J. Clarke, Carney, Cavanagh, Clifford, B. Clarke, Cooney, L. Chute, F. Chute, Curtis, Cartier, Cooke, Coman, Ciarcoschi, Duffield, Draper, Dempsey’, Dunford, Ewing, Fitzharris, Falter, Flood, Freeman, Fisher, Flynn, Galarneau", Goebel, Glenn, Girten, Gray’, Houlihan, Hart, T. Hake, A. Hake, Hannin, Hampton, Hoye, Handly, Heineman, Heller, H. Higgins, Inks, Joyce, Jacobs, Julian, F. Konzen, W. Konzen, Kellner, Kutsche, Keating, Kinsella, King, Long, Lane, McKenzie, McCart, Monarch, W. McCormick, McGurk, McIntosh, Macatee, McPhee, Mulberger, Moncada, McNulty, Morrison, Mitchell, McGuire, McCambridge, McCabe, Nations, O’Connor, Ormond, O’Brien, M. O’Kane, B. O’Kane, O’Shea, O’Hearn, Pfau, C. Paquette, L. Paquette, Preston, Quealy, .Roper, Ramsey, Sweet, J. Stephens, Steele, M. Smith, Schloss, Sullivan, Taliaferro, Tewksbury’, Tarrant, Tivnen, Tedeus, Vhay, Wilbanks, L. White, Walker, W. Walsh, Wade, Wageman, Wilkin, Weimer, Wile Wood, Darragh.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters W. Ackermann, Boettcher, Bloomhuff, Black, Blumenthal, H. Backrack, S. Backrack, A. Backrack, C. Clendenin, Crotty, Cooke, Cohn, C. Connor,' W. Connor, J. Conners, E. Conners, Corbett, Doss, Dahler, J. Dungan, Jas. Dungan, Davidson, L. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, G. Franche, C. Franche, Foote, T. Falvey’, F. Falvey, E. Falvey,-Graham, Gale, Griffin, Grant, Goldmann, Garber, H. Huiskamp, J. Huiskamp, Haney, Hagus, Hillas, Jewett, Koester, Kutsche, Keefe, Kane, Klaner, Kerwin, Kraber, Kinsella, Lowenstein, Lewin, Lane, C. Mooney, H. Mooney, Martin, A. Mayer, L. Mayer, G. Mayer, Munro, Mainzer, Mason, Morgeiiweck, Mahon, McPhee,-McGuire, McIntosh, McDonnell, Nester, O’Mara, O’Donnell, Priestly, L. Paul, Quill, Quinlan, Riordan, R'owsey, Rogers, Smith, J. Sullivan, F. Sullivan, Stone, Sweet, Savage, F. Toolen, F. Toolen, Tompkins, Triplett, Taft, A. Williamson, W. Williamson, Walsh, Witkowsky, Weckler, Ziemann. . .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	6it
Saint JFlary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Danie University.
—At the regular Academic reunion, the readers were the Misses Wolvin and St. Clair.
—Affectionate acknowledgments are extended to Miss Mary Kaul, of Lancaster, Penn., for a highly-prized gift.
—By mistake, the names of the Misses Mercer, G. Meehan, and McDonnell were omitted in the list of those who drew last week for the Roman mosaic cross.	.
—The young ladies are under obligation to Miss Chrissie Tomlins for the lawn tennis south of the Academy, which affords them much pleasant exercise in the afternoon recreations.
—The badge of politeness in the Minim department'was won by Blanche McCormick. Those who drew with her were the Misses Caddagan, O’Mara, Pugsley, and E. Quealy.
—Among the visitors of the week were, Miss Mary Kaul, Lancaster, Pa.; Mr. P. McGuire, J. McGuire, P. T. Barry, B. E. King, F. Wright, J. Quill, A. W.McEwen, Chicago; Mr. B. H. Stiefel, Butler, Ind.; Mrs. Carmien, Goshen, Ind.
—Sincere—though somewhat tardy—thanks are extended by the custodian of the Museum to the Misses Rebecca and Jennie Carroll, of Washington, D. C., for the very interesting and valuable photographs of the mummy of King Rameses II, of the nineteenth dynasty (about 1400 to 1250 B. C.), which was uncovered, in the presence of the Khedive of Egypt, on the first of June, 18S5.
—On the Feast of the Ascension, two of St. Mary’s Minims received their First Communion—Eva Quealy, of Logansport, Ind., who had the happiness of her beloved.mother’s presence on the memorable occasion, and Blanche McCormick, of Montana. In the afternoon, at the Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament, Eva Quealy, on the part of the First Communicants, read aloud, in the. chapel, the renewal of the baptismal vows.
—Miss Eliza Allen Starr remained at St. Mary’s until the afternoon of Friday. Delightful conversations were given by her, twice to the pupils of the Art Department: in one instance, when Mr. Roger George Watts, of London, England—who arrived on Thursday—exhibited his beautiful samples of pictures for stained glass windows in the east parlor and again in St. Luke’s Studio. The Graduates feel particularly obliged to Miss Starr for- the precious hour she gave to them on Tuesday evening. .
. —On Friday morning,Very Rev. Father General addressed the Children of Mary in the Chapel of Loreto on the Mystery of the Ascension. On Monday morning his subject was “ The Teachings of the Church Respecting the Blessed Virgin.” Very Rev. Father_General expressed;his pleasure in seeing so large a number of the young ladies at Holy Communion on the previous morning, and
to know that they were making the devotion of the	?r .	.
“six Sundays in honor of St. Aloysius,” the young .. \ and angelic “ patron of those who apply to studies.” >	.
—The matchless and completely artistic ChurcH . . of St. Mary of Loreto nears its completion. “Gem- J i-like” is its most appropriate appellation. It is the : <	•
sole work of Very Rev. Father General, his ideal,	: \	,
and the cherished embodiment of his devotion. The ...	;
building is a rotunda, and the appearance thor-	j.
oughly charming to the artist. According to Fa- 7 , ther General’s determination, the work willbe so . . near completion that the Commencement exercises " will take place in the building, the consecration . being purposely deferred to afford this honor to the Class of ’87, a distinction which they warmly ap- : . preciate, and will never forget.	;	.	.
—Mr. Charles Town, and his fair young bride, -Mrs. Maude Wiley Town, Class ’83—late of Lans- .	.. . :
ing, Mich., now of Marquette, in the same State —took St; Mary’s in their bridal tour, much to the . satisfaction and delight of their large circle of friends in the institution. By request, Mr. Town gave 7 , ’ some excellent Shaksperean readings. Which to J . most congratulate, bride or bridegroom, it would 1	.
be difficult to decide. The latter is a promising . young member, of the legal profession, genial, . ’ . and talented; the former is a true-hearted; amiable. . and loyal child of her Alma Mater. .Humanly speaking, nothing could be brighter than the fut- . ure opening before them. May happiness, and .	.
every blessing, spiritual and temporal, attend this . well assorted union, throughout a long and prosperous life!
The Art of Composition.
Were one to enter upon a course of study with the intention of becoming learned, and yet-leave Grammar out of the list of branches he is to pur- -sue, he would justly be pronounced as simply absurd. Is he any less foolish who commits the Grammar	1
to memory from cover to cover, and at the .same time neglects \hepractice of grammatical principles?	/
In our humble opinion, he is far more so. Com-	.
position is the art by which the learner becomes - \ -familiar with grammatical construction of sentences. A pupil who does not diligently apply the mind to the mastery of this art will never become ;	.
a scholar, and this mastery he will neverreach, if '	;
he does not 'practise. .	'	- *
In view of this fact, strange to say, nothing-is	A .7
so frequently despised. Composition is the bug- .	;
bear of the larger proportion of those who enter ’ school, and this does not speak well for their ap- ’ '	; .
preciation of scholastic privileges. The mind, of \ a reah student is aroused to activity, and ideas are ;	:	•
suggested which most naturally seek and find:rex-;_. pression in grammatical language..; The universal J 7 ] dislike of essay writing is but a proof that scholars	;
are rare, even among those who attend our uru-J versities and academies.	J
Habits of close observation are of. such: great? : advantage to all, that were there no higher object ? •	;
Siz	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
than the utility of this rare gift, the daily practice of committing to paper original thoughts would repaj' the labor expended, since without the faculty of observation no originality can exist. But there is something better even than the shrewdness imparted. By this exercise, more than any other, the mind is strengthened, enlarged and expanded. There is little propriety in running over with the eye, and even memorizing, word for word, matter that we do not understand. The information gathered from the volumes before us is seed sown on stony ground, or at best on a shallow soil. But if we are required to formulate the ideas suggested by the facts presented, and to write them out in a clear, unequivocal style, we fix them in the memory; we incorporate the good to be derived from the authors we peruse; we discover our own inaccuracies, and find the best means of correcting them. Is this the work of an hour or of a day? Let one try the experiment and then answer our question. At the present time, no young lady can overrate the command of something better, when our language threatens to be transformed into a vocabulary of slang; when one stands in terror lest he may unconsciously employ terms that are merged in the vast pool of innuendo which supplies the place of respectable conversation-.
Would we compose well, we must cultivate the habit of thinking. Thought is to the mind what respiration is to the body. It is indispensable. But the mental atmosphere, like the physical, may be good or bad. If the former, happy for us. If the latter, the mind will be poisoned, just as the body is when we breathe vitiated air.
If a thought be distinctly grasped by the mind, it will be clearly presented when the attempt is made, to give it in language. But thought and language are mutual helps—each a guide to the other— a council of two, which transacts no business worthy the name until the entire council be present. There are persons, however, who say and write much, and yet their words are devoid of thought. In the art of composition there is no such waste of words. Thought is the form; language the clothing; each beautifully adapted to the other, the two forming a perfect style.
It is a mistake with many young persons to suppose that in order to succeed, the subject of an essay must be of a. very striking nature. Open Longfellow’s poems, and one'will be struck with the simplicity of the author’s themes—“ The Bridge”; “ Day is Done ”; “ Daylight and Moonlight”—and this simplicity will hold good of other distinguished writers. The- most simple themes often present the most original thoughts. To aid us in expressing' ourselves in good language, the constant habit of careful reading is almost absolutely necessary. Of course, story reading may give us an idea of the proper use of words, but the similarity of plot in novels is proverbial, and novel reading, consequently, will not be likely to develop originality of thought.
■ Solid reading, on the other hand, will invigorate . the mind and furnish food for thought. One who
’ keeps a well-worded journal of the impressions received from sound. reading is taking excellent i
lessons in composition; for nothing, we repeat, is more necessary to proficiency in this most useful art than daily and earnest practice. Your author’s elegant style and construction you can freely imitate, and be no plagiarist; but when you quote, be sure and give credit to the writer. The object of your daily practice is, not to copy, but to develop skill in original expression. _	.
Bertha Kearney ( Class ’<?/).
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Allnoch, Brady, L. Blaine, Barry, Burke, Blair, Bates, Blacklock, Beschameng, Birdsell, Clifford, Coll, Coglin, Claggett, Dillon, H. Dempsey, C. Dempsey, Dart, Desenberg, M. Dunkin, Egan, Fuller, Foin, Flannery, Fravel, Fitzpatrick, C. Griffith, Guise, Gordon, Gavan, Griffin, Horn, Hummer, Heckard, Hertzog, Harlem, Henke, L. Hutchinson, M. Hutchinson, Kearsey, Kearney, Kearns, Kingsbury, A. Kennedy, M. F. Murphy, McHale, L. Meehan, M. Meehan, Morse, M. Murphy, M. McNamara, M. McCormick, Marsh, Moore, McCarthy, Moran, O’Conner, Negley, Neff, Pierson, Proby, C. Quealy, G- Regan, Rend, Riedinger, Rose, E. Regan, Reed, Robinson, Scully, St. Clair, Shephard, Snowhook, Stadtler, Shields, Sterns, M. Smith, Stafford, Stocksdale, Sullivan, Sweet, Trask, Triplett, Tomlins, Thompson, Van Horn, Williams,Wolvin, Wynn, Wehr, Wimmer, Weishart, Wright, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Balch, Bragdon, Burdick, Bruus, Bridgeman, Campeau, Clore, E. Dempsey, L. Griffith, Geer, Hake, Hinz, Hughes, Hull, Heyman, Koester, Knauer, Leonard, Mason, McDonnell, Morse, Mercer, Nester, Quill, Prudhomme, Rhodes, Rogers, Stapleton, Stiefel, Wiesenbach. -
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Caddagan, McCormick, O’Mara, Pugsley, E. Quealy.
SCHOOL OF DESIGN.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Advanced Course—Miss Ewing.	.	-
ist Class—Misses Foin, Fuller.
2D Class—Misses Birdsell, Kingsbury.
2D Class, 2d Div.—Miss Egan.
ELEMENTARY PERSPECTIVE.
3D Class—Misses Zahm, Sweet, N. Morse, Tomlins, Hull, K. Quealy, Steele.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.'
Misses Rose, A. Kennedy, Wehr, Pierson, Triplett, Campeau, Henke.	.
PAINTING ON CHINA.
Misses Williams, Stafford.
WORKING IN CRAYON.
Misses Ewing, Fuller, Clendenen.	■
OIL-PAINTING.
Misses Foin, Birdsell, Kingsbury, Egan, Gordon, Neff, N. Meehan, Scully, McHale, Beaubien, Shields, E. Coll, Nester, Bub, Schmauss.	.
GENERAL DRAWING.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. -
Misses R. Smith, Wimmer, M. McCormick, Moore, Wright, O’Connor, Thompson, Robinson, Negley, K. Quealy.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses N. Morse, Stapleton,’ Quill, Hull, E. Dempsey, Campbell, M. Kennedy, Pugsley, Rhodes, Rogers, Hughes, Geer, . Caddagan, Wallace, Leonard, Knauer, Mercer, O’Mara, E. Quealy,Wiesenbach, Crane, Koester, Clore, Fritz, Stiefel, Bridgeman, I; Becker, M. Becker, Burdick, Quinn, K. Fisher, Hake. :	: '	.