THE
SCHOLASTIC
THE CORDUROY
SUIT WITH
CONVERTIBLE VEST
29.95
The natural shoulder jacket is lined with an antique print . . . the rounded corduroy vest reverses to match the jacket lining, and the matching breast-pocket handkerchief. The coat has narrow lapels, slightly cut away three-button front set off with antique gold buttons. In antelope, black, tobacco or antique olive. Practical and handsome for all casual occasions.
^GILBERT'S
On the Campus—Notre Dame
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY:
No Carrying Charge
If you’re a student at Notre Dame, you have a charge account ready for your use at the Campus Shop. So, get what you want, when you need it, and charge it the Campus Shop way: pay one-third in January, one-third in February, and one-third in March. No carrying charges, of course. Select what you need soon from our huge selection of nationally famous University fashions.
On Campus
Mxfihuhian
(Author of “I IFas a Teen-age Dwarf” “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
THE PLEDGE YOU SAVE MAY BE YOUR OWN
Today’s column is directed at those young female undergraduates who have recently pledged sororities and are worried, poor lambs, that they won’t make good. Following is a list of simple instructions which, if faithfully observed, will positively guarantee that you will be a mad success as a sorority girl.
First, let us take up the matter of housemothers. The housemother is your friend, your guide, your mentor. You must treat her with respect. When you wish to speak to her, address her as “Mother Sigafoos” or “Ma’am.” In no circumstances must you say, “Hev, fat lady.”	“
Second, let us discuss laundry. Never hang your wash on the front porch of the sorority house. This is unsightly, and shows a want of breeding. Use the Chapter Room.
Third, meals. Always remember that planning and preparing meals for a houseful of healthy girls is no simple task. Your cook goes to a great deal of trouble to make your menu varied and nourishing. The least you can do is show your appreciation. Don’t just devour your food ; praise it. Exclaim with delight, “What delicious pork jowls!” or “What a yummy soup bone!” or “What scrumptious fish heads!” or “What clear water!”
Fourth, clothing. Never forget that your appearance reflects not just on yourself but on the whole house. It was well enough before you joined a sorority to lounge around campus in your old middy blouse and gym bloomers, but now you must take great pains to dress in a manner which excites admiring comments from all who observe you. A few years ago, for example, there was a Chi Omega named Camille Ataturk at the University of Iowa who brought gobs of glory to all her sorors. Camille hit on the ingenious notion of suiting her garb to the class she was attending. For instance, to English
♦ * *
The makers of Marlboro, having paid for this column, would like to mention another of their fine cigarettes—mild, unfiltered Philip Morris—available in regular size or the sensational new king-size Commander. Have a Commander— welcome aboard.

Lit she wore a buskin and jerkin. To German she wore lederhosen and carried a stein of pilsener. To Econ she wore 120 yards of ticker tape. Her shiningest hour came one day when she dressed as a white mouse for Psych Lab. Not only her Chi Omega sisters, but the entire student body went into deep mourning when she was killed by the janitor’s cat.
Finally, let us take up the most important topic of all. I refer, of course, to dating.
As we have seen, the way you dress reflects on your sorority, but the men you date reflect even more. Be absolutely certain that your date is an acceptable fellow. Don’t beat about the bush; ask him point-blank, “Are you an acceptable fellow?” Unless he replies, “Yeah, hey,” send him packing.
But don’t just take his word that he is acceptable. Inspect him closely. Are his fingernails clean? Is his black leather
jacket freshly oiled? Is his ukelele in tune? Does he carry public liability insurance? And, most significant of all, does he smoke Marlboros?
If he’s a Marlboro man, you know he has taste and discernment, wit and wisdom, character and sapience, decency and warmth, presence and poise, talent and grit, filter and flavor, soft pack and flip-top box. You will be proud of him, your sorority will be proud of him, the makers of Marlboro will be proud of him, and I will be paid for this column.
© 1960 Max Shulman
KNIGHT IN SATIN GLOVES
Editor:
In reply to your editorial concerning the Bengal Bouts, I would like to inform * you that I have read Father Bernard’s thesis on the morality of boxing. Morality of boxing is centered around the fact that it only becomes immoral when the competitors face each other with the intent to do damage to their opponent.
This type of immorality can carry into football, but could you imagine Notre Dame dropping football because of the inherent danger that it could become immoral? Neither could I. It seems to ' me that your editorial on the Bengal Bouts was written in the same vein that you use to describe your cover — nonobjective.
I would like to fill you in a little on the story of the bouts themselves, which you obviously know very little about.
Boxing has been a popular sport on the Notre Dame campus since 1923, when it was introduced by Knute Rockne. Ironically, the bouts were sponsored by < the Scholastic until they were taken over by the Knights in 1946. Professional boxing and the type directed by Nappy Napolitano are worlds apart. Through the advice of Nappy, the padding on the ring floor is two inches thick, and the referee is instructed to stop the fight the minute an opponent is dazed or in danger of being hit at will. Nappy says, “In a sense it is the purest contest we have. When it ceases to be that, stop it. Don’t let the boys get hurt.” As Sports Illustrated describes it, “The Knights of Columbus Council, and the boys who keep punching from bell to bell, can show you what boxing can be at its honest best. They have never lost sight of the fact that boxing is a great competitive sport.”
The Bengal Bouts have become an (Continued on page 23)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
4
The Scholastic
9
IyI The Notre Dame ■
3
Vol. 102
No. 3
OCTOBER 14, 1960
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
CHARLES RIECK
associate editor
' ROY RUBELI
news editor .
THOMAS WEISS
features editor .	; .
THOMAS SULLIVAN
sports editor
JAMES KILROY
copy ecKtor' \""z.	'
THOMAS mXRCINIAK
assistant Y> -s --YY;	WILLIAM VEEDER Y
art editor x ~' Y;
DENNIS LUCZAK
photographer '.. Y' Y'Y -
WALTER DALY, Jr
businessmanager Y^YY
JOSEPH FINNIGAN
circulationmanager
JAMES HICKEY


'4
POWER ON CAMPUS: On Tuesday, October 25, Student Body President John Keegan will open the most important program of his administration. The “Power in Democracy” symposium, planned by last year’s Academic Commission and suppoi-ted in Mr. Keegan’s platform, is a welcome student intrusion into the academic world. The discussions will feature five well-known critics in the fields of sociology and political science; they will stress the effects of power struggle not only upon American Democracy, but also in the international community. A large attendance at these sessions will approve Student Government’s sponsorship of such events, and more concretely, will encourage the Academic Commission in its tentative plans for a similar spring project.
It is a sad commentary upon the University’s lecture program that such a student project should gain the great attention it already has. But reasons are apparent. The weekly calendar is a skeleton version of those on bulletin boards at such schools as Northwestern or Chicago. And culture at the “Greatest Catholic University in the World” manages to be eclipsed by a single series of speakers scheduled for the Boston College Humanities program this fall: Andre Maurois, Henry Steele Commanger, Lionel Trilling, and Cleanth Brooks. John Clark was not facetious when he mentioned in a similar context during last week’s Senate meeting, “Student Government may be giving out more scholarships than the university as a whole.” A fruitful program for Student Government is not more symposiums — this is not their task — but hinting to the Administration and University departments that the limited extracurricular offerings hardly fill their obligation to the student.
OPEN DOOR POLICY: Because of the Victory dances which are now held in the LaFortune Student Center as well as the Drill Hall, it has been decided to close the Center on football Saturdays in order to keep it clean for the dances. While the reason is laudable we wonder if it isn’t too great an imposition on the thousands of guests that visit the campus. For many of them it is the only place where rest room facilities are available and where they can sit down and relax. For others it is a concrete example of why they should make a Mardi Gras fund contribution. Instead of causing inconvenience and irritation wouldn’t it be possible to leave the Student Center open until 6 p.m. and then spend the remaining two hours before the dance in straightening up. Surely the “living room” of the University should be in full use when we have our greatest number of guests.
SUMMER IN EUROPE: Since the Westchester Club first discovered the feasibility of chartered plane service more and more clubs have been making similar an-ange-ments for their members. And in spite of rising costs, the vacation flights remain as popular as ever. We now think that it is about time Student Government seriously considered the possibility of arranging for a chartered plane to Europe next summer. Because of the legal conditions that have to be met the charterer must be an organization which represents the entire student body. Thus, it is up to the Senate. But at the same time we urge the senators to restrain their organizational talents and limit themselves to only providing a plane to and from some central point in Europe. There are enough tour services and travel arrangers to assist the student in seeing the Continent itself. Surely the chance of getting to Europe and back for half as much as the least expensive commercial means will find more than enough students interested.
&

£?■
TOWN EYES GOWN: Apparently the town of South Bend has been eyeing the massive lecture and concert program of St. Mary’s with envious stares. Surprisingly, the Morris Civic Theatre has announced a current program that includes among others, J. B., Once Upon A Mattress, Fiorello, Shelly Berman, and the Van Cli-burn of last Sunday. It was expected from Notre Dame attendance at the St. Mary’s events that our use of the Morris attractions would be only token. Our “critic at large” tells us, though, of his surpi-ise at the large number of students at the Van Cliburn concert. There is one factor that may be attracting students; the proximity of the theatre to the night spots of the city makes a date for the Morris at least a modest copy of a night on Broadway.



ROCCO'S
537 NO. ST. LOUIS BLVD.
Sirloin Steak Spec. Tues. $1.50 Carry Outs - CE 3-0976
In the same time-honored tradition
ROCCO'S
NEW RESTAURANT
Just a forward pass away from Notre Dame Stadium
CARRYOUTS - OPEN SUNDAY
Private Dining Rooms for Clubs and Parties—for Reservations Call:
CE 4-7224
18142 SOUTH BEND AVE.
ON THE COVER: Tonight is the night for all good sophomores to subject themselves to the ritual of bathing in shaving lotion and having their roommate tie their bow tie. The occasion is, of course, the Sophomore Cotillion, and our friend on the cover is venturing into the land of preparation all by himself by tying his own tie. It is not exactly a venture, however, because although he has already bathed in shaving lotion, he has no roommate to do the tie bit for him. You see, our friend lives in a single.
_________________________ I
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME FACULTY AND STUDENTS FOB OVER 38 YEARS. Gifts Wrapped and Mailed To AU Parts of the World BLOCK BROS.
Cor. Mich, at Wash, in Downtown So. Bend
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist • EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED •
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
I
NOW! Come Up...All The Way Up to the MENTHOL MAGIC of KOOL!
I
When your taste tells you it's time for a change, remember: Only Kool— no regular filter cigarette, no other menthol cigarette-gives you real Menthol Magic!
YOU FEEL A NEW SMOOTHNESS DEEP IftYOUR THROAT*
©1960, BROWN A WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION
“’lOMEKTHQi
THE MARK OF QUALITY IN TOBACCO PRODUCTS
ALSO
AVAILABLE
WITHOUT
F1LTEB
6
The Scholastic

interesting: spots before your eyes
The rich green of the University Mall, unless it has somehow been re-9 named the Main Quad . . . which we still call it anyway; and a soggy-yellow student Center with drippy-drama walls, home of huggy bear, and that Monster: mixer; and a Golden Dome (with seasonal salamander traits that produce hues from latent lead to “burnished copper,” aren’t the only highlights to be enjoyed on our scenery-soaked campus as The Freshman Orientation pamphlet seems to imply.
Like, if you want a for instance, take the back door to the administration building. You may well ask who would want to take it. But unbeknownst to many, the door is genuine antique and very valuable: it’s just that it exists incognito. Consequently it is heavily guarded by a whole bunch of burly 9 campus cops who sit in an adjacent room nibbing Top Brass into their furry cop caps. It is worth so much because of its aesthetic beauty: lovely stained glass (a beautiful pattern of vary-hued dirt), rustic wood (knotty boison-berry bush), with a well-furrowed doorstep (sandstone impregnated with carborundum) — a quiet spot through which streams of students have rushed for a new room or a little quick । money at the treasury.
I*
I
|	BRICKS AND GARGOYLES
i And that isn’t all. The place is of I	historical interest. For on one of the
। bricks near the red lightning rod cable from (disillusioningly) the topmost of the Golden Dome, history pours from an ancient wall; there, with flowery script (obviously a Bookstore pen of very old vintage), there is enscribed:
October 14, I960
“With trowel in hand and sack of cement
Father Sorin has given me cause for lament:
I could better use bricklaying time to cram
Physics for Tuesday’s bi-weekly exam.”
But perhaps it is gargoyles that catch your fancy. Then it is Alumni Hall for you; there aren’t any gargoyles in the world quite like the Alumni Hall gargoyles: nothing but beauty. They were won and presented by the class of 1942 at an auction sponsored by the Little Sisters of the Poor in Fairbanks, Alaska . . . for two hundred and twenty nine O.P.A. Red Points and the rights to the Green Stamp patent. A better view may be obtained by knocking on any of the fourth floor doors in the building’s southeast comer anytime after dawn patrol; peer out of the windows and up for a stirring view of bubonic sculpture (pre-Mestrovic).
And for a great view of the Dome try the one from the window in the third floor staircase of the Engineering building. It is worth the climb. And engineers note, there is a bathroom on the top floor. Though don’t look for it if you are in rooms 300 to 304 because it was craftily hidden in 1939 by the ‘Peek-a-little’ Partition Company and made to look amazingly like the offices of the Graphics department. That particular bathroom is of great interest: there are some grand sayings there engraved: authored by the students and endorsed by Holden Caufield.
While you are still attending this institution be sure to make the hazardous crossing to ‘no-name’ Island via the rickety, purposeless bridge that exists, or occasionally attempts to exist, behind Lyons Hall .... Whatever you do be
sure to show your parents the bronze shell memorial that was erected in a semi-hidden alcove in front of the Administration building to the right of “The Forbidden Staircase”; commemorating something very important which I’ve momentarily forgotten. It looks more like it was designed to impale pigeons caught in downdrafts. . . . And Don’t forget the dog house with its own little run at the edge of Cartier Field— just behind the stadium. (It, by the way, is one of the largest rooms on campus and it would have been mine if Terry III wasn’t a full bulletin point higher than I. Anathema to precocious dogs. . .
CAMPUS PUMP
If you are observant you’ve noticed the fifteen foot carin behind the Log Chapel; that is perfect for all kinds of things: like a backstop for the Morrissey Frizzbee team. It was built in the days of our founder: a guide for the native Indians, the first townees, on their way to the Bend to take in a flick at the Avon, which in those days wasn’t called the Avon at all but Washington Hall (which shows how things can change) after George Washington, who never once stood on its stoop (which shows how things can be irrelevant). And fcr the pleasure of the heathen transients there was erected a pump nearby which poured forth cool Drewry’s Draft at the push of a handle. A sign of the times. The pump is still there, complete with the original aluminum cup — because tin was not yet invented. Now it pumps only air and, when it rains, occasional spurts of rusty water. Again a sign of the times. The rusty water tends to smell like Drewry’s, however (or the Drewry’s like rusty water) and things haven’t changed as much as one would think.
7
This is the B-52. Advanced as it may be, this airplane has one thing in common with the first wargalleys of ancient Egypt...and with the air and space vehicles of the future. Someone must chart its course. Someone must navigate it.
For certain young men this presents a career of real executive opportunity. Here, perhaps you will have the chance to master a profession full of meaning, excitement and rewards... as a Navigator in the U. S. Air Force.
To qualify for Navigator training as an Aviation Cadet you must be an American citizen between 19 and 26^2—single, health}' and intelligent. A high school diploma is required, but some college is highly desirable. Successful completion of the training program leads to a commission as a Second Lieutenant... and your Navigator wings.
If you think you have what it takes to measure up to the Aviation Cadet Program for Navigator training, see your local Air Force Recruiter. Or clip and mail this coupon.
There’s a place for tomorrow’s leaders on the - -y-Aerospace Team. I I
Air Force
This is a Hamilton Electric Watch. A tiny energy cell has replaced the mainspring. It is a more perfect watch, incisively accurate, patrician. Some day you, too, may give or be given a Hamilton. It will be a day you will never forget
M/LTO/M
creator of the world’s first electric watch
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY	I
J	AVIATION CADET INFORMATION	I
I	DEPT.	|
■	BOX 7608, WASHINGTON 4, D.C.	|
J	I am between 19 and 2672, a citizen	!
I	of the U.S. and a high school graduate	[
J with__________years of college. Please ■ I	send me detailed information on	the	I
।	Aviation Cadet program.	I
|	NAME____________________________ |
| STREET_______________________:_____ |
|	CITY____________________________ I
I COUNTY__________________STATE______ I
L_______________________________________I

The Scholastic
75 PERCENT TURNOUT EXCEEDS EXPECTED STUDENT VOTING MARK
Upperclass Elections Called Most Interesting; Walsh ’Faire-Neants1 Introduce Unusual Platform
by TOM WEISS
Victory, disappointment, confusion and laughter were the various lots of the active participants in last Tuesday’s upperclass hall elections. A melange of 1 just about everything, interest in the contests ran the gamut from the traditional “apathy” to the whole idea, to hotly contested races bringing out a 95% vote in Howard Hall, to a new approach to the entire problem in the Walsh Hall elections.
On the whole, voter turnout was quite good. About 75% of eligible students visited the ballot box; last year fewer than 50% voted. Out of a total of 55 ( open offices in eleven halls, only nine were unfilled and 19 were uncontested. To nobody’s surprise, election fever was mildest in Alumni Hall, where two of the five offices were uncontested and the remaining three were vacant.
Elections at St. Edward’s Hall were declared null and void. Through a rather elaborate misunderstanding on the part of just about everyone, all the five races appeared as uncontested on the ballot; write-ins were abundant and officials closed the voting earlier than scheduled, triggering protests from the students. A new election will be held for St. Edward’s Hall, though as of
Tuesday night the nominations question still had not been settled.
Perhaps the most interesting aspect of the whole affair was the campaign in Walsh Hall, where the four offices from president to treasurer went to a slate of candidates headed by John Tully and billed as the Faire-Neants, or Do-Nothing party. Opposition quickly jelled in the form of the Penthouse party and, as they say, then the fun began.
Starting with the axiom “That government is best which governs least, the Faire-Neants promised, among other things, “A minimum of hall council meetings, no hall mixers, and appropriate hall decorations (probably none, or a restrained ‘Rah’).”
Appalled by this brutal disregard for sacred things, the Penthouse party was quick to retaliate with a statement declaring in part that “Student government is perhaps not to be taken completely seriously, but it is not a joke either.”
“Our party is for something,” replied the Faire-Neants, “the elimination of all superfluous activity in student government. By doing this we feel that we do both the government and the students a great service.” They won.
Lecture Series Opens On Democracy Theme
“Power and Democracy in America” will be the theme of a symposium to be presented Oct. 25 by the Distinguished Lecture Series. Bob Donnellan, chairman of the series, announces that the program will consist of four meetings held in the Law Auditorium. The public is invited and admission is free.
The first session, at 10:30 a.m., will feature a welcome by SBP John Keegan and a talk on “Democracy and Decision Making in the Community Power Structure,” by Prof. Delbert C. Miller of Indiana University. In the second session, at 2:15, Prof. Robert A. Dahl of Yale University will speak on “Equality, Consent, and Power in American Society.”
In the third session, at 4 pan., Prof. Petei- F. Drucker, from New York Univerity, will talk on “Individual Freedom and Effective Government in a Society of Super-Powers.” The symposium will conclude at 8 pan. with a panel discussion moderated by Prof. William V. D’Antonio of Notre Dame. Dr. Howard J. Ehrlich of Ohio State University will be the discussant, and the panel will be formed of the three speakers from the day’s sessions.
Credit for arranging the symposium, accomplished before summer vacation last year, should go to Prof. D’Antonio and to Andy Lawler and John Walsh, past and present Academic Commissioners.
Future programs of the Distinguished Lecture Series will include a talk by Prof. Mortimer Adler of the University of Chicago, sometime in November; and there are tentative plans for speeches by former President Harry S. Truman and Bishop Fulton J. Sheen later in the year. Toward the end of the second semester the Lecture Series hopes to present a symposium on higher education, with speakers to be announced later.
Premeds Take Medieal School Admission Exam
The annual Medical College Admission Test, sponsored by the Association of American Medical Colleges, will be held Saturday, Oct. 29. All students applying for admission to medical schools for the fall of 1961 are encouraged to use this exam as a means to help assure their acceptance.
To be administered at announced centers, the test is geared to measure general academic ability, understanding of modern society and scientific knowledge. The scores will be reported directly to any three schools the student desires at no cost. Notre Dame students may procure their application blanks from Lawrence H. Baldinger, associate dean of the College of Science, room 248 of the Nieuwland Science Hall before Oct. ■15. After that date no applications can be guaranteed acceptance.
9
'Carousel' Spins With Music of Dorsey Band; Queen; Dance Highlight Pittsburgh Week End
Once again the LaFortune Student Center plays host, as the band of Jimmy Dorsey led by Lee Castle provides the musical entertainment for the Pittsburgh Week-end Dance, “Carousel,” to be held from 9 p.rn. to 1 a.m. on Friday, Nov. 4.
Expecting a crowd of 550 couples for the semiformal dance, the Homecoming Committee has arranged the usual room accomodations and purchased choice seats for the Notre Dame-Pitt game that Saturday.
Using a lifesize replica of a carousel to utilize the basic theme, the dance will feature a unique innovation in the selection of a Homecoming Queen. A ten-man board has been appointed to judge the many entries that are expected from the student body. The board composed of four seniors, three juniors, two sopho-
LEE CASTLE
Serenades Carousel Queen
mores and a freshman will be aided in theii' search by a photographic analyst to determine the six finalists. From these one queen will be chosen and crowned Friday night.
All students interested in entering their date in the competition must submit a poitrait and full length picture, along with a biographical sketch and a letter stating “Why my date should be Queen.” These entries must be delivered to room 202 Fisher. Oct. 25 or 26.
Ticket sales for “Carousel” will be based on the plan initiated last year for the Mardi Gras Ball. Starting Sunday, Oct. 16 and Monday, Oct. 17, those interested in attending this dance will pick up their IBM cards at their respective dining halls. Monday night a lottery will be held at the drill hall to decide
the lucky 550 ticket holders and waiting list. The first 550 whose names are drawn will return the following night to purchase their bids and provide for room accomodations and football tickets. Wednesday, Oct. 26 is the proposed last day for returns. Those on the waiting list who become eligible for a bid via cancellations will be notified by post card in time to receive the usual car and 2 a.m. permit.
Special arrangements have been made to enable off-campus students the opportunity to purchase the $4.75 Homecoming bids. Dan Baldino, as general chairman, heads the dance committee, with Lee Piovarcy as business manager; Dick Juckniess in charge of decorations; Barny Craig, accommodations; John Kelleher, tickets; and Joe Kelly, publicity.
Publications Disclose Debuts, Improvements
Publication date for the first issue of the 1960-61 Tech Review will be Nov. 17. Major articles included in this edition will include a treatise on infrared detection devices, by Dick Nielsen, and an explanation of numerical integration techniques as applied to heat conduction problems, authored by Mike Austin. Feature articles will cover local industry in South Bend and a new development project being undertaken by the Aeronautical Engineering department. The issue is also expected to give details for plans to form a student chapter of the American Rocket Society on campus.
This year’s staff is headed by Editor Garry Scheuring, an aeronautical engineering major. Filling the positions of Associate editors are seniors Tom Medland and Joe Ogurchak. Two other fourth year men on the staff are John McLaughlin, last year’s office manager who is taking over the job of business manager and Bob Dusterberg, the new circulation manager.
According to its editor, the Review will continue the successful policies of last year’s staff. The large variety of articles planned will include both technical and non-technical material.
The Juggler will resume publication with the first of the year’s three issues on Nov. 4. There are few changes expected in the general form of the magazine, although even greater emphasis will be placed on the quality of submitted student material. The Juggler accepts fiction, essays, poetry and art for publication.
Another feature which was Successfully stalled last year will be continued this year: the printing of student translations of foreign writers and poets. Any students desiring to submit articles or obtain subscriptions (at $1.50 for three issues) are asked to come to Walsh Hall and see Chris Watters in 327, Jack Engler in 325 or Jack Cahalan in 316.
Danforth Foundation Accepts Applications for Fellowships
Applications for the 1961 Danforth Graduate Fellowships are invited by the Danforth Foundation of St. Louis, Mo. These fellowships are open to college senior men and recent graduates who are preparing themselves for a career of college teaching, and are planning to { enter graduate school in September, 1961, for the first year of graduate study. The Foundation accepts applicants from the natural and biological sciences, social sciences and the humanities.
Professor Frank O’Malley has been named as Danforth liaison officer and will nominate a maximum of three candidates to the Foundation for the 1961 awards.
Gi’ants are variable according to need; 1 the maximum annual grant for single Fellows is $1500 plus tuition and fees charged to all graduate students; for married Fellows, $2000 plus tuition and fees with an additional stipend of $500 for each child. Students with or without financial need are invited to apply.
A Danforth Fellow is allowed to cany othei- scholarship appointments concurrently with his Danfoi-th Fellowship; grants will then be adjusted accordingly.
Qualifications sought in the candidates are outstanding academic ability, personality congenial to the classroom, integrity and character.
All applications and recommendations must be completed by Jan. 15, 1961. Those seeking further information should contact Professor O’Malley.
Band! Card Section Plan* Combined Halftime Show
Highlighting the half-time festivities at tomorrow’s game with Michigan State University will be twelve card stunts in eight brilliant colors performed by about 1050 sophomores, juniors and graduate students.
After the visiting band has per- . formed, the ND band led by drum major* Bob Battista will feature three of Harold Arlen’s compositions. Simultaneously, related card stunts will be performed.
Opening with the ND monogram, the card section will then sport “Hi MSU”. Third item is a white Spartan shield with an “S” on it. While the band is playing “Black Magic” the students will form a top hat and magic wand followed by a top hat and a rabbit. A mountain, moon and crescent will bekl correlated with the band’s “Only a Paper Moon.”
Two formations, a rainbow and a pot of gold will accompany “Somewhere, Over the Rainbow.” The three final stunts will be a shamrock, the ND monogram and the word “Irish”.
Student Government has purchased the cards at considerable expense and requests that students not throw them about upon completion of the program. J
10
The Scholastic
9
St. Joseph IRC to Hold Five Program Series; Leading Foreign Relations Experts to Appear
/lit Qiakam
FHUICULLY SPUIHfi...
The International Relations Council of St. Joseph County is presenting an election-year series of five informative programs, with top ranked international relations experts as guest speakers. All - of these programs are held at Moreau Hall at St. Mary’s College beginning at 8:00 p.m.
The first of the programs was held September 29. Featured were John Brademas and Jay Nimtz, candidates for Congress from the Third District, who debated current campaign issues.
East-West relations will be discussed at the November 16 program. The featured speaker for this meeting will £ be Richard C. Hottelet, distinguished ' CBS radio and television news analyst and political observer. He has lived many years in Europe, visited and carefully studied the current Latin American scene, and was specially picked by CBS to analyze and report on the presidential campaign in 1956 and again in 1960. His title will be “The New Stage in the World Struggle.”
On Dec. 7 will be a discussion on _ the science in world affairs presented * by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of the University, member of the National Science Board, director and member of the over-all panel of the Special Studies Project of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, and representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency. Father Hesburgh will lecture on “Atoms for Peace.”
Latin America will be the main topic for the January 10 program. The guest 9 speakei- will be the Honorable Antonio Carillo Flores, Mexican Ambassador to the United States, a distinguished diplomat, jurist, economist, and financier and a contributor to Foreign Affairs. He will talk on “The Lessons of the Mexican Revolution.”
The last of the series of informative programs will take place on February 16, with Africa as the topic. Guest £ speaker will be Mildred Adams, cor" respondent for The Economist and frequent contributor to the New York Times and Foreign Affairs. In 1959 she
Permit Public, Students Access to Observatory
Father James Shilts, C.S.C., has announced the opening of the University’s telescope to both public and student 9 body use. Overhauled last spring, a shelter has been constructed for it atop the Nieuwland Science Hall.
Two attendants are on duty at the Observatory from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. every evening except Saturday. They will demonstrate the proper operation of the instrument and point out interesting viewing objects. Some objects now visible are Venus, Jupiter, Saturn, Mars, the galactic nebula of Andromeda as well as other star formations.
October 14, 1960
made an intensive on-the-scene study of transition problems in central Africa. She is also well versed in Latin American affairs. Her topic will be “Africa, What Comes After Independence?”
A question and answer period will be held after each lecture.
The regular membership for the International Relations Council of St. Joseph County is $4. Membership for the students and their wives is $1. Membership and tickets for the program are available from Dr. E. L. Eliel, 355 Nieuwland Science Hall.
Architects'Club Plans Publicity for Chapter
Anyone who has ever been deceived by the inscription “Hoynes College of Law,” that rests above the Architecture Building’s doors may have received the impression that this place is just a little different from the other buildings on campus. But so many divergent opinions and rumors of what goes on behind its walls are circulating that the architecture students have finally decided to give their department the benefit of some good publicity. Through this they plan to give some idea of the many interesting activities of the Architecture Department.
Meet the Notre Dame Chaptei- of the American Institute of Architects, or simply, The Architects’ Club. It’s the driving and guiding force behind most of the chapter’s organized activities. This year the club began auspiciously during orientations week by giving the freshmen some valuable insight in the struggle for survival here.
At the club’s first meeting many unique plans for the year were proposed, all of which will be announced as they materialize.
Most prominent of the ideas is the inauguration of a Distinguished Speaker Series, successfully begun last night when German trained expert in stained glass and holder of an American Institute of Architects Gold Medal Award for craftsmanship, explained his ideas on the relationship of the craftsman to the architect. The lecture was illustrated with slides, because pictures as well as words, are the means of the architect’s expression.
These monthly lectures are scheduled to be opened to the public in the belief that ideas pei-taining to the arts are of general interest.
Another quite interesting innovation is the formation of the Architect’s Auxiliary composed of the students’ wives. Their functions began one recent Saturday evening when they sponsored a faculty-student reception to acquaint the students with the Architecture professors.
Money and lottery systems dominated Monday’s Senate meeting.
With a majority of its members still
to be elected, the Senate presented a budget o f $13,437. Over $11,000 of this was distributed to a long list of campus dependents.
Approval of the budget appeared a mei-e formality. A short explanation sufficed for each item
and practically nothing was questioned. Most voting members had. already spent hours hashing out budget details in a cabinet meeting on Sunday.
The Academic and International Com
missions received major increases in then- appropriations this year. Academic received $2,000, an increase of $900. Inter-national—$1,200, an increase of $1,150.
One wonders if the Senate will be able to arouse enough interest in the “Power and Democracy in America” symposium to justify an expenditure of $1275.
The position of the international student on this campus is generally that of an outsider. If the International appropriation will help to alleviate this, it will be money well spent.
Other appropriations: the newly organized publicity committee—$400; NSA —$200; NFCCS —$150; CCD — $100; Blue Circle—$234; Hall Presidents’ Council — $220; Joint Engineering Council and Engineering Open House — $700.
All went well until Pat Nee, senior class president,- presented his motion for a revision of the lottei-y bid system for campus-wide dances. Nee’s motion stipulated that each class would receive
25% of the available tickets.
The motion favors seniors and juniors but it is a favor they rightly deserve as upperclassmen. Unfortunately, Nee included in his motion a myriad of technical details which should have been left up to the decision of a committee.
After much give and take between the seniors, who wanted their motion passed, and others who were worried about the feasibility of the suggested lottery system, a committee was appointed to study the entire problem. In effect Nee’s motion was tabled for the semester.
Wishing to avoid “war” SBP John Keegan said he would not reply to an editorial about his article. “I seek not to divide but to unite,” said Keegan.
A motion was passed lowering the academic qualification for a campus club president from a 3.0 to a 2.0 aver-
age.
If you are a member of the Freshman Interhall Athletic Assn., you are not. You have been duped! Someone has sold to over 600 freshmen a membership in this non-entity for $.35.
4
for anything in
ADiJEfiS!
I
ADLERS, IN WHITE AND COLORS, FOR MEN AND WOMEN, AVAILABLE AT
Robertson’s
Smith’s Shoes
Rasmussen’s
Wyman’s Gilbert’s Max Adler’s
12
4
The Scholastic
9
IN WASHINGTON Hall at 8:15 P.M. next Monday, October 17, the University of Notre Dame Glee Club opens its forty-fifth year of concert song with the first of four upcoming campus concerts.
From pep rally to concert stage, from coast to coast, and from Bach to Gershwin, the Notre Dame Glee Club has come to receive national acclaim as one of America’s top collegiate singing groups. From the modest twelve-voice chorus which gathered for informal song-fests under the direction of a law student in 1915, it has grown to a forty-voice club which annually tours the nation, covering eight to ten thousand miles, entertaining more than twenty thousand listeners. One of the members of that original group, in fact, was Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., who, after- his ordination, went on to become President of Notre Dame.
It was in 1928, under the leadership of director Joseph J. Cassanta, that the organization undertook its first major trip to the West Coast. A distinguished career in vocal and instrumental music stands behind his successor, Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, present director of the group. This year marks his twenty-fifth year as professor at Notre Dame and his twenty-third year with the Glee Club. A good portion of these years—from 1937 to 1955—were spent as head of the music department which earned for him the nickname ‘Dean,’ a name many students mistakenly confuse for his real name.
To highlight his silver jubilee as a professor- here, Mr. Pedtke will direct the combined choruses of St. Mary’s College and Notre Dame, accompanied by a full orchestra, in Verdi’s Te Deum and Hovhannes’ Magnificat. The latter work, by con-
Singing
Irish
Shake
Down the Thunder
Q temporary composer Hovhannes, has been pel-formed only twice prior to Mr. Pedtke’s ' presentation which is scheduled to be given on both campuses sometime in December.
A pupil of such musicians as Alexander Raab and Sergei Tarnowsky, Professor Pedtke made his debut as a pianist at fifteen; a year later he was giving organ recitals. At an early age Professor Pedtke also appeared as soloist with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. Before coming to Notre Dame, he received a degree in music from DePaul University of Chicago and studied at the Bush and American conservatories of music. By examination, he has since received the high honor of Fellow in the American Guild of Organists, an organization whose membership is so rigorously regulated that many accomplished musicians strive for years to attain admittance without ever achieving the necessary degree of technical perfection. Since that _ time, he has served as organist and choir master for numerous churches in the Mid™ west and for a time was head of the music department of the College of St. Theresa in Winona, Minnesota. Professor Pedtke is composer and author as well as conductor; he has composed several works for piano and organ, including a Mass in honor of St. Jude, and is the author of a textbook for piano students entitled “Key Board Harmony.” The father of seven children and a resident of South Bend, Mr. Pedtke is noted for his innovations on the collegiate music scene and is himself a prime reason for the success of the Glee Club during the many years of his direction.
Down through the years, the Notre Dame Glee Club has established itself as one of the best known and enjoyed singing organizations in the country—receiving critics’ plaudits for consistent and genuine choral merit. Besides keeping themselves constantly before the public in tour and concert, the Notre Dame singers have performed on the
October 14, 1960
13
network facilities of NBC, CBS and ABC. They have in addition recorded some of the more popular selections from their extensive and varied repertoire, including the world-famous Notre Dame Victory March, for such name recording studios as Capitol, R.C.A. and M.G.M. They have also appeared on television in Chicago, New York and oftimes locally. (In 1956 viewers were treated to the eighth consecutive appearance of the Glee Club on Ed .Sullivan’s famous TV show, “Toast of the Town.”) In 1953 they teamed with Eddie Fisher, Jeanette MacDonald and Jose
Ferrer for a benefit before 85,000 listeners at Municipal stadium in Philadelphia.
Local entertainment keeps the club busy in Chicago, Detroit, Milwaukee, and other comparatively nearby localities between tours. Mr. Pedtke is often called upon to select a quartet or octet to entertain local civic groups. Last year’s highlight was the group’s annual Easter tour into the Deep South, visiting Missisippi, Alabama and Louisiana; this was complemented by minor tours throughout the year to Ohio, Wisconsin and Illinois. Many of the Glee Club’s concerts are for the benefit of charities such as church and hospital funds, and others sponsored by Notre Dame Alumni Associations. They are always available for campus activities and this year hope to do much work in the South Bend area.
Heading the club toward another successful year is its new president, Francis J. Loncar, a senior Accounting Major in the College of Commerce. Frank, who is from South Chicago, has been active in the club since his freshman year — serving as librarian in his soph
omore year and treasurer last year. His other activities include the Bookmen Discussion Club and the Accounting Club.
He is assisted in his work by Glee Club vice-president Dave Cronin, a Chemical Engineering student from Beverly, Massachusetts; Secretary John Crowe, a History Major from suburban Buffalo, New York; and Bill Weinsheimer, a Marketing Major from Chicago.
Handling the club’s business affairs this year is Dave Trigiani, a five-year student in Architecture from Bangor, Pennsylvania. As business manager, he is responsible for lining up concerts, securing transportation, and seeing to many other details connected with the tours and local engagements of the club. He is being assisted by John Kost, a third-year Accounting Major from Moorhead, Minnesota. Ned McGrath, an assistant in the publicity department last year, continues his work this year as the club’s publicity manager. A Political Science major, Ned is presently assisted by Bob Schlundt, a junior in Aeronautical Engineering from Sheboygan, Wisconsin, and Fred Weber, a student in
the General Program from Rochester, Minnesota. Music librarians in the organization this year are sophomores Nick Harkins from Jackson, Mississippi, and Tom Fabish from Garden City, New York.
For his second year, John Oliver takes over as student director' and accompanist for the Glee Club. A senior music major, John has and continues to direct his own group in addition to conducting the club for campus activities and church
Left: Frank Loncar, president of the 1960 glee club discusses the upcoming program with Prof. Daniel H. Pedke. Below: the officers of the glee club (1. to r.) Frank Loncar, John Crowe, David Cronin, David Trigiani and Ned McGrath.
services. John, who is from Janesville, Wisconsin, has also been active in choral work both with St. Mary’s and with the theater- group here at Notre Dame. He intends to continue his work in music in graduate school next year.
As in the past, the Glee Club welcomes and enthusiastically participates in in
formal singing, as exhibited in the annual Christmas carolling parties and in the many occasions when and wherever the group happens to congregate during their leisure hours. During the past summer, a quintet of Glee Clubbers including Dave Cronin, P. C. White, Bob Schlundt, Richard Burke and Mike Flynn were engaged as waiters in the exclusive Hugo’s Lighthouse Cafe on Cohasset Harbor, at Cape Cod, Massachusetts. They complemented their work by singing not only there but in other nearby establishments — earning for themselves a feature story in the Boston Herald.
Looking back on the near half-century of successful musical entertainment that precedes them, the Notre Dame Glee Club has ambitious plans already for another successful year. Local concerts are being scheduled for Michigan City; Peoria, Illinois; Hammond, Indiana; Janesville, Wisconsin; Fond du Lac, Wisconsin; and in Milwaukee and Chicago. A Thanksgiving tour East is also being planned to Ohio, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and New York. The annual Easter tour is slated to go West — to include Nevada, California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas, with possible concerts in Mexico.
As was mentioned earlier, the year will be formally opened on the evening of October- 17 in Washington Hall with a concert open free of charge to the general public. The program will consist of numbers selected from a repertoire of religious, classical, popular and Broadway music. As has been the custom for many years, the concert will begin with the Ave Maria and close with a tribute to the Fighting Irish, the Victory March. Other Glee Club campus performances this year will include the annual Christmas Concert, another
shortly before the Easter holidays, finally the special Commencement Program for the graduating seniors and their parents and friends. In addition, there will be the combined Christmas concert with Saint Mary’s in December which was mentioned earlier.
—John Cost
Fred Weber
14
The Scholastic
9
I
I
e
’ JOHN OLIVER:
S LARGE
October 14, 1960
If the 1960-1961 Saint Mary’s Program of Performing Arts continues as it began (on Wednesday evening, Oct. 5), many good things are in store for the local concert-goer. The initial program featured Sidney Harth, concertmaster of the Chicago Symphony, and Rudolph Reuter, renowned Chicago pianist, in a duo sonata recital. Certainly this was a rewarding musical experience and worthy of high critical praise (especially in the case of Harth, whose interpretations were never less than poetry); this I give to it. At the same time, certain questions arise in connection with a recital of this kind which merit attention.
Basically the Sonata for Piano and Violin consists of a musical dialogue between two instruments in which the composer’s ideas are initially stated by one instrument, picked up and answered by the other and finally woven by both into a fabric of the color and texture peculiar to the particular composer. Just as the threads of a fine fabric must be closely meshed, the musical lines of a piano-violin sonata must be interwoven in such a way that the result is a unity in music. The timbre of each instrument must be used intelligently by each artist, and in such a way that the one compliments the other. The same is true of the varying tone qualities used by each performer throughout the piece; and so on.
In the case of a larger ensemble such as a chorus or orchestra, it is the conductor alone who shapes the music, introducing into it only those shadings which will mold the combined efforts of his players into the whole which he sees in his mind as the realization of the composer’s intentions. The success of the performance depends entirely on the success the conductor has in getting those under him to carry out his ideas. Not so in the case of the piano-violin duo.
The principal unifying element in this
kind of work is that vital communication which exists between two artists when the poetic sensibility of one is in accord with that of the other. It is true this harmony is of the same nature as the rapport established between the conductor and ensemble, but it must be remembered that in the case of the latter, a visual communication — the conductor’s beat and interpretive signals — exists during the performance; the pianist or violinist have nothing of this sort to depend on. In performing the duo sonata they must rely on their artistic sense or instinct, spontaneously participating in an interpretation of the music at hand. To succeed, they must, above all, be en rapport.
The Harth-Reuter recital consisted of three sonatas: Mozart’s Sonata in B Flat Major, K. 378; Brahms* Sonata in D Minor, Opus 108; and Richard Strauss’ Sonata in B Flat Major, Opus 18. To tackle these three composers in one program demands that the artist be flexible enough to move from the classic to the romantic style, and in so doing shift his emotional emphasis from the refined delight and poignancy of Mozart, through the bittersweet lyricism of the Brahms, to the direct, forceful strength of Strauss’ youthful (and singular) E flat sonata.
These two factors — rapport and flexibility — kept the Wednesday evening recital from reaching the heights it could have reached. Whereas Harth succeeded in being poetic and at the same time courteous to his partner throughout the program, Reuter had no such success. One’s attention was drawn to an overloud piano in most of the Mozart (especially in the Andantino which Harth played magnificently) and the sense of style, which seemed to be * part of the violinist’s nature, escaped the pianist to the extent that his virtues, found primarily in his power and clarity in the third and first movements, were all but overshadowed. Reuter fell again
15
in the Strauss, when the sheer virtuosity of his part got the best of him.
Harth, poetic and musical even when accompanying his partner, accomplished great things during the entire evening. His tone grew from the sheerest delicacy in the Mozart to a fat, full beauty in the Strauss. His Brahms began with a fire that grew to inferno proportions and here his partner responded; this collaboration resulted in a truly moving interpretation.
In musical circles the relationship between technique per se — that is, the mechanical facility of a given performer — and the interpretive elements of a performance is under constant and severe scrutiny. This poses a neat problem: often a performer will have a well developed technical ability and be completely detached from what he is playing. The question then arises: is this art?
Art has been defined by philosophers as “correct knowledge joined to skill in making things,” Perhaps they are right; but if they are, the serious artist is on the wrong track. The artist, and by that I mean the serious and reflective artist who thinks of the whole of his art, concerns himself primarily with communication. If we examine this word — communication — we find that it carries with it an implicit characteristic. In order for art to be communicative, it must be moving.
In the definition of art mentioned above (as in most contemporary philosophical definitions, with the exception of Maritain’s perceptive descriptions) this implicit quality is avoided. It follows then that unless we cause ourselves to be aware of the total of art, there is a danger that our art will degenerate into mere craft, without meaning or, for that matter, music.
A good example of this tendency can be found in one of the more renowned performance groups of today, the So-cieta Corelli. This group, a chamber ensemble consisting of thirteen string players and a pianist, appeared under the auspices of the South Bend Civic Music Association at O’Laughlin Auditorium on Thursday evening, Oct. 6. Their program consisted primarily of music of the Baroque period (including a Tartini cello concerto and a Bach piano concerto) and provided them with delightful opportunities for communicating both the idiom and the real beauty of this neglected music.
Technically the Societa Corelli dominates their field (with the possible exception of the Soloisti di Zagreb); their playing was flawless. They amazed me constantly by their accuracy and their ability to change theii* dynamic emphasis, either gradually or abruptly, without the help of a conductor.
The music? The Tartini moved me; the cellist had a great deal of feeling for the piece (his technique was, in addition, fantastic. The Bach was powerful but the second movement, which needs poetry more than it needs power, failed — for me. The rest was merely pleasant and awesome, and toward the end, just a trifle boring.
16
At the Theaters
Contrary to popular opinion, the rest of our football schedule has not been canceled. Tomorrow we play Michigan State at the Stadium here.
Starting off the parade of hits this week, the Avon has held Peter Sellers over for a second week, until October 19. I’m All Right, Jack deals with the strife between labor and management, all hilariously and sometimes larcenously portrayed.
Coming on October 20, the Avon hosts Swan Lake, by the Bolshoi Ballet (on film) and Paddy Chayefsky’s The Goddess with Kim Stanley and Loyd Bridges. More on this in the next column.
The Colfax is offering, starting today, what could be not only a very interesting movie but also a very good biography of Wernher Von Braun: I Aim at the Stars. The plot follows von Braun’s life rather closely, though naturally exonerates him of any malice in the development of the V-2. Of course, he only built them, and his experience with them provided us with our first successful satellite.
Curt Jurgens, a rather happy choice, portrays von Braun, and is supported by D Victoria Shaw as von Braun’s first fiancee and then wife, Gia Scala as an American spy at Peenemunde, James Daly as an American who fights von Braun almost to the last fadeout, and Herbert Lorn.
The Dark at the Top of the Stairs persists at the Granada for one more week. William Inge’s hit play loses unity in the screen version, but the movie is still good viewing. Robert Preston is adequate as the rough and ready husband in early 20th century Oklahoma, though the excessive volume of his voice gets a little irritating towards the end. Dorothy McGuire plays the haggard, nagging, frigid wife with -• true talent, and Angela Lansbury and Eve Arden round out their characters very well in spite of limited exposure on the screen. The real surprise is Shirley Knight as the young daughter. She could end up very high in Hollywood, if you remember that’s how many other* female stars started out. But her role is much more than just an unhappy young girl. The character is very complicated, and she makes the best of it. Her romantic interest, a young Jewish boy she meets accidentally, is played by Lee Kinsolving with more stiffness than is expected from a military school cadet (which he portrays).
Many parts of the movie are not really Inge, and it isn’t too hard to tell where the adapters became creators, but fortunately these parts are not too large and the L transition from stage to celluloid came off better than usual.
Moving in after Stairs is Bing Crosby’s latest caper: High Time. He stars with Nicole Maurey, Tuesday Weld, and (of all people) Fabian, who tries to sing. Get the full story on it next week.
The Morris Municipal Auditorium, after a regrettably unheralded presentation of Van Cliburn, has Shelly Berman on stage on October 19. For the new ones around here, the Morris Municipal Auditorium was formerly the Palace, of vaudeville fame, and is located directly across the street from the Granada. Shelley Berman has been I 0 The Scholastic
accused of not putting in many new routines into his live appearances, but those of you who are still laughing every time you hear Inside Shelley Berman won’t mind this criticism at all. He’s still very, very funny.
All the Young Men are another bunch of gutsy Marines in this movie which is one in a series expected to increase enlistments. But the Marines here have a 9 line of demarcation: the color line, which has also become a chic exploitation technique. Sidney Poitier, naturally, plays the colored man, a sergeant who has to take over his platoon from the fatally injured second lieutenant. And the cauldron starts to boil as bigotry makes the scenes. Alan Ladd and Paul Richards are on the opposite side of the command fence for different reasons. Ingemar Johansson’s heavy accent is plainly heard, and Mort Sahl rescues our 9 abused senses with that little clause in
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES
Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. Michigan	AT 7-5477
EXCLUSIVE
NOTRE DAME DANCE CLASSES

his contract which says he writes his own lines. Sometimes this doesn’t quite match the general drift of the movie, but it’s a welcome relief.
The movie has a very exciting climax, the sort of thing which you see only in the movies, and is plagued now and then by the many types of lines proper to anti-segregation scripts. At the State.
With The Enemy General, another bit of war folklore starring Van Johnson and Jean-Pierre Aumont. This one deals with a Nazi general who changes loyalties as often as he calls up the firing squad under his command. It’s all very confusing, but the complications are resolved in the end with the use of that all purpose remedy — hot lead. The place of the shoot-’em-up is also very appropriate, as it is a densely populated cemetery.
Tony Wong
FEBBO'S
CE 3-0578
★
224 E. LA SALLE ST. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Famous for Pizza, Spaghetti and Ravioli
N ABICHT CAFETERIA
1415 Lincolnway West
Savory Food Since 1897
FREE PARKING a
Swingline stapler no bigger than a pack
Mr. Murray this year will subsidize Notre Dame dance classes. The regular rate for 10 class hours is $24.00. Notre Dame students only will receive 10 class hours for $15.00. This amounts to only $1.50 per hour.
You’ll be surprised at how quickly you will become a good dancer at Arthur Murray’s. Even beginners will master several steps the very first lesson. Become a confident dancer and really have fun at your next dance.
ENROLL NOW!
CE 2-3339
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE	CE 2-3339
Including 1000 Staples
A do-it-yourself kit in the palm oft your hand! Unconditionally guaranteed, Tot makes book covers,1 fastens papers, does arts and crafts work, mends, tacks...no end of uses!
Buy it at your college book store.
Swingline Cub stapler,$1.29
October 14, 1960
Take me to your Esterbrook dealer!
IF THE SOUND OF YOUR HI-FI
infiltrates your neighbors’ rooms
Make them (and yourself) happy . by playing
VANGUARD
Recordings for the Connoisseur
Some new releases	J
THE WEAVERS AT CARNEGIE HALL, Vol. 2
VRS-9075 (mono) & VSD-2069 (stereo)
Attention earthlings! The word is getting around! Esterbrook Fountain Pens are out of this world! With 32 custom-fitted pen points there’s an Esterbrook to fit any writing personality—star-struck or earth-bound.
The Esterbrook Classic is only $2.95 and great for class notes. It starts to write as soon as you do ... with that amazing new miracle discovery—ink! Feels just right in the hand, too—not fat, not thin, looks good, too! Colors? There’s a veritable rainbow to choose from. Pick your favorite of six colors. Why not today? No space ship needed. Just zero in on your Esterbrook dealer.
ODETTA AT CARNEGIE HALL
VRS-9076 (mono) & VSD-2072 (stereo)
SdtofaocliSiMA
•T.M. The Esterbrook Pen Co.
THE CLASSIC FOUNTAIN PEN *2.95 Other Esterbrook pens from $1.95
ODETTA SINGS CHRISTMAS SPIRITUALS
VRS-9079 (mono) & VSD-2079 (stereo)
JOAN BAEZ
VRS-9078 (mono) & VSD-2077 (stereo)
Send for the Vanguard catalogue of indispensable folksong recordings featuring Leon Bibb, Alfred Deller, Cisco Houston, Erich Kunz, Paul Robeson, Martha Schlamme, Germaine Montero and others Dept II, Vanguard Recording Society Inc. 154 West 14th St, New York 11, N. Y.
The Scholastic
THERE'S A POINT CHOICE OF 32-ONE IS CUSTOM-FITTED FOR YOU I
18
SfMU PidtM
STRONG SPARTANS ENGAGE BATTERED IRISH
f MSU After Eighth Win In Last Nine Meetings
by TOM WALSH
Tomorrow afternoon the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame will be seeking their second victory against two losses when the formidable Spartans from East Lansing invade Notre Dame Stadium at — 1:30 p.m. After suffering a 12-7 upset - last week at the hands of North Carolina, Joe Kuharich’s team will be a definite underdog to the powerful Spartans, edged last week by Iowa in a real thriller.
Michigan State now has a 1-1-1 record, having tied Pitt, winning over archrival Michigan and then losing to Iowa, 27-15. State’s team is far stronger than this record indicates.
£ Solid backfield. Duffy Daugherty’s problems are primarily due to a slow interior line, lack of an experienced quarterback to replace starter Tommy Wilson and dependence on a large number of untried sophomores. Strong points of the Spartan attack include solid all-around backfield depth, headed by the great halfback duo of Herb Adderly and Gary Ballman, a strong end corps and good punting, handled by Bob Suci and Don Stewart.
At quarterback, Senior Tom Wilson has been outstanding for the Green-and-White. He played the entire game on offense against the Michigan Wolverines two weeks ago. Wilson’s support comes
HERB ADDERLY
Fleet State halfback
from Juniors Paul Hrisko and Don Stewart, the later a converted halfback. Daugherty calls Senior tri-captain Adderly and Junior Ballman the “greatest pair of halfbacks in the country.” Both were starters on last year’s squad. Adderly was the leading ground gainer and Ballman was third, following closely on the heels of Dean Look, graduated AllAmerican quarterback.
Sophomores Jimmy Eaton and Ron Watkins add reserve offensive punch while Suci is an effective secondary man. Suci works on defense with Senior Ike Grimsley and Don Stewart.
man who was shifted from guard to tackle this fall, will lead the State tackles. Walker receives able support from Tom Wienicki, the other starter, and Jim Bobbitt. Pete Kakela, a regular from last year, and Jim Kanicki also return.
Hard-nosed. “Pudgy” Freddie Boylan, last of the tri-captains to be mentioned, is an outstanding guard. Boylan is an aggressive tackler on defense while opening giant holes for the Spartan speedsters on offense. Junior Tony Ku-miega, Senior Oscar Hahn and Sophomores Howard Mudd and George Azar form the rest of the regular guard corps.
Junior letterman Dave Manders is the number one center. Manders was praised last fall as being the best sophomore center in Spartan history. Dave Behrman, a 275-pound sophomore who plays the defensive middle guard in place of Manders, has been especially impressive in the last two Spartan contests. Coach Duffy Daugherty has been using a platoon system at this position during the 1960 fall campaign.
Michigan State runs the famous multiple offense with an emphasis on the double wing and the wing-T. The Spartan attack features an occasional manin-motion and an unbalanced line.
The host Irish eleven will attempt to match the potent Spartan offensive attack tomorrow with a strong rushing attack of their own. Leading the Notre Dame runners will be Bob Scarpitto. Scarpitto has already amassed 24 points this season. Mike Lind and George Sefcik, injured in the Carolina game, are also slated to see action.
New weapon. Junior fullback Cai'l Charon has been a big surprise this season and was really the Spartans’ principal offensive threat during the first three games. He leads the team in scoring this fall with eighteen points. Ron Hatcher, a junior who was so outstanding against the Irish last fall, is pushing Charon for the starting job. The Spartan backfield is solid in every respect.
Fred Arbanas and Art Brandstatter, a senior and junior respectively, head the solid end corps for the Spartans. Arbanas is one of this year’s tri-captains and is also a prime candidate for All-American honors. Brandstatter is more than capable at the other end of the line. He is especially rugged on defense. Arbanas and Brandstatter are ably-supported by Senior Jason Harness, a two-time letterman, and Sophomore Lonnie Sanders. Juniors Wayne Fontes and Jim Corgiat add even more depth to the position. Corgiat was a letterwinner last year.
Mickey Walker, a two-time monogram
MICKEY WALKER
From guard to tackle
October 14, 1960
19
Grace Victor In Irish Open; Three Men Tie For Second
Closing with a sharp 69, Tom Grace, junior letterman, copped his second Notre Dame Open golf crown last Sunday on the Burke Memorial course. The tournament began Sunday, September 25, with an 18-hole round. There was another round of 18 holes October 2, and the tourney closed with a 36-hole final round this past Sunday. Grace’s par-equaling performance of 284 was built upon scores of 69-71-75-69.
Bruce Odlaug, another junior letterman, finished in a tie with Sophomores Terry Kitch and Bob Farrell for the second spot. The trio each came home with 296 scores.
Odlaug opened with a 76, followed with a 72 and then matched these scores identically last Sunday. Farrell played consistently throughout the tournament and finished with a 74-75-73-74 scorecard. Kitch banged out rounds of 6876-75-77. These three boys were scheduled to play off the tie over 18 holes sometime during the course of this week.
Senior Jim Stahl started with a’ 78, whittled that down to a 76 the second week, and closed with scores of 75 and 70 for his 299 showing.
Phil Schuster in his final shot at the title, consumed 300 strokes during the course of play. A 79 marked his first week of play. The next week he shot a 73 and then finished up with 76 and 72 stroke offerings.
Junior Al Highducheck carded rounds of 74-77-72-78 in amassing his 301 total while defending champion and team captain Ray Patak carved out rounds of 78-72-75-77 for his 302 clocking.
Chris Reid, a junior, finished ninth with his 302 effort. He was hotly pursued by a band of men who each turned in cards totaling 303 strokes. In this group were Senior Bill Sala, Juniors Jim Mark and Ed Schnurr and Freshman Dick Adamson.
Bill Wetzel, in his final season, and Eric Vandagrift, a soph, tied with 304 scores. John Vandervalle, another soph, had the next spot all to himself with a 305 performance. Freshman Jerry Lefere used up 307 shots, while Mike Voss and Bill Busemeyer whacked the ball 309 times apiece. Russ Beaupre finished with a 310 reading.
Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., was given a good idea of the men he will be able to depend on in the 1961 season and was quite pleased with the over-all results of the tournament. In addition to the expected fine play of lettermen Grace, Odlaug, Stahl, Schuster, Schnurr and Captain Patak, Father Holderith saw snappy performance by Kitch, Farrell and Highducheck.
20
CARY CALLS 'EM
Tomorrow
Navy over Air Force
Southern California over California Princeton over Colgate Clemson over Maryland Miami over South Carolina Marquette over Indiana Oregon State over Idaho Illinois over Minnesota Pitt over West Virginia Mississippi over Tulane Yale over Cornell Texas over Arkansas Stanford over San Jose State Georgia Tech over Auburn Syracuse over Penn State Ohio State over Purdue Kansas over Oklahoma LSU over Kentucky Penn over Brown
Michigan over Northwestern Washington over UCLA North Carolina over Wake Forest Baylor over Texas Tech
Game of the Week
Iowa over Wisconsin
Upset of the Week
Notre Dame over Michigan State Last Week’s Results
21 right, four wrong, no ties
84 per cent
Totals To Date
39 right, ten wrong, one tie
79.6 per cent
ND Sailors Victorious In Hoosier Cup Race
Last Sunday the Notre Dame sailing team returned to the Campus with the Hoosier Classic Championship cup, proof that this year’s team is the finest collection of intercollegiate sailors in Indiana. Although the Irish were tied with DePauw, they brought the trophy home because they had beaten DePauw more times than DePauw had beaten them.
The races, all completed on Saturday, were sailed in light airs and persistent rain, making for very miserable and difficult sailing. Indiana University hosted the regatta which was also attended by Purdue.
John Zusi and Paul Kelly skippered and Jay Mulhern and Henry Chamberlin crewed. John Raby was heavy weather crew. Zusi was high point skipper in “A” division with Kelly finishing second high in “B” division.
Next week end the team travels to Madison, Wisconsin for the Wisconsin University Invitational Regatta.
The Club has free sailing every afternoon from two o’clock on. Anyone interested in sailing or joining the Club should see an officer at the lake or come to a meeting any Wednesday night at 7:30, 209 Engineering Building. Anyone from a landlubber to a Mallory Cup winner is invited to join.
—Ed Bukowski
ATTENTION WRESTLERS
There will be a meeting with Coach Tom Fallon in Room 1 of the Rockne Memorial Gym on Tuesday, October 18, 1960. The Varsity will meet at 7 p.m. Freshman candidates will meet at 8 p.m.
ODDS and ENDS
Words of wisdom from Northwestern drum-beater Walt Paulison: “This year’s lowans make those Rose Bowl hot dogs look like an old suit.” . . .
Ex-Wisconsin All-American quarterback Dale Hackbart has quit professional baseball and signed with the Green Bay Packers. Hackbart will probably be used as a defensive halfback. . . .
Notre Dame lost another great competitor when junior fullback Gerry Gray left school last Monday to return to his hometown of Baltimore for a possible operation on a ruptured disk in his back, and the subsequent long rest. Fans will remember Gerry as the leading ground-gainer on last year's team. . . .
The SCHOLASTIC’S Bill Cary has predicted 39 right, ten wrong, and one tie for a 79.6%. “Sports Illustrated’s” prognosticator has a 24-16 record. Wild Bill has him by 19.6%!
Indiana University had a six-man delegation at the 1960 Summer Olympics. This group, composed of swimmers Mike Troy, Frank McKinney, George Breen and Alan Somers, basketballer Walt Bellamy and trackman Willie May amassed a total of four gold, two silver and one bronze medal. . . .
A FEW THOUGHTS ON THE SERIES: Roy Face, with help from Bill Virdon, has shown his value to the Pirates with sterling relief jobs after replacing the “Sneakin’ Deacon” Vern Law . . . Roberto Clemente’s arm drawing “oohs and ahs” from the partisan New York crowd as he dares the Bronx Bombers to take liberties on his rifle-like pegs. . . . Bobby Richardson, enjoying his first taste of World Series glory after hitting a grand slam homer and driving in six runs in Saturday’s 10-0 win, was telling reporters, “I used to hit more home runs at Denver (American Association) than Tony Kubek.” . . .
OVERSIGHT: In last week’s issue of the Scholastic, an article on the 1961 5 Notre Dame baseball prospects failed to mention one of the key performers of the Irish nine. To Walt Osgood, a junior catcher from Compton, Cal., we extend our apologies for this unintentional omission. Walt hit over .300 last season while sharing the receiving chores with the graduated Ed Wojcik. In the District Four NCAA baseball playoffs at Minneapolis, Walt was named to the all-tournament team. . . .
The Scholastic
SCARPITTO FOR SIX
by BILL CARY
He’s not big as college players go. When you see him in a pregame warmup, he does not impress you more than any other player. But once the game I starts he commands your attention. > 9 From his right halfback position, he takes a handoff from the quarterback and skirts the end. The result is good rushing yardage for Notre Dame. Four times this season the result has been a touchdown and six points on the scoreboard for the Irish.
Bob Scarpitto hails from Rahway, N. J. He was a quarterback in high school but was converted to the halfback slot when he came to Notre Dame. For jg the statistically inclined, Bob packs 180 pounds on a 5-11 frame. He is 21 years old but as yet has not indicated if he
BOB SCARPITTO
The “Rahway Racer”
will vote Republican or Democratic in the coming elections.
Bob made his varsity debut in the Indiana opener in 1958 and his running and pass receiving helped the Irish to a 18-0 win. When the incumbent Jim Crotty was hurt in the second game of that season against SMU, Bob got his first starting assignment in the Duke game and gave a sparkling rushing performance. For the rest of the year, Bob was an off-and-on regular. In the final > game of the year, Bob had a 82-yard punt return against Southern California.
Bob’s log for his fine sophomore season reads: six passes caught for 155 yards and one touchdown; in rushing, 28 carries, 149 yards, 5.3 average gain; kickoff returns — 2 for 16 yards; punt returns — 4 for 142 yards, a 35.5 average; punting — 8 kicks for 877 yards, 33.7 yards per boot; scoring — one touchdown. Bob also made twelve tackles and broke up two passes.
* October 14, 1960
The 1959 season dawned and Joe Kuharich was making his coaching debut at his alma mater. On hand to greet Kuharich and his new coaching staff were only 13 lettermen. Coach Kuharich was worried by the lack of veteran talent at key positions, particularly the interior line and at the vital fullback spot. However, he did not express too much concern about the right halfback spot. He knew that, with Scarpitto and Crotty available, there was little cause for alarm. When Crotty was switched to fullback, Bob took full control of the position.
Although injured for part of the 1959 season, Scarpitto, nevertheless, paced the Irish in pass receiving, scoring, and kickoff returns, was second in punt returns and punting, and placed third in rushing and pass interceptions. He improved on his defensive record with 33 tackles and three passes broken up.
Bob scored the initial Irish touchdown with a two-yard slant against North Carolina which started Notre Dame on the way to a 28-8 victory. Against California he showed versatility by gathering in a 13-yard George Izo aerial and sprinting the remaining distance to complete a 27-yard scoring play. In the misty Northwestern thriller, Bob counted on a one-yard sweep and 52-yard pass from Don White.
Against Navy, Bob showed his ability to score when not on offense. He pilfered a Jim Maxfield flip out of the eager hands of the Middies’ Joe Bellino and sped 48 yards to score.
Bob’s four six-pointers this 1960 campaign give him a career total of 13. The Irish have seven more playing dates before the present season takes its place in history, starting with Michigan State tomorrow. These seven games will afford the “Rahway Racer” an opportunity to improve on his record. Also with Red Mack out for the year and Mike Lind hobbled with an old knee injury, the burden of proof for Irish success rests primarily on the shoulders of Robert Scarpitto. “13” is unlucky for some but Irish fans are confident that Number* 37 will answer this black magic with frequent visits to football’s Elysian Field, the end zone, a visit worth six points.
Wilsonmen Host Indiana In Cross-Country Clash
Notre Dame’s cross-country team hosts a powerful Indiana squad this afternoon on the Burke Memorial golf course after whipping Marquette, 21-35, , in the season opener last Friday.
The Irish, paced by Junior Tom Dempsey of Yonkers, N. Y., picked up the first three places in the meet and added seventh and eighth for their point total.
Dempsey was the meet individual winner* as he negotiated the four-mile course in 20 minutes and 20 seconds. Following close behind were Sophomore Bill Yaley and Captain Ron Gregory in that order.
(Continued on page 22)
McDonald Studios
“The Finest in Portraits”
• 129 N. MAIN Temporary location
IN PERSON
SHELLEY BERMAN
Presented by THE SOUTH BEND PRESS CLUB ★ .
Wed., October 19—8:30 p.m. Morris Civic Auditorium
Orch. & Mezz. $4.00 1st. Balcony $3.00 2nd Balcony $2.00 3rd Balcony $1.50
Box Office Open 10 am. - 6 p.m.
MAIL ORDERS ACCEPTED
LAW STUDENTS and SOPHOMORES
Eat At
EDDIE'S DINING ROOM
1345 Ironwood Drive
10% Student Discount
21
3
Cross-Country Clash
(Continued from page 21)
Coach Alex Wilson is quite optimistic about the team’s chances as five lettermen return from the Irish harrier squad of 1959 which finished fourth in the National Collegiate Athletic Association tourney, and second in the Indiana State Meet, the Central Collegiate Conference Meet and the IC4A Meet. Head
ing the returnees are two-year monogram winners, Gregory and Dan Rorke. Gregory holds Notre Dame records in the 880-yard run, the mile and the two-mile. He has been the number one man on the cross-country squad for the past two seasons.
Other monogram men returning are Dempsey and Seniors Chris Monahan and Dennis Johnston. Others who are fighting for places on the team are Terry Jones, Dennis Boyle, Bob Latsko, Terry
Leonard and Dave Wehlage, all reserves on last year’s squad, and Sophomore Yaley.
Coach Wilson is starting his tenth year as cross-country coach. In the nine years he has coached the sport here, Wilson has built a fine record, finishing first in the CCC meet five times, the Indiana State meet four times and has placed in the NCAA seven times, winning in 1957 and placing fourth last season.
INI .
Vaseline
aselir
do girls get in your hair?
This is the kind of problem ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic creates all the time. If you use water with your hair tonic (as most men do) count on ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic to replace the oil that water removes. Use all the water you want with ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic. Your hair looks great, stays neater longer. And just a little does a lot!
fTScraH VASELINE HAIR. TONIC "	‘VASELINE* IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF CHESEBROUGM-PONO'S INC.
■I HAIR TONIC
Hx&ONp-;
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
22
The Scholastic
9
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)
annual highlight which contribute approximately $4000. annually to the Bengal Missions in East Pakistan. Are you sure it’s not just you who “Ain’t got any money.”
Tom Medland
$	Grand Knight
Notre Dame Knights of Columbus
Ed: Mr. Medland’s point on the history of the Bouts is well taken; some people would say that at least one campus organization has risen from decadence. However, Mr. Medland has ignored the purpose of the commentary in question. We merely asked that the Bouts be considered a moral event, with-* out approval or criticism. Ftirthermore, is Mr. Medland sure that a very high possibility of infury (however unintended) would not render boxing immoral?
Editor:
There’s one thing wrong with Notre Dame’s proposed library: it’s not beau-41 tiful. Some people have compared it ^to a Miami Beach hotel and the electric company’s newest power station. I have wondered myself if it isn’t too much like a solemn mausoleum. However, new buildings always invite criticism in the form of extreme comparisons; I would like to offer a criticism which, I hope, is more substantial.
Let us accept the happy old notion that the beautiful is that which is pleas-*ing to the eye and apply it to our pro-” posed library. This notion works beautifully here, for with it we begin to realize the library’s unfortunate shortcoming — its unpleasantness to the eye. Indeed, as it appears in the architect’s drawing, the proposed library will cause the student a great uneasiness, not just a visual discomfort and a discomfort from the thought of spending endless
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pizza
•
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. on the hour.
•
Restaurant in back at
607 No. Michigan
hours in reading books. The basic uneasiness, a sense of repulsion, will arise from the library’s stark massive walls whose character is nothing but forbidding.
Big, bare walls have had a prominent position in the history of architecture. Their forbidding character is clearly seen in the Egyptian pyramids, whose triangular walls defy those who would disturb the tombs of the dead. In the Middle Ages castles and cities constructed battlements from which the inhabitants could rain down terror upon the besiegers. And today, our proposed library will also have such forbidding walls. Regrettably, this library itself suggests that it might be called the
To err is human...
to erase, divine with
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Typewriter Paper
Try it! Just the flick of a pencil-eraser and your typing errors are gone I It’s like magic I The special surface of Corrasable Bond erases without a trace. Your first typing effort is the finished copy when Corrasable puts things right. This fine quality bond gives a handsome appearance to all your work. Saves time and money, too!
Erasable Corrasable is available in light, medium, heavy weights and onion skin. In convenient 10O-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. A Berkshire Typewriter Paper, backed by the famous Eaton name.
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND Made only by Eaton
EATON PAPER CORPORATION PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS
Library of Forbidden Books—although such a title would be peculiarly significant in light of our Chui ch’s history.
Why is it that “modern architecture,” with its passion for verticals and horizontals, has failed to use the “box design” beautifully? It seems that the architects of the 20th century buildings — and our proposed library will be one of these — employ the box design or theme, but forget the variations. The Greeks built their temples on a rectangular plan, yet avoided harsh exteriors by constructing airy colonnades. The Italian masters of the Renaissance raised palaces following a similar plan,
(Continued on page 24)
^October 14, 1960
Gref lb	f
Say what you mean with the bestselling guide to clear, concise writing.
THE ELEMENTS
OF STYLE
by Wm. Strunk, Jr., and
E. B. White
Your bookseller has it.	$2.50
MACMILLAN
NOW you CAN GET
EDITIONS IN ENGLISH of Latin, Greek, and Modern Foreign Language High School and College texts.
<TK>
We can supply the translations and dictionaries and modern language phonograph records of all publishers at lowest prices!
Write for Free Catalog
THE TRANSLATION PUBLISHING CO., INC.
67 Irving Place	New York 3, N. Y.
Repercussions
(Continued from page 23) yet relieved the austerity by handsome arrangements of orders and proportions. Even the Victorian designers have left us gaudy, but continually intriguing mansions. Considering, then, the history of variation, and the responsibility of present-day architects to create new variations, why must we settle for a library which promises to resemble a big boring box?
Forgive me if my comments betray a certain flippancy, but perhaps I realize such criticism will not really affect the course of things. I merely hope that such considerations of our architectural values might be justifiable in Notre Dame’s current climate of excellence. Good and bad critics have always been judging good and bad architecture. For a long time now, they have just been beating their heads against a stone wall.
John Zaugg
51 Sorin Hall
Wranglers Request New Applicants To Fill Spaces
With a limited number of memberships now available, the Wranglers, traditional campus discussion group, invites applications from all interested sophomores, juniors and seniors.
This semester’s bi-weekly meetings are considering the relation between Christianity and classical thought, to be complimented next term by a discussion of Christianity’s relationship to the thought of the moderns. A paper on ancient Israel, based on guest Professor Eric Voegelin’s book, Israel and Revelation, was presented at the initial meeting. Reading of the paper was followed by discussion among the members and the faculty moderator, Professor Frank O’Malley of the English Department.
Unlike previous years, applicants will not be asked to express themselves to a series of formal interviews. A more humane alternative has been selected. Those interested are encouraged to apply before Tuesday, Oct. 18, by contacting, in person or through letter, Jack Engler, 325 Walsh Hall.
Academic background is not as important as a serious attitude and the ability to think and discuss coherently.
"Welcomes All Notre Dame Men"
Your Headquarters For
Q OMEGA WATCHES
Artcarvec
DIAMOND RINGS
Bulova
WATCHES
PATEK PHILIPPE
The World’s Foremost Watch
FINE CJATCW 2EPA12
C ee y TEED 1 yr.
• -
ARTCARVED DIAMONDS and WEDDING RINGS Jewelry HAMILTON • ELGIN • BULOVA LONGINES • WITTNAUER WATCHES
J. TRETHEWEY, JEWELER “Joe the Jeweler” 104 North Main Street
14 Kt. Gold Charms Bracelets - Pendants Crosses - Wedding Bands
Charge accounts available
121 W. WASHINGTON CE 4-1311
24
The Scholastic^
Back Page
(Continued from page 26) discussed and since most of the art work is not yet completed, there is only one feature that should be mentioned. Above the altar there is a truly inspiring mosaic, depicting Jesus Mighty God. It covers the top quarter of the wall and is done in such a devastating array of colors (there are over one thousand shades of red and the background is gold) that before it one feels genuine awe. However, as though to atone for this beauty, the wise planners have put a marble canopy over the altar; the top of which is an abbreviated dome, the top of which obscures part of the mosaic.
This article is not meant to be academic rock-throwing. It is intended to be merely a summation of the disap-gjpointments registered by many sincerely
amazed Catholics. Nor is it meant to imply that there is not beauty in the Shrine, for the altars in the crypt and the confession chapel are indeed beautiful. However, in proportion to the work taken as a whole, these successes are far outweighed.
The point that so many have made is that here was a great opportunity — for the Church in America, in the twentieth century. Here was our chance to build a monument reflecting the prodigious growth of Catholicism in the United States. Parts has Notre Dame, Constantinople has Santa Sophia, Rome has St. Peter’s. But America can only boast the abortive union of Gothic and Byzantine — failing to achieve the good points of either style, inheriting the faults of both, dedicated to the past. Today, to many people, the Shrine of the Immaculate Conception is an enormous disappointment.
RUBIN CLEANERS
Save 20%—Use Student Discount Card
217 E. JEFFERSON
Downtown—on the Bus Line
Complete Laundry Service
★
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years!
ice
GUARANTEES
A FASTER. CLOSER. longer-lasting ELECTRIC SHAVE
Mister... you’re going to wear that shave all day!
START WITH THIS NEW FORMULA BEFORESHAVE LOTION, stop 4 o'clock stubble trouble! You can shave blade-close, all-day clean, without "tenderizing" your face, when you use Pro-Electric Before-Shave Lotion. It contains ISOPHYL® to give your shaver extra glide-power —refreshes you with that brisk, bracing Qld Spice scent. 1.00 no federal tax.
PRO/ ELECTRIC
THE BEFORE-SHAVE LOTION
/ELECTRIC
SHAVE LOTION
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
; r	• • •
October 14, 1960	25
9
Back Pajt
in the sixties,
sl
failure
The archbishop announced that a shrine was to be built on the Catholic University campus. It was to be dedicated to the Immaculate Conception and was to be the largest church in the Western world. That was 1920. Today the exterior of that church is completed and work is continuing on the interior. To many Catholics, the Shrine of the Immaculate Conception is a great disappointment.
I am one of these Catholics and in this article I hope to set down some of the criticisms which have been levelled at the lack of imagination, poor taste and reactionary tendencies in the church which spoiled such a wonderful opportunity.
And a wonderful opportunity it was. Supported by donations from Catholics all over the world, 67 million dollars have already been spent on the Shrine with an additional nineteen million allotted to complete the interior. With such financial backing, it is difficult to imagine that fault could be found; yet many people have.
THE UNIVERSAL SHRINE
The major shortcoming stems from the fact that the Shrine should have had a very definite place in the twentieth century church. It should have been the particular product of a particular time and locale. Its defenders say that since it is a Shrine, all the areas of the world which contributed should feel a kinship — this is ridiculous. An imposing Shrine could easily have been built which could have been appreciated by visitors from all over the world and which could have had its place in the modern American church as well. For down through the centuries, churches have always reflected the best in the taste and design of their times. Could anyone say this of the Shrine of the Immaculate Conception?
The wide gap between the Shrine and the church of today is most easily shown by a quick examination of modern Catholicism. Even before 1900, there was much dissatisfaction at the chasm which
26
had long existed between the Mass and the people, for the Communion rail had become a barrier between the congregation who were saying rosaries and the priest who was saying Mass. Then began a reaction which is now reaching its culmination. The dialogue or participative Mass, though galling still to many, is the new trend in the Church and will possibly be made standard form in the immediate future. To enable the people to participate actively in the Mass, to eventually offer the services in English, to make altar rails less formidable, to group the congregation around the altar, this is the aim today.
An examination of the Shrine will show the disparity between church and church. Instead of being close to the altar, the people sit in the same long thin rows which were the blight of the gorgeous Gothic churches and which caused the elevation of the host because the people were too far away to see. The position of the altar itself is ludicrous. It is over 100 feet from the Communion rail. Participation in Mass at the Shrine is like watching a Notre Dame football game from the Tower of O’Shaughnessy hall. The microphone on the altar which pipes the priest’s words to the pews proves that this ridiculous situation bothered the planners of the Shrine. And so, rather than grouping the people around the altar or moving the altar nearer the congregation, they have separated the two as far as possible and then installed an intercom.
Nor can the defense be used that the church was too far under way to be changed once this new concept of participation was adopted. For, although this movement has sprang up among the laity within the last ten years, it has been discussed and agreed upon by the clergy since the early 1900s. Also, if anyone should have foreseen the trend, it was the Washington hierarchy, for the District of Columbia has long been one of the most active areas for the dialogue mass. Finally, if the planners were farsighted enough to forbid the use of steel (which would last a mere thousand years), they surely
should have been able to see twenty-five * years ahead.
Yet if the Shrine’s failure to conform to the twentieth century church were its only failing, if it were a gorgeous work of art, a worthy example of American good taste and architecture, if it looked like the modem church, then many would have passed over its short- : sighted planning. Yet, the appearance ; of the Shrine has evoked disappointment | ( and criticism from architects, artists, 9 ; laymen.
“BEAUTY” UNJUSTIFIED
The exterior is imposing. However, this is hollow praise. Any pile of stone 329 feet high, 495 feet long and 240 feet wide is bound to be imposing. This enormity often inspires people to call the Shrine beautiful; a more careful ( examination fails to justify the term 9 “beauty.” The front of the Shrine, with the conventional rose window, is by far the most pleasing view, and the statues of Notre Dame’s Mestrovic are simple, powerful and in good taste. Too bad as much cannot be said about the rest.
The sides have absolutely no style. Many think they are incomplete, for they have none of the edifying parallelism of the Gothic tradition and not enough of the ' domed effect of the Byzantine. They leave one completely uninspired because there is nothing there but size. The rear of the church is even worse — its only beautiful feature being another sculpture by Mestrovic done in relief and set so high on the wall that it can be seen only by birds or those who buy the pictured brochure sold at the Shrine. As though to compensate for this utter lack of imagination, the planners have topped the Shrine with a dome, done in,^ i gaudy blue and ornamented with symbols which only a learned religious or a brochure reader could ever understand. The sole structural feature of beauty and impressiveness is the cara-lon, donated by the Knight’s of Columbus and, as one might imagine from the uninspired planning of the Shrine, added as an afterthought.
Since the interior has already been (Continued on page 25)
The Scholastic^
9
NAME: John Hulse AGE: 27 MAJOR: Bus. Adm.
PRESENT JOB: Telephone Manager, Sioux City, Iowa
When John Hulse was a senior at the U. of South Dakota, he had his own set of “do’s” and “don’ts.” Don’t become a mere cipher on somebody’s payroll. Don’t sit on the shelf waiting for your first taste of responsibility. Do get a job where you have a chance to show your stuff right from the start. Do the job.
John knew his B.S. in Business Administration could lead him into almost any field. He chose the telephone business and joined Northwestern Bell.
One of his first assignments: streamlining operating procedures for the telephone offices of Iowa’s five largest cities. In this work John showed good judgment and sound organizing ability.
Today he is Telephone Manager of Sioux City, Iowa.
Besides managing day-to-day operations, helping plan tomorrow’s telephone growth is an important part of John’s job. A typical example is the work he does with the Sioux City Industrial Development Association. In this role, he’s the answer man on projecting, planning and supplying the communications needs of new industry. He’s shown above with Bob Sweeney, manager of the Sioux City Chamber of Commerce.
“You must always be thinking of the future in this business,” John says. “We have to stay ahead. I think a man who has something to offer this outfit won’t have a minute’s worry about what it can do for him.”
If you’re a capable guy—looking for an action job with rapid retvards for the man who can handle it—you’ll want to visit your Placement Office for literature and additional information.
“Our number one aim is to have in all management jobs the most vital, intelligent, positive and imaginative men we can possibly find.”
Frederick R. Kappel, President American Telephone & Telegraph Co.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
9
Even though modem electronic computers work at almost unbelievable speeds, the scientist is way ahead of them.
Put quite simply, scientists have been thinking up complex problems faster than even the fastest computers could handle them. To close this gap, IBM created STRETCH, the world's fastest, most powerful computer. The first STRETCH system will go to the AEC at Los Alamos to aid in nuclear reactor design. This goliath can do a million additions or subtractions a second. It can “read” the equivalent of four million characters per minute from magnetic tape. It can print the equivalent of three good-sized novels every hour. It can perform all these operations simultaneously, and if necessary
IBM
pause midway in the problem and tackle a more important one.
Creating such tools and putting them to work for science—or for business, industry, or government—is exciting, important work. It calls for talents and skills of every kind, from liberal arts to Boolean algebra to astrophysics.
So whatever your particular talents and skills, there may be just the kind of job at IBM you’ve always wanted. The IBM representative will be visiting your campus this year. Why not ask him about it? Your placement office can make an appointment. For further information about opportunities at IBM, write, outlining your background and interests, to:
Manager of Technical Employment
IBM Corporation, Dept. 887
590 Madison Avenue
New York 22, New York.
NOW TO SQUEEZE A MILLION CALCULATIONS INTO ONE SECOND