*—
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
r	-	_
•DI5CE-QVA5I 5EMPER VICTVRV5- -VIVE •QVA5I-CRA5-MORITURV5- :
Vol. XXXIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, June 2, 1900.	No? 34.-
May at Notre Dame.
ANTHONY BROGAN, I 90 I.
rpHIS might be Athens, here might Athens be In all that earth can offer to make fair:
This haze is soft as hangs in Attic air;
And morn and eve our Western sky can see
Its chastened glories from the lake look free
On scenes that might with Attic land compare.
Here hyacinth, and honeyed locust there,
Shake off their sweets; the robin in wild glee
From this cool pine pipes soon and late the same.
O’er lilacs purple-pale I hear his call,
The sun-steeped singer with the breast of flame,
And silver-toned note above them all.
And here a spirit that I can not name, .
With hands upraised doth pray lest shadows fall.
Some Advantages of the Trust.
ALFRED J. DUPERIER.
CAREFUL examination ison of the reports of of Statistics ” will show
and compar-the “ Bureau that for the
last thirty years wages have steadily increased and prices have decreased. This change has taken place since the year eighteen hundred and eighty when trusts first began to.form, and it may safely be attributed .to them. True, the price of some articles may have risen in the last few years, but the cause of this must be traced to an increased demand and to the . depression of some years ago which was generally felt throughout the whole industrial system and which can not be attributed in particular to the trusts.
The opponents of trusts would do away with them simply because they destroy cpm-
petition. It might be well to ask whether trusts do, de facto, destroy competition, and * whether competition is of itself uncondition- . ally good? Does not a system of competition result annually in millions of dollars of waste, thus throwing a greater and a heavier burden upon the consuming masses ? Does not competition lower prices to a ruinous and disastrous level?
When industries were young and in a process of development, competition was the “ life of trade,” but in the light of experience. and present industrial conditions we may well -question its usefulness, and its value. In his opinion in a case before the New York Court of Appeals, Judge Gray said: “It is to be doubted whether competition is invariably a public benefaction, for it may be carried on to such an extent as to become a general evil.” The common law is very pronounced in its attitude toward monopolies and combinations’ in restraint of trade or against public policy. Massachusetts follows the common law, perhaps more strictly than any of our states, and in a recent case decided in that state, it was held that “a combination of manufacturers intended not to restrict production, but ta maintain prices ata fair and uniform level and to prevent the effects to producers of fluctuating prices, is not in restraint of trade nor against public policy.”	V-Z?j
Trusts are the nineteenth century outgrowth X of over-production, of ruinous competition and infinitesimal profit and of organized labor opposition? After the year eighteen hundred ■ ? and eighty, when labor was strongly entrenched in various unions, when over-production was the rule; when competition was most galling, : prices fell from sixteen .arid two-thirds per Zf. centum to-fifty;per centum. It was in this condition of affairs that manufacturers found’ themselves forced to turn out their products ^3?;



NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
while the cost of production and wages remained the same. What business could survive under those conditions ? Manufacturers found their only relief in incorporation. It was the protest of solvency against insolvency; it was the trust—an organization as highly self - protective as is a labor union or a confederation of states.
I will not seek to offer any apology for the accidental evils of trusts; my aim is to show their connection with and relation to the one potent factor in a nation’s growth, its progress and its supremacy, namely, commerce. And to-day more than ever is it true that commercial greatness is the best guarantee of a nation’s power. It is on this ground of commerce that I will endeavor to show that trusts are the natural outgrowth of our present industrial conditions; that they are necessary for our commercial growth; that they produce certainty in trade, and that therefore they should be properly regulated and- controlled, not opposed, by legislation.
Trusts are the natural outgrowths of present industrial conditions, and as long as these conditions endure trusts will exist. The tendency of everything to-day is toward unification and concentration. The necessity for concentrated capital is self-evident. Our industries demand to be carried on on a larger and more extensive scale;, if we desire to become commercially great our products must be able to'compete side by side with those of foreign countries; our manufacturers must eliminate all waste; they must lessen the cost of production; they must employ efficient labor, and highly improved machinery must constantly be kept in use. Small manufacturers can not do this; they have not the capital, and besides competition would soon run them into insolvency.
Trusts seek rather to enlarge the margin of profit at the bottom by lessening the cost of production, than at the top by increasing the selling price of products. Concentrated capital gives them the power of employing the most improved methods, and thus of cheapening production. Owing to their oneness of • management, they are better able to know the exact conditions of the markets, and thus by conforming their, output to. these conditions, they are enabled to maintain prices at a fair and uniform level.	.
Capital is as absolutely necessary to labor as labor is to capital. There is no possibility that one of these factors can get along without the other. Yet we know that organized
labor was a constant menace to the small manufacturer. Strongly secured in various labor unions, it endeavored to dictate how manufactories were to be run, who were to be employed, what amount of work was to be done, and what wages were to be paid. Surely trusts are not to be destroyed simply because they represent defensive capital against aggressive labor.
Napoleon realized too late that the surest way of defeating England was by stripping her of her commercial supremacy; and he foresaw that the most effective means to accomplish this was by the creation of trusts. Trusts are an absolute necessity to our commercial growth. They exist in almost every European country, and while England has no trusts to-day, yet in the development of her commerce, she applied the most abnormal aspects of the trust system to Ireland and to India; and Adam Smith’s idea of the unconditioned utility of competition was based upon the fallacy that England, and England alone, was destined by Providence to be the work-shop of the world. If present indications count for aught we may soon expect to see the springing up of trusts in England; for on a recent occasion in the House of Commons, Mr. Balfour said: “We are gradually losing our commercial prestige to Germany and America, for we are a people of enormous waste.”	-
The German technical journals for the year eighteen hundred and ninety-seven enumerate one hundred and eighty trusts, some of which are subsidized. We must recognize the progress that Germany has made both industrially and commercially in the last ten years. The chemical trust has existed in France for twenty years, the iron trust almost as long. Russia has jealously guarded her iron, brandy, sugar, petroleum and oil trusts. We can not deny that these countries have progressed somewhat commercially—England is losing her power. We have to meet the products of these countries turned out by these trusts into the markets of the world. Are we going to do .it by reverting to the old-time methods, to the small manufacturer, with his meagre capital, running the risks of over-production, of waste, of merciless competition; or will we retain the trusts with their large cap-, itals and improved methods arid consequent advantages?
It is. an undeniable fact that concentrated capital to-day by the use of highly improved
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
machinery has rendered practicable the doing away with almost every kind of waste. Some of our modern manufacturers of glass, paper, cotton and linen goods will bear testimony to this fact. But more strikingly is it seen in the handling of low-grade ores of gold, silver, copper and iron. Owing to the inadequacy of
especially in Colorado, as waste; but now, since the Edison and other smelting and separating find these abandoned
old methods, mines, had to be abandoned the introduction of scientific devices for the ore, capitalists fields very profitable.
Some of the most ardent opponents of trusts will tell you that they are the enemies of invention, and in the same breath, they most positively state that improved machinery is the enemy of labor; - they forget that the advancement of one means the denial of the other. The question, why speak of over-production when there are thousands who need the very necessaries of life, is often asked. In answer, it may be well to say that philanthropy and trade are not to be confounded, nor is Christian charity to be mistaken for five per centum. It is to be borne in mind that the
national good which improved methods brought to our commercial growth far weighs any private inconvenience.
An eminent American prelate has said
have out-
that
we are gradually tending toward certainty and unity in every branch of science, philosophy and religion; and though the development of trade is entirely independent of. merely philosophical ideals, yet the fact that these ideals exist must tend to make us .the better appreciate the industrial, social and political tranquillity which the advent of the trust has brought into our national life. That they are giving us industrial and economical certainty can not. be disputed. They are the one factor that has reduced our trade to a greater point of certainty to-day than it ever had before, ' and in no way do they more successfully bring about this result than by promoting steadiness in the labor-market and regularity in prices. By creating a better understanding between labor and capital, they impart a steady- character to labor—this is evidenced by the fact that strikes were more numerous and more disastrous between the years eighteen hundred and thirty-five, when competition was rife and manufactories were in an undeveloped condition, than they have been for the last ten years.
Competition destroys all certainty in the
labor-market. Manufacturers are constantly at its mercy. They are either driven into insolvency, thus throwing the laborer out of employment, or else wages are reduced so low . that laborers can not earn a living wage.
It is evident that when six or seven concerns are united under one management a ' better understanding of the conditions of the markets can be obtained, thus enabling a more thorough regulation of production. On the same principle will many who come to our large cities, hoping to secure the positions of those who must live in cities, be forced of ' necessity to stay at home or in their proper sphere, and thus will the trust, while promoting steadiness in the labor-market, prove a great social benefactor.
Labor is already strongly organized, and even aims at embracing the whole labor.of, the civilized world in one grand federation. Now since trusts represent organized capital, they certainly tend to lessen the gulf between capital and labor, by bringing them into closer relation. To-day more than ever do they realize their absolute interdependence. Representatives of these two organizations can now more readily confer, and arbitration will substitute all other methods of settling differences. This is a sure guarantee of industrial tranquillity. Of course, this does not mean -that there will never arise any differences of opinion or clashing of interests, because it is from these very struggles of men fighting for what they consider their rights, that this = understanding will be promoted, and legislation will the better succeed where arbitration fails.	■	.
Why speak rantingly of the accidental evils of some trusts, for those evils, however great, do not justify the wholesale extinction of them,—.a remedy which would be far worse than the cure. It is to be borne in mind that the power for evil of trusts is now much diminished by intercommunication on the one hand and public sentiment on the other, and . \ by the necessity of keeping prices so low as not to tempt outside capital. ’	:
It must also be remembered that the proper: . office of legislation is constructive and remedial, ; not destructive and coercive, and in a matter so changeable as trade and commerce; and in a government by the people like ours, legislation should follow not precede the; public demand. In Europe, owing to riper conditions /■ and the fuller power of its executive governments, they have arrived at a greater scope of


NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
industrial peace, through compulsory arbitration, co-operation and political control, where practicable—conditions that must be obtained by us through the education of the masses arising from the relation of organized capital and organized labor.
Let us not be hasty in our condemnation of trusts, but rather watch their operations. If they prove the best guarantee of our commercial growth, be assured that it is useless to seek to oppose them with arbitrary laws. Let them be viewed on the broad ground of commerce and the public welfare. And since in the very nature of things, and in the light of experience, the end of legislation is to build up and not destroy, let them be regulated and controlled, not destroyed.
Llorente.
JOHN H. DRACHBAR.
Those that oppose the Church on the question of the Inquisition base all their arguments upon Llorente, a Spanish priest, who proved himself unfaithful both to his Church and his country. His history repeatedly exaggerates facts to such an extent as to make them appear improbable if not impossible. He frequently makes statements which contradict themselves on account of their improbable and mythical character. Prescott, himself an admirer and a frequent counsellor of Llorente, points out the fact that Llorente exaggerated the number of heretics burned at Seville by 6400. A contemporary of Llorente, Moriana, gives the number at 1600, while Llorente gives it at 8000. Another fact that he burnt all except the . most important records of the Inquisition after obtaining the material for his history (Edition 1818, p. 145) is very strong evidence against the truth of his statements. In spite of all these exaggerations and perversions of the truth I propose to prove almost exclusively by the statements from Llorente that the Church was in no way encouraged by the operations of the Inquisition,,nor responsible for its actions; on the contrary, that it did all in its power to control or suppress it..
It has generally been conceded that the Jews in Spain made several attempts to undermine and destroy the Spanish government. At one time they incited the Saracens from Africa, and with their assistance they hoped to
establish an independent government. (Jost’s Geschichte der Israeliten, v. 147.) In 1473 a plot was discovered which, had it been carried out, would have put the Jews in possession of Gibraltar. (Jost’s Geschichte der Israeliten vii. 70.) Many of these Jews pretended to be Christians, though they remained Jews at heart. A few of these even received Holy Orders that they might thus work secretly and treacherously against the king and the queen. They were the secret enemies of the state, while the Mussulmen, more honorable in some cases., openly professed their enmity to the Christian government. Yet there were some treacherous persons; in fact, many of them among the Saracens, who professed to be Christians. In these Ferdinand and Isabella had a dangerous enemy. They wished to lessen the power of their enemies, and they used not the means at hand—vigilance and the force of arms—but sought to make the system of Inquisition established by the Church a means for attaining their end. The Spanish Inquisition was nothing else than a religious institution used for political purposes, since Jews and Saracens were particular victims of it.	.
- To prevent the threatened danger to the kingdom, Ferdinand and Isabella solicited permission from Pope Sixtus IV. “ to re-establish a tribunal for the trial of those charged with heresy or relapsed into Mohammedanism or Judaism.” On the 1st of November, 1478, Pope Sixtus IV. issued a Bull which authorized the establishment of a tribunal for searching out and punishing heretics. This Bull was obtained by the Spanish sovereigns on a very imperfect representation of their intentions. It specified that two or three dignitaries of the Church, whoever Ferdinand and Isabella might choose, were to conduct the affairs of the tribunal, acting in conjunction with the Ordinaries of the place; the Pope intended the. Inquisition to be purely spiritual in its nature. The Pope was deceived, however, and, no sooner had the true character of the Inquisition become known to him than he took all the measures in his power, to modify or suppress it entirely.	,
The inquisitors were officials of the crown responsible only to the crown; for the Pope, since he thought Ferdinand and Isabella were acting in good faith, gave them full power to-appoint or. remove the inquisitors as they saw. fit. On the contrary, this f power was abused. Therefore, the Inquisition was purely
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

a state tribunal whose functions originated from the crown and were in a great measure controlled by the crown. You can not call ’ the Inquisition a Church tribunal, because the ecclesiastics were the instruments by which it was carried out.
To prove this I advance the following arguments set forth by the writer of the article on the History of the Inquisition in Volume 28 of the Dublin Review, which I deem one of the most reliable and convincing’ articles on the subject. These statements the author claims to have taken almost exclusively
from Llorente, an authority to the Church.
Upon learning of the true institution, Pope Sixtus IV.
most unfriendly
character of the on the 24th of
January, 1482, addressed a new brief, and a similar one again in 1483, to the royal sovereigns, in which he complained that he had not been sufficiently informed as to the nature of the power sought from him, and that he had been betrayed into a concession at variance with the decrees of his predecessors and the observances of the common law (Llorente, page 395, vol. 4). The Holy Father intended that the Ordinaries of the place where the inquisitors were acting, should be associated with these inquisitors. For denying the Ordinaries all connection with the Inquisition, the Spanish sovereigns were reproached in the strongest terms by the Holy Father.
The king and queen, however, knew the advantage of the concession they had obtained, and they refused to surrender their power to the Holy Father; for, as Ranke says, all the revenue arising from confiscation appertained to the crown. This is confirmed, according to my author by Guizot, Leurmont and Deo. I find confirmation of the fact concerning the' revenues in Parsons also. The Pope endeavored to provide a remedy by affording the accused the privilege of an appeal either to himself in person or to a judge of appeal resident in Spain. (Llorente, IV, 411.)
In many instances persons accused were tried by special judges named directly or
484, 489, 455)- In spite of this many persons fled to Rome and obtained absolution from the Pope himself. Thus in the year 1488, 230' were absolved by order of the Pope, and in 1498, 250 received a similar absolution (Llorente, I, 285). Sometimes the Popes directly interfered, even in Spain itself. In i486, 103 heretics were absolved by the Pope (Llorente, I, 281).
Again the decisions of the inquisitors were sometimes set aside and annulled by a formal < sentence (Llorente II, p. 16), and at other times the inquisitors were called to an account by ' the Holy Father, censured and excommunicated (Llorente, IV, 396). These and similar interpositions of the Popes, “which might be V culled from the unwilling admissions of; '• Llorente,” will serve to disconnect the court v of Rome “from the odium of all that is most ■ odious in the Spanish Inquisition.”	-
To show with what a dogged and stern deter- -mination the Spanish crown resisted or evaded every attempt on the part" of the Pope to alter the constitutions of the tribunal, or to /. control its actions, my author advances the following facts taken from Llorente:	.
Sometimes the inquisitors refused to receive the appeal of the Pope, and at times suppressed the briefs altogether (Llorente I, 476); they threw difficulties in the way of the execution of the sentence of the Holy Father, and even anticipated its execution to defeat the expected reversal of their decisions in such an appeal.	-
In 1510, Ferdinand and Isabella forbade the , papal bulls to be received in Spain. On other occasions the special judges appointed by the Pope were prohibited from undertaking their, commission, and those who' fled to Rome for absolution were forbidden by Ferdinand to return. With such evidence no reasonable person would deny that the Popes were . powerless to control the Inquisition; that they . did all they could to oppose .it on account ; of the severity and rigor of its decrees. This is shown by the decrees of Pope Paul III. . when, in 1546, he refused to introduce the . Spanish form of Inquisition into Naples, and . ordered the Neopolitans to retain the Roman tribunal, which Llorente himself admits was : notable for its leniency (Llorente, II. 147)	.
In 1563, Pius IV. refused a similar request;of J the Milanese (Llorente II. 237). Furthermore, ' f in all the inquisitions instituted and controlled by the Church it has never been known to order the execution of capital punishment . (Balme’s “ Protestantism and Catholicity Com- • >.? pared,” page 166). This proves that the spirit of the Holy Fathers was exactly the opposite * of that which is said to have been shown in the Spanish Inquisition. By these facts it has been shown that the Spanish Inquisition was entirely a political institution for political gain, and that the Church was in no way responsible for the operations of that, tribunal.
^3^



57°	NOTRE DAME
The Deed that Told.
PATRICK J. MCDONOUGH.
Owen Hughes, chief clerk in the firm of Talbot and Company, brokers, sped along Riverside Drive,, mounted on a wheel of the latest pattern. The weather was cool and windy, rather unusually so for .April, but this only made cycling the more enjoyable. Hughes rode, at a. brisk rate, for he was young and strong and the holder of more than one amateur record. His journey was uneventful until he reached One Hundred and First Street.
A poor Italian woman from the East side, in her haste to avoid an automobile, dropped some sticks from the large bundle of kindling wood she carried on her head. Hughes at once dismounted and replaced the detached pieces — he did not heed the taunts of some members of the Bowery Wheelmen’s Association who were passing at the time—then he escorted her in safety to the footpath on the opposite side. The recipient of his attention gave him a grateful look and thanked him profusely in a language he did not understand.
When about to remount his wheel a sudden gust of wind blew off his cap which he immediately recovered. No sooner had he done so than a lady’s hat vvent scurrying past him.. He tried to capture, it but was unsuccessful. It was blown clear off the roadway and lodged securely in the branches of a tree that grew at the foot of the escarpment. A short distance on his right was an opening that led to the esplanade below. Hughes descended the stone stairway and climbed the tree, for in his boyhood he was an adept in the art of tree climbing. On reaching the Drive the owner of the hat awaited him. She was a young lady ’ of unusual attractiveness and evident . refinement. In a few appropriate words she . thanked him for the service he had rendered. Hughes felt embarrassed—he did not know why. He blushed, stammered an apology for disarranging the chiffon and aigret, which he attributed to his clumsiness, then raised his , cap and resumed his journey. .
. “Well, what a fool I am,” he muttered, “to be disconcerted by a woman’s face, I that have seen thousands more beautiful; but yet there was something in the one I have just . witnessed that bespoke innate modesty and goodness and sincerity—yes,” he continued, “something j shall not soon forget.” \ .
SCHOLASTIC.
The last part of his soliloquy was only too true. For weeks afterward, the vision of a fair face set in a background of wavy tresses, flitted through the chambers of his soul like an imprisoned sunbeam.	/
About a month after the incident recorded ;
•	n
the directors of Talbot	and	Company	held	(
their half-yearly meeting.	An	exceptionally	;
large dividend was declared which the board	;
was unanimous in attributing to the foresight	J
and enterprise of their chief clerk. His	|
suggestions during the preceding year had	I
been most valuable. He had forecasted the.	{
fluctuations of the stock market with wonder-	I
ful precision, and through his tact and ability the Company had gained a host of patrons.
The inevitable happened. The name of Owen Hughes was placed on the director’s list, and as if to add ceremony to the appointment he was invited to dinner at the home of Mr. Talbot.
The reception tendered by his host was ; most cordial. They discussed current topics for some minutes when Mr. Talbot apologet- : ically remarked: “By the way, Mr. Hughes, I forgot. I shall introduce you to my niece, Miss Annie Talbot, who returned from Belgium Christmas last.” And forthwith Mr. Hughes was. bowing in the presence of the lady he had met on the Drive a month before. The recognition was mutual, and Miss Talbot immediately explained to her uncle the circumstances of their previous meeting.
Another year has passed and April has again come. Riverside Drive is crowded with cyclists and pedestrians. The trees are beginning to bourgeon, and there is an odor of springtime in the air. Down below, the Hudson broad and deep and majestic rolls its tributary to the Atlantic. Its surface, rippled here and there by river craft, glimmers in the rays of the setting. sun. Among those on . the Drive _ who take in the panorama are Owen Hughes and Annie Talbot. Both stand instinctively as they reach a certain point. He smiles blandly and remarks: .	-
“Here we first met, and thanks to that capricious breath of April that carried off your . hat, or you might never have accepted me.”
“Oh no!” she replied, “anyone on the Drive would have brought me my hat, but of the hundreds that witnessed the plight of the poor Italian woman only you went to her assistance.”
“And to that I am to attribute^ my good fortune in being your husband?” .
“And I in being your wife,” she added with a smile, as they both turned homeward together. -
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Si*
. Varsity Verse.
Irish School Life.
A RONDEAU.
DY one chance thought as sunshine’s gleam Short-lived upon the sullen stream
That flows unending through the mind,
We lift our souls on earth confined
Above the bonds in which we dream.
To wanderers where the forests teem With gloomy shades, the sun’s bright beam May light a nook with buds entwined— By one chance thought.
Our lives are nobler than we deem;
We hold them oft in slight esteem;
But moments come when mortals blind Uplift their eyes, to earth inclined, And see beyond the things that seem— By one chance thought.
F. C. S.
A PRAYER.
This tribute is no flatterer’s meed, .
With baited hook to ply for worldly gain;
By friendship writ in simple words and plain, Nor urged by hoping vanity nor greed.
Your form to mould, fair nature took much heed;
And it to match the higher power did deign .
Your inward life to fashion so no stain ' Should sully what it perfect had decreed.
Youth, with polished brow and night-dipt hair.
And beauty-loving eye and gentle soul, .
That sinks or swells as winds may sigh or blow, May your fair nature’s channel broader wear
Like to a lordly stream’s, and as it roll Enriching all it touches in its flow.
TO A ROSE.
The canker blossoms fair as- any rose,
The tansey near the bye-path is as sweet;
Yet never can we deem as lovely those
As you, in which their scent and beauty meet.
FRIENDSHIP
The bands that love’s mild sister twines
Have nought with religion nor race,
Nor deem of difference in climes,
But live through her own nameless grace. And such, dear friend, I feel must be The ties that bind me near to thee.
TO ONE IN HEAVEN.-
The mocking-bird with his deft art Now plays the thrush’s tender' part; And with his lyre in sympathy Vibrates a hidden chord in me. Though in his song less joy than pain That , he should cease I am not fain.
Lost love, to know this melody, ■ This touching, melting part, Could in your soul one thought of me From its still slumber start!— -	,
But mortals .wish through sleight or aft, 1
For that which can. not be,-
A. J. B,
JOHN JOSEPH HENNESSY.
The public schools in Ireland are known as national schools, with the name of the town added. Thus the school to which I went in search of information is called SS. Peter’s and Paul’s Male National School. SS. Peter and ' Paul is the English name for Kilmallock. A very pleasing name indeed, but which survives only in the governmental buildings. The name of Kilmallock was given to this town in honor of Saint Mochellock, who in the sixth century founded the abbey which now stands in ruins.
The average daily attendance at school of boys from six to sixteen years of age is about one hundred and fifty. The number is large because education is free from cost and is compulsory. Every national school is a two-story building. On the first floor are the boys, and . the girls, who are more numerous than the boys, are on the second floor. Their playgrounds are separate; in’fact, the boys have no special grounds, and the time for luncheon is not the same. Every national school has four men and four women teachers—the master or mistress, and two assistants and a monitor. The classes, which range from the sixth to the - first, are equally divided between the master and assistants; while the monitor has the a-b-c class, and has charge also of the school-room; in fact, he has ho enviable position. He has to open the gate at 8 a. m., light the fire if the room is cold; after school, sweep and dust the room, and take care of . everything that is in the room for public use.
The monitor’s term lasts four years, during which time he has to study certain branches. At the end of each year he passes an examination, and if he is successful he is promoted to the rank of assistant. The first year, the monitor in return for his services receives ^5, the second year ^8, the third year ^12, and the last year ^18. The master generally receives ^100 a year; the assistants receive from ^30 to ^80. These amounts often vary as there are certain classes for which the teacher receives additional fees. For every pupil that passes a successful examination in agriculture his teacher receives £5. 1° ^act> the only reason they teach agriculture is for the ^5.' /
School hours are from 10 a. m. to 3:30 p. m. -From 8 to 10 o’clock in the morning the pupils may be seen gathering toward the town, each

572	NOTRE DAME
one with his books in a strap, under his arm or dangling by his side. Many run to the “ Fair field ” to get a few kicks at the football, others seek the hand-ball ally; all believe in Dryden’s saying:
The wise for cure on exercise depend.
About 9:45 all rush for the school-house in hope of escaping the rattan from the hands of the master, who is waiting for them at the gate. The pupils sit in desks arranged in parallel rows along the room. The little boys sit on forms placed beside the wall. Everybody throws his cap in one corner, where a portion of the wall about twelve feet long and eight feet high is covered with large wire nails. One of the greatest surprises of the day is to see any school-boy wearing a hat; they prefer caps. However, if any one should attempt to wear a hat he would be called a Yankee; and have it smashed in a very short while.
At ten o’clock the master rings a bell which is a signal for the sixth class to leave their seats and form a semicircle around his desk.
"Warm your hands, fellows!” “Spit on your fingers!” are the general whispers along the line. Home lessons, which are Grammar, Geography, Spelling and Agriculture, are called for, and the rattan across the fingers, is the reward for blunders. After half an hour the bell tells that time is up.
“Form a straight'line! forward! march!” and now the sixth class are at their desks. Copy-books are passed, and penmanship is the work for the next halfe hour. Then all sit in silence while the first assistant calls the roll. If at the end of the year anyone has not responded at least one hundred times to his name, he is excluded from the examination and has to take the same classes again for the next year.	.
“Leave your desks!” The sixth class with slates and pencils stand round the master; who reads a sum which they take down and work. In a few minutes he says: “Turn out slates!” and all turn-their slates so that the teacher, walking round, can see each one’s work. Anyone that has not the sum worked correctly must look out for his knuckles.
Soon the shrill voice of the master is heard again: “Forward! march!” This routine is kept up throughout the day, with the intermission of cne half’hour—from one to halfpast one. When one o’clock strikes all are glad. The few Protestants who are present leave the room, and the rest kneel and say the Angelus, the master leading.	.	.,
SCHOLASTIC.
All are then free to go wherever they wish. Those that can go home, eat their luncheon and return within half an hour, do so. A large majority, however, prefer to stay around the town, looking at the shop windows. There is , no bell; to. tell them when to return, but fear of the consequences of being late makes all come.; in time. It is amusing to see a hundred boys running about the street, each one eating a bun. At the corners of the street some try to play hand-ball; that is, they play, but one has to watch the "peelers,” and whenever one of these come in sight the playing must stop. It is not unusual to see during luncheon many of the boys in the fair field, with a bun in one hand and a hurley in the other, playing a hard game of ball. During summer the time for luncheon is spent up the river, which flows within forty yards of the school.	.
After luncheon the sixth class gathers round the master for parsing. Then follows in turn Geography, pointing out at the maps, algebra and Catechism. During the time for Catechism— from 3 to 3:30—none of the Protestants are present. They leave when the bell rings at 3 o’clock. At 3:30 three Hail Marys are said and all is over for the day.
By this account it might seem that if anyone should visit this school he would find everybody sitting quietly at his place, doing his work and making no noise. Well, let us enter at two o’clock. The noise is strong enough to raise the roof off your skull.
In the end of the room is one reciting one of Burke’s speeches as loud as possible. Sitting on the top of a desk is another dictating to those in front of him, who every now and then tell him to speak louder. Around the map of Ireland is a class reciting in unison the lakes, rivers or mountains.
One of the agriculturists is naming the different kinds of grasses, while the a-b-c class is reciting with full force the alphabet. Three or four are sure to be crying. Under the desks and near the corners are at least half a dozen trying to catch mice, which they accomplish with a fine thread and a bit of bread thrust down the holes in the floor. When a mouse is caught he is thrown where he will create the greatest disturbance. Now we hear a. great crash. One of the legs of a form, on which over a dozen were, seated, is pushed out of . its place, and all are sitting on the floor..	.
Within a few minutes you wonder how
NOTRE DAME
anybody can study in such a place, or hdw the teacher can live, and you are glad to get out as soon as possible. But if, while you are inside, one of the priests of the parish enters, which they very often do, the scene changes very quickly. The reciters lower their voices; the mice catchers drop their line, those crying dry their eyes and all at once the room is turned from “a jackdaws’ parliament” into a “dove cot.” What if the priest comes in unawares? This never happens. He is sure to be seen approaching by the first assistant, who sends along the room in a loud whisper, the words: “Hush! P. P. or C. C.,” as the case may be. Before leaving, perhaps you might like to warm yourself. Turn to your left and you see an open grate with a very few coals. Fuel is supplied for this fire by the boys. Everyone is expected to bring a penny a week for coal, or instead he may bring a lump of coal with him.
Of course the boys have many hobbies some of which are most amusing. To get a “pull” with the teacher some one will knock his hat down unseen, then pick it up, dust it carefully and put it in its place as delicately as possible.
There are many ways for destroying the rattan, the principal one of which is the horsehair method. The smartest boys think that by putting a horse’s hair between their hand
and the rattan the latter will be broken by the stroke, which often happens, but not because of the presence of the hair. The few Protestants who go to the national school in preference to their own, which is in charge of a mistress, have much to suffer. They are known in school as “ Paddy Waddies,” and seldom are they called by any other title.
The annual examination takes place in the month of November, and is carried on solely by the district inspector, who, as a rule, is very watchful lest the pupils receive any assistance from their teachers. A paltry sum is allowed for each pupil that passes the examination. It is astonishing what delicacy of conscience is manifested by some of these inspectors lest Her Majesty be defrauded of even the smallest part of that superabundance which she has so honorably acquired! Would that we could transfer that delicacy to Her Majesty and her ministers—what a restitution! and what a—fall? The pupils are placed two in a desk, one at each end, are supplied by the inspector with Her Majesty’s paper and a card on which are ten sums to be worked out. Talking is punished by zero or dismissal from the examination.
SCHOLASTIC.
Books and. Magazines. '	.
—The Medical Record after an absence of a few weeks reaches our .table this week filled, as usual, with matter essential to the physician who desires to keep pace with the advance of medicine, and interesting and instructive to all who have a taste for information. The present issue contains many reported meetings of medical associations, from which valuable hints may be taken by the practitioner. The most valuable article, at least to the layman, is an editorial on the plague which does not tend to allay our fears. The precautions suggested should recommend themselves to our government.
The Advanced Reader. New York: Longmans, Green & Co.
This book contains selections from the best representatives of the great modern prose literature which is the glory of England, with a little of the best poetry here and there to break monotony. Dean Swift’s Gulliver is the first work from which a selection is taken; and from his time down to our own the authors chosen are remarkable for their style and for the special interest which their work arouses in the minds of youngsters. Of course, the ' book is too small to give an adequate idea of .
the richness of English literature, but it is sufficient to show that it is something to have made acquaintance with the names of eminent writers, and so have tasted of their stock.
Scott’s Quentin Durward. Edited with an introduction by Mary Harriott Norris. New York, Cincinnati, Chicago, American Book Co.
There is no novel in English fiction more useful than Quentin Durward in giving boys and girls a distinct and accurate impression of the age of chivalry, when its principles still animated the court life of England and Europe, but had ceased to claim the blind reverence of the people. The scene of this charming story is laid in Paris at the time of Louis-XI., during the latter half of the fifteenth century, and portrays the French king as the first of his line to recognize political capacity when not allied to rank. It shows with admirable clearness the rising power of the people and the royal preception that they will prove the bulwark of the crown against the great feudal barons. For these reasons, as well as because it is one of the best and most attractive novels in English literature, the book is par ticularly adapted for school reading.
574
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
NQTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, June 2, 1900.
Published every Saturday during Term Time at Notre Dame University
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Board of Editors.
PAUL JEROME RAGAN, 97;
JAMES F. MURPHY, ’99; ANTHONY F. DORLEY, ’oo
F. O’SHAUGHNESSY,’OO; JOHN M. BYRNE, ’OO
JAMES H. MCGINNIS, ’OO; VINCENT D. DWYER, ’oo; HUGH S. GALLAGHER, ’oo; ANDREW J. SAMMON, ’OO; ANTHONY J. BROGAN, *OI; WILLIAM H. TIERNEY, ’oi; WILLIAM J. O’CONNOR, Oi;
PATRICK J. DWAN,’OO: WILLIAM D. FURRY, ’OO JOSEPH P. SHIELS, ’oo: JOSEPH J. SULLIVAN, OI HARRY P. BARRY, ’oi; FRANCIS F. DUKETTE, ’02: EUGENE T. AHERN, ’03.
JOSEPH P. O'REILLY JOHN L. CORLEY LEO J. KELLY THOMAS J. MURRAY
Reporters.
—It is a pleasure to announce that the university band will begin its series of lawn concerts to-morrow evening. The musicians have several new selections on their programme that will be very pleasing.
—The solemn observance of Memorial Day was carried on in the usual fashion this year. A solemn Requiem Mass was sung in the college church by Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Rev. J. Gallagher filling the office of deacon and Rev. M. A. Quinlan, subdeacon. After the services the students gathered at the flagstaff, where Old Glory floated at half-mast, and with accompaniment by the university band chanted national airs. The decorations for the G. A. R. graves in the little cemetery were kindly furnished by the Woman Relief Corps of Auten Post, South Bend.
—There is an interesting correspondence from Santiago de Cuba running in the Boston Pilot. The letters are signed “J. J. R,” the initials, we suspect, of one of the most charming of the younger school of American writers, Mr. James Jeffrey Roche. We quote' some
lines from the issue of May 26: “A third passenger was a Texan from the Mexican border, on his way to the Philippines. He was a surgeon with the rank of Major and had served in the Santiago campaign when he and five others were the only doctors in the field during one of the bloodiest battles of that campaign. He was a graduate of Notre Dame, and we foregathered at once when I proudly told him that I, too, was a doctor by the grace of that University.” We suspect that the surgeon whom Mr. Roche met was a whole-hearted young fellow known to many of our readers as “Joe” Combe, of the class of ’93, Biol. -------------------------------
The Scholastic begs to congratulate Mr. James Oliver of South Bend on the fact that his fellow-citizens presented him, on the evening of Decoration Day, with one of the handsomest loving cups that has ever issued from the shops of an American goldsmith. This mark of appreciation is well deserved by Mr. Oliver, who has been for many years a leader in all movements for the development of his city. His diligence—a trait that in him amounts almost to genius—his simplicity, his magnificent honesty and his modest Christian charity are some of the characteristics by which he is distinguished and for which the affair of last Wednesday evening was planned. The Reverend President Morrissey and other members of the Faculty were present at the presentation.
-------o*---------

£
—Although there is only one more regular issue of the Scholastic, we desire to call the attention of the under-graduates to the fact that, if they care to be staff members next year, they must leave samples of their work here for: inspection before they go home. While the samples handed in will not be published this year they will all be kept and read carefully before appointments will be made to fill the vacancies on the Board of Editors. Two men already have enough material at the editor’s desk to assure them of a position. We feel sure, however, that there are many more writers just as able as these, and we would like to hear from them before appointments are made. There must be several good stories and essays lying around in desks that were written by Criticism and Belles Lettres men. Now, fellows, produce these if you wish them to count. This is the last call.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
575
Mr. Duperier Wins the Breen Medal.
The good luck to secure first place in the Oratorical Contest this year fell to Mr. Alfred J. Duperier, of New Iberia, Louisiana. The contest was held in Washington Hall last Wednesday. There were five contestants, one of the six having dropped out because of illness.
The contest this year was very evenly balanced. All the men had worked conscientiously in preparing their manuscript, and much care was given to secure a graceful and effective delivery. After each man’s appearance he
ALFRED J. DUPERIER.
was forced to come back on the stage and acknowledge the continuous applause that went up from his admirers. Mr. William W. O’Brien was the first speaker to appear. In his handling the question of “American Expansion,” he was conservative in his views, and based his arguments on firm foundations, holding with those that do not favor the forcing of liberty upon the Filipinos. His composition was carefully worked out and his delivery exceptionably smooth—winning first place on two cards.
Mr. Francis O’Shaughnessy came next with
an oration on “The Silent Battle.” He used his eloquence to eulogize the heroism of the men that spent the winter in the camp at Valley Forge, and before his speech was half ended his listeners were thoroughly -convinced that this incident of American bravery and sacrifice has not been fully and thoroughly appreciated. Mr. O’Shaughnessy uses persuasion with great effect, and had he been in better voice his standing would have been much higher than it was.
Mr. George W. Kuppler followed with a fiery speech on “ Man’s Future,” stating that the greatest opportunities ever offered to man are opening to him now. Yet to .avail ourselves of these exceptionable opportunities we must be men of the finest mould. No idlers and day dreamers will be at the front of the guard that leads in the twentieth century.
The winner, Mr. Duperier, used Joan of Arc as the subject of his speech. Mr. Duperier’s long experience in public speaking, elocution and debate was of much assistance to him in preparing his oration, and it gave him an easy and commanding stage presence. His composition abounded in many thrilling and pathetic descriptions.
Mr. E. J. Gilbert, with his address .on “Abraham Lincoln,” proved a great surprise to his many friends. As this is his first effort in public, his delivery and composition as well were very clever. He has a fine stage presence and should be one of our best speakers in the near future.	.
The judges on thought and composition were Honorable George Clarke of South Bend, Professor Will D. Howe of Indianapolis and Rev. M. A. Quirk of Ottawa, Ill. The judges on delivery were Mr. James S. Handy of Chicago, Mr. M. H. Carmody of Grand Rapids, and Prof. J. Stuart Lathers of Ypsilanti, Mich. Their markings were as follows:
AND	—
b- b w Q 0
.. 4	3	5	12
..4	3512
..2	3	5	1	4
Judges on Thought Composition
Hon. George E. Clarke Professor Howe........ Rev. M. Quirk.........
On Delivery
Mr. J. S. Handy.....
Mr. M. H. Carmody....
Professor Lathers......
Totals
-42513
■1	2	4.	3	5
■i,4	5	2	3
l6 .17	20	Q	IQ
576
NOTRE DAM! SCHOLASTIC.
It Gomes Here Just the Same.
The only way that any other field and track. team can get the Indiana state championship is to steal it. Of the seven colleges represented in the annual meet, held at Lafayette on Saturday, our nearest competitors received not even half as many points as were chalked down in favor of Notre Dame, and the other teams, excepting possibly Indiana, could not score often enough to make the contest interesting for Purdue. The brawny athletes sent down from Notre Dame not only carried away the banner and made the. other men look like high-school representatives, they also broke records. “Mike” Connor came , off with the state records for both the mile and half-mile, and Mike’s time in- the half-mile race is the fastest that has been made in any of the spring meets.
Sullivan in the pole vault and Herbert in ' the hurdles lowered the state records, in those two events; but since they did not win the events they do not get credit for them. . Sullivan’s failure to beat Endsley out in the pole vault is due partly to the breaking of his pole. He was vaulting in beautiful form, clearing the bar every time it was, raised with but one trial when the pole broke. As it was Joe got over the bar at ten feet four inches, beating the old state record by two inches. In the low hurdles Herbert ran even with his man the whole distance, and looked from the side line like a winner, but the judges gave the race to Thompson.
The hundred yard dash was easy for Corcoran and O’Shaughnessy, while “Shag” and O’Brien ran away from the field in the two hundred and twenty yard dash. Capt. Corcoran started in the two-twenty yard event, but strained his leg after he had led the others for fifty yards and stopped immediately.. After Corcoran quit, the other two men in the heat raced for dear life, evidently thinking they were beating our speedy captain.
In the quarter mile run Pick and Murray led the field till it reached the head of the stretch. At this point Grove of Earlham and Teeter of Indiana came up like the wind and went to the front. Teeter forged ahead of Grove, but Grove threw himself forward and fell over the tape a winner.. Pick; was third and Murray fourth; McDougall and Gaffney won the places in the mile bicycle run with but little trouble. “ Mac ” took the one-lap race and had yards
to spare. Gaffney made a beautiful spurt in this event, but he stayed back too long and could get only third place.
The shot put went to Eggeman by two feet, and John won the hammer throw on his first trial. Wagner was second in the hammer throw until the last trial. Pick beat his competitors in the discus throw with apparent ease.
For the other teams, Endsley of Purdue did some clever work in the pole vault; Corns of Purdue broke the State record in the broad jump, and Thompson of Purdue won the high and low hurdles, breaking the state record for the latter event. Teeter and Neher of Indiana made a good showing in their events, while Foster, who did so well in the pole-vault in the triangular meet, could get only third place, in this event..
Adams of State Normal broke the state record in the high jump, clearing the bar at 5 feet 8^4 inches.	■
The Summary of Events:
ioo yd. dash—Corcoran, Notre Dame, first; O’Shaughnessy, Notre Dame, second; O’Brien, Notre Dame, third. Time, io 1-5 seconds.	■
One mile run—Connor, Notre Dame, first; Neher, Indiana University, second. Time, 4:39 1-5 seconds. State record.
120 yard hurdle race—Thompson, Purdue, first; Endsley, Purdue, second. Time, 17 2-5 seconds. .
440 yard run—Grove, Earlham, first; Teeter, Indiana University, second; Pick, Notre Dame, third. Time, 52 4-5 seconds.	-
One’ mile bicycle—McDougall, Notre Dame, first; Gaffney, Notre Dame, second; Harold, Earlham, third. Time, 2:25 3-5 seconds.
880 yard run—Connor, Notre Dame, first; Teeter, Indiana University, second; Neher, Indiana University, third. Time, 2:02. State record.	■
One-third mile bicycle — McDougall, Notre Dame, first; Harold, Earlham, second; Gaffney, Notre Dame, third. Time, 45 2-5 seconds.
220 yard run—O’Shaughnessy, Notre Dame, first; O’Brien, Notre Dame, second; Thompson, Purdue, third. Time, 23 seconds.	'
220 yard hurdle—Thompson, Purdue, first; Herbert, Notre Dame, second; Marshall, Purdue, third. Time, :26 2-5 seconds. State record.
Discus throw—Pick, Notre Dame, first; Elfers, Indiana University, second; Eggeman, Notre Dame, third. Distance, 103 feet 7 inches.
Running high jump—Adams, State Normal, first; Endsley, Purdue, second; Peacock, Earlham, third. Height, 5 feet 8^ inches. State record.
16 pound shot put—Eggeman, Notre Dame, first; Peker, Rose Polytechnic, second; Corns, Purdue, third, Distance, 38% feet.
Running broad jump—Corns, Purdue, first; Shockley, Indiana University, second; Klipsch, Purdue, third. Distance, 22 feet 1^4 inches. State record.	.
, 16 pound hammer—Eggeman, Notre Dame, first; Elfers, State University, second; Wagner, Notre Dame, third. Distance, 118 feet. ;
Pole vault—Endsley, Purdue, first; Sullivan, Notre Dame, second; Foster, Indiana University, third. Height, 10 feet 534 inches. State record. .
Total points won by each college:—Notre Dame, 65; Purdue, 30;. Indiana. University, 20; Earlham, 11; State - Normal, 5;'Rose Polytechnic, 3. :

NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
577
Easy for the Varsity.
Varsity Defeats Oberlin.
Poor old Indiana gets another severe drub-
bing. The game was one of the worst ever
seen here or any place else. The Indiana an ideal one for baseball, Notre Dame walloped
players appeared to be trying to outdo each other in the way of errors, while our fellows attended strictly to business, and rolled up a . total of twenty-four hits. Every man on the team secured at least one single, and most of them took advantage of the opportunity to fatten their batting averages. Fleming and Lynch drove out homers and Donahoe a two base hit. Campbell, who took O’Neill’s place behind the plate, is credited with two singles, and Captain McDonald succeeded in placing four shoots in safe ground. Drewes started in to pitch, and did well until the sixth inning. In this inning the Indiana men fell onto him for four hits, one of them the longest home run made on Cartier Field, and ended the inning with six runs to the good. Captain McDonald substituted Keeley in the seventh. Indiana got but one more run after Keeley was put in, and they were let down without any hits. The redeeming features of the otherwise uninteresting, one-sided contest were the batting of Fleming, Lynch, Donahoe and McDonald, and Pike’s long hit.
The Score:
Notre Dame	R	H	p	A	E
Lynch, s s	6	3	2	4	O
Fleming, 1 f	4	5	0	0	0
Donahoe, c f	3	4	I	0	O
-Farley, r f	_	3	1	0	1	I
McDonald, 1 b	4	4	12	1	O
Daly, 2 b	3	I	I	3	I
Morgan, 3 b	.	5	2	2	2	O
Campbell, c	3	2	7	0	3
Drewes, p._	2	I	I	■3	0
Keeley, p	I	I	I	0	0
Totals	34	24	27	14	r 5
Indiana	R	H	p	A	E
Miller, c f	I	2	3	O	' I
Hoover, 3 b	I	I	2	2	3
Pike, s s ‘	I	I	3	I	0
Porter, 2 b	O	I	. 2	0	3
Bracken, p	I	I	0	I	3
Merrill, c	2	I	II	0	3
Sutphin, If	-	I	O	3	0	0
Fields, 1 b	■	0	O	0	0	, 0
Hanover, r f	0	0	0	0	3
	—	—	—	—	—
Totals	.	7	7	24	0	16
toward second, and Lynch made a significant
Stolen.bases—Notre Dame, 17; Indiana, 1. Two base	, '	, z--,	z-<	, „
,.	„	, tt u	c-i’ ■ „ t march toward. Gibson. One ball, the umpire
hits—Donahoe, Hoover. Home runs—Fleming, Lynch,	. ■	’	\ r .
Pike. Struck out—By Drewes, 5; Keeley,-2; Bracken, 8. called, but; Clancy stuck-. _ The-.next one:was Umpire, Outcalt.	his time, however, and he darted for second as
Before one of the largest crowds of the . season and on a day that turned out to be: .
the fast team from Oberlin to the tune of five to one. Last year this same organization gave us the only goose-egg we received^ all season. . We had this in mind when the game began Tuesday, and we came pretty -near getting all the revenge we could expect. Prob- . ably the only members of last year’s Oberlin team that we did not have the pleasure of seeing humbled were the two Fauver brothers, the men who did so much toward administers -ing that coat of whitewash. The rest of the nine bit old Notre Dame’s dust, however, and we are satisfied. The game was the fastest and the best seen here this season. Clean, -snappy ball, a few clean-cut hits and some, clever team play are the requisites that make’ such contests interesting. Had it not been . for those unfortunate errors we should have . seen a game the equal' of which is played . only among the national league clubs. Best of all Notre Dame won.	.	/
Gibbie was on the slab, and the men behind > him played as they do when the game is close; To Gibbie, however, we must give due credit. ' He held this heavy hitting team of experienced ?, < players to three little singles, one of which? J was a mere scratch. He gave but two bases on balls and struck out seven men. Such: a .. performance is worthy of all sorts of-things,'	*
but it demonstrated beyond doubt that Gibbie ? ?? is by far the best twirler in this neck of woods. In the nine innings of play only thirty. batsmen came to the plate, seven of them fanning, the air. The others popped up little flies or :' , pushed slow grounders to the infielders, making easy outs. The infield work, for Notre Dame ? especially, was superb.	. \	?
In the eighth inning, after Kimball had died from Gibson to McDonald, Holter, dropped a single in right. Wilcox followed with another single in the same place, which ?^ Farley let pass through his legs and Holter ? scored. Wilcox had taken third on the throw in to catch Holter, and Clancy walked. There was a man on third and one on first with ?< only one man out. Clancy began to glide ?



NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
soon as Gibbie’s arm moved. Quick as a flash O’Neill handed the ball to Lynch. Wilcox on third thought he saw a chance to get home, and he cut out. The ball reached O’Neill before Wilcox and back to second before Clancy, and the two men were retired. The play was so fast that the Oberlin men appeared dazed. One of the best catches seen on Cartier Field this year was accomplished by O’Neill when he ran behind the back-stop and caught Merriam’s high foul. Phil received a loud cheer for his clever play.
All our runs were made in the third and ' fifth inning. O’Neill started the third with a pass to first. Gibson slammed a fast one at Wilcox, and the latter threw wide to first. Lynch advanced both runners on a neat bunt. Fleming put a fly in center that fell between Clancy and Pierce. O'Neill crossed the pan, and when Gibbie started for home, Pierce threw the ball against the grand stand. Fleming came in on the error. In the fifth Gibson walked and Lynch advanced him on a sacrifice. Fleming hammered the ball to left-center for three bags, scoring Gibson. Fleming began edging up from third, and Merriam threw over Wilcox letting “Chuck” in. This ended our scoring, and in the next three times at bat our fellows failed to pass second. The summary is given below.
Notre Dame	r	H	p	A	E
Lynch, s s	0	O '	1	3	O
Fleming, 1 f	2	3	1	0	O
Donahoe, c f	0	0	2	0	O
Farley, r f	0	0	0	0	I
McDonald, 1 b	0	I	IO	0	O
Daly, 2b-	0	I	2	4	0
' Morgan, 3 b	0	I	0	0	I
' O’Neill, c	1	I	IO	3	O
Gibson, p	2	I	I	3	O
Totals	5	8	27	13	2
Oberlin	r	H	p	A	E
F. Pierce, r f	0	I	0	O	I
C. Pierce, 1 b	0	O	5	O	O
Hahn, 2 b	0	O	2	I	O
• Smythe, p	0	O	0	3	O
Merriam, c	0	O	5	0	I
Kimball, 1 f:	0	1	2	0	O
Holter, s s	.	1	O	3	1	O
Wilcox, 3 b	'	0	I	4	2	2
• Clancy, c f	0	O	3	0	0
'..	Totals	1	3	24	7	4
Struck., out—By Gibson, 7; by Smythe, 2		!. First		base
on balls—Off Gibson, 2; off Smythe,	2. Stolen bases—			
.	. Farley, Donahoe. Three-base hit—Fleming. .			Two-base	
■	hits—O’Neill, Gibson. Sacrifice hits-	-Merriam, Lynch			
(2). Double play—O’Neill to Lynch, O’Neill to Daly to				
’	McDonald. Umpire—Outcalt. Time—	-140.			
. - ., - . - - - - ” - - * - - .		-		
		_ • .	; -	- „ ■
Lost in the First Inning1.
The largest crowd that has been in Springbrook Park for the last two years came out on Wednesday to be present at the game between Notre Dame and the South'Bend Greens. The large grand-stand was packed to overflowing, ; the new bleachers were filled and the field was full of carriages. Every possible place where a human being could be seated was taken by some one. There were peanuts and lemonade and cigars and, best of all, a balloon ascension.	,
Some enthusiastic fan said that there were	I
two balloon ascensions, but he was mistaken. ’ The. second one was a mere flurry. The Greens 1 succeeded in defeating us, but they had their I hands full to do it. All their runs were made	|
during the first and second innings, before our	|
-fellows got settled, and after we became used ! to the surroundings the Sout । Bend team was	1
put on the defensive. For the nine innings our	■
men hit the ball hard, but at opportune times ] it invariably went straight to some fielder. ? Keeley started in to pitch for Notre Dame, and he did some clever work after that unfortunate first. Gibson was put in after the sixth inning, more for the satisfaction of the crowd, who were clamoring for him, than for any other reason. But one hit was made off Gibbie, and	;
that was a fast one to himself. He knocked	5
the ball to one side with his glove, and Daly failed to. get it to first in time to catch the , runner.
One of the best plays made in the game was the catch of a long fly nearly to the fence , by Donahoe. Fleming played an excellent	-
game in left. He accepted four chances, all	1
of. which were difficult because the sun shone	I
right into his eyes.' The other men played	i
very fast ball with the exception of Donahoe	|
who had some trouble with the field and with	I
his armv throwing over second, and O’Neill	|
who advanced the South Benders twice on	|
passed balls and threw over second giving	|
a- man third. Both of these men redeemed	|
themselves—O’Neill by a clean drive in the	|
ninth that might have scored Morgan had	j
not a man with the peculiar name of Coffee	|
been so fast in left and thus enabled him to	|
score on Gibbie’s hit; and Donahoe by his	I
clever catch and a beautiful return of the ball	1
to third. For the Greens, Arndt on third base	I
and Fitzsimmons on first did the best work,	fi
although Grant at second cut off a single or	1
two by his shifty work around the bag.	i
NOTRE DAME
The Greens began business from the very start. Dwyer, the first man up, fanned out, but Grant walked. Greenwald followed with a hit to right. Grant tried to get all the way home from first on the hit, but Farley threw him out by two feet. Greenwald stole second and went to third on a passed ball. Bryan dropped a single in right scoring Greenwald. Cogswell pounded another single to center and both men scored on Donahoe’s bad throw over second. Arndt came up with another hit past Morgan. Fitzsimmons waited for four bad ones and Coffee dropped another single in center.
Rapp went out from Lynch to McDonald ending the agony. Our balloon was still soaring in the second. Dwyer pushed a fast one by Morgan and went to second on a wild pitch. Grant lifted one that Fleming got under. Greenwald handed a single to cente’r, and Dwyer scored. O’Neill threw Greenwald out at second, and Bryan put a short fly in Morgan’s hands.
For Notre Dame, Lynch started' the third with a hit past Arndt. Donahoe flied to Bryan. Farley pounded the ball to right. McDonald hit one too fast for Arndt to catch Lynch at home and Bobby scored. Daly walked and stole second. We had two men on the bags nearest home, and a single would probably give us two runs. Morgan swung at a swift one and it looked good for a hit. Grant knocked it down over second and threw Red out at first. We made no more runs until the ninth, though we made the rooters nervous in the seventh, when the smallest kind of chance would have given us- a run.
In the ninth Morgan cracked a single to center. Fleming went out trying to bunt. Morgan stole second. O’Neill hammered the ball to left. Morgan was off with the hit, and rounded third at full speed. The man in left got a lucky bounce, and slammed the ball to Greenwald. The race between Morgan and the ball was even until the ball bounded, then-Morgan lost. A good chance to get a run had passed, but we were not discouraged. O’Neill had gone to second on the throw to catch Morgan. Gibson came up for probably the last out. But Gibbie has got into a habit of knocking singles when we need them, and Wednesday was no exception. He whipped the ball over third for a pretty hit. O’Neill had a good start, and made home while Coffee was fumbling the ball. Lynch died from Rapp to ist. The teams meet again on June 13.
scholastic					-579.
The Score. Notre Dame	R.	H	P	A	E
Lynch, s s	1	I	3	3	O
Donahoe, c f	0	O		1	2
Farley, 1 f	0	I	3	1	0
McDonald, 1 b	*	0	O	8	1	I
Daly, 2 b .	0	I	0	0	I
Morgan, 3 b	0	2	1	4	0
Fleming, 1 f	0	0	4	0	. 0
O’Neill, c	1	I	5	2	0
Keeley, p	0	0	0	0	.0
Gibson, p	•	-	0	2	1	0	0
Totals	2	8	27	12	4 '
Greens	R	H	p	A	E
Dwyer, s s	I	I	2	3	0
Grant, 2 b	O	O	2	3	0
Greenwald, c	I	2	3	1	0.
Bryan, c f	I	I		o’	0
Cogswell, r f	I	I	0	0	0
Arndt, 3 b	I	I	2	5	0
Fitzsimmons, 1 b	O	0	13	0	0
Coffee, 1 f	O	2		I	1
Rapp, p	O	0	I	4	0
Totals	5	9	27	.17	1
Struck out—By Rapp, 2; by Keeley, 3. Bases on balls—Off Rapp, 3; off Keeley, 3; off Gibson, 2. Double plays—Arndt to Fitzsimmons; Lynch to McDonald to O’Neill. Passed balls—O’Neill, 2. Umpire—Gaffney
Local Items.
—The night watchman has found a valuable Rosary of pearl beads which he wishes to ' advertise in the Scholastic. •	.	_
—Nine big brave Holy Cross boys ventured into civilization last Sunday after Vespers, and Sunday before supper nine little timid Holy Cross boys returned to the wilderness. . The cause of the change was the superb batting and fielding of Crowley’s team. The score was 15 to 13.	.	.	:	.
—Makus Winworse Scott and his band of cowboys were covered with mud last Sunday morning by Crowley and his band of braves. : Crowley added the scalp of M. W. Scott to his belt as he held Mark’s band to three runs. Scott received wretched support, and it. was . no fault of his that the game was lost. Sixteen ? braves under Crowley crossed the plate, but -not one of these earned a run. The game was .	•
called at the ninth inning in order to allow Scott to wake up and realize that he was beaten.
—Wednesday morning the “What you call . ’ems” defeated the “Who’s this” by the score *	.
of Hollow Farmore. The feature of the game L was the sudden disappearance of the umpires .	, 5
when they made a close decision—I say um- -	f-
pires because a new man officiated every inning. The umpire that let the “What you call ’ems score is —well, there was a funeral ; j the other day. Hikey Ikey and Mike Blahah, our old friends, made some wonderfully strange- ; replays. All in all, the game was a success, and' the fans who witnessed it were well pleased with the showing the teams made—under the; circumstances^	'
■ - • . ‘
•- . - “ -• • - . <..
' . ~ ~ ‘ . ' -' .
. - * ' - > - '
- ' ‘ ‘ - - - - ' ' - ' -
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Last Thursday Corby won an interesting game from the Preps by the score of 6 to 11. McCambridge was a puzzle in all but one inning and even then if he received perfect • support he would have held the “ hokey pokey ” boys to a small score. He struck out the prides of Corby Hall, and at all times had the heavy hitters up a tree. Higgins pitched a good game, but was saved a number of hits by the fast work of Duggan and Macdonald. Capt. Duggan pulled down several drives that seemed good for two or three bases. The Preps’ infield, though slow at times, pulled well together at critical moments. They batted out hits when they were needed, and in one inning bunched three clean singles and a three bagger. There has always been a bad inning for every team that represented Carroll Hall, and the Preps are no exceptions. In the fourth inning of this game a few good hits, some rank errors and slow fielding netted nine runs. This was the only inning Corby was in the game, and in most of the other innings they were easy victims. The Preps’ base running was poor, and several chances of	scoring	were	lost.
Summary—i	2	3	4	5	9	7	8	9 R	H	E
Preps—o	1	o	2	o,	o	3	o	0=6	8	5
Corby—o	o	1	9	o	o	o	1	0=11	11	6
Batteries—McCambridge, Garrity, Higgins, Burke. —A recent article in- one of the leading American magazines mentioned the fact that in England music is used as a remedy for certain diseases. After carefully reading the article we concluded that it would be a great benefit for our readers to know just how this remedy is applied, and in what particular cases it would be most beneficial. As no one on the staff is possessed of any marked musical ability, the article in question was brought to Professor T. Gilberto Roosevelt, Mus. F., the famous composer of the sonata in M. for Jew’s harp, with bagpipe obligato. The Professor scanned the article with a certain scrutinizing look, objected to certain technical terms, and then replied that on the whole he approved of the scheme. “You see,” he said, “things are not what they used to be. The agonizing, torturing discords of Beethoven and Wagner have been replaced by sublime pieces of exquisite harmony; something, for instance, like “Rough Riders Two-step ” and the “ Yan-yan” song. These possess, a charm for the soul and body alike, and. physicians have come to recognize this fact, and prescribe music in place of pills. For example: if a man has tooth-ache the “ Forceps Chorus’’ would give almost instant relief. For head-aches, the “Wet-Rag Melody” would be efficient; for colds, listen to a “Hot Time” for an hour or so; for cramps, hysterics or spasms, “Just tell Them that you saw. Me;” for indigestion, “ Break the News to Mother;.” for broken bones of any kind, “Till we Meet Again;” for Jags, Big Head, Brown Taste, etc., “ Little Brown Jug;” for despondency, “ I Love. You
Yet; for sunstroke, “ There’s a Land that is Hotter than This,” and for insomnia or sleeplessness, the “Rough Riders” would put you to sleep quicker than any morphine you could take. These are some of the limitless possibilities of music.”	‘
—Brownsonites have again proved their superiority in track and'field athletics, and won the interhall championship in much the same manner as the Varsity won the State Championship at Lafayette. The meet was exciting all through, in spite of the fact that the score was very one-sided. Many of the events of the contest were exceedingly close, and as each hall had a fairly large crowd of rooters on hand they tended to keep things lively all afternoon. The records made are very good when it is remembered that the contestants had no practice for the meet. Kirby, Jennings and Richon were the strongest men for Brownson Hall; Fox, McPhee and Weiss took the honors for Sorin, Warder, Clyne and Noonan for Corby, and Brand for St. Joseph’s Hall. McPhee’s work in the bicycle races was the surprise of the afternoon. The quarter-mile race between him and Warder was one of the finest races ever seen here. The dashes and the hurdle races Were very close; the first final in the hundred being declared a dead heat between Fox and Clyne. Cornell had hard luck in the one hundred and twenty yard hurdles. He was fifteen feet in the ‘ lead and about eight yards from the finish when an unfortunate fall caused him to lose the race, after he had run in the best form displayed in all the races. The hammer throw and the pole vault were won handily by the Brownson men.
Summary of the Meet.
Mile run—Jennings, B., won; Baldwin, S., 2d; DuBrul, C., 3d. Time, 5:33
440-yard run — Murphy, S., won; Malone, B., 2d; Koehler, B., 3d. Time; 157 1-5.-
One mile bicycle race—Warder, C., won; McPhee, S., 2d; Kidney, B., 3d.	.
. 100-yard dash—Clyne, C., won; Fox, S., 2d; Noonan, C.. 3d. Time, :io 3-5.
Discus throw—Kidney, B., 1st; Stephan B., 2d; Cullinan, St. J., 3d—92 feet. ~
120-yard hurdle—Kirby, B., 1st; Brand, St. J., 2d.— :i8 1-5.	.	- .
Quarter mile bicycle raee—McPhee, S., 1st; Warder, C., 2d; Kidney, B., 3d—:37 1-5. •
,220 yard dash—Fox, S., won; Malone, B., 2d; Kelly, B., 3d—-.24 1-5.	■ .	’	.	.
Shot put—Brand,. St. J., first;- Cullinan, St. J., 2d; O’Malley, B., 3d—34 feet. ■	.
Half mile run—Jennings, B., won; McCarthy, C., 2d; DuBrul, C., 3d—2:18 3-5.' ;
220-yard hurdles—Kirby, B., won; Langley, C., 2d; Ritchey, St. J.,-3d.' Time, :28 1-5;
High jump—Richon, B, won; Brand, St. J., 2d; Weiss, S:, 3d.—5 feet, 4 inches. " . . .
Hammer throw—McNulty, B., won; O’Malley, B., 2d; Stephan, B., 3d.—83 feet. .
Pole vault—Kirby, B., won; Buckley, B., 2d; Richon, . B., 3d.—8 feet 8. inches.;	.	'
Running broad, jump—Clyne, C., won; Weiss, S., 2d; Richon, B., 3d.—518 feet 9. inches. /
Total—Brownson, 63;, Sorin, 28; Corby, 27; St; J., 16.