In This Store For Men
You Are Always A Guest
Before You Are
A Customer
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.	SOUTH BEND. IND.
2
LETTERS
Dear Sir:
In “Letters” of the Scholastic (April 18), Mr. Jim Cunningham attacked, in the order named: “Rugged individualist Edwards,” Tribunism, free enterprise, capitalism, greed, Chicago and its businessmen, and the “Root fiasco,” along with minor, side-attacks at Joe Ball, tencent candy bars, etc.
I would like to take issue with many (and agree with some) of Mr. Cunningham’s statements.
My first argument is somewhat emotional and it is that I, a native Chicagoan, resent the terms “filthy” and “rotten” being applied to my home-city. It is granted that Chicago’s central section has much room foi' material improvement, but it would seem to be in doubt that “Chicago’s suffering millions - . . . rot in their substandard homes.” Blaming the failure to improve this condition upon free enterprise is Mr. Cun-ninghham’s explanation. In the countries where free enterprise was abolished (Germany, Russia, etc.) slum conditions were immeasurably worse. But can this have bearing on our question?
My second argument is with regard to the five points set forth as the “MAJOR” changes that had to be made in “Good Old Americanism” (free enterprise) before we were able to fight World War II:
1 and 3). “War plants had to be built by the government.” “Unlimited amounts of U. S. cash had to be doled out to industry. All expansion was government financed.” The industrial might of America was not geared for war in 1940. No one expected that it should be. A manufacturer of medium tanks would have been on relief from 1920-1940. And the enormity of the industrial war was beyond the scope of any peacetime industry. Yet, private industry expanded to its utmost, although, I admit, mostly ' on government funds. The last point will be covered under statement four.
2). “Housing had to be constructed by the government.” What housing? I presume that, by this is meant the construction of Army camps and bases. Housing of other types was not constructed during the war by either free enterprise or the government; and this is no fault of either. Statement two - seems to be irrelevant.
5). “Rationing was necessary.” This is malicious persecution! No peacetime industry has any obligation, whatsoever, to invest millions of dollars in duplica-tory inventory in order that, in case of war, the people of a nation would not
(Continued on Page 26)
EVERY NIGHT IS NOTRE DAME NIGHT at
CLEMENTS GRILL 514 East LaSalle
STEAKS —CHOPS
Spaghetti Dinner with meat sauce . •. 65c
Qouqtak Shock
W.L. DOUGLAS f SHOE CO.. BROCKTON 15.MASS.
210 S. MICHIGAN ST.
3
a 10 Syot
for a Crazy Shot
Franchised Pepsi-Cola Bottlers from coast to coast.
HERE’S WHAT YOU DO-Send us a crazy shot featuring Pepsi* Cola. We’ll select what we think are the three or four best “shots” every month. If yours is one of these, you get ten bucks. If it isn’t, you get a super-deluxe rejection slip for your files.
AND—if you just sort of happen to send in a Pepsi-bottlecap with your “shot,” you get twenty bucks instead of ten, if we think your “shot” is one of the best.
Address: College Dept., Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island City, N.Y.
4
South Bend looked like Cheyenne last week, complete with clomping cowboy boots, greasy ten-gallon hats, and a few leather-faced Indians thrown in for good measure. The occasion was the arrival in town of the Art Mix Wild West circus and rodeo.
The show moved in Thursday night in the rain. The grounds were soggy, and the wagon wheels cut deep ruts in the mud. Everything was wet; even the calliope sounded like it was blowing bubbles through malted milk. A couple hundred kids, including a few ND men, showed up on the first night, found the show was having trouble pitching camp, and stuck around to kibitz the characters.
The newspaper advertisements ballyhooed the troupe as having 100 head of stock. Counting bugs they might have had. Several sad-faced Hereford steers, stunted and shaggy, stood around and munched grass. The horses looked like they had been rejects from Custer’s outfit. One spavined nag planted a solid hoof into the southside of a woman spectator. That was about all the excitement on opening night.
Forty Pawnee Indians were billed on the signboards. As it turned out there was one genuine article, a flint-faced old buck, greying and bowlegged. When asked how everything was back on the reservation he grunted that the Pawnees would turn out a representative tribe next fall.
For the first circus to come to town this season it was pretty seedy. But some of the characters made it worth the price.
Newspapers carried the story last week that the girl out West who had her nose shaved off in an accident had it patched on again; the young lady had regained her sense of smell.
Were she in South Bend she might have regretted this return of the olfactory sense. True, the magnolias were perfuming the evening air, and the smell of fresh-cut spring grass livened the nostrils. But over against these sweet blessings we had the return of Van Johnson to one of the local movie-houses, and the stench was overpowering.
Charles Kullman sang at the Drill Hall last week, and the reviews said he was tremendously cheered, which he was. But then again some of the people
By John A. O’Connor
who took in the conceit would have barked Bravo! even if he had sung “On Brave Old Army Team.” With all the beautiful Italian operatic arias in his repertoire he sang only one. Nor were there any religious songs: No Panis An-gelicus, no Lord’s Prayer, no Ave Maria. Nor were there any Irish songs.
We can’t understand why some of these couldn't have been included. Who thinks up these offerings like “Mother Hubbard,” “Sea Fever,” and “Mary and the Kittens?” Not a very bright nor pleasing selection at all.
One consolation: before the semester ends James Melton comes to John Adams Auditorium (the 13th of May), where the ventilation is much better, and there are no scraping chairs on a cement floor. Let’s hope Melton gives us a good evening, including the Victory March.
Continuing our observations of advice offered on the women’s page of the Tribune, we note that Mary Haworth always takes the woman’s side. The man is always the heel. Watch her stuff, it goes something like this:
Dear Miss Haworth:
I married an ND man when I was very young and unsharp. He was a Big Man on campus and used to take me to the Hoff
mann on our Saturday night dates. Oh how we did live! But now, seven years later, all he does is drink beer and sit around the house with his shirt off. He hates work and all he talks about is the good food he used to enjoy at the Dining Hall. He was a Commerce man in college, and I tell him he should quit his job with the Sanitation Department and go out and earn some of that big money he was always yapping about in his undergraduate days. What more can I do?
Disillusioned
Answer:
You poor slave! Enclosed you will find a blowgun and poisoned dart. Aim right back of his left ear. He’ll wriggle for a while, but then the rat will croak. Suffer not, dearie: all men are dogs.—MH
How True
The Washington State Evergreen says that the next time your professor mentions how busy he is, remind him of the duties of a school teacher in 1661. At that time they acted as court messengers, served summonses, conducted ceremonial services of the church, lead the Sunday choir, rang the bell for public worship, dug the graves, took charge of the school and performed numerous other occasional duties. And not only that, but Adam Roelandson, one of the first school teachers in the colonies, took in washing on the side.
5
TH£ flOW Dflmt SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Morilurus
Founded 1867 •UlMllllllllllllltlHml III Illi IIHMUIIHIII UMilM Illi IIIMIIMlMnl|>»»»»l»
John Defant, Editor ASSOCIATE EDITORS H. Smith Keel Frank Keenan
•a f ti •••riiimii tniimiiiiiii <u	nt tin tn tut •• kiiiiii mi mi iiiiimi
Bob Stock
REWRITE
Ed Snyder
Joe Doyle
NEWS STAFF
Jim Clemens, Editor
Shaun McDermott, Associate Editor
Bill Bradley Pete Reiner Vern Kelley George McCarthy
John Noonan Steve Valetich
Joe Herrington Lou Horning John Sullivan Tom Murray Phil Shea
John Waters
SPORTS STAFF
Joe Cheney, Editor Pete Brown, Associate Editor
Dave Warner Jim Howard
Buzz Wright
Bob Leander John Krueger Bill Slavik
FEATURE STAFF
Joe Wilcox, Editor Charles Carrol Carter Gerald Heberlein Bill Leavey John A. O’Connor Jerry Otwell Bob Vierhile Nicodemus
PHOTO STAFF
John Brogan, Editor Joe Haller John Koewler Gene Reynolds Gene Lorence Bob Gawne
COVER
by Jim Ferstel
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C. _____________________ „_Faculty	Advisor
Bob Kopf_______________Business	Manager
Tom Gargan Circulation	Manager
M. E. Varga__________________Advertising
rtlMiititiitttiit until t iiitnii iiitiiiuiiiiiiiitiituHittiittiiiiitiittiitiitil
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
tyuMH, the. Zdifoi’d	.
Road of Misery
Few, perhaps, have failed to note the passing from the American scene of those two intrepid trouble shooters, Helen Trent and Our Gal Sunday. Both departed about a month ago with the terse announcement that they would be heard no more. Helen, who began a decade or so ago to find love after thirty-five was, upon her late demise, still trying to find it after forty-five. Apparently, the sponsors saw that sort of thing going on interminably and gave up. Our Gal, who as a little girl from a mining town in the west, sought happiness as the wife of England’s richest, most handsome lord, expired, after eight years of weeping into her Cateau Yquem, in the middle of her umpteenth triangle.
The effect of these failures to find love and happiness upon American women may be catastrophic. Those over forty-five might as well hang up the spikes and befriend vagrants. Others, who have been putting off rich, handsome lords, will have to make up their minds for themselves. The heartless fiends who killed off their heroines with a network directive knew not what they did.
On the other hand, there are those who wish that like fate might befall other seekers after the beautiful life. A favorite target of the cynics is Oxydol’s own Ma Perkins, America’s radio mother, who, as a doddering, semi-moronic matron, has been keeping packs of wolves from the door for some fifteen years. Her following has grown to millions, and myriad dinners have been spoiled because a housewife wept into the soup over the latest misfeasance of Banker Pendleton. Joyce Jordan, who started out as a mere intern but who has already risen to such status as to be accused of malpractice, has burned many a good roast inadvertently. Add these to various other doctors, lawyers, merchants, chiefs, and second husbands, who have been assaulting the airways "with their doldrums: the total woe and sadness is amazing. The amount of sand that stayed in the spinach on their account would make a beach.
Without doubt many harassed males, who are forced to hear rehashes of Dr. Brent’s lastest surgery over a burned chop, wish that the good doctor’s buzzer would ring for the last time. They hope that Helen and Our Gal start a rush for the exit. Life can be awful.—Joe Wilcox
Positive Catholicism
Sincere, intelligent, practical Catholics cannot help but feel encouraged when outstanding examples of progressive, positive Catholicism are brought to their attention. Why such examples are so relatively, rare is an important question, which Scholastic is not now prepared to answer. Rather is it our endeavor at the moment to promote one of the finest and most effective ventures into practical and ... positive Catholic action.
The movement is known as “The Christophers” (by definition: Christ-bearers). Its 51,000 members aim “to bring Christ into the market place.” To effect this broad purpose four media are used: education, government, writing, .. and labor-management, fields in which Father James Keller, the Christophers’ personable, dynamic, Maryknoll director, feels a Christian’s influence is most needed. Emphasis is focused on practice, for unless action inevitably flows from a knowledge and acceptance of ~ Christian principles, they are futile and useless. The need today, Christophers know, is for Christians to come forth from their self-imposed isolation and spread Christ’s doctrine of love and brotherhood in each individual’s own lit- ; tie way, to the multitudes not blessed with His Truth.
Among Christians, Catholics in particular must join in the race for man’s soul—with a program which is well organized, unusually efficient and remarkably aggressive. To put such a program into force Christopherism stresses the fact “that each individual lay person can wield far-reaching influence as a Christ-bearer, no matter how limited his or her qualifications may be.” In their own particular environments students, businessmen, housewives and writers ' can do great good. But, “to be a bearer of Christ,” Father Keller warns, “a Christopher must mean sacrifice, time, inconvenience, suffering, misunderstanding, and countless disappointments that try one’s patience . . . The effect of our sincerity ... is inerttable ... as soon as there are more people turning on the lights than there are turning them off; then, and then only, will the darkness disappear.” As the first light to be turned on Scholastic strongly recommends picking up a copy of Father Keller’s, You Can Be a Christopher, at the local Aquinas bookshop, for a nickle, then let yourself be inspired!
—Frank Keenan
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 88, NO. 24
MAY 9, 1947
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
"IOLANTHE" COLORFUL AND MASTERFUL; SAVOYARDS ACCLAIMED FOR SUCCESS
Since 1940 Professor Cecil Birder and the Notre Dame Savoyards have been presenting Gilbert and Sullivan operettas and winning wide acclaim for their efforts. Thus it was no surprise when they turned up with a colorful and masterful production of “lolanthe,” which finishes a six-day stand in Washington Hall Monday night.
The two-act musical deals with the plight of one lolanthe, a fairy who marries a mortal and is banished from the earth as a punishment by her strict fairy queen. During her exile, lolanthe gives birth to a son, Strephon, who has the distinction of being mortal from his waist down and fairy from the waist up. After 25 years in exile, lolanthe is returned by the queen at the behest of her fairy friends. Strephon, in the meantime, has fallen in love with Phyllis^ a ward of the chancery, but is unable to get permission to marry her from the Lord Chancellor, since he and the Peers are also making a play for her hand.
Strephon appeals to his mother and
Kings and Queens, fairies and mortals
the fairies to help him regain Phyllis from the clutches of the House of Lords. When the fairies make an appearance before the Lords, they flabbergast the nobility by claiming that 25-year-old Stre-phon is the son of 17-year-old lolanthe, who being a fairy didn’t age in exile. It is even too much for Phyllis, who breaks off her engagement with Strephon, and puts herself at the mercy of the Lords. The fairies see that the only solution is to send Strephon into Parliament with fairy powers that will upset the prerogatives enjoyed in that legislative house by the Lords.
As the second act opens the fairy queen finds that her charges are all falling in love with mortals. She chides them for their conduct and shows her own self-control by not falling in love with a palace guard, Private Willis. The two noblemen, chosen to wed Phyllis, argue over who should be the lucky man and finally decide that neither wants the distinction. Thus the Lord Chancellor (Continued on Page 18)
PUBLICATIONS BANQUET MAY 19
The annual publications banquet, honoring members of the SCHOLASTIC, DOME and JUGGLER staffs, will be held May 19 in the faculty dining room. At the banquet keys will be awarded to the members of the three publications staffs, and the DOME awards will be presented to those seniors chosen by the awards committee.
3,000 Hear Kullman Sing in Drill Hall
A near capacity crowd, which was estimated to exceed 3,000, jammed the navy drill hall last Friday night to applaud Charles Kullman, Metropolitan tenor, in his appearance with the South Bend Symphony.
Although Kullman was the principal attraction, the orchestra scored a triumph in their interpretation of the overture to “Die Meistersinger” and Beethoven’s Symphony No. 7 in A Major. The only drawback the artists had to overcome was the hall itself. The massive, wooden structure absorbed much of the music, thus tending to destroy the brilliant contrasts of the orchestrations. However, those who were fortunate enough to have seats near the front got the full effect of Mr. Haymes’ and his 80-piece orchestra’s mastery.
Mr. Kullman has had a brilliant career since he left Yale and pre-medicine for a life of concerts and opera. Besides holding his place among the Metropolitan’s soloists, he has made countless appearances on the air and recently finished a principal role in the new motion picture “The Song of Scheherezade.”
Two operatic arias, “The Dream from ‘Manon’” and “O Paradiso!” from^ “l’Africana,” made up a major part of his program. After the resounding ovation which greeted these works, Mr. Kullman chose as an encore “La Donna Mobile,” from “La Traviata,” by Verdi. This work, which compares love to a feather, darting one way and then an-
(Continued on Page 22)
7
Father Cavanaugh addresses opening session of the Midwest Political Scientists Conference. Second from left is Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, who was later named Chairman of the Program Committee for 1948.
Fr. Cavanaugh Warns Political Science Conference of Un-American Doctrines
Un-American and un-Christian doctrines the United States defeated abroad in World War II are “spreading here at home” and are causing “grave and justifiable concern,” the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University of Notre Dame, warned last week in welcoming more than 300 political scientists to Notre Dame.
The occasion was the opening of a three-day conference of Midwest Political scientists, meeting in conjunction with representatives of Midwestern social studies teachers. Other speakers of the evening were William Maddox, Director of the Foreign Service Institute of the State Department, Dr. Arthur W. Macmahon, of Columbia University, President of the American Political Science Association, and Dr. Paul Bartholomew of Notre Dame, who presided.
“While the average citizen is against both Communism and Fascism,” Father Cavanaugh said, “he is likely to be rather vague about the kind of government he is for, as opposed to the kind* of government he is against. Too many of us have conveniently forgotten—as those who dislike the American system of government wish us to forget—that the Declaration of Independence established man in proper respect to his
Creator, his fellow man, and his government, a government officially dedicated to the protection of God-given, inalienable rights.
“The world has well rid itself of one kind of totalitarianism, but it is still threatened by another that has the same contempt for man as man, as the Nazis and Fascists had. Communism runs head on into the unalienable rights doctrine of the Declaration of Independence, which we believe to be self-evident. But this doctrine, and it alone, gives substance and purpose to American government. It secures not civil liberty merely, but the total God-given liberty of each person, restricted only by the equally God-given duty to respect the liberty of others.
“I speak not as a priest but as an American citizen when I say, political scientists have no greater duty than that of teaching our people that we cannot have vital liberty while denying the author of liberty, nor can we preserve the vital democratic formula, namely, the equality of men before their creator.”
Mr. Maddox declared that the State Department looked to American universities “to provide the broad foundations which the prospective Foreign Service officers of the future should have.” American Foreign Service personnel, he
added, are “frontline soldiers” in the peace-time “battle” to bring stability, prosperity and freedom to the post-war world.
Record 128 Players Enter Golf Tourney
A record field of 128 golfers teed off this week to begin play in the first annual Vet’s Club Golf Tourney. First round play was to be completed by today and second round matches should be completed by Tuesday.
The Championship flight is composed of 32 players with medal qualifying scores better than 84. First round losers in this flight will be seeded into flight No. 1. Medalist of the Championship flight was Joe Flood who carded 74.
There are also 6 other flights of 16 players with scores running from 84 to 129. Since the tourney is match play, an inconsistent player may win enough holes to cop his match. With the exception of the last flight the spread of scores within the individual flights does not exceed 5 strokes.
Handsome trophies will be awarded in each flight and these trophies are on display in the Golf Shop. Sonneborn’s Sport Shop has donated the Championship trophy and other trophies have been donated by various organizations.
The tourney must be completed by Sunday May 18. Competing golfers are urged to play matches on time and to post scores immediately in order that the tourney may be played on schedule. Complete pairings for all matches, scores of matches, and all pertinent information for golfers will be found on the bulletin board in the golf shop.
Ex-Army Fliers Called to New AAF Assoc. Here
Notre Dame men, who were in the Anny Air Forces, will have an opportunity to join South Bend Squadron No. 1 of the Army Air Forces Association, when that group holds its initial meeting Tuesday, May 13, at 8 p. m. in Townsend Hall, located at 317% S. Michigan St.
According to Jimmy Doolittle, who heads the temporary slate of officers, the organization has been formed to knit together present and former members of the Army Air Forces. It is a nonprofit group, whose aims are primarily to educate its members in the developments in air power and to advocate extended aeronautical training in the school systems.
Interested ex-fliers may contact Leo Cummings at 350 Alumni Hall for further information in regard to the association and the South Bend Squadron.
8
300 COUPLES ATTEND JUNIOR PROM
Though it was still wintery out of doors, spring was bursting out all over in the Rockne Memorial last Friday evening when over 300 upper classmen escorted their best girls to the Junior Prom.
Even Griff Williams brought out the spring theme when his rhythmic orchestra played the melodious strains of their theme song, Tchaikowski’s Waltz of the Floivers, under an arbor of fragrant blossoms.
Flowers entered the scene again at midnight when beautiful bouquets of roses were presented to Patricia Mc-Grane and Peggy Morrisey, co-Queens of the Prom and the guests of Chairmen George Sullivan and John McCormick respectively. Miss McGrane, of Manhasset, New York, is the present Student Council president of St. Mary’s while Miss Morrisey, of Lima, Ohio, is a graduate of St. Vincent’s School of Nursing.
One small item of the gala affair,
namely the programs, deserve mention for their extraordinariness. They had beautiful blue leather jackets stamped in gold with the seal of the University and had golden tassels hanging from them.
Even the intermissions were enjoyable at this Prom, some couples spending them in the comfortable lounge, others enjoying “the pause that refreshes,” while still others were photographed so as to have a keepsake of the event. Some of those photographed will appear in the Chicago Sunday Tribune, as on the job
SCHOLASTIC'S photographer had no difficulty in getting plenty of pictures at last week's Junior Prom. The beautiful girls and handsome men cooperated from every angle and in any pose.
9
at the Prom was the photographer for the “Youth on the Campus” section, a weekly portrayal in that paper with pictures and a story of life in the colleges of the country.
Tradition was modified somewhat at this year’s Prom in that there was no tea dance the following afternoon. The socialites weren’t dance-starved, however, as an informal dance at the Erskine Country Club the following evening was substituted, thus leaving the sunny afternoon free for the out-oftowners to tour Our Lady’s beautiful campus and to be photographed in front of the famous magnolia trees, then in full bloom.
Patrons at the Prom were: Dean and Mrs. James E. McCarthy, Dean and Mrs. Clarence E. Manion, Dean and Mrs. Karl E. Schoenherr, Dr. and Mrs. Paul C. Bartholomew, Professor and Mrs. Walter M. Langford, Athletic Director and Mrs. Frank Leahy, Publicity Director and Mrs. John V. Hinkel, Alumni Secretary and Mrs. James E. Armstrong, and Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Hynes.
—Tom Murray
KC To Hold Picnic Ascension Thursday
Cook's Grove has once again been designated as the site of the annual Ascension Thursday picnic sponsored by the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus.
Art McGrath, the chairman of the picnic committee, has announced that two buses will pick up the Knights at the Circle at 10:30 on the morning of May 15. McGrath added that the picnickers will be served refreshments and entertained with football, baseball and other standard sports feats. Bill Suss, one of the officers of Council Number 1477, stated that all Knights’ of Columbus are invited. Transportation to and from Cook’s Grove is arranged for by the local Council.
According to Suss, the festivities are scheduled to continue until six o’clock in the evening, at which time the buses will arrive for the return trip. He also emphasized that any member in good standing of the Knights of Columbus is welcome.
Admission will be twenty-five cents to cover expenses involved in transporting the men between Notre Dame and Cook’s Grove. It will also be necessary for members to produce their traveling cards in order to prove their status as Knights.
—Bill Bradley
CAPACITY CROWD OF 400 EXPECTED AT SENIOR BALL NEXT FRIDAY
In the home stretch this week, the Senior Ball is well on its way to being acclaimed the social winner next Friday night when Frankie Masters and his orchestra take over the Palais bandstand for a gala evening’s entertainment from 10:00 p. m. until 2:00 a. m.
With last minute shoppers getting in under the wire before the Tuesday night deadline this week, Notre Dame’s number one social event is assured of a capacity crowd of 400. Adding to the weekend of festivities is the annual Varsity-Old Timers football game in the Stadium Saturday afternoon at 2:00 p. m. The concluding feature on the triple crowned weekend program is a Candlelight dance Saturday night at the South Bend Progress Club with Jimmy McPhee’s orchestra providing the danceable strains. In addition, a buffet will be served at the Saturday night affair which gets underway at 8:09 p. m. and closes its doors to Ball-goers and their Cinderellas at the last stroke of midnight.
Back to Pre-War Standards
The first post-war Ball of pre-war standard is bound to be a success in every respect for handling the arrangements are a board of experts who have a trail of experience behind them.
The unheralded chief helping to plan this year’s Ball is Rev. Joseph A. Barry, C.S.C., who has been most cooperative in representing the university. Aiding Father Barry in making the major arrangements is co-chairman Rudy Anderson, of Brooklyn, N. Y., who acted as chairman for the Naval ROTC Ball in June, 1945, after having worked on four other RO Ball committees.
Elmer Matthews, of South Orange, N. J., was no sooner appointed as the other co-chairman for the affair, in reward for having capably handled the Music Committee for last year’s Junior Prom, than he guaranteed Ball enthusiasts a portion of weekend enjoyment with the signing of popular Frankie Masters and his orchestra. Another man with Naval ROTC experience, is Bill Waddington, of Chicago” Heights, Ill., who having punched out the publicity for three NROTC Balls, is again pounding the typewriter and putting out the releases for this big event.
Although the theme of the Ball must remain a secret until the Ball-goers and their lovely misses enter through the portals, all can rest assured that it will be a palatial Palais come Friday, the
16th. Directing the Decorations Committee is another man with Junior Prom experience, Willoughby Marshall, of Apalachicola, Fla. Completing the big five who are aiming at a big evening, decoratively speaking, are Ralph Mortensen, of Palm Beach, Fla.; Joe Plante, of Bourbonnais, Ill.; Jack Houghteling, of Kansas City, Mo.; and John Swain, of An-can, Canal Zone.
Galloway Ticket Chairman
Jovial Jack Galloway, of Watertown, N. Y., is the top ticket man, having served as Arrangements Chairman for the ’46 prom. Assisting him in the “take” are Hal Walters and Dennis “Gabby” Hartnett, of Chicago; Jack Noonan, of Brooklyn; and Bernie Duclos, of Watertown, N. Y.
The delightful cover that will grace next week’s Scholastic was dreamed up by Arrangements Chairman Herb Daik-er, of Utica, N. Y. Besides bringing artistic ability to the fore, Herb is a man who knows all the angles, having been Decorations Chairman as well as Dance Chairman for past Naval ROTC Balls. Rounding out the roster, Donnelly McDonald, of Fort Wayne, Ind., heads the Saturday night committee, being assisted by Jerry Mahon, of Iron City, Mich.
Wranglers' Banquet to Honor Departing Seniors
Nine members will be attending their last meeting as undergraduates when Wranglers, campus honorary discussion society, holds its annual banquet next Wednesday evening in the Blue Room of the Oliver Hotel. Sharing the spotlight with the departing seniors 'will be the speaker of the evening, Mr. Francis O’Malley of the English department and moderator of the club, who will deliver the main address of the evening.
Pat Finan, chairman of the commit-te making arrangements for the dinner, has announced that the event will be formal, following Wrangler tradition. Jim Murphy, senior English major from Indianapolis, will be toastmaster for the banquet.
Last Wednesday, club president Charles Patterson presented a paper on “Planned Economy and Democracy.”
Graduating senior members who will be honored at the banquet include Al Sommer, Jr., Charles Patterson, Bernie O’Hora, Vince Oppenheim, Ted Weber, Jr., James Murphy, Art McGrath, John Shannon and Warren Fronrath.
10
With just a week remaining before the Senior Ball, committees for the big week-end have opened the final drive to make the first post-war attraction a real success. Top left. Ticket chairman Jack Galloway, seated behind table, gives last minute advice to collecting cohorts Bernie Duclos, Dennis Hartnett,'Jack Noonan and Hal Walters. Top right. Decorations boss Willoughby Marshall, seated at left, confers with John Swain, Joe Plante, Jack Houghteling and Ralph Mortensen. Center, Publicity chairman Bill Waddington hangs the final Ball poster while co-chairman for the affair, Elmer Matthews, looks on. Bottom left. Arrangements chairman Herb Daiker shows SCHOLASTIC cover sketch to Sat-. urday night chairman Donnelly McDonald and his assistant, Jerry Mahon. Bottom right, Rudy Anderson, co-chairman puts his signature on the contract that brings Frankie Mas-. ters and his band to the 1947 Ball while Rev. Joseph A.
Barry, C.S.C., gives the University's approval.
Front row, left to right: Dick Seidel, James Besenfelder, George Stuhr, Jack Fitzpatrick. Ev Schleck, Tom Dore. Second row, left to right: Father George Holderith. Paul Hudak, John Quinn, John Cawley, Ray Burian.
EV SCHLECK	;
1944. He played in the	Occupational	1
Open in	Japan and in the	All-Pacific	«
Tourney	in Honolulu.	;
GOLF TEAM BOASTS .829 AVERAGE IN 17 SEASONS OF COMPETITION
Golf, as a varsity sport at Notre Dame, dates back to 1930 when the first Irish golfers went through a five game schedule without defeat and also captured team honors in the Indiana intercollegiate Tournament. The 1931 aggregation also boasted a spotless record, and the Irish rolled up 17 consecutive victories before bowing to Purdue in 1932.
In 1933 and 1934 the Notre Darners were once again unbeaten and untied, running up a victory string of 20 straight triumphs before losing to Northwestern. The all-time record at Notre Dame shows 116 wins, 24 losses, and 4 ties since competition opened in 1930. That is a winning average of .829, exclusive of ties and of this year’s matches.
Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., was appointed golf coach in 1933 at Notre Dame. Since that date through the 1946 season, his charges have compiled 98 victories, suffered 22 setbacks, and tied four matches which adds up to a neat .817 percentage, exclusive of ties.
Among other outstanding achievements of the Irish golfers, is their consistency in the Indiana Inter-Collegiate
12
Tournament. From 1930 through 1941 the Irish sent 12 golf squads into this competition, and returned with the team championship on ten occasions. Eight of their titles were consecutive, from 1933 through 1940. The individual honors in these tourneys went to a Notre Dame man in ten of the twelve tournaments.
In 1944 Notre Dame won its first National Collegiate Golf Championship at Toledo Inverness. The Irish have entered the nationals an even dozen times, winning once, finishing second once, winding up third on three occasions, and capturing the fourth position twice.
Introducing the Irish Golfers
James Besenfelder, Senior, earned monograms on Notre Dame’s 1943, 1944, and 1946 golf squads. Captained the football, basketball, and golf teams; at Mendota (Illinois) Township High School. Served as an ensign in the Navy for 32 months.
Ray Burian, freshman from Joliet, Illinois, won the Joliet Junior Championship at 15 years of age. He was a medalist in the senior division in 1943 and
Jack Fitzpatrick, sophomore from Akron, Ohio, was a member of Notre Dame’s National Champions in 1944 as a freshman. Jack won the Occupational Open in Tokyo when he set the course record at 67. Jack served as an instructor at the Koganei Golf Course in Tokyo. Before the war, Jack won the Akron District Junior title three years running. In winning the Notre Dame Open in 1944, he set a record of 279 for the course.
John Quinn, sophomore from Orange, New Jersey, won two letters and captained the golf team at Seton Hall Prep. He also won a monogram in basketball. Jack lists Byron Nelson as his favorite golfer.
Ev Schleck, junior from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, is captain of this year’s golf squad. Ev won his first monogram in 1946. He served 49 months in the army.
Dick Seidel, junior from St. Paul, Minnesota, won his first Notre Dame monogram as a member of the 1944 National Champions. He won two letters playing on the Loyola Academy golf team in Chicago.
George Stuhr, sophomore from Garden City, Long Island, earned a monogram on the 1946 team. George captained the Garden City High golf team and won the Long Island Inter-scholastic title. In 1943, George won the New York State Junior Golf Championship.
GEORGE STUHR
THE GOLF COACH
Father George Holderith, C.S.C., began his coaching of the Notre Dame golf team in 1933. In addition he assumed the post as Director of the William J. Burke University Golf Course. Interest in golf here at Notre Dame has grown tremendously as a result of Father Holderith’s activities. He has been concerned with the physical development of the course and he has conducted numerous student golfing events.
Through the efforts of Father Holderith, a number of outstanding professional golfers have given exhibitions over the Notre Dame course. Some of these stars include Walter Hagen, Sr., Law-son Little, Jimmy Thompson, Olin Dutra, Al Watrous, and Horton Smith.
Rev. George I*. Holderith. C.S.C.
Jim Besenfelder edifies his teammates and Coach Father Holderith with a perfect follow through
Notre Dame Golf Squad Meets Wildcats Tomorrow; Has 3 More Matches to Play
The Notre Dame golf squad journeyed to Louisville, Kentucky, during the Easter holidays where they tied the University of Kentucky, 18-18, and downed the University of Louisville, 27-9, in their first matches of the season.
On April 19, the Irish entertained the University of Wisconsin here and trounced them, 20-7 before a large gathering of student fans. The Purdue Boilermakers visited the campus the following Saturday, April 26, and handed the Irish their first defeat of the season by a score of 20-16. Notre Dame led throughout most of the afternoon, but fell to defeat when the last two Irish golfers walked in badly beaten.
The Golf Squad
Name	Fear	Hometown	Age
Besenfelder, James	Senior	Mendota, Illinois	22
Burian, Raymond	Freshman	Joliet, Illinois.	20
Conley, Tom	Junior	Green Bay, Wisconsin	20
Cawley, John	Sophomore	Chisholm, Minnesota	21
Dore, Thomas	Junior	Dearborn, Michigan	20
Fitzpatrick, John	Sophomore	Akron, Ohio	21
Quinn, John	Sophomore	Orange, New Jersey	18
Folfs, Robert	Freshman	West Bend, Wisconsin	20
Schleck, Ev	Junior	Milwaukee, Wisconsin	25
Seidel, Richard	Junior	St. Paul, Minnesota	22
Stuhr, George	Sophomore	Garden City, Long Island	20
Hudak, Paul	Freshman	Joliet, Illinois	20
Last Saturday Notre Dame came back strong whipping a powerless Michigan State team, 20 % to 6%. Father Holderith seemed pleased after the match and felt that his team was back on the “green” again. But last Monday at Ann Arbor the University of Michigan’s Big Nine defending champions swung a 21-1 defeat around the Irish necks.
Tomorrow Notre Dame takes on Northwestern on their course in Evanston. The remainder of the schedule reads: May 12, Notre Dame at Marquette; May 15, Detroit at Notre Dame; May 19, Notre Dame at Minnesota; and June 23-28, the NCAA Tournament at Ann Arbor, Michigan.
13
TRACK TEAM BATTLES INDIANA RIVALS IN TRIANGULAR MEET AT BLOOMINGTON
Notre Dame will participate in a sneak preview of the Indiana State track meet tomorrow afternoon when they battle the leading contenders, Indiana and Purdue, in a triangular affair at Bloomington. Indiana will be the biggest threat to the Irish, as the Boilermakers have already been beaten in dual competition by local cindermen.
On the basis of recent contests ND should be victor in both coming events. If Indiana’s ace miler Earl Mitchell does not compete, as he is not expected to, Bill Leonard and John Lyons may take key spots in the mile. In the quarter, Ray Sobota, Steve Provost, and Ernie McCullough are all possible winners. All three have toured the 440 yard distance in 51 seconds or better which is the best mark hit by Indiana runners. Dave Murphy will again be straddled with tough opponents, but has a good chance to win the 220 yard dash and a place in the 100 yard sprint. Bob Smith will also be a possible point collector in the 220.	i
j
Frazier -Thompson probably will not compete because of a recurring leg injury which forced him to drop out of the 220 in last week’s contest with Michigan State. The hurdles will be a decisive event, but John Smith, Irish captain, is favored to nose out Tom Mitchell in the highs and take at least a second in the lows. Because Mitchell has not had too difficult competition his maximum performance has not been determined. Running the 880 for Notre Dame will be Larry Keenan and Gerry Johnson who are in for some struggle with Hoosier Tom Deal. However, both are finally rounding into shape after long layoffs since the indoor season and should make the half mile the race of the afternoon.
Cornie Styers and Jim Murphy will have to turn in their best performances to edge Snyder of Indiana in the two-mile. Styers ran a beautiful race last Saturday in an attempt to catch Sewell of Michigan State, but his final sprint fell short. Snyder has run the distance in 9:40, a mark superior to any turned in by either Murphy or Styers. The final track event, the mile relay should be taken by the Irish squad of Provost, McCullough, Sobota and Dave Murphy who last week set a new meet record in the Spartan duel of 3:20.9.
Stumbling block of the ND spikesters will be the field events. Irish weakness in the broad jump, high jump, and pole vault may cause the points to swing in
14
the wrong direction. Jack Hunter who suffered from bad luck at Michigan State should be able to score in the broad jump if fouls don’t eliminate his best jumps. Lou Tracy in addition to his two-mile chore has taken up high jumping and may repeat his third place spot in the Spartan meet.
Pole vaulters Jim Miller and Ray Struble are expected to regain their indoor form and score heavily in their specialty. The javelin will bring additional points to the Irish with Bob Charters, Miller, Jack Zilly, and Tom Keenan all strong contenders for laurels. In the shot, George Sullivan and Luke Higgins are all entrants in the discus, with Johnson and Zilly holding the best chances for a victory at Bloomington. Other ND contestants tomorrow will be Tom McGuire in the mile and two-mile, Jack Painter and Frank Dessidero in the
MAHANNAH TOP HURLER, SHEEHAN BEST HITTER AS IRISH WIN TWO CLOSE ONES
By JOHN KRUEGER
The Irish captured contests from Iowa and Western Michigan last week 3-2 and 6-5. These two wins gave the local nine a season’s record of nine wins and three losses.
The Irish continued playing on the road this week with a game at Northwestern Tuesday and games at Indiana today and tomorrow.
Next Tuesday, May 13, Notre Dame will be seeking revenge for an early season one run defeat at Ann Arbor when the powerful Michigan team invades Cartier Field. A last minute addition to the schedule is a contest with the University of Toledo. This game will be played under the lights at Swayne Field, the home of the Toledo Mud Hens of the American Association.
Strong-armed Walt Mahannah was the winning pitcher in both the Iowa and Western Michigan games. The Iowa win was a full nine inning chore while the second victory was earned in relief. This gives him a 3-0 record that is tops for the staff. Batting averages including the Iowa game found Sheehan still in front with a .453. Benny Kozlik’s second .place .429 shows why he doesn’t belong on the bench.
The Iowa contest on April 30 was a
high jump and Jack Cawley and Bob McDavid in the hurdles.	*
Michigan State last Saturday proved their superiority over the Notre Dame thinlies as they triumphed for the third time this season, 76 to 65. The local trackmen dominated the shot, discus, and javelin in the field events. They scored only two points in the high jump, broad : jump, and pole vault. In the track contests the scoring was quite even except for the low hurdles in which the Irish took only one tally. Fraser the winner of the lows equaled the varsity, field and meet records for the 220 yard distance with a time of 23.5 seconds. John Smith established a new 120 yard high hurdle mark of 14.6. The last new record set was the 24 feet 5^ inch jump by John- ? son of Michigan State which also broke ; all existing records for the broad jump, t
Only one meet more remains before .; the Irish play host to the Indiana State f contest here on May 24. Next Saturday, ( ND will travel to Lafayette for another triangular meet, this time with North- ; western and Purdue.	:
thriller from start to finish. Notre Dame | ■was behind 1-0 until the sixth when they ’ rallied for three runs. Again it was j Tom Sheehan’s big bat that provided f the power. With mates Mayo and Wolf | on the bases from a walk and a single $ respectively, Tom tripled to deep right | center to score both men. Sheehan then | lumbered home on Petrzelka’s deep fly J to left.	|
Iowa cut this lead to one run with a | tally in the eighth and only a rapid fire 1 Mahannah to Sheehan to Petrzelka 1 double play prevented more damage. |
The ninth inning produced two de- f fensive heroes for Notre Dame. With | Iowa pitcher Jack Bruner on second with | the tying run as the result of a single f and sacrifice, a Hawkeye hit bounded into left field. Wolf raced in, scooped up the ball and fired to catcher S'heehan at the plate. A diving stab by Sheehan nipped the sliding Bruner.
The May Day contest of this scheduled f: two game series was canceled due to ® some held over April showers that came B South Bend way.	B
Irish hitters gave starting pitcher & Jack Campbell a five run lead to work g with in the Western Michigan engage- K ment May 3 at Kalamazoo, but Camp- g'
(Con’t. on P. 18)	g
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
From Charlie Callahan’s office comes a release stating that Notre Dame will play host to the first Central Collegiate Conference Tennis Championships since 1930 on May 29, 30, and 31. The announcement was made jointly by Athletic Director Frank Leahy and Tennis Coach Walter Langford.
This year’s Central Collegiate Conference tennis tourney, the third in history, should provide tennis fans in this area with a look at some of the best young net stars in the midwest. Among the schools which are likely to participate in the tournament are: Michigan State, Western Michigan, Marquette, Bradley, North Central, Northern Illinois State Teachers, DePauw, Cincinnati, Wayne, Detroit, Lawrence, and Notre Dame.
Trophies will be awarded to the winning team, to the winner* and runner-up in singles competition, and to the winners and runners-up in doubles play.
Notre Dame has been established as an early favorite to cop some of the titles. The Irish have swept through their first five matches of the year in impressive style, hardly being pressed by any of their opponents thus far. Coach Langford will be in charge of all arrangements and Frank C. Householder, net tutor at Western Michigan College, will serve as referee of the tournament.
When asked how his team looked this year, Coach Langford floored us with his optimism. “Looks like we’ll have an undefeated season. We’ve got a good team.” And he meant it! No towel, no nothing! He’s got some good men on this year’s squad with Jim and Gerald Evert, Bill Tully, Dick Hartman, Charlie Samson, Ed Caparo, Jim Griffin, Phil Lyons, Bob David, and Joe Brown. We’re hoping to do a sports issue on the tennis team next week. Lack of pictures held us up this week as we were going to combine tennis and golf.
Last Sunday night Lewis McGann, candidate for Mayor of South Bend, played host to the Notre Dame football team by inviting some of the players to a Holy Name Society party at St. Adalbert's parish hall in South Bend. With private cars picking them up at the circle and bringing them back before the twelve o’clock deadline, “Aiderman” Czarobski, Jerry Cowhig, Johnny Lujack, Marty Brutz, John Mastrangelo, Bob Skoglund, Gus Cifelli, and a couple of Chicago campus politicans took over a ringside table and had the time of their
(Con’t. on P. 18)
Seersucker
Sport Coats
You’ll like these seersucker Sports Coats because they’re so cool and comfortable, yet so well tailored and perfectly fitting! Best of all seersucker coats wash beautifully . . . will not lose their shape.’
ON THE CORNER... MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
IS
For the
SENIOR BALL
See your
Campus Florist
A service for Notre Dame Men
The best flowers at most reasonable rates
A representative will call at your room.
Mark Doody	Ed Kavanagh
129 Howard	112 Dillon
CANDIES	RESTAURANT
FOR 45 YEARS
The Philadelphia has been at the service of Notre Dame men and their guests
THE PHILADELPHIA
116 N. Michigan St.
ICE CREAM	PASTRIES
16
StuAetit	.
Bill Lyman
PRINTS OF THE PAST 1917
Jan. 20: The basketball team opened the season by swamping a strong YMCa team, 32 to 16 . . . Feb. 10: This week the Indiana State Legislature passed the Prohibition Act. Students were wondering was it still lawiul to continue their gin rummy games . . . Mar. 3: Assistant Football Coach Eockne has “invited” players to attend blackboard drills for the next two weeks . . . Apr. 28: The riiie team finished seventh in the National Eifle Association meet last week. After the long trip home, they looked pretty well shot . . . May 29: A record crowd of fifty-five couples thronged the Tapestry Eoom of the Oliver’ Hotel last night to attend the Junior Prom . . . Oct. 6: The new Cafeteria is a dilly. In addition to the shiny wooden seiwing tables, there are a sanitary soda dispensary and a well-equipped confectionery and cigarstand . . . Oct. 13: The management of the new cafeteria gave away fifty gallons of ice cream to students at the formal opening. The near-riot was finally brought under control and repairs are well under way . . . Nov. 10: The Irish beat Army again this year, 7 to 2, in a game featuring the brilliant running of a heretofore unknown left halfback— George Gipp.
What About It. Frank?
The alumni say that the 1947 National Championship will be decided in the Notre Dame Stadium next Saturday afternoon. Suggested theme for Coach Leahy: This year even the second team will be representative.—Don Dee.
A Budding Thought
If there’s any truth to the “It isn’t raining rain at all, it’s raining violets,” Notre Dame should turn out to be the garden spot of America.
—Herb Schmitz, Lyons
On Outside Reading
A “he’s a man” for those little guys Who read the books before us And underline, no doubt with sighs, Those gruesome facts that bore us.
—Sack-In Sammy
PRINTS OF THE PRESENT Ode to the Mailman
Oh ye immortal muses IVho weave my immortal thread, Heap curses and abuses Upon his lowly head.
He never brings me letters,	■
The kind I love to read, Only bills from creditors	*
To make my wallet bleed.
—The Broken-Hearted Russian, Cav.
In the ND Dictionary
Smart bachelor—A fellow who never j
Mrs. a girl.—M. F. Murphy	’
Library card—Literary comedian.	t
—Bob Scribner, Dogpatch	-r
a
■
Overheard in Psychology Class .f
Now, Mr. O’Sullivan, lets’ not use our r knowledge of psychology to call other idiots.—Sherry, Lyons

each

To Fr. B.
“I'll whip him at handball,” He’d said with a roar, But, instead of a hundred, He got minus four.
f‘Wires” McGuire, Lyons fi.
■ ' I
Send or deliver contributions to THE&2 STUDENT FEINTS, 124 Lyons Hall, g
/- — — -- ---- - - - - - ==\
<<l I K I PARADE
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
Cannibal Cook: “Shall I boil the missionary?”
Chief: “No, he’s a friar.”
—St. Bonaventure
A Note on the Telephone Strike
AFTER THE BALL IS OVER . . .
Hard to beat—That seems to be the general consensus of opinion of those who attended last weekend’s Junior Frolic. With the Senior Ball only a week away, four-stripers will have to go far to beat the juniors . . . many men contend that the Saturday night romp at Erskine Country Club was even better than the Prom. Hats off to the juniors for breaking the chains of convention and doing away with the dull afternoon tea dances.
One sweet young thing went up to George Sullivan and John McCoi-mick, the co-chairmen, and said, “I think the decorations are lovely, but how did you get this place to look so much like a gym?”
Then there’s the story of the disgruntled junior who fox-trotted up to Griff Williams and said, “Do you play requests?”
“Sure, what would you like to have us play?”
“Pinochle,” he muttered.
AND I'LL NOT ASK FOR WINE .. .
‘‘Teach not thy lips such scorn, for it was made
For kissing, lady, not for such contempt.”
—Shakespeare
The immortal bard is having a bit of opposition thrown his way. There is now springing up a nearby school of thought that contends it is very brazen for a girl to let her escort kiss her goodnight. However, we think that stolen fruit is always sweetest ... so there!
JUST THINKIN' .. .
Man is a strange animal . . . wonder what prehistoric man was like . . . they say we, are physically inferior to prehistoric man . . . but we’d rather- be inferior- than prehistoric . . . science says man is the only animal that laughs . . . also the only animal that has a Congress . . . and is also woman’s last domestic animal . . . guess that’s why men are what women marry . . . they have two hands, two feet . . . but never more than one dollar and one idea at one time.
HEADLINES FROM THE COLLEGE PRESS
“Godless Communism Is Doomed”
—Loyola (Md.) Grey hound (Is there another kind?)
“Who Wants 100 Dollars-”
—Boston U. News
(Da, da!)
“Student Editors To Be Honored”
—Missouri Student
(Hmm, active SPCA down thata-way)
“ ‘Still Open For Officers’, Says Army”
—Georgia Tech Technique
(Oh, yeah? How about stills for the enlisted men?)
“Candidates For Sundial Announced”
—Ohio State Lantern
ODDS 'N ENDS . . .
Have faith fellas, we’ve just learned that Edison had consistently flunked his math tests . . . and Dorothy Thompson, noted columnist and Syracuse U. grad, booted her English exam there.
A prof appeared in class with seven or eight pieces of plaster pasted on his face. “I was getting a shave today,” he explained, “and a fellow from the barber school took his final examination on my face. Boy, did he flunk!”
The lowest thing we observed all week was one industrious student sweating away over his crib notes in the Caf . .. they were printed on the back of a Religious Bulletin!
Fourth Grade Teacher: “Tommy, if I lay one egg on the table and two on the chair, how many will I have together?”
“Personally,” answered Tommy, “I think you can’t do it.”
—The Torch (St. John’s College)
“Did you have any trouble getting your call through?”
“No, the operator was a college girl and gave me a line right away.”
Specializing in the examination of the eyes
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
ITS DREAM TIME MANHATTAN SERENADE HONG-KONG BLUES THIS IS THE NIGHT BOY MEETS HORN
Copp's Music Shop
122-124 E. Wayne St.
WaUeM.' French Dry Cleaners
Main Office 22-7-209 Smith Street SPECIAL BRANCH OFFICE FOR CONVENIENCE OF NOTRE DAME STUDENTS at
822 SOUTH BEND AVENUE facing Notre Dame Avenue Pockets, zippers and all repairs reasonably done.
Your Transportation One Way, Boys!
Open Friday evenings, 7:30 to 9:30
17
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 15) lives singing, dancing, and signing autographs. Yours truly went along for the laughs . . . and had plenty of them!
Jerry Cowhig and Fred Rovai are finding it hard to line up players for the Old Timers Game a week from tomorrow . . . Johnny Lujack is anticipating a rough weekend next week, what with his

Put ZING
Extra strength for extra stroking power is built into the throats of the “Fiber-Sealed” Wright & Ditson Davis Cup and the “Fiber-Welded” Spalding Kro-Bat... both made by Spalding. At your dealer’s.
3^
IN YOUR SWING
11-ply Lamination
made by Spalding
cute Patricia coming in for the Senior Ball Friday night and the wind-up of spring practice the following afternoon. She looked mighty refreshing when we saw her at the Hoffmann two weeks ago. Who’s calling the signals Friday night, Johnny? . . . Leon Hart may win that starting end assignment if he continues to guard his side of the line as well as he has been doing all spring. Mighty strong lad! Ask the halfbacks . . . The Earley brothers have been sidelined with
UP TO 1801 TENNIS IN ENGLAND WAS A'JLRELYLONG, PRAWN-OUT VOLLEYING-
THE •renshasn-
CHANGED THAT...
THEY STARTED
POUNDING THE BALL
BACK-
—SO VIOLENT "WAS
■Reaction TO SUCH UNGEUTLEMANLY PLAY EVEN LEGISLATION WAS PROPOSEDTO STOP IT.*
the same injuries . . . bad knees. Coach Bill tossed his knee out in blocking practice while Extra-point Fred shifted, but his knee didn’t . . - Ernie Zalejski is still taking things easy in hopes of being ready for action this fall . . . One of the big attractions of the South Bend Blue Sox this year will be Mrs. Acker, who was chosen ' Mrs. America” last year . . . Wonder if the profits, if any, from the Old Timers Game next Saturday couldn’t be put in the newly formed Students’ Aid Fund. The project isn’t as yet completely worked out but should be helpful to both the students and the University. A yearly contribution from this game would greatly aid this campus enterprise . . . Guess we were a bit off on the Derby last week. Looked like a case of Guerin outsmarting Arcaro. Those of you who wondered what happened to Blue Border will be happy to find him at Pimlico ready for tomorrow’s Preakness, the second leg of the coveted “Triple Crown.”
Mahannah Top Hurler
(Continued from Page 14)
bell’s highly regarded fast ball proved to be no puzzle to Bronco batsmen. The Notre Dame southpaw was finally driven to the showers in the seventh when a two run uprising tied the score. The Broncos had previously scored two in the second and one in the third inning.
Notre Dame promptly came back in the eighth to score the winning marker. Right fielder Tom Carlin, transplanted second baseman, drew a pass. Petrzelka sacrificed him to second. After relief hurler Mahannah had struck out, Kozlik came through-with a single over second, driving in Carlin.
Mahannah protected this slim lead for the rest of the game to receive credit for the win.
"IOLANTHE"
(Continued from Page 7)
moves onto the marital merry-go-round in hopes of gaining Phyllis for himself. Strephon, sensing his actions, pleads with lolanthe to talk the Lord Chancellor out of it. As a last resort she has to admit that she is his former wife. Immediately the queen marches on the scene, about to execute sentence and banish lolanthe once again. The fairies, however, confess that they too have married mortals. To remedy the situation, the queen with the help of the law-wise Chancellor changes the Fairy Law and transforms the mortals into fairies. As the final curtain falls the Queen has her Private Willis, Strephon has Phyllis, lolanthe is back with the Chancellor, and everyone heads for Fairyland with their । brides.	|
Outstanding in cast are Ralph Thor- |
18
| son as the flighty Chancellor, Roy O’Neil ,« as Strephon, Elaine Bruck as lolanthe, Marcia Nolan as the sweet and petite Phyllis, Evelyn Sabol as the strict queen, y John Commerford as Private Willis, and John Owen and Nolan Sheehan as the two marriage-seeking noblemen. Other speaking roles are held by Jane Lavelle, । Frances Hanson, and Petrina Marshall.
The fairy chorus is made up of St. Mary’s Savoyards, while the chorus of • noblemen are members of the Notre Dame Savoyards.
The chorus and orchestral direction is capably handled by Professor Birder, j who is the director- of the production, “lolanthe” was staged by the University
* Theater of which Rev. Matthew A. Coyle, C.S.C., is the director.
■ Performances will be held tonight and ■ Monday night at 8:20 for the student body, while two Sunday shows -will be
; given for the Holy Cross Community • and South Bend residents.
Anyone who likes a colorful, well-directed, and well-acted musical shouldn’t
’ miss the Savoyards 1947 presentation.
HOGAN IN ITALY
By FRANK KEENAN
Undoubtedly the most memorable of Hogan’s innumerable experiences while in Europe took place in Rome, where he spent the Christmas season. Three days before Christmas over 250,000 people jammed St. Peter’s Square, in the midst of the wave of anti - clericalism then sweeping across Italy, and accorded the Supreme Pontiff a tremendous manifestation of fealty and love. When the Holy Father appeared there arose one of the most deafening demonstrations of applause imaginable, Hogan i-ecalls. The next day the Pope received him in an audience, displaying great vigor and enthusiasm. At the end of the audience, during which Hogan asked His Holiness’ special blessing on all the Catholic students in the United States and particularly at Notre Dame, the Angelus rang, and the Holy Father knelt and led in the prayer. “One of the unforgettable incidents in a person’s life,” Hogan emphasizes.
The problems of Italy, Hogan feels, are much like those facing France, though to a greater degree. The high cost of living and the widespread food deficiencies necessarily take first place among these because of theii- immediacy. Great disappointment has become manifest among the Italian people as a result of the peace treaty which Italy was forced to accept from the Allies, a treaty which, they feel, was based neither on justice nor on an estimate of the vital role Italy can play in the reconstruction
of western Europe. The heroic sacrifices brought forth by the Italian people in their resistance to German forces and their recognition as a co-belligerent during the liberation seem now in vain. Faced with so many uncertainties and hardships a large segment of the population has become disillusioned as to any hope for justice to their nation.
One of the recent bright spots in Italo-U. S. relations was Premier Alcide de* Gasperi’s mission to America. All over Italy this was hailed as a sign of U. S. goodwill toward Italy. And the real democratic forces were extremely grateful for this recognition (which strengthed their- position immeasurably) especially
TV
903
Dua Sun
says:
9
O
New Blend! New Taste! New Freshness!
Made by the revolutionary new “903” moisturizing process. Beneficial moisture penetrates every tobacco leaf—gives you a smoother, milder, better smoke! Get new Raleigh “903” Cigarettes today.
as it came from President Truman personally. Inasmuch as Marshal Tito of Yugoslavia had only shortly before feted Togliotti, Italy’s Communist leader, this recognition on the part of the U. S. was very well timed, Hogan believes.
Hogan feels quite certain that the only solution to Italy’s economic problems must take the form of a big loan from the United States. Now that UNRA aid has ended, and still faced with high prices, inflation and wide unemployment, Italy is being forced to spend her dwindling foreign exchange for foodstuffs, at the expense of a more long-range program of industrial rehabilitation.
(Continued on Page 22.)

JOSEPH COTTEN
^^Sdenceoffe,, S®<*posiim
nJS?s Nicotine ^W’rootlrrifoirts
19
NeHers Win 3 More, Still Are Undefeated
The Notre Dame baseball, golf, and track teams have their ups and downs but the tennis team rolls on. At the half way mark in their schedule the Irish netsters have five wins in as many outings. Wisconsin, Purdue, and Michigan were the latest to fall before our rampaging racketmen. The Irish whitewashed Wisconsin and Purdue, winning both engagements, 9-0, while Michigan fell 6-3.
Having cleaned up on mid-western competition, Notre Dame set out to test its skill against Eastern and Southern opponents. Last Monday the squad clashed with Navy at Annapolis and Kentucky comes here tomorrow.
Michigan was the only one of last week’s adversaries to win more than one set from Notre Dame during an entire match. At Madison, April 28, the Badgers could cop but one and Purdue was blanked completely on the home courts April 30.
Jimmy Evert, Gerry Evert, and Chuck Samson got the Irish off to a flying start at Ann Arbor May 3 by winning their matches handily. Bob David was bested 6-1, 4-6, 5-7. Bill Tully put Notre Dame back in the victory column by polishing off his man in two quick sets. The final singles were taken by Michigan as Joe Brown went down to defeat 4-6, 4-6.
Wolverine netmen picked up their third point when Notre Dame defaulted in the last doubles contest in order to catch a train.
AIEE Session Hears Edison Co. Engineer
Outstanding engineering development of means to provide mass production during the last 66 years has enabled labor to triple its earnings while reducing working hours by one-third, according to Dr. T. G. Le Clair, Chief Staff Engineer of the Commonwealth Edison Company in Chicago.
Dr. Le Clair, who also is vice-president of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, made this statement on May 2 before the annual meeting of the Great Lakes District Student Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in a joint session with the South Bend chapter of the Institute. The Great Lakes District Student Branch held its annual meeting today in the University of Notre Dame.
“During the last 66 years,” declared Dr. Le Clair, “real hourly earnings (in 20
Look To
813-817 S. Michigan St.
for
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES
bl
The sports shirt find of the decade! Made of a light, tough spun-rayon fabric which wears like iron and is washable.
Colors — a wide choice of beautiful pastels.
Style—short or long sleeved topped with the famous Arrow collar.
Come in and see us for Arrow sports shirts.
MAX ADLER CO.
ON THE CORNER . . . MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
ARROW SPORTS SHIRTS
C-H-W+ARROW=SUDAN
»» - —>
The Arrow Sudan is made from the finest sports shirt fabric we have ever found for the discriminating college buyer.
This fabric is a Bur-Mil spun-rayon fuji made exclusively for Arrow and is cool and feather-light yet rugged and unconditionally washable.
Sudan comes in short and long sleeved models and in a variety of fresh pastel colors*.
Sudan is guaranteed to be: Cool as a shaved lion.....
Handsome
as a just painted zebra . . .
Washable
as a crocodiles back . . . .
*Short sleeves, $3.75; Long sleeves, $4.50.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Its idler’s for
ARROWS
OMBl...MDUMI f WMMN
equivalent purchasing power) have grown more than three times. In the same period, average working hours have dropped about one-third. Through engineering development of means to provide quantity production, we can all earn more money and have at the same time more leisure in which to enjoy the products of industry.”
Dr. Le Clair concluded by urging engineers to “work with your neighbors in your community to see that we all get the fullest use of the latest equipment, whether it be for industrial processes or for local highways and water systems.”
More than 1-50 students and faculty members, representing 19 colleges and universities in eight midwestern states, attended the annual meeting of the Great Lakes District Student Branch at Notre Dame. They were welcomed to the University by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., President of Notre Dame.
An inspection tour of Notre Dame’s engineering laboratories, some of the most completely equipped of their type in the country, was made by the delegates, with Dr. Karl Schoenherr, Dean of Engineering and his staff acting as hosts. The delegates also were guests at a luncheon today in the Faculty Dining Hall at Notre Dame.
CYO Scores Hit With "Divorce Question"
The CYO Little Theater rounded out its season this week with a skillful and timely portrayal of William A. McGuire’s “The Divorce Question.” Although it is over 30 years old, the three-act drama still hits with forceful impact, particularly so in an era where one out of every three marriages is earmarked’ to end in a divorce court.
The plot centers about a divorced couple, who solicit the aid of a priest to help them find the children of their former marriage. While the priest is solving the divorce question, he also shows them the light, saving at least one marriage from the rocks.	•
John Hunt and Rose Marie Schei-belhut were cast in the roles of the parents, with Jack Miles as the son, Theresa Catanzarite as the daughter, Edmund Chartier as the priest, and James Butler and Teresa Singler as the love-struck couple. Edward Twohey, Lee Shipp, Richard Adelsperger and Joseph Mang-den played supporting roles. Mrs. Mary M. McCusker directed the drama, which was produced by the CYO, of which the Rev. Albert Heinzer, C.S.C., is moderator.
Performances were given Sunday, Tuesday, and Wednesday nights in the St. Joseph’s Parish Hall.—Ed Snyder.
21
FOR REALLY SMART
The trip home, and of course
your summer traveling, it’s always
HansA R| NTZSCH Shep
138 N. Michigan St.
Shown is a group which attended AIEE convention here. Left to right: T. G. LeClair. V-P of AIEE. Prof. W. N. Gamble, So. Dak. State College, and R. B. Edgar (Northwestern), H. R. Robbins (Rlinois), J. R. Boulton (Iowa), M. E. Wood (ND).
Ault Camera Shop, Inc.
Opposite the Courthouse
122 So. Main SL Phone 3-5041
FOR BETTER PR I NJ S
(fane wt t&e
NEW CONTACT POINTING PAPEO Permits working in any room during the day, or at night under electric light. Produces prints of fine tonal quality, rich blacks, better contrasts. Processes the same as any other paper.
PLENTY OF BOLL FILM IN FIVE POPULAR SIZES
Ault Photo Service also in Cafeteria
Hogan in Italy
(Continued from Page 19)
Despite the destruction and dislocations resulting from the war, Hogan has found that the Italian people have not lost their normalcy; their outlook on life has not been seriously warped by war. 'ihey have displayed a remarkable resiliency and have maintained a cheerfulness that can be their salvation. The cultural life of Italy goes on today; opera and concerts continue to be sold out regularly.
Hogan however imparts this warning. It could be disastrous to the United States if we should fail to recognize the importance of Italy in the reconstruc- _ tion of Europe. In view of the ideal position she is in, geographically, strategically, and culturally (in a Christian sense) Italy can be a strong bulwark against expansion from the east.
On February 3, 1947, Vince Hogan sailed from LeHavre, France, with the problems of Europe graphically in his mind. Also fresh in his memory was the surprising knowledge displayed by Europeans in general about Notre Dame. The
Review of Politics is renowned through- : out Europe as one of the outstanding political science reviews from the United States.
3,000 Hear Kullman
(Continued from Page 7)	1
other, was also ably sung by the solo artist.
Stuart Ross, Mr. Kullman’s accompanist, came out then to play a group of eight ballads which the tenor sang next to complete his program. The group included: “The Trout” by Schu- i bert; “Devotion” by Richard Strauss; I “Invitation to the Dance” by Respighi; “When I Bring to You Colour’d Toys” by Carpenter; “Miranda” by Hageman; “Mary and the Kitten” by Bryan; “Do Not Go, My Love” by Hageman, and “S'ea Fever” by Loud. Again Mr. Kullman was generous with his encores.
The concert was a delightful beginning to what proves to be a musical May. Mr. Kullman lived up to expectations, and those students who attended realize that South Bend’s Symphony is far above par for a city of this size.— Joe Herrington.
For Appointment Phone 3-0678
W. E. Cyr, Prop.
CYR'S BARBER SHOP
"South Bend's Leading BarberShop" •.
SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT 100-102 South Main Street
5 Barbers Manicurist
Chair No. 5
La
SMC Club to Hold Scholarship Dance
The Saint Mary’s Club of South Bend is sponsoring a Scholarship Ball May 24, in the Indiana Club. Dancing will be from 9:00 to 1:00 to the music of Bud Simpson’s orchestra.
The South Bend St. Mary’s Club was organized in October of 1923. Helen Holland Voll was its first President. The first meeting was held in the new Pine Grove Club House on the St. Mary’s campus. This club, being extremely active, sponsored a number of benefits and various programs in S'outh Bend. Its first project was that of furnishing one of the rooms in the new LeMans Hall, known as the “Great Hall” of LeMans. In 1935 they initiated the practice of offering a scholarship by competitive examination. The public and parochial school student graduates of South Bend and Mishawaka participated. Each year from that time money has been raised by the club for this purpose.
Since the first Sisters of the Holy Cross came to St. Joseph Valley from France in 1843, a happy relation of “Town and Gown” has been maintained between the citizens of South Eend and this distinguished college. Legend has it that the first student to register in their early school for girls established in 1844 in Bertrand was Matilde Coquillard, daughter of Alexis. Later when the sisters moved their school from Bertrand to the bend of the St. Joseph River the distinguished Judge Stanfield procured their Charter for the college from the State of Indiana.
From those early days, the list of benefactors and friends of St. Mary’s College in South Bend is a long and noted one. During the nationwide drive for funds among friends of St. Mary’s for the expansion of the college and its building program, South Bend was most generous in this respect.
Miss Helen Marie Lake, President of the Club this year, presides at the monthly meetings.
COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from Page 17) Jack and Jill fell down the hill A stunt that’s very risky.
If tvater makes them act like that, I think I’ll stick to whiskey.
—Annapolis Log
“We’ll have to rehearse this,” as the undertaker said when the coffin fell out of the car.
Okay, so we drop dead. We still thought it was funny.
REMEMBER NOT TO FORGET Mom ON MOTHER'S DAY
This Sunday, May 11th
WIRE FLOWERS
SOUTH BEND FLORAL COMPANY
112 S. Michigan St.
6OI NNIUES
— and traditionally a good place to meet the gang for delicious Italian and American Food.
Phone 3-0678 for Reservations
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is cdways a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan Street. Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
5Outhnshore
23
One Way to Do It
A cartoon in the Boston College Heights pictures a smiling student leaving a classroom and holding a smoking pistol as he cheerfully tells his waiting friends, “I passed.”
Latin American Institute
Practical Courses to Supplement College. Summer Term opens June 30.
DIPLOMATIC SCHOOL:
PUBLIC RELATIONS SCHOOL:
BUSINESS SCHOOL:
LANGUAGE SCHOOL:
FOREIGN COMMERCE SCHOOL:
•	Preparation for diplomatic service, international administration, and diplomatic secretarial work.
•	Complete program in the field of public relations and publicity.
•	Complete business, secretarial, stenographic training in English, Spanish Portuguese, French.
•	Elementary, intermediate and advanced Spanish, Portuguese, French, German, English, Russian.
•	Export procedure, Consular documents. Foreign credits and collections. Foreign trade, transportation. air freight, traffic.
Co-educational. G. I. Approved.
Catalog "C": 116 S. Michigan, Chicago NEW YORK: 11 W. 42nd St. Write Secty.
JUST RECEIVED
Shipment of THE FAMOUS
PchJz&l "5r
Also in stock:
FINE RADIOS $19.95 and up
at the
BOOK STORE
Badin Hall
KENTUCKY CLUB (With a chaser)
Louisville, Ky., May 9.—They came, they saw—they’re broke. The reasons: Cosmic Bomb didnt’ explode, only fizzled; Bullet Proof was a small shot; Liberty Road took a detour; and Faultless wasn’t.
It was reported here today by sources hitherto unimpeachably reliable that a certain Dining Hall person purchased Jett-Jett for an undisclosed sum. It was bruited about that Jett Jett would probably never run again.
A CHEMICAL REACTION
Fred Klein (the same Klein that ran the Trib want ad: Lost: §100 bill. Sentimental value.) reports that the Chemis-trj' Club will hold a picnic at Potawat-tomi (gesundheit) Park on May 10th. Buses will take the men out; the insects will no doubt drive them back.
OFF THE CUFF .
With an air of optimism, the Detroit Club gave its annual banquet for graduating members at the Ramble Inn last week. Three members were feted. Pat Nolan, an Arts and Letters major, spoke; Don Fisher, a Commerce major, spoke; Ray De Fauw is an Engineering major.
Bill Stockman, club president, spoke briefly, was only reminded-of-a-story once.
UP THE FOX RIVER VALLEY
There wasn’t much accomplished at the last meeting. A dinner-picnic was discussed, so were women. It was decided that all women can be placed in three classes: (1) Social Registers, (2) Cash Registers, and (3) Nothing Registers.
President Tom Landry finally broke the still air, was almost sorry that he had done it for there were so few members present. Nevertheless, Tom announced there will be a final semester meeting held May 21st; refreshments .will be served.
OR DOWN ROCK RIVER
The boys from the banks and tributaries of the Rock River kept puddling along last week. They put in at the Ramble Inn last Thursday night for a feed. Jerry Phillips claimed that several of the members were caught in the.-nearby
“spouse trap.” Nevertheless, it was one of the Rockford Club’s highest nights, price included.
Those responsible for the evening were: Paul Long, Wayne Curran, Bob Kasmarek, John O’Connor, Jack Durkin, and Bill Leonard.
EUSINESS AS USUAL
The Iowa Club will hold its final meeting of the year next Wednesday evening, May 14th, at the Ramble Inn. A steak dinner (tariff: §1.50) will precede the business meeting.
The Buffalo Club will also try the Ramble Inn’s steaks on May 14th. Jack Shine announces that the graduating members will be honored.
. . I guess Frank and, the press expect big things of him this Fall.”
ONE MAN TO ANOTHER
The clubs have been throwing the Ramble Inn a lot of business lately. Last week we went over to see the manager, figured he might want to grease the palm that was feeding him.
“Suppose you had money,” he said, “what would you do with it?”
Figuring that a little soft soap would be the best remedy for a dirty look, I retorted: “I’d travel!”
Suddenly, I felt his cold hand slide into mine. When I looked up, he was gone ... In my hand lay a token!!
SMOKE GETS IN YOUR EYES
Pittsburgh, a hamlet noted for smoke,
24
beautiful women and more smoke, will soon get a white-washing. Don Fitzpatrick, Pittsburgh Club expediter, announces that trumpeteer Tommy Carlyn has been brought to terms and will bring back his ork into the swank Churchill Valley Country Club the night of June 13th for the Pitt Club’s annual summer dance. Vital statistics: Bids, $5; danc-
By JACK FRAIER and BILL PFAFF
You can’t trust editors any farther than you can throw them with a pair of eyebrow tweezers. They double-crossed us last week and printed our entire column. When you put your neck out in this magazine, you get an axe between the eyes. Touche, gentlemen.
(Editor’s Note: Touche yourselves, yentiemen. Being the conservative f uddy-duddies ive are, all ive can say is, the wages of sin is death.)
The other day, we providentially came across an engineer caught in a surprise
ing, 9 ’til 1; dress, semi-formal.
At the last meeting, Prexy Duke Du-cato appointed the following men to head the hoopla: Don Fitzpatrick, general chairman; Bob Slocum and Bernie Powers, associate chairmen; Jim McLaughlin and Harry Patterson, publicity; Jim Beymer, tickets; Lee Kirby, band; Leo Vogel, alumni; Bill Bradley, property.
avalanche of slide-rules. After we extricated him from the mound of logs, he informed us that at the time of the accident he had been working on a refinement of the metric system. His triumph: “1,000 roys equals 1 kilroy.”
Climbing out of a gutter last week, we couldn’t help but notice a manhole cover stamped '‘I & ME Co.” (a property of the Indiana and Michigan Electric Company). Reddy Kilowat tells us, off the record, that they’re planning to consolidate sometime in the near future and call themselves the WE Co.
After reading the multitude of lofty articles about the veterans at college that have been filling magazines and newspapers these recent months, we were duly impressed. We were told the straight-laced veteran kept his eye clamped to that elusive pinnacle, knowledge! He abhorred any frivolities smacking of pre-war collegism or fun that would distract him from his pursuit of the academic grail. As a result w*e stepped aside when passing vets on the walk, we uncovered indoors in their presence, we respectfully listened when they expounded in class. Oar faith, though, was finally shaken when we read in Life about the. Tulane-Newcomb Voutians. The activities of this group of college jazz lovers are uninhibited, to say the least. It looked like fun to u; until we read the electrifying words, ‘ most of the men are veterans.” We leally don’t know what to think. When we pass veterans these days, we look upon them with the eyes of one whose faith has been betrayed.
The new Cafeteria soda fountain menu located between the cone holders lists “crushed ice—5c a pint.” We can see Only one reason for selling naked, crushed ice—you are expected to bring your own flask.
25
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws Telephone 4-5661
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton, M. D.
•
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bend, Ind.
•
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
The blade with the MONEY-BACK
TIE MUUN FIREARMS COMPANY fiitfwShmWt
Glasses CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—M. Mittermayer OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street Closed Wednesday afternoons
LETTERS
(Continued from Page 3)
be forced to forego many of their luxuries. And, I am told, the countries (Russia, Germany, Italy) that banished free enterprise only to embrace its oniy logical, tv or Idly successor, state control, were rationed to a much greater extent than we were. But can this have any bearing on our question?
4). “Business couldn’t be trusted so price ceilings were necessary.” “Capitalists refused to produce one item of war without a profit.” Right! This is industry’s greatest sin—greed. The passion for profit is the dominating influence of many industrialists. What Mr. Cunningham has said, and more, is true.
This, then, presents the problem of what industrial system our nation should embrace, free enterprise or (I repeat) its only logical worldly successor, state control. Mr. Cunningham’s solution of “The people of this nation acting through their government” does not seem to be a replacement for free enterprise. Indeed this type of action, often known under its rightful name “Democracy,” is the very foundation of the free enterprise that Mr. Cunningham would have abolished.	.
Completely ignoring the only real solution (which, unfortunately sems unattainable, in the present, rathei- pagan, world), the moral regeneration of a decaying civilization, it becomes evident that a balanced and controlled system needs to be set up. The system? Free enterprise! Despite the five statements in which Mr. Cunningham “proves” that the only reason we won the war was because free enterprise was replaced by state control (and hence, I infer, should be retained, it is a self-evident proposition that the war was won by free enterprise, as exemplified by the U. S. and Britain (Russia was an “unhappy” third party, and her greatest gains were made behind the machines built by U. S. free enterprise) versus state control, as exemplified by Germany and Italy. The controls? State imposed.
The balance is difficut to maintain, as witness the bitter trials of the socialism of the New Deal, the present unrest in Britain and the violent discussion on labor legislation now in Congress. But, by use of judicious laws, the system can be maintained.
Is this a permanent solution? No it isn’t. The only permanent solution is an industrial system that recognizes and obeys the tenets of Christian morality. The “balanced and controlled” system is the best practical solution, now. Without it, our Democracy will not thrive and perhaps it will be endangered. It will
have to do until all peoples can be made to recognize and obey Christian ideals.
And that is where you, Mr. Cunningham, and I come in!
E. J. Schillinger
Box 1394
Liturgy Club Gives Fifth in Series of Lectures
The fifth lecture in the current Liturgy Club Series entitled “Liturgy and Church Architecture” was given on Thursday evening, May 1, at 7:30 in the Law Building Auditorium by Professor Francis W. Kervick, Head of the Department of Architecture here at Notre Dame. Master of Ceremonies for the evening was George Bariscillo, Vice President of the Liturgy Club who introduced Mr. T. Bowyer Campbell who in turn introduced the principal speaker.
Mr. Kervick’s talk consisted of a one hour lecture synchronized with the showing of slides. Prime examples of Church Architecture were exhibited and commented upon beginning with the emergence of the Christians from the catacombs. The first basilicas, for example, were fashioned after the Roman Courts of Law and Roman homes.
Illustrations of Italian, French, English and Eastern Rite Churches were shown. Gothic, Romanesque, Byzantine styles of Church structures with or without Mosaiques were played on the silver screen while Mr. Kervick divulged the pertinent information concerning each. After this interesting lecture a brief question period was held. A small but enthusiastic audience attended.
.	—Phil Shea.
Illinois Central Railroad Officer Speaks at Forum
Mr. Robert E. Connolly, Vice-President, Secretary, and Treasurer of the Illinois Central Railroad was the featured speaker at a program held Wednesday night in the Law Auditorium.
Mr. Connolly, who is a highly qualified authority on the railroad industry and its problems, pointed out the highlights in the history of railroad finance, and also discussed the effects which the regulations imposed on the railroads are making on the progress of the industry.
Connolly gave an interesting sketch of Robert Young, the railroad magnate, and emphasized the fact that Young, “Mr. Railroad himself,” is not the saint of the railroad industry as the press would have the public believe.
The talk, which was well attended, was sponsored by the Commerce School.
—Jack Lowe.
.7	•
city s voice
was restored!
Early on December 14, 1916, flames gutted the Central Office at River Grove, Illinois. Telephone service for 10,000 families ceased to exist.
Even as the fire burned, restoration work was begun. Emergency telephone headquarters was set up. Mobile equipment arrived to handle calls of first importance.
Telephone men from distant points came to aid the local forces. Bell System standardization proved itself again for all men were able to use the same methods, the same tools, the same Western Electric equipment. From Western Electric plants
hundreds of miles away the needed supplies—the right kinds and amounts— were started toward River Grove.
In a matter of just 11 days ... a record accomplishment . . . two Quonset huts were erected, new switchboards installed, splices and connections made. River Grove's communications system was restored.
Planning well in advance for both emergencies and normal growth, is a task of telephone management. The many and varied problems presented offer a stimulating challenge—promise adventure and opportunity —to men who choose telephony as a career.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
27