Vol. XXI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 5, 1888.
No. 33.
May.
BY FLO.
Fair virgin month of beauty rare, Sweet emblem of maternal love, How well thy pleasures here compare With those eternal forms above!
How fresh and fragrant seems the breath Of Spring’s returning smile of joy;
From Winter’s gloomy couch of death, The mind to Summer’s sweets decoy.
How greea the meadows, fields, and hills, The bursting buds and blooming flowers;
The quiet lakes and flowing rills, The shady, sheltering, grapevine bowers.
How pleasant all the vernal scenes,— Enhancing powers of blooming May,— Increasing doublefold her sheens, ’ In countless myriads of the day.
Anon at eve the Vesper bell Announces sweet the hour of prayer, And soft the evening anthems swell, And fall upon the perfumed air.
Still as the incense doth arise, It gently wafts to her above, .
Who shares a mansion in the skies— And glories in eternal love.
Free Trade.
BY CHARLES J. STUBBS, ’88.
To everyone interested in public affairs, whether he be an active politician or a private citizen, the extent and degree of poverty on the one hand, and the wealth and power on the other, steadily increasing throughout the country, must seem the result of an unwise public policy. To-night we shall ' endeavor to prove that high tariff has worked this
evil. Tariff for revenue only, or free trade in its general acceptation, is the remedy. We do not hold that there should be an equality of wealth, since superior energy, intelligence and advantages of resources differ as regards individuals, and private ownership must be respected wherever it is found. Yet even these differences will not account for the present condition of society, and we must look to another cause, which we find in our system of indirect taxation—protection.
For twenty years, and more, the poor have bled, the rich have fattened on the oppression of their less fortunate fellow-citizens. We boast our nation’s;' greatness, and yet after deliberation we hesitate . to say that prosperity has been in the fullest measure. Can we look facts in the face and say that America is a happy nation, unless we consult the princely pleasures of the few and forget the strug-glingexistenceof the many ? Wealthy ? Aye, indeed, if we select the men of fabulous capital, and, whilst admiring their possessions, overlook the toiling employes, who keep up the establishments that give him such importance. Can we see the mo-., nopolist and not feel that our constitution has failed in execution; that centralization of wealth and power have laid a heavy hand upon the deserving laborer, and discouraged the farmer in the production of his commodities? Whv is this so? Is not ■z
labor deserving of equal recognition with capital? Is not labor the foundation and support of capital? Then since the laborer (the employe and the agriculturist) is in the majority, and the man of wealth is dependent upon him, our legislation should be for his benefit and the advantage of the. multitude who are depressed to the gain of a few.
The subject we defend to-night shall be in accordance with principles laid down by . the low tariff supporters—that is, taxation for revenue only. -
5’4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
History would stand us well in hand if we wished to speak of the righteous indignation of the early colonists and their revolt. The great strife was urged by the heavy taxation on imports which burdened and crushed the American, weighing him down by a tyrannical charge upon the necessaries of life. They were earnest in demand, honest in purpose. We know well their vigorous but unavailing remonstrances, their resolution, the eight years’ war; finally, success, a free people, whose laws invited the commerce of nations, and who grew in wealth and power. When we severed the ties that bound us to old mother England, we loosed the bonds of high tariff, and enacted laws suitable to our nation—to a free and self-governing people.
Since then, times and circumstances have impelled our legislators to enforce the tariff, but only in emergencies and then with moderation. T his fact alone—that never has protection been fixed in application or duration—proves that it is not a principle of American government; that it is but an unstable, fluctuating and exceptional policy that cannot be recognized as an essential part of our material regulations.
The motto of true government should be to economize the wealth of the greatest number, and this is formularized in the principle of free trade: “Buy in the cheapest, and sell in the dearest market.” To buy in the cheapest means as much as saving income by procuring for the least outlay the greatest benefits. Its significance goes deeper than this, and expresses the relative mutual independence of nations. On this point we have several considerations that should be borne in mind.
There are conditions of life making some people follow certain pursuits best fitted for their ability; then this great argument, not to be forgotten, as regards the industries peculiar to different climates, for. on this depend the commodities necessary to every family, or requisite, to their comforts. The fruits and cereals and cotton of the South; the wooded lands, coal mines and manufactures of the North; the advantages of commercial situation in the East; the rich storehouses of gold and silver and lead in the West may here be noted. Besides these, the natural advantages, we should mention the varying energy of different sections, not only in America, but in the entire world, fust as we see dissimilar characteristics in the Italian and the 1 Icelander, so do the productions of every climate satisfy each a peculiar want.
Moreover, the population must in part regulate the industries of the country. In.the development of
population we see the stages of commercial operation most completely.realized. Where the population is small, the people can more readily provide for all their wants; but where cities arise from farm lands, and the country has a superabundance of inhabitants, we find, contribution in energy, a greater diversity of industrial professions, andr an improvement of the general condition of society. In this way we-find-that communities differ widely in their tastes, and men are given up to a multitude of employments which must be their only sure preservation.
Raw materials may be considered in exemplification of my statement, since fertile and sparsely settled lands produce more material for consumption than can be obtained from a soil where every acre is turned also to some other use. Here now we may see that, viewed from this point alone, free trade should be the rule of the United States, since contemplating our immense agricultural advantages we could make foreign countries the market of our produce which is far in excess of our consumption, and which, under thepresent blockade of commerce, cannot be turned to value: hence all excess of demand must rot in the ground, or be sold at lowest market price—in either case a loss of profit to the farmer. Suppose our ports were open to a free exchange of productions with foreign countries, such waste would be turned to value. The raw materials would supply the wants of other countries, give energy to other industries, improve the value' of articles by a lively competition,' and bring the domestic’wants within a better economy. Our wool, cereals, cotton and sugar, even manufactures, would be consumed, and reciprocably with other resources. We would have cheaper markets for purchase, cheaper clothes,home comforts, and a greater incentive to industry, The truth cannot be hidden that the suitability of condition, climate and population will make cheaper the goods of their special industries, and why shall we not take.advantage of this potent fact?	.
We may now consider protection in its more prominent features from which we can compute with clearer exactness the effects upon general business prosperity. We shall not stop to argue a point that is agreed upon by even the staunchest partisans of protection, that the agriculturist is a heavy loser by its conditions. The “dearest market ” for salable goods cannot be where everything is stocked far in excess of the demand. The “ cheapest market ” for purchasing manufactured goods cannot surely’be where a double tax is imposed. Nowj the records of more than a ceiitury
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
show that we have provided almost all our finished manufactures, and thus the heavy tariff taxation falls upon raw materials, which burden the manufacturer passes on to customers. Finished foreign manufactures have never been able to find a market here, and especially as regards articles of family consumption it is practically impossible for them to be supplied to any.great extent from abroad. From this it must appear that in making raw materials more expensive to the American manufacturer than to the European, the former is compelled to raise the price of his goods to meet the tax. The result is a shrinkage in his sales, because it is a well-establishsd fact that ten men can afford to pay one dollar for an article where one man could pay two dollars for the same. With every increase of price, therefore, the manufacturer finds fewer’ customers and makes fewer goods. Here, then, is the trade choked up by limitation of demand consequent upon high prices. The consumption is reduced; the manufacturer, by making ah exorbitant profit on few articles of sale, must be satisfied with a circumscribed trade; his articles being too dear to be enjoyed by the many, his trade is certainly cribbed; and, finally, the labor being in proportion to the demand, is confined to a comparatively small number. Thus every department of industry suffers, and labor in particular is stifled. Firstly, the manufacturer, finding it necessary to realize high profits on already highly taxed materials, is compelled to reduce the high wages of his workmen, because his goods cost more, whilst he is unable to sell as many goods at the advanced price to repay the tax. In the second place,'the sale of goods being restricted by their advance in price, a fewer number of workmen are required, since the number of workmen depends upon the number of goods made, and the number of goods made depends upon the number of goods sold. Wages are cut at both ends, in amount and number employed.
The protectionist will not see these effects; he recognizes only the benefit of shutting out foreign finished goods and materials, and rendering it impossible for foreign sales to find a foothold, because the high advance of their prices drives them from competition. Protective tariff does not exclude foreign competition in finished articles, since they never have had, nor could have, profitable, sales, and since transportation, curtailed demand and revenue tax place them beyond the reach of the many.
However we view the effects of tariff, even upon'absolutely manufactured goods, it is disastrous to wages and injurious to profits. There never
■ is contribution.between manufacturer and employe,-: and to hold out the support of factory hands as an argument for protection is absurd, though we acknowledge it delusive. If an article can be sold for $2, which sold at $i would bring its profit^ the manufacturer will be satisfied with a small sale that sustains him in large profits, rather than the sale be increased in number and decreased in profits. Wages do not increase with a higher rate of profit, and to suppose that manufacturers will share the gain with workmen is folly. Nor can it be supposed that the manufacturer will pay labor according to his income rather than according to the number of his sales. This will appear more forcibly in an illustration. $1000 is the agreed consideration for building a house, and yet you
. generously increase the amount, giving to the con’ tractor an increase to $2000; do you suppose he : will distribute the surplus amongst his masons and \ builders?
■ If we do not accept the wise teachings of ex; perience, let us at least place some confidence in ‘ analogy. England with her free trade manufactures , finds a market for her merchandise all over Europe, ' even in the high tariff countries. The duties on ; imports raised ostensibly for protecting home pro-■ ductions, national industries, and unskilled, ill-fed ' labor cannot prevent the sale of English goods.
In America, the .manufacturer takes a double advantage of the tariff; that is, his goods are protected-, and he imports foreign pauper labor and employs them at starvation prices shutting out the native American laborer. Again, as-Mr. Blaine, writing from England, remarks: “The difference in English and American wages is more than compensated'by the superior workmanship of the American and his longer day’s work.” Now, adding the greater cost-of living in America, we shall readily recognize the burden of high taxes in its effect upon the American. From these few facts we see that labor in this’ country is the cheapest in the world, although the-wages are apparently highest. Protection, then, is robbery to the poor by taxing them far more heavily in proportion to their means than it does the. rich. Can any justification of such a system be pleaded? For us to entertain the hope of accu-. mulating a revenue, imposing a tax through an imperceptible . channel, and shutting out foreign goods to increase..profits, and that the rich man-, ufacturer will generously, increase wages is fallacious, nay, unreasonable. Besides, by increasing; cost, tariff restricts the amount of production and reduces thedemand.for workmen, and consequently, cuts down their wages. '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
These are but a few of the disadvantages of protection that smiles upon the rich, but scorns to protect the poor. We shall not pause to speak of trusts, money combinations, monopolies, etc., that have become so prevalent during the last few years, and that can in no way be accounted for, except as nurtured children of the tariff system. We pass in silence all mention of our crippled foreign com merce, though it is indisputable that we are not represented at sea in any proportion to our country’s possibility. Our commerce has steadily decreased from the time of high tariff enactments, and we have but one remedy—free interchange of productions. Then American shipping would be done in American vessels, and wealth would reach us from another source.
Now, since obstructions to imports act to reduce the value of capital, to depreciate labor in wages and demand, to create industrial depression, business stagnation, and social discontent, we should strive to remove the cause of an evil so great— protective tariff. We pay city, county and state taxes, yet we agree to an additional tax in moderation on foreign imports, especially on luxuries. But it should not be forgotten that “ any tariff is a monstrous injustice to the poor unless it increases their income to an amount exceeding their burdens.” This, and more, will free trade accomplish. The surplus $140,000,000 now resting in the National Treasury represents that much of a nation’s poverty; the 4182 import articles under taxation is the expression of a people’s want.
If protection has been a good policy, it has outlived its usefulness: if it is a worthless encumbrance to our prosperity, it should be eradicated. Butitisre tarding to agriculture and commerce—the essentials of a nation’s wealth—and it is an obstacle to solving the question of capital and labor; hence it should be put off like an old garment that in its best days did not fit, and has long since worn thread-bare. When this shall be, the poor may save a portion of their earnings, the rich may then enjoy their comforts without invading others’ rights; our flag will float in every breeze; the world will be our market, and we shall more fully realize the greatness of our country—the energy, intelligence and happiness of our people.
We should never repulse the poor. If we cannot give them anything, we may pray God to inspire others to do so. The poor man will be judged by the use he has made of our alms, and we will be judged for the alms that we might have given and did not give.— Cure of Ars.
Protection.
BY T. F. GRIFFIN (LAW), ’88.
Ever since the adoption of the Federal Constitution it has been, with few and short interruptions, the policy of the United States Government to foster her industries and offer protection to her laborers by imposing a tariff duty on the products of other countries which are sent here to seek a market. To carry on her trade within her own borders to as great an extent as circumstances will permit, and to establish reliable home markets for her produce is one of her fundamental principles; and to secure for her workingmen steady and profitable employment is her surest safeguard against internal disorders. To accomplish these desired ends effectually and without injury to any particular class, the United States Government has adapted a system of protection which prevents other countries from throwing indiscriminately their cheaply produced goods and wares on our markets, and compelling thereby American workingmen to come in direct competition with the pauper labor of overcrowded Europe; and so effectual and beneficial has this tariff been that at the present day, laborers in America receive better wages and are on the whole more prosperous and contented than in any other nation in the world.
Under the fostering care of our protective tariff the United States is rapidly developing her great natural resources, many of which would otherwise remain dormant, and securing everywhere, new and profitable employment for labor and capital. And here it may be remarked that for the general security and welfare of the countrj- protection should be extended alike to the laborer and the capitalist. It is true that only by the assistance of labor is a nation’s activity preserved and her resources developed; labor.it is that plows-the fields, opens the mines and transforms the barren region into a fertile and productive plain; yet independent of capital it can accomplish comparatively little, and its exertions will be to a great extent unrewarded. The two go hand in hand; and far from being, as is the common belief, in perpetual conflict, it is only by their united efforts that the greatest undertakings are successfully accomplished.. In free trade countries it is not unfrequently the case that, owing to the inflow of foreign manufactures, the markets become for the. time being so overcrowded that capital cannot be honestly employed with any degree of certainty ; business becomes inactive, manufacturing is temporarily suspended, a period of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5*7
business depression ensues, and general distress most keenly felt among the laboring classes is the inevitable result.
That the proprietors of manufacturing establishments only, and not the laborers, derive benefit from protection is manifestly untrue. The tariff duty, by encouraging home industries, and establishing and maintaining home markets, secures for the capitalist and manufacturer a greater degree of certainty, because the supply and demand of commodities can be more easily and accurately ascertained than if the principal market for American produce and manufactures had to be sought abroad; but aside from this, the capitalist is not enabled by the protective system to derive any extraordinary profits from his investments. The manufacturer in this as well as in other countries can render his business profitable only by employing every available means to reduce expenses to the minimum, for the difference in the price of manufactured articles between this and other countries accrues to the laborer, not to the manufacturer. The men who have amassed colossal fortunes in our country have not acquired their wealth by engaging in manufacturing or any other protected industry, but by fortunate speculation, and this legislation cannot easily prevent.
To adopt in our country the free trade system; to break down the barriers which protect us from the indiscriminate importation of foreign merchandise, and to throw open our markets and invite foreign merchants to enter with their goods and wares would bring the American workingman in direct competition with the labor of every other country in the world. The inflow of foreign products would overwhelm our markets and render the investments of capital insecure; mills and factories would be closed, work discontinued and the laboring classes left without means of support. The numerous manufacturing towns in our eastern states would, when deprived of their factories, languish and die. The familiar hum of the factorywheel would no longer summon the workingmen to their daily task, and those who depend solely on-their wages for support, whither would they turn?
What the outcome of such a state of affairs would be can only be conjectured; but it is safe to say that cities containing those myriads of unemployed men with no means of support and starvation staring them in the face would be in a position far from secure. But even though the laborers would tamely submit to this deprivation of their means of support, the affair would yet be far from settled. They would have to turn somewhere to seek new fields
of labor, and where these would be found is a problem which still remains to be solved. Unable to procure employment in the cities, they would naturally flock into the country. Not having the requisite capital to purchase farms and implements of tillage, they would be compelled to rent land from others, and a tenant system similar to that of England or Ireland would be established here, alike fatal to the independence of the workingman and the general prosperity of the country. Those who are now the purchasers and consumers of the products of the farm would themselves become producers, and be compelled to find sale for their products in a foreign market. The home market, now so valuable to the producer, and daily becoming more so, would be practically destroyed; and ' not only would the expense of shipment be added ' to the cost of production, but such products of the farm as cannot be shipped to a foreign port would become unsalable.
The favorite argument advanced by the friends of free trade, and the ground on which their bos-tilities to the tariff is principally based is, that by excluding competition from abroad, the whole amount of the tariff duty, no matter how high it may be, is necessarily added to the price paid by ■ the consumer even for commodities produced in ■ this country. A moment’s reflection will convince anyone of the manifest absurdity of this statement. The price of goods in this country is fixed and regulated by home competition, which is usually so close that the manufacturer, after procuring his raw material and paying his laborers the wages they demand, receives no more than an average profit on his investment. Indeed, as soon as any enterprise is found to be unusually profitable, into that particular business capital, foreign as well as domestic will flow in large quantities so that, as is sometimes the case, the supply of a certain class of commodities will so far exceed the demand that the selling price will fall even below the cost of production.
It is also said that other countries have adopted the free trade policy, and have suffered nothing on that account. We answer that some nations have abolished protection and have suffered deeply thereby, while there are, perhaps, a few with peculiar advantages which have adopted the free trade system and prosper. The one nation in Europe which most freely admits foreign commodities is Turkey. She has long been, and is, without a protective tariff, and no part of the vast dominions of the Sultan, either in Asia or Europe, exhibit any good effects of this free trade policy. Canada possesses natural resources equal in many respects to those
518
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of the United States, and yet Canada is advancing very slowly in wealth and prosperity, because her unprotected industries were smothered in their infancy by the overwhelming power of English manufacturers. Russia jealously guarded her industries by a protective tariff, and as a result she at one time threatened to rival in manufactures, Great Britain herself.
In 1815 a political economist induced the government of Russia to try the free trade system. It failed so dismall}’-, and its consequences were so disastrous that it was speedily abandoned, and at that time the free trade theorists said that Russia, owing-to her vast extent, great population, and varied climate, formed an exception to the rule. If such is the case, precisely the same exception exists in the; United States with its continually increasing pop- ; ulation, and an area and diversity of climate almost equal to the whole of Europe. Nor, indeed, has our: own country itself failed to try the free trade ex- i periment. On at least three different occasions in the history of the United States Government,’ the tariff was reduced to the revenue basis or lower, • so that it afforded little or no protection. The re- : suit each time was a long period of depression in; business, dullness in trade, and lack of employment; and general distress among workingmen. So; keenly was this felt, prior to the passage of the; tariff bill in 1824, that Henry Clay, who gave the-matter much study and attention, declared some; time afterward that if he were called upon to select: any term of seven years since the foundation of i the government which exhibited a scene of the • most widespread misery and desolation, it would s be the seven years which immediately preceded; the establishment of the tariff of 1824; and if he. were to select a term of seven years of the greatest prosperity which the American people enjoyed,: it would be the seven years which immediately-followed the passage of that act.	.
Over the internal commerce of. our country; the utmost freedom compatible with necessary 1 regulation exists. The free interchange of com-: modifies among the different states is not only per- ‘ mitted but encouraged. Our country is broad; its . capabilities are great, and its industries varied. Its internal trade is necessarily extensive, and in this lies much of its prosperity. To abolish protection from foreign nations would be to greatly diminish home trade, and the result would clearly be anything but beneficial to us. . Entire freedom within, but certain restraint- without has been proven by experience to be the proper policy for America. This system has been advocated by our ablest
statesmen; it has been adopted for grave reasons by our country, and under it we have prospered.
The schemes proposed by the advocates of free trade are purely theoretical and wholly impracticable. They are based on a state of affairs that never will nor never can exist, and are consequently unworthy a moment’s serious consideration. Absolute freedom of commercial intercourse among all the different nations and states of the world might be generally beneficial, but for the people of the United States to abolish protection on this account would be as foolish as for a nation, threatened with invasion, to disband her armies and lay aside her military equipments because mankind in general would be more happy and prosperous if the whole world enjoyed perpetual peace.
In regard to the surplus money now in the United States treasury which seems to be a source of serious alarm to the antirprotectionists it is necessary to say only a few words. There are many ways in which it may be profitably disposed of and sent out among the people where it should be. Part of it might be used to erect public buildings, such as post offices in cities where, they are needed, or it might be expended in the purchase, at a small premium, of -interest bearing government bonds. A large portion of it might be employed with great benefit to the public in repairing rivers and harbors, and in constructing canals and water-ways in different places throughout the country. This would give remunerative employment to a large number of working men; it would lend activity to business and trade, at least in certain localities, and would, by rendering other and cheaper means of transportation available, serve as a check to railroad monopolies. Many other ways might be suggested by which the treasury could be relieved of this formidable surplus. .	’
They maintain that if the tariff is reduced to the revenue basis it will still answer the double purpose of supplying the government with money for her necessary expenditures, and affording at the same time protection to her industries. In this also they form their judgment without giving the matter sufficient consideration. As soon as the tariff is reduced, importation of foreign commodities will increase, and there will consequently be a greater amount of merchandise on which tariff duty will be paid; so we would be.obliged to keep on continually reducing the tariff while foreign goods would be flooding our markets until in a short time it will be so low as to afford absolutely no protection. No one pays this duty assessed on foreign commodities unless he chqoses.tq do sg.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5*9
The poorer classes, as a rule, are satisfied with articles manufactured in our country and on which consequently no tariff is paid, while it is invariably the rich who drink foreign wines and liquors and insist on wearing clothes of foreign manufacture. These are the ones who really pay the tariff duty, and who are contributing to augment the surplus now in the treasury.
Taking all things into consideration, and viewing calmly and impassionately the whole matter in its different lights, it will'be seen that this protective tariff, whose sole object is to tax foreign products with a view to promoting American industry, is far from injurious and alarming as it is frequently represented, but that, on the contrary, there is not a single one of our many industries but feels either directly or indirectly its beneficial effects. In it all our great industries had their inception, and under its influence they live and prosper, and it has brought to the American people a steadily increasing prosperity and a commercial security enjoyed by no other people in the world.
College Gossip.
' —Amherst thinks of limiting the number of its students to 300.
—The police have prohibited the Cornell yell in the streets of Ithaca.	.
—Princeton’s New York Alumni Association is the largest in the country.
—Yale has over So post-graduate courses and over thirteen thousand graduates.
—Michigan is safe for the coming fall, Ann Arbor has organized a republican club.
' —Some of our eastern colleges have had professional trainers for their baseball nines. ■
—The decree has gone forth at Columbia College that henceforth professors and students must wear caps and gowns.
—President Cleveland will attend the laying of the corner-stone of the new library building at Cornell University in June.
—Miss Jenny Lind bequeathed 50.000 Swedish crowns to the University in Upsala, Sweden, for the maintenance of poor students.
—At Prof. Lee’s lecture. Professor: “Under the law'of entail, in case there is no eldest son to inherit, to whom does the land nextidescend ?” Bright young Junior: “To the other sons.—Ex.
—-The boycott has invaded the college world. The girls at Illinois College boycotted the lectures of one of their professors because he would not allow them to see Sol Smith Russell. Strikes are now. in order.	'
—Lady :—“Your clothes are very ragged. Can’t
I-do some sewing for you?” Tramp:—“Yes, madam, you may sew an overcoat on this button, if you please. It seems to feel the need of society.” —Ex.
—The undergraduates of Cambridge, England, intend giving a performance in Greek of “CEdipus Tyrannus” to all their friends who speak ancient Greek. An amateur band will render music specially written for the occasion.—Ex. .
—In 1885,Germany spent for the education of her people $40,900,000; England, 36,000,000; France $15,000,000; Austria, $9,000,000, and Russia, $5,000,000. The United States in that year spent $100,000,000 for education, or as much practically as the five nations combined.—Ex.
—A large number of colleges are dispensing with the time-honored custom of graduation orations and giving their place in the commencement exercises to an oration by some distinguished orator. This is a sensible plan, and one that has proven* eminently satisfactory at Notre Dame.
—At Johns Hopkins’ University all undergraduates must pass an examination in gymnastics before obtaining a degree, and Dr. Luef, of the University of Pennsylvania, gives instructions in curve pitching. A college diploma will soon be a requisite to obtain a good position on our league teams.
—The event of the year in Catholic educational circles, says a Washington telegram, will be the laying of the corner-stone of the new Catholic University May 24. About 10,000 invitations will be sent out to the leading clergy and laity of the country, as well as to the members of the diplomatic corps, the President and Cabinet, and prominent members of Congress and Government officials. The address will be delivered by the Rt. Rev. John Lancaster Spalding, Bishop of Peoria, Ill., one of the chief promoters of the university. A procession will march from the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad depot on New Jersey avenue to the grounds. Major Gen. William S. Rosecrans has been appointed Chief Marshal, and Maj. Edmond Mallett, A id. The procession, headed by the Marine Band, will be composed of all the Catholic societies and parishes of Washington and Baltimore. There will be three choirs present—one composed of the students of St. Mary’s Seminary,Baltimore; another of the students of Georgetown College; and the third of well-known singers of Washington, under the leadership of Le Gannon. One of the features of the ceremonies will be the presentation of the golden rose sent by the Pope to Miss Caldwell, who contributed $300,000 to the university fund, by the Cardinal and prelates composing the Board of Trustees of the university. It is expected that the building will be completed and that it will be dedicated in November next. The ceremonies on that occasion will form a part of the centennial service commemorative of the establishment of the hierarchy in the United States, which will be held at that time and which will bp a national celebration.	-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WE WE seme
. $3ubltsf)ci> r6tni Saturtan ftunntj form Eime at IC. 3. Sntbrrsifs.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, May 5, 1888.
Staff.
G. H. Craig, ’88, P.VD. Brownson, ’88, J. A. Burns, ’88, Chas. P. Neill, ’89, S. J. Craft (Lit.), ’88.
—Weare authorized to announce that Wednesday, June 20, is the day fixed upon for the commencement exercises.
—We are pleased to state that the commencement oration will be delivered this year by the Rev. P. F. Carr, of Denver, Colorado. Father Carr is well known in the literary world as the Editor of the Colorado Catholic, a paper which under his efficient administration has attained a commanding position among the Catholic journals of the country. His career in the sacred ministry has been characterized by zeal and success, and has brought him distinction on account of eloquence and learning. All who attend our commencement exercises may be assured of a rich literary treat in the address delivered on that occasion.
—This issue of the Scholastic finds us less than two months from commencement, and we cannot too strongly urge each and every student to apply himself with all his energy during the short space that remains. Now is the time for those who have been lagging to make up for their past indifference, and for those who have labored faithfully to put a crowning finish to their past efforts. Those who are behind in their essays should at once set to work, and all who are looking for commencement honors cannot afford to allow a moment’s time to be lost from now until their work is completed. The present year has been characterized by good, honest efforts in every department, and now only a few short weeks of energetic studying .are needed to distinguish the year of ’87-88 as one of the most satisfactory and successful years in the history of Notre Dame. That this consummation will be happily realized is assured by the good-vyill and earnestness which mark the student body.
Silhouettes of Travel.
X.
Leaving Ogden, the train pushes in a northerly direction to Corinne, the largest Gentile town in the Territory, a distance of 25 miles, running along the Wasatch Range, through canons, over alkali marshes, and across a small bay in the eastern part of the Great Lake. Most of the settlements along the route are Mormon. The location of this town in the Bear River Valley ensures it some importance in the future. Irrigation on a large scale, however, is required to make the fertile lands surrounding it productive.
OUR ROUTE
henceforward will be mainly westward until we reach the northwestern corner of the Great Lake; thence it will be chiefly southwestward until we arrive at the Bay of San Francisco. We ascend some heavy grades, sweep around sharp curves, rush through deep cuts in the rocks, and get some good views of mountain peaks, the wide-extended Lake and salt plains which glisten . like burnished silver in the sun-light. We pass over dreary wastes, plains of sage-brush, patches of alkali, flats and marshes. We go by the edge of the Great American Desert, of which we catch such occasional glimpses as give us an idea of its utter barrenness. We pass the Pilot Range, and enter the Thousand Spring Valley, whose waters, like-those of so many rivers of Nevada, are absorbed by the sandy, porous soil.
While still going up grade we enter the land of the “Big Bonanzas” at an elevation of 4800 feet. As we advance over the vast plains of sage-brush and grease wood, we find the bleak monotony of the scenery, however, .diversified and relieved by the canons of the divides or passes, and the ever varying contour of the mountains upon which the horizon seems to rest. Along the road are sloughs which have no exit, rivers which are finally absorbed by evaporation or sink into the thirsty earth, mud lakes and salt marshes. Vast herds of cattle are occasionally seen feeding upon the grasses of the valleys.
The aspect of the E. and W. Humboldt ranges 6000 feet above the sea, now covered with their wintry shrouds of snow, now clad in huge blue and purple veils woven by the genii of the air, presents a striking contrast to the tiresome and forbidding deserts over which the iron-horse speeds his way of flame and smoke. It is suppose! that the-Hum-boldt wells or springs, lying one half mile from the railway station called Wells, and formerly a place of rendezvous for those who had succ ssfully braved the dangers of the Great American De-ert, are the openings of a lake or slough which is covered over by an accumulation or matting of-the grass, roots and other luxuriant vegetation abounding in the valley. A sounding of 1700 feet failed to touch the bottom, and the surface of the basin in many places trembles like a moving bog.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
At Humboldt we find ourselves in an oasis amid the great Nevada desert. Trees, blue-grass, fountains remind us of « God’s country.” To the northwest of this place, are sulphur mines, whose deposits are from 20 to 100 feet in thickness. The low lying Antelope range to the N. W. now comes into view. Then the reddish brown hue of porous rock of the Trinity mountains to the right claims our attention. The scoriae, and broken lava along the track, give evidence of a time in the distant past, when this mountain range belched forth fire and flames and a lava-tide with all the energy of a Hecla or a Vesuvius in action. A short distance beyond Hot Springs, the face of the country becomes white with saline incrustations. Salt in any quantity can be obtained by evaporation. Further to the west the fine sands of the desert are blown about by the winds and form fantastic hillocks around the tufts of sage. The Humboldt River flow-ingfrom east to west accompanied us the greater part of its length, until leaving us at Lovelock’s, it flowed southward to disappeai' in the Humboldt and Carson Sink. We have been travelling from Wadsworth many miles along the Truckee River, which rises in Lake Tahoe and flows eastward about 70 miles along the railroad, and then, bending northward, loses itself in Winnemucca Lake.
The sage-brush of the plains which many Eastern folks look upon as of no more value than the Scotch thistle or California tules, has its use in those desolate regions. The largest kind is used as fuel for the engines at stamping-mills. Cattle and sheep graze on the white species. The clover sage is also relished by the latter ruminant quadrupeds. Even the tender shoots of the despised greasewood are nibbled at by sheep and devoured by the not over fastidious hog in spring-time. At some of the way stations we saw some of the “ degenerate sons of noble sires” hovering around in paint, feathers and blankets. They are inveterate gamblers—even the squaws, though ignorant of the civilized games of cribbage, bean-poker, three-card monte, roulette or faro, know how to “buck the tiger” in their own fashion. They have colored sticks about one half a foot long which they throw on their blankets, as boys tossing up pennies, and instead of “ heads for me to win and tails for you to lose,” it is “ red or white ”—“ color or no color.” Fenimore Cooper or Longfellow could no longer recognize the noble red man in his descendants vitiated by the whites.
Coal for the locomotives all along the route is brought either from Wyoming, Washington or Oregon Territories. The water tanks at the stations are replenished by streams led down from the mountain gulches, or furnished by pumps connected with very deep wells. It appears that spontaneously flowing artesian wells are not a success.
We are now but a few miles from the Golden State, and as we draw nigh to Reno, we get an occasional glimpse of the snow-crowned Sierras to the west.
RENO
is 4507 feet above sea-level. It is the gate to the sun-set slope and the distributing point for the
State of Nevada. It is surrounded by a well-cultivated agricultural region, and is noted for its advanced educational establishments both public and denominational. Many cattle-kings worth a quarter of a million and upward reside there. Its . population is estimated at 4500. On the way thither, I formed the acquaintance of A. Dawson, M. D., a citizen of the place, and one of the most prominent physicians in the state. In his practice the doctor lays especial stress upon the antiseptic method of treatment, and he has been phenominally successful in the most difficult cases, both pathological and surgical. The worthy doctor is also a geologist, and had a collection of mineral specimens with him that would have made a Geikie Lyell or a Dana turn green with envy. This gentleman kindly invited me to spend a few days with " him at Reno, during which we would drive in a buggy to Virginia City and examine the great silver mines, the consolidated Virginia and California and the others incorporated on the Comstock Lode. Some of these mines have attained a depth of 2700 feet. The heat at this distance from the surface is so intense that the miners work stripped to the waist like stokers in the holds of ocean steamers. Visitors need but a duster over their immaculate laundry. On their return to the upper air they are recommended to take a warm bath, and if not teetotallers, a little vinum gallicum^yb order to avoid colds, cramps, and catarrhs. It is doubtful if St.John himself would decline the internal application under such circumstances. The doctor thinks that the regular increase of caloric, as one descends into the bowels of the earth, is proof positive of the nebular hypothesis, or fire-mist theory, and a convincing argument for the existence of a fiery ocean beneath the egg-shell of the earth’s crust. The Virginia shows i° F. for every 55 feet after the first one or two hundred feet below the surface; hence, argues the doctor, the diluvialists may as well leave their aqueous theories to the prohibitionists and follow the opinion of Leibnitz as to the igneous origin of the- rocky stratification or stromatology of the surface of the globe. The doubting Thomases he relegates to the Silurian invertebrates. The learned disciple of Galen is further persuaded that, in the lower winzes of the mine, Mi*. Ingersoll could make a very profitable meditation on the proverb—“ coming events cast their shadows before.”
The argentiferous and auriferous ores are reduced here without roasting, by the American pan process, as they easily yield up their precious contents to the mercury. We saw several huge piles of bars of silver and gold bullion that were ready for shipment. These bars weighed over 100 pounds each, and were worth about $30 per pound. The percentage of gold was a little over two. The Sutro tunnel which drains these mines is a remarkable feat of American engineering. It is 12 feet wide, 14 feet high and 4 miles long. Starting from the Carson River, it runs through 'the solid rock until it reaches the mines. Besides furnishing drainage to the mines, it is used for removing the ore on tramways, and affords ample ventilation tQ
522	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the deep cavernous drifts and cross-cuts within. Notwithstanding, or rather consistently with the profanity that reigned some years ago in this locality, spiritism created quite a furore for a time. Madame Blavatzky would have made far more converts there to her theosophy with its astral selfs and eidolons than she ever did in the land of Brahma, or the Hub of the universe. There were daily seances and weeklj' materializations. Communications from the spirit world were as frequent as telegraph dispatches. However, a damper was cast upon the enthusiasm of the necromancers by the spirit of a member of the sporting fraternity who had died in his boots. During a seance held at the house of Mrs. Judge Batterman, widow of the ex-governor of the state, the wife of Jack Williams, a defunct shuffler of pasteboards, asked the dear departed as to his whereabouts. Jack curtly replied that he was in a hotter place than Hades. Being questioned later on by some of his pals who still survived bad whiskey and stray bullets, whether his lines were cast in pleasant places, he answered that he was in a dash of a bad place; no cards, no drinks, no dog fights; in fact, that he had a Sheol of a time.
For many years, beginning in the early seventies, these bonanzas kept the towns and cities of the
GOLDEN COUNTRY
in a wild whirling maelstrom of speculation. California stock which was selling at $40, in a short time jumped up to $400. Other gilt-edged stocks followed suit. Fortunes were made or lost in a day. Yet counting out the great millionaires, there are few of the quondam speculators left to-day, who have preserved the Aladdin’s lamp then found in the caverns of Nevada. They lived for a while in the glittering firmament of wealth, but continued speculation and wild extravagance soon brought them down to the commonplace level of their fellows, as.meteors that for a few moments dazzle the eye of the beholder by their brightness and then forever disappear in darkness. Thousands of mechanics, working men, and servant girls, crazed by the boom epidemic, invested all the hard savings of years in the Connecticut, California, and Virginia, trusting that Dame Fortune would smile propitiously on their ventures, only to see the fruits of their labor suddenly swallowed up in the capacious maw of the Great Quartet. The inordinate desire of riches causes not only spiritual ruin, as the Apostle teaches, but very often even the loss of one’s temporal goods. The eye, blinded by the golden vision of sudden wealth, marks not the deep pitfalls that lie before it—the speculator’s losses, like those of the gambler, but whet the appetite for further risks. Placer mining, in olden times, served to. equalize men’s fortunes, but since the introduction of hydraulic and quartz mining, which must be carried on by joint-stock companies, large-fortunes are in general made only by the members of the inner ring. As at the thresholds of the resurrected houses of Pompeii 3. cave canemfsrwA the
. fbgated Romans of danger, so also might our mining adits be inscribed with, be-ware of the golden -
bait, to put the wearers of bifurcates on their guard.
It was tod early in the season to visit Lakes : Tahoe, Donner, Pyramid or Mud Lake, notwith- . standing the attractiveness of their wonderful and charming scenery, and the poetic temperament of the Doctor	-
“ Who made every dear scene of enchantment more dear.” * i “ Tahoe,” said my cicerone, “in the Indian tongue means the Big Water or Inland Sea. Reflecting	<
as a mirror its frame work of pine-clad hills and	,
mountains, cliff and crag, it is the brightest jewel	?
among the crystal waters. At a depth of more	■
than 12 fathoms trout and pebbles, may be easily	|
counted. Elevated 6000 feet above the level of	I
the sea, its pure and translucent waters never freeze.	}
It has been sounded to a depth of 3000 feet with-	'
out touching bottom.” Though I could not reach	;
the lake, I saw some of finny denizens of its waters	j
—salmon trout that weighed from 10 to 20 pounds.	j
It is supposed that with present appliances 3 or 4	;
pei* cent, of the area of Nevada can be made avail-	;
able for agricultural purposes. The inhabitants	|
are sanguine that with the introduction of some	?
cheap mechanical power to pump water to the	1
surface at a nominal cost, and with the discovery	|
and working of the mines of coal and iron hid in its	I
mountains or valleys, the desert will then “ blossom	>
as the rose,” and large manufacturing centres will .	|
spring up in the midst of desolate tracts, where	I
now the prairie dog and coyote find a shelter and a	|
habitation. There are, however, millions of acres	|
of pasturage for stock, and in the river vallies	|
agriculture is carried on with success. The rainfall	s
is very light, the winters very mild, except on the	|
mountains and occasional cold snaps in the north-	I
ern part of the State.	.	|
The doctor informed me that around Reno, the	|
farmers cut three crops of alfalfa annually, yielding * | 8 and 10 tons to the acre. The best wheat lands	|
raise as high as 60 bushel.- He tells of a farmer in	|
Washoe.County, named Sullivan, who, in digging	1
a well, discovered alfalfa roots at a depth of 30 feet	|
below the surface, pushing their way downwards	|
to reach the vivifying fluids—temperance men,	|
please note; let it be quartered on your escutcheon.	j
This fact, if true, proves that this hardy plant is	|
almost practically independent of the rainfall, if it	j
but once get a start, and that it may eventually make	|
its habitat on the plains. In winter, cattle which	1
are brought into the valleys and fed on this nutri-	1
tious plant give the finest quality of beef. Expef-	1
iments are now being made with various grasses	j
from Germany, South America, New Mexico, and	a
China, also with white rye, California oats, and	8
other kinds of grain which are expected to grow	j
with little or no irrigation. White sage is indige- ,	8
nous, but something better must be found. Many	g|
persons think that if a growth of chapparal, which	®
flourishes on the hills of northern California, could	B
be started on the Nevada hills, it would bring	S
Summer rains, prepare the way for timber trees,	S
and thus effect a change of climate. '	W
Travelling through the desolate plains of Nevada,	g
I made the acquaintance of a station keeper, or 11
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	523
water pumper, at a lonely village where the train halted for a short time. This gentleman was a student, in the early sixties, of a university not over athousand miles from NotreDame. Finding Latin, Greek and Mathematics too irksome for his swelling ambition, and fired with the lust of conquest, like another Alexander or an Aaron Burr, he determined to establish a mighty Indian empire in the great Northwest. Our warrior student accordingly fled one night from the peaceful abode of the Muses, and bid farewell to Bro. Benoit and classic shrines. Armed with an old-fashioned colt, a double-barrelled shot-gun and a rusty bowie, our young hero set out on his career of conquest. He did not write, as Caesar, veni, vidi, vici. A sadder but a wiser man, he sold his arsenal and took to the stage or rather accepted the captaincy of a prairie schooner. After a life of vicissitude, he finally settled down to his present position with, all the philosophy of a Diogenes. He fell like Iscarus in his ambitious flights. Oxford, Cambridge, Yale and Harvard have furnished each its contingent to the ranks of cowboys, car-cleaners, hod-carriers, street-car conductors, etc. When a man is “ dead broke” he will descend from his Olympic chariot to raise the “ dust” as the driver of a scavenger’s patent sweeper. “Tell the college boys stick to their books, and gird themselves for the battle of life by self-denial and close application to their studies. Then they will never regret, as I do, the golden opportunities squandered in youth. Cheap novels of the ‘blood and thunder’ species, smuggled into the study-hall, have enabled me to graduate from the stage to the water tank.” The gentleman still attempts the cultivation of his literary talents during the leisure hours which the desert affords; but the Muses will not be wooed in such an unromantic locality. Among other pencillings of this rara avis, done, under the divine afflatus, on the side of his shanty, I copied the following:
ON TEMPERANCE.
'	“ Old Bill Nye ’
Had a red eye, And the reason why, Took too much rye. William, fie! fie! How’s that for high? ”
ON A RAILROAD ACCIDENT.
“ A broken rail—cars off the track;	-
It took a day to get them back.
• Death loves a shining mark;
Two tramps have entered Charon’s bark. The engineer plays on a golden harp;
The brakeman broke life’s woof and warp.”
LYRIC ON THE “ FELIS DOMESTICA.”
. “ Coyotes may howl,	.
And bay the stars,
For nature made them musical;
But the feline’s yowl
And horrid growl	-
Would make old Job abusical!”
« In presenting you, sir, with the effusions of my poetical genius, I shall merely claim the privilege of Q. Horatius Flaccus:	“
“ ‘ Quod si me lyricis vatibus inseris, Sublimi feriam sidera vertice.’”
Should the amiable Quaker Singer Whittier, pr the sweet Poet Laureate Tennyson, ever stop over at that way-station, they will no doubt fill their scrap-books with such polished gems that.would have excited the envy of an Anacreon, a Sappho or a Horace.	.	?
Of course, and on general principles, the Nevadans expect that the tidal boom-wave will strike . their country this spring, and enable them to irrigate, at least internally, if they cannot do so externally, notwithstanding the temperance flights of our poetical undergraduate. Unfortunately, they lack a trunk road in the southern part of the State running from east to west with feeders to tap the valleys north and south. They also want centres, or reservoirs, for the waters of the coming financial high tide.- The towns of any importance are at present nearly all situated to the west, close under the shadows of the Sierra Nevada Mountains. .
S.
Books and. Periodicals.
—The May number of the Century begins a new volume. The opening article is the first paper of the series by George Kennan, illustrated by G. A. Frost and Henry Sandham, in which is to be recorded the results of the Century Expedition into Siberia and examination of the exile system. The frontispiece of this number is a touching scene at the Siberian boundary post. In the “Author’s Preface,” Mr. Kennan relates the circumstances under which he undertook his Siberian mission. The illustrations are numerous, and there is a full-page map of the route pursued by the travellers on their extraordinary journey. There is a full-page engraving of Pope Leo XIII with a brief study of his personality by Maurice F. Egan.
—It is announced that the Rt. Rev. L. de.Goes-briand, Bishop of Burlington, Vt., will soon, publish a translation of the well-known book of Rev. Father Chaignon, “Nouveau Cours de Meditations Sacerdotales,” written exclusively for the use of the secular clergy. Though Father Chaignon died but four years ago, his work has already gone through eleven editions. It is a work of great merit. Apart from meditations on the duties, virtues, etc., of priests, and chiefly of the pastors of souls, it also contains meditations on the. Sundays of the year, the mysteries of Our Lord and the Blessed Virgin, and the feasts of the greater saints. In an appendix there are found admirable instructions and directions for ecclesiastical retreats, per- -formed either in common or privately by the priests; also a practice for the monthly retreat, preparation for death, etc. The work will consist of two volumes octavo, of about 550 pages each, bound in cloth, at $5 for the two volumes. -
—The Art Amateur for May contains a striking colored portrait study of a “Laughing Man,” three-quarters size, and over a dozen designs; in black-and-white, including a classical figure of “ Fame,” plate decorations (fish and seavveed,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
roses), a panel decoration (fringed gentians), plaque design (birds and deer), a page of monograms (Q), six designs for doilies, and several for woodcarving. Two notable full-page illustrations from Solon pictures are “ The Poachers” (dogs) by Elizabeth Strong, and “Mending the Net” by Henry Bacon. There are useful practical articles on landscape painting, charcoal drawing and woodcarving, and invaluable hints to art teachers, china painters, and needle workers. The illustrated series on home decoration and furniture is continued; the Academy and American Artists’ exhibitions are duly reviewed; an exhibition of Rembrandt’s etchings is noticed and finely illustrated, and in “ My Note Book” art thieves and tricksters are handled, as usual, without gloves.
Personal.
—Rev. J. McNally, of West Oakland, Cal., was a welcome visitor to the College on Thursday last.
—Mrs. J. O’Kane, of Cincinnati, Ohio, has been visiting her sons of the Junior department this week.
—Mrs. M. Freeman, of St. Paul, Minn., passed a few days at the College during the week visiting her son George, of the Junior department.
—Mr. and Mrs. T. J. Burke, Stillwater, Minn., were visitors last Sunday. Mr. Burke is a brother of Mr. P. Burke of the Junior department.
—The many friends of Mr. H. A. Barnes deeply .sympathize with him in the irreparable loss which he recently sustained in the death of his mother.
—Mr. and Mrs. L. Kehoe, of New York, paid a pleasant visit to Notre Dame during the week to see their sons who are attending the University.
—W. F. Longley, Esq., (Com’l) ’66, was elected Mayor of South Bend on the Democratic Ticket at the city election on Monday last. We extend our congratulations to the people of South Bend on the acquisition of so capable and efficient a municipal head.
—Prof. J. A. Lyons returned last week after a two weeks’ visit to Hot Springs, Ark. His many friends will be pleased to learn that he has greatly improved in health, is rapidly gaining in strength, and will soon, we hope, enjoy his old-time vigor and activity.
.—Mr. M. Cudahy, of Chicago, paid a visit to his son John of the Minim department last Sunday. He was accompanied by his son Master Joseph Cudahy who intends entering Notre Dame before long. Mr. Cudahy expressed himself quite favorably impressed with the University and its surroundings.
—Miss Edith L. Guy, of Niles, Mich., and Mr. Joseph E. Zaehnle, of ’87, of this township, were united in the holy bonds of matrimony Thursday morning. The ceremony took place in the college church, Rev. Father Stoffel officiating. During the nuptial Mass the college quartette sang in a most acceptable manner.
Local Items.
—Slide up.
—Keep cool.
—Ice cream!
—All aboard!	;
—Strawberries!	]
—Fishing is good.	I
—Funny, wasn’t it?	|
—Take a long stroke.	;
—In whose team are you?	‘
—“Al. and John and c J! ’ ”
—What has become of the T. A. U.?
—Get ready for the triple competitions.
—“Calamity’s” nine was badly defeated.
—Storm windows have been taken down.
—There is great demand for “pain-killer.”
—Tom can testify to the humidity of water.
—Everything indicates a good boat race in June.
—The quartette did not get left Thursday morning, o
—June 20 has been selected as Commencement Day.
—The boat crews , are largely made up of new material.
—Juniors will please to not throw stones at the boatmen.
—-John was appalled at the crash, likewise the gardener.
—What has caused such an increase in the sales at the store ?
—Calamity’s team gives promise of mighty achievements.
—The Senior championship will be interesting enough, never fear.
—There was a wedding in the college church Thursday morning.
—The Juniors claim that there is a mistake about those “dew drops.”
—Reports of baseball games are received daily at the telegraph office.
—Hedge is being planted around the western shore of St. Joseph’s Lake.
—A new fence has been erected between the j Senior and Junior grounds.
—The non-commissioned officers of the Sorin Cadets have new chevrons.
—Frank,stranded on the old pier, looked forsooth like the “Lone Fisherman.”
—Many beautifying improvements are being made in St. Edward’s Park.
—Circumstances alter cases on all occasions, and especially in aquatic matters.
—Our athletes are getting themselves in condition for championship contests.
—The four-oared boat crews have been chosen.
They are training in the old boats, -

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
525
bBKM
—We hope to give an engraving and detailed description of Collegiate Hall in a short time.
—An additional supply of rifles recently ordered for the Sorin Cadets will be here next week.
—“ Keep oft' the grass, darling, keep off the grass;
Stray not from orthodox paths as you pass! ”
—The Rev. Professor of Greek is pardonably proud of the excellent qualities of his new steed.
—Third nines have been organized in the Senior department by Messrs. Armstead and Nirdlinger.
—The armory of Company A, Hoynes’ Light Guards, rejoices in the possession of new curtains.
—Rev. Provincial Corby, C. S. C., witnessed the last dress parade and drill of the Hoynes’ Light Guards.
—One of our baseball cranks has a novel method of keeping the league and association standing constantly in view.
—Master W. McPhee’s excellent voice is heard to advantage in the solo parts of the hymns sung during the May devotions.
—One may venture forth these days with a straw hat and a linen duster and have no fear of being greeted with cries of “ rats!”
—Great enthusiasm over the erection of Collegiate Hall is manifested among the advanced students of the collegiate and law classes.
—Bro. Philomen’s choir was rehearsing last Monday. The melodious notes borne through the air on the gentle zephyrs were enchanting.
—The Senior second special nine defeated the Junior second special Thursday. On the Senior first nine diamond the Blues were victorious.
—Mr. J. McGrath has been elected captain of the Senior second baseball nine to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Mr. Geo.- Tarrant.
—The grand altar, designed for the Chapel of the Holy Angels in the extension to the new church, has arrived at New York, and will very probably be here in a few days.
—Last Wednesday evening, Prof. N. H. Ewing delivered a very entertaining and instructive lecture on the subject of “Phonetics” to the students assembled in Washington Hall.
—Our horticulturist would respectfully represent to professors and others who stand in need of physical exercise that he has procured, at a great expense a new lawn-mower for their especial accommodation.
—A small Junior was heard expressing the wish that the Faculty representatives would get up a heated row over the respective merits of the classics and the sciences, as he thought it would result in a spell of peace for the boys.
—The Mexican students celebrated one of their great national feasts last Thursday in an enthusiastic.and appropriate manner. The day was spent at the farm, some nine miles from the University. Everyone reports a delightful time.	,
—Bro. Emmanuel was the happy recipient, on the 1st inst., of a box of rare and rich flowers from
Mr. John Nester, of Detroit. They now adorn Our Lady’s statue in the east end of the Seniors’ study-hall, and conduce not a little towards realizing that the month of flowers has arrived.
—The first Senior baseball nines have been chosen as follows: Reds—M. Smith (captain), J. McHenry, E. Melady, P. Paschel, L. Preston, Gallagher, J. Kelly, H. Jewett, T. Pender. Blues —G. Cartier (captain), F. Springer, F. Fehr, D. Tewksbury, T. O’Regan, B. White, J. Cussack, D. Sullivan.
—The following officers have been appointed to fill vacancies caused by recent resignations in Company B, Hoynes’ Light Guards: Second Lieutenant, Wm. McKenzie; First Sergeant, J. Cooney; Second Sergeant, C. Cavanagh; Third Sergeant, J. C. Flynn; Fourth Sergeant, T. Darragh; First Corporal, W. Walsh.
—The four-oared crews will be taken from the following oarsmen who are practising in the six-oared working boats: Evangeline—P.Paschel, G. Cartier, G. Houck, J. Hepburn, J. Kelly, F. Mattes, H. Luhn (captain); L. Meagher, F. Albright, F. Springer, W. Aiken, T. Pender, E. Prudhomme, P. Brownson (captain).
—At the waterworks test last Saturday, with no extraordinary effort, a good-sized stream of water was thrown over the church tower, and a few minutes later upon the roof of the main building. The pump in the steam-house is capable of throwing a very long and powerful stream, as has been shown by the recent tests.
—After lengthy and animated discussions held daily concerning the tariff question, the genial horticulturist of St. Edward’s Park and the good “Uncle Sam” have come to the conclusion that free trade is conducive to the best interests of the country. The nation is safe once more, and blood lingers no longer upon the face of the moon.
—The case of Johnson vs. the Traveller’s Insurance Co. occupied the attention of the University Moot-court last Saturday evening. Mr. T. Brady was the plaintiff’s attorney and 'Mr. D. Brewer appeared for the defendant company. Notwithstanding an able and skilful defense, the attorney for the plaintiff succeeded in procuring a verdict for $5000.
—In response to several requests we publish the score by innings of the recent game between the Junior specials and a Senior nine. It is as follows:
1 2345 6 7S9
Seniors:—o o 1 o 1 4 1 o 5=12 Juniors:—1 3 1 o o o 1 o 4=10
Hayes’ batting and Fleming’s catching were noticeable features of the game.	’
—The “Shamrocks” of South Bend had the temerity to tackle the special Minim nine last Thursday and were badly defeated by a score of 37 to 24. The visitors were evidently out of practice:aryl their errors gave the Minims a number of runs in the first part of the game. They braced up, however, in the last few innings and, aided by the home team’s errors, increased their score to 24. The two nines will play again soon.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Rev. Father Morrissey read the Juniors’ bulletins Thursday morning, and complimented the members of the department upon their recent good work as evinced by the excellence of the reports. On the whole, the bulletins were the best of the year. As the session is drawing to a close, it is to be hoped that the students will maintain their present high standard to the end of what has been a very satisfactory scholastic year.
— The devotions of the month of May were opened on last Monday evening with an eloquent sermon, by the Rev. Father Morrissey, setting forth the grand and noble motives that appeal to the Christian heart to give due honor to the ever-blessed Mother of God. After the sermon, solemn Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament was given. The exercises will be continued each evening duiing the month. Appropriate singing is provided by the College choir, under the direction of Rev. Father Kirsch, and is worthy of all praise by reason of its excellence.
.	Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
,	SENIOR DEPARTMENT. ■
Messrs. Brannick, Beckman, P. Burke, Barrett, J. Burke, Beckwith, Bronson, Barnard, Blessington, J. Burns, Brownson, Brewer, Britt, Boland, Craft, Campbell, Cassidy, Chacon, Cartier, Chute, E. Coady, Cosgrove, Dore, Eyanson, Ewing, Fitzharris, Finckh, Fehr, Fleming, Goebel, Gallardo, Geisler,. Gibbs, Griffin, Garfias, Henderson, Heinemann, M. Howard, Hummer, Hughes, E. Howard, Houck, Hepburn, Inderrieden, Jacobs, Keating, L. Earkin, W. Larkin, Langan, W. McDermott, McCune, Mattes, McGuirk, Mulkern, J. McDermott, Major, Munroe, V. Morrison, W. Morrison, Maloney, McCart, Melady, Andrew Nicholl, Neill, Nelson, Nirdlinger, O’Hara, O’Shea, O’Donnell, O'Connor, Plato, Paschel, Prichard, Preston, Pender, Pollock, Pares, Rochford, Rothert, Reedy, Read, Stubbs, Stephenson, Suing, H. Smith, Springer, W. Silver, R. Silver, D. Sullivan, Tiernan, Tarrant, Woodbridge, Webb, Wall, Welch, Wilkin, M. White.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Adams, Anfenger Allen, Bombeck, Bronson, Boyd, Beaudry, Bolderick, Blake, Burger, Brady, Cunningham, Cauthorn, Campbell, Cooney, Crotty. F. Connors, J. Connors, Carroll, Case, Connelly, D. Cartier, W. Cartier, Chute, James Doherty,-John Doherty, Delaney, Duffield, Daniels, Davis, Devine, Ebner, Fitzgerald, Falvey, S’. Fleming, Pl Fleming, J. Flynn, Freeman. Frei, Grossman, Graham, T. Greene, J. Greene, Gonzales, Grever, Garrity, Houlihan, Henry, Howard, R. Healy, P. Healy, Heller, Hampton, Hoerr, Hillas, Hartman, Hake, Hayes, Hoye, Hill. . Johnson, Jewett; Josselyn, Kinsella,. Kehoe, Lane, Lahey, Leonard, Moncada, Merkle, Martin, McGuire, James McIntosh, John McIntosh, McCormick, McIvers, Hughes, McPhee, Miner, McGrath, McKenzie, McNulty, McCartney, Mayer, Monarch, Mooney, Neef, O’Neill, G. O’Brien, 'M. O'Kane, B. O’Kane, O’Donnell, Paquette, Powersj Prichard, Pecheux, J. Peck, Pfau, Quinlan, Roth, Reinhard, I. Rose, S. Rose, Ramsey, Rowsey, Reidinger, Roby,“Stephens, Spalding, Shenk, Senn, A. Sullivan, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, Silver, Talbot, Thome, Wageman, Walsh, Welch, Weldon,'Wilbanks, Wood, Lechner.
-	-	" MINIM DEPARTMENT. .	"	,
’Masters Ayer, Andrews, A.: Bachrach, H. Bachrach, S. Bachrach, Bloomhuff, Blumenthal, Beckham,^Barbour; G. Black, L. Black, Blake, Beerman, Bates, Burns, Bradley, Boettcher, C. Connor, W. Connor, E. Conners, Collins, Con
nelly, Clendenin, Carlile, Cudahy, W. Creedon, F. Creedon, Cornell, Crane, Campbell, Durand, J. Dunn, F. Dunn, Jas. Dungan, Jessie Dungan, L. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, Dench, Dorsey, G-.Franche, C. Franche, Flannery, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Ferkel, Grant, Griffin, Greene, Gerber. Goodwillie. Hinds, Harlan, Hagus, Howard, Hal-thusen, Hamilton, Healy, Haddican, Johns, Kutsche, Kerwin, Kehoe, Keeler, Koester, P. Keefe, Kane, Kaye, A. Lonergan, H. Lonergan, Mooney, Marx, Morgenweck, Murphy, McDonnell, Maternes, L. Mayer, G. Mayer, McPhee, Mott, J. Marre, A. Marre, Minor, Neef, Neenan, Nichols, Nester, Oppenheimer, O’Mara, Perry, L. Paul, C-Paul, Plautz, Parker, Quill, Rogers, Ricks^cker, Sweet, Seerey, F. Smith, E. Smith, Stone, Speir, Storey, Taft, Trujillo, Tomkins, .Thornton, WJ Williamson, Wm. Williamson, J. Walsh,Welch, W. Walsh, Wilson, Young, Zieman.

Class Honors.
[In the following list will be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
J. Burns, C. Stubbs, P. Burke, T. Goebel, C. Neill, L. Chute, A. Finckh, V. Morrison, T. Griffin, P. Wagoner, A. Adelsperger, C. Cavanagh, M. O’Kane, C. Paquette, W. Blake, J. McGurk, L. Scherrer, H. Luhn, G. Houck, M. Mulkern E. Ewing, J. Fisher, W. McPhee, R. Nations, H. Brelsford, J. Mackey, W. Morrison, W. Rochford, J. McDermott, P. Paschel, J. Gallardo, M. Garfias, H. Prichard, H Jewett, L. Preston, B. Hughes, M. Reynolds, H. Hull, J. Keating, M. Dore, D. Barrett, J. Meagher, W. Akin, L. Meagher, J. Langan, J. O’Donnell, S. Craft, R. Newton.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those -who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—^according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of studies.]	‘
COLLEGIATE COURSE. .	;
Moral Philosophy—G. Craig, J. Burns; Logic—T. Goebel; Latin—J. Burns, T. Goebel, T. Griffin, A. Larkin; Greek—J. Burns, G. Craig, C. Stubbs, P. Burke; Civil Engineering—F. Houck; Drawing in Engineering Department—G. Houck; Mechanics—E. Ewing; Architecture— H. Jewett; Calculus—A. Larkin; Surveying—L. Meagher; Trigonometry—A. Adelsperger; Geometry—E.Prudhomme, E. Berry, E. Hughes; Algebra—C. Cavanagh, L. Scherrer, D. Tewksbury; Englisl^LHerature—A. Adams, B. Hughes, T. O’Regan, H. Prichard; Modern History—D. Tewksbury, W. McPhee, H. Prichard; Anaent History—C. Burger, E. Hughes; Zoology—A. Adelsperger; Botany—G. Craig, W. Morrison; Geology—P. Burke; Literary Criticism—T. Goebel; Rhetorics. Hummer, A. Adelsperger; Composition— D. Brewer.	■	'	■
SPECIAL COURSES.
Catechism—J. Mackey, S. Eyanson, M. Kerwin, M. Smith, M. Howard, W. Boland; Drawing—H. Jewett, J. Cusack, F. Fehr, J. Keating, E. Roth, A. Kutsche, A. Fitzharris, V. Morrison, J. Delaney, O. Rothert,. E. Doss; Telegraphy—B. Stephens, A. Rued, A. Velasco; Type Writing— C. Cavanagh, J. O’Donnell; German—H. Wageman.
.—A student after being at school two weeks penned the following, which he sent home:
“When first I-came to college and left:my home behind,; I thought ’twould take a life-time to cultivate the mind;-. I had a lingering notion that wisdom .and gray hairs. -Were suited for each other, far more than youth and airs. But now I.see my folly, and love the thought to cheer; To make me wise as .Solomon, will only take a year," ..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint JHary's Acabemy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—ioo. in lessons was given to. but one Junioi' last week, and that fortunate one was Ella Blaine.
—Rev. Father Zahm was the celebrant .at the High Mass on Sunday last, on which occasion Rev. Father Morrissey preached a most effective sermon on the Gospel of the day.
—The May devotions opened on Monday evening with a sermon by Rev. Father L’Etourneau. The regular instructions for the month are to be given by Rev. Father Morrissey. ’
—Very Rev. Father General honored the young ladies at the last academic meeting by his presence and kind words. The Misses M. McCormick and Crane gave great satisfaction by their manner of delivery of the readings chosen. Rev. Father Zahm, made some instructive remarks which were highly appreciated.	1
—The late visitors at St. Mary’s were: Mrs. J. B. Wagner, Lafayette, Ind.; Miss G.V.Taylor, Mrs.T. Papin,St.Louis, Mo.; Miss V.Inderrieden, J. Donoghue, F. G. Jungblut, Miss M. Dorsey, G. T. Pomeroy, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. D. Fravel, Goshen, Ind.; F. Roth, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Miss I. M. Carney, Marinette, Wis.; Miss R. Fenton, Mackinac Island,Mich.;' Mr. and Mrs.T. J. Burke, Stillwater, Minn.	•
.Current .and. Classical Literature.
. By current literature is understood that which is.everywhere read; with which the fashionable world is supposed to be acquainted; and which is, as a rule, of a light and superficial character.
Classic literature is of a far superior quality. The style never descends to the commonplace,, or the inelegant. Authors who range under this title are of acknowledged merit and dignity;- their reputation is beyond question; their worth everywhere acknowledged. They, have been tried in the crucible of severe.criticism, and have come forth pure gold. When the explorer of a new region desires a favorable location for a new colon'y, he is careful to study the nature of the soil, climate, and other conditions connected with any site which might at first view have appeared eligible. Were he to neglect such a precaution, disastrous results would be sure to follow.
Because, the birds are singing to-day, and. the bright waters of the rills are dashing merrily along in the summer sunshine, it would be the height of folly, to'infer that the coarse canvas of a gypsy, camping tent, which would serve as sufficient pro
tection against the weather in June, would prove equally ample in January.
In the great world of intellect, the mind of the student goes forth to discover where it may dwell in safety; where the soft waves of poesy may dash in music at his feet, and the lofty mountains of philosophic lore may cast their friendly shadow over his tranquil, abode; where science may enlighten, and art cheer and invigorate; where history may nourish, and religion may exalt and vivify.
Not so with the aimless adventurer. He recks little of danger, and dares it when it is before him. Attended by no safer guide than his wayward fancy, he is left to the mercy of the wind and wave; not to achieve great deeds of charity, like the heroes of old, but to feed a restless longing for excitement, unproductive alike of either merit or advantage. ,
In the student and the wayward adventurer we have the types of our modern patrons of literature. One seeks safety; the other peril; one is eager.for improvement; the other desires nothing beyond a momentary amusement; one values literary taste as a God-given possession for which he is responsible; the other looks upon it as a toy with which he may sport to-day, and which he may, without scruple, cast aside to-morrow as useless. .	.
To the last named, the evanescent publications of the day are the nectared solace of life. Ruin may stand at the door, but, lost in the lethean intoxication of the magic, deadly draught, he is unprepared to defend himself, and he falls an easy victim to the enemy. To the circumspect, the power of the author’s mind over that of the reader is fully recognized. Knowing well that he who loves the danger will perish therein, he tampers not with doubtful writers, and takes but sound and well attested mental food.
At a period like the present, when every facility: has been afforded to exalt the condition of the human mind, and to elevate the character of literature, it would be natural to suppose that the tone of authorship would be raised far above that of the previous centuries. When every possible effort has been put forth to promote the advancement of science and art, and when intellectualdevelopment has seemed to reach the climax of earthly perfection, it would contradict all reasonable expectation were a corresponding superiority not infused into the world of literature.	; .	.
The summary of local or national intelligence provided by the periodical literature of the day forms the staple of the larger proportion of the reading 'public. This is subject to the caprice of, popular tastes; and, though it be true that the influence
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
experienced will take the form of the mind which receives it, no one will pretend to say that such literature contains the elements to make scholars of those who depend on such reading for their intellectual nourishment. However, the minds of our popular writers may not be inferior to those of past days; but are their best thoughts marketable? We are not competent, perhaps, to answer our own inquiry. Though we gladly admit that there are publications that may compare favorably with the works of any period, we fear that, as a rule, they are relegated to the top shelf of the family, or circulating library. Of this we are sure, for one admirer of Schlegel or Brownson, we find ten thousand who delight in Dickens.
Is this what we should look for? To follow narrative requires but little mind; to appreciate fine delineations of character may be more of an accomplishment; but to become deeply interested in a thoroughly philosophical author stirs up the fountains of thought, and invigorates and enlarges the mind; and since true classical literature is impressed with this unmistakable stamp, since it does not enervate but strengthen the intellect, it naturally follows that it is better adapted to form the scholar; therefore, the real scholar will devote the time given for mental culture almost exclusively to classical rather than to current literature.
Caroline Griffith ( Class ’ty).
Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Allen, Andree, Arnold, Brady, Burton, Barry, Barth, Brewer, Beschameng, Bourne, Bates, Blacklock, Beck. Belfield, Bogner, Carmien, Clifford, Claggett, Conners, Clore, E. Coll, M. Coll, Campagne, Calkins, M. Davis, H. Dempsey, Ducey, M. Desmond, C. Desmond, Dunkin, Dority, English, Earley, Flannery, Fitzpatrick, Fenton, Geer, Guise, Gordon, Harlen, Hummer, Hughes, Hertzog, Hellmann, M. Horner, I. Horner, Henke, Hinz, Heffron, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hillas, Hoffmann, Hutchinson, Hooker, Johnson, Kearns, Kohler, Keyes, Murphy, L. Meehan, N. Meehan," E. McCarthy, McCormick, McEwen, McNamara, Moore, C. McCarthy, Marsh, Moran, C. McFadden, J.McFadden, Mitchell, Marley, E. Nicholas, Neff, O’Brien, Prudhomme, Piper, Pomeroy, G. Regan, E. Regan, Riedinger, Rannells, Richardson, Robinson, Snowhook, Sullivan, Stadtler, Sheean, Saviers, B. Smith, Sloman, M. Smith, Spier, Studebaker, Thompson,Van Mourick, M.' Voechting, B. Voechting, Wright, Waterbury,Wiesenbach, Webb, Zahm.	'
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses T. Balch, Blaine, Butler, E. Burns, E. Davis, Dolan, Eby, Foster, Fritz, Hake, Hull, Hughes, Hannon, Hansford, Knauer, Kloth, Lewis, Eauth, Miller, McCune, Morse, Newman, Papin, Pugsley, Quealey, Reed,
Rhinehart, Rogers, Stapleton, E. Smith, Thirds, A. Wurzburg, N. Wurzburg.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Burns, K. Moore, A. O’Mara, A. Papin, L. Reeves, S. Smith.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Advanced Course—Miss E. Horn.	<
Advanced Course, Harp—Miss M. Dillon.	5
ist Course, Graduating Class—Miss H. Guise. "	\
ist Class—Misses M. F. Murphy, Rend, Van Horn.	j
2D Class—Misses M. Allen, A. Reidinger, B. Snowhook.	*
2D Div.—Miss M. Desmond, J. Dority, O. O’Brien.	:
3d Class—Misses E. Brady, M. Barry, E. Flannery,
K. Gavan, M. Horner, G. Regan.
’ 2D Div.—Misses H. Coll, L. Ducey, L. Hillas, T. Hinz.
4TH Class—Misses C. Dempsey, M. M. Davis, Hughes,
K. Heffron, C. Moran, E. McCarthy, L. Piper, M. Smith, G. Stadtler, M. Sheehan.
2D Div.—Misses M. Clifford, B. Claggett, L. Dolan, J.
Daube, J. English, C. Hurley, O. Hoffman, L. Koester, M.
Keyes. N. Morse, I. Stapleton, E. Quealey.
5TH Class—Misses M. Bates, E. Balch. A. Blacklock, I.
Bub, F. Carmien, E. Foster, B. Fenton, L. Fravel, Henke, M. Hummer, O. Knauer, E. Kearns, M. McEwen, E.Wright.
2D Div.—Misses M. Beck, J. Bloom, E. Dempsey, M. Fitzpatrick, F. Hertzog, E. Harlen, M. Hull, E. Lewis, L. Meehan, H. Meehan, J. McFadden, P. Sloman, G. Wehr, L. Waterbury.
6th Class—Misses M. Andree, M. Burton, T. Balch, E. Churchill, K. Desmond, H. Hake. A. Johnson, L. Lilley, M. McCormick, F. Marley, M. Newman, M. Papin, Prudhomme, H. Pugsley, E. Regan, M. Rhinehart, J. Robinson, L. Reeves, R.Van Mourick, M.Voechting, B.Voechting, B. Wagner, N. Wurzburg.	'
2D Div.—Misses E. Blaine, E. Burns, M. Coll, M. Campbell, N. Dunkin, E. Fritz, K. Hurley, M. Kohler, C. Kron, K. Loonie, M. Mitchell, M. McCune, K. McCarthy, L. Nicholas, M. Conner, H. Quill,M. Richardson, A. Schmauss, M. Thompson, B. Webb.	.
7TH Class—Misses C. Bray, M. Burns, K. Caikins, L.
Dreyer, E. Davis, M. Geer, E. Hagus, L. Leonard, L.
Mercer, E. Nicholas, A. O’Mara, M. Rannells, D. Rogers,
C. Reen, B. Smith, E. Smith, E. Spier, L. Wiesenbach,
I. Zahm.	•
8th Class—Misses F. Burdick, C. Kloth, M. Miller, G.
Papin, S. Smith.	;
’ 9TH Class—Misses K. Early, F. Palmer, M. Rose, M. Reed.
ioth Class—Miss Ella Burns.
HARP.
5TH Class—Misses Snowhook, L. Hillas.
6th Class—Miss L. Waterbury.
violin.	j
Misses L. Koester, H. Studebaker.	’	"
guitar.	j
5TH Clats—Misses K. Desmond, M. Burton.	i
6th Class—Misses Dority, J. McFadden, B. Voechting.	.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT. ~	j
Graduating Class—Miss M. F. Murphy.	I
ist Class—Misses K. Gavan, H. Guise.	1
2D Div.—Miss C. Moran.
2D Class, 2D Div.—Miss McCarthy.
3D Class—Misses M Barry, N. Dempsey, C. Dempsey.
2D Div.—Misses F. Carmien, B. Hellmann, L. Meehan, C. McFadden. .	.
4TH Class—Misses I. Bub, E. Balch, J. Dority, B. Fenton, M. Fitzpatrick. C. Hurley, F. Hertzog, C. Kron, L. Lilley, F. Marley, L. Nicholas, P. Sloman.
5TH Class—Misses T. Balch, A. Bourne, B. Claggett, K. Calkins, L. Dolan, L. Hillas, A. Johnson, B. Kingsbury, E. Kohler, M. McCormick, M. Mitchell, O. O’Brien, C. Prudhomme, M. Papin, M. Webb, M. Voechting.
