
STUDENT CIYERNMENT IPENHIUSE 
:Monda)? !J[pril Itat 4:00 p.m. Student 9overnment Office, 2nd 'Floor La'Fortune. 
frec pizza! . finger painting! chair races! free xerox copies ofbody parts! 
meet davc and matt ! give your suggestions for next year! 
'Bring your friends for free food .. and lots of'FUJV! 
CONTENTS 

NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 


4 ·From Lecture to Leisure 7 Do they pass the ·test? 

9 Untapped Resource 10 Enigmatic Inscriptions 

14 Bloodsport 16 Stymying Steroid Use 18 Cursed Cubbies 


22 On Other Campuses 19 Out of Bounds 23 Week in Distortion 20 Mission Impossible 
-Cover depicts Notre Dame Rugby Club member Mike McEvilly, right, and two South Side Irish opponents, left. Photo by Brent Tadsen. 
APRIL 14, 1994 

. . . 
~ • • • • • . • • • . \ • >' -' . . • • • \. • • • • -. ' 
FROM THE EDITOR 

Rugby has been compared to playing football without pads. But Notre Dame's Rugby Club also plays without scholarships, withoutrecruitingand without much recognition. Like all club sports, the rugby team must work for its own funding after practice and games are over. Despite these pressures, the rugby team has been one of the top 10 in the country since 1989. 
But there is a shadow that hangs over this team. Itis the image ofTodd Broski, arugby player who was injured last year. In a match against the Fort Wayne Men's Club a year ago, Broski was caught on the ground with the weight of other players on his trunk and legs, causing his neck to roll. He was paralyzed from the neck down. It has been a year since the injury occurred; Broski has regained some movement in his fingers, but he has not been able to return to Notre Dame. His injury is a powerful reminder to the team that rugby, although it is played for fun, can become deadly with a wrong step or a slip of the foot. This constant courting of danger is part of what makes rugby such an intense sport. But the thrill of danger can sour very quickly. Sportswriter Jeff Weghorst takes a look at Notre Dame's Rugby Club on page 14. 
Also in the issue 
Ever wish you could get to know a professor better, after assignments are finished and class is over:? News editor Michelle Crouch writes this week about relations between faculty and students. She explores options for increasing outside-the-classroom contact between students and faculty, and in a related story, examines Notre Dame's advising system. 
Make sure to test your knowledge of Latin and university inscriptions in the Campus Life section, and enjoy our weekly features Week in Distortion and Out of Bounds. 
Saying hello 
Scholastic warmly welcomes sophomore Scott Kunkel to the staff. Scott will be taking over the position of Business Manager. We look forward to working with him throughout the coming year. 

Saying goodbye 
This is the last issue of Scholastic for the school year. For the first time in many years, Saint Mary's College did not allocate money to help fund the magazine. Becauseofthe smaller-than­usual budget, we have had to adjust our production schedule. We will be starting again at the beginning of September. Good luck with exams, and goodbye to the graduating seniors. 
Katie E. Wiltrout 

SchalJJsticis publishLd wttkly throughout thL schaol year o:cq,t 
Lttt,rs to Scha/JJstlcmust b, typ,d and Include thL writu's nam,, durillg o:aminatio,r and vacation periods at thL University of 
addr,ss and plwn, numb,r. l.btit1trsity stud,nts shauld inc/ud, Notre Dam,, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and prillltd at Th, Papers, 
tluir y,arin schaol and colug,. Faculty m,mb,rs shauld inc/ud, Inc. Milford, IN46542. Th, subscriptio,r rate is $25.00/ytar and 
thLir department. All l,tttrs must b, sign,d. Nam,s will b, back issues are avai/JJblt at $1.25 /copy, Th, opinlans ,xpr,ss,d 
withhL/d upon request In certain instances, in Schalastic are thase of thL authars and editors and do not 
Scha/JJstic n:s,mes thL right to rejtct letters that are lib,wus or necessarilyrq,restnt the opinlo,rs ofthL ,ntir, ,ditoria/boardof 
obsc,n,by thL laws ofth, United States, Scha/JJstlca/sowi//,dit Scha!JJstic or of thL lbtlt1ersity ofNotr, Dame, its administra­
for copyfitting, grammatical or sp,lling '"ors and Schalastic tlan, faculty or stud,nts. Editorials si~dSchalastic represent styu. Becaus,ofspace, Scha/JJstlc cannotprint all1,tt,rs rec,itJ,d. 
thL opinlan of thL majority of thL a,cutiv, editorial board. Manuscripts arew,/com,, All unsoliciti,d materials become thL 
Address all corr<spondenc, to : property ofSchalastlc. 
Th, Editor Scha/JJst/cCopyright 1994Scha/JJstlc Magazin,. All rights restrt1td, Rq,ro­
uifortun, C,nttr
ductlan in whale or In partwithaut written ptrmisslon isprohib­Notre Dame, IN46556 it,d, 

2 
SCHOLASTIC 


EDITORIAL 




A New Magazine? 
We are not against free press. We are not against competition. Since the Student Senate invoked an advertising boycott against The Observer, certain concepts have become muddy. Scholastic wishes to clarify its position regarding The Observer's plans for starting a new weekly magazine. Some argue that because The Observer is a business, it needs to expand in order to increase revenue. Both Scholastic and The Observer are businesses that must meet budgets, pay salaries and bring in advertising revenue. But the two publications are much more than businesses: they provide information for readers and experience for aspiring journalists. On a college campus, education is the highest goal. Working for either publication as an artist, photographer, writer or editor gives more practical education than classroom learning. One learns by doing in journalism, and there is no better place to learn the trade than on the staffs of Scholastic and The Observer. Students count on The Observer to read about events in Bosnia and who won the baseball game. They know where to look for information on day-to-day campus events. They know where to put an ad for football tickets, and they can check what is for dinner each night Students turn to Scholastic for more investigative news pieces and feature stories, stories that The Observer cannot do because of the time restraints of a daily paper. Scholastic provides humor and entertainment pieces, and sports stories that focus more on overviews than previews and results. Both publications serve vaµd purposes. Both publications are necessary. Some argue that a second campus magazine would only force Scholastic to do better. In a perfect free-market economy, competition improves quality and lowers price. However, the campus of Notre Dame is not a free market. The university already has strict rules about the duplication of services on campus. No shops on campus may sell the same products as the bookstore, unless bought from the bookstore and resold. This rule exists for all businesses on campus, student-run or otherwise. The Copy Shop cooperates with AdWorks so that the services each provides do not interfere with each other and ensures that neither will undercut the other's business. In a self-contained environment such as a college campus, this is to be expected. The same clear division of services should exist for the two campus publications. Scholasticdoes not object with The Observer's plans to expand their entertainment coverage. Scholastic believes that they should add this service inside the newspa­per. Improving the newspaper will force Scholastic to improve its magazine without threatening the balance that already exists between the two publications. Finally, Scholastic would like to note that the resolution that Scholastic submitted to Student Senate onMarch 28 did not ask for an advertising boycott of The Observer. It asked student government "to pass a resolution requesting The Observer to withdraw plans for its own weekly magazine." Scholastic presented the resolution as a means of expressing concern about a matter that affects the entire student body. Scholastic does not wish to prevent The Observer from making the newspaper the best it possibly can be, something that is in the best interests of all. 
-Scholastic 
APRIL 14, 1994 
3 
·---• 
' ~ -~ " . ' . ' ~ -..... . ­
, . . 
, . . . 
. . .,. -.. . . 
. . 
• • • • .,. ' • ! 
• . • • • ' -, ... ' .· • -' • . :I ~ ( • -' 

NEWS 
II FACULTY-STUDENT RELATIONS 



From Lecture to Leisure 
What can be done to better faculty and -student interactions outside the classroom? 




by Michelle Crouch 

Each fall at Notre Drune, two teruns take the field that are even bigger and more important than the Fighting Irish. Both teruns have the same goal-the pursuit of truth and knowledge. But instead ofcoming out on the field and facing each other, these two teruns spend all their time in their indi­vidual locker rooms. Other­wise known as the students and faculty ofNotre Drune, all that separates them is a de­gree. Although the faculty and students of Notre Drune may never battle it out on the field, the issue of interpersonal fac­ulty-student relations is as important for Notre Drune's intellectual life as the FSU football grune was for Notre Dame's· athletics. Few people would dispute the quality of the instruction that students receive at Notre Dame. But many faculty 
Reynold F. Neslba, a graduate teaching fellow talks to freshman Doug Abell In the Huddle. 

members believe there is a need to foster more interpersonal relationships with stu'­dents outside of the classroom setting. 
"I think that the faculty-student relations are very good in the classroom," said Jerry Marley, associate dean of the college of engineering. "But I think they could be better in that they could be more personal. It's onekindofrelationship to sit in the back row during a lecture. It's something com­pletely different to be able to talk to your professor outside of class." 
Why are personal relationships be­tween faculty and students impor­tant? 
"Students who get the most out of college, who grow the most academically, and who are happiest, organize their time to include interpersonal activities with faculty mem-


4 
SCHOLASTIC 

• • • ~ -~ • J ~ ' • ~. , • ' • • • ' ; ' • • ; -• ,.,., 
.., • , • ' • .r J 
, ., .. . . . 
, . 



colleges as well when new construction ex­panded the university. 
The increase in the number of under­graduates has also affected faculty-student relations. 
The Colloquy recognizes this problem: "Recent studies of the issue have concluded that the regular faculty of teacher-scholars remains too small ... to assure adequate ac­cess by students to faculty members." To ensure an improvement in the ratio of stu­dents to professors, Notre Dame plans to increase the teaching faculty with 150 new appointments in the next 10 years, while maintaining undergraduate enrollment at 7,625. 
Even small changes over the years have made a big difference in faculty-student relations, according to Robert Williamson, associate dean of the College of Business Administration. He noted that the Freshman Year ofStu dies, despite its advantages, "has hurt relationships between students and the professors in their major," because students now spend only three years in a department instead of four. 
own methods of teaching and of the subject changes in the university cannot be the they . teach through interaction with stu-only explanation for the lack of good dents. relationships between Notre Dame students 
Some administrators think that students and faculty. should take more initiative in establishing Because Notre Dame is a residential cam-relationships with faculty members. pus, students do not go off campus fre­
"Ifstudents pursue a relationship, they'll quently. So even though 92.5 percent of get one. Otherwise, they'll never have NotreDame'sfacultylivewithin15milesof any," said Ava Collins, associate dean of South Bend, they rarely encounter students the college of arts and letters. "I'm not when they leave campus. saying this is how it should be. It's just the "Notre Dame is a residential campus with way it is." no U-District surrounding it," English Pro-
Many characteristics of Notre Dame fessor Sonia Gemes pointed out could be factors in the lack of strong fac-The "U-District" at other schools is a iilty-student relations. place where students and faculty often run 
Marley has been at the university for 25 into each other. Gemes believes that Notre years. He said has seen first hand the dete-Dameshoulddevelopsomeofthelandsouth rioration of one-on-one relationships. One of campus into a kind of U-District with of the main reasons he believes relation-· small bookstores, coffee houses and the­ships have grown less personal is the chang-aters. "I've propositioned this every time ing exterior of the university. faculty are invited to give their opinions on 
"When Fitzpatrick and DeBartolo were the university," she said. built, they changed the social structure of Most Notre Dame students eat in the din­the Engineering School. Before, all the ing halls, which also hinders faculty-student faculty offices and the classrooms were in interaction. Although faculty can get $7.00 Cushing, so you couldn't help but run into tickets to the dining halls, they feel like they students. Now there is less opportunity for are intruding, according to Collins. .:. chance encounters," he said. This same Few departments at Notre Dame· have phenomenon probably occurred in the other initiated any programs to improve relations, 



but the Arts and Letters College Fellows Office is a notable exception. In its seventh year, its main goal is to promote better faculty-student relations, according to Gemes, the Arts and Letters College Fel­

. Io*. main achievement of the College Fel­lows office was the creation of Waddick's, the coffee shop in O'Shaughnessy Hall where professors and students can interact But the lack of similar spaces in the other classroom buildings remains a problem. 
The College Fellows Office also provides financial reimbursement to profes·sors who entertain students in their homes. Many professors have taken advantage of this pro­gram. "Now students have to take some initiative," said Gemes. "Students have to realize that we're no more likely to walk into a dorm uninvited than into their parents' home uninvited." 
Gemes decribed a "moat and drawbridge" that separates the dorms and the classrooms. Indeed, few faculty members ever enter a student's dorm, and students tend to see the faculty as people who function only in the classroom. 

The Hall Fellows Program attempts to bridge this gap by encouraging every· dorm to ''.adopt" one or more faculty mem­bers. Then the hall plans activities which are designed to allow the Hall Fellows and its residents to interact Pasquerilla East has tried to make the most of the program, inviting their hall fel­lows to everything from SYRs to the Senior Banquet. In addition, they plan an activity with the Hall Fellows every month. For example, in December they have Professor's Day, in which residents are asked to invite their favorite professors and their families. Other months they invite a· Hall Fellow to give a I~ture, an informal seminar or a musical concert "Bringing faculty into the dorms comple­ments. and enhances academic life," said Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice president of student affairs. The Office of Student Af­fairs has put aside funding which allows the halls to hold different faculty forums. In addition, at the beginning of each year, Pro­fessor Patricia O'Hara, vice president of student affairs, speaks to new faculty about 
administrators and the club officers to com­
municate on a variety of topics. 
"Although we like to encourage faculty 

members to be involved in projects with 
students, there is a fine line, because you do 
not want to take away time from untenured 
people who are working on improving their 
teaching and doing research," said 
Williamson. 
Williamson noted that large business . classes make personal relationships diffi­
cult But since the hiring of new professors 
is not an option right now, the college is 
working to find other ways to improve fac­
ulty-student relations. For example, large 
accounting classes have been broken down 
into smaller sections. 
The College ofScience does not engage in 

many out-of-the-classroom activities, ac­
cording to Associate Professor Linda-Mar­
garet Hunt. "1nere are just not that many 
vehicles besides the classroom which foster 
interpersonal faculty-student relations 
here," she said. But she remarked that 
smaller lab sections are one way for science 
students to get to know their professors. 
Whether it is through the Hall Fellows 

Program, class trips or· student organiza­
tions, there seem tobemany ways for faculty 
members and students to cultivate enriching 
relationships. Although these relationships 
may not happen naturally in the present 
university environment, if students and fac­
ulty want them to develop, they both must 
take the initiative. D 
6 
SCHOLASTIC 


NEWS 

11 FACULTY-STUDENT RELATIONS 
Do they pass the test? 
Professors and students question the effectiven~ss ofuniversity advising 
departments take over. Similarly, in the Col-Students are usually_ expected to take the by Michelle Crouch lege of Arts and Letters, the dean's office is initiative of contacting their advisor if they responsible for general advising, while each need aqvice, according to Collins. BecauseMany Notre Dame students do not know department advises the students within its students often do not take this initiative, some their advisor's name. Others have discipline. Each arts and-letters student faculty members assume that Notre Dame neverbeen in to see their advisor. Some do not should be assigned a faculty advisor when students are apathetic. · even realize they have advisor. they declare their major, according to Ava "I beg to differ with that," said Umhofer. After conducting a series of forums in the Collins, Associate Dean ofthe College of Arts "Students are lined up out the door forprofes­dorms, these are the findings of the Commit-· and Letters. sors that have made attempts to make students tee on Undergraduate Education, a division of One problem with this system is thatsopho-· feel comfortable about meeting with them." Student Government As a result of these · mores who have not declared a inajor often , Becauseafewprofessorsend:up with much forums, they have spent this semesterexamin-receive no guidance. And students without a of the burden of advising, many people think ingtheadvisingsystem. Ui,eysentquestion-major may be the ones who need the most facultyadvisorsshouldberequiredtotakethe naires to every department at the university advising: initiative. TheCollegeofEngin_eering·andthe-· -· 1 and are currently in the process of analyzing The College of Engineering and the Col-College of Science encourage mt:eraction by the data. -Iege ·of Science assign every sophomore an ·requiring students to obtain therr D.A.R:T. 
-
1 
According to Matt Umhofer, co-chair of the . advisor, regardless of whether they have de-P.I.N.S. fi;om their advisors. · · ': [ committee, a number of factors contribute to clared a major. Requiring advisors to meet with their stu­what he sees as the failure of tl!e university's · Even students who declare their major are dents could result in an artificialrelationship, ·-·., · advising system._ First, there are not enough -~-,,.::.; "' noted Marley~ 'The desirable thing would be (acultymemberstodotheadvising,especially Gu, D/tNC,£ ---for the relationship to flow from the nature of in departments with many majors such as l i; I J0 I the inte~course. The student should have an English and Government Also, the univer-¾...-z ~ ·?-i · interest in something his advisor~ to say," 
sity hires few employees solely to advise-he said.

~&f{:~~~-'l If,~, 

students; instead, professors are expected to • • • Umhofer said that advisors "need 19 make' provide guidance on their free time. The ~i#:~1i~ the first move and.open themselves up to one~ problem is amplified by the university's on-one relationships with the students, or else present budget system, which allocates students will think they are inaccessible." money to each departmentwithoui taking into -The Harvard Assessment Semi.nars series account the number of majors. Umhofer of reports on effectiveness in teaching discov­commented that a better sy~tem would give .......,.,,,,,,,,.,-. ered that faculty inaccessibility at Harvard departments a voucher for each student ma-was a myth. -"It's probably also a myth at joring in the subject .____....::-...:...;......::...__====="""" NotreDame,"saidGemes. 'There are plenty 
!. The Freshman Year of Studies' advising not gqaranteed effftive guidance. Larger ofavailableadvisorsifstudentsseekthemout system has been praised by both students and ·departm~mts often do not tell their students Students need to be aware that once they are facul.ty. Each full-time advisor is responsible . about the advising structure. As a result, many out of freshman year, they need to take the for about 240 students: and he or she calls in· students complain ~t they were never as-initiative." each student at least once a semester. This signedanadvisororeventoldabouttheoption Collins agreed: "When you declare your system takes into account the -hesitation of of having one. major, you should go in for advising in your students to take the initiative. "S!Udents don't know about this structure, department Ask who your advisor is if they 
After freshmen year, when students be-so they qon 'tuseit, and faculty members seem don't tell you right away," suggested Collins. come members of a specific college, the ad-to be very lazy," said Collins. TheCollege of "Ifyou're not happy with the advising you're vising system loses much of its vigor. Business Administration has tried to improve getting, let people lmow." 
In the College of Business Administration, the situation by hiring a law student with a Untilchangesaremadeinthecurrentadvis­sophomores are advised by the college until Notre Dame accounting degree to work part ing system, this may be the only way for they declare their major, when the individual time advising students. students to get the advising they need. . 
APRIL 14, 1994 
7 

NEWS COMMENTARY 




Campus Watch 
BY THE GIPPER 
RUMOR, HEARSAY & ASBESTOS • 
Aprilisalwaysafun monthfortheGipper. . The Gipp loves to wade to class and have the weather change from sun to rain to snow on the way. And he loves the bitter, spring-hating profeswrs who assign an entire semester's work during AnTostal. But the campus tour groups, getting their fast taste of lies at Notre Dame, make it all worthwhile. The Gipp recommends having a pseudo con­versation with a friend as you walk by: "Who would of thought food poisoning was the culprit?" "Oh, it's just an old chem-lab in­jury." "My professor came in drunk again today." A single phrase ought to do the trick. 
PARTY FOOD 

Uncle Gipp brings you his first of many campus stories from last week's SYR at Pasquerilla East The decorations in one section included a wading pool, suitable for children and dates, filled with 30 goldfish ­at the beginning of the evening. By the end of the soiree, ten ofthe fish HAD BEEN EA IBN ALIVE (as if the Lenten theme meal wasn't bad enough). Even the guys running Mr. Stanford two years back had the decency to use their Bass-o-Matic to puree the suckers before dining on them. 
NEW WAYS TO COUGH UP BLOOD 
While she was meandering around the ad­ministration building, a Lewis hall sopho­more walked into the second-floor women's bathroom. There she found a lounge area with a separate room with the words "Smoking Permitted" on the door, apparently to encour­age one to smoke. She relaxed, greeted her fellow campus lepers and took a smoke break. 
The Gipp finds it odd that the only known smoking lounge on campus, aside from the one in the stadium, is located one floor below du Lac central, a.k.a. Student Affairs. Ute Gipp searched the admin building for a men's smoking lounge without luck. Also, the Gipp wonders why we even need single-sex smok­ing lounges. 
On the subject ofwheezing lungs, an engi­neer from Alumni asked the Gipp about the black, unlabeled bags being removed from CushingHall ofEngineering and the mysteri­ousadditions tothe architecture. Ontwo sides of the building are huge blowers, each about as quiet as a jet engine and each covered in large, friendly letters spelling . the words "CAUTION! KEEP OUT!" In the center of the building, half of the lobby has been sec­tioned off by a black wall, also covered with the same inviting message. The Gipper was forced to investigate. 
Building services confirmed that workers are removing ASBESTOS to install water pipes less than 60 years old. Risk manage­ment assured the Gipp that they were being . verycareful with the materialandtaking every possible precaution until they dumped it into a landfill and that they certainly weren't plan­ning on selling the asbestos to the dining hall as a cotton candy substitute. (The Gipp is kidding. Ha ha! No lawsuits here!) So why are workers stripping pipes behind makeshift walls,cloakedbythenightandwithbadmusic blaring? So as not to disturb the students. Just like dorm sex-changes don't disturb students. 


1-900-4-GIPPER 
One of the guys in Grace recently found a new reason to keep his door locked. On a recent phone bill, he found charges for direc­tory assistance in the Bahamas that were, in fact, disguised calls to an "adult phone enter­tainment" service. He learned that there have been over $1800 of these calls made from campus. 
When the Gipper talked to the folks at CBLD, they told him that under the old tele­phone system these numbers were blocked, but the blocks did not carry over when the phone systems changed last year. They were 
If ~ 

now blocking these calls number by number. i They also told the Gipp that in some rooms r
,, the same number was dialed many times and n the calls lasted for longer than a few minutes. ,i The Gipp suspects some people on campus l are calling for of these post-parietals rendez-i vous. 1 
i 
HAVE FUN 'TIL YOUR DEAD ~ 

Dave, Matt and Tyler, the student govern-[ ment boys, have made the Gipp proud again, 1 this time for their interior decorating skills and i colorful oratory. ;;, The Gipp ventured into their office this ~ week to take a peek around; Across from the i desk of the Gipp' s favorite secretary is a sign -g. labeled "Chair race standings," showing the § number of wins and losses for each of them, ~ and giving an up-to-date "injury report" for~ the chairs. Around the room he saw tie-dyed ~ flags, a "Rock On" sign and a poster left from a' the failed "Dazed and Confused Manor" ~ SYR. Color the Gipp pleased. ~ At Monday's student senate meeting, V .P. f Matt Orsagh kept the ''fun at all costs" theme f alive and in his prayers. ~ 
t;l

"In our prayers let us remember Kurt f' Cobain," he said. "He killed himself because ... he stopped having fun. Let this be a lesson to { us all. As soon as we stop having fun, its time ~ for all of us to look down the barrel of a 12-J gauge shotgun." ". 
Sad but true, Gipper fans: the reign of' 

another Chief Campus Watcher has ended.~­But who is this mysterious fellow spreading [ rumor, hearsay, bad rhymes and the occa-~ sional nugget of truth from the Scholastic f office? Let only the observant know, for~­hidden somewhere in the issue is the Gipp's f true identity. Until next year, get up off your ~ bones, buy five-flavor cones, listen to moans 1 about loans on touch-tone phones, andbeware ~ Gipper clones. . 
SCHOLASTIC 
CAMPUS LIFE 


Untapped Resource 
The Women's Resour,ce Center provides information and guidance 
by Renee Flickinger 

,X7HEN WE CAME TO N.D. THIS 'f f IS WHAT WE WANTED," reads the front of a tee-shirt depicting a cartoon of a thin woman with long blond hair. "WHAT WEGOTWASTHIS." Thebackoftheshirt shows a fat, unattractive woman with glasses and an armful of books. One expects to find this type of shirt in a tasteless humor shop; but it was sighted on the Notre Dame campus. 
The shirt's message is a blatant reminder that women's concerns are an issue at this university. Recently, a group of Notre Dame women united to establish an organization that would bring woi:nen's issues out in the open. The Women's Resource Center opened October 4, 1993, in a small section of the student government office. Since then, it has provided a forum for both males and female to express their concerns about gender relationships at Notre Dame. ' ­
Five womenestablished the center: gradu­ate students Linda Chalk, Patty O'Donnell and Lisa Riley, senior Lynn Friedewald and junior Katie Glynn. 
Under the original plan, the university would fund the organization and staff the center; After considering this proposal, how­ever, the administration, led by Professor Patricia O'Hara, denied the group university funding. They were instead granted a charter to establish a women's concerns group as a student organization. Since the Club Coordi­nation Council determines budget allotments for student organizations in the spring of the previous year, the center received no funding this year. 
Thus, the Women's Resource Center 
opened in October with no budget and no 
officers. The center's goals, according to 
Chalk, include improving gender relation­
ships at Notre Dame, heightening awareness 
of women's issues, creating a welcoming 
environment for women on campus and unit­
ing faculty and staff with students to deal with 
women's concerns. 
Despite a lack offunds, the center has begun 

itsexpansion. Using the profits from afootball 
concession stand, the center set up a mini­
library in its office space. The resources 
available there cover such diverse issues as 
women in religion, gender relations, eating 
disorders, pornography and rape. 
According to Chalk, "Students often come 

in to get information on women's issues orfor 
referrals, like about who to talk to if a friend 
has an eating disorder." 
The Women's Resource Center also spon­

sors lectures on campus, provides a comfort­
able environment for women's groups such as 
the Society of Women Engineers and holds 
gender relations retreats. 
Many students have no idea that the center exists. Some may wonder if such an organi­-zation is even necessary. 
Visible or not, women's concerns are very real at Notre Dame, according to Chalk. .Though the number of women has been in­creasing on campus since the university's switch to coeducation in 1973, the remnants of a male-dominated tradition linger. "I defi­nitely don't feel powerless [at Notre Dame]," said Chalk, "but women are still cursed to play by male rules." 
Notre Dame women can easily get lost in 

the shuffle due to the university's competitive .:. 
atmosphere. Thus, one aim of the center is to 
help women establish solid footing and give 
meaning to their unique experiences here on campus. "Women's validity has been re­jected at Notre Dame because of the male­dominated tradition," said O'Donnell. 
At a recent faculty senate meeting, Profes­sor James Collins reported that the center may be jeopardized because of funding problems, lack of university status and the possible out­come of the student body elections. Chalk said the center plans to make a report to the Board of Trustees to appeal for support. 
Despite these doubts, the Women's Re­source Center has concrete plans for the fu­ture. If it receives funds, the center hopes to start giving presentations to student groups about eating disorders, a pressing issue that students brought to the center's attention. "We would provide an alternative for people who don't want to go to formal presenta­tions," said O'Donnell. Professional lectures are often intimidating to students. 
O'Donnell also hopes to expand the reach of the center to encompass academic activi­ties. O'Donnell noted that the basics most students receive are "what's written by white men." She would like the center to advocate more female and minority contributions into courses. Ultimately, she said, "we hope to consider these experiences as the basics, too." 
"Other universities have centers like this, and they have had them for a long time," said Friedewald. 'They are even funded and run by the university itself." 
Notre Dame's Women's Resource Center is far from beingan institutionalized organiza­tion, but it does show promise for the future. Students are encouraged to take advantage of its resources located in the Student Govern­ment office. O 

APRIL 14, 1994 
CAMPUS LIFE 



CD 
al 
3. 
~ 
"'CD 
::, 
by Tim Chasteen 
As spring ta1ces hold here and the weather becomes moreandmoreconducivetofrol­icking about campus, many people will pass by prominent monuments and inscriptions around campus written in Latin. Although someone felt these monuments and inscriptions im­portant enough to place them prominently around campus, there are few members of the NotreDamecommunitywhocan decipher the Latin inscriptions. This, of course, was not always the case. Up until very recent history, a western education was notconsidered complete unless a student had mastered Latin and readVirgil'sAeneid. Alongwith Virgil, other Latin authors such as Cicero and Horace have had a ~ tremendous effect on Western ~ thought It is from their writings i 
"C "' 

that come ideas such as arpe This familiar statue can be found facing the entrance to Diem"orSiezetheDay,aclassi-the Dome. 

cal view of life ·repopularized by the movie "Dead Poets Society". This is a guide for those who know abso­lutely no Latin, who are seeking to impress parents and significant oth­ers, those wishing to solve the mys­terious inscriptions, and those who want to know a little more about the Notre Dame legacy. 
This ginded tour starts at the Main Circle. The first stop is the Law School. Above the door facing South quad is the· inscription: VIAM VERITATIS ELEGI: JUDICA TUA NON SUM OBLITUS. Trans­lated it means"/ chose the.true way: your laws have not been forgotten." 
A truly fitting quote for a Law School door. 
Next on the tour is the brooding statue ofthe founder of Notre Dame, Fr. Edward Sorin. Below his statue is a the longinscription: D.O.M. HOC IN MEMORIAM EDUARD! SORIN NOSTRAE DOMINAE UNIVERSITATISFUNDATORIS QUI APOSTOLICIS VIRTUTIBUS CLARUS 
10 
SCHOLASTIC 

--• '# -• • -• • • -• • ~ • , ' -----• 
• ~ , • j. ' -.._ l ' • ' 
' . .. . . 
1874 and 1891. The archway behind the main altar at the entrance to theLady Chapel hassomeprominentlydisplayedLatinwords found on four scrolls in the hands of four different men. Binoculars are highly sug­gested for those wishing to read the words painted on the scrolls. Three of the Latin inscriptions read: ECCE VIRGO CONCIPIET. FEMINA CIRCUMDABIT VIRUM. SUSCITABOSUPEREASPASTOREM UNUM. These translate to, "Behold a virgin will conceive. A woman will sur­round a man. I will raise a shepherd above them." Theseareobviousrefrences toMary. Thefourth inscription isthe mostdifficultto read and is left untranslated for the aspiring Latin scholars out there. Be forewarned, one can only look up at the ceiling while 



Brent Tadsen 
Fr. Sorin looking out toward Notre Dame Ave. 

CATHOLICAE AMERICANAE EDUCATIONISSTUDIOSISSIMUSVDI ID FEB AD MDCCCXIV 
It is now time for the tour to move to its final stop, the War Memorial in front of Nieuwland Hall. This monument bears a striking resemblance to Stonehenge, and thus its nickname. Three of the blocks that 
Brent Tadsen 
The seal of the university above the door to O'Shaughnessy Hall. 

sit across the top mark the three most recent wars in U.S. history. One denotes World War II, another Korea, and the third Vietnam. On the fourth side are four Latin words: PRO PATRIA ET PACE. The in­
NATUSALXXVDIMXVIXIT 
scription tells why this monu­DISCIPULI ALUMNI AMICI · ment was erected and what VENERATIONIS those it commemorates fought GRATITUDINIS PIGNUS and died for. It reads, "For POSUERE AN SAL REP Country and Peace." ''Pro MCMV. In English the statue Patria" was a common invoca­translates, "The students, awnni, tion to Roman citizens in times and friends have placed this of war in both the Roman Re­marker ofrespect and gratitude in public and the Empire. memory of Edward Sorin, Supe­That concludes the tour; But rior General, c:s.C., who re­the most obvious use of Latin nowned/or apostolic virtues most around Notre Dame has been studiously pursued Catholic excluded-the Seal ofthe Uni­American Education.' Born.. versity of Notre Dame. For Febuary 8, 1814, lived 78 years those in suspense, around the and 10 montlzs, placed 19051, outside it reads: SIGLUM 
As the tour moves up the God UNIVERSITATIS quad toward the Administration DOMINAE NOSTRAE Building,thenextstopisthestatue ALACU. Inside the shield of ofJesuswith hisannsoutstretched the seal is inscribed: VITA toward the Dome. The short in­DULCEDOSPES. Theshield scription beneath the statue reads: translates to, ''Life, Happiness, VENITEADMEOMNES. Sur­Hope." The outer circle reads prisingly, it does not read, "Jwnp "The Seal of the University of mom, I'll catch you." But instead Our Lady ofthe Lake." it translates, "Come to me all." There are many more places 
Turning then from this statue that Latin is prominently dis­and sauntering over to the Basilica played on campus, but with the tour moves on to its next stop. knowledge of these there is no The murals of Sacred Heart were doubt freinds and family will painted by Luigi Gregori between Brent Tadsen be · O 
The murals of Sacred Heart are adorned with Latin. m awe. 
APRIL 14, 1994 11 
• I • -• • • -• • ' --• ' 
,· . . , . . . 
-' ' 
..,. 

Send information for your event to: Mary Kate Morton, Coming Distrac­tions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 La.Fortune, or call 631-7569. · 


Thursday 14 
Movie: "A Strcctcar Named Desire,'' 
8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Montgomery Theater, LaFortune, $1. Acoustic Cafe: 9:00-12:00 p.m., LaFortune. 
Lecture: "Future of Health Care in America," Dr. C. Everett Coop, 7:00 p.m., Stepan Center, $3. 
Play: "You Can't Take It With You," 
8:10 p.m., Washington Hall, $5, stUdent admission. 

Friday i 5 
Movie: "'Inc Pelican Brief," 7:30 & 
10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. 
Baseball: Notre Dame vs. University of Wisconsin, 5:00 p.m., Eck Stadium. 

Film: "Farewell My Concubine," 6:45 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Lecture: "Minority Student Affairs," 
7:00 p.m., Hesburgh Library Lounge. Folk Dancing: 7:30 p.m., Clubhouse, 
SMC. Play: "You Can'tTake It With You," 
8:10 p.m., Washington Hall, $7. 

Saturday i6 
Tennis: Notre Dame Men's MCC Championship, 9:00 a.m., Eck Pavillion. 
Film: "Farewell My Concubine," 6:45 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. 
Movie: "'Inc Pelican Brief," 7:30 & 
10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Play: "You Can't Take It With You," 
8: 10 p.m., Washington Hall, $7. 


-. -~---.-.---~ -: .· • •• •• -., • , . 
#. -­

. . 
. .... . . . 
Touch Four 
Dial 239-2500, then press: 
x 6050 for news headlines .x 6052 for world news _ x 6121 for top pop albums 
x 6571 for prime time TV x 6129 for video releases 
Sunday 17 
Tennis: Notre Dame Men's MCC Championship semi-finals, 9:00 a.m., finals, 12:00 p.m, Eck Pavillion. 
Spanish Mass: 11:30 a.m., Breen­Phillips Hall. 
Reception: "The Student Art Forum," 
2:00 p.m, Snite Museum of Art. Play: "You Can'tTake It With You," 
2:10 p.m, Washington Hall, SJ. 
. Fisher Regatta: 11:00 a.m., St. Mary's Lake. 
x 1031 for local weather 
x 6736 for national weather 
x 6123 for movie reviews 
x 9463 for thought for the day 
x 6238 for TV sports events 
x 6230 for national sports report 
x 6263 for college basketball 
Monday i 8 
FIim: "Desperately Seeking Susan," 
7:00 p.m, Snite, $2 
Spring Concert: Notre Dame Chorale, 8:00 p.m., Sacred Heart Basilica. 
Tuesday 19 
Campus Bible Study: 7:00 p.m., Badin Conference Room. FIim: "Dead Poet's Society," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2. Lecture "Making the World's Food Better," Robert B. Horsch, 
4:30 p.m., Room 283, Galvin 
Life Science Center. Spring Concert: Shenanigans, 
8:00 p.m, Washington Hall. 
,TOUCH 
FOUR 


Wednesday 20 
Fourth Day Meetings: 7:15 p.m., Stanford-Keenan Oiapel. 
Concert: Chicago 20th Century Music F.nsemble, 8:00 p.m., Wash­ington Hall. 
SPORTS 

· A perennial powerhouse, the Notre Dame rugby team gets down and dirty In a scrum with the South Side Irish of Chlcag.o. Scrums occur throughout the game, when Ii players from both ! teams lock arms In a circle with the ball In the middle, In an attempt to push the opponent back and retrieve the ball. 

Bloodsport
;.-:•:-:.:-:,: 

A little-recognized rugby club battles among the nation's best 
I 
i 
by Jeff Weghorst 

When I think of rugby, I think of blood. I feel pain. I see elbows and knees bent backwards. Missing teeth. Broken ribs. Screams of agony.· Cleat marks on people's faces. Dirty uniforms. 
Basically, I think of rugby as a sport in 
· which I'd rather not participate. I'll play golf, tennis, Nintendo but I'll just keep my distance from rugby. 
But watching others join in this MangleFest? I'm the first in line. 
Fortunately, folks, we've got a squad here thatdoesn 'tmind taking the hurt and dishing it out. Like Norm and Cliff, we can live vicariously through the ventures of these people. 
For 33 years now, the Notre Dame Rugby Club has taken on all foes.joining in Battles Royale the likes of which you can't find in any other sport. 
They do it not for the scholarships, not for the fame, not even for the fortune. This is a club sport, folks. They do it for the ... fun? 
Try zones, rucks, mauls, scrum-downs.• What is this sport they call rugby anyway? Where does it come from? What kind of people would submit themselves to this kind. of punishment? 
Just ask Mike McGowan, president of the club. 
"It's interesting where rugby came from. A couple of hundred years ago at a school in England by the name ofRugby, there was a soccer match being played," McGowan said. ''Then one guy got mad and just picked up the ball and started running with it." The rest is history. 
The Notre Daine squad is particularly good at "Rugby's Sport." For the past five years, the Irish have finished consistently in the top ten in the country. 
"We're well disciplined and we practice harder than anyone in the Midwest. Having Loftus has really benefited us, and our new coach, Bart Bottorff, has been excellent," said McGowan. 
Mostofthe 50 members of the club played sports in high school and were looking for a challenge here at Notre Dame, something a bit more intense than interhall games. 
Rugby has been the answer. 
"It's a great sport, and it takes a lot of heart. Rugby is a very competitive game," said senior Jamie Hill. 
There's certainly plenty ofcompetition to go around. There are both fall and spring seasons, and Notre Dame has only one of 13,000 rugby programs across the U.S. 
The Irish have stand-out athletes of their own. In fact, three juniors who will be re­turning next fall claimed All-Midwest hon­ors this past season: Jim Ludwig, Bryan Hitz and Matt Meko. 
The big question though -just how vio­lent is rugby? 
"People often refer to it as a sport of 'elegant violence,'" said McGowan, "but it is violent-no pads, metal spikes. There are people who need stitches after just about every game." · 
Sothereyouhaveit, folks. Getonoverto the Colonel Stevens Pitch behind Stepan and watch as the Irish battle Ball State on Satur­day,April23 at 1:00p.m.Goon,giveitatry. 
It should be a bloody good show: 


SCHOLASTIC
14 

-1 : ~ • ' • !! . . -.. . . . ' . ­
,l • ' • • I • ' 
. -. . ·, / ­
;." 
SPORTS 

BRU'NO'S 
111J 



Open for carry out and delivery only from 4 p.m.-10 p.m. weekdays, and 4 p.m. to midnight on weekends. 
115 U.S. 31 Uust north of campus) 
273-3890 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 


Matt Haas: Haas, a ~nior third baseman from Paducah, Kentucky, Terri Kobata: a sophomore from Villa Park, California, Kobata won was named MCC player of the week of April 4. Haas entered the threeoutofthesoftball team'sfourgameslastweekend. She tossed her Bowling Green conteston April 5with a seven-game hitting streak, 13 ninth career no-hi~r against Evansville on Saturday, and threw her for 23 (.565) from the plate, and leading the Irish with 23 hits. third perfect game of the season against Detroit-Mercy on Sunday. 
APRIL 14, 1994 

SPORTS COMMENTARY 
Cursed Cubbies 
by T. Ryan Kennedy 

Springtime is upon us, a time of renewal and fresh starts and forgiveness. Spring also brings the perennial question, will the Chicago Cubs win the World Series? . Better yet, how will they win it? Who will lose to them? No, this is notatestor a prank. David Letterman could create a top-IO list of such frequently asked, painful and mind-bog­gling questions, and even God might not have the answers. That old traditional team from the north side, the Cubs of Chicago, have not won a world championship since 1908, and are not in the position to see one now or anytime soon. "Soon" in Cubby-land has not yet been defined. It could mean anything from 5 to 86 to 200 years, to never again. During their 39 consecutive years ofplayoff misses that took place between 1945 and 1984, the Cubs finished last in the National League or their division nine times, below .500 a total of 26 times. Today, the song remains the same. "We're having fun again," noted star sec­ond-baseman and future Hall of Farner, Ryne Sandberg, recently in Sports Illus­trated. That's nice. How fun! This seems to be a common remark from a players on professional sports teams in a stage of denial about their team's poor chances ofsuccess. Fun alone cannot take a team to a world championship. Nor can Tuffy Rhodes. Every team· has 
The Chicago Cubs have not won a world championship in 86 years and will not win one any time soon, but they. remain one ofthe most storied teams in all ofsports 
had its annual "Tuffy Rhodes," that player who comes out of nowhere to get the local fans' hopes as high as possible before the big letdown. Cubs fans and the media need to get excited about these little things because there is nothing else. They need something to keep the fire blazing, the hope running. But in the end, as always, the Cubs fan will be disappointed. 
However, the Chicago Cubs have the tra­dition and storied legends that most teams do not have that are likely to translate into championship someday. In American sports, fans root for the underdog, and there is no underdog like the old Cubs. They date back to the beginning of baseball time, they don't play in a stadium or a dome -they play on a field, and they have millions of knowledgeable followers hungry for a championship. Chicago fans, perhaps the most loyal, resilient and sick spectators in sports are what make the club so special. 
Despite the bitter memories of all those losing summers that shadow Wrigley, fans keep coming back for more. No other team in sports has made so many friends by losing as have the Cubs. In 1969, fans thought they had seen the worst when the Cubs just kept losing, losing and collapsing at the hands of the "Miracle" Mets. The emotional toll on the fans of the 1984 National League cham­pionship loss to San Diego far exceeded that of'69. 
"When you came to Chicago, you'd look in the Cubs' dug-out wid you knew you had a shot at 'em every time'," said Dallas Green in an October 1984 issue of Sports Illus­trated. As a Philadelphia pitcher in the early 1960' sand former Cubs general manager, he remembered, "You knew they'd find some way to figure out how to lose it." 
Wrigley Field, with its great traditions of day games has indeed been untouched by a Chicago World Series championship. It used to be easy for the Cubs fan to go to Wrigley, drink a few beers, suck down a few hotdogs, pop open a bag ofpeanuts, and jeer at the Cubbies. Now losing is becoming very old and fans are becoming intolerable and impatient Despite its many drives for the National League pennant-in 1910, 1918, 1929, 1932, 1935, 1938, 1945, 1984 and 1989 -the latest Cubs are torturing fans with the taste of mediocrity. 
If the Cubs ever do win a Series, Chicago fans won'tknow whatto do with themselves. They will either sit around with their hands in their pockets and stare at each other, thinking, ''That's it?" or they will create pandemonium like no city has ever seen. The difference between White Spx fans and Cubs die-hards is that ifthe Cubs won, White Sox fans would be flocking to Wrigley Field by the thousands. All that uniqueness and cuddly, Cubby feeling would be gone. Sox attendance would never be the same. Yet, if the Sox won a Series, fans ofthe Cubs would not so much as glance toward Comiskey. 
The Chicago Cub~ are the team beyond time. Time is plentifuL Baseball may have lost some of its pizzazz and glory, but it still has the old Cubs of Chicago. D 


18 
SCHOLASTIC 


REVIEW & PREVIEW 

and joined that stupid club," referring to The new Thumbelina movie features mu­
by Miranda C. Sanford 
Lollapalooza 1994 

Ifanyone has ever been to a Lollapalooza concert festival, you know that it is much more than a concert This year the promoters are planning on focusing more on non-con­cert events. Some added attractions are "interactive computer technology" with computerized dating on the site. Concert mastermind Perry Farrell, former lead singer of Jane's Addiction and present lead of Porno for Pyros, said the concert will have the atmosphere of a "neighborhood swap meet." The stage shows, announced April 6, include Smashing Pumpkins, Beastie Boys, the Breeders, L 7, George Clinton and more. The tour will start July 1 and continue into early September, covering 30 cities. Ticket prices have not yet been announced. 
Another choice concert tour for the sum­mer is the Pink Floyd reunion. Because of limited showings, tickets sold out very quickly at most locations. However, attend­ees of the first show in Miaini said it was the "concert of a lifetime." The band performs on a seven-story, half-moon stage. There is a constant light show during the concert which "launches people back to the psychadelic age." 
Cobain's Suicide 

After his recent drug overdose and sup­posed recovery, Kurt Cobain, age 27, killed himself on April 7. He had had serious problems with heroin, but band members denied that his recent coma was a suicide attempt. Friends stated that upon the release and success of Nevermind in 1991, Cobain's attitude toward the world. changed drasti­cally. Suddenly his music was no longer exclusive to his feelings, but was shared with millions of others. 
Cobain shot himself in the face and the police had problems ~akingpositive identi­fication. His mother stated, "Now he's gone early deaths of rockers likeJimi Hendrix and Jim Morrison. 
Indecent Behavior 
Teenagers in L.A. really know what free­

dom is, at least according to a store worker at 
Dillard's in Bossier City. Apparently, a 
teen-age couple decided to try out a daybed 
in the store's furniture department. They 
were arrested for obscenity after a customer 
complained that they were having sex pub­
licly. Both teens face up to six months in jail _and a $500 fine. The couple admitted what they had done to the police, apologized and "said they knew it was wrong and they shouldn't have done it." 
· Orlando's Themes , 
Yes, it is true. Walt Disney plans to open 

another theme park in Orlando in early 1997. 
Iffaddition to DisneyWorld, Epcot Center 
and Disney, this one will mix rides, wild 
animals and nature walks. It will also have 
a strong environmental theme as the 500­
acre park will also be a conservation center. 
This park will compete directly with Busch 
Gardens and the upcoming Jurassic Park. 
The theme park analyst stated this would 
have "more fun for adults and kids than the 
others." 
Another theme park which should spark 

the interest of any former Lego-maniacs is a Danish company's next park. They are -opening a Lego World park close toWindsor Castle in England. The $110 million plan will feature enormous Lego models of the Tower of London and London Bridge, as 
well as offer hands-on activities. 
Random Stuff 

When I peruse the entertainment maga­zines, there are always little tidbits that are interesting, but not enough so for their own little column. So, I decided to combine them here on an "interest list." ·Latoya Jackson_ is· recording a country album. Which country? 
sic by Barry Manilow. 
Drew Barrymore got married by a psychic 
at four in the morning a few weeks ago. She · wore a white slip. through which people could see her tattoo. The psychic stated that this was a good match and they would "spend this lifetime and many others to­gether." Perhaps she should take a tip from Shannen Doherty. She and Ashley Hamilton have separated after six months of marriage citing "irreconcilable differ­ences." Ashley, age 19, said, "I'll always love her. I wouldn't marry anyone else." 
Howard Stem is running for governor of 
the state ofNew York. He proposes that to 
reduce traffic, there should be a toll that only 
affects every other car, rather than all cars. 
A gene linked to being obese has been 
discovered. 
Barbra Streisand has been planning a 
tour. Ticket price: $350. I don't think she 
will be packing them in the aisles any time 
soon. After all, the main reason for her 
recent success was because it was her only 
live performance in 17 years. 
Up & Coming Campus activities should be heating up soon as AnTostal is next week. The Violent Femmes wanted more money, so there is no band scheduled to perform, but Kevin Nealon from Saturday Night Live is com­ing. From tonight to Sunday of this week, the theater department is performing You Can't Take It With You at Washington HaU. Tickets are on sale at the information desk in LaFortune. The Blue and Gold game is scheduled for April 23 at 1:30. There are no good movies out lately. That pre-summer lull before all ofthe summer hits. It has been a great year. Thanks for reading and good luck on your finals! 
APRIL 14, 1994 
19 


ENTERTAINMENT 

•

s100: 
possible 
The challenge offinding entertainment in South Bend 
us suspiciously. She told us there were two At the next red light, my companion by Kathleen Lynch large side items, four biscuits and a large thought a nun was in the car next to us, but it rotisserie chicken in the meal. We thanked was only a group of annoying adolescentWe were fed up with the mundane en-her and pulled away, thinking this was a men whothrewicecubesatourcartogetour tertainment around here. We could definite possibility for future formal and attention. When the light turned green, we no longer find Thursday night satisfaction SYR dinners. gunned it because we figured their old, red attending Acoustic Cafe, watching Seinfeld We started on the road again when a big Pinto would not have the engine power to and going to bars where we are _______________________--,keep up. As predicted, we blew SUDS targets. Last week we them away. We felt redeemed. were on a mission to find fun in Our destination was on the SouthBendifitkilledus, which horizon. TheBeaconBowlsign was a definite possibility. Not was burned out and only-said just looking for bar room, beer '_/./;/_ __ BOWL. A sign outside stated and hook-up fun, we were on a ~ that summer leagues are form­
:~:.•for adventure and zany /,~~ :n:::':.d,';:'!~~:i',;':_ewho 
So, we pulled out of the park-·--~~=-=·· ~ · Upon entering the Beacon ing lot with ''Welcome to the Bowl, we inquired if there were Jungle"-somewhatapropos to · any unusual activities offered to the evening's upcoming activi-the general public. Much to our ties -blaring on the radio ofan surprise, we discovered a linge­'87 charcoal grey Olds, with one rie show in the cocktail lounge. Texas license plate, one head-This explained the numerous light, a quarter tank ofgas and an Ford pickup trucks and Old Mil-innocent prospective student in waukee beer cans in the parking the back seat She wanted to see lot, as wellas the rational behind the true grit of South Bend. attendance of several of our friends on most Thursday eve-Destination numberone was nings. We could not understand Beacon Bowl. Sure, ev-why there were not more 
eryone has seen the fliers for it, ._________________________women in attendance to admire 
but has anyone ever been there? As we . red and white van cut in front of us. All we the various fashions. The red teddy with drove we noticed other opportunities along saw were huge block letters CHURCH black lace trim we saw was a personal favor­the way. We passed the Faith Apostolic VAN. We followed the Macedonian Mis-ite. After a while we got tired of the show Church which looked like a televangelist sionary Church van but, unfortunately, they and left. sermon hall. It was closed and only offers were going 45 mph in a 25 mph zone and we services on Saturday nights. lost them. So, we did a D-turn, narrowly The Brentwood Bingo Hall was our next 
, U93 just does not cut it and was quickly avoided an accident, and continued on our stop, unfortunately it was closed as the annoying us with ads for the Master Blaster merry way. hour was late for the primary clientele. The tool. Anyway, the KFC looked mighty al-As we drove we discussed such. deep hall greets all visitors with a six-foot stuffed luring because a whole meal was only questions as: Why do they call it Popeye's gorilla. With the number of handicapped $10.99. But, we wondered what a whole chicken? Didn'theeatspinach?Bytheway, parking spaces, you might want to arrive meal includes? We pulled up to the drive-Popeye's chicken is taking applications early for optimal parking. · The hall accom­thru and asked a woman who was looking at once again. modates at least 2000 individuals and no 
20 
SCHOLASTIC 


tipping is allowed. This place is a definite friends had been talking about when we a bunch of recently engaged Notre Drune must for all Notre Drune students. discovered the Glo Worm stripper bar on women observing the America's Lover 
At the 800 block of Olive Street, we en­Michigan Ave. Common sense and good Boys all-male revue. Definitely worth the countered our youthful buddies once again. Christian values kept us on the road. cover charge -they were very hot. We But the gray Oldsmobile allowed us to blow We saw the Potowatami Zoo but kept wondered why Paula Abdul was playing in past the 1961 Pinto once more. driving. We did not want to wake the ani-a country music bar, though. There was a 
Just how many Taco Bells are there in mals, but it is a great idea for hand-holding, little critique from the Texas contingent in South Bend? · balloon-buying couples. the group -there is something morally 
Our attitude becrune more positive as U93 We discovered an old-fashioned movie wrong with playing Paula Abdul at a sup­played a great blast from the past -Rasp­theater in town. Beethoven's 2nd and]uras-posedly country western bar. Nice try, guys. berry Beret -even though he is weird, sic Park are currently showing. Old summer · When ~e saw the other clientele -middle Prince is cool. So, we cranked it up and movies -for all of us from major cities -aged women all with personal cellular stopped at the cash station. After all, the gas are $3 for students. We did not stop though phones -we understood and left light was warning us to refill the·tank orelse. as the car was too big to park. 
For people who are tired of the same old We stopped off at Heartland and were We soon discovered our prospective fast food, Franny's Ribs at the 200 block of denied because we did not meet age require­student snoring lightly in the back Monroe Street guarantees "good hot eats" ments. We must credit the expert ID check­seat and felt badly that we had dragged her for even the heartiest eater. ers. After all, we tried to pull the "we're all over South Bend. She was probably When we passed the Studebaker Mu­writing an article and we've got a laptop discouraged that we found nothing for col­seum, wr;, discovered that tours are offered _ computer so we don't need to be ID' d trick" lege girls under 21 to do. Ah well, Acoustic for the culturally aware. After all, we That's the oldest one in the book. We did Cafe and Seinfeld are not so bad after· all. thought it might be fun to relive the glory find out that there is two-dollar line dancing After a quick visit to one of the many Taco days of South Bend. on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Fridays until Bells, we turned for home. We had searched I finally discovered what some male eleven, and all Saturday night We also saw for fun and been denied. D 

APRIL 14, 1994 
21 

ON OTHER CAMPUSES 

News ofthe Bimrrefrom the Nanon's Universities 
Happy at Hollins, Holy at BYU 
The recently released Princeton Review Student Access Guide to the Best 286 . Colleges is a ranking of colleges based on 40,000 student responses in different categories. Here are some of their findings: 
•Hollins 
College, Virginia-happiest students. 

•Brigham 
Young University, Utah -students pray the most and are the most nostalgic for Ronald Reagan. 

•Spelman 
College, Georgia -students are most likely to go out on "old­fashioned" dates. 

•State 
University of New York-Stony Brook-students are most likely to feel that their professors "suck all the life" out of the classroom. They'd have to devote an entire page to what students at Notre Dame are most 


I . 
I· likely to be or do. Most likely to look like a J. Crew model, most repressed, most 
I 
likely to wear plaid later in life ...

I 
I 
I 
f 
' Wanted: Pop-Tart Boy
ii ; 
I 
Have you ever wondered what has happened to the TV commercial stars of our childhood? Like Mikey from Life cereal? Well, students at the University of Kansas have created a following -for Pop-Tart Boy. Yes, the students at KU are searching for the boy who starred in all those Pop-Tart commecials we loved when we were younger. According to the Daily Kansan, the newest trend at KU is a campaign to locate Pop-Tart Boy. Students have printed up flyers and set up hot­lines, all in pursuit of Pop-Tart Boy. One student even received a ransom call­someone demanded boxes of Pop-Tarts in exchange for Pop-Tart Boy. "Ransom calls are a sad thing," said senior Scott Collin. Personally, I think this is all rather strange, but I guess every school has to have its own version of Rudy. 
edited byMary Kate Morton 
PSU Drinks Its Way Into the Record Books 
The All-American Rathskeller, a bar near Penn State, recently held its annual case race in order to break the world record for cases of 7 oz. bottles sold on one day atone bar,reported the Weekly Collegian of Penn State University. (For all three of you who don'tknow,acaseraceinvolvesdrinkingacasefaster than everyone else.) The Rathskeller has its own version of the case race. On the Saturday after St Patrick's Day, the bar opens its doors early in the morning and lets in the thousands of students that have been waiting in line forover 24 hours. Then, it's just drinking, drinking, drinking until they break the record, which they usually re-set every year. Right now, it stands at 1,004 cases from 1993. In the words of one student, "It's tradition to come here and drink. If you don't ... you're not a Penn-Stater!" So there! 

And One Quick ND Note 
Our very own David Hungeling and Matt Orsagh made national news, once again. This time, the Chronicle of Higher Education found their story intriguing enough to print· The Chronicle recounted the election and even quoted Orsagh. "We wanted to inject some fun into the campaign," said Mr. Orsagh. "I think we accomplished that. Unfortunately, we got elected in the process!" Thank you, Mr. Vice-Presi­dent! 
22 
SCHOLASTIC 

WEEK IN DISTORTION 
L({)({)!fftey for BUGS 
by Amy Richardson 

There are 12-step programs for every thing these days, from alcoholism to overeating to smoking; It seems as if every conceivable obsessive-compulsive behav­ior has some sort of support group. Every obsessive-compulsive behavior except mine, that is. My problem is not well known in the scientific 1world, yet my daily life revolves around it I am one of the few brave souls to have come out of the closet and proclaim to the world that I have an addiction. Even though there are several of us on this cam­pus, the psychiatric community continues to overlook us. My name is Amy, and l. am addicted to Looney Tunes. People sometimes ask me what caused me to become so obsessed with Bugs Bunny and his Looney Tunes friends. And I, like many other people afflicted with an addiction, can · trace its roots back to my early childhood. I believe it all started when I was in preschool back in Fort Wayne, Indiana, when my fa­therand I woke up religiously at6:30 a.m. on the weekends. Fearing that I would wake up my mom, thereby getting him into big-time trouble, my father drove me to McDonald's every Saturday morning where we would sit together and contemplate my 5-year-old life over Egg McMuffins. Then we would race home, plop down in front of the television, and watch one straight hour of comedy and good-natured violence on The Bugs Bunny and Road Runner Show. We did this for four years until we moved to a place where Wile E. Coyote was not a household name, nor was he televised. For this reason, we bought TheBugs Bunny and Road Runner Movie, the first VCR tape my family ever purchased, and watched that every Saturday morning for three straight years. I cannot. stand the sight of an Egg McMuffin now, but I still know that movie by heart, and my friends have to threaten me with bodily harm to keep me from reciting the cartoons word for word. 
This addiction is not something you can 


just ignore. I have based my entire lifestyle on the Warner Brothers cartoons, and every­one knows it. For Christmas this year, every single member of my family and the major­ity of my friends gave me Looney Tunes paraphenalia. After the fourth package, it was no longer a surprise that the box came from the Warner Brothers store; I was begin­ning to expect it. 
Looking around my room will prove my addiction, as Daffy Ducks and Porky Pigs cover the walls. After sitting down and counting everything one night, I realized that I own over 58 items that bear a Looney Tunes character somewhere on their sur­face. Included in these are floormats for my car, a pair of underwear and eight videos with enough cartoons to get me through an entire Sunday afternoon. My friends know they have reached my voice mail when they hear Elmer Fudd saying I'm out "hunting wabbits. Ha ha ha ha ha." 
My friends no longer allow me into the Warner Brothers store with them because I have been known to refuse to leave. My mother once left me in the store by myself, proceeded with her shopping, and came back to claim me two hours later, all without my noticing she had left in the first place. I could wander around that store entertaining myself forever. I am currently talking to the management about registering at Warner Brothers for my china pattern. The plaid dishes with Pepe LePeu would look great on a cherry-finished dining room table. And my everyday dishes will boast Yosemite Sam. For some reason my mother does not particularly agree with me on this. 
As you can see, I have a very serious addiction. It runs every facet of my life, and it is starting to drive me crazy. I know there are others out there just like me, but they are not comfortable enough yet to admit it in public. Like the guys who insist on stealing my favorite Tazmanian Devil hat every chance they get. Orthe girls who made their own Speedy Gonzales message for their voice mail. Or the Tweety addict of Cavanaugh Hall. 
Maybe if they would be willing to admit their addiction also, we could walk around in broad daylight without fear of being ridi­culed by our peers. But for the moment it is me against the world. That is, me and Porky, and Marvin Martian, and Sylvester, and Foghorn Leghorn, and Granny, and Gossa­mer (the orange monster), and . . . 0 

HUMOR 

Grist for the Mill Rick Gre 

~HEN l"HE. C.\sT HERE ,rr C,J:!5[ FO'£,. JllE. MILi._ llEA~ 
TflAT Tl-IE. OJ:>Sl::)I VE}? luA~ MA~~ C,01'>1-lA "f'l.>T THE. SqjOOL/,STfC. _COT OF "BOS/MESS SOME/.lOt.>, "RESl'oNSE. w.-.s s1v11=r AN'D. VNhfJIMOUS, 
THE.'/ Alt.: i>A1'ltcKEO. 
t<llTH HD1.M.E. !kl THEc TOILE.T AND l'l'.IPE AlTO&ETHER. liBSE.NT, MAt--lV l!AVE "DEC.ll>E..b io TR.'? Tb GET JO"B.S WITl-l D"BSER.\Ja CD1-11c. sn11>s. 

H,.UST ME, IT'.s H'&'II' t..JI-IAT 1)0 vou LltL !!MI, HAN'!'.-<, A THE. STYLE 0VE."R ll'IA • VIENNA SAUSA6£ ! YOL>1(E. NOT HOCH OJ: A V0U !!~
TttEi:.E f 

flAI-IMJAflAA/
l.. 

GREAT, LISA-, ah,lMEAI-.) 
I-IUMIUATIO 
WOMAN/ 
DI-la MO"tE 

A:!, T1-IE. SID-\E.STI:."t.... !,.)J~b!, lX)Wl-l AN.t>. 5~~S IJIISt>5 Yoo 01>, 'J'oo M,W 1=11-.lb Vool!..StU: "6tJIJ61 .• 'l,)l\1tr TttE HELL H-11 :x:. 1)01/-.)6, HE.~'E. °?" LE.T'!> -ratE. 11-1VE.IJT~Y OF UFE. llE.~E. At-il> Af.lSl,lEr_ 11\lrT QUE,STIO~,  nlE fl!.lla~"tlt.'I, HECPFUL, TOU.ll,\N>T, ~'b ~-a_• !>TA.N"t>lr-l G ll!H-\11-llST!t.Ano» \ 50 IF :t A{.~1:. /vHV, 'r'BI TC>>.cr Ul:E A~ • AbUcr, \'00' LL ~EAT ME Ute A C.HII­1, :..:fr J  TllA-,: 1El·{f'uAn;.. SOUTH 1!,E1-ll:> C.UMl,re. \  TI1E. 6°R.00VY .STATI! CF ~ °KELA-T~S ~  
IT'.S ~A NOT, "8Al), BE At.MC6T FO~ liA'?. 30° TODAV/ ( {  (E.VElt'i llAl'l''i ~RE "DAME C..O(if'L£ PlcroRE.l) ti~.)  


24 
SCHOLASTIC 

oh, d~11f v\lake 
Yl-ie f!.lke ydur l'tl'.l111! .I'll 1"'11,f r~i.+ .ProfVt "",J.er 
'fOU. -~I

yor,,, Lta.v1:ax1_! I 
~ey Carl 

~~~o 
coul,;( '(D~ 
fl,VtfW(/ 1b 6,46(:; 1H6 PAI/I/

k~
plea.Se 

P"''··· Of /?.OoM. D IC-l<A66, PS' A,Dll[SA8t-6 io coNlJGf{S/3 c.JrtH
--n--{ Re11'11?N THG Sfl ~ ITS \J , 
O'{. Bibby 1 ]:.'II f"tf 
1oure 
0 tt:_rewrd I fv'i1 

y(Jl( vp-/\Id l,.)C,.,-1, ;r:f,,, /lr,f -l,Ot'l< o.Jc. -G o• 0 dor{< 
-fVtc,ybe!~"'t-1) 
,.

Rff05£ To HGLP . C ~ " AN'(ONB ovT IF '1A 
'/.'f-'

Youf! f'!llt. 1s HIGH ~ -1'
ME%5 wrrH ffi>!'l-65 l-lGA-!£ v,'f" /\ I s~,,,{ 
ATTENTION ALL FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES, AND JUNIORS 
VOLUNTEER FOR CLASSICAL MUSIC SHIFTS AT 
WSND 88.9 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. VOLUNTEERS NEEDED FOR THE REST OF THIS YEAR AND NEXT YEAR 
CONTACT CHRIS RICE AT 288-5282 

I 
/

I I ' 
C. Everett Koop, M.D., SC.D. 
Former Surgeon General under Reagan and·Bush 
"U.S. Health Care. Where Do We Go From Here?" 
Thursday, April 14 7PM Stepan Center $3 Students, Faculty, and Staff $5 General Public 
Reception to follow in the Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center 
Tickets Available at the LaFortune Info Desk 


STODENT1JNIONBOilD 



SURGEON GENERAL'S WARNING: Quitting Smoking · Now Great~ Reduces.Serious Risks to Your Health. 





