

SCHOLASTIC 
The Twenty-Ninth of March 2007 
news 04 
. -FIT CONFERENCE 
Jennifer Wulf FIT is hosting the Undergraduate Midwest Film Studies Conference, the first of its kind at Notre Dame. 
TRIPPED UP Molly Slavin Student satisfaction with the Office ofInternational Studies is not particularly high. Who is complaining and why? 

Culture· 1o .. 
· ...... · · · · · · · · · · ..-FINE ARTS Sarah Barrett Scholastic previews the BFA and MFA theses exhibit, going on this weekend. 
I•HIP-HOP Maggie Condit 
Hip-:-hop gets r~v~mped._~t.~e Bla_ck (~ultural Arts · · · · ·· -· -· 
Council Fashion Show, helping chiidren anc!'enticing potential students. 
Sarcastic 16 
................ ­ SCHOLASTIC STAFF Nothing is sacred in Scholastic's yearly farce on all that makes Notre Dame go 'round.  
- Sports 24 A DREAM DEFERRED Marques Camp Scholastic's Assistant Sports Editor analyzes this year's Notre Dame hockey team.  
Humor 29  

.............. _ I GOT 99 PROBLEMS ... Elisa Suarez The humor columnist waxes poetic on all things that chagrin, large and small. 
Staff Editorial . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Sports Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Checking the Email . . . . . . . . . 8 Humor Notes .............29 Spring Break Service ........ 12 Gipper .......... ; ......30 .. . . Campus Chatter........... 14 Final Word . : : ·. ·: ~ : : ......32 
Vol. 148, No. 10 • 29 MAR 2007 
SCHOLASTIC 
Interim Editor In Chlof 
Daric Snyder 
Design Editor 
Emma Daugherty 
Production Editor · Kate Dresser 
Copy Chief 
Jessica Farmwald 
News Daric Snyder, editor Molly Slavin, assistant 
Culture Sarah Barrett, editor Jennifer Wulf, assistant 
Sports 
Marques Camp, editor 
Humor 
Elisa Suarez, editor 
Design Mayone doloon, assistant 
Madison Clark 
Kathleen Dilonschnoidor 
Anne Frazer 
Anna Jordan 
Sherry Kim 
Jonathon Lee Christina Lowis 
Audrey Marier 
Jamie Schulte 
Copy Staff 
Christina Golubski Katie Keyser Louisa Brooks 
Photography 
Kristin Keva, editor Juan Muldoon, editor 
Courtney Sullivan, assistant 
Business 
Bryan Lowery, manager Jemini Patel, manager 
Distribution 
Megan Teigen, manager 
Online Michael King, webmaster 
Advisor Robert Franken '69 

COVER STORY 
SARCASTIC STAFF 
COVER DESIGN 
SARCASTIC DESIGNER 
Disce Qunsi Semper Vimm,s Vive Qunsi Cms Morit111·11s 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine is copyright 2007 University of Notre Dame. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. Mulch smells funny, according to Emma. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number, All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upOn request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Get your bra off the line. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed. The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.60 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. Tho opinions expressed in Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily those of tho University of Notre Dame or the student bo,dy. 
29 MAR 2007 
i I . l . -. / . . ­
. l. . . ·: . . ,-. . , . . , . ' . , . . ·. . . 
. . . 



Men of Notre Dame ... Is God calling you? Join us. 
Think you might have a vocation to serve as a priest or brother? 



Less is More · 
Students, not OIT, falling behind technology curve 
T hough many thought the installation ofwireless Internet and cable television in the dorms was long overdue, the Office of Information Technologies' (OIT) effort to 
place these services in the dorms was a substantial undertaking that went relatively smoothly. Some students resisted the related loss of landlines in the dorms; but, according to OIT, less than 75 students actually opted for a room phone this year. So, what's the next campus upgrade? 
OIT is now in the process of adjusting computer clusters to the needs of students. Students who use the Mendoza Hall lab may have been surprised to find that recently a large fraction ofthe lab's computers were taken out for the reorganization of the lab. OIT of:fic4tls explain that the c_hange reflects student usage.patterns, as 
•·...•• l i;!; . onl}7 ~ qti.lll:'t~t bdess ohiiilab's'machines were in use the majority [;;{t~g;2]/!J' -,of.the,time,-A-similar.change will take.place when the_ Hesburgh 
••.·. ) Library cluster is moved from the 2nd to the 1st floor m the near future. Other labs may receive the same sort oftreatment depending on the success ofthese changes. 
Any student who has ever been late for class after getting stuck in line at a computer cluster will wonder why OIT would be removing computers, but the change makes sense. Campus computer labs I were implemented whe~;·studen~~ ~}re unlikely to -ha~e personal I computers constantly. con.ni.!cted toJJj._e_ Internet. While students I may pack the labs between: dass'es to'pririt: papers or check e.:maH:-----.. · it is rare to find a general-use lab full at any other time. It is now possible for students to print directly from their own computers. It simply does not make economic sense to pack labs with expensive, high-end, electricity-draining computers when they sit unused most of the time. Mendoza's lab was reorganized to provide better work­spaces for group collab9rntion. Ideas like the new Mendoza lab and the quick-access computers outside ofthe Debartolo Hall cluster are a more efficient use ofspace and computers. In time, no one will miss the bloated labs. Today's packed labs are tomorrow's landlines. 0 
29 MAR2007 
!; 
~:. Q 
3] 
~ 
::1 
;\_ ~; , 

Coming Soon 
Notre Dame to host :6.rst-ever undergraduate :6.lm c~nference 
,.Jennifer Wulf 
o date, the Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) 
·department has not received a significant amount of 
outside attention, but on ApriU3 and 14 thatwill change. Onthose two days, Notre Dame will host the first Undergraduate Midwest Film Studies Conference. 
The conference signals the rise ofmore widespread recognition of Notre Dame as a college of the arts in 'addition to academics and athletics. Students from 10 different colleges will participate, and there is talk of the conference becoming an annual event to circulate between schools. 
This is the first film conference atNotre Dame. Even though the university has hosted film festivals before, a conference does notfeature films but rather highlights academic papers about films. Associate film professor Pamela Wojciksays, ''As far as I know it is the only thing ofits kind in the country.'' This type offorum is typically reserved for graduate students and professors; but; thanks to the collaboration of Wojcik and her students, undergraduates will soon be able to test their skills as well. 
"To have the opportunity to do this as an undergrad is really ·getting.a step ahead of the game;". senior English and FTT major Jonathon Retartha says. Retartha participated in a conference in New Hampshire that was mainly composed ofthe work ofgraduate students' and professors.The paper he presented at the conference was a· re-worked version of a five'-'page· paper that he wrote· his freshman year. 
"I was nervous. I didn't know how I would be treated because undergrads don't usually participate in conferences," Retartha says. But his fears were soon allayed. "Everybody was very encouraging, so I felt totally comfortable." Retartha's experience was the inspiration for Notre Danie's own conference. "Iwas taken unaware 
. and found myself doing something! never thought !would do," says Wojcik. She accompanied Retartha on his trip and, with her dass, came up with the idea after discussing Retartha's presentation at the conference in.New Hampshire. 
·The conference will consist of·two days and about 30 presentations total. They will be given by undergraduate students fromNotreDame and other Midwestern schools including Ohio State University, University of Southern Illinois and University of Tennessee and willtake place in the Browning Cinema at the Debartolo Performipg Arts Center. Lectures will be limited to 20 minutes per sti;ident, which is equivalent to about 10 pages of written text. Clips and stills are also allowed to demonstrate points'· in a student's argument. 
A wide variety of topics will be covered. during the forum, ranging from national identity to children iri horror films to rap · videos. "I think that in general it will raise awareness of the FTT , ,,, ,, ,,.__ 1el?artment and show that it really is a powerfuHorce on campus," 
. . ... · Junior FTT arid anthropology: mitj.o.r.Breana Leader says. _''.Notre · Dame isn't really well-krr6Wti•ls'ti.:film depart;il:l.e1:1t, and by invit:1ng other schools; it gives name recognition to the Notre Dame FTT department." ·· 0 
T 
29 MAR 2007 
.............. (~)Scho/asticNews 
F or many Notre Dame students, the opportunity to spend a summer, a semester or a year abroad seems almost too good to be true. Each fall, hundreds of students work hard to submit well-polished applications to the Office oflnternational Studies (OIS) in hopes of being accepted as one of the lucky few who will have the opportunity to spend time in a foreign country. Many are thrilled with the results oftheir hard work and are satisfied with the way the process worked out for them. But what about the students for whom the process did not end favorably? When students are not selected or are placed into a semester other than the one they requested, OIS gives them no specific explanations as to why. Claudia Kselman, director of OIS, explains that everything on a student's application is considered during the intensely competitive selection ~ process. This includes a student's GPA, ~ssays, statement of purpose, letters 
. ~~ ~
•. •'Is' ••••••••• 5 
. J ~­
,• 

OFFICEOFINTERNATIONAL STUDIES LEAVES SOME STUDENTS FEELING LEFT BEHIND 
0 
Molly Slavin 
of recommendation from professors 
and rector and, for some programs, 
coursework relating to the country in 
question. She also says that, while it varies 
by program, a student's major might 
play a very large role in the process. The 
office sets quotas for how many students 
from each college can attend a particular 
program. But Kselman says there are 
no absolute "hard and fast rules," as the 
office tries its best to respond to students 
from all of the colleges, and in order to 
do so, the quotas and guidelines must 
remain fluid. 
A sophomore, on the condition of anonymity, expressed her frustration with OIS. She is an Italian minor who wanted to go to Rome in the spring of 2008 -for reasons other than football season. Her sister's wedding was scheduled for the fall of 2007, and she is the maid of honor. She says, "I made it very clear in my application that this wedding was very important to me. When I got my notification letter, I had gotten into Rome, 

but in the fall. I didn't understand why 
someone like me, who had a valid reason 
for needing to go a specific semester, had 
been left out in the cold." The date ofher 
sister's wedding was recently changed to 
the summer of 2007, so she won't miss 
it while she is abroad. Nevertheless, she 
says, "I'm ok with going in the fall now 
that it won't be a problem, but I'm still 
angry that they put me into a semester 
with the knowledge that there is no way 
it would work for me. I am just confused 
as to why the office makes the decisions 
it does." 
When asked about why students might get bumped from one program to another, Kselman says that it has been historically easier to get into most programs for the fall semester rather than the spring -mainly because students don't want to miss football season. She added that in the last few years, the office-has been telling students that ifthey really want aspecific program, they should apply for the fall semester. Consequently, there has been 
29 MAR 2007 
Scho/asticNewsCf! ·············· 
a significant rise in applications for studying abroad in the fall  
-such that the number of fall applicants has become equal to  
or, in some cases, surpassed the amount of applicants for the  
spring. Because of the differences among programs and the  
relative amount of people it needs to take from each college,  
ors may shift students to a semester different than the one  
they requested ­not because they are not qualified to be in  
the "more competitive" semester, but because a balance must  
be obtained among the different colleges. _  
Additionally, OIS offers a great deal of guidance to help  
students select the right program for them. Kselman says she  
hopes that with the many resources available to students, they  
can apply for the semester and program that best suits them  
and thus mitigate any disappointment. There are descriptions  
of each site on nd.edu/~ois. ors also sponsors informational  
meetings each fall in order to better acquaint potential  
applicants with the different programs. Kselman hopes that  
by attending these meetings and talking to returning students,  
the applicants can get a sense of each program and discover if  
it is the right fit for them.  
While many students have legitimate frustrations and  
confusions about the office and its policies, the fact remains  
that, just like gaining admission to Our Lady's university,  paperwork and other arrangements they will need to make,  
acceptance into Notre Dame's study abroad program is a highly  as they must quickly make decisions regarding acceptance,  
competitive process which necessarily involves comparison of  internships and other opportunities. This too can be stressful  
one applicant to the next. Kselman says that OIS must make  for anxious future travelers. Kselman suggests that the OIS  
difficult decisions.  Web site can help these students find what they need before  
And when students are selected, the process is hardly over.  breaking loose from South Bend. But once all the tedious  
ors arranges orientation meetings with abroad-students-to­ paperwork has been completed, they can begin their exciting  
be to inform them on further requirements, immunizations,  journeys across the globe. 0  


-' 
,,,~tfr/"'~ ., . . 
._.,...~~~!iir-il~~ , ,.•,,h\ (qi /4\ ~­---/ ·°' ·q_o'_Jk:_~~-r,:. --·;~!£?) ·.!fui:&"' 
-..,. ·,,;•··•" , a-. • 



,,,,;:~'funnw~ILJI~i ~ ~ 
z 
(.)
\i.;' -~ ; : .'·,; . ..." ; 
~ 
t5 
rn 
29 MAR2007 7 ......... 
··············· llllScho/asticNews 

• Sarah Barnes 
I n an age when we are constantly connected to one another and everything imaginable is at our fingertips via the Internet, it is easy to be blinded by convenience. Yet from time to time, something highlights the importance of being careful about Internet use. Much like concerns over privacy on facebook.com, murmurings around campus warn students to perhaps be cautious about e-mails sent to and from their Notre Dame addresses. The rumor goes something like this: When Notre Dame switched to the Barracuda spam filtering system in 2005, the Office of Information Technologies (OIT) set the system up to detect certain keywords and phrases (like "liquor," "beer pong," or "fake ID") and set those e-mails aside for investigation by the office of Residence Life and Housing 
(Res Life). 
If the e­
mail hits a 
Iv-.:,,: ... . 
~Q.fi,.,. ·,;·,-,:,-:)~~s.b.
'Fh~~~ ·-~<f,_ij;-f;'j_;;y->q"1.,, • ·<~:~Eii-1 prosecution. .
~t'./J .f:t, ~,-.-(
./),d4iro ·. 
.,.~ $
7i 
'.~ E!rc-q ltr,;,. ·"'l'...._ ·--;;c: 4'.t.. cl'*-lt11t, -,,.o~-,, ,
I' il!i-4-t'ii,o ''-% "<•o,, 0 o~ --.~ o-,, Cb 'Vtt,',·· · 
I• ....,_,t '°,$'>-L. 'l'@, O'e,; +. ii, ':t. "'.s • ~,.,,, ""-'1 :,,.;-.
:(i,. ~""C'C'.(1, ,,~ "% •+. '°c-,s . •t.-: ...,,s::; 
..... -:,-_ .... e • . · -'· O~-. 0 · ,I-.. . ·0 ., . ,:., 
student's inbox with a "[SPAM]" flag in 
the subject line, it may have been read 
by curious university officials. It is a 
sensational story, but is there any truth 
to it? 
First, it makes sense to check the 
Acceptable Use Policy that students 
agree to when setting up their Notre 
Damenetworkaccount.Accordingtothe 
policy, "computingresourcesmaybeused 
for legal purposes only." Impermissible 
use includes posting or sending material 
that is immoral, unethical, dishone·st, 
damaging to the reputation of the 
university or inconsistent with the.mission 
of the university. Specifically, posting or 
sending obscene, pornographic, sexually 
explicit or offensive ·material is deemed 
impermissible. For student academic 
•matters, decisions ofwhether use violates university policy are made by the Office ofthe Provost. For student non-academic matters, the Office ofStudent Affairs makes such decisions. Students caught violating the policy are subject to the disciplinary processes and procedures of the university. Students caught breaking 
,. the law using Notre D~me's ne_tw_?rk t"i:.. mayalsobesm:cept1bletocnmmal 
,~~fl.::,,.·.. ,s~~o More importantly, 
,
1_:,,; ,,,,,...~f/c-,. ~ ot, the Acceptable-.~<' . ..,,_fl'IJ,· ,,-El .N U p 1· 
--~1: :-,.--.,,. """ ---~~ se o icy
' (''°l• · ' -.., /II]. ' "'l~i 
·'"-f~:,:·;, .>:~-!~4'. c:..... -~-~~ 
· · ::.,,,.,;.oi. .'>-'..~; ·:'.~.,.¾~ 
1
·'-'.~ ">,~. ·'1~,t';',,,,. 
"'0111~;~....-~.,, .. ~'ff~ ·has emerged. Two years ago, before !D-e · -~C" ""•:---,.. ~'r~ current Barracuda spam filtenng'· .,.i::1,;{:;>""' ·''':~~~t .·. · system was !·mplemented,~~,;\?:~~, ·--~'!!(ii . Scholastic ran a story
•,,:.;,~,i,/;' ''"t~.o confirming with ·<H "'•·W· ResLife that 
. • • ~t><..< .. .: . :, ,, 2:·\::. 
?o l9r_,~ ,.. '"~ ,, < . ··· · ·•. 
':90,.. (qe.,,, Ot,%'<.:._,,. 
•,--'17eh-:f6, ,,b,> ~-.: ·. . ." 
"'$t. ""~ :gel -le··-,<:·:•·:·,,,,
-:i,. e~.<t. )}., "'t1,-, -1.:,9 ~<.-••.:">,...,_ 
. o/or .,"1.o '11$0.,. l'q.$'/• -l,10~"-~,'iSi''·•,., 
~., ~h-<"o.,. '°"-'".... 013,,. J,,_~lj~•=
(1.._ .... ~ ·•1,9,,,"<<:s, W,t ,..._'V.,-p
, ,-,~. -'°~ 9~,, lt,oA Ct-o '•-,.~. 
i}Oi, °¾ ~i:t.0 '>,% ~ Oe., lt11t, '"•, .· ~-'fl,._ ""% ~@L ')i>-@L '1"@,o ~"-t,i. eo,,~ '·-<;-. 
~ ~ o,, .-etc ""-,--,,,. ~ ""· · 
e_,t '".$'~ ~.f@,,,___ "li,~A. :r.$'o~ •"c-,s "'clCt-o . .,tto"·<:. 
. .. . 
e,
\'. -l ..
•::..>,:,:o
:-.,.,. ·· 
·"·-.. :., .....
·•·••··
··-"'. :.:.) 
.: 
states that the university reserves the right to inspect and examine any electronic content on any Notre Dame communications system, computing resource or other electronic device at any time. In short, university officials have the authority to read student e-mails. But do they actually use it? 
Simply put: rio. According to officials at OIT and ResLife; university administrators do not read student e­mails. 
Assistant Provost of OIT Dewitt Latimersays, "thespamfilteringsystemis used tcfprotectstudents from the outside, notformoriitoring behavior." Keywords in e-mails do not "set off'' the filtering system: Rather, the system tags messages basedonhow_theyweresentandwhosent them. Any mail sent by someone on the frequently"-updated list of spam senders is caught by ·the spam :filtering system. 
· Additionally, Latimer says that OIT does notmonitotintemale-mails.Instead,they are concerned with examining external mail se:nt to members ofthe Notre Dame community. 
Director of ·ResLife Jeff _S_houp says, "T~e <?I! office h~s the abi~ty to look at 1nd1V1dual e-m~ils, bu~ with tens_ of thousands of e-mails coming and gomg every day, it is really not a practical 
. " 
issue. 
· 
While the spam filter, which sometimes catches personal e-mails too, may have fueled this rumor, thisisnotthefirsttimeit 
'•.:---. . 

student e-mails are __ left undisturbe~. 
(.0 
~ P-a 
. r.,.­
Despite these denials and re·assurances, urban legends persist in circulating through ca~pus, leaving stu­dents with a sense of paranoia. After all, you never know when 
ResLifo could be watching. 
29 MAR2007 

WHAT ARE YOU DOING TONIGHT? 
MAY WE MAKE ASUGGESTION? 

TIEMPO LIBRE RAVI SHANKAR PARSONS DANCE COMPANY 
___,. 
FRI, MAR 30 AT 8 PM THU, APR 12 AT 7:30 PM THU, APR 26 AT 8 PM FRI, APR 27 AT 8 PM 
HTTP://PERFORMINGARTS~ND.EDU 
FOR TICKETS CALL 574.631.2800 

~UNIVERSITY OF
DEBARTOLO 
PERFORMING ARTS CENTER WNOTREDAME 

: • • ..•.. • • • • • •@ Scho/asticCulture 





Fine Arts 
Each spring the clouds ofceramic dust clear up a bit and the paint stains are washed away from 
the wardrobes of senior art, art history and design majors as they end their grueling late-night hours in Riley Hall. After finally completing their Bachelor 
of Fine Arts (BFA) theses, the notorious "Rileyites" celebrate the corning of spring in more ways than one. With their elder counterparts, the Master of Fine Arts (MFA) candidates, they will display their mastery of various mediums on April 1 in the Annual BFA and MFA Candidates' 
"I believe immigration. "The installment has an art has to take intended message about humanizingresponsibility, but immigration. It is meant to haveit should not give people, regardless of their political up being art." or ethical views on immigration, give -Anselm Keifer it a second thought," 
Thesis Exhibition in the Snite Museum of Art. The theses will be showcased in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries and Milly and FritzKaeser Mestrovic Studio Galleries until Commencement on May 20. The collection ofworks will include a variety of forms: from installations, videos and industrial and graphic design projects to more traditional studio art forms such as paintings, drawings, photographs, prints, ceramics and sculptures. 
w As the culmination of their !5 undergraduate or graduate careers, ~ the artists' theses are the products of 8 intricate thought and planning and the ~ implementation of skills and techniques 0 they have acquired during their academic ~ careers. Each· piece demands reflection 

as it puts forth challenging and often 
••••••••• 10 
provocative subject matter. This year's collection will include themes of self­discovery, spirituality, sexuality and contemporary social issues, among others. 
For the artists, their theses represent the fusion of their artistic aptitude with their identities and social interests. BFA candidate in graphic design Graham Ebetsch articulates how his thesis is saturated with meaning. "It ties in bits of things I have learned through my years. But more than anything, it is one step closer in the long journey to becoming a professional designer," he says. 
Ebetsch's thesis is an installment of nine life-size figures from various ethnic 
backgrounds framed 
within the context of 
he says. Ebetsch decided to focus his thesis 

Snite Exhibit 
• Sarah Barrett 
to make sure to give a more fair assessment and the chance for it to be appreciated by a wider audience." 
Ebetsch's digitally-rendered installment is one of many works that examine controversial issues. BFA candidate in graphic design Mac Russell's thesis, 
"L'Ascensione" (The Ascension), is a photographic altarpiece that consists of three images -Jesus and Mary ascending to heaven in the two exterior images, gazing benevolently upon a homosexual couple in the central image. "The piece to me is essentially just asking people to rethink their stance on sexuality and the natural beauty ofit. For me, God loves you regardless of your actions ... [ something I took] most from my Catholic upbringing," he says. "I would hope that [my audience] would go back and re-think their views on sexuality within the church and think of the relationship between sexuality and Catholicism as a much more 
.intricate and beautiful thing, regardless of whether they think homosexuality is right or wrong." 
As a graphic design major, Russell's chosen medium of communication is photography. For Meaghan Fitzpatrick, another BFA candidate in graphic design, film was the medium that she felt was 
on immigration because of its place at the forefront of the United States' current political situation. Like politics, the message and medium of his thesis evolved from the research and prototype phase to its completion. "The form ofit has changed drastically from a poster series, to a book, to finally the installment. The message also evolved over this time. After it became apparent to me how fierce a topic immigration is, my message became less preachy," he says. "I wanted 
29 MAR 2007 

not until she heard spoken-word artist Saul Williams perform in Washington Hall that she found her answer. "People with a passion -with something they believe in, regardless of a paycheck, pump the heartbeat ofhumanity," she says. 
Conroy's thesis developed from there, and she took off running the next summer 
-interviewing individuals. Conroy's "Heartbeat of Humanity" took the form of 
"a large-scale book (of sorts)," she says. A seven paiie1ec( 6.5'x2.5'x2" accordion-fold book to be exact. Each panel is carved with text and blind contour portraits of her interview subjects from the summer. Alongside her physical work will be 'zines for observers to take that will illuminate the lives of the people she has carved into the panels. 
most appropriate for her thesis, "OLR" . (Online Relationships). Inspired by her curiosity about Internet communication, Fitzpatrickchose to create a didactic video "to reveal t~e positives and negatives of the ·Internet;"·shesays. "I hope that my audience walks away from this video and thinks about the.waysin which they use the Internet to communicat,fto people." The problem of communication in society was both important and challenging for many MFA and BFA candidates, as were the questions raised by that problem's aesthetic representation. One· BFA candidate in printmaking, Meeg Conroy,· stniggled greatly with this feat. Her thesis, "The Heartbeat of Huminity," was first inspired by her time-in India on her semester around the world with St. Mary's College. "With all ofthe things I saw, it was really discouraging to realize how little people cared," she says. The next semester, in a global crime and corruption lecture, she was intrigued 
· by a discussion on drug trafficking and poaching and asked herself, "What [is it that] prompted the few who tried to stop such enormous issues? What pumps the heartbeat of humanity?" It was 
29 MAR 2007 
MFA c and id ate in photography April Wilkins traced her question about the purpose of existence in her thesis, "Submerged." Transcending established mediums of photography, Wilkins takes her subject underwater to explore the unpredictability and distortion inherent in liquid form. "I photograph people underwater to capture the chance physical and psychological effects that arise and to provoke the disengagement of self-representation that can be reached through them," she 
ScholasticCulture @ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 
says. "There's a deep human desire to understand life and death, to assign some meaning for existing. This search for meaning is intriguing and necessary, and by searching for it, we ourselves are creating it. This leaves everything open to amazing possibility." 
The themes of eternal possibility and distorted perception pervade the MFA exhibition. Stepping beyond reality and into fairy-tale world, MFA candidate Steve Foutch challenges perception and predictability. His printmaking thesis, 
"The Pinnacle," represents a multi-faceted realm of childhood tales. Inspired by his upbringing in southwestern Illinois, _Xqµtch juxt~pose~_ a skull-laden door to hell with a flowery, mirrored door to heaven. On the surrounding walls there is a gigantic figure of the devil smoking a cigarette and vignettes of mystical, occultist and scenes of debauchery. This image is challenged by the oppositional figure of Boone'_:_ the representation of Huckleberry Finn, a rural, good­natured, yet socially-conditioned· boy -surrounded by vignettes of log cabins, elderly women and farmers. Foutch insists, quoting Mark Twain in "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn," 
"Persons attempting to find a motive in this narrative will be prosecuted; persons attempting to find a moral in it will be banished; persons attempting to find a plot in it will be shot." 
"When I remember my time at Notre Dame, I won't remember the football games, Touchdown Jesus, or even the Golden Dome. I'll remember Riley Hall," Meeg Conroy says. 
Admission to the Snite Museum is free of charge and open to the public. 0 


_; ··· · ·· · ·· · · ·· · @Scho/asticCulture 

Service and Sunshine 
• Courtney Ball 
W alking to class on the Monday following spring break, one could not help but notice something very different about the student body. The exhausted, winter-pale students had been replaced with excited individuals, some sporting impressive 
new tans. After several stressful 
weeks ofmidterm projects and 
exams, lounging on the beach 
and soaking up sun was a well­
deserved reward for many. 
However, not all students spent 
their spring breaks at tropical 
locations. Some sacrificed a 
week of warmth to participate 
in various service project trips, 
and others simply went home 
for the week. 
Those students who did travel to more traditional spring break destinations found them rewarding. Freshman Jackie Spengler went on a cruise to many exotic locations including 
the Bahamas. "Itwas unique in that! think it is probably the last real family vacation we are ever 
going to have," Spengler says. Freshman Duda Cardoso went to Saint Petersburg, Fla., for spring break with a group ofher friends. "It was the perfect time to relax and spend some time with friends away from the sometimes overwhelming and stressful school setting,'' Cardoso says. 
Many Notre Dame students were involved in Appalachia Seminar and other service trips over spring break that proved equally rewarding in their own way for participants. "I definitely think service trips are something everyone should do at least once at Notre Dame. It was a hands-on way to see that you are actually physically helping people," freshman Chris Tillett says. Tillett worked at Na,zareth Farm in West Virginia over spring break. Volunteers at Nazareth Farm woke up every morning around 6 a.m. and completed repair work on houses in the area, including painting, dry-walling and deck construction. 
......... 12 
plates as well as assisting in the classroom and playing with the children at recess. "It wasn't all work, and the work that we did was constructive and generally fun. We got 
· to go for a couple ofhikes in the foothills and play games," DeMott says. 
The trips also provided the students with the opportunity for spiritual growth. Hwang and DeMott both commented on the Sacred Heart region's 
:PICTURE PERFECT Whether in work or play, students formed bonds with 
negative perception of 

it_rie~ds ove~ _spring break._.. _____ _--~--­
While students take a break, some give back 
"They focused on the four cornerstones of prayer, community, service and simplicity," freshman Paula Olivieri, who also visited Nazareth Farm, says. This simplicity was achieved by eliminating cell phones, watches and make-up and allowing a maximum of three showers 
during the trip. Despite these restrictions, volunteers enjoy the experience. "I made some really great friends. In just five or six days we became really close, and it was surprising to see that I have had some friends here [at Notre Dame] for months, and I wouldn't even say I am as close to them as I am with the girls and guys that I spent that week with," Olivieri says. 
Senior Eddie Kane also participated in a service trip, spending his spring break in Appalachia cleaning up, building where needed and interacting with the people of the Appalachian mountain range. He feels that it impacted the way he thinks of the pressures in his life. "It makes you think twice about how you're always stressed out at school and helps put it all into perspective," he says. 
For those who wanted less grunt-work and a more educational focus, Sacred Heart Parish offered an alternative site. Freshmen Joy Hwang and Joe 
DeMottvolunteered at the Sacred Heart Elementary School through Sacred Heart Parish in West Virginia. "Everyone that I knew told me Appalachia was so much fun, and I wanted to do a service project, so I went," Hwang says. They helped with the parish's annual spaghetti dinner, serving alm_ost 6,000 
_ _ ~ •--_ __ ___, 
Catholicism and how 
Notre Dame volunteers attempted to change it. "Part of our mission there was to show that there are responsible, hardworking and intelligent Catholic youth who are socially conscious and who really have a passion for their faith," says DeMott. Olivieri and Tillett encountered the opposite at Nazareth Farm, where attitudes toward Catholicism were positive. "The retreat atmosphere surprised me. There were daily prayers and a lot offocus on personal reflection,'' Tillett says. 
Whether students spent the break working with their hands, playing with kids; bonding with their families or lying on the beach, spring break served as a hard-earned reprieve from tests; papers and projects. Now that they are back on campus, students can once again focus on school, only_m~ybe this time with a b~tter tan. 
29 MAR2007 
Scho/asticCulture@ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . 

A s an inquisitive prospective student, sophomore Sade Murphy attended the annual fashion show sponsored by the Black Cultural Arts Council. The show's display of dancing, acting and modeling not only entertained Murphy but helped convince her that Notre Dame was the right college for her. "I was impressed because it takes a lot of work to put on a show like that, and even faculty members were involved in the performance. It gave me a sense of the community we have here at Notre Dame and how the faculty really cares about the students," Murphy says. This year the 30th Annual Black Cultural Arts Council Fashion Show takes place on March 31 at the Century Center. Once again, it showcases the talent of the Notre Dame community, incorporating St. Mary's College (SMC) students, Notre Dame faculty and local performers. Performers will model the · latest fashions donated by local and New York retail stores in dances and skits centered around the theme "I•Hip-Hop." Unlike traditional modeling, the show tells a story, expressing various aspects 
29 MAR 2007 
of the black community. "Hip-hop has had a great impact on not only music and fashion but on the overall culture of the African-American community," senior director Jason Laws says. 
The first part of the show covers the gradual progression of hip-hop during the '80s and '90s. The second part covers aspects of hip-hop culture in movie clips, music videos and interviews with students around campus about their personal experiences. Brightly-colored clothing and music by artists ranging from Salt 'n' Peppa to Kanye West help demonstrate the impact of hip-hop on American culture. 
SMC junior Rocky Krivda saw a facebook.com advertisement for the fashion show and was interested in the mix of fashion, diversity and pageantry it promised. She was one of 35 students who tried out and made the cut. Krivda has had a great deal of experience in performing, but she says this fashion show has really made an impact on her. "Putting on this show has been one ofthe most rewarding experiences," Krivda says. "The personalities of each of the models 
and directors make the show what it is. The directors are great leaders and are positive and professional in all they do.?' 
The directors of this year's show include Laws, Keyanna Hartley, Brittany Flint, Michelle Clayborne and DeAnna Colvin. They have worked together with the Black Cultural Arts Council, which sponsors various multicultural events throughout the year, including Black Images and the Blak Koffee House. Performer Amber Travis says, "The practicing and planning has been time consuming but fun because there is a family atmosphere between everyone in the show." 
While showcasing the talent and fashion ofthe performers, this year's show will raise money for Touching TinyLives, a non-profit organization committed to the care of children with HIV/AIDS in IX 
w 
Lesotho, Africa. Over Spring Visitation ::, 
!:i 
Weekend, prospective minority students ::, u u
and current students are encouraged to attend both the fashion show and Latin ~ Expressions to support the diversity and I 0 
8
talent of the Notre Dame community. 0 
13 ......... 


l............. @ Scho/asticCulture 
~ 
:1
l: 
!! 
CAMPUS CHATTt~ 
SAFETY IN NUMBERS DEPT. 
THE SAFEWALK ESCORTS 
I t's all in a day's work, out there on the mean streets of Notre Dame," Lawrence Denson, junior finance major and SafeWalk Escort extraordinaire, says as he sits in LaFortune waiting for his next call. "When I hear 'Thank you for Safe Walking me,' it makes it all worth it ... it makes it all worth it." Lawrence and his partner, j,µnior mechanical engineering major Mike McConnell, are part of SafeWalk. They make sure that everyone gets home safely late at night. The group was started about 15 years ago after a rash ofrapes on campus spurred several large men to post their phone numbers on fliers in case any women wanted a walk home. The group was so popular that NDSP absorbed it, forming SafeWalk as we know it today. Lawrence and Mike spend their Monday nights making themselves available to anyone on campus who needs someone to walk him or her home. And even though they joke around, they take their jobs very seriously. When I caught up· with them last Monday, they were seated in LaFortune with their SafeWalk badg~s proudly displayed, ready for a call to come in at any moment. They carry walkie­talkies on their 8:30 p.m. -2:30 a;m. shift and maintain constant communication with NDSP in the event that someone needs an escort. Together, the two men represent six years of combined SafeWalk experience ("We ain't new to this, we true to this;'' Lawrence says), with stories ranging from the mundane to the extraordinary. · Onsome Fridays before football games theyare assigned to "Stadium Duty," 
which means that they spend their shift 
in the pressbox, guarding the field from 
intruders. One eventful evening, they 
radioed in to NDSP with four separate 
groups of prowlers, Mike even had to 
chase some troublemakers across the field 
to put an end to their tomfoolery. NDSP 
makes the arrests, but the SafeWalk 
Escorts take great pride in "protecting 
the :Notre Dame tradition," Lawrence 
says. 
But not every night involves hot pursuits 
of stadium intruders. They usually 
average one call per night, though no 
one called during our talk in LaFortune. 
Mike and Lawrence have noticed that the 
number of calls go up markedly after. a 
NDSP Crime Report, with the majority 
of calls coming from graduate students. 
Mike estimates that he has done the 
most walks from Decio Hall to various 
parking lots or to Fischer Graduate 
Residences. 
They have never been frightened . 
in the least on their. walks around 
campus; knowing that NDSP has 
a response time ofless than 30 
seconds anywhere on campus 
puts them at ease. They are 
not trained in Kung .Fu since 
SafeWalk is a peaceful activity. "If approached, we'd just walk away or say that we've already . called for backup," Mike says. Safe Walk Escorts are notvigilantes. roaming campus looking for a fight. 
"It's more ofa'safetyin numbers' kind . of thing," Lawrence says. Most of their rounds are uneventful, although Mike .did catch a Peeping Tom 
crouched outside of a girli dorm once. 
They do not always walk females, either. Although most calls do come from women, Lawrence and ·Mike have,· each walked men home -one a former SafeWalk Escort with a broken leg who wanted to catch up on old times. And despite popular belief, Escorts are not always men. They both remembered a very petite but strong woman who was part ofthe SafeWalk team their freshman 
year. . 
"There are about 20 SafeWalkers right now, and six patrol every night," Mike says. They spend their shifts in "accessible places" like LaFortune or other· 24,-hour spaces. They say they each have been approached and asked if they were on SafeWalk, but their of(ers of a walk home were denied with embarr·asse.d · giggles each time. ... 
"There's no reason to be embarrassed," Mike says. "There's no fraternizing.cin· the walks." They both say that the walks involve timid conversation at first, but their skills in various forms of small talk.put the caller at ease as quickly a:s possible. After hearing that, I worked up my courage to ask for a walk home; 
As we left LaFortune, Mike radioed the walk in to NDSP so they could keep track .of him. What was usually a rather.,;· · . lonely walk through a nighttime campus ' · turned out to be full ofsmall talk, and I felt very safe all the way home. 0 
-Kate Dresser 
tJ D 
\ 

"'......... ,4 29 MAR2007 




.. 1 • • .. • • • -.· • • .-' . • • •

A Testimonial of Lt. Butch Fox, NDSC 
You know, as a member ofNotre Dame Security Cops, I do a lot of public events -church picn)cs, talking to grade-schoolers, -addressing Womens' Leagues, things like that. Everywhere I go, I always get the same question. People ask "Don't you get scared chasing criminals every day for a living?" and "Isn't it dangerous to serve as a member ofa police force in a place as fierce as Notre Dame?" Do you know what I say when they ask me these questions? Do you know what I do when they ask me ifthis is a dangerous jbb?I stand straight, wipe the spit off my chin, look them in the eye and say, "You're damn right it is.''. Then all the children burst into applause. I remember the first time I really got into the s*** out there, out in the big-time game. You think that your training in the cadet academy will prepare you for everything, but in reality, there's only so · much you can cover in those six hours. It was a warm November day. A warm November Friday, as fate would have it. I was making my rounds past D2 when I caught the perps out of the corner of my eye. Three of them, walking in tight formation -Caucasian, about 5'10", 150 lbs. each. They might have had guns; I had no way of being sure. One thing did tip me off though. They had backpacks -no, not backpacks, huge hiking packs. A bead of sweat dripped down from under my cap as the wheels turned in my head. My cop intuition told me that no good guy would be coming back from a camping trip on a Friday afternoon -something was going down. I called for backup and shouted out to them. They pretended they didn't hear me and started walking a little faster. That's just what Scarface would have done, I thought to myself -there was every likelihood that these punks were cop-hllers, but hey, I had a community · to protect. . . . Getting .a bead on the perps, I kicked my ride into high gear. The 4-Wheeler handled the curb, no problem. Before these crumb-bums knew it, they were looking at yours truly -six feet, two inches ofOfficer Butch Fox, staring them down from the seat ofmy ride, something I hope I never run into in a dark alley. I called for more backup and decided I was going to give these lowlifes a lesson they'd never forget. "All right, bags on the ground, NOW!" 

They started to put their bags down -put them down a little too quickly if you know what! mean. 
"Slowly." They knew who was boss now. 
"So, you guys wanna tell me what you've got here? Practicing for Santa Claus tryouts?" (Thought of that line on the spot.) 
"Sorry officer, my friends and I just have some beer here. Two of us are 21, and we know tha-" 
"Any of you kids 21??" I wasn't about to listen to them try to play their mind games with me. 
"Um, yeah, we just said that. Listen, you can have the beer, could we ple-" 
"You might want to learn a thing or two about shutting your trap, joy boy." The backup wasn't showing up, and I was outnumbered. I knew I had to play it cool or it was my ass. 
"All right, here's what we're gonna do, we're gonna sit here and pour these beers out, one at atime, and then you're gonna deal with the consequences of breaking the law." 
"Um, actually I don't think we broke any law, officer. Like I said, I'm 21, and I-" 
"LISTEN GOON! You might go on to be some big-shot lawyer, but until then, I'll tell you what the rules are around here," I said as I shined my flashlight right in his face. It wasn't that dark out yet, so it might not have looked like it was on, but they knew I meant business. 
They kept their mouths shut as I had them pour out the beers on the ground, one by one. We drowned a lot of plants, but that was peanuts compared to the number oflives these maniacs might have taken had they had their way with those twelve-packs ofRed Dog. I wrote them up and filed a report, but the very next week I saw them walking around campus, as free as the day they were born. As a cop, the revolving door ofthe ResLife system can make you sick. I know the type, though. I know they'll plot something again. And I'll be there waiting, the mounted officer ofjustice, ready to ride them down. Over any terrain. 


T· 
BS( 
The Delusionally Independent Newspaper Serving 
VOL. ~0-SHIZZLE_ _ 
SUPER-DOOPER COLUMN 
Abandoning 
' 
all attempts at humility 
OMG, OMG! I think I have found the secret to the meaning of journalism! 
This morning after jumping out of bed at 4 a.m. sharp and completing my morning routine, which includes copyediting at least seven 
back issues Mad Asa Hatta 
of The New 
York Times the most super 
and re_ modest editor in 
chief, ever!
categorizing _ my past articles in alphabetical order on my computer, I arrived at another amazing conclusion: humility is like, so overrated. In my capacity as a keeper of the sacredartofalmightyjournalism, peace be upon it, I decided that I had spent enough time posing as a mere college journalist who had any sense of perspective about her faux-profession. Wow, I'm so thrilled I finally came to this realization! It must be the 
kind of moment of clarity that -only i:ne Keenest', mosl:OiVin.eiy-..,. blessed Obscurer staff member is capable of. . After all, ies the greatest, most unbelievable -SO FRICKIN' UNBELIEVABLE!! -feeling in the world to be part of a self-. obsessed coterie of truth-seekers who know that the power of the written word is tantamount to thatofGodHimself. Evennow, as I envision the impending power and beauty that will characterize my forthcoming prose, peace be upon it, my fingers shake with anticipation of the fruits of my written creation. Ahh, there it is!! That preceding sentence! See what I mean? It's so well­written and so grammatical; and judging by the queasy feeling in my stomach I realize I have once again proven that I am a true gift to college journalism, peace be upon it. Soyeah,withawritingabilitylike this, (and mind you, you haven't even seen me copyedit a sports article about SEPERATION SUNDAY), I figure, what's the use of pretending to have any sense of humility? It's such a drag on my participation in the greatest tradition that American democracy has ever produced. I didn't ask for such preeminence among journalists, peace be upon them; I was born with it, dammit (wasn't the placement· of that semi-colon perfect?!). Therefore, I thinkI'll abandon all presumptionstohumilityforever andneverreconsidermydecision. Ohyeah, didI mentionI'msuper­duper THRILLED about this? 
The opinion expressed in this column is way over-the-top and truly reflects the opinions of Obscurer editors and minions. 
_ . , . . . · KATILSDAY, S 
Speaker: Studen1 
By KATIE BLOWHARD Staff Party Girl 
When Notre Dame announced the commencement 2007 Graduation Ceremony, most students were totall Jeffrey Immelt, CEO and chair ofGeneral Electric, w the student body on May 20, drawing on his many ye: an industry leader and environmental pioneer. 
Senior political science and peace studies major Al: "I can't believe we are getting some boring businessn get some righteous politician or a celebrity like Jack 1 be sweet!" 
Many other students echo Backwash's sentiments., yesterday's The Obscurer poll, 93 percent ofNotre D prefer Tom Cruise, Paris Hilton's chihuahua or a bloc 
University AnnotJ 
By WILLIAM O'REILLY III Fascist Sympathizer 
University Executive Vice President Jon Affreck-Gh announced today that the school would be breaking gr< coming months on a campus expansion project with a J running into the bazillions. 
"In an effort to stay at the cutting edge ofthe acaden Notre Dame is proud to announce this comprehensive: us into the 23rd century and beyond," Affreck-Glaves : today's world ofhigher education, a school like ND ha 
that it's not afraid to spend a hundred million billion d< 
The Obscure 
about America thi 
Jingoism, 
just adore. Sure, " . ultimate answer t< 
but they are a gre. 
end, plus a great , 
along the way. 
misogyny 
c;1nd other 
Take Neo from example. He had: 
propaganda 
Trinity until he wl cyborg ass, and th it on. Women dig By JOHNNY K.K. KLINTON muscles and who pilots probably ge
Brain-Washed Republican So back to Jesu 
I spent my weekend watching love, even when,
"Saving Private Ryan," "The stomped by the Re
Passion ofthe Christ" and the is central to the .AJ
old Bond films, and I came to the life. Tom Hanks c
realization that there is something 
SYR Date Breaks Down For No Damn Good Reason 
By JINGLEHEIMER DOMER The Musical Journalist OAK ROOM, SOUTH DINING HALL-Last Saturday night during Welsh Family Hall's annual spring formal, Ms. Julia O'Connor collapsed in a chair nearby the refreshments and proceeded to brake down and bawl her damn eyes out for at least a , good half hour in front ofeverybody, according to sources present at the episode. "Yeah, it was pretty odd, I 
thought," says Br a Dillion sophom the middle ofdry when he saw O'C a chair, place her hands, and cry m crybaby without : "I've seen Julia d before, like stay i day eating Ben ru never anything lil the whole night s and having a goo all ofthe sudden· turned on," McB1 mean, seriously, , problem?" 
Other witnesse shenanigans on tl the incident, citin history ofanxiety a reputation for b an attention whor report that Julia's 
HE 
~URER 
·Notre Dame and Saint Marys with Crosswords and Comics ARCH 29, 1977 . . M:YSPACE.COM/OBSERVER':
. , . . ... , .. '.' . , 
' . . , .. /; :~ .' ~·. . : ':-.:. :~; · ;; : 
Did the headline "Students Line Up For Event", make 
you wonder what_event students were"lirilpg up)'qr?. '
ts Bitch, Moan 
speaker for the ly taken back. ill be addressing ars of experience as 
m Backwash says, ian. Why can't we 3auer. Thatwould 
i\ccording to ame students would k of lindberger 
Voto by 11:11 p,m. this F~id~y,at_our_\V~~ site ••• as,ifyo\i_~ad n<>\hing,:­
, . : b:uerto~o. ·. •~ ~
,': · •:,l-~':-:.·~ljJ(:J:i~
cheese. 
"I just voted for the cheese," senior anthropology and gender studies major Anita Hardon says. "I planned on sleeping through the ceremony, so I figured the cheese might be the least distracting." 
Unfortunately, the administration just doesn't completely understand the student perspective. Perhaps, Backwash put it best. "The students have a very clear agenda," he says. "We want a celebrity first, then a Democratic politician, then a cool academic that has done mindless research but is totally rad because it just might contribute to the social good, then Charlie Weis, then that dude that slices meat at the dining hall, then a Republican president, then an inanimate object, and then finally a business person that has something to offer to the graduates." 
Hardon agrees. "The administration has to know that the best speaker is going to offer absolutely nothing back to the students," she says. "We've lived in a bubble for this long; why change a good thing?" 
tnces $850 Bazillion Project 
leader." 
Included in the proposal are a new building for the School of Architecture, a $60 zillion renovation and expansion of the campus IT center and $23 thousand hundred million earmarked for the 
wes newly-founded Villano Institute ofAnime Studies. )und in the Also slated is an effort to deepen St. Mary's Lake and build an price tag atmospheric domed environment on the lake bottom. The building 
will house mostly classrooms. 1ic community, "We realize that our graduates are heading into a world with a plan to bring . changing economy, and being able to learn things while underwater mys. "In may possibly be very important. The university has a serious .s to show commitment to its students, and we simply can't risk leaving them 
Jl!ars to be a high and dry," Affreck-Glaves concludes. 
ir VIEWPOINT 
1t Jesus would riolence is not the ) our problems, 1t means to that vay to score chicks 
"The Matrix" for no chance with b.ooped up some 1en he totally got guys with big can fly. Air Force :t tons of ladies. 
s. He preached ve was getting omans. I think this merican way of ould have killed that German dude after that Kaiser killed his buddy and surrendered in "Saving Private Ryan," but he didn't. He let him go, and the bastard killed Hanks later on. I think the same goes for Jesus. 
Jesus also never got married. He never let the ladies into his apostles either. He never let the women get between him and his goals -whether that be preaching to the masses or enjoying a football game witl1out some snarky broads in the row in front ofhim. I respect that. That and America. And the War in Iraq. 
Screw you, Saint Mary's. 
Non-AP News Shorts ... 
Minor Gas Leak Evacuates ALL of 
Campus 
Workers say, "Ohs,......, not again." 
President Johnny Jay announces tuition hike, plans for new executive suite 
If it's wrong to watch ND basketball from a hottub, then I don't want to be right. 
Pitcher, Receiver Jeff Ajiz-dramas chooses soccer 
I didn't see that one coming ••• 
Dining Hall food still sucks on Fridays · during Lent 
Lochness Monster discovered in St. Joe's Lake I·• Scots and Irish wage war for deed to campus. 
Vampirism runs rampant at Notre Dame 
Architecture sleep behavior starts to make sense. 
Three Dead in Marshmallow Fight 
Tums out the ushers really were looking out for our safety, 
and not Just being d-bags. 
·andon McBrauney, ore who was in -humping his date ~onnor fall back into face down in her :e a pathetic little my provocation. 
o strange things n the bafutub all 1d Jerry's, but (e this. I mean, he was dancing d time and then lhe waterworks :auney recollects. "I Nhat's her friggin' 
s claimed to call 1e seriousness of g Ms. O'Connor's ' attacks and eing "a bit of ·e." Witnesses 
date, Johannes McGuilicuddy, had been ignoring her for extended periods oftime throughout the dance, especially when Julia droned on about last Thursday's ABC drama series "Grey's Anatomy." "God, Julia knows I hate that stupid show, what with all its estrogen-infused melodrama and what not. I guess I'll have to listen closer the next time she just has to tell me who's blowing who on last week's episode," an exasperated McGuilicuddy said. 
"Oh, don't get me started on Julia, or should I say, Drama-Queen Extraordinaire," said Dahlia Mithwick, who attended the dance and confesses to suspecting Julia of trying to steal her boyfriend, Jason, last summer. "When fuat little skank tried to take Jase away from me, and then broke down and cried when I tried to confront her about it, that's when I knew sometlling was up. I mean, I didn't even yell at her or anything. She's probably a little unstable," Mitl1wick surmises. 
O'Connor could not be reached for comment, but several persons report having seen her out on South Quad the following Sunday holding hands with a random senior who copped a feel a time or two during fueir.45-. minute play-date. "She sure seemed to be fine the day after she lost it," Dahlia observed. 

Holier-i:h~n~i:hou virgin seeking husband · 
Beacon_oFcherubic virtue on a divine quest fci~ her Biblically-mandated soul mate. If you are all about sweaty hand-holding, pecks on the cheek, and-~ows to renounce Satan in all his . forms, search no further, white knight in shining -=....__----"_--~" armor! Special quirks include speaking f1a~less 
•_ . . medieval Latin, chanting Gregorian hymns in-' ;,,y sleep andsaying the Rosary in six minutes Aat. If and when 
we do get to know each other in the "Biblical sense," bring a sheet with a hole in it. Agnus Dei, qui tolis pecatamundis!! 
Hey Fellas, looking for a Domer?! 
SW Domer loqking fot'tnaf.special" someone to }iyJ th~ ND Dr~am with! 
If you enjoy watching "Rudy" and can quote it verbatim,. buy large expensive photos from the B_ookstore ($500 limit 
per visit) andfantasize about proposing marriage at the Grotto, Iam the girl for you!! Clean-cut, athletic, sensational high-school resume a plus.GO IRISH!!! 
Won'i: you be my blueprint: for a perfedly geomei:ric union? 
Male, sophomore architecture 
major seeking woman with subdued L..:..-'--'-==-----=== personality and 3-5 hours of free time per month. Must adore Vitruvian principles and have a strange fascination with right angles and T-squares. Serious inquiries only, as I have JO minutes to invest in personal matters each week. All interested parties can drop by my studio desk any time of any day ... that'sfight-I'm talking 24/7 access. It's the one in Bond Hall with the poster of the Palace of Westminster ... not of Westminster Abbey. 
Lei:'s Make Love, Noi: War 
SW progressive student looking for someone to drive away conservative fascist tyranny from the ND campus. Cogs in the corporate capitalist machine need not apply. Prospective mates must not be sheep to the corporate media; eat meat 
. or cheese 9r ai:iything made from living, breathing organisms; or take showers) Prior to the first date, a comprehensive quiz will be administered'on_the complete works of Marx and Lenin. Peace. Love. Dope. Viva the proletariat!! 
Email at BushEqualsHitler@aol.com 
In i:he mood for superficial. conyei-Jai:i()n ~;,d no-si:rings-aHached amorous m·iei;i~gs? · ·. ·. Buxom blondie looking to get her f/~ak ~n with t,he r~ost. masculine of men. Enjoys the scent of jerseys after a long summer-afternoon workout, thinks gag reAexes are a negative mutation of nature, and hasn't read a novel ·since the Boxcar __ Children. This is one hollabackgirf you won't be · disappointed with. Call me fo show kewl!! 555-CHIC 
Campus prep on i:he prowl for an appropriai:e mai:e 
Exeter .prep alum seeks the fairest ofmaidens with whom to copulate a~ .. a time yet to be determined. Dates and their fathers must have attended Yale, • 
come from afamily of noble Episcopalian blood, and be willing to engage in high-fallutin' conversations about dialectical materialism at a moment's notice. Hardbody a must. Harvard tramps need not 
apply. . . ,. 
BMOC hard up for some easy ass . SPRING BREAAAAK 2007!!! Zahm resident pining for campus hootchie who can tolera,te 
· super-intense workouts, a limited vocabulary and frequent ~se of th~ word "douche." If you're looking for thafone-nightstand type of guy who'll forget your name the next morning, gimme call or hit up 
the Sidekick. Ph: 897-FIST; SN: lrishBarebckinlT. Oh yeah, no.. 
fut chkb. 
.--------,·ROTC commando in need of some sweei: ··. jungle love 
Battle-tested soldier of fortune hunting • for that perfect Miss America w.ho can assist in occasional needs to blow ()ff steam and · engage in ceremonial battle cries. Must be a 
member, disavow global warming as a bunch of lty to the soulofRonald Reagan. I enjoy Dave ionary only and the occasional Ann Coulter 
merica. F---Osama! 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?Don't battle the trauma 
~ _ alone. If you or someone you care for has been unintentionally ,rf,.&~, r~ impregnated recently, inform them of our services. Call 1-800­~~: · NO-ABORT. Our counselors are re~dy and willing to listen to 
how you got knocked up and offer our best advice as to how to proceed ... without res~rting to infanticide. Call TODAY!!! 

,~a~~l,rJ 
~,,;'•r.;•.'./ 
<:j
,;:'..·':,'! 
~}~)!
,•.:,;:...:1,' 




(or how I learned lo slop worrying and love ResLife) 
Partying too much? AEraid the alcohol-centric ND culture is causing you to kneel in front: oE too many open toilets between I and 5 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday mornings? Aspiring to be that: perfect Clockwork Christian!? 
Introducing the patented new 12-step program that will transform your most debased, fun-induced impulses into Euel Eor the model oE virtue and all-around banali-ty! 
Using the latest advances in Soviet mind-control technology, FLIPMIND will make sure you behave f:o the best oE your Scripture-mandated ability ••• Not: because you want to, but because you have no other choice. 
All hail, Big Brother Kerk! 
"Thanks to FLIPMIND, I am no longer plagued by desires to pound Jaeger, beat up the homeless or coerce bar chicks into fulfdling my weirdest S&M fantasies! All hail, Big Brother Kerk!" 
Brought: l:o you by 1:he Nol:re Dame Minisl:ry of Love and MTV's ''Scared Sl:raighl:" 
,· ' . _· __ -~--··· __ ,:, __ 
-

•Alex Hellmuth 
0 n March 24, as I watched the seconds on the clock slowly count down to zero signaling the end of the Irish hockey team's season, I asked myself, "Why is it that Notre Dame cannot win the games that matter?" From the long history of bowl game losses to the most recent NCAA first-round disappointments in basketball and hockey, perhaps_ the Irish are lacking the fundamental ingredients to great success. An analysis of both the Irish basketball and hockey teams shows that each squad was primed to advance further through the NCAA tournament and change Irish history. The hockey season was all about firsts. In February, the Irish celebrated their first-· ever CCHA regular season win over Alaska-Fairbanks and proceeded to capture the CCHA championship with a 2-1 victory over the University of Michigan. Theywere ranked No. I in the nation in March, and, for its biggest first in program history, the team advanced past the opening round of the NCAA tournament with a win against Alabama-Huntsville. Senior goalkeeper David Brown led the nation in wins (27), and his five shutouts placed him fifth in the nation. His quick and aggressive style intimidated shooters, and with forwards like freshmen Ryan Thang and Kevin Deeth, the Irish were perfectly poised to beat Michigan State: The Irish basketball team headed into the NCAA postseason ranked fourth in the finalBig East regular-season standings (after being picked 11th ofl6 in the Preseason Coaches' Poll) with an 11-5 record. Averaging 81.5 points during the regular season, the Irish earned a No. 6-seed in the NCAA tournament, matched up against No. T he No. I-seeded Irish 11-seed Winthrop. Winthrop was 0-6 in previous tournament tries and, despite hockey team survived the being labeled as a potential George Mason for this year's tournament, had trouble longest game in school beating strong, physical teams. But the Irish had senior guard Colin Falls, one of history to earn the program's first the best three-point shooters in the nation, along with the freshman combination NCAA tournament victory over ofLuke Harangody, an excellent rebounder, and ToryJackson, one of the quickest Alabama-Huntsville. With 4:42 ball handlers in the game. These factors alone should have been enough to propel remaining in the game's second the Irish to the second round. But in the opening round, the Irish fell to Winthrop sudden-death overtime, freshman 74-64 and ended what could have been their most successful season yet. wing Ryan Thang scored for the Both the hockey and basketball teams went into their postseasons after having second time in the game to give the possibly their very best seasons in Notre Dame history. Overconfidence might have Irish a 3-2 win. The goal pushed his played a role in their downfalls. The hockey team was ranked No. 2 overall, yet was team-leading season total to 20 ... especially worn down by underdog Alabama-Hunstville, leaving the Irish with little Brian ·Hubschmann, senior energy left for Michigan State. In the Big Dance, Winthrop's players stepped up attackman for the No. 19 Irish and made the big plays to lead their team to an upset over the Irish. Despite being lacrosse team, earned Great Western favored to win in both cases, the Irish fell far short of expectations, and it appears Lacrosse League Player of the that an elusive missing piece outweighed other factors in Notre Dame's favor. So all Week honors for March 12-18. He awards, firsts, personal bests and victory marches considered, what is the essential totaled seven goals and two assists piece of the puzzle that Notre Dame's teams are missing? that week, including a four-goal Ultimately, it is up to the players and coaches to determine just what it is that performance in a 16-5 w1n at Drexel. they are missing, but until the lost luck of the Irish is rediscovered, loyal fans will Hubschmann had also maintained just have to wait a little longer. a scoring streak of 11 games before 
failing to score in an 11-3 win over 
Bellarmine ... 
Senior sabreist Patrick Ghattas 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author 
made his third consecutive run
and not necessarily the views of Scholastic. 
to the title bout at the NCAA 
29 MAR 2007 
liRKSH 
EYES ON... 
Brian Hubschmann 
•Marques Camp 
Brian Hubschmann is a fifth-year senior 
.· majoring in computer applications and Film, Television and Theatre. The co-captain of the Irish men's lacrosse team, Hubschmann was recently named the Great Westem Lacrosse League Player of the Week after he notched seven goals and two assists in contests against Drexell a.rjd Dartmouth. He was a.lso,tabbed:as apreseasbn hbnbrable mention /\1)--Arnerican pick bynatio.nal 

Describe your most memorable 
lacrosse Web site, lnsideLacrosse.com. 
.·. experience as a member of the team. 
.. .'.. ..· . . ,-, 
11 
' 

·-· · • One of my most memorable experiences 
AfWh~t age did you start playing · ·· ·.·as a member of the team Was when lacros:5e, and what drew you to it?: yve took a team trip to Prague, Czech \ started playing when I was about 1d .... ·Republic,twcrsummers ago. My father is 
MyJwo older brothers had gotten me •· from there; a.rid I am a dual citizen, so it's 
inte.re.sted in lacrosse, and I liked the • ..always greattogo back there. But this ·fac~thafitwasn't a traditional sport ip . trip was memorable because it was with ·a sense.Also, a bunch ofmyfriends . ·.· 35 of,mybest friends, and we got the 
had joiryed our local town team, sq.it opportunity to'visit a lot of great places was anothe(way to har.ig outyvith them arid have scime fuh adventures. outside of school. · · Whaf~re'the main keys for the team Did you play an/other sports to have asuccessful season? 
growing up? . . . . .• . . . . The main key for our team to have a I grew up primarily playing socce/and :. successfui s~asonis to remain focused basketball and playing some lacrosse \ . onthe ta.skat hand and notto worry 
~ 
o·
on the side. But when I got a little·blder,· ap9ut,thingsfhatare out ofour control. a. 
(/)
I found that I liked playing lacross'e . A~?ofright now, we c·ontrol ouTown ' 0 much more than the other two, so I fate, in terms ofmaking the NCAA 
~ 
began to focus more on that. In high tournamenUf we take each game one 0 
I
. school, I stopped playing basketball and at a time, then we will find what we are CJ). 0 joined the bowling team. looking for at the end of the year. 
25 ........ . 



Fencing Championship on March 23, becoming the second Irish men's fencer to do so. He and the other five Irish participants all garnered All-American honors, each finishing ·in the· top 11 in the tournament. The men handed the torch to the women after two days of bouts ending with Notre Dame in third place, eight wins behind leader 
Colombia University ... 
No. 3 women's tennis took a 7-0 victory over Wisconsin with ease, the entire squad dropping just three. games insix singles matches. Nationally-ranked Irish Catrina Thompson (No. 19) and Cosmina Ciobanu (No. 62) each recorded 6-0 wins over their opponents, the third straight double-bagel victory for Thompson. Catrina and twin sister · Christian, the No. 4 doubles team in the nation, sealed the victory with · an 8-1 showing against Wisconsin's 
Caiati-Carpenter tandem. 
29 MAR 2007 

A Dream Deferred 

THE HOCKEY TEAM MAKES A "TRANSITION TO TRADITION" 
•Marques Camp
So it is here that the dream dies. March 24, 2007, 11:14 p.m. at Van 
Andel Arena in Grand Rapids, Mich. One night after a grueling 
-yet joyous -victory over the Alabama-Huntsville Chargers in the NCAA tournament, the top­seeded Irish failed to advance to the first Frozen Four in the program's history. A 2-1 loss to Michigan State tears at the heart of the Irish men's hockey team -not so much for the loss, but because they had toiled and overcome so much adversity, only to come up one game short of collegiate hockey's Mecca and two games short of being able to call themselves national 
champions. This dream died a HOME RINK ADVANTAGE Centers VanGuilder and Kissel help lead the Irish to a 13-2-2 record at home. 
noble, tragic death. 
We can say the dream was born at this  first-ever NCAA tournament appearance  season in program history, finishing with  
very place, Van Andel Arena, on March  for the Notre Dame hockey program  an embarrassing 5-27-6 record. The team  
27, 2004. The Irish, fresh off a 20-15-4  my freshman year was a great honor  needed change ifit was going to erase the  
record and a pending appearance in the  and a great experience," senior captain  2004-05 season from its memory and start  
first NCAA tournament game in program  TJ Jindra says. After scoring two first­ anew on a different chapter in the story  
history, were set to face the third-ranked  period goals in a somewhat surprising  of Notre Dame hockey.  
Minnesota Gophers. "Being part of the  start, the Irish failed to score the rest of  Jindra recalls with fondness Coach  
the game and lost to  Pouliri and his influence on the program.  
the. Gophers 5-2.  "I always felt Coach Poulin was more of  
Despite the loss, the  an NHL-style coach. He was very laid  
Irish had hoped that  back with his players and really seemed to  
the 2003-04 season  have the approach that his players at the  
would be the birth of  collegiate level were self-motivated. [But]  
a tradition: the kind  sometimes that doesn't always work when  
of tradition that the  you don't have a group ofplayers who are  
Irish football team  self-motivated like he was." On the other  
has monopolized,  hand, JeffJackson "is very up-front and  
an&, to a lesser  · honest with his players as far as what he  
extent, the men's and·  expects from them, both personally and  
women's basketball  as a team," Jindra says. On May 6, 2005,  
teams have also  Jackson was named to succeed Poulin in  
experienced.  what would be the start of a new era in  
What then-coach  Notre Dame hockey.  
Dave Poulin and  Jackson, well-respected and admired  
the team did not  in hockey circles, knew what it took to  
expect, however, was  build a program and a tradition. He  
the experience that  had led the Lak~ Superior State Lakers  

.... 
was soon to follow. to six consecutive NCAA tournament
CCHA Player of the Year David Brown stands ready at the net•. 
The Irish suffered· appearances and, from 1992-1994, to through the worst three consecutive title game appearances. 
•••••••.. 26 
29 MAR2007 

ScholasticSports@·· ·; .-. · · · · · · · · · 
Jackson wanted a "transition to tradition" This newfound chemistry helped for the Notre Dame hockey program. At va1,1lt the Irish to the first No. 1 ranking his introductory press conference, he said, in school history following a sweep of "My immediate objective is to take the Bowling Green. But as Jackson noted at players that are here and accelerate the t the time, "We still have a lot of hockey to transition and convince the players that play this season, and our team has a lot of are ~ere that they fit into the mission." room for improvement, but we appreciate During the 2005-06 season, Jackson's the recqgnition for what we've done so influence on the players was very visible far." The team, heeding Jackson's advice, as they improved to a 13-19-4 record. The staked a strong hold on their top ranking transition was underway. and held it for the last seven weeks 
Which brings the team to this year. of the season, in large part thanks to 
Despite the marked improvement during contributions by senior goaltender David 
the 2005-06 season, the team was not Brown, a finalist for the Hobey Baker 
yet on the national radar. But an early-Award, given to the nation's top player, 
season 7-2 drubbing of then-No. 1 ranked and sophomore center Erik Condra,who 
Boston University and a 6-1 victory led the team with 48 points this season. 
over Providence College the next night The Irish carried that momentum and 
secured their status as a team quickly captured their first CCHA playoff title 
on the ascent to college hockey's elite, in program history and the No. 1 seed 
perhaps faster than many expected. "I in the Midwest region in the NCAA 
think a lot of us on the team felt we had a tournament. 
special group of guys," Jindra says. "Apart If there was ever a top-seeded team 
from our great goaltending, our great that deserved to carry the moniker of 
defense, our great forwards, I always talk "Cinderella," the Irish would certainly 
about the X-Factor in this group and how have been that team. Their first test 
well we get along. This team gets along in Grand Rapids was that of another 
so well, and anytime you get a group that Cinderella, the Alabama-Huntsville 
likes to bearoundeachothersomuchlike Chargers, owners of a 13-19-4 regular­
we do, you are going to be successful." season record. After scoring two goals in the first five minutes of the game, the Irish allowed the Chargers to come back with two goals, and the score remained tied at 2-2 at until the end of regulation. After a scoreless overtime period and more than 15 minutes into the second overtime, the Irish finally wore the underdog Chargers down as freshman forward Ryan Thang scored the winning goal. 
And here we are, March 24, 11:14 p.m. Two power-play goals by the Spartans are enough to overcome the weary, battle­tested Irish. The dream has certainly died. No Frozen Four. No national championship. 
But on this night, there blossomed something greater. The death of one dream led to the birth ofanother. Despite the dream ending for Jindra and seven other seniors, another dream was born for all the returning and incoming members. No longer are the Irish outside the conscioµsness of collegiate hockey. After the loss, Jackson said, "It means a lot more to play for Notre Dame now." Twenty years from now, perhaps, the next generation ofIrish hockey fans will look upon March 24, 2007, and remember the date when the "transition to tradition" signaled a new era at Notre Dame. 0 
I!!c::. 
0 
D. 
Ill 
u 
ti
:s 
0 
I 
u 
(I)


University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, 

~\t'f~'6~V~~':Giit)°'li1#:l.:if.,:'¼,T~}'..~~...)1..i.SA~ 
_,..,..,,.,  ;·:·. - . .  . .  .  .  .  ...~.....,  
-,:  ~ ~  > • -I  • '  .,  - ', •,..,  ,  .,._'.  ".-_;-~  
:.....  t  ,  ~  ::­ ,  ..._,,  !  • ' ',.__  ], ', ~-­ • ·:  

CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 
and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreatfor gay/lesbian/questioning students 
and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at1-7800; 
or Fr. Dick Warner, CSC, at 1-9704 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty afLafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at: 
http://coreoouncil.nd.edu 



Listening In.• • 
¦ "So, was it awkward that you tried to steal his 
girlfriend?" -oyerheard g9ssiper, O!-ltside SDH 
. ' . ·., :: . ~:. )/, :-::•-}:" .-i:>,·.-,J;, 
.......,:;,­
¦ "No, I hooked up with his friendyesterday." ----· not-so-secretive student 
~ "Marriageis just a ceremonythatprovesyoulove someone enough to let your parents know you· have sex with him." 
_. , ~fe!11ale student plajlosopher · 
• 
"I'm always reallyparanoid that I'm going to beput in the 

random quote section." -unsuspecting victim 

• 
"Try to work the phrase 'monopolistic nerophilia' into 


· everyday conversation." --· overheard professor 
Forty-One Years Ago 
Years ago, in 1966, football was truly a matter oflife or death. Don't want the opposing team to win? The solution is obvious: just kill 'em! Read on: 
''Last Saturday, a fan in Ames, Iowa, topped everything. Apparently fed up with the unexphsive attack ofIowa State University's Cyclones, he took matters into his own hands. While rolling the field shortly before the State-Nebraska game, stadium workers unsuspectingly triggered a land mine planted on the 46-yard line, squar.ery in the center ofthefield. Somewhat less than enthralled with the prospect of scraping up pieces offoo-rball playersfrom itsfield each week, the schoolcalledin the FBI A disgruntled twenty year-old chemist!y student was discovered to be the 
culprit" 
Muah-haha, I know! I'll just put a landmine on the field! Landmines are such a funny practical joke. That'll stop those evil football players. Next week I think I'll take out the chemistry department with some pipe bombs because they give out things like "tests" and "homework" 
-Elisa Suarez 



Problem 3: A Serving Size of Hint of Lime Chips is Only 6 Chips. 
Listen. If you like Hint of Lime, this is a problem. I adore Hint of Lime. Unfortunately, there are approximately 14 servings per container at 150 calories a pop. Also unfortunately, I'm not good at fractions, and I just ate three quarters of this bag in about 15 minutes. I mean come on USDA, six chips?! Eating six chips out of a bag of Hint of Lime is like saying you're going to drink the ocean and then calling it a day after swallowing a teaspoonful. Ifthe lime powder is calorie free, they should just start packaging that on its own. I'd sprinkle it on my chicken. Anyway, none ofthis matters to me because I'm naturally fat. At least this is what my contemporary topics teacher told me freshman year. Needless to say, that was a bad day. Too bad gym teachers don't get teacher course evaluations. I would've slammed her so hard (verbally) that to this day the secretaries would still be laughing about that one time the fat girl got pissed. 
Problem 4: There Are Too Many Hot People Around. 
If everyone in the world were blind, I'd be the coolest person you know. Unfortunately, it's not la-la-land, it's the real world: Bambi's mom is dead, and looks matter. This is why my album never got picked up by the record companies, those image-based jerks. Anyway, nobody may listen to me, but I still contend· that if you're hot AND an Arts and Letters inajor, you don't actually have real problems. Sorry, nice try. 
These are my problems. Please, just 0 0: 
:iE
because I wrote the deepest and most :) touching article ofall time does not mean 0 ::c that I want to hear about you or your life 
~ 
:5
dilemmas. I have enough crap to listen to :c0 when my family calls. 0 . 0 Cl) A s a former Notre Dame varsity athlete, it's easy to see how blinding the precedence given to the university's sports programs can be. However, working for Denver's Road Home (a municipal government effort to combat homelessness) last fall allowed me to step outside the frequently over-dramatized realm of sports and see what is most important. For instance, during a semi-annual event held as a part of Denver's Road Home called Project Homeless Connect, multiple agencies from around the city gather tog~ther to provide services to the homeless in one location. Aside from practical services, the event strives to make the environment 'uplifting and accommodating .for clientele and volunteers alike. The day naturally involved long lines, lots ofstanding and plenty ofwaiting. Warm bagels, fresh fruit and coffee by the 

1!Ji Brian Sheehan 
especially prone to this mindset because we are directly exposed to the school's powerful ambiance, which, to the unvigilant perspective, can foster an immature sense ofnostalgia. It's time for Notre Dame students and alumni to evaluate our priorities honestly. Have we mistaken the attention the university receives from the glamour of its sports programs for the true glory God gives this school by subtly working through people devoted to serving the least of us? 
Especially at Notre Dame, sports can be a wonderful thing. They are a fun release for burdened students, create a .good 
. context for introductory conversation and provide a mutual rallying point that helps community take root. But, without a healthy perspective, the seminal moments of communion created by the excitement of athletics will rarely become 
gallon poured into hundreds of paper cups were a few of the items served to keep the 
atmosphere from going sour. But even good food and caffeinated drinks can have 
a difficult time suppressing the fatigue produced by 
· d b ks d h kn
ti.re ac an ac y ees. Fortunately, a masseuse 
"It's time for Notre Dame students and alumni to evaluate our priorities honestly. Have we mistaken the 
a.tt.ep,0,_c;:>Il th<=. HB,iY<=:rsiJ;y_ r~cei:v~s from :tl:ie_ glarncmr 0 ,£ its sports programs for the true glory God gives this school by subtly working through people devoted to 
serving the least of us?" 
sustained joy. Truly lasting joy is only found when 
we become Christ's. ..We are all called to coope.rate w,i~h the 
Holy Spirit's grace and be transformed into compassionate men and women who 
generously situated a massage station on the premises that day to help ease tension. 
After getting all the practical help possible, a homeless man saw the therapists delicately working their hands_ over the backs and shoulders of old and young alike. After politely asking his guide for permission to visit the station, he approached the oddly-shaped massage chair, found a comfortable position, and began to unwind as the therapist carefully "undid" the knots in his back. When finished, he returned to the company ofhis escort with tears rolling down his cheeks. When asked what was wrong, the man replied, 
"That's the first time anybody has touched me in two years." 
Two years! To me, that is an unfathomable amount oftime to have no physical contact with others. It must have been hellacious to watch thousands of people pass by without so much as a hug or a handshake. It's unfortunate that people become blinded by their own personal interests, failing to recognize how profound these small gestures can be in the lives of despairing people. 
Mental investment in sports can be one of these blinding influences. I, too, once held sports in exaggerated esteem. It was not until freshman year that I realized, from an athlete's perspective, the shocking number of people who place high-level athletics on an idolatrous pedestal. Darners are create unity by striving to eradicate the injustices inhibiting communion in our human family. 
Presently, poverty is the injustice looking us in the eye, and the increasing gap between rich and poor is the rift needing unification. However good and wholesome sports are, prioritizing them while limiting tl1e dictates of justice in our lives to a minor role of charity will not allow our consciences to rest easy for long. Eventually people will come to realize that, as a university, our collective contributions to the common good are far less than what we are capable of giving. Bringing faith, hope and love to the neglected is where true fulfillment lies. · 
Working with the poor will inevitably expose ugly realities we would rather not see. Racism, sexism, religious hatred and other shameful things exacerbated by poverty seldom express themselves explicitly in this country but survive by weaving through tl1e public's subconscious fabric. But, however bad things may seem, I am confident that Providence will see to it that Notre Dame has its head pointed the right way: For many of us, this means acknowledging it is time to downplay the significance of athletic glory, because in the grand scheme, football is not that important. 
The views exp resse d in this column a re those of the author and not necessarily the views of 
Sch o Ias tic, 
29 MAR 2007 


H•DDLE 


;CJ ·;
. ' 
. CRS ;FAIR 
·TRADl.·i
FAIR •¦ADE • ¦ FFEI! 
COIi ii ECl'IOII 

Enjoy Fair Trade Coffee atthe Huddle. 
Fair Trade ensures thal your ,coffee ptncbase promotes human dignity., economic justice .and h9ipe ·tar smalIfamily toffee farmers and their communities.. 
/ ---------------------------------------------,~ 
Receive a 2 liter Coke product for 99¢ with the purchase of a$5 To G~ Pizza. 
---......., Coupon required for 99¢ 2ilter. No coupon required for $5 To Go Pizza. ' ~s~~L~~l'l'.'Q Not to be used with any other coupon or discount. Coupon has no cash 
. 
u,u••Ij1 value. Please present this coupon before ordering. Limit one per customerJi' u,.~. Only valid at LaFortune Sbarro. Offer expires May 1, 2007. 
Sbarro .iccepts. • f I$(­
~ . . I 
~-----------------------------------~---------' 

Notre Dame Archives 607 Hesburgh Library .Notre Dame IN 46556 



