Enjoy both sides of smoking pleasure!
a Om^I
Graduate to Cavaliers! Light up and feel that Cavalier mildness—so light, smooth and easy! Try a pack of Cavaliers today. See if
you don’t agree with thousands of smokers who compared king-size Cavaliers with the cigarettes they’d been smoking. Yes . . .
You can’t help but notice — on campus and off — smart smokers are shifting to king-size Cavaliers. Try them and find out tvhat a pleasure smoking can be when the smoke feels so mild and tastes so good!
Cavaliers give you the world’s aristocratic tobaccos blended in an extra length. There is no better natural filter! There is no finer source of delightful flavor! Today’s the day. Get Cavaliers ... get extra mildness where it counts — in the feel of the smoke!
See why, among thousands of smokers interviewed ..
CAVALIERS ARE KING-SIZE yet priced no higher than leading regular-size cigarettes!
8 OUT OF 10 SAID
CAVALIERS ARE MILDER!
R. J. Reynolds; Tobacco Co.. Winston-Salem. N. C.
Scholastic
/ol. 96 MARCH 18, 1955 No. 17
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mortiturus
Founded 1867
i he ARROW points to
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of jostage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized fune 23, 1518.
Headquarters for Your Arrow Shirts
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART
!OHN ADAMS ................. News
1OBERT KAUFMAN .... Assistant News >AUL J. LaFRENIERE      Copy zharles McKendrick................
.................... Assistant Copy OSEPH CONNOLLY .........Features CEN WOODWARD .. Business Manager ’ETER STURTEVANT ..... Photo Editor
IM FITZGERALD ....................
___________ Photography Coordinator IM GULDE __ Head Photographer
OHN P. DEFANT .. Faculty Moderator
dember of Catholic School Press Association, As-ociated Collegiate Press. Represented for national idvertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., ■20 Madison Avenue, New York City.
fHE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the chool year, except during vacation and examinaion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad-Iress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, 7otre Dame, Indiana.
m BUTTON-DOWN SHIRTS... JUST THE TICKET FOR ANY OCCASION!
'JEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Buck Harriss, Jerrold Olton, Jack Hough, Francis Hurley, Ed Joyce, Javid Kubal, James Lenox, Jim Loeffler, James McDonald, John McMahon, Joe Mocarski, James durphy, Arthur Price, Thomas Quinn, Dick Rust, im Steintrager, Paul Underkofler, Ray Walsh.
iPORTS STAFF: Dave Davin, Bob Early, Kit Eckl, bhn Glavin, Jim Goethals, Jack Gueguen, Ray .escher, Joe Madigan, Bob McDonald, Vince Nai-loli, Joe Norton, and Bob Parnell.
1USINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon and Loran iheffer.
)UR COVER: Dan and John O’Brien no relation) have resin all over their ameras and clothes after five nights t Bengal ringside, but their outstand-ng pictures show it was time well-pent. They combined talents for the bur cover pictures. Further pictures ire on pages 19-21.
It’s the one collar that says: “Right you are,” from morning coffee to midnight oil.
You get variety of style, too, with Arrow button-downs. In round collars, spread collars, collars with a soft roll. They’re precisely tailored to give you the button-down you like best. See your Arrow dealer. He has button-downs in a variety of colors, j’ust right for you... (and your budget, too). §3.95 up.	’
\ ARROW
j \ SHIRTS & TIES
<	CASUAL WEAR
\	UNDERWEAR
V \ HANDKERCHIEFS
3
YOUR
WNDU
MIKE CHATTER
Headquarters
FOR
AFTER-SIX Formal Wear
buttons and beaus
BMOC and backbench boys—go for AFTER SIX formats. Styling so trim, fit so "natural” "stainshy” finish so safe from spots! For more fun—go
•M*. fenmadiat* delivery. Special rate* •e etvdeaH.
F»ee delivery, pick-up and lervKn.
ROYAL TYPEWRITER CO. 309 E. Jefferson South Bend
Phone CE 2-3336 <_______________________
DRRWTURB0W
\pPTOMETRIST
-- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
_ EYES EXAMINED —
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
This is the season of the year that turns out highly trained teams of marathon sleepers. The long stretch until the Easter emancipation is filled with not much, and very little in the way of even attempted entertainment. Except for the rare exception of St. Patrick’s day when many turn green, and not particularly because of their national origin, the month of March offers only scholastic stagnation.
In order to inject a little adrenalin into their listening cycle, the local nutwork has come up with a few synthetic diamonds in the rough. Initially, there is a new concept in programming entitled “Sunday Showcase.” This easy moving hour offers a variety of music which is palatable to every listening taste.
Emcees: Markley and McCartan
The entrepreneurs of this hour-long session of sounds are Bill Markley and Pat McCartan. Both of these word wizards have had no little, and quite much in the way of radio experience and production. Their savvy makes this hour-long stint from 2 to 3 p.m. each Sunday afternoon, well worth a twist on the wireless.
Zounds! It’s “Sounds.” A giant step has been taken by WNDU in securing the services of “Daddy ’0” Gels and his “Hungry Six.” The sextet consisting of “Daddy ’0” himself on the horn; Eddie Pistey, sax; Gene Bertoncini, guitar; Bob Bums, piano; Phil Heil, bass; and Stu McKeiver, drums; plays strictly in the jazz idiom. The interpretations are made by that master of the twisted talk of jazzdom, Kevin Joyce. This marks the first scheduled “live” broadcast of a musical nature that WNDU has participated in, and it is one in which a keen interest has already been awakened. “Sounds” breaks from 1:30 to 2 in the p.m. every Saturday.
Last, and certainly least, on the list of new programs is “The Hour of Harm.” “The Hour of Harm” occupies only 15 minutes of the broadcasting day, but it’s called an hour show because it seems that long. The personage who is at the microphone for the majority of the session is “The Vulgar Boatman,” and his grunts are audible only between records. This show hits your crystal set at 5:45 each afternoon, so make it a point to be eating then. —Bill Byrne
Reward Yourself
The way to enjoy life is to live ' it—
And the time to live is now. with	t
ALBANOS
Fine Foods *
•	Tuesday and Thursday	j
Steak and Spaghetti
French Fries, Coffee, Bread, Butter $1.25	|
•	Friday—Fish Night Shrimp .95 Perch .95
Cheese Pizza .95	I
’Saturday—Cheese Pizza Night ' .95 >
•	Sunday—72 Fried Chicken $1.35 i
ALL THIS WEEKLY	I
AT
ALBANOS
415 N. MICHIGAN ST.
Accommodations for N. D.	|
Banquets at a special	_ j
N.D. rate.
Watch the Fights on T.V.	|
Friday Nights	|
Serving Your Favorite Beverages
Nationally Advertised
Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing
Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
AQUINAS LIBRARY aid BOOK SHOP
We Sell Truth New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
The Scholastic
I the week
by Jim O'Shea
Top of the Week . . .
Hark! The Marriage Institute has given its opinion on dating. It is O.K. ...	.
A New Themesong . . .
Talking about the Marriage Institute, of course, brings us to the related subject of St. Mary’s. My trans-Dixie correspondent has really been on the ball this WEEK. It seems that a group of the more ingenious lassies have come up with a theme song for shy ND men who are afraid to date the loveable ladies from across the way. I think it’s good enough to print. It goes by the tune of “Cross Over the Bridge.” Here it is:
If you’re a guy who’s led astray
By every false report
About the girls across the way
Then brother be a sport, And give us gals a decent chance To prove just ivhat we’re worth.
Don’t put such stress on circumstance And let’s get doivn to earth.
Chorus :
Cross over the road.
Cross over the road.
Leave the Golden Dome behind you.
Cross over the road.
Leave your “imports” far behind you, And one of us will find you.
Brother, cross over the road.
And there’s another verse:
We all can’t be like Juliet We realize it’s so.
But friend of mine please don’t forget That you’re no Romeo.
So let’s let what is past be past.
It really is a shame
p That we can’t come to terms at last With gung-ho Notre Dame.
(Chorus)
Veiy clever. This song might do wonders to improve relations with SMC. Never fear, though, my illustrious antiwomen correspondents are working now on a secret sequel, designed to undo what is being done. This song might appear in my next column. Then again, it might not.
|l To the Woods!
As you know, a contingent of the troops was detached to St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods last weekend. These men were all volunteers, since the trip was above and beyond the call of duty. The commander of the trip, Dick Reamer, -asked for volunteers. He got 34. A few of the not-so-brave troops were heard calling, in high, falsetto voices,
“no, no, anything but the Woods!” Indeed, it looked like things were doomed to failure.
Things didn’t turn out so bad, though. Them that was there say that the odds were ten to one in favor of the guys, and that the girls were very friendly. Much “mixing” was done, I’m told, and many dates for1 coming proms were made. It does my old heart good to see another supply of young ladies opened to the ND demand. Commander Reamer and his volunteers are to be commended for the successful sortie to the south. To the Woods!
Ah, faith ’n’ begorrah!
And a glorious St. Paddy’s Day it was, was it not? Sure, all the Irish were downtown last night, and a devil of a celebration was had by all. O’Meara, O’Brien, O’Toole, O’Halloran—they were all there, including those two fine ould Micks, Don O’Geis and John O’Slavick, and later on we ran into Bob O’Arrix and Don O’Yeckel. Ah, what a night it was!
The dye is cast . . . out
Only one thing marred the glorious Irish evening, as a matter of fact. There was no Green Beer at Sweeney’s. The old custom of drinking Green Beer at Sweeney’s was outlawed this year, when some killjoy informed Sweeney that selling beer with green dye in it was a violation of the Pure Food and Drag Act. Seems that the Green Beer produced many green faces last year. ’Tis a sin and a shame, men, but Sweeney will no longer “dye” for us.
Incidentally—
Did you know that St. Patrick’s Day used to be a free day at Notre Dame? It was once the biggest holiday in the
school year. All students, Irish oi* not, were let out of classes and loosed on South Bend. This was back in the old days when students were allowed to have fun.
The yearly free day ended when a group of Holy Cross Brothers of French descent objected to the celebration because nothing was done to celebrate the feasts of French patrons. I find this highly irritating. I’d have been very glad to celebrate the feasts of Clotilde, Martin of Tours, Joan of Arc and St. Denis—if only they hadn’t taken St. Patrick’s Day away from us!
Flub of the WEEK
My Badin Hall correspondent, Pete Sturtevant, writes me that a certain Badinite (name deleted to save face) took his blind date from Rosary into the hall to show her his room. The first thing the young lady saw was a note from the lad’s brother, which read: “If you can ditch that witch, I’ll see you tonight.”
The Return of the Swallow—
I chose to eat the sauerkraut At lunch last Monday, men. Since then it has been coming back To haunt me now and then.
I’m very fond, of sauerkraut. It makes my tummy ■ churn. At periodic intervals, Each swallow doth return.
With sauerkraut, you need not chew— Just wolf it doivn in haste.
And then, my friend, for many days, You’ll taste, and taste, and taste.
So men, beware of sauerkraut.
It's nature’s weirdest freak.
You eat the stuff an Monday noon— It stays with you all WEEK.
A Filling Assignment '
The Blue Circle has formed a committee to see that the deep, ugly holes in the parking lot get filled up before somebody breaks a spring or an ankle. This is a good idea, however. I believe the name of the committee should be changed. The head of the group, I’m told, is getting pretty tired of being called “The chainnan of the Chuck-hole Committee.”
How about calling it the “Dental Committee?” After all, they’re filling cavities, aren’t they? (Oh, yuk-yuk-yuk!)
Jab of the WEEK
Did you know that there is a girl at St. Mary’s who always pouts at mixers because she thinks she looks better when ■ she’s pouting? Haw!
Bottom of the WEEK . . .
... to hold hands.
i 5
March 18, 1955
'^FARLtSS'SoSDICK. by AL CAPP
calendar
BUT MV NAME
PRUDENCE
AT ALLTIMES.Y NOW, I WILL BEA CREDIT TO THE DEPARTMENT ON THE FRONT pageaT-get
FRIDAY, MARCH 18
WASHINGTON HALL (8:15 p.m.)—Approximately 200 parents and their sons will gather for the kickoff of the 1955 Junior Class Parents-Son Weekend. A program of chamber music will be provided by the Department of Music, as well as a packed weekend schedule of touring, chow hall dining and general “college living.”
STUDENT CENTER (8:30 p.m.)-^A St. Patrick’s Day “Afterthought” mixer for SMC, St. Joe’s, Junior Daughters of Isabella and 25 cents.
SACRED HEART CHURCH (7:30 p.m.)—The annual senior retreat begins under the mastership of Rev. Gervase J. Brinkman, O.F.M. The closed retreat will continue tomorrow and will end Sunday. Senior Hall boards carry all the information.
GRANADA (indefinite)—Everybody’s girl, Grace Kelly, and that time-tried, and proven warbler of yesteryear, Bing Crosby, get together with William Holden to screen one of the best for the year around here—The Country Girl. For those who don’t know already, Good Grace plays our kind of game by weathering Bing’s alcoholic binges rather than Holden’s amorous appeals. Grace is more than the secure wife of a very insecure Bing; go see how and why.
COLFAX (held over one week)—The Long Gray Line is a sure bet for an evening of genuine entertainment. Tyrone Power as the determined and fiery Irish immigrant and his equally determined and fiery wife Maureen O’Hara prove to the unbelievers that tradition and spirit are not born— they’re accomplished the hard way. Inspiring and highly emotional.
AVON (ends tomorrow)—Sure, now, an’ it’s a crazy mixed up, but appropriate kind of shenanigans that should hit town right after St. Pat’s day. Tonight’s the Night with David Niven, Yvonne De Carlo, and Barry Fitzgerald, do the lampoonin’ at the expense of Irish tradition and lore so hallowed as O’Leary Night when the humble ghost revisits his domain and provides much slapstick as the local gentry attempt to annihilate its “unwanted” inheritors.
PALACE (ends March 24)—New York Confidential and Treasure at Ruby Hill is the best the management seems to have been able to do. Broderick Crawford, Richard Conte and Marilyn Maxwell help out the first one. Forget about ihat other one, Confederate money isn’t any good any more anyway.
SPECIAL ADVICE!
ONLY A CREAM DRESSING GROOMS I HAIR THE NATURAL WAY! -------'
ABSOLUTELY NON-AICOHOLIC. WITHONBf NATURAL INGREDIENTS!
BUY AMERICA'S fAMORTTEf


SUNDAY, MARCH 20
STUDENT CENTER (2 to 5 p.m.)—An exclusive—mixer that is—for freshmen only. Guess where the gals will come from . . . ugh, ugh, bud, only one guess. Pay at the door, please.
AVON (ends March 22)—Ginger Rogers and some relatively “unknowns” get involved in a Continental thriller with romance, murder, and counterfeiting—all by Twist of Fate. After an involved and hectic love triangle, Ginny and her husband Jacques Bergerac, when they discover they have been surely victimized, professionally apprehend the real culprit in a whirlwind, bang-up finish. It’s your money, bud.
TUESDAY, MARCH 22
- WASHINGTON HALL (7:30 p.m.)—“Love in Marriage” will be the topic for Mr. and Mrs. Strubbe and members of the Senior Class as the Marriage Institute continues. The crowd will adjourn to the Center for the question-answer period that follows.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23
RIVER PARK (ends tomorrow)—A complete foreign slate is on tap for. local moviegoers as the east-side flicker palace flashes The Golden Coach and a short color-log, Tryptich, which takes the viewer into all the European Cathedrals for a squint at the stained windows and colorful architecture.
The Scholastic
Edifot '$ Page
Potpourri...
There’s not much time left in the semester but there’s always time for taking stock and making improvements. Here are a few perennially occurring matters that we’ve noticed or have been called to our attention:
With the departure of the bitter Indiana snows, a number of fellows have been cutting across the lawns in various places, sometimes to save walking only a few extra yards. Most of us know of one or more places where this happened and worn away the grass, making an eyesore. Some complaints have been made about the fences being put up, calling them eyesores. But which is a bigger one: a neat, orderly fence or a wom, barren stretch of lawn? The answer is obvious. Nor should there be any ballplaying on the lawns in front of Farley, for example, or in the court between Alumni and Dillon.
Along the same line, almost all of us have been guiltv of discarding candy bar wrappers, paper cups and other scrap paper anywhere and everywhere. Groundskeeping crews seem always at work trying to keep the campus clean, yet never appear caught up. Give the campus and them a break. It won’t take much effort on our part, just a little thought and restraint.
Welcome . . .
Two years ago the Class of 1954 sponsored a new activity: the Junior Parent-Son Weekend. It was highly successful then and again last year. Today the Junior Class opens rhe third Parent-Son Weekend. The Scholastic welcomes all the parents who have come to the University and wishes them and their sons an enjoyable and memorable weekend.
Ever try to phone a friend in another hall and stand listening to the phone ring and ring and ring without being answered? There are some halls where this is particularly bad—Alumni, Dillon and Walsh. There might be others nearly as bad. Don’t leave it up to the fellows who live near the phone; answer it if you’re passing. Remember, it could be for you!
Finally, the ever-present problem of line-crashing, especially in the Dining Hall. And especially in some particular lines there. It’s nice to eat with friends or to save time, but it’s not fair to do it at the expense of other fellows who have stood in line ahead of you. Again, the answer is obvious and nothing more need be said.
These are only four very evident problems that are present; there are probably more. We hope they will improve. If you know of any area where improvement is needed, please write a letter to the editor.
Want a Ride?
Hitchhiking is legal now—but only in a certain area. The Courtesy Pickup Service went into operation earlier this week. Location: between the entrance to Morris Inn and the gatehouse. Areas served: downtown, Angela and Notre Dame avenues.
Anyone can use the service, though it was conceived especially for the benefit of off-campus students without cars. If you want a ride, go to the pickup area and stand near the sign designating your destination: downtown, Angela or Notre Dame avenues. But two rules should be followed. First, stand behind the line painted on the road’s surface; this is a rule that must be followed if the service is to continue. Secondly, don’t block the signs; this is to allow the driver to see where you want to go. Observance of both these rules should help you to get a ride faster.
Please use and not abuse the service. If it works well, more signs may be put up and more destinations served.
To students and professors who drive: It’s your decision to make whether or not you will give rides to those standing in the pickup area, but we ask you to do so.	'
March 18, 1955
5
J
Donald C. Pote asks:
What bearing would my field of training have on my assignments at Du Pont?
CHARLES H. NOREN received his B.S. in Mining Engineering from the University of North Dakota before he entered the U. S. Air Force. Later he returned to school for an M.S. from the Missouri School of Mines, received in 1948. During the course of his Du Pont employment, Chuck Noren has had a wide variety of job assignments. At present he is engaged in a fundamental research project concerned with commercial explosives at Du Pont’s Eastern Laboratory in Gibbstown, N. J.
NOW AVAILABLE for student ASME chapters and other college groups, a 16-mm. sound-color movie—“Mechanical Engineering at Du Pont.” For further information write to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Bldg., Wilmington 98, Delaware.
«E6. U.S. PAT. OFF.
KTTH THNGS FO* SETTHt LIVING... TMtOUGH fflEMSHtY
WATCH “CAVALCADE OF AMERICA” ON TELEVISION
DONALD C. POTE will receive his B.S. degree in Mechanical Engineering from Princeton University this June. He’s been quite active in interclub athletics—football, basketball and baseball—and served a term as Club Athletic Director. He’s also found time to work on "The Princeton Engineer” as Associate Editor. Right now, Don is making thorough plans for his employment after graduation.
“Chuck” Noren answers:
The answer to that is easy, Don, if you mean initial assignments. Generally speaking, a graduate’s first assignment is influenced by his previous training and his expressed interest in a particular type of work. Whenever possible, Du Pont assigns a man to the type of work he is trained for and wants
—he’ll do better in any field if he’s highly interested. For example, my master’s thesis was on the use of explosives, and my first Du Pont assignment was a study of the efficiency of explosives.
But experience on the job really constitutes new training. You learn about other branches of science and engineering— you broaden your horizons through daily contacts with men having other skills. The result is that arbitrary divisions between technical branches gradually dissolve, and you become ready for new assignments and new responsibilities—even outside your original field. In my own case, I developed quite a bit of skill in mechanical and civil engineering techniques when I was called upon to supervise the "shooting” of an experimental tunnel for the evaluation of new explosives—even though my original training was in mining engineering.
Of course, specialization in a definite field may be continued if the man specifically wants it and reveals a talent for it. The best opportunities for that are in research and development. Naturally, the value of this kind of work is also recognized at Du Pont.
So, no matter what your initial assignment may be, Don, Du Pont is anxious to bring out your best. A good rule to remember is this. A graduate’s first assignment is often necessarily based on his field of training and his degree, but his subsequent progress at Du Pont is always based on his demonstrated ability.
The Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 96, Number 17
Notre Dame, Indiana
March 18, 1955
•JUNIORS TO HOST PARENTS FOR WEEKEND
College Opens Doors To Many Moms, Dads
From tonight until Sunday evening £ more than 262 members of the Junior Class will have the opportunity of showing off their school to the home folks during the annual Juniors’ Parents-Son Weekend. The fact that the number of accepted invitations far exceeds both the attendance of last year and the estimate for this year shows the growing enthusiasm for parents-son weekends, observes Dan Devine, Junior class president.
The weekend will officially open tom night at 8:15 in Washington Hall with a concert by a trio from the Department of Music.
Saturday morning parents will register at the Morris Inn from 8:30 to 1 p.m. Tickets for the noon meal and evening dinner may be purchased at this time. Parents are invited to attend Saturday morning classes with theii-son to see how he spends a great deal of his time at Notre Dame and to meet :	his instructors. For those who do not
f wish to attend classes there will be Blue Circle tours around the campus includ-। ing LOBUND from 10-12 noon.
In the afternoon from 2-4 there will be open house in all the colleges with the deans, heads of departments, and some professors present. In the Student Center the “Football Highlights of 1954” will be shown from 3:30 to 5.
Lunch that afternoon will be served . in lines A and B in the Dining Hall A just as it is served to the students. Dinner will be served by waiters at 7 p.m. t Devine wishes to emphasize the fact ' that the menu will be different from any that the students have had in the Dining Hall. After dinner Devine, acting as toastmaster, will introduce as the main speaker Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., president of the University.
Sunday morning seats will be reserved at the 9 o’clock Mass in Sacred
Heart Church where the sermon will be appropriate for the occasion. There will be no Communion Breakfast.
Juniors whose parents are attending are asked to inform them that all items on the agenda are according to Eastern Standard Time and that they enjoy the Lenten dispensation so long as they are on campus.
The committee asks the student body to be on its best behavior over the weekend and help make it a real success for the Junior Class.
Old South to Live Again At Senior Ball on May 13
The Old South will rise again on May 13, 1955. Jefferson Davis and Robert E. Lee won’t be there to see the long awaited event, but some 650 Notre Dame seniors and their ladies will. On that night, the date of the Golden Anniversary Senior Ball, the Navy Drill Hall will be transformed into a beautiful Southern ballroom, reminiscent of those that appeared in the lavish mansions of the Old South. The walls of the ballroom will be decorated with French windows, pale lights, pillars running the length of the Drill Hall, balconies in front and rear, a garden of roses, footmen, butlers—all the luxuries of the Old South.
On the bandstand, that grand old Southern gentleman, Mr. Ralph Mar-terie, will be conducting the music ’midst the Old South. He has promised to play Dixie and Swanee in the Old South fashion.
Chuck Pollnow, decorations chairman, has been hard at work for some time and presently is spending many evenings in the basement of Fisher Hall reviving the Old South. Any seniors who are interested in aiding the resurrection can contact him in Room 333 Alumni.
Ticket sales for the “Old South” will be held on March 28, 29, and 30. Details of the sale will be published in the next progress report of the dance committee.
mr. m. w. McCarthy Archbishop O’Hara Lecturer
M. W. McCarthy to Speak At Commerce Seminar
Michael W. McCarthy, noted New York investment broker, will address the second session of the Archbishop O’Hara Seminar on Thursday, March 24, it was announced this week by the University. The lecture will be held in the Law Auditorium at 2:30.
McCarthy is the assistant managing partner of Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner, and Beane, the well-known underwriters and distributors of investment securities and broker in securities and commodities. He is also a governor of the American Stock Exchange and a member of the committee presently reviewing the policies and procedure of the New York Stock Exchange.
This is the second Bishop O’Hara lecture for. June graduates in Commerce. The first was delivered by Dr. Robert Turner, visiting professor from Indiana University.
The O’Hara lecture series, mandatory for all graduating seniors, will continue in early Spring until the middle of May.
March 18, 1955
9
DR. POLLIT . . . where sleuths failed
Select Pollit to Head Correctional Program
Robert E. Pollit will assume his office as director of Notre Dame’s Correctional Administration Program Sept. 1, according to a recent announcement by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.
Pollit will succeed John Martin who resigned the post to take advanced studies at New York University. Mr. Pollit has been a case consultant with the Wisconsin Department of Public Welfare at Milwaukee since 1949 and supervisor of the Bureau of Probation and Parole since 1953.
A native of Providence, R. I., Pollit studied at Providence , College and received a master’s degree from the Boston College School of Social Work.
Sixty-five Gain M.A.’s.
Notre Dame’s Correctional Administration Program was established in 1947 under the direction of Hugh P. O’Brien who is now the chairman of the Board of Corrections for Indiana. Since the program was inaugurated 65 students have been awarded master’s degrees. They are now employed in the federal probation and parole system in various state systems in prisons, reformatories, and similar- institutions throughout the state.
Five prominent leaders in the field of probation, parole and criminology serve as advisors to Notre Dame’s Correctional Administration Program. In addition to O’Brien, they are Thomas McHugh, Commissioner of Correction of the State of New York; Russell Oswald, Director of Corrections for Wisconsin; Dr. Frank Flynn, professor of social service administration, University of Chicago; and Dr.
10
Father Moreau, Founder of Holy Cross Order, j Recommended as Candidate for Beatification
The Sacred Congregation of Rites of the Catholic Church has officially approved Very Rev. Basil Anthony Moreau, C.S.C., as a candidate for beatification. Father Moreau, a French priest who died in 1873, was the founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross which operates the University and many other institutions in the United States.
The Sacred Congregation of Rites also formally approved the writings of one of Father Moreau’s spiritual sons, Brother Andre, C.S.C., founder of the Oratory of Saint Joseph, Montreal.
When the decree introducing Father Moreau’s cause is signed by Pope Pius XII, the Holy See will begin an intensive investigation of the life and works of the French priest. The Church will endeavor to determine whether Father Moreau practiced sanctity in a heroic degree. His cause for beatification must also be supported by at least two authentic and approved miracles. Preliminary investigations, conducted on the diocesan level, have been completed by Church authorities in LeMans, France.
Founded Order in 1835
Beatification is an official act of the Church declaring a deceased person to be among the blessed in heaven. The person beatified is then entitled to public veneration by the faithful. Beatification is often, though not necessarily, followed eventually by canonization, the act of the Church proclaiming a person to be a saint.
Father Moreau was born Feb. 11, 1799, in Laigne-en-Belin, France. He was ordained to the priesthood in 1821 and for 12 years taught in the diocesan seminary at LeMans. In 1835 he took the first step in founding the Congregation of Holy Cross. Gathering about him a small group of priests of the LeMans diocese, he united them with the Brothers of Saint Joseph whom he was directing. Six years later Father Moreau founded the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In 1841 Father Moreau dispatched Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., with some Brothers to the United States. They founded Notre Dame on Nov. 26, 1842. As Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Father Moreau visited Notre Dame and nearby St. Mary’s
J. P. Shalloo, professor of sociology, University of Pennsylvania.
The Correctional Administration Program is a sequence of graduate studies within the sociology department headed by Dr. John J. Kane.
College, which is operated by the Holy Cross Sisters, in 1857. Moreau Seminary on the Notre Dame campus is named in his honor-.
Father Moreau died at LeMans on Jan. 20, 1873. His remains are in the crypt of Notre-Dame de Sainte-Croix, the mother church of the Congregation of Holy Cross at LeMans.
Secretary of Labor Speaks Here April I
The role of the International Labor Organization in promoting better understanding and economic advancement in the free world will be discussed here April 1 at a campus conference to be attended by government officials, ILO representatives and educators from more than 80 colleges and universities.
Secretary of Labor James P. Mitchell heads a list of speakers and panelists who will participate in the sessions at the Morris Inn. “The Colleges Look at the ILO” will be the theme of the conference to be held under the auspices of the University’s department of economics.
The International Labor Organization, whose headquarters are in Geneva, Switzerland, was born in 1919 as part of the Treaty of Versailles. It survived the League of Nations and today cooperates closely with the United Nations in international labor problems. Seventy nations, including Soviet Russia and its satellites are members of the ILO. Recent attempts by the Communist bloc to use the ILO for its own propaganda purposes have caused concern among government officials and industrial relations specialists in the western world.
“United States Participation in the ILO” will be the subject of Secretary Mitchell’s address at the conference luncheon. Assistant Secretary of Labor Ernest J. Wilkins, U. S. Government representative in the ILO, will keynote the morning session with a talk on “United States Objectives in the ILO.” Dr. Edwin Witte, longtime chairman of the University of Wisconsin’s economic department, will speak at the afternoon session on “The Relations of U. S. LaborStandards to ILO Standards.”
Others appearing on the program will include William McGrath, official American employer representative in the ILO; Philip Delaney, labor representative; Dr. Alma Merbst, Ohio State University; Dr. Fred Witney, Indiana University; and Dr. W. Ellison Chalmers, University of Illinois.
The Scholastic
1
KINNANE AND BAUMER
More Than Song and Dance
Kinnane, Baumer Get Leads in 'Seventeen'
Two stage veterans, Jim Kinnane and Gayle Baumer, have snared top roles in the University’s forthcoming production of Seventeen, it was announced last week by Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., director of the University Theatre.
Kinnane, a junior in liberal ai-ts, will take over the top male lead in the musical, the part of “Willie Baxter.”
Gayle Baumer, who played the leading female roles in Detective Story and Cyrano de Bergerac again will appear on the Washington Hall stage in the top role of “Lola Pratt.”
Veterans Strengthen Cast
Supporting Kinnane in the role of ; “Johnnie Watson” will be Jerry Dodge, a freshman from Meridian, Miss. The role of “Emmie Watson” will be portrayed by Merrill Richard.
John Bullitt, a sophomore from Jackson, Tenn., will act the role of “Bob Vrancken” while Alys Lacour assumes the part of MMay Parcher.”
Phil Donahue, remembered for his part in Cyrano de Bergerac, returns to the stage to take the part of “Genesis.” George O’Donnell, who played the role of Lt. Moynahen in Detective Story, comes back to play the part of “Pappy.”
Gene Gorski, still reading the good reviews he received in the lead role of Cyrano, will lend his skills to Seventeen as “Mr. Baxter.”
The roles of “Mr. and Mrs. Parcher” will be portrayed by Frank Manning and Hildegarde Vargyas, both seasoned
Debaters Add Triumph at Brooklyn Coflege To List in Latest Tour of East and Midwest
Last weekend, the Notre Dame debate team was represented at one of the best known tournaments in the country: the Brooklyn College tournament in New York City, where they won eight out of ten rounds. The question chosen for the year, “Resolved, that the United States should extend diplomatic recognition to the Communist government of China,” was upheld by Sophomore Allan Riley and Senior Charles Doherty as they went undefeated. Freshman Jerry Brady and Rick Ninneman took the negative side of the question.
Best Record in Ten Years
At this time Notre Dame has participated in over 250 rounds of competitive debate for the year. Prof. Leonard Sommer, director of forensics, also reports that the winning percentage of this year’s “Arguing Irish” is the best in the ten years he has been at the University.
Last Friday afternoon, a team composed of Sophomore Gerry Garvey and Junior Dick Schiller, traveled to Central Michigan College to debate negatively on the usual topic before the entire student body of the school. Annually Central Michigan College invites one of the nation’s top debate teams to speak before the student body. The Irish also carried off this decision.
March 7-10 the debate team traveled to Pittsburgh to engage the University of Pittsburgh. The question was debated before high school students of the Steel City area, and the final debate was televised. Notre Dame again came out on top as the debaters won 25 of the 33 rounds.
Recently, the debate team won permanent possession of the Chauncey Browning Trophy by winning the annual North-South Debate Tournament held at Morgantown, W. Va. Notre Dame won all ten of the debates in which they were involved, with Sophomore Pat Curran and Doherty upholding the affirmative and Brady and Nin-
to the Washington Hall atmosphere as veteran performers.
Dancing in the chorus will be Gene Leyval, Peggy Maher, Dan Liddy, Mary Carroll, Stuart McKeever, and Virginia Vighi.
Singing in the chorus will be Jim Feeney, Pete Barrett, Warren Ginds, Frank Kitteredge, Pat Smith, Georgia Weber, Jeanne Daily, Shirley O’Brian, Hannan Grasberger, and Bernie Lyons.
neman supporting the negative. Ninneman also won a key as the outstanding negative debater, while Curran and Doherty were given certificates of merit for superior work on the affirmative. Notre Dame received 119 out of a possible 140 points to easily record the highest point total of any of the competing schools.
This tournament included most of the better debate teams from the East. Included were such debating powerhouses as Harvard, Princeton, Rutgers, New York University, Western Reserve, Georgetown, George Washington, Penn State, Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh, and William and Mary. By winning the Chauncey Browning Trophy, Notre Dame gained its seventh trophy of the year.
ND Students Capture Awards In Sacred Heart Art Contest
Student winners from Notre Dame were recently announced in an art contest sponsored by the national magazine. Church Property Administration.
They were: Robert A. Gahl, first prize; Anthony Genovese, second prize; John F. Funck, third prize; Felix Tar-dio, fourth prize; and David Gallagher and James L. Mitchell, honorable mention.
Each student was required to complete an image of the Sacred Heart in terra cotta. The results were then reviewed and awards made by an art jury.
The jury consisted of three members of the Department of Fine Arts: Rev. G. Carl Hager, C.S.C.; Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C.; and Mr. Frederick S. Beckman.
FIRST PRIZE WINNER Robert Gohl's Modernistic Work
’	11
March 18, 1955

The Foundation Story
By FRED ECKART, Associate Editor
What happens when the economic development surrounding a university steps out ahead of its economic growth? This is a question which university officials everywhere have pondered to a great extent. At Notre Dame the answer was easy; but not quite as simple as submitting a budget to the state requesting increased appropriations.
In 1947, with an optimistic eye toward the rapidly developing opportunities of the future, the University, together with its Alumni Association Board of Directors and its Associate Board of Lay Trustees announced the inception of the University of Notre Dame Foundation. And as its head, they appointed the inimit
able and dynamic figure of Father John J. Cavanaugh—who successfully served as President of Notre Dame from 1946
to 1952.
Well aware of the heretofore loyalty and generous support of Alumni and friends, the Foundation was also cognizant that these previous benefactions were testimonials to immediate projects and were not in themselves adequate to keep pace with the financial needs that had already started growing with the mushrooming post war economy.
To meet these expected exigencies correlative to the University’s plan of crystallizing the growing post war opportunities, the Foundation geared itself for a broad program of expansion that would reach into the non-Alumni fields to abet the inadequate but increasing benefactions of Alumni and friends.
The Foundation’s financial goal: $25,000,000 by ’58.
But more specific objectives are needed buildings—a new library to alleviate the burden on the presently outgrown library built in 1917 for 600 students, an administration building to supplement the currently inadequate Main Building,- an auditorium,.^additional.stu-dent residence halls, a Union Building, a maintenance building, a priests’ residence. Recent buildings and those under construction have been largely financed by donations channeled through the Foundation.
Enhancement of the present faculty is also an objective currently in the pioneering stage with the new Faculty Development Program which has
brought many outstanding and distinguished educators to Notre Dame.
Special funds for support and continuance of many university services and a student aid program for graduates and undergraduates are other immediate objectives. And finally a general unrestricted endowment to make possible long-range planning and commitments, basic administrative security and the meeting of emergencies and unanticipated opportunities. Notre Dame now has the lowest endowment of any of 63 leading American universities.
These are but a few of the problems of the University reflected through the Foundation. The Foundation works
with the University in meeting the established operating costs of current facilities and services. Maintenance on a new building generally runs 5% of its total cost. On a two million dollar building that would run $100,000 yearly!
The Foundation also -works with the University in meeting expanding opportunities in an increasing number of fields such as the current Distinguished Professors Program. And finally the University must attempt these tasks while maintaining operation at the lowest possible cost to the student, nationally and traditionally in private schools, some 20% to 30% below the actual costs of operation! This is largely achieved from benefactions channeled through the Foundation.
Launched in 1947 under the direction
of Mr. Harry E. Hogan, Fort Wayne attorney, banker and industrialist, and then president of the Alumni Association, the Foundation came under the full-time direction of Father Cavanaugh in 1953. Assisting Father Cavanaugh is Rev. Thomas J. O’Donnell, C.S.C., who assumed his position in 1953 after serving as associate editor of the Catholic Boy magazine.
Assistant director of the Foundation
J. E. Armstrong
is Mr. James E. Armstr o n g, ’25, who is also executive secretary of the Notre •Dame Alumni Association. He is editor of the Alumnus and Notre Dame magazines. He was formerly vice - president of the American Alumni Council and
President of the National Catholic Alumni Federation.
Father Cavanaugh has divided the
nation into four districts so that a greater concentration of efficiency may be attained in corporation contacts andM alumni giving as well as all phases of the program. Four Foundation representatives have been assigned to these districts and work in conjunction -with the University’s Departments of Public Information, Public Relations and Placement Office in informing alumni and friends of its activity.
The four Foundation representatives maintain personal contacts with some 49 state Governors set up in the extensive Foundation organization. The representatives and the Governors in turn contact with the 154 Foundation Chairmen and the 137 Notre Dame Clubs of the nation. Each club has a specific organization for contacting its members for benefactions yearly.
In addition to these contacts, the Foundation Representatives personally call on corporation executives throughout their respective districts establish-^ ing working relationships with the companies in an effort to advance corporation benefactions for Notre Dame.
Allan J. Powers, a Foundation rep
resentative, is head of the Foundation’s
Allan Powers
campus orientation program which will get underway on March 25 with the Foundation Week on campus, a week’s program handled by students to inform the student body of the functions of the Foundation.
“The core of the
theory of the Foundation is the acceleration of this internal economic devel
opment,” states Mr. Armstrong, the Foundation’s assistant director. “Especially since the War, the economic development and advanced costs, of living have so far outdistanced the University’s financial development that we have no other alternative but to rely on outside help,” he continued.
“And the only way we can interest outside benefactors in our financial development program is by endorsement by our Alumni of the program. 50.1% of Alumni participated in the Foundation’s program last year as compared with only a 20% national participation by Alumni in all university programs.- Notre Dame alumni have given good and stimulating support. And these young alumni, abetted by the current graduating classes, will help us in interesting large corporations and industries in our program by self-participation in the Foundation,” Armstrong concluded.
Only with ever-increasing support from alumni and non-alumni, can Notre Dame achieve the goal.
12
The Scholastic


Hope Rests on Mainland
THE increased tension in the Far East in recent months has brought the island of Formosa to the forefront in the struggle between East and West. In order to obtain a first-hand account of the situation in Formosa and a knowledge of the island itself, the Scholastic turned to Robert Lu, a graduate student in chemical engineering here at Notre Dame. Lu’s home is in Taipei, Formosa.
Lu described his native land as “a green and lovely land of high mountains, twisting rivers, and lush valleys.” The highest mountain on the island is Sin Kau, where the only snow to appear on the island can be seen in the spring and in the fall. Many Formosans take three-day hikes up the mountain for recreation. Another favorite form of sport is fishing in the broad, fast-moving rivers which flow down from the mountains westward into the Pacific Ocean. “Fishing is done with nets, not with hooks and lines,” Lu added.
Mainland Only 100 Miles Away
Shaped like a tobacco leaf, Formosa lies in the Pacific Ocean, about 100 miles from the mainland of China. Its area is about 14,000 square miles, and its population is approximately 9,000,000. “In size it is approximately equal to Massachusetts and Connecticut combined,” Lu noted, “and its population is twice that A of Denmark. In fact it is larger than ' many of the members of the United Nations.”
Taipei, a modern city of 700,000, is one of a series of cities strung out along the western coast of the island. Although not a port, Taipei is only ten miles from the ocean and is a center of Formosa’s export-import industry. Other large industries in the city include drug
Asiatic Hot-Spot: Formosa
By PETER STURTEVANT
manufacturing, cement processing, and sugar refining.
Formosa enjoys a semi-tropical climate similar to that of Miami, Fa. The temperature rarely falls below 40 and climbs toward the 100 mark in the summer. Because of the long growing season, Formosan fanners can grow three crops of wheat a year. Wheat is a principal export, along with crude oil, gold, copper, tobacco, sugar, and fruit. In turn, most of the country’s machinery and manufactured goods are imported.
The cost of living is much lower in Formosa than it is in the United States. “For $.40 you can eat three good meals a day, and a hair cut costs only $.20 with better seiwice than you get in the United States,” Lu reported.
Formosa Strongly Anti-Red
Lu believes that Formosa must play a vital part in the straggle against communism. “Today Formosa has become one of the strongest anti-communist and anti-Russian fortresses in the Far East and is the base for a democratic and free China,” he said. He pointed out that Formosa occupies a strategic position between Japan and the Philippines and quoted General MacArthur’s speech in which the general stated that the loss of Formosa would shift the battle zone in a future war 5,000 miles east of the American continent.
Warning against making some sort of a deal with the Red China government, Lu said, “One appeasement always leads to another. The appetite of the Communists increases as they eat more. We must realize that the Peking regime will not abandon its ties with Russia, and that its verbal promises are treacherous.”
While emphasizing the importance of Formosa to the free world, Lu believes that the liberation of China should ultimately be accomplished. “Although Formosa is an island of great natural beauty, there is nothing on it to compare with the historical and architectural splendors of mainland China,” he said. “With its massive population, rich resources, extensive territory, China has always been potentially of major strategic importance to the world. The communists believe that the shortest way to Paris is through Peking.”
Can the Nationalist Chinese retake the mainland of China at the present time? Lu isn’t sure that an invasion would be practicable at this time. He
believes that a liberation could have been accomplished three years ago, hut that chances have lessened because of increased concentration of Red troops in the Formosa area, increased Russian aid to Communist China, and the intensity of communist “brainwashing.” “Our only hope would be to receive the support of those still on the mainland,” Lu added.
Chinese Grateful for Aid
To conclude the interview Lu expressed his thanks for the aid of the United States to his country and invited any Notre Dame men who might find themselves in that part of the world to drop in on him. “The Chinese people will always remember the long and deep friendship of the United States. It was the patient, selfless work of many American missionaries for over a century that brought' Western culture and civilization to my country. It was your “Open Door’* policy that saved my country from being partitioned by imperialists in the past-During our present crisis we appreciate your economic and military assistance and your support of the Nationalist government, especially before the United Nations.
“If any of you have the opportunity to get to Formosa, contact me. Formosa is an island of great beauty with weather like Miami and a civilization like Philadelphia.”
March 18, 1955
13
LUNA: Hope for the Future
Recently five Notre Dame students represented the University at the Little United Nations Assembly (LUNA). Following are brief reports by each, explaining their roles in Assembly committees and stating personal impressions. The Scholastic brings this to your attention because the success of these representatives reflects credit on the entire student body.
POLITICAL COMMITTEE:
When I was called a war-monger and an imperialist I was only surprised. But I felt a little squirmish when the young lady representing a Central American nation asked me why my country looks on the whole world as though it were all a part of the big empire of the United States. These words stayed with me.
Four other students, a professor and I	I recently returned from a meeting of
1	the Little United Nations Assembly,
which met at Indiana University. During the period of March 4-6, we debated problems now facing the United Nations. ■ Dr. Stephen Kertesz from the Departi	ment of Political Science had helped us
i	prepare for about two weeks, and he
j served as a walking dictionary and • almanac during the three days of debate. । Walt Clemens, Steve Shimazu, Phelan i Thompson, Pat McCarten and I were ex! pected to defend the viewpoint of the i United States. We were supported, but I more often opposed by 200 students from i 40 Midwestern colleges who were repre-■ senting the views of member-nations in [ the U.N. Each of us was prepared on ■ certain 'hot’ topics currently causing i strong feelings on the floor of the Gen-i eral Assembly.
I took the political issues, which ineluded the problems of recognition of Red China, and the veto. The solution of both issues became apparently impossible when the U.S.S.R., the Ukraine, Czechoslovakia, and sometimes Yugoslavia threatened to walk out, should we push through certain measures over their opposition. Since there was no Security Council in the LUNA, and consequently no veto, this was their only recourse. We often found ourselves eyeing the uncomfortable prospect of a Little United Nations Assembly according to Russian terms, or of an isolated group which actually would amount only to a defense alliance to combat Communist power.
At other times though, I found myself joining with the Communist'bloc in support or opposition to a measure. Be, cause of the danger of war inherent in . any military action, and because of dis. proportionate expense to the United :	States, I chose to support the veto when
i a
it affected enforcement measures. Other great powers including France, Great Britain and the U.S.S.R. agreed. We were able to influence enough votes among “dependent” member-states to win against strong opposition by some of the smaller members.
On the proposals to eliminate the veto in matters involving (1) the peaceful settlement of disputes and (2) admission of new members, I joined with the smaller states to oppose the veto. Its indiscriminate use in these matters unnecessarily impedes the operation of the U.N., and its elimination would not wrongfully affect the sovereignty of the big-powers nations. The measure was passed despite the Soviet bloc.
Opposing a resolution to seat Communist China, I gave support to the Nationalist Chinese delegation in the difficult task of preserving their seat on the Security Council. This was unacceptable to the Soviet delegations, Great Britain, India and the Arabic nations. Finally, we reached a deadlock. National interests of all the great powers prohibited passage of any proposal to establish a situation in China more adaptable to present and future international needs.—Joe Saunders
SOCIAL COMMITTEE:
“You Americans profess inalienable rights of man,” stated Czechoslovakia’s
delegate, “but you contradict these ideals! Why do you refuse to guarantee human rights through a U.N. covenant?”
These sentiments of the Communist bloc were seconded by many of the smaller members of the United Nations. Their delegates to the Social Committee • of LUNA argued for an international treaty to safeguard human rights. “In । this way,” shouted the U.S.S.R., “progress might be made even in such back- । ward areas as the U.S.”
“What does the United States have against a human rights treaty?” you I may ask. The 1953 announcement that the U.S. wouldn’t sign such a covenant disappointed many in the U.N. But our State Department doesn’t feel the world is ready for such a treaty. How would £ it be enforced? Some nations are further advanced than others. Some interpret ideas like “civil liberty” differently than , others. Some might not allow investiga- ' tions of human rights disputes.
A different slant on human rights came from the Union of South Africa: “You people don’t understand the facts! ' We are a minority in a nation of ignorant blacks. You are fools to talk of equality of men. Whites are superior ' and must rule!”	_
A less bigoted argument by Australia W helped the U.S. “We nations with federal systems can’t undertake treaty
obligations like unitary governments. Our central government can’t force international duties upon our states.”
Liberia asked, “If the United States won’t support a covenant, what will it do to fulfill the U.N. Charter pledge to promote human rights?”
This was the answer: “In 1948 most of us signed the Declaration on Human Rights which spells out the civil and social rights we wish to further. Rather than talk about treaties that can’t really force respect for the Declaration, we a ought to develop the conditions where human rights may best be realized.”
Actualization of these conditions was the aim of a three-part program proposed by the U.S. It called for (1) annual reports by U.N. members on progress toward the goals of the Declaration; (2) world wide investigation of human rights problems by the U.N.; and (3) technical aid to help nations determine how to meet such problems.
“This is all hot air and not really action,” cried the Ukraine as the Social Committee prepared to vote on the U.S. plan. Finally, however, the Committee and the General Assembly itself approved our program. The idea that the spread of information and the force of public opinion might be more effective than a human rights treaty had won the day.
The job of persuading others to vote with us and of wondering how far details of our policy could be compromised • to placate intransigent allies was a rewarding experience. Perhaps more important than the content of any approved resolutions is the fact that 40 schools could come together to think about responsibilities of life in an interdependent world.—Walt Clemens
TRUSTEESHIP COMMITTEE:
Consideration of the troubled international horizon is one that few Americans care to entertain. Recent decades, r however, have left very significant contributions in the field of world politics —contributions which no longer will permit the people of the United States to dismiss the many problems which arise far beyond our borders. The group which recently assembled at Indiana University under the banner of the “Little United Nations” gave excellent testimony to the current of sincere international concern _ that has been generated in a country jP which has almost been forced to become international conscious.
It is very easy to see why many would regard such a gathering as a “puppet” or even a “toy” in the hands of people who live in a world of intellectual fantasy. I would venture to say that these are the same people who enter that same fantasy when a world is shocked by overt aggression or by the more insidious conquest which we find taking
March 18. 1955
In my opinion the Notre Dame delegation represented the United States in a very dignified way. It was one of the most well prepared delegations in Bloomington. Their position was all the more difficult because the delegates were familiar with the American point of view in some delicate problems, whereas delegations representing far-away countries were free to take positions according to the changing situations in the Assembly.
The whole Little United Nations Assembly was a full success in my opinion. The delegations coming from 40 different colleges and universities could cooperate with each other in the various commissions as a team from the very beginning. This cooperative spirit demonstrated that a constructive parliamentary spirit is alive as an activating force in American colleges.
It was a real pleasure to be among them, and see the future promise of a great democracy in the minds of the young generation.
—Dr. Stephen Kertesz
place today in the minds of men. Those who attended this conference realized that all international problems are problems that we as Americans must understand and help to solve.
My assignment at the Little United Nations was one of representing the United States on the UN Trusteeship Committee. Our group was confronted with problems which have presented themselves in the past, are now facing and will continue to appear in the future before the United Nations. The first proposal to be considered was one suggesting elimination of Chapter XI of the United Nations Charter regarding non-self-governing territories. Rather than eliminate this chapter the majority of my committee wished to strengthen it and concentrate more definite responsibility for these territories in a special committee of the United Nations. The Soviet bloc staunchly advocated such a change (seeing no imminent danger to themselves since areas such as the Ukraine and Georgia are not “legally” non-self-governing territories and, therefore, would be free from intei-ference by the United Nations) and many bewildered countries followed with the gleam of democracy in their eyes. The United Kingdom and France opposed this move for obvious reasons as did the United States. The U.S. could not agree to this extreme proposal because of its complete disregard of the constitutional expression and security of countries already in the process of self government and because of the strategic gain
it would give the U.S.S.R. The real problem was one of convincing’ the General Assembly that although the United States and the Soviet Union agreed on the surface in the principle of national self determination, they did not agree in motive for such a principle. We finally exposed the transparent altruism of the Soviets and the unrealistic proposal was defeated. The real triumph here was the understanding and cooperation that was gained in the entire process. .
Our second proposal urged unification of the British and French Togolands with the Gold Coast. This was one area that was foreign to most of the delegates and seemingly unimportant. However, after listening to a few students from the area we realized the many problems involved, domestic and international in scope. I never realized that such intense interest could be generated concerning the destiny of so few foreign people. We agreed on the union of the two Togolands for a five-year period under United Nations supervision. At the termination of this period the UN supervisory commission would call for a plebiscite in order to ascertain the future aspirations of these people i.e., whether or not they wish to federate with the Gold Coast. The United States was forced to abstain on this issue because of a delicate European balance and many undesirable features in the proposed plan.—Pat McCartan
ECONOMIC COMMITTEE:
Improvement of economic assistance to underdeveloped countries was our prime concern. Two proposals, one to establish a special financing agency and the other to double the contributions to the Technical Assistance Board, were sent to the delegates prior to the Assembly.	.
As United States delegate to LUNA, I could not support the establishment of this Special United Nations Fund for Economic Development (SUNFED). The United States would not be able to contribute to it. In short, a special fund of some 250 million dollars was not at this time a practical possibility. And since appropriations depend on Congress, I could not guarantee a doubled contribution to TAB.
At our first meeting I asked for a roll call opinion of the establishment of SUNFED, adding that while the U.S. favored some form of financial assistance, I had an alternative plan. Half the Committee favored the original proposal, the United Kingdom voted against it, and the rest abstained pending my proposal.
In substance, my alternate plan called for increased economic cooperation between regions with complementary eco- -nomies; promotion of this economic co-
IS
operation should be through increased technical assistance and loans from the International Bank.
A subcommittee (United States, United Kingdom, Czechoslovakia, Sweden, Panama, Thailand, Australia, and the Philippines) was appointed to study my proposal. Only Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States approved the plan and wanted to reject the original proposal. So back we went and entered into hours of debate: the delegates from Australia and the United Kingdom and I in the minority, the delegates from Czechoslovakia, Pakistan, Iran, and Yugoslavia leading the voices of twenty delegates, and another large number of delegates holding back. The delegate from Thailand, whose shrewd comments began to sway the middle crowd toward the minority’s viewpoint, and the delegate from Columbia (a redhead from St. Mary’s), whose sharp call for a realistic approach by the underdeveloped countries, were instrumental in the subsequent defeat of the original proposal.
The United Kingdom then proposed a modification of the proposal to double the funds of the TAB. I was in favor of this modification because it would have other nations increase their contributions by one-third every two years. This would ease the burden of the United States. This alternate proposal of the United Kingdom was combined with my alternate plan into one single proposal. The Committee, with the dissent of only two delegates—Russia and Argentina — approved the plan and asked the delegate from the United Kingdom and me to present it to the General Assembly Saturday night.
At the General Assembly, after our speeches for the majority and the speeches of Russia and Argentina, two minor amendments to the plan were proposed but defeated. The General Assembly passed the plan with only three negative votes.
Most impressive to me in our Economic Committee meetings were the interest in the problem, the wish to gain knowledge, and the realistic and hopeful approach taken by every single delegate. I believe every delegate was proud to be a part of such a constructive institution as LUNA.—Phelan Thompson
LEGAL COMMITTEE:
The Legal Committee of LUNA had two propositions on its agenda: (1) That the International Court of Justice be given compulsory jurisdiction ovei' all legal disputes as defined in Article 36 of the Statute of the Court; and (2) That definition of “aggression” be formulated.
The optional clause of Article 36 became the center of heated discussion.
The paragraph says: “The States parties to the present Statute may at any time declare that they recognize as compulsory the jurisdiction of the Court in the four categories of the following legal disputes—the interpretation of the treaty; any question of international law; a breach of international obligation; and matters of reparation.”
The Cuban delegate submitted a proposal to make the Court’s jurisdiction compulsory. This was supported by the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxemburg and othei- small nations. The Czech delegate opposed the proposal on the ground that, since there is not machinery for enforcing compulsory jurisdiction, the idea is impractical; this was seconded by the Ukraine and Yugoslavia (Soviet Union delegates were absent at the moment.)
The United States stressed that the whole process of world peace itself is ■finally dependent upon evolution in the spirit and attitude of all peoples, and that with lack of international consensus on justice and cooperation, this enterprise cannot succeed. Therefore, the U.S. proposed the status quo of Article 36, and was backed by the United Kingdom and Mexico. However, LUNA approved compulsory jurisdiction by a two-thirds majority.
Intellectual Unity Needed
Regarding the second proposition, there was much debate but little agreement about a definition for “aggression.” The United States emphasized the fact that aggression is of a dynamic nature, appearing in one form today and another tomorrow; so we considered it impossible to define the word in a formula covering all possible cases.
Reminding the delegates that a definition of “aggression” is not the panacea against aggressive acts, the U.S. recommended that the Assembly not make a hasty decision and that it should first try to foster calmer international atmosphere and intellectual unity among nations. Consequently, the Assembly voted for continuation of work on the matter and consideration of the definition at next year’s session.
As I am a foreign student, this experience was most interesting. When I took the floor as a delegate of the U.S., I deeply felt the democratic composition of this country. I was impressed by the capability and sincere effort of American students to understand the various aspirations and complicated interests of remote nations. I believe that this kind of program should be participated in by American students as widely as possible, for it makes them aware of their leadership and responsibility in the present world. As for me, I would like to sit in the U.N. some day, and what I have gained in LUNA will prove very helpful.—Steve Shimazu,
Cahill Announces New Grid Ticket Policy
A special policy for obtaining student football tickets for the 1955 Notre Dame football season was announced this week by Robert Cahill, Notre Dame ticket
manager.
The 1955 University Calendar calls for the September term to get underway on Sept. 22, just two days before Notre Dame’s Irish take on Southern Methodist’s Mustangs in the Notre Dame sta-dium. Because of the tight time schedule, it will be necessary that preliminary reservations for the 1955 student football tickets be made at the time of preregistration with the Director of Student Accounts. The admission ticket will be issued at registration time next Sept-tember.
As all upperclassmen pre-register with the Director of Student Accounts, they will be furnished a ticket reservation card in accordance with class ratings. This must be filled in carefully, and additional instructions on the card closely followed to insure the student’s .proper seat reservation.
To insure student tickets for next season, reservation cards must be turned in at the Ticket Office in Breen-Phillips Hall any time between March 22 and April 15.
Class preference (seniors first, etc.) will be preserved, but seat assignment within classes will be by lot, and not in order of receipt at the Ticket Office; all cards in each class will be shuffled, and seats assigned by draw. Therefore, groups numbering no more than four may be seated together. Groups of four or less wishing to be seated adjacently must clip together securely their reservation cards before turning them in at the Ticket Office. A student may not add his reservation to a card or to a group already turned in. Group arrangement will be respected only in so far as actual stadium seating alignment permits.
Married students who are required to pre-register and who wish to obtain an adjacent ticket for their wives must present their ID cards when turning in their reservation cards, and at that time pay the sum of $10 to cover the cost of the wife’s season ticket.
Graduate students who are certain of returning to the University next September will be given an opportunity to reserve tickets at a later date. Full information will be furnished after Easter vacation.
Tickets for incoming freshmen and for all who fail to pre-register will be assigned during registration next September. Any upperclassman who fails to preregister will be assigned a ticket with the freshman class.
The Scholastic
a
Fred Dale's 'Collegians' Signed for Frolic; 4 Frosh Announce Plans for April 29 Social
With the freshmen well on their way in planning for their class dance the “Frosh Frolic,” Friday, April 29, at the Student Center, the date for the sale of tickets has been announced. They will be sold March 28, 29, and 30, from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m., according to Dance Chairman Dave £ McMahon. The dance is semi-formal and no corsages will be worn.
Gerry Pastula, entertainment committee head, has engaged Fred Dale and his orchestra. Dale was voted as leading one of the two top college dance bands in the nation in a contest sponsored by Metronome.
Theme Is ‘Hawaiian Holiday'
, Dale has appeared once before on the ® Notre Dame campus; he played for last year’s Military Ball. He has also played for such dances as the Purdue Junior Prom, I.F.C. Dance of the University of Michigan, and Military Ball of the University of Indiana. Dale’s outfit consists of between twelve and 17 pieces and a female vocalist. A veteran of the navy, Dale is a Coral recording artist.
A “Hawaiian Holiday” theme which has been worked out by Bob Duffy and his committee will set the mood for the frosh and their dates. Combined with the versatile Dale the “Frolic” will high-
Broughton Announces Plans For Coming Campus Elections
Regulations for the forthcoming campus elections, April 28, were announced this week by James Broughton, campus elections chairman.
The offices of Student Senate president, senators from the colleges of Liberal Arts, Commerce, Science, and Engineering along with class officers and off-campus senators will be filled at this election.
Nominating petitions may be picked up at the Senate office from March 21 through April 1. These must be filled out and returned to the Senate office by
Monday, April 4.
The petitions, introduced to standardize the nomination procedure, must be filled out with the required 50 signatures. An individual student may nominate more than one candidate for the
same office.
Candidates must have a satisfactory disciplinary record, be able to serve one full academic year, and have an accumulative average of 80 per cent. College senators, however, must have an 85 percent average.
light the first year men’s social season.
The Saturday night after the dance there will be a social on campus with music provided by Don Gels. That afternoon the Presidential Review will entertain first-year men on their holiday.
Communion Breakfast Sunday
The weekend will come to its conclusion Sunday with a High Mass in Sacred Heart Church and a Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn, after the 8 o’clock Mass. Hank McCarthy and his committee have been working in preparation for the breakfast.
The price of bids for the dance will be $5.50, but the price of the ticket for the breakfast has not been announced. Hotel reservations can also be made during the sale of bids. Memory books of the week end will be made available and car permissions can be had until 2 a.m. Friday night.
Spring issue of'Anima1 Off Press March 21
The parish apostolate will be the subject of the spring issue of Anima which will be released on March 21. Anima is published four times a year by the National Catholic Action study Commission, together with a supplementary news bulletin the Anima Newsletter. In following its general aim of developing an awareness in students of the relation between the Church and the world through Catholic Action, Anima presents a series of articles on the main notions of an effective parish apostolate.
In these articles is found a clear articulation of the meaning of the parish as a community in the Mystical Body of Christ. Through the integration of its members’ daily lives—prayer, education, business, home life, recreation—the parish becomes a dynamic Christian society, rather than only a stopping point for Sunday Mass.
It is with ideas such as these that Anima wishes to acquaint its readers, since students are now connected with the parish during part of the- year and
K. OF C. INITIATION
The Knights of Columbus will hold First Degree Initiations Wednesday evening, at 7:30 p.m.
The initiations will take place in the K.of C. room in the basement of Walsh Hall.
will be even more intimately linked with it after graduation.
Anima, now in its sixth year of publication at Notre Dame, is published through the joint efforts of the Young Christian Students, the Fides Publishers Association, and the Catholic Action Study Commission. Chairman of the Commission is Richard C. Clark, while Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., acts as moderator. Further information on the coming issue of Anima can be obtained at the Commission office in the Student Center, or by writing to Anima, Box 181, Notre Dame, Ind.
Constitutional Change Clarifies Senate Stand
The battle that has flared in the Student Senate over the qualifications for the judges in the Student Activities Court ended Monday night with the passage of an amendment to the Senate constitution.
The amendment as proposed by Roy Belknap, Commerce Senator, Read: “That one of the members, other than the chairman, shall be a Senator, and that the term of office shall-last until the conclusion of the academic year.”
A change proposed by Tom Crehan, secretary of the Senate, changed the bill to read, “No member of the Student . Activities Court shall be a Senator.”
The passage of this amendment leaves the Court without a chairman, since i Jerome Hughes, nominated as chairman ’ of the Court, is the A.B. Senator.	=
Proponents of the new amendment i argued that to have a Senator in the J capacity of judge would be a violation of j judicial superiority. This would also | hinder the separation of legislative and | judicial power which is vitally necessary. |
Jerome Hughes, chairman of a group ! discussing this amendment said that the | most conclusive argument was that this J would put a burden on the judge. “If the Senator legislates in favor of a motion and has to judge it also, he is in a difficult position. It all boils down to J personality; one individual might be |j able to do this and another might not,” jj stated Hughes.	।
The controversy began with the ! nomination of three new judges to the f Court to replace positions supposedly J left vacant by the resignations of three | judges, John Houck, Bert Millen and ; John Rosshirt. Two of the judges claim j that they did not submit their resigna-tions, and the third judge withdrew his | verbal resignation.	|
After much heated discussion, only I Houck was dismissed. The grounds for ; his dismissal were that he was not a I Senator at the time of his appointment. |
17 I
P March 18, 1955
Blue Circle Opens Annual Membership Drive; Honor Society Seeking Outstanding Leaders
The Blue Circle’s membership drive for 1955 opens today, announces John O’Meara, Circle chairman. The drive will last’until March 28 and aims to get as many well qualified applicants as possible.
Students may apply for membership
No+re Dame ’Lawyer' Continues Tax Series
Continuing its evaluation and explanation of the new Internal Revenue Code of 1954, the March edition of the College of Law’s Notre Dame Lawyer will feature a commentary on “Corporate Distributions and Adjustments” by C. Rudolf Peterson. This article is the third in the series on taxation to be published in the Lawyer in its role as one of the first law reviews in the country to discuss the tax code.
Published quarterly by the College of Law, the Lawyer will contain two other lead articles, “Essentials of a Modern State Judicial Svstem” and “Private Libel or Public Exhortation.” The first, written bv Laurance M. Hyde, a judge on the Missouri Supreme Court, discusses the administrative authority of the courts and the various phases of becoming; a judge. In the second article Leon R. Yankwich, chief judge, U. S. District Court in California, explains some-of the rights of a newsnaper and the value to a community of its proper exercise.
As a former member of the Office of Chief Counsel, Department of Internal Revenue, Mr. Peterson is in a position to supply an expert’s view on the tax question. His article on the “Corporate Distributions” is the first of two installments on corporations. His second will be published in the May issue of the Lawyer.
Also included in the quarterly will be sections on “Notes”, “Recent Decisions” and “Book Review.” The first contains notes in which moot legal questions are thoroughly discussed. “Recent Decisions’” consists of commentary and discussion of recent appellate court verdicts. In the last section current books, including In the Cause of Peace by Trygve Lie, are reviewed by members of the Lawyer staff.
Since the December publication one change has been made in the editorial board. David N. McBride, a senior from Chicago, has taken over as case editor. His duties are to correct and to check research on “Recent Decisions.”
by sending a letter to Don Gels, the Election Committee head. In his letter the applicant should include, first of all, his general scholastic average, the extra-curricular activities in which he has participated at ND, and his high school extra-curricular activities. The last is intended in particular for freshmen and sophomores. He should also state why he is interested in joining and what he, as a member, could offer the Blue Circle.
Necessary requirements for all applicants are a general scholastic average of 80 and a satisfactory disciplinary record.
On March 30 all who have applied will be sent a letter containing information on the duties of a member and on the objects of the Blue Circle. There will also be an invitation for the applicant to attend an open meeting of the Circle on April 20.
Twenty-five Openings Exist
First interviews of applicants will start on April 21 and continue for a day or so. Then on April 26 final interviews will be held. The interviews will . be conducted by a five-man board. It is to be emphasized that there are no set of correct answers to the questions which the board will ask. The board is simply trying to find out a little about the general abilities of the applicants.
Names will be read for approval at the Blue Circle meeting on April 27. Then on May 4 the new members will be introduced and installed.
This year the Circle has openings for nine freshmen, six sophomores, four juniors, and six students at large.
Grades Not Primarily Important
Although the requirements do demand at least an 80 average, O’Meara points out that the Circle is not primarily concerned with grades since it has four main aims and all four must be achieved. The Blue Circle is the executive arm of the Student government and it is an autonomous organization in its own right. It is also an honor society and a social group.	k
In order to fulfill these ends, the Circle is looking for capable and willing men. The applicant should be intelligent, able to handle himself well, friendly, and mature. Especially desirable is the willingness to work because the members are called upon to serve on vai'ious committees and other projects.
Marriage Institute Continues With Strubbes' Talk Tuesday
The fifth lecture in the Marriage Institute series will be given by Mr. and Mrs. Charles Strubbe in Washington Hall next Tuesday at 8 p.m.
In their talk, the Strubbes will discuss the nature of love and its influence on the structure of the family. Means of fostering love in the family and qualities to be desired in a mate will also be discussed as will some obstacles * to the growth of love in marriage and some solutions to these obstacles.
Mr. and Mrs. Strubbe are the parents	*1
of five children and are expecting their	1
sixth. But despite their large family and other interests, both are active mem- ' bers of the Third Order of St. Francis, the Christian Family Movement and the Cana Movement of the Chicago area.
Mr. Strubbe, an attorney, has received £-an A.B. and J.D. degrees from Loyola University. He is presently a member of the insurance firm of Joswick, Orm- .. sky and Strubbe.
Mrs. Strubbe graduated from Xavier I College. She also obtained her M.E. at ■ Chicago Teachers College. She has since 1 done extensive writing for several Catholic periodicals.
e
ROOMMATE LISTS
Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, recently announced that the list of students eligible for selecting roommates is now posted on all local bulletin boards. Total lists of all students from each of the classes are outside the Office of the Prefect of Discipline on the second floor of the Main Building.
Short Stories to Be Featured In Winter Issue of ’Juggler’
The winter issue of the campus literary magazine, the Juggler, is due to be released within two weeks, according to Editor Frank Maier.
Articles in the Juggler are written by Notre Dame students, and will include five short stories, book reviews, poetry, and articles on Kafka and Guar-dini. The magazine will go on sale in-the cafeteria and the bookstore for 25 cents.
One more issue will be published in May. Contributions for the issue will be accepted in Room 205 ‘Walsh or in the Juggler office in Farley Hall.
18
The Scholastic
New Faces Spark *55 Bengal Finals
By DAVE DAVIN
Bob Williams, a sophomore from Jamestown, N. Y., came off the canvas at the end of the first round to amaze some 4,000 boxing fans and hang a knockout on Bob Miller in 47 seconds of the second canto Wednesday for the most exciting fight of the Bengal Bout finals in the Fieldhouse.
Williams, fighting with a wild, roundhouse style, had trouble with his tough opponent but went toe to toe with him and sent him down. (
Award to Schulberg
It was Williams’ third win of the 1955 bouts, and second KO. He earlier scored a TKO over Jack Fitzgerald and a split decision with Chuck Mears.
Proceeds from this 24th session of Irish boxing will go to the J’eng al missions in India.
Budd Schulberg, noted novelist-columnist for Sports Illustrated, received the Bengal Bout award from Ed ■“Moose” Krause, Director of Athletics. In presenting the award, Krause introduced Mr. Schulberg as “a man who has done more for boxing, not just last year, but throughout his life.”
Mr. Schulberg then presented the sportsmanship award to Jim O’Toole and the Father Ryan trophy to Tom Queally as the best fighter in the preliminaries.
The ten champions received individual trophies. Later each will be awarded sweaters and Bengal Bout monograms.
To reach the finals, Miller had to beat Tom Huguelot and Sars Brennan. He knocked Huguelot out in the first round, and scored a spit decision over Brennan.
In the first bout, freshman Al Stephan from Chicago TKO’s Harry Higa, defending champ, in 46 seconds of the second round. Higa suffered a sprained ankle in a slip and was unable to continue.
The re-created 130-pound title went to Dick Plum, a sophomore from New Rockford, N. Dak. Plum won in a unanimous decision over Jim Connelly, a two-year junior finalist.
Plum avoided Connelly’s left jab well and bloodied his smaller opponent’s nose in the second round. Plum was able to pile up enough points in the early minutes for the victory.
McDermott 135 Champ
In the 135-pound encounter, Jim McDermott from Pittsburgh, Pa., took a split decision from John Rodgers. The rangy sophomore, boxing in a flatfooted, robot-manner, kept Rodgers away with sharp left jabs, followed by quick rights to the head and body.
On his way to the top, McDermott decisioned Pete Maroney and Jim Connelly. Rodgers stopped John Reiss and Dick Plum for the title shot.
Gene Jordan, new 142-pound title holder by a unanimous nod over Dave Cowdrill, worked his two-handed hooking ability to great advantage. The Mt.
Stephan sets Reiss on heels
Vernon, N. Y., sophomore drew blood from Cowdrill’s nose in the second and exploded a barrage of blows to the head in the final round.
Jordan had previously stopped Tom Queally and Jim O’Toole in the preliminaries.
Cowdrill decisioned 'Nick Triano the second night and then beat Sal Profaci, defending champ, for the final chance.
Vet Brennan Scores TKO
Sars Brennan, veteran Bengal bouter from Elmhurst, N. Y., scored a technical knockout over Chuck Mears in 1:28 of the second round to take the 148-pound crown. This division was also inserted into the final card.
Brennan found his way through Mears’ bouncing-weaving-elusive style
Freda and Profaci mix and miss
Glass stabbed by Reilly
20
The Scholastic
i
in the second phase, sending him canvasward three times.
Mears earlier TKO’d Tom Eckman in the warm-up matches.
The 165-pound division was a slugfest all the way. Pete Noznesky, a strong sophomore footballer from Lansdowne, Pa., whipped Dick Murphy for his third win and the crown. Noznesky, a very aggressive boy with a wicked right hand, had to take a load of stinging jabs to the face and a bloody nose from Murphy before he could win. The third round turned into the likes of a State St. brawl with both boys swinging wildly, clinching and keeping referee George VanderHeyden very much on the hop.
John Boyle and Pat Cannon, a finalist last year, fell before Noznesky’s gloves in earlier fights.
Murphy got his big chance from beat
ing Fred Thon
and Mike Mulrooney.
‘Rock’ Cannon
Pat Cannon
Triumphs
and Mike
ushering in St. Patrick’s Irish fashion, squared off pound match and Cannon
Mulrooney, eve in true in the 171-came out on
top with a unanimous decision. The Cleveland, Ohio, senior staggered Mulrooney often with lethal left jabs to the head followed by hard right hooks to the midsection. Mulrooney finally
went down in the third round of
a
Ref VanderHeyden eyes Plum
Reilly in a
Connor Beats Cabral
connect sol-the second
The popular heavyweight go saw Charles Connor, novice champ, stand
toe to toe with ’54 contestant Walt bral and take a split nod from judges.
Both men took their time in the
Glass’s jabs and hooks to idly for two knockdowns, going the limit.
Glass decisioned Frank
Ca-the
rough-house brawl the second night and John Garland in the semi-finals Monday for the title shot.
Maroney slips under right by McDermott
fight that brought the crowd to its feet at the end.
A knockout in 1:38 of the first round over Bill Glass brought the 179-pound championship* to Dick Shulsen, Salt Lake City, Utah freshman. Shulsen, who decisioned Dick Wing and Frank Lolli in the preliminary bouts, bored through
be-
ginning, sizing each other up, mixing little. In the second two rounds, both unleashed furious attacks, clinching and slipping often. Connor was able to box the deadly, stalking Hawaiian. Connor is a sophomore from Rockland, Mass.
Connor won a split decision from Al Francis 'Monday in the semi-finals.
The ladder to the finals for Cabral meant climbing over Tom Zervas and
Bob Kelly. TKO in 37 Monday.
Opening
He stopped Kelly with a
seconds
of the third round
night
action saw Jim
Murray in 1:07 of
O’Toole TKO John
the third stanza of a 142-pound clash.
In the 155-pound bracket, Tom Eckman took the nod over Jim McKeon and Tommy Huguelot decisioned Ed Janssen in the second clash in this division.
Joe Paul made short order of Jim Curtin, last year’s sportsmanship winner, dropping him in 57 seconds of the opening round. Dick Wing followed through with a third-round TKO of Hugh Boyle in the 179-pound class.
Dick Plum made his bid the second, night by decisioning Ray Barnas.
Sal Profaci won his only fight of the tournament by out-pointing Augie Freda in a 142-pound fracas.
Before falling to Shulsen in the semifinals, Frank Lolli took a three-round, nod over Bernie Smyth in a 179-pound match.
Rugged Prelim Action
John “Rocky” Garland made his single mark by trimming Joe Paul on the last night of preliminary fighting, suffering a broken nose in the process.
The second heavyweight battle was between Al Francis and Paul Klebba, with Francis getting the nod. Bob Kelly, another heavy, split-decisioned. Bernie Giovannie.
John McMullan, Joe Honn, Tom Magill and Dick McVeigh acted as seconds for the bouts. Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano directed the Bengal scene with his usual effectiveness. He stated that “This year’s bouts produced some of the most interesting matches in history, although we lacked any outstanding . fighter.”

!

March 18,
1955
21
Badin Has 'Big Day1 With Rosary Co-Eds;
Hall Enterprise Proves to Be Social Success
Promptly at 12:30 the bus hissed to a stop at the Circle. Thirty-seven girls emerged and were met by 37 ND men. Much confusion followed as Rosie Murphy tried to find Hany O’Brien and Hany tried to locate Rosie in the crowd.
At last everyone got paired off with someone else—of the opposite sex. A few words of introduction, chit-chat about the weather, home towns, and school followed.
A little later the couples headed for the Morris Inn where they sat down to
Tom Hagerty Resigns Freshman Presidency
Tom Hagerty, Freshman Class president, resigned his post recently and left the University because of pool’ health. Bob Marr, freshman vice-president assumed the duties of the presidency, until the inauguration of the new president, Bob Vanauken.
Hagerty, who made contact with many freshmen while he was seeking support in the November election, was responsible for the Freshman Retreat, worked several months preparing for the Freshman Frolic, and sat in the Student Senate as a representative of the entire Freshman Class.
Hagerty, resting at his home in Galesbury, Ill., hopes to return to the University for the fall semester. He is the third successive freshman president to resign his post in the last three years.
Vanauken, who ran second in the freshman presidential election, is a resident of Cleveland, 0.
He said, “I am sorry to hear that Tom has left the University. He has done an excellent job in conducting freshman affairs. I only hope I can do as well. I plan to incorporate a few of my own ideas in order to carry out the program which Tom and I agree is the consensus of opinion of the Freshman Class.”
Vanauken derives his power from Article II, Section V, of the Student Senate Constitution which states, “In the event that a Senate member . . . should resign from any position, he shall "be replaced both as a member of the Senate and as a class officer, ... by the candidate receiving the next highest number of votes in the election which put him in office. . .” This was amended at Monday’s Student Senate meeting, after Vanauken’s succession to the presidency, to hereafter give the position to the vice-president—the normal manner of succession.
22
a dinner featuring chicken a la king with all the trimmings. Short talks by Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of student affairs, and Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., and a brief movie, entitled Shake Down the Thunder, completed activities in the Inn.
The rest of the afternoon was spent strolling around the campus, relaxing in the Student Center, or showing off the interior decorations of one’s room to one’s date.
Ham sandwiches, doughnuts, cokes, and other goodies were served in the Center at 6 o’clock. A record party entertained the 37 couples afterwards until 9 p.m. when good-byes, au revoirs, and bon voyages were bade one another before the girls boarded their bus for the return trip.
What was it all about? Why, it was Badin’s Big Day. Last Sunday, the men of Badin played host to a bevy of girls from Rosary College in River Forest, Ill., for the better part of the day.
Organized and sponsored by Badin’s hall council, the Big Day came in response to the social needs expressed by Badinites throughout the year. It was an experiment, but a highly successful one in the field of ND social activities.
Much time and effort went into this initial large-scale import of femininity, but results seemed to indicate that future Big Days would be well-received. The only thing worse for the day is the Badin treasury which is flat broke at the moment.
As one Badinite put it, “If nothing else, the experiment proved that St. Mary’s monopoly on us is not so airtight after all.”—Paul LaFreniere
Rust to Head Sociology Club; Connors Named as Advisor
The Sociology Club held elections for new officers on March 3 in the Student Center. Phil Chinn, the out-going president, conducted the election procedures.
Dick Rust, a junior majoring in sociology, was elected the successor to Chinn as president. Other officers elected were: Pat Snyder, vice-president; Tom Rohrer, secretary; and Bob Dowd, treasurer. All the officers are juniors, and upon conclusion of the elections they immediately took over their new duties.
John Connors, professor of sociology, was elected the faculty moderator.
The new officers are presently working on plans for a field trip to the Dr. Norman M. Beatty Memorial Hospital, a mental institution at Westville, Ind.
ND Bridge Enthusiasts Enter College Tourney
Notre Dame is one of the more than 125 colleges and universities throughout the United States which has entered the 1955 National Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament.
All play will be by mail and will be conducted on the individual college campuses in a single session. Students at the University will play tomorrow. These hands will then be returned to Committee headquarters where they will be scored by Geoffrey Mott-Smith, author and contract bridge authority, who will determine campus, regional and national winners.
Prizes will include trophy cups for the colleges winning the national titles, one cup to the college for the pair scoring highest on the east-west hands and one cup for the college of the north-south hand winners.
Each of the four individual national winners will receive a smaller cup for his permanent possession. Each college competing in the tournament for the first time in 1955 will be presented with a plaque designed to bear the names of the four individual campus champions. In addition, each of these winners will receive a certificate suitable for framing.
Last year more than 5,000 students in 45 states participated in the tournament. Teams representing Purdue and Dartmouth Universities won the national championship titles and trophy cups. The Dartmouth team won playing the east-west boards and the Purdue pair won playing the north-south boards. More than a hundred other students won regional and campus honors.
EASTER DANCES
Geographical club presidents not contacted as yet by the Scholastic, are urged to submit any plans -for Easter dances to the news editor, John Adams, in Room 41 Sorin as soon as possible.
Vitt Elected New President In St. Louis Club Balloting
Al Vitt, a pre-med junior, was elected president of the St. Louis Club at a recent meeting. He edged out Dave Max, finance junior, by one vote on the second ballot. Max was elected vicepresident.
Matt Weis, AB sophomore, and Marshall Catanzaro, pre-med sophomore, were elected secretary and treasurer, respectively.
The Scholastic
*
Irish Tip Caps To Casasanta
By JACK GUEGUEN
Thousands of Irishmen, all with a shamrock proudly displayed and some 1 waving green and yellow Irish national flags, were lining the streets of Chicago’s South Side last Sunday to watch the annual St. Patrick’s Day parade.
FFar down the street a band was playing, and Irish necks stretched anxiously.
I	Finally a hundred blue and gold unil	formed bandsmen led by tail-plumed
Irish Guardsmen came into view playing a spirited Notre Dame march. The people on the curbs cheered, their Irish ; blood surging as they watched the Band ? of the Fighting Irish march by.
This is the band that for so many .A years has been a symbol to Irishmen S' everywhere, even before it developed into a the large and famous organization it is [ today. One man guided the band’s development for nearly 20 years. He was ’ not an Irishman nor even one of that large number of people who wish they were Irishmen. He was Joseph J. Casasanta, band director, music professor, composer of four Notre Dame songs, and gourmet of fine Italian food.
; When he first came to Notre Dame as $ a student 35 years ago, Joe Casasanta was walking past Washington Hall one 1 afternoon when a loud noise resembling " music attracted his attention. Inside [ Joe found the 1919 Notre Dame band, 19 energetic musicians with strong lungs but little organization. That day one new member joined the band.
During his student years as a cornet player, Joe became familiar with all of | the band’s problems. Although it was | A nearly 50 years old, Notre Dame’s band was small and unpolished. Besides lackI ing good musical quality, it had no uni-। forms. It did not even march. Joe could not understand why Notre Dame was apparently so content with this uninspiring band that people thought of as a joke. He had seen some of the fine bands representing the Big Ten schools and the large eastern colleges, and even as a student Joe started making plans ! for the Notre Dame band of the future.
First Music Degree
r In 1923 Joe received the first Bachelor / of Music degree ever conferred by Notre I	Dame, and as a determined young man
J	with high aspirations, he joined the
faculty of the music department where he established a reputation as a conscientious hard worker.
After spending a year as assistant director, Joe became director of the band in 1924. One of his first major
> March 18, 1955
accomplishments as band director’ was organizing the band’s spirit, which has been a distinctive trait of every Notre Dame band for the past quarter century. Joe used to say that his bandsmen could “match the football men in spirit any day in the week and twice on Saturday.”
IRISH . . . Spell It Out
Another accomplishment followed in 1926 when Joe’s band performed on the field at a football game, something no Notre Dame band had ever done before. At first the band tried only simple drills, and the music drew no favorable comment. But as it grew, the band began forming letters, including the famous monogram “ND.” In a few years there were enough members to spell out words, and the traditional “IRISH” became a part of every football show.
In 1928 Joe added to the halftime color and to the band’s morale by ordering flashy blue and gold capes for the drab military style uniforms that were first worn in 1924.
Joe’s early bands, though small in comparison with those of other universities, gradually increased from 30 pieces in 1925 to nearly 100 in the later ’30’s. “We didn’t have much class, size, or appearance, but we liked nothing better than outplaying some outfit with about 120 ‘strong men’,” one of Joe’s early bandsmen said not long ago. But as the size increased, the music as well as the marching steadily improved.
The band gradually began winning favor with every Notre Dame organization’s most exacting critic, the student body. As ridicule of the band changed to an admiring interest, more students went out for band each fall, and the entrance standards became higher.
The final step in Joe’s plan was to make the band a nationally known organization. This necessarily meant trips to out-of-town games, and as the band began traveling through the East and Midwest, nationwide radio broadcasts followed. Finally in the early ’30’s the building job was nearly finished, and the Notre Dame band became one of the country’s most well-known college bands.
Besides his hard work, musical knowledge, and natural ability, Joe needed something else to accomplish this success. It was his likeable personality and his concern for the welfare of each individual that earned him the respect and co-operation of each man in the band. And although he was always ready to join in the fun as well as the work, Joe
JOE CASASANTA—“this Italian who knows how to make Irishmen happy.”
“Cas” never let the band forget its primary purpose, the greater honor of Notre Dame.
While Joe seemed to make steady progress in reaching his goal of a band that would be a credit to Notre Dame, success was not always easy. Effective rehearsals were hard to hold. Attendance was not compulsory, and night practices were not permitted. Some of the best musicians played professional engagements that sometimes took their time away from the band. And there were always a few bandsmen “just along for the ride.” In Joe’s final years as director, the lack of preparation was sometimes noticeable on the football field.
Another drawback was the band’s cramped quarters on the third floor of Washington hall, the venerable old auditorium-music building where the present bandroom is still located.
Love Thai Music!
Yet during his twenty years with the band, Joe never seemed to lose his desire for a musically greater Notre Dame. Besides building the marching band, Joe did many other things for music at Notre Dame.	i
At one time or another he was in ■ charge of every other musical organize- | tion on the campus, and in 1926 he was j appointed head of the music department. It was under his direction that the Notre ' Dame glee club first appeared as one of the country’s top collegiate singing groups. The concert band also seemed to enjoy its greatest period of development during the “Casasanta era.” The concert tours through different sections of the country that this year’s hand and glee club are now rehearsing for were originated during this time. Joe also helped to reorganize the University ■
23
orchestra in 1930, and he even started a Mandolin and Banjo club.
Many consider Joe’s four Notre Dame school songs the climax of his service to the University. During the year after his graduation, Joe realized that Notre Dame needed additional school songs to keep the 16-year-old Victory March from losing its freshness by being “played to death.” He also realized that some other universities had as many as three and four school songs, and Joe could not rest as long as Notre Dame was outdone musically by another school.
Rockne Gives Idea
So in the fall of 1924, he composed the music for a new song. During that season Coach Rockne was introducing his famous shift. At first it drew long backfield-in-motion penalties until Rockne’s new counting system taught the backs to pause momentarily before the center snapped the ball. Every afternoon Cartier field echoed with “Hip, 1, 2, 3, hike!” and the familiar voice warning, “Wait for the ‘hike’.” Notre Dame was “hike conscious” in 1924, and that gave Joe his idea for this new song. Vincent Fagan, Joe’s brother-in-law, who was an architecture professor at the University, wrote the words, and Hike, Notre Danie was the finished product. Many football stadiums and St. Patrick’s day crowds have thrilled to the “Hike Song” and the special hike step the band does while playing the march.
Two years later the Casasanta-Fagan combination gave Notre Dame another school song, On Down the Line, a march that has been encouraging Notre Dame teams ever since.
On the train to the 1929 Army game in New York, Father Eugene Burke, C.S.C., of the Notre Dame faculty, asked Joe why he had not written any more school songs. “I thought they didn’t want any more,” Joe answered wryly, but Father Burke agreed to write the words for a new school song if Joe would write the music. In less than a week after the return trip, the bargain was completed, and Notre Dame had another spirited march, When the Irish Backs Go Marching By.
Alma Mater Song
In the fall of 1931, the year of the fateful plane crash that took Rockne’s life, Joe arranged a special half-time show to honor “Rock”. The idea for such a show originated with Father Charles O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. Looking for ideas, Joe found a poem Father O’Donnell had written, and setting it to music, he composed the beautiful hymn, Notre Dame, Our Mother, which was soon adopted as Notre Dame’s official Alma Mater song.
24
At June Commencement in 1932, Notre Dame’s “Mister Music” of the 1920’s and ’30’s received the $500 Lay Faculty award, an annual recognition given to the lay professor who has contributed the most valuable service to the University during the year. This man Casasanta, his band and glee club among the foremost in the country and requests for copies of his Notre Dame school songs coming in from every state, seemed to be at the zenith of his career.
Behind Joe Casasanta’s successful career, there have been three big factors. There was Joe’s father, who first recognized the makings of a musician in his young son. There was old Father “Mac,” who first interested Joe in coming to Notre Dame. And finally there was Notre Dame itself, where he found his life work and prepared himself for it.
Joe’s father, John Casasanta, possessed the typical Italian appreciation for music. Back in the family home in Milford, Mass., many years ago, his fondest desire was to have a fine musician in the family, and he was always alert for signs of musical talent in his five children. In his youngest son, Joseph, he noticed an interest in music and encouraged him to develop it throughout the boyhood years. John Casasanta was determined that young Joe should have every opportunity, including a college education.
First Music Major
In his young boyhood, Joe had served Mass for the parish priest, Father John MacNamara. The priest was an interesting storyteller, and Joe and his young friends often listened to Father Mac’s stories. Many of them were about the priest’s Alma Mater, a small place out “west” in Indiana called Notre Dame.
When he was ready to enter college, Joe remembered these stories, and in September, 1919, he enrolled as Notre Dame’s first music major. Anxious to build up the music department, the University gave him a scholarship in return for teaching piano seven hours a week. Joe believes he was the only Notre Dame student not an athlete ever to get a room, board, and tuition scholarship.
During his days as a student, the school offered only the most elementary music education, but the band director, Professor Charles Parreant, worked with Joe and gave him the opportunity to master all the band instruments.
After he received the Lay Faculty award in 1932, Joe’s influence on music at Notre Dame began a slow decline. In 1937 he retired as head of the music department, and in 1942 he directed his last Notre Dame band.
But after leaving the University and entering the insurance business, Joe continued his vigorous life. In his spare time, he taught music to grade school
Famed Ballet Troupe	।
To Perform March 25
The Concert and Lecture Series will	|
present the International Repertory	I
Ballet Company the evening of March I 25 in Washington Hall.	|
The ballet’s single performance, start-	|
ing at 8:15, will begin with Les Syl-	I
phides, a story about a young poet who	p
wanders into the woods and finds himself p in an enchanted land. This number, put to Chopin’s music -with choreography - . If done by Frederick Franklin, will star p Alfa Liepa as the poet, Colin, and will ( j be supported by the entire company.	।
Dance in Museum Set	,
After a brief intermission the story I of L’Amour au Musee will be presented ; by the dancers. A museum is the setting for the production in which a crowded day in the galleries comes to T a close with the spellbinding pas de ® U trois.	• ■']
Don Quixote is the next high-stepping ‘ U number. It will be followed by the * finale Nutcracker Suite featuring the	’i
fast movements of the Danse Arabe. J
For the presentation all seats will be 'j reserved. The advanced sale offers a I; $.50 price for students and a $.75	I;
charge for faculty and staff seats in	j
the balcony	and	$1 for orchestra seat-	I
ing. Prices	for	general admission are	J.
$1 for balcony and $1.50 for orchestra. ( 1,. The tickets	go	on sale March 21-24	■
from 3 to 8	p.m. and the night of the	■
performance from 3 p.m. until curtain 9 time.	«
children and even organized a Children’s band that gave several concerts in the East in 1947. Joe was proud of his “Kids’ band” especially because it was a good way to give children something interesting and useful to do. Joe agrees with John Philip Sousa, who said, “If you teach a youngster to blow a horn, he’ll never blow a safe.”
Joe is now an insurance broker in South Bend and lives with his wife, Anna, in a modest bungalow not far from Notre Dame’s Golden Dome.
At halftime of the North Carolina
game last fall, the Notre Dame band ’ saluted Joe Casasanta. As the march- h ing musicians formed the letters “JOE” Jg between the two 25 yard lines and played Hike, Notre Dame, the thousands of » Joe’s friends in the Stadium that after- W noon joined the band in honoring him.
The little gray figure down on the field received this tribute with head bowed. When the salute was finished, ( the big smile returned to his face, and he waved his appreciation to the band, this Italian who knows how to make Irishmen happy.

”■“1
Scholastic Sports
FENCERS FACE FINAL HOME DUAL MATCH
Xe Lesso Only Returning Infielder on 1955 Nine J As Kline Primes Sophs for Remaining Berths
One of the main problems confronting Coach Jake Kline for the coming baseball season will be finding a smoothworking combination for his infield. Last year’s graduation took Captain Hal Reilly at third, Dick Colloton at second, and George Kolasa at shortstop. However, in the early practices Coach Kline has been impressed by the hustle and determination of the infield candidates in battling for the open positions.
Coach Kline has been spending a lot of time practicing with various combinations, seeing how they perform with each other. The timing element on the < double play is the most important function of an infield, and takes a lot of
practice before being perfected. A
strong infield able to change would-be hits into outs can prove a life-saver for a pitcher in a tight jam and add confidence to the entire team, Kline added.
At first base, Junior Mike Lesso is out to hold the position that he held last year. Lesso proved to be a very fine glove man and got some clutch hits as he batted around the .300 mark. Giving Lesso a lot of competition is Sophomore Jim Cusack, who showed his hitting
FIRST BASEMAN MIKE LESSO
Hard-Hitting Veteran Anchors Inexperienced Infield
March 18, 1955
power on last year’s fine freshman team. Sophomore Jack O’Drobinak is also filling in at first base and the outfield, to give added depth to that position.
A pair of promising sophomores, Jim Hurley and Steve Johnson, are battling it out for the “keystone sack” position. Both possess a good throwing arm and can cover a lot of ground on the right side of the diamond. Hurley is a “spray” hitter who hits for a good average.
The leading candidate for the shortstop position is Junior Tom Russell who shared that position last year with George Kolasa. Russell possesses a fine pair of hands and can plug up the hole between short and third with the quick
jump he gets on batted balls. Steve
Rebora, well known as a member of the basketball team, is also making a strong bid for that position, along -with Sophomore Jim Carideo who has looked very impressive in early practices with his hitting.
Two marine veterans, Sophomores Dan Nespo and Hi Lavalie, are battling for custodian of the “hot corner.” Both have shown ability in charging in for bunts and hitting in the clutch.
Irish Topple Illinois;
Post 10-3 Season Mark
The Irish, boasting four straight wins, and six out of the last seven, face Chicago and Cincinnati in a triangular meet tomorrow in the Drill hall at 2:30 p.m.
The Notre Dame fencers took their tenth victory of the season by edging Illinois in a bitterly fought contest. The Irish were never ahead until the final
COACH WALTER LANGFORD
Winning Isn’t Monotonous
bout when Dave Friske won his sabre match and clinched the 14-13 victory. Co-Captain Tom Dorwin tied the match at 13-13 with a thrilling 5-1 win. Illinois recently beat Chicago, 15-12.
The Illini won the foil, 7-2, and the epee, 5-4, but the Irish took the meet by winning eight out of nine matches in the sabre, the team’s weakest position until this match.
Co-Captain Dorwin and Friske were 3-0 for the Irish in the epee and paved the way for victory. Co-Captain Jim Waters won the two matches that the Irish gained in the foil.
In the epee, John Brogan paced the Irish with two victories against one loss. The loss in the epee marked the first time in 31 meets, over a three-year span, that the Irish failed to take this division.
a
Armstrong, Crowley Lead Wrestling Club
ND Tennis Team to Face Southern Powers With Four Veterans in Easter Holiday Jaunt
The Noire Dame Wrestling Club completed their 1954-55 season with a record of two victories, four defeats, and one tie in its first full competitive year. The Irish held their own against their opponents by winning 22 matches, losing 28, and tieing two for a percentage of .440. The Irish piled up a total of 97 points to their opponents 120.
Freshman Jack Armstrong had the best record for the Irish as he won five matches, lost one, and tied one in the 177-lb. class. Armstrong had one pin and led the team in scoring with a total of 19 points.
Sophomore Terry Crowley was second in points scored with 17 and has a record of five victories and two defeats in the 147-lb. class. Crowley had one pin to his credit.
Freshman Bob Pivonka had a record of three victories and two defeats in the 137 lb. class for a total of 15 points. Pivonka led the team in pins as all three of his victories came through falls.
TERRY CROWLEY
On Top Percentage-Wise
Sophomore Charles Williamson held a 2-3 record in the 157-lb. class and had ten points to his credit, both his victories coming on pins.
Bob Salvino compiled a 2-3-1 record in the heavyweight division. Salvino had one pin and a total of ten points.
Rounding out the team were Freshmen Charles Day in the 123-lb. class, Charles Henzy in the 167-lb. class, John Mulligan in the 130 lb. class, and junior Robert Gordon who all had one victory worth five points.
Tom Fallon of the Department of Physical Education, acted as advisor for the team and stated, “They showed that
By BOB EARLY
Notre Dame will open the tennis season this year on the road with a two week jaunt through the Southeast during Easter vacation. Official dates have not been released yet, but it is expected that this year’s schedule will be the biggest, and certainly one of the toughest, in the school’s history.
Coach Charlie Sampson is looking forward to an improvement over last year’s seven and five record. “Last year we didn’t have much depth. We were strong in the first two positions, but were a little weak beyond that. This year we have much better balance,” he commented, and then added, “but a lot of other teams will be stronger this year, too.”
Tentatively, the Southern trip will include some of the top powers in the nation with North Carolina and Duke heading the list. Coach Sampson says that North Carolina will be “very, very tough and probably the best team we’ll face this year.” Also the Irish are expected to encounter North Carolina State, Wake Forest, Kentucky, Virginia, and Marshall College.
Big Ten Powers Later
In going over some of the teams Notre Dame will face after the Southern trip, Sampson listed Michigan, Michigan State, Indiana, and Wisconsin as the toughest, and particularly singled out Michigan as having some good sophomores coming up that will probably replace some lettermen on the squad in the higher spots. The way the schedule stands now, Notre Dame will play seven Big Ten matches, one more than the Big Ten teams play against each other.
Back from last year’s squad are seniors Wally Clark, Maury Reidy, Bill Reale, and Junior John Stuhldreher. Five boys up from last year’s freshman squad are expected to play a big part in backing up the one and two men. These include Harry Pagel, Dean Richards, Harry Smith, Jim Rich, and Tom Guil-foile.
they could handle a full schedule and have picked up some valuable experience for next year.” Mr. Fallon was satisfied with the showing the team put up this year and said they deserve another big schedule next season. Since only Joseph Clarke, is a senior, hopes are high for next year.
Mr. Fallon held a dinner for the team at his home recently, and in turn, he was presented with a gift from the team as a token of their appreciation for his work.
Senior Frank Lynch won a letter as a reserve netter last year, but hasn’t decided whether he will make another
bid in 1955.
Wally Clark was the number one man
on last year’s squad, losing only once in
twelve matches. “He was a little heavy,” the coach reports, “but is rounding into
$
shape nicely.” Again this year he is
among the names scrapping for that top
spot.
Maury Reidy is the captain of this year’s squad. A good competitor, he teamed with Clark last year to form an unbeaten doubles team. Individually he was number two man last season, but right now is pressing hard for the initial position.
Bill Reale and John Stuhldreher were third and fifth men, respectively, last year. Reale also is pushing on the doubles team. Stuhldreher has been un
able to work out consistently so far this
COACH CHARLIE SAMPSON
“Much Better Balance"
year, but is expected to be a big help when he reaches his usual playing form.
Of the sophomores, Harry Pagel seems to be the most promising at the present. He was the first seeded frosh last year and has improved steadily during the winter. “But after Pagel, the margin ’ among Richards, Smith, Rich, and Guil-foile is so close that it’s hard to tell anything yet.”
Concerning the doubles, Coach Sampson was a little puzzled. “The way it looks now, Clark and Reidy will be our number one doubles team, but after’ that I have no idea who will be playing number two.”
The Scholastic
26
By JOE MADIGAN

Each Sunday afternoon the Palais Royale plays host to 150 Notre Dame
Kampus Keglers bent on “murdering the
maples” with monotonous regularity, if “not for the mere exercise.
Twenty-four teams comprise the two circuits, separated into the Blue and Gold leagues. Any registered campus club is eligible to join, and at the end of the bowling season in late April, take part in the annual banquet. At that
time league president John Aquilla and moderator Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., Vice-President of Student Affairs, will
present individual prizes and distribute team awards.
Bowling first began on an organized basis here ten years ago. Since its inception, though, many teams have taken it up in order to have their weekly share of healthy exercise and keen competition. Pete Walsh, secretary of the league, and a four year veteran of Sunday afternoon pin warfare, best sizes up its advantages when he says, “Many of the fellows in the league had taken up bowling as a relaxing pastime in high school. Since there are no organized campus activities on Sunday anyway, it seemed to be the logical time. It gives many a chance to let off a little bit of steam besides indulging in some good wholesome exercise.”
Probably more students would take up America’s number one participant sport if they weren’t faced with the commuting problem to and from town each Sunday. Next year there may be no such problem. The new bookstore, presently in the latter stages of construction, will be equipped with ten new alleys. Barring unforeseen difficulties, league competition will take place there.
The league operates in two shifts. Half the teams take to the lanes at 1:30 p.m., and the second shift gets underway at 3:30 p.m. The Palais is unable to accommodate all 24 squads at one time, thus necessitating the shift system.
The point system utilized is somewhat similar to that employed in professional hockey. By sweeping all three games a
team may pick up three points. Then an extra point may be gained for highest number of total pins. All games are handicapped to maintain balanced competition. At the season’s end, the two. league winners hold a rolloff to determine the champion. Last year the Cleveland Club won the honors.
Whereas most of the league member's participate for sheer enjoyment’s sake, some of them participate to maintain a sharp kegling edge. Varsity bowlers include Jim Haering, Jack Battel, Aquilla, and Bob Filipiak. Haering is
Bill Davis Delivers
27

by Paul Fullmer
The Notre Dame man knocked another old maxim for a loop this past week: “If you have a worthwhile show, it will draw a crowd no matter what.” The Bengal Bouts presented some of the best-matched cards in history, but the pass-holders and vendors nearly outnumbered the paying customers until Wednesday’s finals. This problem is hard to understand, but
“NAPPY”
maybe there is an answer.
Every promotion needs a gimmick. The K. of C. had an efficient organization this year, although the door-to-door ticket campaign wasn’t too persistent. Saturday night’s card, probably the best of the five nights, faced insurmountable competition from the campus movies, St. Mary’s Variety Show, St. Mary’s of the Woods’ excursion, the dim lights of local bistros, and the usual weekend wanderings. At least two of these obstacles could have been chucked or postponed.
Approximately 500 season tickets were sold —one out of every ten students—certainly not too hot a percentage for a school that showed tremendous spirit three years ago at a boxing match against Purdue.
Here’s our suggestion to build up Bengal
prestige and interest.
Introduce a trophy to be presented to the hall that
garners the most points during the five nights of battling. Off-Campus and Old College would also operate as a team. A chart could be kept in the
Dining Hall as the Bengals progressed, recording the progress of each team. Each night’s card would have and advertise at least one boxer from every hall and season ticket holders would then get a nightly look at one of their buddies. This would encourage additional entries and increase season ticket
sales considerably.
A team would retire the traveling trophy after winning it three times. The scoring system might be devised by Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano, the great handler of men, who has “made” the Bengals. We used an arbitrary scoring system to come up with the winner of “The Mythical Trophy” for 1955. A championship is worth ten points to the team, a semi-final win five points, a preliminary win three points, and a loss one point. Here is a very unofficial list of this year’s results:
Off-Campus ........... 70	Dillon ................ 9
Howard ............... 51	Alumni ................ 9
Morrissey ............. 29	Zahm .................. 7
Breen-Phillips ....... 22	Old College ........... 5
Lyons ................ 22	Walsh ................. 4
Farley ............... 21	Fisher ................ 4
Sorin ................. 15	Cavanaugh ............. 2
Budd Schulberg, Bengal Award winner and a sincere advocate of well-organized amateur boxing, felt that the Bengal bouters were superior to the amateurs he has seen because “their spirit and drive is so great.” Schul-berg’s party was particularly impressed with the spectacular knockout victories of Dick Shulsen and Bob Williams. “I’ve never seen better fights,” Schulberg remarked after Chuck Connoi- left the ring with the final win of the night.
Schulberg, one of the most controversial and engaging figures in the boxing world" today, was extremely humble in accepting the award, but managed to quip, “Maybe those who complain about boxing should come to Notre Dame and see the Bengals!”
What about those that are already here?
the current pacesetter of the Kampus Keglers with a handsome 180 average,	, t
and finished second in league competi-^M tion last year. Filipiak sports a 180 J average, Haering not too far in arrears I with 178. Dick Torda	has been ham-	I:
mering the maples at a	173 clip.	j
The general average	of the league	]
members hovers around	the 141 mark.	’
The averages range from 80 to 180.	]
Those in the lower stratosphere of averages rarely let their spirits sag. Instead, they laugh off their kegling medi- . ocrity, and keep searching for that® brighter day when theii' scores will rise. V Father Norton has shown himself to be \ I quite a bowler, maintaining a steady j 150 average.	I
Easy To Join Keglers
Officers of the Kampus Keglers this	1
year include the following men: Aquilla, J club president; John Wilkins, vice-presi-	’
dent; Pete Walsh, secretary; and Haering, treasurer.	£
Many of the fellows have voiced ■ E opinions in the past that they have never 4 li had an opportunity to join the league. H A few of the clubs on campus wonder just how to go about joining the league. ’ Aquilla answers the problem in this way.
I
JIM HAERING
Electrical Engineer’s Anchor Man
“Any club on the campus is eligible to enter a team. At the start of school each fall, team captains generally will have eliminations in which all prospective bowlers are invited to participate. | Naturally those with the best averages ' will receive preferential treatment. Teams are permitted to carry seven members, five regulars and two alternates.”
The whole bowling picture has several appealing features. It provides many of the students with excellent recreation, and the chance to get away from the monotonous routine of classes that are so much a part of campus life.
28
The Scholastic
r Six Straight Losses I ^Plague ND Gymnasts
Notre Dame’s Gymnastic Club will close out their regular season schedule tomorrow against Western Illinois and Kansas State in a triangular meet at Macomb, Ill. The Ball State post-season tournament will be held in the Drill I Hall next Saturday.
^ ^Runkle Sees Close Battle
UT Coach Ray Runkle believes that, “al* though it is difficult to determine in ad* vance, the match should be a close one, I since last season Western Illinois edged I us by only four points. Also, as I reI member it,” Runkle continued, “the meet J wasn’t decided until the final event.” to
sj Last Saturday, Notre Dame dropped : its fifth straight contest by a 63-33 count to Navy Pier, the Chicago branch ^of the University of Illinois. It was the r second time this season that the Illini have dumped the Irish, having beaten them two weeks earlier, 62-34.
J This time Navy Pier swept all six I	events by a wide margin. Despite the
I decisive defeat, Notre Dame’s Evie f Hatch tied Navy’s Fred Tate for high | scoring honors with 12 points, while |	Co-Captain Rocco Tannone was second
.	among the Irish scorers with eight
tallies.
. The main factor in the consistent if team drive demonstrated by Navy Pier was that in every event one of their ' contestants tallied six times. This indi-ividual output was equal to oi- better than any score the entire Notre Dame squad recorded in any one event.
| Set Interhall Swimming Meet >;^For Wednesday in Rock Pool
I
L There will be 39 medals awarded to ’	winners in the Interhall Swimming
■ Meet, to be held Wednesday, March 23, at 7:30 p.m. in the Rock Pool, according to Mr. Gil Burdick, swimming instructor.
The order of events will be: a 150' yard medley with three men using the breast, back, and crawl stroke; a 200-yard free style; a 50-yard free style; L i low board diving with four required ^^and three optional dives; 100-yard free style; 50-yard back stroke; and a 200? yard relay with four men racing 50 yards each.
। A complete list of swimmers and | divers should be turned in by Tuesday, ‘ Mr. Burdick stated. Contestants may I enter three events, but they must swim I for the hall of which they are residents, j Scoring in the individual races will | be five points for first place, three points 1 for second, and one point for third. In
b| March 18, 1955
fz
Gold, Heinsohn, Schlundt, Freeman Top List On Castellani's College Scouting Report
John Castellani handled the scouting assignments for the Irish this year, besides his duties as assistant varsity and head freshman coach. Excluding the Irish players, Castellani named these men as outstanding players he has seen in action against the Irish and around the country.
Heading the list is the fabulous Tom Gola of La Salle, who is considered by everyone to be the best all around ballplayer in the country. Gola is also the best professional bet in the college ranks this year.
Robin Freeman, the high scoring Ohio State guard is considered by Castellani to have the best jump shot. Jim Lampkin of De Paul, who has been a thorn in the side of the Irish for several sea-
Loyola Blasts ND Bowlers; Individual Honors to Filipiak
Loyola’s red-hot bowlers knocked Notre Dame’s outfit down four out of five games last Saturday night in Chicago. The Irish, however, collected individual honors.
Bob Filipiak led the way with a 929-pin total. Belting the maples with six strikes in a row, “Flip” also rolled the high game of 236, and seconded his own efforts with a 204 game. Chick Scavone totaled 885 for Loyola’s high-man laurels.
Filipiak boosted his average three pins to 180 to pace the Irish keglers. John Aquilla’s 175 average was second high.
DePaul still tops the league, with only three setbacks, all of which came from the Irish. Loyola holds second place, followed by Notre Dame.
Next Saturday afternoon St. Joseph’s College from Rensselaer travels to the Palais Royale for a postponed match. The Irish move into the seventh annual M.I.B.C. Tourney on March 26.
the relays, scoring will be eight points for first place, six points for second, and four points for third place.
All divers must turn in a list of .their dives the day before the meet. In the event that the races take longer than expected, the diving competition will be held on th following night.
“Judging by the keen competition in the interhall relays last month, I am sure that the boys have enough interest and ability to make this meet even closer- than a two-point difference between the top teams,” Burdick said.
sons, has the best two handed set shot.
Every good quintet must have a good big man and a versatile little man who is a “take charge guy.” Don Schlundt, Big Ten scoring champ gets the nod as the best big man. Bill Ridley of Illinois is one of the better little men in the country.
Kentucky’s Burrows Impresses
The sweeping hook shot of Bob Burrows of Kentucky has caught the fancy of professional coaches, besides keeping native Kentuckians on the edge of their seats. Si Green, the Duquesne “jumping jack” is one of the best drive-in shots. Standing only 6-3, Green outplayed and outrebounded players much taller.
The most improved player Castellani has seen this season is Terry Rand the tree topper from Marquette. Julius McCoy and Al Ferrari provide Michigan State with a great one-two scoring punch. Both played excellent ball in drubbing the Irish in the Fieldhouse.
The best sixth man is Russ Witt-berger of Marquette. It was Wittberger who carried Marquette through the first half in their initial meeting against the Irish after the Irish big men had bottled up center Terry Rand. The most underrated player is Tulsa’s all time high scorer, Bob Patterson.	.
Heinsohn Most Valuable
The most valuable player is Tom Heinsohn of Holy Cross. Heinsohn sparked the Crusaders all year. In the Sugar Bowl tournament against the Irish, he was .a one man team and when the Irish visited Boston, “Breezy Tom” sparkled a devastating Holy Cross offense which swamped the Irish.
The fast breaking University of Louisville had one of the strongest benches in the nation. They enabled the Cardinals to use their fast breaking offense to good advantage.
Last but not least are the best teams in thg nation. The Dtikes of Duquesne and the Marquette Warriors are two ball clubs who give a top notch account of themselves each and every game, according to Castellani.	.
SUNNY ITALY
A Notre Dame Tradition
“Rosies”—
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food SUNNY ITALY CAFE
■601 North Niles Avenue
17 Lettermen Report To Brennan March 28
Notre Dame will open its 67th spring practice in Cartier Field on March 28 under its sophomore grid mentor, Terry Brennan. The twenty day practice session will be interrupted by Easter vacation, but drills will be resumed immediately after the holidays.
The Irish will be led by Captain-elect Ray Lemek. Also, 16 monogram winners, most of last year’s freshmen, and other promising hopefuls will be battling for starting berths on the ’55 varsity eleven.
Brennan’s concern is replacing last year’s starting line which, except for Lemek, has been completely lost through graduation. Gone are Co-Captains Dan Shannon and Paul Matz, tackles Sam Palumbo and Frank Varrichione, guard Jack Lee, and center Dick Syzmanski. Sorely missed in the backfield will be quarterbacks Ralph Gugliehni and Tom Carey, and fleet halfback Joe Heap.
The lettermen returning for next season’s grid warfare include eleven junior’s and six sophomores. The juniors, besides Lemek, are Gene Kapish, Wayne Edmonds, George Nicula, Pat Bisceglia, Gene Martell, Jim Mense, Dick Fitzgerald, Paul Reynolds, Nick Raich, and Don Schaefer. The Sophs are: Bob Scannell, Lou Loncaric, Jim Morse, Sherrill Sipes, Dean Studer, and Paul Hornung.
The coaching staff is the same which led the Irish through a 9-1 season last fall, with two exceptions. Freshman coach “Blacky” Johnston has taken up new coaching duties in the South, while Bill Walsh, former Irish and Pittsburgh Steeler stalwart, returns to his alma mater to assist his former teammate with the coaching duties. Returning coaches are end coach Johnny Druze, backfield coach Bill Early, line coach Bill
N. D. STUDENTS ONLY Tuesday and Thursday T-Bone Steak
ALSO TUESDAY
Spaghetti Dinners $1 Pork Chops $1.10 These are complete dinners with second cup of coffee
Flamingo Restaurant
610 N. Mich. Open Sundays
Fisher, and quarterback coach George Dickson.
Brennan, a staunch advocate of the split-T, is well aware of the job facing him and his staff. A great deal of help must come from the freshmen if the team hopes to match last year’s record. Most of the load, though, will fall upon the returning lettermen who will be called upon to make Brennan’s second Fighting Irish team a successful one.
Toast Cagers Thursday At LaSalle Hotel Banquet
The 1954-55 Notre Dame basketball team will be honored at the annual testimonial banquet sponsored by the Villagers’ Club in the LaSalle Hotel next Thursday at 6:30 p.m.
The principal speaker on tap for the banquet will be George Ireland, the head basketball coach at Loyola University of Chicago. Ireland replaced Notre Dame’s coach, Johnny Jordan, as Loyola mentor when Jordan accepted the head coaching duties at Notre Dame.
Toastmaster for the ceremonies will be program director and sportscaster for South Bend radio station WHOT, Frank Crosiar. During the basketball season Crosiar covered all of the Notre Dame games over WHOT, traveling along with the squad for out of town games.
Ed Lievens, president of the Villagers’ Club, indicated that “a mixed crowd of 150 to 200 people is expected to attend the banquet honoring the Irish cagers.” All are invited to attend, including Notre Dame students and their dates. Information concerning the banquet may be had by calling Secretary Bill Hinton at Central 3-8154.
HIGH-JUMPER BERNIE ALLARD
Junior Trackster Competes Against the Country’s Best
Allardand RelayTeam Place at Milwaukee
A nine-man contingent of the Notre Dame track squad met stiff competition in the Milwaukee Relays last Saturday, but managed to win second place in two events.
In the two-mile relay, the ND squad of Dick O’Keefe, Bill Squires, Al Porter, and Al Schoenig led all the way before they were finally overtaken by Michigan. The Wolverines toured the course in 7:47 with the Irish right on their heels in 7:48. Squires ran a blistering 1:53 half to give the Irish a 30-yard lead in the third lap.
Bernie Allard turned in an effort of 6 feet 6% inches in the high jump which gave him second place in that event.
Allard and the members of the two-mile team were rewarded with traveling clocks for their night’s exercise.
Cleveland, Chicago Next
The Notre Dame mile relay team of Al Pestrichella, John Dunnigan, Bill
Copeland, and Bill medals by finishing with a time of 3:27.
Aubrey Lewis, a
Keegan won silver
second in
its heat
freshman
who ran unattached, finished
sprinter third in
his qualifying heat of the 60-yard dash, but failed to make the finals.
Jack Gits, senior miler, ran in af} special AAU meet at the University of Chicago last Saturday. He placed fourth behind ex-Loyola star, Bob Kelly.
The team will compete in Cleveland Friday, March 25, and will then fly to Chicago for a meet the following night.
30
The Scholastic

! Shockley Bowls 254 j z>To Top Kegler Mark
| Long-standing records were shattered (and league positions scrambled in last Sunday’s thundering Kampus Kegler action. It was position week at the Palais Royale, and the pins flew all afternoon 7; in the sharpest alley session of the j season.
s Most of the action centered around
c.^the Gold League, where three major ‘Z records were broken. Sparking the Del-f aware Valley Club, Charles Shockley rolled a brilliant 254 high game to
|	smash the old record of 232 pins. Bob
|	Filipiak followed up with a 247 game
| for the Toledo Club, and Russ Bona-l donna of the Rochester Club also bet-tered the old mark with 239.
In the three-game totals, Filipiak again grooved the lanes to set a new
BOB FILIPIAK
Holds High Series Mark
individual record of 632. By amassing L a 2,835-pin total, the Toledo Club estab-I lished a towering new mark.
| . Spearheaded by Filipiak’s league-| leading 180 average, the Toledo Club I , swept all four points from the Met Club
1 j to climb a notch into first place. A.I.E.E.
. J edged into second place with an even L$ split over Cleveland, while the Met Club fc4 dropped from first to third.
£ In the Blue League, the race tight-ened. The Detroit Club snatched three | out of four games from the high-flying ' Air Cadets to move into a first-place
Five of the world’s great experts on the liturgy say
Godfrey Dicckmann, O.S.B.
—Not since Guardini’s Spirit of the Liturgy has any one volume given such a comprehensive and inspirational view of the scope of the liturgical renewal . . . the book is a landmark of advance.
Clifford Howell, S.J.
—The main chapters of the book constitute a treatise on liturgical theology so rich, so deep and beautiful, that they are likely to stand unsurpassed for years to come.
Johannes Quasten
—... a work of lasting value, combining sound criticism with an inspiring enthusiasm.
Josef A. Jungmann, S.J.
—A significant book which may well perform for the English-speaking world a service similar to that performed elsewhere by Guardini’s Spirit of the Liturgy.
Dom Gregory Bainbridge
— ... will open up hitherto undreamt of vistas in the understanding of the nature of the Church, of the meaning of Baptism and the other sacraments, and, above all, of the Eucharistic Sacrifice.
deadlock with them. The Irish Club broke its tie for third place by taking three games from the Chern. Engineers for full possession of third. While the Chern. Engineers dropped to fifth, the Architects swept the series from the California Club to sneak into the fourth-
place slot.
Liturgical Piety
by Rev. Louis Bouyer (of the Oratory)
One of the most important works on the worship and prayer life of the Church to appear in the present century. Liturgical Piety will prove, at once, a remarkably illuminating, introduction to the subject and a decisive turning point in the thinking of those already versed in it.
Father Bouyer makes very clear what the worship of the Church essentially is by showing how the nature of it has been obscured bv cer-tain movements in the past. In the course of his discussion, Father Bouyer lays down the profound and basic principles which govern the liturgy7 as an organic action—as the God-given form of truly living and life-giving worship.
$4.75
At the Bookstore
University of Notre Dame Press Notre Dame, Indiana
Liturgical Piety is the first title in the series of Liturgical Studies sponsored by the Notre Dame Liturgical Committee. Other works in the series will include: The Psalter as a Christian Prayer Book—Fischer • The Building and Furnishing of Churches—O’Connell • The Primitive Liturgy—Jungmann • The Bible and the Liturgy—Danielou • Liturgy and Western Culture—Schmidt • The Prayer Life of the Church —Luykx • Aphikomen: The Key to the Last Supper—Zolli • The Missionary Value of the Liturgy— Hofinger • The Sacred Scripture and the Spiritual Life—Davis • Church Architecture for Gur Time —Bauer.
EDDIE'S for the very finest STEAKS and CHOPS STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
March 18, 1955
31
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty “Chicken In the Rough" % Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes
Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls $1.30
Joe Nabiehl’s Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
Work on Center's 'Down and Under' Begins; , Rathskeller Fashion Will Pervade Basement *4
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
THERE’S A
$4,000,000 Student Market for South Bend Merchants
YOU can increase
YOUR share of this market by ADVERTISING in the
Scholastic
Call CE-4-9011 Extension 555
32
With the plans and budget for the renovation of the basement area of the Student Center now approved, work on the “Down and Under,” the new name for the basement, will begin immediately, Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., announced this week.
The South Bend contracting firm of Carl J. Reinke and Sons was awarded the construction bids and will follow the plans drawn up by Robert Schultz and Frank Montana of the Department of Architecture. May 1, 1955 has been set as the completion date for the renovation.
Miss Laura Jenkins—with the assistance of the Student Senate, Blue Circle, and the House committee—is in charge of the interior decorating, which is to be developed along the lines of informality and the best possible utilization of available space. The general decor will be
Noted PainterCharlot To Teach at University
Jean Chariot, internationally known for his painting of frescoes, will teach in the University’s Department of Art during the 1955 summer session, it was announced recently by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs. Chariot is one of several artists and scholars joining the Notre Dame faculty under the University’s Distinguished Professors Program.
A native Parisian, Chariot has been teaching art during the past five years at the University of Hawaii. He held a Guggenheim Fellowship from 1945 to 1947 and was a Ryerson Lecturer at Yale University in 1948. Grinnell College awarded him an honorary Doctor of Fine Arts degree in 1946.
Chariot’s frescoes which were commissioned by the Mexican Government (1922-26) are perhaps the best known of his works. He has painted other frescoes at Arizona State College, the University of Georgia’s Fine Arts Building, the University of Hawaii and in parish churches. His paintings can be seen at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, the Rochester Memorial Art Gallery, the Dallas Museum and the Honolulu Academy.
Chariot has written several books including Art from the Mayans to Disney and Art-Making from Mexico to China. At various times he has taught at Iowa University, the University of California, Columbia University, the University of Georgia, Smith College, Black Mountain College and the Colorado Springs Fine Arts School.
designed in rathskeller fashion, with special emphasis on the arches of the basement.
In the main lounge, approximately the same size as the one above, the north and south walls will be paneled in California redwood, as will the center pillars. On the east wall will be a special mural of student life painted by Gor-^ don Goetemann, Richard Scherpereel, >'1 and John Lochtefeld as their senior I theses. This mural will continue on part of the west wall. Previous work of the trio was displayed as background for the Mardi Gras Ball.
Furniture in the “D & U” will consist mainly of heavy oak pieces covered in leather and plastic, and will continue in the rathskeller, informal style. The chairs will be arranged to accommodate^-discussion groups as the lounge upstairs | does, and also to provide room for small '.I dances. Approximately 100 persons will I be able to use the seating facilities of the lounge without any additional chairs.
A special ventilating and heating sys-	;
tern will be installed in the basement	'
area and the record system will be piped down to the rooms.
The main purpose of the “D & U” and , the reason for the emphasis on infor-„ , mality is the desire to provide a place" for various meetings and foi- small -dances. The additional lounge, the seating capacity, and the nearby refreshment stand offei* an excellent place for such gatherings.
Much of the cost of the improvements will be shared by Mr. Joseph LaFortune and the students through the receipts of the Mardi Gras. LaFortune has promised to match the receipts of this year’s Mardi Gras and those of last year.
Amphitheatre Dedicated	1
To Deceased Alumnus	.
।
The Student Senate approved a motion Monday night formally dedicating the Student Center Amphitheatre to j • Elmore Smith, of Scarsdale, N. Y., an alumnus who died in the Korean con- ( flict. He graduated in 1950.	j
A picture of Smith and a plaque in * his honor will be placed in the amphitheatre.	J|
Smith left $1,000 to the University in his will, with no stipulation on how I it should be used. Rev. Theodore Hes- J burgh, C.S.C., president of the University, announced the bequest at a pep rally in the fall of 1952 and said it	(J
would be the initial contribution for the	< 1
long-awaited Student Center.	,j
A report from John Bendel’s Con-
The Scholasticism
cessions Committee informed the senators that the photography concession had ^realized a $319 profit for the operator
during the first semester. The report also revealed that the storage concession yielded a profit of $999.12 to its operator last year. The Senate approved the recommendation of the committee that the photo concession for the remaining I major dances be awarded to Jim Guide, Mike Thompson, and Gerry Trafficanda.
A special committee was established , to work in conjunction with the Inter-governmental Relations Committee to consider possible revisions in the court I constitution.
The Senate also amended its by-laws to provide that the class vice-president, i secretary, and treasurer in that order | should succeed the class president should , ; he leave the University. Under the old i by-law, the candidate receiving the ; second largest number of votes in the | election would succeed the class presi-_^dent.
y It was decided that Bob Vanauken, f	who had already succeeded to the presi-
?	dency of the Freshman Class under the
old by-law would not be affected by the I amendment. Discussion revealed there’s no provision against ex post facto laws. A proposed amendment was announced and a final decision on the amendment • will be made at Monday’s meeting.
’ John O’Meara introduced a two-page motion defining the relationship between ^the Senate and the Blue Circle for the approval of the Senate. The motion has y already been approved by the Blue ' Circle. The provision states that the I Circle may carry out projects originated by the Senate or by the Circle itself, and that certain activities such as fresh-' man orientation and student trips should be handled exclusively by the Circle. The
5 Circle would be required to present a budget for the approval of the Senate , A at the beginning of each semester cover-/ ing these traditional- Circle activities.
k The motion will be considered Monday ’ along with a report from a committee i headed by Don Yeckel which is study-| ing the financial aspect of Senate-Blue | Circle relations.
I Also at the meeting, John Chomeau I was approved as NFCCS senior delegate.
Madden Escorts TV Starlet Jeanne Johnson to Bengals
? Bob Madden, a law student from Short Hills, N. J., and Room 303 Fisher Hall held the winning season ticket to the Bengal Bouts. As a result of his good ! fortune Madden escorted Jeanne John-> son, vocalist on Tom Duggan’s TV show S from Chicago, to dinner and the finals I of the 1955 Bengal Bouts.
I The sponsors of the contest presented Madden with a car for- his evening’s transportation.
March 1# 1955
Seniors Begin Annual Retreat With Conference at 7:30 p.m.
Rev. Gervase Brinkman, O.F.M., will give the senior retreat this weekend. The first conference will be held at 7:30 tonight in Sacred Heart Church. The retreat will end Sunday at 1:30 p.m. with a conference.
Father Brinkman has served eight years as a prison chaplain in Joliet Prison, and has eleven years experience as a teacher. Along with this he was the retreat master at Mayslake in Chicago for four years.
Saturday’s class cuts will be cancelled if seniors will contact their professors personally before Saturday and indicate their intention to attend the retreat.
They must also verify the fact that they are listed as a senior in their pro
FILTER TIP TAREYTON
with the Activated Charcoal Filter
fessor’s book. If they are a senior and are not listed as such, they must secure permission from the Prefect of Discipline.
Silence will be observed as far as possible so that the most may be received out of the day-and-a-half retreat.
Always Welcome at
ROCCO'S Pizza Our Specialty SPAGHETTI RAVIOLI STEAKS and CHOPS Open 11 a.m. to 12 midnight Open Sundays 5 to 9 p.m.— For Student Convenience.
537 North St. Loais
33
the heck pege
by Don Yeckel
As we grow older, our- most vivid memories of college will perhaps be our recollection of the professors that we had. Even now we like to review their faults and vagaries in bull sessions. I really don’t think they mind: they can hardly help remembering that they did the same thing to their professors when they were undergraduates.
It’s Hard
Maybe we criticize so much because the ideal is so high, and so few attain or even come close to it. Becoming a good teacher must be one of the hardest things in the world. It’s also one of the most rewarding. At the same time it makes tremendous demands on the individual.
First of all, it demands that the teacher love what he is teaching. This is the bare minimum—and a high minimum it is. It’s a high minimum because the teacher
must not only be interested in or fascinated by what he teaches: he must love it. It’s always hard to come by any love, and love for ideas? . . . well, most of us will never experience it.
But the teacher must not only love what he is teaching: he must love to teach it as well. The professor who doesn’t love to teach isn’t fooling anyone. He certainly isn’t fooling himself, at least not for very long. And he’s not fooling his students either. The poorest student in his class can tell whether he really wants to teach.
As a student, I have no sympathy at all for the kind of professor who has no interest in teaching, except that it’s the only profession where he will be paid by the week for studying something that happens to interest him. A man who acts as though students are inflicted on him inevitably ends in inflicting himself on students. This hypocrisy strikes me as being a kind of prostitution of the mind.
But teaching requires more than love. It requires scholarship, and scholarship is just plain hard work. However much a man may love his work still he needs a deep grounding in scholarship. This doesn’t only mean the eight years or so required to get a Ph.D., but the tremendous amount of work that must be done to even keep up with the field.
And these first three basic requirements can conflict. For example, I’m told that very often a man’s love for his work and the demands of scholarship can clash with his love and duty in teaching, especially in the sciences and in Engineering, although the problem can be acute in every field.
There’s a fourth thing that is abso
lutely undefinable. There’s a word for it, though,—pedagogy, -which is supposed to be the principles and methods of teaching. Obviously, there is some kind of art of teaching. But no two teachers practice this art in precisely the same way. The shy, modest man and the show-off exhibitionist can be equally good teachers, each in his own way. Maybe the real key is what Plato once said: “Those having torches will pass them on to others.”
Money Rears Its Ugly Head
Aside from these positive requirements, there is a negative aspect to teaching too. What other profession requires so much preparation for making so little money? I don’t suppose that many profs are starving, but there does seem to be some kind of disproportion between eight years of work for a Ph.D. and the salary that Ph.D.’s are paid. This is not merely a question of renouncing a materialistic standard of life either. A teacher, like any other man, has obligations to his family, and I should think that it would require some soul-searching to determine just how much a man can ask his family to sacrifice for the sake of his work.
There is also the hard work of scholarship that I mentioned before. Now I certainly have never done anything scholarly. Just struggling with my thesis this year makes me wonder how anyone can accomplish the much, much harder task of writing a Master’s or Ph.D. thesis. And a book—I cannot even conceive of anyone writing a book. Even this little column requires a lot of time and effort. So I think I have some ap
preciation of the tortures of writing and scholarly working.
The Egg-Heads
There’s also a certain sacrifice of
prestige in teaching. Certainly the col
lege professor should be, and usually is, a highly respected member of society. i But, as Father Sheedy once said in an article in Anima, “One of the features of the American mind is an almost fanatical devotion to education combined with a profound distrust of educated people. ... In our day we have seen ‘brain-trust’ and ‘brain-truster’ be- ' 4 come terms of ridicule. And ‘double- f dome’ and ‘egg-head’—invented during ' the last presidential campaign — were even more damaging to the dignity of the intellectual. College professors in our country are an influential group of people. But even so the curious cleav- ; age in the American mind remains: in the myth of the absent-minded profes
sor; and in the thought that teachers . are ineffectual people who would not "1/ know how to make a living in the prac-
tical forum of life.”	'i
So What?
So what difference does it make? If they don’t like to teach, who’s making them? Well, it makes a lot of difference. ’ Education is an extremely important element in any society. The laws of the various states which make education i compulsory up to a certain level are £ L enough to indicate that. We all know, I' or should know, that the causes go much U deeper than that. As college students, and particularly as Catholic college students, we should know exactly what difference the teacher and education do make.
And on perhaps a more personal level, the teacher can exert a profound in- :
fluence on an individual’s life. Probably most seniors have experienced the almost frightening influence that the prof is capable of exerting. And this kind of power is certainly something that both professor and student should be aware of.
If a professor does nothing else, I suppose that he should convince his students of the importance of his subject. Every course is, in a way, a job of selling. At least on the undergraduate level, the teacher has to convince the student that the whole thing does make some difference—that it’s not just an expensive game. And so I don’t ask for profs to convince me that this or that philosophy is true, but to convince me it’s important that any of them at all be true.
Well, all these are reasons why it is so easy to criticize our profs. It’s a pretty hard ideal to match. Maybe we ought to give them a break, huh?
34
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS

iValiente!” cried
the Spanish admiral
He cheered as his launch fished this man and seven more waterlogged American sailors out of Santiago Harbor. Cuba, on the morning of June 4, 1898. This was straining Spanish chivalry to the breaking point, for Richmond Hobson (right) and his little suicide crew had spent the previous night taking a ship into the harbor entrance under a hail of cannonade and deliberately sinking her to bottle up the Spanish fleet.
Hobson, who planned and supervised every detail of the operation, from placing the scuttling charges to dropping anchor under fire, was actually an engineer, not a line officer.
In Santiago Harbor, he led his first and only action against the enemy. But his cool-headed daring made him as much a hero of the day as Admiral Dewey. And proved again that America’s most valuable product is Americans.
These Americans—proudly confident of their nation’s future—are the people who stand behind United States Series E Savings Bonds. They are the people who, by their spirit and abilities, make these Bonds one of the w’orld’s finest investments.
That’s why there’s no better way to protect your future than by investing in Americas future! Buy Bonds regularly!
It’s actually easy to save money—when you buy United States Series E Savings Bonds through the automatic Payroll Savings Plan where you work! You just sign an application at your pay office: after that your saving is done for you. And the Bonds you receive will pay you interest at the rate of 3% per year, compounded semiannually, for as long as 19 years and 8 months if you wish! Sign up today! Or, if you’re self-employed, invest in Bonds regularly, where you bank. They’re as safe as America!
For your own security—and your country s, too invest in U. S. Savings Bonds!
The U. S. Government does not pay for this advertisement. It is donated by this publication in cooperation with the Advertising Council and the Magazine Publishers of America.
PUT A
Smokina
... LIKE LEO DUROCHER
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Ca
LIKE
r p/ c? r

tobacco co.
7^ CH ESTE RFIE LD Today
You'll smile your approval of Chesterfield’s smoothness—mildness—refreshing taste.
You'll smile your approval of Chesterfield’s quality—highest quality—low nicotine.

IN THE WHOLE WIDE WORLD—

CIGARETTE