Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 11, 1882.
Number 26.
The Sicilian Vespers.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
[This beautiful poem, which is now going the rounds of the press, was written by the autbor many years ago. We noticed it when it first appeared, but had reason to think that Mr. Whittier did not write it, particularly as it does not appear in his published works. He has been kind enough, however, to settle the doubt, and to correct a proof of the poem which we enclosed with a note of inquiry. Mr. Whittier says: “The poem is mine : it was written, I think, as a school exercise or composition. I cannot tell whether it is as I wrote it. Such as it is, you are at liberty to publish lt.”J
Silence o’er sea and earth
With the veil of evening fell, Till the convent tower sent deeply forth, The chime of its Vesper-bell, One moment, and that solemn sound
Fell heavily on the ear;
But a sterner echo passed around, And the boldest shook to hear.
The startled monks thronged up In the torchlight cold and dim;
And the priest let fall his incense cup, And the virgin hushed her hymn;
. For a boding clash, and a clanging tramp, And a summoning voice were heard. And fretted wall, and tombstone damp, To the fearful echo stirred.
The peasant heard the sound, As he sat beside his hearth;
And the song and the dance were hushed around, With the fireside tale of mirth.
The chieftain shook in his bannered hall, As the sound of war drew nigh;
And the warder shrank from the castle wall As the gleam of spears went by. ‘
Woe, woe, to the stranger then, At the feast and flow of wine, In the red array of mailed men, Or bowed at the holy shrine!
For the wakened pride of an injured land
Had burst its iron thrall;
From the plumed chief to the pilgrim band;
Woe, woe, to the sons’of Gaul!
Proud beings fell that hour, With the young and passing fair;
And the flames went up from dome andjtower, The avenger’s arm was there!
The stranger priest at the altar stood, And clasped his beads in prayer, But the holy shrine grew dim with blood, The avenger found him there !
Woe, woe, to the sons of Gaul, To the serf and the mailed lord!
They were gathered darkly, one and all.
To the harvest of the sword;
And the morning sun, with a quiet smile, Shone out o’er hill and glen,
On rained temple and mouldering pile, And the ghastly forms of men.
Ay, the sunshine sweetly smiled, As its early glance came forth;
It had no sympathy with the wild
And terrible things of earth;
And the man of blood that day might read,
In a language freely given,
How ill his dark and midnight deed Became the light of heaven. -
Professor Van Beneden.	-
On the twenty-ninth of November of 18811 was ushered into a neat parlor in the Catholic University in the much renowned city of Louvain. I handed the porter my card, and anxiously waited for the interview with which I was to be honored. I had not long to wait. Only a few minutes after my entrance, the opposite door opened, and a venerable man, with white hair and beard, entered and approached me with a smile. He held my card in his hand and warmly welcomed me, saying: “Ah! you are come from the country of the Great Lakes,”—for so he calls America. He kindly bade me take a place on the sofa, on which he also seated himself, and we were soon engaged in friendly conversation about the advances America has made in the sciences. “ That,” he said, “ is the country of the great Agassiz.” We spoke successively of Agassiz, Dana, Sileman and other scientists. From his language I could see that these men have more authority in Europe than they have even in America. After conversing thus for about half an hour the Professor offered to conduct me through his Museum. I call it his Museum, although it bears the name of Museum of the Catholic University of Louvain, for, as he said himself, there is hardly one object there that he did not procure, collect, or prepare himself. I have visited many Museums, but have never seen one that was more systematically arranged for study than this. There are special halls for each department. In one we find the skeletons, in another the alcoholically preserved specimens, in another the mammals, in a fourth the birds, in a fifth the fishes, etc., etc. Professer Van Beneden prides himself on having the best preserved and prepared typical specimens. In these halls the Professor seems to live, for here he evidently spends most of his time. From his conversation I gathered sufficient notes to be able to write a biographical sketch of his life, but I will devote the principal part of this sketch to the works of the Professor during half a ceg: tpry.

392
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Professor Van Beneden was born at Mechlin, on the twenty-third of December, in the year 1809. He spent his early youth in that city, and also received his first instructions there. From boyhood his delight was to ramble about and gather for his amusement all sorts of, natural curiosities. “ In 1830, when standing under the walls of Antwerp, during that war of cruelty, I often found myself,” he naively remarked, “ holding in one hand a fossil shell and in the other a cartridge.” What must have been his love for natural science when even in the heat of battle he forgot the danger that surrounded him on all sides and comforted himself in this manner! What a subject this would make for the brush of some poetic artist!
After the war, young Van Beneden returned home and soon began his active life as a natural scientist. As early as 1835 he wrote a paper on the Dreissena, a new genus of the of Mytilacae, which was published by the Academy at Paris, and the next year he wrote for the Bulletin de l’Academie a natural and anatomical history of the Dreissena Polymorpha. Then in rapid succession appeared some of his other researches, as “Remarks on the Seat of the Sense of Taste in the Carp,” and “ Notice of the Helix Algira.” From that time to the present the Professor has written no less than 159 essays and treatises, besides greater works such as his “ Comparative Anatomy ” in three volumes. His work on “ Animal Parasites and Messmates” is too well known among American scientists to be commented upon by me. But the chief merit of the Professor is in his researches and investigations on “ Spontaneous Generation.” In 1850, in an essay on the “ Cestoid Worms,” which merited the fifth yearly prize of the Academy of Paris, and again, in 1863, by a treatise on “ Animal Life, and its Mysteries,” Professor Van Beneden has forever banished “ Spontaneous Generation ” from natural history.
Until the end of the seventeenth century it was generally believed that meat when exposed to putrefaction would produce worms spontaneously out of its decomposing organic matter. Redi, a distinguished member of the Aca-demie del Cimento, at Florence, at that time made a simple experiment. In the middle of summer he exposed to the air a piece of meat that was decayed, and covered it with gauze. By its side he placed another piece uncovered. He observed how a certain kind of fly gathered around the uncovered piece, but could not get at the other; soon he found that in the uncovered piece worms were formed, but in the meat that was covered by the gauze no worms appeared. The gauze had evidently prevented the insects from depositing their eggs, and so he discovered that these worms, supposed to have been developed spontaneously, were nothing but the “larvte,” or undeveloped state of those flies. The partisans of Spontaneous Generation were therefore obliged to move farther down in the scale of animals for a proof of their theory, and they took refuge behind the intestinal worms. “ At least these,” they said, “ are produced spontaneously from the humors and the decaying papilli of the intestinal walls.” This argument had a temporary value, for it was apparently based on good reasoning, since we have here worms whose reproduction was unknown, and in which there were never any eggs found, but which appeared regularly in the internal cavities of bodies,' such as in the heart, the eye, and the brain.
It is in a memoir entitled, “ Recherches sur les Vers Gestoides ” (1850) that Van Beneden says, “ to make animals and plants out of nothing is one of tho^ hypotheses
which the age of ignorance fondly caressed, but which observation has forever relegated to the fables of antiquity.” “ The Cestolde Worms,” he continues, “ are still regarded by some naturalists as being formed directly, but with the scalpel. Truth has, however, penetrated into their structure, and we shall soon see the last hope of the partisans of Spontaneous Generations disappear like °a vapor. If fishes do not any more grow from mud as of old, if the infusoria do not any more take their origin from vegetable decomposition, the same will be true in future of the intestinal worms. They, too, will have to be regarded as being produced by beings like themselves, as everything that has life comes from an egg or from a bud.” The latter sentence seems to be firmly rooted in the mind of Professor Van Beneden. When I heard him for the first time utter that well-known phrase, “ omne vivum ex ovo,” I felt the triumphant conviction with which he pronounced it. It reminded me of some old warrior or gladiator, who, after vanquishing his enemy exclaims, “ I have conquered!” It is unnecessary in this sketch to enter into details of how Professor Van Beneden has come to his conclusion, but Spontaneous Generation is no longer held by the leading naturalists. Bastian endeavored to revive the old theory, but Professor Tyndall has Jone for him what Professor Van Beneden had done for Valenciennes.
I may some day write a longer account of the life of this Professor of the “ Universite Gatholique de Louvain,’ ’ and develop at length his remarkable discoveries in Natural History. One great fact, however, I think the reader will pardon me for adducing, is the answer which Van Beneden was able to give John Miiller, the distinguished Berlin physiologist, when the latter was staying a short time at Louvain, shortly after the revolutionary storm of 1848. But it is better to allow the Professor to tell it in his own- words: “Mr. President, you have just called attention to my discoveries on the transmigration of worms. This history of worms gave me occupation for fifteen years, and more than once I was inclined to relinquish the subject. I continued my researches during my short stay at Gand, and it was only in 1848 I was able to finish them at Louvain. During that year I was fortunate enough to discover in eggs the nature of the Lingua-tulae, which was until then unknown, and the transmigration of worms in the succession of forms. In every research the greatest difficulty is to seize the first ray of light which, when once possessed, will he as a Pharos to show suddenly mysterious ways, where every phenomenon is a relation. The first one to whom I could communicate my researches was the great physiologist John Mailer. He had come to Louvain to enjoy a few days of repose, just after that terrible revolutionary crisis through which Belgium had passed. He was rector of the L niversity of Berlin during that memorable year. The whole history of the evolutions of these parasites had not been discovered, but I could say to him on his arrival, * The greatest desiderata of zoology in this moment are no more deside-ata; the Linguatulae are articulate animals; the Tetrar-hynquidse are undeveloped worms.’ I inserted in the Bulletin de l’Academie des Sciences de Bdgique, session of the thirteenth of January, 1849, the following- words which mark the date when this’great discovery of the history of transmigration was first made known to the scientific world, ‘The vesicularia or cystes are incomplete ‘ TenioTdae.’ ”
No wonder that Professor Van Beneden met with great
$HE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	893
$
difficulties, for his words sounded like romance. To believe that embryos of certain worms acquire an animal-like form in the intestines of some anima], and then transmigrate into the alimentary canal of some other animal to undergo an entire transformation, is more than the sci. entitle world was prepared to receive. Professor Van Beneden, like Galileo of old, when the astronomers would not believe him, showed them everything through his telescope, an instrument they had never seen before. Of course they accounted for what they had seen as an effect produced by the instrument. Mr. Van Beneden had to go to Paris in order to demonstrate his observations before the Institute of France. Milne Edwards communicated the result, which was a complete success, to the Institute in their succeeding seance. Valenciennes, as I stated before, remained obstinate to the last; but his successor, M. Lacazs-de-Thiers, Professor of Helminthology at the Museum of Natural History in Paris, repeated, in 1866, Van Beneden’s experiments, and was so completely convinced of the truth of the new doctrine that he thenceforward taught it.
Van Beneden says in a reply to the demonstration from his students in 1877: “ The discovery of the transmigration of worms has thrown great light on a much-debated question, and which is interesting at the same time to the naturalist, the medical man, and the philosopher. I speak of Spontaneous Generation. This was as yet the leading scientific question of the day, and as I had mortally wounded span-teparity, at least as regards the intestinal worms, M. de Quatrefages announced to me that I was to be combatted by Pouchet. He quickly fell back on the intestinal worms, but not being able to use them in favor of their hypothesis, the question gradually changed into another field, namely, the field of the Infusoria. It is well kown that the victory in this field was won by M-Pasteur. He formulated a doctrine by which medicine, and especially surgery, has been greatly benefited, and which has since been used in numberless applications to the advantage of commerce. Tyndall, the highest authority as an intelligent and skilled experimenter, finally appears to speak a word on this question, and for a long time this will be the last. “ Life proceeds from life. Omne vivum ex ovo; or, better, omne vivurn e vivo.”
It remains for me to add that Professor Van Beneden is still faithfully at his post as professor of Zoblogy at the Universite Catholique de Louvain, and that he is as dear to his pupils as he is justly renowned in Natural History. I have been listening to his lectures for half a year, and they are not only instructive in the highest degree, but are given with a peculiar attractiveness for which I find no term or expression.	A. M. K.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—A German translation of “ A Life’s Decision,” by Mr. T. W. Allies, has recently appeared.
—A volume of essays, chiefly Roman, by Monsignor Seton, D. D., is announced by the Catholic Publication Society Co.
—A commemorative slab is to be erected in the house, No. 11 Via Della Mercede, occupied by Sir Walter Scott during his residence in Rome.
—Leopold Von Ranke, the German historian, celebrated, on Feb. 12, the fiftieth anniversary of his membership to the Academy of Sciences of Berlin. He was born in 1795.
—At a recent sale of autographs in Paris, a letter from Voltaire to Rousseau, asking his opinion of the plan of the Henriade, brought £40, while a letter from Mdme. de Maintenon was sold for £52.
—Mr. Jerningham, the only Catholic Member of Parliament for an English constituency, has edited “The Siege of Berwick, a Tragedy,” written by one of his ancestors and acted at Covent Garden, in 1793.
—A bit of theatrical criticism from the New Orleans Picayune. “This play, by the way, is one of the most satisfying on the stage. After seeing it once no one wants to see it again.”
—Tennyson’s latest poem, “The Charge of the Heavy Brigade,” was cabled from London to The Independent. The Sun called it a dull, labored, clumsy composition, destitute of imagination. So it seems to us. Like much of Tennyson’s later work, it will not enhance his reputation.
—A writer in The Critic, reviewing Geoffrey’s “Life of Van Dyke,” says: “The stories of monkish intolerance, ignorance and disrespect to a distinguished artist dwindle to one or two small affairs before the documentary evidence of letters between patrons and painter. . . . Van Dyke, before he went to England, owed much of his daily bread to ecclesiastics.”
—The late Bishop Lynch, of Charleston, was eminent for his scientific learning no less than for his theological attainments. He published several essays on astronomical, historical and theological subjects. The last number of the Catholic Quarterly contained an able article from bis pen. Bishop Lynch held a first rank among the Catholic prelates of the United States. He was a descendant of Thomas Lynch, Jr., one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence.
—A writer, signing himself Eliot Ryder, and who writes in our contemporary, The Ave Maria, makes us acquainted with a bi-linguous poet in whose French verses Barthelemy has recognized “ an abundant facility, and a lofty religious philosophy; ” and concerning whom Sainte-Beuve said, “ I have taken pleasure in respiring in Les Savanes all sorts of perfumes full of truth and of freedom,” whom Brownson, moreover, hailed as one of the first, if not the very first, of American poets, and whose “Wild Flowers” he described as “marked by a delicacy of sentiment, a truth and vividness of coloring that Bryant might envy.” This poet is a French Creole belonging to a distinguished family of Louisiana, and besides the high gifts that nature has bestowed upon him, a liberal education has supplied him with abundant learning. He spent many years in study in his native country, and many more likewise so engaged at the Royal College of Nantes, where he took out the degree of Bachelor of Arts. Following this, he studied men and manners in Paris, and was an eager and intelligent listener to the sacred eloquence of Lacordaire and the secular oratory of Berryer and Dupont. He returned to America, determined to adopt the law as his profession, and well fitted to run in it a brilliant and profitable career. But do we find his name among those of the judges of his country, or those renowned for their forensic triumphs ? His highest title, and that which he glories to bear, is, on the contrary, a barbarous one and of strange sound to civilized ears—it is Chahta-Ima, or “ He who resembles a Choctaw.” His long life, with all its talents and all its gifts, has been spent as that of a Catholic Missionary to the Indians. “ Chahta-Ima [says a critic writing in the Southern Quarterly Review] is a man of special attributes. He is a poet, springing out of thoughtful childhood into a holy priesthood. He is a priest rising, purified by his sanctity, into an inspired poet. Such a combination is of the aloe family, although such an aloe has three times the life of other aloes. It has been found in him, who is recognized far and wide,—in the crowded city as in the Ibnely forests—by the men who shape civilization, as by those who, through him, are learning the better part of civilization, religion, as ‘ Chahta-Ima.’ There are some noms de plume that, like ‘ Elia,’ make a writer loved. There are others that, like Chahta-Ima, make him reverenced in the proportion that he is beloved.” Such a man is the Abbe Adrian Rou-quette, Priest and Poet.—New Zealand Tablet.
394
THE kdTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC).
Books and. Periodicals.
—The name of the Wyoming Literarg Monthly has been changed to the very appropriaie one of Literature, and continues to be published monthly, as heretofore, by C. A. Wenborne, Buffalo, N. Y. The magazine has been otherwise much improved. We had received this excellent little magazine from the first issue, and intended to notice it from time to time, but a pressure of duties interfered. Among the essays in the March number are “ William Cullen Bryant,” by Prof. J. H. Gilmore: “Cowper,” by Prof. Clarence L. Dean; “ Charles Dickens,” by Lizzie K. Pershing; “ Charles Lamb,” by Iota Subscript. There are a number of literary notes of rare value. Literature is a handsome specimen of typography and is elegantly gotten up in every respect.
—St. Nicholas for March gives the young folk a rare treat of beautiful pictures and interesting reading. Titian’s fine portrait of himself—supplementing “ Stories of Art and Artists ” by Clara Erskine Clement—is the frontispiece engraving. The “Stories” have four illustrations from Titian’s “ Presentation of the Virgin in the Temple.” Edward Eggleston gives six chapters of “ The Hoosier School-boy,” and it is needless to'say that Mr. E. has, as usual, a strong hold on the attention of boys. Of “ Donald and Dorothy ”—by Mary Mapes Dodge, the editor of St. Nicholas—have four pleasant chapters, handsomely illustrated. The “Recollections of a Drummerboy” (two chapters)—by Harvey M. Kieffer—are also nicely illustrated. The fairy tale “The Three Gifts,” by Thos. Dunn English, is very pleasant reading and conveys a good moral.
—Our Continent, the new illustrated weekly paper started by Judge Tourgee, is a handsome sheet of sixteen pages folio, and is splendidly illustrated. The article and illustrations on “Fairy Pipes and Early Smokers” is a counterpart in prose of “ Nicotiana ” in the Williams Argo. Typographically, Our Continent is a perfect model; we find nothing extraordinary in the literary matter of this number, but such a galaxy of writers as Judge Tourgee has centred upon Our Continent can hardly fail to make up an interesting paper. Among the contributors to the first number are Noah Porter, President of Yale College; William’Pepper, Provost of the University of Pennsylvania; MaxAdeler; Donald G. Mitchell (Ik Marvel), and Oscar Wilde. The title and cover of Our Continent are barbarously aesthetic enough for the most utterly utter, and are in marked contrast with the handsome modern type and paper of the body of the periodical. The price of subscription is $4 a year.
—The Century Magazine for March has for frontispiece a half-length portrait of Mr. W. D. Howells, whose literary w rk is the subject of an essay by Thos. S. Perry in this number. “ Broken Banks and Lax Directors ” is a paper of much interest in these days of loose training and consequently of loose morals. It is written by John Burroughs, who has been for years a National Bank Examiner, and is familiar with accounts as well as with birds and and poets. “Has Utah a Republican Form of Government?” is the question asked and answered by A. G. Campbell, the antiMormon contesting delegate; Mr. C. shows up in no unmistakable light some of the crimes and abuses common among the Mormons, and the necessity for immediate action on the part of the U. S. Government. Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett’s novel, “ Through One Administration,” continues to give characteristic glimpses of Washington life, and fully keeps up the interest excited at the start. The illustrations in this number of The Century are especially noticeable. Mrs. Mary Hallock Foote’s “From Morelia to Mexico on Horseback—III”—is fairly illustrated by the author. “ A Ramble in Old Philadelphia,” by Miss Elizabeth Robins, Richard Grant White’s first paper on “ Opera in New York,” an interesting paper on “ The Black Bear,” are finely illustrated. A portrait of Leigh Hunt accompanies some pleasant reminiscences by his friend, Mary Cowden-Clarke.
—The most attractive paper in the March number of The Catholic World (the best number we have seen for some time) is that on “ Moles and Warts in Literature,” by A. J
Faust, Ph. D. It sparkles -with anecdote, given in the Doctor’s happy style. Dr. Faust is a charming writer. The incident consequent on Dickens’s refusal of one of Miss Harriet Martinean’s stories we have met before, but it is so little known, and so characteristic, that we shall reproduce it in our column of Art, Music, and Literature. “ Six weeks in Ireland in 1881,” by an Englishman, is well written, and shows what all noble-hearted Englishmen—free from the bondage of feudal customs that should long since have passed away—think of the present and past modes of British government in the ill-fated Emerald Isle. The second number of S. Hubert Burke’s paper on “ John Fisher, Bishop of Rochester,” deals in a scholarly manner with sad and deeply interesting events. The other articles of the March number of The Catholic World are exceptionally good. They are as follows: “The United States and Mexico,” by Santiago Ainsa; “A Prayer of Doubt” (poetry), by Margaret F. Sullivan; “ A Pope of the First Century-Clement I,” by the Rev. A. F. Hewit; “The Story of a Portionless Girl” (Continued), bv Mary H. A. Allies; “Lenten Reverie” (poetry), by Richard Storrs Willis; “ Wood Engraving and Early Printing an instructive sketch—by Michael Scanlan; “Among the Hills of Mor-vand,” by M. P. Thompson; “ Ireland—1882 ” (poetry), by Mary E. Mannix; “A Singular Phase of Protestantism,” by Rev. George M. Searle.
—The North-American Review for March opens with an able paper from Senator Edmunds, of Vermont, on “ The Conduct of the Guiteau Trial.” Gen. Edward F. Noyes contributes an appreciative article on “The Progress of the French Republic,” in which he reviews the attitude and measures of the various cabinets, beginning with that of De Broglie, under the presidency of Marshal McMahon. Gen. Noyes, although a warm admirer of Gambetta, takes his views from an independent standpoint, and states unequivocally that the Ferry education laws were “not in accordance with American ideas, as to liberty of conscience and toleration of religious practices.” Judge Edward A. Thomas reviews the practical working of the Jury System of trial, and thinks that though much can be urged in its favor the facts which may be produced in opposition greatly preponderate. “ The True Lesson of Protestantism,” as drawn by John Fiske, is “ that religious belief is something which in no way concerns society, but which concerns only the individual. In all other relations the individual is more or less responsible to society; but, as for his religious belief and his religious life, these are matters which lie solely between himself and his God.” This, of course, is a new phase of Protestant belief, altogether distinct from, and antagonistic to, the Protestantism of the early reformers, who were stringent advocates of the union of Church and State. Mr. Fiske, having lost faith in Protestant teaching, is fairly adrift, and hardly knows what port to turn to, but inclines to transcendentalism. He reasons in this way:
“The immediate consequence of Luther’s successful revolt was the formation of a great number of little churches, each with its creed, as clean-cut and as thoroughly dried as the creed of the great Church from which they had separated, each making practically the same assumption of absolute infallibility, each laying down an intellectual assent to sundry transcendental dogmas as an exclusive condition of salvation. This formation of new sects has gone on down to the present time, and there is no reason why it should not continue in future; but the period when educated men, of great and original powers, could take part in work of this sort his gone by forever. The foremost men are no longer heresiarchs; they are freethinkers, each on his own account; and the formation of new sects is something which in the future is likely to be more and more confined to ignorant or half-educated classes of people. At the present day it is not the formation of new sects, but the decomposition of the old ones, that is the conspicuous phenomenon inviting our attention. The latter half of the nineteenth century will be known to the future historian as especially the era of the decomposition of orthodoxies. People, as a rule, do not now pass over from one church into another, but they remain in their own churches, while modifying their theological opinions, and in this way the orthodoxy of every church is gradually, but surely, losing its consistency. Nor is it only the laymen of whom this can be said; for the clergy every now and then set them the example.......
“In view of all this, it is not strange if we are sometimes led to ask, What is to be the final outcome of this decomposition of orthodoxies ? The total destruction of religious creeds was
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC).
long ago predicted by Catholic controversialists as an inevitable result of the exercise of that right of private judgment which is the fundamental principle of Protestantism; and now it begins to look as if the Catholic prediction were likely to be fill-filled, although Protestant chuiches have warmly resented the imputation, and have too often taken pains to show that in strait and uncompromising bigotry they could vie with their great antagonist. While Catholics, on the one hand, have foretold this result byway of warning and opprobrium, on the other hand it has been no less confidently predicted by atheists, materialists, and positivists, by way of encouragement and approval. To Comte the chaos of opinion which prevails in modern society afforded proof that the time was ripe for discarding theology and metaphysics altogether, and for confining the operations of the human mind hereafter to the simple content of observed facts. To Dr. Biichner and his friends it presages the speedy advent of that glorious millennium when all men shall felicitate themselves upon the prospect of dying like the beasts of the field. On the one side and on the other we hear it maintained, with equal emphasis, that any system of Protestantism —any system which seeks to combine absolute freedom of speculation with an essentially religious attitude of mind—is logically absurd, and is destined to be superseded. The only question is, as to what alternative is to survive the inevitable fate of all such misguided attempts; and here Dr. Biichner and the Pope will be found to disagree. While on the one hand it is held that the course of modern philosophic thought is so distinctly toward materialism that every one who is not a materialist is behind the age ; on the other hand it is prophesied that, out of sheer weariness of the skepticism that is the perpetual outcome of free inquiry, there will eventually be brought about a renaissance of the ages of faith. I do not know that it can be said precisely how far these expectations go.”
William Justin Harsha takes a broad and humane view of the Indian Question, and his paper on “Law for the Indian” contains matter that should have a beneficial effect on the Department of the Interior in its relations with the aborigines. “The Fallacies of Homeopathy” are shown up in a striking manner by Prof. A. B. Palmer, in a review of the Habnemannic theories as opposed to science and common sense. Neal Dow reviews the “Results of Prohibitory Legislation ” in Maine since 1857, and argues that temperance [“ temperance ” is a misnomer here —why not say “ total abstinence? ”] among the people may be greatly promoted by wise prohibitory legislation.
College Gossip.
—Mr. Benjamin P. Cheney, of Boston, having presented a school house to the town of Cheney, in Washington Territory, has sent a staff of teachers at his own expense to establish the institution.—Detroit Free Press.
—A French club has recently been organized among the students and lovers of that language. Professor Hennequin is at the head of the club. This club and the “ Schiller Verein” give a person a chance to learn to speak correctly both French and German.—Chronicle.
—The Military Academy at Chester, Pa., was burned on the 16th. The cadets organized themselves into a bucket brigade, bnt efforts to save the building were soon abandoned. There were 143 students at the Academy. The loss is about §200,000, and the insurance §75,000. The cadets were summoned in drill soon after the fire, and were given sufficient money to take them home.
—Father Alizeri, formerly President of St. Vincent’s College, and for many years Professor of Moral Theology in the Lazarist Scholasticate at Germantown, has just published a Latin poem upon the Silver Jubilee of the Holy Angels’ College. Father Alizeri is perhaps the first Latinist jn this country. His old pupils, of whom we are proud to be, will remember his grand Ciceronian phrase. —Western Watchman.
—Marrying a drunkard to reform him is-like drinking up medicine to save it.—Ex.
And mixing innocent young women with wild, ungovern able young men at college, in order to reclaim the boys to a sense of duty—to reform them, so to speak—as some so-called “ educators ” have done, and others propose to do, seems to us like putting sound apples into a barrel of decaying ones to preserve the latter.
—The venerable Father Perron, S. J., for many years provincial of the Canadian province of his Order, is now stopping at St. Francis Xavier’s College, New York city. Father Perron’s career has been a remarkable one. Possessed of a superior education, of great wealth, and connected by marriage with some of the noblest families in France, his future was full of dazzling prospects. After spending some years in the army, however, during which he saw much active service in Algiers, he entered the Society of Jesus to devote himself to the cause of religion and education. He was formerly an officer of the college at which he is now staying.
—The Reoista Catolica would like to know something about the Indians of the New England section, colonized by godly Puritans. What schools did these latter establish for the aborgines, and what has become of those Indians thus taught, “to read and write?”. . . . “Exterminated ”—that is the answer. There are at present in the Territory of New Mexico 10 convent schools for girls and five colleges for boys. As the Pevista truly concludes, it is an impugning of the known truth to charge the Church in New Mexico with seeking to shroud her children in ignorance with such an educational showing in a Catholic population of little more than 120,000.—Catholic Universe.
—The following, clipped from the Harvard Herald, contains food for thought tor enthusiastic admirers of co-education :
Editors of the Harvard Herald: Dear Sirs—I wish to ask you if the much boasted gentlemanliness and gallantry of Harvard students has not a weak foundation. My daughter says that she cannot walk through the college yard without being stared at by every conceited fellow that chances to pass her. It seems to me that young men with the reputed good breeding of Harvard students would recognize the impropriety—yes, insult of such conduct. I can assure them that I shall make it decidedly unpleasant for any one who hereafter offers the insult to my daughter which I have just mentioned.
Indignant Father.
[We can offer only two suggestions to our correspondent; one is, not to have any daughter, or, if he must have a daughter, don’ITlet her walk through the yard. However, we can have no sympathy for any student who stares at a Cambridge girl— unless he be a member of the Lawrence Scientific School.—Eds.]
—The Vassar Miscellany contains an interesting description of the Harvard “Annex.” We learn that it was founded by bequests from Lydia Maria Child and others, to furnish private collegiate instruction for women. For teachers, the “ Annex ” has the best Harvard can afford; but as regards the tools for teaching—apparatus, laboratories, etc., it is said to be almost destitute. No chemistry is offered, but a young woman may elect courses equivalent to the college proper, and at the end of four years obtain a certificate. There are now 36 pupils in the “Annex.” We quote from the Miscellany:
“ The ‘Annex’ has neither the burden nor the protection of rules. Indeed, its freedom is so great that it often becomes loneliness. It is true that at her isolated boarding place the ‘ Annex ’ student is at liberty to ‘keep her light up ’ till daybreak, and to imprison herself indoors from one week’s end to the other. Over and against these privileges, place the fact that her most intimate friend lives a mile or two away, and that at the end of a year she is acquainted with but four or five of her fellow-students, and one fears that she is losing irrevocably the schoolgirl good times that should be among the happiest memories of her later life. Nor does she have those advantages of Cambridge society, which, at first thought, we should expect from her residence in the rare old town. This, however, is but the inevitable separation of ‘town and gown,’ as wide in Cambridge as in Poughkeepsie. The world outside goes about its business, and the colleges do the same. Their interests and activities are divergent, and I confess I do not know who is to blame for the traditional alienation.
“ The atmosphere of the ‘ Annex ’ is eminently scholastic. Its students are earnest girls, absorbed in the one great duty and delight of gaining an education. This strong purpose, however, does not of itself necessitate eye-glasses, nor does it give a foundation of fact to the spicy fictions that drift about the newspapers. It is safe to say that the ‘ Annex’girl possesses quite the average amiability, vivacity and good looks.
“ The ' Annex ’ is expensive. The tuition is two hundred dollars a year; while board in Cambridge, with such privileges as Vassar students enjoy, would cost from eight to ten dollars a week. This, like ad other defects, can be remedied only by a substantial endowment.”

396
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTld.

Notre Dame, Marclx 11, 1882.
.The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the fator and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE KTOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it: parents should take it: and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 j>er A-xumm., Postpaid..
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the, complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the SCHOLASTIC always wiU be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—We surrender a good part of our editorial space this week to Mr. Eugene C. Orrick. According to the strict rules of debate he is not entitled to another hearing, but we could not refuse the insertion of a short reply. This will conclude the subject of Free Trade. We think this question has now had its full share of space in the Scholastic.
—It is rumored that a Latin or Greek play—either the “ Captives ” of Plautus, or the “ (Edipus Tyrannus,” will be put on the boards during the present session. Many will remember the enthusiasm which the first production of the “ Captives ” excited in the ante-fire days, and the favorable notices which it received. There is every reason to believe that a classic play could be brought out once more with full success, and we trust the attempt will be made.
—The struggle for class medals promises to be a lively one during the present session. Besides the four medals . for Christian Doctrine, of which mention was made in a previous issue, seven will be awarded in the Collegiate Course, one in the Commercial Department, at least one for History, and the probabilities are that other important and numerously-attended courses will not lack recognition. There is plenty of competition in all the classes, and no student in any course can lay the flattering unction to his soul that he is likely to have a “walk over” the
ground. It is impossible at this time to foresee or predict who are likely to be the lucky candidates; but the one thing certain is that the best men will win. We say the best men, and we do not mean by this term those who have most natural ability. In the little college world, as in the great world without, brilliant talents without sustained application achieve far less than moderate ability backed by a good deal of energy. We invite the attention of the hard workers of all the courses to this truth.
Most of the medals in the Collegiate Course will, we presume, as usual, goto Senior students, but we are pleased to notice that there is to be a lively contest between the two departments in at least two courses, the Commercial and the Freshman Scientific. The Scholastic, of course, is perfectly disinterested in the matter; it likes to see a “fair fight and no favor,” and it knows that the winner of the medal in either course will have to earn it, and will be able to wear it with credit to himself and to the University. It is willing to assist all the aspirants with good suggestions, and it therefore advises them, one and all, to “pull off their coats ” and “ roll up their sleeves,” metaphorically, as the victory will be a hard-earned one. Fortune favors the brave.
—On Tuesday morning all was bustle and excitement in the College. Immediately after breakfast the Band began to discourse martial and patriotic airs, and the three departments assembled in the Rotunda—the occasion being the presentation to the College authorities of the beautiful new flag for which the students had so generously contributed. The presentation was made by Air. George E. Clarke, in a stirring speech, in which he spoke of all that the flag symbolized, and mentioned all the precious recollections which it brought back to the students of Notre Dame. His allusions to those representatives of Alma Hater, Fathers Corby, Cooney and Dillon, who had followed the flag for four long years, were greeted with bursts of applause, though we cannot understand why he-omitted mention of those battle-scarred veterans, those gallant survivors of Sherman’s “ March to the Sea,” Father Alaher, and Prof. Lyons, whose feats of endurance and deeds of daring in the cause of liberty have been only of late revealed.	,
President Walsh, in accepting the flag, took occasion to congratulate Mr. Clarke, and to express his entire approval of the sentiments contained in the young gentleman’s address—sentiments which, he said, it had always been the aim of the instruction given at Notre Dame to foster and develop. The appropriateness of the presentation on the festival of St. Thomas Aquinas, the patron of the schools, and the theologian who had so clearly defined the duties of men towards civil governments, and so ably taught how to “render to Casar the things that are Cte-sar’s, and to God the things that are God’s,” was also alluded to.
Loud cries of “rec.” now began to be heard on all sides, and it was agreed, to the satisfaction of all parties, that classes should be suspended during the afternoon.
. The flag is certainly a “ thing of beauty.” It is made of the best English bunting, its dimensions are fifteen feet by ten. The pole is surmounted by a fine bronze eagle with outstretched wings. The flag, being too large to be used by the companies in marching, will float from the pinnacle of Washington Hall on festival days.
thenotre dame scholastic.
397
Free Trade Finished.
A COMMUNICATION FROM MR. ORRICK.
Mr. Editor .-
Not being allowed a more lengthy reply, I write this letter, not only because I was attacked in a manner grossly personal, but also because the article of my opponent was such a one as might easily mislead. We must distinguish between assertion or query, and argument. Every one knows that an argument formulated after such a fashion as “ I consider that, etc.,” and “ Did it ever occur to him, etc.,” is worth nothing, therefore Mr. Arnold’s last two very lengthy papers are of little argumentative value. He says if our dutied goods do not form a large part of our exports then protection is false, etc., giving statistics to show that they do not. Exactly! Because they are not, is why we want protection; if our manufacturer competed with the foreigner Gn foreign soil, he could certainly do it at home, and therefore protection is not false. Mr. Arnold has evidently mixed up his statistics on imports and exports, for in his first article he tried hard to prove that the dawn of England’s greatness began with the rising of her exports; while in his last, he believes he has conclusively proved that a decrease of our exports marks an increase in our wealth, thus showing that an increase of wealth corresponds both with the rise and fall of exports, which is manifestly absurd. Mr. Arnold would also have us believe that while 6,000,000 voters are unprotected and 2,000,000 protected, the protected outvote the unprotected. This is obviously impossible, for any reasonable being can see that 4,000,000 men would not vote for a measure which they must believe, according to our Free Trader, to be in the highest degree prejudicial to their interests. To believe that they would, is to believe an absurdity. Those men who vote for it certainly do believe that protection is in some way to their advantage, ergo. As to emigration, all know that it is not greater from Germany and Italy than from the United Kingdom, and its causes are about the same, with compulsory military service added. But even if the reasons are less, still they go from one protective country to another. Why do they not go to England, that paradise of Free Traders, where, according to Mr. Arnold, there should be employment for all, and no need to beg? Although such an amount as my opponent asserts may have been paid to manufacturers, it does not alter the fact that our debt has been decreased greatly under the Tariff'; while England, with Free Trade, groans under a debt of £800,000,000, with which she cannot be as prosperous as she is represented. “Would he have her (England) reenact the Corn Laws with all their long train of famine, bread riots, etc ?” These were not the effects of those laws, but of their repeal, and here will apply more strongly my former quotation from Blackwood. The article from which it was taken was written on the bad effects of the repeal of the Tariff laws in general and of the Corn Laws in particular; their repeal nearly ruined the farmers of Great Britain, by lowering the price of provisions and farm produce. As to the authenticity of my quotation, let Mr. Arnold consult Vol. LXX, pages 140 and 141 of the periodical referred to, and I think he will not be so rash in future. Because he does not believe a statement it is no reason why it is not true. These are only a few of the many points that could be as forcibly brought before the reader; space, however, will not admit of more. If protection develops our re
sources and manufactures, and retains any of onr money in this country, the two principal objects of protection have been accomplished, and within these two all others may be said to be contained. As to the first, no one can deny that our resources and manufacturing interests have been hugely developed; while it is only necessary to prove the second by a single example. Yearly, according to Mr. Arnold, we make 1,000,000 tons of steel-rails, worth $70 per ton. Now if we got our rails from England, as we would have to do without protection, we should have to export each year, $70,000,000 in gold, which amply demonstrates that we do save money. Nothing further is necessary to prove that protection is best for this country. The Free Trader’s arguments are very weak, and protection is shown to have fulfilled its object.
“ We had hoped to draw from our protective friends an able reply, but regret to say that we have been disappointed.” I am sorry Mr. Arnold was disappointed,—eery sorry,—but I trust that others have not been similarly affected. Some people have a way of crowing over the supposed defeat of an adversary and in this they evince very little sense, especially when they try to impress the importance of their productions on the minds of the public by taunting their opponents with inability to reply. Mr. Arnold’s last article was very good, no doubt, but it would look better for him to let others sound his praises rather than be so eager to do it himself.	.
I hope that this short communication will tend to show, somewhat, the justice of my cause, and I also hope that those who may have sympathized with me in this contest have not been altogether disappointed in the way in which my side has been upheld, as was my very learned opponent.
Yours Respectfully,
Eugene G. Orrick.
Exchanges.	-
—The Oberlin Review comes out in a new and handsome dress of type and makes altogether a respectable figure. The Review is cleverly edited.	•
—The Presbyterian College Journal, Montreal, has a Gaelic and a French department, both of which seem to receive fair attention. The Journal is well-edited.
—The College Rambler is a veritable rambler. Besides “ Ramblings on the Campus ” at Illinois College it publishes regular letters from two female colleges—if the term be allowed. Is there such a thing as a female college?
—The Princetonian is a lively, well-edited college newspaper. Literary matter has been scant in it latterly, and not of a very high order. But, then, the Princetonian editors don’t seem to care a fig for literary matter unless it be of a light, very light character. The punishment—so they seem to regard it—of heavy literary articles is reserved for The Nassau Lit., we suppose. Athletics are in aurapopu-laris, and, as a chronicler of these, The Princetonian stands in the front rank.
—The Chronicle, from the University of Michigan, is one of the handsomest and best edited papers that come to our table. The Chronicle editors deserve credit for not yielding to the “ light lit” craze that has for some time had possession of most of the Eastern papers, but which, happily, seems to have run its course. It was first started by some sprightly, well-written college stories in the leading Eastern college journals that found many weak imitators. For a change, such things are good, but as regular literary stock they soon become disgusting. The Cornell Era, and the Pennsylvania University Magazine also resisted the pressure. The February nnmber of The Chronicle has an excellent editorial on the marking system, and the practice among the younger professors oi propounding
39$	TttE NOTtlE t>AM^ SCIIOLASfid.
difficult “conundrums” at examinations is mentioned. The tendency at the University of Michigan—which, we are glad to say, also exists at Notre Dame—is to have the scholar stand or fall chiefly upon his recitations during the semester. We think there is wisdom in the following, clipped from another editorial in The Chronicle:
“The advantage of giving a thorough examination is, that it compels the student to give his work a careful and comprehensive review, thereby getting a better knowledge of the study as a whole. Even if it does induce what is called ‘ cram • ming,’ as a result, much of it will stick in the memory. The utility of the plan by which an essay upon one particular topic is required is, that it secures at least an exhaustive and profitable research amongst many books and in many directions after everything pertaining to that one subject.
“Where written examinations are required there is always the inducement for the use ot the pony, and indeed, where a series of questions is previously given, the temptation to be ‘well prepared’ is too great for many to resist. To be forewarned is to be forearmed. However, with a verbal inquiry, this avenue is closed, and each one has to rest upon his own knowledge.
“In discussing this subject, justice would not be done to it if we did not mention the convenient practice on the part of a few of giving each year the same set of questions as that of the years before. Of course, the classes are differently composed, yet in institutions of this character traditions are good, and much time is thus saved to the busy students by their knowing what is to be the nature of the questions asked. We confess that it is a difficult problem how best to ascertain a person’s understanding of a subject, and much experience alone can solve it.”
—The Cornell Era of March the 4th contains an account of the Fifth Annual Banquet ot the Northwestern Association of Cornell Alumni. The post-prandial oration was delivered by President White- The exchange editor is on a western tour, and gives a weekly review of our college papers, complimenting some, and giving others “ Hail Columbia.” In a previous number he examined the merits and demerits of the Scholastic in the following manner:
“As the man who has followed the ‘ star of empire’ In Its westward course is distinguished from his brother who has never left the refinements of eastern life to battle with the asperities of frontier existence, by a sturdy independence of manner born of his peculiar surroundings, so can we characterize the papers from western colleges. It is true that most of them seem insignificant when compared with the Argo, Acta, and papers of that grade. As a rule, the typographical appearance is not so pleasing, and both the arrangement of material and the matter itself Isck the harmony and polish which is the result of experience. Yet the redeeming features are not few. To mention tnem all in one issue is, of course, impracticable, and we choose from the pile before us at random. Chance directs us to the Notre Dame Scholastic, one of the most strikingly individual, so to speak, of college papers,—a paper that pursues the even tenor of its way, regardless alike of the praise or criticism which it has been the fashion for ‘Ex.-men’ to freely bestow. It represents admirably the exclusive spirit of its college. Departing widely from the standard prescribed by the sage of the Argo and his brother critics, its columns are filled with heavy leaders on the ‘ Spelling Reform,’ ‘ Art, Music and Literature,’ interesting comments on foreign exchanges, scientific notes and an item which can be found in no other college publication with which we are acquainted—its famous ‘Roll of Honor.’ This has long been the target for standard jokes, when all other topics were exhausted. Yet the Scholastic editors follow their own policy, evidently well satisfied with the effect it has on their subscription list. Speaking of its editors, we are reminded that there has long been a suspicion that they are not from the student body, but children of a larger growth. This may, perhaps, account for the heavy matter with which their paper is filled, and which, we confess, is almost a welcome relief from the airv nothingness of the more modern of our exchanges. The Scholastic makes no effort toward an attractive appearance, its editors possibly being unwilling to ‘gild refined gold,’‘paint the lily,’or ‘whitewash the cabbage.’ We should like to give a sample of their dalliance with the muse, but fear that ‘ Thoughts on the Feast of the Purification ’ would not be appreciated here.”
We have made efforts, brother Era, to secure a more presentable appearance. Wait a little, till you see us in bur new “ Sunday-go-to-meetins.” which we are at this moment trying on. That wasn’t our muse.
An Editor received a letter from a subscriber, asking him to publish a cure for apple tree-worms. He replied that he could not suggest a cure until he knew what ailed the worms.
Personal.
— J. A. Kelly, of ’79, writing from his home in St. Louis, wishes to be remembered to his friends here at Notre Dame. Joe is enjoying good health. He is attending to business for his father. He will be here for Commencement.
—Robert G. Blaine, of ’56, resides in Washington, D. C. Unlike bis brother, the ex Secretary of State, Mr. Blaine does not mingle in politics or create much stir in public life. A visitor describes him as a quiet, scholarly, and amiable gentleman, who is never happier than in the enjoyment of his books ora conversation with a friend.
—J. W. Bell (Commercial), of ’79, sends a neat business card, announcing a partnership with A. M. Cochran. They are proprietors of a confectionary and ice-cream parlor at Terre Haute, Ind. Jim’s experience as book-keeper for the wholesale grocery house of Wright & Kaufman will be valuable to him. We bespeak success for the new firm.
—J. F. Kennedy, of ’75, sends a programme of " Wait ing for the Verdict,” which was successfully rendered at Youngstown, Ohio, on the night of the 22d ult., under the auspices of the Young Mens’ Catholic Association. Among the leading characters were several old students of Notre Dame, all of ’75: J. F. Rudge, John Kielty.and J. F. Kennedy.
—The Laporte Herald-Chronicle, in an account of a libel suit, pays a compliment to D. J. Wile, of ’77: “In summing up the case, D. J. Wile, of the prosecution, made the opening speech, occupying exactly two hours. As an oratorical effort, it was the best that was made during the closing scenes of the trial. Mr. Wile was logical, rhetorical, and, at times, eloquent. He made a strong plea for his side.”
—Alfred W. Arrington, of ’69, son of the late Judge Arrington, of Chicago, one of the ablest lawyers that the country has ever had, is living with his mother at South Pueblo, Col. Alfred, we hear, is following the profession of law, in which he is likely to become distinguished, possessing, as he does, a deep and well-stored mind. His many friends among the readers of the Scholastic will no doubt be glad to learn his whereabouts.
—We had the pleasure, on Tuesday, of meeting the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, who is staying at St. Joseph’s College, on Eighth street. Father Sorin was the most picturesque feature in Sunday’s procession. With his long, white, patriarchal-looking locks of hair, and a beard as long as that of Michael Angelo’s Moses, he is a man of mark. He reminded us of the kneeling Doctor in Caracci’s painting of the Last Communion of St. Jerome.—Cincinnati Telegraph.
Local Items.
—George was mad.
—“ Nothing like it.”	'.
—“ How do you spell privilege ? ”
—It is going to be blue fire next time.
—The choir is busily engaged in preparations for Holy Week.
—The St. Cecil ian Moot Court is said to be a grand success.
—A considerable number of local items are crowded out this week.
—The dentist has different ways of spelling his name, it would seem; strange!
—The fine weather last Sunday was greatly enjoyed. Come, gentle Spring!
—Washington Hall, we hear, will be removed and con verted into a gymnasium.
—The Philosophers had "rec.” on Tuesday, the feast of their patron, St. Thomas of Aquin.
—It is a little too early yet for Spring poetry. A. heavy fall of snow is predicted for the last day in April.
TSE NOTRE DAME SOfiOLASTlC.	§99
—Who will furnish some news from the Senior department? Is the life of the place confined to the Juniors and Minims ?
—“ The Angel of the Schools ” is in press and will he issued at an early day. W. H. Sadlier, of New York, is the publisher.
—The best Bulletin for the month of February was awarded to N. H. Ewing; second best, G. C. Echlin; third best, Ed. Fishel.
—We learn that one or more persons have already become subscribers for the Athenian paper received by the Rev. Professor of Greek.
—The Band exhausted all its power and beauty of melody on the coal cars, and the members returned to the College, whistling. Sad.
—Master Ames Winsor, nephew of Senator Booth, of California, and of Bishop Ames of the Methodists, is the latest arrival in the Minim department.
—The score of the closely-contested game of baseball which came off last Saturday between nines captained by Messrs. Colyer and Farrelly, is crowded out.
—Old Charley has seen his best days and will soon retire from active life. He no longer heeds whip or umbrella, and seems to have forgotten the way to South Bend.
—Rev. President Walsh examined the Arithmetic Classes in the Minim department on Monday. He expressed himself greatly pleased with the progress the classes were making.
—We saw in Prof. Gregori’s room the other evening a beautiful design for an antependium to be placed before the high altar on Good Friday and Holy Saturday. It will be very fine.
—A large number of Juniors, in company with Brother Thomas, visited the picturesque banks of the St. Joseph’s River last Tuesday afternoon, returning as the bell rang for supper, much pleased with their excursion.
—For reliable information as to which trains stop at Laporte for breakfast, the travelling public is respectfully referred to the prophetic head of the tailoring establishment, who claims to know all about it now.
—The Juniors well merit the praise that is so often bestowed upon them for generosity. Their efforts to secure the flag, lately presented, deserve much credit, and it is freely awarded especially bj' the committee.
—During the week several exciting games of football have been played between the sides “Red” and “Blue.” Although the “ wind ” was generally in favor of the “Blues/* the “Reds” were repeatedly victorious.
—Much has been said regarding the singing on Sundays, yet little or no improvement has been made. As there are many excellent singers among the students, the organization of a good choir would be an easy task.
—The annual report of the South Bend Post Office shows a noteworthy increase of profit. Mr. George Pfleger, the gentlemanly postmaster, has proved himself well qualified for the position, which we trust he will long retain. '	’
. —Monthly Bulletins were sent off on Monday. The notes were exceptionally good, and gave evidence of hard work on the part of the students. The struggle for honors at Commencement has been renewed with great energy.
—Why are the Thespians so quiet? Are they to have no more meetings? Surely, “Falsely Accused” could not have robbed them of their wonted spirit and enterprise? We hope to hear from them soon through their meetings.
—The beautiful chromo of St. Thomas of Aquin, which hangs over the staircase leading to the College chapel, was presented by Rev. Father Guido, of the Passionists. It was made in Rome and is a true likeness of the Angelic Doctor.	.
—The Notre Dame Scholastic is soon to have a new dress. The Times congratulates that excellent publication upon its evident prosperity, of which this announcement is only an additional indication.—South-Bend Weekly Times.
—We devote more than the usual space in this issue to “ Books and Periodicals ” an account of having omitted this department last week. X. Y. Z’s article will appear in our next, sure. We are sorry for the delay, and hope he will not take offence.
—The Scholastic Annual for 1882 is one of the most beautiful annuals that we have yet seen, and speaks well for the taste as well as the industry of its compiler, Professor J. A. Lyons. The contents are varied and interesting.—New York Tablet.
—A lively game of football was played last Tuesday on the Junior grounds, between the Senior “ team,” under the leadership of F. Gallagher, and the Junior “team,” commanded by R. French. After two hours’ hard playing, victory was declared in favor of the Juniors.
—Brother Charles, master-carpenter, has designs on the old printing-office, but we have not yet learned what they are. When you see Brother round anywhere with a measuring-line in his hand, you may safely conclude that there is going to be a fall or a resurrection.
—Rev. President Walsh delivered an excellent sermon at ( the High Mass, last Sunday. It is to be regretted that the / onerous and exacting duties of his office prevent him / from filling the pulpit more frequently. He is always lis-/ tened to with deep interest, and his arguments are sure to carry conviction with them.
—The contest of last Tuesday proves that the Seniors are no match for the Juniors in football. A facetious itemizer remarks that the Seniors would be more graceful dancers and more successful in games of football were it not for a slight physical inaccuracy in their lower limbs. We take it that this has reference to bow-legged individuals.
—After “ Never ? No, Never,” of Pinafore, comes the “Look at it,” (to be accompanied with an appropriate gesture) of G. Edmund, in his stirring apostrophe to the “ Stars and Stripes ”—an effort pronounced to be the most flag-rant thing of the year. [There is a good joke here on somebody, we suspect. The item was handed in late, and we had no time for an investigation].
—We have received from Prof. J. A. Lyons, of the University of Notre Dame, the Scholastic Annual for the current year. This is the seventh and best published by the Professor. In addition to an accurate calender, it contains a vast amount of instructive data relative to fasts, feasts and holidays. It is likewise well supplied with interesting and’entertaining miscellaneous articles.—Peoria Daily Transcript.	.
—The 21st regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Phi-lopatrian Association was held on Feb 20th. At this meeting Master J. M. Danielson was elected a member. Compositions and declamations were furnished by J. Devine, M. Graham, J. Murphy, E. Muhlke, J. Livingston, J. Powell, W. Wilbur, E. Drindle, E. Wile, J. Buchanan, and F. Lund. Vocal selections were rendered by Messrs. Gi-bert, Gallagher, Bailey, and Tourtillotte. Mr. B. Baca delivered an address in Spanish.
—The Messrs. Tuerk Bros. & Johnson, of Chicago, one of whose water motors is now used with such success for blowing the big organ bellows in the church at Notre Dame, have made some improvements for the handy working of the regulating apparatus and invented a new belt-tightener which Bro. Wilfred and the machinists here say are far superior to anything they have ever seen. The Tuerk is a splendid and economical motor and is rapidly replacing engines, and other motors where water is to be had.
—There was a meeting on Tuesday evening, Feb. 28th, for the purpose of reorganizing the Scientific Association. The object of this society is the mutual exchange of scientific knowledge, original investigations, and public entertainments. The officers are Rev. J. A. Zahm, President; E. C. Orrick, Vice President; R. M. Anderson, Recording Secretary; A. J. Zahm, Corresponding Secretary; G.E. Clarke, Treasurer; F. Kuhn, Librarian. The other members are W. H. Arnold, M. Donohue, E. A. Otis, W. McCarthy, J. P. O’Neill, J. McIntyre, and T. Healy. The Scientific Association is composed of students in the Ju-
400
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC!.
nior and Senior years of the Scientific and Classical Courses.
—The 24th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was held Feb. 23d. C. Kolars and S. Murdock gave criticisms on the compositions, declamations, etc., ot previous meetings. Essays were then read bv A. M. Coghlin, W. H. McCarthy, C. Murdock, W. P. Mahon, C. F. Rose, J. Ruppe, and F. R. Johnson; C. C. Echlin, W. Johnson, A. Browne, G. Castanedo, C. Porter, W. Coghlin, Jos. Courtney, W. Start, and C. F. Rose declaimed. The following young gentlemen were appointed public readers for the week: A. M. Coghlin. E. Fishel, C. Murdock, H. Porter, C. C. Echlin, P. Hoffman, G. J. Rhodius, J. Guthrie, W. P. Mahon, N. Ewing, C. Porter, and J. Grever. The Moot Court was then organized. It will be in session for at least three weeks.
—Last week a lively game of baseball was played by two picked nines of the Junior department, Master C. Kolars being the Captain of the Juniatas and Master L. Gibert of the Actives. After two hours’ hard playing, the game was ended in favor of the Actives. The following is the score:
Boll of Honor.
Juniatas.
Actives. b. o.
C. Kolars, C. and ef.....
J. Guthrie, P............
R. French,' C............
J. Heffernan, 3d b.......
J. Kelly, 2d b...........
G. Rhodius, 1st b........
E. Orchard, r. f.........
C. Ziegler s. s..........
J. Warren, 1. f..........
Total....................
L. Gibert, C. and s. s....
T. Hurley, P...........
J. Neeson, C...........
J. Whelan, 2d b....... F. Lund, l.f..........
W. Coghlin, 3d b...... W. Mulke, r. f.......
J. Gallagher, c f.....
J. Ruppe, 1st b.......
1 0
1 1
1 1
1 1
2
4 4
3
4
3
2
3
2
2
27
Total.................. 9
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. Anderson, J. C. Armijo, H. Akin, J. B. Berry, W. B. Berry, F. M. Barron, E. J. Bryant, J. F. Browne, F. M. Bell, M. T. Burns, W. A. Cooper, T. A. Cullen, 8. G. Clements, D. Corry, M. J. Carroll, E. V. Chelini, A. B. Christian, G. E. Clarke, W. 8. Cleary N. Commerford, J. Delaney, A. D. Dorsey, J. Donegan, J. Drury, A. Dehner, F. Ewing, B. Eaton, W. Flannery E. J. Fenlon, T. P. Fenlon, J. Farrell, R. E. Fleming, J. M. Falvey, M. Falvey, C. L. Fishburne, C. Garrrett, F. W. Gallagher, A J. Golonski, F. H. Grever, T. D. Healy, W. Johnson, F. Kinsella, J. Kindel, A. Kuntsmann,'G. M. Kerndt, M. Livingston, J. C. Larkin, W. Minnis, W. McCarthy, C. I. McDermott, J. A. McIntyre, H. W. Morse, W. McEniry, T. H. Maloney, E. B. Mason, G. E. McErlain, W. B. McGorrisk, J. Nash, H. Noble, J. B. O’Reilly, E. C. Orrick, E. A. Otis, A. J. Peery, F. Paquette, C. L. Pierson, J. P. Peifer, E. J. Ryan, P. Rasche, W. E. Ruger, W. Schofield, J. Solon, H. A. Steis, I. Treon, F. Wheatly, J. A. White, E. D. Yrisarri, A. F, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. H. Archer, A W. Ayers, A. A. Browne, G. B. Buchanan, W. H. Barron, E. Bailey, W. F. Bacon, B. B. Baca, E. 8. Col-ear, J. 8. Courtney, W. J. Cavanagh, J. L. Castillo, M. Dolan, W. Dare, C. C. Echlin, N. H. Ewing, Ed Fishel, Fred Fishel, W. E. Freyermuth, J. H. Fendrick, R. French, H. Fisher, M. L. Foote, J. Friedman, W. M. Graham, A. B. Gerlach, E. F. Gall, A. A. Gall, H. D. Hibbeler, T. J. Hurley, E. A. Howard, W. F. Hanivan. J. Halligan, W. E. Jeannot, W. H. Johnston, C. C. Kolars, O. Kempf, J. F. Kahman, H. A. Kitz, 8. Katz, J. Livingston, F. C. Lund, J. T. McGordon, H. M. Metz, W. G. Muhlke, J. 8. McGrath, T. E. McGrath, F. X. McPhillips. C. AL Murdock, W. P. Mahon, J. H. Meyer, J. E. Orchard, B. B. Osborn, H. P. Porter, S. L. Peery, D G. Quill, T. C. Ryan, S. Rosenheim, A. L. Richmond, J. C. Ruppe, V. L. Rivaud, L. F. Rivaud, D. C. Smith, E. G. Schmitt, G. 8. Smeeth, H. C. Snee, G. H. Schaefer, H. G. Sells, E. G. Tappin, D. G. Taylor, G. E. Tour-tillotte, A.T. Taggart, A. J. Vernier, T. Williams, J.E. Warner, C. C. Warner, A. J. Wendell, J. W. Whelan, M. J. Wilbur, W. Warren, P. J. Yrisarri, J. E. Zaehnle, C. Ziegler, J. A. Ruppe.
—The Lemonnier Library Association acknowledges with thanks the receipt of a volume of Brownson's Review, from Mrs. Col. Anderson, of Circleville, Ohio; a set of St. Augustine’s Fair Gazette from Maj. Edmond Mallet, of Washington, D. C.; Reports of the Gitteau Trial, from Mrs. Anna H. Dorsey, of Washington, D. C.; A valuable scrap-book from Frank Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio; The Dark Ages, a lecture delivered before the Carroll Institute of Washington, D. C., Dec. 1843, and Catholic Principles of Civil Government, by Rev. James Keogh, D. D., from J. Burns, of N. Y.; one complete set of.the Reports and Circulars of the Bureau of Education, from Gen. Eaton, of Washington, D. C.; from Manly Tello, Cleveland, 'Ohio, copy of The Catholic Universe for the year 1882; from the Editors of the Phonographic Monthly, subscription to same for 1882. Purchased for the Library: The Verbalist, a Manual Devoted to Brief Discussion of the Right and the Wrong Use of Words, by Alfred Ayres; The Orthoep-' 1st, by Alfred Ayres; The Poets and Poetry of Ireland, with Historical and Critical Essays and Notes, by Alfred M. Williams ; San Domingo and Hayti, by Samuel Hazard; Ancient History, History of Rome and History of the Middle Ages, Gazean; Letters on the Spanish Inquisition, by M. Le Comte Joseph Le Maistre; The Negro Conspiracy in the City of New York in 1741, Daniel Horsmanden; Landing of the Pilgrims of Maryland, Rev. P. Corry, A. M.; Halleck’s Poems; Oscar Wilde’s Poems; De Soto’s History of the Conquest of Mexico by the Spaniards, translated by T. Townsend, plates, thick folio, half bud. London, 1754; •Sir Walter Scott’s Life of Napoleon Bonaparte, with preliminaryview of the French Revolution, 9 Vols., Edinburgh, 1827; Life of Napoleon, by Lockhart, 2 Vols.,London, 1835; Bourienne’s Life of Napoleon, with notes of conversations at St. Helena, 3 Vols., London, 1831; Rawlinson’s Five Great Monarchies of the Ancient World, or History, Antiquities, etc., of Chaldea, Assyria, Babylon, Media and Persia, profusely illustrated, 3 Vols., London edition.
Class Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
commercial course.
I. Treon, A. Peery, F. O’Rourke, G. Kerndt, H. Akin, C. Garrett, J. B. Zettler, H. Steis, D. Saviers, P. Rasche, -E. Ryan, C. Pierson, J. Nash, P. McGinnis, J. Millet, F. Kinsella, A Jones, M. Falvey, C. L. Fishburne, E. Eager, J. Drury, T. Cullin, N. Commerford, J. Concannon, D. Corry, E. Bryant, E. Yrisarri, W. Ruger, J. Marlett, B. Eaton W. A. Connor J. Conway, C. Zeigler, A. Sells, W. Mahon, C. Murdock, E. Gall, R. French, C. Echlin, G. Desehamp, W. Coghlin, W. Barron, D. Taylor, J. Orchard, 8 Katz, W. Jeannot, M. Dolan, J. Courtney, J. Fendrick, J. Heffernan, T. Hurley, C. Kolars.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—C. Kolars, C. Zeigler, F. Lund, W. Barron, M. Dolan, H. N. Hess. E. W. Grout, E. J. Eager, J. Donegan, E. Bryant; Grammar—W. E. Grout, J. Concannon, E. Eager, W. P. Mahon, W. H. McCarthy, T. Hurley; Geo. graphy—J. Haligan,E. Yrisarri, C. Echlin, C.Devoto, W. Barron, C. Fishburne; United States'History—C. Echlin, J. Halligan, C. Devote, C. Kolars; Penmanship—M. Murphy, P. Hoffman, E. Yrisarri, A. West, C. Pierson, J. Fendrick, H. Lannon, W. Mahon, J. Heffernan, E. Fishel, F. Fishel; Arithmetic—C. Echlin, C. Fishburne, G. Kerndt.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	401
One 21 Ue West of Notre Dame University.
—Last week Mr. Alexis Coquillard, Jr., and his mother, with Mrs. Vandyke and Marie Piquette, of Detroit, Mich., visited their friends at the Academy.
—At tbe Sunday evening reunion the reading was as follows: “Why the Census of India was Taken,” written by Miss Laura Fendrick, read, by Miss Catharine'Wall; . “ Life ” (an allegory), written by Miss Annie Rasche, read by Miss Sarah McKenna; “ The Wonders of the Telescopic and Microscopic Worlds,” composed by Miss M. Wiley, read by Miss M. Dillon; “ The Studies of my Class,” composed by Miss M. Dillon, read by Miss M. Wiley.
—Junior department, Monday evening. Compositions: “ Flowers,” written by Minnie Schmidt, read by Sarah Campau; “The Trouble Girls give Teachers,” written by Alice Sawyer, read by Manulita Chaves; “Elegant Manners,” written by Clara Richmond, read by Margarita Otero; “ St. Aloysius,” written by Mary Chirhart, read by Marion Morgan; “This Beautiful World of Ours,” written by Annie Welch, read by Cora Patterson. Points were distributed by the Rev. chaplain, Father Shortis.
(Selections from “ Rosa Mystica ” and “ St. Mary’s Chimes,” monthly MS. papers edited by the young ladies of -the Senior Department.)
To Editer uv the “ Spread Eagel Banner,” Stump Town, Squash Co., Arkansaw.
Mister Editer:—I’ll now kontinyor the ballence uv my kommunikashun about St. Mary’s Akadermy, Noter Dame, Ind., which I kutt in haff 2 weaks ago on akount uv want uv space in yur valyerabel noospaper. Now let me perface my remark by sain that sum uv yur compozur-turs seems tu stick tu the ole fashun wa uv spellin wurds, and so tha got lost sumtimes in the spellin uv my artikel. Pieze “Noter Bener.” Now, beginin whare I left off 2 weaks ago, when I gav in my erpinyon bout the nonsense uv studyin about rox au stove-cole an such like things.
Wal, I sposs them tooters thought they was jest makin me believe everything and that I’de send my nieces right on, but I wated to see sum more, for twas just curius. Now they tuk me inter a class that was just as senseribel as that gometry class and this was stronomy. Them schollars, smart-lookin as ever, got up to a board and went on drawin pictures of the erth and sky and stars sich as Jupirter and Satin and I don’t believe any livin man knows Jupirter from any other of them stars. And they said Satin had a ring and eight moons etc. Now I never knowed ’afore that Satin was a star—and if them innercent gerls don’t know no better I hope they never will. But what beat the hull thing was, they did a sum and got for an anser a big long numbur and then said that was the distance tbe erth was from the sun. Now, no one is so awful smart that he can tell how fur the sun is from the earth without goin to the sun, and I’de like to see the man that’s ever bin thar ’fore he died. They said twas 900 million I guess or some whar’s ’bout thar, and law I if any man can’t tell it ain’t more’n twenty or thirty miles I pity his eyesight. Then they said the moon went ’round the sun and the sun stud still and kept a goin at the same time, Now I’de like to know how they can make that
out. Doesn’t look much as if it stud still when it goes over our heds day after day. I thot they wus thru, but they tuk me inter a room to hear the elocutin class. Now I was mighty glad to see that they kept up the good ould practice o’ readin in this famus instertootion. After I had witnessed all the queer doins of them other classis, I ex: pected a good old readin treat, for I do think thar’s nothin like a goodelocutor as them folks call it, and tho it’s against my princerpals to praiz myself, I must say that I am better at readin than anything else. Why, law me! tharnevur was a sewin surcle, a spellin bee or a quiltin or a dance but what Sally Ann Jenkins that was, used to be called on to read. But I tell you what, when I saw them same graderatin skolers a sittin all in a row, I knew I’de heer sum sort of new fangled performancis. Well I was’nt mistakin. Sum uv’em red as if thay wus jus hart-broken with greaf, an sum as if they wus awful mad, an sum more jest fur the worl like an ole man or ole wnmun an a little boy adyin, in fac tha got me a cryin, an wunce I furgot my dignerty an laffed right out when wun uv’em wus a mimickin a highfalutin purson that gose on so much ’bout the bewtyful.
But I don’t like the way they don’t mine thur stops. I made free to tell one of them ladys that runs the instertootion, “ Them skollers stop whare they ain’t no stops, that ain’t ackordin to the rools uv the buk I lurned out uv,” and thatere lady sed: “Thay ar taut to make retorical pauzes.” Well, what kind uv pawses them was, I don’t no, but I wood like to giv em a fue lessons in good ole-fashon readin, when we had to count 1, 2, 3, or 4, jest as it wus a commer or a semmer-kolon, or kolon, or a period; but this ere skool is run oltergether on noo principals, an so I cant keep trak uv their goins on.
I wus then tuk inter the Book-Keepin class. Now, here wus sumthin sensibel, sumthin like it! Cause here the gals are larned to figger, ciphur, do sums and keep ’counts and I tell yer them buks looked slick. Them red lines wus drawed jest as prittty lookin, and it showed thay tuk a dale uv pride in doiri ’counts up nice. Anuther rale good thing in this instertootion was the composishun study. The skollers got up and red sum uv their ideers ’bout sartain things, sich as Frindship, Birds, Spring and Flow-urs, and thay wus pritty good too, but jest no more an what evrybody knows about ’em. Now, its all nice ’nuff but nun uv ’em had my geenus for I never lerned to make up skule composishuns, and I have my douts if eny of thim could rite as I do for this famus “ Spread Eagel Banner.”
Then I wus askt if I wud like to lissen to thelogik class, whar the skollurs lernd to rezon the rite wa—now I jus had to xpres'myself, “ Now, se here marm,” sezl, “ yu dont mene to sa yu lain them yung gals to rezin out uv buks? why that aint no manur uv yus; aint yu ole enuf 2 no tliat wim-min fokes dont want to no no logik ? Jus let em get an idee in ther hed, an thay kan talk doun eny body, an* if thay aint a swif talker thay kan jus sa nothin, an stick to it, till tha gane the pint, that ere is my noshun uvrezuping. Why, when the late lamented Mr. Sykes wanted to muv our farm out to the gole dig^ns, I jus sed, “No Sut'' an when he milely sed, “ What rezun, Sally Ann," I sed “ the rezun is because^ an I jus stiffend my sholdurs, an I tel yu he never purposd that ar questun no more. Now if we’d a got to rezunnin, an arguin frum buks I rekun we’d uv bin a arguin that pint till this very da. No mam, wins, min fokes dont wapt no techin how to rezin; that sort uy
402
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
thing is born in em. The lady whut wus a kundicktin me roun smild a littel smile an tuk me inter a room whar the skollers is toght to sew on the masheen an to mak up warrin artikels. Now this wus a senserbel thing, fur wim-min fokes what aint useful at the makin an mendin aint no sort uv pursens to get along in the dermestic cerkel.
Then I wus tuk to the musick-room to hear the musick skollers a singin an playin. Now this wus stunin. Sum 15 uv them pewpels jus kummenced a toon so sofly that I thot tha wus skeered, an then tha kep goin up, an up, till I jus stud up on tipto to keep up with em, an then tha let emselves down till I just dropt on the cheer brethless. Yu see, musick alwaze did kary me long with it, an awl this time 1 yung gal wus a playin a toon uv her own on the pearno, an whot wus queer she did’nt put the singers out, an the singers did’nt put hur out, an sevrul uv them singers wus a singin a littel toon uv thur own. Then ther wus more singin by 1 gal at a time, an tha just went on purty much like kanary birds. Well, it wus a cumplete sucksess. Then 2 more pewpils went 1 at the time to that peanno, an I jes trembild awl over fur the peanner. You’d uv thot a hull band uv mewsick wus in the room, and then agin, you’d uv thot them players wus jus a foolin with that en-strement, an I notist that when they wus a runnin ther fingurs like crazy over them keys, you could hear a pretty littel toon a goin on in the middel uv awl the uprore Then 1 mewsick pewpil went at a instrerment like King David usd to pla on. I jest wep teers uv devoshun, I had nevur seen 1 uv them instrerments, an I did’nt expect tu> till I herd the Angels a playun on em in heven. I wus mitily plezed with the hole thing.
By this time the Bus cam fur me, an I bid adoo tu the ladys what run the instertution an I tuk a desolvin vu of the grouns and awl the picteresk serroundins an wus a steppin inter the Bus when 1 uv the post grad skollers that wus inside uv it with hur muther, perlitely tuk my umbrellur an carpit bag frum me, an helpt me,git in. I was takin with hur perlitenis and so began to inturvew hur on pertickerlur pints: “Now,” sez I, “how du yu yung wim-min kalkerlate on fillin the misshion uv awl tru wimmin, viz., to get up kumfertabel meels fur the famerly serkel ? Why, them ere hi studdys is a fillin yer beds with noshuns 2 big fur yer desterny.” Now that ere pewpil jus ansered my questun instanter by showin me a gole meddle she got at the Akadermy fur hur skil in plane kookin. Now that jus stund me, an she very perlitly sed: The techers tri to make that skollurs trooly useful an very konshenshus membars uv sersiaty. Now, I jes giv in thar, an konkluded jest as soon as my neesis got thru thur spellin buk I’d send ’em right awa to that ere ede'rkashunal instertootion, for I gess it’s run on purty fare princerpals.
An now I’ll klose this uther haff uv my kommnnica-shun by sain that yu’ll here frum me agin on this subjek when my 2 neesis graduate in them yusefel branchis and perticulerly in the kulernary klass of the forthcomin futur moddel grads uv St. Mary’s Akadarmy, Noter Dame Post Offis/Indeanner.
Yurs Trooly,
Mrs. Sally Ann Sykes.
Post Kriptum:—I furgot to sa that I beam them Se-niur pewpils git up 2 monthly papors out uv thur own heds. Now, twud be mity nice if youd sen them yung edertrisses sum coppys uv yur valurable papur evry weak, fur twud help em ever so much if tha red my kummuner-cashung op things in genral an pertiklar.
Yurs More Trooly,
Mbs- S. A- Sykes-
Boll of Honor.
FOB POLITENESS, NEATNESS, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses A. Cavenor, C. Claffey, E. Galen, Hanbury, Walsh, M. Clarke, Bland. Beal, M. Campbell, C. Campbell, Chrisehellis, Fendrick, R. Fishburne, Glennon. Lancaster, A. Nash, Rasehe, Maude Price, A. Price, Simms, H. Van Patten, L. Van Patten, Black, Casey, Cal), M. Fishburne, Mowry, A. McGordon, N. McGordon, J. Owens, Margaret Price, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, A. Richardson, M. Richardson, Thompson, A. Chirhart, Sawyer, Behler, L. English, Fleming, M. H. Ryan, Rentlinger, A. Watson, Adderly, Clifford, Wagner, Castanedo, B. English, Gavan, Green, H. Hicks. N. Hicks, Northrop, Ives, Eldridge, M. Watson. 2d Tablet—Misses A. Dillon, L. Fox, Feehan, Wiley, Donnelly, Heneberry, McKenna, Shickey, Vander Heyden, Wall, Coryell, Hackett, Keenan, McCoy, Mary Price, Rosing, Rulison, Waters, Thomann, Pease, Fenlon, Williams, Newton, Mulvey, Smith.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses C. Ginz, C. Lancaster, H. Ramsey, J. Spangler, 8. Semmes, A. Clarke, M. Chirhart, M. Coogan, M. Dillon, L. Heneberry, O’Neill, Robertson, Bard, Fehr, C. Richmond, M. Schmidt, J. Charles, M. Sullivan. 2d Tablet—Misses Considine, M. Morgan, A. Martin, C. Patterson, M. Paquette, P. Ewing, J. Krick, Condron, Chaves, M. Otis, D. Best, M. Otero.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses E. Rigney, J. English, M. Otis, S. Campau, A. English.
Class Honors.
Graduating Class—Misses Cavenor, Claffey, Galen, Hanbury and Walsh.
1st Senior Class—Misses Clarke, Dillon, Fox, Feehan and Wiley.
2d Sr. Class.—Misses Chrisehellis, Donnelly, R. Fishburne, Glennon. Lancaster, McKenna, Ave Price, M. A. Ryan, Rasehe, Simms, Wall.	•
3d Sb.—Misses Barlow, Etta Call, M. Fishburne, C. Ginz, Keenan, Legnard, C. Lancaster, A. McGordon, N. McGordon, Owens, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, Rulison, Thompson, Todd, Waters, Thomann, Semmes.
1st Prep. Class—Misses Adderly, Behler, Clifford, M. Ducey, L. Engl’sh, Eager, Fenlon, Fleming, M. H. Ryan, Rentlinger, A. Watson, L. Wagner.
2d Prep. Class—Misses M. Chirhart, Coogan, M. Dillon, Ives, Eldridge, M. Watson.
Jr. Prep.—Misses I. Hackett, J. Krick, E. Papin M. Wilkins, A. Welch.
1st Jr.—Misses Browne, Coyne, Campau, H. Castanedo, Chaves, E. Mattis, Richmond, Rigney, Robinson, Sawyer, Mary Otis.
2d Jr.—Misses M. Barry, J. Charles, J. McKennon.
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses E. Galen, C. Lancaster, M. Feehan, C Bland.
2d Class—Misses A. Castanedo, Campbell, Cavenor, M. Castanedo, Morgan, J. Reilly, Semmes.
3d Cla=s—Mieses J. Barlow, M. Clarke, A. Clarke, A. Ley-don, M. Paquette, M. Thomann.
4th Class—Misses E. Call, Beal, Donnelly, A. McGordon, A. Nash, J. Owens, Mary Price, Ave Price, M. A. Ryan, Rosing, Walsh, E. Vander Heyden, L. English, L. Fendrick.
5th Class—Misses Browne, M. Otero, C. Richmond, A. Sawyer.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses C. Claffey, E. Chrisehellis, C. Ginz, A. Dillon, M. Behler, M, Thomann, L. Wagner.
2d Class—Misses M. Fleming, M. Rentlinger, M. Chirhart, J. Butts.
3d Class—Mieses N. Keenan, E. Todd, H. Van Patten, L. Van Patten, M. Eldridge.
4th Class—Misses M. Ducey, C. Ducey, A. Eager, Coogan M. Ryan, H. Hicks, A. Martin.
No matter how fast your pen may fly, your paper is stationary,