PUBLISHED WEEKLY - FOUNDED 1867
Volume 74	APRIL 18, 1941	Number 22


In the front line of
National Defense
Many of you are preparing to take your places in the nation’s service. No matter where that place may be, you’ll find the telephone industry right there with you.
For communication is the life-line of
armed defense and of defense preparations. At Western Electric we’re making equip-which normally would
ment for use now
not be required by the Bell System for several years. We’re rushing orders to equip new military posts—to provide increased telephone facilities for expanding defense
industries.
In this time of need, as in calmer days, Western Electric’s long experience and manufacturing facilities are demonstrating
their worth to the nation.
Western Electric
. . . l* back o/ our Rell I elephone service
professional cards
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L- E. FISHER, M. D.
M. J. THORNTON.
M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose. d. d. s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s.
Peter J. Rose, d. d. s.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.
SOUTH BEND ;
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
314 J. M. S. BUILDING	TELEPHONE 4-360
Phone 3-2805
Residence 4 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY
FOOT AILMENTS
X-Ray Examination hours BY
APPOINTMENT
609 j. m. s. Bldg. SOUTH BEND, IND.
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE. EAR, NOSE, THROAT
PHONE 3-139S
M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.
PHONE 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-8989
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
OFFICE 4-S66I
RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTISTRY—X-RAYS
702 J. M. S. BLDG.
SOUTH BEND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
phone a-1254
803 SHERLAND BUILDING
SOUTH BEND. INDIA
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
3
COLLEGE PARADE
-  	--RAYMOND J. KELLY ■■■ ■■ । ■	■
The Gay '90's
Probably the result of an editor’s nightmare after an evening watching “Strawberry Blonde,” the Westminster Holcad published a “Gay ’90’s” issue. The make-up was of an ancient style; the photographs came from out of someone’s almost forgotten past; even the paper was yellowed. The news, stories were written in the quaint language of those happy days when Lillian Russell, scorching like fury down Fifth Avenue on her gold-plated bicycle, tied up traffic for blocks and put the horse-cars back ten minutes on their schedule. One story told of the rules that have just been instituted regarding association of gentlemen 'students with members of the opposite sex. “Coeds may receive callers in the parlors of Ladies hall one evening of the week, excepting the Sabbath, and that evening is designated by the faculty. Men are expected to ring the doorbell and await the approach of the house mistress. She will escort him into the reception room and take his calling card to the woman he wishes to see. In 15 minutes the lady will come downstairs and the gentleman may visit with her until 9:00.
“At the end of a stated period, the accumulated calling cards are returned to their owners and may be re-used.”
*
Log Rolling
The other, day, Hilda moved the dresser in the process of spring-cleaning the bit of Sorin that we call home. Down fell a several months old copy of the Annapolis Log which had been wedged behind the dresser, the only furniture in my room not owned by the school. Before throwing it out I glanced through it and discovered several photographs of a familiar looking midshipman. He was one of the 80 or so members of U.D. High’s class of 1937.
Now, would be a time to begin to wax nostalgic if I only knew how. What an opportunity to wipe a pathetic tear out of the corner of my eye, and look back on the boys who have been scattered by the heavy hand of time and changed. Especially, changed. Back in those happy days when Bundles for Britain was pointless alliteration, Vern Witkowski was an editor and a football manager; the Parade ran a subversive newspaper; and Ed Roney was a freshman. Oh happy, high-school days!
Crowd Noises
In the faculty dining hall . . . “Sit down, Richards. You make the room look shabby.” ... On the Oliver Mez . . . “She’s a polished conversationalist. Everything she says casts a reflection on someone”
Them Wimmen
A boy and a girl found themselves in an Eastern railroad station, according to the Annapolis Log. They were hungry and it was ten minutes until the train pulled out. So they commandeered the services of a newsboy and sent him for refreshments. The urchin failed to return, however, and they were left with a bundle of- newspapers which they had retained as security. The boy was willing to let the matter drop and get on the train. Not so the girl. She conducted a car-to-car campaign, unloaded everyone of her sport finals and realized a clear profit of $2.40 on the deal. She goes to Sarah Lawrence and will make someone a good wife.
♦
From "Daily Cardinal" (Wise.)
“All over the land professors and other old women are talking about the present generation of the young as soft and lazy, mediocre and fat. Maybe the young are soft. It is also true that all generations of the young have in their times been described as degenerate by the elders about them. In the history of the world there has not been a generation in which the old were prepared to admit that the young were as strong as they themselves had been. It is the eternal excuse for stiff joints in the presence of the supple. It is the ancient vanity • of memory over manpower. The young certainly have their faults. They may not be as smart, brave, energetic, strong as their elders who want to be defended by them would have them be.”
Westminster ueber Alles
In the same “Gay ’90’s” issue of the Holcad, the results of a stirring contest were announced. The school had sponsored a competition in an endeavor to get a song that would improve Westminster’s repertoire and help stimulate the cheering section, especially in the great annual contest with Grove City College • each November. Though the judges gave it third place, the Parade felt that special recognition was due a stirring piece dashed off by “Bumpy” McHornswoggle. It is sung to the tune of “Ta-ra-ra boom de ay.”
This great team from G.C.C.
Plays football with fist and knee; “Muckers” eight and students three, Form this team from G.C.C.
Manager and captain, sure
Boast themselves as' “amachoor.” Fullback coaches. Right guard he Takes work in orthography.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
■	By GEORGE MILES	"
Not long ago, we found out what becomes of the left-overs from the cafeteria kitchen. One night we discovered one of the women in white packing away some choice lamb bones to carry home. She was very careful, depositing each bone in a separate piece of waxed paper, and caching them behind the grid until she had built up a neat mound. Only one thing perturbed her: a colleague of hers refused to exchange some roast-beef leavings. But as the other attendant had it “First come, first served.”
*
When the young and beautiful comic-strip aviatrix disappeared beneath the waves of the Caribbean recently, the hearts of many University members were pierced. In fact, we were informed that a group of students who live on the third floor of Walsh hall began to solicit contributions in order to buy a floral decoration. However, another group of alert Walshites raised an objection. To them the final word was missing: news of the dashing lady’s demise had not been published in the Religious Bulletin.
*
One of our most faithful informers ran up to us the other day and blustered out a report whose essence he considered an affront to himself and to every student of the University. It seems that there is furniture display in one of the South Bend stores which features two entwined pennants above a fire-place. The pennants, of course, are those of the University and that place which is near. Our friend suspects something sinister; we firmly believe that the association was coincidental.
*
We will, and we feel confident, many, many more souls will be much happier and much pleasanter when “After the Ball Is Over” is over.
*
Until our recent assignment to the Caf, we were ignorant of the manner and of the magnitude of those quid-nuncs who assemble there each day and attempt to do as little justice as possible to the greatest number of people, for the longest period of time. Some of these people have formed teams so that they might be able to cover more territory. They seat themselves where they can listen to the greatest number of conversations and watch all the entrances. And they give signals by lowering their eye-lids, or raising their eye-brows, or motioning with catsup bottles. And we can just imagine what they say: “Will you just look at the outfit on this fellow!” or “Listen to this, listen; this will kill you.” There is no doubt in our mind that on those days when the Caf is closed these characters suffer the tortures of the damned.
*
The foreman of the campus ground crew has made his solo. We saw him stop the driver of the new multi-purpose tractor the other day and order him out of his machine. He then took over the controls himself and turned a few swipes on the grass. When he had satisfied his desire he stepped down, shook hands with the regular operator, and went on his way.
*
For all those Men of Commerce who do not subscribe to the South Bend Tribune we pass along the following excerpt from an excerpt: “Shakespeare was a salesman — all his characters sold different ideas. Among the sales ideas introduced by Shakespeare’s characters were personal interviews, follow-up notes and the avoidance of negative selling techniques,” Mr. Burruss said. He illustrated his points by quoting from the various works of Shakespeare. And that, we might add to all those de-famers of the English Department, is what literature can do.
* ’
The buds are on the magnolia bush, the bone meal is on the grass, ants burrow their way to the earth, and birds beat against the breeze. All of which should mean that spring is here. There is one fellow who refuses to be convinced, however. He continues to wear his ear-muffs to school every day. He might at least change from that wild orange color.
NEW DEAL IN NEWS
By Fitzpatrick & Maguire
Sorin Hall, April 14—Dr. Walter N. Hartung, Jr., famous physicist and world renown lecturer, in a post-Easter checkup of his Sorin hall laboratory, discovered that two molecules and three atoms were missing from the shelves. A more thorough checkup later revealed that the laboratory was also missing.
Okmulgee, Okla., April 14—C. J. Farrell, noted gadabout and philanthropist, who gave away his last dime as a tip to a pullman porter when he arrived here today, said he has given away a great deal of money in his four years at Notre Dame. “As a matter of fact,” he said, “every time I eat in the cafeteria or buy a book at the bookstore I donate a great deal of money to somebody.”
❖
Off the Coast of Sicily, April 15— : (Special from Frederic B. Slurp, Sleepy, . Eye, Minn., correspondent of the London Times). Joe Glumpf, the sandwich man, has been doing a tremendous cash business all this past week selling hamburgs and smokescreens to Italian battleships. Today a Postal Telegraph messenger rowed out from Naples to Joe’s cake of ice with a telegram from Larry McLaughlin, chairman of the Notre Dame senior ball, informing Joe that he has been given the tea concession at the tea dance. Mr. Glumpf immediately wired : acceptance and also asked that a poll 5 be conducted among the seniors to determine which kind of tea they like best . with their candlelight.
.j.
Notre Dame, Ind., April 17—D. G. : Sullivan flying editor of the Santa Maria ■ and flying corsage salesman, when asked f. today what he expected to be after his | present secondary aviation course is ?•' completed, replied, “I’ll be the d-----fool I am now!”
Cranite Falls, Minn., April The Granite Falls government authorized the purchase of two _ submarines and three Civil War cannons fe, to add to the Granite Falls defenses in jp the face of the threatened invasion by Sleepy Eye troops. Michael Keegan, gov-eminent spokesman, told the press today® that, “The people of Granite Falls want^BT peace here and are willing to make anvil® sacrifices, but if we are invaded we’l^^ leave town.”
same p
ft-
15— g today g
used pg
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 74
APRIL 18, 1941
Number 22
Chicago Will Be Key City for Broadcast of Universal Notre Dame Night, Monday
Fr. O'Donnell, Walker and Leahy to Speak
Talk will die down, radios will be turned on, and thousands of alumni — actual and synthetic — will join in Universal Notre Dame Night celebration next Monday night.
The key affair, to be held in Chicago, will be broadcast over the National Broadcasting Company blue network, from 8 to 8:30 o’clock, (C.S.T.). Station WENR will be the Chicago outlet.
The Most Rev. Samuel A. Stritch, D.D., who was installed as Archbishop of Chicago last year, will be a guest of honor. Others to be featured on the program include the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University; Hon. Frank C. Walker, postmaster general of the United States, and Frank Leahy, director of athletics and head coach of football at the University.
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
of the Army and Navy diocese in January, 1940.
Mr. Leahy is expected to give his impressions as the new head coach at the University, and will -probably pre-view prospects for next year’s football season.
Professor Clarence E. Manion, of the College of Law, will serve as master of ceremonies. The University Glee Club will provide several musical numbers.
Universal Notre Dame Night was instituted in 1924. Instrumental in its founding were John H. Neeson, then president of the national alumni association, and Alfred C. Ryan, secretary.
Theme of this year’s observance is Notre Dame Men, and each one of the 93 alumni clubs will honor respective outstanding alumni. The Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley is planning a banquet on the campus, and there will probably be a local broadcast over station WSBT.
Newest site of the celebration will be Hawaii. There are now about 20 alumni there, with many new additions consequent upon the intensification of the defense program of the United States there. Alumni Secretary James E. Armstrong has been informed that plans have already been drafted for this initial get-together.—John E. Lewis
Each of these men was elevated to his present position only during the last year. Archbishop Stritch has led a distinguished career in the work of the Church following his ordination in Rome in 1910. He first served in his native Tennessee diocese, and was elevated to the episcopacy as Bishop of Toledo in 1921. He was consecrated Archbishop of Milwaukee in 1930 and installed Archbishop of Chicago in January of last year.
Mr. Walker, a member of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University, succeeded James A. Farley in the cabinet last summer as postmaster general. Mr. Walker received the degree of Bachelor of Law here in 1909, and was awarded the degree of Doctor of Laws by the University in 1934. -
Father O’Donnell was appointed president of the University last summer. He succeeded the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., who was consecrated Bishop
Mr. Frank Walker
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Ralph Gerra, with 95.19 percent Average, Named Valedictorian of the 1941 Class
Ranking first in his class with a brilliant 95.19 per cent average, Ralph Alexander Gerra has been formally named valedictorian of the class of ’41. Albert Joseph Del Zoppo, varsity basketball player, is second and Felix Pogliano, prominent campus poet and editor of Scrip, is the third ranking student. Del Zoppo’s average is 95.02 per cent and Pogliano’s is 94.77 per cent.	.
Ralph Gerra was born and reared in the city of the screaming baseball fans, Brooklyn, N. Y. Sensing the futility of arguing with umpires in Ebbets Field, Ralph turned to debating in Brooklyn Preparatory school, from which he graduated in 1937.
Though he brought to Notre Dame a loyalty for the Dodgers, somewhere between the borough and the South Bend depot he lost most of the “toity-toid street” accent. As a member of the Wranglers’ Club he turned to his first love, debating in particular and public speaking in general. When a junior Ralph was managing editor of the Dome, and he is now lecturer of the Knights of Columbus. Though he is in the Commerce school and an accounting major, Ralph has had a law career in mind since the first day of his enrollment. He has applied for a scholarship in the Harvard Law School, but if it is not awarded to him he will get his law degree from Columbia or Fordham.
To keep in shape for a summer in the stands, Ralph plays handball. He used to spend his spare time hurling pop bottles and shouting “Kill the bum!”, but since the rule went into effect requiring Brooklyn fans to drink their pop from paper cups, Ralph spends quieter hours.
Albert Del Zoppo lives in Niagara Falls, N. Y. He graduated from the local high school where he started in basketball. Albert will give the class oration in June.
The West’s representative among the scholars, Felix Pogliano, hails from Denver, Colo., and he graduated from Cathedral high school there. As a final tribute to his fine poetry, Felix has been named class poet and will compose and deliver the class ode at the June commencement.
The Valedictorian, the Class Orator, and the Class Poet, besides being selected for their outstanding scholarship, are picked for their character and exemplification of true Notre Dame spirit.
—Jack Sprague
Speaks at Missouri	.
Frank T. Flynn, head of the department of social work, University of Notre Dame, will be one of the 12 institute leaders at the 41st annual meeting of the Missouri Association for Social Welfare to be held in Columbia, Md., April 23-26.
3-Day Confraternity at
St. Mary's Begins April 25
The three day Conference of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine will open at St. Mary’s College next Friday. Approximately a thousand delegates from Catholic colleges and universities in the Midwest are expected to attend.
Beginning Friday afternoon with registration, the conference will continue its sessions until the formal closing with solemn Benediction Sunday afternoon. Featured at the Friday evening session will be an address by the Rev. C. Collins, national director of the Confraternity. Discussion club sessions have been scheduled for Saturday afternoon and Sunday morning. At 4:15 o’clock Saturday afternoon the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, is to speak; Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C., president of St. Mary’s, will preside.
All Notre Dame men are invited to participate in the activities of the Confraternity. They are especially encouraged to take active part in discussion groups. The text to be used this year, published by Our Sunday Visitor Press, is “Making the Catholic Church Easy to Know.”—Robert LeMense
Schoolmen and Indiana U.
Meet Here in Round Table
University of Indiana students will meet the Notre Dame Schoolmen, undergraduate philosophical society, on Monday in Washington hall, at a round table discussion of Aristotle’s Poetics.
Valedictorian Gerra (center) and Roommate* Van Swall and Burke
On Thursday evening of next week the Schoolmen will present their sixth annual Disputation in Washington hall. Their thesis will be “Thomistic Personal-
ism Is True Internationalism,” and its -presentation will be in four papers. The first two will deal with what Thomistic £ Personalism is and what it is not, re- respectively. The last two papers will deal with True Internationalism in a similar fv manner. Presentation and defense of the thesis from floor objections will be divided among six schoolmen: John Mac- g’ Cauley, Thomas McGee, Cyril Garvey, gx. George Meltzer, Donald Tiedeman, and Thomas Hirschaur.
The chairman of the disputation will be Joseph Callahan, president of the Schoolmen. The Rev. Thomas Brennan, ||| C.S.C., head of the undergraduate philosophy department, has been advisor qnd consultant for the disputants.
—Robert LeMense :

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Charlie Agnew to Play
At K. of C. Ball April 25
Next Friday evening from 9 o’clock till midnight, Charlie Agnew and his band will provide the rhythms for the Knights of Columbus Formal Ball, in the Palais Royale in South Bend. The general dance chairman is Richard Kerrigan, Walsh hall senior.	-
One of the leading dances of the year, the formal ball will be held on the evening of the opening day of the Confer-
Bandman Charlie Agnew . . .
. . . Hi* music for the K. of C. Ball.
ence of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine at St. Mary’s College. In the spirit of the current defense program a red, white and blue color scheme will be used for the decorations. Dance committee members have been unsparing in their eiforts to arrange unusual features, and rumor has it that they have succeeded in providing an attractive cabaret setting for the ball.
For those who have “partner-problems” a date bureau has been set up in the K. of C. office in Walsh hall basement. The price of tickets is §3.00, and they may be purchased from any K. of C. member or at the club office.
All Knights and their guests have been invited to attend a tea dance the next day at the South Bend council chambers.
Board of Publications
Applications for the editorships of the Scholastic, the Dome, and Scrip for the schoolyear of 1941-42 should be mailed to the Board of Publications not later that April 22. The applications may be sent either to the Board of Publications or to the respective faculty editors: Father C. Laskowski, C.S.C., (Scholastic) ; Father Charles Carey, C.S.C., (Dome), and Father Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., (Scrip).
Only ten acres of the present University site had been cleared before the arrival of the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University, in 1842.
Engineers Will Hear
Dr. Arthur Horrocks
As a part of Notre Dame’s participation in the Engineering Defense Training Program, Mr. Arthur Horrocks, Dr. Lillian Gilbreth, and Mr. Allan H. Mo-gensen, are scheduled to speak at a series of meetings in the Engineering auditorium during the latter part of April and early May.
Mr. Arthur Horrocks, former head of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company’s Industrial University and now educational director of the National Association of Foremen, will deliver the first address entitled, “The Foreman Today,” next Wednesday.
Dr. Lillian Gilbreth, world-wide authority on industrial management and writer of several books on the subject, will speak in the auditorium April 28, on, “Small Lot and Job Manufacturing Problems.” Dr. Gilbreth is now a professor in the department of industrial engineering at Purdue University, and a consultant on management problems.
The last lecturer in this series, Mr. Allan H. Mogensen, will talk on, “Methods and Means of Work Simplification.” Mr. Mogensen is an outstanding authority on work simplification and motional time study. He is a valuable aid to the United States government as a timesaving specialist. Mr. Mogensen has trained men to eliminate “bottlenecks” in 25 factories filling defense orders and recently a series of his suggestions speeded up production in a rifle factory so that the price was reduced about 30 percent.—Jack Sprague.
Glee Club Tours East;
36 Members Make Trip
The Notre Dame Glee Club departed from the campus for its annual spring trip early on Easter Sunday morning. Approximately 36 members comprised the traveling group, under the supervision of Daniel H. Pedtke, director of the Glee Club.
The opening performance of the tour was given at Montclair, N. J., on Monday, April 14. Tuesday was an open date, but following it the Glee Club has been kept quite busy, singing in Beverly, -Mass., on Wednesday; in Rome, N. Y.» on Thursday; and in Binghamton, N. Y., tonight.
The highlight of the trip takes place tonight, April 19, when the boys form a joint glee club with girls from the College of New Rochelle, to sing at the . Roosevelt Hotel, in New York City.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By James Meaney
Since Toni Carty left Manhattan Prep and his home in Yonkers, N. Y., he’s been a busy man. He was one of the behind - the - scenes
Tom Carty
manipulators in politics his freshman year — his ward was Cavanaugh hall — and achieved the impossible in keeping up with all the deals and counterdeals of a hectic campaign. This earned him the nick - name of “Boss Twee d” Carty, and foreshadowed his majoring in politics
and his presidency of the Academy of Politics.
His crowning achievement on the campus was his editorship of the Dome last year, which was only one of his many activities such as being recording secretary of the Knights of Columbus and quiz-man in the Radio Club. At present he’s working with the Confraternity at St. Mary’s, on the Scholastic staff, and in the Radio Club. This year with Paul Vignos he represented Alumni hall in the inter-hall debates. He has finished his thesis on “Proportional-Representation in Yonkers, New York,” under the directorship of Prof. F. A. Hermans, worldwide authority on “P.-R.”
Tom had the good fortune to make a trip to Europe in the summer of his freshman year, “before it all began,” and has a movie-film record of his travels. He says he wouldn’t like to make the trip again — with a lot of other young fellows dressed in khaki.
Among his many successes, there are a few failures — such as the time he missed the office of Grand Knight of the EL of C. by a few votes, and in an unofficial contest was beaten' by Ray Kelly and Jerry Flynn in the number of “mentions” in the Dome last year (by an ironic mistake the indexer had failed to list him as Editor!) But he made up for this by breaking into the St. Mary’s Blue Mantle! With Professor Quiz, he, the quiz-master of the campus, won a
half-success by tying with Paul Lillis for first place'(although a freshman and a sophomore ran up a higher score).
Tom is known as the waterboy of the Oliver All-Americans (he doesn’t drink), and although his average in the St. Mary’s League is low, it’s apt to be raised with the Confraternity approaching. But of his private life, little is known. He avows he hasn’t any— but that’s probably a political gesture. Making movies is his hobby.
In public appearances, Tom is in ’his glory. He’ll make a speech anytime, anywhere, on anything. He finds a quiz program or a public interview most pleasurable; a chairmanship or toastmastership is irresistible for him. He is an expert and a plague of Mr. Coyne in his course on parliamentary procedure. Tom is said to sleep with Robert’s Rules under his pillow. Friends say that if there is ever a chairmen’s convention, Tom Carty -will be chairman of it. Probably the climax of his campus career as chairman came when he closed an Academy of Politics meeting by making the now-famous remark to Dr. Gurian, “We’ll have to take a rain-check on the questions, Doctor!”
Carty plans to become a heating engineer in his father’s concern; we won’t mention what his friends mumble about “hot air” and “head of steam.”
Philadelphia Symphony Will Play Here May 2
Without the aid of the Fantasound equipment which produces such unique sound effects in Walt Disney’s Fantasia, the well known Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra will climax Music Week events at Notre Dame on Friday, May 2. The Philadelphia Symphony has achieved an outstanding name for itself in its 41 years of existence". In recent years no small part of its success has been due to co-conductor Leopold Stokowski.
Most recent success of Stokowski and the Symphony was their appearance in Fantasia in which technical apparatus made the music of the organization seem to float literally down the aisles into the laps of the patrons. Probable conductor at Notre Dame, however, is Hungarian-born Eugene Onnandy. Ormandy is coconductor with Stokowski although the latter’s position appears to be only nominal at present in view, of his work with the All-American Youth Orchestra.
Conductor Ormandy is no newcomer to music, having made his debut at Budapest at the age of seven.- Prior to his accepting a permanent position with the
Philadelphia Symphony in 1937 he guest-conducted many other famous symphonies, among them the New York Philharmonic. The Symphony concert and other Music Week events will be held in the fieldhouse under the sponsorship of the Civic Music Association of South Bend and the Notre Dame entertainment committee.
Another feature of Music Week will be the appearance Wednesday night, April 30, of the Augustana College Choir, of Rock Island, Ill. This is one of the foremost college choral groups in the country. Director Henry Veld has devised a triple grouping of songs for the impending recital. The first unit of the program is sung by the Jenny Lind female chorus; the second unit by the Wennerberg male chorus; and the last two parts by these two groups combined. There are 68 members traveling in the organization. The Augustana has made five ten-inch and three 12-inch RCA-Victor red seal records to date.
Miss Rose Bampton, American soprano, will be the featured soloist with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra on Monday, April 28. Miss Bampton is well known to opera lovers. She made her debut in the 1932-33 season of the New York Metropolitan Opera Company in the contralto role of Laura in La Gio-conda. Since then Miss Bampton has been featured as a soloist with the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra and many other city symphonies.
Last mentioned but not least in entertainment value are Notre Dame’s own contributions to the program. On Sunday night, April 27, the Notre Dame concert band will open Music Week. Tuesday, April 29, the Glee Club and the Symphony Orchestra will give a joint concert. Judged by the enthusiastic approval given the work of the latter two groups in the “Gondoliers” and at the Glee Club’s “Song of the Free” spectacle, an enthusiastic crowd is assured for this concert.—Robert LeMense
New Bulletin Board
Most recent innovation of man-about-the-campus John O’Dea, Alumni hall English major, is a bulletin board to be placed upon the front steps of the University dining hall for daily announce- ; ments of the major campus events. |
In this manner John hopes to spread I knowledge among students as to numer- | ous campus radio programs, Washing- | ton hall performances and other campus activities. The “bulletin board” will con- g sist of a gold and blue painted shield, || supported upon a six-foot wooden stand. 8
—Mark G. McGrath S
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
Sisters of Holy Cross To Observe Centenary
Plans for Senior Ball Almost Completed
The Congregation of the Sisters of Holy Cross will soon observe the centenary of the founding of their order with a five-month celebration which will begin Saturday, May 3, and will continue until next Sept. 23, the day in 1841 when the first four postulants of the order received their religious habits in LeMans, France.
Simultaneous celebrations will take place in the eight hospitals and 48 schools conducted by the order throughout the United States.
The anniversary will be marked by the publication of several commemorative books and the laying of the cornerstone of the Centennial library on the grounds of St. Mary’s college, the first college of the Sisters.
The Sisters of the Holy Cross were founded 100 years ago in the ancient city of LeMans, France, by the Rev. Basil Anthony Moreau, canon of the famed cathedral of St. Julien, who had already founded the community of mission priests, the Congregation of Holy Cross.
In response to a call for missionaries in the new world, Father Moreau sent four Sisters in 1843 who had been preceded by the Rev. Edward Sorin and his group, founders of the University of Notre Dame.
Among the Sisters who established themselves at Bertrand, Mich., their first school in America, were Eliza Gillespie, who became Mother Angela, first builder and educator, and Amanda Anderson, who became Mother Augusta, the first American superior general.
At present Mother M. Vincentia is the superior general of the Congregation, residing at the mother house here. Mother M. Verda is provincial of the midwest province, Mother M. Rose Elizabeth is provincial of the eastern province, and the western provincial is Mother M.^Veronique.—Jack Sprague
"Scholastic" Staff
Applicants for the 1941-42 Scholastic staff should contact the editors, in the Ave Maria Editorial Rooms, Sunday through Wednesday, from 7:30 until 9:00 p.m.
The University dining hall, completed in 1927, is a structure of Tudor gothic type, measuring 200 by 220 feet.
Memorial Will Be Decorated in Arabian Style Complete With Harem, Shields, Swords
Senior Ball Publicity Chairman Bill Hawes walked briskly into the Scholastic offices Tuesday evening to tell the editors in typical press agent style of the ‘‘greatest senior ball in history.” Most intriguing statements of the enthusiastic Mr. Hawes were “the programs will be formal, yet unique” and “the favors are something every girl has longed to have.”
To get longed-for favors, unique programs, and a few dances to Dick Jurgens’ music, girls and escorts will enter the Rockne Memorial Friday evening, May 20, will see not three basketball courts but an elaborate Arabian seraglio.
Vocalist Buddy Marino
On ordinarily bare Memorial walls will hang shields and swords, duplicates of those described in “Arabian Nights.” So far have the decorators gone to please ballgoers that an authentic harem has been included in the scheme. Unable, however, to secure authentic houris decorations chairman Bob DeMoss is dickering for a loan of a few languishing dummies standing in South Bend store windows.
Important to interested seniors is the fact that ball tickets cost $10. Included besides admission to the dance is the candlelight supper, the tea dance, the program, favors, and invitations.
So well received was the candlelight supper last year that another will be
held before this year’s dance. On the menu will be lobster... whether thermi-dor or newburg has not been yet decided.
To entertain in the refreshment room during intermissions a three piece musical group will wander back and forth after the continental tsignae style playing all requests.
Outstanding South Bend promoter Pete Redden has offered his services to the arrangements committee, will see that parking facilities are adequate, that the dance floor is cleared of miscellaneous paper wads, stickiness.
Permissions for Friday night will be extended to 3:00 a.m.; Saturday night permissions to 12:30. Considering that daylight saving time will be in effect along with the familiar 11:15 permissions, the special 12:30 leaves are significant.
■ Last two items from the press agent’s lips were that checking will be taken care of free of charge by the St. Vincent de Paul Society, that tickets (incidentally) will go on sale in the basement of the dining halls on Monday, April 28, will be on sale April 29 and 30 also.—John Patterson
Frederick Will Interview
Fr. L. R. Ward in Broadcast
In his weekly broadcast on Saturday, April 26, Professor John T. Frederick, of the English department, plans to interview the Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., on the matter of his recent book, Holding Up the Hills. The broadcast will be from 1:30 to 2 o’clock, C.S.T., and can usually be heard over WSBT, WBBM, WJR, and nearly all the Columbia stations from coast to coast.
Professor Frederick’s method in his program is to ask two or three questions about any book under consideration, and to make critical comments on it. The members of his “class of the air,” some of them present and some of them writing to CBS, Chicago, also ask questions.
The qualitative average required for graduation with the degree of bachelor is 77%.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
STUDENT FORUM
Germany's War Finance By ROBERT D. ORCUTT
When Hitler launched his tremendous public works and armaments programs in 1934 and 1935 authorities on finance announced that he would bankrupt Germany in a matter of a few months or years at most. But Germany has created vast public improvements, expanded her industry, and built the most expensive and terrible war machine the world has ever seen. All this has been done in a nation that at the start was debt-ridden, impoverished, and deep in depression. To assume that the financial system that accomplished this feat is merely a fiat structure enforced by the Gestapo might be classed as wishful thinking. Brute force alone could not have produced the results achieved.
In the beginning the financial program was simple. The government issued short-term obligations to pay its expenses. This government paper was sold to the controlled banking system or retained by individuals and corporations as a form of liquid investment. Free domestic trading in government securities was allowed, ostensibly, but to have bid down prices would have been regarded as unpatriotic or “non-Aryan,” with S.S. men ready to show reason to the doubters. Consequently the prices of govern-obligations in Germany have stood firm from that early day to this.	--
The sale of the government securities to the Reichsbank created a new bank depost, increasing the total of the deposits then existing in the German banking system. In order to prevent inflationary results, a plan was then necessary to get deposits- out of the banking system. The purchase of armaments accomplished this end. Payment for these armaments extinguished the government’s bank account and transferred the deposit to the industries. The industries paid for labor and material, extinguishing their deposit balance, with possibly a profit remaining. This profit might have remained in the,banks and added uselessly to the accumulation of idle funds, but the suggestion was made that industry invest this surplus in government securities. The purchasing power of Germany’s financial income then was running in excess of the availability of consumers’ goods and services, because, of the total salaries, wages, and profits earned in the Reich, so large a proportion was derived from the produc
tion of military goods and other things not sold to the public.
Without control this situation would have produced increased prices which would have equalized purchasing power with the availability of goods and services. Here again, individuals were urged to invest their surplus in government securities. Taxes provided another supplement to price control, because increases affect the purchasing power of all incomes, and taxes could be designed to control, progressively, incomes of the medium and higher brackets where surplus purchasing power makes itself felt.
We have been told that taxes in Nazi reflect the enormous burden placed on the people by Hitler’s program. This statement is a half-truth, as taxes in Germany could be as high or as low as the Nazis wish to make them, for the government is not dependent on tax income. If the German program could have been paid for through taxes, then savings accumulated by individuals or corporations would have shown up in some form of financial wealth other than government securities. If no investments from any source were available, then profits or other income saved would for the most part be accumulated in the form of bank balances, no extensive hoarding of currency being allowed; and such savings would represent funds siphoned into idle pools out of the commercial stream needed to sustain going rates of business activity. As long as attractive vehicles for the investment of savings are plentifully available, savings can take the investment form and find their way back, into productive business. In Germany these funds are invested in governments and were promptly returned to commerce by government expenditures.
Despite the evils of expanded bureaucratic control, capitalistic private enterprise, with a limited profit incentive, is preserved as the integrating mechanism for the bulk of Germany’s commerce. How much simpler and more effective than the Russian attempts at state-operated production, distribution, and international commerce! The Russians have to blueprint the complete detail of the production and flow of every commodity handled within their national economy, and each detail must be based
on arbitrary decisions of the commissars of this and the commissars of that. The Nazis, by contrast, have put their fingers on a few key controls that give them complete mastery of their domestic economy and then have let the otherwise normal and automatic operation of capitalism do its effective work. The Russians, who call themselves revolutionists, have made not one revolutionary change in capitalistic financial procedures, but they have destroyed the effectiveness of capitalism by eliminating the private ownership of business enterprise, without which it loses its primary virtue of automatic operation.
What will happen in the future is a matter of interesting speculation. How great may the national debt become? When war materials do not absorb a greater portion of the nation’s production, will taxes be imposed to absorb the surplus income over the available consumers goods or will the level of living be raised?
Fr. O'Donnell to be Host at Vincentian Conference
The annual Communion Breakfast of the conference will be held on April 26. The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, will be host to the local conference and the parish conferences of South Bend.
St. Vincent de Paul Society announces that the following men were appointed as officers for the school year of 19411942:
President, John McCabe, Dillon; vicepresident, Emmet Griffin, Dillon; Robert Herrington, Morrissey; secretary, Gale Fitch, Morrissey; librarian, Edward Roney, Morrissey; treasurer, Paul O’Connell, Cavanaugh; corresponding secretary, Robert Matthews, Dillon; wardrobe keeper, Robert Kehoe, Howard.
Since many of the active Vincentians are completing their work with the Society, the local conference is desirous of interesting students on the campus in the work. Any student is invited to attend the weekly meetings which are held in the Knights of Columbus lounge immediately after the 10 o’clock mass on Sunday mornings. This invitation is ; particularly addressed to freshmen, inso- ] far as they have not been represented 1 in the Society for the past year. ’	।
. 1
At the present time the Society is g busy with cases in both South Bend and 1 Mishawaka. -	£
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Fr. Zahm Explored with Teddy Roosevelt, Collected Dante, Refused a Bishopric

OUR DAILY BREAD
In the last quarter of the 19th century there came to Notre Dame the brothers Zahm. Up the main quadrangle they stepped to take a look at the Golden Dome, the Main building. Then John turned to Albert and asked, “Where’s the Science hall?” They found the science hall and marched in, started to work. In a little while things began to pop all over the country.
Long before the Wright brothers were attempting to pull their plane off a Dayton, Ohio, pasture, student Albert Zahm was poking his head out of Science hall windows, watching gliders float downward. In the evenings he read treatises on aerial navigation to mystified meetings of science students. He said men could fly. The student body said that was nonsense.
Time passed and Albert Zahm tagged the degrees of M.E., M.S., A.M. Ph.D. behind his name. Then one day at Kitty Hawk men did fly. Albert Zahm, an instructor at the University by then, had been right. Off to the east coast he went to become chief research engineer of the Curtis Aeroplane Co. in the days of the World War. Soon he was recognized as the man who contributed more to American aeronautics, after the Wright brothers, than any other person in the country. Today he lives in Washington, in charge of the aeronautical division of the Library of Congress, occupying the Guggenheim chair of aeronautics.
At the same time Albert was a student at Notre Dame his brother, Father John Zahm, was the medium sized, blueeyed storm-center of an international controversy. Already famous as the author of Sound and Music, one day he went to a summer camp, gathered an audience, told them that the doctrines of the Church and of science were not opposed on the issue of evolution. “Darwin, Huxley and now Zahm,” moaned some people. Others applauded. Maintaining his advanced thesis that there was no conflict between Church and science, he wrote Evolution and Dogma. Around the world it went, translated into Italian, French and Spanish. In Rome an attempt was made to put it on the Index and failed. For a few years the reverberations pounded up to the door of his office in the science building. Repulsed, they finally wasted away into nothingness.
One day after the storm had subsided, Father Zahm walked up to Teddy Roose
velt and asked him to come along on a trip to South America. The former president thought it over, decided to go. For months they shoved their boats along the sluggish rivers, through the tangled jungle. With the romance of a Ponce de Leon they followed the footsteps of long-dead Spanish conquerors, who had pushed their way through this same jungle, searching forever for the fabulous El Dorado. Deep in the interior they dis-
Father Zahm and Teddy Roosevelt
covered the River of Doubt. Then back to America they came and Father Zahm wrote his trilogy, Following the Con-quistadores under the pseudonym, H. J. Mozans.
Not content with this, the priest made other journeys. To Mexico, Hawaii, Alaska, the Orient he went, bringing back to Notre Dame the exotic treasures of foreign lands. From the corners of Europe he gathered together his Dante collection, the rarest and most valuable in America. But his wanderings were not to go on forever. While in Mexico he had climbed the volcano, Popocatepetl, strained his heart, shortened his life.
In 1921 a cable message from Munich informed Notre Dame of his death. In his lifetime he had been the friend of such people as Presidents Theodore Roosevelt and Taft; Porfirio Diaz; the Mexican patriot; Januarius Aloysius MacGahan, ace foreign correspondent, (Continued on page 21)
LITURGY
Prophets of peace are aplenty.... Politician, economist, eugenist, — each has the infallible remedy for the world’s ills. ;.. The goal is godliness without God.... The masses accept the testimony of men and follow whatever will-o-the-wisp promises speedy returns.... But, “he that believeth in the Son of God hath the testimony of God in himself” Sunday Epistle).
“Jesus stood in their midst and said to them: Peace be to you” (Sunday Gospel) .... The Resurrection is the bedrock of faith.... No other event stands on such unassailable evidence... None other has such unalterable consequences. ... “Whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world” (Epistle).
The Octave Day of Easter is called Low Sunday, as distinctive from the high feast of Easter.... It is also called Sunday “in-white” or, as originally, the Sunday after laying away the white garments. ... On the Saturday the neophytes put off the white garment they received at their baptism on Easter morn.... Thus the Liturgy preserves both a memory and a meaning.
The text of the Mass is full of the tender solicitude of the Church for her new-born children.... She counsels them where they will receive support for their new life.... Her words apply equally to all who have risen with Christ from the death of sin... All are reborn to the Christ-life.
The Introit takes some words from the Saturday Epistle._____ “As new-born babes, desire the rational milk, (that thereby you may grow unto salvation.” ... St. Clement of Alexandria (d. 215) interprets this in two senses.... The milk of the mind (rational) is divine truth by which one grows to the knowledge of God.... The Blood of Christ in the Eucharist is the milk which nourishes unto eternal life.
One should re-read the text of the Saturday mass in conjunction with this one. ... Their antiquity, as well as their doctrine, offsets the vain babblings of the modern prophets.... It is the milk of God’s truth as against the poison that curdles the divine life in us.
(Mass Calendar on page 24)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi FOUNDED 1867
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distnouror of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue. New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to The Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms. Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Will the Nazis Ever Thank Us?
By the passing of the lend-lease hill recently, the United States unequivocally announced her entrance into the present European struggle on the side of Britain. The bill provides for American assistance to Britain with all possible aid — money, munitions, warships, fighting planes and foodstuffs, but not to the extent of manpower.
Doubtlessly, this bill has been accepted enthusiastically by the bigwigs of our country, because of the prevalent attitude toward Germany as an aggressor and aggressors must be suppressed!
Naturally any aid to Germany would be considered a crime. But I wonder what the reaction would be among the bigwigs if they knew that America played an important role in the victory march of the Nazi conquerors?
Buried in the files of the United States War and Navy Departments are military secrets that were laughed aside by our American military experts, but found to be very valuable by another nation. This the military heads of our country are loathe to admit, but an inspection of the buried files speaks for itself.
The blitzkrieg — the most paralyzing method of attack known to modern warfare, and the secret of Germany’s crushing victories to date, can be called a contribution of American genius. Essentially the blitzkrieg is simply a modem adaption of our own Confederate Cavalry tactics in the Civil War. Germany, however, substituted mechanized division and airplanes for the cavalry. This form of substitution was also an original American idea.
In April. 1930, a report was submitted
Cras Moriturus
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES.
Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER, Art Editor
THOMAS F. CARTY Photo Editor
to the War Department by Major General J. K. Parsons, recommending that our army organize six divisions of 486 tanks each. The report was pigeon-holed in the buried files of the War Department and as a result our army has only one mechanized brigade. But the devastating Panzer divisions of the Nazis follow the Parsons plan even in organized detail.
One of the first military strategists to realize the importance of the airplane in war, Brigadier General William Mitchell, was court-martialed for his efforts and did not live to see the Nazis follow his advice and use planes as a major offensive force.
In France, during the last World War, Americans were the first to conceive the idea to place armor around airplane pilots, gunners, observers and gasoline tanks. The Germans were quick to copy the idea and in a short time had so perfected it that the Allies were amazed and every United States fighting plane became obsolete.
Use of parachute troops — heralded as an original idea of the Germans — was first practiced in the United States Army. In 1929 Master Sergeant E. H. Nichols of the Air Corps developed the technique of supplying parachutists with arms and ammunition by means of an “article carrier.” Successful demonstrations were carried out at Brooks Field, Texas. But our military heads could see no practical value in such an offensive.
Washington rejected the Christy Tread. Today the high speeds of German tanks are made possible by this same invention.
Several years ago visiting German military experts studied the United
States industrial mobilization plan in de- , tail. The present German industrial mobilization plan is modeled from the American plan.
Perhaps the reader will question my previous statement, to the effect, that these military secrets were a contribution of American genius? I wonder if the reader is aware of the comparative ease with which copies of American Patents could be obtained by any foreign power at our Patent Office. It is only in time of war, and then only by Presidential proclamation, that patents are kept secret. Finally, however, this law has been changed, so that patents which . aid national defense may be withheld from publication.
It is often said that the deeds men do are never fully appreciated until after death. I can’t say whether America feels that way toward men like Major General J. K. Parsons, Brigadier General Mitchell, Master Sergeant E. H. Nichols and Christy. But I do feel that their efforts are fully appreciated by the Nazis. I wonder, will they ever thank us?
—Joseph A. Wiring
Time for Action
Approximately 1,100 delegates from 14 states, representing 43 schools, colleges and parishes, took advantage of the op-- portunity to learn about the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine at its second annual Congress last year at nearby St. Mary’s College. Within a week, more than that total will again come to St. Mary’s for the third staging of the event.
The essential purpose of the Confraternity is to instruct Catholic students who do not attend Catholic schools. That problem provides college and university students with a challenge to join in the important parish work of the future.
Those who participated in the 1939 or 1940 Confraternity Congresses at St. Mary’s came away with many valuable suggestions and renewed impressions. Opportunities present themselves abundantly where one might better explain his religion; the Congress provides many • discussions and talks which will help « clear up many difficulties that arise in { schools, and again in later life.	w
Friday, Saturday and Sunday of next week will mark the culmination of many hours of preparation by the priests, sis- fe ters, and students of St. Mary’s and s Notre Dame. May the third annual Con-gress of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine exert an effective influence on those who attend. Fullest participation in the affair means action — now and in W: the future.—Bill Scanlan	W:.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Father Woodward Writes from Ft. Hancock Of His Duties as an Army Chaplain
245th Coast Artillery
Fort Hancock, New Jersey
Tonight we had an alert, i.e., all officers were called to headquarters. All reported there in a matter of minutes and
Rev. Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C.
awaited orders. They were not long in coming. The whole force of 4,000 men were ordered to battle stations. The stations are gun emplacements which protect the fort itself and New York harbor. You cannot appreciate what this means unless you realize it had been raining for hours and the end was not in sight. Furthermore we were to have supper served within a half-hour. I was able to take care of myself at the officers’ mess, but the men only got what they could standing by their guns.
My task at such drills is with the first-aid stations which are set up in the near vicinity of large congregations of men who man the large guns. I have to go from one to another administering to the supposed wmunded and dying. The first week I was here I succeeded in getting arrested three times. I was commanded to halt and to advance and be recognized. Of course I was not recognized.
Life here is not a whole lot different from living in one of the halls at Notre Dame. Of course I have no classes to teach. But then I am busy from morning to night with, all kinds of moral, psychological and sociology problems. I live in
the barracks with the colonel of the regiment and his staff, of which I am a member. The building resembles Freshman Hall in its last days. It would be disastrous to lean against the walls. As at Notre Dame, we all have radios. But all of us by common agreement keep them tuned low. There are no lights out at night for the offiers.
I am the only priest here with 60% of 4,000 men to minister to. Nearly all are Brooklyn boys and the first question they invariably ask is, “What kind of a team is N.D. going to have next year?” I manage to get around and visit the boys in the barracks and once in a while they show me how to load and fire the big guns. The other day for a bit of relaxation I went out on the target range with two officers and we practiced wuth our .45’s. I swear I did nearly as well as they.
I have been visiting the hospital every day. One of our boys got in the way of a .45 slug. I was called from dinner to give him the last sacraments. He is still hanging on and I believe he will recover. I cheer him up every morning and at night. Whether it be the grace of the sacraments or the skill of the doctor— God knows—(the bullet put 16 holes in his intestines). The “Doc” deserves credit.
Every week day morning I say mass at 6:45 and hear confessions and give
Mass Kit given to Father Woodward on his departure from the University.
out communion on week days. Those who miss breakfast on this account can get it later. On Sundays I say two masses, hearing confessions and giving out communion as on week days. Tuesday night I conduct a Novena of the Miraculous Medal and give a sermon on some appropriate lecture topic. Again confessions. Friday night—Way of the Cross and confessions. Saturday night I begin hearing confessions at 7 o’clock and finish about two hours later. So it goes.
In the ranks (privates) we have all sorts of men and boys. We have the poor, and the rich—the dumb and the brilliant —the successful business man, lawyer, doctor, etc. For a great many the army is doing a lot of good—and for some, army life will mean ruin. No Catholic lad who practices his faith and keeps in touch with his chaplain and receives the sacraments need have any worries about the future. He will benefit by his experience in the army and come out a better man. Sure, it is going to be tough on some. Their rough spots will not be smoothed off—they will be knocked off. But any Catholic lad who thinks that when he dons the uniform he can afford to put his religion in moth balls is a fool. I’ll undertake to defend that against all comers, even sophomores who have learned the definition of logic.
To date I have not found a single alumnus of Notre Dame. But I am expecting to see some of you in July. Regards to all and sundry.
Sincerely,
(Rev.) Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C.
First Lieutenant, Chaplain.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
||	——— . . . 1 111 ~
Notre Dame Sports
Notre Dame Made Baseball Debut in 1892
Michigan defeated Notre Dame in the first football game played by the Fightin’ Irish, but the baseball team squared accounts when in 1892 — the first game to be played under Notre Dame colors — the Blue and Gold basebailers trimmed the Wolverines 6 to 4.
Since 1892, when only one game of baseball was played, the sport has made rapid advances on the campus and Notre Dame is consistently ranked as one of the teams to beat in the Midwest.
The best season ever to be enjoyed by an Irish nine was back in 1908, when it boasted a record of 20 wins and one defeat. In fact, the three year’ period from 1906-1908 presents a record of 60 victories and only nine defeats.
The era always to be remembered in the history of Notre Dame baseball dates back to the period between 1905-1932. During this time of diamond prosperity the Blue and Gold failed to produce a losing season. If the record books were turned back eight more years, moreover, they would show that from 1897-1932 only one losing season appears—the 1905 team won six and lost nine. The consistency of the Notre Dame baseball team is further shown by the fact that in three of her six losing seasons, the opposition won just one more game than did the Irish.	'
The present regime, headed by Coach Jake Kline, dates from 1934. In that year the new mentor’s squad won only eight games while losing 11. Since that time, however, his powerful aggregations have piled up a total of 78 victories and only 47 defeats. Kline’s best record, and perhaps the best record of all time considering the calibre of opposition, came in 1936. That year Notre Dame won 16 and lost three, playing all but seven games with powerful Big Ten schools. The 1908 schedule included only three Big Ten games, all with Indiana.
Not unlike other outstanding baseball teams, the Irish squads have sent their share of players into the major leagues. Of these probably the most famous is Pop Anson (1894-95), who later cavorted for the Chicago Cubs. Currently in the spotlight is Billy Sullivan, who broke into the big leagues with the St. Louis
Browns in 1931 and since has performed for the Chicago White Sox and the Detroit Tigers. At present he is the second string catcher for the American League champions. Other former Irish diamond stars who later gained prominence in
First baseman Chuck Farrell
the big show include Roger Bresnahan, Chicago Cubs; Joseph Birmingham, Cleveland Indians; William Burke, Boston Braves; Rufe Waldorf, Chicago Cubs; and Ed Walsh, Chicago White Sox.—Ray Donovan.
Leahy and Aides Like N. D.;
Interviews Continue
“How does it feel to be back at Notre Dame?” Frank Leahy, new football coach and director of athletics, estimates that .this question has been asked him over 100 times by press and radio men who have interviewed him since he signed his contract with Notre Dame.
Since it was announced that Leahy was to be Elmer Layden’s successor at Notre Dame he has been interviewed by newspaper “bigs” and radio commentators ranging from Dave Egan to Ann Marsters to our own Scholastic reporters. And it seems that all of them want to know the same things. “How do you like it?” “How are the prospects of the team?” and so on far, far into the night.	-
Most of these interviews are plain question and answer games but Coach Leahy recalls one that had its amusing side. Leahy was being interviewed in his
room in the Oliver Hotel, shortly after his arrival in South Bend, by means of a two way radio hook-up with Chicago. The technician in charge at South Bend told Leahy that the fellow on the other end of the line was John Harrington. When Leahy started to answer the questions put to him by the Chicago interviewer he called his interrogator John. All went well until John’s colleague, Martin McCarthy took over. Leahy was still using the name John and was put straight on the matter immediately by the new interviewer.
Not to be outdone by the others we too asked Mr. Leahy how he liked being at Notre Dame. His reply was most enthusiastic. He says any Notre Dame man would be proud and happy to be called back to coach at his alma mater, but it’s a pretty difficult job.
“The pressure is on. Everyone always watches Notre Dame in the fall.” He continued saying that all the teams that are to be met are good and it is a hard job to produce a winning team. “We hope to do a representative coaching job because it would be terrible to let Notre Dame down.”—Joe Stephen
Faculty Athletics
The entry date for the annual faculty golf tournament, sponsored by the Notre Dame Faculty club, has been moved back to Wednesday, April 23, it was announced Wednesday by Joseph Petritz, tournament chairman. Qualifying rounds must still be in by April 28. The postponement was made because of the illness and absence of committee members, and the absence of many faculty members during the recent holidays. Tickets are available through the Rev. George L. Holdrith, C.S.C., Breen-Phillips hall. Last minute entries will be accepted at Faculty club dinner-bridge-dance Wednesday evening. A $1.00 entry fee covers a ten round admission to tournament
play. Three rounds of 18 hole medal play
constitute the entire tournament. A box has been provided in the golf room of the Rockne Memorial fieldhouse for qualifying scores. Awards of trophies and merchandise will be made.
A tennis tournament will be sponsored by the club as soon as weather permits. Mr. E. A. Smith will be in charge of the competition. Awards will be made to the finalists.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
Teamey, Flynn Win State Fencing Titles; Peck Capt.
•
The sparrows will have . the fencing room under the fieldhouse stands to themselves now, for the Notre Dame fencing season is over. At its conclusion, Coach Langford termed it “the most successful season since the undefeated years of 1935-36.” Several new records, the most interesting of which is Russ Harris’ 39 victories, a new high for matches won in a season, were set.
Lou Beck, junior sabre man, was elected to captain the fencers for the coming season, thus joining a dominant list of sabre men that have led Notre Dame fencing teams.
Eight Monogram Winners
Recommended for monograms were: seniors Russ Harris, Captain Jack Gaither, and Jim Corbett; juniors Mike Humphries, Captain-elect Lou Peck, and Frank Veit; and sophomores Herb Melton and James Madigan. This marks the first time that two sophomores were recommended for monograms.
Tom Teamey, junior in sabre, and John Flynn, sophomore in foil, went to Indianapolis with Jim Graham, law student and former Notre Dame fencer, to compete in the Indiana Amateur Tournament. As a team they placed third in foil; in sabre, Flynn won the state title with Teamey finishing second. In epee Teamey won the state championship, with Graham second and Flynn third.
Good Freshmen Prospects
Graduation takes three lettermen and leaves five but there seems to be no one to fill the work horse roles of Capt. Gaither and Harris who fenced 94 matches and won 68 of them. However, the results of the freshmen meet showed some promise of future material. The results were: in foil, first, Elmer' Silha, second, Charles Raley, and third, Louis Bums; in sabre, first, George Euster-man, second, Alfred Oritz, and third, • Leo'Rumely. Silha is an aggressive lefthander who showed real promise in going undefeated in the nine bouts in the preliminary and final matches. “Many others showed encouraging progress,” said Mr. Langford, who predicted, “They may see action with the varsity next year.”
So, with this potentional freshman talent and the men who have seen some action this year, Coach Langford hopes to mould another successful fencing squad next year.—John J- Fallon
Splinters From the Press Box BILL SCANLAN
Hats off to Albert Del Zoppo, Notre Dame’s No 1 athlete-student, for his remarkable 95.02 average.... It ranks him second in the class of 1941 to Ralph Gerra, Brooklyn’s gift to Wranglers and Walsh hall. . . . Rod Maguire, who never lost a fight at Notre Dame, has probably fought his last time in collegiate competition. . . . Next fall he enrolls at North-western’s Medical school in downtown Chicago, several miles from boxing facilities at Evanston. . . . Rod, a regular mass server at Howard hall, earned a name for all-around sports participation, including frosh football, and interhall basketball.
❖
What’s in a name? Notre Dame’s starting baseball lineup against Purdue included Ralph Ray Pinelli, talkative senior from San Francisco, and Bill Stewart, Jr., Dorchester, Mass., soph. . . . Both are sons of major league umpires . . . Coach Jake Kline need not look far to find someone to call balls and strikes this spring . . . Both are playing new positions . . . Pinelli, now at third base, led Irish hitters the past two campaigns and cavorted at shortstop . . . Stewart performed well as a freshman second sacker . . . At football practice, more interesting names appear — Norm Barry and Charles Dorais, sons of past Irish grid greats . . . Then, too, there’s Tom Brock, brother of the Green Bay Packer center and former Nebraska All-American . . .One of the frequent campus visitors recently was Bill Fay, 1940 tennis captain and Indiana State doubles titlist with Dan Canale ... Fay, responsible for the appearance at the 1940 Bengal Bouts of Battling Billy Conn, arrived at his new Chicago “Tribune” sportswriting job in time to write the headline on the story announcing Notre Dame’s football receipts.
❖
Coach Frank Leahy, speaking before 300 coaches from Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Illinois, Kentucky and Louisiana at the Purdue University Football Coaching Clinic this month, advised them to perfect the basic ground gainers, the off tackle and end run, before emphasizing the more glamorous spread formation. ... He caught the fancy of the coaches by his personalized demonstrations of correct blocking methods on such “live objects” as Coach Mal Elward, genial Irish alumnus and now of Purdue,
and Jack Chevigny, former Irish grid star. . . . The affair took on the appearance of a preview to annual Notre Dame Reunion Night. ... At least a dozen ex-Notre Darners were on hand, including Joe Boland, ex-N.D. line coach; Charley Hafron, Andy Puplis, Joe Kuharich, Bill Kerr, Enio Arboit, Bernie Witucki, Jim Kearns. . . . Wally Fromhart, mentor at Mt. Carmel high school, Chicago, spoke on the value of the weak side attack and recalled that a reverse to the weak side, ending in a pass from Shakespeare to Millner, accounted for the winning touchdown in Notre Dame’s immortal 18-13 triumph over Ohio State in 1935. . . . Fromhart called signals for the Irish that day.
❖
Kuharich, who plays aside alumnus Ed Beinor with the Chicago Cardinals of the National Pro league, was one of the happiest men at the Purdue clinic when he learned that his team would play 12 games instead of 11 . . . “Wish we’d play games on Wednesday night and again on Sundays,” Joe remarked enthusiastically . . . Kearns, alumnus of 1934, warned coaches that the future of sports demands that schools must not invent easy-to-pass “woodworking” courses for athletes ... Jim Newland, energetic Bengal Bouts promoter, secretary to the journalism department head, and senior sociology student, was called to Indianapolis amid frantic efforts to complete a 30-page thesis — thus the change in authorship this issue ... Then, too, Newland’s correspondence with St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods is heavy these days before graduation.
The Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., the Rev. James Fogarty, C.S.C., and the Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., leading golfers on the campus this spring, are limbering their irons and woods in preparation for the annual faculty tournament being directed by Joe Petritz. . . . Best opposition is expected from John Ploff, Jack Turley, Bill Cerney, Cletus Chizek, Art Haley and Dominick Napolitano, mighty might of boxing who displayed bright splatches of green St. Patrick’s Day and boasted, “I’ve got an ‘O’ at the end of my name, only it’s the wrong end today.” ... Bernie Ciimmins, who is playing early 1941 baseball games and combining spring grid practice, caught every inning of every game last year.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
—- By AL DEL ZOPPO =
“He’s the best ball-player I’ve ever had.” Coach Jake Kline was talking about Ray Pinelli, short-stop on last year’s Notre Dame baseball team, who this year has been converted into a third-baseman. Such praise coming from a man who has coached hundreds of college and semi-pro ball-players, many of whom have made good in professional baseball, may seem to be a bit exaggerated. But one has only to examine some of Ray’s past records, or better yet, to take a walk to Cartier field and watch him play, to realize that Jake Kline knows what he’s talking about.
Ray Pinelli is what sport fans call a “natural” ball-player. He does things smoothly, effortlessly, and well. There’s a deftness about his fielding; a sureness about his hitting that makes it a pleasure to watch him perform. He’s fast, covers plenty of ground on defense, running either to his left or to his right, and has a good strong arm. At the plate, Ray is a	'
left-hander, a free swinger with an easy, follow-through motion, and packs enough power to be rated as one of the most dangerous hitters in college ranks. In short, he has all the requisites of a star ball-player — ability, class and polish.
Pinelli’s baseball polish wasn’t acquired .overnight. Back in San Francisco, during his high school days, Ray was considered one of the best school-boy players on the coast, and for three straight years won All-City honors in that city famed for producing high class baseball players. Ray broke into the N. D. lineup as a regular short-stop in his sophomore year, won the individual batting crown, and then went on to repeat his performance last year. Because Ray w’ants to play third-base when he gets out of school he has asked Coach Kline to shift him to that position; and from his showing so far in spring work-outs
one would be led to believe he had never played any other position.
Besides his three seasons here at Notre Dame, Ray has played baseball during the summer-time with Malone, N. Y„ in the Northern Leaue, and in that fast company he was able to hit over .300 every season. Two summers ago Ray won the league batting championship with a mark close to .400.
Employment isn’t going to be a problem for Pinelli when he graduates. Because all he has to do to get a job is to sign one of the many baseball-playing offers which will be handed to him by major league scouts this June. Ray will probably steer away from signing a contract with a National League team because Babe Pinelli, National League umpire, and best ball and strike arbiter in the big legues is his dad, and Ray is afraid that Babe might be too anxious to show his impartiality when his son comes to bat. Right now it looks like Ray has his heart set on joining the New York Yankees for it already has some San Francisco representatives — DiMaggio and Crosetti — both of whom are very close friends of the Notre Dame star.
McHale Pleases Beaumont—
Will Play for Muskegon
Johnny McHale is marked for a spot in the baseball sun according to a report from Vin Burke, sports editor of the Beaumont (Texas) Enterprise early this month. Johnny signed a contract last February with the Beaumont Exporters, Texas league farm of the Detroit Tigers. This is a tough circuit for a youngster to break into his first year and, as even Johnny himself expected, he will be sent to Muskegon, a lower ranking club for further seasoning. It is generally felt in Beaumont that McHale will hold down an Exporter job in 1942.
But Johnny and his many followers are not discouraged at this news, for many “in the know” are predicting fine things for the former monogram winning Irish center. As a ball player and a fine personality, Johnny seems to rate quite highly with his Detroit owners and Beaumont fans. Jack Zeller, Tiger manager, recently told a group of friends in Beaumont that “McHale probably would make one of the great first basemen in the game — because he has the determination.” Sports Editor Burke, in his report, said that “Johnny knew when he came here he was ticketed for Muskegon and, being smart, was resigned to it. There’s nothing wrong with his hitting but he needs some experience at fielding his position. He is said to be as good a hitter as any present Exporter player. It was McHale’s hitting that first attracted Tiger scouts to his possibilities. The Texas league is in the Al league, third ranking minor circuit. Muskegon, McHale’s new berth, is in the Michigan State league, a class C outfit. The class C league ranks two leagues behind the Al and one above D, last ranking minor league.
Mr. Burke concluded his report on the N.D. alumnus with the remark that “The Beaumont team on which Johnny probably will play next year has sent more players to the majors than any club in the minors. More than half of the Detroit Tigers have graduated from the Beaumont club.
McHale, who is 19 years old, has always wanted to play pro baseball, a berth with the home-town Tigers is his particular ambition; so when the opportunity arose last winter, he took advan- j tage of it. While the exact nature of the i financial arrangement was not disclosed, ] it was understood that the consideration g was sufficient to insure chances of com- f pleting his college education should he j fail to break into the big money.	1
In explaining his exchange of football S
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
cleats for baseball spikes, McHale said he believed that the ages of 19 to 21 years are those best suited to the development of young players. The fact that a number of players already in the majors and minors are being drafted into military service should provide opportunities for new blood. He feels that the establishment of military camps will further increase the popularity of the game as a national sport, as much new talent was discovered on camp teams in the last war.
A successful baseball past points to further glory on the diamond for Johnny McHale. He has always played first base; played on the city and state championship high school team which was undefeated in three years of competition. He was captain of the Detroit All-City baseball team, batted .389 last season and held a starting position on the Notre Dame freshman team.—Jack Dinges
Howie Petschell, Ex, '42,
In Randolph Field Class
A pair of golden Air corps wings will very soon gleam on the uniform of Flying Cadet Howard K. Petschel, sopho-omore of the class of ’42 and one of Coach Layden’s brighter prospects last spring as a varsity end.
The six-foot, 185 pound lad from St. Paul left Randolph field Feb. 7 with 334 class mates to take a final ten weeks’ advanced flying course at Kelly field. At the end of this time, they will receive their commissions as second lieutenants in the air corps and the coveted wings of military pilots.
Howie’s class reported to Randolph late in November and took instructions in racy, low-winged, 450 h.p. planes, piling up 70 additional hours which included various acrobatics. Three hours of night-practice in take-offs and landings were part of the Randolph course.
Instruction at Kelly includes advanced training in navigation, both day and night; advanced instrument flying and formation flying. Then will come the gold bar of second lieutenant in the air corps reserve, “wings,” and duty for at least one year alongside veteran air corps officers.
The Pay-Off
During the cadet phase of their career, the student pilots receive $75 per month in addition to food, uniforms, etc. When they are commissioned, pay is increased
to $205 per month. During their service with the Regular army, the new officers may seek to build up their flying hours to the 1,200 required by the C.A.A. for airline transport pilots.
Andy Chlebeck, Irish baseball captain for 1941 and hometown pal of Howie’s has received several letters from his former high school athletic opponent giving some of his personal observations on his work. “Fetch” had no great expectation of a career in the air corps when he took the exams last spring. He found himself accepted as a cadet, however, and spent considerable time in the St.
He wanted wings.
Paul library last summer successsfully preparing himself for the subjects he would take in ground school in early fall.
Texas Ground Is Hard
Randolph provided the thrills expected at the “West Point of the Air.” Cadet Petschel was involved in two landing crack-ups from which he emerged relatively unscathed. They were his only serious accidents and both happened the same day. The first ocurred when he misjudged his altitude coming in and piled up. Howie was taken to the hospital for minor repairs and his plane hauled away in pieces. He was released from the hospital that afternoon in time for night-flying practice. Coming in for a landing, something went wrong, the plane hit hard, lost its landing gear and bounced high into the air. Our pilot, not realizing his loss, came in for a second attempt and his plane skidded
over Randolph field on its belly. Another busy day for Mr. Petchel was the one on which he noticed that he had become lost in a fog with a rapidly dwindling gas supply. He is not quite sure just how he did get “home.”
Thumbs Up!
His biggest thrill, however, came the day he passed the test in the “Grey Ghost” in which an examiner takes the cadet up for a two hour- flight test. Howie, tense and nervous, feared that he was not flying as he knew he was able. The test was finally over and he looked back in his mirror to see .the two gloved thumbs of the examining officer pointed skyward. He had passed and would go on to Kelly. From there, the new flyers may go on to work as instructors, in bombardment squadrons or in transport service.
Life in the Air corps agrees with Mr. Petschel; the food and living quarters are excellent and we imagine that he makes a nice appearance in an air corps uniform — but, cadets rise at 5:30 ajn. for a morning check that is a morning check — calisthenics.
6th Chicagoan in Ten Years
Leads Notre Dame Cagers
Art Pope, newly-elected basketball captain, won his victory in a close race. Team elections are conducted so that in a general balloting by-the season’s monogram winners, the two men receiving the most votes are again voted on in the finals. In the basketball election, Pope was one of the finalists and other candidacy was shared by roommates Frank Quinn and George Sobek who received an equal number of votes. An extra poll, which Sobek won, had to be made to break this deadlock. Pope defeated Sobek, whose play has been hampered with a knee injury since last season, in the finals.
- Pope was captain of the Morgan Park high school team in Chicago and also won his letter in swimming there. He has a 90 average in the College of Commerce and lives in St. Ed’s.
Outstanding cage feats of Capt. Ris-ka’s successor are his tying basket in the final ten seconds of the ultimate Notre Dame victory over Syracuse and his record of 12 points in the first half of the Irish-North Dakota game.
Art is the sixth Chicagoan to lead the Irish cagers in the past ten years. Assistant coach, Ray Meyer of Chicago, was twice honored with the captaincy.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SC HO L A S T I C
Final Basketball Echoes
Though the season ended over a month ago, Notre Dame basketball has bounced back into the headlines in the past few weeks with the announcement that Arthur Wellington Pope, reserve forward, had been elected captain of the 1941-42 Fighting Irish court squad. The likable Chicagoan, who understudied for the redoubtable Eddie Riska throughout the past campaign, proved himself to be one of the coolest men on the squad, and scored important points when the pressure was one.
Monogram Winners
Coinciding with the election of Pope as captain of next year’s quintet, the Athletic Board met and approved of the following men as monogram winners for the 1940-41 campaign; Capt. Eddie Riska, Chuck Butler,, “Red” Carnes, Charley Gillespie, Capt.-elect Art Pope, Frank Quinn, Larry Ryan, Cy Singer, Bob Smith, George Sobek, and Manager Bernie Brockman. Of the ten recipients, Riska, Smith, Ryan, and Gillespie, will graduate this June, leaving six available letter-winners to form the nucleus of next year’s quintet.
Outstanding Freshmen
The freshmen basketbailers also came in for their share of the spotlight during the past few weeks, for under the capable tutelage of Assistant Varsity Coach Ray Meyer, and Frosh Coach Tony Romeo, they have been working out daily in the fieldhouse, learning Notre Dame plays, and in general giving the coaches an idea of what they’ll have to work with next winter. To date, Bob Faught a 6 ft. 5 in. center; Ray Kuka and Barney Barnicelli, a fine pair of guards, and Buster Hiller and Omer Sturm, a speedy brace of forwards, look like the outstanding prospects. These and 20 other frosh are in line for freshmen numerals, but as the list has not as yet been approved by the Athletic Board, the names are not available for publication at this time.
Keogan Convalescing
Aside from the fact that six returning lettermen, a host of fine reserves, and several capable freshmen, make the outlook for next year’s team seem rosy indeed, the Irish were still further heartened with the news that their head coach, George Keogan, is well on the road to recovery from the attack of heart trouble which hampered him during the final crucial weeks of the past campaign. After spending the past month at St. Joseph’s hospital in South Bend, Coach Keogan is now at home, and is up and around for a few hours each day. Com
plete rest and very little exercise from now till next September are the orders the coach has received from his physician, Dr. J. E. McMeel, if he hopes to regain his full strength and assume active charge of Irish basketball destinies when the hardwood season rolls around again next winter.—Jim Clemens
1940 Pole Vaulter Dies
John Patrick Dean, Notre Dame graduate of 1940 and star pole-vaulter of the track team for three years, was killed in an automobile accident in Milwaukee, Wis., on April 6.
Dean studied business administration at the University and was graduated last summer. He held the Ohio State-Notre Dame track meet record of 13 feet, six and three-quarters inches, plus the record for the Michigan State and the University of Michigan indoor meets, and was co-champion in the Central Colle
Custom and Nonnal-Tred sorios $7.00
SING A SONG
DOUGLAS
FINEST STYLES
SHOES
You, too, will sing the praises of W. L. Douglas Shoes when you see the handsome blacks and classy tans in the new swagger spring styles now all the rage for campus wear... See models in "Brogandi”, tough, plump Goatskin, yet soft as Kidskin.
All give you extra comfort, long wear due to the famous Douglas "Down-To-The-Wood-Vp-To-The-Arch” construction.
'DcuqllaA Shoei
- 210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET Open Saturday Evenings	.
SMART NEW SPRING STYLES IN LADY DOUGLAS, $3.85 and $4.95
THE FLEETWOOD
AMERICA S BEST KNOWN SHOES
giate conference indoor meet in 1940.
He had been employed by the Allis-Chahners Manufacturing company in Milwaukee.
Layden Takes Office
Elmer Layden, former director af athletics and head coach of football here, took over the reins of the National Professional Football league April 5 and assumed sweeping powers as the organization’s first commissioner. He is also to act as president of the League, as that post was recently vacated by Carl Storck. Layden signed a five-year contract which specifies an annual salary of $20,000.
Draft Board Defers Mahoney
Track Coach Bill Mahoney, 24-year-old Arizonan, received notice early this month that he was placed in class 1-B in the Selective Service listings and deferred indefinitely.
THE
Three Senior Gridders Land
Jobs; 2 Coaches; I Player
With the last football season still fresh in their memories and with their graduation but six weeks away, there are at least three Notre Dame men who are already well-situated regarding employment.
On April 4 Dowling College, Des Moines, Iowa, announced that it had signed Walter C. O’Meara, a quarterback on this year’s varsity team as its football, basketball, and baseball coach. O’Meara, who has been on the Notre Dame gym team for the past three years, will also teach physical education at the Des Moines school. This June he will get his B.S. degree in Physical Education cum laude. O’Meara came to Notre Dame from Stamford, Conn., where he was AllState quarterback and scored the touchdown that won the state championship in 1936. He also captained the high school basketball team for two years. O’Meara won a senior reserve monogram.
Jackie Hayes, another 1940 quarterback was named head football and basketball coach at Rockhurst College, Kansas City. Mo.'on March 29. Hayes was scheduled to report for spring practice at Rockhurst on April 5.
On April 2 Milton “Moose” Piepul, captain of the 1940 Irish squad announced that he had signed a contract to play with the Detroit Lions professional football team. Earlier this year he had signed a contract to coach at De LaSalle High school in Chicago but the school released him from the agreement. Piepul was the first backfield man to captain a Notre Dame team since 1926. - In the 1939 season Moose led the scoring with his 36 points. He tallied the same number of points in 1940 but Steve Juz-wik’s 43 points were highest. In the final game of the season against Southern California, Piepul scored all of the ten points which defeated S. C.
Joseph Gleason, who was graduated from Notre Dame in 1938, succeeds Milton Piepul at De LaSalle in Chicago. For the past two years Gleason has been coach at Central Catholic High school in Hammond, Ind. During his prep school days at Leo in Chicago, Gleason starred both in football and basketball.
—John Powers
Silha, Eusterman Win Fencing Tournament
Six freshmen fencers were awarded gold, silver and bronze medals, for winning first, second and third places, respectively, in the annual freshmen fenc
NOTRE DAME SCHOLA
ing tournament, held April 2 and 3 at the Rockne Memorial.
Elmer D. Silha, Chicago, Ill., a very good left-handed fencer with a puzzling style, went victorious through five bouts to win first in the foil division. Charles Raley, Wilmington, Del., who lost to Silha in the final bout, captured second place with a score of four wins to one loss. Lou Burns, Nutley, N. J., won three bouts and lost two to take third place.
In the saber division, George Eusterman, Rochester, Minn., took first place with four wins and one loss. Alfredo Ortiz, Sante Fe, N. Mex., was second with a score of four wins to two losses. Third place went to Leo Rumley, Wilton, Conn., with a score of three to two.
—Mark McGrath
Spring Practice Lineup
With an Easter vacation breaking up a daily football practice that has been becoming more and more intensified, Notre Dame football candidates welcomed the change. There has been stiff competition among the players for the coveted positions on the first team. At this writing Coach Leahy’s tentative first team contains Bob Dove or Ray Ebli,
A really distinctive suit of clothes is your best buy this Spring. ADLER-ROCHESTER made - to - measure suits and coats — from $35 up — are the answer to your wardrobe needs.
SHETLANDS, HOMESPUNS, FLANNELS, HARRIS TWEEDS — all the finer domestic and imported fabrics from which to select. We also have sport jackets and slacks for you to mix or match to suit your own fancy. See our campus representatives or call at our upstairs shop.
PARKER-WINTERROWD 115^2 N. Main Street (upstairs)
Or see our campus representatives
JOHN SIEVERT	CATT. MILT “MOOSE’ PIEPUL	JOHN RYAN
234 Alumni	137 Walsh Hall	337 Walsh
STIC	19
left end; Jim Brutz, left tackle; Bob Maddock, left guard; Tom Brock, center; Herky Bereolos or Joe Laiber, right guard; Captain Lillis, right tackle; Johnny Kovatch, right end; Bob Hargrave, quarterback;. Owen (Dippy) Evans, left half; Steve Juzwik, right half; and Joe Prokop, fullback.
April "Review of Politics"
Published Last Week
The Review of Politics for April appeared last week, containing a comment on “The Political Perversion of Art” by Mr. Frank O’Malley, professor of English at the University. Other notable pieces in this issue are Father Luigi Sturzo’s on “Modern War and Catholic Thought”; Mortimer J. Adler’s on “A Dialectic of Morals, Part H”; Mary Cogan Bromage’s on “Linguistic Nationalism in Eire.” One article certain to be interesting for local readers is Jacques Maritain’s review of Nature and Functions of Authority, a book by Yves Simon, professor of philosophy at the University.
Students may obtain copies of the Review of Politics for 50 cents from the editorial offices in the Science building.
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Faculty Club to Hold
Dinner Next Wednesday
Next Wednesday evening at 7 o’clock the Notre Dame Faculty Club will hold a dinner in the West Dining hall which will be followed by a bridge party and dancing in the Rockne Memorial building. Mr. H. Le Clair Eells, professor of finance, is president of the club.
Mr. Lawrence Baldinger, professor of chemistry, is in charge of tickets, which are priced at §1.00 per person; Dr. Edward Mahin, professor of metallurgy, is in charge of bridge-playing; and Mr. J. A. McCarthy, professor of civil engineering, is dance chairman. Lay members of the faculty and their wives will attend, as will clerical members and administrative Oxhcers of the University. The affair will be informal.
Peace Association Votes
McMahon Vice-President
Dr. Francis E. McMahon, professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, was elected vice-president of the Catholic Association for International Peace.
John L. McMahon, professor at Catholic University, was elected president.
The elections were held at the Association’s annual meeting, April 14 and 15, at Trinity College in Washington, D. C. -
Short Story Contest
To encourage the talent of young writers The Atlantic magazine has announced a §1,000 prize award for the best short story submitted by Sept. 1, 1941, by a writer in the twenties. (All those who will have had their twentieth but not their thirtieth, birthday by the entry date.) Rules are few: Length of story — 2,500 to 6,000 words; stories should be typewritten double-spaced, if possible, and written one side of paper only. Winner will be announced within two months of close of contest and prize story will be published in Dec., 1941, issue of The Atlantic. Address manuscripts to The Atlantic Short Story Contest, 8 Arlington street, Boston, Mass.
Football Uniform Changes
The influence of the Golden Dome upon Notre Dame football will be visibly present in the uniforms of the Fighting Irish next fall. In-line with Coach Frank Leahy’s move to carry out the school ' colors all the way, the squad will discard the familiar natural-leather colored helmets and blue sweat sox and don gold helmets and gold sox plus silk pants and blue jerseys.
Rev. W. M. Robinson, C.S.C.
Father Robinson, director of novices in the novitiate at Rolling Prairie, Ind., ■ who 'during Lent delivered a series of sermons at the Wednesday evening services in Sacred Heart Church, for the student body.
Fr. McCormick Speaks
At Schoolmen Disputation
Rev. Dr. John McCormick, S.J., head of the philosophy department at Loyola University in Chicago, will speak in Washington Hall, Thursday, April 24. Father McCormick will act as honorary commentator at the Schoolmen’s Disputation.
Prep School Artists Holding Exhibit Here
Preparatory school artists in midwestern states will exhibit several hundred pieces of art at the sixth annual secondary school art exhibition held April 16 to 30 under the sponsorship of the Notre Dame Art Department. Prof. Stanley S. Sessler is in charge. More than 40 parochial and public schools and academies will be represented.
The various art objects are on display in the rooms of the Art Department, in the Main Building.	'
A charter was granted to the University of Notre Dame du Lac by special act of the legislature of Indiana on Jan. 15, 1844.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
ZAHM, ROOSEVELT EXPLORATION
(Continued from page 11)
Pope Leo XIII, who once offered him a bishopric.
The Zahm brothers were not the only Notre Dame men who were advancing science. On a warm, sunny day in 1899 Professor Jerome Greene sat at a table in his room on the campus and tapped out a wireless message to South Bend. It was the first experiment of its kind in America. When Marconi visited Notre Dame in 1933 he praised Greene, declared he was the man who led America in advancing the wireless.
Biology Building Gives
Variety of Experiences
Completed in 1937 and embodying the most modern concepts of architecture, Notre Dame’s §300,000 Biology building looks much like a world’s fair exhibit but the laboratory odor inside is unmistakable.
Formaldehyde and alcohol greet you at the door and accompany you down the long, clean corridor of the lab-studded first floor. They are stronger here.
The building is in the shape of a huge H. The experimental laboratories of bacteriology, immunology and hygiene form the cross bar for the alphabet’s eighth let
ter. The parallel arms of the “H” house provide graduate laboratories and rooms for professors.
“See that rat?” A man in white pointed to a miniature ferris wheel which was kept spinning by the futile efforts of a white rat trying to get somewhere. “That rat was raised from a Caesarian operation and has been fed nothing but artificial food since its birth. We’re testing the metabolistic and energy building contents of artificial vitamins.” Five hundred rats and a like number of guinea-pigs enjoy, gratis, the luxury and comfort of a tiled, air-conditioned home.
The Greene and Nieuwland botanical libraries, containing some 10,000 volumes, occupy the second floor. Here also is an auditorium, completely equipped with projection apparatus, with seating accommodations for 140 persons.
All rooms are tiled and are so constructed that they may be washed down and kept dust proof.
The laboratories of zoology, botany and anatomy are on the third floor. A skeleton dangles from a gallows, grinning hideously. Across aluminum-top desks, bones are scattered thither with grim casualness. In a far-corner, a future M.D. operates on the respiratory system of a cat—unmistakably not a world’s fair exhibit.—Louis Apone
“The MEN'S Comer”
Lightweight Wind Proof Shower Proof
Improve Your HAT-I-TUDEt with a New LEE Water-Bloc*
THE CASCADE $5.00
A 2-ounce hat by the famous LEE Water-Bloc process. The Cascade ■will wear longer because it takes three times as long to make. It’s rollable, foldable and super-serviceable.
LEE also makes:
Aetna, “The Insured Hat,” $3.50.
Look for the Lee Hat signs
LEE HATS
358 Fifth Avenue, New York
The Perfect Year Around Sports Jacket
Slacks $4.95 to $10.00
Sleeveless Sweaters
Slip Over or Button
$2.50 up
MAIN AT COLFAX
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
22	THE
Minstrels Planned Here
On May 5-6 by Knights
An old-fashioned type of minstrel show of “gay ninety” vintage will be presented by the Knights of Columbus on May 5-6. The object of the show will be to give every one a good time and to have the audience join in on the fun, somewhat in the style of the recent Olsen and Johnson vaudeville extravaganza.
Pure, good, wholesome entertainment will be the bill of fare. Such quaint relics of old vaudeville as cakewalks, end-men and interlocutors will be resurrected for the show. Don Tiedemann, the new Glee Club president, will give his impressions of Harry Lauder, the famous Scottish dialect comedian and singer. The interlocutor will be Jack Whelan of K. of C. vaudeville fame. Hillbilly Joe Kalten-bach and his partner, Tom Delia, will be back on the boards again.
The Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., will supervise the music to be used as the background and will also act as faculty adviser. Howie Korth of Walsh Hall will engineer the publicity for the show. Any potential singers, dancers, or comics may ' hand their names and accomplishments to any K. of C. man or to the CouncilChambers in Walsh hall.
—Richard Powers
A Variety of Pipes— A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow _____________$1.50
Yello-Bole Regular-------1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial_____ 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless______3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor-----4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran------5.00
Hollydourt____________-— 3.50
Sasieni 5.00
Comoy -----------------  5.00
BOOK REVIEW
Strategy of the Americas, by Mac-Liesh and Reynolds. Duell, - Sloan and Pierce. New York. 1941. 247 pp. $2.50.
I do not know what the outcome will be in the round-robin tournament of isolationists vs. interventionists but score one for the disciples of isolation. This book is factual and decently convincing for their side.
The first and most vital task of America, the authors say, is to establish and defend its power in the Western Hemisphere. We must remain supreme in this hemisphere by avoiding defeat in a large-scale expedition in Europe or Asia and by averting civil war at home. Aiding the British now would send us riding off in all directions and finally wind us up half-organized, half-equipped, and floundering at the mercy of the future. To avoid internal turmoil we must push forward the progressive social measures and reforms which have been initiated. No invader would even risk coming to us if we were unmarked by dissension and a recent defeat.
But, let us create a hypothetical case and recognize Hitler as our real enemy— as the authors do. England is beaten and the Axis forces swing toward us. Can we be invaded? The answer is no. Our hemisphere lies behind three layers of re-fense: Our Navy is the most powerful in the world today. We are potentially the first aid power in the world. Not, as yet, in the development of a large military air organization, but in design and initiative, in the development of private and commercial flying, and in general air-mindedness. The army lags behind in an immature stage of formation.
Economic strangulation will not occur. The authors maintain we are the most secure of nations in respect to raw materials, and there is no raw material for which we must go outside the Western Hemisphere — not at the price of war anyway.
Strategy of the Americas brings nothing new into the broth. The facts have been ground up for popular consumption and the isolationists, or “insulationists,” will use them to prove their points. But the interventionists will find loopholes.
James J. O’Brien
The College of Law, an outgrowth of a course in law established at the University in 1869, is the oldest Catholic law school in the United States.
The mural paintings in the Main building and the fresco work in Sacred Heart church were, done by Luigi Gregori.
Modern Doxology
It Was over in one of the bright classrooms in the Commerce building that we first heard the version of Old Hundred that is mumbled during chapel services by Chicago U. students. The Parade curses its poor memory to the depths, for he can only recall the first line:’ “Praise John from whom oil blessings flow.”
“IMAGINE said the
• Professor, “Imagine ME forgetting this easy schedule!”
A TRAIN EVERY HOUR
South Shore trains leave South Bend 30 minutes past the hour from 7:30 A. M. to 9:30 P. M. Two early morning trains, leaving at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Two late evening trains, leaving at 11 P. M. and 12 Midnight. Nineteen in all. You can’t miss.
Ticket office: 301 N. Michigan Street. Phone 3-3111.
TO CHICAGO
SOUTH BEND

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
MAX ADLER
Michigan at Washington
"On the Corner"
Are You Collar-Blind?
Do you know what collar style lodes best on you? We have Arrow shirts in any number o£ collar styles. Come in and we’ll help you choose which style is most becoming to you.
POETS always call the violet the shrinking violet. We feel bad about anything that shrinks — but
chiefly shirts.
So we’ve spent our life making the shirt that doesn’t shrink, the ARROW shirt. It’s Sanforized Shrunk, which means fabric shrinkage less than 1%. Its Mitoga figure fit is superb and its collar is the world’s finest. College men everywhere prefer Arrows. Try an Arrow Gordon today.
HRRCW SHIRTS
COLLARS .. . TIES . . . HANDKERCHIEFS . .. UNDERWEAR
Mimeograph Department Uses Carload of Paper
On the second floor of the main building in a small room just behind the office of the vice president of the University 13,000 sheets of paper daily meet a stencil impression and the Notre Dame Bulletin. materializes. Of these 13,000 mimeographed bulletins, 9,000 are carted away to Dillon hall basement where they are mailed to the thousands of ardent followers of the Religious Bulletin. The balance of 4,000 copies is distributed among the students, library, infirmary and presbytery.
The mimeographing of Religious Bulletins, although it constitutes the bulk of the business of the office, is by far not the only work of the department. All faculty members of the University may take their tests and lectures to the department to be mimeographed. Each student is alloted 20 mimeographed sheets in each course per semester or 40 per scholastic year. Although every professor and instructor does not take advantage of this, nevertheless, it entails a busy year for the mimeograph department.
Known officially as the Central Mimeograph Department, it is under the supervision of the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico. C.S.C., director of studies. The office force is composed of Ed O’Donnell, who does most of the stencil and office work; Thomas Riley, three-year veteran of the department who has charge of maintenance of machines; a stenographer who works in coordination with the director of studies office; and three students who work part-time typing stencils.
The office unit has two power-driven, fully equipped Mimeograph machines, each of which will hold one ream of paper at a time and run 4,000 copies in an hour. For smaller jobs that require less time, the “liquid-process” duplicator is employed. This is a rather complicated machine which is very useful for intricate work such as architectural drawings where a stencil could not be used profitably. Three typewriters, including an electric pressure machine which allows absolute, even touch, are used for the stencil work. For stapling and binding sheets together a massive stapling machine is used. This is capable of either straight or “saddle” stitching as used on booklets or pamphlets.
Annually an entire box car of mimeograph paper is purchased by the University for the needs of the mimeograph department. That which is not consumed in the main office alone is dispensed to other smaller mimeograph units in different buildings around the campus.
—John B. Powers
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Mass Calendar: April 20-26
Sunday, 20—Octave of Easter (Low-Sunday). No commemoration. Preface of Easter (in all masses unless otherwise noted).
Monday, 21—St. Anselm, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor. Mass: In medio (Common of Doctors). Second prayer, for Peace.
phies for the contest are annually presented by Mr. Joseph P. McNamara, Notre Dame alumnus, now assistant attorney general of Indiana.
The entrants — most of whom will be from Michigan, Indiana, Illinois and Wisconsin — will compete for these trophies: individual trophies (a gold victory figure standing on a composition
base) — will be awarded to the top three; the winner of the entire tournament will receive for one year a large perpetual trophy, which winners traditionally turn over to their school for the year; a large perpetual silver trophy will be awarded for one year to the top Indiana orator and is likewise presented by him to his school.—Mark G. McGrath
Tuesday, 22—Sts. Soter and Caius, Popes, Martyrs. Second prayer, the Blessed Virgin (Concede), 3d, the Church, 4th, for Peace. Votive or Requiem.
Wednesday, 23—St. George, Martyr. Additional prayers as yesterday. Votive or Requiem. .
Thursday, 24—St. Fidelis of Sigmaringen, Martyr. Mass: Protexist (Common of One Martyr in Easter time). Prayer proper. 2d, for Peace.
Friday, 25—St. Mark, Evangelist. Second prayer, of the Rogations. (Place indicated in Missal) Credo. Preface of the Apostles.
Saturday, 26—Sts. Cletus and Marcel-linus, Popes, Martyrs. Mass: Sancti tui (Common of Martyrs in Easter time.) Prayer proper. Additional prayers as on Tuesday. Votive or Requiem.
Oratory Contest to
be Held Here April 26
On April 26 delegates from some 25 midwestern high schools will convene on the Notre Dame campus to compete in the sixth annual Middle Western Catholic High School Oratorical tournament sponsored by The Wranglers. Tro-
fees
A SUMMER SCHOOL FOR ENGINEERS
To Make Up Courses To Attain Advanced Standing To Train For National Defense
The Colorado School of Mines Summer Session
offers complete, thorough courses including field and laboratory courses throughout the summer.
In America’s Vacation Land Recreational Opportunities make Summer Study Enjoyable
For Details Write Director Summer Session Colorado School of Mines Golden, Colorado
Tastes good...costs little and swell tun to chew -that’s DOUBLEMINT BUM
7es, chewing gum is always	while you're
events, between classes. mint studying-J^B taste and helps flavor refceshes yenjoying sweeten your brea ■ brighten your teeth, too.	m
Great to enjoy	ot DOUBLE-
and buy several package ujH GUM today.
v-eo
^^4
BssSX-






^7^



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
25
Rare Spearman Books
Acquired by Library
The library has enlarged its rare book collection by acquiring two splendidly bound autographed volumes written by Frank H. Spearman, prominent Catholic novelist and winner of the Laetare Medal in 1935. Author of such works as. Whispering Smith, Nerve of Foley, Dr. Bryson, Robert Kimberly, and several others, Mr. Spearman has been commended by critics as an author who expresses excellently the Catholic point of view in his novels.
Besides being- a fine novelist, Mr. Spearman has also written a purely
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D.
E. C. BERRY, O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
ATTENTION STUDENTS!
ADMISSION 1 25c
SKATING V CHECKING J Always
Al Wish's
Playland Roller Rink
Make money on parties here.
Om MiKa
HAMILTON SCALES Your College Expensesl
SALES OUTFIT
Sell During Hours Best Suited To Your Schedule or During / Vacations—-Earn $13.00 on Every Sale You Make
FREE
• A “Natural” for energetic students. Prospects can
be contacted anywhere, at any time. Q/ HAMILTON
HAMILTON SCALES are priced only $49.50 in- /A /SCALE CO. stead of usual $125 to $150. Instead of giving pro- naD» 12 fessional operators 60% or more of earnings, small/Q business owners buy Hamilton Scales outright,/G/	OhM»
at the low price and pocket ALL the receipts. / Please rush FREE Sells to restaurants, lunch rooms, theatre JF/ SALES OUTFIT and lobbies, bus stations, news stands, cigar. ^3/ full details of your offer stores, pool rooms, beauty parlors, etc. /^/ to salesmen.
Small down payment and easy terms. / Q
You get immediate income. FREE / SALES OUTFIT. No money needed. 
JUST MAIL THIS COUPON—
HAMILTON SCALE CO./<^ Dept. C12,Toledo, Ohio
State.
Name.
City.
practical work called Strategy of Great Railroads.
Bound resplendently in red crushed morocco in England, the two books, titled, Laramie Holds the Range and The Marriage Verdict, are autographed by the author. One contains a picture of the author and his family in front of their California home. The books were obtained from the author’s son, the Rev. Arthur Spearman, S.J., librarian at Loyola University at Los Angeles.
—Jack Sprague
Brownson to Become
Freshman Hall Again
Final announcement concerning the hall accommodations for 1941-42 was contained in the annual preregistration letter recently dispatched to the students. Set forth in the letter were the technical details entailed in preregistration for next year’s courses and the date and method of procedure in choice of place of residence for next year. Room reservations will be made from Monday, April 21, to Monday, April 28. Reservations will be made according to the student’s scholastic average to date.
Only hall change next year will be the assignment of Brownson to the incoming freshmen; Carroll will become a sophomore hall. Five hundred and twenty-four senior students will choose rooms in Walsh, Sorin, and Alumni. Next year’s juniors, 560 strong, will reside in St. Edward’s, Dillon, and Howard halls. Seven hundred and sixty sophomores will be distributed among. Badin, Lyons, Morrissey, and Carroll halls. Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Zahm, and Brownson will be reserved for incoming freshmen. Special students, part-time students, postgraduates and graduates are required to reside off-campus on account of lack of residence accommodations. Their preregistration will take place in the same manner as campus students.
—Robert LeMense
Anne and Helen McKeever, line coach McKeever’s twin daughters, were named by the first two B.C. men scoring in the Sugar Bowl game in accordance with Mac’s pre-game promise.
DENTISTRY as a Career
Dentistry offers an opportunity in the field of health service for men, of abilityand determination. Advanced standards have cut down dental school attendance by 44% in recent years.
The Marquette University Dental School is one of the 18 dental schools of the United States whose diplomas are recognized in all of the states.
The close relationship of the x Dental and Medical Schools » at Marquette University is an advantage to students.
<: Entrance requirements: Two years in a recognized College i of Liberal Arts with satisfactory credits in biology, chemistry, and physics.
For complete information s concerning opportunities in dentistry, write to the Secre-- tary, Marquette University Dental School, Milwaukee, •: Wisconsin.
MARQUETTE
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Sntaaat to
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our'own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Shoes
Suggests U. S. Purchase
More from Latin America
If the United States is to be successful in keeping totalitarianism out of Latin America we must buy more Latin American commodities — enough more from them to offset the economic consequences in Latin America with the loss of her Nazi market, Wesley C. Bender, associate professor of business administration in the college of commerce stated in talks on Latin America in the Present World Crisis, before the League of Women Voters and the Exchange Club, in South Bend on April 1 and 4, respectively.
Although the United States has been buying as many non-competitive goods from Latin America as are feasible, Latin American purchases in the United States have increased recently due to loans granted by the Export-Import Bank. While Latin American nations have access to the funds granted as loans, our trade with those countries will increase, Mr. Bender pointed out.
Probably the most significant effort is being made by Nelson Rockefeller, coordinator of commercial and cultural relations between the American Republics, the speaker emphasized. Among Rockefeller’s important plans is one to skyrocket the United States interest in Latin America for tourists, who ordinarily spend $5,000,000,000 a year, will spend ^ome money in Latin America. If one-fifth of this sum were spent in Latin America, the effect would be the same as increasing Latin American exports to the United States by that amount; and such an increase in our purchases from Latin American nations would amply offset their loss of the Nazi market.
They won't pass your exams for you, or help you win the chess championship . . . but they will put your feet way out front in style and comfort. Brogandi leather is made of glove-soft goatskin; its rugged, massive appearance makes these Douglas Shoes collegiate favorites. Climb into a pair soon.
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET Open Saturday Evenings
Smart New Spring Styles in Lady Douglas, $3.85 and $4.95
Metropolitan Elections Scheduled During May
The Metropolitan Club’s annual elections will take place either on May 5 or May 12, officials announced this week. Names of candidates have not been disclosed.
James J. Murphy has been. put in ' charge of the club’s communion break- f fast which will be held soon. Thomas V. | Miles, president, announced that ar- | rangements are being made for the an- | ‘ nual summer dance which will be held % around June 15. Although many of the E plans are tentative as' yet, it has been B decided that the dance will be informal. B Club officials hope to stage the event at ft the Glenn Island Casino.—Ed Drake ft
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
27
Mechanical Engineers .
Attend Detroit Meet
The Midwestern Students’ Branch Conference of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, composed of the Notre Dame Student Branch of the A.S.M.E. with 14 other student groups from engineering schools throughout Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Wisconsin met on April 14 for a two-day conference and convention at Detroit, under the auspices of the University of Detroit.
John F. Nace, senior in the department of mechanical engineering here,
Coca-Cola has a delightful taste that always pleases. Pure, wholesome, delicious,—ice-cold Coca-Cola satisfies completely. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that
YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY refresheswith ice-cold Coca-Cola.
Bottled undec authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
COCA - COLA BOTTLING CO. of South Bend, 1107 Beyer Avenue
After "lab." pause and

was the representative of the University of Notre Dame at the Conference. He delivered a paper on “The Need and Possibility of Participation by Engineers in Public Affairs.”
Special inspection tours of several industrial plants near Detroit, as well as special entertainments, lectures, and dinners were a part of the program outlined for those attending the meeting.
The group meeting for next year is scheduled to be held at Notre Dame, under the student branch of the AS.M.E.
—Bob McFarland
-------4-------
Get in the Swing of Spring
With a BOTANY
BOTANY wrinkle - proof ties in planned patterns designed to harmonize or accent. BOTANY, famous for fine worsted cloths — designed and manufactured their ties from the same fine wrinkle - proof fabric to blend in pattern and color with the smartest new cloth' ing. Designs include authentic Scottish Tartans.............$ 1.00
The new Botanaire _____$1.00
(Specially designed warm - weather neckwear)
NEW MEN'S SHOP
Geo. Wyman and Co.
---------------*---------------
Look around you at the rail dark
...you’ll see the clean white Chesterfield pack on every side
Every smoker who enjoys a Cooler smoke that’s definitely Milder and Better-Tasting is a Chesterfield fan.
The can’t-be-copied blend of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos makes Chesterfield the league leader in every cigarette quality that people want and like.
Enjoy the game with Chesterfield
FRANK McCORMICK star first baseman Cincinnati Reds.

Chesterfield
R^AV MILDNESS AND BETTER TASTE^
AAWWmajw MV. A ...
Copyright 1941, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.