CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
►

IM IN 1 / 0 AUGUST
No Carrying Charge
WASH IT
1 /•	*
l/J SEPTEMBER
WASH IT
.THE
PERFECT FIT WONT WASH OUT!
PALM BEACH WASH
N WEAR SUITS
$3995
Palm Beach gives you fine Dacron Blends for easy care: without the wash and wear look. Exclusive Palm Beach tailoring details — such as the costly bias-cut collar —assures a perfect fit. The fabrics include fine line cords and deep shades. Try one on today and be ready for vacation and all summer long!
On the Campus—Notre Dame
^GILBERT'S
March 13, 1959
On Campes
MKfitahan
(By the Author of “Rally Bound the Flag, Boys!" and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek”)
THE GIRL I LEFT BEHIND ME
It happens every day. A young man goes off to college leaving his home-town sweetheart with vows of eternal love, and then he finds that he has outgrown her. What, in such cases, is the honorable thing to do? • Well sir, you can do what Rock Siga-foos did.
When Rock left Cut and Shoot, Pa., he said to his sweetheart, a simple country lass named Tess d’Urbervilles, “My dear, though I am far away in college, I will love you always. I will never look at another girl. If I do, may my eyeballs parch and wither, may my viscera writhe like adders, may the moths get my new tweed jacket!”
Then he clutched Tess to his bosom and planted a final kiss upon her fragrant young skull and went away, meaning with all his heart to be faithful.
But on the very first day of college he met a coed named Fata Morgana, a girl of such sophistication, such poise, such savoir faire as Rock had never beheld. She spoke knowingly of Franz Kafka, she hummed Mozart, she smoked Marlboros, the cigarette with better “makin’s”. Now, Rock didn’t know Franz Kafka from Pinocchio, or Mozart from James K. Polk, but Marlboros he knew full well. He knew that anyone who smoked Marlboros was modern and advanced and as studded with brains as a ham with cloves. Good sense tells you that you can’t beat Marlboro’s new improved filter, and you never could beat Marlboro’s fine flavor.
This Rock knew.
So all day he followed Fata around campus and listened to her talk about Franz Kafka, and then in the evening he went back to the dormitory and found this letter from his home-town sweetheart Tess:	.
AWs well that ends well—including Philip Morris. Philip Morris ends well and begins well and is made of superb natural tobaccos by the same people who make Marlboros.
4
Dear Rock,
Us kids had a keen time yesterday. TFe went down to the pond and caught some frogs. I caught the most of anybody. Then ice hitched rides on trucks and did lots of nuisy stuff like that. Well, I must close now because I got to whitewash the fence.
Your friend,
Tess
P.S. ...I can do my Hula Hoop 3,000 times.
Well sir, Rock thought about Tess and then he thought about Fata and then a great sadness fell upon him. Suddenly he knew he had outgrown young, innocent Tess, his heart now belonged to smart, sophisticated Fata.
Rock, being above all things honorable, returned forthwith to his home town and walked up to Tess and looked her in the eye and said manfully, “I do not love you any more. I love a girl named Fata Morgana. You can hit me in the stomach with all your might if you like.”
“That’s okay, hey,” said Tess amiably. “I don’t love you neither. I found a new boy.”
“What is his name?” asked Rock.
“Franz Kafka,” said Tess.
“A splendid fellow,” said Rock and shook Tess’s hand and they have remained good friends to this day. In fact, Rock and Fata often double-date with Franz and Tess and have heaps of fun. Franz can do the Hula Hoop 6,000 times.
© 1959 ShubDBft
Dear Editor:
Kudos to Messrs. Banchoff, Bellairs, U. Connelly, and Moran. Bubus to Messrs. z Mangold, etc., the organizers of our or- a ganized rally Monday night.	. ।
Why should we be so outwardly over- |u joyed by the victory on Sunday? We’re 1 good, and we know we’re good. Why J shouldn’t we win? Did we do something ? that was so unexpected that this out- «*< break was warranted?
What could have been a nice, spontaneous welcome, in class, at the Huddle, on the Quad, was turned into a big mock. And the ironic thing was that no one knew what was being mocked. Was it excellence, as certainly was indicated by some of the cheering, or our next op- < ponents, by the play on the name of the school they represent, or was it our own k teams, by the incongruous and most probably unwanted cheers in their behalf. Let us hope that it was none of these, but just that the natives were a^ little restless, and their brains weren’t in gear when their mouths were engaged. 4
Perhaps the purpose behind this rally was to show the world our appreciation «• of academic as well as athletic excellence. But must we show the whole world, newspaper reader by newspaper reader? The football over-emphasis at-,« tributed to us, as we know, was merely the misinformed misinforming. The ti-ue ' worth of a school is not judged by its publicity agent, but its reputation with the companies interviewing its gradu- . ates, the foundations that might endow it, and the caliber of its alumni.
These are the true criteria, and accordingly Notre Dame ranks high by all of them. Let people look if they like, but «• don’t stoop to tell them.
James Corrigan, ' 234 Fisher Hall
Dear Editor:
Jack McAllister’s approach to the all too familiar problem of the draft was, at best, peripheral. (I assume that the . draft was the topic under discussion in the Back Page of last week’s Scho- < LASTic.) Ninety per cent of the page was devoted to historical inaccuracies, 4, ill conceived judgments, and vague, allembracing panaceas for our faltering foreign policy.
I suggest that in the future the author either (1) spend more time developing , the subject at hand; or (2) at least < acquire some accurate insights in the . area of his wanderings.	,
David Costello 303 Walsh
OUR COVER:	*
Changing loyalties for the mo- < ment, Jerry Florent, this year’s art editor for the Dome, has created his first cover for the SCHOLASTIC. Following a more or less obligatory theme, here in the land of the Irish, f Florent has portrayed St. Patrick.
The Scholastic f
k the
’ Scholastic
I > . — -
“ Vol. 100 March 13,1959 No. 17
Dace Quasi Semper Victurus VKe Quasi Cras Moritanis
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, * Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Authorized June 23, 1918.
BOB SEDLACK Editor
>	LOU STETTLER
Associate Editor
RON BLUBAUGH.________________.News	Editor
WALT RUDGE--------------------Copy	Editor
JIM YOCH------------------Features	Editor
* TEDDY THOMPSON._______________Sports	Editor
JON SIDDLE...................Cover	Editor
DAVE SOMMER..................Photography
PETER HASBROOK__________Business Manager CONRAD SUSKI____________Circulation
ROY RUBELI_______________________Assistant	News
A AL GENIESSE....................-Assistant	Copy
CHAS RIECK______________________Assistant	Copy
*	FRANK DUDA______________Assistant	Features
>	JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER....Ass’t	Features
CHUCK MILLER___________Assistant	Features
TOM ROSE_________________Assistant Sports
BOB SCHAEFER-------------Assistant Sports
*	BOB HORN_______________Assistant	Business
। FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C...Moderator
MEETING THE TEAM: Well................we thought we’d seen everything. Guess not. Last Monday night we witnessed the weirdest celebration in the last four years at Notre Dame when the College Quiz Bowl Champs returned triumphantly to campus. The first line of the story in the South Bend Tribune made us wonder whether a perversion of values has taken place. The line read as follows:
Brains received the homage usually reserved for brawn — undefeated football brawn — Monday night at the University of Notre Dame.
Don’t get us wrong, we were quite pleased with the success of Messrs. Moran, Ban-choff, Connelly, and Bellairs (although he could have mentioned the sponsors of his “sunshine and culture” column in the Scholastic) and we offer them our sincere congratulations. However, we wonder if Monday night’s reception at the circle was supposed to raise academic success to the level of athletic success by a similar reception. As far as we’re concerned, academic success is on a plane far above the athletic and a spirited reception which is fitting and proper for athletes is embarrassing and ridiculous for the academics.
Beyond this, from where we stood the reception seemed to be a curious composite of sincerity and parody. At supper we almost choked on the “Go Irish, Beat Barnard” cheer which accompanied the announcement of the team’s reception. At the circle, “Get that book and fight,” and “Excellence, spell it out,” seemed obvious parody at times and not sincere, enthusiastic praise. However, as we have noted, the reception was a composite and, happily, the element of sincere praise was predominant. We are grateful that the Quiz team will operate from Notre Dame this week end and that there will be no more circle receptions. The only thing that’s bothering us now is whether or not the Hall President’s Council will provide cheerleaders for Sunday’s engagement at Washington Hall.
SENIORS PLEASE NOTE: There’s an announcement on page 31 concerning the renting of caps and gowns for graduation. Please read the announcement carefully and be sure and tell your off-campus friends of the date and prices for rental.
MARRIAGE INSTITUTE: After misspelling their names at least three times in earlier issues (a serious cause of editorial hypertension), the Scholastic would like to congratulate Joe Higgins, general chairman, Ken Hiegel, ticket chairman, John Beliveau, publicity chairman, and Bill Zamarelli, secretary, of the Marriage Institute for a pleasing and valuable series of MI lectures.
BUSINESS STAFF: Tom Carev, Bernie Dobranski, Jim Keough. Roger McMahon.
NEWS STAFF: Jim Byrne, George Casey, Wade * Clarke, Bill Flaherty. Bill Galvin. John Hoey, Bob Kelley. Jim McGranerv, Tom Marciniak. Tom I omans, Charles Tausche. Tom Weiss.
SPORTS STAFF: William Cary. Dick Ciccone, Dick Corso, Jay Kilroy, Tim O’Reilly, William Reagan, George Voris, Tom Walsh.
&
Member of Catholic School Press Association and L	Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for na’	tional advertising by National Advertising Service,
Tw., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
V	---------
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and eramination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $5.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
CULTURE: With the recent success of the debate team in the Notre Dame Invitational and of the big four in the G.E. College Quiz Bowl, the spotlight has been shifted to illuminate the academic life of the University. It would seem, however, that the new spirit has, of yet, not spread into further fields of culture. In particular there seems to be on campus a general apathy toward performances of serious or classical music. The attendance for the Julliard String Quartet is reputed to have been the largest in the recent past for that event; but nonetheless, the turnout was sparse. The Per Musica orchestra’s performance of last Monday, which included an ' overture by Father Hager, was witnessed by a small audience completely dominated by faculty members, their families, and clergy. Granted chamber music is not as fashionable here as it is in some parts of the world, the size of the audience in each case is indicative of the attendance which can be expected for a demonstration of serious music whether it be a string quartet or a piano recital. WSND hardly helps alleviate this situation with its South of the Border oriented schedule which features at most a dozen hours a week of classical music. The general apathy which apparently exists toward concert going is difficult to explain. The reason cannot be a serious lack of interest in classical music for a great proportion of the students have or listen to classical record collections. (Many have jazz collections also but the jazz concerts are packed.) Nor is the reason a lack of effort on the part of the music department at the University to stimulate interest in classical music among the students for the numerous introductory courses to music, which it offers, are always filled. The large audiences at the Segovia recital and at the Per Musica performance during the Festival of the Arts points to a large group who wish to hear serious music; but most of the time the existence of such a group on campus would be difficult to prove from appearances. — S.&.S.
; . March 13, 1959
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC INVITES ITS READERS TO
CALENDAR
WIN A FIN
TONIGHT:
4:00 p.m.—A.B. “Choose Your Major” in Student Center Rathskeller.
8:00 p.m.—Kingston Trio in the Fieldhouse.
the
from
LIMERICK LAUGHTER
ENTER NOW! PROCRASTINATION WON’T PAY
Put a little sunshine in your life. Put some cash in your pocket. Enter the monthly SCHOLASTIC "Limerick Laughter” Contest. It’s easy. It’s fun! You have THREE chances to win every month you enter. Here’s how the contest works.-
Each month, the SCHOLASTIC will award $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty L & M cigarette pack. Another $5 will be paid for the best limerick submitted with an empty Chesterfield pack, and a third $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty Oasis pack. Ten (10) honorary mention limerick winners each month will receive Happy Talk game, the new hilarious word game.
Write your limerick on any subject you choose. Enter as often as you wish, but be sure to accompany each limerick with an empty pack of L & M, Chesterfield, or Oasis cigarettes.
This contest is open to all Notre Dame students and faculty members. Entries must be delivered to the Scholastic office or mailed to: LIMERICK LAUGHTER, % THE SCHOLASTIC, University Press Office, Notre Dame, Ind. Limericks for the March contest must be received by March 31. Names of the winners will be published in the April 17 edition of the SCHOLASTIC.
SATURDAY:
1:30-3:30 p.m.—College of Commerce reception for junior parents in the Rathskeller of the
Student Center.
9-10:30 p.m.—President’s ents in the Student
reception for junior parCenter Fiesta Lounge.
SUNDAY:
1:30 p.m.—Canton club Student Center.
meeting in 1A of the
1:30 p.m.—Weekly Duplicate Bridge Tourney in 2B of the Student Center.
4:00 p.m.—College Bowl Quiz in Washington Hall; Notre Dame vs. Bernard College. WSBT-TV will telecast.
3:00 p.m.—Latin American club meeting in IE of the Student Center.
MONDAY:
3:30-5
7:30-9 p.m.—Met club ticket sales in the Service Bar of the Student Center.
4:00—and
7:45 p.m.—AB “Choose Your Major” in the Student Center Rathskeller.
2:30 p.m.—Governor Szymczak of the Federal Reserve System speaking on “Money Is A Many '1' Splendored Thing” in the Engineering Auditorium.
TUESDAY:
3:30-5
7:30-9 p.m.—Met club tickets in the Service Bar of the Student Center.
4:00 p.m.—AB “Choose Your Major” in Student Center Rathskeller.
7:30 p.m.—Marketing club meeting in the Student Center amphitheater.
FEBRUARY WINNERS OF $5.00:
Rev. E. P. Burke, C.S.C., Leo Swiat, Lary Leach
WEDNESDAY:
Plus 10 runners-up winners of hilarious new "Happy Talk” game
4:00 and
7:45 p.m.—AB “Choose Your Major” in the Student Center Rathskeller.
2:30-5:00 p.m.—Measurements for caps and gowns in the Vetville Rec. Hall.
8:00 p.m.—Barbara Ward, British Economist, speaking on “The Task For World Order” in O’Laughlin Auditorium.
CHESTBtHELD KING Nothing Satisfies Like the Big Clean Taste of Top Tobacco
MENTHOL-MILD OASIS Delightfully Different —a Refreshing Change
THURSDAY:
2:30-5:00 p.m.—Measurements for caps and gowns in the Vetville Rec. Hall.
4:00 p.m.—AB “Meet Your Major”, in the Student Center Rathskeller.
7:30 p.m.—History club meeting in the Off-Campus room of the Student Center.
7:30 p.m.—Cleveland club meeting in the Student Center amphitheater.
8:00 p.m.—YCS Lenten Lecture Series continues in 104 O’Shaughnessy. Prof. Frank J. O’Malley speaking on “The Catholic Intellectual.”
~ 12:00-2:00 p.m.—Finance Forum Luncheon and key-
note address by Mr. Porta, executive vice- *7 president of the Studebaker-Packard Corp., in the Morris Inn.	<
2:30 p.m.—Finance	Forum discussion in the
Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn.	-
L&Mis Low in tar with More taste to it. Don’t settle for one without the other.
FRIDAY:
10:30 a_m.—Finance Forum discussion in the Morris Inn.
2:30-5:00 p.m.—Final chance to be measured for caps and gowns in the Vetville Rec. Hall.
The Scholastic

I
once more unto the breach, dear friends
by CHARLES BOWEN
This, as I am sure you know, is not » my usual week for appearing in this space. But, due to the absence from campus of that eminent Chaucerian who usually alternates appearances with me, ) I have been called on to fill in. (In case you’re wondering, John has returned to Marshall, Mich., where the citizens have decided to salute his recent TV triumph ♦ by declaring a John Bellairs Day. There will be a parade by the police and fire depai-tments, the Girl Scouts, and the VFW Ladies Auxiliary Drum & Bugle F' Corps, followed by a fireworks display • and a ceremony in which the mayor will present him with a handsome 17-jewel self-winding Swiss convertible. Thus is * folly rewarded, while tine virtue, as » ever, goes unappreciated. (All I get ' when I go home is “What’s with this $22 , for razor blades, hey?”) V
Naturally, I was unprepared for the considerable task of composing anything perceptive enough to tickle the discriminating palates of a Notre Dame audience, but in view of the extreme anxiety of the editors, one of whom spent sever, al hours on his knees at the door to my ‘ room, I at last consented to look up one J of my unpublished pieces and touch it up for the Scholastic. I hope my effort is appreciated, as in order to make ■ it I had to forego my annual attendance . at the Alabama club’s yearly Yankee ; » Shoot.
The following manuscript was composed a couple of years ago as my (unsolicited) contribution to a Life series on education. Perhaps it is just as well that its publication at that time had to be cancelled because of the outbreak of the Hungarian Revolution, for now you can see it for the first time:
’ AN INTIMATE PEEK AT
„ HEPZIBAH FUDDLE UNIVERSITY ' Recently I spent several days on the * campus of this young, progressive Uni-| versity and, under the guidance of hand-। some young Henry Hornrim, the student • body president, I made a thorough tour * and talked to all the members of this academic community, from the highest
) (Administration) to the lowest (students). I believe I succeeded in getting i a pretty good grasp of the vital elan that makes Hepzibah Fuddle the talked-about place that it is. For your convenience I will first fill in a little of the background. History: The University is
March 13, 1959
named after a pioneer who granted the land on which it is built, on the outskirts of Festering Elbow, Mont. Miss Fuddle crossed the prairie to Festering Elbow as a little girl of 19, in her daddy’s Bentley. She expressed the desire that a university should be founded there in 1951, and presented the land, just before leaving for Monaco. Growth : Finding that Miss Fuddle had neglected to provide for payment of salaries to faculty members, the trustees had a difficult time at first in recruiting capable professors. Various devices were tried, and eventually they discovered that the greatest success was achieved by a very simple method, indeed, one of the oldest: the press gang. A competent goon squad . was sent to various campuses around the country, and soon H.F.U. boasted a faculty of the most famous academic figures in the world. They are treated very humanely. Development: Thanks largely to the devoted work of the University’s president, J. P. (Big Daddy) Lish, H.F.U. has acquired a reputation for efficiency that has attracted brighter young students from all over the country, especially those who are interested in becoming executives. This tendency is shown by the size and quality of the H.F.U. student government, which is unique among American universities in that 75 per cent or more of the total student body hold some office. (“We keep thirty mimeographs busy all day long,” Henry told me proudly.) There is no doubt of the quality of this training. Today not a single corporation of any size or importance is without at least one office in which the ashtrays, blotters, wastebaskets, decanters, etc., are emblazoned with the H.F.U. seal (a ranch wagon rampant on a field of gray dacron, and a Greek inscription which roughly translates: (“Creatively realize your life-potential.”)
Other universities could learn a lot from the efficiency of Hepzibah Fuddle. For instance, students are not only assigned numbers which they keep for four years, but these are tattooed on their foreheads and they are addressed by number instead of'name. Once a week the students assemble in Thrombosis Memorial Auditorium, where President Lish delivers a brief progress report and a list of the newest traditions is read. The students then file out, singing the H.F.U. song. It is written to the tune
of “Humoresque” and I caught a couple of lines:
Throw away that can of beer
And practice how to look sincere, Elections come in just a little while:
Though you may not be a reader, You can be a student leader,
All you need’s a pitchfork and a smile.
The University has devised a revolutionary plan for the distribution of scholarships. They are given to every third applicant, regardless of merit. The system is founded, as Henry advised me, on the theory that the student gets the scholarship not on his own merits, but on the accumulated merits stored up by the faculty.
Henry Hornrim, himself, is an interesting personality. He is blonde, 5’6”, and comes from a little mining town in Connecticut. Henry majors in Leadership. “How did you get to be student body president?” I asked him.
“Well, actually, I didn’t deserve it any more than any of the rest of the guys. I let them know that, too. I went around to their rooms — I try to see all the guys in their rooms at least once a week — and told them that I wasn’t any smarter than they were, but that I’d do my best and be really humble and sincere. I guess they went for it.” He smiled shyly, an event so dazzling that for several minutes I could not see. “You know,” he went on, “sometimes it gripes me the way fellows complain about the uselessness of this student government. They forget the real positive results we achieve. Like the disciplinary thing.”
“Huh?” I asked.
“Well, we made a formal complaint about the University’s shutting off the oxygen in the corridors after ten. In less than two years they gave in. Of course/’ he added, “that was right after one of the housemothers got the bends. But without a responsible student government they never would have listened.”
“What else have you done?”
“Lots of tilings. We have a constitution, for example, that runs over twelve pages. Not to mention our own student courts, judges, juries, lawyers, detectives, police, and jails. You couldn’t have done that kind of thing without . some people who were interested in organization.”
I had to agree.
Have a WW off IM
e
Travel with fITA
Unbelievable low Cost
Scholastic Subscription $5 a Year Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind.
1GDH Msad /*»US Of- sjoh uioy- tpiyvig
G Europe $645 h/ieet •	*•* $998
< fours incluau Huge tndit.
ost trips to Mexico uth America $699 up, dy Tour $549 up and > World $1798 up.
ask tour Travel Agent
26th Year
k 332 Ss. Michigaa Are. mcOlicsjs 4, HA 7-2537
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
•
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches o
See: JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St.	J.M.S. Bldg.
a a a a
a n a
N
a
a A V
S
^■3
EBBQ
d
|N|N|3
o N S|
Z
a. a a
s
■s aM apt V|3
L3
a
0
a. s. a a
BE
3|a|

□
3j9la|3H0|V|S|
□EBBBB EEBBES
|3|A| I
□□
"l|V
□D
NIVl
QSQEBE SQBQDD
IflMSNVlGDM
KGDL KROSSWORD No. 18
ACROSS
1. Heady peaks (var.)
7. A hank of hair goes here
13.	Kind of instincts that bring out the wolf
14.	What gals do a half-hour late
15.	Kind of Tuesday
16.	Guy who gives horn lessons?
17.	Indian who’s always in it?
18.	You’ve got it if you’re sharp
20.	Eastern college
21.	Then in Paris
23. Makes a lemon
25.	Notedaeparation center
26.	You_____me 27. Half a
French dance 29. It starts terribly 30. Spunk 34. Gardner, but no horticulturist 35. A little previous 37. Buttons and
Barber 39. What you ought to be smoking 41. Fatten up 44. This one couldn’t be easier
46. Devastate 48. Alter altars 49. It’s across the street
50.	Changes one’s type
51.	Second best thing on a sweater
DOWN
SWITCH FROM
MUDMtNTMOL
1.	Hunting ground for Yale men
2.	It’s cooler with Kool
3.	Same sparkle & glow. 1/2 as soft &l/10thedough
4.	Something in common
5.	Talks big
6.	Bob's last name
7.	Lady in waiting
8.	Spanish gold
9.	The season’s eligible gals
10.	Height of highness
11.	Nothing odd here
12.	Bird who sounds whirly
19. Desirable half a gallon
22. Half an American dance
24. One of a blue twosome 26. Breathers when mermaidhunting
28. Mabel has him surrounded
30.	A wfld kind of ian
31.	A reluctant
poem
32.	Pointers, Western style
33.	New (Prefix)
36. Guy who’d do anything for her
38. Dry
40.	A little less than moral
41.	Be audibly overanxious
42.	End of the league
43.	Swifty
45. Iz____so?
47. He takes care of the dogs
KGDL
• As cool and. clean as a breath of fresh, air.
• Finest leaf tobacco...mild refreshing menthol and the "worlds most thoroughly tested filter!
your throat refreshed!
Qmeiicas Most- Refreshing Cgarelfe
ALSO REGULAR SIZE KOOL WITHOUT FILTER C1959. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.
KGDL


The Scholastic
.t
QUIZ CHAMPIONS FACE BARNARD SUNDAY
. GU Trouncing Raises Second Victory Hopes
* Back at home to stay, the Notre Dame college quiz bowl team will face an allgirl panel from Barnard College of New York City at 4 p.m. this Sunday on the k “GE College Bowl.” The nationally televised CBS-TV program will originate from Washington Hall.
j The quiz howl will be telecast through the facilities of CBS in Chicago. Sets and equipment for the show are already on their way from Washington, D. C., * where last week the Notre Dame team trounced Georgetown 205 to 90.
The team, if it wins, will continue to . host the telecast. The next program C will be held in the Drill Hall to accommodate a larger audience if tentative plans can be worked out. Teams which will furnish the opposition for Sunday’s * winner include the University of South-, ern California, the United States Military Academy, and the University of . Minnesota. The date of the next telecast has not yet been set due to the Easter vacation. In all probability it will be March 22.
ROMP OVER GEORGETOWN
Last Sunday the Notre Dame team amazed everyone with their complete drubbing of the hitherto champion JL Georgetown squad. Led by Andrew Connelly the team got off to a fast start and continued to pile up additional points. By half time they led by the t comfortable margin of 95 to 25.
* In the second half of the telecast they ran away with the contest running t up a score of 205 points which is reputed I L to be the highest score yet reached since । < the program started last fall.
' ! Many times all four members of the ; Notre Dame team buzzed at once while : * only two members of the opposition an-' swered questions correctly. Brian Moran Iand Captain Tom Banchoff, both math majors, were given plenty of opportunity to use their knowledge. The famous four and twenty'black birds and the Rime of the Ancient Mariner figured in one mathematical question that they an-y swered correctly. On one occasion, however, they came into a little difficulty as they missed a purely mathematical question, a fact which caused great amuse-» ment to their English major teammates.
Andrew Connelly and John Bellairs demonstrated an extensive knowledge of literature as Connelly in particular came up with several obscure titles for answers. Bellairs particularly sparkled as he recited the third and fourth lines of
March 13, 1959
Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales in Middle English.
The Notre Dame team made quite a hit during the interview portion of the show. Moran and Banchoff both described their major interest to the MC, but Banchoff added that in light of the math question they missed perhaps he shouldn’t admit it.
Connelly, when asked what he does, promptly replied “Waste time.” The Scholastic’s own John Bellairs announced that besides his studies as an English major, he writes a weekly humor column for the Scholastic thereby spreading “sunshine and culture” throughout the University. When asked if he felt that he was a full blown humorist Bellairs answered immediately “Isn’t it obvious.”
PULL AWAY IN SECOND PORTION
In the second portion of the show the Notre Dame squad continued to answer the tossup questions, and added to their score by answering bonus questions. Every time Georgetown jumped a question they were penalized five points and Notre Dame had an opportunity to answer the question. As Georgetown became desperate at the prospect of impending defeat, their question jumping became more frequent. At the final whistle Notre Dame had become the new champion by an overwhelming margin.
Back home again the team sat down to another series of practice sessions with sparing teams composed of fellow students. Manager Bob Erler and alternate team member Phillips Gibson are helping to prime the team for Sunday’s telecast by hunting up questions for them to answer.
It is hoped that the quiz team will continue to win this Sunday afternoon. In then- last outing against an all-girl Mt. Holyoke College team in 1955 on the old “College Quiz Bowl” radio program, the local favorites were defeated 190 to 175. This Sunday they have the advantage of performing on their home grounds. Students not having tickets for the broadcast are urged to watch the show on the nearest TV set.
FOR THOSE WHO . . . . . . hold tickets to the telecast, the doors at Washington Hall, from where the live program will originate, will be opened at 3:30 p.m.
They will close promptly at 3:45 in time for the 4 p.m. show. Those students not holding tickets may watch the production on WSBT-TV, channel 22, the local CBS affiliate.
Kingston Trio to Appear Tonight on N.D. Campos
One of the nation’s most popular musical groups, the Kingston Trio, will appear in the Fieldhouse tonight at 8 pan. A sellout crowd of 4,000 will be entertained by these three young singers who have appeared in night clubs, on college campuses, and on national television since their version of “Tom Dooley” placed them near the top in musical circles.
The concert is one of the Lenten activities of the social commission and continues their practice of having big name entertainment on campus during Lent.
KINGSTON IMO
Copies!
John Christen, a junior, is chairman. Frank Buzolits is in charge of tickets and Ted Dudley is publicity chairman.
The Trio consists of Dave Guard, a graduate student at Stanford University, Bob Shane, who grew up in Hawaii with Guard, and Nick Reynolds, a Californian. The group began their singing career at Stanford in 1957 and has since been a favorite both in folk-singing and in popular music.
They have recorded two albums, “The Kingston Trio,” and “The Hungry i.” With Guard and Share on banjos and Reynolds on bongos and conga drums, they have been a versatile and expressive group. As Guard says, “we put only one restriction on the kind of song we do: they must have a basically intelligent thought and be founded in good taste.”
The social commission is planning three Senate dances after Lent; April 9, 25, and May 2.
Saint Patrick
he towering figures, the giants of history — their portraits are easily obscured. Lesser men, overcome by admiration or envy, distort our conceptions of these heroes, diminishing or exaggerating their stature. Such is the case with Ireland’s favor-
' ite saint. In his own words — “I am Patrick, a sinner, most unlearned, the least of all the faithful, and utterly despised by many.”
But witness this account (one might
even think its author Irish) —
“And there was in that place a certain magician named Lochu, who was highly favored with the king, and he uttered blasphemies against the Lord and his Christ. For being driven mad by the delusions of devils, he declared himself to be a god; and the people, being dazzled with his cheats, and stubbornly adhering to his pernicious doctrine, worshipped him as a deity. Therefore he continually blasphemed the ways of the Lord, and those who were desirous to
be converted from idolatry did he labor to subvert in their faith, and to pervert from Christ.
“And almost in the same manner as Simon Magus resisted Saint Peter did he oppose Saint Patrick. And on a certain time, when he was raised from the earth by the prince of darkness and the powers of the air, and the king and the people beheld him as if ascending into the heavens, Saint Patrick thus prayed unto the Lord: ‘O omnipotent God! destroy this blasphemer of Thine holy name, nor let him hinder those who now return _ or may hereafter return unto Thee!’ And he prayed and the magician fell from the air to the earth at the feet
of the man of God, and his head was stricken against a stone, and, bruised and wounded, he expired, and his spirit descended into hell.
“But the king, being much grieved at the death of the magician, burned with anger, and, with all the manifold multitude of his people, he arose to destroy the saint. And he, beholding their violence, and singing forth with a loud voice, began this verse from the Psalms: ‘Let God arise, and let His enemies be scattered, and let them who hate his face be put to confusion.’ Then the Lord, the protector of His chosen ones in the time of need, saved from this multitude his faithful servant; for, with a terrible earthquake^ and with thundering and the stroke of the thunderbolt, some he destroyed, some he smote to the ground, and some he put to flight. Thus, as was said by the prophet, ‘The Lord shot forth his arrows, and He scattered them; He poured forth His lightnings, and He overturned them.’ For He sent among them, according to the prophecy of Isai-as, the spirit of giddiness, and He set the idolaters against the idolaters, like the Egyptians, against the Egyptians;	u
each man rushed on his fellow, and brother fought against brother, and the chariots and their riders were cast to the ground and overturned; and forty and	1
nine men were slain, and hardly did the rest escape. But the king trembled at the rebuke of the Lord, and at the breath of the spirit of His anger, and ran into a hiding-place with only four	1
■ of his people, that he might conceal him-	j
self from the terrors of the face of the	I
Lord. But the queen, entreating for the	!
pardon of the king, reverently approached, and, bending her knee before St.
Patrick, promised that her consort should come unto him and should adore his God. And the king, according to her promise, yet with a designing heart,
bended his knees before the saint and simulated to adore the Christ in which he believed not. There, with the tongue of iniquity and the heart of falsehood, he promised that if on the morrow he would vouchsafe to visit his palace, he would obey all his precepts. But the man of God, though the Lord suffered not the wickedness which this unworthy king had conceived in his heart, confidently trusting in the protection of the Lord, assented to his entreaty.
“Then, being utterly covered with shame, did the magician more and more grieve; and lest he should appear to be vanquished, he challenged Patrick to bring down signs from heaven. And the saint answered that he would not tempt the divine will; but the magician by his enchantments sprinkled all those parts with the coldest snow, and afflicted all the inhabitants with cold. And the saint urged him, urging and pressing that he would remove the snow from the earth and the cold from the inhabitants; and thus compelled, the magician confessed that by all his enchantments he could not do that thing. ‘Therefore, O impious man!’ said the saint, ‘out of thine own mouth will I judge thee, and prove that thou art the worker of wickedness and minister of Satan; thou who canst cause evil only, and canst not at all produce good.’ Then raising his consecrated hand, blessed he the plain and all the places around in the name of the Holy Trinity; and forthwith all the fantastic snow which could not melt in the accustomed manner vanished. And all around marvelled, confessing the hand of the Lord working in Patrick, and detesting the deceitful works of the magician.” (Jocelin, The Acts of St. Patrick, 1185)
Only eight centuries later do we find the figure of fable gone; the man, the heroic personage remains —
“Across fifteen centuries, then, Patrick speaks to living men, and after so long, his cult is stronger than ever. Our study has failed if it has not revealed the distinctness of his personality. It has been said that the greatest of his miracles was his life. It is a true saying. Saving stories of contests with the Druids at Tara, in which he resorted to fire-walking and similar prodigies — late stories, manifestly imitated from the story of Moses — there is little that we have discarded on the score of doubtful credibility; but as we went through the records a clear, realistic portrait rose be
fore us, of a man who was as human and homely as St. John Bosco; strongly individual, quick to anger and quick to humility; a man who was convinced of a mission and sacrificed all his affections to pursue it, self-condemned to a lonely life, yet compensated by love of God and of his adopted country. Above all, he was a mystic, in a strict Catholic sense. His life demonstrates, more than that of almost any other saint, the workings of Divine Providence in the fortunes of one who was completely dedicated to the divine will; and the many stories of supernatural interior communication bear the stamp of truth.
“We saw that Patrick claimed to have been promised that his converts should retain the faith to the end of time. The fidelity of the Irish people, through centuries of persecution, surely gives weight to the promise. Today, Patrick’s spiritual descendants outnumber those of any save the first Apostles. ‘Today in the United States and Canada, Australia and South Africa, there are millions of Catholics of Irish blood and Irish priests by the thousand, and nearly one-third of the total episcopate of the Catholic Church bear Irish names.’”
(Hugh de Blacam, St. Patrick, 1940)
And so, as his feast day approaches, we salute him again, patron of the Emerald Isle, priest, pastor and missionary par excellence — the blessed Patrick.
EUROPE
Dublin to the Iron Curtain; Africa to Sweden. You’re accompanied—not herded around. College groups. Also shorter trips $724 - $1390.
EUROPE SUMMER TOURS
255 Sequoia (Box 6)	Pasadena, Cal.
J. PAUL Sheedy,* hair scientist, says: "Makes your hair look doggone hand-
some!”
*of 131 Sa. Hama Hill Rd.. Williamsville, N. Y.
Just a little bit of Wildroot and...WOW!
SPORTSWEAR
Don't envy H -1 • S wear them

Post-Grad / Slacks
These trousers are young in style, comfortable to wear, easy to wash and. realistically priced. That’s true of all sportswear that bears the HIS label. At men’s shops that know what you want. Pleatless front. Tapered legs. $4.95 to $6.95, depending on fabric.
New 100-inch wheelbase RAMBLER AMERICAN
Get the quality car with built-in savings— Rambler ’59. Save more than ever on first cost, on gas. Highest resale, too. Enjoy Personalized Comfort: individual sectional sofa front seats. See your Rambler dealer.
*1835
Suggested delivered price at Kenosha, Wisconsin, for 2-door sedan at left State and local taxes, if any, automatic transmission and optional equipment, extra.
SEE YOII RAMBLER SEALER TOMY AID SAVE
12
The Scholastic
b
>
Basketball
i
ATTENTION CENTERS ON IRISH STAR
Co-Captai ns Tom Hawkins and Gene Duffy
Review
HAWKINS OPENS SEASON ON HIGH NOTE
HAWKINS LEAVES DEFENDERS FLAT-FOOTED
b
►
r
DUFFY OUTRAGES DE PAUL
THE INCOMPARABLE BALLHANDLER
March 13, 1959
13
A Look at the Season...
Sporadic flashes of brilliance highlighted an otherwise average campaign
by BOB SCHAEFER and TOM ROSE
21 points respectively. McCarthy chipped in 13 points.
The following night the Purdue Boilermakers dealt the Irish a 74-56 defeat to win the Indiana State Championship. The Irish lacked a scoring punch once again as only Hawkins with 20 and Bradtke with 13 were able to break into double figures.
Purdue had too much punch from Jake Eison and Willie Merriweather who scored 20 and 25 respectively. The Boilermakers outshot the Irish from the free throw line to build up the victory , margin by making 16 to Notre Dame’s six.	,
ENDED 1958
The 1958-59 edition of Notre Dame basketball got underway on December 3 when the Irish opened the season with an easy 87-55 win over Bellarmine. The Irish jumped off to an early 25-11 lead and were never pushed in gaining their initial triumph.
Tom Hawkins opened the season in great style by scoring 39 points, breaking the career scoring record formerly held by Jack Stephens. The 39 gave the Irish co-captain 1,345 points in three years of competition.
SLOPPY OPENER
The Irish played a typical opening game marked by sloppy play, bad passing, and loose ball handling. Coach Johnny Jordan used all twelve players in an attempt to find a suitable combination. Mike Graney scored 18 points behind Hawkins, but no one else had over six.
On December 8 in the Fieldhouse, the Irish met their first test of the season against Northwestern and dropped a close 68-63 ball game. Joe Ruklick’s soft hook shots proved too much for the Green as he ended with 30 points for the Wildcats.
The score was tied ten times, and the lead changed hands 15 times before the Wildcats went ahead for good at 41-39 with about eleven minutes left in the game. They pulled ahead by ten with 3:35 left to play, but the Irish came back and trailed only 65-62 with :36 left.
Again Jordan used several combinations in an attempt to find a scoring punch. Hawkins hit for 24, Gene Duffy twelve, and Tom Reinhart ten, but the Irish on the whole hit on only 27.6 percent of their shots.
UPSET AT MADISON
The Green traveled to Wisconsin on December 13 in an attempt to get back on the winning trail. Again, however, poor shooting and ragged play turned the game into a Wisconsin 56-54 victory.
Bob Bradtke led the way for the Irish and scored 22 points. Hawkins hit for 18, but the rest of the squad could gather only 14 more. The win was the first of the campaign for the Badgers who eventually wound up in the Big Ten cellar with a 1-13 conference record.
Michigan State visited the Fieldhouse
14
on December 14 and dealt the Notre Dame squad its third straight loss, 7456. The Spartans jumped out to an early lead at 17-9 and were never seriously threatened thereafter. At times in the second half the Spartans led by more than 20 points.
Hawkins and Reinhart led the scoring parade for the Notre Dame squad with 14 points each. Again the Irish shot poorly, hitting on only 26.6 per cent of their shots from the field.
The Irish entered the Bluegrass Festival December 19-20 at Louisville, Ky., and split two games. In the first they played their best game of the season up to that point only to lose an eleven-point lead and fall to highly ranked North Carolina, 81-77.
The Irish broke from a 9-9 tie early in the game and led until the Tar Heels moved out in front, 63-62, with ten minutes to play. At one time the Irish lead was 34-23, and they led 45-41 at halftime.
Hawkins hit for 29 and Bradtke 15 to pace Notre Dame.
LOSING STREAK SNAPPED
In Saturday night’s game the Irish broke a four-game losing streak with a 61-53 victory over host Louisville. The Irish threatened to duplicate Friday’s performance against North Carolina when they blew an eleven-point halftime lead to the Louisville squad but hung on to win.
Hawkins led the scoring for Notre Dame with 20 and was named to the All-Tournament team. Emmett McCarthy returned to the starting line-up and pumped in 15 points.
HOOSIER CLASSIC
The next action for the Irish was in the Hoosier Classic in Indianapolis on December 26-27 where the Green faced Indiana and Purdue on successive nights.
In the opening game Friday night Notre Dame dealt Indiana a 73-67 loss, despite the fact that the Irish were outrebounded, 75-58. The Hoosiers’ Walt Bellamy, a 6-11 sophomore, kept the game from being a runaway as he threw in 20 points and grabbed 24 rebounds. .	.
Hawkins and Graney got the Irish off to an early lead and finished with 31 and
Notre Dame closed out 1958 with a New Year’s Eve invasion of Evanston <■ and a game with the Northwestern Wildcats. This time the Wildcats left no doubt that they would have to be reck- I oned with in the Big Ten title chase as ‘ they defeated the Irish, 102-67, one of the worst defeats in Notre Dame basketball history. The Wildcats could do no I wrong as they built up a 52-33 half-time n1 lead and kept pouring it on in the sec- , ond half. They shot over 50 per cent for ( the game, making 41 of 80 shots. The Irish were just as cold as the Wildcats ' were hot as they could connect on only , 25 of 103 shots for a 24.3 per cent average.
TWELVE PLAYERS
Coach Jordan used twelve players to try to stop the onslaught. Ten of ; them scored, but only Hawkins effective- * ly. He had 22.
The Green opened the new year- on January 3 in a nationally televised game from Charlotte, N. C., where they faced top-ranked North Carolina for the second time. This time the Tar Heels used their home court to good advantage and chalked up a 69-54 victory.
The game proved costly for Notre . Dame as the Irish lost the services of two key players. All-American Tom
BEAUTIFUL REVERSE LAY-UP
The Scholastic
MSU’S WALKER TRIES TO STOP HAWKINS
Hawkins was injured early in the second half, suffering a sprained ankle, which was to put him out for three L games. Also top reserve Don McGann suffered a broken collarbone and was lost for the season.
McCarthy led the Irish scorers with 14 points and Bradtke had ten. Hawkins had his career low of six points before he was hurt.
RETURNED HOME
The Irish returned to the Fieldhouse on January 6 to battle the Butler Bulldogs. Jordan used a new starting lineup in an attempt to find a combination which would play consistent ball until Hawkins could return to the line-up. Sophomore John Tully (6-7) took over the center slot while another soph, Bill Crosby, started at forward. Reinhart * also returned to the starting line-up. McCarthy and Bradtke, starting at the guard slots, were the only two starters back from the Tar Heel game.
QUICK LEAD
The new line-up looked good for the > first ten minutes of the Butler game as baskets by Tully and Reinhart gave the Irish a 25-6 lead after nine minutes. They still led 41-28 just as the second half opened, but in the next eight minutes the Bulldogs outscored the Irish 23-2 to take a 51-43 lead.
Then the Irish fought back to take a ►	58-57 lead on baskets by Tully and
Graney. The Bulldogs pulled ahead again and won despite a last second basket by Crosby, who had his foot on the p end-line when he shot.
For Notre Dame Tully had 18; Crosby ... .and .Reinhart each .12.	.
Next action was an afternoon game । on the tenth with Detroit. The Irish put together their most balanced attack of the season to win: 73-62. The win broke a four-game losing streak and gave the Irish an over-all record of four wins and eight losses.
March 13, 1959
1 ■ ■
The Green scored twelve straight points before the Titans could find the basket and moved easily to a 43-29 halftime edge. However, as the second half got started, Irish fans had visions of another Butler game as the Titans scored five straight points. Graney, Reinhart, and Mickey Bekelja, however, quickly found the range and moved the Irish to a 51-38 lead.
After Notre Dame had built up a 20-point lead near the end, Jordan substituted freely, and the Irish coasted in to win.	_
Bradtke with 17, Graney with 14, Tully and Reinhart with twelve, and Crosby with eleven gave the Irish the best balanced attack of the season.
CLOSE
On January 13 the Irish traveled to Chicago to face the DePaul Demons in their own gym and lost a thriller 69-66. The widest gap of the game was Notre Dame’s eight-point spread early in the first half, but that was quickly erased, and the score at halftime was 32-32.
DePaul led most of the way in the second period, but Notre Dame went ahead 66-65 on baskets by Graney, Bill Noonan, and Reinhart, and a free throw by Tully with 2:19 left. The Demons quickly regained the lead and kept it as the Irish couldn’t find the range in the final two minutes.
STUNNED LOYOLA
The Irish returned home after then-loss to DePaul in Chicago and on Saturday, January 17, with Co-Captain Hawkins back in the lineup after two weeks on the bench with a sprained ankle, defeated Loyola, 88-61.
Coach Jordan experimented with a
TULLY ARCHES HOOK SHOT WHILE FARRBL POSITIONS RM RBOUND
new lineup, using Hawkins, Tully, and Graney up front and Rein-hai-t and Duffy in the backcourt. This proved very successful as the Irish, with a sizable height advantage, completely controlled the backboards in winning their fifth game of the season against nine losses.
58 PER CENT
In the first half the Irish connected on a scorching 58 percent of their shots and pulled away to a 44-28 lead at halftime. Notre Dame gradually increased its lead in the second half and finally won by 27 points. Hawkins, sparking the team to one of its best efforts of the year, led the Irish scoring with 26 points. Tully, Graney, and Reinhart each had 17.
One week later in the Chicago Stadium Notre Dame pulled one of the major- surprises of the season as they toppled Illinois, 85-75. Illinois was leading the Big Ten with a 3-0 record at the time.
BACKCOURT STRENGTH
Once again Coach Jordan used Reinhart in the backcourt with Duffy, and this proved successful. The mini attempted to guard Duffy closely, picking him up as he crossed the midcourt line. Duffy, in an amazing display of dribbling, faking, and passing, completely outmaneuvered the Illinois defense, scoring many lay-up baskets or deftly passing off to his teammates for easy scores.
The Irish moved right out in front at the beginning of the game and never fell behind. The closest the Illini were able to get was six points. Notre Dame led at the half, 43-33. The shooting percent-
15
ages were fairly close, 41 percent for the Irish to 38 percent for Illinois.
Tom Hawkins was the high-point man for Notre Dame once more. Hawkins poured in 25 points. Graney and Duffy got 19 and 17 respectively. Mannie Jackson, top Illinois scorer at the time, was held to six points.
Graney’s rebounding was a big factor in the Irish victory. The 6-5 junior pulled the ball down from the boards 26 times for his highest single game total of the year.
STADIUM SQUEEKER
The following Saturday, January 31, the Irish were back again in the Chicago Stadium, but this time they were edged out by Xavier of Ohio, 73-71. This was the tenth loss of the year for the Jordanmen against six wins.
Inaccurate shooting by the Irish coupled by extremely accurate marksmanship by Xavier in the first half put the Irish behind, 41-25, at the intermission. The Irish fought uphill in the second half and closed the gap to ten points with three minutes to go. With 25 seconds left in the ball game the Irish were within two points, 71-69. But despite Bill Noonan’s basket in the last few seconds, Xavier won the game as their outstanding guard, Hank Stein, sank two clutch free throws with 20 seconds remaining.
STEIN HURT IRISH
Even though Xavier sagged off of Duffy and put two men on Hawkins, the 6-5 All-American picked up 22 points to pace the Irish scoring. Tully was close behind him with 21. Stein, voted the outstanding player in the NIT last year when Xavier won the tourney, was the high scorer of the game with 27, the majority coming at crucial spots in the contest.
On Monday, February 2, Notre Dame made St. John’s western trip a complete nightmare as they handed them their
GRANEY SCORES IN TV BATTLE
third straight loss, 72-70. St. John’s, ranked number seven in the nation before they headed West, lost successive games to St. Louis, Loyola, and the Irish. This was the seventh victory of the season for Notre Dame.
Still using the same lineup of four big men and Duffy plus an aggressive zone defense, the Irish were able to stifle the St. John’s attack in the first half because the outside shooting of Joe Lapchick’s players was cold.
Lapchick followed Xavier’s strategy of ignoring Duffy. This proved to be effective as far as Duffy was concerned because the 5-7 Irish co-captain failed to score in the game. But it did not stop Hawkins who poured through 30 points for Notre Dame.
Tony Jackson, the promising sophomore forward for the Redmen, came out at the start of the second half and sniped six baskets in a row without missing to quickly erase the 35-28 Irish halftime lead. The remainder of the game was close all the way with the Irish finally squeezing out a two-point win.
EASTERN SWING
Notre Dame then headed East for a two-game trip. They traveled to Buffalo, N.Y., on February 7, and beat Canisius, 76-59, and then went up to West Point on Monday, February 9, and overpowered the Cadets, 76-60. This brought the season record close to .500 with nine wins and ten defeats.
John Tully stayed back in South Bend with a virus infection so Coach Jordan called on Mickey Bekelja to start the Canisius game. Bekelja came up with a standout job, scoring 13 points and leading a second half Notre Dame rally which changed a tie game into a nine-point Irish lead. Even so, with three minutes to go in the game the Irish led by only four points, 63-59. But the Jordanmen pumped through 13 straight points while blanking Canisius to win, 76-59.
Hawkins continued to bolster his 23-point average by tallying 32 points. Frank Rojek had 19 for the Griffs, and Graney had 17 for the Irish.
WEST POINT
Against the Cadets Monday afternoon Duffy came through with his highest point total of the year. He scored 21 points, mostly on driving layups and hooks. Hawkins had 26 points as the Irish co-captains accounted for 47 points in the 76-60 Notre Dame victory.
The game was still close at halftime, 37-34, but early in the second half the Irish pulled ahead by ten points and were never seriously threatened after this by the smaller Cadets. The Irish headed back to South Bend with five wins in their last six games.
Kentucky was waiting for the Irish in the Chicago Stadium Saturday night, February 14, and Adolph Rupp’s topranked quintet gave the Irish the rather unpleasant Valentine’s day present of a 71-52 defeat.
The Wildcat defense was the big factor in the game. Bill Lickert did a tremendous job on Hawkins, holding him to 13 points. The 52-point total for the Irish was the lowest amassed by a No- *' tre Dame team since 1953.
The Irish were also hampered by foul troubles. Hawkins fouled out with eight minutes to go, and Graney spent most * of the second half on the bench with four fouls.
Lickert and Dickie Parsons fired away with deadly accuracy for the Wildcats in 4 the first half to wreck the Irish zone and give Kentucky a 38-30 halftime lead. After falling further behind in the second half, the Irish crept up within eight	।
points of the Wildcats with six minutes	j
remaining in the game but were unable to cope with Kentucky in the final min- | utes of the contest.	' J
LICKERT AND PARSONS	)
i
Lickert and Parsons scored 24 and 17 i points, respectively, to take scoring hon- | ors for the game. Hawkins was high for j Notre Dame with 13. -	,
On Monday, February 16, the Irish v ' were in Indianapolis at the Butler Fieldhouse for their second meeting with the ( Bulldogs. Butler eked out their second
HAWKINS AND BEKEUA CONTROL < REBOUND
victory of the year over the Irish in a 55-minute, three-overtime marathon. The * final score was 92-89.	.
The majority of the regulation game 1 found Butler leading by a comfortable / margin, but in the final five minutes r. Notre Dame closed the gap. Bob Bradt- H ke’s jump shot with three seconds re- !i! maining, tied the count at 67-67 at the j end of the regular game.	•*
BUTLER RALLIES TWICE	I
Bill Scott of Butler connected on a J . jump shot in the last minute of the first । overtime to send the game into a second | overtime. Orville Bose’s dramatic tip-in ; with seven seconds left in the second extra session again saved the Bulldogs
16
The Scholastic
REINHART LOFTS HIS RIGHT-SIDE JUMP SHOT
from defeat. Finally Butler won the game in the third overtime on Earl Engle’s basket and Larry Ramey’s free throw in the last minute of the play.
Once again fouls hurt the Irish. Center Tully fouled out with seven minutes left in the first half, and Graney fouled out with seven minutes remaining in the second half.
Hawkins was the game’s leading scorer with 36 points. Crosby was second for the Irish with twelve.
The Butler setback brought Notre Dame’s season record to nine wins and twelve losses.
NATIONAL TV
In a nationally televised game from the Notre Dame Fieldhouse on Saturday, February 21, the Irish revenged their earlier 69-66 loss to DePaul by a 76-67 victory.
The Irish led in the game all the way after jumping to an 8-0 lead. At the start of the second half the Blue Demons drew up to within a point at 36-35, but this was as close as they ever came.
Uncanny accuracy from the free throw line kept DePaul in the game. They made 27 out of 33 free throws. Notre Dame outscored the Blue Demons from the field, 31 to 20.
The Jordanmen attack showed balanced scoring as Hawkins, Tully, and Reinhart all had 18 points. Bill Haig and McKinley Cowsen led the losers with 17 and 16 respectively.
LOST THE FIRST
Marquette, with an NCAA bid stashed away in their dressing room, stepped onto the court at the Milwaukee Arena B on Tuesday, February 24, and soundly :F trounced the Irish, 95-76. Eddie Hickey’s > fast-breaking Warriors poured through : ’	52 points in the second half as they
I	stormed their way to their 19th win of
the year against three setbacks.
Mike Moran, 6-9 Marquette center, was the game’s top scorer with 39 points.
March 13, 1959
He led the Warrior spurt at the beginning of the second half which saw Marquette come from a 41-36 halftime lead to a 25-point lead with eleven minutes remaining in the game.
Graney led the Notre Dame attack with 21 points. Hawkins got 17 before fouling out.
Foul trouble again plagued the Irish. At least two Irish players had fouled out of every game since Army. This game was no exception as both Hawkins and Tully committed five fouls. This was the third straight game in which Tully had fouled out.
The Notre Dame quintet now had an over-all record of ten wins and 13 setbacks.
EASY WIN
On Monday, March 2, the Irish posted their eleventh victory of the year with a 93-65 conquest of Valparaiso. This was the highest point total of the year for the Irish.
The Irish, overpowering their smaller opponents, jumped to a 52-38 halftime lead and then coasted to victory in the second half.
Hawkins again led the Notre Dame attack. He scored 27 points. Graney was second with 21. McCarthy, playing briefly in the closing minutes, scored four quick baskets for eight points.
WON THE SECOND
Notre Dame closed their season on Saturday afternoon, March 7, by dumping Marquette’s NCAA-bound Warriors, 51 - 35. With Hawkins and Duffy, the Irish co-captains, performing at their best, the Jordanmen crushed a
TULLY AND McCOY SPRAWL ON FLOOR IN BATTLE FOR BALL
demoralized Marquette five as Notre Dame pulled steadily ahead in the second half.
Ed Hickey, Marquette’s coach, ordered his team to hold the ball in the first half in an attempt to make Notre Dame come out of its zone. But the underdog Irish were content to stick in their zone and wait for Marquette to take the initiative. With about eight minutes left in the first half, Marquette finally opened up the play, but the Irish stayed even with the fast-breaking Warriors. The halftime score was 16-16.
PULLED AWAY	’
The second half was all Notre Dame as the Irish made ovei* 40 percent of their shots while the sputtering Warriors, who never really got started, could make only four field goals in 33 attempts in the second half.
Graney controlled the backboards, Tully and Reinhart played excellent defense, Duffy directed the offense, and Hawkins poured 18 points through the hoop as Notre Dame played its best game of the season in the second half.
HAWKINS STAR
Hawkins was the game’s leading scorer with 19 points, all but one coming in the second half. The other four Irish starters, Tully, Graney, Reinhart, and Duffy each scored eight points. Moran, giant Marquette center who had scored 39 points in the earlier Irish loss to the Warriors, was held to three points.
The 51-35 victory completed the 195859 Notre Dame basketball schedule. The season’s record was twelve wins and 13 losses.
17
1958-59 NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL TEAM. Front row: (left to right): Dick Buhrfiend, Mickey Bekeljo, Mike Groney, John Tully, Co-Coptoin Tom Hawkins, Co-Captain Gene Duffy, Mike Ireland, Tom Reinhart, Bob Skrzycki, Bob Bradtke. Back f row: Trainer Gene Paszkiet, Ray Vales, Bill Noonan, Don McGann, Jim Sullivan, Bill Crosby, Denny Walljasper, Mike	।
Farrell, Emmett McCarthy, Head Coach Johnny Jordan.
Nitre Bam Fiial IBM Basketball Statistics										TP	Avg.	A
Player	Games FGA		FG	Pct.	FTA	FT	Pct. Rebounds PF					
Tom Hawkins, f			—-			   22	486	197	.405	173	120	.694	335	69	514	23.4	
Mike Graney, f 	—	-				 25	342	104	.304	82	50	.610	337	89	258	10.3	
Tom Reinhart, g						  23	302	97	.321	50	30	.600	147	57	224	9.7	$ ‘
Gene Duffy, g 							 25	192	67	.349	58	37	.638	107	33	171	6.8	
John Tully, c							   18	134	56	.418	70	44	.629	131	55	156	8.7	
Bob Bradtke, g ..	—				  21	196	65	.332	28	16	.571	79	33	146	7.0	
Emmett McCarthy, f					 19	132	44	.333	20	10	.500	76	20	98	5.2	
Bill Crosby, f						   19	112	31	.277	27	23	.852	55	35	85	4.7	Aj
Mickey Bekelja, f 				 12	39	14	.359	8	5	.625	28	20	33		91
Bill Noonan, g 				 15	60	15	.250	3	0	.000	19	13	30		f
Don McGann, g 						 8	24	5	.208	8	6	.750	11	6	16		
Mike Ireland, c 								  8	20	6	.300	4	3	.750	15	9	15		
Mickey Farrell, f 				  7	12	4	.333	0	0	.000	16	7	8		
Ray Vales, g 								 1	0	0	.000	1	1	1.000	0	1	1		
Bob Skrzycki, c 						 2	3	0	.000	0	0	.000	2	1	0		Kj
Denny Walljasper, f			 1	0	0	.000	1	0	.000	0	1	0		
TEAM...											90				
NOTRE DAME TOTAL 					 25	2054	705	.344	533	345	.647	1454	449	1755	70.2	
OPPONENTS’ TOTAL 			 25	1695	649	.383	637	417	.655	1349	391	1715	68.6	
IS	,	.	-	The Scholastic
John Jordan <
Notre Dame’s upset victory over the tournament-bound Marquette Warriors not only ended the season on a winning note but was an example of the outstanding coaching the Irish have had for the past eight years under John Jordan. The win was a tribute to Jordan who has brought Notre Dame teams during the past seasons to national recognition. In eight years at Notre Dame, Jordan’s teams have won 137 games and lost only 69.
Jordan enrolled at Notre Dame in 1931. As a freshman, k he played both football and basketball. However, deciding to concentrate on basketball, he lettered the next three years. Jordan captained the Irish in his senior year. During his three years, the Irish had a 49-19 record.
Upon graduating from Notre Dame, Jordan accepted the head coaching job at Mount Carmel High School in Chicago. He was Mount Carmel’s head coach from 1935 to 1949, except for a three-year stretch as a Navy lieutenant. At Mount Carmel, Jordan’s teams twice won the City Championship and were the Catholic League Champions three times.
In 1950-51, Jordan became head coach at Loyola University in Chicago and compiled a 15-14 record. The following year Jordan accepted the head coaching job for the Irish and * won 16 and lost ten that year. For the next two seasons the Irish went to the quarterfinals of the NCAA tournament. The 1952-53 team won 19 and lost only five while the 1953-54
club dropped but three of 25 encounters. For this excellent
coaching record, the New York Metropolitan Sports Writers named him “College Basketball Coach of the Year.”-
During the following two years the Irish had 14-10 and 9-15 records respectively. But the 1956-57 “rebuilt” Irish, after starting very slowly, fell back into the winning ways and finished the season with a 20-8 record. This greatly improved team
was ranked 16th by the Associated Press poll. This 1956-57 squad brought Jordan’s tournament record to 16 wins and four losses, * winning four of six tournament games that year, including two of three in the NCAA.
Last year’s outstanding Irish squad finished the season with a 24-5 record. The Irish were defeated by Kentucky in the MidEast regional finals of the NCAA after having defeated Tennessee Tech in sub-regionals and then defeating Indiana, on the
opening night of the Mid-East regionals. This brought the Irish tournament record to 18-5.
Besides taking the Irish to the NCAA quarterfinals twice, Jordan has also led the Irish to the finals of the Holiday Festival Tourney during 1956-57. Under Jordan’s leadership, the Irish became the first team to win two successive Sugar Bowl titles, taking away victories in the ’54-55 and ’55-56 campaigns with underdog Irish squads.
Jim Gibbons
Jim Gibbons has just completed his third season as the assistant basketball coach to Head Coach John Jordan. Once again he handled the freshman : team, and he also helped Coach Jordan with the varsity.
Gibbons, a graduate of Mount Carmel High in Chicago, was a guard at -Notre Dame from 1950-53. He was known for his fine defensive play and his expert dribbling. He scored 210 points in his three-year varsity career. ■
Upon graduation from the College of Liberal Arts, in 1953, he entered the Army for a two-year hitch. After his discharge, he became head basketball . coach at Mount Carmel. He returned to Notre Dame in 1956. A pitcher-outfielder on the baseball team during his undergraduate days, he assists Jake Kline with the baseball team during the spring.
Gibbons does all the scouting for the Irish. If the Irish have an especially tough game coming up, he may scout the opponent two or three times. The . - ; information he obtains helps the Irish plan their .strategy for the game. . /
.	19
March 13, 1959
Tom Hawkins, Notre Dame’s Greatest
by TQM
JM. <• J 956. hit fii si game ns a membm uf The Nolze rUaiiifc varsity bas-zx-tba'I u-auij until .last Saturday, ii lias bcee a briilianl caieer far Tom Hawkins, ’die yji-au-M scuix-r in Jrjsh <ag<-nisv^ry.
The >J-5 jumping jack now holds just about ewy Minag	al Notre
DaJue. HU thyee-year total of 1829 p^ute, season high of 729, and game mark nf 43 are nil
A graduate of Harker High School in Chicago, Tom rm to Noire Dame in J 955- “Qumng here J knew J would have a t.-irdin-H play since so many seniors weie leaving. J felt I bad something
Hie school. i also felt that basketball /.OuW lie Just as well-iexvxgnized as foo’ball here," commented Hawkins.
Hawkins, wfio stalled every game of in* three yeais op tile varsity except foi ?b;ee missed due to an inpny in this past season, opened Ips career z^yprkiy Ly scpnng 21 points and snaring 22 leboupds against Wisconsin the second game of ins sophomore year.
JJuring Christmas vacation in 1956, Jia wkins led the Irish to the finals -of the Holiday F^uvn'i Tournament in New York’s .Madison Square Garden.. He said chai the NYU game -which the Irish won 72-71 on a Iasi second shot by Bobby iJe'dne was the game “I most enjoyed playipg,” He "'as named to the AU-Tourney team for his outstanding performance.
Hawkins continued to play brilliantly for the NCAA-bound Irish during the rest of the WA-n campaign with such performances as 22 points against Michigan Slate, 29 against Indiana and Archie Dees, 29 against Detroit, and 28 against DePaul,
The Irish advanced through the first round of the NCAA against Miami with the “Hawk" scoring 25, Howev<ir, Michigan htau; ended the Irish hopes in the 1957 NCAA tournament by dumping Notre Dame in th# next round.
Hav/kins finished his soph year with 576 points, a Notre Dame single season
4 t
HAWKINS SHOOTS PAST GREEN’S ( FINGERTIPS	,
scoring record that was destined to last only one year.
Hawkins wasted no time in coming to the front in the 1957-58 season, his junior year. He opened up with 28 points against St. Ambrose in the opening game and followed with 26 against Wisconsin.
This was the year that Hawkins gave his hometown fans in Chicago an indication of why he was doing so well at Notre Dame. In three Chicago Stadium appearances his box score read: 39 points against Illinois, 29 against Bradley', and 33 against defending NCAA champion North Carolina, including 24 points in the first half. He has always liked to play in the Stadium. He says that he “feels at home there.”
His game high in 1957-58 was 43 against the Air Force Academy, which tied Lloyd Aubrey’s single game and Fieldhouse record.
His junior season also contained Hawkins’ biggest thrill here at Notre Dame— Notre Dame’s dumping of Marquette 106-74 in the Irish Fieldhouse to set a new team scoring record.
Hawkins has also revealed that he thinks the best-coached team he ever faced in his three years at Notre Dame was the Butler team of 1957-58, led by Bobby Plump and Ted Guzek.
Hawkins led the Irish of 1957-58 to a 24-5 record and into their second straight NCAA tournament, reaching the finals of the Mid-East regional before being defeated by eventual champion Kentucky.
His 730 points broke his own single season scoring mark, and he was named to to several All-American teams. The Irish as a team were ranked eighth in the nation at the season’s end, and Tom Hawkins had a 25.2 game average.
’ (Continued on page 26)
The Scholastic
Graney Next Captain For Irish Cage Squad
* Mike Graney, a 6-5, 225-pound junior, has been elected captain of the 1959-60 edition of the Notre Dame basketball squad. The announcement was made at the Basketball Banquet held Tuesday night at the South Bend K. of C. club.
Graney was the leading reboundei- on * this year’s Irish squad and had a 10-point per game scoring average. He played the high post in the Irish offensive pattern and did most of his scoring ’ on jump-shots from the top of the key and tip-ins.
Graney’s best game of the season came in the Chicago Stadium against Illinois in an 85-75 Irish win. He scored 19 points and controlled both backboards as he pulled down 26 rebounds. Against Indiana in the Hoosier Classic he tossed in 21 points as the Irish won 73-67.
In one of the top wins of the season, a 72-70 upset of St. John’s in the Fieldhouse, Graney hit for 16 points and pulled down 15 rebounds.
Graney hails from Chesterton, Ind., and played prep ball at Hammond Bishop Noll High School. As a senior, ! he, and Irish teammate Bob Bradtke, ’ co-captained the Hammond team to the state tournament where they suffered their only loss of the season.
Graney also excelled in football in high school and was named to the AllCatholic All-American squad in his r senior year. He was offered both a football and a basketball scholarship to Notre Dame. He has since dropped football to concentrate on the latter sport. This spring, however, Graney will try his hand at baseball, in which he plays the outfield.
TIME OUT
This summer Mike plans to be married to a hometown girl, Miss Bonnie Ellison.
MIKE GRANEY
New cage captain
After Tom Hawkins had scored eight field goals in the first half against Marquette in Milwaukee on February 24, the Warriors held him to one point in the second half before he fouled out in a 19-point Irish loss.
In the first half of the final regular season game for both Marquette and Notre Dame, here last Saturday afternoon, the Warriors, employing a stall for the first ten minutes of the game, limited Hawkins to one point in the first half this time. But Tom managed just a few more than one in the second half.
Splitting the basket with his beautifully timed jump shots and maneuvering forcefully into position for sweet short hooks and driving lay-ups, Tom sparked a second half rally which displayed the best basketball the Irish played all year. (Hawkins’ second half point production of 18 points was	t
only one point shy of the Marquette team’s entire second half total of 19.)
Hawkins, along with Mike Graney, John Tully, and Tom Reinhart, besieged both backboards unmercifully in the second half, overpowering the stunned Warriors and preventing their fast break from becoming a factor in the game. Besides the powerful board work, these four men, especially Hawkins, Graney, and Reinhart, blocked numerous Marquette shots. They clogged the middle effectively and played an excellent defensive game in the second half altogether.
Gene Duffy executed his role as playmaker to perfection, keeping the Warrior defense off balance and setting up baskets repeatedly. He is not supposed to be a high scorer; his job is to make the offense function, and this is exactly what he did, as well as could be asked of anyone.
SPECIAL PRAISE TO HAWKINS
While it wouldn’t be fair to single out any individual as being responsible foi- what was a concerted team effort, it would be just as unfair to pass by this final game of the 1958-59 season without giving a well-deserved tribute to one of the country’s greatest collegiate basketball players, Tom Hawkins.	;
It is not sufficient to run down the list of his prolific scoring achieve-	1
ments — setting Notre Dame records for most points in one game, 43; most	J
points in a single season, 730; most points in a career, 1820; and highest average for a full season, 25.2; just to mention some of the more important	i
ones.	;
It is not sufficient just to list his shooting records because Tom was more	;
than just a shooter. His outstanding jumping ability not only contributed	;
toward his scoring many of his 1820 points but also provided the Irish with one of the most consistent and powerful rebounders in the country.	:
Even more significant is the effort he has put into his constant attempt
to better his defense. And his diligent work has paid off. Each year fewer	i
and fewer men have been able to drive against him, and his timing on de-	i
fense has improved gradually but noticeably over his three-year varsity	J
career.	;
A FITTING CLIMAX	.
When the Irish needed the outstanding all-around player Tom had be-
come, in the second half of his final game, he was able to respond. His in-	,
spired play spirited the Irish to a runaway upset of a superior Marquette	J
team, an only fitting climax to a great three years of basketball for Tom.	j
It is regrettable that this final home game for three starting seniors,
Hawkins, Duffy, and Reinhart, was marred by the childish reactions of the fans, who, throughout the game, bombarded the Marquette coach, Eddie Hickey, with derisive language. One can hardly blame Hickey for not wanting to play Notre Dame if last Saturday’s reception is an indication of the treatment he will receive when he visits here in the future.
But, fortunately, the lack of maturity on the part of the fans cannot alter the sparkling performance by the five starters themselves. Winning . their last six games at home, the 1958-59 team closed a mediocre season on	■
a successful note, building to their most impressive performance of the year,	i
the second half against Marquette, in which Tom Hawkins sparked, as he has so often done, a determined Irish rally to victory.	'
Farewell to the seniors — Duffy, Reinhart, and Hawkins — but especially to Tom Hawkins, who has left a legacy at Notre Dame I for one hope will never be equalled. — T.T.	I |
March 13, 1959
21
Freshman Squad Boasts Height and Shooting; Spirit and Hustle of Team Impresses Gibbons
by BILL CARY
Good height. Fine shooting. Aggressive rebounding. A hustling defense. Most important, a prevalent attitude of selfsacrifice, resulting in a working together in perfect unison. Put all these ingredients together and you have an accurate summation of the 1958-59 freshman basketball team here at Notre Dame. The squad, coached by Jim Gibbons, lists players from nine states on the 16-man squad.
Five of the squad were scholarship players. These were Armond Reo of Waterford, N. Y., John Dearie from the
NOT A SIGN OF A SLIP-UP!
Typing errors disappear like magic when you use Eaton’s Corrasable Bond. Never a trace of the word that was erased; errors can be flicked off" Corrasable’s special surface with an ordinary pencil eraser. Saves re-typing, time and money. And the sparkling new whiteness gives all typing a new brilliance. You can’t make a mistake getting
Eaton’s Corrasable. (Rhymes with erasable.)
Eaton s Corrasable Bond is available in light, medium, heavy and onion skin weights. In convenient 100-slieet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. A Berkshire Typewriter Paper, backed by the famous Eaton name.
Made only by Eaton
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Typewriter Paper
EATON PAPER CORPORATION ; g o PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS
Bronx, N. Y., Karl Roesler of Fort Wayne, Ind., Roger Strickland of Jacksonville, Fla., and Ed Schnurr of Louisville, Ky. The rest of the squad includes Jim Carey of Lakewood, Ohio, John Shuff of Cincinnati, Jim Gannon of Philadelphia, Ray Kelly and Bob Sullivan, both of Chicago, Joe Gatti, of Hackensack, N. J., John Govro of Bonne Terre, Mo., Jim Krauser from Chillicothe, Ohio, Ed Love of Williamsville, N. Y., Fred Spatz of Louisville, and Vic Grabowski of Pittsburgh, Pa.
The freshmen used the standard Notre
Dame offense, the 1-3-1 or tandem, as it is sometimes called. The idea of this
offense is to work the ball and try to get the good shot. This offense is designed with the idea of scoring a lot of points. Those fans who came early before the varsity games got a chance to see the freshmen play, and they can attest that the yearlings made good use of the offense.
Reo (6-6%) features a one-handed jump shot. He can play either the high or low post or the outside forward slot. Gibbons thinks he will be most effective in the low post because of his great jumping ability. His jump shot leaves him hanging in the air, reminding one of Tom Hawkins. Reo is aggressive and this makes him a fine rebounder. He also has a good set shot from the outside. He is a good passer and ballhandler for a big man.
Dearie is listed at 6-6. He is similar to Reo in that he can play the same three positions. He has a soft delicate touch on a jump shot from the foul line. He has the good moves which enable him to drive well. Under* the boards, he manuevers well, gets his share of rebounds, and tips well. Most of the time he played the high post.
AT THE PIVOT
Roesler (6-7) is the pivot man of the team. He usually plays the low post but can play the high post slot if need be. He has a good hook shot with either hand although he favors his right hand. To go with the hook, he has a jump shot which he uses effectively. He tips well and he has learned to move better. Gibbons calls him “a hard worker.”
Strickland (6-4) is the hustler of the team. He has very fast and alert reflexes which enable him to harass the opposition and pick up many loose balls and errant passes. He and Schnurr are the top defensive players on the team. Strickland is also a very fine and aggressive rebounder for his size. He has a good set shot from the side.
Schnurr (6-0) is the playmaker and quarterback of the team. He is a good dribbler and a sure passer. He has the good two-hand set and is effective from about thirty feet. Schnurr also has the good move that enables him to drive by an opponent that is playing him too close. He can also score with a jump shot or with the driving lay-up. Schnurr and Strickland work the fast break well when the opportunity presents itself.
These players were ably supported by the rest of the team. Worthy of special mention here are the three Jims: Carey, Gannon, and Krauser. And you can add to these Kelly, Sullivan, and Shuff.
Whatever success the team enjoyed can be attributed to the fine spirit and cooperation that existed on the team. They -worked, .very hard in practice. Coach Gibbons calls them “the finest bunch of kids that I have coached during my time here as the freshman coach. They never gave me any. trouble, and they always put out in practice. Whatever was for the good of the team was what they wanted.”
The Scholastic
*
A'
22
Sfuvdi Picton
[	Bengal Mission Bouts
Four Champions Will
The 28th annual Bengal Mission Bouts will be staged next week on Mon-1‘	day, Wednesday, and Friday in the
Fieldhouse. The bouts are held for the benefit of the Holy Cross Missions in East Pakistan by the Notre Dame , Council of the Knights of Columbus.
This year’s tourney promises to be the best that has ever been staged. There are . many returnees from last year’s * fights. Heading the list of returning fighters is Pat Healy. Healy won the junior-heavyweight crown last year and captured the heavyweight, championship ' I two years ago. Another two-year champion, Ross Franco, is back to defend his 139-pound crown. Two-year champion Bill Brelsford will defend his 167’ pound crown, and Frank Nacozy, a three-year runner-up in the 167-pound class, is back for a final shot at the . crown, as is Leighton Young, a three-*4 year runner-up in the 139-pound class. । Joe Anderson, who was in the 177-pound final last year, is also back.
.1 Other returnees are heavyweight Dick Ik Ciesielski, Ron DeLamielleure and Dave 1 Miller who fight in the 157-pound division, f Sam Haffey, competing in the 147-pound J	class, and Milam Joseph in the 130-
w	pound division. Footballers Bob Pietrzak
and Ken Adamson will be fighting in the heavyweight division.
Boxing matches started at Notre Dame in 1850. In March of that year, the Student Activities Council sponsored k an informal intramural contest which drew only 20 candidates. Knute Rockne instituted intercollegiate boxing in 1923. J The Irish participated against major " ► college competition for three years, but due to slackening interest, the sport re-
Open Monday Night;
Defend Their Crowns
verted to an intramural status. In 1931, the Scholastic sponsored a boxing tourney in what is now the fencing room of the Fieldhouse. These were called the Bengal Mission Bouts. Today, they have the same name but are held on a much larger scale. The Knights of Columbus are now the sponsors, and the bouts are held for three days. Trophies are awarded to the champions and plaques to the outstanding boxers.
The coach and instructor of the fighters this year is again Mr. Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano. Since the beginning of the Bengals as one night smokers, he has had some connection with them. When Nappy joined the athletic department at Notre Dame upon graduation in 1932, one of his assignments
The scoring for the plaque presented to the winning hall in Bengal Bouts competition will be the same this year as in previous years. This system gives one point to the winning fighters’ halls for each victory on Monday night, three points for each Wednesday night victory, and five points each champion.
In addition the hall which sells the most tickets to the Bouts will receive five points, the second ranked hall three points, and the third place hall one point toward the plaque.
This plaque is sponsored by the SCHOLASTIC each year.
was to give boxing lessons in preparation for the Bengals. A two-month period of supervising was introduced as Nappy applied his three-fold plan to get his boys “ ... in good shape, teach ’em the fundamentals, and then see to it that they are as evenly matched as possible.”
Nappy also introduced the system of novice bouts which are held for those who have had no boxing experience. These bouts are held during November in the boxing room of the Fieldhouse. They are geared for the newcomers and stress the fundamentals more than actual combat. The novice bouts are primarily set up as a period of training for the Bengals which take place the following spring. They give the individuals concerned a background so that they will be able to hold their own in the Bengals.
Each fight in the Bengals consists of three two-minute rounds. There are ten weight divisions ranging. from 127-pounds to heavyweight.
Dr. Jerome Crowley, the University physician will be on hand for all the fights. The referee is instructed to stop any fight when it seems that a fighter can be hit at will.
An added attraction to the Bengals is interhall competition. Points are awarded to the halls winning fighters represent and the hall amassing the highest total receives the Scholastic trophy. A certain number of points will be given to all the halls with first round winners, semi-final winners, and champions in the respective weight divisions.	.
Assisting Napolitano this year are two former champions from the Bengals. Ed Ricciuti, 147-pound champion for the past two seasons, and Dick Shulsen, a two-year heavyweight champion, have helped during the training period.
B. FRANKLIN, electrician, says: "Wildroot grooms your hair better at no extra charge!”
Irish Name Green, Larese, Lickert, Seiden, Merriweather to All-Opponent Cage Quintet
BS Just a little bit
■MH of Wildroot
I J	and...WOWI
After the completion of the regular schedule, the Notre Dame basketball team lists the outstanding players on the opposing teams which they have played during the season. The players comprising the All-Opponent team for the 1958-59 season were John Green of Michigan State, York Larese of North Carolina, Alan Seiden of St. John’s, Bill Lickert of Kentucky, and Willie Merriweather of Purdue.
Co-Captain John Green of Michigan State has been an outstanding performer for the Spartans during the last three seasons. As a scorer, Green has not been overwhelming, averaging about 18 points a game. However, the 6-4 senior forward has proven to be consistently an outstanding rebounder and defensive player. This year the Spartans built their offense and defense around him.
NACA RESEARCH AND lindn DEVELOPMENT
FOR PEACEFUL PURPOSES AND THE BENEFIT OF ALL MANKIND, NASA DIRECTS AND IMPLEMENTS U.S. RESEARCH EFFORTS IN AERONAUTICS AND THE EX-
PLORATION OF SPACE.
NASA
Offers engineers and scientists challenging opportunities in basic research, experimental research, development and design. Fields of endeavor include rocket, nuclear and electric propulsion systems; aerodynamics, structures, guidance and controls; materials, facilities construction, equipment design.
SEE
DR. MELVIN GERSTEIN on Campus MARCH 19, 1959 See your Placement Office for interview appointment
POSITIONS ARE FILLED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AERONAUTICAL RESEARCH SCIENTIST ANNOUNCEMENT 61B
NASA LEWIS RESEARCH CENTER
21000 BROOKPARK ROAD	CLEVELAND 35, OHIO
NASA ALSO OPERATES OTHER RESEARCH CENTERS AT LANGLEY FIELD • ■“ VIRGINIA, MOFFET FIELD. CALIFORNIA, AND EDWARDS, CALIFORNIA
NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION
His great jumping ability and fine defensive play were major factors in the successful Spartan season, and also in the Notre Dame game.
Sophomore York Larese, North Carolina’s 6-5 guard, was a pleasant addition to Coach Frank Maguire’s squad this year. Although Larese was injured last season, Coach Maguire stated in a preseason interview that he was “one of the best prospects for college ball that I have seen.” With an average of almost 20 points a game, Larese led a young Tar Heel squad to a highly successful season. Deadly with a jump shot around the foul circle, Larese was North Carolina’s high scorer in both games against* Notre Dame this year.
Much of the St. John’s basketball success this year must be credited to its captain and preseason All - American, Alan Seiden. A 5-10 guard, Seiden led the Redmen’s young squad to a 12-1 record at mid-season. Although St. John’s was defeated by the Irish in the Fieldhouse, Seiden was the Redmen’s leading scorer with 27 points and played a brilliant game in all respects.
A hard driver, Seiden was the key man in the St. John’s fast break offense. Scoring a great percentage of his points on driving lay-ups and jump shots around the free throw lane, Seiden averaged 18 points as a junior. He was also the key feeder for Tony Jackson, St. John’s great sophomore.
One of the reasons for the rise of the Kentucky Wildcats to the top of the basketball ladder again this year has been Sophomore Bill Lickert. Lickert, a 6-3 former high school All-American who plays either guard or forward, averaged 14 points a game this year. In the Notre Dame-Kentucky game in Chicago Stadium, Lickert was outstanding in the Kentucky attack. Not only was he the high scorer of the night with 24 points, but Lickert also played Tom Hawkins man to man on defense and held him to 13 points.
Willie Merriweather of Purdue rounds out the All-Opponent team. With all five starters returning this year, Purdue started slower than expected, but the Boilermakers finished the season with a winning spree. One of the leaders of the Boilermaker’s final half surge was 6-5 guard Willie Merriweather. The team’s leading scorer, Merriweather proved to be instrumental in the Boilermaker victory over the Irish. He also was troublesome to the Irish in the rebounding department.
The Notre Dame team voted North Carolina as the outstanding opponent team. The Tar Heels, a fine, balanced team coached by Frank McGuire, were among the top few teams in the country all season long although they finished poorly, losing their first game in the NCAA tournament to Navy, 76-63.
The Scholastic
24
REVENGE
by GREG ROGERS
There were few people in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse last Saturday who expected the Irish to topple the highly favored Marquette squad, even if the game was on the Irish home court. Only the basketball team felt that this was going to be a winner. The Irish were up for this game.
“I don’t want Moran to get inside this game. Understand that? Don’t let him in there,” Jordan said to the team back in the dressing room. “And get back up the court when we lose the ball. Don’t let ’em get down there ahead of you. Now get out there and beat the hell out of them. They took our basket on us, that’s their prerogative. Don’t let it get you. Let’s take ’em.” The team said a prayer and moved to the court for the final game of the season.
Notre Dame’s starting lineup was introduced before the game, and Tom Haw-1 kins, Gene Duffy, and Tom Reinhart, in their final games for the Irish, received standing ovations from the students. Everyone was looking for a fast, high-scoring game. Coach Ed Hickey’s Marquette squad disappointed the fans with a stalling game which remained scoreless for over ten minutes. Graney swiped the ball but double dribbled, and the Irish had to wait for Moran to miss an easy layup to score. Reinhart pushed a jump shot through the hoop with 9:30 remaining in the half. The Warriors pulled ahead 10-4, but the Irish came back and forged ahead 15-14 with a few seconds left in the half and never trailed after that.
Jordan took the floor again. “Alright, ' they’re playin’ a slow game. Don’t let
Tyler Jr.'s Basketball Picks
COLLEGE QUIZ BOWL
Notre Dame over Barnard
NCAA TOURNAMENT PREDICTIONS
Charlotte, N. C. Regional
West Virginia over St. Joseph’s Navy over Boston
W. Virginia over St. Joseph’s (Final)
Evanston, III. Regional
Kentucky over Louisville
* Michigan State over Marquette Mich. State over Kentucky (Final)
Lawrence, Kans. Regional
Kansas State over DePaul
Cincinnati over TCU
Kansas State over Cincinnati (Final)
San Francisco, Cal. Regional
St. Mary’s over New Mexico State Utah over California.......	_
Utah over St. Mary’s ’(Final)
LAST WEEK
Eleven right, two wrong, 85 per cent
TOTALS TO DATE 97 right, 29 wrong, 77 per cent
them do it. If a team gets you to play the same way they are, you lose. That’s all there is to it. Get out there and beat them, and play our game, not theirs. Don’t let them get out ahead of you and pull those fast breaks. Stay ahead of them and play your game.”
And beat them, the Irish did. The Warriors were halted in their tracks by the ball-handling of Duffy.
Mike Graney, Hawkins, and Reinhart blocked shot after shot, and John Tully cleared the boards time after time.
Hawkins fired in 19 points and led the Irish to a decisive 51-35 upset over the NCAA bound Warriors. At one point in the half, the Green poured through 16 points to Marquette’s two. This ended the game for all practical purposes. So, Jordan lifted his three seniors in their last game for the Irish. Duffy, Hawkins and Reinhart took their seats during a standing ovation that lasted over two minutes. This was a tribute to a team that suffered a lot of bad breaks but never gave up.
Jordan met his team in the dressing room. “Thanks,” he said, “for three fine years of basketball, Duff, Hawk, and Tom. That was sure one sweet game.” He shook hands with his seniors, and the team huddled for prayer and left the room.
preferred
THE NEW
During certain convention periods, all available Chicago hotel rooms are frequently taken.
You can be assured of comfortable accommodations in the heart of the Loop, . anytime, by writing for your FREE “Preferred Guest Card” from the Hotel Hamilton, today. The Hamilton—preferred by the family, and business executives for downtown convenience and courteous hospitality at sensible rates — guarantees (with advance notice) reservations anytime of the year to you, the preferred guest. Ask for your “Preferred Guest Card”, today ... at no obligation.
^HAMILTON
20 SOUTH DEARBORN HOTEL IN KANSAS CITY ITS THE BELLERIVE HOTEL 100% AIR-CONDITIONED
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
*	THE DISENCHANTED by Shulburg
*	RALLY ROUND THE FLAG BOYS by Shulman
*	ST. THOMAS AQUINAS by Maritain ’
♦ THE IDEA OF A UNIVERSITY by Newman
*	THE ORGANIZATION MAN by Whyte
*	HOW TO BUY STOCKS ' by Engle
Save Thue and Money ■	Shop at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE oH-tfce-campNS
March 13, 1959
25
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed by contacting Peter Hasbrook at the University Press Office in Stanford Hall Basement or 337 Badin Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of three lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented by Sunday night preceding publication.
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
JET PROPULSION LABORATORIES—March 16, see page 32.
NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE AD-MINISTRATION—Thurs.. March 19, see page 24.
SERVICES
DO YOU HAVE something to offer the Student Body. Try Classified Advertising for certain results.
HIP, HIP, HURRAY for the
GREYHOUND" way to save money!
Got the good word about Greyhound Scenicruiser Service®? It’s the latest, the greatest way to go... with air-conditioning, picture windows, air-suspension ride and complete restroom! You’ll have a ball headin’ home on a Greyhound —it’s often faster than other public transportation, and always less expensive!
BAGGAGE PROBLEMS? You can take more with you on a Greyhound. Or, send your belongings by Greyhound Package Express. They arrive in hours and cost you less!
rrs such a comfort TO TAKE THE BUS...AND LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US!
Greyhound Terminal, Main & Monroe, AT 7-6541
Tom Hawkins
(Continued from page 20)
Hawkins was elected co-captain at the end of his junior year along with Gene Duffy. He was already the greatest scorer in Irish history.
Hawkins opened the 1958-59 season with 39 points against Bellarmine. He managed 31 against Indiana’s Hoosiers in the Hoosier Classic but then was forced to miss three games in January when he incurred an ankle injury.
The layoff seemed not to bother the 22-year-old athlete; for he scored 26 points against Loyola in his first game back in the lineup.
He hit the 30 mark three more times this season with 30 against St. John’s,
Compare these low, low fares!
Cincinnati, Ohio $ 8.20*
Detroit, Mich.	6.40
Harrisburg, Pa.	18.75
Miami, Fla.	36.35
*one-way fare, plus tax
GREYHOUND
32 against Canisius, and 36 against Butler in a losing cause.
Hawkins ended the year with 514 points and a 23.4 average. Despite a losing season by the team, he was again named to several All-American teams.
Tom, in talking about the past season, said, “We tried as hard as we could. We just had pool* shooting, lack of balanced scoring, and could not play a good full game. We played good halves at times but didn’t put them together. We could have used some outside shooters this
year.”
Tom felt that this year’s Big Ten champion, Michigan State, was the best 1 team he ever faced. “They excelled in all phases,” he added. And he still lists Johnny Green of the Spartans as his toughest opponent individually.	/
Asked about the Jordan style of offense, Hawkins said, “Coach Jordan has been quite successful with our material using this type of offense. Personally, I like the single pivot, but I can’t deny Coach Jordan’s success.”
As to the type of game played today, “It is adequate. I was raised in this type of shoot-and-run game. It really pleases the crowd,” he noted.
Hawkins said he hopes to play professional ball in the National Basketball Association and eventually hopes to go to graduate school to enable him to go into industrial relations work.
In the immediate future, he will play * in the East-West All-Star game at College Park, Md., the North-South AllStar game at Raleigh, N.C., and possibly the All-Star game against the Harlem Globetrotters on Easter Sunday. He also is considering trying out for the United States team in the Pan-American basketball games in Chicago next summer.
Thus ends three years of basketball by the greatest scorer in Notre Dame bas- A ketball history.
The “Hawk” gave much to Notre Dame both on the court and off. He has carved a permanent notch in Irish basketball history. If his records are someday broken, they will never be forgotten.
1
1
HAWKINS CROUCHES, SET TO SPRING
The Scholastic
26
Varsity Tankers Close, Losing to North Central
Last Saturday the Irish tankmen closed their first season as a varsity sport with a successful 5-5-1 season record. North Central College defeated the Irish swimmers, 55-31, in a dual meet at Naperville, Ill.
The 440-yard medley relay was won by North Central, setting a new Naperville pool record of 4:06.0. Dick Katis and Tom Londrigan placed 2-3 in the 220-yard freestyle, which was won by , Ruben Roca. The 50-yard freestyle saw Richard Blick of North Central, in the winners’ circle, followed by Irish swimmer Bill Cronin.
I Paul Chestnut took his oft-repeated first place in the diving event for Notre Dame, followed by teammate Jim Carroll. In the 200-yard butterfly race, Tony * Haske and Dick Dunn finished second and third respectively for the Irish. Gene Witchger copped a second place in the 100-yard freestyle for the Irish.
y Jim Garrity took first place for the i Irish in the 200-yard backstroke event. I In the 440-yard freestyle event Roca of North Central took top honors, followed
by Londrigan. In the 200-yard breaststroke George May took third for Notre Dame.
For Irish seniors Garrity, Katis, Londrigan, May, Chuck Kappert, and Dick Nagle, this was their last performance as members of Notre Dame’s swimming team.
Wrestlers Split Two Meets; End Season with 5-5 Record
Last Friday Coach Tom Fallon’s wrestlers scored an 18-8 victory over Marquette University in the Irish Fieldhouse. This important victory boosted the Irish to a 5-4 season mark and thus assured them of a .500 season.
On Saturday the Fallonmen closed the season with a 17-9 loss to Wheaton in the Fieldhouse. This final dual meet left the Irish matmen with a 5-5 season record.
Jerry Sachsel defeated Dan Finlay, 7-2, in the 123-pound division, the first of four straight Irish wins, in the opening match. Ed Finlay of Notre Dame, brother of Warrior Dan, posted a 10-6 victory over Sam Carollo in the 130-pound division. Dick Sapp, a 137-
pounder, defeated Jim Barnard, 10-6. Bill Sheehy added another three points to the Irish total with a 2-0 decision over Marquette’s Larry Foster.
Marquette’s first victory was in the 157-pound class where John Wadas registered the only pin of the day over Irish Tom Grojean. Irish 167-pounder Dom Carbone downed Joe Martines, 6-2, to run his undefeated string to four.
The Warriors only other win of the match was posted by Paul Will, who gained a 7-5 decision over Jim Kane in the 177-pound class. In the heavyweight class Captain Bucky O’Connor defeated Ed Jaswinski, 7-0, for the final three points of the meet.
In the 123-pound class against Wheaton Sachsel cinched his second straight undefeated season as an Irish grappler by outscoring Ed Taylor of Wheaton, 4-2. Sachsel, a junior, will be returning next year to bolster the 1959-60 squad.
Wheaton won the next five battles before Kane of Notre Dame won the 177-pound match with a 6-1 decision over Bill Treat. O’Connor closed out his Irish career with a decision over Ed Marshall of Wheaton.
after every shave
AFTER SHAVE LOTION by SHULTON
Splash on Old Spice After Shave Lotion. Feel your face wake up and live! So good for your skin... so good for your ego. Brisk as an ocean breeze. Old Spice makes you feel like a new man. Confident. Assured. Relaxed. You know you’re at your best when you top off your shave with Old Spice! JOO dIus ta>
March 13, 1959
Irish Second in CCC Meet; Western Michigan Cops Title
Western Michigan retained its title in the Central Collegiate Conference track meet last Saturday in Chicago, defeating second place Notre Dame 78 % to 50%.
The Irish thinclads equalled the Broncos’ five first place finishes, but team balance was the deciding factor with the Broncos’ depth giving them the edge.
High spot of the meet for Notre Dame was Ron Gregory’s victory in the mile run over conference champion Art Eversole of Western Michigan. Gregory ran the event in 4:16.0 and finished approximately ten yards ahead of Eversole.
Gregory also won the 880-yard run, and Jerry Fitzpatrick was another double winner for the Irish, placing first in the broad jump and the 60-yard dash.
Steve Dornbach’s first in the high hurdles gave Notre Dame a total of five first place finishes.
Dornbach placed second in the low hurdles, Dave Cotton came in second in the two-mile run, Tom Reichert tied for second in the pole vault, Dan Rorke placed third in the 1,000-yard run, and Fitzpatrick took fourth in the 300-yard dash to complete the scoring for the Irish.
Coach Alex Wilson said he felt the team had had a bad night and was confident they could and would have a better showing in the conference outdoor meet later in the season.
In the eighth Milwaukee Journal Games last Monday, the Notre Dame two-mile relay team was second to Michigan, recording a time of 7:44.3. The mile relay squad was fourth in the first section of the college mile relay.
WILDERNESS CANOE TRIPS
We furnish everything for a thrilling vacation in famed Quetico-Superior wil-
Visit The All New
ROCCO’S
18142 South Bend Ave.
derness! Aluminum canoe, complete
camping outfit, fine food—all at low daily rate. Write today for canoe trip planning kit, map, lists, rates.
(P.S. Girls make canoe trips, too!)
Border Lakes Outfitting
P.O. BOX 569H ELY, MINN.
Open Noon to 7:00 on Sundays
Entirely new and different Italian foods (also .your favorite American dishes). We also specialize in seafoods. Our new turquoise room is available for PRIVATE PARTIES.
Phone CE 4-7224
ALEX WILSON
Track mentor
Here’s a PILE’ worth making
Books, like money, never go out of style, so add to your personal library more regularly than you would to your savings account. There are dividends to owning and reading books. And who knows, you might save just the right book for a rainy day. A book a day, we say “keeps boredom away.” Stop in often to check our ever increasing stock of popular and academic books.
^Notre Dame^
BOOKSTORE
28
The Scholastic
Murphy Named Recipient of Laetare Award; p Deputy State Secretary Picked as '59 Winner

Robert Dennis Murphy, Deputy Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, will receive the 1959 Laetare Medal given annually by the University. Diplomat Murphy, who heads the corps of over 12,000 foreign service personnel, is the seventy-seventh holder of the award which has been presented annually since 1883 to an outstanding American Catholic layman.
Murphy, who has been with the State Department since 1921, has been present at practically all major world crises since the war, from the Berlin airlift to the armistice talks in Panmunjom.
CAREER DIPLOMAT MURPHY
k Americans will remember in particular | the work Murphy did last summer as | U. S. “trouble shooter” in the Middle 1 East.
] ► Sent out to that turbulent area to talk with leaders of all factions, he made a | whirlwind tour of the trouble spots talking to Nasser, Fuad Chehab of Lebanon, King Hussein of Jordan, and Premier j Kassim of revolutionary Iraq. Return-| ing home he was hailed by President | Eisenhower fgr his expert negotiation.
Many of his recommendations were employed in the American position as pre-Isented in the United Nations session.
Murphy has had a habit throughout his career for always being in places where trouble is brewing. In 1921-5 he was in Munich where he witnessed the rise of Hitler and his Nazi party. After a series of minor posts he was sent to I»	Paris as number three consul; soon after-
I wards he was consul general.
J When France fell in 1940, Murphy | was left behind as charge d’affairs 3 accredited to Petain’s Vichy government.
In this capacity he played an important part in cloak-and-dagger preparations for the Allied landings in North Africa in 1942. Traveling incognito he met with
General Eisenhower in England to give valuable information for the invasion. Scarcely a month after the November landings, diplomat Murphy received the Distinguished Service Medal and the post of special representative to French North Africa. .
Aftei- the war, Murphy was named political advisor on German affairs, a post at which he served during the Berlin airlift. Eight years later he became America’s first ambassador to Japan. Shortly afterwards, he was named advisor to the United Nations command at the Panmunjom negotiations.
A native of Milwaukee, diplomat Murphy was educated at Marquette University and Georgetown Law School. It was while attending the latter that he decided to try the foreign service foi* a year. Thirty-seven years later he was appointed to the rank of career diplomat, which is equal to a five star general. Currently, Murphy is one of those being considered for the position of Secretary of State should John Foster Dulles resign.
In announcing that Murphy had been selected to receive the award, Father Hesburgh said of him, “Robert Murphy’s diplomatic career spans 40 years of distinguished service to his country. . . . With brilliance and courage, in peace and war, he has articulated American foreign policy in posts of increasing responsibility. . . . The University of Notre Dame is proud to award to Secretary Murphy the Laetare Medal, the highest honor within its power to bestow.”
The Laetare Medal winner is announced on the Fourth Sunday in Lent, but is presented to the recipient later in the year. Recent Laetare medalists include Gen. Alfred Gruenther and Clair Boothe Luce, newly appointed ambassador to Brazil.
The giving of Laetare medals was started by Father Thomas Walsh, then president of Notre Dame, with the approval of Father Edward Sorin, superior general. Among the winners since the first award in 1883 are John Creighton, philanthropist and Gen. William Roscrans, commander of the Army of the Cumberland in the Civil War.
'Palace Springtime' Set For May Formal Theme
Plans for the freshman week end, May 15 to 17, are being laid by a committee chosen last week by the Freshman Class Council. The week end will include the formal dance Friday night, dancing in the LaFortune Student Center Saturday night, and the Communion Breakfast Sunday morning.
General chairman for the week end is Ed Barton, an A.B. engineering student from White Plains, New York. The theme for the dance, to be held in the Student Center, is “Springtime in a Palace.”
Night of the BIG WIND
John Hayward, senior class president, showed great talent as a prognosticator before last Monday’s Senate meeting at which the members discussed pennanent hall residence. Spying the WSND broadcasting equipment, John moaned, “Oh, no! This will surely bring out all the windbags.”
Wind is right! As is typical for a discussion in which so many have a personal stake, the group tended to bog down in details, worrying, unduly I think, about slights to their particular class or group which they find arising from the tentative plan. (Scholastic— Feb. 27, p. 11)
When the plan is presented to the students for consideration, it is imperative that debate center around three main principles: 1) whether permanent hall residence will improve the academic atmosphere; 2) whether it will put such emphasis on the importance of the rector as a counselor, that even greater care will be given to the appointments of rectors and prefects; and 3) whether it will be a boon to student self-responsibility. These are perhaps the ingredients of real school spirit.
If the present system is preferred to pennanent hall residence on the grounds that it would achieve a proper atmosphere more fully, it would seem prudent to retain the present system. However, to reject pennanent hall residence because one envisions some personal inconveniences is obviously sophomoric thinking.
The tentative plan will be presented to the students, probably the week after Easter, and their opinions will be solicited in addition to their vote. Tom Cahill, student affairs commissioner, will include the results in his report appraising various aspects of student affairs, which will be submitted to the Administration at the end of the year.
In the past, when questioned about permanent hall residence, Father Hesburgh has always insisted that the initial decision must be made by the students. However, Cahill doesn’t feel that the results of a student body referendum would be significant without including student opinions. He feels that the question should be decided on principles similar to those outlined above and not on the grounds of personal interests. If the reasons for the vote are viewed, Cahill believes that they would show whether the students are judging permanent hall residence in principle or on considerations of expediency. Then the Administration can pass judgment on the plan, with full knowledge that mature student opinion either favors permanent hall residence or rejects it.	'
29
March 13, 1959
KEATS
Economist Discusses ’Task of World Order’
live sweetly?”
from The Dave, line 10
Still only 5'
on Life Savers:
Barbara Ward, British economist and author, will make a return visit to St. Mary’s College, O’Laughlin Auditorium, March 18, at 8 p.m. under the joint auspices of the World Spotlight Series and St. Mary’s College. She will be the third speaker of the 1958-59 Lilly Endowment Lecture Series under St. Mary’s program for Christian Culture. Her subject is “The Task for World Order.”
Former foreign affairs editor of the London Economist, Miss Ward is regarded as one of England’s most influential writers. She has travelled extensively in Europe and the Middle East.
She lived for a year in Australia, accompanied her husband to India at the invitation of the Indian government to
SHAVES ANYWHERE —
ANYTIME,
NO PLUG, NO CORD!
»T TOH ouns SMT WWI
UNIVERSAL
Ekdric Shaver Voted “Most wanted companion on a desert isle”. • . the new Universal Shaver that doesn't need an electric outlet! Three self-sharpening blades revolve 300 times a second, shave off every whisker right the base. No pull, no scrape, no bum, just a dean, dose electric shave without dumsy cords or outlet.
BARBARA WARD
British Economist at SMC
study their five-year plan, and has been spending time recently in Africa. Last year she was at Harvard University as a visiting lecturer.
She was recently the 19th annual recipient of the Christian Culture Award Medal given by Assumption University in Windsor, Ontario to “an outstanding lay-exponent of Christian ideals.”
Born in Yorkshire, she^has studied at the Sorbonne in Paris, at Oxford and also in Germany. She holds honorary degrees from Harvard University, Smith College, and Fordham University in this country.
In addition to her work as economist and writer, she is a member of the Council of the Royal Institute of International Affairs and a governor of BBC, Saddler Wells, and the Old Vic theater.
She is known for her broadcasts on the BBC “Brain Trust” and writes regularly for the New York Times Magazine, Atlantic Monthly, and Harpers. As writer and speaker, Barbara Ward is known for the clarity with which she can make complex issues intelligible to the general public.
30
The Scholastic
News Briefs
The University is displaying a threefold Lenten art exhibition in the art gallery of O’Shaughnessy Hall. The display started yesterday and runs through April 5.
The first two sections will consist of works from the University’s permanent collection. One part will be devoted to religious art concerning the life of Christ, while the other part will consist of the University’s collection of Renaissance and Baroque wooden religious sculpture.
The third section will be made up of 21 German prints by such masters as Lucas Cranach and Hans Balding Grien. The collection is on loan from the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D. C., through the Alver Thorpe Gallery in Jenkintown, Pa.
The public will be admitted from 1 to 5 p.m. every day.
Notre Dame’s Finance club recently conducted a field trip with 37 students to New York City by bus, under the supervision of club moderators Mr. Eells and Mr. Conway.
Many educational tours, designed to interest the club members in finance, were conducted. These included trips to the New York Stock Exchange, the Guarantee Trust Co., the Federal Reserve Bank, and the Walston and Co. brokerage firm.
The club is planning a banquet and a series of lectures in the near future.
The University of Notre Dame Marching Band will travel to Chicago on Tuesday and march in the St. Patrick’s Day parade. The Marching Band is appearing at the personal request of Mayor Daley, who is honorary chairman of the parade committee. Leaving in the morning, the band will arrive about noon and march in the parade that afternoon. The band will be comprised of 119 members under the command of Bruce Cossachi, drum major.
BBO S3 IT HBST!
A column of incidental intelligence by Jodmi brand
“LOVE IS BUND"
Next to the Bible, Shakespeare is the richest source of common quotes. He's responsible for this one, too. See his "Merchant of Venice," Act II, Scene 6:
"But love is blind, and lovers cannot see
The petty follies that themselves commit."
'THIRTY DAYS HATH SEPTEMBER," ETC.
No need to recite further from this bit of doggerel which has served us all as a pony ever since grade school. For this universal handy reference we are indebted to a man named Richard Grafton who was nice enough to compose the rhyme way back in 1570.
"PUT IT IN YOUR PIPE"
No, Sir Walter Raleigh didn't originate this smoker's challenge. It was R. H. Barham, in 'The Lay of St. Odille":
"For this you've my word, and I never yet broke it, So put that in your pipe. My Lord Otto, and smoke it."
ATTENTION ’59 GRADUATES
Cap and Gown measurements for June graduates will be taken at the Vet Rec Hall from 2:30 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Wed., Thurs., and Fri. This will be your only opportunity to rent a cap and gown for the June graduation.
Prices:
Bachelor Cap and Gown------$3.30
Master Cap and Gown........$3.80
Master Hood................$3.25*
Doctor Cap and Gown—.......$4.20
Doctor Hood......—.........$3.75*
*lf Master or Doctor Hood is ordered separately an additional charge of $.20 is added to the price to defray transportation cost. N.B.: No checks will be accepted from anyone — you must pay cash, viz., coin and currency.
JocAev T-Shirts
BRAND
The most respected, creative name in underwear is Jockey brand. It stands to, reason, then, that Jockey brand T-shirts are unmatched for quality as well as styling. You can choose from standard T-shirt, "taper-tee" shirt, sleeveless l-shirt, and V-neck T-shirt models. Every man needs a drawer full of T-shirts—and the label to look for is Jockey brand. Let it guide you to the world's finest underwear.
fashioned by the house of

March 13, 1959
31
HAVE BUSES . . .
WILL TRAVEL . . .
•
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types Contact ED SILLIMAN, Campus Bep. 263 Dillon	Ext 631
CHARTER A —
1QIW LIBRARY art INK SUP
New Catholic Books* Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
OFFERS CAREER _ OPPORTUNITIES *
in research and development off missile systems
Active participation in Space Research and Technology, Radio Astronomy, Missile Design and Development * Opportunity to expand your knowledge • Individual responsibility • Full utilization of your capabilities • Association with top-ranking men in field
•
Openings now in these fields
ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING * APPLIED PHYSICS MATHEMATICS • MECHANICAL, METALLURGICAL, AERONAUTICAL AND CHEMICAL ENGINEERING Systems Analysis • Inertial Guidance • Computer Equipment • Instrumentation • Telemetering • Fluid Mechanics • Heat Transfer • Aerodynamics • Propeltants
Materials Research
U.S. CITIZENSHIP REQUIRED
ON CAMPUS
INTERVIEWS
March 16
AT PIACEMENT BUREAU
-0-------—
Debaters Take First By Downing Wheaton
Last Saturday the Notre Dame debate team captured first place in the seventh annual Notre Dame Invitational Debate Tournament as it defeated Wheaton College in the final round in a close 3-2 decision. This marked the climax of the two-day tourney which saw 40 schools from every section in the country participate in the annual classic. On hand for the tournament were such regular participants as the four military academies, Dartmouth, Florida, Fordham, Duke, Miami (Fla.), Pittsburgh, Kentucky, Brooklyn, Nebraska, Wake Forest, South Carolina, and Pennsylvania.
All 40 teams competed in six preliminary rounds of debate held all day Friday and Saturday morning in the LaFortune Student Center. At the tournament banquet held in the Morris Inn on Saturday, Prof. Leonard F. Sommer, director of forensics at Notre Dame, announced that Wheaton, Butler, Augustana, and Notre Dame would compete in the semi-finals on the basis of their records in the preliminary rounds.
Both Wheaton and Notre Dame had perfect 6-0 records while Butler and Augustana had 5-1 records. South Carolina, Miami, and the Merchant Marine Academy also had 5-1 showings but were eliminated on the basis of individual point totals.
In the semi-finals Notre Dame defeated Augustana in a 3-0 decision and Wheaton won over Butler in a 2-1 decision. Following the semi-final rounds Wheaton met Notre Dame in the final round which was broadcast by WSND and witnessed by about 300 people in the Engineering Auditorium.
Wheaton defended the affirmative and Notre Dame the negative of the proposition, “Resolved: that the further development of nuclear weapons should be prohibited by international agreement.” Dan Barrett and Dale Robison represented Wheaton while Jay Whitney, a sophomore from Burbank, Cal., and Guy Powers, a sophomore from New York, N. ¥., represented Notre Dame.
Emblematic of their victory, the Notre Dame team won permanent possession of the Richard D. Schiller trophy and possession of the Fr. Bolger Memorial Trophy until the 1960 tournament. Ted Walwik of Butler captured the first place speaker rating while Dan Barrett of Wheaton took second place ladelphia, the team took second place.
This is the tenth trophy for the debate team this season thus making this one of the best years in the 60 year history of debate at the University. In its first outing at St. Joseph’s College, Philadelphia, the team took second place and returned to Notre Dame with three trophies.
• Following this tourney, the team travelled to the Wake Forest Dixie Classic Debate Tournament and again placed second while winning the top three speaker awards.
The Scholastic
Downbeat Plans Contest For College Jazz Bands $
Talented student jazz groups from colleges throughout the Midwest will com-i pete here for valuable awards on Saturday, April 11, in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. The program is fostered by Downbeat magazine and has the support of many leading figures in the world of » jazz.
The competition will be among 18 groups from such colleges as Northwestern. Purdue, Michigan, Indiana, and others. A panel of judges, consisting of a number of jazz authorities including Chuck Suber, publisher of Downbeat magazine and the popular- Art Van * Damme, will select the winning groups.
First prize will be $200 given to the winning group, while the runner-up and third-place groups will receive prizes of $100 and $50 respectively. In addition, the top group will receive an engagement to play at the Blue Note in Chicago. The first-placers will also be auditioned for an engagement at either the London House or Mister Kelly’s, both in Chicago.
The program will begin at 1 p.rn. on April 11, and the finals for the competition will be at 8 in the evening. Tickets for students will be $1.
ARMY - NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Gendel's Surplus Sales
Brasso. ROTC Collar Insignia
You Save Everyday at GENDEL’S
512 SO. MICHIGAN
^kWTURBOW \OPTOMKTRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS EYES EXAMINED CONTACT LENSES 207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-57/7
Dorsey Orchestra to Present 'Night, Day' for Junior Dance
The Jimmy Dorsey Orchestra under the direction of Lee Castle has been signed for the Junior Prom. With a theme of “Night and Day,” the dance will be held in the Drill Hall on May 1 from 9:30 p.m. until 1:30 a.m.
Tickets for the prom will be on sale in the halls on Sunday, April 12 for $9; this amount includes refreshments and a favor. Accommodations will be available in South Bend hotels and the Morris Inn for prices which range from $3 to $6 per evening. There will also be a list of accommodations available in private homes.
A dinner dance will be held on Saturday evening, but arrangements are still indefinite. On Sunday following the 8 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church, the week end will be closed by a Communion Breakfast in the North Dining Hall. The tickets for this will be $3.
on American Impress N5? Studentlouts of Europe
ROOM RESERVATION
There are still about 90 rooms that are available in Stanford and Keenan halls for graduation week end. These rooms will go on sale at 7 p.m. Sunday, in the service bar of the LaFortune Student Center. The first come first serve basis will be used and again there will be a two-room limit per man. Also there will be a $5 deposit per room.
Wherever, whenever, however you travel, yoUr best assurance of the finest service is American Express! On American Express Student Tours of Europe you’ll be escorted on exciting itineraries covering such fascinating countries as England ... Belgium ... Germany ... Austria — Switzerland... Italy... The Rivieras ... and France. And you’ll have ample free time and lots of individual leisure to really live life abroad!
7 Stedeot Trots of Earape . . . featuring distinguished leaders from prominent colleges as tour conductors . . . 40 to 62 days... by sea and by air... $1397 and up.
4 Edacatieaal StodRst lean of Esnpo... with experienced escorts — by sea ... 44 to 57 days... $172 and up.
Otter Etospem Trots Mobfete... from 14 days... $072 and up. Mse^ Toors to Ronda, Bonaoda, Hence, West hofiss oad tanas.
You can always Travel Now—Pay Later when you go American Express!
Member: Institute of International Education and Council on Student Travel.
For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service ... or simply mail the handy coupon.
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVEL SERVICE
65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. do Tratti Safa Dinnn	*
Yes! Please send me complete	information	•
about 1959 Student Tours of	Europe!	*
Name...........................................  •
•
Address......................................... •
City..................Zone....State......... *
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••Re**
PROTECTYOUR TRAVEL FUNDS WITH MHICM DNSS 1MNBflBORMB-SHNIMBlEEyQHWNCK apply mw ms mm cMnsamat amhbom anas wohmoc aasw cm /
March 13, 1959
Hack Paife
teachers
by JOHN HAYWARD
and students
Everybody has an answer, of course, and they might all be different, and maybe 6000 students can all be right. Whether we are here to learn accounting or physics or how to play golf, it seems to me that unless we ask ourselves at least feebly what it means to exist, here and now, we are not fulfilling our obligations as university students, indeed, as human beings. To conceive of education as anything else, more particular or less basic, is folly.
If man is capable of knowing things, if he possesses the power of rationality, his education is a task so sacred and so noble that it passes description. Finally, every man’s education is his own responsibility, but an institution which aids him in fulfilling this responsibility must provide him with the necessary tools, the minimum capacity to explore the possible meanings of his existence. There is real tragedy in the life of the man who has never questioned his being, especially so if the man has had the opportunity and refused to take advantage of it.
This page has been the scene of a good deal of criticism and disagreement during the past few months. Mr. Phenner has asserted the worth of extra-curricular activities, even to the extent of considering them ends in themselves, and Mr. Brady has taken issue with him. (In the interests of clarity and domestic tranquility let me say here that I agree generally with Mr. Brady.) The health of an academic institution would be all too questionable if Mr. Phenner’s view that “Student organizations. . . are highly valuable ends in themselves,” were widely adhered to. I do not think it is, fortunately, and I am thankful that the opponents of this position are articulate.
Mr. Brady has condemned the organization student once. I don’t propose to duplicate this effort, but to go on to consider the role of students, with teachers, as the intellectual leaders of society. Perhaps it is presumptuous to speak of students so in the same breath with teachers but Professor Frank O’Malley does, and I am rather flattered to be so characterized by him. But pro-organization and anti-organization arguments
aside, it seems to me that it reduces to one question for each of us. Why am I in a university and why Notre Dame in particular?
So each of us has this task, or perhaps right, and this is actually why we are in a university. I don’t know whether one is better capable of exercising the right of carrying out the task in one college oi* another or in one major subject or another. Finally, however, it must be admitted that this is the activity that properly takes place in philosophy, and thus philosophy is necessary for every student in a university if it is to be anything more than a trade school. (This is not a slur on the curriculum of a particular college for I am certainly no expert of curricula.)
The second part of the question, which is often misunderstood and misrepresented, is more complex. Any university is technically able to provide the necessary philosophical climate mentioned above. Do we come to a Catholic university, specifically, Notre Dame, simply to add religion courses to our individual curricula? If we do, it seems to me all we’d have to do is upgrade and intensify the work of the Newman Clubs and do away with all the Catholic institutions of higher learning and get our tax money’s worth from the state schools. With a minimum of reflection it is easily seen that Catholic universities are far more than excuses for religion departments who teach more than Comparative Religion and a History of the Reformation.
A Catholic university is actually an institution which recognizes the validity of the knowledge gained through Faith and provides a framework for its understanding and appreciation in terms of disciplines other than Theology. In other words, a Catholic university is a place where the Church is present and the Church is recognized as the Mystical Body of Christ. It is a place where a student can ponder the meaning of a statement such as Monsignor Guardini’s that “In the Church eternity enters time.” In an academic community where nobody can agree on the meaning of the word “church,” what relevance could such a statement possibly have? So a
Catholic university is far more than a sectarian school. It provides the man who asks what his being means with an opportunity to assimilate the answer or answers he arrives at the reality of . the Mystical Body, and to recast this thought in terms of the beauty and power of Christ existing today in His Church.	<
But why Notre Dame? If all Catho- * lie universities are really Catholic certainly they make the same truth available. Whether or not any undergraduate . here cares to admit it, if he is in any । position to know, it appears that Notre Dame has provided and does provide insights such as these to greater numbers , of students than the other Catholic universities in the United States. Obviously, there are no statistics to substantiate such a claim, and there may be few other Catholic universities or colleges which may make a similar claim, more or less justly. But if others claim the right they must by the same action grant the right to Notre Dame.
Admittedly these thoughts are one in , many. There may be 6,000 better reasons why Notre Dame, but it seems to me inescapable that some of the considerations mentioned here have to enter (I into everyone’s thinking of his reasons for living and for living at Notre Dame. U For it is by free choice that we are |I here, and if the choice is really free it « is our own responsibility and will undeniably influence, probably to a very	|
great degree, the rest of our lives. And,	I
to be painfully obvious, our lives will have a further influence on our eternal dispositions.	|
Pompous and presumptuous musings? | Maybe, but if we are afraid of such 1 musings, humble as they are, we can never hope to approach the ideal of being with teachers as the intellectual leaders of society. Mister Phenner fears fa the encroachments of “would-be intellec- jj tuals”; they are for him a “modem I threat to leadership.” On the contrary, I I think the “would-be intellectuals” may a well supplant the professional “leaders,” for it is only insofar as men discover their meaning and their destiny that they will be able to order their society toward its proper end.
34
The Scholastic
Manne, it’s the greatest!
Wonderful jazz originals by Hank Mancini from the score of the TV show PETER GUNN find an ideal interpreter in SHELLY MANNE & HIS MEN. Shelly, who also plays for the TV program sound track, invited guest star Victor Feldman (also a PETER GUNN regular) to join his men for
this swinging jazz session. Shelly’s Men— stars, all —are: Victor Feldman, vibes and marimba; Conte Condoli, trumpet; Herb Geller, alto sax; Russ Freeman, piano; and Monty Budwig, bass.
Recorded in Contemporary’s superb high fidelity sound.
12" Hi-Fi Long Playing C3560, $4.98; also available on stereo records S7025, $5.95 at dealers everywhere,
CONTEMPORARY RECORDS 8481 Melrose Place, Los Angeles 46, California
©1959 LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO COMPANY
“THEY SAID you couldn’t have a cigarette with both low tar and more taste, too. But DM did it,” says TV’s Jack Lescoulie.
LOW TAR: DM’s patented filtering process adds extra filter fibers electrostatically, crosswise to the stream of smoke . . . makes DM truly low in tar.
MORE TASTE: DM’s rich mixture of slow-burning tobaccos brings you more exciting flavor than any other cigarette!
1IVE MODERN-CHANGE TO MODERN EM
Magnified diagram shows extra. ^filter fibers added crosswise tn the istream - of. ;smok*e> in