The Notre Dame 1 ■ ____ f
Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY $3.00 THE YEAR
DECEMBER 16
1932
Who Said Home Sweet Home?
No use goofing about it any longer, fellows. You know darn well that all our homes are mortgaged. Dad’s business is on the rocks, nobody has a penny, and they don’t know where the next meal is coming from. Maybe everyone is sick too.
Cheer them up! Bring a smile to those tired, worn faces! You can’t pay the mortgage, but here’s something—
Better
Take Home a JUGGLER!
ON SALE NOW [Red Cover)
25 cents
December 16, 1932
One
After College WHAT?
“snappy” breakfast
Architecture?
Kellogg’s Rice Krispies are all of that. Toasted bubbles of rice that actu-
Kenneth Reid, managing editor of the architectural publication, ’'Pencil Points,” writes: "The successful architect needs not only an instinctive feeling for design and a technical skill in construction, but also a complete cultural background. Architecture requires long training, intensive concentration, a keen mind.”
ally crackle and snap in milk or cream. Extra delicious with sliced bananas.
You’ll also like the rich energy that Rice Krispies supply. Helps you feel keener and fitter. Try it tomorrow. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
•
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include All-BRA^T, PEP Bran Flakes, Corn Flakes, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — real coffee that lets you sleep.
IN ARCHITECTURE, certainly, brains rate 100 per cent. "... intensive concentration, a keen mind.” That’s why in this business, as in college, a pipe is the favorite smoke. Get out your pipe now, light up, and through the curling blue pufls of Edgeworth,* let your mind drift down the road to thoseyearsaftergraduation.
If you’re not already an Edgeworth smoker, there’s new smoking satisfaction waiting for you. Edgeworth’s blend of fine old hurleys is distinctive, different. You’ll know—after the first puff. Want to try it before you buy? Write for free sample packet. Larus SC Bro. Co., 105 S. 2zd St., Richmond, Va.
*■ A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed arid'-' Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes— t5e pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.
December 16, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub- ^^“1	hk I	II	Entered as seconcLdass
lished week’y at the Vn'vers- I KK	I	f* K I	matter at Notre Dame, In-
ity of Notre Dame. Mami- III I wr VI	O III	I II Cl 11 V0 diana. Acceptance for mailscripts may be addressed to ,	,	ing at special rate of postage.
the scholastic, Pubii- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus section nos, October s, 1917, cations Office, Main Building.	authorized June 25. 19 IS.
FOUNDED 1867
Edmund A. Stephan...............
James S. Kearns.................
Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Associate Editors F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON WILLIAM DREUX	LLOYD TESKE
News Staff MITCHELL TACKLEY............News Editor
ROY SCHOLZ.........Assistant News Editor MICHAEL WIEDL ROBERT DILLON EDWARD MANSFIELD RICHARD TOBIN THOMAS PROCTOR JAMES BYRNE JOSEPH BUCCI.......ROBERT	ERVIN
JAMES A. HART JOHN McELLIGOTT
Desk Editors PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY
Department Editors
TIGHE WOODS............The Week
ROGER MCGOVERN....College	Parade
RICHARD PREZEBEL.......Staff Artist
Sports Staff LESLIE RADDATZ........Sports Editor
WILLIAM FLYNN JOSEPH KURTH PAUL HOST EDWARD VAN HUISSELING FRED MacBETH GEORGE BELTING JAMES F. McKEON NICHOLAS CONNOR JOHN CARBINE HOWARD WALDRON
Features Staff
RAY' WATERS.............Features	Editor
LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN WILLIAM’ KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN
PAUL DOYLE	LOUIS GIRAGI
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD
Business Staff
JOHN F. STOECKLEY....Graduate Manager J. ALBERT SMITH______Idxertising Manager RAYMOND J. NABER_____Circulation Manager HARRY McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON
Volume LXVI.
DECEMBER 16, 1932
No. 11
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, Dec. 16.—Scholastic staff meeting, Editorial Board, 6:30 p. m.; news, sports, and features staffs, 7:00 p. m.; Interhall debate finals between Howard and Dillon Halls, at St. Mary’s College, 7:45 p. m.; Symphony Orchestra Presentation, Washington Hall, 8:15 p. m.
SATURDAY, Dec. 17.—Movie, “Bill of Divorcement,” with John Barrymore, Billie Burke, Katherine Hepburn, Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, Dec. 18.—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church; Opening Scholastic editorial offices, 8:30 p. m.
MONDAY, Dec. 19.—Basketball: Notre Dame varsity vs. Northwestern U., Notre Dame gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.
TUESDAY, Dec. 20.—Christmas vacation begins at 4:05 p. m.
5 UMMARY
.	NEWS
John Sweeney is Elected by Freshmen as President of
Class in High Spirited Election............ 5
Democratic Chairman Farley Will Speak at Football Civic Testimonial Dinner ........................   5
Cast of “Charley’s Aunt” Contains Many Veterans of the
University Stage, By Robert Dillon.......-. 6
“Christmas” Juggler Hailed as McCabe’s Outstanding
Magazine ................................   7
Father Raemers Translates French Texts..............  11
“Football Review” Is Nearly Ready for Distribution Mon-
day ......................................          12
Interhall Debate Match Will Be Settled Tonight at St.
Mary’s ..............  -....—-.......................13
FEATURES -
Jim Danehy, or “Va Donnchadha” in Gaelic, A Chemistry
Student, Is Also Interested in Literature..........  8
“Voice of the Campus” Talks about Dining Hall Cheering and Scholastic content..............................   9
Modern Economic Problems Reviewed by Walter Johnson, Senior Economics Major..............................-.16
Purpose of Ecclesiastical Chant by John Sharpe....... 17
SPORTS
Southern California Defeats Notre Dame, 13 to 0, at Los
Angeles .......................................     20
Northwestern here Monday for basketball game..........20
Cagers open season with 41 to 20 victory over Albion...21
Notre Dame defeats Illinois Wesleyan in season’s second basketball game...........................-.........-.22
Three Big Ten basketball games scheduled for cagers during Christmas vacation.......................---------23
High spots, slumps, great plays mark past season: a sum-
mary of 1932 Notre Dame football...................—25
Splinters from the Press Box: where was McNeish?.......26
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
HERE are always two classes of freshmen. There are those who fuse themselves with the general student body within two months after their first registration and then there are those who act that way for four years. The Palace Theatre Corporation through its manager, Mr. Gambrill, kindly invited the student body to be guests at the Palace last Friday afternoon. The perennial freshmen forgot that the Palace maintains a stage entrance for the exclusive use of clowns, trained seals, ventriloquists, monkey troupes, etc.; consequently there was a bit of confusion when some of the local wearers of the cap and bells got mixed in with the audience. Well, anyway, some of us had enough politeness to realize we were guests.
(^3 OME on, snap out of it! Why so glum? We lost a football game but what of it? We’ve lost before, and it was a pretty successful season after all. You’ve all been spoiled. You think that because we are not National Champions the season was not a success. Here are a few things to think about: The largest crowd on the east coast and the largest crowd on the west coast this year came to pay tribute to Notre Dame. It has become an axiom in sporting circles that, who would be national champions must first defeat Notre Dame (with all due respect to Mr. Dickinson’s rating system!). Thirdly, Notre Dame did not get its great reputation by playing teams which everybody knew were push-overs; and finally, we won the Army Game. Now quit griping!
^3 ONGRATULATIONS are in order for the newly elected officers of the freshmen class, also a word of warning and a word of sympathy. Notre Dame has a habit of taking its campus politics seriously. If you enter politics in your freshman year, you have just so much more time to plan, to scheme, to make friendships and to break them. The political system here is built on patronage, pure and unashamed, in spite of all the glowing accounts to the contrary you may hear from upper class officers and dance chairmen. The manager of the successful candidate for class president expects and demands the chairmanship of the class dance. They may grow to hate each other politely later but the rule is iron-bound and never broken. This is not a flagwaving plea for cleaner politics at Notre Dame,
but a bit of advice. Just remember that a Ball chairman has to change his technique when he’s selling bonds or insurance and you’ll have a lot of political life at Notre Dame.
X^HE floor work of Captain Johnny Baldwin, the field goals by Voegele, and the first indoor concert of the band made an otherwise drab Albion game interesting. Baldwin has had a streak of bad luck ever since he came to Notre Dame but he looked fast and dependable in his first appearance of the season. Keep it up, Johnny, and for influenza’s sake, “button up your overcoat!” X^HE SCHOLASTIC has moved into its new quarters. The color scheme is white and green. It looks like a true-to-the-movies newspaper office except that it is clean. It is located in the storeroom of the old kitchen which served the students when the dining halls were in the Main Building and “bun carts,” like miniature freight cars, carried the first “N. D. buns,” crackling hot from the old bakery. The ping of typewriters has taken the place of the clatter of pans, but the staff will have to work mighty hard to turn out the same quality of copy that the Sisters sent out of that building in its younger days.
STHER sulked as she sat and polished her copper kettles. Life was drab at the little Bethlehem inn. And Aaron was a hard master. Aaron longed to play the smiling host to kings and queens and high priests but the only tenants of his inn were cheap wool merchants and herdsmen. Esther wondered what she would do if she saw a queen sometime. She would make a low bow and the gracious lady would say, “Come Esther, and be my favorite serving girl.” Esther was sure of her power to create an impression.
The knocker on the heavy inn door sounded twice. Aaron motioned Esther to go. She opened the door a few inches. A bearded man with a very pale Woman leaning on his arm stood there. They asked for shelter for the night. Esther glanced at their shabby attire and shook her head. No, they would not have much gold. No, there was no room. Esther returned to her pans. The shabbily dressed Woman had such beautiful eyes and such a kindly smile. Perhaps this Lady was a Queen in disguise. Esther giggled at the absurdity of such a thought.
December 16, 19.32
Five
ROUSING OVATION BY 3,000 GREETS GRIDDERS
James A, Farley Will
Speak at Football Testimonial Dinner
FRESHMAN PRESIDENCY GOES TO JOHN SWEENEY
Throng Welcomes Irish On Return From Coast.
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish, as welcome in defeat as in victory, returned home Wednesday afternoon to the noisy greeting of 3,000 cheering, loyal students and followers.
A far larger crowd would have been on hand had not the team’s arrival been delayed for over an hour and a half by bad travelling conditions encountered on the trip through the middle west.
Crowd Union Station
But the entire student body was on hand when the Irish finally arrived. And clinging to every ledge, and mounted on every vantage point in the Union Station, the students cheered the gridders long and noisily as they filed through the station’s lobby to their waiting cabs.
No speeches were included in the welcome. It was merely a shouting, sincere, glad hand from the backers of the Irish, taking defeat in stride as they took victory, and applauding the players with the same approving roars.
Each of the returning grid men carried a large box of California-grown fruits and nuts, the Christmas gifts of their U. S. C. opponents. They filed quickly through the jammed ranks of welcomers to the cabs that were waiting to take them to the campus.
Band On Hand
The eighty-piece Notre Dame band, with Professor Joseph J. Casasanta conducting, led the crowd through the entire list of campus songs as they waited for the team to appear.
Coach Hunk Anderson and Athletic Director Jesse C. Harper did not return with the party. Coach Anderson, seeking a brief rest after the rigors of a long fall campaign, stayed in California where he will see the ' Georgia Tech-University of California game tomorrow at Berkeley.
Athletic Director Harper, travelling as far east with the team as Hutchinson, Kansas, stopped over there at his ranch home to spend the holidays.
Babylon in all its desolation is a sight not so awful as that of the human mind in ruins—Scrope Davies.
James A. Farley, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, has notified Mr. E. J. Meehan, president of the Notre Dame club of St. Joseph
James A. Farley
This time it’s football.
Valley, that he will accept the invitation of the club to speak at the annual civic testimonial dinner to be held in honor of the Notre Dame football squad, Monday, Jan. 16, at 7 o’clock in the University Dining hall. In addition to Mr. Farley, William J. Sheehan, general chairman for the banquet, plans to have several men prominent in the field of sport on the speakers’ list.
Tickets $1.50
James E. Armstrong, secretary of the St. Joseph Valley Notre Dame club, announced that this year the tickets for the banquet would be $1.50 per person, a reduction of 50 percent over the amount asked in previous years. It is hoped that this price will enable a greater number of students to be present for the affair.
Those who attended the football banquet last year were well pleased with the program. This year, the committee in charge of the arrangements is working hard to insure the success of the dinner. Plans are under way to have the Notre Dame Glee Club and the Notre Dame Band, both under the direction of Professor Casasanta, furnish the musical entertainment for the evening.
316 Ballots Cast in Lively Yearling Election.
By James Byrne
John F. Sweeney, Indianapolis, Indiana, a student in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected president of the Freshman class, Tuesday, December 13, in one of the most spirited class elections in recent years. By virtue of his office, President Sweeney automatically becomes a member of the Student Activities Council and will represent his class at the meetings of this organization. Sweeney is a resident of Freshman Hall.
Church Is New Vice President
The other members on the winning ticket were: August Church, Plainfield, New Jersey, of the College of Commerce and a resident of Brownson Hall, vice-president; Henry Den-dler; Hammonton, New Jersey, of the Collegeof Arts and Letters, also of Brownson Hall, secretary; Edmund Noonan, Clinton, Massachusetts, of the College of Arts and Letters and a resident of Carroll Hall, treasurer.
At the primary, Friday, December 9, the freshmen nominated two men for each of the class offices. The opposing ticket consisted of William Shakespeare, Dillon Hall, president; Russell Redgate, Dillon Hall, vicepresident; Matthew Leary, Dillon Hall, secretary; S. A. Munson, Dillon Hall, treasurer.
Members of the S. A. C. officiated at both the primary and the election. In announcing the returns, Jini Gerend, president of the Student Activities Council said that about 316 votes had been cast.
Stephen Murray Addresses Boy Guidance Students
Stephen M. Murray, M. A., Notre Dame 1929, field secretary of the Knights of Columbus Supreme Council Boy Life Bureau, addressed the students taking Boy Guidance and Probation Monday morning.
His talk included a description of the boys’ work program sponsored by the Knights of Columbus, with special emphasis upon the Columbian Squires for boys between the ages of 14 and 18.
Six
The Scholastic
Kelly Announces Entire
Cast For “Charley’s Aunt”
POWERS IN LEAD
Rehearsals Are In Order For Initial Presentation of University Theater.
The cast for “Charley’s Aunt” to be put on by the University Players, has been announced this week by Professor Frank Kelly, who is in charge of the production.
David Powers
IPiZZ wear a petticoat.
John Finneran has been assigned to the part of Jack Chesney. George Allingham will play the part of Charley Wykeam. Dave Powers will be known as Lord Fancourt-Babberly or “Charley’s Aunt.” In the presentation Charley Wykeam, because of a complication of affairs, is badly in need of an aunt. For this reason he prevails upon Lord Fancourt-Babberly to pose as his aunt. The ruse becomes extremely precarious at times, and the audience is taken through many mirth-provoking scenes. Tighe Woods will appear as Sir Francis Chesney, an English gentleman of means. And Roger Bierne, a veteran of the University Theater productions, will take the part of Stephen Spettigue. James Wade will be known as Brassert, a butler who knows his pantries.
Misses Charlotte Mourer, Dorothy Gustafson, Mary Ann Tate, and Theresa Chisholm of South Bend will be
Staff Members Invited To Official Opening of
New Editorial Quarters
All members of The Scholastic staff, including those individuals who are trying out for the staff at the present time, are invited to attend the official opening of the new editorial rooms Sunday evening at 8:30 o’clock.
The Reverend Lawrence Broughal, C.S.C., chairman of the Board of Publications will be present, as will be the members of the editorial board of The Scholastic.
Refreshments will be served during the evening.
Final Plans Drawn Up For Boston Club Party
The Boston club of Notre Dame held its final meeting of the year Monday evening in the Law building to complete arrangements for their Christmas dance. The holiday affair will take place on Dec. 26th at the Longwood Towles in Boston.
Ray Lawson and his orchestra, famous throughout New England, will furnish the music. Paul McManus is chairman of the dance committee and expects a large attendance at the annual party.
cast in the feminine parts. All these names are familiar; the young women having played in former productions at the University.
Another complete cast is also in rehearsal. Among the members of this group are: George Menard, Irwin Goldman, Howard Douville, Arthur Neumann, Arnold Morrison, Frank Murphy and others. The purpose of this second cast is the development and improvement of dramatic skill in a representative group selected from the student body.
“Charley’s Aunt,” and its laugh sequences, is scheduled to appear shortly after the Christmas holidays.
Man’s inhumanity to man
Makes countless thousands mourn.
—Robert Bums.
SYMPHONY GIVES FIRST CONCERT THIS EVENING
Professor Seidel’s Men Will Play at 8:15.
Because of an unavoidable coflict with a previously scheduled basketball game, the Notre Dame Symphony concert announced for last evening will be held this evening at 8 o’clock in Washington Hall.
The program, which was printed in last week’s Scholastic, will feature “The Surprise Symphony” by Joseph Haydn. Included in the repertoire are “The Sleeping Beauty Valse” by P. Taschasikowsky and two movements of “Luigini’s Ballet Egyptian. ■ The Symphony orchestra of 38 players is under the supervision and direction of Professor Richard Siedel.
Bocskei is Speaker at Progress Club Meeting
Stephen Bocskei, instructor in biology, was the principal speaker at a meeting of the Progress club of South Bend last Tuesday afternoon.
The Progress club is a women’s organization devoted to nature study and other intellectual pursuits. Speakers in each field are invited to address the club regularly.
Entomology was the topic of Mr. Bocskei’s address. At the outset of the talk, he gave a brief history of entomology and followed this with a discussion of the general morphology of insects. The answers to the usual questions of laymen on this subject were also presented by the speaker.
Speaking of the importance of entomology, he said, “Insects are of importance. The men and women engaged in unravelling the many mysteries of insect life are also important if our knowledge of life is to make any advances.”
Don’t Waste Your Cuts!
A reminder in regard to triple cuts . before and after the Christmas holidays was issued from the office of the Reverend P. H. Dolan, C.S.C., this week, calling the attention of students to the fact that the two weeks’ cuts are to cover all ordinary absences, including sickness, and should not be wasted.
December 16, 1332
Seven
BOOKMEN HEAR AUTHOR ADVISE YOUNG WRITERS
Christmas “Juggler” Is Best of McCabe’s Issues
Huston Tells Campus Literati to Make Business Contacts.
“Have a job and make writing an avocation; too much leisure isn’t a good thing,” was the advice of McCready Huston, journalist and short story writer of South Bend, in his talk before the Bookmen last Monday evening.
Campus literary groups seldom produce great writers said the speaker. Student writers have a tendency to be introspective, and fail to realize the importance of the material side of success as a professional fiction author. Business contacts are as important in the writing field as in any other. Mr. Huston pointed out that Francis Wallace, graduate of Notre Dame and author of several novels including Huddle, was never regarded as a literary man on the campus and that his success was largely due to his ability to make business contacts.
Author’s Hit
The depression has been felt by authors as well as by members of every other profession. Magazines can not take chances on new writers now that revenue on advertising has been cut greatly, continued Mr. Huston. His advice to those considering professional writing was to get a position in some other field, so that they would not be financially dependent on their pens.
Although primarily a journalist, having worked with the World Telegram in New York and the South Bend News-Times and Tribune at various times, Mr. Huston has had over forty short stories and four novels published in the past decade. His latest work is Salesman from the Sidelines, a portrayal of the life of Knute K. Rockne. Several years ago he gave a course in the short story at the University.
Filing of the will of the late Wilson Cook, millionaire lawyer, revealed last week that he had left the University of Michigan law school $8,711,116. Part of the money is to be used for the construction of a legal research building.
He that hath knowledge spareth his
words—Proverbs xvii, 27.
Christmas Dance Plans Must Be Submitted
To Carey By Dec. 19.
The new system of faculty control pertaining to the customary holiday dances which are held by the various city and state clubs of the University, was announced to the members of the Presidents’ Council at a meeting Tuesday noon, in the conference room of the Administration, by Cleve Carey, president of the council.
Reports Must Be Made
The new system requires that each club intending to give a dance turn in a report which includes the name of the president of the club, the name of the chairman of the dance, and a list of the Alumni patrons together with a letter’ from the hotel at which the affair is to be held, to the president of the Presidents’ Council not later than, Monday, Dec. 19. The financial statements of the dances are to be turned over to Rev. Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, Wednesday, Jan. 25, 1933. Expense blanks have been distributed to the presidents of the campus clubs, for this purpose.
President Carey also informed the Presidents’ Council that the faculty has consented to wipe out all debts incurred by the campus clubs with regard to the Dome pictures. Beginning with the present academic year, all clubs started with a clean slate.
58 Years For a Monogram
Washington, D. C. — Henry Bell Simpson, 80-year-old boatman, who waited 58 years to receive his varsity letter, died here last week. Simpson was a member of the crew of the Massachusetts Agricultural College which defeated Brown in a sensation-al finish on the Connecticut River in 1871.
It was not until 1929 that the athletic authorities voted a varsity letter to each member of the ’71 crew.
When the candles are out all women
are fair.—Plutarch.
OUT LAST NIGHT
Becvar’s Art Work Excellent; McCabe’s Own Writing Outstanding.
“It looks like the best one to date,” said Funny Fellow, Elderly S eripper McCabe as he walked into the Scho-
Art Becvar
Drew a clever cover.
LASTic office late last evening with his Christmas number under his arm. He didn’t say it boastingly and made no mention of how good he thought the others were.
As the Scholastic thumbed through the Yuletide edition it was forced to agree with Meadowland Mice. Becvar’s cover is one of the cleverest bits of art work done on the campus (The tin and glasses for John Bull have reference to the war debts; further explanations on request.)
Appreciated Abroad
McCabe’s written work is probably the best, but Dreux, Raddatz, Woods, Becklenberg and Doyle ( writer and artist combined) give the Funny Man a run.
Not appreciated as much as it might be on the campus, the Juggler is getting its recognition abroad if the letters McCabe receives every day have any significance. The “Christmas Number” will certainly increase the mail.
Is life worth living? Yes, so long As there is wrong to right—Alfred
Austin.
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
“CATALYZER” MAKES THIRD APPEARANCE
By Eugene Healy
Jim says that, reduced to Gaelic, his name reads: Va Donnchadha. Confidentially, that’d be an awful burden to carry through life. And we think that if we, and not Jim, were president of the Irish club, we’d still spell out our name in the accepted, twentieth century, American way. But then, we’re not president of the Irish club,, and our name is not Danehy. Va,— rather, Jim was elected to the position of honor just a short time ago. The club is a new one, and as we understand it, he is its first head. The Vox Pop of the Chicago Tribune heard from Jim a few weeks ago when some individual wrote into the column criticizing things Irish.
A Good Old Celt
When we surprised him in his room the other evening we found him working on a most enticing problem. From a ragged assortment of old texts he was digging out material which, after being put through the Danehy cleaning and refining process, was to be presented to the club at its next meeting. The Origin and Development of Celtic Languages. There’s a topic for you.
Jim is a senior, a major in chemistry, in the College of Science. He is a member of both the Academy of Science and the Chemist’s club. Unless plans fold up, he’ll remain at Notre Dame after graduation next June'and do research work in organic chemistry. After that—who can tell? Maybe he’ll teach; maybe he’ll settle down to organic chemistry.
Amateur Pianist
Jim’s chief interest, aside from chemistry and languages, (he is an accomplished student both of Latin and German, and is at present engaged in teaching himself the old Celtic) is music. Here at Notre Dame there are so many demands on his time that he finds it difficult to devote as many hours as he would like to the cultivation of his talent. He has talent. Modestly he refers to himself as an amateur pianist. I suppose that is right. But somehow or other the phrase has an unhappy connotation. It suggests elementary scales and practice after school—with a metronome
thrown in. Jim plays well. Classical music. During his first two years at N. D. he studied under our own professors. When he’s home, in the sum-
Jim Danehy
Gaelic: Va Donnchadha
mer, he writes a bit, composes melodies which we tried to get him to say are good. He wouldn’t. The opera entices him. He has seen “Aida” ten times.
Sullivan, Jim’s room mate, was graduated from Mount Carmel High in Chicago, with him in 1929. They roomed together last year also. And when we visited them, we tried to make the conversation take a familiar personal turn. Inevitably, we reached the point where Jim’s mustache became the topic of discussion. It’s a bristling red-brown half-moon of fuzz —of which Sullivan says: “As far as I know, he’s the only one who likes it.” Jim says: “That suffices.” I say— well, I’d better keep out of it entirely.
A Round Gentleman, Jim
Thinking, right from the start, that this article was fated to resemble nothing more than a list of campus organizations, we let things reach this point without mentioning Jim’s membership in the Spectators club. He has been called, by members of that organization, the ideal Spectator. At home in any topic, Jim gives talks raning from the origin of religion to the plausibility of a distinctly American opera.
December Issue Contains Some Valuable Research Notes.
Outlining a plan for careful and systematic searches of scientific literature by research workers, the main article of the December number of The Catalyzer, monthly publication of the Department of Chemistry and edited by the University’s Chemists’ club, gives valuable advice to those doing library work in connection with scientific problems.
Alumnus Contributes
The article entitled, “Sources of Information in the Chemical Literature,” is written by an alumnus of the University, H. G. Bowlus, who received his Ph.D. in Chemistry in 1931. At the present time, he is a member of the teaching staff of the Department of Chemistry at St. Vincent’s College, Latrobe, Pa.
Although advising that “searching chemical literature is an art and no general rules can be given since every particular problem requires its own solution,” Mr. Bowlus gives a general outline of sources. These include periodicals, institutional publications, patent literature, dissertations and manufacturers’ technical publications.
Secondary sources of information regarding chemical problems, according to Mr. Bowlus, include abstract journals, bibliographies, indices, handbooks, monographs, encyclopedias and textbooks.
Sister Hedwig Writes
Another alumnus of Notre Dame and the Department of Chemistry, Sister M. Hedwig, S.S.J., is the author of an article in the issue entitled “The Work of a Scientist.” This work stresses the necessity and value of patience in scientific work. Sister Hedwig is now teaching at St. Bernard’s Convent, Detroit, Michigan.
“Achievement” is the title of the Catalyzer's December editorial. “Were it possible,” this editorial states in urging specialization “to sum up in a single word our mutual goal in life, happiness would undoubtedly be that word. This entails persistent effort. Our energies, moreover, must be so disposed, that we are able to concentrate them, as much as possible, on our fields of endeavor.”
December 16, 19:32
' Nine
CAN YOU WRITE AT ALL? SHEEDY WANTS TO KNOW
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Second Issue of “Scrip” Soon After Christmas.
By The Young Scripper
Early this morning, as we were standing in Sorin Hall’s foyer, waiting foyer a nine o’clock class to begin, we were accosted by the well-groomed editor of The Scholastic. He said, “Hello” and we also, not to be outdone, said “Hello,” and then he said, “Do you know what would be a good idea?” We admitted that we never seemed to know what would be a good idea, and asked him what he would suggest. His suggestion was such a good one that we decided to act upon it at once.
Here’s The Idea
This is what the Scholastic’s editor said to us: “Why don’t you let the fellows know that you have to put out the second issue of Scrip very soon after Christmas? And then, if you asked them to, maybe they would work on something or other during the Christmas holidays, and could give it to you as soon as they got back. This would save you from becoming desperate in January, which is an awful time to get desperate.”
Isn’t he the thoughtful editor, though? That’s the way with some of these fellows—they always have the good of others at heart. Or maybe he needed copy. We can’t be sure.
Not Every Night
But no matter what his motives were, it still is a wonderful idea. The Christmas vacation would be a great time for you to dash off that story, or essay, or poem that you always intended to write for Scrip, but never could find the time. You won’t be out on a party every night during the holidays—grab a fountain pen one of those nights you spend at home, and see what you can do to help Scrip come out on time. This has always been the Scripper’s biggest problem, as any of our predecessors will tell you.
And just think of those long, cold, dreary, sleety afternoons, when you have nothing to do but fondle your Christmas gifts and make telephone calls. Why not unburden yourself of that masterpiece which has always been your secret pride and joy? And don’t forget—bring your MS up to 348 Sorin as soon as you get back. Merry Christmas!
All letters to the Voice of the Campus must be addressed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall. Names must be signed in full. Initials will be used upon request.
OR A FLOOR SHOW
Dear Editor:
I wish to voice a protest against the lamentable lack of organization in Dining Hall Cheering. I am referring to the West Dining Hall especially. You know that it is apparently the custom there to burst into raucous yells and boos whenever a waiter drops a dish, or a student leaves before the meal is over with; in short whenever anything the least bit out of the ordinary occurs.
Now all this is a wonderful manifestation of young virility, but isn’t it a pity that these scattered yells aren’t emitted in unison? This would add tremendously to their effectiveness. For instance, when a waiter drops a saucer we could have one long hiss followed by four short boos. Two long “yeahs” could be given the student who gets up to leave early. Notre Dame is known for its student spirit, and for its well organized cheering; let’s not slip up on this thing.
When we get this Dining Hall yelling organized (and incidentally we
Knights of Columbus Change Schedule of Dates For Meetings; Plan Effective On January First
A motion was made and passed at the regular meeting of the Knights of Columbus Monday night to the effect that the regular meeting be held every other Monday night instead of every second and fourth Monday of the month. Most of the Knights were in favor of the change. Accordingly, the change becomes effective January 1, 1933.
Following the changing of the bylaws, a general discussion on the subject of Catholic action, introduced by Father Miltner at the previous meeting, was opened. An interesting topic for discussion in the ame respect has been assigned for the next meeting, Monday night, January 9.
Don Lusardi next reported on the opening of the old clothes campaign now in progress. He asked that the hall representatives increase their ef
might just as well do the same thing for the yelling and the whistling in Washington Hall on Saturday nights),' and when we get a few more dirty cords, some more N. D.’s on the backs of slickers, and say a dozen or'so more unshaven chins, we will be well on the way to recovering that “Old Notre Dame spirit.” Once in a while we could have the Band over in the Dining Hall to stimulate more yelling, because, after all, we don’t want Notre Dame vien to turn “sissy.”
—M. H. R.
REAMS OF IT
Dear Sir:
The little one act play with the Juggler theme in last week’s issue was one of the most peculiar attempts at humor I have ever read. Is The Scholastic hard pressed for space? If it is, and you would like more of the sort of thing you published last week, I can get reams of it within a few minutes notice.
T. E. P.
forts to collect clothes for the poor, and made a plea to the student body for cooperation in this respect.
A donation of an indefinite sum to be given to the local council was received by Father Finnegan. This matter must be referred to the Board of Trustees who in turn will probably apply it to charity.
Larry Sexton concluded the business of the evening by reporting on the work of the basketball team.
Jerry Roach, Bill Casazza, Justin Thompkins, and Bob Nesbitt entertained with musical numbers.
Unblemished let me live, or die unknown;
O grant an honest fame, or grant me none.—Alexander Pope.
Ten
The Scholastic
BAND AND GLEE CLUB RECORD FOUR SONGS
Alma Mater and “Irish Backs'* Made Into Records.
Notre Dame’s musical . organizations have made recordings of two University songs during the past week. “Notre Dame, Our Mother,” and “When the Irish Backs Go Marching By” were made into records by the groups in Music Hall.
The recordings, four in all, include one of the alma mater sung by the Notre Dame Glee Club, and the same selection played by the University Band. The remaining two records are a singing of “Irish Backs” by the Glee Club in four parts, and the singing and playing of the same number by the Glee Club and band.
AH Steel Records
The records were made by the Sound and Television Company of Chicago on all steel discs commonly known as Voice-O-Grams.
The selections recorded are to be manufactured one to each record with the other side of the disc left blank. Upon purchase of the record, the purchaser may record anything he wishes on the blank side.
The product when finished will sell for seventy-five cents. The buyer will have his choice of selecting any or all of the four numbers that have been made.
Machines will be installed in the Notre Dame Music Hall to enable the purchaser to deliver his own message or make his own program on the side of the record designated for such.
Rhode Islanders Will Hold First Annual Reception
The newly formed Rhode Island club of Notre Dame, will hold its first annual reception on the 26th of December, at the Narragansett hotel, Providence, R. I.
The members of the Reception committee are: John J. McLaughlin, chairman; John V. Brady; John F. Fitzgerald; John F. McKiernan; Vincent G. McAloon; Andrew J. McMa-honski and John B. Steel.
Music for the dance will.be furnished by Eddie Quinton and his Troubadors, of Boston. Tickets may be secured from Chairman McLaughlin.
Le Cercle Francais Holds Last Meet Before Recess
Members of “Le Cercle Francais” met Wednesday evening at 7:45, Brownson Recreation Hall. The purpose of this meeting was to study several French Christmas hymns and carols. “Minuit, Chretiens,” Les Anges dans nos campagnes,” and, “Ca bergers, assemblons-nous” were the numbers learned by the members.
Rev. Francis T. Maher, C.S.C., honorary president of the club, related Van Dike’s famous Christmas story, “The Other Wise Man” in French. Fr. Maher first began the study of French as a hobby but is now able to apply the language in a practical way.
After the meeting Professor Langwell treated the members to “eats” in the Cafeteria. This was the last meeting to be held before the holidays and no date was set for the next meeting.
Scholarships Offered
Aeronautical scholarships totalling §7,500 in tuition value are being offered to students of universities and colleges by W. E. Boeing, leader in the air craft industry, it has been announced by the Boeing School of Aeronautics.
Four college undergraduates who submit the best essays on aeronautical subjects to a national committee or award and who are able to meet the necessary physical standards, will be given courses at the Boeing School at no tuition cost.
First prize is the W. E. Boeing master pilot ground and flying course exceeding qualifications necessary for a transport license. Second third and fourth place winners may select thorough ground school courses, with the second award candidate also receiving flight instruction. -
The scholarship competition will close on April 15, 1933, and essay subject selected by candidates must be approved prior to March 15, 1933.
Additional information may be obtained from the University registrar, or from the Boeing School of Aeronautics, Oakland, California.
Ivan A. Getting, holder of the 1929 Thomas A. Edison scholarship at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is one of the two students chosen to represent Massachusetts as candidates for the New England section
• Rhodes Scholarships.	.
GENERAL MOTORS MAN ADDRESSES ENGINEERS
Proving Ground Tests And Effects Are Discussed.
By Edward Mansfield
“Tests at the Proving Grounds and Their Effects on Automobiles” was the topic that Ernest Farrell, assistant in charge of technical data at the General Motors proving grounds used in his lecture at a meeting of the Engineer’s Club, Wednesday night, December 14, in the Cushing Hall of Engineering auditorium.
“Prove all things—hold fast that which is good” is the motto of this gigantic outdoor and indoor testing laboratory of General Motors, Mr. Farrell told his audience in beginning his talk.
Describes Grounds
He first described the proving grounds and equipment, then followed this with an explanation of the more important tests studied, and concluded with the prediction that “the manufacturer who progresses in the future will be the one who possesses the most up-to-date facts about his product.”
By using a relief map which was a miniature reproduction of the testing grounds at Milford, Michigan, and exhibiting actual charts used in research there to supplement his explanations, Mr. Farrell held the interest of his audience throughout.
To further assist the student engineers in gaining a clear idea of the work done at the grounds, the lecturer led an open forum in which many took part after his lecture.
Experimental Works
Experimental work on cars for the future, and test work on cars of the present comprise the two main divisions of the work of the General Motors engineers at the testing grounds.
The grounds were first used in 1925 and represent an expenditure of approximately §3,000,000, most of which is invested in road construction; 1300 acres are occupied by the property, with a force of 200 engineers, drivers and assistants employed.
The mileage covered by the cars on test runs since the grounds were opened would total 44,000 000 miles, (Continued on Page 30)
December 16, 1932
Eleven
1932 FOOTBALL REVIEW TO BE ON SALE MONDAY
Special Price Offered to Student Body.
The annual appearance of the Official Football Review has been definitely set for Monday by Joseph S. Petritz, editor-in-chief of the publication.
All copy foi* the Review has been assembled and the first few forms were run off during- the middle of the week. The completion of the printing and the binding will be done over the week-end.
This year’s Review, in addition to its distinction of being the only publication of its kind in the country, contains contributions from one of the greatest arrays of American sports writers it has ever assembled.
Good Cartoons
Special cartoons drawn by Werner Laufer and Feg Murray for the Review are among the features of the book. A complete photographic record of the season, action pictures of each game, and inividual pictures of each varsity squad member make the latest Revieiv one of the finest of the series.
George Trevor, Lawrence Perry, Christy Walsh, Arch Ward, Warren Brown, Bert McGrane and Ed Bang are among the many feature writers who have written special stories on various angles of the Irish team and the past season.
As in former years, the price of the book has been set at one dollar for campus purchasers. The regular price of two dollars has been retained for all sales other than to students.
Edmund Britz has acted as business manager for the publication again this fall. Mike Koken, Joe Kurth, Emmett Murphy, and Bill Pierce are co-publishers of the Review.
Scientists at the University of Akron are observing a spider which for three weeks has been attempting to “capture” the hour and minute hands of an alarm clock each time they come together on the face of the dial. The spider makes hurried attempts to fasten a strand of web so securely about both hands that they will be stopped. Thus far the clock has broken each strand, and it is believed the spider will lose out through starvation.
40 Science Students Take National Aptitude Test
Forty students under the supervision of the Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, took the National Aptitude Test last Friday afternoon.
This examination is given by the Committee on Commissions of the American Medical association at the same hour on the same day in every pre-medical school throughout the country.
The purpose of the test is to find out if the applicant for medical school has the necessary ability for the study of medicine. Along with the grades and the recommendation, the test is one of the deciding factors in the acceptance of the prospective student by a medical school.
Foreign Commerce Club Hears South Bend Engineer
Mr. William Martersteck of South Bend, addressed the members of the Foreign Commerce club at their meeting last Monday evening on the subject “Russia.”
The speaker has just returned from Russia where he has been engaged in engineering work for the past three years. He presented an excellent view of the conditions, progress and the general life of the country. Throughout the address he related many of his own very interesting experiences.
James Doyle, president, announced that Mr. Bott, instructor in marketing, will be the speaker at the meeting to be held Jan. 11th, and that a series of interesting programs has been arranged for future meetings of the club.
Music Club Head Lauds
N. D. Theory Teacher
Sir Carl Busch, who has taught musical theory at summer sessions of the University for the past several years, was highly praised by Mrs. E. C. White of Kansas City, Missouri in a talk before the Musical club of that city.
The composer has made Kansas City the field of his professional activities since he came there years ago with the Gade quartet from Denmark. Today Sir Busch’s compositions are as well known in Copenhagen as they are in Kansas City.
FR. RAEMERS COMPLETES PART OF TRANSLATIONS
N.D. Professor Progresses With Work/dn Berthier.
By Edward Mansfield
Reverend Sydney A. Raemers, M A., Ph.D., of the Department of Philosophy, has received much praise from critics for his translation from the
Reverend Sidney Raemers One more quarter in June
French of “A Compendium of Theology/’ by the Very Reverend J. Berthier, founder of the Missionaries of the Holy Family.
Prominent among the book reviewers who have lauded this work of Father Raemers are Brother Leo, literary critic for Columbia, official magazine of the Knights of Columbus, Rev. Leo P. Foley, C.M., Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., writing in The Little Flower Circle, and Father Kienberger, O.P., reviewer for the Emmanuel.
Brother Leo Praises
Further- praise was accorded A Compendium of Theology by The Acolyte magazine and the December Notre Dame Alumnus.
Brother Leo, in Columbia for December, said in part: “The essentials of Catholic faith are set forth in clear, vigorous and eminently readable English and in relatively small compass. . . . Father Berthier’s book has been very popular in France and its translation into English is an eminent work of charity and scholar-(Continued on Page 30)
Twelve
The Scholastic
COMMITTEES FOR K.C.
FORMAL NAMED BY CARY
Ticket Sale Will Open On January 4th.
John Cary, general chairman of the Knights of Columbus Formal dance, announced the complete list of the committees for the dance to be held at the Palais Royale Friday night, Jan. 20.
The committees as released by Cary are as follows:
Ticket Committee: W. Lawrence Sexton, chairman: St. Edward's Hall. Raymond M. Gerend: Dormitories. Samuel E. West; Corby Hall, Raymond J. Naber; Walsh Hall, Frederick J. Fayette; Alumni Hall, William R. Marphy; Badin Hall. Stewart H. Osborn; Howard Hall. Howard H. Flannery; Morrisey. James R. Lannon; Lyons Ha'l, James B. Quinlan ; and Off-Campus. Eugene H. Bernhardt.
Music Committee: Edmund L. Moriarty, chairman; Francis E. McGuire; and Edward J. Roach.
Program Committee: August von Boecklin, chairman; Eugene R. Zinn and Paul P. Kruez.
Decoration Committee: Frank W. Honer-kamp, chairman; J. Warren Schwantes and Francis J. McGahren.
Patron Committee: Joseph D. Clark, chairman ; Michael A. Santulli and Savino W. Cavender.
Room To Room Canvass
The ticket sale will formally open Wednesday, Jan. 4. Chairman Lawrence Sexton intends to superintend a room to room canvass of each hall.
This dance will be the first formal one of the year open to all classes. Freshmen, Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors alike, are invited to attend.
Edmund Moriarty, chairman of the music committee, has made connections with several prominent dance bands, but as yet none has been definitely signed. Immediately after the Christmas vacation, a definite announcement concerning the selection of the orchestra will be obtainable.
Chicago University Coaching Position is Still Open
Ames, Iowa.—Who will be coach of football at the University of Chicago next year is still undecided, according to T. N. Metcalf, director of athletics at Iowa State College, who will succeed Amos Alonzo Stagg as Chicago athletic director.
Stagg has held down both positions for years. When it became evident that he was to be retired under the university’s age limit rule as athletic director, students started a move to have him appointed coach.
LIES, MURPHY SPEAK AT ACADEMY OF SCIENCE MEET MONDAY.
Barthel N. Lies and James P. Murphy, juniors in the College of Science, spoke before the Academy of Science at the meeting held Monday evening.
Lies’ paper entitled, “The Lunatic System and its History” was a discussion of the work accomplished by such men as Aselli, Pecquet, Bartholin, Rudbeck, Virchow and other notable scientists, in the development of the theories concerning the lymphatic system. It was stated also that by far the most notable work on this subject has been done by Florence Rena Sabin whose hypothesis on the method of growth of the lunatic system is today the commonly accepted theory.
“History Of Antisepsis”
“The History of Antisepsis” was the title of Murphy’s paper. The first part of the treatise was devoted to the work done in antisepsis from the time of the ancient Egyptians in the First Dynasty about 4000 B. C. up to the middle of the nineteenth century. The life and work of Joseph Lister, the founder of modern antisepsis, was entered into in detail.
Lister’s greatest work was the discovery and application of the antiseptic carbolic acid in the treatment of infections resulting in the dreaded “hospital gangrene.” In spite of the many opponents of Lister’s method it was finally adopted by the medical profession and remains in practice today.
Robert E. Flatley and Frederick F. Follmar, sophomores in the College of Science and members of the Academy, presented constructive criticisms of the papers following their presentation.
Dr. Menge Will Address Modern Language Society
Dr. Paul J. Menge, of the department of modern languages, will deliver a lecture on, “Some of the Aspects of the Tristan Story in German Literature Since 1900,” at the annual meeting of The Modern Language Association of America which will be held at New Haven, Conn., from Dec. 29 to 31, this year. Yale university will be the headquarters of the association during its meetings. .
SOCIOLOGY DEPARTMENT CHANGES REQUIREMENTS
Seniors In Probation To Be Affected by Regulation.
Field work requirements for the certificate in Probation work, awarded by the Department of Sociology, have been increased, and are appli-
Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., His department sees some changes.
cable to this year’s senior class, announced Reverend Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., head of the department, this week.
Hereafter, the “apprentice,” as the probation worker is styled during the first nine months following his graduation from Notre Danie, must start with a three month’s period of service with a family case work agency without salary. Following this initial “practical experience,” the balance of the apprenticeship period is to be spent with the probation or parole department, or in correctional institutions, so long as adequate supervision is afforded the apprenticeship.
Nine Month’s Apprenticeship
The entire apprenticeship is to be spent outside of South Bend, with agencies approved by the Department of Sociology. At the end of this nine month’s period, the apprentice is required to pass an examination before the University awards the Certificate in Probation Work. However, the approval of the field work supervisors must be received before the apprentice is eligible to take the examina- ; tion which will afford him the certificate.
Ten students, two of whom are graduates, comprise this year’s graduating class in Probation Work. It should be noted that every member
(Continued on Pajre 29)
December 16, 1932
Thirteen
AL SMITH, MAYOR M’KEE TO BE AT MET. DANCE
Roosevelt Ballroom, Dec. 27; Five Dollars.
The stage is all set. The biggest night New York town has seen since the 18th amendment went into effect has been planned by George H. Rohrs, general chairman of this year’s Metropolitan club Christmas formal, along with his able staff of assistants.
The grand ballroom of the Roosevelt, one of the few remaining metropolitan hostelries has been selected as the location. You will listen to the soothing farrages of Glen Gray and his original Casa Loma orchestra, radio headliners and summer entertainers at Atlantic City’s Steel Pier. And lest you forget—the date—Tuesday, Dec. 27th. Dancing will be in vogue from 9:30 upward. The tariff —$5.
Many Honored Guests
Assisting the genial chairman are: Wesley Farrington, arrangement chairman; James Dunnigan, music chairman; Francis McGahren, decorations chairman; Michael Forastiere, patron chairman, and Leonard Cac-ciatori, program chairman.
Some of the honored guests include: Hon. Alfred E. Smith, Hon. Joseph McKee, present mayor of New York, Hugh A. O’Donnell, John Kenney, president of the Notre Dame club of New' York, Johnny Law, ex-’29 captain and Harry Sylvester.
Frank O’Hara is Chosen as Junior Pin Chairman
The Junior Class under the supervision of their president, Joseph Condon, has formulated preliminary arrangements for the selection of its class pins. Frank O’Hara, Junior in the College of Arts and Letters, has received the chairmanship of the pin committee, the other members of which will be named after Christmas.
Contrary to usual plans, the Class of ’34 has decided to select only pins, instead of both pins and rings as has been the custom in previous years. Several large concerns will receive the consideration of the committee during the ensuing weeks. The price of the pin will amount to $15, and the final selection will be made by the last of January.
K. C BOOK WILL BE AS BIG AS "SCHOLASTIC,” CLAIMS EDITOR
Amid the rush and bustle of the pre-holiday season comes the glad tidings that preliminary work is nearing completion on Editor Becklen-berg’s new Santa Maria. Becklenberg says that the cover design is by our inimitable Art Becvar. Art is hard at work on this cover, and it will undoubtedly be another of his successes.
K. C. News Only
The outstanding feature of the new Santa Maria is that it deals solely with the K. of C. news; past issues have had much space devoted to campus news. Becklenberg’s idea is to eliminate this type of news and make the publication strictly a Knights of Columbus journal. Its size will be approximately the same as that of the Scholastic, and it will first appear on Feb. 1,1933, when three thousand copies will be issued. The first five hundred will be distributed in the local council; the remaining 2,500 copies will be sent to the K. of C. councils throughout the United States. This year the Santa Maria will be issued monthly.
The other officers of the new publication are as follows: Walt Kennedy, Associate Editor; John Jaeger, Associate Editor; Granger Weil, Feature Editor; John McElligott, Assistant Feature Editor; Ed Moriarty; Ray Naber, Business Managers.
Husk O’Hare to Play for N. D. Villagers’ Formal
“Husk” O’Hare and the Genial Gentlemen of the Air, popular radio band, has been selected by the Notre Dame Villager’s to play the program of dances for the seventh annual Christmas formal to be given in the Palais Royale Ballroom on the twentyseventh of December.
John De Wilde is serving as general chairman of the affair assisted by Loren Hess, ticket chairman, Edward Beahm, advertising, Jack Mullins and William Martersteck, publicity and Daniel Youngerman, decorations. James Ash is president of the club.
Last year nearly 300 couples attended the dance. Dancing will be from 9:00 to 1:00 o'clock. The subscription has been set at $2.50 per couple.
HOWARD AND DILLON TO VIE FOR DEBATE TITLE
Will Argue It Out Tonight At St. Mary’s.
Culminating a successful interhall debating season, the Wranglers Society presents the two finalists in an inter-group debate at 7:45 o’clock tonight at Saint Mary’s college. The debate will be given before an audience of students and members of the Saint Mary’s college faculty.
The teams will be competing for the championship of the University and the recently donated Victor Lemmer Debating Trophy. The two halls represented in the finals are Howard and Dillon who have earned that honor after having participated in a bracket of elimination trials.
Father Cavanaugh Will Preside
Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., the chaplain of the Wranglers, will preside as chairman of this evening’s affair.
The judges will be William Coyne, debate coach of the University, Robert McAuliffe, and Louis Buckley, professor of economics.
The resolution to be debated is: “Resolved, that all inter-allied debts and reparations be cancelled.” Howard Hall will uphold the resolution.
It is interesting to note that the two teams that are meeting tonight are in the lower class of each group. Howard with John O’Connor, Gene Blish and John Locher composing the team, is a junior hall, winner of the seniorjunior group, while Dillon, a freshman hall, represented by Justin Hannon, Robert Schmelsle and Eugene Malloy, defeated Morrissey and the strong Lyons teams in the sophomorefreshman league.
To Sandusky—The Credit
Much of the success for interhall debating can be credited to Arthur Sandusky, chairman of the debating committee, and his staff of coaches, all Wranglers, who worked diligently in presenting the splendid teams that have competed for the championship.
Immediately after the judges’ decision is announced, it is planned to award the winning team with the Victor Lemmer trophy.
Fvurteen
The Scholastic
MACHINE AGE EVALUATED AT WRANGLERS MEETING
Predicts Government Control of Future Industry.
By Louis Hruby
Predicting that the present economic system, by its inability to cope with existing conditions, will be supplemented by era of government controlled and guild-like organizations, John D. Heywood assailed the relentless action of the machine age, in his speech before the Wranglers at their regular meeting, Wednesday.
Heywood pointed out the undeniable fact that machinery was largely responsible for the unemployment throughout the world. “Machineproduction has advanced so far, that even if production would again reach the heights it attained in 1928, only half the number of men would be returned to their jobs!” Heywood said.
“Four Hour Day”
The new plan that he offered was a result of the recent statement issued, which stated that a four-hour working day, four days a wees would be sumcient to supply all the world demand. “Why not have the government enforce a provision similar to that, consequently destroying overproduction, and allowing men to spend more time in the pursuit of better things in life?” he asked.
He advocated a return to the use of the principles of the guild in order that a closer union might be formed between the laborer and the producer. This would bring about more harmony, and make the work of the laborer one of enjoyment, rather than of the existing drudgery, Heywood contended.
Machinery As An Aid
Not condemning the many laborsaving inventions of -the present time, he believed they could be introduced as a means to lessen the hours required for working, thus making the use of machinery an aid to mankind, and not adding to his discomforts by throwing him out of work as mechanical appliances replaced him.
NOTICE!
“The Scholastic” staff will meet in the editorial rooms at 7:00 o’clock this evening.
Auburners Hire “Sleepy” Hall and Club Dickman
The Auburn club will inaugurate its fourth annual Christmas dance, Dec. 26, at the Club Dickman, central New York’s finest place of entertainment. Music will be furnished by ' “Sleepy” Hall and his well known recording orchestra, who will also play for the Utica, Buffalo and Capitol District Club dances.
Thomas P. Behan was appointed general chairman of the affair by President Donahue as were the following co-chairman: William J Burns, Decorations; Francis W. Murphy, music; Donald J. Sheedy, reception; John Van Etten, ballroom; Paul Halbert, publicity; Charles Morris, tickets and Kenneth Whips, programs.
Forum Clothes Survey Is Progressing Rapidly
Santa Claus is doomed to disappointment. Information as to what the Notre Dame man wears will not be available to Christmas necktie and scarf givers this year. According to Francis Fogarty, president of the Commerce Forum, it will be impossible to begin tabulating the returns from the Forum’s survey on clothing until after the Christmas recess. Although 250 replies are expected, the number received up till now is too small to warrant the drawing of any conclusions about corduroys or topcoats.
The regular meeting of the Forum scheduled for last Tuesday night was postponed. The president expects to present a speaker at the next meeting, the date of which will be announced later.
New World Map Has Changes
Washington, D. C. — A new map of the world issued last week by the National Geographic Society 'contains 1,226 names that are different from the names of the same places in the society’s map made ten years ago. Moreover, 500 new names have been added to the map of the world this time. The total number on the map is now over 4,800.
Just to show how rapidly the names of the places in the world change, the society let it be known that in the latter three weeks of the map’s publication, it was necessary to stop the presses three times to record new changes.
N. D. CONCERT BAND PERSONNEL IS NAMED
Professor Casasanta Picks 71 For Band Membership.
Seventy-one names have been selected by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta for the 1933 personnel of the Notre Dame orchestra. Extensive tryouts have been conducted during the past week.	■
The band presented its first concert of the season last Friday evening at the basketball game. Last evening, the group gave very commendable renditions of several musical comedy numbers. Among those featured on the program were “Old Man River” from “Showboat” and “Victor Herbert’s Favorites.”
Student Singing Urged
Professor Casasanta has made the request that the student body join in the singing of all favorites selections played by the band at these concerts.
The personnel in its entirety follows :
B FLAT CLARINET—John Youngen, John Locher, Simon Locher, Paul Locher, Edward Zimmers, Roland Smith, James Morrison, Harold Pohlmeyere, William Gorgen, Paul Doucher, Frank Cooney, Arthur Huber.
D FLAT PICCOLO—John Hemming, Joseph Burns.
OBOE — Michael Feeney, William Reilly, Carl Vogelheim, Andrew Hellmuth.
E FLAT CLARINET — Robert Filson, J. Leonard Kenkel, Harvey Rockwell.
E FLAT BARITONE SAX—Charles Morris.
B FLAT BARITONE — James J. Treacy. Claude L. Rossiter.
B FLAT TENOR SAX—Robert Demer, Maurice De Wald, James Bordeaux.
PERCUSSION — Edmund Fitzmaurice, William Robison, Joseph Argus, Charles Clark, John M. Lee, Glen J. Porter,
TUBA—George Bryan, Norman Gehringer, Eric Ryan, George Vesey.
E FLAT ALTO SAX—Richard J. Pfeiffer. Raymond Rossi, Charles Dehnalck.
TROMBONE—W. A. Stewart, Terrill Austin, John Cary, Edwin Wykoff, Cha les Fiore, Joseph MacDonald, William Jordan, Fred ‘ Weniger.
B FLAT CORNET—George F. Huntzicker, Paul Guamieri, Clair White, Clarence Hess, James Freeman, John F. Gill, Martin C. Moran. Clair Berger, Joseph Wasko, Thomas Flynn, August von Boecklin, Frederick Theis, Walter Dupray.
B FLAT TRUMPET—Cha-les Schi'l. John F. Murphy, Thomas A. Halley, John Lynch, Joseph Bean, Benjamin Pollard.
E FLAT ALTO HORN—Charles Jahr, Albert Ripley, Donald Draper, Norbert Ott.
NOTICE!
The next issue of the “Scholastic” will appear on Jan. 13.
December 16, 1932
Fifteen
CLEVELAND CLUB GIVES FREE BANQUET TO 50
THEATRE TALK
Bv Roger Roimn
Dean McCarthy Gives Talk To Members at Ind. Club.
Mr. James E. McCarthy, Dean of the College of Commerce, addressed the member of the Cleveland club, Thursday, Dec. 15, at a banquet at the Indiana club. In his talk. Dean McCarthy insisted that the solution of the economic crisis lies with the present generation of college students.
Father Sigmar Speaks
He stressed the fact that in the past decade the so-called business leaders and pseudo-politicians, who are in a small degree responsible for the present condition of the country, were prone to ignore the feelings of their fellow citizens. They were content to make their millions by shoving the other fellow about. Mr. McCarthy’s advice to the leaders of the future is to have patience, to have a proper degree of modesty, in a word, to be decent Americans.
Rev. Julian P. Sigmar, Department of Philosophy, Notre Dame University, compared life to a football game. In life, as in football, if one is to reach his goal, he must have someone to block for him, to call the proper signals, “Success,” said Father Sigmar, “depends upon teamwork.” “The campus clubs,” he said, “are the medium by which this teamwork is developed.”
Juggler’s Play
Those present at the dinner, which was gratis to the members of the club, enjoyed the music of the Notre Dame Juggler’s, who played a medley of delightful numbers during the meal.
The members of the club who are to be graduated in June were called upon to say a few words. They expressed their gratitude for the support of the underclassmen and felt confident of the future success of the club.
Cambridge, Mass.—Because so many young executives desirous of special training have lost their positions recently, Harvard University’s School of Business Administration has decided to hold an emergency session beginning Jan. 30, and lasting until August 16.
The presentation of the first play in Washington Hall has been definitely postponed until after the Christmas recess. The University Theater has prepared to fight suspense with suspense by presenting next Monday night “Charlies Aunt.” Some playgoer with a thankful heart has said: “The play offers the only pause in life.” As the holiday draws near and the suspense grows into thickness a play would have proved the perfect antidote after the old fireman’s manner. But instead we may look forward to the play on our return. Just to see the turnabouts of the hot suspense incidents generously packed into this farcial melange of fictitious character and false emotions will deflate the post-vacation Baloons of nostalgia.
Aunts and Cheer Leaders
The characters of the play and who will play them. David Powers, the graceful cheer leader, will show what he has bee practicing for all fall in the stadium. He will go one step further this time; a dainty step it will be. For it is upon Dave Powers’ dainty fignure that the aunt’s dress falls. And so, the secret out, it is he who will be the aunt. And we warn you this impersonation is surprising in more ways than in those incurable habits of cigar smoking and in placing feet on the table tops which the real aunt from Brazil (where the nuts come from) would never do in public. George Allingham who has the most natural stage presence is allied with Jack Finneran on the business of Powers in dresses. Also Allingham is attached to the sister of Jack Finneran’s heart interest. Mr. Powers chaperones; George Allingham pantomimes; Jack Finneran scheme’s; Tighe Woods and Jim Wade support.
Ah, Complications
The complication of the play arises from the girl’s sudden visit of the father, a certain Mr. Spettigue. Mr. Spettigue makes complications doubly so by taking up with the fictitious aunt, and so on. The play has an admirable cast for the enactment of all this dissemblance. Most of the players were in last year’s farce “Gold in the Hills” and intend to outdo themselves again. An hilarious evening of vaudevillian throwbacks should crystallize homecoming good
humor, for it will genuinely top in a climactic way the whole fall’s farce of Christmas anticipation.
For the Christmas sojourn in Chicago, if that is on the itinerary, Elmer Rice's “The Left Bank” at the Harris Theater, and the most engaging operetta in many a curtain “The Cat and The Fiddle” are recommended. The latter played on Broadway all last year with praise and applause for its reward, besides the 53 week stay. “The Good Earth ’ is opening Dec. 26, but the critics have not praised this dramatic adaptation of the Pulitzer Prize novel. By the way, directors are on location in China now for the moving picture version of this story.
Broadway Hints
And on Broadway somewhere east of Buffalo “Another Language,” “Autumn Crocus,” “The Late Christopher Bean” are a sample of the kind of play thereabouts. The Civic Repertory Company, under the blessed surveillance of Eva La Gallienne, rotates around “Dear Jane ” an endearment of Jane Austen. “Camille,” a new adaptation of “Alice in Wonderland,” “Lilliom” and “Peter Pan.” As no play is distinguishable for marked preference the individual art arising peculiar to a personal artistic pattern in the “Empress Eugenie” portraits by Cornelia Otis Skinner would be the sole inexcusable cut had a little red book, the student’s guide, mentioned such things. Yet a memorable moment must exist in “Lu-crece,” what with Katharine Cornell as an actress, Guthrie McClintic as a director, Thornton Wilder as a translator, Robert Edmund Jones as a designer, and a Christmas holiday as the impressionable time.
And the Greetings
If the home town offers no theatrical evenings one could take the advantage by going down front with Charles Dickens to see his “Christmas Carols.”
The column wishes all thee best wishes of the wishing season. And it doesn’t say it fast.
No man ever became extremely wicked all at once.—Juvenal.
A liar should have a good memory.
—Quintilian.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
“Scholastic” Begins Articles On Timely Economic Topics
By Walter Johnson
War Debts . . . Farmers’ Holiday . . . Reconstruction Finance Corporation . . . Inflation . . . Reparations . . . Gold Standard . . . these terms are pushed in our faces every day and at every turn. Hoover’s reply to cancellation proposals of Europe forced hammer killings back to page eight. Even Scribner’s features an article on government control of industry; The New Deal, by Stuart Chase, has become a best seller. We can sniff haughtily at the science of economics, but we can’t escape it.
Twelve Million Unemployed
In a word, our economic society seems to have degenerated. Three years of depression, with its deflation and ■ unemployment affecting everyone, have brought us face to face with the realization that something is wrong with our system. Over twenty million farmers are facing bankruptcy, helpless under mortgages assumed during the cheap money conditions of 1929; twelve million industrial workers are unemployed; skilled labor and salaried workers feel the effect of both unemployment and decreased income; investors have seen their dividends vanish and their capital depleted. These last three years have cost the United States one hundred and fifty billion dollars. No one has escaped.
Every Depression Worse
Our condition is by no means unique with regard either to time or to place. Depression is world wide —in fact the United States, as a result of expansion of credit, has been last in feeling its effects; moreover, we can trace its recurrence, varying in severity, with amazing regularity through the past hundred years. Interspersed, however, between the dips we find equally regular periods of prosperity, with high prices, good wages and frenzied production, during which we promptly proceed to forget the trying sessions of a few years before. As a result, each recurring period of depression comes with striking newness and alarming suddenness, to find us entirely unprepared.
The purpose of production, of in
dustry, of civilization is to satisfy man’s wants; it was that during the time of Plato; later Moore realized it, and today the idea has been, as it were, resurrected by such men as Butler and Chase. Each preached and presented his own more or less Utopian schemes, but in vain, against individualism, laissez-faire and the human acquisitive instinct.
Economic Life Complex
Our economic life has broken down. Civilization brought with it innumerable advantages and improvements. Increased production, a result of technological advancement and division of labor, has raised greatly our standard of living; credit and modern banking have facilitated exchange and financing; modem transportation, tariff, absentee ownership, with the speculation it involves, all have had their place in the economic development of America. But this development, these improvements, have been but an accidental result, a secondary consideration; profits, power, individual gain, have been the driving incentive. Thus economic life has become more and more complex—and unorganized.
Overproduction Or Underconsumption
Periodically society finds the producing machine, which it has created so hurriedly and so unscientifically, getting out of control. Production, uninhibited, far exceeds demand, and over-production appears; money, intended to facilitate exchange, becomes, through its fluctuations, an actual menace. Laissez faire, our philosophy through the past century, promised a natural, an automatic check on such possibilities. Practice has shown its absurdities. And as a result, we have—economic problems.
The business cycle . . . taxation . . . war debts . . . the farm problem . . . the gold standard . . . are all pertinent, current questions — economic enigmas, in fact—and as such, they deserve consideration. Solutions —hardly; but, subsequently, we shall attempt to present, in brief, the essential phases of these problems, as well as the more important of proposed remedies.
GREEK LITERATURE TOPIC AT PATRICIAN MEETING
David Powers Reviews Dramas of Sophocles.
By Robert Ervin
David Powers, a major in the department of classics, delivered an address entitled “The Women in Greek Literature” at the weekly meeting of th21- Patricians Club, held Tuesday night, December 13. Robert Flint, president of the Patricians Club, presided at the meeting and introduced the speaker.
The purpose of this address was to incite more interest in Greek life and literature. Since women are symbols of the culture of any age, the speaker used the realm of the Grecian family as a basis for his talk.
Portraits Of Margaret Anglin
The ancient Greek drama, it w’as brought out, was an excellent medium for the illustration of intimate family relations of that period. With this thought in mind, Powers used the dramas of Sophocles as typical of that age. The speaker gave brief synopses of the drama, “Women of Trachis,” “Ajax,” “Electra,” and “Antigone.”
Portraits of Margaret Anglin as. she appeared in these Greek tragedies added much interest to the talk. Powers distributed programs of Miss Anglin’s presentations, w’hich vrere given in San Francisco, to his listeners.
There wTas an unusually large attendance at the meeting, chiefly because of the presence of many Latin students, guests of the Club.
Round Trip Rates Secured By
Connecticut and Met. Club
At a special joint meeting of the Metropolitan and Connecticut Valley clubs held last Friday evening in the Library it was announced that through the efforts of the Metropolitan club a special holiday transportation rate has been arranged with the New York Central railroad for the benefit of members of both clubs.
Beginning Dfec. 14 and ending Jan. 12, club members may travel to New York either by Pullman or by day coach. Round trip tickets will cost $39.70 and $29.74 respectively. The meeting was presided over by Metropolitan club vice-president Al Ripley.
December 16, 10.12
Seventeen
MORE “DOME” PHOTOS TO BE TAKEN AFTER RECESS
Art Work Gets Most Attention At Present,
The editor of the Dome has just returned from a visit to the engravers, bringing with him definite plans for the completion of the yearbook.
John Conley
Dome’s Associate Editor.
Men engaged in making up panels are working as rapidly as possible, and it is expected that all the junior panels will be ready for the engraver by the first of the year.
Glosses of those proofs turned in by the prescribed time have been received, sorted and arranged. Furthermore, the photographers are now making glosses of all those proofs which were not called for or returned, so those men may rest assured that their picture will appear in the annual.
Drew Frontispieces
Occupying the center of attraction now is the art department. These members of the- staff are employed in drawing frontispieces for the various books of the Dome. Each illustration will conform with the main theme, thus educing it part by part. Also in the process of development is a spread for the inside of the covers.
The photographer’s studio will be open again in Walsh Hall immediately after the semester examinations. Its use will be primarily for the members of the faculty who have not had a sitting as yet, and for those seniors who haven’t been photographed. The remaining activities men, academic societies, and city or state clubs will also be taken at that time. Definite announcements concerning hours and appointments will be made at a later date.
Chant Originally Intended For Congregational Singing
By John Sharpe
With the appearance of the “Motu Proprio” in the November of 1903, a new and powerful impetus was given the movement for the establishing of Gregorian Chant as the universal musical language of the Church. Inherited from the ancient Fathers, guarded for centuries in liturgical codices, there was no type of church music, Pius X thought, with its vital beauty and spiritual appeal. His long-sought-for ideal it was to have the self-same Kyrie chanted in Dove’s Nest, Iowa, that is chanted in Bordeaux.
Laity Have Not Taken To Chant
In his opinion the congregation should not merely assist at, but should also take an active part in, high mass. The ordinary and responses of the mass he appointed to be sung by the parishoners, leaving the proper to a trained choir; producing the exquisite contrast of the grandeur of numbers and the consummate finish of art. But the laity, in general, are not yet fully convinced of the simplicity and ease of Chant. The time is not yet ripe for a complete return to the true ideal of congregational singing.
Polyphony Second Choice
It must not be thought that Chant is the only music approved by the Church. For classic polyphony, written by such men as Palestrina, is given second place of honor. If it were not for Palestrina, perhaps, secular music would have been completely wiped out of the liturgy. According to Baini, the Council of Trent, to offset the trite secular tunes then used as mass motives, thought of banishing all harmonic music from Church functions. Before their proclamation to this effect was made public, Palestrina submitted to them his beautiful ‘Mass of Pope Marcellus”: laic music is still used in our ritual.
In my opinion polyphony will never replace chant: it is too wild and whirling. It renders the words incomprehensible, twisting them upon one another like a long row of tumbling dominoes. Providing they have no Debussyian harmonic effects, modem compositions of excellence and so
briety may also steal into the “White List” of the Society of St. Gregory.
Together with the rehabilitation of the music of the Church goes the desire to make uniform the pronunciation of the liturgical text. Incongruous it is to hear a priest sing “eggshellseas” (excelsis) with absolute sureness, only to have the choir pounce back upon him with an even more decisive “ecksellsiss.” The Latin used by the Church is the “sermo vulgaris,” a tongue that originated among the Roman tradesmen, slaves and housewives of the second century, when the last vestiges of the rule of Augustus were gone and Cicero’s voice was dust.
The Church’s Language
From Italy this tongue spread to Africa where it not only became the official language of the Church, but where it also replaced Greek in the schools. Jerome, Aquinas, Augustine, all the great Fathers of the Church, adopted this language and made it their chief instrument of expression. In her choice of this language the Church again demonstrates her unique individuality, for, with its soft sounds, this speech is quite different from the crisp “chugging” Latin used by college freshmen or the utilitarian Latin used by Walgreen pharmacists.
Organ Best Accompaniihent
Because it was originally designed to be sung in caves and catacombs, Chant is purely a vocal form and should be sung “a capella.” Instrumental accompaniment of any sort tends to fetter the freedom of its expression. There is, however, one musical instrument that has received the sanction of the popes—the organ. Because of its power and sublimity, it is considered worthy of being blended with liturgical rites. And though the voice sacrifices some of the beauty of its true scale when obliged to conform to a keyed instrument, the organ more than makes up for this defect by not only giving basic support to the voices, but by covering a multitude of vocal sins as well.
Just as Lamb divided the human species into two groups, “the men (Continued on Page 281
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
FAST THINKERS
Some observers say that the glittering kaleidoscope of modern life is producing in the mass of the people a peculiar type of mentality. This formation of the mind is -due to the influence of much newspaper reading, superficial motion pictures, catchphrase advertising and other thought syncopations. It may be called the jazzing-up of thought processes. Call it what you like, it is no intellectual advance, because it does not follow the natural line of development which knows no short-cut education such as we find offered in week-end courses. Sometimes this new. mental form is referred to as “tabloid.” In many respects it is necessary to the fastmoving conditions of present-day life. But on this point Walter B. Pitkin, who proved that stupidity is a human privilege, makes an apt statement: “Whom the gods would destroy, they first make tabloid readers.” We hope that Mr. Pitkin did not borrow that idea from Walter Winchell.
Still, the above-mentioned causes of tabloid mentality have a reason for existence. They need not be allowed to contribute to intellectual decadence; they can be used judiciously without endangering solid thought. We can recognize their purpose, as amusement, current news, light literature, and we can appreciate them for what they are worth. Of course, as a steady diet they would produce a state of cultural anemia; but no truly thoughtul person will confuse the shallow with the deep,, the entertaining with the instructive. If people develop tabloidism, Bab-bittism or Philistinism, the fault is largely their own.
Boston College Heights
V
WILDERNESS IS PARADISE NOW!
Out at California, examinations are given in courses at the end of four weeks. If the student gets 95% and has a mark of “A” for the preceding weeks, he no longer has to take the course and in addition receives a refund of five dollars on his tuition.
HICKORY DICKORY DOCK!
Twenty radio controlled clocks have been installed on the Iowa State College campus in an effort to get the students to class on time.
V
LAUGH, CLOWN, LAUGH
A professor at Rutgers in a Humor Quiz, discovered that satire comes high on the list as a sign of intelligence. A giggle is an indication of inanity. Ability to laugh at oneself was rated highest A successful student is one who can poke fun at himself.
V
WHERE WISHES ARE TAXIES!
Despite the depression, Chaminade College in St. Louis has increased its enrollment. Located in a fashionable suburb, it is just beyond the car lines. The school made arrangements with a cab company and now the student body is transported hither and yon at the cost of the faculty.
V
P-S-S-S-T!
Becoming curious about the kissing business, the Daily Northwestern checked up on the situation and found that most coeds are pretty much agreed that no man, no matter how fine a chap he may be, deserves to have a kiss on his first date with a girl.
V
ADD FRATERNITIES
At Bucknell, a new fraternity has been started under the name Flunk, Flunk, Flunk. The Brothers’ song is “Why Did It Have To Be Me.”
V
BOY, PAGE MISS BAUM!
A dormitory at Santa Clara has been given the name “Grand Hotel.”
December 16, 1932
Nineteen
EDITORIALS
BALLYHOO,
An eminent French traveller and author recently condemned the American press, saying that he could not stomach its “rank sensationalism.” We thought that he was a bit unfair when we first read his criticism, but an event of the past week or so has brought his point out beyond dispute. It was rather disheartening to see how every metropolitan newspaper of any size ate us the rumor recently that a break in the relations between Notre Dame and West Point was not far in the offing. Notre Dame certainly did not start the talk of a rift, and we have it from the mouth of a prominent West Pointer that such a thing is farthest from the mind of the military academy at the present time. It looks very startling in headlines, though, and headlines sell the sheet. But perhaps it isn’t right to be too hard on our dailies; it must be a real task to come out every morning.
a
IT'S CHRISTMAS ANYWAY
The Scholastic doesn’t want to forget to take advantage of these last few ems to wish all its readers a reasonably joyous vacation and a very Merry Christmas. Even if the stocking is empty in the morning, every college man should be philosophical enough to revel in the spirit of the time and to enjoy the stimulus of a December afternoon.
Presupposing the return of most of the staff members, we feel safe in making the statement that the next issue of The Scholastic will appear four weeks from today.
. $
PATTERN '	I
In the mist of the perennial headlines advertising the now ultra-commercialized Christmas dances sponsored by our campus clubs, the story
of . the free banquet given by the Cleveland Club to its members last evening stands out in pleasant relief. The Ohio organization realized a little profit from the ball following the Navy game, and decided that the fairest and most sensible thing to do with the money was to give it back in an evening’s entertainment.
The Scholastic understands that such things have been done before on the campus, but they are unquestionably the exception to general club procedure. Some of the larger organizations whose profits during the next few weeks will run into several figures might well consider such an item as entertainment gratis in their next year’s budget. The members might have more confidence in the officers, and the thought might possibly be provoked that the Christmas dance exists for the club and not vice-versa.
0
THE SEASON
Seven wins and two losses by a very good football team—and some of us have seen our last game as students. It was not the most agreeable thing in the world to be told decisively by Pitt and Southern California what it is all about, but we would feel a lot worst if, after a perfect season, Notre Dame thought that there was nobody in her class. If the year has done nothing else it has made people realize that football is only a game, that when somebody wins, somebody loses, and that after it is all over there is still the depression, commencement, semester exams, and loads of other things to worry about.
Mr. Anderson turned out another excellent team. It might be news to some, but it is a fact that a team can be excellent and lose two games. And Notre Dame was beaten by two teams which come very near approximating her own greatest elevens.
Twenty
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
U.S.C. Jolts Notre Dame, 13 to 0
Trojans Break Eight Year Record by Beating Irish Twice In Two Years
NORTHWESTERN TO PLAY CAGERS HERE MONDAY
Take Advantage of Two Scoring Chances; Irish Offensives Falter Near Goal-line.
By Leslie Raddatz
Nebraska did it ten years ago, and nobody has done it since—until last week. Southern California thus has the distinction, besides being on the verge of a national championship, of being one of those rare teams that beat Notre Dame two years in suc-ceession.
Southern California had only two chances to score against a Notre Dame team that seemed to be more than holding its own, and they took advantage of both of them. Even at that it might have been another of those one point victories for the Irish. The westerners’ line charged in all afternoon. The backs were waiting to knock down passes that might have been scores. And the game ended 13 t- 0.
Irish Leads In First Downs
The statistics show that Notre Dame completed seven out of seventeen passes for a total gain of 122 yards. Southern California completed only one out of eight for only 31 yards. That one pass, however, was the pass that brought the first, and therefore the winning touchdown. Notre Dame was away ahead in first downs—12 for the Irish to six for Southern California.
The second string backfield started the game behind the first string line. The first quarter passed quietly with Banas punting and Griffith punting back. Southern California made one first down.
At the beginning of the second quarter the first string backfield went in for Notre Dame. With Koken, Melinkovich and Brancheau carrying the ball, Notre Dame began an ad
vance that netted three first downs. Jaskwhich punted over the Southern California goal line. After gaining six yards, Southern California punted
Nick Lukats
Threw most of the passes.
back to midfield. Notre Dame gained nothing in three attempts and Jask-which punted to Warburton. Behind almost perfect interference, Warburton ran the ball back from his own 36 yard line to the Notre Dame 44 yard line.
Warburton picked up 15 yards more. After that it appeared that the Southern California attack had been stopped. On fourth down there were 12 yards to go on the 31 yard line. On the next play Griffith dropped back and tossed a long pass to McNeish, who had to take only three steps to get the first Southern California touchdown. Smith kicked the goal.
The second touchdown came early in the third quarter when Koken fumbled a Southern California punt on the Notre Dame 26 yard line. Erskine recovered. Southern California advanced the ball to the one yard line.
(Continued on Page 29)
Reiff is Opponents* Big Threat; Krause, McGuff May Play.
Coach George Keogan’s eagers are going to get their first taste of big time basketball competition next Monday evening when the Northwestern Wildcats invade the local premises. So far the Blue and Gold have had things pretty well their own way, but it’s going to be a tough job to down that scrappy quintet from Evanston.
The Wildcats are slated to carry off the Big Ten honors this season. So far the Purple have easily downed Bradley of Peoria, and Marquette University. These two games the Northwestern outfit looked upon as practice sessions. Needless to say the invaders will be out for blood; not alone because of the football defeat which they suffered at the hands of the Fighting Irish this fall, but also to even the count with the Keogan-ites for those two basketball games which the latter took away from them last year.
Northwestern Team Strong
Northwestern boasts a snappy quintet which is led by the Notre Dame nemesis, Joe Reiff, one of the keenest eyed forwards in the middlewest. Elmer Johnson, a tall, rangy center is an excellent pivot man. The three little fellows Moonshower, and Culver at the guards, with Brewer working at the other forward position, complete the Wildcat varsity five.
In their recent encounter with Marquette, the Purple scored thirty-six points. Each one of the varsity men counted for at least two baskets, with Captain Reiff registering four field goals and three free throws for a total of eleven points.
At this writing it is not definite (Continued on Page 29)
Twenty-one
December 16, 1932
Keoganites Open Season
With Victory Over Albion
SCORE—41 TO 20
Voegele Collects 20 Points For Scoring Honors; John Baldwin’s Passing Great.
By Howard Waldron
The basketball Irish of Notre Dame rang up another basketball victory for Coach George Keogan when it opened its 1932 basketball season with a 41-20 win over Albion college from Albion, Michigan, last Friday night. This was the seventeenth successive win for the Irish who have played great basketball since the Purdue defeat of last year.
Jordan Begins It
Notre Dame started its scoring when Johnny Jordan, sophomore forward, tossed one in from the right side of the court. Then Risley, Albion star forward, intercepted a bad pass and opened the scoring for the visitors. Notre Dame regained the lead on Voegele’s first basket of the evening, but lost it very quickly on shots by Risley and Chapman. Albion forged ahead and led 9-8.
But the visitors soon trailed again, and never regained the lead nor came close to regaining it. After the first ten minutes, the Notre Dame men lost their nervousness and settled down to real basketball. Their plays began to click and their defense, which had been rather ragged, tightened. No longer were men permitted to take set shots or get close to the basket for good shooting. At half time, mainly through the efforts of Baldwin and Voegele, Notre Dame led 19-9.
New Uniforms
The Irish, in new gold uniforms, showed a faster passing and quicker breaking offense than they used last year. This change, no doubt, was due to the new rules which are intended to speed up the play. The rule which causes the ball to be advanced to tho middle of the court within ten seconds has, especially, speeded up the game.
Also, not a penalty was called for violation of these new rules. Even the three second pivot rule, by which the pivot man must rid himself of the
ball three seconds after receiving it, was obeyed to the letter. Voegele and Jordan played the pivot and showed the benefit of Coach Keogan’s drilling, because not once were they called for holding the ball overtime. This pivot play was used to good advantage by Voegele who, not only made most of his shots by it, but also caused the opponents to foul him while he was shooting from the pivot.
Students Discount 20%
Applies on Xmas Gifts Purchased Here
Albion didn’t use the center pivot. They worked instead a block-out play
Joe Voegele
Tied Albion all alone.
from the side which gave their men plenty of chance to shoot, but which was rendered ineffective by their own inaccuracy at the basket. Many good shots went wild or were missed by poor timing.
Subs Go In
Coach Keogan inserted his second and third teams in the final ten minutes of the contest. They held Albion even, each side making four points. For the second team, Ed Angsten stood out. He made one basket out of two shots and played a snappy passing game.
The high scoring honors for the evening were won by Joe Voegele with his twenty points, the same total as the Albion team score. Voegele snared eight field goals and four free throws. Carl Risley, All-Michigan Conference forward last year, was the star for the pupils of Coach Bud Dougherty. Risley had three field goals and three gift shots to his credit.
(Continued on Page 28)
Globes 		..85c to $354)0
Portable Typewriters 	$19.75	to $65.00	
Zipper portfolios leather.		$1.85 to $4.75
Brief Case leather 		.$2.75 to $6.85
Leather key-tainers 		—50c to $1.75
Desk Thermos sets 		$3.85 to $12.50
Drawing Instru- ments ....V		.$5.00 to $18.00
Fountain Pens		.. $1.00 to $9.75
Duplicate Bridge Boards		.25c per board
Steel Bridge Tables		$2.75 to $11.00
Zipper ring book leather	.'	.$2.75 to $6.00
Webster’s Dictionaries 	85c	to $16.00	
Mechanical pencils			10c to $1.75
Poker chips and racks 		..$1.50 to $6.00
Playing cards			25c to $2.00
Five year Diaries and date book	$1.35 to $3.00	
Used Typewriters	-	$5.00 to $37.50
Smoking stand and ash trays	60c	to $16.00	
Desk lamps		98c to $72.00
Radios: Philcos; Crosley Silver Marshall Ken- • nedy.............$11.85 to $150.00
Notre Dame Stationery.......’._89c to $1.45
Book ends—Notre Dame monogram and characters.......—95c to $11.00
Cigarette boxes — ladies and mens.........65c to $7.85
Busts of Knute Rockne ............-.$1.35
LARGEST SELECTION Xmas Greeting Cards Down Town
.05 cards .35 doz.
.10 cards—.75 doz.
THE OFFICE ENGINEERS, INC 116 South Mich. St.
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Illinois Wesleyan Loses To Irish In Second Home Game
SCHEDULES FOR THREE YEARS ARE ANNOUNCED
18TH WIN IN ROW
Ragged Playing Marks 24 to 12 Win; Voegele High-Point Man; Krause Plays.
Notre Dame’s eighteenth consecutive basketball victory went into the record books last night as the Irish whipped Illinois Wesleyan, 24 to 12.
Despite the decisive margin of their win, the Keoganites looked far from impressive, missing dozens of shots, and coming up with occasional bits of miserable ball-handling.
Close at First
For the first ten minutes the score remained very close with the lead see-sawing back and forth. Neither team could gain a marked advantage until the Irish on a free throws and a couple of baskets moved out in front to stay.
In the matter of individual scoring, Joe Voegele again headed the list, collecting three baskets and a single free throw. That seven point sum boosted Voegele’s scoring for the first two games of the season to 27, a long lead over any of his teammates.
13 to 8 at Half
At halftime the Irish were ahead 13 to 8. Going into the second half, the scores mounted evenly or the first while but Baldwin’s passing and the insertion of Ed Krause and Al Mc-Guft into the lineup enabled Notre Dame to increase its lead.
Krause was far below his all-American form of a year ago, but in view of the fact that it was his first appearance in a basketball suit this winter, his ball-handling and center play indicated that he will again be an outstanding threat when he gets into shape.
McGuff Sparkles
Krause’s roommate and new running mate, Al McGuff, displaying a feinting and passing attack ability that threatened to leave the Wesleyan players with dislocated elbows. Coupling his blind passing and feinting with that of Captain Johnny
Baldwin, McGuff kept the offense driving under the Wesleyan basket throughout the final portions of play.
Lineups and summary:
NOTRE DAME (24) 4FG FT FT A PF Pts.
Aiberts rf .......... 1
Jordan If.............1
McGuff rf ........... 1
Voegele, c. If .......3
Krause, c............ 1
Baldwin (Capt.), rg.. 0
Crowe, 1g ............2
O’Neil, rg........... 1
0	1	0	2
0	0	0	2
0	0	0	2
1	4	3	7
1	1	1	3
1	1	3	1
1	1	3	5
0	0	0	2
	—.	—	—
4	8	10	24
Totals .............10
ILL. WES. (12) *FG FT FT A PF Pts.
Munday, rf		.... 1	2	3	2	4
WolRemuth, If		.... 0	3	3	0	3
Blazine, rf 		.... 1	0	0	1	2
Bodman, If 		.... 0	0	1	0	0
Conroy, c 		.... 0	1	2	1	1
Henry, rg 		.... 0	0	1	0	0
Stuckey, 1g 		.... 0	2	2	2	2
	—	—	—	—	
Totals 		.... 2	8	12	6	12
*FG—field goals; FT—free throws; FTA— free throws attempted: PF—personal fouls: PTS—total points.
Referee—Nick Reams (DePaul).
Umpire—Harry Warren (Illinois).
Notre Dame Alumnus Writes Interesting Article on Gipp
Earl Walsh, a graduate of the class of 1922, has recently added his name to the list of Notre Dame men, who have contributed in a literary way to the fame of their alma mater. Walsh, a team-mate of Hunk Anderson and George Gipp, the present Athletic Director of Des Moines Catholic college has recently written an article entitled, My Greatest Thrill in Athletics, which has appeared in midwestern newspapers.
Played With Gipp
In this treatise Walsh, Gipp’s fellow halfback relates graphically the feats of that grid meteor. He picks the Army game of 1920, when Gipp staged a one-man plunging drive in the second half to come from behind and beat the cadets, as his greatest thrill. The author also treats the star’s character and untimely death in an intimate manner. Few writings on Gipp’s personality can equal that of Walsh as an insight into the hero’s mental traits.	'
California, Wisconsin, Purdue Are Major New Opponents.
Jesse C. Harper, director of athletics, has announced definitely the football schedule for next season and indefinitely those of 1934 and 1935. Noteworthy on the two latter cards is the absence of breathers for the Irish. Kansas, a comparatively easy game, opens the season next fall. Haskell and Drake have both been dropped. In 1934 and 1935 Kansas will be dropped. Purdue and Indiana have been substituted for Drake and Haskell, while Wisconsin will take the place of Kansas after next season.
On the coast last week Athletic Director Harper and Head Coach Heart-ley Anderson completed the arrangements for games with the University of California. Next year’s game, the first in the series, will be played at Berkeley. There is still some difficulty as to the date of the California game the following year. California does not wish to make such a long trip during the regular season, and it is nearly impossible to play a football game in this vicinity during December.
Next year’s ten game schedule is as follows:
Oct. 7—Kansas here.
Oct. 14—Indiana at Bloomington.
Oct. 21—Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh.
Oct. 28—Pittsburgh here.
Nov. 4—Navy at Baltimore.
Nov. 11—Purdue here.
(Continued on Page 27)
“IT IT COMES FROM BERMAN'S IT MUST BE GOOD”
BERMAN’S
SPORT GOODS STORE
126 N. Michigan St.
Ice Skates Tubular Skates COMPLETE WITH
SHOES ATTACHED
$4.65
Skates Sharpened All Work Guaranteed
December 16, 19.32
Twenty-three
SEVEN WINS-TWO LOSSES
The 1932 Notre Dame varsity as seen by Dick Prezebel, Scholastic staff artist. A summary of the record of the Irish eleven, including their seven victories and two defeats, and individual scoring statistics, will be found on page 25.
Vacation? Not For Basketball Squad—To Play Three Games Against Big Ten Quintets
Grantland Rice Names Kurth On “Collier’s” All-American.
By George R. Belting
While the student-body will be enjoying their Christmas vacation at their respective homes, Coach George Keogan’s warriors of the hardwood will be trying to keep their slate clean and their record intact. During the holiday season the Notre Dame eagers have three tough games to play. Each of these games is against a major opponent and the opposing quintet will be out to do or die against the Fighting Irish.
First Road Game
On Dec. 23, the courtsters take to the road for the first time this year and that evening they will invade the floor of the Purdue aggregation. The boys from Lafayette have a strong team this season and the loss of the All-American forward, Johnny Wooden, is not being felt as keenly as was thought. Coach “Piggy” Lambert has a mint of material. Three crackerjack centers, all letter men, are back on duty. Stewart, Fehring, and Husar are the three pivot men. Fehring, varsity jumper last year, was recently elected captain of the 1933 football team. If Ed Krause is back on the
job for the Purdue game, which is more than likely, he will bee opposing a man whom he will meet again next fall. Fehring will be playing opposite Krause, when these men don the grid togs for the Notre Dame vs. Purdue game, which has been scheduled for the Notre Dame Stadium. Fehring holds down the right tackle post, while Krause is the varsity left tackle.
Three Forwards
Coach Lambert also has three capable forwards in the persons of Wheeler, Keller, a veteran of last year, and Eddy. Four cagey guards complete the Boilermakers roster. Parmenter, who gave a classy exhibition against Notre Dame last year, is sure to start at one of the guarding positions. Lowry, Shaver and Meade are the remaining guards.
Although not getting off to such a good start, Ohio State, has made rapid progress since the first few games of the season, and will be in the pink when the Notre Dame eagers sojourn to Columbus, Dec. 28.
Hinchman and Wilson are the varsity forwards. Conrad will be at
(Continued on Page 80)
The long list of all-American football teams that place Joe Kurth at a tackle position on the first eleven was increased yesterday by the appearance of Collier's annual selection made by Grantland Rice, outstanding sports authority.
Teamed with Kurth at tackle is Ernie Smith of Southern California. Other first team choices from the ranks of the Irish opponents include Milton Summerflet,. Army captain, and Warren Heller, who acted as Pittsburgh’s captain in their game against Notre Dame.
Discarding the practice of naming a second and a third team, Race limited his honor list to a single category, ranked as “honorable mention.” Three Notre Dame players, Ed Krause, George Melinkovich( and Mike Koken were included in the list.
Rice’s first team is as follows: Moss (Purdue), and Nesbitt (Washington), ends; Kurth N. D.), and Smith (U. S. C.), tackles; Summerfelt (Army), and Corbus (Stanford), guards; Ely (Nebraska), center; Newman (Michigan), quarterback; Hitchcock (Auburn), and Zimmerman (Tulane, halfbacks; and Heller (Pittsburgh), fullback.
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING John Baldwin
NINE GRIDDERS FINISH CARREERS IN U.S.C.GAME
By William Flynn
John Arthur Baldwin, captain of the 1932-33 Notre Dame basketball team, has had a rather long and varied basketball career. A native of Illinois’ Windy City, the black-haired, youthful appearing Notre Dame captain, played three years at Englewood high school in Chicago. He also put in one year as halfback on that school’s football team.
Good In High School
At the end of the regular 1928 season, .Englewood high school’s team was one of those selected from the nation to participate in the University of Chicago’s invitational meet under the direction of Alonzo A. Stagg. When the final results had been chalked up, Baldwin and his mates had placed third in the consolation tournament and Baldwin himself was mentioned as one of the outstanding interscholastic guards in the country.
Coming to Notre Dame, “because I had a brother here,” he says, he earned a place on the varsity during his sophomore year. Last year he fulfilled his guard assignments so well that, by midseason, he was being mentioned for the mythical honor of “All-American” Guard.
But pneumonia (not the flu) got in its work and he was out for the rest of the season. He was not forgotten, however, for when his teammates came around to the pleasure of selecting a captain for the present season, he was chosen to be their leader.
Economics Major
Five feet, eight inches tall, weighing 150 pounds, and twenty years old, Captain Baldwin has found time to do various other things besides playing basketball. He is a freshman lawyer struggling with Domestic Relations, Torts and a few other things that freshmen lawyers struggle with, and is completing work for his Bachelor’s degree with a major in Economics.
After graduation in June he is undecided about what he is going to do, but not undecided about what he wants to do. He would like to get into a brokerage house, but there aren’t so many brokerage houses employing young men these days. So,
he doesn’t know’ exactly just W’hat he is going to do.
Off the basketball court, Baldwin is a quiet appearing chap. He attends his classes, says little unless called upon by his professor, does his w’ork,
and completes the course in good form. But on the courts it’s a different manner. He makes himself felt by his skill and finesse.
His style of passing reminds some fans of the old story told about Wee Willie Keeler, famous in baseball legends of the “gool old days.” They say that Keeler, a famous place hitter, was once asked how he did it. “Hit ’em where they ain’t” was his answer.
Knows Fundamentals
Baldwin passes where he isn’t looking. In the Albion game a week ago he worked that kind of a pass several times to good effect. He would take the ball behind the mid-court line, dribble down, glance to the right or left at one of his team-mates on the side of the court, and pass to Voegele at the foul line. Then the tall, lanky center would do what he thought best. But Baldwin had given him the ball.
He knows the two fundamentals of the hardwood game. He can pass and shoot. His average in the first game of the season was .500, two baskets
Six Veteran Linemen Wind Up Three-Year Varsity Span.
When Notre Dame wrent down to stunning defeat before the Trojans in Olympic Stadium, Los Angeles, last Saturday, nine members of the Irish varsity were finishing their playing days with the Notre Dame squad.
The heaviest toll that graduation will take will be in the strong forward wall of this year’s team. Captain Paul Host and Ed Kosky, dependable wingmen for the past three seasons are through. Joe Kurth, allAmerican right tackle, also closed his career against U. S. C.
Line Affected Most
Three guards, two of them regulars, will go out of competition by the diploma route. Jim Harris and Norm Greeney, left and right guard, respectively, on the first team, have completed their three years of collegiate football. Bill Pierce, dependable reserve guard, for the same length of time is the third of the center-flankers to graduate.
In the backfield, the biggest loss will be at quarterback where Charley Jaskwhich and Emmett Murphy, leading signal callers for two seasons, will not be back in uniform next year. The third back to finish is Joe Shee-ketski, right halfback. Filling the shoes of these nine men will be Coach Anderson’s biggest worry when he opens his 1933 campaign next fall.
out of four tries. A fair enough record in any man’s league.
Regarding the team’s prospects the season, he hasn’t much to say. “Sometimes things look good and sometimes they don’t,” was his comment. But he was sure that the two new rules designed to prevent stalling wouldn’t handicap the Notre offense. And it looks that way if the Albion game is any criterion.
Baldwin rooms with Freshman basketball coach Clay Johnson in 201 Sorin. Surrounded by his roommate’s wall decorations, under his mentor’s influence, Captain Baldwin thinks little but basketball unless it be Domestic Relations, Torts, Rational Psychology and a few other things.
December 16, 1932
Twenty-five
High Spots, Slumps, Great Plays: ’32 Irish Grid Year
By James S. Kearns
Seven victories, two defeats; 255 points to 31; a record high, spots rather low — the 1932 Notre Dame football season.
Ending with the Irish striking out in a fighting effort to score on Southern California’s great eleven, the nine game campaign presents a curious panorama of success and setback following each other in quite regular cycles.
Win First Three
Off to a flashy start against two admittedly inferior teams, the Irish first looked the part of a great eleven when they trampled Carnegie 42-0 with a dazzling display of blockin', and general offensive play.
The next week came the jarring failure against Pitt. Far below form and facing an inspired eleven, the Irish could not put enough clicking plays together to push over a score and the Panthers won 12 to 0. That they went on to an undefeated season and a bid to the Rose Bowl game makes the result of their Notre Dame game less of a mystery.
Stage Comeback
Comeback trails are always steep, but Notre Dame climbed the one laid out for it with a grim determination that labelled COURAGE in huge letters on Hunk Anderson and his squad. Kansas went down, Northwestern was smothered, Navy succumbed in the mud. Then came the high spot: Notre
Player	T.D. P.A.T. Pts.
Melinkovich ............ 8	0	48
Banas .................. 6	0	36
Sheeketski ............. 4	0	24
Jaskwhich .............. 2	12	24
Koken .................. 3	5	23
Lukats ................. 3	0	18
Brancheau .............. 2	0	12
Hagan .................. 2	0	12
Murphy ................. 1	5	11
LaBorne ................ 1	3	9
Costello’ .............. 1	0	6
Tobin .................. 1	0	6
Vairo .................. 1	0	6
Devore ................. 1	0	6
Kosky .................. 1	0	6
Harris ................. 1	0	6
Weiland (Drake) safety.. 0	0	2
38	25	255
1932 Schedule
Notre Dame 73, Haskell 0.
Notre Dame 62, Drake 0.
Notre Dame 42, Carnegie 0.
Notre Dame 0, Pittsburgh 12.
Notre Dame 24, Kansas 6.
Notre Dame 21, N. U. 0.
Notre Dame 12, Navy 0.
Notre Dame 21, Army 0, Notre Dame 0, So. Cal. 13.
Dame achieving the greatness that it had promised early in the year.
Underdogs, given only an outside chance against one of the best Army teams in years, the Irish showed the East the finest offense of the year as they pushed the cadets around Yankee Stadium practically all afternoon and scored a 21 to 0 win.
U. S. C. Wins Again
Stories of the final game, with Southern California winning its nineteenth straight victory, are still rampant. Notre Dame was not at its best. Southern California’s greatness demanded the best any eleven could muster. Failure to reach the height attained against Army left Notre Dame outplayed by the coast champions. Little more need be said.
The story of the season contains many items of individual accomplishment worthy of a recall.
Melinkovich Leads Scorers
George Melinkovich copped scoring honors with eight touchdowns, leading Steve Banas by twelve points as the second string fullback garnered six counters for himself. Melinkovich also produced the longest individual run of the year when he returned the opening Northwestern kickoff 98 yards for a score.
In the matter of scoring plays, forward passes head the list. Nine throws were completed for markers. Off-tackle slants were next in line. Six touchdowns were collected on jaunts over right tackle and an equal number over left tackle.
Among those left tackle runs were the two longest gains from scrim
mage of the year. Melinkovich picked up 75 yards against Kansas, and Banas made 74 through the same spot in the Haskell game. The longest touchdown pass of the year was a 40-yard throw from Nick Lukats to Ray Brancheau in the Drake game.
The Notre Dame kickers converted 24 attempts out of 37 point-after-touchdown tries for an average of .649. The other successful try for 40-yard throw from Nick Lukats to Ray Brancheau in the Drake game.
Home for the Holidays!
$340 ROUND TRIP (Christmas Vacation Rate)
SOUTH BEND to CHICAGO
Here’s the speedy, comfortable and economical way to Chicago when you leave Notre Dame for Christmas vacation.
This low vacation rate is good on all trains leaving South Bend from Dec. 16 to Dec. 21 inclusive, and is good on all trains returning to South Bend to an including Jan. 6.
See James H. McGrath, No. 1 Morrissey Hall, for details.
LIMITED TRAINS BETWEEN CHICAGO AND SOUTH BEND
“Every Hour on the Hour**
SOUTH SHORE LINE
I
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
THE U. S. C. GAME
What was it we said last week? Oh, yes, 14 to 7. Well, that wasn’t so good.
This week, we have another forecast that demands expression. It probably sounds like an echo to
DRIVERS of the Indiana Cab Co.
Wish to extend their Sincere Thanks to
Notre Dame Students for their patronage and preference during the past season Drivers of the Indiana Cab Company PHONE 3-9333
Hunk—we could do worse by the way —but really we’ve had the idea for a long time.
Southern California will beat Pittsburgh in the Rose Bowl game—we think. It takes a powerful offense to beat the Trojans
for they seldom go scoreless. We aren’t convinced that Pitt can produce that type offense. If they do, it will be for the first time this year, including October 29th.
About last week’s game. Chief among our unanswered questions is one concerning the Trojans’ first touchdown play. We find it hard to believe that McNeish was the inside halfback when that play started. The play was fourth down inside the Irish 30-yard line, and big yardage remained for a first down.
In that situation a pass play seemed highly probable. Undoubtedly the Irish were set for it. And when the Irish set for a pass, backfield receivers usually have a tough time getting through the line of scrimmage. Especially an inside halfback.
That’s why we are inclined to wonder if McNeish was really the inside halfback on that play: he got into the clear too fast. In Howard Jones’ complicated spinning huddle almost anyone can come out in any position. We were surprised that Shaun Rhue ' didn’t show up at center for them.
Maybe the old reliable news reel will clear up Mr. McNeish’s location for U3. We’re going to wait and see, and in case you’re interested, and want to watch for ycurself, he was number 53 in the game.
ANOTHER LOSS
One of the hardest losses to swallow, as we look back at the perform-(Continued on Page 31)
MERRY XMAS from THOM McAN
Famous $4 shoe for men now $3.
BOYS	YOUTHS
Sizes 1-5% Sizes 9-13% $2.25	$1.75
Latest thing in campus and novelty wear
THOM McAN
307 So. Michigan St.
December 16, 1932
Twenty-seven
Broadcasts Give Reporter Material For S. C. Writeup
By William Kennedy
NICHOLSON STILL GLUM OVER TRACK PROSPECTS
Coach Pays Special Attention To Hurdlers and Vaulters.
Reclining on the bed, as graceful as the proverbial deserted log, perhaps, but comfortable . . . smoking a Fresh Cigarette (“borrowed,” of course), and trying to convince ourselves, without much success, that the following two hours would produce a better brand of football than the struggle a fornight previous . . . There is only one Army game, and it usually manages to overshadow all the others. . . .
Feminine Fashions
WGN made a bid for the favor of its feminine audience when it devoted thirty minutes to a description of the Hollywood fashions as displayed by the various movie stars ... It was all so interesting . . . When I woke up, the teams were just taking their places. . . .
Picturing the acute pain in the announcers’ faces as they force themselves to acknowledge to the rest of the -world that (Florida papers start copying) “rain has been falling for two days, overcoats are being worn, and the 105,000 fans who braved the icy blasts are slowly freezing to death with the thermometer ’way down to 55 degrees ! ! !” . . . Then with a fiendish grin, turning on the heat, and settling back amongst the silken cushions once again to listen to how cold 105,000 people are in California. . . .■
Dana’s Press-Agent
The game itself . . . coming to you Scholastic readers third-rate . . . That flock of completed passes in the closing minutes of the fourth quarter must have caused a few Trojan hearts to pause awhile . . . Koken went on a spree for a time there in the second period . . ; Herb Dana, the highly-touted Coast referee, got a byline on almost every play. He may not be aw’are of it, but he has a swell press agent in the person of one Don Wilson, radio announcer. . . .
And speaking of Mr. Wilson . . . He and the other “Don” who vocalizes the game via NBC turned in steady rave notices about the battle of the A-A tackles . . . We agree with them, “It is. too bad that tackles don’t play directly against each
other.” . . . All in all, I imagine the aforementioned 105,000 “got their money’s worth” as they say, and the contest must have been exciting to watch, but gosh, rooms are comfortable! ! !
Father Carrico Quashes
Early Dismissal Rumors
The Reverend Leonard J. Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies makes the following announcement in regard to cuts taken before the recess:
The work missed by a student absent from class may be made up only in case of privileged absences, as determined by Academic Regulation 24, and in the case of absences due to protracted illness, of not less than two weeks nor more than six, in the hospital. In no other case is a teacher authorized to let a student make up class work, except in the cases mentioned above.
No Tests Prescribed
Those who are banking on the professor not giving a quiz, should give particular attention to the followingstatement. No tests are prescribed by University regulation for the last class before or the first class after a vacation, but any teacher is quite as free to give atest at those times as at any other of his class periods, if he pleases to do so, and the student who misses a test given at any class period misses irrecoverably whatever credit is possible on the test. It is the business of the student to be present at a class if he wants what is provided in that class.
It would be well for those who still cling to the notion that school will close early, to consider the fact that they are attending a University, a member of the North Central Association of Colleges whose schedule is made according to rules set up by the association which cannot be changed at the whim of the thoughtless student.
All that we see or seem
Is but a dream within a dream.— Edgar Allan Poe.
The pitter patter of babies feet never fails to bring joy into the home, but this same rhythm of Coach John P. Nicholson’s “Track babies” brings forth nothing but pessimism from the mentor of the speed boys.
With everything from pole vaulters to hurdlers occupying his time during the past two weeks, “Nick” has had little time to express outwardly what is to be expected from his pitapat boys this year.
When the opportunity presented itself he turned aside long enough to comment, “It’s the toughest schedule we’ve ever had and the poorest material with which to face it.” He concluded with a faint “I’m optimistic.”
Veterans Improve
Upon observation, it was noted that Coach Nicholson was giving special attention to hurdlers and vaulters, in an attempt to round them into shape for the fast approaching opening meet of the indoor season. The official announcement of the schedule was not forthcoming from the Athletic Offices this week, pending the return from California of Athletic Director Jesse Harper.
SCHEDULES
(Continued from Page 22)
Nov. 18—Northwestern at Evanston.
Nov. 25—Southern California here.
Dec. 2—Army at New York.
Dec. 16—California at Berkeley.
The 1934 schedule, definite dates of which have not been announced, lines up something like this: Wisconsin here, Indiana here, Carnegie Tech here, Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh, Navy (place udecided), Purdue at Lafayette Northwestern here, Southern California at Los Angeles, Army at New York, California here.
The 1935 schedule, also still indefinite, is: Wisconsin at Madison, Indiana at Bloomington, Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh here, Navy at Baltimore, Purdue here, Northwestern at Evanston, Southern California here, Army at New York, California at Berkeley.
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
N. D. 41; ALBION 20
(Continued from Page 21)
credit. The other stars of the evening were Captain Johnny Baldwin and Leo Keating.
Baldwin displayed the same flawless defense which he showed last year against Purdue, his last game for that season. He also managed to get himself two field goals from his guard post. Leo Keating entered the game as a substitute for Ed Alberts, who had played a fine defensive game, and looked especially good on floor work.
But although they showed midseason form at times, Notre Dame was very weak in an important department of the game. They made only five free throws out of 17 tries. Albion made six counters out of eight tries. On the other hand, Notre Dame made 18 field goals out of 52 attempts.
Big Joe Voegele, was doubling for Ed Krause at center. Krause, All-American center last year, was playing football at Southern California last Saturday and hasn’t yet reported for basketball. When he returns. Coach Keogan will shift Voegele to
forward, where he will pair with Keating, Jordan or Alberts.
Lineup and summary:
NOTRE DAME (41) FG
Angsten, If.......... 1
Jordan, If .......... 2
Keating, rf...........2
Alberts, rf ..........0
Voegele, c .......... 8
Holland c ........... 0
Baldwin, rg ..........2
L. Crowe, 1g .........3
Newbold, rg ..........0
Boland, 1g ........... 0
Mettler, f............ 0
Kyle, f .............. 0
O’Neill, g ...........0
Totals ............18
ALBION (20)	FG
Arheart, f ........... 0
Fisher, f ............ 0
Chapman, f ...........2
Risley, f ............3
Krapp, c ............. 1
D. Fisher, g..........0
Schuler, g........... 1
Berner, c ............0
Ruttman, g ...........0
Smith, f ............. 0
FT FTA PF Pts.
0	0	0	2
0	0	14
0	10	4
0	3	0	0
4	8	3	20
0	0	1	’0
0	2	0	4
12	0	7
0	0	2	0
0	0	0	0
0	0	10
0	0	0	0
0	0	0	0
5	16	8 41
FT FTA PF Pts. 0	0	0	0
0	110
112	5
3	3	19
113	3
0	0	10
0	13	2
0	0	0	0
110	1
0	0	0	0
Totals .............. 7	6	8	11	20
*FG—Field Goals; FT—Free Throws; FTA —Free Throws Attempted ; PF—Personal Fouls ; Pts—Total Points.
Referee: Nick Kearns (De Paul) Umpire: Harry Warren (Illinois)
LITURGICAL CHANT
(Continued from Page 17)
who borrow and the men who lend,” so, too, the organists who defeat the ideal of Pius by inferior performances may be classed as boisterous organists and impressionistic organists. You know the former type. He pedals with one foot (preferably the left) and with the other unremittingly pumps the “swell”: the resultant accompaniment is so heavy and obtrusive that the choir is forced to abandon expression and shout. The latter type is a performer whose musical sun rises with the first theme of the “Liberstraum” and sets rather precipitously just before the difficult cadenza in the middle of page three. Knowing nothing of the modal construction of Chant, he plays an accompaniment that contains all the impressionistic harmonic tricks of a Cyril Scott. Is it any wonder that most of the laity consider Chant monotonous music with little or no appeal?
This is the second of a series of articles on Liturgical Chant by Mr. Sharpe. The next will appear in an early issue.
CANDIES
. . . and Salted Nuts
Fresh Every Day from our South Bend Kitchen.
V
THRIFT SPECIAL . . 50c lb. FAMILY ASSORTMENT 60c lb. FRUITS AND NUTS . 70c lb.
v
Special Attention to Mailing
Open Evenings and Sundays
V
Mrs. Thompson’s Candy Shop, Inc.
Phone 4-5491	In the Oliver Hotel
MAGAZINES	PAPERS
University Cafeteria
and
Soda Grill
Daily Specials
Open 6:30 A. M. to 9:40 P. M.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
December 16, 1932
Twenty-nine
U. S. C. BEATS IRISH
(Continued from Page 20)
SOCIOLOGY CHANGES
(Continued from Page 12)
CAGERS FACE N. U.
(Continued from Page 20)
There on fourth down Griffith carried it over for the final touchdown.
In the fourth quarter Notre Dame began a passing attack that functioned beautifully until Griffith intercepted on the five yard line. Another last quarter touchdown drive failed when Devore fumbled a pass in the end zone.
Outstanding Players
Lukats, Robinson, Harris, Greeney and Melinkovich were oustanding for Notre Dame. .On the brilliant Southern California team Warburton, Griffith and Smith were most brilliant. The two ends, Sparling and Palmer, kept Notre Dame from gaining an inch on returning punts.
Orville Mohler, injured Southern California quarterback, held the ball on the kick-off and then ran off the field.
Summary:
NOTRE DAME (0) S. CALIFORNIA (13)
Kosky ..............LE............. Sparling
Krause .............LT......... Brown (C)
Harris .............LG............ Rosenberg
Robinson ...........C................. Youel
Greeney ............RG............’.. Stevens
Kui-th .............RT................ Smith
Host (C) ...........RE............... Palmer
Murphy .............QB............. Griffith
Lukats .............LH............... Bright
Sheeketski .........LH.............. Erskine
Banas ..............FB................ Clark
Touchdowns—McNeish, Griffith.
Points aftei’ touchdowns—E. Smith (placement) .
Substitutions’: Notre Dame—Pierce for Harris, Alexander for Robinson, Pivarnik for Greeney, Roach for Kurth, Jaskwhich for Murphy, Vejar for Murphy, Koken for Lukats, Brancheau for Sheeketski, Melinkovich for Banas, Leonard for Banas.
Southern California—Tipton for Rosenberg. Jorgensen for Youel. Dye for Stevens, Warburton for Griffith. McNeish for Bright, Clemens for Erskine, Griffith for Clark and Getz for Clark.
Referee—Herb Dana (Nebraska). Umpire— Bob Morris (Chicago), Head linesman—Tom Fitzpatrick (Utah), Field judge—Bruce Kirkpatrick (Occidental).
Duke university
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
. DURHAM, N.C.
Four terms of eleven weeks are given
each year. These may be taken consecutively (M.D. in three years) or three terms may be taken each year (M.D. in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character and at least two years of college work, including the subjects specified for Grade A Medical Schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.
of the last two graduating classes secured attractive positions shortly after graduation. This year the Department of Sociology has had to reply that no graduates were available, in response which have come in during the last year.
62nd Annual Congress
Dr. P. H. Weeks, psychiatrist at the Indiana State Prison, who will resume his course in Advanced Penology here at the start of the second semester, attended the recent 62nd annual congress of the American Prison Association, and like Professor Maurice L. Pettit, found that many of the correctional workers there were enthusiastic about the Notre Dame plan of training as well as the opportunities for the college graduate in probation, parole, and prison administration.
Father Murray, head of the Department of Sociology, was recently reappointed for the third successive year to the Committee on Protective Care of the National Conference of Catholic Charities. This committee deals chiefly with the problem of crime.
More than 19,000 volumes, comprising what is believed to be the largest single gift of books ever received by the University of Pennsylvania library, have been presented by Dr. Charles W. Burr. The books were all selected from Dr. Burr’s own library.
SUNDAY, DECEMBER, 18 Americas Waltz King WAYNE KING
IN PERSON
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Advance $ 1.00 Door $1.25 We Pay the Tax
SATURDAY, DEC. 17
SCOTCH HIGHLANDERS Americas Most Unique Dance Orchestra 50c FOR MEN	25c FOR LADIES
Dance Free
PALAIS ROYALE
whether or not Ed Krause, and Al McGuff will be in shape to start the game against Northwestern. In the event that they are, Joe Voegele will be shifted from center to forward, and Al Jordan will give way to McGuff at the other forward post.
Probable lineup:
NOTRE DAME	. NORTHWESTERN
Jordan ............F......Reiff (Capt.)
Alberts ............F......... Brewer
Voegele ............C........ Johnson
Baldwin (Capt.) ...G.......... Culver
Crowe ..............G..... Moonshower
Three Irish Players on Navy’s All-Opponent Team
Three members of the Notre Dame varsity were chosen by Edgar “Rip” Miller, head coach at the Naval Academy, for his all-opponent team. The men were Joe Kurth, right tackle; Ed Krause, left tackle, and Charles Jaskwhich, quarterback.
Other players on the Navy allopponent eleven were: Halligan (William and Mary) and Matal (Columbia) ends; Summerfelt (Army) and Garrett (Princeton), guards; Engle (Pennsylvania), center; Lewis (Pennsylvania) and Montgomery (Columbia) , halfbacks, an d Poppleman (Maryland), fullback.
Miller’s only comment on the team was, “What a bunch of blockers those boys were.”
Thirty
The Scholastic
FR. RAEMERS TRANSLATES
(Continued from Paste 11)
ship; it is complete, accurate and well-balanced besides being delightfully succinct. . .” Brother Leo concluded his review by stating: “A Compendium of Theology deserves to have its place on the study table of every intellectual Catholic.”
According to Rev. Leo P. Foley, C.M., “Father Raemers has rendered a valuable service to both clergy and laity of the United States by making available in fluent and very readable vernacular Berthier’s Compendium of Theology . . .”
Father Cavanaugh Comments
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., writing in The Little Flower Circle, commended Father Raemers on the smoothness of this translation in this manner: “But what strikes the discerning reader is the power and accuracy—one might often say the felicity—of the translation. . . There is elasticity as well as the limpidity of original writing everywhere. . . It is a joy to find a volume in which the translation is so transparent.”
The complete work, published by the B. Herder Book Company, of St. Louis, will appear in four volumes, the first two of which have already been made available. The third volume will appear shortly after the first of the year, while the fourth and final book in the series will be published by June, 1933.
Father Raemers, who has been at Notre Dame since 1928, is an undergraduate student of the University of Louvain, Belgium, and a graduate of St. Mary’s, Baltimore and Catholic University in Washington.
Among his numerous translations from the French are Educational Psychology, Experimental Psychology, A Handbook of Patrology, Holy Orders and Ordination.
GEN. MOTORS SPEAKER
(Continued from Page 10)
the lecturer estimated. Gasoline consumption during the 24 hour shift averages from 2000 to 3000 gallons.
Every effort is made to reproduce actual road conditions, concrete, brick, dirt, tarvia, gravel and granite
block being used for surfacing and grades range from level to twenty-five per cent rises.
The Cushing Hall of Engineering and the Notre Dame campus in general were praised by Mr. Farrell during the lecture.
After adjournment, refreshments were served to members of the club.
CAGERS PLAY THREE
(Continued from Page 23)
center with Captain Mattison and Fisher rounding out the Buckeye line-up.
In an early season game Ohio Wesleyan, Buckeye Conference Champs, nosed the Reed and Grey out of a heart-breaking 40-38 victory.
Following the Ohio State encounter the Notre Dame basketball artists wind up their road trip with a visit to Evanston, Ill., where they will meet the Northwestern Wildcats in a return engagement on New Year’s Eve.
All we ask is to be let alone.— Jefferson Davis.
For That
Christmas Gift—
Mother and Dad, the Best Gid, your Pal—you’d greatly please any one of them with a subscription to
THE SCHOLASTIC
Three. Dollars a Year
THE TROJAN Imported Scotch Grain Black and Tan
Known
FOR VALUE
Bostonians are excellent examples of genuine value; nationally known for their famous lasting style, natural fit, and determined wear
OTHER BOSTONIANS *5 to •«
PAUL O. KUEHN “Footwear of Fashion” 120 S. Michigan St.
December 16, 1932
Thirty-one
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 26)
ance of the Irish during the past fall, is the loss of nine fine football players -from the Notre Dame squad. Host, Kosky, Kurth, Harris, Greeney, Jask-which, Koken, Sheeketski, and Pierce have finished their playing careers.
These gridders have given us more than an ordinary share of football thrills and great exhibition during the past three years, and we are sorry that they have to finish. Win or lose, they have always been great.
TWENTY POINTS
A better memory than ours is
needed to search back a time when a Notre Dame basketball player made 20 points in a single game before Joe Voegele’s exhibition last Friday.
Ed Krause scored 19 points against Army last year with seven field goals and five free throws. That is the previous high mark within our experience.
Still on the subject of scoring, we were disappointed to see the Irish miss so many free throws. Twelve misses in 17 attempts is a pretty poor average. Last season the Keo-ganites made 134 tosses good while missing 114 for an average of .540, considerably better than the record against Albion.
“Good Will to Men”
Christmas! Season of laughter and joy. Gifts and good will to all—and the opportunity to combine both by using Christmas Seals. For Christmas Seals help prevent, find, and cure tuberculosis all year round. Use them generously on all Christmas packages, gifts, cards and letters, and let your business correspondence proclaim,“Good health to all.”
THE NATIONAL, STATE AND LOCAL TUBERCULOSIS ASSOCIATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES
Buy Christmas Seals
Check these points:
Workmansnip
Service
Convenience
CjAnd that’s about all you could ask for in your laundry and dry cleaning work.
^At Notre Dame you’ll find superior workmanship. The service is as fast as is consistent with quality. And as for convenience—what could be simpler than the Notre Dame system? Just leave your laundry at the appointed place in your own hall.
^So, we tell you frankly that you are missing a bet if you fail to patronize the
University of Notre Dame
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING DEPARTMENTS
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
On Down The Line
Ry Fred MacBeth
The present oversupply of WORLD HEAVYWEIGHT WRESTLING CHAMPIONS is evidenced by HENRI DEGLANE, champion of BOSTON, JIM LONDOS, champion of PHILADELPHIA, STRANGLER LEWIS, champion of NEW YORK and JOHN PESEK the champion of COLUMBUS, OHIO . . . these champions are all under different management . . . WILLIAM “TORCHY” PEDEN, who
Announcing the 1932 Edition of the
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW
THE REVIEW gives you a permanent and complete record of all the 1932 games. . . . thrilling and unusual action pictures. . . . personal and coveted pictures of the Notre Dame players—varsity, reserve, freshman and interhall—coaches and opponents. You will be taken behind the scenes by Grantland Rice, Warren Brown, Lawrence Perry, Arch Ward, Christy Walsh, Francis Wallace, Jimmy Corcoran and many other leading sports writers of today whose abilities are recognized from coast to coast.
THE REVIEW is the only publication of its kind in the country, and is your school’s only offi.cial publication on the season’s activities.
A REVIEW representative will call on you at your room Monday, December 19. Special price to students, $1.00 per copy.
(REVIEWS will be on sale also at Cafeteria newsstand)
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
is sweeping all before him in the SIX-DAY BICYCLE RACES, was a member of the CANADIAN OLYMPIC CYCLE TEAM at AMSTERDAM (1928).
♦
DR. ALEXANDER ALEKHINE, chess champion of the world, plays BRIDGE AS A PASTIME . . . HOMER was the first football writer in the world ... he mentioned “harpaston” in his ODYSSEY . . • the game was begun by a long fo-ward pass instead of a kick-off . . ■
CHESTER SCOTT, captain of the GENESEO (Hl.) high school football team, plays despite a wooden leg ... he weighs 210 pounds and is the best center in his high school conference . . . DEWEY LONGWORTH, CLAREMOUNT COUNTRY CLUB (OAKLAND, CALIF.) PROFESSIONAL, shot 72 successive holes for a score of 256 . . . par is 68 and LONGWORTH’S rounds were 64, 63, 64 and 65.
♦
THE YOUNGEST GOLF “PRO” IN THE UNITED STATES is believed to be NORMAN DICKMAN OF THE HOMESTEAD COUNTRY CLUB, near CINCINNATI ... he is 18 and started caddying at 13 . . . HARVARD will play all its football games at home next year . . . TROTTING HORSE RACES DREW 50 000 MORE customers this year than in 1931 . . . the 550-yard 15th hole of the MIAMI-BILTMORE COUNTRY CLUB course is supposed to be the toughest in the country . . . DENNY SHUTE, who won the recent $10,-000 open over that course, took a seven on number 15.
If comparative scores mean anything, SOUTHERN CAL should defeat PITTSBURGH BY ONE POINT . . . MARCEL THIL, European middleweight champion, got his start in boxing by trading an AMERICAN doughboy a dozen eggs for a pair of boxing gloves . . . MORE THAN 200 GOLF BALLS were piled into a hollow tree by squirrels on the BIGWIN INN (CANADA) GOLF COURSE . . . every ball was chewed and unfit for play ... in a game with CLARKSON TECH this year, SYRACUSE fumbled 17 times.
Adirondack Club Will Hold Christmas Dance
Final plans for the Adirondack club’s Christmas formal were decided upon last Friday evening in a meeting held in Walsh hall. The formal will be held Dec. 28 at Malone, N. Y., in the Knights of Columbus ballroom of that city. The music for the affair will be furnished by a local orchestra. There will be no tickets sold for the formal as it is to be private with attendance gained only through invitation. President James C. Munn appointed Harold Desnoyers and Mitchell Tackley as co-chairman in charge of all arrangements. Any sub-committees to be appointed are to be chosen by them. ,
PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY
™ (Office 4-5661	X-ray PI“”e {Residence 8-4041 DR. E. S. LUCAS Dentist 702 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Opposite Oliver Hotel	Indiana		Expert Eye	Glasses Properly Fitted Service	at Moderate Prices J. BURKE, Inc. Optometrist and Manufacturing Opticians Established 1900	228 S. Michigan St.
Office Phone 3-3309	Res. Phone 5-1343 DR. B. A. KAMM Ear, Nose and Throat Suite 526 Sherland Building Jefferson and Michigan TT	(10 to 12 m. Hours 4	, t ,• ^3 to p. m.	South Bend, Indiana		DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST Dentists Phone 3-1254	405 Associates Building
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective Shoes Residence Phone 4-6354 DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 432-34 Associates Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.		Dr. E. J. Cain	Dr. H. H. Rogers ROGERS Eyesight Specialists Phone 4-8251	213 S. Michigan Street
Office 3-6978	Residence 2-6741 DR. LEO J. QUINLAN Dentist 514 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Ind.		.	(Office 4-5821	• X-Ray Telephone	’ DR. H. W. CARTER D e n t i s t 315 Union Trust Bldg.	South Bend, Indiana
		
(10 to 11:30 a. m. Hours to .4 p. m. DR. H. BOYD-SNEE Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat 716 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Indiana		FRANK J. POWERS, M. D. University Physician Office at	Hours: University Infirmary	12:30 p. m. to 4 p. m.
otter
- - ©T932,"Ijggett-&-Myers Tobacco Co.
As smokers become more experienced, they demand milder cigarettes. Chesterfields are milder. Their mildness is just as much a feature as the beauty of their package.
The tobaccos are mild to begin with. Patient ageing and curing make them milder stilL And Chesterfields contain just the right amount of Turkish—not too much —carefully blended and cross-blended with ripe, sweet Domestic tobaccos.
Chesterfields are milder. They taste better. That’s why "They Satisfy.”