
book is not to be taken from the Librar"
V

The Notre Dame
Scholastic
15CTS. A COPY $3.00 THE YEAR
।
Oct. 6
1933
NO MORE RUNNING OUT. INK
—due to this Vaeumatic Filler Pen Invention Holds 102% more Ink—Shows when to refill!
r
'Every other ring looks like solid jet till held to the light!”	r~7
‘ Yes. I can see the ink in the pen. That’s the best nfea yef/”	| \
Parker’s Revolutionary Pen— Laminated Pearl, ultra-smart and exclusive
Parker now presents an utterly revolutionary pen— invented by a scientist at the University of Wisconsin.
A pen that gets rid of the customary rubber ink sac,—but more, the first sacless pen to abolish piston pumps and valves. It contains no device that will render it useless later. It holds 102% more ink, with no increase in size!
And its ultra-smart and exclusive barrel—fully patented—is built up ring upon ring of laminated Pearl and Jet, as shimmering as velvet, or Pearl and transparent Amber that looks tike jet till held to the tight. Then you can see the quantity of ink within—see when to refill. This eliminates running out of ink at some critical moment during lectures or exams.
This "miracle pen” obsoletes all other types. It is guaranteed mechanically perfect. Go to any nearby counter. Try it today. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wisconsin.
rarKer
IACVMATIC HlltR
Laminated Peari or Plain Jet Pencil to Match, $3.50 Jet or Plain Transparent Pen, $5/ Pencil, $2.50
THE OFFICE ENGINEERS
116 South Michigan St.—next door to “Sullies”
PARKER FOUNTAIN PENS
Student Supplies at “Downtown Prices
Keuffel and Esser Drawing Instruments and Supplies
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive' Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns....... Mitchell C. Tackley...
Associate Editors JOHN D. PORTERFIELD.............EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN...................JOHN E. CONLEY
Departmental Editors
THOMAS J. STRITCH...-.......................The Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK....................College	Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL.........................Staff Artist
Sports Staff JOHN D. CARBINE.................NICHOLAS	J. CONNOR
HOWARD T. WALDRON.........EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING
......Editor-in-Ch ief ...........Managing Editor
News Staff EDWARD F. MANSFIELD.....................   .News	Editor
THOMAS G. PROCTOR---------------------Assistant News Editor
JOSEPH A. BUCCI—.................   Assistant	News Editor
JAMES A. BYRNE.......—.................... FRANK	KELLY
ROY O. SCHOLZ_________________________ROBERT F. ERVIN
MICHAEL F. WIEDL______________________JOHN W. WALKER
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY...................... PAUL	J. DOYLE
GEORGE P. LEYES____________-........... LOUIS	R. HRUBY
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY _________________Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
October 6, 1933
No. 3
FOOTBALL AT NOTRE DAME
Notre Dame will open another football season, her forty-fifth, tomorrow afternoon. To those intimately associated with the University, who live here now, or who have lived here, the opening game is a special occasion. It writes the first lines in a new chapter of Notre Dame life.
Reams have been written in pseudo-analysis of Notre Dame football and football success. Probably much of it is founded on fact. But a great deal of it is merely the expression of superficial judgments made by individuals who have not seen the situation here from the inside, strangers to the real Notre Dame.
Football has a definite place in campus life here. It is natural that it should have. The spirit of Notre Dame is a spirit of cooperation that finds its best expression in games requiring team-play. Sport at Notre Dame is football, just as Sport is rugby and cricket in the public schools of England. The game is substantial here in that it fills a definite sphere in a normal, man’s-school life.
Notre Dame men take their football as a serious game, but never as more than a game. Naturally they place a high value on victories; the whole idea of competition in any line is based on a desire to win.
Outsiders, many of them well-meaning, have built up a false notion of Notre Dame’s philosophy on football success. They have misinterpreted tne mechanical and physical and point-scoring excellence of the Fighting Irish teams to mean that football is taken as more than a game at Notre Dame. That notion and the truth are poles apart. The technical excellence of Notre Dame teams is the result of a sound understanding of the essence of sport: really playing the game means playing it as well as is humanly and reasonably possible.
There has grown up another type in the recent generation of baby cynics that has learned for itself and has taught others to chant vague accusations of “football factory” and “overemphasis” at every school whose teams consistently win more games than they lose. A defense against such prattling is not necessary in the case of Notre Dame, but for the benefit of those who do not know, it may be pointed out that the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools gave Notre
Dame its unqualified imprimatur last spring after a most minute scrutiny of records and conditions here had revealed that the University’s athletic-scholastic conditions were completely above question.
The Scholastic is sure that it expresses the attitude of all Notre Dame men when it looks forward to the football season with pleasant anticipation. For Coach Heartly Anderson and his squad it has the highest possible regard and a full measure of confidence and support. Naturally it hopes for a long succession of victories, but it is sure that Notre Dame will not measure the success of the season merely on the record of games won and lost. Notre Dame football is too big for so limited a standard.
RHYTHM IN WASHINGTON HALL
It is a lamentable commentary, though apparently a true one, on the maturity of campus movie-goers, that each season of movies in Washington hall must bring with it some expression of puerile emotionalism. The latest demonstration was given last Saturday night when, the audiences at both shows rocked the building with their rhythmic, tramping accompaniment to the music of the program.
Had the childish display been limited to the freshman show, it might be overlooked in the hope that the youngsters would grow out of the habit. As a matter of fact the stamping was far worse at the first show, intended for upperclassmen.
It is decidedly unnecessary for the members of the audience to express their musical selves by pounding their feet on the floor. Quite obviously they are well equipped vocally.
Viewed in the light of its possible consequences, the stamping practice is rather a serious one. Washington hall is a substantial building, but it was never intended to withstand concerted attack. Army units are known to break step when marching over bridges in order to relieve the strain on the structures. Campus movie addicts might observe the moral and discontinue their stamping of feet lest some evening they fina themselves draped over the billiard tables in Brownson “Rec” with an unimpeded view above them clear to the roof of Washington hall.
Octobe r 6, 1933
One
THE WEEK
By Thomas J. Stritch
Gold on the Dome
The mystery of the halt of work on the dome re-gilding project has at last been explained to us. Naturally, during a high wind, when the scaffolding is kicking crazily around the dome, the gilders (a Mr. Roy Rowan and associate) cannot work; and rain is far more abhorrent to them than wind because it ruins the sizing. Sizing is that yellow stuff you see just below the new gilded part, which acts as a glorified glue for the gold leaf. It has to be imported from France, and then mixed with the yellow—we could do a whole chapter on sizing (and null, for the Catalyzer, at our own figure). Anyhow, the roof has to be dry before the sizing is applied, and must remain dry for some 16 hours in order to put the gold leaf on; so even if it looks like rain the gilders put on their coats and go home. They need just eight straight days of good weather to finish up, they said; and in the light of this the wonder is not that they do not go faster; it is rather how the thing was gilded in the first place.
This is not Mr. Rowan’s toughest job, though it has been one of the most weather-troubled. He had to put on the last sizing three times. But the job doesn’t compare to the Iowa state capitol dome, the largest in Mr. Rowan’s 27 year career.
Nearly everybody has seen the gilders clamber down the dome on a rope and through that little hole in the side of the base. That’s easy, they said. They will take down the scaffolding by hauling the timbers through the two large holes in the top small dome, right at the feet of the statue. These holes are about ten feet square, and if you back away as far as the Power House you can see one of them. That’s how the scaffolding was put up in the first place. The timbers are anchored to the inside dome, which is the one you see with the murals on it, looking up from the first floor. Between it and the outside, golden dome there is a 25 foot space, inhabited chiefly by pigeons.
Speed
There are probably many who don’t even know that there is an elevator in the Library, and that it is a passenger elevator, too. Well, let us tell you that there is, and that more things happen about it than fall to the lot of your ordinary, operator-run elevator. For instance, last .spring, this lift, used chiefly for the conven
ience of the Library workers, received the signal honor of having the elevator-inspector visit it. One would think that elevator-inspectors would be tolerably used to the machines, but not this fellow. He fell down the shaft during a rather rigorous morning of rides, and had to be carted away in an ambulance.
This year along comes a new story. It happened to a Corby man. Now, be it understood that while our elevator is a class A carrier, like most automatics it is no demon for the rapid rise. This Corbyite was being wafted up by one of the Library ladies to the Dante room, and, wanting to pass a pleasantry, said a trifle facetiously:	•
“Say, this takes my breath away.”
“Oh, we’re used to it,” she replied seriously with a pitying look at the Corby man.
Not Georgia
Some of the brethren had a curious experience the other night. They were sauntering along the boardwalk that separates the respective court areas of Dillon and Alumni Halls when they were hailed enthusiastically by a man framed in a Dillon window. He was, he said, in no little trouble: he had been falsely accused of wagering against Irish chances for the football season, and he wanted them to go for help, oi' help him themselves. A massed knot of other Dil-lonites on the back-wing balcony bore clamoring testimony to his tale; and the concensus of opinion seemed to be that the young men would like to throw him in the lake—either lake. Our boys counseled trial by jury, and meandered on. The latest news from the sector is that the jury was hung, and the case dismissed.
Dillon’s Nero was more successful than Freshman’s. The latter was summarily convicted and disciplined on the same charges, with mob spirit at the bar, on the bench, in the jurybox and, a little later, at the lake.
Much as we dislike the emotional neuasthenia and the intellectual stupidity of wagering on Notre Dame’s opponents, it does, however, seem that a pitch in the Lake is not likely to remedy it; and the mob spirit that tosses false rumors at high tension through two or three hundred people is not noted for clear judgment. To us it seems barbarous, not human; and a mistake in identity, which has happened before, is pretty serious and sometimes tragic from one person’s point of view.
Sophomore Cotillion Set For October 27
Social Notre Dame takes its bow on Friday evening, Oct. 27, when the sophomore class presents its annual Cotillion. The dance will be held in
John F. Britton
Directs Sophomore Cotillion
the Palais Royale, South Bend. John F. Britton, Pamling, ,N. Y., of the College of Arts and Letters, has been selected general chairman by President Edward T. Sullivan.
President Sullivan released the list of chairmen for the various committees and announced that the sale of tickets will begin in the near future. The price of admission to the Cotillion will be three dollars as in former years. Oct. 25 has been set as the deadline for the sale of tickets. Seventy-five upperclassmen will be permitted to attend.
Music arrangements for the Cotillion are as yet incomplete. However, those in charge are making negotiations to secure Bernie Cummins and his orchestra. Johnny Hamp and his band is another possibility.
One hundred dollars, preliminary defray money, has been advanced by the Student Activities Council to the sophomore class. This sum will be reimbursed from the proceeds. The profits from the Cotillion will be donated to charity.
The committees as announced by President Sullivan and Chairman Britton are as follows: Music—August Church, Thomas Reardon; Tickets— Joseph Mazelin, Orlando Scaf-fatti, John Sweeney; Hall—J. Sherburn Herrick, Arthur Verveat; Patrons — Salvatore Costa, William Schmuhl; Publicity—Richard Baker, John Hawley, William Ellis; Arrangements— J. Kenneth Mahoney, Lawrence O’Toole; Programs—James McMullen; Reception—Arthur Cronin, James Effinger; Decorations—Anthony Giruzzi, Harold Houser.
Two
The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, Otober 6.
October Devotions, Sacred Heart Church Basement Chapel, 5:00 p. m., Pep Meeting, 6:30 p. m., Scholastic meeting, editorial board, Ave Maria building. 8:00 p. m., general staff 8:30 p. m.
Saturday, October 7.
October Devotions, Sacred Heart Church Basement Chapel, 12:00 m., Varsity Football, Notre Dame vs. Kansas, Notre Dame Stadium, 2:00 p. m., Movie, “Her First Mate” with Zasu Pitts and Slim Summerville, 6:35 and 8:15 p. m.
Sunday, October 8 t
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m., Interhall football, 1:15 and 3:15 p. m., Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upper classmen, 7:00 p. m., for freshmen and students in St. Edward’s and Lyons halls, 7:30 p. m.
Monday, October 9.
October Devotions, Sacred Heart Church Basement Chapel, 5:00 p. m., Knights of Columbus Meeting, Knights of Columbus Club Room; Juggler’s Rehearsal, Music Hall, 6:30 p. m.
Tuesday, October 10.
October Devotions, Sacred Heart Church Basement Chapel, 5:00 p. m., Wranglers’ Meeting, Law Building. 7:00 p. m., Symphony Orchestra Practice, Washington hall, 7:00 p. m., Italian Club Meeting, Carroll Recreation room, 7:30 p. m.
Wednesday, October 11
October Devotions, Sacred Heart Church Basement Chapel, 5:00 p. m., Jugglers’ Rehearsal, Music Hall, 6:30 p. m.
Thursday, October 12
October Devotions, Sacred Heart Church Basement Chapel, 5:00 p. m., Movie, “The Eagle and the Hawk” with Frederic March and Cary Grant, Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p. m.; Meeting, St. Vincent De Paul Society, Brownson Rec., at 7:45 p. m.
No Sellouts
Despite current rumors to the contrary, J. Arthur Raley, Business Manager of Notre Dame athletics, announces that there are still tickets available for all games on the Notre Dame football schedule this fall.
Father Cannon Ill
Reverend Dominic J. Cannon, C.S.C., is seriously ill at St. Joseph’s Hospital in South Bend. Father Cannon, a member of the Science faculty, is an instructor in College Physics.
BLUE CIRCLE REORGANIZED;
WILL HANDLE NEW DUTIES
Pep Meeting----
The first meeting of the 1933-34 football season will be held at 6:30 Friday night—the eve of the Kansas game. Immediately following the six o’clock dinner, the University band, led by Louis Alaman., will start the march for the gymnasium. The students are to fall in line behind the band.
When all have assembled in the gym, cheerleaders will lead the men in the school songs and yells. Father O’Hara, University Vice - President and Prefect of Religion, has been prevailed upon to address the gathering, and there is a possibility that Judge Farabaugh of South Bend will attend as a guest speaker.
Coach “Hunk” Anderson, and Harry Wunsch, captain for Saturday’s game, will also salute the rally. This year, the captain appointed for each game will speak at the pep-meeting preceding it.
The activities of the meeting will be under the direction of the newly formed Rally Committee. If the committee is not organized in time, the Blue Circle and S. A. C. will take charge.
Kansas Football Dance Definitely Called Off
Contrary to previous announcements there will be no Football Dance after the Kansas game tomorrow. The reason given is that it would be a too great financial risk. Dances given after the first game in previous years came out in the red and the men who would have been in charge of it saw no reason why there should be a repetition of that.
There will, however, be dances after the Pittsburgh, Purdue, and Southern California games. They will be sponsored by the junior and senioi-classes, and the Student Activities Council, respectively.
CONTENTS
Editorials ....................... 1
“The Week” ....................... 2
Sophomore Cotillion .............. 2
Blue Circle Reorganized .........   3
Student Trip Set.................. 4
Founder’s Day .................... 5
“Neivs of the Week” ............. 7
“Man About the Campus” .......... 8
“Voice of the Campus” ........... 9
“College Parade” ................ 10
Kansas Game ..................... 11
Fall Golf Meet................... 11
“Introducing” ................... 12
Interhall Football ............................ 13
“So They Say” ................... 14
TO HAVE 35 MEMBERS
The somnolent Blue Circle has been roused. Its new position as a campus honor society was determined by plans approved at last Sunday’s meeting of the Student Activities Council. No longer will the members function merely as torch-wavers for football pep meetings. In fact they won’t have flares at all, that duty having been relegated to a Rally Committee.
According to George Shields, S. A. C. president, the new Blue Circle will perform many greatly needed services about the campus. It will act as mediator between the student and the University Disciplinary Board. It will come properly within the range of the group’s functions to drop a hint to any student who is in danger of suspension from the abuse of certain University privileges that the undergraduates are not in sympathy with his actions. This will have the dual advantages of fore-warning the student, and of preserving the abused privilege for the school at large.
The organization will also volunteer when the University needs a corps of men to usher at concerts, distribute adoration cards, etc. It will continue to plan the programs for pep meetings, and student body entertainment, but these plans will be put into effect by a subordinate body, the Rally Committee, headed by Tony Andreoni.
Thirty-five members will be admitted to the Blue Circle under the new order—twenty-five seniors, arid ten juniors. Only four memberships will be reserved each year for leaders oi other campus activities. The foui-to be honored annually are the edi- • tors of The Scholastic, Juggler, Scrip and Dome.
Since the purpose of^ttuT S. A. C. is to establish an honorary group, great care will be exercised in the selection of appointees. The S. A. C. will prepare a list of candidates, which will be submitted to the office. The men whose names remain on the approved roll will then be notified of their appointment. Members of the society will be privileged to wear Blue Circle Keys.
Subsidiary to the new Blue Circle will be the Rally Committee in charge of football pep meetings and similar functions throughout the year. The membership in this group will include a number large enough to handle the details of all pre-game demonstrations and to assume responsibility for the organization oi the student body on all occasions of similar nature.
October 6t 1933
Three
S.A.C. PICKS NORTHWESTERN GAME, NOVEMBER 18TH, FOR STUDENT TRIP
Regulations Issued On A.A. Book Use
SEEK $5.00 TOTAL RATE
By Robert F. Ervin
Rumors current about the campus regarding a student trip to New York for the Army game are unfounded. The annual student journey has been definitely scheduled for the North-
George H. Shields $5.00 to cover everything.
western game at Dyche Stadium, Evanston, November 18.
According to George Shields, president of the S. A. C., both the South Shore and the New York Central railways are bidding for the trip, but, at present, arrangements have not been completed. Shields is negotiating for a five dollar rate which would include transportation fare and admission to the game. This fare would be good on all trains from Friday afternoon to Sunday night.
Approximately two thousand students and members of the faculty made the last Northwestern trip in 1931, and an equal number is expected to go this year.
There will be no classes on the day of the game, but as yet no official announcement has been issued concerning permissions for an over night stay in Chicago.
S.A.C. Appointments Made
By President Shields _________i
Announcement ofj the following appointments was made by George Shields, president of the Student Activities Council: Chairman of the Dance Committee, Joe Condon; President of the Presidents’ Council, Clay Johnson; Chairman of the Student Trip Committee, Charles Finkle. Mr. Finkle’s, committee will include Ned Quinn, Jerry Farrell, Clint Winter, and Charley Jahr. The chairmanship of the Blue Circle will be appointed later.
Glee Club Roster Is Complete; 48 In Group
Twenty-two more men were added to the Glee Club roster this week which marked the final tryouts for the current school year. The total of new members is now 48. The first group was announced last week. These additions plus the regular members who made the summer tour will comprise the Glee Club this year.
Following is the second group selected this week: First Tenori: T. Cassidy, J. Carey, E. Arnade, J. Como, H. Dausman, E. J. Rowan, H. Bolerjack, G. Beltemacchi, R. Morrison, J. Fookey, Wm. Schenk. Second Tenori: J. Straeter, A. F. Gott, A. Hamm, B. Scherer. First Bassi: E. Neaher, J. V. Hoene, J. C. Flanigan, W. Prendergast. Second Bassi:. L Sickmeyer, J. F. Walter, E. Fitzmaurice.
Law Notes
The Law Club’s first smoker was held Wednesday night at 8 p. m. in the faculty dining hall. The principal speaker of the evening was the Hon. Dudley Shively of South Bend who discussed “Office Practices.”
The editorial staff of the Lawyer has had several meetings with their adviser, Prof. Rollison, and are gathering material for the first number which will appear soon.
The Freshman class had been divided into three groups of “Eleven Clubs,” whose purpose is to train students in discussion. Each club meets once a week and discusses e x t r a-curricular activities. Each member is limited to five minutes of oratory at any one meeting.
Two old grads called at the Law School last Monday looking quite prosperous. They were Ed Duggan, ’27, who is practicing law in Jersey City, and Evert Hessmer, ’30, at Oklahoma City.
In a recent bar examination held in Michigan, William Desenberg of Buchanan, Leon Cook of Niles, and Joseph Deeb of Grand Rapids, passed successfully.
Edward O’Donnell who has been working in Yellowstone Park as a U. S. government ranger returned to finish his law course. He will speak on a few of his experiences at the next meeting of the Law Club.
The following bulletin concerning the non-transfer clause in the student athletic books was issued this week by the office of the Prefect of Discipline:
“The attention of students is directed to the agreement on the inside front cover of the Athletic Book which reads:
“ T hereby agree that I will not transfer this book or any ticket received in exchange .for a coupon of this book or either money or gratis.
“ ‘If I violate this agreement I forfeit my right to use the remaining coupons of this book and the University of Notre Dame shall have the right to compel me to return the same to them.’
“The above agreement is especially important this year because of the Federal ticket tax of 10% which been placed on all football tickets. The Federal Authorities have granted the student body of Notre Dame a distinct privilege by cancelling the tax on student tickets provided the following conditions are carried out:
“ ‘All students must sit in a section designated [student section] which is non-taxable. The outlines of this section must be made known to the proper Federal Authorities of your district who will supervise this section and report thereon.
“ ‘Should any person not a student gain admittance to this section such person being taxable, the entire section reserved for students will automatically become taxable and the 10% Federal Ticket Tax must be collected.’
“You are responsible for your own ticket even if it is lost.
“Any student found violating any of the above agreements will subject himself to severe disciplinary action.”
New Movies Are Booked For Washington Hall
Movies to be shown during the next week in Washington Hall are as follows:
October 7—“Her First Mate” with Zasu Pitts and Slim Summerville.
October 12—“The Eagle and the Hawk,” with Frederic March and Cary Grant.
October 14—“Dangerous Crossroads.”
Football short subjects will be screened at the second show every Saturday night.
Notice “Scholastic” Staff
The editorial board of The Scholastic will meet tonight at 8 o’clock; general staff meetings at 8:30.
Four
The Scholastic
98 Men Are Chosen For Band Personnel
UNIVERSITY TO OBSERVE FOUNDER'S DAY NEXT FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13TH
After two weeks of gradual elimination and steady band practice, the Notre Dame band, under the direction of Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the Department of Music, has finally been completed. Of the 100 applicants who tried out for positions in the organization, 98 men were picked, including 16 reserves.
Whether or not the band will make any trips this year is still unknown, but information on this point is expected to be released next week. Prof. Casasanta’s musicians will be in the stands for tomorrow’s game with Kansas.
Following is the regular personnel for the coming season:
Trumpets — Guaneri, Waterson, Schill, Dupray, Lynch, Washko, Murphy, Ball, Miller, Ellis, Newcomb, Marre, Coffer, Ley, Kristal, Pollard, Burger, Theis, Von Boecklen, Flynn, Huntzicker, Moran, Gill, White, Sar-toretto.
Clarinets—Zimmer, Youngen, Gor-gen, Locher, Huber, Doucher, Boyler, Halbert, Morrison, Krebs, Smith, Carroll, Tomaschko, Bray, Trousdale, Vojak, Tetrault, Barbush.
Trombones—Fiore, Austin, McDonald, Jordan, Wykoff, Carey, Gridley, Arnade.
Percussion — Fitzmaurice, Argus, Lee, Grady, Clark, W. Demer, Lemire, Porter.
Tenor Saxaphones—R. Demer, T. Gorman, Tinnes.
Baritones—Tracey, J. Gorman.
E Flat Horns—Harbaugh, Jahr, Draper.
Piccolos—Heming, Burns, McNeill.
C Melody Saxophones—Hellmuth, Besanceny.
E Flat Saxophones—B o r d e a u x, Rockwell, Pfeiffer, Ott, Dohnalk, Bernard.
Ttiba—Vesey, J. Murphy, Gehring-er, Ryan.
Drum Major—Louis Alaman. ,
Reserves — Deely, Lie, W. Ellis, Norms, Mulcahy, Randell, Gustafson, Marino, Niehaber, Buchart, Nix, Palumbo, Venderley, Frarey, Hiegel, Cambell.
President O’Connor Calls First Irish Club Meet
The Irish club held its first meeting of the year Sunday, October 1, with President John J. O’Connor in the chair. During the brief business session, a tentative outline of the year’s activities was drawn up.
Students interested in joining the club may see President O’Connor, 253 Sorin hall, John O’Malley, 239 Morrissey, or Hugh O’Neil, 233 Walsh, for information.
October 6, 1933
Cracow Club Will Hold
Initial Meeting Sunday
The Cracow club, the Polish organization of Notre Dame, will hold its first meeting of the school year at 10 o’clock Sunday morning. Professor Charles Phillips, faculty adviser, will extend official welcome to the new and old members. A committee has been formed to see all new members for personal interviews.
So far, there have been two meetings of the officers and the executive committee at which all the meetings for the year have been planned. At the meeting Sunday a committee will be elected for the year on news, events of interest, speakers, entertainments, correspondence, etc. The • club hopes to bring down Judge Prystalski, who opened the war on crime in Chicago.
President Arthur L. Korzeneski looks forward to an excellent year for the club. The other officers are: Albert V. Orzechowski, vice-president; Charles F. Karnasiewicz, secretary; Thaddeus Gabreski, treasurer; and Edwin A. Kalczynski, chairman of the executive committee.
Professor McCoIe Addresses Bookmen Monday Evening
With a talk by President Edward Murphy the Bo okmen formally opened the year’s activity last Monday evening. Prof. Camille McCole, the faculty adviser, discussed some recent publications after which the club proceeded to select books for the club library.
A membership committee was appointed consisting of Gene Healy, chairman; Edward Kihnurry, and George Krug. James Fitzpatrick was named chairman of the program committee.
Meetings of the Bookmen, a literary society whose purpose is the discussion of contemporary literature, are held every Monday evening at 7:45.
Philosophy Majors Notice!
Juniors and Seniors majoring in Philosophy are requested to meet with the Head of their Department, at 10:30 a. m. Sunday, Oct. 14th, in Room 4 of the Law Building. Matters of general interest and importance will be communicated to them at this meeting.
IS 50TH YEAR OF DOME
On the feast of St. Edward, October 13, the student body of Notre Dame observes the anniversary of Reverend Edward J. Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University.
Father Sorin’s anniversary is cele-
Rev. Edward J. Sorin, c.s.c.
Through his window: Notre Dame.
brated upon that date because it is the feast day of his patron saint. The anniversary Mass for the first time in many years will not be celebrated in Sacred Heart Church, because of the alterations still to be completed there. But in every hall chapel next Friday morning, Masses and prayers will be said to honor the reverend founder.
Simultaneously is celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of an event which was very dear to Father Sorin, the erection of the golden statue of the Blessed Virgin on the golden Dome atop the Main Building. At the time of its erection Father Sorin was ill, but there still remains a letter he wrote at that time in gratitude:
“How shall I express to you my grateful acknowledgment for such manifestations of filial love and devotedness as I have seen and read four or five days here at St. Mary’s? More than ever I am at a loss how to reveal the feelings of my heart. But in my inability to return you proper and adequate thanks, in words or in writing, I find quite a relief in looking through the window from the chair to which I am bound yet for a week or ten days—to the only object I can see when I raise my eyes up to the blue sky — the image of the Blessed Virgin, recently elevated two hundred feet from the ground, and enthroned, as we had so long wished to behold her, in all splendor of a most glorious queen, taking possession of her precious domain.”.
As is the usual custom, there will be no classes held on that day.
Five
3 N.D. Games To Be On National Hook-up
Three of Notre Dame’s major games will go on a coast-to-coast radio hook-up this Fall, according to word just released by Joseph Petritz, Director of Publicity. The Columbia Broadcasting System, with Ted Busing at the mike, will relay the Northwestern, Southern California, and Array games, while the National Broadcasting Company is expected to do likewise.
Chicago’s stations doing independent broadcasts will be WGN, whose Quin Ryan will do the Northwestern and Southern California contests, and WBBM, who will send Pat Flanagan to broadcast the Northwestern in addition to all the home games.
The Pitt and Purdue games will be broadcast over WKBF, Indianapolis. The opening game with Kansas will go out over a western NBC chain.
Bob Kennett, local announcer for South Bend’s stations WSBT and WFAM, -will give a play by play description of the Indiana game in Bloomington, as well as all four home games.
W. J. Kenney Re-elected Head of Pharmacy Club
William J. Kenney, a senior in the College of Science, was re-elected president of the Pharmacy club for the coming year at its initial meeting held last Tuesday evening in Chemistry Hall.
Alfred Panella, also a senior in Science, was elected vice-president and Bernard Marty, a Science freshman, secretary. Dr. Lawrence Bal-dinger, head of the Department of Pharmacy, was automatically appointed honorary president of the club.
The club will hold meetings on the first Tuesday of each month at which time demonstrations and papers on the history and development of pharmacy and its allied sciences will be presented.
Press Club Reorganizes;
Heckelman is Chairman
The Press Club held its first meeting this year at 3:30 Thursday afternoon in the basement of the Library. The meeting was presided over by Charles Heckelman, temporary chairman. The Press Club is being reorganized this year.
There are to be two kinds of members—active and associate. The active members will be expected to do some special journalistic work, wher-as the other members will be active only in attending meetings of major importance.
K. of C. News
By Ray Martin
Definite plans for the celebration of Columbus Day were announced at the meeting Monday night, but for the benefit of those unable to attend, here they are: Date, October 11, Wednesday; Place, South Bend council chambers; Time, 8:30; Program, boxing matches, a sabre contest, vocal entertainment, and a play suitable for the occasion. Refreshments will climax the evening. The meeting is limited to the members, and to those candidates who have already signified intention of becoming members.
Paul Butler Speaks
The installation Monday was conducted with the usual impressiveness and solemnity of a Knights of Columbus ritual. The diversion provided by Lecturer McGahren with the assistance of Brother Naber, Mr. Paul Butler’s speech, was very interesting and enlightening. It should furnish an incentive for council members to keep active in the order when they leave campus. Incidentally, Mr. Butler- was one of the best guest speakers to appear in our council chambers in some time.
Speaking of incentive, the monotony of listening to the Grand Knight announcing candidates proposed by Brother Honerkamp should provide some for the less diligent members. There is a man who responds to the call immediately. No less than six applications had Iris name tagged on the bottom.
The re-establishment of the attendance prize is unique this year. Brother Fitzsimmons was the first one to collect. He took away a bottle of Lucky Tiger, donated by “Bill, the barber.” Maybe we could get Brother Bocskei to come through with a 90 for one of the freshmen.
Impression
The Italian Club held a meeting in Carroll “Rec” last Tuesday night. The chairman, after an hour’s reading of the club’s constitution and discussion of Italian culture, requested the new members to get up, introduce themselves and offer any comments they thought appropriate to the occasion.
The first person slowly arose, looked around, and mumbled, “My name is--------------, but the only
comment I have is that I’ve been under the impression that this was the Minnesota Club!”
The Minnesota Club was having its meeting at the same time next door in Brownson “Rec.”
October 12 Is Date Of Scholarship Dance
The annual Scholarship Dance, sponsored by the Notre Dame Scholarship club, will be held next Thursday evening, October 12 at the Palais Royale from 8 to 12 o’clock.
A special invitation is extended to the freshmen to attend the affair, although members of all classes are eligible to come. While invited guests of the members of the organization have been provided for the freshmen, upperclassmen may bring their own friends.
Since its founding, twelve years ago, the primary and sole purpose of the club has been to aid financially, ambitious Notre Dame students. The proceeds from these annual functions are donated to this fund. Invaluable assistance has been rendered to many students since the organization of the club, some of which has been prolonged over a period of four years.
During the intermission a season box seats will be sold to the highest bidder. It is valued at approximately one hundred and fifty dollars, and in previous years was raffled off.
Mrs. John L. Warden, president of the club, is in charge of the affair, and Mrs. F. J. Powers is chairman of the entertainment committee.
The admission fee is one dollar, and tickets can be obtained from the rectors of the halls.
Political Expert Lauds
F. C. Walker, N. D., ’09
“News Behind the News,” daily “Washington Merry-go-round” column of the South Bend Tribune gave praise this week to Frank C. Walker, ’09, democratic national committee treasurer and co-ordinator of President Roosevelt’s “executive council.” In the article entitled “F. D. and F. C.,” George Dumo, the author, points out that Walker is a real power in the present administration.
“Don’t be surprised if Walker emerges as one of Roosevelt’s chief emergency fixers,” says the writer. “The President has decided to keep all his extraordinary agencies in step, and Walker looks like a natural as one of the co-ordinators. Now that he is in the ‘executive council’ you might be surprised at the number of times the smart boys receive you and then suddenly say, ‘Pardon me,’ but I have to go see Frank Walker.”
“Mr. Walker is one of the first three inspired men who laid actual cash on the line ‘way back last year to get Mr. Roosevelt nominated,’ he continues. “Walker had his eye on the governorship of Hawaii.” He gave this up when the President called on him in time of national crisis.
Six
The Scholastic
A. L E. E Opens Year With Radio Message
From a horn comes—the sound of music, one of the latest popular recordings, and then the sharp, incisive words: “Attention everyone! Station A. I. E. E. is on the air to welcome you all to the first meeting of the Notre Dame Branch of the 1933-34 season.”
Thus a public address system was utilized for a pseudo radio broadcast to bring to order the first meeting of the year of the local branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, which was held on last Monday night in Room 22 of the Engineering Building.
The meeting was then officially called to order by Chairman Bill Fromm, who, after a few words of greeting to old and new members, introduced the counselor of the organization, Dr. J. A. Caparo. Dr. Caparo spoke briefly and to the point on the functions of the branch and on the advantages to be gained by joining. He also stressed the importance of joining the national organization, pointing out among other things that membership therein will aid the man greatly aftei' he has graduated and becomes a practicing engineer.
Faculty Members Introduced
Following the introduction of other faculty members, including Messrs. Northcott, Weigand, and Coomes, Jack Land, secretary of the branch, read the by-laws, explaining them and their application. He also announced that a number of proficient lecturers from various departments of the electrical engineering profession have been secured to speak at coming meetings. A series of interesting as well as instructive meetings is thus assured.
The chairman read the committee appointments, after which Ed Butler delivered himself of a digest of the latest in engineering developments in a likeable manner. His paper contained lively discussions of interesting applications of electricity in industry and was well received by his audience. The serving of refreshments to some fifty hungry electricals adjourned the meeting.
October Devotions
During the month of October there will be service in the Sacred Heart Church consisting of the rosary, litany, and benediction every Sunday evening. The upper-classmen will attend the 7 o’clock service; the Freshmen devotions will be at 7:30 o’clock. During the week this service will be held in the basement chapel of the Sacred Heart Church, at 5 o’clock in the afternoon.
News of the Week
Ry George Leyes	-__
The most recent step in the recovery effort is an arrangement of the administration to spend 330 million dollars for fuel, food, and clothing, to be distributed among the 3,500,000 families still dependent on public charity. By this gigantic federal relief program Roosevelt also hopes to set up a market for surpluses and stimulate business. There is a broad difference of opinion as to the practicality of this expenditure. Some critics see it as another opportunity for red tape and graft, while others say it will serve to distribute wealth a little more evenly. One wonders whether the millions still unemployed will quietly settle down to another winter of idle living on a bare dole subsistence after their past fairly high standard of living.
Inflationary clamor is booming louder than ever in Washington. Even conservative members of the Administration are recommending a short spurt of cheap paper money, and a poll of congress showed the sentiment 20 to 1 in favor of inflation. Chief pressure is being made by the farmers who argue that farm purchasing power has upped only 20% while general commodity prices have risen about 50%.
President Roosevelt seems determined to try credit inflation on a grand scale before shifing to currency inflation. He received a delegation of southern Congressmen and planters who demanded currency inflation, and told them that the Agricultural Administration would lend planters 10c a pound on unsold cotton, provided they agree to reduce their 1934 crop 40 per cent and their 1935 crop 25 per cent. This presented an outlay of §400,000,000 by the government and eased Southern pressure for inflation. The significant thing about the Agricultural Administration is the efficiency with which it deals with six or seven million private individuals.
A new racket springing up in Washington is a news service of the tipster type which capitalizes on business men’s eagerness to know what the government is going to do next. They offer “inside information” on the government’s activities in industry, finance, agriculture and charity. The sudden springing up of these services is charged to the failure of many newspapers to give accurate and unbiased accounts of developments which affect the prosperity and life of every citizen.
Marconi Forced To
Postpone N.D. Visit
Senator Guglielmo Marconi, the inventor of wireless telegraphy, who had planned to attend a special reception in his honor at Notre Dame, last Wednesday afternoon, was unable to attend. He telegraphed his regrets saying that he would visit Notre Dame at some later date. A program in his honor was to be held in Washington Hall with the seniors and the Italian students especially invited to attend.
Last year Senator Marconi was invited to attend the June Commencement and receive the degree of L.L.D. In a letter at that time he stated that while for a time he had looked forward to being present at commencement exercises he found his affairs in Europe would make it impossible to come. When his trip this fall was announced he was again invited.
A change in plans was made when his party arrived in Chicago and an extra day was given to his visit there. Senator Marconi agreed to devote the afternoon of that day to a motor trip to Notre Dame, but later found it impossible to make the journey.
St. Vincent De Paul Society Begins Year’s Activities
The Saint Vincent de Paul society, under the direction of Reverend John Kelley, C.S.C., held its first meeting this year in Brownson “Rec” Room this week. At the meeting Frank McGahren read the report of last year’s work. Three thousand pieces of literature, books, magazines, pam-phelts, and newspapers were distributed to hospitals in South Bend and county institutions. To the needy some 600 pieces of old clothes and 300 pairs of shoes were given.
Together with the South Bend society, about a dozen visits were made to the Poor Farm, and Healthwin, the sanatorium for tubercular.
“This tremendous work,” said McGahren, “can be carried on this year even on a more extensive scale.” For this reason it is hoped many new men will turn out. There are no qualifications for membership, except the will to work. Meetings, in the future, will be held Thursday nights at 7:45 in Brownson Rec Room.
Students are asked to cooperate ■with the society representative in their halls. Old clothes and magazines are particularly acceptable.
Notre Dame’s first football pep meeting will be held tonight. In keeping witli the Notre Dame traditions of supporting its teams, all students are expected to be present in the gym immediately after dinner.
October 6, 19 3 3
Seven
Wrangler Lauds A.B.
College Curriculum
“A Defense of the Liberal Arts School” was the topic developed by Richard J. Ballman, a junior, in a talk to the Wranglers Club Tuseday evening in the Law Building. The speaker began by pointing out that it is necessary for students in the College of Liberal Arts to be able to justify their college curriculum.
Ballman hinged the main points of his discussion about the word “culture,” pointing out the importance of culture or cultivation both to one’s self and to society as a whole. “The Liberal Arts School or the College of Arts and Letters seeks to equip the individual so that his mind will continue to grow and develop after college, to fit him for business contacts, to prepare him for society,” he said. “We are to be leaders of society and must be prepared; the Liberal Arts School will give us this training.”
The speaker pointed out the opportunity for electives in this school, which gives a man both a cultural and technical training, should he so desire. During the course of his arguments, Ballman drew on quotations from Cicero, Newman, Ruskin, and Arnold. This was called the “NRA of Culture” by one of the members in discussion.
Following a thorough discussion of this topic by the members, in which each Wrangler stood in defense of his own College, a brief business meeting was held.
Engineers Hold Annual Freshman Initiation
The Engineer’s Club staged its an-naul freshman initiation last Wednesday evening in the gym.
King John Roach, attired in a regal robe of flowered design with turban to match, and Queen Joseph I. Hayes, swathed in a flowing gown of light chiffon, with black policeman’s shoes and a bow-ribbon of contrasting shade, were honored and entertained by the neophytes.
The candidates were in turn introduced to the shocking mysteries of the engineer’s realm. The sensational wired trapeze, the gentle wand of King John, the manly art of playing medicine ball with variations, the intricately wired cages, and other notable features were demonstrated in their entirety to the prospective members.
The officers of the club are: Edward Fitzsimons, president; Carlos Yriberry, secretary; and Walter Du-prez, treasurer. Al Heigl was in charge of the initiation program.
X? about the camPus
Over in a very dark, very high 117 Sorin lives a Joe Degnan, a Bryan Degnan, or better, a Funny Fellow who used to write thousands and thousands of open letters to The Scholastic way back in the days of Telfel. He is probably read-
ing one of his three volumes of Robert Frost, surely he is smoking his pipe, or if it’s Sunday morning, Joe is writing letters to New Hampshire (wet). They used to be long letters but now
they’re short because he’s so very busy. He doesn’t like the stationery, either—the envelopes are too big, but he’s very glad Roosevelt is on the job.
Joe doesn’t like a lot of things. He doesn’t like to be called Funny Fel
low; he doesn’t like tails and he hates
that giggling water fountain outside his door. This hatred for noise is
doubtless due to the fact that he was
lost in quiet for two years—a prefect in Brownson and respectable cicerone in the art department of the library. “Life has been quiet for me, very quiet, and I like it that way.” Proof of this is his semi-annual St. Mary’s excursion. He wears the Oxford grey on Wednesdays and his other four suits on successive Sundays, pulling miracles of variety with eight ties, two washables and six plaids.
When the chronicle of his life is
written much will be made of his mighty strides to success. From Hanover caddie master to advertising executive in as few moments as possible. He loses himself in wonder at Pepsodent’s campaign and shakes a warning head at the cigarette companies’ cutthroat splurges. His copy will be read down through the ages if it at all balances with his campus literary achievements. He -is one of the three or four good writers on the campus, whether sock or buskin.
He has been worrying much of late, possibly because he’s editor-in-chief of the Juggler.
Hugh O’Neil Elected Head of Science Men
Hugh F. O’Neil, a senior in the College of Science, was elected to .the presidency of the Notre Dame Academy of Science at its first meeting of the year held last Monday evening in Science Hall. This was the 88th meeting of the Academy which is entering upon its seventh year as an honorary society.
The Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, and Moderator of the Academy, presided as temporary chairman of the meeting.
Other Officers Named
Other officers elected for the coming year are: James P. Murphy, vice-president and ex-officio chairman of the executive committee; secretary, Richard B. Tobin, and executive committeemen, Henry T. Gannon, Francis A. Dineen, and John D. Porterfield. Murphy, Gannon, Porterfield, and Tobin are seniors, while Dineen is a junior in Science.
In a brief address the newly elected president stressed the need of a co-operative spirit as well as an attitude of constructive criticism to insure a successful year for the Academy.
Sixty Students Attend First Italian Meeting
Approximately 60 persons were present at the first meeting of the Italian club last Tuesday evening, Oct. 3, in Carroll “Rec.” The constitution of the club was read by Emilio J. Gervasio, president of the organization, after which faculty adviser Pasquale Pirchio, member of the department of modern languages, gave a short talk concerning the future activities of the club. Committees to promote the various activities of the club were appointed by the president. They are as follows:
Literary Committee: August Petrillo, chairman; Samuel Ferrari, John Perini, Salvatore Di Giovanni, Arthur Doerfler. Entertainment: Andrew Maffei, chairman; Michael Santulli, Liborio Cifrese, Joseph Nigro, Nicholas Casillo, August Church. Publicity: Leonard Cacciatore, chairman; Michael Forastiere, James C. McDevitt. President’s Advisory Board: Joseph Bucci, Andrew Maffei, Joseph Costa, Rocco Cacciatore, Jerry Lam-biente. Club Historian: Salvatore Costa. Sergeant-at-Arms: Fred Ca-rideo. Faculty Advisor: Prof. Pasquale M. Pirchio.
Eight
The Scholastic
Story of University.
Is Told In Old Song
Voice of the Campus
800 Ushers Convene; Lewis Elected Head
The University Librarian, Mr. Paul Byrne, announced this week the discovery of a copy of a song written years ago in honor of Father Sorin by two Notre Dame professors, A. J. Stace, and Maxmillian Girac. This copy is believed to be the only one in existence. It was published over sixty years' ago and was found only recently in a New York book store. The song retells the story of all the trials which Father Sorin encountered while striving to build a university in the new world, and closed with praises for his splendid accomplishments at Notre Dame.
Maximillian Girac, who was born in France and studied at the Paris Conservatory of Music under Auber and Cherubini, composed the music. He came to America, and while in New’ York won fame in musical circles. Later he came to Notre Dame, where he spent the rest of his life composing and writing. His books on Harmony were recognized by the European masters as the most brilliant in that field. In 1867 he composed a cantata called “The Silver Jubilee,” in honor of Notre Dame’s twentyfifth anniversary.
Prof. Stace Writes Words
- The words to the song were written by Professor A. J. Stace, who taught mathematics at Notre Dame between the years of 1865 and 1881, until he was appointed a member of the Engineering Corps on the Denver and Rio Grande Railroad. In 1889 he was appointed by President Cleveland to the Committee of Scientific Experts to represent the United States at the Paris Exposition. Professor Stace was an expert botanist and an accomplished -writer. His writings were chiefly of a humorous and satirical character. His most popular work was published under the name of “Vapid Vaporings.”
Church and Dome Repairs Proceed Toward Completion
Fifty feet above the sanctuary a crew’ of men was, at work this week retouching the ceiling of the Sacred Heart Church. Progressing simultaneously with this work was the cleaning of more Gregori paintings, and the refinishing of the private chapels. The renovation of two of the private chapels has already been completed.
The re-gilding of the Dome also advanced another step toward completion this week. After a break of several weeks, workmen once again appeared on the narrow scaffolding which surrounds the famous Notre Dame landmark.
October G, 19 3 3
All letters should be mailed to the editor of THE SCHOLASTIC, 119 Sorin Hall, and signed with full name of writer. Initials will be used in print if requested.
New Lanterns
Editor of The Scholastic:
The number of visitors seen entering the church during the last two weeks has filled us with satisfaction. Not that we ever attempted to waylay any newcomer to frustrate his purpose of seeing our Gregori, the excellence of which work has been attested to by its seemingly successful effoi*t to outlast man, but now we can have the assurance that no one else will ever be aesthetically crushed by the sight of the marble finished pillars with their shiny bands of blinding lights. The discarded fixtures attracted too much attention both by their ugliness and by their brilliance; but the new lanterns are in the best of taste.
We think, though, that the lanterns light the church sufficiently, and show off themselves to better advantage, when the intensity of the light is moderated. It is not necessary to destroy every shadow in the most remote parts of the church by attempting to drain the power-house of its normal output. So far the redecoration process has been carried out in fine harmony with Gothic tradition, but it must be remembered that Gothic preceded Westinghouse.
E. S.
Seats for Pals
Voice of the Campus:
Dear Editor:
I don’t want this letter to sound like a “gripe” but rathei- as a means of correcting a custom that has become rather prevalent during the Saturday movies in Washington Hall. Out of fairness to those fellows who get to the hall first, I think that students should not be permitted to hold seats. Last Saturday, I arrived there soon after dinner and found that there were plenty of empty seats, but all of them were being held for the “pals” of other students. I don’t object to a fellow wanting to save a seat while his friend goes out for a drink, but when every other person insists on saving seats for his roommate, his friend, and the guy who lives next door to him, I strenuously object.
I know nothing can be done to prohibit this, but perhaps if a few of those fellows see this letter in your Scholastic, they will think of the next fellow and let their pal come and get his own seat.
Sincerely,
A. A.
Eight hundred members of the Ushers Club held their initial meeting of the year in the gymnasium Saturday afternoon. There will be no change in the policies of the organization this year. Regular meetings will be held once each month.
The club elected officers for the season, and the following men were chosen: President ex-officio, Clyde Lewis; Vice-President, Roy Phillips; Secretary and Treasurer ex-officio, Edward Fisher; and Marshall, George Vanderhayden. These men will meet each week.
J. Arthur Haley, business manager of athletics, addressed the club. He expressed appreciation for the cooperation which the ushers have given to the Athletic Department. Haley pointed out that seventy-five percent of the men in the organization have served since the stadium was opened in 1930.
Immediately after the Ushers club assembly, the gatemen met in the gym to organize for the year. This group does not have regular meetings nor does it elect officers.
Notre Dame Villagers Hold Initial Meeting of Year
The “Villagers,” a club composed of South Bend men attending Notre Dame, held their first monthly meeting on Monday evening Oct. 2, at 6:30 o’clock.
Father Dolan was the guest of the club and spoke briefly to the members in regard to certain rules and regulations of the University concerning automobiles. The remainder of the time was spent in the introduction of the new and old members, and a discussion of new business.
President John DeWilde announced a program of activity for the year and also appointed John Crowe and Jack Mullen general dance co-chairmen.
The fifty who attended the meeting later attended the Palace Theater as guests of the management.
A. B. Faculty Meets
A meeting of the Arts and Letters faculty was held on Wednesday afternoon in Room 222 of the Main Building. The new members were welcomed, and. appointments were made to the four standing committees: Problems of Teaching, Student Scholarships, Administration and Educational Research.
Nine
Father Laurin Talks
At French Club Meet
The first meeting of the French club was opened last Monday night by George M. Menard, president, with the “Marseillaise.” The director of the club, Professor Earl F. Langwell gave a short talk on the plans of the coming year and introduced the Reverend Edouard Laurin, C.S.C., a new teacher in the French Department. Father Laurin spoke to the members on the opportunities they have at Notre Dame of learning such a beautiful language as the French language and the value of such knowledge. He said that no longer was it uncommon for a man to know two languages, in fact, many did not stop at two.
Ferrari Presides
Salvatore Ferrari, vice-president, presided over the meeting as chairman. A system was discussed whereby the club dues will include an emblem or key of the club. The proposed key represents a French foil over which will be a shield. A small fleur de lis will be placed on one part of the shield and a small N.D. on another part with Le Cercle Francois written across the shield. Bids are now being received from various manufacturing jewelers.
Sometime before Christmas the club intends to put on a French play and before the end of the year to present a complete 85-minute French “talkie” in Washington Hall.
About 60 men attended the meeting. President Menard was very well . satisfied with the turnout. He wants to welcome to the club any one who has an interest in the French language. The French Club will hold meetings every other Monday night at 7:45 in Carroll Rec. Papers will be read during the year by different members and there will usually be a fencing exhibition at each meeting. Monday night Louis Grosso and Lindsay Phoebus gave an exhibition of fencing with French foils.
Kansas City Club Holds First Meeting Thursday
The Kansas City club held its first meeting of the term last night in Carroll “rec,” with President Joseph A. Caulfield in the chair. A number of new members were present, in addition to those from last year, to hear the outline of plans for the year.
Golfers Notice
The final 36 holes in the fall golf tournament will be played Sunday, Oct. 8. Morning rounds start at 8:30, afternoon play at 1:30.
Ten
College Parade
By James T. Fitzpatrick
College Parade makes its initial appearance this year somewhat smaller in size but none the less ambitious in its endeavor to depict the antics of homo universitatis. Among the current exchanges we learn:
Via the Tulane Hullabaloo that a student at the University of Chicago, baffled by an examination he was writing, wrote on his paper: “Only God knows the answers to these questions.” The quizzing instructor returned the paper with these words: “God gets an A; you get an F.”
What’s in a monicker? At FORDHAM Father' Deane is a dean, Mr. Voekl is in charge of the glee club, Mr. Shouten is in charge of debating, and Father Whalen is dean of discipline.
The University of Southern California Daily Trojan claims that: “More college graduates among the nudists claim Harvard as their alma mater than all other colleges.”
At DENISON one of those irksome regulations reads as follows: “The student may be reinstated only if absence is caused by long-continued illness or death.” Who wants to commute from hereafter?
Via the Lehigh Brown and White we find that at MARQUETTE a fraternity adopted a skunk as its mascot. First, however, the animal underwent a minor operation. . . . while speaking of MARQUETTE did you know that the Milwaukee police have the name, description, and distinguishing characteristics of all the students in the fraternities there?
Via the California Daily we learn, much to our horror, that one Bill Vollmer of WASHINGTON STATE was alleged to have been kidnapped by Pest Welch, UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON assistant coach. Hadn’t we better get a bodyguard for “Moose,” (Edge-gar) Krause?
Washington Hall is not the only college theater whose audiences become over-exuberant. The California Daily warns that egg-throwing must cease in the Greek Theater at Berkeley, or the theater will be closed to student rallies. Every egg thrown in the theater costs the theater corporation exactly §96. The penalty to be inflicted on the egg tossers consists in having all eggs found on anybody broken while still on the body of that person.
In the same newspaper we discover that a young co-ed is advertising for some gigolo to escort her to the Senior Informal. She states that she will be in front of a certain hall, at a certain time, in a V-16 Cadillac. She is five feet three, weighs 100 pounds, and has a “fetching” personality.The siren agrees to pay for all the expenses of the evening.
Start Junior Photos
For ‘Dome’ Monday
It was announced this week from the offices of the Dome of 1934, that the photographer would begin Junior portraits next Monday. Notices have been posted on the campus in convenient places, and in all Junior halls.
The cooperation of the Junior' class was asked by the editor-in-chief, Louis Hruby. The photographer will be on the campus during the afternoon on all days except Saturday and Sunday. Studios have been outfitted in the west classrooms of Walsh Hall basement. Men desiring pictures to appear in the Dome should be wearing the conventional business suit, as no photographs will be taken of men in sweaters.
Fifty Cent Fee For Proofs
A nominal fee of fifty cents, covering expense of proofs and all information necessary for publication in the Dome, will be charged. No sittings will be made without cash payment of this charge.
Endeavoring to facilitate matters, and to speed up sittings, the Dome has had cards printed, which Juniors are requested to fill out before the photographer- calls them. The editor has requested that as many Juniors as possible avail themselves of the opportunity to arrange for an early sitting. Those delaying this procedure will be required to pay an additional fee for portraits. A reasonable period has been allotted for the completion of all Junior pictures.
Immediately after Junior portraits have been completed an announcement will be made concerning Senior pictures. Seniors are cautioned to watch for this bulletin which will ap-jjear on or before November first.
Local A.S.M.E. Organizes;
Freshman Are Introduced
The Notre Dame branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers held its first meeting last Tuesday evening in the auditorium of the Engineering Building. Joseph I. Hayes, senior and president of the local branch, presided.
The other officers of the club, vice-president, Gene Witchger, William Escher, treasurer, and secretary Wesley Strehl, were introduced by the president to the freshmen who were in attendance.
Edward Troy, ex-president of the society, now employed in the metallurgy department at the Bendix Corporation, and Harvey P. Rockwell, senior member, gave short addresses to acquaint the prospective members with the work of the society.
The Scholastic'
ATHLETICS
J. L. Banks Paces Fall Golf Field With 151
IRISH OPEN 45TH SEASON TOMORROW WITH KANSAS
Four members of the varsity golf team, Johnny Banks, Bill Cole, Johnny Montedonico and Bob Donahue, stole the show in the fall golf championship, when playing their first round two days late, they landed in the first four places at the half way mark. All four were called out of town last Saturday and were unable to play their initial thirty-six holes according to the tournament schedule.
Playing on Tuesday, Banks shot consistent golf to card a 75 and a 76 for a total of 151, five strokes better than the previous low score. After erratic first rounds, both Cole and Montedonico steadied down on the second eighteen to score 74’s, the lowest tournament scores for eighteen holes. Cole had a 152 and Montedonico a 153 for the thirty-six holes. Donahue shot two steady 77’s for a 154.
At the end of Sunday’s play, Win Day, winner of the 1932 fall championship, led the field with a score of 156. However, Vince Fehlig, captain-elect of the Notre Dame golf team, and Herman Green, winner of this year’s Western Pennsylvania state junior championship, both trailed Day by but one stroke.
Day shot very consistently all day as he went around in the morning eighteen in 78 and shot the same score in the afternoon round. In forenoon play Green bagged a 79 and in the afternoon game cut off a stroke for a 78. Fehlig had trouble on the greens in the morning and came into dinner with an 82, but after eating a hearty meal he went back out on the course and burnt it up for a 75. Fehlig’s 75 was the lowest Sunday score for eighteen holes.
The final 36 holes will be played this Sunday. Play will again start at 8:30 in the morning, and the final eighteen will be run off in the afternoon at 1:30. Father Holderith again requests that non-participants in the tournament refrain from teeing off on the first hole until all of the finalists have teed off. However, nonparticipants may begin play at the ninth hole.
The cards at the end of the first 36 holes were as follows;
J. L. Banks ........75-76—151
Bill Cole ..........78-74—152
John Montedonico.....79-74—153
Bob Donahue ...........77-77—154
(Continued on Page 16)
October 6, 19 3 3
History —
1904—Kansas 24, Notre Dame 5.
1932—Notre Dame 24, Kansas 6.
Of all the schools which Notre Dame has met in a modern football series, only two, Nebraska and Kansas, can boast of gaining an even break on the gridiron with the Irish.
The Notre Dame-Kansas series stands even tonight on the eve of the third battle with one victory to the credit of each school. Kansas won the first game, played at Lawrence in 1904, by the score of 24 to 5. Notre Dame had risen to national prominence when the two teams met again in 1932, but the Jayhawks put up a terrific struggle before they went down to a 24 to to 6 defeat.
The Scholastic of November 13, 1904, gives an interesting account of the first game. Notre Dame had all the better of the fray during the first half. The Irish twice carried the ball by a series of rushes, to the ten yard line only to lose it there by “unlucky plays." Guthrie, Fansler and Church did most of the ball carrying in Notre Dame’s sustained attack.
The fatigue caused by the long trip and visit to the World’s Fair in Saint Louis began, however, in the second half, to have its effect upon the Irish. First string players were now compelled to retire in favor of plucky but inexperienced and lighter men. Kansas backs tore through the weakened line and, although the Irish fought desperately, the Jayhawks scored four times.
A note on the game states that Jack O’Neil and Keefe of Notre Dame were each in two plays before they were put out by kicks in the head.
• Last year, Kansas made a gallant effort to repeat its victory when it gave Notre Dame, still wobbling from the Pittsburgh disaster, a stubborn fight before succumbing 24 to 6. Kansas scored on the first five plays after the kickoff. The first two Jayhawk attempts resulted in successful passes.* Kurth stopped an attempted stab off tackle. Weaver, the Kansas backfield ace, then got away for a long run on a fake pass. The fifth play looked like another fake pass until the same Weaver suddenly (Continued on Page 13)
WUNSCH IS CAPTAIN
Starting Lineups
NOTRE DAME	KANSAS
Vairo ...............LE	  Casini
Krause...............LT......... Mehringer
Wunsch (C) .........LG.......... Kvaternik
Goman ................C............Watkins
Pivarnik ............RG.............. Dees
Roach ...............RT........... Clawson
Devore ..............RE........... O’Neill
Mazziotti ...........QB............Nesmith
Lukats ..............LH.......... Peterson
Brancheau ...........RH.............. Dumm
Banas ...............FB............. Beach
Frank Birch (Earlham), referee: Nick Kearns (DePaul), umpire: Don Lourie (Princeton), field judge: Joe Magidsohn (Michigan), head linesman.
By Howard T. Waldron
From the vast prairies of Kansas, there comes a seasoned team of Jayhawkers determined to rearrange a little matter .that took place on their home field nearly a year ago. In that previous skirmish with the Fighting Irish, they came out on the short end of a 24-6 score. Tomorrow they hope to return the compliment to Notre Dame on the Irish home grounds.
This opening game for the Irish tomorrow should recall to mind their initial game of three years ago. At that time there galloped into the Notre Dame stadium the flashy Mustangs of Southern Methodist from the rolling plains of Texas. The Irish won that game by a narrow margin, after they had been blinded by a baffling passing attack. It was conceded to be the toughest opening game that Notre Dame had ever scheduled. Kansas will enter this game with a big, fast team that has reached mid-season form by victories over Central Missouri Teachers’ College and Creighton University.
Kansas has sixteen lettermen from last year available for duty either on the first team or as seasoned replacements. There is not an unseasoned player on the varsity and seven are regulars from last year. Coach Adrian Lindsey will field a rugged line that will average close to 200 pounds and a backfield hitting about 190 pounds.
Captain Pete Mehringer, Olympic wrestling champion, will move his
(Continued on Page 14)
Eleven
Varsity Whips Frosh 60-0 In Annual Game
Depending on a straight running attack and two pass plays, the Notre Dame varsity eleven steam-rollered the inexperienced but plucky freshmen by a 60-0 score last Saturday in their annual encounter. The Frosh made only one first down to the Varsity’s twenty-seven and crossed the fifty yard marker with the ball only once during the pre-seasonal session.
Andy Pilney, the dynamic little left halfback, was the star of the encounter with his rapier-like thrusts at the line and three touchdowns to his credit. Nick Lukats, regular left half, played a mighty fine game but was not accorded the blocking support that Pilney received. Don Elser, the man-mountain fullback from Gary, played havoc with the freshmen line on his speedy plunges off tackle.
Score On Safety
The freshmen opened the scoring by presenting the Varsity with two points for a safety shortly after the opening whistle. Banas had fumbled on the Frosh 10 yard line, and they recovered. A bad pass from center, which was recovered by a freshmen back, tallied the two points for the varsity.
Paced by Nick Lukats, the varsity began another march to the opposition goal. Half way down the field they elected to pass. Steve Banas stepped back and hurled a long pass to Lukats for the touchdown and converted the point as the quarter ended.
Coach Anderson inserted his speedy second string, Pilney, Elser, Tobin, and Bonar. The effect was magical. In four plays they punched along for 52 yards and Johnny Tobin ran around the left end for the second score.
Pilney Scores Three Times
As soon as they received the ball again, Pilney and Elser alternated to reach the goal on eight plays. Pilney made the score after an 11. yard run. The next touchdown was quicker. Pilney went over for the score after two plays. He still had another touchdown left in his system. Two plays after the next kick-off, he ran sixty yards for his last touchdown.
Johnny roung, the Texas flash, opened the second half with an 11 yard run for another score, and converted the point. Red Hagan decided that it was time for the fullbacks to enter the scoring columns. He took the ball around right end for the seventh marker, while Young converted the point.
Joe Beach ran the next kickoff back for 40 yards. Another pass play, (Continued on Page 13)
Twelve
Introducing...
By John D. Carbine
Before a home crowd, Harry Wunsch, the first appointed captain in Notre Dame history, will lead the Fighting Irish against the Jayhawks
Harry F. Wunsch
Improved by losing 30 pounds of Kansas in tomorrow’s game in the Stadium.
Harry came to Notre Dame in 1930 from Central High School of South Bend. At Central he had starred at fullback. When he reported for freshman football, however, the freshman coach was so impressed with his speed that he converted Wunsch into an end.
Played Either Guard in ’31
In 1931 Wunsch performed a dual role when he acted as understudy for both Nordy Hoffmann, varsity left guard, and Jim Harris, varsity right guard. He made his first appearance in the Indiana game as a substitute for Hoffmann. When Harris was injured on the third play of the Pennsylvania game, Harry went in for him and performed so brilliantly that he was allowed to play the remainder of the game against the Quakers.
The play of Wunsch was the only redeeming feature, from a Notre Dame point of view, of the 1931 Army debacle. Wunsch outplayed, outmaneuvered, and outguessed Price, Army’s All-American guard, in almost every play of the game.
Coach Anderson, looking forward to another season, took Wunsch’s dual role away from him last year, and installed Harry as understudy to Jim Harris at right guard. The play of the durable Harris was sensational throughout the season and, as a result, Wunsch was not used as much as pre-season plans called for.
This year Wunsch will team up with Pivarnik to take charge of the varsity guard positions. Prior to this
Open Play In First Round of Net Meet
Manager Fred Sullivan was favored with ideal weather for the opening of his fall tennis tournament which got under way on the local courts Mon-aay afternoon. A full card of contestants played their opening matches at that time, with others finishing up the first round on Tuesday afternoon.
At the conclusion of the play for the singles title, the doubles combinations will take the courts. All entries in this division should submit their names to Fred Sullivan before tomorrow morning.
Three Default
Only three winners in the opening day play were forced to extend themselves while three won via the default route. Gibson, Cashman, and Lynch were forced to play a few extra games in one of their sets to overcome their rivals. Gibson coasted through Rydell in the first set but found trouble in the second half of the match before finally triumphing, 6-3, 8-6.
Cashman captured the opening portion of his match after a close call, 8-6, and then breezed through John Wynn, 6-1. Lynch was compelled to go twelve games in the first set against English and then came back strong to cinch the affair, 6-1.
Scores of Monday, Oct. 2nd:
Gibson defeated Rydell, 6-3, 8-6. Bott defeated Palkovei, (default). Malloy defeated Page, 6-3, 6-2. Cashman defeated Wynn, 8-6, 6-1. Seikmeyer defeated Wilson. 6-3, 6-3. Duchman defeated Hunt, (default). Lynch defeated English, 7-5, 6-1. Fitzpatrick defeated Barnett, 6-2, 6-2. Miller defeated Gibson, (default). Feeley defeated Fox, 6-2, 6-3. Specht defeated O’Boyle, 6-3, 6-4. Schmuhl defeated Quinlan, 6-4, 7-5. Joe Waldron defeated Murphy, 6-1, 7-5. McNulty defeated J. Waldron. 6-4, 6-2. McFaddeen defeated Hacket, 3-6, 6-2, 6-4. Vervaet defeated McKay, 6-2, 6-3. Allen defeated DeGaimo, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3. Weinmann defeated O’Connor, 6-3, 6-1. Campon defeated Gornring, 7-5, 6-1.
season, Harry’s greatest handicap has been excess weight. This summer, realizing that only bulk stood between him and a varsity berth, he loaded trucks at a South Bend warehouse. He is, at present, thirty pounds lighter and in much better physical condition than he was last fall.
Wunsch, while at Central High, played football and track. During his first year of football, he alternated between guard and tackle, but in his junior year, Coach Burnham shifted Harry to the fullback post. Mike Leding, last year’s reserve tackle, played on this same Central High team.
The Scholastic
Schedule Announced For FootbairB’Team
INTERHALL GRID LEAGUES OPEN SEASON SUNDAY WITH SIX GAMES
While the varsity is busily preparing for the opening of the grid season tomorrow in the stadium, the remaining element, the reserves, are looking forward to the day when they will match skill with elevens from other schools.
The schedule which was released early this week indicates that the boys are going to do some extreme waiting before they swing into action. The abbreviated card calls for only four games. The opening date is Nov. 4.
On this date the reserves will travel to Menominee Michigan to oppose the Jordan College eleven. Manchester College, of Manchester, Indiana, will provide the opposition on the following Saturday.
With two consecutive victories over the Notre Dame Reserves in as many years, the Kalamazoo Teachers’ College will meet the Irish in an attempt to increase the string. Last year, at Kalamazoo, the locals suffered a 13 to 7 beating beneath flood lights.
The final encounter is scheduled with Wittenberg College at Springfield, Ohio on Thanksgiving Day. This promises to be the outstanding encounter on the card.
N. D. Soccer Teams Win Two Games In South Bend
Avenging their previous defeats, the two Notre Dame soccer teams booted their way to victory over the South Bend soccer clubs last Sunday morning. The Hibernians of Notre Dame defeated the Coquillard club of South Bend, 5-0, the goals being made by McGrath, Maxwell, Kennedy and Perini. The La Raza club of Notre Dame defeated the Conquerors of South Bend 1-0 at Bendix park, the goal being scored on a pass from Carlos to Yriberry.
The University of Illinois varsity soccer team will play the La Raza club tomorrow morning at 10 o’clock on Freshman field. The Illinois team holds the mid-west collegiate championship and has been undefeated for several seasons. The student body is invited to attend the match.
Barney Ross, Lightweight
Champion, Visits Campus
Barney Ross, holder of the lightweight boxing title of the world, paid a visit to Notre Dame Monday afternoon and evening. The ring king was accompanied by Dr. D. F. O’Connor of Chicago, who dropped in to pay a visit to the Very Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
X-Country---
The scheduled quadrangular cross country meet between Illinois, Northwestern, Wisconsin, and Notre Dame was called off at the last minute early this week and left the Irish harriers with a. long wait ahead of them before they taste their first bit of competition.
With the cancellation of the fourway festival came the announcement that Indiana had definitely placed on the schedule. The Hoosiers will appear here on November 11th.
Nick’s men will have more time in which to polish off now, than, had the quadrangular affair been kept on the card. Present plans call for the first meet of the fall at Pittsburgh, on October 21, with Carnegie Tech providing the opposition.
HISTORY
(Continued from Page 11)
stopped running and heaved a perfect pass to an unguarded Kansas end standing on the Notre Dame goal line.
The Kansas stands were still celebrating the Jayhawk touchdown when Nick Lukats skirted left end, swung out into the clear and sprinted fortyseven yards for the first Irish score. With only a few minutes of play remaining in the first half, Joe Sheeket-ski dashed through a hole off right tackle, fought his way into the clear and eluded the Kansas safety man to dash sixty yards for a touchdown. George Melinkovich, with a sixty yard touchdown jaunt around right end, and Koken who scored from the 12 yard line, put the game on ice for the Irish in the second half.
VARSITY 60, FROSH 0
(Continued from Page 12)
this time with Lukats on the throwing end, gave the varsity their eighth score. Hugh Devore, fight end, made the catch with three freshman backs covering him. The last score came when Rey Bonar saved the day for the quarterbacks by returning a freshman kick from his own 40 yard line through the whole green team for the final official score.
After the regulation game, the lesser varsity teams took the field. Laborne and Dan Hanley scored, Johnny Young made another goal line jaunt and Billy Shakespeare weaved through the frosh for a 65 yard run to the goal line. Hanley and Beach converted. Miller made the afternoon’s play reach the total of 91-0.
TO PLAY IN AFTERNOON
By Nick Connor
The 1933 Interhall football season will open Sunday afternoon when the teams in both campus leagues will play their first games of the current year. The grouping of the teams into the two leagues has been changed somewhat this year.
In Group I there are two sophomore and four freshman teams. The group includes Freshman, Brownson, Carroll, St. Edward’s, Dillon, and Morrissey. One sophomore, three junior, and two senior teams comprise the second group. The league includes Corby, Howard, Walsh, Alumni, and Badin. Off-Campus will not have a team this fall, and Sorin maintains its traditional indifference.
Another innovation this fall will be the playing of all games in the afternoon. Two series of games, one at 1:15 and the other at 3:00 will be played each week. The championship game between the two league champions will be played on Sunday, Nov. 12, in Notre Dame Stadium.
Freshman coach Jake Kline, in charge of interhall athletics, will appoint officials for each game from the ranks of his freshman football squad.
The complete schedule of interhall play for the season is as follows:
OCTOBER 8.
Group I. '	•
Freshman vs. Brownson at Minims field. 1:15. St. Edward’s vs. Carroll at Brownson, 1:15. Dillon vs. Morrissey at Cartier No. 1, 1:15.
Group H.
Corby vs. Howard at Cartier No. 2. 3:00. Lyons vs. Walsh at Brownson. 3:00.
Alumni vs. Badin, Cartier No. 1. 3:00.
OCTOBER 15 Group I.
Freshman vs. Carroll at Minims. 1:15.	'
St. Edward's vs. Dillon at Brownson, 1:15.
Brownson vs. Morrissey at Cartier No. 1, 1:15 Group H
Corby vs. Walsh at Cartier No. 2. 3:00. Lyons vs. Alumni at Brownson at 3:00. Howard vs. Badin at Cartier No. 1. 3:00.
OCTOBER 22
Group I.
Freshman vs. Morrissey at Minims. 1:15.
Dillon vs. Carroll at Brownson. 1:15.
St. Edward's vs. Brownson at Cartier No. 1 1 :15.
Gioup II.
Corby vs. Badin at Cartier No. 2, 3:00. Alumni vs. Walsh vs. Brownson at 3:00. Lyons vs. Howard at Minims, 3:00.
OCTOBER 27 Group I.
Freshman vs. Dillon at Brownson, 1:15.
St. Edward's vs. Morrissey at Minims. 1:15. Brownson vs. Carroll at Cartier No. 1 at 1:15.
Group II
Corby vs. Alumni at Cartier No. 2, 3:00.
Lyons vs-. Badin at Brownson, 3:00.
Howard vs, Walsh at Cartier No. 2 at 3:00.
(Continued on Page 16)
October 6, 1933
Thirteen
So They Say
“The South Bend University has seen the day when it can meet its great rival on even terms, not because Notre Dame has retrograded appreciably in the past two years, but because Southern California has progressed. The Irish were soundly beaten in California last December. System was opposed to system; manpower was opposed to man-power. And the Trojan system and man-
BY REQUEST We Continue Our Sale on Parkette Pens
Made by the Parker Pen Co.
Since our College Opening Sale we have had many requests for Parkette Pens. To satisfy this demand we are continuing this attractive offer.
Parkette Pens are made with the sarne precision as the rest of the Parker line. Fourteen kt. gold points — “writing tested.” Handsome barrels in latest color effects, including the popular pearl finishes; all mounted in fine gold-filled trimmings. A most outstanding value.
Walgreen
DRUG STORE
208 N, Michigan
L. Newman, Mgr.
Fourteen
power predominated. It was a very significant demonstration of the relative merits of the two schools in the game of football, present and future.” —Lawrence Perry in the New York Sun.
“Hunk Anderson has proved himself to be a coach so original in thought, so gifted in invention that no eleven can have any hope of effective resistance unless its coach has taken this progress at Notre Dame into account. Still greater advances will be noted this year.”— Lawrence Perry in the Newark Neivs of September 21.
“Newcomers are the key men at Notre Dame. The team will rise or fall with them. A trifle below the Irish standard in our humble opinion.”—Jack Byrne in the Football Annual.
“It looks as though he (Mazziotti) will be the regular signal caller, and if he happens to get off on the right foot this year’s edition of the Notre Dame team will be outstanding. All of the other positions are well taken care of by veterans who have been through the fire, so beware of that cyclone from South Bend.”—Harry Stuhldreher in the Evangelist (Albany, New York) of September 29.
“Notre Dame has the material from which to mould another fine team, but, unfortunately, it is a team in which the difference between greatness and mediocrity depends almost entirely on the ability of a sophomore quarterback, Tony Mazziotti. Tradition is against this lad. Harry Stuhldreher and Frank Carideo, Notre Dame’s greatest field generals, did not earn regular jobs until they were juniors—Pilney looks better at this stage of his career than Marchmont Schwartz did, which is saying a lot.” —Harry MacNamara in the Chicago Herald and Examiner of Sept. 29.
“Hunk Anderson is a hero to the 1933 squad which will work behind him as solidly as the previous clubs had performed for Rockne—Although Andy Pilney, first backfield understudy for Nick Lukats, cavorted with, shall we call it eclat, in Notre Dame’s opening scrimmages, I don’t believe the young sophomore is rugged enough to stand much punishment.” —Dick Meade in the Toledo News-Bee of Sept. 26 and 27.
“A unit as powerful as ever stepped on any gridiron.”—Jack Led-den in the South Bend Tribune of Oct. 1.
KANSAS GAME
(Continued from Page 11)
190 pounds of muscle into the left tackle berth and dare the opposition to run any plays through that position. Milo Clawson, who is as big and almost as tough as the captain, holds down the other tackle berth. Frank Watkins, a fast reserve player from last year, plays the center post.
Veterans of two years experience hold down the wing positions. Ernie Casini, a smashing, hard-charging end, is on the left flank with Dick O’Neill, a fast defensive end, on the right side of the line. Zvonimir Kvaternik, a 195 pound veteran, is the bulwark of the line on defense from his guard berth. Elwyn Dees, husky varsity shot-putter, should be the main cog in the Kansas interference. His post is at right guard.
Quarterback will be played by Ole Nesmith, a worthy successor to Elmer Schaake, who was the main Kansas threat last year with his passing and pass receiving. Nesmith is very fast and a fine signal-caller. Ray Dumm holds down his old right halfback berth, with Johnny Peterson playing in the other halfback post. Ormand Beach, a 205 pound power-house fullback, does the line-bucking for the Jayhawkers. Beach is also a fine blocking back and may on occasion throw the passes. The Kansas ace-in-the-hole is sophomore Eddie Hall, the Big Six sprint champion, who is a demon on end runs.
“Jayhawks” is the nickname given to teams from Kansas. It is not derivative from the jay-bird family, but has a different connotation according to Mr. Webster’s dictionary. A jayhawk is a free-booting guerrilla so-called from the lawless days of the Free-soil rebellion in Kansas. These Kansans, however, are free-booters of an entirely different ilk. They do their free-booting on the gridiron.
The Fighting Irish will be led in this inaugural contest by Harry Wunsch, the speedy but rotund left guard of the big and fast Irish line, who was appointed captain by Coach Hunk Anderson. He becomes the first appointed captain in Notre Dame history under the new plan of appointing a captain for .each game. This gives the senior players the chance to be honored with the captaincy for one game, while an honorary leader will be elected at the end of the season.
Hugh Devore and Dominic Vairo, alternate ends of last year, will hold donw the flanking berths left vacant by the graduation of Captain Host and Ed Kosky. .Two experienced giants, Ed Krause and Tom Roach, who hit the beam at well over 220 pounds, bulwark the line at the tackle posts. Tom Gorman will be the snapper-(Continued on Page 16)
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
SCORECASTS
We took a pretty bad trimming last week on the guesses: 17 wins, two losses, one tie. For a bunch of opening day games that isn’t much of a record. Probably we should shed great tears over the Northwestern-Iowa result but we can’t. In the first place, our home state loyalty was too much not to rejoice when the Hawk-eyes captured their first conference victory since 1929.
For Ossie Solem’s sake, too, we were glad Iowa won. Having seen three Solem-coached teams in action in previous years we should have been wary of picking them to lose. He annually brought one of the best offensive teams to Notre Dame that appeared on the Irish card. It looks as if Iowa and Solem have both fallen on better days.
For one reason, though, we’re sorry. We always prefer to see opponents of the Fighting Irish go through their seasons undefeated until the Notre Dame game. Not that the defeat will make Northwestern any easier on November 18, but the interest is always higher in a clash between unbeaten elevens.
This week we have our first chance at guessing a Notre Dame game. We are picking the Irish by two touchdowns. Possibly it may be more, or possibly not so much. Kansas was a mighty good football team last year, and this season they have many veterans back. Also Coach Ad Lindsey has had a great deal of time to instill his technique in the Jayhawk squad. Last year he took over the head coach’s position just a week before the Notre Dame game.
For tlris week we hazard the following forecasts, guesses, and blind stabs, 28 of ’em:
NOTRE DAME 13, KANSAS 0.
Chicago 26, Cornell Col. 0.
Texas 13, Nebraska 7.
Wisconsin 14, Marquette 0.
Michigan 21, Michigan State 0.
Ohio State 27, Virginia 0.
Purdue 35, Ohio U. 0.
Illinois 13, Washington (St. L.) 0.
Minnesota 7, Indiana 0.
Princeton 20, Amherst 0.
Army 26, Virginia Military Inst. 0.
Harvard 20, Bates 0.
Temple 13, Carnegie 6.
Colgate 40, St. Lawrence 0.
Columbia ’35, Lehigh 0.
Dartmouth 40, Vermont 0.
Fordham 45, Muhlenberg 0.
Navy 13, Mercer 0.
Yale 20, Maine 0.
Kentucky 7, Georgia Tech. 0.
Rice 7, Loyola (N.O.) 6.
Georgia 20, Tulane 7.
Vanderbilt 13, North Carolina 0.
Villa Nova 13, South Carolina 7.
Santa Clara 7, Stanford 0.
St. Mary’s 7, California 0.
Southern California 20, Washington State 6.
Telephone service must be kept fit as a fiddle 365 days a year.
Thanks to a continuous program of maintenance and replacement, Bell System plant is today more efficient than ever. Constantly improved operating methods provide the swiftest, surest service on record. Plans devised by telephone men fit the service more and more exactly to subscribers’ needs.
The result of all this is: the telephone gives you a lot for a little money.
BELL SYSTEM
______| SAY “HELLO” TO MOTHER AND DAD |
I -RATES ARE LOWER AFTER 8.30 P. M.
N. D. Represented At Charities Convention
His Eminence Patrick Cardinal Hayes, Archbishop of New York, and President Franklin D. Roosevelt addressed the National Conference of Catholic Charities at the conclusion of the conference dinner last Wednesday night in New Zork. Both addresses were broadcast over' a national hook-up and culminated a program of meetings, ceremonies, and addresses which began Friday morning, September 29.
Notre Dame’s representative to the conferences was Mr. Maurice L. Pettit, Chief Probate Officer, Juvenile Court, South Bend, Indiana, and professor of curricula in probation work here at the University. At the Wednesday morning meeting of Committee on Protective Care, Professor Pettit spoke on Community Resources and Case-Work.
The Reverend Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., head of the University Sociology department, was to have attended and to have been discussion leader at the Tuesday meeting of Committee on Protective Care. Because of official duties here, Father Murray was unable to attend.
His Excellency, Most Reverend Ameto Giovanni Cigognani, Apostolic Delegate to the United States, the Most Reverend Michael J. Curley, Archbishop of Baltimore, the Most Reverend John J. Glennon, Archbishop of St. Louis, the Right Reverend James H. Ryan, S.T.D., Rector, Catholic University of America, the Reverend Thomas R. Reynolds, Director, Catholic Charities, the Honorable John P. O’Brien, Mayor of New York City, and many other prominent men in the field of Catholic Charities and St. Vincent de Paul work attended.
The centenary of the Society of St. Vincent de Paul was also held in conjunction with the conference.
KANSAS GAME
(Continued from Page 14)
back, and Joe Pivarnik will pair at guard with Wunsch.
Nick Lukats, the great running and passing back of the Irish, will pair at halfback with Ray Brancheau, another regular back of last season. Steve Banas should open the game at fullback, but an inexperienced sophomore, Tony Mazziotti, is the ’ first choice for quarterback.
All in all, Kansas has a big, tough, seasoned team, while Notre Dame’s regulars aren’t yet sure of their blocking, and the sophomores are still untried in varsity competition. It should be a hard opener for the Irish, but one that will afford them a fine chance for the seasoning of their sophomore hopefuls.
Sixteen	.
On Down The Line
By Nick Connor
BOB ZUPPKE, coach at the U. of Illinois, expects Notre Dame to be one of the strongest teams in the country this fall . • • SANDY HERD of Scotland, has made 18 holes in one in over 50 years of daily play . . . PAAVO NURMI, Finland’s great distance runner, has recently turned professional . . . Outfielder JOE HOUSER of Minneapolis has hit more home runs in a single season than any man in organized baseball . . . JOHN DREHER, Seattle golf editor, has estimated that the average golfer’s chance of scoring an ace is one in 20,000 tries . . . When BILL TERRY of the Giants and JOE CRONIN of the Senators, meet in the World Series, it will be the first time that two playing managers have played against each other since 1906 . . . All of the HARVARD and PENN games for this year will be played on their home fields.
The National Wrestling ass’n recently recognized JIM LONDOS as king of the heavyweight matmen . . . Over 6,000 golfers played the short 9th water hole at Lakewood, S. F., (95 yards) before a hole in one was scored ... JOE DEMAGGIO, in his first year of professional baseball, broke the coast league record hitting in 61 consecutive games . . . MILT HERMAN, a 245 lb. tackle on the Boston University eleven, was at one time Primo Camera’s sparring partner .. . CHUCK KLEIN of the Philadelphia Nationals, led five of the seven departments in batting this year . . . FORREST HUDSON, who played on the U. of Missouri frosh team in 1921, has reported back to school this fall. He is a candidate for FRANK CARIDEO’S grid team . . . MENSEN ERNST, the Norwegian, ran 5,000 miles across all Europe in less than 100 days . . . PRES. COMISKEY of the Chicago White Sox has signed LEW FONSECA, manager in 193233, for another year . . . MARTIN DOBRILLA recently swung a pair of Indian clubs continuously for six days and nights.
A cannon is fired by CHICK MEEHAN, Manhattan College coach, every time his team makes a touchdown . . . REGGIE McNAMARA of bike fame, has pedaled bicycles in 6 day races for over 25 years . . . LOU GEHRIG has played in over 1339 successive ball games . . • The greatest race ever run was when JACK LOVELOCK of Oxford beat Bill Bonthron of Princeton in the mile, both beating the world’s record of 4 min. 9.2 sec. . . . Iron Man JOE McGINNITY pitched 830 innings in
2 years . . . CAP’T WEBB recently swam continuously for over 72 hours.
JACK GROSSMAN, former Rutgers back, is the first holdout of football ... He thinks that the Brooklyn Dodgers should pay him more money . . . JACK QUINN has been pitching big-league baseball for over 33 years . . . BILL JURGES of the Cubs, recently caught HAL SMITH of the PIRATES off second base with the old "hidden ball” trick . . . BUD REYNOLDS of Columbus, Ohio, played the piano continuously for 105 hours . . . Running one last race for sentiment sake, EQUIPOISE finished second . . . The noted horse has now retired to the blue grass of Kentucky.
FALL GOLF
(Continued from Page 11)
Win Day ..........78-78—156
Vince Fehlig......82-75—157
Herm Green ........79-78—157
Charles Nevils ....81-77—158
P. Malloy ....... 81-80—161
Jack Kunz .........81-81—162
Woody Stillwagon ..79-83—162
Ray Martin ........84-78—162
Bill Veeneman .....87-76—163
Hugh Wall ........80-83—163
Jack Cannon .......85-78—163
John Clark ........81-83—164
Lemar Campbell....84-81—165
George Como .......87-79—166
Fran Dunn .........83-85—168
Lou Fehlig ........87-81—168
Dick McMonagle ....89-80—169
Paul Kiszeli ......82-87—169
Dan McLaughlin ....84-86—170
Kevin Kehoe .......90-82—172
Pierce ............87-88—175
John Marbock......89-87—176
Jim Foohey........91-92—183
Dick McArdle .....92-91—183
INTERHALL SCHEDULE
(Continued from Page 13)
NOVEMBER 5 Group I.
Freshman vs. St. Edward’s at Minims, 1:15.
Dillon vs. Brownson at Brownson, 1:15.
Carroll vs. Morrissey at Cartier No. 1, 1:15.
Group II.
Corby vs. Lyons at Cartier No. 2, 3:00.
Alumni vs. Howard at Brownson, 3:00.	.
Walsh vs. Badin at Cartier No. 1, 3:00.
All games postponed on account of rain etc., must be played on the following Tuesday at 4:00 p. m.
Optimistic Frosh
. Whatever be the merits or defects of the present freshman football squad, their’s is a supremely optimistic nature. The boys are going to be prepared for whatever may befall.
Last Saturday, just before their encounter with the varsity, two from among their number dropped out to practice _ kicking points-after-touch-down.
The Scholastic
At Your Service
Our stores, as in the past, have always been the headquarters for Notre Dame men.—It is our duty and utmost aim as a service to you, to present at all times the latest and authentic styles in clothing for men about the campus.
Kuppenheimer Clothes Suede Jackets Nettleton Shoes	Corduroy Slacks
Stetson Hats	Pennants, Banners, etc.
Visit our two stores: Downtown and on the campus.
FREE! $15 in Merchandise
To the person guessing the correct score of the next Notre Dame football game.
Fill out blanks and drop in box, either at the campus shop or downtown store.
COMPLETE YOUR
EDUCATION!
No Notre Dame student’s education will be complete without a few visits to the World’s Fair. And what better way to go than via South Shore Line. . . speedy, convenient, direct to the Fair gates. . . and low in cost I No waits, no confusion. Hurry! Before the Fair closes!
For more information call Mr. C. W. Veach, City Passenger Agent, phone 3-3111, or write Mr. R. E. Jamieson, General Passenger Agent, 140 S. Dearborn Street, Chicago.
LOW COST ROUND TRIP
SOUTH BEND
. to CHICAGO with 9 day return limit
60
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

PRESIDENTS AND DEPARTMENT HEADS OF THE LEADING UNIVERSITIES RECOMMEND WEBSTER’S ^COIXECIATF
Dr. E. J. Cain
Dr. H. H. Rogers
. “Tbe belt American dictionary that hat yet appeared, for a college tludent to heep within arm’t reach. What he doet not find between itt covert in relation to the general Hie of wordt in tpeech or on printed paget will not be neeettary to a liberal artt degree.**—Orton Lowe, Director, Winter Inttitute of Literature, Dnivertity of Miami.
The best abridged dictionary because it is based on tbs “Supreme Authority”—Webster's New International Dictionary.
106,000 entries including hundreds of new wards, with definitions. spellings, and correct use; a dictionary of Bicprsphy; a Gazetteer: rules of punctuation; use of capitals, abbreviations, etc.: a dictionary of foroipa words and phrasos. Many other . features of practical value. 1,268 pages. 1,700 illustrations.
See It At Your College Bookstore or Write for Information to the Publishers.	'	.
G. AC. MERRIAM CO. SPRINGFIELD, MASS.
ROGERS
Eyesight Speciali»ts
213 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251

THE FINEST
THE FINEST WORKMANSHIP

TOBACCOS
Copyright, 1933, The American Tobacco Company.
These days, smokers pay more attention to their cigarettes. Naturally they’re talking about the way Luckies are made. Always so round, so firm and fully packed. Brimful of the choicest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos—without loose ends. That’s why Luckies draw easily, burn evenly and are so mild—so smooth.
44it's toasted ”
FOR THROAT PROTECTION - FOR BETTER TASTE
STOCK UP ON YOUR
“LUCKY STRIKES”
AT THE
NOTRE DAME CANDY STORE
Free Paper Matches!
Will your set be an ASSET or a SETBACK . . .
during the Radio Progress Week broadcasts? Our sales department will sell you a new receiver. Our service department will give your old set a new lease on life.
Let us set you all set for
RADIO PROGRESS WEEK
Harvey P.
Rockwell
The Radio Doctor
155 ALUMNI HALL
Established 30 Years
L (MONTREES
OPTOMETRISTS 222South Michigan Street	South Bend, Indiana
Patients all over the world.
NOW IF YOUR EYES REQUIRE GLASSES they will be properly prescribed, correct in styling to be. inconspicuous — yet enriching your personal appearance. Always pains-taking craftsmanship — regardless of the amount you prefer to expend, arid unvarying quality of materials so you may find Better Vision with Greater Comfort.
• REASONABLE
• DEPENDABLE
• PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
LEONARD’S
SMOKE SHOP
105 East LaSalle Avenue
Complete line of
• MAGAZINES
•	CIGARS
•	CANDY
•	COCA COLA
Come in and browse around.
ATTENTION!
Free Examination ♦
Is Your Hair Falling?
Bothered With Dandruff?
Itching Scalp. Etc.?
Try Us For Satisfactory Results.
Let Us Restore Your Natural Growth Of Hair
RELIANCE HAIR GROWING SHOPPE 230 W. Washington Men Only Private Entrance Phone 4-6771
STETSON
liken making hats for College Men
COLLEGE MEN have a way of bringing out die best that’s in a hat. If it has true style, the jaunty informality with which it’s worn emphasizes its smartness.
You’ll like the new Fall Stetsons. Correct in trim lines with a bit of a swing, whether worn as in the illustration or with brim snapped down.
And the colors are unusually handsome. Be sure to see the new mixtures and the exclusive Stetson Suede Finish.
toe better store*
JelmB. Stetsee
Q
-lemomier librart-
NOTRE DARE, LOCAL
Of all the ways in which
tobacco is used the cigarette
is
the mildest form
YOU know, ever since the Indians found out the pleasure of smoking tobacco, there have been many ways of enjoying it.
But of all the ways in which tobacco is used, the cigarette is the mildest form.
Another thing—cigarettes are about the most convenient smoke. All you have to do is strike a match.
Everything that money can buy and everything that science knows about is used to make Chesterfields.
The right home-grown tobaccos— seasoned' with just enough aromatic Turkish—are blended and cross-blended the Chesterfield way.
Then the cigarettes are made right —firm, well-filled. Chesterfield uses the right kind of pure cigarette paper.
There are other good cigarettes, of course, but Chesterfield is
the cigarette that’s milder, the cigarette that tastes better. Chesterfields satisfy—we ask
li ester field - • • . “ ■ ■ ’ " - -the cigarette that’s MILDER
at TASTES BETTER
€ 1933,
TOOT *3IIVa SHION “IHYHSIT H3IKCIIW37-
XHYHflniUSHSAIKnSBX

