JANUARY 15, 1954
^OTRE DAME
UNIVERSITY OF
BE^DiXG ROOM
THE NOTRE DAME
Scholastic
HOW THE STARS GOT STARTED..

Eddie Sauter and Bill Finegan, leaders of America’s most excitingly-different dance band, met in 1939 as struggling young arrangers. Ed had studied trumpet and drum at college, worked up to arranging for "name” bands;
Bill had studied in Paris, won a spot with Tommy Dorsey. After 13 years of pooling new ideas, they formed their own band. It clicked!
AMERICA'S NEWEST, MOST COLORFUL DANCE BAND
Start smoking Camels yourself!
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are first in mildness, flavor and popularity! See how much pure pleasure a cigarette can give you!
BUT I GET MOST PLEASURE
PROM CAMELS. YOU
JUST RIGHT.’
IVE TRIED MAN/ BRANDS,
WILL, TOO !
Far


WITH ME, CAMELS CLICKED
INSTANTLY. THE FLAVOR'S HOW
I LIKE IT, THE MILDNESS
Camels agree with more people
THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE I
Thanks to Pep Rally Boosters
Editor:
Jim Deline and myself would like to express our belated thanks to all those who helped us in our pep rally work this fall. To Mr. O’Brien’s band boys for giving unselfishly of their time, to Dick Cotter for a fine job as master of ceremonies, to those in Charlie Callahan’s sports publicity office, and to many others — too numerous to enumerate— goes our gratitude.
Co-Chairmen,
Blue Circle Pep Fran Romance Rally Committee Jim Deline
Look to Gilbert’s For Your
JUlMtGJty cutdl Rook Shop
We Sell Truth New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
CAMERAS
FOUNTAIN PENS
Naval
Officer’s Uniform
Fine serges. Expressly selected for their excellent worsted construction. Guaranteed long wearing. Regulation Navy Blue uniform. Pay for it from uniform allowance after your arrival at base.
GILBERTS
809-817 So. Michigan St.
South Bend’s Largest Store For Men!
128 W. Washington
DR RW TURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
— OPTICAL REPAIRS —
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring In The Pieces” ---EYES EXAMINED---
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone 4-5777
You Always Get a Square
Deal at Breen’s
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING BREEN’S Jeweler
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
SPAGHETTI	RAVIOLI
CHICKEN	STEAKS
We Cater to Banquets and Parties
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant
Open Sundays
610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
January 15, 1954
It’s a Landslide! Arrow Oxfords Voted Style Kings Large majority of collegians favor trim good looks of Arrow “Gordon Dover Button-down”
“Lasting good looks” was the main reason cited for the overwhelming popularity of Arrow Oxfords. These fine shirts . . . which retain their fresh good looks all day long . . . are available at all Arrow dealers — in white or colors.
AfiROW »»--------------► TRADE ® MARK
-- SHIRTS * TIES * UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS « SPORTSWEAR -
See the new Arrow Shirts at
Michigan at Washington — On the Comer
'Sign' Urges Catholics To Help Alien Youths
American Catholics are urged to show the thousands of foreign students in the United States “that Christians don’t just talk love of their fellow men but practice it” by inviting such students into their homes for a friendly visit, according to an editorial in the December issue of The Sign, national Catholic magazine.
Calling the foreign student “the new kid in the neighborhood on a global scale,” the editorial deplores the fact that many such students “are going back home without benefit of a single friendly contact with an American Catholic.”
“Who are these foreign students?” the editorial asks.
“Dangerous To Lose Contact”
“Some of them are Latin Americans or others from Catholic areas. For them it can be disastrous to lose contact suddenly with Catholics and become immersed in the secularist atmosphere, as one does on some American college campuses,” The Sign points out.
“Others are Catholics from pagan countries,” the editorial adds. “They must feel a very special lonesomeness for contact with others of their faith.
“But in a way,” The Sign says, “the most important group of all and the nonCatholic and non-Christian students from non-Christian lands: Japan, India, Indonesia, Egypt, and so on. For most of these, their student years in America will be their only contact with Christian civilization.”
What To Do About It
The Sign calls special attention to foreign students who are under contract to enter government service when they return to their homelands. Americans, the editorial points out, have an obligation to see to it that such students “bring back with them to their government service a new understanding of Western Christian civilization.”
The editorial asks :r “What can you do about it?”
“Well, the chances are pretty good that you aren’t very far from some college, Catholic or secular. At a non-Cath-olic college, call up the Newman Club chaplain. At a Catholic school, contact the student counselor. Tell him you’d like to invite a foreign student to your home.
“It needn’t be as an overnight guest or even for dinner,” the editorial concludes. “The main thing is to meet the foreign student and show him a gesture of friendship. You’ll find a ready response and a satisfying experience.”
The Scholastic I

the national champs aren’t supposed to lose ... or tie, for that matter.
Where To, WNDU?
Rumor has it that WNDU (or, as Pat McCartan says, “Radio Notre Dame”) has lost its lease and has to get the heck
by Ken Murphy
Top of the Week
No column last WEEK . . .
The Auld Long Grind
You’ll have to bear with us if this column is a little worse than usual, but the keys are a little dusty, the carriage a little rusty, and yours truly a little musty. Yessir, it was a long, hard vacation and almost a relief to get back to the quiet blizzard of Indiana — almost, but not quite.
We imagine there were many parties over the recess and dances galore and many good times. But probably most
of all, there were multi-conversations which went something like this:
SCENE — A beverage-dispensary some-
where in the forty-eight.
ACT—One, Two and Three.
CAMERA, LIGHTS, ACTION—
“Hiyuh . . . errrr . . . good t’see ya.” “Oh, hiyah . . . uhhh . . . how are ya.” “Long time, no see.”
“Hmm? Oh, yeah . . . sure is.”
“Yep!”
“Mmhmm.”
“You . . . ahhh . . . still go to college?”
“Yeah,” (sensing what is coming next),
“Notre Dame.”	'
“Ummmm” . . . (followed by a long pause, then a slight cough) . . . “say, a” . . . (real confidential like) . . . “tell me, what happened to Notre Dame this year?”
Now, when one of these pains in the neck popped up, there was one of several alternatives one could pursue:
1)	Explain to him very patiently that, to the best of your knowledge, nothing had “happened to Notre Dame this year.”
’Course there had been a small fire in Washington Hall one night, but that was put out in a hurry.
2)	Ask him how the wife and kids are. 3) Just ignore him completely.
4)	Offer to buy him a drink.
5)	Go to the movies.
Polls Again
Noticed by the paper the other day that the Associated Press is still trying to conduct polls. This one was for the top team of 1953 and boy, we were pretty burned up to read that the New York Yankees had beaten out Maryland for the number one ranking. I’ll bet you that if Maryland ever got the Yankees on a football field they’d “moider ’em.”
We were one of those fortunate enough to watch the Orange Bowl game on TV last Snooze Year’s Day and we can truthfully say that Maryland certainly lost like national champs. 'Course
out of the Fieldhouse. The burning question of the hour, therefore, is who will rent out to the local wave-length jammers? Can’t you just see the ad in the paper? WANTED: Storage space for one slightly-used radio station.
Query of the Week	“
What major league baseball player of the past season was on the Notre Dame all-opponent football team of 1949? If you think you have the solution, send your answer in 25 words or less to yours truly. Winner gets a free ride across the Bog via dog-sled.
Slaying Two Birds With One Cup
Back in September (that was before the blizzards set in) we were a bit disgruntled that the one-armed coffee-bandit in the AB java-joint was dispensing its boiling hot coffee in cold-drink cups. But now that Hoosierland’s winter has set in in its own inimitable fashion, we find that the defrosted cold cups serve two purposes. Not only do they tend to warm your innards, but they also make pretty good hand-warmers. The place still is shy one juke box, though.
On The Town
We read other things besides newspapers once in awhile. For instance, we ran across a pretty good ad in the New Yorker the other day.
EL MOROCCO—A fashionable photographer’s studio, open evenings for the convenience of those who have to sleep during the day.
Bottom of the Week
. . . but there is one this WEEK. .
—Advertisement
-BUT THAT WOULD BE ILLEGAL.’*’-
-MY NAME
IS IRVING
Wildroot Cream-Oil is America’s favorite hair tonic. It’s non-alcoholic. Contains soothing Lanehe. Grooms bar, reheves dryness, removes lense dandrwff. Get Wddroot Cream-Oil, Charite! lam as 29<.
^fARLtW^OSDICK
by AL CAPP
fosdck; YOU FAKE."
tBK" ONE1^ IS FOSDICK -BUT THE OTHER is A^YFACEl -THE WORLD'S
TRICKIEST CRIMINAL-
I - HIS FACE IS SO ELAST1C, HE CAN MOLD IT INTO ANY SHAPE JT OH.'- MOW CAN FOSDICK < TELL WHO IS WHO ? —
WEREN'T ME BECAUSE 1 USE
WILDROOT-CRKAM OIL TO KEEP MY HAIR NEAT—
BUT NOT (UGh/Z) GREASYI /OURS
<&AM£ssrr
THOUGHT OF WILD ROOT CREAM-OIL, WITH LANOLIN, I COULD'VE AVOIDED
ARREST
-YOU COULD'VE AVOIDED LOOSC DANMUFIFTOO, iANYRACE*?- SAME GOES FOR YOU CHIEF.'*— GET WILOROOT CREAM OU, CHARUE.'*
January 15, 1954

••
Parker-Wiuterrowd Inc.
JANUARY 15
STUDENT CENTER (9 p.m.)—Indiana University’s Fred Dale and the nation’s number one college band serenade the future generals and admirals at the Military Ball.
AVON (through Jan. 19)—Give a Girl a Break (A-l) has the best dancing team in the movie (Marge & Gower Champion) and Debbie Reynolds but it still manages to fall flat on its face as a musical. The narrative, what there is of it, concerns three girls who come to Broadway and make a bid for the same part in a stage musical. Each has a booster in one of the main members of the production staff.
COLFAX (through Jan. 21)—Burt Lancaster is his usual heroic self in His Majesty O’Keefe. Reminiscent of so many other tropical adventures, the movie has the poor simple natives falling victims to the nasty white men only to be rescued by O’Keefe, who as a result becomes king of the island. Joan Rice, a British actress, is the female lead.
GRANADA (ends tomorrow)—A couple of lemons, Affairs With a Stranger (A-2) and Night Without Stars (A-2).
JANUARY 16
FIELDHOUSE (2 p.m.)—Case Institute’s traditionally crack fencing team poses a problem for the Irish blademen who are seeking their second straight win.
ST. MARY’S—At the risk of frostbite, you might cross the Dixie for SMC’s annual winter carnival, mysteriously called Snowshoes in the Sand. Festivities will start at noon.

JANUARY 17
GRANADA (through Jan. 21)—Seems the management is biding time till its next CinemaScope production. In a fair turnabout the audience would be wise not to waste their time seeing the likes of Drums of Tahiti and The Nebraskan (A-2).
PALACE (through Jan. 21)—Another couple of mediocrities, Three Sailors and a Girl (B) and Texas Badman (A-l). In the former Janie Powell and Gordon MacRae do a colorful if not successful job of trying to make the picture click. The story has no kinship to reality.
RIVER PARK (through Jan. 20)—If you missed it on its first visit to town and feel like some good entertainment, you might take in Roman Holiday (A-2). Audrey Hepburn is being mentioned as an Academy Award possibility for her performance. The second pic, The Affairs of Dobie Gillis (A-2) isn’t bad either.
JANUARY 19
FIELDHOUSE (8 p.m.)—The Irish return to the friendly confines of their bandbox to battle an improved Purdue five. This is the last game for the Jordanmen till Feb. 3.
JANUARY 20
AVON (a week)—Though it gives off its share of tension, 99 River Street (B) is not much more than a run of the mill mystery story that utilizes a time-worn pattern. John Payne and Evelyn Keyes have the principal roles.

JANUARY 22
COLFAX (a week)—Rita Hayworth cavorts with patented perfection in Miss Sadie Thompson (B). And it’s in 3-D!
GRANADA (indefinite run)—The CinemaScope production that the management had been biding time for has finally arrived. Knights of the Round Table is hailed as a superior motion picture in every sense. There is even a ring of authenticity to the goings on which is unusual for one of these screen pageants. Robert Taylor, Ava Gardner, and Mel Ferrer are the stars.
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - to - wear or tailored made to measure.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parker-ffinterrowd Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
1151/2-1171/2 No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
6
The Scholastic
Scholastic
Vol. 95. January 15, 1954 No. 14.
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER ....................:New$
FRED C. ECKART .................. Copy
JOHN A. ADAMS ..............Assistant Copy PAUL J. LaFRENIERE....Assistant Copy ROBERT B. FROL1CHER ...................Sports - JERRY D. BAIER ..............Advertising
B. JERRY CAMPBELL ...........Circulation BOB FOWLER_________Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE______Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Bill Burnett, Clifford Carlson, Dick Colgan, Paul Clemens, Dave Cohen, Dick Connelly, Mark Connelly, John Cusack, George Dailey, Tim Devereux, Bob Dunseath, Jack Flynn, Gerry Gates, Jim Gibbons, Jim Healey, Jerrold Hilton, Ellis Joseph, Robert Kaufman, John Mannion, James Mason, James McIntosh, Charles McKendrick, Ronald Michaud, Roy Moxley, Francis Newman, Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan, Tom Quinn, Dick Rust, Pete Sturtevant, Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, Ken Woodward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Phil Bolin, John Cywinski, Dave Davin, Dave Kilkeary, John Phelan, and Bob Ruhl.
LIBRARIAN: Norbert G. Radziwon.
Member of Catholic School Press Association k Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except, during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
OUR COVER: “Inspecting the Guard,” by Jerry Post, won the approval of judges in the photography division’s human interest category in the recent art contest sponsored by the Student Senate. For it, he was awarded a first prize. Another entry, “Swans,” also brought Jerry an award. Other winners — paintings, sculptured works, and photos, including “Swans” — are presented on pages 20 and 21. First prize writing winners appear in the text.
WNDU, the 'Scholastic,' and the Senate's Dollar
As the Scholastic reported last week in its supplementary’ issue, the controversy over the Student Senate's decision to charge another one-dollar'activities fee for next semester has developed into a hot and furious battle of words. Last Monday night, when the senators got to the Center for their weekly meeting, arguments dragged on when the issue came to a showdown and the committee heads presented financial reports for everybody to hear. Many of the senators have been ridiculed personally for what students think is their part in supporting the move; the volume of mail coming to the Senate’s office has doubled; and our editors have received many letters of protestation— some of which are unprintable.
Most of the students, who have opposed the measure, offer fairly convincing; arguments as to why the Senate shouldn’t charge the extra tax. But the most illogical piece of reasoning we’ve heard on the subject so far came in static form from the rafters of the old Fieldhouse last Monday night when Pat McCartan tried to blame the Scholastic for misleading the students on the issue. Referring to Phil Bolin’s article, which appeared in our magazine last Friday, the WNDU announcer described it as “deceiving,” presenting “gross misrepresentations” and “vague generalities,” and—among other things—ill-devised because of the “amazing lack of space” which our editors had devoted to it.
We see nothing wrong with Sophomore McCartan’s efforts to set the UN on the right track when he analyzes the international news every night at 5 o’clock; nor do we balk at his warnings to Senator Joe McCarthy, when the latter hits upon another one of his controversial espionage issues. But when the “Five-Star Finalist” starts wading into something that he doesn’t know anything about, and about which we do know, we’re going to be the first to lead him to the quicksand.
For one thing, if all of his programs are like the one on Monday night, he’s merely an armchair philosopher. Why do we say this? He makes his point over the airwaves, then offers no support—:but merely waits for everyone to sit back and sigh in amazement. This is nothing but bad reporting.
With regard to the announcer’s reference about “gross misrepresentations,'’ it would be well to point out that Scholastic’s editors contacted Bolin about that article before the start of Christmas vacation. The author spent most of the following weeks gathering material; then both Bolin and our editors double-checked the figures with Senate President Jim Richards. AH of the expenditures, as indicated in that article, are correct to the penny. There’s nothing more convincing, we think, than a ledger sheet. This, of course, eliminates the possibility of “vague generalities” which the announcer referred to.
It is indeed gratifying to hear that McCartan noticed the front page article in which we explained the issue as a “supplementary” one, but his reference to the “amazing lack of space” is extremely disconcerting. It might also be well to mention that more than one page was devoted to the Senate’s tax article while, at the same time, there was only room enough for three and one-half pages of news material remaining.
Station WNDU has made a great deal of progress in the last three years, and we commend its director and staff. But we’ll only congratulate its news reporters when they find out what they’re talking about before they talk.
January 15, 1954
7

Bl
THE DI POM
DIGEST
Robert Thomson {left), B.S. in Ch.E., Univ, of Va. ’50, Dovid S. Rumsey {center), M.S. in Ch., Univ, of Mich. ’48, and Rene M. LeClair {right), M.S. in Ch. E., M.I.T. ’51, test samples on an experimental batch unit.
Plant Development Offers Training and Opportunity
John Purdom, M.S. in Ch.E., Ohio State ’48 {right), confers with other engineers on the progress of a new plant.
tion and operation of a pilot plant. But this time, engineers from the Production Division arranged for a limited-scale plant test, using a spare batch still and a crystallizer on a part-time basis. Two months of testing confirmed the previous data—the new distillation-crystallization process recovered adipic acid efficiently, and would reduce costs considerably. The plant is now using this process successfully.
That’s how one young chemical engineer started his career in a typical Du Pont Plant Development group. The job of such groups is to make processes and equipment more efficient, to adapt products to new uses, and to improve product quality.
Plant Development work not only offers opportunity in itself but valuable training for other fields.
A young chemical engineer recently had his first assignment in a Plant Development group at Du Pont. He was part of a team assigned to improve recovery of adipic acid, a nylon intermediate, from plant-waste streams.
First, he made a literature survey for possible leads. Three recovery methods came under consideration: solvent extraction, crystallization, and a combination distillation-crystallization process. He helped to set up a laboratory program to compare and evaluate them.
Preliminary results were somewhat inconclusive. It was decided to go
ahead with semi-works tests, while an organic chemist completed the laboratory work.
Next, the young chemical engineer joined forces with a mechanical engineer to design a semi-works plant to evaluate each method. In this plant, all vital points were checked and rechecked: materials of construction, steam and water requirements, heattransfer coefficients, yields, product quality, and pollution problems.
The semi-works data revealed that the distillation-crystallization process was the most economical, and also gave the best product quality. Usually, the next step would be construc-
ASK FOR "Chemical Engineers at DuPont." This new illustrated booklet describes initial assignments, training, and paths of promotion. Just send a post card to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware. Also available: ’'Du Pont Company and the College Graduate” and "Mechanical Engineers at Du Pont.”
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
... THROUGH CHEMBTRy
Watch “Cavalcade at Amrica,” oa Televisioa
• 8
The Scholastic
The SMastic
Volume 95, Number 14	Notre Dame, Indiana	January 15, 1954
Field to Take Richards* Senate Post
Trio of Queens, 'America's Top College Band* Join to Set ROTC Men, Dates 'At Ease' Tonight
Tonight Miss Jean Foster, Miss Lois Walkowiak, and Miss Dorothy Mortell will reign together at the Military Ball. From 9 to 1 Fred Dale and his orchestra will fill the Student Center with melodies as the future officers and their ladies usher in the 1954 social season.
Since each ROTC unit this year is represented by a dance chairman, the date of each co-chairman will be crowned and preside as a queen of the ball. Miss Foster, a junior at Stephens College, Columbia, Mo., is a native of Burlington, N. C. She will be the date of Lewis Blakey, Army co-chairman.
Miss Walkowiak is a South Bend girl and she is the date of Air Force Chairman Gene Wagner. Miss Mortell, the date of Joe Daigneault, Navy co-chairman, is employed as a stenographer with the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. in South Bend.
Fred Dale and his orchestra hail from Indiana University and hold the title, “The Nation’s No. 1 College Band.”
LOIS WALKOWIAK MISS JEAN FOSTER DOROTHY MORTELL
Air Force, Army, and Navy Queens Reign Over Tri-Service Ball
Fred, now a senior at Indiana, formerly played trumpet with Les Brown. His band, which numbers 15 pieces, placed second last spring in a nation-wide contest, sponsored by Metronome Magazine, to pick the best college band. As the winning orchestra has now disbanded, Dale and his group have inherited the title. Another attraction will be the singing of the lovely vocalist, Bobbie Williams.
Formal wear has been prescribed, and every ROTC member will wear the uniform of his branch of service. No corsages will be permitted, but favors will be given each girl.
A gathering of 400 couples is expected to fill the Center. In addition to the ROTC students and their dates, the detachment officers and enlisted men and their wives have been invited to attend the festivities.
The ball decorations will be simple in
(Continued on page 32)
SENATE PRESIDENT RICHARDS
Leaving for Georgetown
Tom Field Replaces Graduating President
Jim Richards, president of the Student Senate, announced his resignation in favor of vice-president Tom Field at the weekly meeting of the Senate Monday night.
Richard’s resignation, which came in the wake of rumors to that effect, was occasioned by his graduation this January. He plans to continue his studies in the Graduate School of Georgetown University, Washington, D. C.
Field succeeds Richards by virtue of the Senate constitution which provides that the vice-president shall succeed the president in the event he is unable to complete his term of office.
The new vice-president, who has traditionally been a senior .in the past, will be elected at the next meeting, next Monday night since Richards’ resignation is in effect immediately.
A Political Science major here at Notre Dame, Richards served in the capacity of President of the Junior Class last year and was active in numerous other campus activities, including the mock (Continued on page 32)
January 15, 1954
9
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG
Announces Five New Alumni Directors
Alumni Association Adds Five New Heads
Five new directors have been elected to the Notre Dame Alumni Association, it was announced recently by James E. Armstrong, executive secretary.
Elected for three-year terms were Robert H. Gore, Jr., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; John E. McIntyre, South Bend, Ind.; Joseph I. O’Neill, Jr., Midland, Texas; and James L. Ferstel, Chicago, Ill. Karl Martersteck. Cleveland, Ohio, was named to fill the unexpired term of the late Galvin Hudson of Memphis, Tenn.
. The new directors will be installed at a meeting cf the Alumni Association’s Board of Directors on the Notre Dame campus Jan. 22-24. New officers of the Association for 1954 will be elected from among the twelve directors at that time. John H. Neeson, Jr., 1953 alumni president, will be chairman of the three-day meeting.
Gore, a 1931 graduate of Notre Dame’s College of Science, is president and managing director of the Governor’s Club and Sea Ranch hotels in Fort Lauderdale. He is also treasurer of the Fort Lauderdale News and its affiliated radio and TV stations.
McIntyre, who was graduated from the University’s College of Commerce in 1931, is vice-president and general manager of the Sibley Machine and Foundry Co., South Bend. He is chairman of the United Fund and a trustee of the Sunnyside Presbyterian Church.
O’Neill, a former Notre Dame football and basketball star, is an inde-
10
Sightseers Begin Washington Tour Jan. 28; Will See Congress, Memorials, the Pentagon
The annual student trip to the nation’s capital will officially begin Thursday, Jan. 28, under the guidance of Dr. Paul Bartholomew of the Department of Political Science. Since Jan. 29 is an examination date, Dr. Bartholomew asks that any student who desires to make the trip, but has an exam on that day, see him in room 346 in O’Shaughnessy Hall before Jan. 21. He will try to move the examination to an earlier date in order that the student will be able to make the trip.
Students taking the trip will meet at the Circle at 4:30 p.m. Busses will leave the Circle exactly at that time and from LeMans Hall at St. Mary’s for the students there. At LaPaz, Ind., they will take the 5:49 p.m. train to Washington. The Baltimore & Ohio’s “Columbian,” a diesel-powered streamliner, will provide the transportation.
At 8:40 a.m. Friday the train will arrive at Union Station in Washington. Special busses will take the tourists to the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, to witness the procedure involved in producing paper currency and government bonds. After this there will be an inspection of F.B.I. headquarters, followed by luncheon in the Supreme Court Restaurant. After the luncheon the tourists will visit the Supreme Court Building and the Capitol Building. That evening the students will leave Washington by steamer for Norfolk, Va.
On Saturday, Jan. 30, the day will be devoted to sightseeing. Such places as Norfolk, Jamestown, and Yorktown will be seen. That night the tour will leave to return to Washington Sunday morning.
On Sunday morning a Mass will be said in the Franciscan Monastery and
pendent oil operator in Midland, Texas. Since his graduation from the College of Commerce in 1937, he also has served as a broker and with the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Ferstel received his law degree at Notre Dame in 1950. He served as a legal officer with the Army in the Far East and now is practicing in Chicago.
Martersteck, a 1929 engineering graduate, is assistant division manager of the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Co. He is a former president of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland and city chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation.
there will be a tour of the grounds afterwards. A stop will then be made at the Shrine of the Immaculate Conception on the campus of Catholic University.
The group will then proceed with lecturer’s service for a tour of 16th Street with its embassies and legations, Rock Creek Park and the National Zoological Gardens, Georgetown, Fort Meyer, Arlington Cemetery and the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. The tour will proceed over the George Washington Memorial Highway to Alexandria, Va., and to Mount Vernon and Washington’s Tomb. The Lincoln and Jefferson Memorials are also on the agenda. Dinner will be at the Dumont Plaza Hotel, the newest in the nation’s capital.
Monday will feature visits to the Washington Monument, the Smithsonian Institute, Folger Shakespeare Library, Library of Congress, Archives Building, and the National Gallery of Art.
On Tuesday, Feb. 2, visits will be made to the Pentagon Building and the Capitol Building where the tourists will attend a Congressional Committee hearing. After lunch in the Senate Restaurant there will be visits to the Senate and House of Representatives, and also the Supreme Court, if it is in session. In the afternoon the Iranian Embassy will hold a reception for the touring students. They will board the “Columbian” for the return trip at 5:40 p.m.
One of the highlights of the trip will be a party held Sunday evening for the students. This annual party will be held once again in the home of Mr. Walter- Trohan, a graduate of Notre Dame, who now lives in Washington.
The students will arrive at LaPaz at 6:20 Wednesday morning where special busses will convey them back to the campus.	•
The cost of the. tour is $117 which will cover round trip coach fare, steamer passage, stateroom on steamer, meals, hotel accommodations in Washington, tips for meal service, all sightseeing and transfers in special busses, guides and lecturers, admission fees to ground and buildings and taxes.
Dr. Bartholomew asks students who desire to make the trip to have their payments in to him by Jan. 21. For further information concerning the trip write, phone, or see Dr. Bartholomew, Room 346 O’Shaughnessy Hall. Phone ■ 3-7111, extension 354. His home phone number is 4-1472.
it
The Scholastic
I
►
Scien+is+s Lay Plans For Feb. 26 Dance
As yet a theme has not been selected for the annual Science Ball which will be held on Friday, Feb. 26, from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., but Co-Chairmen John Doherty and John Queenan have already laid the plans for the big science weekend.
Starting with lectures that are to be held in the Nieuwland Hall of Science the afternoon of the 26th, science will monopolize the campus weekend. These lectures are not confined to science students alone, but are open to anyone who might be interested.
Dick Carlton and his orchestra will provide the music for the ball-attending set and favors will be given out. Refreshments will be served downstairs in the two anterooms during the dance.
Saturday will see open house in the Nieuwland Science Building and a science demonstration by a well-known national corporation. Tom Marshall is the man in charge of the lectures and the demonstration.
The budget for the ball was approved at the student senate meeting of Jan. 11 and Science Senator Joe Daley is almost certain that more than the estimated 160 bids will be sold.
The dance, which is to be held in the Student Center, will, as is customary with the science ball, be semi-formal and the committee has ruled that no corsages will be allowed. The sale of bids, that will go for $3.75 apiece, will start in the near future. They will be obtainable in the Dining Hall at that time.
Assisting Doherty and Queenan in the preparations for the ball are Bill Tunnell, decorations; and John O’Brien, publicity.
Car permissions will be granted for the weekend and the usual rules as dictated by the Prefect of Discipline will be enforced.
WNDU Signs Off Tomorrow /For Semester Exam Period
WNDU will leave the air tomorrow for a short vacation over the semester home-stretch. The station will leave the air after its regular program schedule has been completed and will return early on Saturday, Jan. 30.
WNDU will continue in its old space in the Field House until the transfer towards the end of February. New turntables and audio equipment will enable the station to provide clearer and more polished programs. The power will also be increased, making constancy more easily controllable by the engineers.
Student Accounts Sets Monday Deadline On Registration, New Report Procedure
Certificates for the Spring semester, now being issued by the Office of Student Accounts, must be picked up by this Monday. These certificates must be had to obtain class cards for the coming semester.
Undergraduate students must obtain their class cards at the Office of Academic Affairs by Jan. 25. Those failing to do so will necessarily incur late registration charges.
Special registration procedures for graduate and law students may be procured from their deans’ offices.
Laundry certificates may be turned in at the Laundry Office any time until Jan. 29. Students may hand in then- board certificates at the Dining Hall between Jan. 25-30. Lodging certificates for the Spring semester must be given to respective hall rectors by Feb. 1 at the latest.
Fathei- Lochner has also announced that due to the new registration procedure, a new process of informing the student of his academic standing has
Irish Notch Another for Keogan
The George E. Keogan Memorial Trophy is presented to Notre Dame’s baskets bail coach, Johnny Jordan, in the Fieldhouse last Saturday after the Irish had rolled over NYU, 99-64. The trophy, given annually to the winner of the Irish--Violet game, is in honor of the late George E. Keogan, the man who made Notre* Dame a big name in basketball. Keogan coached the Irish eagers from 1923 la 1943, the year of his death. During that span, ND won 327 and lost 96. This year’s victory marked the third consecutive year in which Notre Dame has earned possession of the trophy.
been adopted. A list of all those failing courses in the past semester will be posted on the. hall bulletin boards and the bus sheltei- board by Sunday, Jan. 31.
This list, however, will probably only be approximately 95% correct and therefore each student is urged to leave a postcard with his teacher in order to be sure of his status.
The deans will be in the Drill Hall on Feb. 1, 2 and 3 to adjust any person’s schedule who has failed a subject. Class cards are issued to all students under the assumption that the student null proceed to the next course, but failed courses must be changed by Wednesday, Feb. 3. Students will receive cuts for any classes missed at the start of the semester- even though they have been asked to see their dean and have their schedule changed.
Father Lochner urges the students to watch for this list of failures on Sunday evening and to contact their deans immediately for class changes.
January 15, 1954
11
Chairmen Promise Weekend of 'Nouveautes'
For Annual Senior Ball in Drill Hall on May 14
Co-chairmen Ron Mazzoli and George Pflaum have announced that the Senior Ball will be held on Friday, May 14. The ball will be staged in the Navy Drill Hall as in previous years.
According to the co-chairmen, several innovations will be incorporated into this year’s dance weekend. Plans are being made to utilize the facilities of the new Student Center during the weekend’s activities. At present, it is being considered as the site for an informal get-together on the afternoon preceding the ball. A Saturday night dance open to seniors only is also being planned for the Center by the committeemen.
The decoration scheme is to follow a new idea for Notre Dame that has not yet been released. Decoration Chairman Leroy Bezany states that plans are progressing very satisfactorily, and that actual construction should begin soon after the beginning of the Spring semester. He also emphasized that at that time additional help will be needed and those interested can contact him in 415 Walsh.
Bill Meyer, business manager, has succeeded in selecting favors that complement the theme in an unusual manner although the usual secrecy surrounds the item.
GEORGE PFLAUM and RON MAZZOLI Co-chairmen Start Rolling on May 14 Senior Ball Plans
Tickets will go on sale sometime in the two weeks prior to Easter vacation, according to Tom Stubler, ticket chairman. Efforts are being made to eliminate the tiresome line-standing that is usual in the distribution of such a large number of bids.
George Willard, refreshments chairman, has stated that he intends to follow the example of his fellow chairmen in their offering of the unique' for the ballgoers. Contact has been made with several catering firms in an effort to dispense with the ordinary and unsatisfactory punch.
Numerous contacts have also been made by Tony Trigiani, entertainment chairman, and he reports that some of the leads might result in the appearance of “name” entertainment for intermission listening.
It was also announced that the Morris Inn will not accept reservations for the weekend directly from the students. Those who wish rooms at the Inn for the weekend of the dance should contact James Bouley in 115 Alumni. Reservations can be made for the Oliver Hotel through Bill Cavanaugh, 238 Alumni. Rich Hohman, also of 238 Alumni, will handle reservations for the Hoffmann Hotel.
This will be the last issue of the Scholastic for the Fall semester. There will be no issue the week following examinations. The next regular 36-page issue will appear on Feb. 12.
The next meeting of the news and sports staff will be held on Wednesday, Feb. 3.
Laborers 'Graduate' From Special Class
The hope that they will share in the construction of a lasting peace was expressed last Sunday to 41 European workers by Donald M. Tyler, chief of the trainee branch of the Foreign Oper-ations Administration, at commencement exercises in the Law Auditorium.
Representing seven nations, the workers worked a 40-hour week in South 1 Bend and Mishawaka industrial plants for the past year besides attending special classes on American industry at the University. They joined local unions, paid dues and attended meetings. Some resided in local homes.
Such courses as English, labor movement, business finance, time and motion study, personnel management, and labormanagement relations comprised the telescoped curriculum of these men.
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president of Academic Affairs and chairman of a joint management-labor school committee, which supervised the pro- v gram, presented the certificates to the workers.
“The purpose of the program has not been to make Americans of them,” Father Moore stated. He went on to say that he hoped that the experience they have gained will aid them to better assume their roles as leaders of their fellow workers in the free nations of western Europe.
One worker from each of the seven countries represented, Austria, Belgium, France, West Germany, Holland, Norway, and Switzerland, spoke briefly ex- * pressing the gratitude of their group for the chance to study in the United States. I Numerous embassy officials from Washington attended the ceremonies.
Maurice “Pat” Cohen, supervisor of the local program, presented the class. < The invocation was given by Rev. Vincent C. Thilman, C.S.C., pastor of the St. Augustine Church, and the benediction was given by Rev. Walter D. Ober-holtzer, pastor- of Holy Trinity Lutheran Church.
The Scholastic
12
t f
RAY McKINLEY
Mardi Gras Music—In Just 28 Nights.
Mardi Gras Tickets Go On Sale Monday
The 1954 Mardi Gras will open Friday, Feb. 12, in the Student Center with the colorful Mardi Gras Ball. Ray McKinley and his orchestra, “The most versatile band in the land,” featuring Peggy Barrett as vocalist, will provide the danceable rhythm foi* the evening’s entertainment.
Ray, also a master drummer, features “the best dance band in all America,” according to Look and Dotunbeat magazines. No corsages will be worn to the semi-formal affair. The dance will have the traditional carnival atmosphere. Dancing will be from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m.
Ticket sales will open Monday, Jan. 18, and will continue through Tuesday and Wednesday. The $5 bids will be sold in the basement of the Dining Hall between 3:30 and 5:30 p.m. and 7 to 8 p.m. Two o’clock permissions and car permissions will be granted for the evening.
The Mardi Gras carnival will burst open with gala attractions at 7 p.m. Saturday, Feb. 13. The Navy Drill Hall will be the center of attraction until the end of the festivities the following Tuesday evening. The many and varied booths will be open from 7 to 11:30 p.m. The booths, which will be in competition for attractiveness and money earned, will be handled by the geographical clubs and other campus organizations. Abiding by law, the carnival will not be open Sunday.
A celebrity may be on hand for the grand drawing on Tuesday, according to Chairman Joe Madigan. A beautiful 1954 Chrysler sedan will be given to the winner. The student contacting the winner will himself be awarded a fully-
Journalism Grad School Scholarships
Formal applications for graduate scholarships in journalism at the Institute for Journalistic Studies, Stanford University, must be received by Feb. 15 in order to be eligible for consideration for awards for the 1954-55 academic year.
The two fellowships and a scholarship to be awarded carry stipends of $1200, $1400, and $1800. Requests for- additional information should be addressed to the Director, Institute for Journalistic Studies, Stanford University, Palo Alto, Calif.
Heads Athletic Business Managers
Lester Jordan of Southern Methodist University has been elected president of the College Athletic Business Managers Association. Herbert Jones of Notre Dame has been chosen vice-president and William H. Aspinwall of Wisconsin, secretary-treasurer.
Architecture Exhibit On Display
The Department of Architecture has announced that the Round Table traveling exhibit of the University of Florida is currently on display in the Architecture Building.
This exhibit will be followed by that of the University of North Carolina, scheduled to arrive here on Jan. 22.
Civil Service Teacher Openings
The U. S. Civil Service Commission has announced a new Elementary Teacher examination for filling positions in Indian schools throughout the United States and in Alaska. The salary is $3,410 per year.
Appropriate education is required. No written test will be given. The maximum age limit is 50 years (waived for persons entitled to veteran preference). Students who expect to complete all the required courses within 90 days of the
equipped 1954 Ford Victoria. The “millionaire vacation” will be awarded to the student winning the “book of tickets” contest. In order to be eligible for the drawing, books must be turned in before Feb. 15. All returns should be made to the particular hall chairmen. Off-campus students may pick up their tickets in 156 Alumni.
The carnival is sponsored by the Student Senate, with Joe Madigan as Chairman. Proceeds go to the Campus Charity Chest and the Student Center.
date of filing applications may apply.
Full information regarding the examination, including instructions on how to apply, may be obtained at many post offices throughout the country or from the U. S. Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D. C. Applications will be accepted until further notice.
“Communism” Essay Award
The J. B. Matthews Testimonial Dinner Committee announces a cash award of $500 for the best essay on “Communism and Academic Freedom,” written by an undergraduate student of an American college or university.
Essays must be limited to 2,000 words or less and submitted not later than March 1, 1954. All manuscripts must be typewritten. Only original essays will be considered. The winner of the award will be announced on April 1.
The panel of judges for the contest will be composed of nationally-known personalities.
Manuscripts should be mailed to the Matthews Award Editor, The American Mercury, 11 East 36th St., New York 16.
Dwyer Wins Scholarship
William A. Dwyer, Jr., is one of four New Rochelle, N. Y., residents who recently won Regents scholarships for medicine and dentistry. Each will receive $750 a year while attending approved medical or dental colleges in New-York State for four years. Awards were based upon results of competitive examinations held last month throughout the state.
Dwyer* is a senior in the University’s College of Science.
New History Discussions Underway
Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the Department of History, has announced another series of historical discussions. The initial- discussion was presented last evening in the Rockne Lounge and was entitled “History and Literature.”
Dr. L. Leon Bernard, of the Department of History, presented a lecture on “Moliere’s Value for a Social Historian.”
The second guest speaker of the evening, Mr. Paul McLane, of the Department of English, offered a discussion of English Literature, entitled “Allegory of Leicester and Elizabeth in Spenser’s Shephedrades Calendar.”
Mr. Robert Kerby presided over the (Continued on page 33)
January 15, 1954
13
Jackie Robinson, Famed Negro Athletic Star, Will Speak Here on 'Brotherhood in Sports'
Braniff, Downey Die During Past Week
Jackie Robinson, famed second base-man-left fielder of the National League Champion Brooklyn Dodgers, will speak here Wednesday, Feb. 10, under the auspices of the National Conference of Christians and Jews. He will speak on “Brotherhood in Sports” at 4:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. The program will be under the sponsorship of the Student Senate.
Mr. Louis Radelet, former professor of sociology and who is now on a team of touring NCCJ directors, will introduce Robinson.
Robinson is national chairman of community organizations for Brotherhood Week, to be observed Feb. 21-28.
Under his leadership, cooperation in the national observance will be enlisted from women’s, youth, veterans’, fraternal, labor, industrial, and farm groups. Theme of the observance is “Let’s Get Together for Brotherhood.”
The NCCJ is a civic organization made up of religiously motivated persons who through educational methods seek to reduce inter-group prejudices and to build understanding, amity and civic cooperation among Protestants, Catholics, and Jews.
Robinson will devote a week of his time to this speaking tour that will carry him to five cities. He will make other addresses in the South Bend area.
Robinson, first Negro to participate in organized baseball, has carved an outstanding career in sports which he is now extending to the field of community welfare and better inter-group relations. He holds the post of Director of Community Activities with WNBC and WBNT unique in the field of broadcasting—supervising the stations’ over-all programming for youth, with particular emphasis on the development of children’s sports programs.
In athletics, Robinson is regarded as one of the greatest of his generation. While attending the University of California at Los Angeles, he competed in baseball, football, basketball, and track and was named to the All-American football team.
He served as a commissioned officer in the U. S. Army during World War II. He entered professional baseball in 1946 with the Dodger farm team at Montreal, leading the International League in batting. In 1947 he joined the Dodgers, won the “Rookie of the Year” award, and in 1949 the National League batting championship. He was also voted “Most Valuable Player” in the league that year.
Born in Cairo, Ga., in 1919, Robinson grew up in Pasadena, Calif. He is mar-
ried and the father of three children.
Active in many civic and welfare interests of greatei- New York, Robinson does extensive work for the Harlem YMCA, Boy Scouts, CYO, YMHA, and PAL.
JACKIE ROBINSON
Speaks for “Brotherhood in Sports”
Post-Graduate Chem Student Will Get DuPont Fellowship
A Notre Dame post-graduate student in chemistry with two year’s experience as a half-time teaching assistant will receive an E. I. Du Pont de Nemours and Co. fellowship for the 1954-55 school year, the firm disclosed recently.
These fellowships, which are being awarded to 20 large universities in the country, are designed to encourage the teaching of chemistry by enabling students, who normally quit after two years of half-time experience, to continue to teach for another year. This is the first year Notre Dame has participated in the program.
The fellowship provides $2,400 for unmarried men or $3,000 for married men and $500 to the University for tuition and fees.
The Du Pont Co. said it has authorized more than $700,000 for the next school year in its aid to education programs. Newest part of the program is a fund of $238,000 for grants to advance the teaching of science. The Notre Dame grant is part of this expanded program. Other parts of the program are grants for fundamental research and postgraduate fellowships.
Mr. Thomas E. Braniff, member of the advisory council for the College of Commerce, and Prof. William H. Downey, former head of the Department of Economics, met their deaths last week.
Mr. Braniff, president of Braniff International Airways and Texas Eastern Gas Transmission Co., and ten hunting companions were killed in the crash of their private plane last Sunday night as they returned from a duck hunting trip.
Prof. Downey had been ill since Dec. 24 and also succumbed on Sunday at his home in Niles, Mich. Services were held Wednesday in St. Mary’s Church, Niles, and burial was in Calvary Cemetery.
BraniiFs plane smashed into an unoccupied house outside Shreveport, La., after ice formed on its wings and burned for more than two hours.
Braniff forged a successful career and won national recognition in the fields of insurance and finance, then in middle life ventured into the then-infant field of air transportation and built the international airlines that bear his name.
He was five times president of the National Association of Casualty and Surety Agents. He developed a plan for guaranteeing first mortgage indebtedness by surety bonds, thereby attracting national attention in the financial world.
Mr. Braniff was born near Salina, Kas., on Dec. 6, 1883.
Prof. Downey was born in Antigo, Wis., on Jan. 24, 1896. He attended River Falls State Teachers College, received his A.B. degree from Valparaiso University, and his master’s degree from Notre Dame in 1928. He was co-organi-zer of the National Catholic Economic Association.
Prof. Downey was engaged in the economics department here until his death.
MASS SCHEDULE
Monday, Jan. , 18—Feast of St. Peter’s Chair at Rome.
Tuesday, Jan. 19—Feast of Sts. Marius, Martha, and Companions, Martyrs.
Wednesday, Jan. 20—Feast of Sts. Fabian and Sebastian, Martyrs.
Thursday, Jan. 21—Feast of St. Agnes, Virgin, Martyr.
Friday, Jan. 22—Feast of Sts. Vincent and Anastasius, Martyrs.
Saturday, Jan. 23—Feast of St. Raymond of Penafort, Confessor.
14
The Scholastic
indo-china: Another Korea?
As the Communist forces surge on through the jungles of Indo-China, the prospects of the U. S. sending its troops into another international fracas has become a burning question.
“United States troops are not likely to intervene, however, in French Indo China,” Prof. Matthew Fitzsimons, associate professor of history, explains. “The people are tired of war; we financed Korea and it resulted in a stalemate. We didn’t send troops in 1946 and it doesn’t seem likely that the government will change its mind now,” he added.
“If United States troops are used, they may be the decisive factor in Indo-China’s war. I don’t think, however, that the U. S. would let loose with American troops on the same terms as in Korea. If we entered the war in IndoChina, we would probably bomb Communist China,” Prof. Fitzsimons continued.
These statements represent a much sterner attitude of our government towards the problems of its European allies. Secretary of State John Foster Dulles has said a Chinese Communist invasion of Indo-China would bring “grave consequences which might not be confined to Indo-China.”
“France has a peculiar dilemma,” Mr. Fitzsimons surmises. “She has a wolf by the tail; she hates to hang on, but she doesn’t dare let go. It’s an unfortunate situation.”
The French fire in Indo-China has been raging for seven years, with nothing in sight but peace-feelers from the Red-Chinese that are far too demanding for the French to take seriously.
“France, on the whole, would be glad to get out of IndoChina. It’s too bloody, too costly, and too dragged-out. At present, the French see no end. The French know they have to let Indo-China govern herself, but if the French let go now, they are afraid the French North Africa colony will get away too,” said Prof. Fitzsimons.
France appears to be in the middle of angry mountains. She is unable to increase her military effort in Indo-China because of the tight purse strings at home, but if she does not increase it, she can not win the war; and if she goes on with her present course, she will be defeated. Therefore the eyes of the world focus on the U. S. as a potential military and financial “angel.”
France has been largely conciliatory in her attitude toward French Indo-China in postwar years. The inhabitants were given a large degree of independence after World War II. The people were permitted to choose their own local rulers with a French Governor-General overseeing.
“But in handing over most of the government to the natives,” Mr. Fitzsimons reminds, “the French are not doing anything out of the goodness of their heart; they have been forced to do this to retain a foothold in Indo-China.”
The Communists hope to achieve in Indo-China a promotion of their creed, a weakening of Indo-China through military action, and a collapse of the' national economy. By their constant harassing in Indo-China, the Communists are also able to bleed both France and the United States. It has been estimated that the cost of the French Indo-China conflict equals the billions of dollars the United States has lent France in foreign aid spending. The Marshall Plan aid and more has gone into the Indo-China war. The United States plans to spend 785 million dollars there this year.
While the Communist forces are bleeding the French and American treasuries, the French are helping Great Britain, the United States, and the other Allied Powers by holding an important strategic position. This is one reason why the United States is directing military aid to French Indo-China. The loss of Indo-China would be the loss of an important strategic position.
Indo-China offers an excellent stepping stone into the South China Sea where Malaya, the Philippines and Formosa lie. Siam, Indo-China’s next-door neighbor; is described as “not stern and unbending, but willowy.”
“At the present Siam is anti-Communist, but her future depends on the outcome in Indo-China,” says Prof. Fitzsimons.
“The chance of a bigger war growing out of the conflict in Indo-China is not likely. But if the French perish in Indo-China, a serious chain of events might develop in the Far East and in the French. colonial system and bring on another large war,” Prof. Fitzsimons predicts.
Even though Indo-China doesn’t affect our armed forces today, it is putting a serious crimp in our budget and periling our Pacific bases—Tom Quinn
January 15, 1954
15
Don Bebenek
“Who’s Who” for 1954
James Bleyer
Notre Dame’s 1954 members of Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities are shown here.
Activities of men pictured follow: Don Bebenek, Moot Court codirector; James Bleyer, Student Law president; Philip Bolin, social commissioner; Patrick Carrico, Scholastic editor; Joseph Delisi, Vetville mayor; Carl Eck, Senior vice-president; Carl Eiberger, Lawyer editor; William Guilfoile, Senior president; William Hank, Debate president; Jim Harrington, Technical Review co-editor; Gene Howley, Blue Circle chairman; Joseph Imbriaco, Senior scholastic leader; Tom Knott, WNDU manager; John Lattner, 1952-53 All-American Halfback; Joseph Madigan, 1954 Mardi Gras chairman; Ronald Mazzoli, 1954 Dome managing editor; Fran Meaney, 1953 Dome editor; Thomas Moore, AB Ball chairman; Jack Nashert, ASCE president; Harvey Newquist, six ND track records; Don Penza, 1953 football captain; James Richards, Student Senate president; Jack Sand, Sports Publicity assistant; Jerome C. Smith, KC Grand Knight; Al Suwalsky, 1954 Dome editor; and Mickey Moran, Blue Circle vice-chairman.
Six other men were not available for pictures.
Philip Bolin
Carl Eck
William Hank
Joseph Delisi
William Guilfoile
Jim Harrington
Gene Howley
6
The Scholastic
Joseph Imbriaco
Tom Knott
Thomas Moore
James Richards
Jack Sand
Jack Nashert
Harvey Newquist
Jerome C. Smith
Al Suwalsky
Don Penza
Mickey Moran
17
Ronald Mazzoli
January 15, 1954
WORLD FAMOUS SWEDISH GYMNASTIC TEAM
First European Group to Tour U. S. in Four Years to Appear Here Feb 2.
Cream of Sweden's Somersaulting Gymnasts Will Display Olympic Wares Here on Feb. 2
A gymnastic exhibition by the world renowned Swedish Gymnastic team will be presented in the Fieldhouse on Tuesday, Feb. 2, at 8:15 p.m.
The event is sponsored by the Concert and Lecture Series in cooperation with the Physical Education Club.
The Swedish squad will perform on the following apparatus: long horse, side horse, horizontal bar, and parallel bars. Elephant vaulting, free exercises, and tumbling will also be included in the exhibition..
The Swedish team, which is the first European group to come to the U. S. in four years, is embarking on a twomonth goodwill tour of the nation. The squad will perform at more than 30 universities, colleges, and athletic clubs in the eastern, midwestern, and southern parts of the country.
In order that the best gymnasts in Sweden would make the tour, the troupe of 12 to 15 performers was selected through national competition. Included on the squad is the entire 1952 Swedish Olympic team headed by sensational William Thoresson, Olympic calisthenic champion and gold medal winner, and Borge Stattin, 1952-53 Swedish champion.
The group is coached by Eric Linden, the leader of modern gymnastics in Sweden, and Helmut Roehnisch, coach and manager of the 1952 Olympic team.
Sweden’s gymnastic squads have always been highly reputed in international circles of gymnastic proficiency. The troupe is noted for its calisthenic routine of effortless grace and simplicity of style. The gymnasts’ all but impossible apparatus stunts are characterized by faultless execution.
The Notre Dame band will provide music for the performance, and the Notre Dame Gymnastic Club will perform on the trampoline.
Tickets Available Feb 1 and 2
Admission to this night of gymnastics is 50 cents for students and $1 for adults and tickets may be obtained from any member of the Physical Education Club or Gymnastic Club. Ducats will also be sold in the lobby of the Dining Hall during meal hours on Feb. 1 and 2, and at the box office the evening of the performance.
FOREIGN STUDENTS
Students from foreign countries who will not be here next semester must report that fact to the Foreign Student Adviser in the Office of Academic Affairs, Main Building, so the information can be forwarded to the U. S. Immigration authorities.
SMC Sophs to Present Carnival Tomorrow
The sophomore class of St. Mary’s will present “Snowshoes in the Sand” at the annual winter carnival tomorrow afternoon and evening.
Miss Jean Kimmet .is general chairman for the all-day affair. She will Le queen of the carnival which will commence about 2 p.m.
The day will include ice skating and an ice show, bonfire, square dancing, bridge contest, jitterbug contest, skits by the class members, box supper, and a bonfire.
Skating, Ice Show Top Program
The day’s festivities will begin with skating early in the afternoon and the ice show will follow at 4, providing the cold weather holds out. The ice show, featuring three acts, will be presented on Lake Marian. Music from “South Pacific” will be played in keeping with the general theme of “Snow Shoes in the Sand.” Decorations are being centered around the “Great Divide.”
If the ice show is “melted out,” arrangements have been made for other entertainment.
Dancing and bridge will occupy the time before the box lunches are served .in the “rec” at 6 p.m.
Crowning of Queen Follows Dinner
A skit entitled “South Bend—Southbound” will highlight the entertainment that will follow supper. Members of the sophomore class will comprise the all-star cast for this act. Added attraction for the evening will be “Holi Loki” and four of her companions from Waikiki dressed in their native costumes.
The crowning of the queen will be held following dinner, with the highlight to be the presentation of her flowers at the statue of Our Lady of the Snow, the patron of St. Mary’s Carnival. Members of her court will -be chosen from the student body.
A giant bonfire behind LeMans Hall will be lighted after the skits. Dancing will conclude the day’s activities.
Cecilia Follis Carnival Hostess
Assisting Miss Kimmet are the Misses Rita Conley, who is in charge of bids; Kathleen Dailey, queen elections; Barbara Du Bois, arrangements; Joan Mette, publicity; Katherine Dale, entertainment; Rosemary Lane, rainy day chairman; and Pat Brown, ice show.
Miss Cecilia Follis will serve as hostess for the carnival.
f
18
The Scholastic
Cites Grads as Hope Of Nation's Colleges
The financial stability of American colleges and universities depends in increasing measure on the contributions of their alumni, James E. Armstrong, executive secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, declared recently.
Pointing out that today’s college student pays only 68 per cent of the cost of his education, Armstrong emphasized that “without substantial alumni support, more vital in participation than amount, any appeal to non-alumni, foundations, corporations, parents or any other outside source will ultimately fail.”
Armstrong spoke on “Alumni Giving” as a member of a panel on “Financing Liberal Education” at the 40th annual meeting of the Association of American Colleges. Other panel members were Dean Rusk, president of the Rockefeller Foundation, and Wilson Compton, president of the Council for Financial Aid to Education.
Personal satisfaction is a strong motive in alumni giving, Armstrong said. “The religious motive can also be very strong,” he asserted, “especially where there is a feeling that a church is being strengthened as well as a school.” He discounted favorable tax provisions as having “relatively little effect” on alumni giving.
“Just as in literature some of the best writing is deceptively simple, so the alumnus prefers his college fund appeals to be simple, direct and human,” Armstrong said. “The professional tone, the dramatic, the panicky, the exaggerated, the undignified, even many devices valid in general fund raising, do not appeal to alumni as effectively.”
Noting that $14,481,620 was contributed to some 270 major colleges in 1952, but by only 18 per cent of their alumni, Armstrong stressed that alumni giving is the greatest potential source of support for higher education in its greatest era of growth.

ATTENTION JUNIORS:
The Junior Class is sponsoring a theme contest for this year’s Junior Prom. To win a free bid to the dance, plus a corsage for your girl, send your theme suggestions to: Don Yeckel
45 Sorin Local
Contest closes Monday, Jan. 25. Entries limited to 5 per student.
The Vanishing Irish' Blasts Coy Irishmen Who Sneer at Cupid, Snub Isle's Colleens
Because so many Irish bachelors dodge Cupid’s arrows and flee from the charms of the fair colleens, the Irish nation is in “grave danger of vanishing.” This is the conclusion reached by Notre Dame’s Rev. John A. O’Brien and a group of brilliant Irish writers, playwrights, novelists and scholars in The Vanishing Irish, just published by McGraw Hill Co., New York.
The Irish of fiction, writes the priest at the home of the “Fighting Irish,” is depicted as a dashing and romantic lover sweeping his colleen with impetuous and irresistible ardor to the altar. But in real life, Father O’Brien says, “he is a cagey old dodger of the matrimonial noose, a fellow who will keep company with a girl for five or ten years only to tell her at last that he has to look after his mother.”
Maura Laverty, a leading Irish playwright who contributes a chapter to the book, backs up the Notre Dame priest. According to her, most Irishmen are poor lovers and have about as much ardor as a parsnip. “No woman in her senses,” she says, “would trade one Spaniard for a whole team of All-Ire-land hurling finalists, referee included.”
More Irish Husbands Here
The situation among the Irish in America, says Father O’Brien, is not quite as bad as in Eire where 61 per cent of the people are unmarried, but it’s bad enough. Too many Irishmen here carry over the old bachelor habits and outlook from the “auld sod” to the detriment of themselves, the girls who should be their wives, and their country, Father O’Brien contends. “The result is that there are more old bachelors and spinsters among the Irish in America than among any other national group.
Thirteen noted writers in Ireland, including Paul Vincent Carroll, Bryan MacMahon, Bishop Lucey of Cork, Maura Laverty and Bishop McNamee of Ardagh agree with Father O'Brien, editor of the volume, that too few and too late marriages and emigration are threatening the existence of the Irish nation which has only half the population of a century ago.
The noted novelists, Kathleen Norris, Margaret Culkin Banning and Mirian Rooney, join Father O’Brien in proposing measures to induce more of the Irishmen in America to dally with Cupid and turn at least one ear to the wedding bells.
The contributors to The Vanishing Irish, Father O’Brien says, hope their
efforts will help forestall the disappearance of the Irish from the face of the earth. “The world would be a dreary place without the smiles, ■wit and humor of the Irish,” he said.
The book has been chosen as the book of the month by the Irish Book Club of America.
Vetville Chooses Weisbecker Mayor for Coming Semester
Recent elections ushered in a new mayor along with six councilmen to govern Vetville for the coming semester.
Henry L. Weisbecker triumphed in the Dec. 1 semi-annual mayoralty campaign. A graduate student in physical chemistry, Weisbecker hails from Pittsburgh, Pa. He replaces the incumbent, Joe DeLisi.
Councilmen elected were: John Grue-nenfelder, Walter J. Fimian, James E. Sullivan, Charles F. McCabe, George Boljonis, and Anthony R. Black.
Vetville’s government is composed of a mayor and a council composed of six ward leaders, each ward consisting of 18 apartments. They are responsible for all general administration problems and planning social activities, such as the recent Christmas and New Year’s parties.
Weisbecker stated that plans for the immediate future concern the Vetville entry in the Mardi Gras. As in past years, the booth will probably utilize the baking talents of the Vetville wives.
HENRY L. WEISBECKER New Pilot of Vetville Politics
January 15, 1954
19
‘Figure,’ by Richard Scherpereel, drew first prize for sculpture.
ARTS SHOW
The judges have finished their work and awarded $25, SI 5, and S10 prizes to winners in the Student Senate's Art contests in writing, painting', sculpture, and photography. Most of the winning entries in the visual divisions are shown here, and the Depart!- ent of Art will display the painting and sculpture winners next semester.
Bob Swanson's short story, “Figure on the Ground,” and a poem, “Patricia,” by Michel Devoy, appeared in the Winter edition of the J tinnier. Both were awarded first prizes in their divisions.
Bob Gorman’s “Alaska” and Gerard Schoenherr's “Nuclear Power in Industry” each won awards in their classes, general essay and technical essay.
‘The Man’ won Second Honors
Third—‘Brutus,’ by Jim Ehrenreich.
20
The Scholastic
First prize For painting went to Richard Byrnes for ‘Crucifixion.’

January 15, 1954
21
t^>e l^Dolt -o-
Debate Squad Takes Illinois Normal Meet
The “Arguing Irish” made a clean sweep of the Illinois Normal University tournament last week at Bloomington, winning 14 out of 15 debates to top the 98 teams at the meet.
Don Dowden, team vice-president, and Carl Gunderson swept their five debates to capture the championship division, while Freshmen Frank Draine and Bill Clark were duplicating the feat in the senior division. Allen Riley was named superior discusser of the meet. Riley and his partner, both freshmen, won four of their five debates.
In other forensic activity, letters of congratulations are still coming in concerning the team’s exhibition before a large group of the country’s top educators and executives in New York over the holidays. Chuck Doherty and Don Dowden defeated Fordham University, 5-0, on the national topic, “Resolved: The United States should adopt a policy of free trade.”
Team president Bill Hank commented, “This is certainly a fitting finish to Bill Fagan’s debate career. He has done much to further the University’s name.” Bill was forced to drop debate because of the Law School ban on extra-curricular activities.
Prom Chairman Reveals Results of Orchestra Poll
Don Yeckel, chairman of the Junior Prom, has announced the results of the preference poll taken to determine the most popular bands in the estimation of the Junior class.
These results will be used as a guide in selecting an orchestra for the big dance on May 7.
Out of some 600 votes, cast, Ralph Flanagan received nearly 300. Yeckel stressed that every effort will be made
22
to contract Flanagan, even though his offer exceeds the allotted budget by more than $300.
Other bands that received votes were: the Dorsey Brothers, Stan Kenton, Claude Thornhill, Johnny Long, Jackie Gleason, Jerry Grey, Don Gels and several miscellaneous orchestras.
The Decorations Chairman has also been appointed. Bill Byrne will act as general chairman while Walt Clemens, Mike Moyer and Neil Halloran will handle art, lighting and special effects.
University Theater to Present Three One-Act Plays Sunday
The University Theater will present three one-act plays on the second floor of the LaFortune Student Center Sunday evening at 8:15 p.m. There will be no admission charge for the productions which will employ theater-in-the-round staging in their presentation.
Hands Across the Sea, which is directed by Marion Leszcznski, is a satire by Noel Coward. Members of the cast are: Mary Gallagher, Jennine Berner, Joan Lynch, Jessie Flautt, Barbara Rienhart, Mimi Scanlon, Jerry Godwin, Donald Brophy, Ed Sexauer, William Jackman, and William Bleakley.
Joe Huebner is the director of Marriage Proposal, a comedy by Anton Chekhov, depicting Russian middle class life. The cast consists of Roberta Sullivan, a freshman from St. Mary’s who played in Tidings Brought to Mary, Raymond Papay, and Dick Robison.
Eleanor Kaskey, Dick Hogan, Dick Bennett, and John Golob make up the cast of Portrait of a Madonna. George Hadyka is directing this tense and moving sketch by Tennessee Williams.
The main purpose of the plays is to give students experience in direction and unusual stage techniques, while it also gives variety to the program of the University Theater.
Ad-Men Volunteer Aid to Local Clubs
The Ad-Men, a student advertising organization, has volunteered its services for the coming semester in order to help the various campus clubs handle their financial problems in an orderly manner.
Ronald L. Smith, president of the club, has gathered men from the various colleges on campus to organize the Ad-Men and has moulded the group into an effective advisory organization. The club will also offer club members practical experience in advertising and its development.
They’ll Handle Jobs Free of Charge
The Ad-Men can be contacted by any club that wishes its services through Prof. R. S. O’Neill of the College of Commerce or any of the members. The Ad-Men will develop copy, layouts of posters, and give an estimate of the cost of the “campaign.” Once it is approved by the club, the Ad-Men will proceed with the idea.
The Ad-Men is a non-profit organization and the estimates of jobs are based only on the cost of the work that is scheduled.
Many Have Worked for Agencies
The Ad-Men are currently engaged in the Archbishop O’Hara Lecture Series, a direct-mail campaign for the Notre Dame student. In the near future, the Ad-Men hope to work on the Bengal Bouts and the forthcoming Mardi Gras.
Many Ad-Men have had actual experience in advertising agencies and therefore lend a professional touch to posters and copy. Anyone interested in joining the organization, whether professional or not, may contact Professor O’Neill or President Ron Smith.
The Scholastic

Dr. Burton, Prominent ND Atomic Scientist, Predicts Soviets Will Join Ike's A-Bomb Plan
'Tech Review' Will Be Out at End of Month
“Russia eventually will agree to join an international organization such as President Eisenhower has proposed for the exchange of atomic information for non-military purposes,” it was recently predicted by Dr. Milton Burton, prominent Notre Dame atomic scientist.
Dr. Burton, professor of chemistry and director of the University’s Radiation Project, warned, however, that the President’s plan will meet much opposition in this country.
“The real trouble will come at home,” Dr. Burton cautioned. “There are still many people here who believe we have an atomic position of unassailable preeminence. He added that there are others “who believe in the myth that secrecy means security.”
Dr. Burton, who was an official government observer at the Bikini atomic tests in 1946 and who formerly was associated with the atomic laboratories at Oak Ridge, addressed the South Bend Exchange Club on the subject of “Security and Atomic Power.”
Deploring much of the secrecy surrounding atomic matters, Dr. Burton asserted that “the secrets of atomic energy are taught in most advanced science courses everywhere.” He reminded his listeners that “scientists stated in 1945 that secrets of nature cannot be. withheld or maintained secret.” Dr. Burton emphasized that “the atomic history of the last few years has conformed exactly to the predictions of the scientists. Consequently,” he said, “when they make predictions about the immediate, inevitable future and our proper present course, you can well afford to listen to them sympathetically.”
While commending President Eisenhower’s “great vision” in inviting the nations of the world to join the United States under the auspices of the United Nations in a limited effort at atomic cooperation, Dr. Burton said that “we are making an effort to lead a parade that has already started without us.” He cited progress in the peacetime use of atomic power in Britain, Canada, Belgium, Australia, India, France, Brazil, Norway and the Netherlands.
The Notre Dame scientist forecasts that atomic power will make the greatest impact in nations which lack coal and other natural resources which are found in abundance in the United States. “The electric power demand of the United States was 56.5 billion kilowatts in 1948,” Dr. Burton recalled. Referring to a 60,000-kilowatt atomic power plant to be built at Portsmouth,
Ohio, Dr. Burton declared that “the amounts of atomic power immediately planned are thus significant but not pre-eminently important in the United States. In countries where fuel is less abundant and power demands less, any successful atomic power plant becomes of major importance,” Dr. Burton said.
Dr. Burton pointed out that the success of the United States’ atomic program depends upon the receipt of substantial quantities of uranium from foreign nations. On the other hand, he explained, these nations look to the United States for atomic technical know-how to help them build nuclear-power plants. Dr. Burton echoed the warning of Chairman Sterling Cole of the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy who has said: “The possibility that Russia might actually demonstrate her alleged peaceful intentions in the field of atomic energy while we are still concentrating on atomic weapons would be a major blow to our position in the world.”
“President Eisenhower has seen clearly a great vision,” Dr. Burton declared. “He has seen that if people learn to work peacefully together in simple ways, to share atomic knowledge and atomic materials freely for peaceful objectives, they will learn how to maintain peace. He has seen that security for this nation and for the world lies in a persistent, all-out effort to make the resources of nature and of science quickly useful not only for us but for the less richly endowed peoples of the world.”
The January edition of the Notre Dame Technical Review will roll off the press the last week of the month, Coeditor Harvey Newquist has announced. The quarterly magazine will again carry articles on modem technical and engineering subjects.
The cover is designed . by Dennis Sawinski, an architect student, and is a prize winner in the recent cover design contest held in that department by the Technical Review. Another outstanding feature in the magazine is a three-page centerfold which pictorially tells the story of the vast copper industry. News of the student engineering societies, a description of the Department of Industrial Engineering, and short notes on recent developments and inventions are some of the other features incorporated in the issue.
A little-known fact about the Technical Revieiv is the wide extent of circulation that it has outside the student body. Alumni, manufacturers, and high schools also subscribe to the student publication and, in the short span of four years, the magazine has attained the rating as one of the best all-around publications of its kind, receiving favorable commendations from the critics.
Fr. Gabriel Publishes Study On French College Founder
Rev. A. L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval Institute here, has just published a study of Robert de Sorbonne, founder of the famous French college which bears his name. Father Gabriel prepared his treatise in connection with the 700th anniversary of the College of Sorbonne in Paris which is being observed this year both in Europe and this country. He is secretary of the American committee for the septi-cen-tennial celebration.
A specialist in mediaeval education, Father Gabriel based much of his research on the Mediaeval Institute’s microfilm collection of the history of great European universities. It was in the year 1253 that the College of Sorbonne was founded as an institution where students would “live together socially, irreprehensibly, and in a scholarly manner.” The Sorbonne became the cornerstone of the University of Paris and set a pattern for universities to be founded centuries later.
January 15, 1954
23
When Grandpa tucked you between his knees, you knew you, were going to listen again to his wonderful watch—to hear its magic tick . . . tick . . . tick . ..
And as you listened, those measured whispers of ' time shut away the world, leaving you close to Grandpa, secure in his love.
3 '



Saving for security is easy! Read every word— now! If you’ve tried to save and failed, chances are it was because you didn’t have a plan. Well, here’s a savings system that really works—the Payroll Savings Plan for investing in Savings Bonds.
From fathers and mothers to sons and daughters passes the lifeblood of happiness—security. The privilege of providing it for those we love can be found only in a land like ours.
And another wonderful thing is this: By realizing this privilege of freedom for ourselves, we achieve the security of our country. For, think—the strength of America is simply the strength of one secure home touching that
of another.
This is all you do. Go to your company’s pay office, choose the amount you want to save—a couple of dollars a payday, or as much as you wish. That money will be set aside for you before you even draw your pay. And automatically invested in Series E U. S. Savings Bonds which are turned over to you.
If you can save only $3.75 a week on the Plan, in 9 years and 8 months you will have $2,137.30. If you can save as much as $18.75 a week, 9 years and 8 months will bring you $10,700!
For your sake, and your family’s, too, how about signing up today?
The V. S. Government does not pay for this advertisement. It is donated by this publication in cooperation with the Advertising Council and the Magazine Publishers of America.
24
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Unbeaten Crusaders Prepare for ND
Five Frosh Advance	Holy Cross Eyes Twelfth Straight Win Tonight;
In Handball Tourney Irish Tackle Canisius at Buffalo Auditorium
V
Freshmen dominated the opening round of the annual pre-examination singles handball tourney as thirteen survivors gained the second round.
Frosh Tom Nicknish, Stan Pldcinski, Mike Thompson, Jim Stockwell, and Bob Walters won their initial matches to gain second round berths.
The senior and junior classes each boasted three winners. Seniors who opened with victories are: John Stoddard, Bob Joseph, and Al Donius. The juniors who finished on top are: Dick Schmitt, Bill McLain, and John Nicknish. Completing the list of first round winners are sophomores Jini Luotto and Max Plante.
The second round of the tournament was played off last Tuesday. The eight survivors of this round will enter the quarterfinals today. Semi-finals will be played Monday with the finals being held Wednesday.
ND SETS MARK AGAINST VIOLETS
Bertrand Hits for Two on Drive-In
By DAVE KILKEARY
Holy Cross’ undefeated Crusaders will host the Fighting Irish tonight in the Boston Gardens as Notre Dame stops off for the first of a two-game Eastern swing. Holy Cross will be after its twelfth straight win. ND will attempt to avoid the defeat detours they usually suffer- on road jaunts.
The Crusaders, who finished second in the NCAA Eastern Regional tournament at Raleigh, N. C., last year, will provide the Irish with one of the stiffest contests of the year; the Crusaders earlier this season took the Sugar Bowl tournament in New Orleans. Notre Dame squeaked by last year, 73-71.
The Purple are tutored by one of the best coaches in the business, Buster Sheary. Sheary, against the toughest competition in the nation, has compiled a five-year record of 110 wins and only 27 losses.
The Holy Cross club is built around co-captains Togo Palazzi and Ronnie Perry. At the start of the campaign. Palazzi, a forward, needed only 215 points to pass All-American George Kaftan’s four-year mark of 1177 points and a super scoring effort of 812 points for the season could even surpass Bob Cousy’s four-year total of 1775 points. Togo was high scorer for the Crusaders in 21 out of 26 games last season, averaging a sparkling 22.8 points per game. Perry, a senior guard, is noted for his blistering inside drive-ins and swish hitting from the outside.
Tommy Heinsohn, at 6-6, is the starting center and tallest man on the squad. Heinsohn has deceptive speed for his size and is a keen playmaker. Ken Snyder 6-4, and Joe Liebier 6-4, alternate at the other forward slot. Guard Tom Burke, the sophomore starter, is the fastest man on the squad.
Coach Johnny Jordan’s five is saddled with another road game tomorrow night when they engage Canisius in the Buffalo Memorial Auditorium. Canisius, under
its new coach Joe Curran, has returning veterans 6-4 Dick Vann, 6-0 Jim O’Brien, and 5-11 Jim Young. Sophomore Ed Brown, 6-4, has cracked the starting five with his steady playmaking and accurate shooting. Canisius is plagued by a very weak bench and the lack of one big man on the squad. Last year’s squad won 12 out of 23 games.
Purdue’s hustling Boilermakers will stop off here on the 19th of this month. Purdue coach Eddy intends to stand pat on the balanced scoring combination of three juniors and two sophomores. The surprising combination will be depending on the same type of balanced team play against the Irish that has enabled four players to average 10 or more points per game to date. Don Beck, 6-5, and Joe Sexton, 6-4, are the forwards. Dennis Blind and Maurice Lorenz hold down the guard posts while 6-5 Ted Dunn is the pivot man.
After a semester break, the Irish will return to action the third of February
IRISH POST SIXTH VICTORY Stephens Outjumps Cardinal Defender
January 15, 1954
JIM LAMKIN
Co-Captain Deadly from the Outside
against Butler in the fieldhouse. Butler, who recently lost to Bevo Francis & Co., is coached by Tony Hinkle who is in his 25th year of leading the Bulldogs.
Hinkle’s current aggregation lacks height and depth. He has three of five starters from last year’s squad which compiled a 14-9 record and captured a share of the Indiana College Conference crown. Keith Breve, 6-1, and Bob Reed, 6-3, are the forwards. John Mustain, 6-5, is in the keyhole and Jimmy Crosley, 5-9, and Norm Ellenberger, 6-2, fill the guard slots.
On Feb. 6 the Jordanmen travel to Chicago for their first of two appearances in the Stadium this season, when they face Ray Meyer’s well-balanced DePaul squad.
Despite the loss of three regulars, including All-American Ron Feiereisel, Meyer expects the team to periorm as well as last year when they finished with a 19 and nine record and advanced as far as the NCAA Chicago regionals. Thus far the Blue Devils have racked up nine voctories and dropped four.
Three lettermen bolster the ’53-’54 edition of the Blue Devi's, with co-captain Jim Lamkin, a 5-9 guard, being the number one returnee. Lamkin, who is playing the best ball of his career, is especially dangerous from the outside where his accurate set shots compensate for his lack of height.
Frank Blum and Dan Lecos, a pair of 6-4 forwards, are the other monogram winners. Lecos is the other co-captain. At center Meyer has perhaps one of the best sophomore pivot prospect; he has coached in the person of 6-5 Ken Jasky. Completing the first five is another sophomore, 6-3 Ronnie Sobieszczyk, who may develop into another Feiereisel at guard.
The Irish split with DePaul last sea-
26
Thirteen Lettermen Bolster Irish Thinclods; Open Eight*Meet Schedule Against Missouri
Notre Dame’s 1954 indoor track season will begin Feb. 6 against Missouri in the ND fieldhouse. The team is potentially strong, but too many “ifs” have caused Coach Alex Wilson to refrain from making any predictions.
Eligibility is the key factor in Wilson’s hopes as he rounds his squad into shape for the opening meet. “If they can all participate, we will probably have a strong team,” the coach said last week.
Last year’s indoor record was one win and three losses. The Irish beat Purdue, but lost to Michigan, Indiana, and Michigan State. Coach Wilson has most of his entire field event squad returning from last spring. The coach has monogram men in eight of the events, and the team appears to be fairly well-rounded with the strength being most noticeable in the running events.
Heading the roster is team captain Joe Springer, a senior from Princeton, Ill., who specializes in the pole vault; Jim Harrington, who topped the nation’s pole vaulters last season, gives the harriers two fine performers in this event. Harrington attained his number one spot with a vault of 13 feet, three and oneeighth inches.
Jack Cunningham, last year’s consistent shot winner, will be aiming to toss the shot 46 feet each time out. Tony Genovese is a returning letterman in the broad jump. Sophomore Bernard
son, dropping an 83-56 verdict in the Stadium and closing the regular season with a 95-67 rout at the fieldhouse.
The Spartans of Michigan State play host to the Irish on Feb. 9 at East Lansing. Pete Newell’s Spartan squad, in its second season in the Big Ten, have a season’s mark of six wins and three losses. A surprising rout of Kansas State after three straight road losses and an equally surprising 60-59 win over Illinois are two of State’s major victories.
The Green and White have lost their star play-making guard, Rickey Ayala due to scholastic ineligibility, but the. prospects are still bright. Julius McCoy, a 6-2 sophomore guard, has been one of the best newcomers in Spartan history.
Al Ferrari, a 6-2 junior forward, established a new season’s individual scoring mark last year in 22 games. DeNeal Hartman, a converted center, should fit better into the Spartan line-up at his natural forward post. Bob Arm-
(Continued on page 28)
Allard, who last year as a freshman cleared 6 feet, 7 inches as an independent in the Chicago Relays, is expected to add consistently to the Irish field event point total. Harvey Newquist, plagued by injuries last season, will be ready to round out the field event competitors, as he and Jim Baker will handle most of the hurdling assignments.
The track events show that Coach Wilson is counting on a good showing from several sophomore speedsters. The four members of last year’s sprint relay team, Jim Pitcavage, Dave Foy, Bob Hanrahan, and Joe Puccinelli, which placed fourth in that event at the Drake Relays, will be running again this year. Sophomores Tom Rohrer and Al Pestri-chella will also compete in the sprint events.
Experience Big Factor
In the quarter- mile event, Justin McDonough, Irving Carrig, and sophomores Jim Westerman, and Bill Hopeland will carry the Irish colors. Dick O’Keefe, Al Schoenig, and possibly Jim Hernon will run the half mile. Hernon broke his foot in a cross-country meet, 4 and is still a doubtful competitor. Jack Alexander, one of the Midwest’s finest milers, and Bill Squires will run the mile. Bill Lenihan, Dick De Shriver, and sophomore ace Jim Daly are Wilson’s choice for the two mile event.
Assisting the track mentor this year with the coaching duties are three students: Bill Leeds, a senior from Los An- ’ geles; Leo McEvoy, a junior from East Orange, N. J.; and Harry Snyder, a graduate law student from Saratoga Springs, N. Y.
Wilson and McEvoy, freshman track coaches, wish to encourage any boy interested in track to answer the call for r freshmen which will be given after the semester break. Though freshmen are not allowed to participate in varsity track or in actual competition against other- schools, some telegraphic meets will be held. There will be no freshmen running as independents this year.
The engagement with Coach Boots’ squad from the University of Missouri, which will be held in the ND fieldhouse, will inaugurate an eight-meet schedule for the Irish the remainder of which has been released as follows: Feb. 13, Michigan State Relays at East Lansing; Feb. ' 20, Indiana at Notre Dame; Feb. 27, Marquette at Notre Dame; Mar. 6, Closed Central Collegiate Conference • Meet at Notre Dame; Mar. 13, 20, and 27, Milwaukee, Chicago and Cleveland Relays (dates to be announced).
The Scholastic
1 1111 n
Fencers Down Hawks; Host Case Tomorrow
The 1954 version of the Notre Dame fencing team opened its season last Saturday in the fieldhouse with a 16-11 win over the Iowa Hawkeyes. The Irish fencers won all three events, grabbing the foil, 5-4; the sabre, 6-3; and the fastmoving epee, 5-4.
Notre Dame’s captain, Rod Duff, and Jerry Finney both started the season with clean sweeps as they won, 3-0 in the epee and sabre respectively. Individual scores were: foil, Dick Hull, 2-1; Jerry Brainerd, 2-1; Bud Waters, 1-2; sabre, Jerry Finney, 3-0; Tony Mandolini, 1-2; Tom Dorwin, 2-1; epee, Rod Duff, 3-0; John McGinn, 1-1; Don Tadrowski, 0-1.
Coach Walter Langford’s team jumped off to a 6-0 lead, but encountered some difficulty from the stubborn lowans as the visitors tied the score at nine-all and again at ten. Then the Irish finished strong as they took six straight bouts to cinch the victory.
This year’s squad is considered strong by Coach Langford, for in each of the three divisions he has two returning and experienced lettermen. The 25-man active squad boasts of several promising sophomores.
Dick Hull and Jerry Brainerd are the leading men in foil. Others competing in foil are Bud Waters, Tom Beeler, Don Dixon, Bill Fox, Jim Friel, and Julio Vizvarrondo. Jerry Finney, who compiled the best individual record last year with a 28-5 record, and senior letterman, Tony Mandolini, will lead the team in sabre, with Tom Dorwin, Gene Gase, Frank Dwan, Ed Koester, and Frank Lolli lending valuable assistance.
Captain Duff, John McGinn, who was
CAPT. ROD DUFF
Epee Artist Leads Irish Fencers
rated eighth nationally last year in the NCAA, John Malfa, and three sophomores, Don Tadrowski, Jerry Isaacs, and John Brogan will handle the epee event.
The fencing schedule this year will again consist of 14 opponents, including Midwest Champs, Illinois. Illinois has been undefeated for three years, and was the only team to defeat the Irish last year, as the Illini edged out a 14-13 win. Wisconsin, Wayne, and Ohio State also are considered definite threats to Notre Dame’s first undefeated season.
Coach Walter Langford’s forces go after their second win of the season tomorrow when they tackle Case at home. They resume competition on Feb. 6 against the Wisconsin Badgers when they travel to Madison.
The Schedule:
Jan. 16—Case at home
Feb. 6—Wisconsin at Madison
12—Detroit at home
20—Illinois at Champaign
26—Michigan State at home Wayne
27—Ohio State Northwestern at home Mar. 13—Chicago at Chicago Lawrence Tech
20—Kentucky
Cincinnati at Cincinnati 26-27—NCAA Fencing
Championships at Chicago
Three Champs Retain Titles In Hall Wrestling Tournament
In the interhall wrestling tournament held prior to the Christmas holidays, five contenders emerged victorious in their respective fields.
In the 145-pound class Terry Crowley, Off-Campus, decisioned Pat Williamson of Zahm. Bill Stanley, wrestling club veteran, pinned Marty An-gelino of Farley and Joe Belfiore, Old College, to win the 155-pound title.
John Gavin of Lyons successfully defended his 165-pound crown by defeating Dick Kaufman of Morrissey, and Ed Sarna, 175 pounds, topped John Broderick of Morrissey and Ron Francis of Farley to retain his supremacy in the light-heavy division. In the unlimited division Bob Taylor of Dillon pinned Torn Hubbard of Morrissey and then dethroned Joe Marguet, Off-Campus, by gaining victory with only one minute left in the match.
The participants in the tourney and anyone interested may join the Wrestling Club and be eligible to participate in the meets against Wheaton College on Feb. 20, and the University of Chicago on Feb. 27.
Mr. Fallon, - director, stated that the
Shrine Game Gridders To Be Feted Monday
Seven members of 1953’s Fighting Irish who took part in holiday Shrine games for the benefit of the Shrine’s crippled children’s hospitals will be guests of honor at the annual Shrine-Notre Dame football dinner at 6:30 p.m. Monday in the South Bend Shrine Club.
William H. Coffman of San Francisco, manager of the East-West Shrine game for the past 29 years since its inception, and Arthur M. Gullickson, -chairman of the Oak Park, Ill., Shrine Hospital, will also be guests, William M. Knutson, dinner chairman, has announced.
The East-West games have raised more than two million dollars for the Shrine project, which operates 17 hospitals in the nation for crippled children.
Grid guests will include Johnny Lattner, Art Hunter and Neil Worden, who played on the East squad in the Jan. 2 contest in San Francisco, and Don Penza, Menil Mavraides, Tom McHugh, and Jim Schrader, members of the North eleven in the North-South shrine game on Christmas Day in Miami, Fla.
Edward (Moose) Krause, University-director of athletics, will act as master of ceremonies. He will fly here in time for the dinner from Bloomington, Ind., where he will have attended a meeting earlier in the day.
Notre Dame officials and coaches and newspaper, radio, and television representatives will be among other guests. The affair is expected to draw more than 300 persons.
The Shrine band and drill patrol will participate in the after-dinner program. It is also expected that Coffman will speak briefly. His appearance in South Bend is due chiefly to the fact that the Shrine Club here was the first in the country to follow through with a program recognizing the players who have participated in Shrine contests.
Knutson, who took Worden and Hunter on a tour of the Oak Park Hospital before they went to San Francisco, will also speak. At the Oak Park Hospital, Worden and Hunter autographed footballs for the youngsters, who later watched them in action on television sets in the hospital.
Wrestling Club offers excellent opportunities for anyone ranging from 120-145 pounds because many points have been lost in these divisions due to forfeit in earlier events.
January 15, 1954
27

by Bob Frolicher
“Mirror, Mirror on the Wall ...	'
I’m the best of them all.”—That seems to be the opinion the NCAA holds of itself after the annual meeting which was held in Cincinnati last week. As everyone anticipated, the big question on the agenda was weekly television restrictions. The delegates voted 172 to nine for continuance of a controlled TV policy, so it looks like the TV “Game of the Week” is going to be stuck in the same hole as last year. The only real opposition the committee bumped against was from Notre Dame’s athletic director, Edward “Moose” Krause and Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of Notre Dame. Undoubtedly, the football rules committee, headed by the inimitable Fritz Crisler of the University of Michigan, is sitting back in its seat gloating about its great success.
However, their great triumph might be short lived. The NCAA could be considered as identical with some labor unions. When it started out, the association had good intentions, but when the committee advanced to
such a position that it appeared to have members in the palm of its hand, this band of publicity-hungry men began to overstep their boundaries. Now they might end up with no sponsor to absorb the shock of a $4,000,000 bill. Because the NCAA had told colleges and universities how to run things for quite some time now, the hat has become too big for its head.
From Sublime to Extreme
A fine example of how ridiculous this committee can become is the recent suggestion of a means to overcome the fake injury (with Notre Dame of course, unofficially being used as the prime example). It was stated that a player could suffer possible expulsion from the squad if he faked an injury to save time from running out. Now can’t you just imagine such a plan going into effect. When players fall to the ground during a game it is up to an excited coach to put his finger on such a player and decide whether he was faking or not. It will turn into nothing but a useless circle. The player will have to make his acting extra good, the coaches will have to watch the players, the officials are going to have to watch the coaches, and the “powerful” NCAA is going to have to watch everybody. In my opinion they got the wrong group watching the wrong people. Everybody should be keeping his eye on the NCAA before it gets all the colleges tied up in something else that will do nothing but confuse the issues all the more.
Just recently, Crisler stated: “I don’t know how we can legislate ethics, but there are many things that could be done to prevent such faking. We could, for instance, stop the clock after each play in the last two minutes of the first and second halves. Or we could let it run during those periods.” If these are examples of the many things that could be done, it appears that the committee chairman is in as much of a quandary as everyone else.
Is Associated Press Attempting to Save Face?
Last week the AP awarded the sports oddity of the year to Notre Dame for their “fake injury” in the 14-14 Iowa tie. In the second place was Chuck Dressen, formerly of the Brooklyn Dodgers. The AP seems to thrive on the Irish and Dodgers. If they don’t have one in the headlines they have the other. I suppose that is the price you have to pay when you’re tops in your league (Brooklyn in the National League).
Basketball
(Continued from page 26)
strong, the Spartan’s center, provides the squad with fine offensive and defensive rebounding and has a very good hook and a fine set shot.
At the guards State has two fine prospects in Bob Devenny and Keith Stackhouse. Stackhouse was second in scoring last season as a forward. Last season the Irish defeated State by a 7264 count at the fieldhouse, and will seek to break the jinx the Spartans hold over them at Lansing.
Notre Dame grounded the Cardinals of Louisville, 72-53, on the sixth of this month. Joe Bertrand broke up the Southerners’ comeback in the second half with three quick baskets and went on to share the scoring honors with Dick Rosenthal at 17 apiece.
The Kentuckians, who sported a 9-3 record entering the game, connected on only 26 percent of their shots as ND rolled on to its sixth victory.
New York University’s Violets were buried under an avalanche of Irish baskets last Saturday night in the packed fieldhouse, when Notre Dame broke all existing scoring records on their home court by scoring 99 points, to beat the Easterners, 99-64.
Lost in the ballyhoo of the recordbreaking 99 points was the establishing of a new high in fouls for a game in the fieldhouse: 63 were called. Joe Bertrand, who faked the Violets right off the floor, was high man for the Irish with 24 points.
Keglers Return to Action; Bob Rich Rolls High Gome
The Kampus Keglers returned to action last Sunday after a three-week layoff. The layoff didn’t affect Bob Rich of the K of C club, however, and he hit a 566 series and a 236 single game, the highest of the year, thus far.
Jack Battel’s 220 single game and Bob Fisher’s 553 series sparked the Met Club as they took four points from the Civil Engineers and thus moved back into second place in the Blue League. The second-place AIEE club could only pick up one point from the Chern Engineers.
The K of C club increased their lead in the Gold League by sweeping four points, while the Pittsburgh club moved into second place when they swept all four points from the second-place Accounting club.
28
The Scholastic
Sport Flashbacks Show Interesting Highlights Of Notre Dame Athletics in Past Eight Years
Just about a year ago on Notre Dame’s annual eastern swing Ed McGinn provided an important set shot in the closing minutes of the Holy Cross thriller, while against NYU the following night Bill Sullivan came into his own just at the right time as he tallied ,	16 points as an early replacement for
Lewinski, who had fouled out in the first half.
In recent games McGinn has shown steady improvement in his reserve roles, while “Sully” has played consistent ball most of this season. These two could very well be the ones to watch as the Irish tangle with Holy Cross and Cani-sius this weekend.
.4 Two years ago this January, the cage picture was much the same as it is now. At that time forward Joe Bertrand and center- Dick Rosenthal were deadlocked for second place spot with 132 points and a 13.2 average. This season only a few points again separate the two for the top spot. “Rosie” was just as accurate from the 17-foot line then, for he was in third place with a .606 percentage in free throw attempts.
In January four years ago Oklahoma fans were howling for another AP poll to determine the national champs, after their team’s impressive victory in the Sugar Bowl. It seems that Notre Dame had been rated first and the Sooners disagreed. Things seemed to be tough in those days, too.
Six years ago this January the Irish * eagers had run up a total of 37 victories at home. However, a mighty Kentucky team, coached by Adolph Rupp, appeared a cinch to snap the string.
ED McGINN
Will He Do It Again?
Such big names as Groza, Beard, Barker, Rollins and Jones meant nothing to the Irish that night though, because Kevin O’Shea and Company took the measure of the Wildcats, 64-55.
It was seven years ago this month that the colorful Notre Dame-Army series was halted at Army’s request. In the words of a Cadet spokesman: “We can no longer compete on even terms with Notre Dame.” With the caliber of teams that Coach Blaik is again developing, in a few years the series will again be gaining the national spotlight.
January 5, 1946, was a night that the “dyed in the wool” Irish cage fan will never forget. On that night George Mikan and his DePaul teammates invaded the fieldhouse to tangle with the underdog Irish. Behind by a score of 26-15 at the end of the first half, Notre Dame put on a tremendous second half rally to trail by a 42-41 count with 30 seconds remaining. DePaul passed the ball in-court but it hardly went 20 feet up-court before Irish Captain Bobby Hassett had tied up a DePaul player.
In the jump that, resulted, Hassett took the ball and fired a long, looping shot that swished through the hoop for a 43-42 Irish win. This was the same Hassett that had missed all 11 of his previous shots during the course of the game.
Incidentally, Elmer Ripley was the Irish mentor then, BELIEVE IT OR NOT!
Winner of Butler-ND Game To Receive Feeney Trophy
The extra laurel, in the form of the Al Feeney Memorial trophy, will be added to the showcases of either Butler University or Notre Dame on Feb. 17 after their hardwood encounter in Indianapolis.
Inaugurated by the Indianapolis Club on campus, the trophy was named in memory of Al Feeney, former mayor of Indianapolis from 1948 until his death in 1950. As mayor, Feeney was instrumental in promoting athletics and good will in Indianapolis.
The trophy ■will be non-retiring and presented annually to the winner of the game at Indianapolis. It stands approximately 31 inches high and is made of ivory and gold on a cherrywood base.
The trophy was on exhibit for the first time at the Christmas Dance on Dec. 29 at the Indiana Roof.
Bertrand Retakes Honors In Scoring in Past Week
Joe Bertrand, Notre Dame’s fastmoving senior forward, jumped ahead of Capt. Dick Rosenthal in the points-scored column this past weekend to post a slick 17.8 game average and 160 points for the past nine contests. Bertrand overtook Rosenthal Saturday night by pumping home 24 points, against an outclassed New York University quintet. Bertrand also sports an excellent .686 percentage in the free throw department, netting 48 of 70 attempts.
Rosenthal, who is using his deft hook shot to bolster his scoring potential, dumped in 18 points to help his Irish teammates blister the baskets with 99 points against the Violets to snap a field house record of 93 points set last year against DePaul. Rosenthal now has a total of 155 points for the season and a respectable 17.2 game average. Rosenthal is currently leading his Irish mates at the free throw line with a spectacular .708 percentage, having scored on 51 of 72 tries.
The third member of the Irish explosive triple-pronged attack, set-shot artist Jack Stephens, garnered 17 points against NYU and posted a total of 148 points scored thus far this season and a 16.4 game average.
Interhall Basketball League Starts Second Round Feb. 6
On Feb. 6 the second round of the interhall basketball league will begin with the winners entering the tournament finals in the fieldhouse sometime in March.
The teams will be reseeded into new-brackets according to their previous showings of strength in the warm-up round which has been held during the first semester. The schedule will also include 'at least eight additional teams which have entered for the final championship round. Club teams late in signing up this semester and newly formed clubs have a good chance to gain a position in the league.
According to the games played already, Dillon, Walsh, Off-Campus and Breen-Phillips have shown strength in the evening league. In the afternoon league, the clubs from Kentucky, Milwaukee, Texas, Cincinnati and Minnesota have looked impressive.
Mr. Szekely, head of the interhall basketball league, announced that the second round of league play will be posted in the Rockne Memorial on Jan. 27.
January 15, 1954
29
Placement Office on First Floor, Main Bldg.
The Placement Bureau has moved to the first floor of the Main Building. For those whose familiarity with the Main Building ends with the identification of the Golden Dome, it might be added that the first floor is the one above the basement or ground floor. The new set-up includes a main office at the rear of the first floor with five separate interview rooms at either side for company representatives who come to the campus.
Interviews for June and August graduates will start on Feb. 8 and will continue until the middle of May, interrupted only by the Eastei- vacation. In this connection, all seniors are advised that only men who are registered with the Placement Bureau will be eligible to take the campus interviews. Any seniors who have neglected to turn in their registration forms are urged to do so at once.
William R. Dooley, Placement Director, stresses that all seniors should take interviews regardless of possible military obligations or plans for further schooling. A large majority of the companies are interested in talking to seniors regardless of their military status.
Mr. Dooley and his assistant, Robert LeMense, are available for appointments with seniors who desire preliminary information regarding the interviews or who have personal problems regarding job placement. The Bureau’s Occupational Library is open from 8 to 12 and 1 to 5 for all students who desire job information. The files contain occupational literature from most of the major companies in the country.
Manpower Management Group Conducts Drive
The Manpower Management Association, formed last fall in the College of Commerce, is now accepting applications for the second semester.
All students majoring in business administration are eligible to apply for membership. A letter of application containing name, address, scholastic average, major, school year, and reasons for wanting to join the organization, should be mailed to the association.
Letters must be submitted before Sunday, Feb. 14.
The activities of the organization lie in the areas of labor relations, personnel management, union activity, and human relations. Prominent figures, with extensive backgrounds in these fields, have been contacted to present
to the organization more complete and workable ideas in these business areas.
At present the association is conducting an evaluation of the University’s program of instruction for industrial supervisors. All graduates of this course will be interviewed and the program’s success will be evaluated.
Applications should be submitted to: The Manpower Management Association, College of Commerce, Notre Dame, Ind.
WNDU Moves Feb. 22 Info O'Shaughnessy
On Feb. 22, 1954, the familiar station identification “WNDU, Notre Dame,” won’t be heard from the Fieldhouse, but from the tower of the O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building.
Students won’t have to complain any longer about the poor frequency or difficulties in getting the station.
“The station will be more powerful,” said Tom Knott, station manager of WNDU. He went on to explain that the equipment will give better and clearer signals, making it easier to listen to the broadcasts. However, the actual power for the station comes from the transmission system. Linear amplifiers are being put in each hall to build up the signal coming from the transmission line.
A new engineering board, new turntables, a master control in two studios, and other standard broadcasting equipment are a few of the accessories the new station will have, enabling it to do more efficient broadcasting.
The station itself consists of two floors. On the first floor are the record library, the news room, the two broadcasting studios, and the control room.
On the second floor are the station manager’s office, the technology workshop and chief engineer’s office, and the general offices of the various department heads.
According to Knott, the program schedule will remain the same. The advertising, however, will increase with the local material being handled by the WNDU sales staff and the national advertising by the College Radio Corporation.
Hank's 'Asphalt Jungle' Wins *53 Breen Oratorical Contest
Senior William J. Hank and his “Here Lies the Asphalt Jungle” emerged triumphant from the annual Breen Oratorical Contest finals earlier this month conducted by Prof. Leonard Sommer, director of forensics. Hank’s victory against a field of 25 came in his first collegiate attempt at oratory. However, the marketing major and de
bate team president has had wide experience in other forensic activities.
Hank’s oration concerned the problems of slum clearance in America’s large cities.
There were six finalists chosen from 25 preliminary applicants. Other finalists were Charles Doherty, Donald Dowden, Reginald Baine, Dean Richards and J. Cronin.
The contest was founded by the Honorable William P. Breen, ’87. Assisting Professor Sommer were Professor Fallon and Professor Kirby of the Speech Department.
Hank will receive his medal on Senior Day, the Saturday before graduation next June.
Professor Sommer stated, “All finalists are to be congratulated for their skill. Mr. Hank has received, fitting award for his years of valuable work in University forensics.”
Fr. Hesburgh Will Be Jaycee DSAD Guest
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, will be the main speaker at the sixth annual Distinguished Service Award Dinner of the Junior Association of Commerce next Monday, it has been announced by Albert L. Cotner, Jaycee president.
South Bend’s Mayor John A. Scott, who also lectures in the Department of Journalism, will act as toastmaster for the dinner which will be held at the LaSalle Hotel at 6:30 p.m.
Headlining the evening will be the announcement of the winner of the Jaycees’ Distinguished Service Award for 1953. A plaque commemorating his designation as South Bend’s outstanding young man of the year will be presented to the winner. The selection will remain secret until its announcement at the dinner.
The five judges who selected the Distinguished Service Award winner from among young men nominated for the honor by South Bend business and civic organizations and individuals will be special guests at the dinner. Other guests will include employers of Junior Association of Commerce members who are invited to attend the annual event.
Each year the Distinguished Service Award is presented to a South Bend man between 21 and 35 years of age who has rendered noteworthy service to the community during the year. Recipients in previous years include Mayor Scott, Eugene L. O’Brien, E. Blair Warner, Mort Linder, and Gerald Hickey.
30
The Scholastic
AEC Offers Seniors Fellowships in Physics
College seniors majoring in chemistry, physics, or engineering are eligible to apply for Atomic Energy Commission-sponsored graduate fellowships in radiological physics for the 1954-55 school year.
Radiological physics is a new and expanding field of science. It is concerned with health physics, radiation monitoring and control, radioisotope measurements, and similar activities associated with the use of radioisotopes or the release of nuclear energy.
As many as 75 fellowships may be awarded, with fully-accredited graduate study to be carried out in three locations. One program is operated by the University of Rochester and Brookhaven National Laboratory, another by the \ University of Washington and the Han-| ford Works of the AEC, and the third I by Vanderbilt University and the Oak ' Ridge National Laboratory.
In each case, nine months of course work at the university is followed by three months of additional study and field training at the cooperating AEC installation. The program is accredited for graduate-level training leading toward an advanced degree.
Basic stipend for fellows is $1600 per year, with an allowance of $350 if married and $350 for each dependent child. University tuition and required fees will be paid by the Oak Ridge Institute of Nucleai- Studies, which administers the program for the AEC.
Additional information concerning the program may be obtained from science departments heads or by writing the University Relations Division of the Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies, P. O. Box 117, Oak Ridge, Tennessee.
University of Oslo Outlines American-Canadian Sessions
The University of Oslo will hold its eighth Summer School from July 3 to Aug. 14. While designed for American and Canadian students who have completed at least their freshman year in any accredited college or university, the ' summer session is open to Englishspeaking students of other nationalities. A special feature of the 1954 session will be an Institute for English-speaking Teachers (open to all nationalities) similar to the ones held each summer since 1951.
The University provides outstanding lecturers and maintains highest educational standards. All classes will be conducted in English, and an American
dean of students is on the administrative staff.
Students may choose courses in the following fields: (a) General Survey of Norwegian Culture; (b) The Humanities; (c) Social Studies; (d) Education System of Norway; and (e) Graduate seminars in Norwegian Education, Literature, Social and Political Problems.
Students of the Summer School will leave New YorlT"bn the S-S. Stavenger-fjord, June 23. Reservations for return trip are available Aug. 21, Sept. 3, 15, and 29.
For a catalogue of courses, preliminary application material, or any further information, write: Oslo Summer School Admissions Office, St. Olaf College, Northfield, Minn.
FATHER BERNARD MUUAHY
Philosophy Head Supports Club
Rejuvenated Philosophy Club Seeks Members, Sets Plans
After several years of absence from the local club scene, the Philosophy Club has been rejuvenated by Tom James in cooperation with the head of the Department of Philosophy, Rev. B. I. Mullahy, C.S.C., and Rev. H. R. Reith, C.S.C. and Rev. G. Boarman, C.S.C.
The new club is open to all interested, especially philosophy majors.
Ths purpose of the club is to “promote greater interest in philosophy among students and faculty members of other departments in the University.”
General topic for discussion for the year is “The Philosophy of Science,” but the meetings will concern specific problems or persons concerned with the
general topic. The club will meet every second and fourth Thursday of the month.
Widely known editor of The New Scholasticism, Dr. Vincent C. Smith, is the moderator of the club. Officers of the club are: Tom James, president; Joe Geniesse, vice-president; Bert Metzger, secretary; and Frank Tonini, publicity manager.
Those interested in joining the club should contact any of the officers.
ND Band Plans Tour Through West in April
The University Concert Band under the direction of Robert F. O’Brien has announced plans for its annual Spring concert tour. The 60-piece band will travel through eight Western and Midwestern states from April 17 to 29.
Cities tentatively scheduled for the tour include Quincy, Ill.; Kansas City, Mo.; Hayes and Liberal, Kans; Amarillo, Tex.; Santa Fe, N. Mex.; Colorado Springs, Colo.; McCook and Omaha, Nebr., Oskaloosa and Davenport, la.; and Peoria, Ill.
Two warmup tours have also been scheduled by the band. The musicians will play at Dayton, O.; Fort Wayne, and Hartford City, Ind., the weekend of April 4. March 28 the band will play in Chicago and La Salle, Ill.
Rounding out the Concert Band’s Spring plans will be the annual Spring concert May 2 in Washington Hall.
Entertains 20,000 People per Year
The Concert Band is the world’s most non-professional band, according to Mr. O’Brien. The 60 musicians, selected by audition from the' 120-piece marching band, have represented the university in 35 of the 48 states, entertaining over 20,000 people pei- year on the average.
During last year’s successful tour, the band travelled 4200 miles while giving 22 concerts in ten states.
The program offered by the band includes classical, semi-classical, and popular music. In addition solos, duets, trios, and quartets are employed in conjunction with the band. This year’s band will feature violin, trumpet, and marimba soloists.
The tour is financed by sponsors in each of the towns in which it appears since the University is unable to underwrite the tours.
The band is making its second tour of the West since the war. According to John Giambruno, band president, “Seventy-five per cent of the band is from the East and they are looking forward to their first visit to the West.”
January 15, 1954
31
Our Lady’s Shrines Cited For Veneration
Our Lady of Lourdes Grotto on the ND campus, Our Lady of Fatima Shrine on the Dixie Highway, and Loretto Chapel at Saint Mary’s College have been designated as sanctuaries “where the Blessed Virgin Mary is venerated with particular devotion” for this Marian Year. By visiting these shrines the faithful may obtain innumerable plenary indulgences any day of the Marian Year.
Plenary indulgences may also be gained by visiting these shrines on the following feast days: Christmas Day, the Purification, the Annunciation, the Assumption, the Seven Dolors of Mary, and the Immaculate Conception, and on every Saturday of the Marian Year by taking part in a pilgrimage to a shrine in honor of Mary or by attending a function in her honor. Prayers for the intention of the Holy Father must be included along with Confession and Communion within a reasonable time.
tions; Phil Stump, refreshments; John Locht, tickets; Bill Woodward, entertainment; Bob Howard, publicity; and Jack Riva, transportation.
Richards Leaves Senate
(Continued from page 9) Presidential elections in the Spring of 1952.
He will study International Relations at Georgetown.
Field, who ran second to Richards in the Senate elections last Spring, will assume the presidency next Monday night and will continue in that capacity until May. He is a Senior in the General Program.
In announcing his resignation, Richards stated: “I believe the Student Senate has progressed in the last year and a half to a very remarkable degree. Controversial subjects such as the dollar student activity fee are a healthy sign that the student government at Notre Dame is becoming a real part of the student’s life.”	’
Dr. Bartholomew to Prepare 'Constitutional Law' Article
Dr. Paul Bartholomew, Department of Political Science, has been asked to write the section on “Constitutional Law” for the new edition of the Encyclopedia Americana, it was announced recently.
The article is based primarily on the American concept of constitutional law, but it also employs the system of other nations, Dr. Bartholomew stated.
Prof. James Garner of the University of Illinois is the author of the article in the current issue of the Encyclopedia.
Dr. Bartholomew, who has been noted at Notre Dame for his annual student tours to the nation’s capital between semesters, is the author- of several books on political science and numerous magazine articles.
His book, America Under the Constitution, is now in its third edition. The book is basically concerned with constitutional law. An article dealing with the same subject will appear in the Winter issue of Social Science.
The new edition of the Encyclopedia Americana will be available to the public sometime this summer.
Rev. Edward O’Connor, C.S.C., head of the Marian Year Committee here, has announced the first speaker for this summer’s theological symposium — Professor Charles DeKoninck. *
Professor DeKoninck, dean of the Department of Philosophy at the University of Laval, Canada, will speak on the “Relationship of the Immaculate Conception to the Assumption and the Compassion of Our Lady.” Mr. DeKoninck will be the first speaker from outside the University faculty.
Rev. Albert Schlitzer, C.S.C., of the Department of Religion, will follow Prof. DeKoninck with a lecture on the “Controversy over the Immaculate Conception in the Middle Ages.”
Senior Ball
(Continued from page 9)
style, depicting a military theme. Car permissions and a 2 a.m. residence curfew will be allowed. Refreshments will be served in the' downstairs anterooms.
Busses have been hired to transport the St. Mary’s girls and their dates to and from the dance.
In addition to Blakey, Wagner, and Daigneault, the other committee chairmen for the dance are: Fran Meaney, business manager; Nick Brown, decora-
Read/ ibr 3 bijrtima ifc vacation? NOW ABOUT
WURDANaNG?
fashioned?
Do you lack confidence. Are you sure of the steps?
*
/	Don't spoil your holiday... come to
Arthur Murray’s and be sure of popularity
• Don’t waste another day. Come into the studio today and get your dancing polished up for holidaytime. Learning to dance the Arthur Murray Way is fun and easy. Even a beginner can go dancing after one lesson. So act now...being a good dancer will guarantee you fun and good times.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 EAST WAYNE STREET Call 2-3339 Now
32
The Scholastic

i
Capsule Corner
' (Continued from page 13) talks and he was assisted by Mr. John Wack, who led the student discussion.
Ihrig Addresses Metallurgists
Dr. Harry K. Ihrig, vice-president in charge of research, Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Co., Milwaukee, Wis., addressed the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals at its January meeting held last Wednesday. The subject of his talk was “Corrosion of Steels at High Temperature Under Alternating Oxidizing and Carburizing Conditions.”
Dr. Ihrig has made outstanding contributions in the research field. He was cited in 1949 by the University of Wisconsin for his important contributions and inventions, particularly in the field of metallurgy.
In 1947 Dr. Ihrig was awarded the Robert W. Hunt medal by the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers for the best paper published on iron and steel research.
Dr. Ihrig, who holds 19 patents, is a native of Wisconsin.
He attended Carleton College and the University of North Dakota. In 1923 he received his Ph.D. degree from the University of California. Dr. Ihrig came to Allis-Chalmers in 1950 after 17 years ’ with Globe Steel Tubes in Milwaukee.
Student Senate Plans Booklet
The Student Senate has decided to publish a booklet containing the constitutions of all campus organizations that regard the entire student body during the next semester. In this report will be the constitutions of the Senate itself, including the newly revised dance constitution and the format for the recently inaugurated Student Activities Court.
Also to be published is a series of student essays concerning residence hall conditions and proposed changes as seen by the students themselves. These essays after being presented to the Senate will be distributed to hall rectors and prefects.
SENIORS and GRADUATE STUDENTS
When you come with IBM_ rRADE MARK you’ll want to stay!
There are good reasons why IBM personnel turnover is less than 1/7 the national average! Here they are: Challenging opportunities • Merit advancement • Growing company • Progressive management - Good salaries • Continuous educational program • Exceptional employee benefits • Congenial working and living conditions.
Examine the facts about International Business Machines, leading manufacturer of Electronic Digital Computers, Electronic and Electric Accounting Machines, Time Indicating, Production Recording, and Signaling Devices, and Electric Typewriters.
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
MONDAY, FEB. 8
7/ your degree or major is:
Arts * Business * Accounting Science • Engineering
Physical Science Mathematics • Engineering
Make appointment to see: IBM Sales representative
IBM Applied Science representative
Physics • Mechanical IBM Engineering Electrical • Mathematics representative
Industrial • Electrical Mechanical
IBM Manufacturing representative

V-
4
4
I
GLASSES FITTED Satisfactory Optical Service in South Bend for over 50 years. Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop. J. BURKE Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER Associates
228 So. Michigan St.
Accounting • Administration Management
IBM Business Administration representative
Call your College Placement Office for Appointment
January 15, 1954
33
by Gordon Bergquist
In the course of an afternoon recently spent in the company of several young women from across the Dixie, the allegation arose that — to put it bluntly — the Notre Dame man was a ‘"seed!” One young lady asserted that it was wholly improper for a number of students to, day after day, go about unshaven, unwashed, and in motley array.
The young lady further admitted that when the Notre Dame man ventured across the Dixie to the' hallowed halls of St. Mary’s, he was — to put it bluntly — sharp. The main criticism was leveled at the Notre Dame man as he goes to class every day. We did not inquire how this young
lady managed to see the Notre Dame man in his native habitat, but, for the most part, we are forced to agree with her.
A few of the facts seem to be these: The Notre Dame man does go to class and carry out his everyday business on the campus attired as if he had just rolled out of bed after a lost weekend. (The Law School is of course exempted from such remarks.) Numerous times have students been noticed in class, attired in aged Levis, sweat shirt, and slippers. Perhaps some of this can be attributed to the ordinary Notre Dame student’s penchant for sleeping in and, upon rising from bed in a fog, just as the twenty-after bell rings, grabbing whatever happens to be the nearest in the way of apparel.
Another horrible fact is this; the Notre Dame man often smells. This, I feel, can be attributed only to a definitely unwashed state. On a warm Fall afternoon, some classes often resemble the locker room of the Rockne Memorial. There may be reasons, which we shall look at later, for the disarray, but there is no excuse for “B.O.”
It is admitted that clothes (beyond the bare essentials) are nothing more than a social convention. This, however, does not mean that there is something inherently wrong with clothes. (The advocates of Nudism, to the contrary notwithstanding.) This also does not mean that the best thing to do is to arrive at a formal dance in your Phy. Ed. •clothes.
There are several reasons for the Notre Dame man’s being a “seed.” One, it costs too much to wear a coat and tie to class every day. The cleaning bills would be prohibitive as would be the cost of assembling a wardrobe which ■would allow the possessor to have enough clothes to wear to class and around the campus without looking like a “seed” even in a suit. Again, most
suits and “dress-up” clothes are uncomfortable as compared with just a shirt and pair of pants.
The advocates of dressing-up would have all students wear suits to class. One graduate student, a transfer from some smaller college where this was the custom, wrote a letter to the Scholastic recently advocating such a custom or rule. Admittedly it does look better for all students to dress up—at least it looks better to an outsider. But the Notre Dame man is not out to impress anybody, at least while he is among his fellow students on the campus. When he feels the necessity to impress somebody, as on a date or a job interview, he is the very picture of “99.98 at better stores everywhere.”
Try to Strike Happy Medium
But the advocates of better dress make the point that a student feels sharper and more inclined to do his work well if he himself is clean and neat. But the point that they seem to miss is that a student can be clean and neat without wearing a coat and tie to class.
The attire of the Law School has always seemed a bit irrational to me. Of course, many of the Law students have part-time jobs which necessitate their dressing up. But many, especially those in their freshman year, dress up merely because they have been for several years exposed to the portrait of Leroy Lawschool. There is nothing against a student’s dressing up if he wants to, but it can be carried to extremes. Also the idea of being comfortable while in the waking moments can be carried to extremes.
The solution of the whole thing lies in a mean. A complete dressing-up is fairly impractical, with the exception of occasions of state declared by the University. Also, the wearing of slippers
and befouled sweatshirts is a bit irrational. There are those who would claim that such attire is the epitome of comfort, but the squirmings and scratchings of persons so attired would seem to belie this. Also, when out in the big, wide world of many and varied social conventions, there are times when the wearing of one’s best clothes is demanded. Whether we like it or not, society has declared certain occasions when one is to “put on the dog.” And whether- we like it or not, society has ways and means of taking care of offenders of its clothing code.
Better Grooming, Maybe Better Study
A little practice for the Notre Dame man in bettering his attire at least a little, would definitely improve the appearance of the University as a whole to both outsiders and students. You might even feel like studying once in a while.
And pity the poor professor who is forced to look for some signs of intelligibility through the scraggly hair and midnight shadow of a class sprawled in chairs, whose only sign of activity is a slow, methodical scratching of ankles. He probably wishes he could take off his coat and put his feet up on the desk!
WE ARE NEW “THE TWINS RESTAURANTS” Prop. by Brother and Sister
Come and Try Our "Pizza and Spaghetti" The Real Italian Way We Also Have Home-Made Chili Just the Way You Like It!
713 E. LASALLE
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to H-Hour Service
309 S. MICHIGAN Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
34
The Scholastic
A CAMPUS-TO-CAREER CASE HISTORY
“During the spring of ’52—my last year at the University of Maryland—I was interviewed by a number of companies. I was about to get my B.S. degree in accounting.
“It seemed to me that there was a great deal to be learned from the way I was interviewed. Bell System interviewers took their time about job offers. They didn’t rush me or themselves.
“I had two talks with the Bell interviewers and then was invited to meet and talk with department heads. Not only did they get a chance to look me over, but I also had an opportunity to get a closer look at their operation. I figured if the Bell System was that careful in selecting its men, it is careful in other things. The interview was the tip-off.
“That’s why I’m working here in Washington, D. C., for one of the Bell Com
panies—The Chesapeake & Potomav Telephone Company. My first job—after general training—was supervising a billing unit with 20 employees.
“Since then I have assisted on internal audits in all departments. I’ve helped with special studies for management and have become better acquainted with operations of the entire company. Now I’m working on the general books as an accounting supervisor.
“That Bell System interview has certainly meant a lot to me.”
• • •
Ed Burtner is moving forward. His experience is typical of the engineering, physical science, arts and social science, and business administration graduates who join the Bell System. He went with an operating telephone company. There also are opportunities with the Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
TF
ikafycfful (k wwt pxoad
A
THS UNIVERSITY LI
LEMMON I ER LlhRAR^
NOTRE DAMP. I
Smokers
i
I
K
king
Co^t^ht 1933, Lccm & M»t» Tqmcco Ca
1
J
Chesterfield's Proven Record with
After examining Chesterfield smokers for 20 months — almost two full years—a doctor reports "No adverse effects to the nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield,” and that’s not all. Chesterfield has proof of highest quality — low nicotine. Enjoy your smoking. Join the thousands now changing to Chesterfield.






Chesterfield's Perry Como Show. All the Top Tunes on TV—Now on Radio. TV—CBS Network—Radio—Mutual Network
CHESTERFIELD
Besrroflvoi/

"^co
■ -fOs-