The Notre Dame
Scholastic
pair sms
$3.00 THE YEAR 15 CTS. A COPY
FEBRUARY 24 1933
MADRI GRAS DANCE
Given By
HOLY NAME SOCIETY
ST. JOSEPH’S GYM
Tues. Eve., Feb. 28, 1933
Music By
AL JAXON
and
His Royal Band
Favors
8:30 P. M.	25c per Person
O. A. CLARK’S
RESTAURANT
104-106 North Michigan Street
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House
> Catering to >
NOTRE DAME MEN ; for over thirty years ;
Complete Dinner - - 35c to 50c
For a Real Mans Meal Drop in Any Time.
SOUTH SHORE LINE Bargain Excursion Sundayl ROUND TRIP South Bend to CHICAGO
One day rate good going on trains leaving South Bend at 6, 6:60, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 a. m. and 12 noon. Tickets good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. the same day.
Week-end Rate
40 ROUND TRIP
9	South Bend to
CHICAGO
Rate good going Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. Monday night.
See James McGrath, No. 1 Morrissey Hall for Complete Information.
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
MAGAZINES	PAPERS
University Cafeteria and
Soda Grill
Daily Specials
Open 6:30 A. M. to 9:40 P. M.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
February 24, 1933
One
Next Friday Night
THE BENGAL BOXING SHOW Sponsored by “The Scholastic”
A knockdown in last year’s show, February, 1932.
8 Championship Fights
FOR UNIVERSITY TITLES
In the N. D. Gym
With TUFFY GRIFFITH Refereeing
25c . . . and it’s for Charity
Two
The Scholastic
Seed In The W i nd
(Washington Day Ode, 1933)
Cornelius J. Laskowski, C.S.C.
i.
Washington:
Today, a world bowed in dust-ward surrender Thanks God for this That a man not much older Than its slender sons Should sudden lift unto his youthful shoulder The common burden of a country’s shame. That above the sulphur and the flame. The rain in Valley Forge, Delaware lanced white with sleet. The crying ardor of your voice had beat New blood into a nation’s heart. The stride of freedom in its feet. That out of the magic of your gun An eagle smote the sky
II.
The heavy day you died.
The pompous gentlemen of State-craft cried That you were dead.
And they laid a peaceful, silken pillow at your head. But they never knew
How your vast soldier, soul laughed long and loud And ripped a blade Into the small confining of your grave. Hacked down the quiet pickets made Of guttering candle-light.
How you walked past dawn, past night. Scattering your dust like seed in‘the wind. Brave seed into the brave welcoming earth Of a nation’s loins. Plowing it under with your sword Against the fertile fields of a newer birth Some day a bugle should call.
III.
Lincoln felt you in his body, A shaft of iron up and down. Proud and strong. Stiffened against despair, Lifting his courage Until it stood a pillar so tall That from the beetling angle of its height He saw past all the shaken mountains, Beyond all human sight. The unerring end of a marching war. And where swords struck their opposite hatreds, Over the naked pity of young men slain. Above the broken horses in the mud, Northern lips hailed the pride of you. Southern veins expanded with your blood, So that you fought yourself as in a mirror, Punning steal through the fighting vigour Of yourself. Your right hand maiming your left.
IV.
Once again, O deathless rider, You lead them, line on line. Those boys of eager faces, so fine In the new brass of martial buttons. Thundering the highways, Precisaly, Hobnailed foot on foot. Rocking the steepnesses of brick and mortar With their twentieth century laughter, (Your spirit tramping in their bones) Bending lean, familiar fingers Around the alien feeling of their guns. And part of you came back with them In their half-aching, twisted laughter Singing to the music of the lines. , And part of you stayed back with them To keep the night-long, brooding watches, Over the holy places on the Seine Where the spinning blades of bullets Cut their laugh in twain. And they fell To spill remembering poppies From the bright red fountains of their blood.
V.
And in these wan days, • What is it the winds bring down from the hills?
The clatter of unfolding tents. The grim rhythm of four horses shod In death and hunger. Beyond them, the foretelling thunder Of a nation’s crumbling. And above the shame of its decay. Above its great central wound. Circling like a brid of prey The sadness of a Ione bugle sound. Washington, Although it seem Against the nation you had built Even God had'laid Hands upon the hilt, Strike once again assurance into your eyes. All things your .name and honor symbolize. Are safe.
We have absorbed you entire— Son after son of a splendid sire— Hurl but'the challenge.
Let but a sword glint show, And'our veins will burst with'firel'
February 24, 1933
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	k I	I I	,
I he Notre Dame Scholastic
scripts may be addressed to .	'	•	.
the scholastic, Pubii- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Momturus
cations Office, Mam Building.	-p yr -vr n p n , □ e —
Entered as second-ciass matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1913.
Edmund A. Stephan...............
James S. Kearns................
Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Associate Editors F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON LLOYD TESKE	LESLIE RADDATZ
Desk Editors PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY ROY SCHOLZ	ROBERT DILLON
News Staff MITCHELL TACKLEY.............News	Editor
JAMES BYRNE........Assistant News Editor
THOMAS PROCTOR.. .Assistant News Editor EDWARD MANSFIELD RICHARD TOBIN JOSEPH BUCCI	ROBERT	ERVIN
JAMES A. HART JOHN McELLIGOTT FRANK KELLEY MICHAEL WIEDL JOHN WALKER
Department Editors
TIGHE WOODS................The Week
ROGER BEIRNE ...........Theatre Talk
ROGER McGOVERN.......College	Parade
RICHARD PREZEBEL.     Staff Artist
Sports Staff
FRED Macbeth	ALBERT L. McGUFF
JAMES F. McKEON NICHOLAS CONNOR JOHN CARBINE	HOWARD WALDRON
EDWARD VAN HUISS ELING
Volume LXVI.
FEBRUARY 24, 1933
Features Staff RAY WATERS..............Features Editor
LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN PAUL DOYLE	LOUIS GIRAGI
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD GEORGE LEYES
Business Staff	.
JOHN F. STOECKLEY....Graduate Manager J. ALBERT SMITH......Advertising Manager RAYMOND J. NABER.. .Circulation Manager HARRY McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON
No. 17
S UMMARY
NEWS Ticket Sale for The Scholastic Benefit Boxing Show a	Will Open Tonight............................. 5
Professor Louis Hasley Wins Poetry Award....... 5
Senior Class of 1933 Presents Flag to University at . 88th Annual Washington Day Program........... 6
James Boyle Delivers Washington Day Address..... 7 President Francis Werner Gives Presentation Speech. 7 Glorifying the Junior Class In Their Annual Social
Function, the Promenade..................8 and 9
!	New System of Football Captaincies Inaugurated;
Football Banquet is Held.....................10
Wranglers Hear Talk by John Logan..............16
*	, FEATURES
“Voice of the Campus”..........................11
Art Becvar and His Art is “Man About Campus”...........12
;	Technocrats Take Price System For A Ride......13
j	A Word About the Land of Bengal, and How the Missionaries Work ..................................-..'—.1—16
* The Story of the Naming of the Village, “Painted Post”..17
SPORTS
«	Michigan State eagers here tonight to attempt to
|	smash Keoganites’ winning streak..............20
;	Jimmy Dunnigan gives up Prom for chance to repre-
sent Notre Dame at American indoor speed skating
j	championships ........................-.......21
f.	Illinois track team whips Irish thinlies, 55% to 39%..21
j	Cagers run win streak to six by beating Western Re-
J	’ serve ......................................22
Interhall leagues pass third round of play.........22
Irish score seventh cage victory over Penn.—........23
Powerful Ohio State track team to appear here tomorrow night...............................-.....23
Introducing Ed Gough—...............................24
S. A. C. to sponsor swimming meet..................27
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, Feb. 24.—Scholastic staff meeting, editorial board, news, sports, and feature staffs, 6:30 p. m., Editorial offices, Ave Maria Building; Basketball: Varsity vs. Michigan State, 8:00 p. m., Gym; Junior Prom, Palais Royale Ballroom, 9:00 p. m. to 1:30 a. m.; Ticket sale for Bengal Bout opens.
SATURDAY, Feb. 25.—Junior Class Dinner Dance, Oliver Hotel, 7:30 p. m.; Track meet: Varsity vs. Ohio State, 7:30 p. m., Gym. '
SUNDAY, Feb. 26.—Masses: 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church; Forty Hours’ Devotion begins at 9:00 o’clock Mass.
MONDAY, Feb. 27.—Forty Hours’ Devotion: High Mass, 8:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church.
TUESDAY, Feb.28.—Close of Forty Hours’ Devotion, 7:30 p. m., Sacred Heart Church; Patrician’s meeting, 8:00 p. m., Law Building.
WEDNESDAY, Mar. 1.—Wrangler meeting, 6:30 p. m., Law Building; Basketball: Varsity vs. Butler, at Indianapolis, Ind.	.
THURSDAY, Mar. 2.—Debate: Varsity vs. Michigan State at East Lansing, Michigan; Spectator meeting, 8:00 p. m., Law Building.
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
By Tighe Woods
E picked up our copy of Scrip and for a moment hesitated before looking at the table of contents. We were afraid that the editor had gone back on his word, that we would see the same names that always appear there, but we were wrong. Editor Sheedy, true to his promise, has filled his second issue with new blood. Several new names appear in the Notre Dame publication for the first time, and from glancing at the fine material these men have submitted, we would say that the editor deserves a word of commendation for his hard work in unearthing hidden talent. If these men would only start writing in their first two years, instead of waiting until they are juniors or seniors!
J[ HOSE interhall athletes are at it again! This time it is in track. Interhall football games may look like the last stand of the Goths, and their basketball games might be cause for insurance policy cancellation, but they need bow to no man in track. A glance at the interhall records in some of the track and field events gives an idea of the type of a show these boys put on. They still tell the story around the campus of how “Smokey” Coyne won the mile run. “Smokey” started the race and hid behind a locker after he had done one lap. When the boys came around for the seventh time the flashy Pittsburgher came on the track behind the last man and by desperate sprint came up from nowhere to pass the leader three feet in front of the tape. “Smokey” was a hero in his hall until one official exposed the ruse.
V
1 HE campus was startled one day when, upon turning their radios to fifteen hundred kilocycles, they heard a voice say, “This is Station B-I-R-D, the voice of the campus.” If you haven’t heard them yet, it will be well worth your while. They broadcast from seven until eight every evening, with a ten minute intermission for night prayer. You can hear everything from Tony
Andrioni’s tap dancing to the latest campus news flashes. To reveal where the station is located, and who operates it, would be betraying a confidence, but if you would like an hour of clever satire and parody, we would advise you to tune in while the fun lasts.
V
I N case some of the students failed to read the “Voice of the Campus” column in The Scholastic last week, we would like this opportunity to come to the defense of “W. C. R.” The nuisance of lingering over meals in the dining hall is growing. In some cases it is a deliberate attempt at childish shozving off. If you must display your forensic ability to your companions, why not join one of the clubs on the campus, organized for that purpose. There are people in the dining hall who have work to do. One would never know it from the politeness shown towards them, but the waiters do go to school here! They also have classes at eight o’clock and at one-five. We know that Doctor Johnson’s conversation sparkled most when he lingered over his meal, but Doctor Johnson was also considerate of others.
V
EDNESDAY you saw the renewal of one of Notre Dame’s finest traditions, the presentation of the Flag. Many of the seniors, when they could take their eyes off the swaying tassels of their mortar boards, were witnessing this fine old custom for the first time in their four years at Notre Dame. They had an imaginary dread of the whole business, they regarded it as something that had to be undergone, like going to the dentist every six months, for the good of all concerned, but after it was all over they felt a little sad. It reminded them that Notre Dame would become a very sacred place in just about three months. The majority of the freshmen giggled at the caps and gowns and restlessly glanced at wrist watches, but then they are just beginning life at Notre Dame. They still must learn the difference between a tradition and an ordinance of the disciplinary department.
February 24, 1933
Five
N.D. PROFESSOR WINS CATHOLIC POETRY AWARD
TICKET SALE FOR BENGAL BOXING BOUTS OPENS ON CAMPUS TONIGHT
Louis Hasley’s “To a Dream” Gets Recognition.
First prize for the best poem submitted to the current bulletin of the Catholic Poetry Society of America has been awarded to Professor Louis
Lours Hasley
His poem outstanding.
Hasley of the University’s Department of English, according to the contents of that periodical which was sent here this week. Mr. Hasley’s poem, “To A Dream,” follows:
Lie still, my loved one, in eternal sleep.
You were too much divine, too little bred To human nurture; now the placeless deep
Invites an airy pillow for your head.
No more the silken music dims the light
To float you high above a day forlorn
Or see arise the flaming hounds from night To bay an answer to a distant horn.
Yet rest you, now the hunger pains have gone.
Rebuke me not; my hounds and charger failed—
The horn was blown too late by laggard Dawn, The quarry vanished as the distance paled.
Starved here on earth you yet a banquet won: It was a dream of sweet oblivion.
President of the Catholic Poetry Society of America is the Reverend Charles O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, and one of the truly recognized Catholic poe£s of the country.
An editorial in the February Bulletin has this to say: “The Catholic Poetry Society of America is now country-wide. Its members live in 40 states of the Union, five provinces of Canada are represented, and there is a sole, but honored, member in
Seniors Meet, Make Plans For a Banquet, Discuss Ball Prices and Proceeds
•At an assembly in Washington Hall Tuesday noon, the Senior class voted unanimously in favor of a suggestion by President Francis Werner to hold a Senior banquet sometime in March. The motion will be taken up with the University authorities shortly and some definite plans will soon be formulated.
The questions of the date, price and proceeds of the Senior Ball were raised during the meeting and the following arrangements were effected:
Ball Is May 12
The Ball will be on. May 12; profits, if there are any, will be turned over to the local branch of the St. Vincent De Paul Society to be distributed among the South Bend indigent; a survey will be conducted in the very near future among members of the 1933 class to ascertain just what the sentiment is regarding the price which should be charged this year for the Ball.
With a motion passed to do away with corsages and a general demand for a cheaper dance, in all probability the second Friday in May will be a more economical day for seniors than it has been for years.
Forty Hours Devotion To
Open Here Next Sunday
Forty Hours Devotion will begin at Notre Dame on Sunday, Feb. 26. There will be a high mass at 9 o’clock followed by a procession and exposition of the Blessed Sacrament.
Benediction will be at 7 and 7:30 in the evening. On Monday and Tuesday mornings there will be a high mass at 8:00 in the church. The Forty Hours Devotion will end Tuesday evening at 7:30 with a final procession of the Blessed Sacrament.
Austria. With its present success the Society feels justified in existence and in its appeal to members for cooperation, patience, and support.”
CONPLETE ELIMINATIONS
Tournament Finalists Picked By Tryouts; Eight Championship Bouts.
Tickets for the Bengal Boxing Show which will be held in the University gymnasium next Friday night at eight o’clock will be placed on sale
Gerald Ambrose ‘Tuffy’ Griffith
Referee of Bengal Bouts.
this evening in all residence halls. Students seats are priced at twenty-five cents, and may be purchased from The Scholastic staff members who will visit every campus room during the coming week. South Bend people who plan to attend the show may buy ringside seats at the following places: Claffey’s cigar store, the Goodyear service station, the offices of the South Bend Tribune, and those of the South Bend News-Times.
Weed Out Candidates
Elimination bouts among the fiftyodd candidates for the eight University boxing titles have been conducted the past few nights by Len Dunn and his assistants with the result that the most outstanding boxing talent ever seen at Notre Dame has been matched for next week’s Show. (Story of elimination fights oh page 10.) (Continued on Page 17)
Six
The Scholastic
Class Of 1933 Presents Flag In Annual Exercise
SPEECHES IMPRESSIVE
Father Carrico Accepts For N. D. In Absence Of-Father O’Donnell.
By Thomas Proctor
Blue skies and a warm sun greeted 400 members of the graduating senior class of 1933 last Wednesday morning as they walked from the Main Building to Washington Hall to pay tribute and honor to George Washington. An impressive ceremony, in perfect keeping with Notre Dame tradition, marked the 88th Annual Observance of Washington’s Birthday.
Orchestra Plays
The seniors, clad in cap and gown, entered the hall at 10 a. m. Shortly afterwards, the curtains were opened to disclose an American flag; the orchestra, directed by Professor Casa-' santa, played “The Star Spangled Banner.” Following this song, a portrait of Washington above the stage was illuminated by floodlight to begin the speaking program.
James Joseph Boyle, A.B., ’33,.
delivered “An Appreciation of Washington’s Farewell Address.” “If Washington’s advice had been followed, our country would not be in its present condition,” said the speaker. “Washington was a counselor; he said that religion and morality were indispensable. When all else has crumbled, “Our First Father’s” counsels will stand supreme.”
Laskowski Gives Ode
“The Washington Day Ode” was given by Cornelius Joseph Laskowski, > C.S.C., A. B., ’33, who chose as a title, “Seed and Wind.” In a beautiful bit of verse Laskowski stressed the immortality of George Washington, comparing his wisdom, counsel, and inspiration to seed forever blowing in the wind and being planted throughout the ages in American hearts and minds.
Francis Anthony Werner, A.B., ’33, President of the Senior Class, presented the flag of his class to the University of Notre Dame with eloquent tribute. The president reviewed
like ceremonies from the first presentation to Father Sorin in 1840, and ' phrased Notre Dame men as “loyal to God, Country and School.”
In the absence of the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, the’ Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S C., Director of Studies, accepted the flag in the name of Notre Dame. Father Carrico was given this honor in recognition of his 25 years of attendance at the Washington Day Observances. “But each of these celebrations has given me a new meaning, a new interest, and a new inspiration,” he said. Father Carrico emphasized the existing need in a distressed world for men of character and morals. In concluding he remarked, “Notre Dame is indeed a proud mother to receive this flag, this tribute from her loyal sons.”
During the program, which concluded with the prayer-like song, “Notre Dame Our Mother.” the orchestra played a medley of southern anthems and songs.	'
Ushers for the occasion, appointed by Chairman Charles J. Fiss, were Richard J. Grimes, Harry Black, Harry Burchell, John Meister, and John Conley.
FOR THE 88th TIME
Senior Class President Francis A. Werner (left) makes the annual presentation of the flag on Washington’s birthday. Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., accepted the flag for the University.
POPE’S Gin TO U.S. IN I8S2 WAS DESTROYED
Donation of Pius IX Thrown in River by Vandals.
The stately monument that dominates the National Capitol was in the process of building in 1852. The National Monument Committee had previously invited foreign countries to contribute a stone to be incorporated in the monument. Among those to respond to this invitation was Pope Pius IX who was then temporal head of the Roman Government. The gift selected was a block of African marble taken from the ancient Temple of Concord and was inscribed “Rome to America.”
On the announcement of this gift the Know-Nothing Party, forerunner of the Ku Klux Klan and other selfappointed guardians of so-called political liberties, organized protests throughout the country.
The Committee took no notice of these protests, and the stone was on the grounds ready to be put in its place. In the early morning hours of March sixth, 1854, a number of men locked the night watchman in his cabin, broke into the stone shed and carried the block of marble to
(Continued on Page 31)
February 2.1, 193.3
Seven
WASHINGTON’S ADVICE APPLIES TODAY-BOYLE
Interprets Farewell Address at Wednesday’s Ceremonies.
The following is the text of James Boyle’s speech of appreciation of George Washington’s farewell address :
On March 4, 1797, President Washington retired to private life. The United States had before her a brilliant future. On all sides her people were thrifty and industrious. Many universities and colleges were springing up. Huge tracts of land were waiting to be cleared and cultivated. Washington had launched his nation safely and everyone looked forward with pleasure to the fruits of his sane and enlightened principles.
If our First President were to come back today, he would see a different picture. He would see neglect and misery everywhere. The present despair of the nation is in great contrast to the hope that existed at the time he left office. If Washington’s advice had been followed, this country would be in a different condition. Even now it is not too late if we heed his counsel.
“For The Yeomanry”
Shortly before retiring, the “Father of Our Country” wrote a farewell address which was, as he said, “designed in a more especial manner for the yeomanry of the country.” He left this noble document solely for the guidance of his nation. In its sincere eloquence, the character of George Washington, the man, is revealed better than in anything else he said or did. In it he sets forth his mature counsel for the little nation he loved. The document, which has become one of America’s treasures, cannot be read without emotion because in its dignified sentences one reads the trials of Washington’s career. He tells the people that they have a unified government, that they must keep it intact, that they must not dishonor it. He begs them to control party spirit. He asks the nation to let religion and education be its guide in preserving its nationality.
In view of all the pressing needs of the hour, Washington said nothing more important than that, “of all the dispositions and habits, which lead to political prosperity, religion and mor-
Werner Cites Obligations In Presentation Speech
CLASS PRESIDENT
Francis A. Werner
President of the class of ’33, who made the 88th annual flag presentation last Wednesday.
ality are indispensable supports. . . . National morality,” he added “cannot prevail in exclusion of religious principles.” This is especially significant to us as men of this institution because our faith is the one thing that other universities cannot and do not give.
Morality Without Religion
If Washington were to come back to his country, he would see what has happened because too many people have believed that morality can be possessed without religion. He would discover that because of the greed of many, democracy has not been a complete success. He would observe factional strife and a disregard of the rights of others.
America with her system of nonreligious education has attempted to mould the spiritual part of her citizens without spiritual training. After completely disregarding Washington’s advice on this point, our nation, especially during this depression when religion can be man’s only solace, finds .its citizens careless. Today throughout the nation many of our leaders, who should be an inspiration (Continued on Page 14)
RECALLS TRADITION
Points To Duties As Citizens And Catholics In Annual President’s Address.
The following is the text of Senior President Francis A. Werner’s presentation speech at the annual Washington Day exercises Wednesday:
Reverend Father Carrico, Reverend Fathers, Professors, Gentlemen of the class of 1933:
When the senior class of 1844; gathered on Washington’s birthday to. pledge their tribute, on one and the same occasion, to their country and their University, they began the tradition which we, today, do our part to perpetuate. On that occasion it was Father Sorin, himself, like Washington, a founder, who received from the senior class our national flag as a token of the fact that the American sons of Notre Dame identified two inter - related loyalties — devotion to the United States of America and devotion to Notre Dame.
Class Pledges Itself
The senior class of 1933 meet today, on another birthday of the Father of our Nation; to express to themselves, to their University, and to their nation, that they, no less than their predecessors, understand and cherish these loyalties.
Washington was convinced that men should live not only for a personal prosperity, but also for a national happiness. Father Sorin lived for the spread and perpetuation of love between man and God, for truth and light — that his feliowmen might, through knowledge, stand one day in the perpetual halo of the Trinity. Both fought and prayed, suffered and died in the midst of bitter and religious persecution. Both left a living monument, the one a great nation to which we give our allegiance, the other, the University which is our Alma Mater. Noble dreams, noble blood, and loyalties (Continued on Page 14)
Eight
The Scholastic
Class of 1934 Presents Its Promenade
Jack Miles And His Orchestra Will Play For Three Hundred Couples
REGULATIONS FOR 1933 JUNIOR PROM
The hours for the Junior Prom are from 9:30 p. m. to 2:30 a. m. in place of residence. No excuses for late returns will be accepted.
In accordance with the usual regulation, all students not attending the Prom must be in residence at 9:00 p. m. There will be no week-end permissions and no time extensions of permissions on Saturday or Sunday nights.
Those attending the Prom may use automobiles over the week-end, Friday to Sunday inclusive, provided they notify their Rectors. Automobile excursions to nearby cities and towns are strictly prohibited.
Please note the regulation of the Undergraduate Manual about bringing visitors into residence halls. The University parlor and adjoining room will be open to guests and visitors over the week-end.
These regulations are to be interpreted strictly and violations shall result in dismissal from the University.
Rev. P. H. Dolan, C.S.C.
Prefect of Discipline.
Joseph E. Condon
President of Junior Class
By Mitchell Tackley
The class of 1934 is unusually handicapped. The members of the class are unfortunate in that their outstanding social function of the year, the Prom, is to be held during a time of economic strife. However, Notre Dame’s social element must live on, and tonight, the junior class dances in South Bend’s Palais Royale. More than 300 couples will join in the traditional promenade.
Corsages Absent
Notre Dame has been remembered for her glamorous cotillions, colorful proms, and elaborate balls. Tonight’s Prom will not be any of these. Rather, the affair is being carried out in a simple manner. There will be no lavish decorations, no diamond studs, and no new swallow tails. Even the brilliant and scented corsages will be absent.
Miss Mary Joan Gallagher
Guest of President Condon
The guests and friends of the class will dance to the music of Jack Miles and his orchestra from 9:30 to 1:30. Through the special permission of the Reverend Patrick Dolan, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, 2:30 has been set as the deadline for the students to be at their resident halls.
The guests of honor will be the Misses Helene Rita Hebert, Rosary College, River Forrest, Ill., and Mary Joan Gallagher, Chicago, Ill., guests of General Chairman John Hoban and Joseph E. Condon, class president, respectively.
Bracelet Favors
The prom favors and programs have been carried out in a color scheme of blue and gold. The favor, a novel link bracelet, is a departure from the customary one of past years. The programs are of white imitation leather with silhouetted figures shining through a window effect of blue and gold. Another feature of the Prom will be the singing of the theme song, “Close to Me,” by George M. Menard, Glee Club soloist. The song, composed by Francis Lavengood and George Fanelli, will be played throughout the evening by the orchestra. Each guest will have a copy of the words.
February 24, 1933
Nine
This Evening At The Palais Royale
Miss Helene Rita Hebert Guest of Chairman Hoban.
The Juniors will continue their festivities tomorrow by attending either the Ohio State track meet at 8 o’clock in the gym or the dinner dance which will take place at the Oliver hotel at 7:30 o’clock. These two activities will top off the Junior week-end. Hal Denham and his orchestra will play for the dinner dance.
Both the Prom and dinner dance are strictly formal in nature. Although the sale of tickets has been open to a limited number of seniors, the juniors will outnumber them about 6 to 1.
Chairman John J. Hoban and President Condon and the committees in charge of the dance have cooperated in making the affair a success. They are as follows:
List of Committeemen
Tickets, James Cole, chairman, Charles Litty, and Robert Fitzsimon; Programs, Robert McDonough, chairman, John Egan, and John Siscanaw; Favors, Harry Rockett, chairman, George Cole, and Vincent Reishman; Music, James Moscow, chairman, John Dugan, and Arthur Sandusky; Invitations, Martin Donlon. chairman, William Veneemen, and John Oitzin-ger; Reception, Frank Sturla Canale, chairman, Leo Crowe, and William Powell; Patrons, Henry Burchell,
Prom Proper, Track Meet, And Dinner Dance Feature Weekend Festivities
WEEK-END PROGRAM
John J. Hoban
General Chairman of Prom
chairman, William Motsett, and John Conley; Arrangements, William Mackey, chairman, Frank Jehle, and Tom Dalton; Publicity, Walter Kennedy, chairman, Mitchell Tackley, and William Dusch; Hall, Leonard Cacciatore, chairman, Redmond Lyons, and Hugh O’Neil.
Prom Patrons
The patrons and patronesses who will attend the dance are Dean and Mrs. James E. McCarthy, Mr. and Mrs. Heartly W. Anderson, Mr. and Mrs. Louis F. Buckley, Mr. and Mrs. Albert Doyle, Mr. and Mrs. Norbert Engels, Mr. John A. Sullivan, Mr. Paul I. Fenlon, Mr. Francis O’Malley, Mr. Joseph Apodaca, Mr. Joseph C. Ryan, Mr. Earl F. Langwell, and Mr. Andrew J. Boyle.
And so, with the passing of the week-end, the members of the Junior Class will return to their rooms to settle down for another year. Many
Friday
Promenade, Palais Royale, South Bend, from 9:30 to 1:30 o’clock.
Saturday
Track Meet. Ohio State-Notre Dame, in gym, at 8:00 o’clock.
Dinner Dance, Oliver Hotel, from 7:30 to 11:00 o’clock.
Sunday
Mass, -Sacred Heart Church, 9:00 o’clock.
of the Juniors and their guests are expected to attend the 9:00 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church Sunday morning.’
The 1934 Class is to be heartily congratulated for its plan of donating the Prom profits to the Bengal Missions. This gesture is a new one on the part of any class dance officials and may result in the establishment of a precedent.
Ten
The Scholastic
HARRIS CHOSEN HOST VALUABLE ’32 GRIDDER
Abolish Elective Captaincy; Banquet Thursday Night.
James Harris, a three year monogram winner, and regular left guard on last years’ varsity football team, was chosen as the most valuable player on the squad last night at the annual football monogram dinner.
Harris received the first annual Paul Gilbert valuable player award, a life-sized silver football, as a result of his choice by the thirty grid monogram winners. In addition to receiving the trophy, Harris will be the first man to have his name worked onto Knute Rockne’s original monogram blanket which is to be kept as a permanent record of the men voted the most valuable players.
To Elect Honorary Captain
Reverend M. A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., chairman of the University athletic board, announced that no football captain would be elected for the next year. In place of the former system, a captain will be appointed by Coach Anderson before each game next fall.
At the end of the season an honorary captain will be chosen by the monogram winners of the year. The players named in that way will be entitled to wear the regular captain’s insignia.
Father Mulcaire also announced that a system is being perfected whereby recognition will be given to graduating members who have been faithful in practice but who fail to win a major monogram. The exact nature of the award has not yet been determined.
The St. Joseph Valley alumni club presented each of the fifteen graduating monogram winners, including managers A. W. .Winy and F. R., Buhl, with small, initialed travelling bags.
Coach Heartly Anderson acted as toastmaster at the banquet. In addition to Father Mulcaire, Athletic Director Jesse C. Harper, Business Manager J. Arthur Haley, the assistant coaches, and each of the graduating monogram men made brief addresses.
All “Scholastic” Staff members will meet in the Editorial offices tonight at .6:30 instead of 7:00. Attendance is compulsory.
Jim Harris
Receives first Paul Gilbert trophy by teammates’ votes.
Writer Defends Fraternities
In N. Y. “Times” Article
An editorial in the undergraduate publication of Columbia University, The Spectator, calling for the abolishment of fraternities at that academic seat, has brought forth an article by H. I. Brock in the New York Times of Feb. 19, in defense of fraternities.
They are “part and parcel of life in a vast majority of our colleges,” Brock writes, and, “should not be abolished, if for no other reason than that they could not be abolished at the present without substitute groupings of undergraduates promptly taking place.”
Politics Upheld
Writing of the constant attacks made upon the “campus politics” activities of fraternities, he maintains that, “it is a vital part of American college life, as politics in the larger field is of vital importance in American life when the campus has been left behind.”
The principal change that fraternities seem to be undergoing, is, according to Brock, a more direct control being assumed by the universities Many of the Greek-lettered organizations, in financial stress at the present time are becoming lessees of the university property within the university ruled area, thus giving the educational institution a greater interest in the group, and dictating the policies which are to govern the operations of fraternal bodies.
FINALISTS NAMED FOR BENGAL BOXING SHOW
Bouts On Thursday Wind Up Eliminations; Strong Card.
In the pro-final elimination bouts held during the past week for the Bengal Boxing Show, fourteen well-conditioned, clever men have survived and will fight on March 3 for seven University Championships.
In the heavyweight division finals, Reno Zarantenello, a fast, shifty, sharp-punching boxer, will meet Johnny Michuta, the heavy-hitting Golden Glove champion from Detroit. Zar-antonello gained the finals by out-boxing John Batrow for three rounds -z-and by the defaulting of Bill Acker-, man, who had defeated the squat Dutch Knappman. Michuta reached the finals by defeating Casimir Pocius.
Purcell Stops Sluzka
The light-heavyweight class finds Frank Gaul and Phil Purcell meeting for the first time. Gaul reached the finals by a default from Donovan, > while Purcell, who was runner-up in this division last year in The Scholastic bouts, technically stopped Sig- -' gy Sluzka, the 1930 S. A. C. middleweight champion.
The middleweight class promises one of the best bouts of the show when Bart McKernan, a hard-hitting, aggressive boxer, meets Shiavone, a wild - swinging puncher. Schiavone won by a technical knockout over Jerry Farrell, and Bart knocked out Sheehan and won by a decision from l--Ackerman. Both these men are per- — fectly conditioned and just biding time for these final bouts.
Carton vs. Byrne
Nick Carton and Jimmy Byrne are the finalists in the welterweight division. In the light weight class two former champions, Joe Ciaverello and Bill Malloy, will clash. Malloy won the lightweight crown last year, while Ciaverello was featherweight champion.
The featherweight title scrap should be a corker. Gooden, the Ok-, lahoma State Featherweight Champion, a deadly puncher with either hand,-meets Varranetto, a good boxer and fast puncher.
The following men who participated in the- elimination 'bouts of the Bengal Boring Tourney will each receive
(Continued on Pa«e 23)	■
February 2!^ 19.1.;
Eleven
“DOME” TELLS FLAMS FOR SNAPSHOT CONTEST
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Contributions In 104 Alumni Hall By April 1.
All letters to the Voice of the Campus must be addressed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall. Names must be signed in fuU. Initials will be used upon request.
The annual snapshot contest sponsored by the Dome is now open to all students. Contributions will be accepted by Joseph Durkin, photographic editor, at his room in 104 Alumni Hall until further notice.
This year the Dome is particularly anxious to portray some intimate scenes of student life on the campus. There always has been a surplus of pictures of buildings and other views of the campus. For this reason such a change is desired and scenes of the interior of rooms, classrooms, buildings, and other shots of student living or activity are preferred. However no picture submitted will be disregarded because of its nature, but rather all those entered' will be judged carefully regardless of their theme.
Five Dollars First Prize
The prizes to be awarded the winners are: five dollars for first prize, three dollars for second prize and two dollars for third prize. Judges will be members of the staff of the yearbook and their decisions will be announced in an issue of The Scholastic immediately after the contest closes.
All copy should be in the hands of the various departmental heads by April 1, in order to assure a timely issue of the annual. Every possible measure is being taken to make the 27th volume of the Dome superior to those of the past.

Managers’ Banquet Set For
Next Thursday, March 2
The date for the annual Managers’ banquet has been set for next Thursday, March 2, at 7:00 p. m. in the lay faculty dining hall.
No definite program of speakers has been outlined as yet but it is most probable that Director of Athletics Harper will act as toastmaster, assisted by officials from the athletic department and a representative of the faculty.
After the banquet, the appointments of the present junior managers will be announced and the names of those freshmen and sophomores who are to be retained for the 1933-34 season will be read.
EIGHTS
Editor of The Scholastic,
Dear Sir:
A few of the fellows in our hall were having a discussion the other day, and we decided that to abolish 8 o’clock classes would be a great benefit to all the students, and would necessitate no great changes in the university routine.
To make up for the 8 o’clock classes, it would be quite simple to have general classes at 4:15 in the afternoon. No one would mind this, since the advantage of not having to get up so early in the morning would outweigh any inconvenience that would be caused by going to class so late in the afternoon.
The advantages of such a plan are innumerable. That well-known lethargy which features the 8 o’clock class would be gone; students would get plenty of sleep; professors are less inclined to irritableness at 9 than they are at 8; the cold, dreary trudge to the dining-hall in the dead of night, “the darkest hour before the dawn,” would be a thing of the past. Out of a group of students going cheery-eyed about their business when the sun is high in the heavens, a new Notre Dame would emerge.
We hope that our plan will get some attention in the Scholastic, and we will appreciate your courtesy and consideration very much.
Sincerely, . .
L. G. B.
VENTILATOR NOISE =
Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Sir:
During the ceremonies in Washington Hall today very few heard Father Carrico’s address because of the annoying clanging of ventilators in the rear of the building. One does not mind the racket while a comedy is being screened, but a speech of acceptance deserves more quiet. Something, it seems, should be done to remedy the nuisance.
.Sincerely,
N. K.
GULPING
Dear Editor:
Much has been written about the Dining Hall rush, nothing has been done about it. I think you’ll agree that 20 minutes is record time for gulping down a meal. Yet, apparently those responsible are not satisfied with this record. Breakfast the other morning was eaten in 15 minutes.
I am aware that one may remain at the table until he has finished his meal. I also know that the tables are cleared by the waiters before the signal for leaving the Dining Hall. If there is any possible remedy, I’m sure that its application would be appreciated by those interested in enjoying their meals and not in a two week’s stay at St. Joe’s.
J. A. B.
Symphony Orchestra Plans Concert For March 23
The Notre Dame Symphony orchestra under the direction of Professor Richard Seidel will present a semi-popular concert in Washington Hall on the evening of March 23.
Several new numbers as well as some which received acclaim in the past will be presented. John Sharpe, piano soloist of the orchestra, will present ' the G-minor Concerto by Mendelsohn. Sharpe played this composition last season with the orchestra.
Among the popular numbers to be played in the orchestra are “The Blue Danube Waltz,” by Johann Stauss, and “In a Persian Market," a descriptive number of Oriental background.
Marketing 13 Notebooks Ready
Dean McCarthy announced through an official notice that the note books for the first semester of Marketing 13, Marketing Management, can be secured by calling at the Dean’s office.
Twelve
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
By J. D. Porterfield
Speaking of philosophy — and who isn’t trying to take his mind off the depression these days—we walked into a room in Sorin Hall the other day and ran across two rabid exponents of rationalism, one of whom was Art Becvar. With that savoir-faire of the gentlemen of the press, we managed to wangle an invitation to see what might be called the most picturesque thesis on the campus, (if we bother you, McCabe, let us know) Art Becvar’s study on canvas, which is hanging in state in New Cleveland on the third floor of Sorin until such time as Art exchanges it for his B. F. A. in June. And it will be a fair exchange. The picture is good.
Covers, Covers and Covers
Every time we see in The Scho-lastic the phrase: “The So-and-so Magazine will make its appearance on the campus tomorrow” we know we are in line for another treat from the talented pen of Art Becvar. At one time and another and quite regularly, Art has drawn the cover and many of the embellishments of every magazine printed hereabouts. His most notable achievement, measured in praise by the student body, is his work on last year’s Dome. The pencil sketches in the opening chapter of the book would have done credit to the best of artists, not to mention the excellence of his layouts of title pages and such.
Nor need we stop the list with campus publications when adding up the phrases “Art work by Becvar.” Just as a few examples, he has illustrated the St. Mary’s College Catalogue and the review of the Columbia Club of Cleveland. And while we’re talking about the good work, the illustrations in this year’s Football Review, bear the stamp of genius, the same genius in fact.
Will Study Abroad
To save this from becoming an art world Who’s Who, we will mention only in passing that the name of Becvar has been printed in the corners of pictures in countless exhibitions throughout the country. Just recently, Art exhibited several of his works in the salon of Marshall Field & Co. in Chicago.
Admitting the truth of the saying,
“labor ipse voluptas” (dig, you freshmen), Art enjoys his work greatly. But out of hours he is a rabid sportsman. He plays golf, tennis, basket-
Art Becvar
Biggest thrill: 51 French breakfast. ball, or, in a word, as he says himself : “It’s good to like a lot of things.” Much research did not bring to light his golf scores, but he admitted he wasn’t afraid to drive off the first tee with a gallery watching him, so draw your own conclusions.
After receiving his degree this June, Art hopes to continue his studies in Europe. Nor will it be his first time across the pond. In ’he summer of ’31, Art traveled over all Europe and also studied water-colors in Venice for several months under an English artist. Not only did he acquire an art education, but he has also managed to become a linguist in a small way. His greatest thrill, he declares, is ordering breakfast over the telephone in a French hotel, and then getting the breakfast; and that he says, is not an experience but a career.
Since coming to Notre Dame from Lakewood, Ohio, his former home, Becvar has had exactly two dates (local). This constitutes a new record of some sort, and adds just another laurel to the crown. Artists are always eccentric, but not so dumb.
Art has roomed in Freshman, Sophomore, Howard, Walsh, Sorin, and Off-Campus. So, speaking as a man who’s been around, he claims that Sorin is still king.
And with Sorin still king we can can sum up Becvar’s character and quiet personality in a phrase: He is a gentleman and an artist. Vale.
FATHER M’VEIGH, PO., ’31, DIES IN HELENA
Succumbs Suddenly Monday; Studied Chemistry Here.
Word was received at Notre Dame last Monday of the sudden death of the Reverend Patrick McVeigh, Ph.D., ’31, in Helena, Montana.
Father McVeigh, who was the first graduate of Carroll College in Helena, received his Ph.D. degree in chemistry at Notre Dame in 1931. While here, Father McVeigh was prefect of the fourth floor in Howard Hall. He was teaching at Carroll College at the time of his death.
Father McVeigh’s last visit to Notre Dame was made last summer on the occasion of the funeral of the Right Reverend George Finnigan, C.S.C., D.D., Bishop of Helena.
The Scholastic, on behalf of the student body, expresses sympathy with Carroll College on the loss of such a valued member.
Father Miltner To Conduct Retreat at Cleveland, Ohio
The Reverend Charles C. Miltner, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will leave the University next Friday, March 3, to conduct a three day retreat at the Catholic Young Women’s Hall in Cleveland, Ohio.
The hall is in charge of the School Sisters of Notre Dame, many of whom have been students at the summer sessions here.
Father Miltner will return to the University Monday morning, March 6.
Student Religious Survey To Appear in Two Weeks
Father O’Hara’s Religious Survey of the students will be ready for distribution in about two weeks. The Survey is composed of answers to questionnaire sent out to the students during March of the last two years.
Every year since 1921 Father O’Hara has been sending out questionnaires to the alumni and the students. Next year the Religious Survey will contain replies received from the graduates.
February 24, 1933
Thirteen
DEPARTMENTAL FIGURES ISSUED BY FR. CARRICO
Nearly Half Are Registered In A. B. College.
Statistics released this week by the office of the Director of Studies disclose the following enrollment of students in the different departments of the University:
Fr. Soph. Jr. Sen. Sp. Total Arts & Letters..301	363	261	178	1	1104
Science ....... 87	53	39	47	-	226
Engineering __.120	107	83	77	-	387
Commerce ......222	195	166	130	10	723
730 718 549 432 11 2440 Grad. Students .	60
Law .......... 84	34	39	2	159
Total Enrollment ..................2659
The total enrollment in the first semester of this year was 2838 as compared with that of the second semester, 2659. The new ruling allowing students to begin their course in February added 58 new students to the total enrollment for the second semester.
Twenty-eight students finished and left school, their courses being completed. With the 151 students who did not enter their second semester of work, the total enrollment at the 1st of February was 2659.
Local Members of St. Vincent Society Visit Mishawaka
A group of Notre Dame students desiring to learn the work of the St. Vincent de Paul Society attended the St. Bavo’s conference meeting in Mishawaka last Friday night. The members and the director of the conference cordially welcomed the students and Reverend John C. Kelley, C.S.C., who accompanied them.
On Sunday, student-members of the Society took magazines and papers to Healthwin. These magazines had been collected at Notre Dame. The surplus will be distributed to any institutions in South Bend or vicinity that can use them.
Father Kelley asks the students to save the Catholic magazines and papers, and secular magazines after they are through with them. He will arrange for collection of the magazines in the various halls.
Fiction is history, human history, or it is nothing.—Joseph Conrad.
Our Price System Silly To Cynical Technocrats
By Walter Johnson
Technocracy and the technocrats indict capitalism on three charges: its technological unemployment, its price system, and its unequal distribution of wealth. Since all of these evils are inherent, they must, therefore, when forced to suggest remedies, advocate a desertion of capitalism and strike out into the uncertain, almost uneconomic territory of quasisocialism.
First, we are told, democracy must go; a dictatorship, absolute in power, will replace our haltering, fearful, orthodox representative legislatures. Incidentally, this dictatorial body, one man or a group, will come, not from the general public, not from the upper classes or the lower, but from the educated minority, the scientists of the country—in a word, the technocrats.
Just what type of economic society would result under this technocratic government we can’t tell; even its proponents themselves are rather indefinite.
Would Create Dictatorship
As far as the first charge goes, however, we can make a few fairly accurate predictions. A dictatorship, giving to a small number of men practically unlimited power, will permit and facilitate extensive changes. Technologically the country is equipped to produce for almost any desirable standard of living, and at a minimum of human labor. A four day week, with a four hour working day, their figures show, can easily meet production schedules; it would probably be the first innovation. Wage scales based on individual effort, would be sufficiently high to permit consumption of all that is produced (our present situation of want in the midst of wealth could thus be eliminated) ; duplication of capital goods, waste in industry, would both be eliminated ; s e m i-controlled production would follow. Our experience with the War Industries Board and its control of industry during the World War might give some idea of possible reforms.
Value is defined as the measure of the force of desire; we see it expressed when one commodity is used as a standard for the evaluation of
other commodities. A society using such a commodity system of value is said to be employing a price system. In the United States gold is our standard, all other goods being valued by their power to command gold in exchange.
Wealth: Money or Claims
Under a price system, Technocracy claims, wealth arises almost exclusively through the creation of debt claims against the physical goods of the country. Money, bonds, mortgages are all debt claims against capital gooods or gold. America now labors under a load of two hundred billions in debts, against a total national wealth of only three hundred and fifty billions. Under such a system, wealth is thought of in terms of money or other claims against property, not in terms of consumption of goods. To express it physically, real wealth is the use of a house, while capitalistic wealth might be a mortgage on it.
Other objections to the price system are numerous, but not as strong, currency values fluctuate, affecting debtors and creditors; purchasing power changes with the value of money, frequently working hardships on those with fixed incomes; increasing prices encourage production and lead to over production. Instability seems to be its essential evil.
Remedies Impractical
Finally, as a corollary, comes the technocratic objection to gross inequality in the distribution of wealth and income. Capitalism is built on a basis of individualism, self-interest and profit incentive; it has created millionaires and unskilled laborers; it has permitted ten per cent of our population to possess 90 per cent of the nation’s wealth.
Remedies for these last two indictments are thoroughly involved, and more or less impractical. The price system would, of course, be abolished, as would gold money and all outstanding debt claims, bonds, commercial paper, even government notes. Thus, all accumulated wealth would be dissipated, that is, •with the exception of consumption goods already (Continued on Page 31)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
WASHINGTON’S ADVICE APPLIES TODAYBOYLE
(Continued from Page 7)
to us as Washington was, are grasping what little revenue there is left because they do not fear a reckoning in “the undiscovered country from whose bourn no traveller returns.”
“Follow His Advice”
When one of our fathers gives from out of his experience some advice to us, we, who have seen so very little of life, are prone to scoff and say, “He doesn’t know what he is speaking about!” Ignoring his judicious counsel, we go our way until we have learned by experience that our father was right and we were wrong. This is the way in which I like to think of George Washington: as a patriarch who had gone through life as an individual and as the representative of a new country and then was advising his people. So thinking of him, we better appreciate and evaluate his last words of counsel.
The portion of his “Farewell Address” in which he leaves with us his thoughts on foreign intrigue is often misunderstood. Many believe that he instructed a closed door policy towards Europe. This is not exactly true, because he said “Harmony, and a liberal intercourse with all nations, are recommended by policy, humanity, and interest,” He went on to say “nothing is more essential than that permanent, inveterate antipathies against particular nations, and passionate attachments for others, should be excluded; and that in place of them, just and amicable feelings towards all should be cultivated.” This should have been our national policy in the past rather than the one in which we lapsed time after time from the proper course as laid down by our First President.
“Avoid Alliances”
“ ’Tis our true policy,” he cautioned “to steer clear of permanent alliances with any portion of the foreign world; . . . taking care always to keep ourselves, by suitable establishments, in a respectable defensive posture.”
Today, when there is much talk of peace, we should inquire whether Washington was wrong, whether mankind is any less warlike than it ever was. Isn’t human nature the same today as it was when Napoleon turned
SPEAKER
James J. Boyle
Evaluated Washington’s fareivell address at flag presentation Wednesday.
a continent into an armed camp? We must not forget that Bismarck once said, “When Prussia’s power is in question I know no law.” Mussolini upheld this same doctrine that “might is right” by saying, “Words are beautiful, but rifles, machine guns, ships, airplanes and cannons are better.” Human nature is the same now, not only as it was in Washington’s day, but when war was man’s chief occupation. Thus, his instruction is timely that “There can be no greater error than to expect or calculate upon real favours from nation to nation. It is an illusion, which experience must cure, which a just pride ought to discard.” Whenever we consider, contrary to his warning, reducing our defenses, we should remember that ambition and covetousness are failings of our human flesh; we shall have war and depredation so long as we strive with our neighbors for worldly goods.
Pacifists Wrong ■
Our pacifists, in dissent to Washington’s advice, wish to disarm this country in order to set a good example for the world. The suggested experiment is neither new or likely to be successful. In China, where the spirit of non-resistance to wrong became ingrained in the people, invading nations have killed thousands. With little patriotism and no nationalism, China has been and still is a prey to exploiters and imperialists.
(Continued on Page 31)
HNS FOR ’34 CLASS PICKED BY COMMITTEE
Top Price Remains at $15; To Have Cheaper Pins Also.
Members of the Junior Pin Committee have selected the pin to be worn by the Class of 1934. Unlike last year’s pin there will be no blue spinel. The regular black and gold plate with raised monogram will predominate.
The entire pin, consisting of badge and guard and linked with a fine mesh chain, may be had in either yellow or white gold.. The guard numerated with a “34” is set with 18 half pearls.
Orders will be taken after Wednesday by the president of the Junior Class, Joseph E. Condon, the chairman of the committee, Frank O’Hara, or the other members of the committee. They are: John Brennan, Hugh Devore, Cappy Smith, George Melin-kovitch, and Ray Troy. A five dollar deposit is required upon ordering, the remainder being payable upon delivery. The white gold pin will cost $15.50 white the yellow gold will cost $15.CO. The first delivery will be made shortly before the Easter recess.
WERNER’S SPEECH
(Continued from Page 7)
which are worth fighting for, made both monuments.
We are of the parentage of these dreams, this blood, these loyalties. It is with the hope that we are not and may not in the future be unworthy of them Reverend Father, that I, on behalf of the senior class of 1933, present to the University this flag of the United States in token of our hope. When, on Commencement Sunday, you have blessed this flag and, by the blessing of the Church, have indicated that union of our personal ideals of Catholic life with the ideals of our American life, we shall consider that the men of our class have taken their place with the legion of Notre Dame men of the past. We shall interpret our success in life in terms of the significance of this occasion—in terms, that is, of our fulfilment of the demands made upon us by a sturdy adherence to the visions of Washington and Sorin, by the grace of God and the motherhood of Our Lady.
February 24, 1933
Fifteen
PRESS CLUB ADDRESSED BY SOUTH BEND EDITOR
•Francis Ahearn Cites Personal Experience On Paper.
“Since the focal point of the reporter’s work is the city desk, the student journalist should have a knowledge of the city editor’s work and problems,” said Francis T. Ahearn, A.B., ’27, city editor and columnist of the South Bend Neivs-Times, in opening his lecture to the Press club Thursday, Feb. 23.
Duties of City Editor
To give his audience a clear, concrete view of the city editor’s duties, Mf. Ahearn outlined a typical day’s work on his own paper, impressing upon his hearers the fact that the main objective of the city editor is to get, then edit, the news.
A detailed resume of the day’s work on the city desk, from the reading of other newspapers for local leads and assignment of reporters to their stories, to the makeup of the assignment book and the handling of the work for the night reporters at the close of the editor’s day, was given in Mr. Ahearn’s outline.
“The city editor must know how to handle details and yet keep his eyes open for. the big facts,’’ explained the speaker, “and he must know his city as completely as possible, in all its many phases.”
“Read Much And Like It”
“The qualities a city editor expects in a reporter are alertness and willingness to work,” Mr. Ahearn said, regarding the reporter in his relation to the city desk.
“In addition,” he continued, “he must be even-minded when news breaks fast, and aloof from excitement, yet able to catch the mood, the tenor, the full meaning of the event.”
“My advice to the student journalist is this: read much, and like to read; try to get originality—but ‘take it easy’ on originaliity when first starting in a newspaper office, for the city editor almost without fail seems to detest attempts at ‘fine writing’ on the part of the new man,” Mr. Ahearn concluded.
It is only the ignorant who know the joy of making sensational discoveries.—F. W. Boreham.
Do Dirty Windows Spoil The Best of Prom Week-Ends? Hear Tom Sexton
Funny what a little thing like a class dance will do to a man’s living habits. This week one of Sorin Hall’s most immutable traditions was tossed ruthlessly to the winds when Tom Sexton, A.B., senior, crawled out onto the ledge of his third story window, balanced himself with a bar of American Family soap in one hand and an old shirt in another, and went to work rubbing an almost opaque pane of glass.
The job done, Sexton smiled on the crowd below, scampered in, and immediately started to tidy up the interior. No bridge game, no social call other than the most urgent is permitted within the now spick and span chamber until next week when the Prom and the long anticipated, much-planned-for visit are items of the past.
University Comptroller Dies in Tuscon, Arizona
The Scholastic last week inadvertently failed to mention the death of Mr. Clifford Collins, comptroller of the University, which took place in Tucson, Arizona, about two weeks ago.
Collins was comptroller here from March until the end of November, 1931. At that time he left Notre Dame because of ill health and went to Tucson. He was temporarily succeeded by Francis Lloyd, who is comptroller of the University at the present time.
Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, met the remains on their arrival in Chicago accompanied by his widow and relatives.
Burial took place at his former home in Belmont, Mass. The Scholastic regrets his all too short connection with the University.
Son Born to Rauchs
Professor Rufus Rauch, of the Department of English is the father of a baby boy. Professor and Mrs. Rauch, of South Bend, are the parents of two other children.
Imagination, and not invention, is the supreme master of art as of life. —Conrad.
NOTRE DANE DEBATERS MEET NORTHWESTERN
Teams Argue On Taxation; No Decision Made.
When four teams of three men each meet on the same day and in the same place to discuss the same question, that question is no longer a question in the minds of the audience. In other words, when both the affirmative and negative “B” teams of Northwestern and Notre Dame Universities debated yesterday afternoon and evening, Thursday, Feb. 23, they did what both Houses of Congress cannot do, namely; clarify the problem of taxation.
Both debates on the question, “Resolved: that at least 50 per cent of state and local revenues should be derived from sources other than tangible property,” were held in the auditorium of the Law Building. There was no decision on either debate.
N. D. Takes Negative Side
In the afternoon contest which began at 4 o’clock, Thomas O’Meara, John Heywood, and Roger Brennan argued for Notre Dame against George Dilly, Mortimer Marks, and Carson Easton of the visiting school. Taking the negative side of the proposition, the Notre Dame men pointed out the fallacies in the income and sales tax systems and defended the present general property tax on the basis of its inherently good qualities. The concensus of audience opinion gave the negative an edge on their opponents.
The evening debate, beginning at 7 o’clock, was carried on by Frank Cookson, Barclay Law and Douglas Edinger for Northwestern, and Rob-> ert Schmelze, Thomas Proctor and. ' Eugene Blish representing Notre Dame. Northwestern argued the negative and pointed out that the tangible property tax is adequate since it can be shifted to reduce the burden on the property owner, and by means of elaborate charts and figures that the special tax systems proposed by the affirmative lashed into a condemnation of the tangible property tax, . and presented a plan of special taxes to reduce the heavy burden on real estate. This debate was featured by quite a bit of humor and jovial sarcasm; in argumentation the negative was superior.
The Scholastic
Sixteen
Bengal—A Strange Land Full Of Strange People
By Edward J. O’Brien	-
“U.S. ISOLATION”TOPIC AT WRANGLER SESSION
Club Hears Logan Speak On American Sufficiency.
With The Scholastic Boxing Show scheduled to take place next Friday night for the benefit of Bengal, it does not seem inappropriate here to give a short sketch of the Holy Cross mission fields in that part of India. We have all heard of Bengal, and may have some vague idea of what goes on there, but there are many of us, who picture it, merely as an uncivilized area with savage inhabitants in some indefinite spot of the globe.
In Eastern India
Bengal is a province in the eastern part of India. It is in the delta region of the Ganges, a low country, oppressively hot in the dry season. There are numerous swamps. Even these dry up in the hot time of the year. From a period of parching dryness there is a quick change to a condition of most uncomfortable sogginesS, caused by the monsoon. The Putta, the Bramaputra, and the Bur-raganga, branches of the Ganges, overflow and flood the country. This flood is nature’s means of irrigation for the dried rice-fields of Bengal.
To us, the life of the missionary in Bengal would be nothing short of nightmarish. It seems to us to be a superhuman effort to tear oneself from family and friends in order to work among a strange people thousands of miles away. Yet the missionaries, priests, brothers, and nuns, fitted with a vocation for missionary work, relish the thought of giving up their lives to aid in the saving of a pagan race.
Snakes At Every Turn
There are countless dangers lurking in the way of the missionary who works in Bengal. As he performs his duties with his catechist, a native Christian who is thoroughly familiar with the native tongue and customs, he is in constant danger of falling prey to the malaria and the slow tortuous death which follows. The highly-spiced “curry,” which is the chief food in Bengal, is extremely hard for the missionary to digest, the process of becoming accustomed to it taking months and frequently resulting in his being forced to quit the mission fields because his stomach cannot digest it at all.	'
Gigantic, venomous snakes abound in Bengal. They are at all times a menace to the missionary who must become accustomed to expect them in the most unlikely places, finding them dangling from the rafters of his hut, or even causing pandemonium in his class rooms as shown in the following letter printed in the December issue of The Bengalese-. “Ever since his memorable conversation with the Mother of the race, the serpent has been known for wiliness,—hardly for scholarship. But in India, land of mysterious happenings, he has now ‘taken to lamin’.’—Our school is so arranged that only thin partitions about six feet high separates one classroom from another. During a History period last week my class was suddenly disturbed by noise and excitement in the adjoining class . . . What caused this strange situation? A snake! Yes, a real snake, six feet long, was seeking education. . . . The teacher rushed to Brother Andrew . . . (who) was soon on the scene and as his job is to use his stick on rebellious students, he immediately sent the ambitious snake into the dream that knows no awakening.” Thus an unperturbed Brother describes laughingly what would probably set some of us to shivering violently, to say the least. However, the snake problem is a bit more serious than is painted in the above description because of the fact that the people of Bengal believe in the transmigration of souls and consider any attempts to exterminate the reptiles as sacrilegious.
Bengalese Make Good Students
The Bengalese are not so uncultured or uncivilized a people as is usually supposed; nor is there a facial resemblance between them and the Negro as many people believe. They are intelligent, and Brother Anthony, C.S.C., who is now in the Community House, having been recalled from Bengal, says that the responsiveness of the people to instruction is so gratifying that the discomforts of life there are overshadowed by it. They make excellent students in the many elementary schools, high schools and several colleges which have been established there. The people are dusky (Continued on Page 32)
By Louis Hruby
“Just what has the United States gained in its attempt to mould the countries of the world into a universal democracy?” asked John Logan, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters and a member of the Wranglers, when he spoke before the society Tuesday evening in the Law Building. His speech was titled, “Isolated America.”
Envy Cause of Isolation
Logan pointed out in answering that, “our country has gained nothing, and has rather incurred the hatred, antipathy, and suspicion of all the countries of the world.”
More than that, he stated, “isolation, not the kind we welcomed and preserved before the Great War, as a Washingtonian axiom, but rather a type of isolation that seemed to come as an abhorrence, from peoples and countries who have become envious of our continued growth, has com: upon the United States.”
The statement immediately brought down flurries of dissension and assen-sion as well. The members, who agreed with Logan’s ideas, rushed to condemn other countries for taking such an attitude towards America, offering for their best arguments, the United States’ self-sufficiency, and independence from the rest of the world. It was claimed that the democracy that exists in other countries differs widely from that Americans call true democracy, and consequently, European governments cannot expect success as is enjoyed by our nation.
American Egotism
Those who were not able to agree with Logan’s comments said that, on the contrary, America must drop her high tariffs, get rid of that egotistic attitude, shar6 her resources to a better advantage, or take the brunt of other nation’s disgust in the form of retaliatory tariffs, scornful criticisms, and ever-increasing envy.
As Logan’s topic was one in which no concrete resolution regarding the society’s viewpoint could be satisfactorily expressed if a poll were to be taken, no vote was recorded. ■ '
February 24, 19 J J
Seventeen
BOXING SHOW TICKETS GO ON SALE TONIGHT
(Continued from Page 5)
Whence “Painted Post?”
—Indian Pole And Grave
The announcement last week that the tryouts in the boxing room would be privately staged was blatantly disregarded each night of the trials as students wedged themselves through the. doors, climbed the walls, and looked through windows from the out-’	side to see a series of exhibitions
which point to an evening of genuine and sensational boxing entertainment next Friday.
Griffith Makes Special Trip
As has been announced in The »	Scholastic, the position of referee of
the bouts will be held down by one of the most famous heavyweight fighters of the day, Gerald (Tuffy) Griffith who will drive here from Chicago a week from today for the expressed purpose of officiating at the •	Bengal battles. A list of additional
officials will be printed in the next issue of The Scholastic.
Red Cross Chairman Payne Apologizes to Bishops
John Barton Payne, chairman of the American Red Cross society has sent to all the Catholic Bishops of the United States, a letter of regret at the publication of a story in the January issue of the Junior Red Cross News.
The story, “A Blessing for Juanita” was about a little girl in Spain who asked of a priest a blessing for her sick donkey. The drawing represented the priest as giving the donkey what was described as “a barley wafer.”
Catholics in Somerville, Mass., first protested and the Public School Board banned the circulation of the issue. Similar protests were made in other parts of the country.
Mr. Payne in his letter disclaimed any intention of being offensive to Catholics and explained that in hurriedly getting the issue to press the illustration went direct from the engraver to the printer without passing through the hands of the editor.
The enjoyment of literature is a personal communion; it cannot be outwardly instilled. — Christopher Morley.
“Painted Post” is a place of about 2,500 souls situated about nine miles north of the Pennsylvania border, in ' the south-central portion of New York State. The name had its origin in the events which succeeded the Cherry Valley massacre late in the Revolutionary war. Brig. General Sullivan was sent with a strong force to punish the Indians and Tories who participated in this massacre. Sullivan’s force met the combined forces of the Indians and Tories at Newtown battlefield, near Elmira, N. Y. The opposition consisted of the entire fighting strength of the Six Nations which comprised the Iroquois and about 2C0 Tories. They were led by Johnson, “the Hairbuyer,” and Brandt, the half breed.
Sullivan Victorious
Despite their well prepared position, the Indians were badly defeated by the superior numbers of Sullivan. They retreated across the Chemung river and continued about 18 miles up this river valley until they came to the confluence of the Conhocton and Canisteo rivers which form the Chemung. By this time they had outdistanced the whites and they stopped to nurse their wounded and prepare to disperse to their various sectors.
This point had always been a meeting place for the Indians, as four miles further the Tioga river joined the Canisteo and thus formed an easy portage to the hunting grounds of northern Pennsylvania. It also was
George Washington On Religion and Morality:
“And let us with caution indulge the supposition that morality can be maintained without religion. It is substantially true that virtue or morality is a necessary spring of popular government. Who that is a sincere friend to it can look with indifference upon attempts to shake the foundation of the fabric.”
The largest sun spot on record, covering an average of 77,000 square miles each, have been photographed in the last few weeks at the astronomical observatory in Madrid.
the southern gateway to the Finger Lake region, the habitat of most of the Iroquois tribes. Even before the War it was a natural trading post as all these waters eventually flowed into the Susquehanna river and Chesapeake Bay.
Pole Marks Grave
It was here that Montour, chief of the Seneca Indians, died from wounds received in the above mentioned battle. To mark his grave the Indians erected a pole stained with fruits and berries. When trading was resumed after the War, the traders found the painted post still there. It became the habit of these traders to announce their destination as, “the painted post,” and it became common for them to say, “I’ll meet you at the “painted post,” much as Notre Dame students now say, “I’ll meet you at --------’s” Later on when a village sprung up on this spot it quite properly retained the name of “Painted Post.”
Today Painted Post’s chief industry is the manufacturing of air compressors; it boasts of having the largest air compressor plant in the world. The plant is owned by the Ingersoll-Rand Co. and normally employs about 2,000 men. The working force is largely drawn from the city of Corning, three miles distant.
Editor’s Note: The Scholastic will welcome further contributions on town names with a meaning.
Fifth Son is Born To Prof, and Mrs. Wm. Roemer
Congratulations are in order for Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Roemer to whom an eight pound baby boy was born last Monday. Mr. Roemer reported him to be a “big husky kiddo.”
The Roemers are the parents of four other sons. Mr.' Roemer is a professor in the Department of Philosophy at Notre Dame.
The Soviet Air League, an organization of more than 14,000,000 Russians, is sponsoring an expedition into the stratosphere in which it is hoped to attain an altitude of twelve miles.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
THE FATHER AND SON ACT.
A Lehigh student in financial pangs sent a telegram to his dad: “Lost coat on train please wire fifty.” Soon a reply came: “Dear Son: Lost shirt on market, please wire five.”
FRIGIDANCE!
Members of Antioch College are giving an “ice palace” dance. The decorations will be huge blocks of ice around the room.
ABSENT-MINDED STUDENT.
A senior at Georgia Tech took the same course twice in the same room. He passed both times under the same professor and never discovered the error, nor did the professor.
A NEW FOUR YEAR PLAN.
The University of Michigan boasts a Socialist Club, which runs a cooperative book shop, prints a monthly magazine, and has opened a restaurant where students can eat three meals a day for four dollars a week.
IN OTHER WORDS: BEAUTIFUL!
Two separate sets of specifications have been drawn up by the Secret Six, the group who will select the Prom queen at the University of Colorado. They follow:
General Specifications.
1.	The queen must be a regular student in the University.
2.	She must smoke mild inexpensive cigarettes.
3.	She must detest strong cigars and pipes.
4.	She must not chew tobacco in any form.
5.	She must abhor alcoholic beverages.
6.	She must be susceptible to attentions of men.
7.	She must be able to say “goodnight” graciously. •
Specific Specifications
1.	Moments of inertia, 324.2 inches.
2.	Power factor, 1.65.	.
3.	Kinetic Energy, 550 ergs.
4.	Potential Energy, 16 H.P.
5.	Minimum capacity, 1490.4 Stratfarads.
6.	Volume, 40003 c.c.
7.	Radius of Gyration, 14.2 inches.
COLLEGIATE HOSTELRIES!
A Psychology professor at Pittsburgh has suggested that admission be charged to class lectures, claiming that this would create a greater stimulus for the student to listen and observe.
HOW-KUM?
The dean of Lehigh University recently told the faculty and students of Brown University that “College loyalty and spirit are pure and unadulterated hokum.”
MENTAL THRIFT.
To urge on students a policy of mental thrift may seem amusing, especially to experienced teachers who are well aware that the average student is particularly careful about overworking.
But the kind of mental thrift we refer to involves the notion of time-saving and investment in the future.
One reason time is wasted in hours supposedly devoted to the acquisition of knowledge is the simple fact that the student does not envision the practical utility of each point of information he is momentarily concerned with. His interest is allowed to flag because he has consciously or otherwise adopted the attitude that he may never use such information again. Pure science or mere erudition appeals to few students.
A little imagination can be used in such cases to make study time more profitable. It is possible to imagine specific occasions when such information is being employed. This is equivalent to the creative spirit in general reading and in study. It is a habit of mental thrift.
Edmund Burke said that knowledge not reflected upon is like food undigested. The improper method of reading is that by which the printed page is absorbed as a mere series of phantasms on a passive mind. Intelligent reading only can be called study. In this sort of reading the intellect assimilates the thoughts expressed outside, and casting them in its own mold, refashions, re-expresses them as though created and possessed by that intellect alone. This is real digestion of thought. It is real mental thrift. ’
‘	—-Boston College Heights.
February 24, 19-3->
Nineteen
N. D. IN POLITICS
“What chance would we have in national politics? We’re all Catholics and pretty soon we’ll be Notre Dame graduates.” The question was shot from one corner of a crowded bed-room the other evening—and went unanswered.
And it is discouraging for any Catholic student interested in a political future to know that he has two strikes on him before he begins; and it is particularly paradoxical that in these days when some different sort of leadership is most in need, a talented Catholic must sit back in the back seat—with his religion.
Just why do Catholics face such an insufferable situation? What would prevent, let us say, a brilliant Catholic from becoming the President of the United States? In the first place, whether it is ill-founded or not, there is a prevalent notion running through the thinking younger generation that “To get somewhere” in politics a man must sacrifice principle after principle, must become so much a part of the machine that he loses almost all individuality, and that, in the beginning, he must subordinate himself to a group of obese, peanut-headed aidermen, committeemen, or what have you.
This sort of thing is repulsive enough, but the troubles of the Catholic, who has passed the preliminary stage, are just beginning. When he gets a chance for high office, that inexplicable, irrational nonsense begins: He won’t be free because the Pope won’t let him. The Church will run the country. Upkeep of the Vatican will be an item in the Federal budget, etc., until the average sane individual feels like tearing out his hair. Intelligent people place no credence in such blubbering, but the electorate as a whole is not intelligent.
What to do? If the problem is to be kept out of the pulpit and off the radio, then it logically falls to the Catholic press. Some educational campaign is absolutely necessary. A Catholic paper with the sole purpose of telling the country just
what Catholicism means and what it does not would be an incalculable step in the right direction.
V .
—AND WORTH IT
Campus rooms will be visited religiously the next few days by The Scholastic staff members selling tickets for next week’s Bengal Bouts. If anybody is wondering whether the show is worth twenty-five cents he might speak to the few who were lucky enough to see the elimination fights the last couple of nights. They will tell you that next Friday night’s card will be fresh blood to boxing at Notre Dame. So much talent has been in evidence that the task of separating the strong from the weak has been an almost impossible one.
We do not want to be. accused of the Golden Glove complex, but we say sincerely that unless the student body has become much more esthete over night and is no longer able to appreciate the fine old sport of flying leather, the tickets will sell themselves.
V
INFIRMARY LIFE
When we walked out of the infirmary last week after a few day’s illness we had some new ideas. It is no childish sentimentality to say that the nuns who are willing to work there twenty-four hours a day are performing a service which is unquestionably appreciated by those who have met up with it, but which is quite unknown to many on the campus.
Having watched the Sisters bandage ankles, 111b chests,' and heat up frozen ears for a seemingly interminable period, we remarked to one of them when we left that life in the building was not particularly restful. To which she replied: “But isn’t it everybody’s duty from the President of the United States down to be of some service? Otherwise what does life amount to?”
We now understand what keeps her and her cohorts going, but it was a bit startling to find such a complete philosophy so summarily expressed in an infirmary.
Twenty
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Irish Meet Spartans Tonight

Michigan State Brings Strong Five For Return Game With Cagers
ROCKNE NAMED LEADING SPORTS FIGURE BY A. P.
Keoganites Out After Seventh Straight Triumph; Second
Last Home Appearance.
Seeking their seventh consecutive triumph, the Irish basketball squad will clash with Michigan State’s strong quintet on the home floor tonight, in the second last home game on the Notre Dame card.
Coach Keogan’s five has advanced a long way from the early season form that was marked by faltering defensive work and an erratic offensive. Tonight’s game is expected to furnish a test for the permanency of that improvement.
Irish Won First Game
In the first game with the Spartan five, the Irish came home with a 3619 victory, achieved by the best playing they had shown up to that time. A furious second-half attack routed the Spartans after they had stayed within four points until the halfway mark.
The State team produced two of the finest individual players met by the Irish this year in that game. Captain McCaslin, sharp shooting forward, is the mainspring of the Spartan offense. He is at present leading the squad in scoring. In the first Notre Dame game he accounted for eleven points.
Have Outstanding Center
In center Van Fassen, the visitors have an exceptionally able tip-off man. He is second to McCaslin in scoring for the year, and is dangerous at all times on the court.
Kircher and Vanderost, guards, and Herrick and Patchett, at forwards, are others in the Michigan State squad that will bear watching in any game.
The Irish quintet will present its
full strength for the game. An unexpected amount of reserve strength has cropped up in the past few games with Newbold, O’Kane, and Fehlig
Coach George Keogan
Tonight can make it seven straight.
reaching a higher stage of effectiveness than at any previous time during the season.
This added strength has enabled Coach Keogan to employ his regulars more sparingly, resting them on long leads, and giving him, at the same time, an opportunity to school the tne new men to competitive conditions.
Moose Krause and Joe Voegele, now far ahead of their teammates in the matter of scoring, are expected to pace the Irish in basket making.
Voted Outstanding Leader Of Past Decade In Poll.
Popular acceptance of the late Knute K. Rockne as the outstanding sport leader of his decade was confirmed last week in a poll taken by the Associated Press in which Notre Dame’s great coach received 241 out of a possible 250 points to lead all others by a wide margin.
Fifty experienced sports writers participated in the balloting. Each writer named his first five choices as the outstanding sports leaders. A first place choice was scored as five points, second place, four points; and so on.
41 First Choices
Rockne was named as first choice by 41 of the 50, and the remaining nine men placed him second on their lists. The late Tex Rickard, boxing promoter, received 137 points for second place. Connie Mack, manager of the Philadelphia Athletics, was third on the list with 110.
Other- leaders from the collegiate football world who received votes were as follows: Howard Jones, 53 points; E. K. Hall (chairman of the rules committee), 17; A. A. Stagg, 11; Pop Warner, three; Wallace Wade, two; and Bob Zuppke, one.
Interhall Basketball Practice Schedule.
Monday, February 27
Corby	7:00 p. m.	Howard
Morrissey	8:00 p. m.	Walsh
Sorin	9:00 p. m.	Freshman
Wednesday, March 1
Brownson	7:00 p. m.	Badin
Lyons	8:00 p. m.	Carroll
Alumni	9:00 p. m.	Dillon
February 24, 1933
T wenty~one
DUNNIGAN IN SKATE MEET AT ST. LOUIS
Illini Track Team Wins 18th Victory Over Irish
To Represent Notre Dame At Indoor Championships.
Jimmy Dunnigan, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, left last evening for St. Louis where he will represent Notre Dame at the North
Jimmy Dunnigan
“You can dance anytime. . .”
American indoor speed skating championships to be held tomorrow and Sunday.
Dunnigan will race in the midwest intercollegiate series consisting of three events: 440 and 880- yards and one-mile. The dimunitive junior is the first Notre Dame speed skating representative ever to enter a national meet.
Prep School Titleholders
It is expected that the Notre Dame entry will meet several skaters who formerly opposed him in interscholastic and invitational races in the east where Dunnigan amassed a long line of victories.
In the winter of 1930, while a student at Fordham Prep, he won the intermediate open championship of New York state and the Joseph V. McKee trophy which accompanied the title. At that time, Dunnigan was skating in the colors of the Iceland Rink of New York City.
Other titles collected by the speedy Irishman during his final years in high school include the Middle Atlantic sprint championship, the senior interscholastic championship of New York at three-quarters of a mile, the Westchester open championship, and an exhibition race championship at the New York A. C.
(Continued on Page 32)
“A Long Time to Stay In Shape—21 Years,” Says Coach Nicholson
one hurdle and
FLEETING shadow of 1912 Olympic skill passed across the Notre Dame fieldhouse track Tuesday evening. It hovered there just long enough for John P. Nicholson, Irish track coach, tn ckar decide that he was
getting a little old.
Ired by the continual failure of one of his sophomore hurdlers to run an acceptable trial race, “Nick” flung out a challenge, “I could beat you myself I”
A pair of spiked shoes was offered and Nicholson prepared to make good. Athletes in towels, athletes in uniforms, athletes and civilians in street clothes, flocked up to the track side. (He was' intercollegiate champion in 1912.)
“Nick” went into the blocks—his
own invention by the way — like a veteran. (He ivon the American Olympic trials in 1912.)
“Nick” warmed up, sidestepping the first hurdle. The sophomore licked his lips. (He ran the fastest time in the Olympic heats in Stockholm.)
He warmed up again. The sophomore looked at the ground. The graying mentor took his final trial. He ticked the first hurdle and clutched for his ankle. (“Nick” fell flat in front of the royal box in the 1912 finals.)
"I’m through; you win. I’m getting old, and 21 years is a long time to stay in shape.”
Mass education in America, with its consequent handicaps for the exceptionally brilliant student, is tending to lower the standard of education in this country, in the opinion of four European 'educators who have written articles in the current issue of the Harvard Teachers* Record, quarterly publication of the Harvard School of Education.
BOWDREN WINS 440
Young, Murphy, And Relay Team Account for Other
Firsts; Records Broken.
By Edward Van Huisseling
Registering points in every event, a traditionally strong Illinois track team smothered the Blue and Gold invaders at Urbana last Saturday, 55% to 39%.
Two gym records were wiped out during the meet. Cook accounted for the first new mark w’hen he heaved the shot 47 feet, 5% inches. Freschi and Finkel of Notre Dame captured the two remaining places in this event. Adams outdistanced the ailing Gough in the broad jump. Fisher, who placed third for the Irish, scored his first point for the varsity. Adams’ best jump was 23 feet, 7% inches.
Murphy Wins Again
Vince Murphy chalked up his third victory in as many attempts with a winning height of 6 feet, 2 inches. The Irish relay team also kept its slate clean for the season with a win. The quartet, composed of Gilfoil, Bowdren, Gough, and MacBeth, was clocked at 3:30.1.
Irving Seely captured the pole vault, clearing the bar at 13 feet, 6 inches. Lennington, his team-mate, was second best. Through the failure of the officials to measure, Seely was deprived of a new gym record in the event.
Dean Woolsey of the Illini won high scoring honors with firsts in the 880 and one mile runs. Roberts and Troy followed him across the final stripe in the half mile jaunt, and Eddie King, running a heady race, finished a good second in the mile.
Young Wins Two Mile
Bowdren and Young registered the only other Irish firsts. Bowdren, a sophomore, won the quarter mile dash. It was his first win in varsity competition. Joe Young, who is looking better every time he runs the two mile grind, showed his heels to the field in 9:46.2.
Carroll and R. Seely rounded out (Continued on Page 24)
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
4
Keoganites Beat Western Reserve For 6th Straight
THREE TEAMS RETAIN
INTERHALL CAGE LEAD
WIN IN LAST MINUTES
Voegele Sinks Two Long Shots To Win Game; Krause Gets 13 Points to Lead Irish.
By John D. Carbine
Rushing onward to its sixth straight victory, Notre Dame’s basketball team, last Monday night, defeated Western Reserve at Cleveland by the score of. 40-35. The game was played as the second part of the annual eastern trip of the Keoganites to the Palestra of the University of Pennsylvania.
Long Ones Count
Once again it was one of those terrific last minute rallies which have characterized Notre Dame’s play all season that put the game on ice for the Irish. Notre Dame had piled up a 24 to 15 lead at the half only to see it fade away before the accurate shooting of Charlillo and Berwald until with but two minutes left to play, the score was tied at 34-all.
Notre Dame, however, having apparently won the game, was determined not to let it slip away. Joe Voegele intercepted a Reserve pass, and, from the center of the floor, heaved a beautiful long shot which split the twine and shoved the Irish into a 36 to 34 lead. An Irish tipoff play with Voegele again doing the scoring functioned perfectly to give the Irish a four point advantage.
Crowe Clinches Game
Charlillo, the star Reserve forward, tossed in a free throw to put the Red Cats back in the game, but Leo Crowe’^ settled things with a neat basket from the side to give the Irish a 40 to 35 victory.
The Keoganites had things all their own way in the first half. Reserve could formulate no plan to hold Big Ed Krause in check and the Irish? center had run up a total of 13 points before the half had ended. Johnny Baldwin with five field goals also added to the Irish total during this period. Notre Dame had a lead of 24 to 15 at the half.
But things, at the very outset of (Continued on Page 27)
INTERHALL BASKETBALL STANDING
I__________________________
Heavyweights
GROUP I.	W	L	Pct.
Lyons ............... 3	0	1.000
Morrissey .......... 3	0	1,000
Corby .............. 1	1	-500
Dillon ............. 1	1	.500
St. Edward’s .....-.	1	2	.333
Badin .............. 0	2	.000
Sorin .............. 0	3	.000
GROUP II.	W	L	Pct.
Off-Campus .........2 .	0	1.000
Carroll ..............2	1	.666
Freshman ........... 2	1	.666
Alumni .............. 1	1	.500
Brownson ........... 1	2	.333
Howard ............. 1	2	.333
Walsh .............. 0	2	.000
Lightweights
GROUP I.	W	L	Pct.
St. Edward’s ........ 3	0	.1.000
Corby ............... 2	0	1.000
Morrissey ........... 2	1	.666
Sorin .............. 1	2	.333
Lyons .............. 1	2	.333
Badin ................1	2	.333
Dillon ............. 0	2	.000
GROUP II.	W	L	Pct.
Carroll ............. 3	0 .	1.000
Howard..........'...2	1	.666
Freshman .............2	1	.666
Brownson ...........1	1	.500
Alumni ............. 0	1	.000
Off-Campus ......... 0	2	.000
Walsh .............. 0	2	.000
Ohio State Track Team To Be Housed on Campus
For the first time in several years, a visiting athletic team will be housed on the campus this week-end. The Ohio State track squad, which meets the Notre Dame thinlies here Saturday evening, will remain here until Sunday morning. Plans have been made to house the Buckeye athletes in Morrissey and Dillon halls.
Professor Edward M. L. Burchard of the University of Pittsburgh asserts that the growth of divorce is one reason for lawlessness in the United States. Separation of parents leaves the children to shift more or less for themselves, he says, and many of the children are drifting into lives of crime.
Lyons, Morrissey, Off-Campus, Heavyweights Unbeaten.
By Nick Connor
Lyons and Morrissey remain tied at the top of Group I, as a result of last Sunday’s games. Off-Campus is the only team in the second group of the heavy-weight division that has not been defeated this season. However, Off-Campus drew a bye in the games played last week.
The heavy-weight and the lightweight Lyons teams won their two encounters from the Corby quintets. The senior Morrissey team defeated the heavy St. Edward’s team with little difficulty, but the light-weight St. Ed’s team turned the tables on the Morrissey five and dropped them by two points. The two Corby teams won with ease from their senior opponents, Sorin.
Brownson Beats Alumni
The Brownson heavy-weight team surprised the fans by defeating the senior Alumni team. Up to game time Brownson had been in the cellar and Alumni had been in the attic, so to speak. The Brownson lights refused to accept the referee’s decision and walked off the floor. The game was declared no contest.
The two Freshman hall teams found little opposition in their opponents, Howard, as they won both games by big scores. Both of the Carroll teams upheld the honor of the Main Building by winning two games from Walsh.
The best game carded for next Sunday will be between the two teams housed under the golden Dome, Brownson and Carroll. The Morrissey and Corby game should give the afternoon crowds somewhat of a thrill as both are toward the top of the league.
Time Schedule Changed
There has been a change of schedule for the remainder of the tournament, the teams that have been playing in the afternoon in the second division will play the remainder of their games in the morning, and those teams under Group I jvill play in the afternoon.
Next Sunday’s schedule:
(Continued on Page 26) -
February 24, 1933
Twenty-three
IRISH CAfiERS SCORE
7TH WIN OVER PENN
Irish Meet Ohio State Thinlies Here Tomorrow
Voegele Leads Way to 36-24 Victory Over Quakers.
KELLAR LEADS STATE
By Howard Waldron
In a rough and ready basketball game last Saturday night at the Palestra in Philadelphia, the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame rolled up a score of thirty-six points to submerge the Quakers of Pennsylvania 36-24 and win their fifth straight basketball game.
The game, as stated above, was replete with rough play, and the officials were continually calling fouls. Many of these fouls did not meet with the approval of the seven thousand fans present, and they made known their feelings by booing and jeering the decisions.
Penn Crippled
Penn lost the services of their star guard, Vince Walters, and their ace center, Bob Freeman, early in the first half because of personal fouls. Ed Krause, Notre Dame’s great center, also left early for too many fouls. Thirty-five fouls in all were called; eighteen on Penn and seventeen on Notre Dame.
Ken Haskagen started at guard in place of Kellett, the regular man, and only three sport athlete in the university. Penn was also severely handicapped by the loss of their captain, star forward, and key-man, Lester Klempner. Klempner was on the injured list, and his place was filled by Henry Kozloff, husky all-around sophomore athlete.
Kozloff turned in a neat game, bagging three field goals and two out of four free throws. Bob Freeman, the cream of the Eastern center crop, never got a chance to show his worth. He was held to one free throw before being forced out early in the half. With Klempner and Kozloff both in the game, the contest'mght have been closer and the score lower.
“Moose” Opens Scoring
Bob Freeman fouled Ed Krause, and “Moose” made his free throw good to start the evening’s scoring. Freeman retaliated with a free toss. Shorty O’Donnell, slim sophomore forward, sank a foul shot to give Penn the lead. Johnny Jordan then
(Continued on Page 27)
TIP-OFFS
_________By Al McGufl_____
The Irish looked like the Four Horsemen on that road trip. Victories over Penn and Western Reserve can be appreciated by any team . . . especially by one that has already tasted defeat six times.
Penn’s great player, Freeman went into the same class with Cribbs of Pitt after his encounter with Krause and Voegele: a good player, but not quite good enough for those two.
The so-called subs found time for a little action in the Penn game. “Popeye” Keating thrilled the home folks with a basket.
The time has come when officials are calling fouls against excited and fault-finding coaches. It may cost the officials the chance to officiate in a few games, but it will be a great help in calming down the coaches and helping the game as a whole.
These same coaches are constantly reprimanding players who become excited in the tense moments of a game, but are used to jumping up themselves to protest a decision, to check and argue with the timers and scorers.
It can be rather funny to watch such a coach perform, but it is a bad feature for the players on a team.
More power to the officials!
Tom Conley, ’31, certainly did a nice job of scouting Penn. Thanks, Tom. How’s Marty ?
Cleveland again proved itself a real Notre Dame town. Too bad that the Irish had to be poor guests by beating Reserve.
Joe “Arms” Voegele came to the rescue in that game. With less than two minutes to play and the score tied at 34-all, Joe came through with a feat he had never before accomplished in college—Hit one from the center of the floor. It must have (Continued on Page 31)
Bennet and Wonsowitz Other Stars On Buckeye Squad; Threaten Records.
The final appearance of the Notre Dame track squad in an indoor dual meet will be made tomorrow’ evening. Ohio State, the last Big Ten opponent on the Irish schedule, will furnish the opposition. To date the record of the local team against Western Conference teams shows a victory over Purdue and a loss to Illinois.
Pole Vault At 7:30
The pole vault will start at 7:30 o’clock with the first track event slated to get under way 30 minutes later.
Unless the open date of March 4 can be filled, the thinlies will be idle until March 10, when the big classic, the Central Intercollegiate Conference meet, is to be held here.
The Buckeyes will bring what should prove to be the strongest team on the schedule for “Nick’s” men. Their troupe is exceedingly well balanced and headed by stars who are practically unbeatable. Coach Nicholson sees little, if any, chance of a Notre Dame victory.
The leading collegiate hurdler, Jack Kellar, is Ohio State’s biggest threat. He will perform in both the high and low hurdles; the latter race being added to the program because of the presence of such an outstanding performer in this event.
Wonsowitz A Cinch
It is the opinion of Coach Nicholson that the Buckeye dash sensation, Don Bennett, is equal if not superior to George Simpson, especially in the shorter races of 40, 60, and 75 yards.
Johnny Wonsowitz is a cinch to take first in the pole vault. His presence might bring about a new gym record if he is clicking in top form.
. The entire Irish crew is physically fit and awaiting the invasion of the State team with the hope that it can spring a few surprises and clinch a second victory from Big Ten opposition.
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
ILLINOIS TRACK MEET
(Continued from Page 21)
INTRODUCING -i- Ed Gough
the six firsts gathered by the home , team. Carroll copped the prize in the dash, with Portman and Gilfoil running second and third respectively. The Irish sprinters had quite a time at the starting post. Dilling was disqualified for three false starts and Noeckles was set back four feet for jumping the gun twice.
The decision in the hurdles was just one of those things that puts the judges of the finish in a peculiar spot. R. Seely was awarded the decision over the Irish hurdler, Jim Fagan, although the whole Notre Dame team was convinced that their man snapped the tape.
18th Win For Illini
Portman, Kennicott, and Christiansen formerly teammates in a northern Illinois high school, registered seven points between them. Portman ran second in the 75 yard dash while Kennicott and Christiansen finished second and third in the 440 yard dash.
Saturday’s meet brings the series total between the Irish and the Illini to 20 meetings, 18 of which were won by the Big Ten team. The local teams have not been able to conquer Illinois on its own ground, winning both of their victories on home soil.
The summaries:
75-YARD DASH—Won by Carroll (I) : Portman (I), second; Gilfoil (ND), third. Time. :08.
ONE MILE RUN—Won by Woolsey (I) : King (ND), second; Knight (I), third. Time, 4:25.6.
440-YARD DASH — Won by Bowdren (ND); Kennicott (I), second; Christiansen (I), third. Time, :51.9.
75-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by R. Seely (I) ; Fagan (ND), second; Ruhnow (I), third. Time, :09.9.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by Young (ND) ; Dufresne (I), second: West (I), third. Time, 9:46.2.
880-YARD RUN—Won by Woolsey (I) ; Roberts (ND), second; Troy (ND), third. Time, 2:00.2.
POLE VAULT—Won by I. Seely (I) ; Lennington (I), second; Schlansker (I) and Edwards (ND), tied for third. Height, 13ft. 6 in.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Murphy (ND) ; Osty (I), second; Adams (I), third. Height, 6ft 2 in.
SHOT PUT—Won by Cook (I) ; Finkel (ND), second; Freschi (ND), third. Distance, 47 ft 5% in.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Adams (I) ; Gough (ND), second; Fisher (ND), third. Distance, 23 ft 7% in. (New Illinois indoor record.)
ONE MILE RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (Gilfoil, Bowdren, Gough, and Mac Beth). Time, 3:30.1.
By John D. Carbine
Six years ago, an athlete from Cathedral Latin High of Cleveland tied the Ohio interscholastic record in the broad jump. After resting for a
few minutes, he deserted the turf for the cinders and tied the Ohio interscholastic record for the hundred yard dash. He had tied two records in one afternoon; but he had not broken one.
The “Breaks”
Two weeks ago, the same athlete, now wearing the Blue and Gold of Notre Dame, apparently broke the Notre Dame gymnasium record in the broad jump only to have the jump disallowed because the judges claimed that he had committed a foul. These tough breaks—for tough breaks they were—would have disheartened most men, but Eddie “Moose” Gough, the athlete in question, considers them merely as the breaks of the game.
Eddie, Coach Nicholson’s most versatile track man came to Notre Dame , four years ago and reported immediately for freshman track. He easily won his freshman numerals and, in his sophomore year, he made the varsity squad as a combination sprinter and broad jumper. He won his monogram in his sophomore year, gained
another in his junior year and will receive his third this year.
Not content with his track activities, Moose went in this fall for interhall football. He played left end on the Corby team, and according to all members of the Corby Sub Club, he was robbed of all interhall honors. Ed, it seems, set a new record in this league—he made two tackles in the same game.
“Old Faithful”
On Ed’s desk reposes a picture of Mary, “the most beautiful girl in Cleveland,” to whom he writes every day. Ed is faithful to Mary. He is, in fact, so faithful that he wishes to make an official announcement through this column. “I have never been to Saint Mary’s; I know no one over there; I have no desire to meet anyone from there. Mary, it seems, reads The Scholastic every week.
Just as Ed is versatile in his track activities, so he is versatile in his hobbies or as he, himself, calls them “his weaker moments.” About once a week, Ed will plant himself down on the floor of his den and play marbles. Sometimes he will play with his roommate, Ralph Furstoss; sometimes, if Ralph is busy, he will play alone — but under no circumstances will he forego this game of marbles.
Champ Ping-Ponger
It is rumored that it was chiefly through Ed’s efforts that ping-pong tables were recently placed in the Carroll “rec.” Moose plays a beautiful game of ping-pong, and is the alleged champion of Corby. Ping-pong and marbles ought to be sufficient diversion for any man, but when Ed told us of his third hobby, we classed him, without hesitation as “Notre Dame’s most versatile athlete.”
Every Saturday, Moose makes a weekly time schedule for himself. The schedule is complete in every detail. There is an hour set aside for washing before dinner, there is an hour set aside every Tuesday for the reading of the current issue of the Saturday Evening Post and there are two and a half hours set aside to see a movie every Wednesday night. ‘"Hie only thing wrong with the schedule,” says Ed, “is that I never follow it.”
Moose spends most of his summers
(Continued on Page 32)
February 24, 1933
Twenty-five
4
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
BEST OF LUCK
To Jimmy Dunnigan, skating tomorrow in St. Louis, we wish the best of possible luck.
The diminutive junior is, to our knowledge, the first official Notre Dame speed skating representative. His appearance in the midwest intercollegiate speed series marks the first step in a direction we’ve long wanted to see followed.
Previous to this, skating talent at Notre Dame has been on about the same plane as side doors on the residence halls—nice to have around, but never used. We hope that Dunnigan’s assignment will mark the opening of some sort of a winter sports program in these parts.
It would be too much to expect Jim to come home with a title, for it has been quite a while since he was in the shape that made him Intermediate Open Champion of New York state. However, he has demonstrated plenty of ability, and should be up with the leaders all the way.
PAYOFF
Purdue’s ‘Piggy” Lambert collected full payment last Saturday night at Columbus for the mistake of letting a game get the best of a coach. The bench always has been the best place for the non-playing contestants.
BIG TEN
A few weeks back we went on record as picking Ohio State for the Big Ten basketball championship. To date we’ve seen no reason to change that estimate of the situation.
The Buckeyes have come out on top of eight consecutive conference games without a setback. Colburn, Hosket, Mattison, and Hinchman have carried them through several tough games at home and abroad. They’ve had the breaks, admittedly. But don’t most champions get their share along the way?
Iowa has been the real surprise of the league. Swallowing the ineligibility of Blackmer and Break, two great eagers, with no more than a shake of the head, the Hawkeyes have battled along gamely, measuring some of the favorite quintets of the conference. Apparently Rollie
Williams has plenty on the ball as a basketball coach.
The Hawks didn’t lick Ohio State, which is another point in favor of the Buckeyes, but they did give them a battle. And they did topple Michigan out of the race.
JIM CORBETT
With the death of “Gentleman Jim'? Corbett at his New York home during the past week, America lost an outstanding sports figure and a fine Catholic gentleman.
Much has been written in praise of Corbett as the man who brought the boxing game from an outlawed rowdyism to a legitimate entertainment business. All of these eulogies are probably true.
Occasionally a figure crops up in some department of the sporting world, who by his essential fineness, and genuine merit of character, lifts the entire level of his sport. Such a man was Jim Corbett.
The former champion was not entirely unfamiliar at Notre Dame. Eleven years ago, back in 1922, he appeared here for a lecture to the student body on sport as he knew it. Few persons were better qualified to present such a talk on boxing. The sport has suffered a distinct loss :in his death.
DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY
The appointment of Albert G. Feeney, ex ’13, to the position of head of the division of Public Safety in Indiana was announced last week by Governor Paul V. McNutt.
Feeney, a football monogram winner at Notre Dame in 1911 and 1912, will have charge of the state police, the fire marshal’s department, the bureau of crime, and all boxing activity in the state.
An incident in the 1931 football campaign was enough to convince us of Feeney’s ability as a director of safety. In the Indiana game that fall, he saved Mike Koken from possible injury by throwing himself between Mike and a concrete curb around the running track. Result: a broken nose for Feeney.
Certainly he has practical knowledge of his duties.
Take
urri •
Lime
Out!
BETWEEN classes or late at night there’s nothing like a bowl of Kellogg’s Rice Krispies to pick you up.
They’re so crisp — actually crackle in milk or cream. And they satisfy hunger without taxing the system. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
Listen!—
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
IRISH BEAT PENN
(Continued from Page 23)
sank a field goal from the side and Notre Dame took a lead which they never relinquished.
The score was 7-2 in favor of Notre Dame after nine minutes of play and then the game began to get rough. Walters left for personals and Wes Tanseer, brother of Len, last year’s captain and former star football player, came in at guard. Notre Dame began to sink free throws and long shots to the dismay of the crowd, and forged ahead to lead by the wide margin of 24-11 at the half.
Penn came back strong in the second half but couldn’t match the lead and shooting of the Notre Dame men. The game ended with Notre Dame on the long end of a 36-24 score. Last year the score was 32-25.
Voegele Leads Irish
Joe Voegele, who has been playing mighty nice basketball of late, was the star for the Irish. He made eleven points and kept the Irish fighting during the whole game. Leo Crowe, who made three out of three foul tries, and Big Ed Krause were tied for second honors among Notre Dame players with seven points each.
This was the fifth defeat in the last six games for the Red and Blue, and made Notre Dame’s tenth win of the season and seventh straight over Penn in basketball since 1927. Notre Dame also retained her record of never losing to a Pennsylvania team in any sport.
The score:
Notre Dame (36)	FG
Voegele, If-c.........3
Alberts, If. ..........0
Keating, If ...........1
Jordan, rf ............2
O’Kane, rf ............0
Krause, c ............. 1
Crowe, 1g ............. 2
Fehlig Ig ............. o
Baldwin, rg ...........2
Newbold, rg ...........0
FT FTA PF Pts.
5 8 3 11 0 0 10
0	112
12	15
0	0	0	0
5	6	4	7
3	3	2	7
0	0	0	0
0	0	3	4
0	0	2	0
Totals ..............11	14	20	17	36
Pennsylvania (24) FG
O’Donnell, If ........3
Kozloff, rf .........  3
Brown, rf ............0
Freeman, c ...........0
Dobiskey, c ..........0
Hashagen. lg-c .......0
Kellett, 1g ..........o
McDonald. 1g .........1
Walters, rg ..........0
Tanseer, rg ..........0
FT FTA PF Pts. 3	8	0	9
2	4	2	8
0	0	0	0
13	4	1
0	2	0	0
2	3	3	2
12	11
0	0	12
0	0	4	0
113	1
Totals------------ 7 io 23	18
Referee—Frank Lane. Cincinnati.
24
. Umpire—Lou Sugarman, Philadelphia.
INTERHALL BASKETBALL
(Continued from Page 22)
Group 2: 8:30—Howard vs. Alumni; 9:30—Brownson vs. Carroll; 10:30 —Off-Campus vs. Walsh; Freshman, bye.
Group 2: 1:30—Lyons vs. Dillon; 2:30—Morrissey vs. Corby; 3:30— Badin vs. Sorin; St. Edward’s, bye.
HEAVYWEIGHTS
Lyons 22, Badin 14.
Baskets by Vairo, Fry, and Devine in the last quarter of the Badin-Lyons game gave the Lyons quintet a victory, which enabled them to retain their lead at the top of the league. Lyons won 22 to 14, although Badin led 14 to 10 at the end of the third quarter. Badin was also in the lead 7 to 4 at the half.
This was by far the most exciting of the m'oming games. For a while it appeared as though the powerful Lyons five would be toppled from their place at the top of the league. But the combination of Vairo and Fry gave Lyons the necessary points to retain their standing.
Devine opened the scoring for Lyons in the third quarter with a push shot from the foul circle. On the tip-off following Devine’s basket, Vairo dribbled through the entire Badin team for two points, thus tying the score. From this stage of the game to the finish. Lyons connected for points almost at will. They also held the junior hall scoreless in the last quarter.
Begley, Kelly, and Veneables were the outstanding players for the Badin team.
Morrissey 20, Et. Edward’s 14.
Ray Morrissy’s well-coached Morrissey five appear to be the class of Group 1 as a result of their games played so far this season. They won their third straight game last Sunday by dropping the scrappy St. Edward’s team, 20 to 14.
Lesko, Felts, and Cushing secured \/' points enough to give Morrissey an ’ 11 to 4 lead at the end of the first half. Morrissey held possession of the ball during the greater part of the game .and their passing was a feature of the game.
Arnheimer started the scoring of the game with a long shot but Felts made a sensational one-hand shot from the corner of the floor thus
(Continued on Page 30)
FINAL INTERHALL MEET TO BE HELD WEDNESDAY
Freshman Hall Favorite After Winning First Preliminary.
By Nick Connor
The final inter-hall track meet will be held Wednesday March 1.
Contestants for the meet were determined this week by two preliminary meets, each involving seven hall teams.
Freshman Hall scored 34 2-3 points to win the first preliminary held Monday, with Brownson finishing second, and Alumni third.
St. Edward’s won the second meet Wednesday night. Badin finished sec-and and Lyons third.
The complete list of men qualifying for the finals is as follows:
60-YARD DASH: Aug (F), Gorman (F), Ashden (L), Behrman (Corby), Pons (L) Sullivan (F).
880-YARD DASH: Else (Budin), McDevitt (M), Hockner (D), Landmesser (St. E.), Page (F), B ri er (Br.), Erwin (Car.).
MILE RUN: Else (Badin), Lee (St. E.). Cissell (St. E.), Wentworth (Br.) Rich (F), Kerns (AI.
440-YARD DASH: Rowan (M), Kolka (D), Higgins (D), Siddal (Br.), Wenz (A), R. Burns (F).
THREE-QUARTER MILE RELAY: Alumni (Wenz, Murphy, Pahlman, Herold, Bloemsna. Kliner); Freshman (Aug, Frawley, Ireland, Safia, Gorman, Byrne) : St. Edward’s (Darcy, Phillipp. Martin, Barnett, Jassoy,; Davis) Dillon (Buckley, Waldron, Costa, Crittenden, Dillon, Kolka).
SHOT PUT: Huisking (A), Kavlier (F), Posius (F), Kennedy (Badin), Vairo (L), Martin (St. E ).
POLE VAULT: Coogan (St. E.), Higgins (D), Conbn (D), Mahoney (Br.), Lee (A), Goldsmith (F).
BROAD JUMP: Frawley (F), Bowman (Car.), Crawford (A), Martin (St. E.), Fillipitch (St. E-), Albosta (St. E.).
HIGH JUMP: Saffa (F), Toribbio (Corby), Frawley (F), Flatley (L), Albosta (St. E.), Hunt (D).
FINALISTS NAMED
(Continued from Page 10)
a ticket to the final contest. Brias, Foley, Shovan, Helmer, Hufhagel, Holman, Powers, Bauman, Keboe, McConnell, Ackerman, Farrell, Sheehan, Shizska, Hart, W. Ackerman, Knapp-man, Batrow, Tomlinson, and Pocius. These tickets can be obtained at Room 268, Alumni Hall.
Love was the creator of all the great .thoughts, and great deeds of men in all ages.—Lafcadio Hearn. .
February 2i, 1933
Twenty-seven
S.A.C. TO SPONSOR SWIN MEET EARLY IN MARCH
Events Announced; to be Held At South Bend Natatorium.
Plans for a swimming meet to be held at the South Bend Natatorium on March 8th or 15th were announced this week by the S. A. C. George Shields, junior representative on the council, will be in charge of the event.
A program of eight events is planned for the meet. Suitable medals will be awarded to the first and second place winners in each of the individual races and to each member of the first place relay teams. No entrance fee will be charged.
Events Listed
The complete list of events includes: 40-yard free style, 100-yard free style, 60-yard breast stroke, 40-yard back stroke, 120-yard three-man medley relay (back stroke, breast stroke, free style), 160-yard four-man free style relay, low board fancy diving, and high board fancy diving.
In each of the diving events four compulsory dives will be required, including the front jack-knife, back jack-knife, running jack-knife, and swan dive. In addition to these dives, each competitor will be permitted three optional ones.
All entries for the meet should be turned in to George Shields, Alumni hall.
Managers’ Cage Team Whips Sorin; Challenges Everybody
In a game played last week-end, the Managers’ club easily defeated a quintet from Sorin Hall, 27 to 14. The managers displayed a fast break that baffled the Sorin team a number of times, .thus retaining possession of the ball throughout.the greater part of the game. Hayes gave an exhibition of brilliant floor work for the Sorin outfit while the playing of Quinn, Oakes and Keating featured for the managers.
The Managers’ club challenges any inter-hall quintet in the light weight division to a game. Any team desir-
Notre Dame made but four in 11 attempts.
The score:
Notre Dame (40)	FG	FT FTA PF Pts.
Voegele, f 			 4	2	4	2	10
Jordan, f 			2	112	5
Krause, c 			 6	1	4	4	13
Baldwin, s 			0	0	4	10
Crowe, g 			 1	0	13	2
Newbold, g 			 0	0	110
Keating, c 			- 0	0	0	0	0
Totals 			18	4	11	16	40
Western Reserve	(35) FG	FT FTA PF Pts.
Charlillo, f 					 5	3	5	0	13
Schneerer, f			 0	0	2	0	0
Berwald, c 				 3	12	2	7
Pontius, g 			 0	3	5	3	3
Finnigan, g 		2	3	4	17
Burke, f 		2	113	5
Bricker, f 			 0	0	0	0	0
Totals 			12	11	19	9	35
ing games see Don W. Martin, Room 125 Sorin Hall.
Managers Club (27) F.G.
Tobin, f ................. 2
Giruzzi, f .............. 1
Stillwagon,- e ...........2
Quinn, g ................ 1
Kelly, g ................ 1
Keating, g ______.'.......2
Gillispie, f ............ 1
Oakes, g ................ 2
Totals ...............12
Sorin Half (14) F.G.
Hoffman, f ............ 1
Robinson, f........... 1
Hayes, c .............. 2
Curren, g ............ 1
Burke, g .............. 1
Cavender, g ............ 0	.
Totals ................ 6
F.T. .	P.F.
0	0
1	1
0	1
1	0
0	0
1	0
0	0
0	1
3	3
F.T.	P.F.
1	0
0	0
0	1
1	1
0	1
0	0
2	3
Bulletin Board Notice
Student Cruises
Magazine subscription scholarship workers and crew managers write immediately for very best student scholarship offers of leading publishers. Can be worked there now. Permanent positions if experienced, also summer crews for U. S. and foreign territory. For full details write — THE COLLEGIATE SCHOLARSHIP INSTITUTE— 219 Republic Building, Miami, Fla.
IRISH BEAT RESERVE (Continued from Page 22)
the second half, began to click for Reserve. Tony Charlillo, the Red Cat’s star forward, was popping in baskets from all corners of the court; Berwald, Reserve’s huge center, with his accurate passing and shooting aided Charlillo in the Red Cat drive and with two minutes to play, a basket by Eddie Finnigan tied the score at 34 all. Reserve outscored the Irish 19 to 10 in the first 18 minutes of the second half.
The ability of Reserve to convert their free throws into points while the Irish were missing their charity shots kept the Red Cats within striking distance of the Keoganites during most of the game. Reserve made 11 free, throws in 19 attempts while
LEMONTREES
Optometrists
222% S. Michigan Street	102 W. Washington Street
GLASSES . . .
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
□
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately.
At the will of the magician she leaps twenty feet into the air to reach her trapeze. She uses no ropes, no ladder I A phenomenal leap for a woman ,,, or a man!
ZWAT TO Z£ .FoOZEZ)
A	*	>	•	*

a
EXPLANATION: '
Josie didn’t jump ... she was sprung! The twenty-foot leap is not dependent on Josie’s ability, but on a powerful spring mechanism hidden beneath the stage which propels the artist upward through the air. The force is so violent that the lady wears a light steel jacket which protects her from injury as she starts her astonishing leap.
...it's more rem to .Know
Magic has its place...but not in cigarette advertising.
Consider the illusion that there is a mysterious way to give cigarettes a superior “flavor.”
use
explanation: Cigarette flavor can be controlled by adding artificial flavorings. By blending. And by the quality of tobaccos used.
Cheap, raw tobaccos can be “built
up” or “fortified” by the lavish of artificial flavorings.
MPT FRESH IN THE WELDED HUMIDOR PACK
Copyright, 1933, B. J. Ueynolds Tobacco Company
Such magic, however, seldom holds the audience. Your taste finally tells you the truth.
The cigarette flavor that never stales, never varies, never loses its fresh ap
peal, comes from mild, ripe, fragrant, more expensive tobaccos...blended to bring out the full, round flavor of each type of leaf. It’s the quality of the tobacco that counts!
It is a fact, well known by leaf tobacco experts, that Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular brand.
Because Camel actually pays millions more every year for choice tobaccos, you find in Camels an appealing mild* ness, a better flavor.
And Camels taste cooler because the welded Humidor Pack of three-ply, moisture-proof cellophane keeps them fresh,
JVO TR/CKS
.. JUST COSTZ/ER
TOBACCOS
IN A MATCHLESS BLEND
The Scholastic
Thirty
INTERHALL BASKETBALL
(Continued from Page 26)
tying the score. Morrissey ran the score to 9 to 2 before the St. Ed’s quintet was again fortunate enough to connect for a basket. Lesko sank a long shot as the half came to a close.
The third quarter was rather listless as neither team showed any great offensive ability, but the last quarter’s passing by Morrissey blasted St. Ed’s chances for victory. Al -D’Amora, Arnheimer, and Matthews -tried hard to break up Morrissey’s passes but their efforts proved futile.
-y' Corby 30, Sorin 6.
Corby found little opposition in their senior class opponents, Sorin, as they submerged them under a barrage of baskets 30 to 6. Steve Banas of football fame was the high point man of the game with ten points, enough to beat Sorin by four points. Corby commanded a big lead at the half as they led 13 to 4.
Mata and Mahoney with eight points apiece followed on the heels of Banas for individual honors. Thune, lanky pivot man of the Corby team, made three points in less than a minute in the last quarter of the game.
Brownson 19, Alumni 17.
Coach Joe Novak’s charges turned the tables on Alumni and proved to the other teams in Group 2 that they can win a game even if it is by only two points. As a result of victory Brownson leaves the cellar and advances a couple of places with first place as their goal.
Hawley, the elongated- center of the Brownson team, was the individual star of the encounter as his passing and one-hand shots proved Brownson’s margin of victory. Dick Schmidt and Pete Paul with six and five points apiece were the other stars of Brownson’s offensive attack.
Reese, Pahlman, and Pogue, all with four points apiece, played the best offensively- and defensively for the junior hall.
Freshman 23, Howard 9.
The speedy Freshman Hall team again came to the front by virtue of their 23 to 9 victory over Howard. Bill .Golden, coach of the freshman team, has come upon a winning combination in Page and Pitney, forwards. Krause, center, and Murphy
and Mazzotti, guards. This combination worked very well together and all found little difficulty in getting points from any part, of the floor. Freshman led at the half 13 to 4.
Page, Murphy, and Krause were the chief point collectors for Freshman, while Tobin, Whalen, and Pask-wietz stood out for the Howard Hall team.
Carroll 15, Walsh 11.
Although the score was tied 6 to 6 at the end of the first half. Carroll ' was able to forge ahead and win by the slim margin of four points over Walsh. Carroll, however, was without the services of their star center, Yerley, who was vacationing at home for the week-end.
Silvano and Dinero were the high scorers for Carroll. Eckert, Smith, and Schnabel were the leading scorers for Walsh.
LIGHTWEIGHTS
St. Edward’s 15, Morrissey 13.
Collins paved the way for victory over Morrissey with his ten points. Most of Collins’ shots were taken from far out on the hardwood, where he registered four field goals out of his first five shots at the basket. Baskets by Collings and Freeman-gave St. Edward’s an 8 to 6 advantage at the half way mark.
Montogemery’s passing and guarding featured play of the second half for St. Ed’s as did the floor work of Morrissey’s two guards. Baker and Johns, who garnered eight points between themselves.
Corby. 21, Sorin 1.
A foul shot by Cavender in the closing minutes of play saved Sorin from being whitewashed, the final score being 21 to 1. Corby led the Sorinites 14 to 0 at- the close of the first half.
Baskerville, Montogemery, and Lu-sardi led the Corby lights in scoring, while Cavender with his foul shot was the chief intruder on Corby’s basket. However, the playing of Quinn and Robinson of Sorin deserves some /credit as they broke up many of the Corby under-basket shots.
Lyons 20, Badin 18.
The Lyons lightweights followed the example of their husky colleagues by defeating Badin in the little .gym, 20 to 18. The Lyons team also led
at the half by the slim margin of two points, 13 to 11. Yeager and Buschio -were mainly responsible for most of the sophomore hall team’s points, as for the St. Ed’s lightweight team they collected fifteen points between them. Bachley and Pontick were the - c high point men for the Badin team with ten points.
This game .was the most exciting of all of the lightweight games played last Sunday as the lead see-sawed back and forth throughout the four quarters of play.
Freshman 38, Howard 10.
Joe Nigro, freshman forward, se- * ~ cured enough points during the course of the game to defeat the Howard team single-handed. He had fifteen ( points. Freshman hall was lenr,’’n" 14 to 0 with but a minute to go toward the end of the first half when Gilger of Howard fired a shot from the center circle for two points, endin the half with Freshman, leading 14 to 2.	<
Nigro, Reagen, and Lange ran wild during .the second half for the freshmen quintet and they dropped the leather through the hoop from all parts of the floor. Mullens and Es- — posito were best for the losing team.
Carroll 29, Walsh 17.
The. playing of Sherry, Tobin, and -Clark won the game for Carroll as they remained on the top of the lightweight league by dropping Walsh in a rather one-sided game. This was < the third straight victory for the Car-rollites.
Walsh was outplayed throughout the entire game; their last quarter rally was halted by the final blast of the referee’s whistle. Boeplug, Bean, and Murphy led the last quarter at- -tack of the Walsh team.
Alumni 11, Brownson 8.
(No Contest)
During' the latter part of the third quarter the Brownson lights failed to accept a decision of one of the referees and walked off the floor. Referee Kennedy, however, declared the game no contest, so it will have to be played off in the near future. Alumni was leading the Brownson team at the time, 11 to 8. They also led 5 to 2, at the half.
Deeley for Brownson, and Mc-Nichols for Alumni were outstanding for their teams white- the playing lasted.	iy } f
J > .	- /	.
February 24, 1933
Thirty-one
TECHNOCRACY
(Continued from Page 13)
possessed. All, capitalist and labor, would be reduced to a fairly equal status.
From that; point, income and wages would be, not money, but in the form of claims on the total amount of energy produced in the country, in “erg certificates,” unit measurements of energy, based on two variables, total consumptive good production and individual energy expended.
Moreover, since these electric units would possess value for only a limited time (Scott suggests the period taken for a complete cycle of operating'and production procedures), thus forcing their use in consumption, the accumulation of capitalistic, debt claim wealth would be impossible.
To call this presentation clear would be an inexcusable exaggeration—but then, incoherence seems to be an essential of any discussion of the subject. No claim is made for particular completeness or clarity. It may, however, give a few vague ideas of the possibilities and proposals of Technocracy.
Though it spoke only after ten years of research. Technocracy spoke too soon; it presented reforms for which the country is not ready. To all appearances the technocrats have retired, ruined by their friends and their popularity. Perhaps when they appear again, and they will, their message will be more pertinent, and more acceptable.
TIP-OFFS
(Continued from Page 23)
been a great inspiration for he made another a few seconds later.
Captain Baldwin and Crowe had a field day with the freak Reserve defense.
The Irish defense wasn’t unike a sieve for Charillo of Reserve. He picked up five and three for 13 points.
“Moose” got only 13 "points against Finnegan, a five foot, eight inch guard at Reserve. Not too many for “Moose.”
All entries for the University Handball Singles Tournament must be in to Al McGuff, 246 Badin, by March 7th. Entries must be made in person.-	■
BOYLE’S SPEECH
(Continued from Page 14)
As Washington wrote the “Farewell Address” he thought of Citizen Edmond Genet, the French Minister to the United States. He recalled how this likable fellow landed at Charleston and immediately began to gather supplies with which to fight England. Genet, who cared nothing for this country’s neutrality, traveled to the capitol, being dined and toasted by the people, delivering speeches in a tone of authority and patronage. Then he arrived at Philadelphia and stood before the government. The cold greeting and stern face of the President told Genet that he had made a mistake, that he could not jest with America’s neutrality. Washington at that moment gave the United States dignity. Genet was forgotten and this country maintained her neutrality.
Writes “Farewell Address”
As our First President composed his final address he thought of the Whiskey Rebellion and how he had sent 15,000 soldiers into Western Pennsylvania to put down this insurrection. He rememebered how he had been denounced and accused of favoring England because he advocated Jay’s treaty. He recalled that the House of Representatives, only a few months before, had refused to follow the custome of adjourning for half an hour to pay him its respects. With all of these wounds within his soul, he wrote that “Farewell Address.”
When literary elegances are dead, when our cure-alls are gathering dust, when diplomats have gone into oblivion, the cautioning advice of President Washington will remain luminously distinct for the guidance of his nation. He was a father teaching his sons.
Band and Glee Club Records Are Selling Rapidly
Recordings made by the University Band and Glee club have been selling rapidly according to Professor Joseph Casasanta.
One side of the discs has been left blank for the recording of any message, speech, song, solo, or skit, as desired by the customer. The price of the records is seventy-five cents.
FINALS IN HANDBALL DOUBLES MEET REACHED
Kozak And Palmisani; First to Reach Final Bracket.
By AI McGuff
Kozak and Palmisani reached the finals in the University Handball Doubles when they defeated Emmer-ling and Morrissey in one of the finest contests played in the gym courts this year.
The first game saw the score tied seven times and the lead change just as often. Neither team held more than a two point lead until the final serve when Kozak ran from 17-all to game.
Palmisani’s work in the short court brought his team victory in the second game 21-14.
Standings
In the upper bracket Young and O’Keefe are anxiously waiting the results of the Bowes and Mahoney vs Dwyer and Daigneault match. In the event that Young and O’Keefe reach the finals to play Kozak and Palmisani a great match should result.
The favorites of the Tournament, Oitzenger and Levin fell by the side when they played the finalist, 21-16; 21-16. Giorgio and Messina took it on the chin from the same team.
Young and O’Keefe beat' Jordan and Krause and went on to defeat Lukats and Banas.
Word will be posted on the Varsity Bulletin when the Championship -match will be played.
All entries for the Singles will have to be made to Al McGuff, 246 Badin, on or before March 7. If you have handed in your name before do so again as there will be instructions for every entry this time.
POPE’S GIFT DESTROYED
‘ (Continued from Page IB)
the banks of the Potomac. After mutilating it they took it out and threw it into the river. Fragments found on the bank were afterwards sold as souvenirs.
A half-hearted investigation proved abortive. The watchman was dismissed as having been in collusion with the perpetrators. There is no record that any apology was offered, to the Papal Government although our government had then an accredited minister to the Papal States.
Thirty-two^
The Scholastic
After College WHAT?
Kenneth Reid, managing editor of the architectural publication, "Pencil Points,” writes: "The successful architect needs not only an instinctive feeling for design and a technical skill in construction, but also a complete cultural background. Architecture requires long training, intensive concentration, a keen mind.”
IN ARCHITECTURE, certainly, brains rate too per cent. "... intensive concentration, a keen mind.” That’s why in this business, as in college, a pipe is the favorite smoke. Get out your pipe now, light up, and through the curling blue puffs of Edgeworth,* let your mind drift down the road to thoseyears after graduation.
If you’renot already an Edgeworth smoker, there’s new smoking satis* faction waiting for you. Edgeworth’s blend of fine old hurleys is distinctive, different. You’ll know—after the first puff. Want to try it before you buy? Write for free sample packet. Larus& Bro.Co., 105 S. zzdSt., RichmondjVa.
* A recent investigation showed Edge worth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All 15* pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.'
On Down The Line L—Fred MacBeth==si
OTTO KEMMERICH of BERLIN, GERMANY, outlasted a sea lion by four hours in a swimming endurance test in that city in 1928 . . . the sea lion collapsed after 42 consecutive hours . . . although JACK QUINN, pitcher for the BROOKLYN DODGERS, was on the mound 42 times in 1932, he didn’t hurl a complete game during the season . . . twenty-eight Kentucky derby winners have been favorites . . . MRS. HELEN WHLS MOODY has never lost a set in the final round at the WIMBLEDON tournament.
At NEWMARKET (Eng.) four horses ran a dead heat . .. there was a field of five (Oct. 1885) ... it takes about two-fifths of a second for a ball thrown by a pitcher to reach the plate .. . JOCKEY BONAVENTURE recently rode a winner-a-race for a perfect day at the NICE (France) steeplechase opening ... it was the first time a jockey in FRANCE had turned in a clean slate for the day*, ... a band of full-blooded INDIAN HOCKEY PLAYERS from CANADA and the UNITED STATES will tour EUROPEAN HOCKEY centers next winter.
JOHN SHIBE, PHILADELPHIA baseball magnate, expects to have a boat ready for the HARMSWORTH TROPHY race at DETROIT next August... the first HARMSWORTH race, in 1903, was won at a speed of 18 knots an hour .. . CY YOUNG, in 1904, pitched a perfect game of baseball . . . pitching for the BOSTON RED SOX, he shut out the ATHLETICS 3-0 ... no hits, no runs, and no one reached first base . . . the largest gate receipts for a sporting event was at the DEMPSEY-TUNNEY fight at CHICAGO . . . 104,943 persons paid $2,658,660 to witness the match.
R. P. WILLIAMS, now of SPRING-FIELD, O., once circled the bases (120 yards) in 124-5_the C. V. WHITNEY, E. R. BRADLEY and WILLIAM WOODWARD stables were the only units to beat the $200-000 mark last year . .. GUY BUSH, pitcher for the CHICAGO CUBS, operates two gasoline filling stations of his own during the winter . . . the WANER BROTHERS, PAUL and LLOYD, PITTSBURGH PIRATE OUTFIELDERS, are unaware of the depression .,. . both received salary
raises for the 1933 season ... FIDEL LA BARBA, former flyweight champion, has definitely retired from the ring ... he will enroll for the spring term in journalism at STANFORD.
DUNNIGAN IN SKATE MEET
(Continued from Page 21)
In winning the Westchester open, Dunnigan took first the 220 and 440-races, and second in the 880. In all his races, he has excelled at the shorter races.
Lack of practice facilities at Notre Dame during the past few years has caused Dunnigan to give up much of his activity on the ice, but with the practice obtained during the past week, he should be able to give an adequate account of himself in the three events.
In order to accept the chance to race tomorrow, Dunnigan was forced to forego the Junior class Prom tonight.
STRANGE LAND OF BENGAL
(Continued from Page 16)
in color but their features are not at all negroid.
The work of the Holy Cross Mission Society in Bengal is quite extensive and the cost of maintenance is great. The Society has many elementary and high schools for both boys and girls. There are about eighty missionaries in Bengal including priests, brothers, and nuns. The funds from the Boxing Show and from the Freshman operetta. “T h e Vagabonds,” will be greatly appreciated by the men and women who have given up their lives in a strange land to teach the doctrines of Christ to a strange people.
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 24)
in summer school. Two years ago, however, he managed to break away and take a job selling mutual tickets at the Thistledown Race Track outside of Cleveland. One day he sold a -man a ticket other than the one he had asked for. While Ed was debating with himself what to do in a case like this, the gentleman to whom he had sold the ticket returned. Moose started to apologize and explain; the gentleman stopped him and handed him half his winnings. The wrong ticket had been the right ticket.
And now for the tensest moment. Ed’s came in the Purdue meet two weeks ago when “I thought I broke the record but the guy hollered foul.”
In Which an Ancient
Predjudice Is Exposed
Many, many years ago colleges began publishing papers. To cover the cost of these publications they decided to enlist the help of storekeepers thereabouts. In true char* itable fashion these storekeepers consented to help by paying for space containing various announcements pertaining to their business. “Donations to a good cause” they called it, and so a stigma on college publication advertising got its start.
•
But the real status of the college publication has changed. A glance through this magazine will show that some of the most successful names in business believe this stigma no longer exists. They appreciate the actual advertising “pull” of a magazine contacting EVERY student in a university of over three thousand.
•
It is to those who still consider us a “worthy cause” that this message is directed. We ask that you throw away your old prejudices and investigate our claims with an open mind. Call us at 3-1121 and a courteous representative
■ will call and give you details. And when you decide to take space in the SCHOLASTIC, debit “Advertising” and not “Charity.”
The advertising manager
SCHOLASTIC
The Board of Publications
Administration Building Notre Dame, -	-	- Indiana
1k ciqardki/iat^
•© 1933. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
rd never thought much about what’s inside a Chesterfield cigarette. But I have just been reading something that made me think, about it.
Just think of this, some of the tobacco in Chesterfield—the Turkish—comes from 4000 miles away! And before it is shipped every single leaf is packed by hand.
Of course I don’t know much about making . cigarettes, but I do know this—that Chesterfields are milder and have a very pleasing aroma and taste.- They satisfy—and that’s what counts!
Chesterfield