Che ■
Dotre Dame Scholastic
•DlSCC-QVASI-SemPCR- VICTVRWS* -VIVG^VASI- CRAS-MORITVRVS-
Vol. XLIV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, December 3, 1910.
No. 12.
A Toast.
^H! great are these days with the Gold and Blue flaunting
On high, o’er the campus of fair Notre Dame;
When her sons to N. D. and her honor devoted
Defy our opponents to tarnish her fame.
For throughout all the West we have one of the best
Of teams that upholds any college or school.
And why be depressed o’er the game we were beaten!
Our “off day” is seldom, our triumphs not few.
Then here’s a full bumber to quaff as our greeting
To the varsity squad of the gold and the blue.
P. P. F.
The Annual “New Rules.”
EDWIN J. LYNCH.
(A ssistant Coach.')
N a few weeks the Football Rules Committee will meet to change the rules governing that sport. This is an annual occurrence. Every fall, at the close of the football season, there is published a
list of killed and injured at football; and immediately thereafter there is a clamor for a reform in the game, culminating in a meeting of the committee above mentioned. These gentlemen meet with the avowed intention of legislating the element of risk out of football. Sometimes they succeed in minimizing the chances for accident and sometimes they do not. They attain success only at those times when they turn out an entirely new and incomprehensible set of rules. This can be illustrated by the result of the upheaval in 1903 when the change was made from the old to the
new game. No one, not even the members of the committee themselves, could coherently interpret the rules laid down for that year. Coaches were afraid to instruct a team along certain lines, because they were not able to say with any degree of certainty what would be the ruling of the officials on the new points of the game. They could not fully appreciate what would be allowed or what would be disallowed under the new rules. During the seasons of-1904 and 1905 there were very few serious mishaps charged up against football. After the rules had been tried out for a season or two, however,. we find a highly interesting system of plays and defenses developed throughout the country. As each succeeding season passed we found the rules less difficult to understand and the possibilities for new and surprising plays more easily grasped by the coaches. As soon as the possi-* . bilities of this new set of rules came to be recognized by the coaches, and different systems of play to be perfected as a result of this recognition, there was an attendant increase in the list of dead and injured.	•
The truth of this statement can be realized by looking back over the changes effected by this committee. In the meeting of 1903 above referred to, owing to the weight of public opinion, there was a radical change made in the nature of the game. Followers of the sport did not recognize their beloved game in the new rules. The idea of playing a football game under the restrictions therein set forth was scoffed at; but as the seasons rolled by and the new game became more familiar to the coaches and players the list of fatalities increased each year. It was soon evident that more changes should be made if the game was to continue to be in favor with the public. Accordingly a meeting was held last fall and the game changed in many ways. Yet when the list of fatalities was published
178
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
this year we were appalled to see that it totalled thirteen dead and fifty-six injured. The reason why the list this year did not decrease correspondingly with that of 1904 was that the changes made in the rules last fall were not so radical as those made in 1903. Followers of the game could easily discern the flimsy disguise afforded it by the new rules. The rules were easily understood, and besides those in charge of teams were furnished with official interpretations placed on the different rules by the committee. There was no such need for regeneration here as existed in 1904. All that was necessary was to apply the limitations set forth by the committee to the existing rules and to proceed with the game as of old. Add to this the fact that some of the changes aided rather than hindered the chances of-injury, and we have the cause of the comparatively high rate of mortality this season.
Chief among the changes that tended to aid rather than hinder the chances of injur}’’ is the one forbidding the flying tackle. It is a curious fact and one worthy of note that there was small risk of injury in the flying tackle. I think that every man who has ever played football will bear me out in this: that the harder he went for a man, the less pain he suffered from the impact. It was not the man who “dove” that suffered the broken collar-bone or the wrenched shoulder, but the man who “ backed up ” the line of scrimmage and met the offense as it came through without having the chance to put much force in his attempt. I have not the statistics to bear me out in my contention that this rule ■would aid the chance of injury, because I believe that the rule was generally disregarded this season. The only time the flying tackle is necessary is when the man carrying the ball is in a broken field with only one or two men between himself and the opponents’ goal line. Now, whenever this condition existed last season the man playing back would generally ignore the rule and suffer the five-yard penalty attached to its violation for the sake of securing his goal line from the danger of being crossed. This rule was entirely ineffectual and should be repealed.
Another change that is said by some to have increased the danger of injury is the rule dividing the game into quarters. Those who maintain this proposition claim that the three-minute interval between the first and second, and third and fourth periods, when the teams
are not allowed to leave the field and no representative of either team is allowed on the field of play, conduces to pneumonia, or at least to a stiffening of the muscles, rendering the player more liable to injur}7- at the resumption of play. This, however, is a debatable question. Even under the old rules there' were times when play was stopped for nearly the length of the intermission provided for under the new rules and sometimes for a longer period. Whenever time is taken out, whether for an injured player or for other causes, the team asking for the time has at least two minutes before play can be resumed. To my knowledge there has never been a complaint made that the time thus taken out produced fatal results. Of course. if a player imagines that sitting down on the cold, damp ground while he is in a heated condition constitutes a rest, he is bound to be disagreeably surprised sooner or later by rheumatic pains and attendant suffering. The men are generally instructed, however, to keep on their feet and moving whenever time is taken out, and if this advice is followed during the three-minute intermission provided for by the above rule no disastrous results are likely to follow. On the whole, I think the rule is a good one and should be retained.
Another rule that has proved its worth and should be retained is the one providing that a player who has been removed for any cause except disqualification or suspension may be returned to the game once at the beginning of any subsequent period. Before this rule was in effect coaches were prone to keep a good man in the game long after he had become exhausted, taking him out only when he was unable to stand. This revision of the rules allows a man being taken out when he first shows signs of weakening. After a short rest he can be returned to the game with his efficiency increased.
Doubtless the rule that has been placed in the code against crawling will be permanent. Crawling is a term which embraces any forward motion of the ball in the hands of a player of the side having possession of it after it has been declared dead by the referee. An attempt to do this before the rule was put in force was often made the excuse for piling on by the opponents.
The legislation concerning the forward pass introduces some of the most radical changes made last year. In the' attempt to eliminate all danger and still preserve the distinctive
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
features of this play the committee went too far. The danger that attended the forward pass last year was that the defense concentrated its efforts on “spilling” either the passer or the man eligible to receive the ball. They paid no attention to. the ball itself, indeed they were forbidden to touch it until after it had been touched by one of the passer’s own side. . In the attempt to cure these abuses the committee established two safety zones; and apparently to make the legislation uniform, and not too difficult to be understood, made the same rules applicable to both kicks and passes as regards these zones. There was an imaginary line five yards back of the line of scrimmage and another twenty yards ahead of it. Within the twentyyard zone every man had the benefit of King’s X. He could not be interfered with by an opponent until certain formalities had been complied with. Where the committee erred was in applying this legislation to kicks and in requiring that the man executing a forward pass be five yards back of the line of scrimmage. When the committee allows a forward pass from anywhere behind the line of scrimmage and re-enacts the old rules in regard to kicks so as to allow of the short, quick, on-side kicks of old, we shall see a much more interesting game.
The efforts of the rules committee are not all aimed at eliminating the risk of injur}'- from the game. It attempts to' make the game more interesting to th? spectator and to eradicate all unnecessary roughness on the part of the contestants. In its efforts to make the game more interesting to and more easily understood by the spectators, it has been rewarded in no small degree; but in its attempts to legislate against roughness it has not been so successful. The effect of the legislation regarding the forward pass has been to facilitate the commission of one of the most aggravating fouls expressly forbidden under the rules. I refer to holding. In their zeal to enforce the newer phases of the game, the officials have given most of their attention to the fouls likely to be committed elsewhere and very little attention to use of hands by the offensive players on the line of scrimmage. As a result the men on the line have formed the habit of holding their opponents during important crises. As was remarked before, there is nothing more aggravating and more productive of bad feeling than this practice. It will continue, however, unless the number of officials be increased, which would be an ab
179
surdity, or the safety zones be done away with.
The rule which^allows the player who first receives the ball when it is snapped back to carry it across the line of scrimmage is a good one, although not strictly a.new rule. Such a rule was in effect many years ago. This rule with the possibilities existing under the open style of game should be productive of many surprising plays when its practicability is recognized. The rule against pushing or pulling.the man with the ball is one that has been needed for some time. It will undoubtedly be retained with a few minor changes.
I am afraid that I have drifted a bit from what I started out to say. I started out to tell about the meeting of the rules committee which is sure to be called within a short time to. consider changes demanded by an “outraged” public. They will meet with the avowed intention of legislating all danger to life and limb out of football. But they will not succeed; that is they will not meet -with lasting success. Their efforts will be as fruitful as are the efforts of prohibition to prohibit. They are legislating against Nature’s laws. What has been said of aviation can be said of football: there are certain risks attendant upon it; and anyone going in for the sport goes in with a full knowledge . of these risks and should bear the consequences of his act. This looks like a brutal doctrine; but the American football game is hard, rough, dangerous. It will stand brutal statement: If changed, it must be changed radically, which means the abolition of the present game. .
The Season and the Men.
ARTHUR HUGHES, ’ll.
{Athletic Editor, Scholastic).
The football season for the year 1910 was not as propitious as was the season of 1909. Last year Notre Dame closed the season Champions of the West. This year she failed in this respect. There were six games played. Out of this number were four victories, one tie game and one defeat. The defeat was suffered at the-hands of the Michigan Aggies. Marquette played us to a 5—5 tie on Thanksgiving day and we vanquished Olivet, Buchtell, Rose Poly and Ohio Northern. Not a great
i So
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
amount of honor was won through our victories, for the teams defeated were vastly our inferiors in every way as the large scores indicate. In the Michigan Aggies4 game at Lansing the team for some reason failed to play up to its standard, and as a result the M. A. C. men played havoc with every department of the Notre Dame representation. Michigan’s cancellation of the Notre Dame game made it impossible for the team to show its strength and ability when playing in its usual form, for there is no doubt whatever but our men would have put forth a far better struggle than they did the week previous at Lansing. The men felt the sting which was administered by the Aggies, and they put in the following week working like demons in order to show their real strength at Ann Arbor. The game with Marquette brought out the ability and power of the team, for in that game every man in the line-up gave an exhibition which astonished the local fans and spectators at Milwaukee.
Last year the material for a championship team was a great deal more in evidence than was the case this season. While the men got out and fought hard for positions there were not the number of heavy, experienced men in the squad; and it is this that makes teams which get into the first page with their accomplishments. In addition to this, the absence of Billy Ryan and Don Hamilton proved a big factor in weakening the team. Had not Ryan’s bad knee and Hamilton’s being declared ineligible kept these men out of the game there might have been a different story to relate after the Michigan Aggies’ contest. With the end came the close of the football careers of six men on the team: Joe Collins, Ralph Dimmick, George Philbrook, Lee Matthews, Luke Kelley, and John Duffy. The first five of these men were players on last year’s team, and they have bade farewell to a branch of athletic sports in which they stood among the best.
Ralph Dimmick (Captain, Tackle).
Ralph played throughout the season the same sure dependable game. The number of tackles in the country who can use their hands in offense in the manner of this giant player are few indeed. He was a sure man for a gain when given the ball, and his line plunges and tackle-around plays have brought him the reputation of being one of the greatest tackles in the collegiate world of sport.
Joseph Collins (End).
Throughout the season a most aggressive and consistent player, Joe played his last game of football at Marquette in a blaze of glory. The Notre Dame men who accompanied the team, and the Milwaukee scribes as well, give the palm to the brilliant work of Notre Dame’s greatest end in recent years. A fast man and a sure tackler, he was always found down the field ready for the opposition on punts. Joe has played three years for Notre Dame and his work during that time has always been bf the same high standard.'
Lee Matthews (Quarterback, Halfback).
“Mattie” started the season at quarter and played a most consistent game, directing the team with unusual skill,- but later was moved to the halfback position that the team might be better balanced. He is at all times a fast man, a good ground gainer, possessing good judgment and proved a sure tackler. He has played three years on the team.
George Philbrook (Tackle).
44Phil” has always proved the best of ground gainers. This year in addition to his great plunging ability he developed unusual speed for a man of his build. He was handicapped in the ’ latter part of the season with an injured ankle, but he continued in the games until the season’s close. He has played three years on the team.
Luke Kelly (Guard).
Luke Kelly brightened the prospects of Notre Dame’s team by returning to school on the day of the first game. He played a stellar brand of football during the season, being aggressive and usually the first man to break through the opposing line. The touchdown made in the Marquette game was made possible by his breaking through the line and tackling Eisen so hard that the Wisconsin man fumbled the ball. He was in the game every minute.
Arthur Clippinger (Halfback, Fullback).
“Clip” made his debut this year as a varsity player at Notre Dame, and while playing a good game during the season he broke forth as a star in the Marquette contest. There was gameness in every inch of him in this game, and his terrific plunging tore many holes in the opposing line-up. He has yet two years to play, and he will be a most important member of next year’s team.	„
s I 4
|
t:
€ 1
00 H
VARSITY SQUAD, 1910
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Top Row—Morgan, Smith, Lynch (Asst. Cotich), L. Ryan, Jones, Madden, Crowley, Glynn, Hamilton. Second Row—J. Duffy, Feeney, Figcl McHugh, R. Duffy, Williams, Dunphy, McGinnis, Diebold. Third Row—Rockne, Clmnin, Matthews, Dimmick (Capt.), Philbrook, Kelly, Clippinger. Fourth Row—Longman (Coach), Martin, Oaas, Bergman, Fitzgerald, Stansfield, McGraw,	•


182
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Charles Dorias (Quarterback).
Dorias got his first chance in the Buchtell game, and from the minute he entered the contest he showed his worth. In playing his first year on the team he made a most favorable impression, and he has proved a worthy successor to "Don” Hamilton. “Dor}'” has a cool head and is a* determined player at all times. His work in running the team was almost faultless, and he is the equal of any man playing football when it comes to returning punts.
John Stansfield (Guard, Fullback).
Stansfield started the season at guard, but was later shifted to fullback where he showed to very good advantage. He is . a hard, determined player at all times, and his line plunging in the Ohio Northern contest was the best of the year. He has two years to play.
Torgus Oaas (Guard, Tackle).
Oaas is not the sort of player that gets the grandstand wrought up, for he is not of the showy sort. He enters the game with all the fight and fire of his great predecessor, Howard Edwards, last year’s captain, and his playing was very similar to that of Edwards. He has two more years to play.
Thomas Foley (Center).
Tom played his first year for Notre Dame this fall and proved a strong center. He played a steady, consistent game in ever}’- contest, and his breaking through the line in the Mar- , quette game brought him much praise. His handling of the ball was excellent. He has two more years to play.
Charles Crowley.
"Chuck” is a player that a football man would appreciate greater than the fan on the sidelines. He was a wizard when it came to the inside game, and he was continually on the watch for every turn of the contest. His work at end was steady and consistent.
William Martin (End).
Martin broke into the game late in the season and proved a good man in carrying the ball in the “ends around” play. Bill is a fast man and his work in getting down under punts made him a valuable player. He will be one of the mainstays of next year’s team.
Chester McGrath (Fullback). -
For a man of his size "Mac” is a wonder.
He plays a hard game and showed his greatest ability in running interference.' He seldom failed to put his man out of the play in this work. He was also a good man on defense.
LEE Ryan (Right Halfback).
Lee broke into the game at Notre Dame this season and proved to be the best man on the team in running with the ball in an open field. He played a heady game and picked holes in the line of the opposition with the precision of a veteran. He seldom failed to gain.
Walter Clinnin (Left Halfback).
"Clin” in playing his first year on the team proved a fast man. He was a good ground gainer and a most reliable man on defense. An- injury which he suffered to his knee in the latter part of the season prevented him from getting into the Marquette game.
Alfred Bergman (Right Halfback).
For his size "Bergie” proved a wonder. He is a splendid runner in an open field. The manner in which he shook loose his tacklers brought him much praise. He is fast and has the best of judgment and will develop into a player of the big-league class.
Duffy, Williams, Diebold, McGinnis and Smith are men who proved a reliable group of substitutes.	.
.	Coach Frank Longman.
Frank Longman has already left the battle front and returned to his home in Ann Arbor. While the 1910 season ‘was not so brilliant as that of 1909, yet it was a
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
183
season brilliant enough to satisfy every follower of the gold and blue. The defeat by the Aggies and the cancellation of the Michigan game were two hard set-backs, but “Shorty” and the team proved they could come back at Milwaukee, when the husky Marquettes were kept around their goal line for three-quarters of the game.	’	.
Assistant Coach Lynch.
“Cop” played center last year. This year he helped in the work of coaching and proved a valuable assistant to the head coach. Lynch understands football as well as he plays it, and that’s no faint praise.
James Hope (Manager).
“Jimmie” had an ugly schedule to handle at the beginning of the season, but he worked in his quiet way and did the very best that could be done under the circumstances. Jimmie
finishes in law this year. .	-
Varsity Verse.
Famous Events in History: The Defeat of the Invincible Armada.
We got some football team: I say— _ May bee you theenk we can not play! We beat jus’ all the teams roun’ here; ' That mek for us one champion year. We beat them all! How—all, I say? . Yes! All but one:—the umpire play, An’ mek twelve men to play agains’ In that game. He mek great offense.
We been all South American Excep’ some seven Mexican Who play with-us. Been Rubio An’ Palomar,—Canario!
He play some class; he use the bean— An’ Alvarez, an’ big Clarin. -He got ’em all back’ off the cards;
He kick that ball five hundred yards. ■
We mek a great big champion play	-
With Sorin Hall, Thanksgiving Day.
Oh, such a game! We fight like mad; You think that score he make me sad? We don’ know what we’re goin’ to do With jus’ five minutes lef’: tie score; We hav’ to play that game some more.
Some Sorin fellow mek a crack For goal; he kick from way off back. That ball she sure goin’ mek that goal; She go so swift an’ straight an’ all; But Rubio jump forty feet Right up an’ stop her, oh, so neat! But umpire say the .flyin’ tack’ No good, an’ mek him bring her back ■ ;Gh my! Quizd fines.
'	O. H
,	FULL OF' IT.	’
A certain guard Could tackle hard, But when he met Miss Phoebe Centre, He was half floored When she imploied, He’d take a quarter back he lent her.
R. F. D.
--------«»•*■------
All-Hall Selection.
RALPH C. DIMMICK, ’ll.
(Captain of Varsity.)
First Team.
Center—Heyl (Corby).
Guards—Mortz (Corby), Hicks (Walsh). ' Tackles—O’Rourke (Brown.), Gushurst (Corby) ' Ends—Campbell (Sorin), Sommers (Corby). ' Halfbacks—Fish (Sorin), Howard (St. Joseph). Qullback—K. Jones (Corby). -Fuarter—Mehlem (Corby).
184
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Second Team.
Center—DeLandero (Sorin).
Guards—R. Jones (Corby), Rubio (Sorin). Tackles—Yund (Corby), McSweeney (St. Joseph) Ends—Corcoran • (St. J.), Newning (Walsh). Quarter—Hug (Walsh).
Halfbacks—Larkin (Walsh), D. Kelly (Brown.) Fullback—O’Neill (Brownson).
In the selection of the All-Hall Football Team the writer does not lay claim to infallibility, and accordingly has secured the help of the various hall coaches in making up the roll of honor. The system followed in making the selection has been as follows: each coach picked an all-star team and eliminated in his selection all men from his own squad. The players then receiving the highest number of votes were placed on the all-hall eleven..
On the first team it is seen that Corby leads with six men, while Sorin has two, and St. Joseph, Walsh and Brownson each have one. The fact that Corby won the championship naturally places her men in the lead. There may have been stars that failed to come to light because of the -poor showing made by their teams in the interhall race, for however brilliant a man’s playing may be, it is necessary-, before its effectiveness is fully'' appreciated, that his team-mates lend an equal effort to make his work effective. No man on the first eleven received less than three votes out of a possible four, which made the matter of final selection a purely mathematical problem. In making a selection of this kind there is always more or less dissatisfaction, but it is hoped that the plan followed this year will at least seem fair, if not infallible.
With the new rules in effect the selection of the men has been difficult, for not only had the individuals to be watched, but their adaptability to the rules and their gradual improvement as the season progressed had to be considered. Agressiveness, spirit, head work and sportsmanship have been the predominating factors in the decisions of the hall coaches.
Tackles.
Never before have tackles found their positions so difficult to. play as this season. With most of the attacks directed between tackle and end, the men have found their tasks strictly defensive, and they have seldom been called on to carry the ball.
O’Rourke of Brownson and Gushurst of
Corby have been chosen as all-hall tackles. To O’Rourke more then to any other man on the Brownson team does coach Oaas owe the success of his famous tackle-shift ^formations. Heavy and shifty, O’Rourke possessed an unusual amount of speed for a man of his size, while his lightness on his feet enabled him to perform the deceptive tricks usually to be found in the playing of an end.
Gushurst stands in a strange light, that of playing better in a new position than in the one he was regularly called on to fill. Throughout the season Gushurst was trained for the line, but when the critical time came he was called on to take a berth in the backfield. His wonderful defensive work stands as a landmark in Corby’s triumphant march. His work on offense, in which he handled the ball well, and his great speed often enabled him to make gains where a lighter man would have been tlirown for a loss. He was not spectacular, but won his positions through hard, consistent work, and by proving himself a careful student of the game.
Guards.
Two guards of varsity calibre were seen in the interhall games this season in Hicks of Walsh and Mortz of Corby.
Captain Mortz led his' team through one of the most successful seasons ever enjoyed by a Corby eleven. His untiring efforts and persevering methods stamp him as one of Corby’s greatest football captains. He was a power both on offense and defense. His forte was breaking through the opponents’ line and stopping their plays before they were fairly started. He is also chosen captain.
In Hicks Walsh has a man of whom she may well feel proud. His ability in defensive work was never shown to greater advantage than in the Corby-Walsh game, when he worked so well the Corby backs could not gain an inch through his position. He was little used on the offensive, save in opening holes for his backs, but on these occasions he always made a good place through which they might go for a gain. He was fast in getting down the field under punts, and his work in tackling was as phenomenal as one would care to see.
Center.
Heyl of Corby undoubtedly has earned his right to lay claim to the pivotal position on the team—having been selected unanimously. Heyl
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
had a style all his own. Throughout the season he was played loose and had that peculiar but valuable faculty of solving the plays of his opponents. He is a hard tackler, sending his man back by his charging instead of permitting him to fall forward. And his passing of the ball has been remarkable, not a pass being out of the way.
Ends.
Although their work has increased in difficulty, ends have been especially numerous in the interhall activities. Campbell of Sorin, Sommers of Corby, Newning and Baujan of Walsh, Lower of Brownson and Corcoran of St. Joseph, loom up as the best men in the department. Besides the regular defensive work in smashing interference and tackling, the players have been chosen for their ability to elude their opponents and get free for forward passes.
Campbell of Sorin looms up as the best end the “Bookies" have developed for several years. Standing over six feet he has the greatest speed of any man on the hall elevens. On offensive he was called on to carry the ball often and seldom failed to negotiate the necessary yardage. Besides his necessary ability as an end he is a valuable man to the team in the punting department.
Sommers of Corby was the choice for the other end position. His performances on defense have been of a high order, and no consistent gains have been made around his side of the line. He has been successful in blocking his tackle and paving the way for his backs to advance the ball. His work in getting down the field on punts had added materially to the effectiveness of Mehlem’s punting throughout the season.
Halfbacks.
Halfbacks have been plentiful in the interhall league this season, and a number of men with unusual ability have shown up. Among the best playing the positions were Fish of Sorin, Larkin of Walsh, Howard of St. Joseph and Kelly of Brownson.
Fish and Howard were given the call over the other men, but that heady player, Larkin of Walsh, stood only one vote behind the elder men when the final count was made.
Fish of Sorin was the mainstay of his eleven and showed well all season. He carried the ball in a most brilliant manner and was the one man upon whom Sorin depended in all her games. His work as a drop-kicker stamps him as one of
the best men seen on Cartier field this season in this department.
As a running mate for Fish the coaches have selected Howard of St. Joseph. An all-hall team would not be complete without such a player whose defensive qualities have shown to such great advantage this season. On offense his work was effective at all times, but his superior work in backing up the line stamps him as one of the greatest men ever turned out by the hall on the west side.	'
Fullback.
At fullback K. Jones of Corby seemed to have things his own way. He was the one man in the “Braves” backfield about whom most of the plays were built. His line bucks were remarkable and he seldom failed when called on to carry the ball. On defense Jones seemed to be everywhere at once. His fierce tackling was noticeable in the Sorin game, and the way he threw his man was a surprise to Sorin.
Quarter.
Mehlem of Corby, more than any other, is qualified for the numerous duties of. quarter. Hug of Walsh has all season showed himself a good man, and with another season’s coaching will undoubtedly be the man for the place if he keeps up the work of this year. Mehlem showed to advantage in every game. ’
After the team has been picked we realize that a hair-line distinction has been made in many cases and we come again to the question of the "infallibility” of the coaches. We find that there still remains a second team well worthy the steel of the first team; but for the stubborn fact that the all-star wagon has only a seating capacity for eleven, some must wait for the next means of conveyance—the second team.
In the line we find such men as De Landero, Hughes, Morgan and Rubio of Sorin, Corcoran and McSweeney of St. Joseph, Newning and Baujan of Walsh, R. Jones, Hebner, Madden, Yund and.Devitt of Corby—all men of high calibre, whose ability makes the task of picking an all-star cast a most difficult one. ...
In the backfield there is a wealth of material. Hug, Larkin and McNichol of Walsh, McDoimell of Corby, O ’Neill of Brownson are all men whose performances of the season just closed brings back that troublesome and perplexing question— the infallibility of the coaches. With such wealth of material—strong, husky, healthy lads—the future of the Varsity is safe for some time yet.
186
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the University of Notre Dame
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana
Vol. XLIV. December 3, 1910.	No. 12.
	Board	of Editors.
	THOMAS	A. LAHEY, ’l I
ARTHUR HUGHES, ’ll		CHARLES C. MILTNER, ’ I I
JOHN	F. O’HARA, ’ll	FRANCIS WENNINGER, ’ 1 1
JOHN	C. TULLY, ’ 11	RALPH C. DIMMICK, ’ I I
JOHN	P. MURPHY, ’12 PAUL	PETER P. FORRESTAL, ’ I I RUSH, ’ I 2
—The close of the 1910 football season at Notre Dame has not been marked by any great demonstration such as closed the season last year, but the absence The Men of 1910. of an enthusiastic outburst must not be taken to mean a diminished loyalty to the team of this year. As usual the gold and blue was represented on the gridiron by a team that was willing and able to cope with any team in the west. Owing to circumstances over which .the team and the University had no control, the men were denied that privilege. With but one defeat, and that defeat administered under unfavorable circumstances by a team that outplayed every other opponent on the gridiron this fall, our men have no cause for regret. The cancellation of the Wabash game deprived the players of a splendid opportunity to show the best that was in them, and handicapped them for the season.
But all this is beside the mark. What really counts, after all, in any contest is the spirit of the men who compete. If we have athletic contests it is that we may be trained in those qualities which count in life.- The football player, to be successful, must be a fine specimen of manhood. He must have strength and skill; he must be trained to think and act quickly. It is too often forgotten that the qualities for which we most esteem the man are the qualities underlying his conduct in the game.
This is the higher meaning of football, and of college athletics in general. The work of
education is, after all, simply preparation for the greater battle that will come later; and while the intellectual side should not be sacrificed to the physical in education, too great stress can not be laid on the necessity of some kind of physical contests as a part of college training. Mere calisthenics will take care of physical culture; athletic contests mean much more, for their effects are just as much moral as physical, and are not without their intellectual side. The men who have upheld the standard of Notre Dame this year are worthy of all honor, and we congratulate them .at the close of a successful season.
—In this issue is presented, after careful examination, the men who are considered worthy of positions in the All-Hall first and second teams. The selec-The All-Hall Teams as tion will hardly prove
Varsity Material. satisfactory* to everybody, but it will prove satisfactory to those who have followed the work of the players, and judge impartially.
This selection of all-hall men should serve a twofold purpose. It should serve to honor and distinguish those players representing any hall whose work won favorable notice during the season. It is indeed a recognition of ability. The second purpose reaches out to a practical result. Perhaps we ought to qualify, and say it reaches out to what the Scholastic considers a practical result. Is it not possible to consider the men who have been selected to positions on the first and second all-hall teams—or if more desirable the first team only—as varsity material for next fall? In that event these men would not be eligible to represent a hall team— at least not until the varsity coach shall have decided them unfit for the varsity. They would make a valuable addition to the varsity squad when the football season opens. If these men did not make the regular varsity team the first year, it would occasion no surprise. It is not at all necessary that a candidate jump right off from a hall to a varsity position. Indeed, a year of experience on a freshman team that has to bear the hard knocks of the monogram men will prove very serviceable in training and will help to get a deeper knowledge of the game. It would seem there ought to be some rule to guide coaches at the beginning of the football season when they are calling for candidates.
i88	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Apostolate of Religious Reading.
The following books have been added to the library of the apostolate: “The Dweller on the Borderland” by Lanza, “The Barrier” by Basin, “Great Possessions” by Ward, “Hiawatha’s Black Robe” by Leahey, “A Life’s Ambition” by Kelly, “Grapes and Thorns” by Ticknor, “The Matchless Maid” by Vaughan, “As Gold in the Furnace” by Copus, “Earty steps in the Fold” by De Zulueta, “Marcella Grace” by Mulholland, “Miss Brin” by Francis, “By Th}7 Love and Thy Grace” and “His First and Last Appearance” by Finn, “A Daughter of New France” by Crowley, “Discourses and Sermons on Various Occasions” by Gibbons, “A Little Maid of Arcady” by Reid, “The Purpose of the Papacy” by Vaughan, “Notes on Ingersoll” by Lambert, “Blessed Gabriel, C.. P.,” by Ward, “The Divine Story” by Holland. Dr. James J. Walsh has presented three of his most widely read volumes. These are “The Thirteenth, the Greatest of the Centuries,” .“The Popes and Science” and “The Makers of Modem Medicine.” This thoughtful and generous contribution, as well as the spirit in which all of his work is done, makes it evident that Dr. Walsh is laboring as a true apostle in the cause of truth. May his noble apostolate be ever more successful. Any of the abovementioned books may be obtained on application to Brother Alphonsus. _
Sophomore Cotillion.
Discarding tradition and adopting the latest novelties with clever variations, the sophomore class gave the most successful class function for that the University has seen in recent years in their cotillion last Wednesday, November 30. The ball was held at Place hall, South Bend. The hall was decorated as never before. More than two hundred electric lights in Japanese lanterns swung from the ceiling, and the draping of the walls and ceiling was notably artistic. A supper was served during intermissions that were arranged on the novel plan of “supper extras.’! The guests were divided into four different groups, and one-fourth of the company was served during each of the extras. The programs, maroon colored for the gentlemen and white for the ladies, took the form of
leather card-cases. The music, furnished by Professor Petersen’s orchestra, was unusually good, and nothing was left undone that could contribute to the thorough enjoyment of the guests. The following committee was in charge of affairs: Fred Williams, Frank Crowley, Raymond McConlogue, William Moran, William Hogan, Earl Luder, Alfred Bergman, Martin Heyl.
More than 80 couples were present at the affair, the guests from out of the city including the Misses Frances Martin, Ethel O’Connell, Editli Leech, Mabel Stoakes, Adelaide Barsa-loux, and Adelaide Washburn, of Chicago; the Misses Marie Prahl, Ethel Pulian and Margaret Johnson, of Mishawaka; Miss Theresa Donahue, of Richmond, Va.; Miss Stella Bergman, of Peru, Ind.; Miss Charlotte Bruff, of Chicago Heights; Miss Pearl Smith, of Indianapolis, and the Misses Marie Keip and Marguerite Cahill, of St. Mary’s college. Mr. and Mrs. William Logan Benitz, Mr. and Mrs. William Budd Kelley, and Mr. and Mrs. John Lorimer . Worden, chaperoned the affair.
Preliminaries in Oratory.
In the trials preliminary to the Breen Medal contest in oratory, Messrs. Miltner, Wenninger, Hagerty, Heiser and Lahey finished in the order named. The first four mentioned will be eligible to compete in the Breen Medal contest which will be held on December 14. The orations were of an exceptionally high order, and very close markings resulted.
The first meeting of the executive committee of the state oratorical association met Sunday afternoon at the Denison Hotel, Indianapolis, the selection of judges on thought and
composition for the annual contest, which will be held in Indianapolis, February 24, 1911.
Society Notes.
St. Joseph Literary.
Last Sunday evening St. Joseph Literary Society rendered one of its customary, highly enjoyable programs. Mr. Sanford recited” The Picket Guard,” and Mr. Smith, “The Hindoo Paradise.” Following the recitations, a debate was held. The question was: Resolved, That the influence of the “ Nickelodian” is demoralizing.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
189
Messrs. Costello and Schallert argued for the affirmative; Messrs. Barry and ^McGrath, for the negative. By a two-to-one vote the judges decided in favor of the affirmative. “The Equestrian Courtship” was then recited by James Traynor, and Whittier’s sonnet, “Forgiveness,” was recited by Julius Meuninck. The difficult task of reciting a sonnet was very well performed by Mr. Meuninck. The meeting closed with a violin solo by Charles Robinson accompanied by Prof. Derrick. Great interest is shown in the work of the society this year, every member entering into the spirit of the work. Arrangements for a debate between the freshmen of Brownson and St. Joseph halls are under way.
Brownson Literary and Debating.
The ninth regular meeting of the society was held last Sunday evening. An excellent debate was held on the question: Resolved, That cities with a population of more than thirty thousand should adopt the commission form of government. Messrs. W. O’Shea, J. O’Brien and R. Scott spoke for the affirmative; Messrs. T. Mahoney, O. Daly and R. Halligan, for the negative. Strong arguments were advanced by both sides, but the negative disclosed the drawbacks of the proposed plan so clearly that the judges gave an unanimous decision in their favor. Mr. Peter Meersman, a former member of the society, spoke on the benefits he derived from a membership of a year and a half. Brother Alphonsus entertained the society with two recitations entitled “Driving Home the Cows” and “The Bridge.” Father Carroll closed the program with some complimentary remarks about the efforts of the speakers of the evening.
Personals.
—Thomas L- Donnelly (C. E. ’04) of Bay City, Michigan, is a civil engineer on the Michigan Central Railroad.
—Agustus J. Hampton (student in ’oS-’op) is the Ass’t Civil Engineer on the New York and Hartford Railroad.
—John J. Devine (student in the years ’08-’09 and ’09-10) renewed old acquaintances by visiting friends at the University last week.
—Mr. Bryan M. Taylor of St. Louis, Mo., who was a student in St. Edward’s and Carroll halls from 1897-1902, visited the University a
short time ago. Mr. Taylor is now connected with the Pittsburg Plate Glass Co.
—Mr. Henry E. Taylor, student during the nineties, paid a visit to the University several weeks ago. Mr. Taylor holds an important position in the Solid Tire Department of the Diamond Rubber Co., of Chicago, Ill.
—Stewart M. Graham, student here in engineering for several years, is now working for the Chicago and Western Indiana and Belt Railroad. Mr. Graham is a track foreman with three assistant foremen and sixty-five men under him.
—Joseph A. O’Niel (student in ’o8-’o9 and ’o9-’io) visited the University last Thanksgiving day. “Joe” is grading and inspecting lumber at his father’s yards and mills in St. Louis, Mo., and intends to gain a thorough knowledge of the business.
—Hon. Timothy R. Ansberry (LL. B. ’93) has been re-elected for the third time to the United States Congress from the fifth Congressional district, Ohio. He is also an aspirant for United States Senatorial honors, for the term of the present Ohio Senator expires in 1911, and Mr. Ansberry is considered a likely successor in that office.
—An invitation came to Provincial Morrissey from L. F. Craig (student ’02-06), Stratton, Colo., to assist at the laying of the corner-stone of the new Catholic church which is to be erected at Stratton. With the characteristic enterprise of the Notre Dame man Leo is working for the spread of our Faith in the far West. Congratulations and success to Leo! May the New Colony church be a realization of his most enthusiastic hopes!
—Howard Edwards, Capt. of Western Champions in football last year, and a graduate of the short Electrical Course, was back again at Notre Dame this week. Ex-Capt. Edwards says he will be around South Bend this winter and is contemplating going to school again at N. D. Howard brings good reports of his season’s work at West Virginia Wesleyan. His team was very successful, losing but two games all season and tying U. of W. Virginia for state championship.
—Our worthy and most enterprising reporter on the Personal Column failed to secure the interesting item to the effect that Rev. Henry Kemper (Litt. B. ’05) will be ordained to the priesthood on December 7. Father Kemper
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
190
will sin? his first mass in St. Michael’s church, Chicago, Ill.,ton the feast of the Immaculate Conception.; ..The Scholastic on behalf of his many friends here at the University extends to Father Kemper the wish that he may enjoy length of years and gain a wealth of merit in his sacred calling.
Obituary.
Brother Raymond, C. S. C., of the students book store, was called home by the sudden death of his father yesterday morning. As Brother Raymond is well known and appreciated by all the students for his unfailing courtesy and readiness to be of assistance, we are confident they will remember his beloved father in their prayers. R. I. P.
■ '	Safety Valve.
In the Chicago-Wisconsin game a W. player was put out of the game for slugging. The Maroon, on whom he landed, said the Badger merely pulled his nose. Whereupon the umpire apologized, and there was a big purity banquet, or something, in the evening. The press said it was a fine example of clean athletics. If it .were our case, “A Notre Dame player slugs," done in black, bulky type would be the view-point.
£As a disinterested third, we put the question to you, Marquette: Was it a passion for pure athletics or a case of weak knees with Michigan? Honest now!
***
.The fellows “came back” at Milwaukee. They came back from Milwaukee also, but several delayed pass plays were used in the march to the home goal. .
. ***
Certain students returning late after Thanksgiving have returned, paradoxically speaking.
■ *** •
Will somebody distinguish between ball, prom, hop, cotillion? How is cotillion pronounced? Was the soph affair a cotillion? By what must you divide cotillion to reduce it to a dance?
***
“Shoveling off demerits, Stony?”
“No, you fool, just sprinkling roses.”
Xmas xams, will be the Faculty’s holiday gift to the students. We trust the beloved Faculty will not be lavish in the matter of giving.
Ralph Dimmick has some courage to pick an all-hall team and still stick around.
***
Auld Acquaintance.
“Both sides presented strong arguments” in the Brownson Literary Society.
“The lecture was highly interesting and instructive” according to our dramatic reporter.
“Although our men were outweighed twenty pounds to the man, we,” etc., etc.—Football News. -
“The snow storm indeed spread gloom over the campus.” O you gloom!
“The plans for a battalion are fast being realized.” Secundum Joannem Murphy.
“Orchestra practice at 7:30 p. m.”
“The sun cast his rays on mother earth and made all nature smile.” Nine rahs for old Sol!
John Tully contributes the suggestion that John Bell might make a valuable addition to the Chimes. We reckon the Chimes is reasonably well furnished with belles, John. Thanks, however, for your thoughtfulness in the matter.
***
Come into the garden, Noud, for the dark bat Night is flown;
Come into the garden, Noud, I am here at the gate alone.
***
We notice from a newspaper clipping that young Edward H. Schwab explains his present lack of fame to the fact that for the past ten years he has been buried at Notre Dame.
Alas! poor Yorick.	•
Calendar.
Sunday, Dec. 4—Band practice after mass _
“	Holy Cross Literary Society
“	Brownson Literary Society
“	St. Joseph Literary Society
Monday, Dec. 5—Band practice at 12:30
“	Orchestra practice
Tuesday, Dec. 6—Rehearsal of Glee Club 7:00 p. m.
Wednesday, Dec. 7—Civil Engineering Society
“ Philopatrian Society
Thursday, Dec. 8—Feast of the Immaculate Conception. No classes.
“ Band practice after mass
Friday, Dec. 9—Band practice at 12:30 p. m.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Local Items.
—Great weather for our soldiers.
—Has anyone heard from the juniors lately?
—Examinations will be held on the 20th and 21 st of December.
—The minims attended mass in a body on the feast of St. Andrew.
—All report a good time at the cotillion. The sophs were in their glory.	.
—Between the new uniforms and the cap and gown, the seniors are kept busy.
—The toboggan slide affords all kinds of fun for the younger element in this sliding weather.
—Corby, not being satisfied with honors won on the gridiron, is now organizing a literary society.
—Accommodations have been secured for the Staff’s Christmas contributions. They are due to-day.
—Great revolution on the Walsh tables in the refectory. Many of the heads were dethroned.
—The members of the dramatic club are hard at work on the play to be presented President’s day. ’
—Special examination essays, society debates, orations cause an overflow of truth-seekers to the library these days.
—The next Scholastic will be the Christmas issue which will come out on Saturday, December 17.
—There was no regular meeting of the Engineering Society on Wednesday, owing to the sophomore dance.
—The Notre Dame avenue may be paved some time. Meantime it would stand a couple hundred loads of gravel.
—B. H. Lange is the artist of the cover for this issue of the Scholastic. He is now working on a cover for Christmas.
—It would be well for some of the students to keep in mind the rule against smoking in front of the Main- Building.
—“ Gene” Connelly has been appointed coach of the Carroll indoor baseball team and Lee Matthews of their basket-ball team.
—The snow proved a blessing to many fellows whose demerits had run up close to
I9I
the danger line. The snow shovels made an opening and got the flood approaching the normal height.
—As we go to press the snow is still falling. Several poems are due on the subject. We consider it only fair to prepare you.
—Carroll hall is rejoicing over the winning of the middle class championship in football. Fine work, Carroll. Remember we look to you for our future.
—Confessors were kept busy Thursday evening with a large throng of student penitents. On Friday morning all approached to receive Holy Communion.
—The next time you see us we expect to have the pleasure of presenting you some Christmas literature. ’Twill be worth reading, you may be sure.
—The bugler of the military company has at last succeeded in emitting the official army calls. Bugler was first heard at this office yesterday at 1:30 p. m.
—The sophomore affair proved a set back to the Scholastic. Many of the editors got foolish and went to the dance. Copy was a rare commodity the next morning.
—The secret of the high bowling score at Walsh hall has been discovered. Hereafter, those that go beyond the chalk line will be guilty of a foul. Now who will pay?
—The news that Corby is about to form a literary society will dispel the idea 'that the braves are merely athletes. Even the bookies haven’t made a start in that direction.
—The other day Brother Hugh had to call on two workmen to help him break up an old piano that was first used in 1878. They say it was made of mahogany, and cost eight hundred dollars in its palmy days. We have our doubts.
—The junior class herein formally and definitely challenges the senior class to meet in ’ a game of basket ball some time in the near future. They agree to play under A. A. U. inter-collegiate or “Mules & Colonels” rules, whichever the challenged party may choose.
—The Brownson gym is the scene of some lively hand-ball contests these days, as Paul Rush would put it. Madden, Soisson [Note by Monotype man: Which? there are four or five Soissons on the student list?], Hinde, Daly, “Nemo” et alii, engage in splendid exhibitions.
192
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—Lee Matthew’s “Review of the Season” will soon' be out. It will contain individual pictures of all the varsity football men and of the interhall champs. In this he also makes known his choice for the all-hall football team. Reports claim it to be the “hit” of the seasonl
—Owing to some serious mistake of somebody in some department the shield that held the electric numerals of the sophomore class could not be found on the day before the big cotillion (i. e. dance). The boat people blame the electricians, the electricians blame the boat people. At all events, the blame thing is lost, and Al Keys can’t get head or tail to the whole business.
Athletic Notes.
Varsity Plays Wonderful Game.
On Thanksgiving afternoon the Varsity met its old-time rival, Marquette, at Milwaukee, and after one of the hardest fought struggles of the year succeeded in holding the strong Wisconsin aggregation to a tie score. The. field was a sea of mud and for a time it was thought the game would have to be postponed, but after much application of sawdust this idea was discarded, and the Thanksgiving custom between Marquette and Notre Dame^was carried through.
The first half was Notre Dame’s from the start, and it was at this time that we scored our only touchdown. While this score was made on a fumble by the Marquette tackle the fact that the Varsity had brought the play within ten yards of Marquette's goal line makes the .result earned, rather than an accident. Marquette started the second half strong, and a series of forward passes and line bucks brought them within one yard of the Varsity’s goal. Brennan, who was a member of the Notre Dame squad last season, went through the line for the necessary distance, and the score was tied. Time and again after that the ball was dangerously near the Notre Dame goal, but each time the men of the gold and blue by the finest of defensive work staved off another score and a defeat. The first quarter of the second half yvas as much Marquette’s as was the first Notre Dame’s. Toward the close of the game Captain Hanley’s man took advantage of the darkness and put through a variety of forward passes
and^trick plays which netted many gains, but fumbles prevented scores.
The contest afforded Dorias, the freshman star, a chance to display his wonderful ability as a quarterback. It was thought earlier in the season that the former Chippewa Falls high school man had not the experience to direct the team this year, but his work in tire Marquette struggle demonstrated beyond the shadow of a doubt that he possesses natural ability when it comes to handling the destinies of a football team. His punting far outclassed that of Voelkel, the Veteran Marquette man, and his running back punts proved the feature of the afternoon. Collins in playing his last game for Notre Dame put up a grand exhibition. His running under punts drew much attention from the bleachers. Martin covered himself with glory when he recovered Eisen’s fumble and crossed the line for the Varsity’s only score. Dimmick and Philbrook played their last game and fought to the last ditch against the mighty tackles, Eisen and Hanley. Every man on the team played a most brilliant game as is evident from the score:
Notre Dame (5)		Marquette (5)
Martin	.	R. E.	Curtin, Capwell
Dimmick	R. T.	Eisen
Kelly	R. G.	McCusker
Foley	C.	Westenhagen
Oaas j	L. G.	Housley
Philbrook	L. T.	Hanley, Thackeray
Collins	L. E.	Brennan
Dorias	Q. B.	Schaller
Clippinger	R. H.	Waldron, Mehegan
Matthews	L. H.	Voelkel
Stansfield,	McGrath	F. B.	Munsell
Touchdowns—Martin, Brennan. Umpire—Kelley,		
Princeton.	Referee—Snow, Michigan. Head lines-	
man—Dr. Ingham, Nebraska. Fifteen minutes.		Time of periods—
Basket-Ball.
Coach Maris’ call for basket-ball material was responded to by seventeen men. Among the old men reporting are Fish, Maloney, Ulatowski, Walsh, Burke, McNicol and Lynch. At the present, prospects look bright, but the coach is anxiously looking for a capable centre. The season will open here with Lewis Institute on the 10th of December, followed by Hull House Club of Chicago on the 17th.
The call for track men will be issued some time next week. The first meet in which Notre Dame competes will be the First Regiment of Chicago, on the 21st of January.