th nora doti
9CU0LQSTC
- ujffliy crnwus nous mmre
ALUMNI PRESIDENT HUGHES
Returns from Rome
IN THIS ISSUE . . .
ROOSEVELT WINS POLL ALUMNI HEAD RETURNS STUDENT TRIP TICKET SALE HALL DECORATION PLANS
PITTSBURGH GAME HISTORY OF PITT RIVALRY TENNIS TOURNAMENT "B" TEAM FOOTBALL
THE WEEK
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS SO THEY SAY INTRODUCING
OCTOBER 23.1936
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
E»—RAILROADS
Welcome New Ideas
President


' • s ' ' ... \.i“'
Young people today should find much to their liking in the policies of management adopted by our modem railroads. Nothing is sacred merely because it is old. Policies are based solidly upon the test-tube findings of current public usefulness and favor. • Consider these evidences of railway experimentation: Reduced fares, faster and more convenient schedules, streamline trains, added comfort and beauty in passenger equipment, lower-priced meals, air-conditioning, free pillows for coach passengers, free pick-up and delivery of less-than-carload freight—such innovations bring luster to the long-held railway advantages of safety, economy and dependability. • The Illinois Central System is especially proud of its Green Diamond, $425,000mile-a-minute streamline train recently placed in service. It has been called a rolling laboratory, in which will be worked out principles
affecting the development of future passenger transportation, and it embodies the latest findings of science in a wide variety of fields. Favorably received,it gives every promise of fulfilling its chosen mission. • Thus deeds give proof of progress and confirm the skilled determination of railway management and personnel to keep in the very forefront of transportation. American railroads in such ways are daily justifying their kinship with the college and university world.
REMINDER ...
Education today must keep in touch with the railroads.
Fundamentals everybody ought to know are what the railroads mean as ^carriers, employers, taxpayers, purchasers, fields of investment and foundations of national defense.
Educators especially should remember that railway taxes keep 1,600,000 students in school; that railway bonds are the backlog of many an endowed institution; that the railroads today, in keeping with the spirit of all true education, are forging ahead progressively to new goals.
ILLINOIS CENTRAL SYSTEM
----AN INDIANA RAILROAD----
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notie Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 70
October 23, 1936
No. 5
FATHER GILLIS ENDS SERIES OF FIVE
TALKS TONIGHT
•
By George Haithcock
The Rev. James Martin Gillis, C.S.P., militant editor of the Catholic World, who has been delivering lectures this week on "Faith and the Modern Mind,” will conclude his series of talks tonight at 8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall. The subject of his last lecture will be “Morality: the New Style.”
Father Gillis began his talks last Monday night. His lectures, dealing with all aspects of religion in connection with modern civilization have been given in conjunction with the new graduate course in Apologetics.
Monday night the Paulist editor spoke on “A New Approach to Apologetics?”
Christian Apologetics is not a science of defense, but rather one of militant offense, Father Gillis declared. He condemned the modernistic view on the subject, “A New Approach to Apologetics,” as depending entirely on the conscience as opposed to the original intention of the study of “new Apologetics.”
Offering the two proofs, the presence of the universe and the presence of life, as evidence of God, Father Gillis hailed the modern refrain from controversy as a result of lazy minds.
In the second of his lectures, Tuesday night, Father Gillis dealt with the topic, “God: the Modern Meaning of the Word.”
“The modern system of thought does not altogether deny that there is a God but does deny Divine Providence,” the Paulist lecturer pointed out. “Some say that God is too busy with more important things than to be interested in mere man.”
Father Gillis dismissed the idea of atheism stating that it is a misinterpretation of the word and often a silly boast. He plunged into the contention that the knowledge of the non-existence of a God would be far more devastating to the human race than a death ray able to wipe out the whole human race at a blow.
Wednesday night Father Gillis spoke on “Religion: the Old Concept and the New.” Thursday night the topic of his talk was “Faith: After a Century of Science.”
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT WINS A LANDSLIDE VICTORY OVER THREE OPPONENTS IN "THE SCHOLASTIC" POLL
By Robert McClain
President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Democratic nominee for re-election, snowed under his Republican rival, Gov. Alfred M.. Landon, almost five to one in the final tabulation of ballots in The Scholastic straw vote. Roosevelt received 909 votes. Landon 207. William Lemke and Norman Thomas trailed
President Franklin Roosevelt Heavy Victor in Student Poll.
Costin To Speak Here
James M. Costin, formerly the editor and publisher of the Pittsburgh Catholic and at present sports editor of the South Bend News-Times, will address the members of the Press Club at their first smoker next Wednesday evening, it was announced by President John N. Cackley at the club’s bi-weekly meeting last Wednesday evening.
Under President Cackley, John Gillespie, vice-president; Edward Fischer, secretary; and Robert McClain, treasurer, the scribes’ association plans to start a “Cubs” organization, and also to cooperate with the Blue Pencil Club of Saint Mary’s College.
far behind, Lemke drew 33 ballots, Thomas only 15.
While a Roosevelt victory was held fairly certain, the tremendous landslide in his favor was unexpected. The local poll is one of the first University straw votes to give the President a victory. At Dartmouth, Lehigh, Harvard and Williams, Landon was the victor in student polls.
Thirty-five states were represented in the local poll. Votes were registered from all sections of the country from Maine to Colorado, and from Minnesota to Texas. In every state Roosevelt received a majority.
New York furnished one of the largest votes from a single state. In the Empire State Roosevelt was more than a two to one favorite.
Indiana endorsed the President nearly three to one, as did Michigan, Ohio, and Pennsylvania.
Illinois registered the largest state vote and Roosevelt received the overwhelming support of the group more than five to one. This ratio was one of the highest to be registered with the exception of scattered votes in a few far western states where Roosevelt was the unanimous choice.
The solid South gave the Democratic nominee a large majority over his opponent, with Tennessee casting the largest number- of votes from this section. Virginia was the only state in the South in which Roosevelt’s margin was slim.
In Kansas, Gov. Alfred Landon’s home state, Roosevelt eked out a slight majority in the final count after the two nominees were virtually tied.
The conduct course now being offered at the University of West Virginia is not intended to teach selfcontrol. It has been designed to show students the “hows” of studying, making a budget, and spending leisure time.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
TICKET SALE FOR THE STUDENT TRIP OPENS MONDAY. NOVEMBER 2; DEADLINE SET FOR WEDNESDAY. NOV. 4
By Graham Starr
With sale of tickets for the Army game student trip opening on Nov. 2, one week from Monday, scores of Notre Dame students are making final plans for one of the longest student trips in recent years.
The positive closing time for the ticket sale is at 5:00 p.m. on Wednesday,
Nov. 4 at the Athletic Office. All students contemplating the trip are warned to take notice of this date, so that no one will be disappointed.
The price of the round trip railroad ticket in coaches has been set at §16.55. Because of the low fare obtained, a record attendance of Notre Dame students at the game seems highly probable.
The Notre Dame-Army game, aside from being a colorful affair, promises to be a close battle between two rivals of long standing.
As far as number of games won this year is concerned, the teams are neck and neck. Both Notre Dame and Army have chalked up .three wins in a row without any losses.
Tentatively scheduled to leave South Bend at 1:30 p.m., Friday, Nov. 13, the “Notre Dame Special” will arrive in New York at 8:25 (E.S.T.) the morning of the game. It will leave New York from the Penn Station at 2:00 o’clock Sunday afternoon (E.S.T.) and will arrive in South Bend at 6:55 a.m., Monday.
Made up of several sections, the “Notre Dame Special” will provide adequate dining facilities for all. Railroad officials announced that special meals willl be served, with breakfast at 30 cents, lunch at 50 cents, and dinner at 60 cents. Sandwiches and coffee will be served in the coaches.
In the event that any students want sleeping accommodations, Pullmans will be provided. The cost will be the three cents per mile regularly charged for Pullman privileges.
Chicago Election
Don McKeating was elected freshman vice-president and John Maloney was re-elected president of the Chicago Club, held Wednesday, Oct. 14 in Carroll Recreation hall. Robert McKeating, a senior, was named by Maloney as chairman of the club’s annual Christmas dance to be held December 28 in the Congress Hotel, Chicago.
The enrollment of Chicagoans this year exceeds all previous attendance. Plans outlined for the year include several smokers and Communion breakfasts.
KNIGHTS SET NOV. 8 FOR QUARTERLY COMMUNION
Members of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus will receive their quarterly Communion at the eight o’clock Mass, Sunday, November 8. The usual Communion Breakfast will be served to the members in the lay faculty dining hall immediately after the Mass.
Grand Knight Foy has announced
William J. Fish “Boivl and keep fit.”
a smoker in the K. of C. lounge during the Pitt game. John King was appointed chairman of the affair. There will be refreshments and smokes before, at the half, and after the game. The doors of the lounge in Walsh Hall will be opened at 12:45.
The K. of C. bowling league will be carried out again this year. It was started several years ago and has proved very successful. The meets this year will be held at the Jefferson Plaza on the second and fourth Wednesday of the month. The members on the arrangement committee for the league are: Martin O’Connell, Bob Converse, Bill Fish, Art Selna, and John Veeneman.
"We are well satisfied with the way our plan for doing away with congestion at the Communion railing during Sunday Masses is turning out,” Grand Knight Foy said this week. “More ushers may be used in the future if it is found necessary.”
Achilles Moorman, freshman lawyer from Detroit, Michigan, was appointed this week to head the Knight’s membership drive.
DR. ARTHUR HAAS TO DISCUSS "PHYSICS
AND RELIGION"
Dr. Arthur E. Haas, who recently joined the faculty of the University of Notre Dame, will give a lecture on “Physics and Religion,” in Washington Hall on Oct. 29.
For many years Dr. Haas held the professorship of .physics at the University of Vienna. He has also taught physics in the schools of Germany and England. Dr. Haas, in his lectures, will show that the deeper and more thorough knowledge of science will fortify more and more the claim of the existence of a Deity. For a proof of the existence of God, Dr. Haas points out, the scientists has merely to look about him and observe the progress of science itself in the last decade.
From the wealth of his experience as teacher, Dr. Haas is justly the author* of text books on physics used throughout the world. A new work in physical science, of which he is associate editor, is to be published shortly by Yale University.
Fr. Hoff Tells Society Value of Oratory
The Wranglers, honorary forensic, society, held its initial formal meeting of the year last Thursday evening at eight o’clock in the Law Building.
The Reverend N. C. Hoff, associate professor of philosophy and religion in the College of Arts and Let-■ ters, was the guest speaker. His topic was “The Value of Speech and Oratory,” in which he showed how important oratory is to express ideas and how competent the leaders of the world are . in the art of self-expression.
Inauguration of the interhall debates, which were scheduled to convene within three weeks, have been postponed until the latter part of November. This change was necessitated because of the uncertainty of the varsity question. Interhall coaches and chairmen of interhall debates will be appointed within a few weeks when the varsity question will be announced.
Lunn To Speak
Professor Arnold Lunn, noted English apologist will deliver the third in a series of six lectures Tuesday evening, Oct. 27 in Washington Hall at 8 o’clock.
“Communism and Its History” will . be Professor Lunn’s topic in which he will show how Communism boomed after the World War and spread from one country to another.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
STUDENTS CHEER FOR TEAM AT SHORT PEP SESSION
The entire student body .crowded around Badin Porch last evening immediately after supper to give the football team their official send-off for the Pittsburgh game tomorrow. The students showed their whole-hearted support to the team that will meet the University of Pittsburgh tomorrow.
Philip Bondi, president of the S. A. C., acted as master of ceremonies, introducing the speakers to the assembled group. Assistant Coaches Joe Boland and Chet Grant represented the coaching staff in the absence of Coach Elmer Layden. Bill Smith, former captain, gave a short address assuring the determination of the team to win this game for the student body. The team left the Pennsylvania Station at 9:55 last evening for Pittsburgh. They arrived in Pittsburgh early this morning.
The cheering and songs were under the direction of Head Cheerleader Wally Nienaber and the entire cheerleading staff. Their efforts were rewarded by an enthusiastic cooperation by all present.
ENGINEERS MEET TO PADDLE FROSH TONIGHT
Slide rules and long division will be temporarily forgotten tonight as the Engineer’s Club meets in the gymnasium at 7:45 for its annual in-iation. All freshmen members must be present to receive the Club’s stamp of approval.
The manner and means of applying that stamp has been a closely guarded secret. When asked concerning the initiation procedure, Chairman Lou Purcell and his strong arm assistants, Fergus Kelley and Ray Cowles, just looked smug and said nothing.
Finally, after considerable persuasion they revealed what is in store this evening. All freshmen are advised to wear old clothes. “For,” as Chairman Purcell suggested, while cracking his knuckles ominously, “it might rain and we wouldn’t want anyone to get their best clothes dirty, I mean, wet.”
Since all engineers should have a thorough knowledge of the basic principles of electricity, the committee has arranged to bring them in close contact with those principles. An “electric cage” has been devised into which the more backward students will be asked to crawl. Any undue movement of their anatomy will bring the desired contact.
(Continued on Page 22)
ALUMNI PRESIDENT RETURNS FROM ROME TO DRAW PLANS FOR CATHOLIC FIGHT AGAINST COMMUNISM
Arthur J. Hughes, Ph.B., ’ll, LL.B., T7, president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, who recently returned from Rome where he was granted a private audience with His Holiness Pope Pius, XI, told last week of the united plans of the Catholic Church throughout the nation to fight Communism.
FORUM WILL SURVET CAMPUS BRAND PREFERENCE
Meeting on Monday, October 19, the board of directors of the Commerce Forum, with Ned Joyce as
President Al Smith Brands as you like them.
chairman, discussed the survey of commodities which they will soon submit to the students. Questionnaires will be distributed by members of the Forum to a representative number of students in each class. To make the research more successful, Forum members will see that the forms are filled out properly. The survey will contain questions on what particular brand the student prefers, and the influence advertising had on his choice.
Results from 1500 questionnaires are expected, compared with 950 in last year’s survey.
The research will start about October 30. Assisting in its organization are, Mr. Le Clair Eells, assisting professor of finance, and the Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., professor of advertising in the Commerce school.
The number of commodities on the questionnaires is smaller this year, but, it is hoped that in addition to getting the student’s preference, the survey will show the reason for his selection.
“I had an audience with His Holiness at his Summer palace, Castle Gondolfo, Sept. 19,” President Hughes said. “I found he was familiar with the plans of the alumni body to press, a campaign against communism. He indicated that he felt there was an acute necessity for such action and gave it his blessing.”
The trip of Mr. Hughes to Rome for an audience with Pope Pius is the first step in a planned program instigated by the alumni of Notre Dame to bring Catholic laity directly into the battle with communism and its forces.
James E. Armstrong,- secretary of the Alumni Association, announced this week that further definite details in the alumni plans will be announced and followed up immediately after the national elections on Nov. 3.
On Wednesday of this week alumni President Hughes delivered a message from Pope Pius to the Catholics of America at a meeting of Catholic college alumni held at the Union League club in Chicago.
Mr. Hughes was made president of the Alumni association to succeed Bernard VoH, of South Bend. Hughes is a practicing attorney in Chicago.
Marine Chief Praises Notre Dame Men
Notre Dame students who entered the Platoon Leaders’ class of the Marine Corps Reserve last summer made an exceedingly good record according to a letter received recently by the Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., from Major Curtis T. Beecher of the U.S.M.C. of Chicago.
In part, the letter reads:
“Of the 19 accepted applicants from Notre Dame who reported for training 188 have been recommended for return to the second year class. The percentage of successful candidates from Notre Dame in comparison with other schools is one of the highest in the country. May I offer my hearty congratulations on the achievement of this record which. . . is in my estimation, indicative of the preeminence Notre Dame enjoys in the collegiate field?”
The call for candidates for the Marine Corps Reserve .was made last spring.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
POSTPONE NATIONAL BAND PROGRAM
TO NOV. 7
•
The University of Notre Dame Band broadcast scheduled for Saturday evening, Oct. 17, has been postponed until November 7. The broadcast will be a part of a program in celebration of the National Broadcasting Company’s tenth year of service to the people of the United States.
The lack of facilities by the other college bands selected to play on this program caused this postponement. The plan of the program will be the same, each band playing six and one-half minutes.
The new date should prove favorable to the Notre Dame band since by that time it will have been augmented to 100 pieces. New uniforms are expected to be available for the Ohio State game.
The establishment of a University dance orchestra has proved to be quite successful, and all who heard Frank Barbush and his mates at the football dance commented favorably concerning their music. This organization should attain considerable prominence .before the completion of the school year.
Ling Outlines Rules For New Charters
The Presidents’ Council held a meeting Thursday night for the express purpose of approving the financial statements of all clubs and so helping in the organization of new . ones.
Gene Ling, president, emphasized the fact that no charters would be issued outside of the official meetings held every other week, and that each campus organizations must submit its own special by-laws, constitution, and program of activities for the year to the council for ratification.
“An important factor in organizing,” said Ling, “is to have a good purpose in mind; if this is lacking, the council will not approve of the club’s’ formation.”
All groups contemplating the organization of new clubs should send their applications to Gene Ling, 107 Walsh.
Deadline Set
The Patricians, honorary classical club, set Sunday, October 25, as deadline for applications for membership. Matt Bruccoli, president, stated that applicants will be notified by cards as to the date of interview with membership committee.
HALL DECORATIONS SET FOR OHIO GAME, S. A. C. OUTLINES PLANS FOR ANNUAL CAMPUS "DRESS-UP" WEEK-END
By Harold A. Williams
The traditional decoration of campus residence halls will take place next Friday, Oct. 30, the eve of the Notre Dame-Ohio State game. Phil Bondi, S.A.C. president, has appointed Jerry Claeys as chairman of arrangements.
The two important facts stressed
PRESS CLUB TO HEAR WARREN BROWN THURSDAY
Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, will talk to the Press Club of the Journal-
Editok Warren Brown
. . . Looks at Notre Dame.
ism department on Oct. 29 at 8:00 p.m. in the north basement of the library.
Mr. Brown needs no introduction to Notre Dame, having been a guest lecturer annually for the past several years. He has endeared himself to University alumni and students alike through his humor during his appearance as chairman and speaker at the St. Joseph Valley football dinners each spring for the past ten years.
Brown’s sport column is one of the favorite of its type in the country. Brown has also written several novels on sport themes, some of them built around Notre Dame. He will talk on “A Sports Writer Looks at Notre Dame.” He is also the author of a popular biography of Knute Rockne.
Over a million students entered institutions of higher learning this Fall. Thirty-three of each hundred of the 1936 school graduates are now college freshmen.
in the S.A.C. announcements are that all halls must be decorated, and that the decorations must be different from former years.
As a new note in this year’s program, the dining hall and the entrance to the campus will be decorated for the first time.
To facilitate arrangements, Claeys has appointed an S.A.C. man to supervise each hall and work with the rector in assisting the students. This week the rector will appoint executive hall committees which will organize smaller committees to handle various phases of the work, t
For the past two years Freshman Hall has been the winner. Last Fall Badin and Morrissey were given honorable mention.
Freshman’s winning decoration, last year, consisted of a lighthouse with a revolving beacon that flashed pictures of Rockne, Gipp, Joe Sullivan and Elmer Layden. A reef symbolized Southern California, and a sail boat with a football player represented Notre Dame. A sign overhead read, “Follow The Beacon and Clear the Reef!” The windows of the hall were colored gold and blue, and the words “Welcome Trojans” and “Welcome Alumni” were inserted in the windows.
Bookmen Hold Affair For New Members
Newly elected members of the Bookmen were entertained at a social reception held in the Blue Room of the Oliver Hotel last Wednesday, October 21. After several talks were delivered, club plans were discussed.
Mr. T. Bowyer Campbell, associate professor of history and club moderator, commented briefly on the past success and future plans of the club.
Talks were made by William Robinson, club librarian, and by Louis Da Pra.
After a discussion of books selected for the Bookmen library, Tom O’Brien, club vice - president, announced that the next meeting will be held on November 4 in the former library room of the Hurley Hall of Commerce.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
7
TEN WESTERN STATES AND ALASKA JOIN FAR WEST CLUB
•
Monday, Oct. 26, will herald the beginning of the newest and largest territorial club on the Notre Dame campus—the Western Club.
Out of the ruins of three clubs, the Rocky Mountain Club, the Northwest Club and the Southwest Club, will spring an entirely new organization, encompassing ten of the far western states and the territory of Alaska. It has been five years since these states have been banded together and have shown any planned organization.
A constitution will be adopted and an entirely new type of club government put into working order. This consists of a council of representatives, including one from each of the ten states and Alaska, and the regular officers, president, vice-president, secretary and treasurer.
VINCENTIANS SURVEY RELIEF NEEDS IN CITY PARISHES
At the regular meeting of the St. Vincent de Paul Society Sunday, Oct. 18, it was decided to again carry out
Vincentian Joe Drolla
Serves on District Council
the survey of two local parishes as was done last year. The survey is for the purpose of discovering cases needing spiritual, medical or any other help. It is felt that the experience gained in the former survey will be an invaluable aid to the members of this year.
Joseph Drolla, president of the local organization, and Robert Cronin, vice-president, have been appointed to the executive board of the particular council of the Vincentian conferences of this district.
The members voted to contribute $15.00 towards the erection of the statue of Christ the King in Washington. Also at the meeting the applications of two new members were accepted. The new members are Joseph Vogel and John Clifford, both of Lyons hall.
Frosh Smoker Date Set
For Week of Nov, 7
e	.
The freshmen of the University, will have a smoker this year on some night of the week of Nov. 7 in Washington Hall. Richard Delaney, chairman of the S.A.C. committee in charge, plans to show moving pictures of. one of the Notre Dame football games.
The rest of the program in Washington Hall will include a snappy talk, and possibly a novelty act of some kind. Plans for a skit contest have been abandoned.
From the theatre the freshmen will repair to the gym for a treat of ice cream, sandwiches and cigarettes.
LIBRARY SHOWS FIRST IN A SERIES OF
ART EXHIBITS
Twelve paintings by contemporary American artists are on display in the catalogue room of the University library this week. The exhibit began October 17, and the paintings will be removed October 31. They are the first of four groups to be presented during this year.	-
In the four groups to be shown are 48 paintings by artists from all over the country, and representing every phase of American life. At present the time of display for the remaining three groups is not known.
The pictures themselves are facsimiles of the originals, which are located in art museums and galleries throughout the United States. The prints were made from photographic plates and finished in Austria, their scope ranges from tenement scenes to the United States Senate, and from portraits to landscapess.
It is hoped by the Living American Art Association that the returns from the sale of the pictures will be enough to guarantee a living to the artists, and to make the public familiar with the work of American artists. The exhibit is being displayed in over two hundred American cities throughout the United States under the provision that if the sale from the exhibit is not large enough the exhibitors will purchase at least one copy.
According to the directors of the Association this is the first time that the painter may secure a living from a royalty on the sale of facsimiles of his work.
An alarming shortage of room and board jobs may cause 200 students of the University of Wisconsin to withdraw from school.
JOE BRIEN ELECTED TO PRESIDENCY OF MET CLUB
Joe Brien of Brooklyn, New York, was elected president of the Metropolitan club for 1936-37, defeating Bill Foley 65-51. Frank Carroll defeated John Marbach in the race for
Joe Brien
vice - president. Ed Condon was elected treasurer when he defeated Tom McMahon. The Met club’s secretarial duties will be taken care of by Joe O’Brien who defeated his nearest rival Ed Farrell.
The election was completed Thursday evening, Oct. 15, under the direction of the S.A.C. with George Bon-
field in charge of the voting. The new election Thursday was necessary after a tie for the office of president had resulted between Bill Foley and Joe Brien at the regular election, Wednesday evening.
The Met club’s new deal immed-
iately began with 139 members pledg-* ing themselves to buy at least one
ticket to the Christmas dance. The
profits from this dance are expected to be used to pay off the $100 debt to the Hotel Roosevelt.
Much of the credit for the revival of the Met club belongs to the S.A.C. and to the New York Alumni club
■who did all in their power to reorganize the campus organization.
NOTRE DAME LAWYER TO MAKE DEBUT NEXT MONTH
The twelfth volume of The Notre Dame Lawyer is being groomed for its initial quarterly edition by its editorial staff, who hope to have it out by the early part of November. Tentative months of issue are January, March and May.
There will be very few changes in the policies and management of the volume. As in previous years, the published material will be submitted by members of the faculty, outstanding jurists and students of the law school. Most of the material will consist of recent topics in that field and individual cases wrhich have become prominent recently.
The editors are Arthur C. Gregory, James H. Levi, Guy H. McMichael, Jr., and Arthur R. Martins, Jr. The business manager is Harry T. Grube. All the members of the Law Faculty are on the board of advisers, which will guide the destinies of the publication.	•
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
PLAN THIRD DANCE IN WEEK-END
SERIES
o
The third dance of the year under the auspices of the S.A.C. will be held tomorrow night, October 24, at the Jefferson Plaza. All Saturday night dances this year will be sponsored in an attempt to provide students with worthwhile means of recreation. This announcement was made at the weekly meeting of the S.A.C. held in the north basement of the library Monday evening.
Mai-ty Burns was again appointed by President Philip Bondi to act as chairman of the dance committee. The music will be provided by the Notre Dame orchestra under the direction of Frank Barbush. "
Tickets for this week’s dance will remain at the reduced price of fifty cents a couple. It is hoped that this new low price will encourage students to attend these dances and make them a regular Saturday evening event. Tickets may be purchased from any of the S.A.C. members or at the doors of the Jefferson Plaza.
A. I. E. E. Hears Talks < On Metallizing	i
(
Plans for a banquet and talks on I “The Process of Metallizing” were the main topics of discussion at the second meeting of the A.I.E.E. held on Monday evening in the Engineering building.
Chairman, Ducey; Vice-chairman, Kaczmarek; and Secretary, Shields gave talks on the different phases of the metallizing process.
Before closing the meeting Ducey read excerpts from the official organ of the A.I.E.E., “Electrical Engineering,” regarding the organization and activities of branch societies.
DEMOCRATS PLAN
Organization plans for a Young Democratic club were completed Tuesday afternoon at a meeting held in the basement of the Law building. Robert Filson, Petrolia, Pa., a senior in the College of Law, was elected president. Other officers elected were •Luke Tiernan, Chicago, Hl., vicepresident; and William Fish, Chicago, HI, secretary- treasurer. Sponsor and advisor of the group will be Professor Clarence Manion of the Law faculty. The Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., addressed the group at its first session Thursday night in the Law Building. Committees will be appointed shortly by President Filson.
Here we have him: Parker Sullivan, of Lexington, Kentucky, in the heart of the blue grass. President of the senior class, but has to be reminded of it at times to tone down his enthusiasms. Lives in 337 Walsh with another Man About, Al Schwartz.
A politics major who shunned theory and adopted practical methods last year to achieve his election. If you see a tall, dark and slender man shuffling over to breakfast in the caf
at about nine o’clock, that’s your man. If you don’t see him, it’s six to one he’s in bed.
Retired as undefeated marble champion of North East Central, Lexington, and still can’t explain the arrival of sacks of marbles from points west.
Trembles when someone reminds him how close he came to washing dishes for the Palmer House.
Hobbies—collecting ash trays, towels and mechanical devices of sundry types; loves speedboats.
Though claiming his life is an open book, he lives in constant dread of the appearance of The Scholastic with its accompanying Caf Smoke and The Week.
Doesn’t read shadow stories but a shadow keeps him on the jump. Claims he spends his summers in the role of a telephone lineman, but after watching his leisurely gait for these long years, not much faith is placed in this claim.
Has a love for Spanish which was cultivated early in high school. Five semesters of Spanish study at Notre Dame haven’t changed him.
High school data: all-state basketball guard from Henry Clay high school; football season found him at left half.
Rumors of his ability as a high
JOHN McCORMACK ON LOCAL CONCERT PROGRAM
•
John McCormack, world famous Irish tenor and 1933 Laetare medalist, heads the list of six famous singers and composers and three outstanding musical organizations who are scheduled to make concert appearances in South Bend this coming season. -
Fritz Kreisler, Gladys Swarthout, Frank Forest, Daniel Ericourt, the noted French pianist and composer, Trudi Schoop and her Comic Ballet, Father Lach’s Symphonic Boys’ Band and the Ballet Russe are the others who will appear. All performances will be given at the Palace Theater under the sponsorship of the Concert Guild of South Bend.
From Nov. 2 to.March 15 of next year, music lovers of South Bend and the University will be rewarded for their appreciation of last year’s concerts by some of the outstanding programs on tour today. Kreisler, world renowned violinist and composer, will be the first to appear.
One of the most welcomed treats for music lovers will be the concert early in January in which Gladys Swarthout, lovely mezzo-soprano of the stage, screen, and radio, and Frank Forest who is soon to add motion pictures roll to his list of merits also, will be featured.
COLONELS MEET
At a meeting held last Wednesday evening in the basement of the Law building, the Kentucky Club, under the guidance of Emil J. Peters, laid plans for a smoker following the Ohio State game.
Visitors from the Blue-grass state to the Ohio State-Notre Dame game will be entertained by the 35 members of the local organization, according to present plans. Details will be arranged at the bi-monthly meeting scheduled for October 28.
In addition to Peter, the club is officered by Bill Werner, revenue officer; and Jack Elder, watcher of the Still House.
diver find their way to Notre Dame. He insists that he once dove one hundred feet from a natural bridge into a damp rag.
His feminine interest is centered back home where he competes with an undertaker for the affections of the Belle of the Blue Grass.
Intends to practice law among the ridgeland people when he is graduated.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
OCTOBER 28 LAST DAY FOR JUNIOR "DOME" PICTURES
THE WEEK
By John A. Gillespie
Off campus juniors wishing to have their pictures in the Dome, Notre Dame yearbook, are asked to appear in the basement of Walsh hall any week-day afternoon before Wednesday, Oct. 28, it was announced Tues-
Louis J. Dunn Heading Junior Round-up
day by Louis J. Dunn, managing editor of the publication. No junior class pictures will be taken after that date.
Appointments for pictures are being made with all campus juniors by Dome staff members. All juniors are asked to be prompt in observing scheduled time. Results of this system were highly satisfactory during the first week, Dunn declared.
John Cottingham, the Dome snapshot editor, renewed the publication’s invitation to all students to contribute snapshots of student interest. These should be forwarded either to the Dome office or else to 217 Dillon hall. Cottingham said that snaps of student life, campus visitors or other activities would be suitable subjects.
Reunion Tonight Draws Westerners to Town
A formal reunion of the Kansas-Oklahoma club will be held this Friday evening at one of the downtown hotels. At a meeting, Tuesday, Oct. 20, it was decided to have communion breakfasts on the statehood days of both states. The first one will be Nov. 16, the statehood day of Oklahoma; the next communion breakfast will be held in January on Kansas’ statehood day.
Robert Siegfried, committee chairman, has made extensive plans for Rockne Memorial program on March 31, which is ah annual affair of the club. It will include special films and an address.
The officers of the club are: James Downey, president; Al Schwartz, vice president; John O’Hearn, secretary; and Charles MacNamara, treasurer.
Revival — Delayed
Having nothing to do Wednesday night of last week, we wandered over to the Met Club elections. Our interest was definitely not reportorial; amusement was our sole objective. But developments proved irresistible, and here’s the story. The two presidential candidates involved were Bill Foley and Joe Brien, both good men and true. Immediately after the final vote had been cast, the rumor went round that Foley was in by one ballot. Then dramatic possibilities asserted themselves. One New Yorker had cast a vote on which the names of his favorites had been crossed out. Phil Bondi, president of the S.A.C., who was in charge of the business, asked for a vote as to whether the ballot should be counted. Wrangling began; the Foley supporters knew that the questionable vote was for Brien, so they opposed counting it. Brien advocates naturally wanted to have it accepted. It began to seem advisable to call out the National guard, but the vote was counted, and it tied the election. Brien and Foley had an equal number of rooters. The candidates for other offices were installed, but the meeting was judged abortive. Metropolitan Clubs have come and gone; scandal has attached itself to some of them, fame to others; but for sheer news-value and pathos, we nominate the 1936 edition. We hope that the boys smooth the ridges and ride to glory under their new president, Joe Brien. We almost forgot to mention that Joe finally won under the strictest of supervision.
Small Town Style
Members of the ig-nobility: the intellectual lightweights who made of the Wisconsin pep meeting a Minsky show. Several times during the evening activities were interrupted by piercing and persistent whistles, directed at new arrivals. Of course the immediate observation on the part of dispassionate spectators was that the culprits were freshmen. This indictment is the easiest way of evading the issue, but it has no substantiation. Regardless of the identity of the whistlers the fact remains that something drastic should be done, and that immediately. Whistling, catcalls, and general annoyances infest all University assemblies. Washington Hall movies lose half their enjoyment because of the side remarks and hoots that greet the portrayal of anything but the most obvious plot.
The next step might well be limiting the shows to animated cartoons and advertisements so that there could be no opening for any sort of demonstration. But, viewing things as they are, maturity is needed. Maybe you do it outside Gus’s Greasy Spoon back home, but here, why — drop your tops and marbles, boys, and start life anew. Whistling went out with the stereopticon.
Ordeal
Of the campus barbers’ mania for cutting heads to the bone much has been said, but little written. So we dropped into the local home of the striped pole to investigate. For a while everything was as it should have been; our stringy sidebums were carefully trimmed, and our neck was shaved according to pattern. We were in chair three, and the attendant was pleasingly taciturn. Suddenly the worker’s method of .attack changed. He whispered breathlessly and anxiously, “Any off the top?” We thought torturedly of the many examples of butchery on the campus, but, like martyrs to a great cause, we answered, “Yes, just a little.” That was all the leeway he needed. His breathing became hurried and heavy, his hands shook like flies in a snowstorm, and he snapped his scissors nervously. Our hair fell in great gobs; he grinned maliciously. Nearby patrons and barbers ceased operations and gasped at the havoc. Finally he reached the frontal lobe, and we pleaded that he release us for a class in five minutes. He snarled and brandished his razor. Three minutes later we arose, weak and shaken, and stumbled out the door, hearing in the background our assailant bragging “Wait till his friends see him.” At least he admits we have friends.
Impressions
The defeat of Wisconsin is easily explained. In the Chicago Herald Examiner of October 14 a clipping appeared which revealed that the members of the University of Wisconsin football squad would attend the Saturday night performance (Oct. 17) of “Dead End” in Chicago. We’ll bet they were in the right mood for it.
Thoroughly commendable was the sportmanship exhibited at the Wisconsin game by both factions.
Top of the Week
The Wisconsin Bandsmen singing between halves.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus Founded 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C----------Faculty Adviser
PAUL FOLEY__________________________Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER____________________Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie__________________The Week
Anthony F. O'Boyle_______________College Parade
• John Hurley______________________Feature Editor
Robert L. Grogan“Scholastic of the Air” Joseph Rotondo_2_____________In The Juggler Vein
News Staff
Louis DaPra____________________________________News Editor
Harold A. Williams_______________________Assistant News Editor
Michael Mongoven______-________________________Frank Reilly
Richard Riley_______________________________Robert McClain
Graham Starr
Vincent Hartnett'] Gregory Byrnes J Literary Editors
Harold Williams J
Sports Staff
Eugene Vaslett________________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe_________________________Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley_______________________________Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride_____________________________Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby____________________________John Cufford
Charles Callahan William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott_______________________________James A. Waldron
James Dunn
Francis Kroeger__________________________________Art Editor
William R. Dooley, '26____________________________Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of ■ Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Vol. 70	October 23, 1936	No. 5
PLAN OF ATTACK ...
LESS THAN a year ago the pulp paper empire of
William Randolph Hearst was screaming madly about the curse of Communism in the universities of the country. For several weeks the parade of stories splashed generalizations over the front pages of the nation.
It was amusing to see Mr. Hearst swing away from his long allegiance to the fight against the “yellow peril” and dip his brush in the red. Most of the stories were amusing in their utter lack of fact, the bombastic insincerity in which they were written to capture attention.
Now, however, Mr. Hearst has very nearly forgotten that short-lived crusade. He has taken up the editorial cudgels for some other cause that appears to be the salvation of the world.
Mr. Hearst’s attitude has apparently taught many students and alumni a valuable lesson. There is not, and cannot be, any doubt about the real menace of Communism in this country. There can be no doubt too, that the forces of Communism are not always ranting fanatics,
in fact, Communistic propaganda is one of the subtlest tools to be loosed in the country in its history.
Communism, in its more dangerous aspects, seldom comes into the open to do battle. For this reason it is futile to let loose a sudden barrage of linotype slugs in an effort to check the Red growth".
Archbishop Michael J. Curley of Baltimore startled the world of education recently by his proposal to teach the tenets of Communism in parish schools. Archbishop Curley realizes that to successfully combat Communism we must first understand it. To argue convincingly we must be able to state equally well, both of the opposing cases.
. The Notre Dame Alumni association has adopted something of the same attitude. Recognizing the necessity of sure and powerful action against the growing forces of Communism, the alumni group did not rush into print with an editorial blast against the “Red Peril.” Such headlong charges leave one open to deadly counterattack.
This week’s issue contains the report of the return of Mr. Arthur J. Hughes, alumni president, from Rome, where he was granted a private audience with His Holiness the Pope. Back in this country, Mr. Hughes and his co-workers, cooperating with Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. and the University administration, are preparing a detailed program of action by Catholic laity, designed to meet Communism and to defeat it.
It would be much easier for such sane campaigns as the Notre Dame alumni program and Archbishop Curley’s plan, to be successful, if their righteous cause was not adopted so often and so vehemently by the drum-beating exponents of sensationalism.
V
Ultra-modern civilization has shown a tendency to become obsessed with the idea of its own cleverness. With the development of super-scientific research, mechanical invention, synthetic processes of one kind and another, the world has taken an “I can do anything” attitude.
In such a scene faith has scant hope. Rev. James Martin Gillis, C.S.P., in a series of five sparkling lectures this week, went to the very heart of the problem.
Taking the products of a century of science, Father Gillis proved how feeble it is for man to deny a creator. He went on to stress the meaning of atheism, and how few atheists really exist.
The important thing is not that Father Gillis restated old truths. The important thing is that with these same old truths he fashions darts that puncture completely the smugness of the so-called “Modern.” The important thing is that Father Gillis fired five salvos in a direction sorely needing attack.
V
“Rent a cab” will probably be the next slogan in the local taxi industry if the tendency to bump the prices continues. The least one can hope for is consistency — but the same trip now shows a meter variation every other time. The campus has been a gold mine for cab drivers; it seems a shame to cut off the yield to spite the meters.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
11
CALENDAR
Friday, October 23
Scholastic staff meeting, editorial staff 6:30 p.m., general staff 7:00 p.m.; Annual Engineers’ Initiation, Gym; Fr. Gillis lecture, “Morality; the New Style,” Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.; Kansas - Oklahoma club reunion.
Saturday, October 2b
Football, Pittsburgh vs. Varsity. Pittsburgh, 1:00 p.m.; Knights of Columbus Smoker, K. of C. chambers, Walsh hall, 2:00 p.m.; Football, Mishawaka High School vs. Central of South Bend, Stadium, 2:00 p.m.;
-Movies, Washington Hall, first show for Freshmen starts at 6:40 p.m.; S.A.C. dance, Jefferson Plaza, Frank Barbush orchestra, 8:30 to 11:30 p.m.
Sunday, October 25
Student Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00, Sacred Heart Church, St. Vincent de Paul meeting, K. of C. chambers, Walsh Hall.
Monday, October 26
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; S. A. C. meeting, basement of library, 6:30 p.m.; Chesterton Society meeting, Law auditorium, 8:00 p.m.; Western club meeting, Brownson Bec., 7:45 p.m.
Tuesday, October 27
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Arnold Lunn lecture, “Communism,” Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
~Wednesday, October 28
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Kentucky club meeting, Law building, 7:45 p.m.; Annual Press club smoker.
Thursday, October 29
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; D.r. Arthur Haas lecture, “Physics and Religion,” Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.; Italian club meeting, Carroll Rec., 7:45 p.m.; Press club meeting, Warren Brown guest speaker, 8:00 p.m., Library.
Kelly To Plan Active Year For Pitt Club
Forty members attended the first meeting of the Pittsburgh Club on Monday, October 19, in the Carroll Rec. The president, Robert Kelly, outlined the activities of the club for the year, which include a Communion Breakfast, Smokers, and possibly a Christmas dance. Plans were discussed for the organization of a hockey team.
Membership in the club is open to anyone living within 50 miles of Pittsburgh.
The officers of the club are: Paul McArdle, vice-president; and Paul Anderson, secretary.
COLLEGE PARADE
Freedom of The College Press
From the Daily Illini, student publication of the University of Illinois, comes this interesting item.
The mayor of the city where the University is located recently issued a statement to the effect that all the gambling establishments there had been closed. However, shortly after the mayor had made public his statement the Daily Illini printed a story written by one of its own staff members telling of the reporter’s experiences in a horse race betting dive.
Not very long after the story came out the managing editor of the University paper was threatened with grand jury indictment because of his absolute refusal to disclose the name of the reporter who wrote the story.
—o—
What Price Leisure
Did you ever hear of a machine called the Sparkograph? Students at the University of New Mexico became acquainted with it this year when upon their return to school they found all the campus benches were equipped with a curious device. The machine is used for the purpose of timing students at the school who use the benches to rest their weary bodies. Its operation is very simple. Before a student can use the bench he first has to deposit a nickel into the device. Then when his time is up a warning buzz is given and if the weary one is still too tired to notice it an electric shock will call his attention to the fact.
—o—
Utilizing Knowledge
A student this fall enrolled in Hobart College’s new course in criminology. The following day the same student was arrested because he gave the school registrar a bad check, cashed two hot’ ones, and plundered a fraternity.
—o—
Speaking Briefly—
Authorities at Northwestern are considering the advisability of extending the school’s campus a half mile into Lake Michigan . . . Ohio State University boasts that 98% of its June graduates in the College of Engineering have secured employment . . . Coach Charles E. Dorais, former Notre Dame luminary and team mate of “Rock’s,” conducts free grid clinics at the University of Detroit where he is head coach. . . Students at the University of Illinois who wish to drive on the campus must pass a chauffeur’s examination .. . The latest novel theory explaining a declining birth rate is that of Dr. Clarence A. Mills, of the University of Cincinnati, who attributes the de-
John Manning To Head Science Society
John Manning, senior scientist, was elected president of the Academy of Science at a meeting held recently
Scientist John Manning Heads Record Membership
in Room 104 Science hall which was attended by sixty members.
This large membership, the greatest in the ten years of the club’s existence, named Charles Hufnagel, vice-president; George Best, secretary, and appointed George Bates, Henry Hickey and Thomas Kelley to serve on the executive committee.
After the officers were installed, the Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., moderator, addressed the Academy.
Buffalo Club Draws Up Long-Range Program
•
Headed by Tom Condon, president, the Buffalo Club met Wednesday, October 14 in Carroll “Rec” to draw up plans for the first semester. Present at .the meeting were a total of 60 members, of whom 20 were freshmen.
Among the activities which the Buffalo Club will hold this semester is a football banquet in Buffalo, December 19, followed by a Christmas dance in the same city on December 26. A smoker will be held before the conclusion of the first semester.
Phil Bondi, president of the S.A.C., spoke briefly to the club members on what is expected in the way of organization and activities of the club for the school year.
The next meeting of the club will be held on October 28 in Carroll “Rec.”
crease to an increase in the earth’s heat. . .
Prize Headline of the Week’s Exchanges: “Students Could Be Dismissed For Bad Conduct in 1896.” —From the Temple University Daily Neivs.
And what, may we ask, happens to students for bad conduct in 1936?
a
f
FOR BIG MOMENTS — A light Smoke’
Wedding toes, Consider you
Its a Light Srn
reach for a
reach for a
Lucky!


When Thrilling fey
To Constant Sir When you’re excited... nlyo thrilled, you smoke manpci^ thinking about it. Make vou smoke. Smoke Luckies—ifo light smoke of rich, ripe-bcdit are made of the center leav
bu ■ iyc jo
t
tobaccos that money can the only cigarette in whid important throat protectio
process. Yes, the only cigaret ... the fine-tasting cigarette that "lives happily ever-after”'
* * “SWEEPSTAKES”
f



17 Winne and I*
Eleven men ar Honolulu and Alaska knew 1 so well that th name the toon Lucky Strike " —just like that and good lucl far-away "Swe
Have you er won your deli, ThereTmusic "Your hit Ps and Saturday e’ and compare Your Lu-ky Si
And if sCu’j ing Luckies, b try them. ?]’y ing somediinj
RIPE-BODIED / TOBACCO - "IT’S TO
Copyright 1936. The American Tobacco Company
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.	13
The Face in the Moonlight By Edward Fischer
e
noke!
I ^ vents Lead Stroking!
nervous... happy and ny* cigarettes without e vour choice a light — for Luckies are a -bodied tobacco. They : leaves of the finest
in id
buy. And they are iyou’11 find the all-
io il of the "Toasting” igarette. Lucky Strike .recce ... the cigarette .fter” with your throat.
ES” FLASH! * * inners in Alaska nd Honolulu!
nen and women in far off lu and six way up north in mew their popular music that they have been able to e top ranking songs in Your trike "Sweepstakes” 1-2-3 ke that. Congratulations... yd luck to the many other ’ "Sweepstakes” fans.
you entered yet? Have you lk delicious Lucky Strikes? music on the air. Tune in Hit Parade”—Wednesday irdayevenings.listen,judge njate the tunes—then try u_ky Strike “Sweepstakes.” f >Cu’re not already smok-I jes, buy a pack today and n. i^iybe you’ve been miss-ic ching.
i TOASTED"
THE LIGHTS of “The Red Feather” inn twinkled merrily through the frosted atmosphere. A muffled sound of riotous voices came from within the Russian tavern. Nicholas, the stable boy, stood beneath the sign of “The Red Feather” and chafed his frozen fingers. He had but an hour longer to stay on duty, and then warm food, a cheerful fire, and a good night’s sleep.
As he stood there thinking of food, fire, and sleep, his ears caught a distant sound of horses’ hoofs pounding the frozen earth.
With eyes dulled by the frost, Nicholas watched the horses come galloping down the roadway, behind them a tiny sleigh slipped silently over the frozen ground. In the moonlight, the road looked like a huge black serpent coiled on a silvery background.
As the animals were jerked to a standstill, Nicholas grabbed at the reins. The horses breathed heavily through theii' ice-caked nostrils. The froth from their mouths hung frozen to the bits. Nicholas noticed that there were two figures seated in the sleigh, both well packed in furs. He held the horses' reins and waited for the occupants to go into the inn so that he could attend to the animals. For a moment both figures sat motionless, then a man spoke.
“Sari, I give you your last chance. We are on the outskirts of Podolsk, just a few miles farther is Moscow. There we can be married yet tonight.”
From the blankets of fur came a ■woman’s bitter answer,
“No, Boris, I hate you. I would never marry you.”
“Remember, Sari, you do it for your brother.”
“You cannot make my brother a thief and a murderer; it would be false.”
“Certainly it would be false, but I have influence. It is up to you whether or not he shall live free or freeze in a Siberian prison camp.”
The man jumped from the sleigh, the woman timidly followed him. Then he spoke in a harsher tone,
“Sari, must I force you?”
“No, no, not yet. I must have time to think.”
As she lifted her- face a stream of moonlight flowed over it. Nicholas stared. It was so white; so beautiful, and the large dark eyes reflected such terror and pain, like the picture of a Madonna. They passed through the doorway. The woman mounted the stairs to the rooms above the inn. The man walked toward the gambling table.
Nicholas had but a glimpse of her face in the moonlight, but the sight of that face pierced his soul and set Iris heart pounding. He left the horses standing in the roadway and walked into the tavern.
Old Ivan, the innkeeper, sat alone at the far end of the room smoking his Russian pipe and watching the drunken Cossacks drink more
“vodka” and slide their golden “rubles” across the bar.
Nicholas laid his hand on the arm of Ivan’s chair and it trembled as he asked, “Who is that man and woman who just entered?”
Old Ivan gave a grunt of surprise as he answered, “The woman’s name I do not know, but surely lad you have heard of Boris.Dollohov, the greatest gambler in all Russia. He is a bad one, lad, and I warn you steer clear of him. He has fought more duels than any man alive. The bodies of his victims lie strewn from St. Petersburg to Tiflis. Yes, lad, he is a bad one.”
Nicholas made no reply but strode to the table where Dollohov sat playing. The low voices of the gamblers were a contrast to the loud songs which rolled from the lusty throats of the Cossacks around the bar. Nicholas watched the stakes grow. The dark Boris sat gazing intently at his cards. All the men had dropped out of the game except Boris and Lame Alexander. Lame Alexander called Dollohov’s hand, and Dollohov laid down the'winning cards.
Nicholas gave a startled cry and yelled, “He didn’t win. He cheated. I saw him cheat.”
Dollohov’s face fired with anger. He jumped from his chair ready to duel on the spot. Old Ivan hurried across the room, grabbed Dollohov by the arm and pleaded, “Don’t pay any attention to the lad, Boris. He is only a stable boy, scarcely seventeen. He doesn’t know what he is saying.”
With a proud toss of his head Dollohov replied, “Since he is only a boy, I will give him a chance to apologize. That is more than I would do for a man.”
The room was hushed. Even the drunken Cossacks were listening. Nicholas stood with jaw set and stared straight into the hot eyes of Dollohov.
“I say you cheated. I will not apologize.”
Not a word was spoken. The men began to move toward the back door of the tavern.
Old Ivan went behind the bar and brought out two pistols. He was the last to leave the inn.
The silent group of men stood lined along the back wall of the inn yard. Many of them had seen Boris fight duels before. Old Ivan cocked the pistols and gave one to Dollohov, and as he handed the other to Nicholas he grasped the boy’s hand and muttered, “Good luck, lad.”
Dollohov and Nicholas stood back to back. Old Ivan began to count the paces. “One, two, three,” he could scarcely get the words from his throat, “four, five, six, seven.” A chill ran through his body and left a sickening sensation at the pit of his stomach, he could hardly count on, “eight,—nine,—ten.”
Both men turned. Dollohov fired. Both figures remained motionless for a second, then like an echo Nicholas’ shot rang out. Dollohov pitched forward to the frozen earth. Nicholas fContznzted on Page 22)
14	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
ATHLETICS
UNDEFEATED IRISH MEET FIRST REAL TEST IN GRUELLING GAME WITH PITTSBURGH AS PANTHERS SEEK REVENGE
IRISH-PANTHER SERIES HAS TENTH GAME TOMORROW
By Al Bride
To-morrow the eyes of the entire sports world will be centered on a concrete oval situated in Pennsylvania’s claim to the smokiest city where the unbeaten Fighting Irish of Notre Dame lock grips with the famed Pittsburgh Panthers.	—------1------■----
The meeting of these traditional foes will be witnessed by an overflowing crowd of football enthusiasts fully prepared to see football as it should be played. The opening whistle will touch off the fuse that will give concentrated dynamite free rein.
Rabid Panther rooters and even some of ithe over zealous sport writers passed lightly over Ohio State, Duquesne, Notre Dame, Fordham and others and proclaimed Pitt as the eastern representative in the Rose Bowl. These predictions received a jolt last Saturday when Matsik of Duquesne galloped 72 yards for the touchdown that upset the Pittsburghers.	■
As a result of last week’s upset the Sutherland coached aggregation will face the Irish fully determined to regain -winning ways. A victory over Notre Dame would remove the sting of the Duquesne defeat and would once again establish the Panthers as one of the foremost elevens of the country.
The Irish, on the other hand, have been coming along slowly, having knocked off Carnegie Tech, Washington U. and Wisconsin. Pittsburgh will be by far the toughest opponent the Laydenmen have encountered and a
Bob LaRue
great deal of interest will be centered upon their showing.
Pittsburgh - Notre Dame contests have been characterized by hard, bone-crushing football. Last year’s game in particular turned out to be 60 minutes of the most grueling football played in the Notre Dame stadium. Both teams countered once and both failed to convert. A tie seemed certain until late in the fourth quarter when Marty Peters, Irish end, stepped back and calmly booted the field goal that gave Notre Dame the margin of victory.
Jock Sutherland
This year’s contest promises to be a repetition of the one last season. The forward walls of both teams have smothered all opposition so far. The Panther’s front line held Ohio State’s running attack to a mere six yards, while the Irish line stopped Wisconsin’s smashing Jankowski. It is expected that both coaches will order straight football and the outcome will hinge on the play in the front trenches.
The Panther attack features power plays with Patrick, Larue, and Sta-pulis smashing through the line. They also have one of the finds of the year in the sophomore flash, Goldberg, who
(Continued on Page 18)
Tomorrow when the Irish venture into the lair of the Panther, it will mark the tenth meeting of these two
Bob McClure Pitt Fullback
great universities. The series stands 5-3 in favor of Notre Dame with one tie game. This game is the severest contest the Notre Dame lads have entered thus far this season, and a victory would be the opening of a strong bid for the National Championship.
The first game was played back in 1909 when the Irish started off this series on the right foot by winning 6-0. In 1911, Pitt was held to a scoreless tie by a weak Notre Dame team in a game played on a wet, soggy field. The Panthers were odds-on favorites to win and outweighed the Irish ten pounds per man. Yet the Blue and Gold returned with a scoreless tie and a moral victory. 1912 again saw the Irish triumph, but by a narrow margin of a field goal for the score was 3-0.
After a lapse of eight years, relationships were resumed in 1930, when Pitt in 1929 claimed that they, and not Notre Dame, should be entitled to the role of National Champions. That year, before a crowd of 72,000 fans who were anxious to see the outcome of the grudge match, another great Irish team, engineered by Schwartz, Savoldi, and Company, took the Panthers into camp to the tune of 35-19. Pitt’s points being (Continued on Page 20)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
15
CAPT. McNULTY WINS TENNIS TOURNEY
LATE IRISH ATTACK DEFEATS WISCONSIN AS EVERY RESERVE SEES ACTION IN HIGH SCORING GAME
By Tony O'Boyle
Hampered continuously by unfavorable weather and consequent unplayable court conditions the annual Notre Dame fall tennis tournament, after a month of fierce competition, was completed last Sunday afternoon when Captain Joe McNulty defeated in straight sets his team mate and doubles partner, Bill Fallon by the scores of 6-4, 8-6, 6-3. Despite a rather soggy court and occasional biting winds that chilled player and spectator alike both netmen staged one of the most bitterly contested final matches in recent tournament history.
Finals Were Close
As is often the- case in tennis the set scores fail to completely show the intensity with which the match was played. At no time during the contest was either player in a position to “let up” for a few games' and, although only 33 games were played, it took slightly more than two and a half hours to complete the match. With the exception of the last set neither man at any time during the struggle held more than a two game lead on his opponent.
Steadiness and the ability to pull through when the pressure was the hardest is the best way to summarize McNulty’s well deserved victory. Employing powerful drives to Fallon’s backhand the 1937 tennis captain reduced the lead which Fallon acquired for himself early in the first two sets by means of deceptive drop shots and sharply angled volleys from the net. Later in the second set McNulty by reversing his tactics and also using an effective drop shot that was cleverly mixed with his drives tricked Fallon out of position to win several important points.
A change in court strategy by Fallon when he abandoned the baseline to storm the net in the second set almost altered the complexion of the match but sporadic outbreaks of wildness and a tendency to undercut eventually nullified the points “Wild Bill” had piled up at the beginning of his sorties to the net. Throughout the match Captain McNulty had a decided edge over Fallon from the aspect of steadiness as well as being a bit more stronger on his ground strokes. Fallon was the superior of the two in volleying and net play until his obvious lack of practice caught up with him and compelled him to almost practically play the game McNulty wished.
Neither player had much difficulty in gaining the final round. McNulty disposed of Bill Arnold in the quar-
(Continued on Page 19)
By Charles Callahan
Playing a smashing brand of football and’ using seven teams, Notre Dame continued on its undefeated way by whitewashing Wisconsin 27 to 0. Thus, the first meeting of Elmer Layden and Harry Stuhldreher as opposing coaches ended with Elmer holding the upper hand.
SO THEY SAY
“If Harry Stuhldreher never runs up against any more teams coached by his old pals of the Four Horsemen team, it will be plenty soon enough for him.
“A week ago Saturday he met Nobe Kizer’s Purdue team and got licked 35-14, and yesterday who should he bump up against but his old fullback, Elmer Layden, and the latter’s Nore Dame football army. When Harry dug himself out from under he discovered that those frisky boys of Elmer’s had run all over his Wisconsin team, 27-0, as 25,000 spectators shivered in the cold and rain.” —James M. Costin in the South Bend News-Times.
“Notre Dame, with no excessive show of pride or prejudice, today accorded Wisconsin’s Badgers the same dose of poison administered at Madison last year. The count then and today was Notre Dame, 27; Wisconsin, 0.”—Edward Burns in the Chicago Sunday Tribune.
“A smoothly functioning Notre Dame squad — at least until Coach Elmer Layden cleared the bench and sent into action troops from as far back as the seventh team — rolled over Wisconsin, 27 to 0, here today.
“The Notre Dame first and second squad, with a bit "of emergency relief at the outset of the final period from troop No. 3, accounted for all the scoring, and though the final period saw a helterskelter of play up and down the field, even then Wisconsin was unable to generate a real scoring threat until the last minute, and time did not permit any capital being made.”—Warren Brown in the Chicago Herald and Examiner.
“The Badgers’ courage never flagged here Saturday afternoon, but there was a limit to their endurance, and that’s why they suffered a 27-0 defeat at the hands of a Notre Dame football team that grew more impressive as the game advanced.”—Henry J. McCormick in the Wisconsin State Journal.
For the first two periods the game was a fairly even affair. Bob Wilke, Irish left half, scored the only touchdown of the first half when mid-
Vic Wojcihovski Christy Walsh: Please Note.
way through the first period he broke off his own tackle and ran 16 yards to counter six points for Notre Dame. The Laydenites were greatly assisted during these first 30 minutes of play by the over-anxious Badgers who were continually being caught offside.
Wisconsin came right back after the initial Notre Dame score and taking the ball on their own 20 yard line, they carried it to the Irish 35 before being stopped.
In the second period Ed Jankowski, stellar Badger fullback, got away for a 30 yard gain to the Notre Dame 35 yard line. But that was as close as Wisconsin came to the Irish goal line in the first half. Notre Dame’s “shock troops” made a mighty effort to tally in this period—with Tonelli, Gleason and Kovalcik being the ball carriers—but they were finally held for downs on the Wisconsin three yard line.
Soon after the second half had started Fred-Mundee blocked a Badger punt, and the ball rolled out of bounds on the Wisconsin four yard line. Two plays later* the pigskin went over the Badger goal line with Vic Wojcihovski carrying the mail. Andy Puplis made it 13-0 when his place kick sailed between the uprights.
Wisconsin did not appear to have (Continued on Page 16)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
INTRODUCING
Tliis week we have with us Pythias of the Damon and Pythias combination of Danbom and Miller. Steve Miller, who scored two touchdowns in the first two games this season, as did Danbom, and who also received a head injury in the Washington game, as did “Larruping” Larry, but he lost out last Saturday when he didn’t see any action in the Wisconsin game. However tomorrow he’ll be ready to renew his “coincidence” contest with Larry, and all Notre Dame fans are hoping that the two of them will add to their touchdown records against the mad Panther of Pitt. If they do it will undoubtedly be a great day for the Irish as well as for Danbom the Swede and Miller the German-Irishman.
Football, Basketball, Baseball
Rock Island, Illinois lays claim to Steve Miller and remembers him well from his high school days, and well it should because Steve got about every athletic honor there was to have in Rock Island in 1930 and ’31. He took the City Doubles Tennis Championship; he was captain of St. Joseph High School’s basketball team, and received an All-State rating at the sport. He played baseball and received an All-State rating in that too. He was fullback on the football team and called signals as well, and received two All-City High School ratings, one in 1930, and one in 1931. While on St. Joe’s football team he played with Charlie Lang who is now the left-handed passer on the Army team. When Steve and Charlie meet each other in Yankee Stadium the middle of this November both will undoubtedly try to avoid each other, we hope Steve avoids him when the Irish have the ball.
.	. Scarlet Scourge
Miller caught the eye of the nation, as did many other young Notre Dame football players, in the Ohio State game of last year. He played the longest of any fullback on the squad, and that was when Carideo, Elser and Danbom were fighting it out with him. Steve scored the first touchdown in that memorable last quarter and to all appearances scored another latr but the referee had ruled that he fumbled the ball as he crossed the goal line and the score was no good. There was quite a controversy about that play, some maintaining that Miller had already crossed the goal line before he fumbled, and others that a Notre Dame man recovered the fumble; however, the outcome of the game was satisfactory to Steve even though his second touchdown had been taken away from him.	-
Steve has his own version of the height of futility in football. It’s an incident that occurred in the Wisconsin game of last year. That great back Jankowski was playing safety man on a play that saw Andy Pil-ney lugging the ball. Pilney was out in the clear with but Jankowski between himself and the goal line. ' Miller was assigned to block Jankowski out and did it with speed and dispatch as Pilney bore down on them, but Andy with no one between him and the goal line had to go and trip over Jankowski who lay sprawled
Steve Miller
out on the field with Miller on top of him. And that is the height of futility becaues when anyone has to take Jankowski out he has his work cut out for him. The Wisconsin star was the hardest hitting player that Miller ever played against besides Monk Meyer of the Army, and Merle Wendt, captain of Ohio State.
An Athletic Tradition ’	’
, Steve’s father, Stephen L. Miller, preceded his son in athletic fame when he set an enviable reputation as third baseman and outfielder on the Rock Island team of the Three-I-League. Mr. Miller probably wanted his son to follow his footsteps in the baseball world, and it certainly ' looked as = though he would until 1930 when Steve saw Notre Dame play the Army and determined to help make that Notre Dame team go.
Law is the Miller man’s chosen avocation, and this summer he began to gather experience while working in the State’s Attorney’s office in Chicago. His marks are always up there with the best of them as well as his football playing. Tomorrow when that 183 pound fullback goes against Pitt you’ll know that besides having Notre Dame on his side he’ll also have the law with him. We hope that will be sufficient for the Panthers.
ILLINI "B" MEN WHIP IRISH RESERVES
• -
The Notre Dame “B” team met defeat for the second time, in as many starts this season at the hands of Doug Monson’s Illinois “B” squad last Saturday. Completely outplayed during the first half, the Illini subs returned to the ball game with determination and pushed over a score late in the final period, settling the game at 6-0.
The Irish were handicapped at the outset when Joe DiMatteo was injured and had to leave the game. Still pursued by ill-luck, Notre Dame lost the valuable services of. Paul Morrison, who had played a bang-up game at right half until he broke his leg. McDonald and Bruder were the outstanding Illinois players in the line, impressing the Irish with their vicious tackling and blocking. The pay-off play, a short flat pass over the line from Wehrli to Burris, was the best play of the afternoon.
Clarence “Jake” Kline, who substituted for Bill Cerney as coach for the afternoon, saw two promising line men in Chuck Macaluso and Harry Fox. The line played all but a few minutes of the entire game, getting that necessary experience for varsity fire. The Notre Dame “B” squaders put up a courageous battle in view of the fact that they were exhausted from scrimmaging against the varsity last week in preparation for the Wisconsin game.
Wisconsin Downed
(Continued from Page 15)
the fight it had during the first half. When Notre Dame secured the ball, - tliis time on their own 40, they were again off on a touchdown drive. Rushes by Danbom and Wojcihovski, together with a fine pass from Wilke to O’Neil, brought the ball down to the Wisconsin 12 yard mark. Two off-side penalties called against Wisconsin placed the ball on the one-foot line. At tliis point in the fracas Larry Danbom again asserted himself but this time as a scorer. Andy Puplis’ educated toe was effective enough to send the score up to 20 for the Irish.
The so-called “first team” having completed its work for the afternoon, Layden sent in his “subs.” Jake Ko-valcik startled every one including Wisconsin by throwing a tremendous pass from his own 41 to the arms of Len Skoglund on the Badger’s ten. Again a swarm of subs rushed on the field and replaced the second string- ers. Chuck Borowski culminated the efforts of Kovalcik with a touchdown drive. Butch Bruno converted to finish the scoring for the day at 27-0.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
17
CAMPUS OPINION
The question: “What is your opinion of the weak response this year to interhall football?”
William Fitzgerald, Freshman, Cavanaugh Hall. “I was surprised when I didn’t hear more about the interhall teams. I had expected to hear more about them.”
*
William L. Struck, Senior Law Student, Sorin Hall. “I think the weak response to interhall football this year is due to the injuries incurred, and the inadequate facilities for the carrying out of the sport.”
*
Tom Mulligan, Junior, Morrissey Hall. “Interhall football has always been a game played on Sunday and forgotten during the week. Therefore, the new rules regarding strict training have caused many to drop the game because they are unwilling to devote the necessary time to it.”
*
John Flanagan, Freshman, Cavanaugh Hall. “The rules for going out are so strict that the fellows cannot get the time off to practice the amount of afternoons necessary and so they can’t play football on Sundays.”
*
John D. Broderick, Senior, Alunmi. “The weak response to interhall football is due entirely to the changing temper of the school. From a group of sweat-shirted, corduroy-trousered, manly young men, Notre Dame is changing into a pseudo-sophisticated imitation of the Eastern social schools.”
*
J. Murrin, Junior, Dillon Hall. “They don’t want to risk any injury for a sport in which there is no reward. Also it’s easier to stay in bed.”
*
J. Ryan, Sophomore, Morrissey. “I think that the reason for such little interest in interhall football is the difficulty in securing a medical slip. It takes too much time to get examined.”
*
Bill Arnold, Junior, Lyons. “I think the reason for the weak response to interhall football is because of the poor equipment used in past years. It is not worth the risk of the injuries that may be received.”
*
Jack Baker, Senior, Lyons. “I don’t believe that it is due to any lack of strength of character among the students, but rather to a common sense attitude due to poor equipment and lack of proper training facilities.”
INTERHALL FOOTBALL WILL START SUNDAY TOUCH FOOTBALL WILL BE PLAYED ALSO;
UNDER PHY. ED. RULES
By John Cackley
Interhall football will again be one of the featured sport attractions this fall on the Notre Dame campus, as six teams have been definitely signed by the Department of Physical Education officials. Students who are majoring
ON DOWN THE LINE
By Mike Crowe
Did you know that OZZIE NELSON, the popular band leader, was once a gridiron performer at Rutgers?
PEORIA will have a delegation of rooters down for the OHIO-STATE-NOTRE DAME fracas. The fans have chartered a special train so that they may be on hand to see the anticipated gridiron classic.
MAX BURNELL, Notr eDame sophomore left halfback, is a very good friend of JOHNNY ERJAVEG, youthful contender for the heavyweight boxing title.
GENE RONZANI, Chicago Bear halfback, faces trouble the year around. Not content with facing fierce opposition during the gridiron wars, Ronzani was employed during the summer as a bouncer in a Chicago bar.
Left-handed forward passers are few and far between. However, Coach CLARK SHAUGHNESSY of Chicago University has come up with one this year. He is LEW HAMI-TY. Incidentally, HAMITY can also toss passes with his right mand.
Maybe OSSIE SOLEM’S Iowa team will get its much needed scoring punch from a lad named BOB GRANGE. . Bob is performing at halfback for the Hawkeyes. If he is one-half as effective as RED GRANGE was, the Iowa sophomore ■will make a name for himself.
EARL SANDS, sophomore fullback at Kentucky University, has been a bad boy. He performed brilliantly against V.M.I. so Coach CHET WYNNE started him ‘ against Georgia Tech. After returning from the game, SANDS wasn’t heard of or seen util next Wednesday night at practice. His excuse was a sick grandfather. COACH WYNNE is now debating the player’s status.
JACK LOVELOCK, New Zealander who holds the world, and Olympic records for 1,500 meters, is of the opinion that athletics are taken too seriously today. He says that running against the clock takes all the fun out of racing, and that it frequently burns out the athletes.
(Continued on Page 20)
in Phy-Ed have been selected to coach the various squads. The list of halls and their coaches are as follows: Brownson tutored by Galleta; Cavanaugh, coached by Collins; Mor-
Mr. John A. Scannell His influence brought results.
rissey, with Conrad at the helm; Off-Campus, piloted by Jasinski; Freshman, with Strand as mentor; and St. Edward’s will be coached by Langton.
The schedule will get under .way Sunday afternoon, October 25, when three games are to be played on Car-tier Field at 2:30 p.m. Freshman is to tangle with Off-Campus in the oval, Cavanaugh will meet St. Edward’s on north field, and Brownson clashes with Morrissey on the south field. The race for championship honors promises to be a close battle, while at the present Brownson and Off-Campus loom as possible contenders for the final drive. The new rules and regulations this year were installed for the protection and safety of the participants. The program is under the supervision of Mr. Elvin R. Handy, of the Department of Physical Education.
Another innovation this season is an elimination tournament for touch football enthusiasts. This activity has always provided recreation, and enjoyment for the students during the regular grid season. Mr. John A. Scannell, head of the Department of Physical Education, has announced that the contests will commence Sunday morning, October 25, at 9:30 on Cartier Field. Alumni and Badin are slated for the oval, Cavanaugh tangles against Dillon on the north field, while Howard and Brownson will play on the south field. Sorin and Walsh received byes in the first round.
Touch football • will be played under the official football rules with the following exceptions:
fContinued on Page 20)
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
Splinters From The Press Box
By Cy Stroker
Irish Meet Pitt
(Continued from Page H)
Thank you, Mr. Jensen, thank you. Notre Dame probably would have won the game anyway, but that twenty-odd yard start you gave the Irish at the beginning of the game because you were so anxious and went off-side, helped considerably. We spectators laughed when you did that, Mr. Jensen, but we stopped laughing when we saw how effectively you and your teammates cleared holes for Wisconsin’s really great star, Jankowski. Nor did we feel much like laughing when we saw how quickly your brother linesmen came in to rush the kicker or hurry the passer as the game progressed. As a matter of fact, Mr. Jensen, (and keep it quiet, will you?), we haven’t done any laughing for a whole week.
For ever since the Wisconsin game last Saturday, when the Irish were scoring right and left and substituting right and left, and the downtown coaches were squealing with glee at the sight of the large score, and the statistics men were tearing their hair out at the sight of the numerous substitutions we have had but one thought in mind. . And that thought is that Notre Dame’s football season is just beginning. Yes, the Irish have won the first three games from good teams. But compared to the ones to come, Pitt tomorrow, Ohio State next week, Northwestern, and Southern Cal, those first three games were like high school contests.
Not that we are trying to belittle your Wisconsin team, Mr. Jensen. Far from it. For a squad that has had its back to the wall for several seasons and is operating for the first time under a new coach, you Badgers put up a stirring and courageous fight. And the week before, that little Washington U. team justly proved its right to be called a group of Iron Men. And Carnegie Tech was not a set-up by any means. But Mr. Jensen, you ought to see the size of that Pitt line! The men on that line are as big as the side of a house. And when they get through with our men tomorrow, Ohio State with its brilliant passing offense will march en masse from Columbus to Notre Dame with a year old chip on its shoulder.
We don’t have to tell you what a good team Northwestern has, Mr. Jensen. You’ll find that out on November 7th when you go down to Evanston. (We meet them two weeks later.) You are probably not acquainted with the Troublesome Trojans from California, but Notre Dame men know them too well to regard with complacency the reports that the Southern Cal is stronger this year than ever before. So you can see that we really have some reasons for worrying.
But all is not worry and gloom here. We have a team that wants for nothing when it comes to spirit and smart playing. The men on it have often been outweighed. They are not unacquainted with Pitt’s power, nor the Buckeyes’ aerial display, nor the aggressive and tricky play of the Trojans and Wildcats. And we have a coach who knows a great deal more about the game than he sometimes cares to admit. With a combination like that we find it hard to sit by and obey the recommendation of that coach when he first came here to "hope for little and expect less.”
So don’t feel too bad about those offsides, Mr. Jensen. They didn’t change the outcome of the game. But we sincerely wish that in tomorrow’s game with Pitt there would be some over-anxious Panther who would give Notre Dame a head start some way or other. If there were such a man and his name happened to be Jensen, then the whole Notre Dame student body would with all its heart say, “Thank you, Mr. Jensen.”
A sneaking suspicion has arisen within our breast to the effect that the science of game predicting has fallen more or less into disrepute since last Saturday. Pittsburgh, Ohio State, Navy, Iowa, and Southern Cal crossed up almost everyone in the profession, even that gentleman who writes for the South Bend papers and who has every team in the country right down to a mathematical quantity (expressed in percentages). And right on our own campus, the Sage of Sorin, Wally Fromhart, is pining away to a mere shadow from the effects of upsets in his last week’s predictions. But with his faith unshaken and confidence renewed (this sounds like a political speech) Wally comes right out and predicts this week:
is a touchdown threat every time he carries the ball. Notre Dame fans will be especially interested in the performance of Goldberg who, after signing up for Notre Dame, suddenly switched to Pitt.
The Irish have stuck mainly to straight football in chalking up their three victories. Wilke, Danbom, Woj-
cihovski, and Miller have featured the Notre Dame running attack. Between flashes of brilliant ability the Irish have shown evidences of ineffective blocking, sloppy ball-handling, and general all-around loose play. By Saturday it is expected that these difficulties will be ironed out, and the game will turn out to be one for the books.
NOTRE DAME over PITT
Holy Cross over Carnegie Tech Catholic U. over Mississippi St. Mary’s over Fordham Dartmouth over Harvard Michigan State over Marquette Princeton over Navy Georgetown over N. Y. U. Minnesota over Purdue Southern Cal over Stanford Northwestern over Illinois Alabama over Loyola Washington U. over California U. C. L. A. over Oregon State Ohio State over Indiana Nebraska over Oklahoma Georgia Tech over Vanderbilt
They almost had to use a pulmotor on Don Watson, Pomona College sophomore, who tried to guzzle six malteds in .20 minutes. At fifth down and three-fourths to go, the malted halted Watson.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
19
On The Enemies' Trail
TO DATE:
Pittsburgh — Defeated Ohio Wesleyan; West Virginia; and Ohio State. Lost to Duquesne.
Ohio State — Defeated New York University; Lost to Pittsburgh and Northwestern.
' Navy — Defeated William & Mary; Davidson; and Virginia. Lost to Yale.
Army — Defeated Washington & Lee; Columbia; Harvard.
Northwestern — Defeated Iowa;
North Dakota State; Ohio State.
Southern California — Defeated Oregon State; Oregon; and Illinois. Tied Washington State.
THIS WEEK:
Pitt plays Notre Dame.
Ohio State plays Indiana.
Navy plays Princeton.
Army plays Springfield College.
Northwestern plays Illinois.
Southern California plays Stanford.
Tennis Tourney
(Contimied from Page 15)
ter-finals by the scores of 6-2, 6-1, while Fallon breezed through Bill Walters without the loss of a game. In the semi-finals McNulty engaged Jim Waldron and eliminated him with a 6-3, 6-0 score, and Fallon after losing the first three games in each set disposed of another teammate, Eddie Kilrain by the scores of 6-4, 6-4. Both Waldron and Kilrain are members of the Varsity tennis squad and judging from their showing in the tournament will, along with Fallon and McNulty, and provide a strong .nucleus around which next year’s Irish tennis team can be built.
Captain McNulty and Fallon are the only two men on the squad who have had two years’ experience in intercollegiate tennis. Their net careers while at Notre Dame are very similar inasmuch as ever since their first year they have both managed to gain for themselves a round in at least one portion of the finals. Bill Fallon who won the tournament as a Freshman was the only man to have accomplished this feat and,- curiously enough, his opponent four years ago was Joe McNulty. They met again in their second year with Fallon repeating his victory. Last year Fallon was forced to default in the quarter final round- while McNulty lost to last year’s captain Joe Waldron in the finals. Captain McNulty last May won the State Intercollegiate Singles Championship down at Bloomington. In the same tournament Fallon got as far as the semi-finals. They paired up in the doubles and after reaching the finals of the State Doubles were eliminated after a hectic five set struggle.
IRISH TERRIERS HAVE BEEN "IRISH" MASCOTS FOR MANY YEARS BUT NOTRE DAME USED THEM ONLY SINCE ’33
By Nick Lamberto
The frisky Irish terrier which you see prancing up and down the sidelines, jumping over hurdles, and chasing real and imaginary enemies at the Stadium on Saturday afternoons is “Clashmore Mike,” the official team mascot.
“Mike,” as he is popularly christened, has already earned a place in
Mascot Mike
A Temperamental Irishman, He.
the hearts of Notre Dame students, alumni, and fans through his playful antics during the half at the football games. He was appointed the official mascot last year, and really came into prominence- during the half of last year’s Pitt game. At that time he chased a Pitt cheer leader, disguised as a panther, almost out of the stadium, thereby setting an example for the team to follow—which they did by winning 9 to 6 in the later stages of the game.
The -various tricks and stunts performed by talented “Mike” are the result of a year of intensive training by Dan Hanley, caretaker of the gymnasium. Dan has seen to it that his protege has had the proper diet and the right amount of exercise, besides teaching ‘Mike” the difficult stunt of jumping over and through a hurdle. Sometimes his performance is highly gratifying; other times he becomes temperamental and refuses to be coaxed even by the candy proffered him by the cheer leaders.
This Irish tender’s complete wardrobe of wearing apparel would make the average student across .-the lake green-eyed- with envy. It includes costumes for cold, hot, and wet weather in the school’s colors, gold
and blue. The creations which enclose Mike’s streamlined chassis are designed, not by Adrian or Travis Banton, but by Spalding Brothers. (Incidentally this is not. a ‘plug” for the latter company.)
Before the appearance of Crash-more Mike as mascot, Notre Dame’s, athletic teams had been mascotless since the disappearance of Shaun Rhue in the spring of 1933. Mike’s
predecessor, Shaun, was also an Irish terrier, but that’s as far as the resemblance goes.
Shaun was a likable dog in many ways, but also had a few bad traits. He, like many students, enjoyed nothing better than a little vacation in the form of a week-end. His weekends, however, were without official permission and extended not only for the week-end but for weeks, his latest “week-end” extending from the spring of 1933 until now. His mental alertness was also of the questionable quality as he was often known to stand nonchalantly in the path of oncoming cars, only escaping injury and death because of the driver’s quick action with the brakes.
Official mascots prior to Shaun Rhue’s time were unknown, at least in the opinion of “old timers” connected with the University. Many, on being questioned concerning the existence of mascots at the University, merely shrugged their shoulders in a dubious manner. One well known character said that in his day they didn’t have any use for such “sissy” things. Until some one unearths another, Shaun and Mike will stand alone as official Notre Dame mascots.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
On Down The Line
(Continued from Page 17)
CARL DEVRY and LES SCHREIBER, seniors, are roommates and fraternity brothers at Northwestern. Both are also left guard candidates on the Wildcat football team.
A slight brain concussion has caused CHRIS EVARHARDUS of Michigan to forego football. He received the injury in the Michigan State game.
KENT RYAN, star Utah halfback, now is a firm believer that Wyoming has strong winds. In a recent game against Wyoming University, RYAN kicked and the strong wind carried his boot out of bounds but four yards beyond the line of scrimmage.
Did you ever hear of a coach on crutches directing players? Such is the case with FRED LINEHAN, former Yale star, now line coach at New York University. An attack of arthritis caused the surprise appear-, ance.
MR. DONALD DAUGHTERS is playing left end for Harvard.
HARRY BALSAMO, new knockout sensation, says he can whip JOE LOUIS. He really believes it. BALSAMO has the color of a BABE RUTH, DIZZY DEAN and PEPPER MARTIN all combined. He appeared at a recent Garden rodeo, garbed in a cowboy uniform.
Do you remember “PHAINTING PHIL” SCOTT? One night after fighting in the Garden, he walked down Broadway with $27,500 in his hat. A sudden gust of wind sent his hat sailing across the street. Money flew in all directions. One man brought five $1,000 bills back to the boxer. SCOTT rewarded the man with a lone nickel in return for the young fortune.
Debating Tryouts To Be Held Soon
William J. Coyne, associate professor of speech, and coach of the Varsity Debating squad, announced that week that tryouts for varsity debating will begin in the latter part of November. No debating schedules have been arranged, but debates with other universities will probably begin in January.
The question, he said, has not been decided upon, but will be either the one used by the Mid-West League, or by Pi Kappa Delta, or both.
The questions debated by each organization respectively are:
“Resolved, that the extension of consumers’ cooperatives would contribute to public welfare.”
“Resolved, that Congress shall be empowered to fix minimum wages and maximum hours for industry.”
Interhall Football
(Continued from Page 17)
1.	Defense must be down with both hands on the ground from tackle to tackle. Penalty—5 yards.
2.	Players running interference must not leave their feet in blocking. Penalty—25 yards.
3.	A runner is stopped when touched by both hands of the defense player simultaneously.
4.	There will be no 5 yard penalty for the second or more incompleted forward pass in the same series of downs. Pass may be from any point behind the line of scrimmage.
5.	There shall be no tackling and throwing to the ground of the runner by the defensive team. Penalty —25 yards.
6.	Quarters are to be 10 minutes.
There has been a great interest shown in both speedball and soccer, and a round robin tourney has been arranged between the freshmen halls, beginning Sunday morning, October 25, at 9:30. Cavanaugh will meet St. Edward’s in soccer on freshman field, while Brownson plays Freshman in speedball on Brownson field. Last week Cavanaugh beat Brownson, 16 to 14, in sepedball, and Cavanaugh won over Freshman, 3-2, in soccer.
Youngstown Club Sets Yule Dance Date
The first meeting o tfhe Youngstown Club, held Tuesday evening in the Law building, was attended by 30 members. President Tim King presided.
The other officers of the club, elected at the end of last year, are as follows: vice-president, Ed Bros-co; treasurer, Frank Mastriana; secretary, Jim Daley.
Discussion of club activities' was held at this initial meeting. The annual Christmas dance, it was decided,
QUICK PICK-UP FOR
■^URFDFYFS
J Want to give your (4\ eyes a lift? Use Murine.
iiS I Soothing, refreshing
I to hot, tired, red-J dened eyes. Great for y' eyes irritated by readC ing, dust, wind, smoke, or light glare. Use it daily.
HIRING
* FVfq Your L* I
will be held in Youngstown on December 26. Action on campus activities was deferred until the next meeting.
Pitt Game History
(Contimied from Page 14)
scored while N.D.’s reserves were seeing action.
The Blue and Gold suffered their first defeat at the hands of the Panthers in 1932 when Mike Sebastian led the Pennsylvanians in a drive which upset the Irish by a 12-0 score. The Panthers repeated in 1933 by the score of 14-0, and in 1934, 19-0.
However, last season the Irish rose up and snapped the chain of defeats administered by the Panthers, and with the aid of Marty Peter’s sensational field goal in the final stages of the game triumphed, 9-6.
. AT YOUR DEALER
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
CRACOW CLUB MEETS TO LAY PLANS FOR ORGANIZATION
The Charles Phillips Cracow Club held its first meeting last Friday night under the direction of Rev. Stanislaus L. Lisewski, C.S.C., professor of Polish, who recently returned to Notre Dame after two years’ study at the University cf Cracow in Poland.
Plans for reorganization of the club were discussed. The following students were named to the reorganization committee: Joseph Krupa, Lyndhurst, N. J., chairman; Joseph Pawlowski, South Bend, and Edwin Ptak.
The club is one of the youngest organizations on the campus, and was founded in 1931 when the late Charles Phillips was teaching at Notre Dame. Mr. Phillips was deeply interested in Polish culture and Polish people. In his memory after his death in 1933 the name of the club was changed to the Charles Phillips Cracow Club.
The club encouraged the establishment of the chair of Polish culture at Notre Dame which was realized this fall with the return of Father Lisewski.
A Smoker will be given this week in connection with anothei- business session in the smoking room in the Law building. A nominating committee for the election of officers will be appointed. Joseph Krupa will give a paper on the “Life of Charles Phillips.”
Two years ago the club was host to the convention of “Polish Student Association,” an oragnization of Polish students in American colleges and universities which met in South Bend.
Membership in the club is not limited to Polish students only. Anyone interested in Polish culture and Polish people is eligible.
Former Sorin Rector Buried Saturday
Funeral services were held Saturday morning for the late Rev. James Ready, C.S.C., 71, who died Thursday night after a long illness.
Father Ready was a former professor of mathematics at the University, and was rector of Sorin Hall, from 1900 to 1903.
He was born in Franklin Square, Ohio, in 1865, entered the Congregation of Holy Cross on August 15, 1895, and was ordained two years later.
The requiem Mass was celebrated in Sacred Heart Church on the campus by the Rev. Joseph McGuire, C.S.C., president of St. Edward’s University at Austin, Texas.
Detroiters Choose New Vice-President
The election of Ray Barron as vice-president to succeed Alvin Van Hollenbeck, who didn’t return to school, and plans for a smoker, to be held Nov. 21, occupied members of the Detroit Club at their initial meeting, held Tuesday evening in Brownson Recreation Hall.
Tentative plans for a Communion Breakfast, a Christmas Dance, and a new method of raising money for the society’s treasury were also discussed, but nothing definite was decided.
Ohioans Plan Tonight For Service Booth
Girard Besanceney, president of the Central Ohio Club, this week announced tentative plans to set up an information booth for Ohio visitors at the Ohio State game a week from Saturday.
Don't Discard Your Typewriter Ribbons
KNUDSEN RIBBON REVIVER restores them to original freshness; easy to apply—no soiling of hands. One ribbon does the work of four.
Agents JOE DRUECKER 102 Walsh Hall and THE BOOK STORE
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
2221s South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE
DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
You can't open holes
Notre Dame men — and all others — know the value of a rugged, aggressive line. Every part of it must be up-to-the-minute, alert and durable. These are the characteristics of Douglas Shoes!
Six decades of All-Leather Construction have produced a line of Douglas Shoes designed for hard wear, work or play. A line that has something more than stubborn durability. A line that has — Style!
That’s why a great host of rooters favor Douglas year in and year out. Join the crowd and get your ticket for comfort, wear and smartness!
$4,-°° sg-oo 55'85 DOUGLAS ALL LEATHER CONSTRUCTION
W. L. DOUGLAS STORE
(IN SOUTH BEND)
210 SO. MICHIGAN STREET (Open Saturday Evening)
DOUGLAS MEN’S SHOES S4. S5. S5.85
MEN’S ^NORMAL TREDS .... $7 ^Patented, Corrective, Scientific Features
VICTOR C. ASTONE. N. D. Representative
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
SOMETHING WONDERFUL GOES ON INSIDE:
tobacco.
ALSO CIGARETTE
NOVEL « STANDMD SHAPES fboutfae.
FINEST 9 ■ BRIAR ■ MONEY
CAN BUY UNHEARD OF VALUE
AND CICAR
HOLDERS
SMOKE A PIPE?
fOU NEVER SMOKED A
FILTER-COOLED Jho/nfx. MEDICO
Tins simple appearing yet amazing absorbent filter invention with Cellophane exterior and cooling mesh screen interiorkeepsiuicea a nd flakes in Filter and out of mouth.
Prevents tongue bite, raw mouth, . wet heel, bad S^'Modor, frequent .j\\® expectoration.
No breaking in. Improves thetasteand
THE ONLY PATENTED “CELLOPHANE"^ SEALED FILTER -IT REALLY FILTERS
“Mindye, mon, it baen't the 5$ savin', but the bonny flavurr.. ” “Aye, McTavish, but at 10$ for Twenty Grand mightn't ye be offerin' one to an auld friend more often?"
10
ALSO OBTAINABLE IN FEAT FIFTIES
WE CERTIFY that we have inspected the Turkish and DomesticTobaccos blended in TWENTY GRAND cigarettes and find them as fine in smoking quality as those used in cigarettes costing as much as 50% more.
(Signed) Seii, Putt & Rusby Inc. (In collaboration with tobacco expert)
Chemists Hear History Of Color Photos
Urban Daly, a senior in the College of Engineering, presented a discussion of “Color Photography” at the initial meeting of the Chemists’ Club held recently in the Chemistry building.
He dealt briefly with the history and evolution of color photography, the phenomena of color, and the various processes employed by both industrialists and amateurs.
George Kerwin and Charles Welsh, junior chemical engineers, demonstrated the Solvay processes used industrially in the production of sodium bicarbonate and sodium carbonate.
President Joe McIntosh, a senior in chemical engineering, announced that Donald E. Rich, professor of chemical engineering, was elected honorary president of the organization to succeed Dr. Frank J. Sowa, now employed at Bendix.
At the next meeting scheduled for November 3, arrangements will be planned for the annual smoker which will be held early in December under junior auspices.
Louisiana State University is adding 100 new courses to the curriculum for the 1936-37 session.
Copr. 1936 The Axton-Fisher Tobacco Co., Inc.
Forty Attend Missouri Club Frosh Smoker
Forty members attended the smoker of the Missouri club last night. Among that number are 23 new* members, either freshmen or transfers.
President Edward Reardan expects that the club will hold at least two smokers a semester, and one banquet. At each one of them it is his plan to have some speaker from the campus address the Missourians. Arrangements have already been made for two Christmas dances, one at St. Louis and the other at Kansas City.
Although the club has been organized for six years, it was not until this year that it had alumni backing. So the officers expect to enjoy an active season.
The officers of the club are: Edward Reardan, president; Thomas Higgins, vice-president of the Eastern section; Thomas White, vicepresident of the Western section; Thomas Reardon, secretary and treasurer; and Al Nigro, sergeant-at-arms.
Face in the Moonlight
(Continued from Page 13)
took a feeble step, then sank into the snow. Ivan ran to the boy’s side. Already a patch of snow was stained a dark red. Ivan lifted Nicholas’ head and cried.
“Where has he shot you, lad? Steady now till we get you into the tavern.”
Nicholas laid his hand on Ivan’s arm and whispered,
“No, it is too late. The wound is too deep for mending.”
“Why did you do it lad?” Old Ivan sobbed, “Oh! why didn’t you let him cheat?”
A faint smile played over Nicholas’ lips, “But Ivan, he wasn’t cheating.”
Good God, lad, then •why did you accuse him?”
“I saw a beautiful face in the moonlight.”
Engineers Paddle
(Continued from Page 5)
Next an introductory course, not listed in the catalogue, in Painting, will be required of the novices. It was explained that the Engineers are attempting to fit their men for any type of job.
Their explanation, however, did not point out how two blindfolded men in a circle, both armed with large paint brushes recently dipped in a pail of yellow paint, could attain any perfection in the art of painting.
Despite repeated pleadings, the committee refused to divulge any more of their plans, but promised that “this is only the beginning.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 23, 1936.
23
Prof. Turley To Speak Before Italian Club
There will be a meeting of the Italian Club next Thursday night, Oct. 29. The place is as yet indefinite but will be announced on the boards and in the Bulletin.
Professor Turley, who spent the summer travelling in Italy and investigating the Italian educational system, will speak on this subject at . the meeting. All members of the club are urged to be present at this meeting.
Minnesotans To Hold
Smoker on Nov. 4
At its first meeting of the year, the Minnesota Club, under the presidency of Tom Bohen, decided to hold two smokers each semester, the first of which will be held November 4. Frank Winters was appointed chairman of this affair.
Continuing a custom of the past few years, the members of the club will return to their Minnesota homes in a special club car. Plans for a picnic or banquet in the spring were also discussed.
Philadelphians Attend First Club Session
The first meeting of the Philadelphia Club was held last Wednesday, October 21, at which time tentative plans for a Christmas dance and a smoker were discussed.
The following officers elected last spring will guide the activities of the club during the present school year: president, Leonard Tose; vice-president, Walter Marshall; secretary, Jack Armstrong; treasurer, John Le-vicki.
Islanders Breakfast
Plans for the annual Communion Breakfast were discussed at a meeting of the Rhode Island Club held last Wednesday evening in Carroll Recreation hall.
John Sullivan, president, announced that a winter smoker and Christmas formal are on the club’s activity list.
Servers Meet
Members of the Servers’ Club met last Monday night in the Sacristy of Sacred Heart Church.
Brother Boniface, C.S.C., sacristan of Sacred Heart Church and advisor of the club, instructed those present in the manner of serving both high and low Masses.
From the Files of The "Scholastic"
Oct. 16, 1880—The Sorin’ new Society-room is being nicely furnished.
Oct. 14, 1882—The study-halls are filling so rapidly that it has become necessary to order new desks.
Oct. 16, 1886—The engineering of the cement walk between the Steam House and the College was not as skilful as it might be.
Oct. 20, 1888—Melady’s football team was victorious by a large majority on the 14th.
Oct. 15, 1892—A reward will soon be offered for the somnabulist in the second dormitory.
Oct. 20, 1894—Our boys met the Hillsdales on the gridiron and broiled them to a nicety.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
you WIN
WHEN THEY TIE
Wear a Botany Tie to tomorrow's football game... and get a new one free... if the game ends in a tie score.
SEE YOUR FOOTCALL PROGRAM
IYour Campus dealer has
Botany Wrinkle-Proof Ties H
BOTANY WORSTED MILLS, PASSAIC, N J
I Oct. 16, 1897—Eignes started to-• ward Notre Dame’s goal, and had gone thirty yards when Daly deposited him on the ground.
Oct. 19, 1901—It was an interesting sight to see a brave school-girl feeding bon-bons to a young Wolf last Sunday afternoon.
Oct. 14, 1905—The usual outbursts against barbarity and brutality exhibited in the sport of football are once more heard.
VOTE ..r ECONOMY in Travel
The South Shore Line ticket is a straight vote for thrifty, fast, •• SAFE travel. Vote it as often as you like--you can depend on its performance.
CHICAGO, SOUTH BEND AND SOUTH SHORE RAILROAD
MR