This book is not is bs	Z
taken froia the MbrarT •
The Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC

$3.00 the Year
Tickets Now On Sale FOR THE Notre Dame Scholastic's BOXING SHOW ON FEBRUARY 12™ IN THE GYMNASIUM
PROCEEDS GO TO THE BENGAL MISSIONS
ADDED ATTRACTION BERNIE HEITZ Sorin Hall’s battling warrior will meet . JOHN PERONE Corby’s choice, in a stirring bout for the Senior championship.

February 5, 1932 .
One
Mary-Ann Inn
Special Friday Evening Suppers
—Spaghetti
—Oysters
Fried or Stewed
Home made pies and cakes
119 W. Colfax
Linden 3-0504
Better Vision and More Comfort Thru Better Glasses
•	Glasses
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better .	vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
LEMONTREE
. .	Optometrists
222% So. Mich. St.	102 W. Wash. St.
' Old established Optometrists who merit your F	confidence.
» »Why Gilbert’s Selected Indiana
Cabsl
♦
In inaugurating this nev/est service to its patrons it is significant that the Gilbert establishment selected
Indiana Cabs
Now You May
Ride to Gilbert’s FREE!
If you would enjoy the luxury of safe, courteous transportation; if you like the luxury of fine apparel without price penalty, hail an Indiana for Gilbert’s.
♦ -
Indiana Cabs
Green—Trimmed in Cream
Dia! 3-9333
■ Broken, lenses-duplicated promptly and accurately
Two
The Scholastic
February 5, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	g	I g ■ Entered as second-class
lished weekly at the Univers- I	I	matter at Notre Dame, In-
ity of Notre Dame. Mami- ■ ■	diana. Acceptance for mailscripts may be addressed to _ .	_	.	_	.	.	ing at special rate of postage.
the scholastic, PubH- pisce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Monturus section 1103, October 3,1917, cations Office, Main Building.	„ TT t, -o -rv . „ - -	authorized June 25, 1918.
f O U D h D lobo
Neil C. Hurley_____________________________Editor-in-Chief
William W. Corr, Managing Editor
James S. Kearns, Assistant Managing Editor
Associate Editors MYRON CRAWFORD LESLIE RADDATZ WILLIAM C. BLIND
News Staff EDMUND STEPHAN.............News	Editor
F. GRANGER WEIL.. .Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY ROBERT DILLON PATRICK CORCORAN LARRY DUNDA ROY SCHOLZ MITCHELL TACKLEY JOHN McELLIGOTT JAMES McCRALEY MAURICE GARLAND	PAUL FOLEY
BERNARD COUSINO	WILLIAM DREUX
Desk Editors
GEORGE DUQUETTE	LLOYD TESKE
J. DON SULLIVAN	WILLIAM FLYNN
Department Editors
JAMES CARMODY.............The	Week
JOHN PICK.............College	Parade
JOHN CONLEY.................Campus	Clubs
WALTER JOHNSON....Features Editor
JOHN RYAN............Music and Drama
JOSEPH LOPKER................Staff	Artist
Sports Staff JAMES E. McFEELY........Sports Edtior
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER JOSEPH BORDA WILLIAM O’GRADY JOSEPH KURTH	PAUL HOST
JOSEPH MORPER
Features Staff
WALTER JOHNSON.......Features	Editor
HARRY BURCHELL EDWIN KENNEDY STEPHEN HAWXHURST TIGHE WOODS EDWARD J. O’BRIEN BRYAN DEGNAN
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN.............Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER. Ass't. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER. Jr........Advertising' Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, .-Iss’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS..........JOSEPH SIMON
J.	ALBERT SMITH HARRY McGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY.—Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
FEBRUARY 5, 1932
Number 14.
SUMMARY
NEWS
Ticket sale for The Scholastic benefit Bengal boxing show opens in a wave of buying; Scholastic staff is the distributing agent_____________ 5
Notre Dame men in the center of the Sino-Japanese war area ___________________________________ 5
Abolition of quarterlies inaugurates new phase cf scholastic policy in the University_________ 6
Anderson, Yarr, Schwartz, Hoffman, and Voedisch will coach Notre Dame’s 1932 football squad- 7
Juniors and their guests at Prom Oriental, are the
first to dance in dining hall_________________16
FEATURES
Father Farley rated as one of N. D.’s immortals-12
In the gay 90’s, when the students wore beavers, it
was punting on the lake_______________________13
SPORTS
Notre Dame cage team flashes sensational offensive form to overwhelm Iowa five by 33 to 18 score___20
Five Blue and Gold track stars taken to Millrose games by Coach Nicholson; Wilson and relay team to compete_________________________________21
Syracuse invades Notre Dame gym with strong sophomore five next Wednesday to battle Keo-
ganites ________________________1_________________25
Twenty-six hall basketball teams clash in opening round of season played Sunday______________________26
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, February 5—Ticket sale for boxing show opens.—First Friday.—Last day for registration or for change in registration.—Junior Prom of 1932, Notre Dame Dining Halls, 9:30 p. m.—Movie, William Haines in “Tailor-made Man,” Washington hall, 6:30 and 8:15 p. m.
SATURDAY, February 6—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.—Track, Millrose games in New York City, Notre Dame entered in the mile relay. —Movie, Clark Gable in “Sporting Blood,” “Homeland of the Dunes,” and news reel.—Junior dinner dance, Oliver hotel, 6:30 p. m.—Tickets on sale for boxing show in Publications’ office.
SUNDAY, February 7—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:C0, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church.—Presidents’ Council meeting, north room of Library, 10:30 a. m.—Tickets for boxing show on sale in Publications’ office.
MONDAY, February 8—Meeting of the Lay Faculty Club of the College of Arts and Letters, lay faculty dining room, 6:30 p. m.—French Club meeting, Room 1, Main building, 6:30 p. m.—Bookmen meeting, Law building, 6:30 p. m.—Tickets on sale for boxing show in Publications’ office.
TUESDAY, February 9—Scribblers’ meeting, Howard “rec,” 6:30 p. m.—Tickets on sale for boxing show in Publications’ office.
WEDNESDAY, February 10—Ash Wednesday.—K. of C. meeting, club rooms, 7:30 p. m.—Basketball. Notre Dame vs. Syracuse, Notre Dame gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.
THURSDAY, February 11—Spectators’ meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, seminar room of the Law building, 6:30 p. m.—Tickets on sale for boxing show in Publications’ office.
FRIDAY, February 12—Boxing show, Notre Dame gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
By James Carmody
ONGS will beat with a muffled resonance tonight, and sahibs and mem sahibs will glide in surroundings of oriental splendor as the umpteenth annual prom gets under way. Now that the officers of the class have agreed on the proper size for their photographs, the prom promises to be, as all proms are, bigger and better and more resplendent than ever. There must be, if the promise of uniqueness is to be fulfilled, safaris to escort the turbaned guests; and George Rohrs must appear, if not in a sarong, then at least with rice on his chin. There a little bit of a laugh in the fact that the entranced couples will be dancing over the spot where a short hour before fifteen hundred guys were grabbing for sordid food in the manner of meat and potatoes, and were helping themselves to vegetables that come right out of the earth, no less. And they’ll be pawing trays of bacon in the same place tomorrow morning. Not so romantic, that; but the juniors are not to be troubled in their oriental fairyland by thoughts of indigestion. Oh, no. Give them a few cans of wax and a scene out of Anna May Wong’s latest picture, and lo! Stamboul before your very eyes. Clever, these juniors.
CULVER and Ollie Powers spied a figure in a raccoon coat the other morning, early, and Sorin managed for the first time in years to get into the South Bend papers. The local dailies got the story of the wandering vaudeville dancer who ended up in bed on the first floor of Sorin, but no one told them about Al’s splendid job of carrying, and Ollie’s equally good job of yelling. Nor did they have a man with a stop watch on Jack Hamilton as he did, with much reluctance and after a great deal of persuasion, a quite creditable marathon in the direction of Alumni Hall. Sorin was more blase about the whole affair than was expected, but then such things can’t quite come up to the excitement of blowing French horns.
T HIS is obviously the place to make at least a slight mention of the recent exams, but they are becoming so boring both in the taking of them and in the telling of them that we’ll not offend by bringing up the subject to any great length. But the exams had one result in a certain class—a result that is worth a mention. They stopped for a time the activities of the group in a lit class, of which we are a worried member, which bets each day on the number of books that the prof will pull out of the bulging satchel. Under the barrage of questions we didn’t even recognize the prof, let alone the satchel, and neighbors were blurs in the literary haze. We know what life is now—it’s just a bowl of blue blanks.
T HERE have been murmurs now and then that the WEEK is not all that it should be, that certain fellows and Sorin are getting a big blow to the neglect of other nice fellows and much prettier halls. All we can say is that we are not pounding out this stuff to please anybody, not even ourselves, and we don’t care who gets in, even if the objectors only read the column to see if they are in print. And to the lads who are free and prodigal with their “lousy!”, all we can do is to appropriate the philosophy of O. O. McIntyre to answer them—if this column is lousy, it’s going to be good and lousy. No half way measures. Furthermore, in answer to many requests from our childish brethren of the class of ’33, we will not name this Friday’s presentation the WEEK ORIENTAL, nor will we tell you whom the juniors elected last May, not even a hint. Nor will we tell you why all the art work for the coming fiasco will bear a foreign stamp—don’t look for the answers on another page. Some few men may be incensed by these lines, and that aforementioned word that they so often use may take on a nastier meaning, but we are unperturbed, so much so that we shall risit friends of ours in the checkroom and peacefully listen to castles being built in the air, and all this without even a sneer.
February 5, 1932
Five
NOTRE DAME ALUMNI IN CHINESE WAR AREAS
EARLY RUSH SEEN AS TICKET SALE FOR ROXING SHOW OPENS TONIGHT
Joseph Johnson, ’28, Tells Eyewitness Story of Trouble.
Notre Dame men are now in the troubled war-stricken areas of China, it was learned this week when James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary, received dispatches from their relatives and friends in the United States.
Robert Y. Khoo, ’27, B.S. in C.E., is living at Tien Kee Hong, Amoy, China. Benedict Chinghui, E.E., ’24, is also in Amoy, residing at Chuan Chow.
Francis Li, well known to many of the present seniors because he received his degree here in 1928, is a member of the department of sociology at the Catholic University in Peking. According to dispatches that have reached this country he is not in immediate danger.
Joseph A. Johnson, ’28, Ph.B. in Commerce, has, however, been residing directly amidst the fighting. He lives just on the edge of the international settlement, where the fiercest fighting is taking place.
Johnson upon his graduation accepted a position with the National City Bank of New York and was sent to the Shanghai branch.
In a recent message to a friend in this country, Johnson wrote:
“Thus far I have escaped without injuries. The fighting is terrific, however, and all of us in the international settlement are in grave danger.
“We can see the bullets fly from the roof of the hotel and it is common to see Japanese or Chinese fall dead to the ground from machine gun fire or snipers’ bullets.”
The Reverend Leo J. Jones, A.B., ’18, now stationed at the Catholic Mission in Pingnam, Kwangsi, South China, is comparatively safe from the Japanese forces, and dispatches from the Orient indicate that he is in little danger.
New York scientists are trying to figure this one out: For the past twenty years, at the stroke of noon, every day except Sunday, a lean, gray timber wolf in Central Park zoo has lifted his voice in a mournful howl. But never has he done it on Sunday.
Ft. Wenninger First Speaker Of Radio Series
Beginning next Monday evening, February 8, at 7:15 o’clock, the radio talks sponsored by ths Colleges of
Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C.
Delivers first talk over WSBT
Science, Law, Commerce, and Arts and Letters, of Notre Dame, will be inaugurated. The speeches are to be broadcast from the studios of Stations WSBT-WFAM, South Bend.
The different colleges are to be represented by three faculty members each. The talks will last for half an hour and will be presented on Monday and Wednesday evenings of each week during the remainder of February and up to March 16.
The College of Science will open the program. Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the college, will speak on the subject, “The Insect World.”- The . complete program and broadcast dates follow:
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
Februai-y 8 — “The Insect ' World.” Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Ph.D., dean of the College of Science.
February 10—“The Story of the Bacteria,” (Continued on Page 10)
“SCHOLASTIC” IN CHARGE
Corby and Sorin to Have Own Sections; Downtown Sales Point to Record Crowd.
Notre Dame men are reaching for the long green tonight. A tidal wave of buying is forecast. The ticket sale for The Scholastic’s Bengal boxing show opens at eight o’clock.
The choicest tickets in the gymnasium will go to the early ducat purchasers. Seats on sale the night of the bouts—February 12—though good, will be in the theater portion of the basketball section.
The price for students has been placed at twenty-five cents. Members of The Scholastic staff will be in charge of ticket distribution in the campus halls tonight. For those who fail to get their tickets at that time, the sale will be continued at the Publications’ office, Main building, all next week. Off-Campus students will be taken care of at that place.
Special sections have been reserved for Sorin and Corby halls to give the backers of Johnny Perone and Bernie Heitz a chance for unified support. Arrangements have been made to reserve another special block of seats for lay faculty members.
There will be color, action, interest, every minute of the program. It will be a show not to be missed.
Sale of tickets for the show opened at several downtown agencies during the week and early reports promise a huge throng of South Bend boxing fans for the program. Together with the student contingent they should tax the capacity of the gym. All preparations for the handling of a mammoth crowd are being made.
Sir Norman Angell, British statesman, asserted recently that the depression was not so much the result of natural causes as it was the failure of man to properly educate himself.
Six
The Scholastic
Mid-Semester Examinations Are Abolished By Faculty
500 ATTEND MOVIES OF EUROPEAN TRAVEL
NEW REGULATIONS
John Ryan Speaks On Benefits of Trip Abroad.
Only Probationers Reported at Mid-semester; Exams May Count 25-50 Percent.
By Patrick V. Corcoran
Compulsory mid-semester tests usually given in November and April have been abolished by action of the , University council, it was disclosed
Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C.
Quarterly exams are now up to the professor’s discretion.
during the week by the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies.
According to the new academic regulations the quarter, not the semester, will remain the unit of probation.
At the middle of the semester, grades of those students whose work is not of passing quality will be reported to the office of the Director of Studies.
Students who are failing in a third of the work for which they are registered will be placed on probation, and a report on the percentage basis will be forwarded to their parents.
The official bulletin reads as follows: “The semester grade of a student in any course consists of two elements: 1), the class work of the
(Continued on Page 11)
Grid Captain Weds Chicagoan Last Wednesday
Tom Yarr, captain of the 1931 Notre Dame football team and newly selected assistant Notre Dame coach, was married Wednesday to Miss Rosemary Killen of Chicago. The ceremony was performed by Reverend James Gleeson, assistant pastor at St. Mel’s church. Chicago, with a small group including the bride’s mother, Mrs. Beatrice C. Killen, attending. Frank Leahy, former student at Notre Dame and a tackle of the football squad of 1930, was the best man.
Yarr has played on the Notre Dame team for two years, having been center on the national championship team of 1930, and a substitute on the Notre Dame national football champions of 1929.
Yarr, whose parents live in Chima-cum, Wash., is 23 years old and his bride 22. He concluded his studies at the University last week, graduating from the college of Arts and Letters in the department of physical education.
Cafeteria Prices Cut
In harmony with the financial tone of the times is the recent cut in food prices in the University cafeteria. According to dining hall director Robert Borland, wholesale prices of goods are such that a reduction in counter dishes has been made possible.
Most popular of all was probably the slash made in the price of orange juice which now sells for ten instead of fifteen cents. Other reductions were made in fruits and pastries.
K.	of C. Hear Hull
Professor Daniel Hull, head of the Department of Physics, delivered a talk entitled “Curiosities of Weather” at the weekly meeting of the South Bend council of the Knights of Columbus, last Monday.
More than five hundred students packed into Washington hall last evening to witness the showing of five reels of European travel films, presented by the National Catholic student tours.
John E. Ryan, director of the student tours, made a few preliminary remarks, during which he discussed the origin of the present travel group.
“Our primary object,” he declared, “is to provide a means for Catholic students to make a trip to Europe, and to attend the Eucharistic congress. With this thought in mind we have planned our itinerary from a college viewpoint.”
The films, although of the silent variety, were not lacking in sound, f or numerous remarks from those in attendance made up a constant repertoire of jargon that was even better suited to the action on the screen than should the actors have spoken themselves.
National Catholic student tours is a project originated on the campus and backed by four Notre Dame youths. The Thomas Cook & Sons travel agency is sponsoring the tour abroad.
“Juggler” Ad Men Meet
Gene Fleckenstein, advertising manager of the Juggler, presided over a meeting of the Business Staff Tuesday evening in the offices of the Board of Publication.
A new innovation in campus advertising was announced at this meeting by John F. Stoeckley, Graduate Manager of Publications. This will be a free mat service offered to advertisers in Notre Dame publications.
Announcement was also made of the promotion of Bernard J. Roethele to the-position of Office Manager of the Board of Publicationr Roethele is majoring in foreign commerce and will graduate in June. He is from New Kensington,, Pennsylvania.
Flatley To Address Forum
Professor L. T. Flatley of the College of Commerce will address the Commerce Forum, Thursday evening, February 11, at 7:30, in the Commerce building.
February 5, 1932
Seven
DEBATING TEAM NAMED THIS WEEK BY COYNE
Twelve Students Win Positions On Forensic Squad.
Professor William J. Coyne, coach of varsity debating, announced today the names of the twelve men who have won a place on this year’s squad.
They are James Meehan, William Darrow, Joseph Becek, Walter Johnson, William Murphy, Arthur Sandusky, Arthur Cline, James Boyle, Thomas O’Meara, Roger Brennan, William Kirby, and William Fitzgerald.
Five of last year’s team, Darrow, Johnson, Cline, and Kirby, will be heard again this year in the intercollegiate wrangling matches.
The topic that will be debated this year is: “Resolved, that the United States should adopt a compulsory nation-wide plan of control and distribution in the major basic industries.”
Like prosperity, debates with the universities of Illinois and Florida are just around the corner. Look for the place and exact dates of these debates in the next issue of The Scholastic.
Armstrong Attends Meeting of American Alumni Council
James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary of the University, is in Buffalo, N. Y., to attend the annual winter meeting of the executive committee of the American Alumni Council. Representatives from the alumni organizations of Southern California, Cornell, New York university, Ohio State, Dartmouth, Michigan States, North Carolina College for Women, Rutgers, and Oberlin are attending the meetings today and tomorrow at the Hotel Statler.
One of the principal topics to be discussed at the meeting is the nineteenth annual convention of the council to be held in Los Angeles, August 11, 12, and 13 of this year. Armstrong is directing the program for this convention, having served in the same capacity for the 1931 convention in Atlanta, Ga., last April.
The Arizona state legislature is considering an appropriation of $300,-for the erection of a new science building at the University of Arizona.
1932 Coaching Staff Made Known by Athletic Board
Heitz Hurts His Thumb as Corby Rooters Cheer
By Neil C. Hurley
Corby hall was a flurry of excitement this week, when news was forwarded across the campus that Bernie Heitz, Sorin’s competitor in the Bengal boxing show, had injured a thumb. .
“They needn’t think that’s goin’ to stop him, though,” stoutly declared Pete Streb, trainer of all Sorin athletes. “We’ve had it examined and the doctors state that he’ll absolutely be fit to oppose John Perone next Friday.”
News of the injured thumb thrust the betting odds up to 5 to 4 in favor of Corby’s candidate, although Sorin backers refuse to accept anything but even money.
Perone and Heitz have been running through daily work-outs. Each has hit the cinder paths about the lakes and has spent many an afternoon punching the oblong bag in the boxing room.
Special reserved ringside sections have been set aside for the inmates of both halls. These will go on sale tonight, and as both sides are expected to back their man to the limit, the allotted number will probably be sold before eight o’clock.
The two fighters nearly came to blows yesterday in the gymnasium boxing room, when a chance remark infuriated Heitz to the boiling point.
“You’ll pay for that in the ring,” he shouted, while four boxers held him away from Perone, who was trying to break away from the grip of Billy Magarrall.
“Says you,” sneered Corby’s fistic candidate. “I’ll fight with my fists.”
And, customers, that’s where the matter’ stands. Pictures of both fighters will appear in the next issue of The Scholastic, together with the latest betting odds, and complete statistical information.
‘HUNK’CONTINUES
Schwartz, Yarn, Hoffman, and Voedisch Get Positions As Assistants Next Year.
By James S. Kearns
The appointment of three allAmerican football stars as assistant coaches at Notre Dame for the coming year was made known yesterday
Athletic Director Jesse Harper Coaches named to carry out his ’ ’32 grid schedule.
by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. The three new grid mentors, all members of last year’s varsity, will assist Head Coach Heartly Anderson and end coach John Voedisch, hold-overs from last season’s coaching staff.
Marchmont Schwartz, Nordy Hoffman, and Captain Tom Yarr are the trio slated to aid Anderson in the grooming of the 1932 Notre Dame varsity. Schwartz will handle the backs while the other two men will concentrate on the line men.
Arrangements made with the new coaches provide for their assuming their duties with the opening of training this spring. Yarr is slated to coach during that period and again in the fall. Hoffmann and Schwartz, both of whom will complete their studies in the Law school in the spring of 1933, will continue to direct (Continued on Page 14)
Eight
The Scholastic
STUDENT DUELING IS UPHELD BY COURT
Court Upholds Right For Germans to Hold Sword Battles.
By Intercollegiate Press.
BERLIN, Feb. 3.—The right of university students to engage in “friendly” duelling has been upheld recently by a court here, thus giving a further setback to those reformers who would banish this custom of German student life.
Although student duels have declined greatly since the war, they still hold a strong place in the life of certain student groups. Recently a student was released by a court, although his opponent had died as a result of the battle.
Saber cuts are still worn with pride and even a feeling of superiority by many who otherwise are modest and innocent appearing first or second year students.
Duelling corps are similar to American fraternities, except in their activities. Duels are held secretly. The duelists are-protected by heavy vests, but their heads and faces are left unprotected.
Usually a club physician and servant is present. The youngsters fence until both have received scars large enough not to be ashamed of, then if neither is too seriously hurt, they join theii' comrades and proceed on an extended drinking bout.
Many times, however, the wounds are dangerous, and the student has to go to a hospital, or home under the care of a physician. Many of the “fraternities” have dropped duelling since the war.
Ohio State Dance in Gym
By Intercollegiate Press.
Columbus, Ohio, Feb. 3.—The administration at Ohio State University definitely prohibited campus dances from being held at downtown hotels or dancing places.
In the future all university affairs will be held at the armory, or, in the case of proms, at the gymnasium on the campus.
President George W. Rightmire is understood to have made the original request that undergraduates be compelled to schedule their dances on the campus.
Palace Dancer Walks In Sleep;
Sorin Wonders
How Gene Williams, vaudeville dancer, happened to be prostrated in front of Sorin hall early last Monday morning, pajamas, red slippers and all, seems to be a mystery which not even Gene can start to explain.
All the poor fellow could offer at the time was that not so long ago he had fractured his skull, that he was subsequently mesmerized by a hypnotist, and that he has never been the same since.
Here is what happened Monday: About 1:30 in the morning Oliver Powers and Al Culver heard a series of blood-curdling groans from the region about the Sorin piazza. Getting up to investigate they found Gene, unconscious, on the front lawn.
That he had been planning to go to bed and thought better of it was evidenced by his bedroom attire. The two seniors called the Reverend John Farley, C.S.C., and the Reverend John O’Hara, C.S.C., and bore Gene to a vacant suite in Sorin, where he was revived by a stimulant.
Father Farley found Gene wandering aimlessly about the hall at seven in the morning, a wild stare in the dancer’s eyes, and his arms outstretched. Several good shakings were necessary before the trance left the victim.
Identification showed that Williams was appearing at the Palace theater with the Edith Karen act.
Beg Your Pardon
Bill, the well-known campus barber, trouped into The Scholastic office this week and stoutly complained about alleged libelous statements in the Week department.
“Jim Carmody stated that I advised him to see Greta Garbo at the Colfax. It’s a lie. I was never consulted on the matter, and anyway I have never seen Miss Garbo on the screen, and furthermore I don’t care to. Jim just used me as an excuse to hide his real reason for seeing Mata Hari.”
JERSEY CLUB BANQUETS
Speeches, Songs, Bouts, and Theater on Program.
Seventy-five men attended the banquet of the New Jersey club last Wednesday evening. The affair was held in the Old Courthouse building, South Bend.
Charles Hitzelberger, president of the Presidents’ Council, was the guest of honor. Citizenship was the theme of Hitzelberger’s talk. Nordy Hoffman then spoke and sang a few songs.
Entertainment was furnished by George Menard, a member of the Glee club, who sang several solos. Two bouts between student boxers, arranged by Billy Magarrall, boxing expert of The Scholastic, completed the program at the dinner.
After the dinner the men present were taken to the Granada theatre, where they sat in a reserved section for the last performance of “Compromised.”
Edward Fisher was chairman of the banquet committee. Jack Cooper, chairman of the committee on functions, and Sal Bontempo, president of rhe club, aided in the arrangements.
High Court Uses Latin To Rule “Nut” Undignified
By Intercollegiate Press.
New York, February 3.—The word “nut” was pronounced lacking in dignity here today by Supreme Court Justice Dike, who in a shower of Latin refused an application for incorporation of the “Jiggs Nut Club.”
“A name is, as it were, the distinguishing mark of a thing,” he said. And then he added, “Nomen est quasi rei notamen.”
It would reflect upon the dignity of the Empire State, the judge declared, if the “Jiggs .Nut Club” should seek to rally to its membership those in all the states.
Sol Metzger, well-known sports writer who died last week, was a member of the University of Pennsylvania football team in 1901, 1902, and 1903, and later coached at his alma mater, and at West Virginia. Washington and Jefferson, Union College, South Carolina, and Baylor.
February 5, 1932
Nine
CAESAR GOES MODERN
And the Finished Product Will Be Benito Mussolini.
By Intercollegiate Press.
New York, Feb. 4.—Julius Caesar will come to Broadway soon, but he’ll be more like Benito Mussolini.
With a delighted laugh, Basil Sydney, an actor, disclosed this week his plans for a modern-dress version of Shakespeare’s famous play about the old Roman governor.
“We’re going to put the Roman soldiers in black Fascisti shirts instead of white tunics,” he explained with a grin. “It will be done in 1932 style. And Caesar will be Mussolini, or Mussolini will be Caesar, which ever way you want to look at it.
“It’s amazing what a resemblance there is,” he added, “even before you modernize it, between what Shakespeare wrote about and what’s going on in Italy now.
“They talk constantly about dictators in ‘Julius Caesar’ and even the salute his soldiers used is the same as the one Mussolini has taught his black shirts.”
Trip To Washington, D. C., Is Announced By Instructor
With the permission of University officials, a trip to Washington, D. C., is now being arranged by Mr. Paul C. Bartholomew, instructor in politics, for students in the department of politics and for all others who are interested.
The group will leave Notre Dame at noon on March 21, and will pass March 22 and 23 in Washington, leaving for Notre Dame on the evening of March 23.
The members of the party will meet the president of the United States, and will attend a session of Congress. Opportunities will also be afforded to view the festivals attendant upon cherry blossom time along the Potomac, and to observe the celebrations of the Washington bicentennials.
Several railroads, as well as two air lines, have offered estimates on the cost of the trip, but no special route or company has been selected as yet. The tour, of course, will be an all-expense one.
All those who are desirous of going are requested to notify Mr. Bartholomew as soon as possible.
Author Al Smith Now Works For 90 Cents a Word
By Intercollegiate Press.
New York, Feb. 4.—Former Gover-rior Alfred E. Smith sat in his luxurious office in the Empire State building here today and calmly informed reporters that he was to receive ninety cents a word for a series of magazine articles.
The executive is thus being paid far more for a single paragraph than Shakespeare received for most of his classic plays.
Puffing contentedly on a cigar, Author Smith relaxed a bit this morning and explained to newspaper men his method of writing.
“I must feel a bit warm on a subject to do anything worth printing,” he declared. “So I can’t get much done during; the day. There are always callers, appointments, and telephones. I do most of my work in the evenings and on Saturday afternoons.”
The only actual writing, however, that the former governor does is to jot brief notes on the backs of discarded envelopes, he admitted. Dictation does the rest.
Profs Look For Meteors
By Intercollegiate Press.
Flagstaff, Ariz., Feb. 4.—A joint expedition of Harvard and Cornell universities at the Lowell observatory here, have observed six thousand five hundred meteors in an effort to throw new light on the universe.
Grams Aids Boxing Show
Senior Manager John Grams, president of the Managers’ club, this week offered the services of his organization to The Scholastic for the coming boxing show. Joe McKeon instantly collaborated with a similar offer. .
“We are backing the boxing show,” Grams said to Editor Neil Hurley, “because we believe it to be an event which will be highly entertaining to the student body and beneficial to the Bengal Missions. We wish The Scholastic all success.”
THIRTY-ONE STUDENTS FINISH AT SEMESTER
Degrees Will Be Conferred At June Commencement.
Enrollment figures at the end of the first semester show thirty-one students have accumulated the necessary number of credit hours to receive their degrees. A new ruling of the University, however, makes it impossible for them to receive their degrees until the commencement exercises in June.
Topping the list of those who-have completed the work in their respective courses is Reverend Carroll Deady of Detroit, Mich., who will receive the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. Father Deady will remain at the University until June to teach.
Doroteiz Sumabat of the Philippines will be awarded the degree of master of arts. Representatives from all over the United States are included in the list of those who will also be awarded their degrees.
Among those who will receive their bachelor of arts degree are Football Captain Tom YaiT and his team-mate, Bernard Leahy; also Michael Adams, William Cooney, Thomas Galligan, Robert Golden, Robert Grear, James Koons, Cletus Lynn, William Magar-rall, Colman O’Shaughnessy, John A. Scharback, William Webster, and Charles Weiss.
Bachelor of philosophy degrees will be awarded Alvin Culver, William Berning, Terence Dillon, Jerome Hugger, Robert Kennedy, Harold O’Connor, Thomas O’Connor, Robert Pigott, Samuel Rinella, and Edward Everett.
Reverend Joseph H. Feidler, C.S.C., received his master of arts degree. David E. Ferguson, Everett Hessa-mer, and Arthur P. Hoctel received the bachelor of law degree.
One member of the science school, Jose Zabarte, will receive his degree.
Ariz. Men Outnumber Co-eds
By Intercollegiate Press.
Flagstaff, Ariz., Feb. 5.—For the first time in the history of the institution, there are more men than women students this year at Arizona State Teachers’ College here.
Registrar R. R. Powers has revealed that there are now 263 men to 210 co-eds.
Ten
The Scholastic
HALLINAN ANNOUNCES A NEW KIND OF CONTEST
Campus Opinions
KREPS AND STEPHAN TALK TO SPECTATORS
Best Letters Will Receive K. of C. Prizes.
Placing the Santa Maria, Knights of Columbus publication, in the tole of campus literary patron, and seeking to supplement essay, poetry and short-story competition is the announcement this week of the “letterwriting” contest to be sponsored by
Paul J. Hallinan
Glorifies the undergraduate letter.
the council’s new year-book. Open to every student, the contest is believed to be the first of its kind held on the campus.
The amount of outgoing mail has prompted the contest, according to the editors of the Santa Maria. It is felt that weekly and even daily exercise in this literary category must have developed proficient correspondents. Since the rules, given below, allow almost an open range of topics for treatment, every type of letterwriter will find his particular field.
Paul J. Hallinan, who is editor of the Santa Maria, points out that Stevenson, Lamb, Walpole, Johnson, and Macaulay have caused the letter to be considered as one of the liter- . ary forms. Lord Chesterfield’s letters to his son are a part of classical literature.
Judges are to be Neil C. Hurlel, editor-in-chief of The Scholastic; Robert E. Gorman, editor-in-chief of the Juggler; Leslie Raddatz, editor-in-chief of the Dome, and Joseph A. McCabe, editor-in-chief of Scrip. Each of these men, outstanding in campus (Continued on Page 15)
Question: “Are you planning to attend the boxing show to be held for the benefit of the Bengal Mission?”
Ned Bickford, Lyons hall, sophomore: “Yes, I am planning to go, because it looks as though there ought to be plenty of action and excitement. I think the extra attraction offered in the Sorin-Corby affair will be worth the price of admission alone.”
Jacob L. Leisen, Alumni hall, junior: “Every student at Notre Dame should make it a point to attend the boxing show a week from this coming Friday. From what I understand, everything would indicate that there will be plenty of action and enthusiasm. This, coupled with the fact that the proceeds will go to a worthy cause, should serve as a further incentive to attract a large crowd.”
Clayton Duerr, Corby hall, senior: “Certainly. I am looking forward to seeing our own John Perone uphold the honor and glory of ‘dear old Corby.’ It promises to be a great show. I think the bouts will be fast and full of action.”
Jim Gleason, Sorin hall, senior: “I surely do intend to go. I wouldn’t miss Sorin’s triumph for anything. I think the other bouts will be interesting and well fought because the fighters are training earnestly.”
Robert J. Flint, Howard hall, junior: “The boxing show this year should be much better than those we have seen the last two years. A revival of student interest in all minor sport events is a splendid and wholesome gesture. I hope everyone lends a hand to this doubly worthy cause.”
Profs Look Into Salaries
By Intercollegiate Press.
Greensboro, N. C., Feb. 4.—Southern college professors this winter are conducting an investigation of their economic status in comparison with that of professors in other sections of the country. Dr. Benjamin B. Kendrick, professor of history in North Carolina college, is chairman of the investigation committee.
“Superficiality of the Age** and “Pantheism** Are Topics.
At their meeting this week the Spectators heard Edmund A. Stephan, president, speak on “This Superficial Age” and Kenneth L. Kreps, on “An Attack on Pantheism.”
In the first talk, Stephan marshalled up an imposing array of instances in which the present era gives evidence of superficiality, espe-. cially in the broad institutions: morality, education, family life, religion, and literature. He also cited examples within his own experience.
In the consequent discussion, the members agreed with the speaker’s conclusions and centered their attentions chiefly upon the means and methods whereby this condition may be bettered and overcome.
Kreps, in his speech, briefly sketched the development and historical background of pantheism, after which many of its weak points were brought out. The discussion which followed somehow resolved itself on the subject of free will. Spinoza’s thesis, that the strongest motive always prevails, was shown to be erroneous by arguments from Scholastic philosophy.
RADIO LECTURES START
(Continued from Page 5)
J. Arthur Reyniers, M.S., instructor in biology.
February 15—“The Changing Scene of Animal Life,” William L. Engels, B.S., instructor in biology.
THE COLLEGE OF LAW
February 17—“The Decline in Ownership,” Clarence E. Manion, J.D., professor of law.
February 22—“The Delays in Litigation,” Judge William M. Cain, LL.B., assistant professor of law.
February 24—“The Lawyer and the Public,” Thomas F. Konop, LL.B., dean of the College of Law.
THE COLLEGE OF COMMERCE
February 29 — “The Place of a College of Commerce in Preparing Students for Business Leadership,” Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., Ph J), professor of advertising.
March 2—“Business Ethics,” Eugene J. Payton, LL.B., associate professor of marketing.
March 7—“Speculations and Investments,” Lee T. Fladtley, M.S., instructor in marketing. THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS
March 9—“Contemporary Views of the Universe,” Daniel G. O’Grady, Ph.D., assistant professor of philosophy.
March 14 — "Backgrounds in Literature,” Charles Phillips, M.A., professor of English.
March 16—"The Making of Criminals,” ■ Edwin C. Cooley, instructor in sociology.
February 5, 1932
Eleven
OFFICIAL RINGS CHOSEN
S. A. C. and University Council Co-operate in Final Choice.
An official Notre Dame ring has recently been approved by the University council. It is unique and symbolic. The setting of deep blue sapphire is mounted in ten carat gold. Surrounding the setting are the words, “University of Notre Dame” with the class numerals. On one shank is pictured the Dome and the tower of the Main building, underneath which are crossed torches . and a monogram. The opposite shank lias the new University seal with the two torches and an open book below.
The subject of a standard ring has been under consideration for some time. The Students’ Activities council selected three rings from about fifteen submitted by various wholesale jewellers. These rings were recommended to the University council which made the final selection.
BAN QUARTERLY EXAMS
(Continued from Page 6)
student for the whole semester, and, »	2), the semester examination, cover-
ing the subject-matter of the course for the whole semester.
“Of the 100% of credit for the semester not less than 50% nor more than 75% is possible on the class work, and the rest of the 100% is ’ possible in the examination. -
' “The student who at the middle of the semester is reported by his teachers as unsatisfactory in a third of the wdrk for which he is registered, or who at the end of the semester has failed of the passing ’ grade in a third of his work, is placed on probation.
”In case he be already on probation. such student is liable to dismissal from the University because of poor scholarship. Dismissal is incurred by the student who late the / m'ddle of the semester is reported by his teachers as unsatisfactory in two-thirds of his work or who at the end of the semester had failed of the passing grade in two-thirds of his work.
“Report of academic grades is * made by the office of the Director of Studies to the student and to his parents as soon as possible after the examination given at the end of each n Jfsemester, in February and in June.
Ledden, Willey, lo Officiate At Boxing Show
Jack Ledden, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune, and Walter Willey, who holds the same position on the News-Times, will act as judges in The Scholastic’s boxing tournament on February 12th, it was announced this week.
This completed the list of officials who will serve in executive capacities next Friday evening. Jerry Heffernan, boxing coach at Loyola university, and Heartly Anderson had previously accepted offers to be on hand.
Ledden, whose popular column, “Heard and Seen in the Sport Realm,” is a nightly feature of the Tribune, accepted the appointment last week.
“I hope that the show will be an outstanding success,” he declared. “Best wishes from the South Bend Tribune.”
Willey, sporting editor of the Nezos-Times and sponsor of the local division of the Tribune Golden Gloves, expressed similar sentiments when Billy Magarrall, The Scholastic’s boxing editor, tendered him an invitation to serve at the ring-side.
Twenty-three Brothers Join the Holy Cross Community
Twenty-three men were clothed in the habit of the Brothers of Holy Cross and began their year’s novitiate at a solemn ceremony held in the University Church on Monday, the eve of Candlemas Day. Very Reverend James W. Donohue, C.S.C., who presided, preached a sermon suitable to the occasion.
Seven of the Class of new Brothers come from Indiana. Other states represented include Illinois, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Michigan, Minnesota, New York, Massachusetts, North Dakota, and Kentucky. At the end of their novitiate the "Brothers destined to teach in the schools and colleges of the Congregation will begin courses of study at the University. The Lay Brothers are given employment in the various houses of the Community. _
LENTEN SPEAKERS ANNOUNCED TODAY
Father O’Hara Names Order of Sermons.
At eleven o’clock this morning the Reverend John O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion, announced the sermon list of the lenten series.
The Very Reverend James Donahue,
Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.
Directs spiritual devotions during Lent.
provincial of the Holy Cross order, will open the sermons on February 8th, and will be followed by Father O’Hara on the ninth of the same month.
In order then will follow two more sermons by Father Donahue, the Reverend Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., the Reverend Thomas Burke, C.S.C., editor of the Ave Maria, and the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies.
The complete list of sermons and the topics follow:
Feb. 8, Forty Hours, Fr. Donahue;’ Feb. 9, Forty Hours, Fr. O’Hara; Feb. 17, Purity, Fr. Donahue;
Feb. 24, Temperance, Fr. Donahue;
Mar. 2, Obedience, Fr. Walsh;-Mar. 9, Honesty, Fr. T. Burke;
Mar. 16, The Passion, Fr. Carrico.
Commerce Forum Notice
Applications for admission into the Commerce Forum will be received until February 15. This is the last chance for admission this year. Apply to President L. T. Lane, 31 Sorin hall for application blanks and information.
Twelve
The Scholastic
Father John Farley Rates With N. D. Grid Immortals
ORIGINALITY IS LACKING WHEN COLLEGE BOYS CUSS IN SLANG
This is an article by Joe Kelly, staff ivriter of the Indianapolis Neivs, whose series of thrilling moments in sports are a daily feature.
BY Joe Kelly
Indianapolis, Ind., February 4.—At Notre Dame university is the Reverend John Farley, religiously active in the education and the discipline of the youth of that university. They point to him as part of the Notre Dame gridiron tradition. A great star, he was, in the back field in the games of the opening of the century. He may be just a faculty man to the modern youth and alumni of Notre Dame, but to some of the gray-haired old-timers Farley was great in his day—as great as Gipp in his, or Schwartz and Ca-rideo in theirs.
We have seen the modern Notre Dame stars perform, all the way from George Gipp, but never’ have we seen an individual Notre Dame performance more brilliant than Farley’s play in the back field at Jordan field, Bloomington, Oct. 25, 1900, against Indiana, coached by Jimmy Horne.
We heard the hopes of some of the Indiana players, expressed in the words, “if we can stop Farley, we’ve got a chance.” Farley carried the ball on the first down for Notre Dame. When the mass was cleared, Farley came out of it groggy and with an ugly bruise and trickling blood on his forehead.
It did not stop him for long, however. Farley’s gameness and his reserve strength kept him in that contest. There was no wealth of Notre Dame substitutes then. Besides, Farley, bruised and bleeding, was still the Irish star.
Everywhere in Game
As many as four times in that game he took time out, and the time-out period then was comparatively long, four minutes, if memory is correct. He was everywhere in that game. His leadership as captain was spirited.
The score of the games seems like a modem upset: Indiana, 6; Notre Dame, 0. But it was not an upset. Indiana won with superior strength. A better line and a better back field gave the game to the boys of Jordan field.
Neither scored in the first half. The strength of Indiana, power and weight, told in the second, and the Crimson put over Max Hawley for
Reverend John Farley, C.S.C.
Starred on gridiron.
the touchdown, representing five points. Hawley kicked the goal for the sixth point. A much-battered and bruised eleven went back to Notre Dame after that game.
Rockne Calls Turn
In recent years an old-timer- said to Knute Rockne: “Rock, do you know what Notre Dame player made the best individual performance I ever saw?”
Gipp had done his stuff then and of course was loved by Rockne.
“It was Farley at Bloomington in 1900 when Notre Dame was beaten by Indiana.”
“He’s pretty good yet,” said Rockne. “He chased So-and-So four miles the other day”—So-and-So being a student needing discipline—“and beat the daylights out of him.” Farley was in his middle forties then.
The old-timer then told Rockne the story of Farley's play that day.
“I told your story before the Army game,” said Rockne later, “of the one-man team in Father John Farley, who came near beating Indiana, and the boys showed the Army some stuff with the thought of their disciplinarian. Father John Farley, in their mind.”
By Intercollegiate Press.
Northampton, Mass., Feb. 4.—College students, once masters at the creation of new slang words, are now mostly imitators in that respect, according to Dean Marjopie Nicolson of Smith College.
Dean Nicolson is no enemy of slang, It is accepted as a natural part of our language, she said, even by scholars, because it is brief and pungent.
In a recent chapel talk to the undergraduates here Dean Nicolson asserted that the same slang words prevail throughout the country. There was a period, she said, when college students used to set the pace, while now they seem content to imitate.
Until they can come across with something better than “OK” and “KO,” they might as well say “yes,” she declared.
Engineers Notice!
Pictures of the Engineers’ club for this year’s Dome will be taken at 12:30 o’clock Saturday, February 6, on the steps of the library. Each member is requested to wear a coat and a necktie.
Walsh “Rec” Reopened
At the start of this semester, the “rec” room in Walsh hall basement was reopened. Facilities are provided for billiards and bowling. All the tables have been repaired and new boards were put in the alleys. The “rec” rooms are open from 3:30 till 7:30 every day and from noon until 10:00 p. m. on Saturdays. The Sunday hours are from 1:00 to 7:00 p. m.
Graduate Scholarships on File
Robert B. Riordan, registrar of the University, this week placed with the University library a large list of fellowships, scholarships, and assistantships for graduate students. All are available at the leading. American institutions or are provided by American foundations for graduate students abroad.
This list has been compiled and made available by the American Political Science association.
February 5, 1932
CHICAGO MEN HAVE MORE INTELLIGENCE THAN CO-EDS, IT SEEMS
By Intercollegiate Press.
Chicago, Feb. 5.—Another chap-ter was written in the controversy over who is the smarter, the man or woman student, when a test conducted by the University of Chicago in its freshman classes yesterday showed that in the first eleven ratings not one co-ed appeared.
This was in spite of the fact that the women outnumbered the men in the 750 freshmen who took the examination. First place went to William K. Traynor, age 19, of Chicago, son of William T. Traynor, vice-president and director of Swift & Co.
Knowledge didn’t count in this quiz, for it was a psychology test to measure intellects. For instance, an artificial language was supplied with the instructions to translate a passage from it into English. Problems in arithmetic made up another part.
The test by no means settled the question, however, for in other tests at other colleges men have been outstanding in some, while co-eds starred in others.
Supervisor Agent To Visit Local Knights of Columbus
The Knights of Columbus of the University will hold their regular 7	meeting next Wednesday instead of
Monday as previously planned. At that time Mr. M. Fox, the supervisory agent from the Supreme Council, will visit the council on his annual inspection tour.
There will be a special meeting at '	which Mr. Fox will confer with the
trustees and the Building Fund committee, on Tuesday afternoon at 1:00 o’clock in the K. of C. offices.
All the officers and chairmen of the standing committees are requested to ,	meet Tuesday evening at 7:30 in the
club rooms in order to formulate plans for the regular meeting.
The first degree will be conferred Monday evening, February 29. There are several men who are to receive this degree and many more are 1	expected to apply. The offer of re-
duced initiation fees holds good until February 10. All who wish to apply for membership should attempt to do so before this date.
Thirteen
Punting On The Lake Was Sporting In The Nineties
It’s still a good place to spend part of an afternoon if the day is late spring, the disposition averse to South Bend, and the sun overly hot. Feet just naturally drag toward the old boathouse. Some sort of mecca, this place, though nobody knows why and very few have half a care. Perhaps it is merely the best place to swim.
But despite the lazy, inactive trend of modern boathouse days, time was when this vicinity vibrated with activity. And that time was no mere decade.
In 1867 there appeared in The Scholastic a note from “a friend” who in a singularly bombastic style,
exhorted the wearers of the ancient and honorable derby to action. His plea was for the organization of a boat club. One spry John must have flicked his “stogy,” slipped off his corded vest, and waxed especially active. For some sort of infection soon turned the campus all wet—virtually.
In 1871, things nautical were in full swing—and full strokes. Punting on the water became as popular as punting on the greensward was to become in the later years. The importance of the boat club eased to gigantic proportions.
For a time Annapolis seemed in danger of its prestige. It was not at all an uncommon sight to see three or four sturdy crafts cutting the quiet waters of good old St. Joseph’s lake with a variety of oar splashes on either side. Eventually the technique achieved a finish that was nothing short of Poughkeepsie precision.
From the report of the commencement race of 1875 we have the observation : “The boat race which took place on the twenty-second was a very good one. Long before three o’clock
the banks of the lake were thronged with ladies and gentlemen who took an interest in the contest of skill between the rival boats.”
Among the oarsmen of these early days were: United States Congressman Timothy Ansburry, Judge Egge-man, prominent Indiana jurist, and former • Congressman Nicholas Sinnott of Oregon, who is now a judge in the United States Court of Appeals in Washington.
In 1888 the organization became known as the Lemmonier Boat club. Interest swelled. The boathouse soon turned center of the whirl in the campus recreation, both athletic and verbal. Here the boys could toss off the celluloid collar, light up the ancient corn cob, and with a dignity that smacked of 1890 stretch out the latest edition of the Tribune. And even in those days some of the university boys could, with either positive glee or pronounced candor, talk and talk, and talk.
The oarsmen numbered seven, counting the coxswain. And all decked out in racing regalia, the crew was, in appearance, not unlike the speedier moderns. Shirts and shorts were light and of about the same texture. Even identification numbers were used.
The contests were for the most part between the various classes and if outside competition would have been keener, no one thought of the idea. The races were the event of every commencement week. And what a celebration! The award for the victors was a dinner composed of ducks snagged on the lake itself.
The year 1906 marked the lapse in the interest and pleas for a revival were unanswered until 1911. Then came a rebirth of the pastime with all the vigor of an activity long repressed and ready for a new try. For the next few years interest waxed even stronger than it had formerly. The rowing technique improved considerably. The class of 1916 had the last crew to splash oars in the St. Joseph and since then, save for the noise of ambitious swimmers, the sport has been relegated to the dusty interior of the boat house itself.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
A Man About the Campus—Chas. Spangenberg
RAPIER HEADS CHEMISTS
By William Kennedy
Folks, meet Charles E. Spangenberg, Senior Manager of Basketball.
Elmhurst, Ill., (population 15,000) is the big little town that claims Charley. For that is where he was born and has lived all of his life. But he doesn’t expect to die there— nothing dies in Elmhurst. “Because,” smiles Charley, “Elmhurst is one live town.”
Spangenberg spent the usual four years at St. Mary’s High “down east” in Brookline, Mass. He played football and carried away a monogram to prove it. Then, having completed his high school course, he scouted around and finally settled upon Notre Dame as the scene of his future conquests.
He entered , the School of Journalism in the College of Arts and Letters in the morning and signed up for football in the afternoon. Injuries forced him to abandon the latter diversion, however, and he decided to answer the call for freshman managers. Aware of the fact that it was either quit and get nothing, or work hard for four years and profit accordingly, Spangenberg stuck to it, until now, in his final year, he has complete charge of the business end of the basketball squad.
His duties are much the same as those of John A. Grams, manager of football. They have been enumerated before — securing train accommodations, checking equipment, reserving quarters, ordering menus, arranging for the return-
For Spangenberg, this means attendance at daily practice sessions, hearing the complaints of the players, handing out statements to newspaper reporters, being misquoted as often as not, preparing for the arrival of visiting teams, and a hundred other minor details.
Contrary to popular opinion, senior managers of major sports do not take i+ easy outside of their allotted season. Spangenberg, during the Fall, was in charge of all of the gatemen at the stadium. Under his capable direction 175,000 fans were guided through the trunstiles and safely placed in the hands of Charlie Weiss’ ushers. This is a man-sized job in itself, but when a thousand disap
pointed fans, fearful of missing the classic of the year, attempt to storm the gates, as they did at the recent Southern California game, there is need for immediate and firm judgment on the part of the officials.
All entrances but one were closed. The potential One-Eyed Connollys
Charles Spangenberg
Traps muskrats; rooms with McKeon, quartermaster and manager.
never witnessed the contest. Charley Spangenberg is a trapper. The connection may be vague, but the fact remains—Charley Spangenberg is a trapper. It’s a mystery to me where he can find the time to trap muskrats, ’possum and the like while at school, still Joe McKean, his roommate, assures me that this is quite true. Then there are various kinds of skins lying about to substantiate Joe’s words.
Also occupying a prominent place in the Sorin hall residence is a stuffed Barred-Hawk with a four-foot wing spread, brought down with a .22 by Owner Spangenberg. Because of certain four-footed things peculiar to Sorin, the bird is somewhat the worse’ for wear. Yet it still stands, a silent monument to his marksmanship.
And just for the records: Spangenberg is a full-fledged quartermaster on the largest ocean-going freighters in the country—plying between New Orleans and Seattle ... is a member of Monogram, Chicago, and Press clubs . . . realized his ambition when he was made manager . . . likes his job . . . likes the fellows . . . and has real interest in the team. . . .
Student Named President of Notre Dame Group.
Sylvester Rapier was elected president of the Chemists’ club for the coming year at the club’s first regular meeting of the second semester, Wednesday evening, in Chemistry hall. The other officers elected were John Dobinsky, vice-president; Frederick Weniger, secretary-treasurer; and Elmer Harkabus, member-at-large. Rapier will succeed Joseph Toussaint as president.
George F. Hennion, a senior chemical engineer, spoke before the group on “The Chemistry of Proteins.” He emphasized the importance of proteins in the sense that all the living matter in the body, with the exception of bone, fat and water belongs to this class of substance.
He also mentioned that the only source of proteins is in living organisms, and stressed the difficulty of obtaining them from natural sources. A further classification was made into groups and it was pointed out how all proteins known today must come under one of these classifications.
GRID COACHES NAMED
(Continued from Page 7)
their charges during the spring training of that year.
The choice of these three stars was undeniably logical. All of them are products of three years of varsity competition. All of them have worked under both Coach Anderson and Coach Rockne and are completely familiar with the Notre Dame style • of play. In addition to this they have an intimate knowledge of the strong and weak points of the members of the squad as well as of the majority of Notre Dame’s opponents for next fall.
Each of the three men received widespread mention for all-American honors during the past year. Yarr and Schwartz were selected on the Literary Digest’s consensus team and Hoffmann was the choice of a majority of the voters in the selecting of the Associated Press all-star eleven.
Hunk Anderson and Ike Voedisch, holdover coaches, have been members of the Notre Dame staff for several years. •
c
February 5, 19.32
Fifteen
TAX SITUATION VIEWED
O’Shaughnessy Presents Paper on Present Tax Problems.
John O’Shaughnessy, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, presented a paper Wednesday before the Economics Seminar on “Present Problems of Taxation.” O’Shaughnessy gave different sides of the question of taxation and used as the basis of his paper the present situation in Chicago.
“The status of taxation as a necessary evil has changed rather to one of an unnecessary evil,” began Mr. O’Shaughnessy. “Taxes have increased but not in proportion to the national income. But the fault lies not in the right of the government to tax; it is in the methods used in taxing that we find the evils of our present system.
“The sales-tax adherents are fighting the. income-tax adherents in a wonderful example of class legislation,” the speaker went on, “both in the national and the state legislatures. The favorite position of our national leaders is that of straddling the fence. Their policy is that of watchful waiting. The legislature of Illinois has broken the ice by passing an incometax law, after a bitter fight in both houses.
“SANTA MARIA” CONTEST
(Continued from Page 10)
journalism, will read all the letters submitted.
Prizes are as follows: $15 for the best letters submitted, according to the rules; $10 for the second best, and $5 for the third best.
Rules: Each contestant may submit one letter addressed to anyone containing not less than 500, nor more than 1,000 words, typewriter on one side of the paper only. Letters may touch on or deal with any number of topics of interest to the college man: campus activity, culture, the arts, religion, love, business, politics, philosophy, etc.
Three points will guide the selection of the winners: acquaintance with topics handled, style, and friendly informality of the letter.
All letters must be in the hands of the editor, Paul J. Hallinan, 307 Walsh hall, before Saturday, March 5. Winners will be announced in the Santa Maria, which will be issued this year in the form of a year-book in May.
Club Photos To Be Taken For ‘Dome9 Section
The Dome photographer is on the campus for the next three weeks, primarily for the purpose of taking club group pictures. An appointment has been made for each club, and as there are a considerable number of campus organizations to be photographed in a short space of time, each club is expected to keep its appointment. Any club that does not show up at the appointed time will be omitted from this year’s annual.
Groups will be photographed in the south basement of Walsh hall unless otherwise specified. The request has been made that each member wear a coat, vest and tie.
Prices are the same as in previous years; large clubs will have a photograph of their city on their page in the book. An individual picture of each president will also be included in the make-up of the page.
Following are the club pictures scheduled for the week beginning February 8:
Monday, February 8. at 12:30 p. m.—International Relations, Foreign Commerce, A. I. E. E. At 4:15 p. m.—Northern New York. Buffalo, Triple Cities.
Tuesday. February 9. at 12:30 p. m.—Pittsburgh. Philadelphia, Montana. At 4:15 p, m. —-Italian, Fort Wayne. Wisconsin.
Wednesday, February 10, at 12:30 p, m.— Pharmacy, Spanish. Chemistry. At 4:15 p. m. —Minnesota. Cincinnati, Akron.
Thursday, February 11, at 12:30 p. m.—• Pre-Law, Rochester, Utica. At 4:15 p. m.— Pacific-Northwest, Louisiana-Mississippi. Texas.
Friday, February 12, at 12:30 p. m.—Physical Education, Peoria, La Raza. At 4:15 p. m.—St. Louis, Cleveland, Auburn.
Saturday, February 13, at 12.30 p. m.— Knights of Columbus (library steps).
Peoria Citizens Relieved
The citizenry of Peoria were assured this week by President Ernest Hechinger, president of the local campus group, that the Notre Dame club would conduct the usual Easter dance.
“We have everything arranged for a successful affair,” Hechinger stated today. “It’ll even be better than the Christmas dance.”
More than 40 percent of the material in the World almanac is changed every year because of changing events. “
CASASANTA SELECTS GLEE CLUB PERSONNEL
Sixty-five Students Named On * 1932 Organization.
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the department of music, announced early this week the complete
Joseph J. Casasanta
Makes final Glee Club selection.
personnel of the Notre Dame glee club for the second semester. There are sixty-five members in the club, the membership having been cut from one hundred and twenty-five members of the last semester.
Following are the selected students:
FIRST TENORI: Richard Burchill. James Carrico, Cecil J. Hobert, Robert Mularney. Emilio Gervasio, James Corrigan. Francis Schlueter, Leo Cronan, Thomas Meeker, Alex Wilson. William Casazza. Charles Dederich. Joe De Paul. Frank* Emerick, James Collins, John Sodoski. Joseph Kennedy. Maurice Scanlon. Raymond Boyce. Frank O’Neil. Arthur Glascow.
FIRST BASSI: Allan Collins, Frank Ober-koetter, Robert Butler, John Garver. Edward Quinn, Martin Cahill. George Menard. Robert Nesbit. Justin Tompkins. Paul O’Toole, S. Jerome Roach. William Waltz. William Murphy, and James Gerend.
SECOND TENORI: John LaForge. Jr.. Jack Mathews, Charles Downs, John Carnes, John F. Gill, Thomas Roach. Herbert Wehrlen, John Ryan. Irwin Goldman. Joseph Docken-dorff, John Henry, James Carmody, Herbert Petzel. Frank Maas. George Eichler. John Egan, Gerald Conway, and Thomas Burke.
SECOND. BASSI: George Lennartz. Philip Geoghegan. William Ayres, William Walsh. Frederick McLaughlin. James Wade. Bernard Huston, Daniel Rolfs. George Coady. Thomas Meade. Lawrence Chouinard. J. Albert Smith, and James Marohn.

Sixteen
The Scholastic
Juniors Present Prom Oriental To-Night
Art Kassel And His Orchestra Will Feature Song By Notre Dame Alumnus
Tonight at nine-thirty o’clock the Junior Prom of 1932 will be the occasion for the first dance ever to be held in the University dining halls. The novelty of staging the affair in such surroundings, coupled with an unusual decorative scheme, will do much to make the Prom a pleasant experience for the couples in attendance.
The General Chairman and his assistants believe they have obtained satisfactory results in holding the affair away from the perennial site of Notre Dame dances.
The task of decorating the huge west wing of the dining hall has been capably handled. Arthur Becvar, in
WEEK-END PROGRAM
Friday—
9:30 p. m., The Prom of 1932, Notre Dame Dining Hall.
Saturday—
2:00 p. m., Informal Parties, South Bend.
6:30 p. m., Dinner Dance, Oliver Hotel. “Doc” Perkins’ Orchestra to Play.
Sunday—
2:00 p. m., Informal Parties, South Bend.
Miss Carol Donohue
Guest of Chairman Ebert
charge of the arrangements, an- -nounced the plan of adornment this week. The Prom Oriental will be consistently staged in an Arabic atmosphere. Art Kassel and his orchestra will be elevated at the north end of the hall in the midst of palms and canopies. A few tables will be available in the same vicinity, while chairs will be provided for the dancers all along the floor.
A lounge will be in readiness at the south end of the hall, near which will be situated an imitation oasis. Where the hundred or so dining tables have gone nobody will ever guess, who does not get curious and look at some of the sections that are curtained off near the end of the wing.
Neill Ebert
General Chairman
Local hotel men report an unusually large number of reservations are being made by the men attending the dance for their guests from other cities. Most of the visitors will leave for their homes Sunday evening. Many parties are planned for Sunday afternoon after attending Mass at Notre Dame.
Many guests from out-of-town will be present at this dance. The big universities and colleges will be well represented. Many girls from other schools throughout the middle-west are among the fair visitors of various juniors.
Many Seniors To Attend
St. Mary’s girls will furnish the majority of guests for this affair. Rosary, Mundelein, and other Chicago schools will send many young ladies down to Notre Dame for the week-end. The usual bevy of beauties from St. Mary’s-df-the-Woods will be in attendance.
Marguerite Brennan of New York
February 5, 1932
Seventeen
Arabic Effect Marks Novel Innovation
John Finnernan
Junior Class President
City will be the guest of the junior class president, while Carol Donohue of Sandusky, Ohio, will accompany the Prom chairman.
About seventy-five seniors have made arrangements to be present at the affair. Great confidence in the success of the dance was expressed by the members in charge.
The dance marks the last affair of the Notre Dame social season before Lent. Following the Prom there will be a lull in student functions until early in April when the Engineers and Lawyers will present their annual dances.
The hours of the Prom are from 9:30 to 1:30. Permissions will be extended to 2:30, at which time all juniors must be in their place of residence. The cafeteria will close its doors to the general student body at 9:00 o’clock but will serve refreshments to the dancers from 12:00 o’clock until the Prom ends.
Men attending the Prom will be allowed the use of automobiles over the weekend provided they register
Dinner Dance Offered Tomorrow Nite; Doc Perkins
Will Wield The Baton
Miss Marguerite Brennan
Guest of President Finnernan
their intention with their rector. Monday noon is the dead-line for the use of cars. All cars not registered with the rectors of the various halls will open their user to severe disciplinary action.
Supper will be held at the usual hour in the dining halls, a fact which will necessitate no little amount of speed on the part of those whose duty it is to get the dancing floor in readiness.
At 6:30 o’clock Saturday evening the junior class will hold a dinner dance at the Oliver hotel, which will be open to a limited number of reservations. “Doc” Perkins and his mad Internes will play, with the charge at five dollars per couple.
The nature of the favors has not
been publicly announced, but chairmen contend the guests will be agreeably surprised.
The “bigger and better” attached to most dances has become banal, but some superlative must, in all justice, be appended to the Prom of ’32. The atmospheric touch of the campus will unquestionably make it a most enjoyable occasion for the guests who are coming from near and far, by rail and sky, to Notre Dame. .
Patrons for the dance are: Dean and Mrs. J. E. McCarthy, Judge and Mrs. A. L. Doyle, Mr. and Mrs. William H. Downey, Mr. and Mrs. S. E. Bocskei, Mr. A. J. Boyle, Mr. E. F. Langwell, and Mr. W. J. Leen.
IN ARABY
Prom Sony
It all seems—
Must it end,
Oh, can’t we pretend—
Make believe that we’re IN ARABY?
What a night
Of delight
’Neath the pale moon—
I’ll croon a tune—
’Bout my lady fair, IN ARABY.
We will banish care, troubles, they can go—	'
Like a Spanish pair, we’ll dance the tango.
Would a kiss be amiss?—
Your promise is all that I wish, Come let’s pretend that we’re
IN ARABY.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
League
“Faulty examinations are the cause of cheating.”
“Cheating is more prevalent among the lower division of students.”
“Cheating is the result of terror in examinations.”
“The honor code is like the League of Nations—ineffective. ’ ’
These are some of the conclusions drawn by fifteen faculty members of Washington university, when the question of action on student cheating was brought before them.
No Honor
The honor system at the University of South Carolina is about to be abandoned. The reason is the incoming freshmen. They learn to cheat in high school, and in college it is almost impossible to teach them differently.
Depression?
The College of Emporia has only eleven students this semester.
Spinach
A headline in a student paper reads, “Doctor’s Orders Accommodated by Dorm Diet Table.” “Spinach, spinach, spinach, spinach, spinach, spinach,” snickers the Oregon Emerald.
Ducdame
Ducdame is neither a new disease nor a social blunder, but the name of a new magazine started at the University of Oregon which publishes stories, poems, and wood blocks—all the work of Oregon students. Editors of the magazine state, “We are competing with neither Ballyhoo nor with athlete’s foot; we are only endeavoring to give the campus a literary organ.”
Little Reminders
Oxford students are protesting vigorously against the invasion of their campus by women, saying that the august founders of the university never intended Oxford to be a place of “lost hairpins and impossible hats.”
A Life-time Job
Students of Case Tech who steal lamp bulbs, break windows, smash doors, and otherwise behave in an anti-social manner, will be turned over to a psycho-analyst for examination. That’s one man who seems to have a life-time job in store for him.
Found
“Lost,” said a sign on the University of Minnesota’s bulletin board, “in anatomy building, a new style feather with a little black hat on it. Finder please return feather. You may keep the hat.”
Seniors, Take Notice!
How’s this for a letter of application? It was written by a Chinese student educated at Peking university.
“I am Wang. This is for my personal benefit that I write to ask you for a position in your honorable firm. I have a flexible brain what will adapt itself to your business, and in consequence bring good efforts to your honorable selves.
“My education was impressed upon me in the Peking university, in which place I graduated No. 1.
“I can drive a typewriter with good noise, and my English is great. My references are of the good, and should you hope to see me they will be read by you with great pleasure.
“My last job has left itself from me, for the good reason that the large man (employer) has dead. It was on account of no fault of mine.
“So, honorable sirs, what about it ?
“If I can be of big use to you I will arrive on some date, you guess when.”
No Comprenez?
“Pty Squipetar eshte i pelqyershme!”
Which means in plain English “Howdy I Albania’s not such a bad place after all!”
This is just a sample of what will comprise collegiate conversations at Columbia university where a course in Albanian will be taught this semester.
January 22, 1932
Nineteen
HIIGI'f PAGE
PRAISE FOR THE BAND
Few organizations on the campus are worthy of higher or more unstinted praise than the musical organizations of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta.
Criticisms, however, from the latent undergraduate “lookers-on” have been wafted about the campus, complaining of the few performances that are presented each year by both the band and the equally famous glee club.
They would have some eighty youths appear at each basketball game to play four or five numbers, or smartly march at the beck and call of any activity where martial strains might serve as an impetus to the enthusiasm of the gathering. ;
This does not seem right. The band, it appears, is within its jurisdiction by refusing to make public appearances at each athletic encounter, where its importance is seemingly relegated to a minor position on the evening’s activity.
This does not advocate a “prima donna” attitude but rather urges band concerts under more desirable situations.
Probably in no other undergraduate activity is the back-stage preparation so necessary for the final product as in the University musical groups. These long, tedious hours of preparation should not be expended on activities where the appreciation is not of the wholesome, sincere variety.
With this idea in mind The Scholastic urges more band concerts whenever possible, but sincerely applauds Joseph Casasanta’s attitude in having them at times when the appreciation is not diminished by the principle entertainment of the evening.
❖ ❖ ❖
“ FOR CHARITY”
The sale of tickets for the Bengal boxing show opens tonight. The event has been hailed as “the outstanding feature of the winter intramural season.” In addition to that, it is one of the major projects for the increasing of the Mission fund. Together, these facts should make the show a strong drawing card.
Sporting events bearing the stamp “for charity” are too often prone to furnish a me
diocre program to their customers. The charity front is used to cover the weakness of the performance. The admission price becomes a free-will gift to the benefiting cause. -
Viewed in consideration of that situation, the Bengal show next Friday night borders on the unusual. It will furnish the spectators with an evening full of real entertainment. The deserving cause is to benefit by the excellence of the performance; the charity angle will not be needed as an excuse for mediocrity. To the purchasers of the tickets the extraction of the admission price “for charity” will be less than painless; Billy Magarrall’s troupe guarantees it.
❖ ❖ ❖
THE DEATH KNELL
Inactive organizations, masquerading under the fictitious title of Notre Dame campus clubs, will suffer a severe blow Sunday morning, when President Hitzelberger of the Presidents’ council outlines a strong platform which must be adhered to by all local groups.
It is to be hoped that this will sound the death knell for those latent city and state organizations, whose existence in undergraduate life has been perpetuated solely as an advertising slogan for the Christmas dances.
Clubs that fail to meet the obligations of regular meetings should be ABOLISHED. They have no purpose in Notre Dame student life.
Club presidents who feel that their titles are purely honorary should be ousted from office. They are a hinderance, not an asset, to any group.	.
A crisis has unquestionably been reached in local undergraduate club life which must be faced. If the territorial groups are to exist it must be for a purpose other than the annual yule-tide activity.
Christmas dances, it is granted, are essential to organized campus group life. A treasury is an obvious necesssity, and the coffers, it is true, can be filled only by the winter vacation frolics.
That the only activity of the club, however, should be the promotion of a dance seems a bit incongruous. This is particularly true when instead of swelling the organization’s bank account, many a club secretary is forced to use only red ink for the remainder of the semester.
Twenty
The Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
Keoganites Toy With Iowa, 33-18
Irish Quint Wins Eighth Straight In DUWAN, FITZPATRICK Easy Style; Offense Best of Season MEET IN MITT WIND-UP
Newbold, Norb Crowe, DeCook Lead Scoring; Krause Shines As Classy Ball Handler.
By T. Edward Carey
RE A TING their opponents to a dazzling array of passes, sensational shooting, and perfect team-work the Notre Dame basketball team welcomed the Hawkeyes of Iowa last
Monday night, and when the forty minutes of furious playing was over it was found out that Notre Dame had won, 33 to 18. Not that it took that long to decide which was the better team; after the first five minutes the customers set
tled back and began to hazard guesses concerning Notre Dame’s margin of victory.
DeCook Opens Scoring
DeCook opened the scoring with a short shot from the side and coun
tered again with another short shot .from a pivot play a minute later. Crowe boosted the score to 5-0 with a foul. Iowa’s fast-breaking attack was stopped by the close guarding of the locals. Krumbholz finally broke the ice for the Hawkeyes, tallying from under the basket on an out-ofbounds play. Krause retaliated by swinging around from his pivot position and dropping in a one-hander.
Bennett got one out of two fouls for Iowa, and then Moffitt dropped one in from the foul circle on a pivot play to conclude Iowa’s scoring for the first half.
Bennett, six foot-six center for Iowa, out-jumped Krause consistently, but the Fighting Irish covered the ball so fast that the tip-off advan
tage was about even. Moffitt, who is second only to Reiff of Northwestern in Big Ten scoring honors, was tied up in the first half, scoring only once from the floor, and it was not until late in the second half that he was able to get the range on long shots.
Irish Score Free Throws
In an epidemic of fouls against Notre Dame, DeCook and Burns each converted one and Newbold two to increase Notre Dame’s lead to 11-5. Newbold added two more points when he dribbled half the length of the floor and bounced one in off the backboard. With the score 13-5 the bewildered lowans took time out. Crowe, by way of encouragement, dropped one in from the side as soon as play began again to start his own private basket barrage which netted him nine points before he left the game.
Burns tallied next from the foul stripe, and then Krause on an out-ofbounds play was left standing all alone under the basket and scored again. Crowe sank a beautiful shot from the center of the court as the half ended with the score: Notre Dame 20, Iowa 5.
Iowa Scores Late
The second half was a repetition of the first, with Iowa doing their only bit of heavy scoring against the ond team in the
fourth quarter.
It was Newbold who initiated scoring when play resumed, tallying from that ever-efficient pivot play. Reigert came back with a long shot, and Moffitt added a foul. Newbold got two more from the foul stripe and then Crowe and Newbold connected for the field goals on short passes (Continued on Page 23)
Notre Dame
Other Fighters Paired As Card Nears Completion.
By Billy Magarrall
With the matching of Jerry Duwan and Jack Fitzpatrick in the heavyweight division, a slam-bang conclusion is promised at the Bengal boxingshow next Friday night.
Jerry has a bobbing, weaving style which may give Fitzpatrick some trouble, but the latter’s sharpshooting punching may enable him to find the range early for a give-and-take three-round session.
The several other weight divisions have so many men of equal ability that it is going to be difficult to match the best two. No further bouts have been definitely arranged except the heavy weight affairs but in the light-weight division Len Dunn, the defending champion will likely have as an opponent either Tony Scalaro, Phil Purcell, or Frank Gaul.
Cline and Halligan May Meet
In the middleweight class, Art Cline and Bob Halligan may square off. A number of fine welterweights give promise of making the bout in this division the classic of the evening.
Those who will strive for the 147-pound crown are Jim Krause, Jack McLaughlin, and Ed Cartan. The lightweight division will see John Fisher and Pat Goggin exchanging blows, while the featherweights have Bill Case and Walt Noonan mixing it in the opening bout of the card.
Only Tentative Schedule
The above-mentioned are only tentatively arranged while awiting for the arrival of the late entries. Several late comers have signified their intentions of entering, and it will be several days before the complete card is definitely arranged.
February 5, 1932
Twenty-one
Sniper—Grade A,
WILSON, RELAY TEAM, IN MILLROSE A.C. MEET
Irish Star Defends ‘600’ Title; Mile Team Faces Penn-N. Y.
Bill Newbold
23 field goals, 16 free throtvs: leads Notre Dame attack.
Facing the classiest competition in the country, a squad of five Notre Dame track stars left today for New York for their annual appearance in the Millrose A. C. games at Madison Square Garden tomorrow night.
Alex Wilson, Charley Kelly, Mac-Beth,' Obergfall and Kuhn were the men picked for the eastern invasion by Coach John P. Nicholson. There was a possibility of a last minute switch replacing Rudy Obergfall with Jack Scanlon if the big sophomore speedster had not fully recovered from his recent illness.
Wilson Defends Title
Wilson was slated for a defense of his championship in the classic Millrose 600 aaginst one of the fastest fields in the East. Bernie McCafferty, Holy Cross flyer, is entered in the event and if he should go to the barrier will give the Notre Dame luminary plenty of competition.
George Bullwinkle, winner of the 1,000-yard event in last year’s games, has elected to try the 600 distance this year and is expected to force a terrific pace. Among others included in the field is Eddie Roll, prominent eastern runner.
Penn Relay Team Fast
Wilson will return to the track to anchor the Notre Dame mile relay quartet. Fred MacBeth and Charley Kelly, veterans of last year’s team, will hold down two of the places 'with Obergfall favored for the remaining position. Coach Nicholson has hopes of a 3:20 mile from this combination. Should Obergfall be unable to run, either Kuhn or Scanlon will replace him.
The Notre Dame team is bracketed with Pennsylvania and New York U. in their section of the mile relay program. Little is known of the strength of the N. Y. U. quartet but the Penn team is probably the fastest in the east.
Set Indoor Record
Last year’s Quaker team set a new indoor mark of 3:17.8 in the indoor intercollegiates. The entire championship four has returned this year (Continued on Page 29)
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Sullivan’s Tense Moment
Robs The Babe of a Hit
This is the second of a series of intervieivs by Paul Host, in ivhich he describes the tense moments experienced by Fighting Irish athletic stars.
By Paul Host
Copyright, 1932, by Notre Dame Scholastic.
When Billy Sullivan, young White Sox third baseman, clouted one of Lefty Groves’ lightning pitches into
Billy Sullivan
Stopping Babe Ruth is bigest thrill.
the stands on his first time up in a game with the Philadelphia Athletics last summer, he regarded it as just a part of the day’s work.
But, when the rookie infielder, who formerly cavorted about first base for Notre Dame with such class as to win a position on College Humor’s all-American baseball team outfoxed Babe Ruth, he considered it the greatest moment in his life of sport.
Plays Close For Babe
Late August, 1931, found the New’ York Yankees in Chicago for a series with the White Sox, and Ruth, the New York team’s outstanding member, was tied with Al Simmons of the Athletics for the American Leagues, batting lead. It was an opportune occasion for the Gargantuan Ruth to nourish his already high average at the embarrassment, of the lowly Sox.
Because the Bambino hit to right field Sullivan played in close when Ruth was at the plate and this had drawn a stream of good-natured ridicule from the King of Swat. The first time up Ruth beat out a bunt to “Sully” and proceeded to renew his razzing tactics by remarking that if Sullivan didn’t move deeper he would knock one through his teeth.
Rhodes Misses Third
Ruth’s second trip to the plate found the Sox leading by one run while the Yanks had the tying and winning runs on first and second with two men out. Sullivan continued to play close and Ruth, carrying out his threat, slammed a terrific drive against the right center field fence.
Sullivan describes the play which followed: “Ruth’s hit was a beauty and would have gone for a home run in any park except Comisky which is the longest in the league. It careened off the fence and Watwood, who fielded the ball, held Ruth on second; but Rhodes and Sewell, who were on second and first respectively, scored.
“I noticed that Rhodes had failed to touch third base as he sprinted for home and so I called for the ball from Appling, who was covering second. As I touched third with the ball the umpire declared Rhodes out thereby automatically retiring the side and cutting off the two runs. The best part of it was that Ruth was deprived of a hit. He was furious and moaned about Rhodes’ thick head for the better part of a week while I received from the play the biggest thrill and the most satisfaction that I have yet drawn from sport.”
Studies Batting Stance
Sullivan is one of the few major leaguers who never takes a vacation for the close of baseball season finds him back at Notre Dame where he is studying law.
Billy recently purchased a motion picture outfit with which he intends to study batting stance and swing during the coming season. He batted .291 for a time last season and the close of the 1932 campaign should find him gracing the select ranks of the .300 hitters.
YOUPOLD SUIT!
Spruce up and have that old suit cleaned and pressed.
It will look like new if done at Notre Dame.
Further—
Worries and Iron outpour Wrinkles When We dolour LAUWkY
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING DEPARTMENTS
February 5, 1932
Twenty-three
IRISH SWAMP IOWA, 33-18
(Continued from Page 20)
from Krause. Filkins added two more points for Iowa with another mid-court shot, and then Moffitt, following up a barrage on the Iowa basket, tapped in another doublecounter.
DeCook came through with one of his sensational running shots, tossing the ball back over his shoulder
Referee, Schommer; umpire, Kearns.
The ONLY genuine Lifetime0 guarantee is Sheaffer’s; do not be deceived! Other pens may be guaranteed against defect, but Sheaffer’s Lifetime0 is guaranteed against everything excepting loss for your lifetime. Sheaffer’s Lifetime0 pens from $7; Sheaffer’s Feathertouch Lifetime0 pens from $8; Sheaffer’s Autograph Lifetime0 with 14-karat solid gold band suitable for duplicate of your actual signature (serving for identification) from $13.50. Autograph pencils from $9. Other Sheaffer pens from $3, pencils from $2.50.
This white
Lifetime0
ven.
Speeds classroom notes
and all writing
dot identifies
Sheaffer's, the
ONLY genuine
while dribbling away from the basket. Crowe dribbled through the entire Iowa quint to score the next, and Moffitt tapped in another one for the Hawks. A free throw by Voegele, two by Krumbholz, and a field goal by Moffitt ended the scoring.
Newbold headed the scoring list with ten points; Crowe and Moffitt of Iowa each got nine, and DeCook came through with seven.
Summary:
Notre Dame (33)	c
Newbold, rf ..............3
DeCook, If ...............3
Krause, c ................2
Bums, rg .................0
N. Crowe, Ig .............4
f	p
4	1
1	1
0	2
2	1
1	1
Voegele, c	.................0	1
Iowa (18)	c	f
Moffitt, rf ...................4	i
Krumbholz,	If ...............1	2
Bennett, c	.................0	1
Filkins, rg	.................1	0
Reigert, 1g	.................1	0
0 p 1
0 9 1 •>
SAFETY SKRIP. SKRIP-PILLED, 50c up. Carry non-leakable Safety Skrip in your pocket or baft to class—protects clothes, linens, furniture—keeps fluid fresh, making all pen* write better.
Here’s a realnews flash from Sheaffer to the college world ... announcing the new Feathertouch point! Speeds classroom notes. Fast as greased li&htnin^ in action... as soft as a feather in its silk-smooth stroke! Sheaffer designers achieved Double-Control Flow for the first time in any pen! Specially treated upper ^old section retards the flow to heart pierce, forming reservoir, while platinum-glazed channel induces just the ri^ht flow to iridium point. With incredible ease Feathertouch flashes your written work to a quick finish! Now available in all Lifetime0 pens.
Sheaffer First in American Colleges
A disinterested survey shows Sheaffer first in fountain pen sales in 73 out of the 100 leading American Colleges having a registration of1700 or more. SHEAFFER’S V/ PENS PENCILS DESK SETS SKRIP
W. A. SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY • FORT MADISON,IOWA, U.S.A. And All Principal Cities of the World «ta.u.s.Pat.oe. ©w.A.s.p.Co-.isa
Tzcenty-four
The Scholastic
Splinters From The Press Box
Pin CAGERS DROP
25-12 TILT TO IRISH
By James S. Kearns
MILLROSE MELANGE
We have a very definite feeling that we’re missing a treat by not seeing the Millrose games at the Garden tomorrow night. Quite apart from our personal interest in Alex Wilson’s defense of his title and the clash of the Notre Dame and Pennsylvania one-mile relay teams, we’d like to be there for a first hand view of some of the greatest track athletes in the world.
Ray Conger will be there seeking his fourth straight victory in the _ Wanamaker mile; j Russell Chapman, undefeated in two years, will head America’s defense in the international 800-meter race.
Fred Sturdy with three years of unbroken victories in indoor pole vaulting; Percy Beard, defending hurdle champion; Harold Manning, spectacular Wichita two-miler, will be on hand.
Fifteen other American titleholders will vie with some of their leading domestic rivals and a host of foreign invaders. Carl Coan, Penn’s indoor mile champion, will challenge Con
NEWBOLD STILL LEADS; CROWE GAINS
(Including Iowa game.)
	* G	FG	FT	PF	FTM	PCT	PTS
Newbold	12	23	16	27	12	.571	62
DeCook	11	23	8	14	8	.500	54
Krause	10	19	16	17	13	.552	54
N. Crowe	12	22	3	19	9	.250	47
Baldwin	9	17	5	14	5	.500	39
Voegele	10	11	5	6	4	.555	27
Davis	11	11	3	11	2	.600	25
Burns	12	6	9	22	4	.692	21
L. Crowe	8	10	1	5	2	.333	21
Schumacher	7	. 4	2	3	1	.667	10
Johnson	8	1	1	6	4	.200	3
Fehlig	1	1	0	0	1	.000	2
Schrader	2	0	0	2	0	.000	0
Oelerich	1	0	0	1	0	.000	0
Totals	12	148	69	147	65	.515	365
Opponents	12	85	81	113	79	.506	251
* G—games;	FG—field	goals;	FT—free	throws;	PF—personal	fouls; FTM-	—free
throws missed; PCT—percentage free throws made; PTS—total points.
ger’s reign. Bill O’Connor, Intercollegiate A. A. A. title holder from Columbia, faces George Spitz who, last year, set a new world’s high jump record indoors.
Joe McCloskey, Fordham’s champion two-miler, is another luminary slated to be present. Leo Lermond, Vic Burke, Bill Bruder and scores and scores of others will chase each other over the white pine track of the Garden in one of the most complete programs of the indoor season.
Chief of the foreign invaders is Ladislas Barsi, of Hungary. Barsi is national champion at 800 and 1,500 meters and will race against Chapman, Dale Letts of Chicago, and Otto Rosner, N. Y. A. C., in a special international 800-meter jaunt. Barsi has held the Hungarian titles for seven years.
This could go on and on but we’ve seen plenty by this time to justify our feeling that we are missing a treat.
GERMAN GYRATIONS
The activities of the German bobsled teams at Lake Placid the past week or ten days will undoubtedly go down in the history of Olympic win-(Continued on Page 25)
Norb Crowe Leads Scoring In Triumph Over Panthers.
Pittsburgh’s Panthers met with an unexpected reverse when they invaded the Notre Dame court on Saturday, J anuary 23, and were soundly trounced by the Fighting Irish eagers, 25-12. Notre Dame maintained a safe lead throughout, and was at no time in danger.
The Panthers seemed to have all the requirements of a great team, but with the exception of one devastating west coast invasion have had a rather poor season. The team appeared to be tired and worn by the rigors of a killing schedule, and apparently had little else than its traditional jinx over Notre Dame to justify its hopes for victory.
The absence of Johnny Baldwin from the Notre Dame lineup was scarcely felt, as his place was very competently filled by Captain Norb Crowe, who led his team in scoring with nine points.
Notre Dame used a zone defense which the Pittsburghers were unable to solve, while using a cross court attack that proved singularly effective.
Lawry and Kowallis, Panther scoring aces, connected for five and six points respectively but their teammates were kept so well under control that their scoring was of no consequence.
Summary:
Notre Dame (25)	c	f	p
Newbold, rf ..............1	0	3
Davis, rf ................1	0	0
DeCook, If ...............1	1	1
Krause, c ................3	1	1
N. Crowe, rg..............4	1	3
Burns, 1g ................1	0	0
Pittsburgh (12)	c	p	p
Lawry, rf ................2	1	1
Kowallis, If .............3	0	1
Brown, c .................0	1	0
McCamant, rg .............0	0	1
Smith, 1g ................0	0	2
Amherst is divided against itself in the new Congress. Both Henry T. Rainey of Illinois, Democratic floor leader, and Bertrand Snell of New York, Republican whip, are graduates of that college. Rainey was graduated in 1883 and Snell in 1894.
February 5, 1932
Twenty-five
CAGERS FACE SYRACUSE HERE WEDNESDAY NIGHT
Return Engagement With Pitt Scheduled For Tomorrow.
With eight consecutive victories tucked away, Coach George Keogan’s fast moving basketball squad is facing two major games within the next week. Pittsburgh will be met in a return contest at Pittsburgh tomorrow night. The Syracuse Reindeers will invade the Notre Dame gym next Wednesday night in one of the feature attractions of the home season.
In view of the 25-12 trimming handed the Panthers in the game at Notre Dame two weeks ago, the Irish are top heavy favorites to repeat their triumph tomorrow in the Smoky City. A victory is needed to even the score for last season’s twin setback at the hands of the Pitt team.
Syracuse Team Strong
The Syracuse quintet will bring a powerful aggregation in their invasion of the Middle-west. Headed by Captain Slim Elliott, the only holdover from last year’s regulars, the sophomore charges of Coach Lew Andreas have chalked up nine wins in thirteen games. Last year the Irish dropped a 28-22 decision to Syracuse in an overtime period.
Elliott, a giant center standing six feet four inches, will give Moose Krause of the Keoganites another busy evening. From recent indications Krause is at top form against high grade opponents and should keep the eastern star well occupied.
Novel Offense
The appearance of Syracuse will bring a new style offense into play against Notre Dame. Coach Andreas has developed a “figure-eight” maneuver’ with the two forwards stationed in the corners that may trouble the Keoganites’ defense.
No indication of how Coach Keo-gan plans to meet this attack was given during the week’s practice sessions. Having used a man-to-man and a zone defense with equal finish during the first twelve games, the local mentor is in a position to adapt his defensive plans as the game progresses. .
BALLOON ASCENSION IS AGAIN PLANNED TO STRATOSPHERE
By Intercollegiate Press.
VIENNA, Feb. 3.—A new balloon ascension to the stratosphere in the next few months is planned by Count Theodore Zichy, of Hungary, and Hans Braun, a Vienese engineer, who have signed a contract with an American news service to detach their gondola from the balloon after reaching the stratosphere, and descend therefrom by means of a huge parachute.
The gondola, to be larger than that which carried Prof. Alphonse Piccard and his companion to the stratosphere last year, will be made of duralumin with double walls to protect the passengers from intense heat and cold, and will be equipped with a two-way radio set.
The same starting lineup that handed Iowa an overwhelming trimming last Monday is expected to face both Pitt and Syracuse. The recent scoring burst of Captain Norb Crowe has given the Keoganites one of the most rounded out offensive machines developed here in some time.
George Armstrong and Captain Elliot are expected to lead the Syracuse scoring as they have been the principal offensive luminaries so far this year.
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
ROUND TRIP EXCURSION
South Bend to Chicago
$3.90
Week ends, Fri., noon thru Mon.
Leave South Bend station, Michigan and La Salle streets, any train Friday noon to Sunday noon. Return on any train up to and including 11:30 p. m. train, Monday. For information phone South Bend 3-3111, or see Chas. Woods, 222 Lyons Hall.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 24)
ter competition as the most frantic practice performances of all time. Possibly as the most tragic.
Seventy miles an hour is terrific speed on any medium. But on a four-passenger bobsled, scant inches above the track, it must be the closest possible approach to unbridled flight. To those athletes who seek their thrill in this sort of sport goes our heartiest admiration—touched by a bit of you’re-welcome-to-it.
UNDER CONTROL
Our old friends, the fouls and free throws, seem to be coming under complete control of the Keoganites these days. For the last two games, against Pitt and Iowa, the personal foul total was but 17, considerable improvement over the average of 13 per game for' the first half of the
season.
In the tilt with the Panthers, the Irish counted three out of six attempts from the free throw line. Against the Hawkeyes, they scored nine charity heaves out of thirteen. This accuracy brought their season’s average to .515, over the .500 mark for the first time this year. '

Twenty-six
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
By Irving B. Halper
Interhall basketball received a wonderful start this past week when 26 teams, representing 14 halls, opened competition. Only one forfeit, that of Walsh lightweights to the Howard lightweights, was registered.
At the end of the first round Sorin, Morrissey, Sophomore, and St. Edward’s are to be found credited with victories in the Group I heavyweight league. Lyons, Sophomore, Badin, and Sorin were the lightweight victors.
In the Group II heavyweight class, Freshman, Off-Campus, and Walsh were winners, and Brownson, Carroll, and Howard won among the lighter men. Alumni did not play.
The coming week’s schedule finds Sorin pitted against St. Edward’s in games that should go far in determining the Group I championship. Sophomore plays Badin, Morrissey tangles with Dillon, and Lyons faces Corby.
In Group II, Alumni gets its first taste of competition against Carroll. Brownson battles Freshman, and
Off-Campus will be tried by Howard.
The opening day games produced a number of outstanding individual stars. In the heavyweight division especially, offensive stars cropped out in practically every game. Weidner and Osborn led the St. Edward’s aggregation in their triumph over the Lyons quintet.
Scoring over half of his team’s total, Vitt of Off-Campus was the leading performer for the downtown eagers as they toppled Brownson. Frye, center, and Barnet, a forward, scored thirteen points between them to give Freshman an 18-6 win from Carroll.
Pogue and Brost of the Morrissey five annexed 11 and 8 points, respectively, in a 30 to 9 swamping of Badin’s entry. A lad named Wynn bore the brunt of Sophomore hall’s offense in a close battle with the Corby seniors. Wynn collected nine points.
Sorin hall’s stand in defense of its heavyweight title was opened with a 20-11 victory over Dillon. Lucky
Baldwin and Paul Host led the Sorin attack and Cushing of Dillon shared high honors with Baldwin. The final heavyweight conflict found Jim Igoe and Charley Hitzelberger of Walsh, and Becvar and Finneran of Howard leading their team’s scoring operations. Walsh copped the game by a 13-7 score.
The lightweight division, too, was featured by outstanding individual play. Asman and Colville led the smaller Sorin team to a win from Dillon. Jim Carrico dropped three field goals to help the Brownson lightweights reverse the result on the Off-Campus team. Carroll lights, likewise redeemed their larger hallmate’s upset with a 27 to 3 win from Freshman Thole, Carroll, registered ten points.
Sophomore took their second game from Corby when Evans and Kohl-man led the way to a 11-7 win. Badin and Morrissey lights evidently concentrated on defense in their 6-2 battle, Badin winning. Montgomery and Curran annexed the Badin markers while Tommy Stritch had a monopoly on the Morrissey tally.
The other lightweight contest on (Continued on Page 31)
SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY Feb. 6, 7, 8
R K O
THE WORLD’S MASTER MAGICIAN
Heading a Great
BLACKSTONE
and his show of 1001 wonders
You will see the most extravagant spectacle of magic ever presented—you will see BLACKSTONE and his entire company in feats which have never been duplicated —never been explained—defying every known law of nature.
Also
With Vi Maye in “Anything For a Laugh.
R K O
REEMS, RIO & KITCHELL
in “Collegiate Capers”
PALACE
ON THE SCREEN
JAMES CAGNEY LORETTA YOUNG —In—
No meter can check the laughs, thrills, and romance you’ll find in “TAXI”
Twenty-seven
February 5, 1932
« ............ -________
INTRODUCING a Bill McCormick
Four years ago a skinny Irish kid with nothing but a lot of ambition and a big grin turned out for the track team. With admiring eyes he watched the great Jack Elder per-
McCormick comes from Granite City, Ill., and is a graduate of Granite City High school. While attending that school he was a member of the basketball team for two years, but didn’t go out for track until the spring of his senior year. His high school athletic feats, however, are now almost forgotten; overshadowed
by his many experiences in the “big time.” At Notre Dame, track work has taken all his time, and he has been content to play all his basketball from the grandstand.
As his most exciting experience, Bill remembers an occasion at the Ohio relays when he collided with another sprinter and knocked him over a fence into unconsciousness. “I felt a lot steadier in the vicinity of my knees when he came to, I can tell (Continued on Page 30)
WALE-OVER SALE
Capt. Bill McCormick
Co-holder of 60-yard dash record.
Every pair of men’s shoes is reduced in price during this sale—and that includes seven brand new styles, just arrived in complete sizes, to sell at $6.45.
FORMERLY TO $10
form — break a world’s record, tie several others. He became a close friend of Elder and under the tutelage of the famous speedster’s coach and with the encouragement of Elder, developed rapidly into a first-class sprinter. Two years later he raced down the indoor speedway at Notre Dame to tie the world’s record for the sixty-yard dash set by his noted predecessor.
$g95
<QVf P,
S -H O f S f O R. M-EN
That, my friends, is the captain of your track team —Bill McCormick. Even if you know Bill only to see him, you like him. If you’re a friend of his, you’ll swear by him. He’s that kind.
ONE - ONE - ONE SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
Wynn, Ig
4
1
0
Interhall Box Scores
Total
6
3
1
Morrissey Pogue, rf . Linton, If . Hagen, If . Herold, c . Brost, rg .. Motsett, Ig Gleason, Ig
HEAVYWEIGHTS c ...........4 ...........0 ...........2 ...........1 ...........4 ...........0
P 3 0 0 0 0 1 0
p
0 0
1 0
0
Corby Perone, rf Conti, rf . Pappas, If Ryan, rf . Dow, c .. Jeffry, rg Dillon, Ig
G 1 0 1 .0 1 ,2 0
F 0 0 0 0 0 1
0
p
1
0 1
0
2
3
Total
13
4
5
Total
5
1
8
Brownson Follmer, rf . Leonard, If Flannery, c O’Brien, rg Lyons, 1g ..
Total
G 0 0 0 0 1
1
1 1
0 0
1
3
p 0
1 1
0
3
Badin Ellis, rf ... Lewis, If .. Donovan, If Greeney, c . Meyers, rg . Cummings, 1;
G 0
0 0
0
1
F 0 2 1 0 0 0
p 0 1
3 4 1
Total
3
3
11
Sophomore Felts, rf ... Savener, rf Sifriski, If . Weigand, c Emerling, rg Gother, rg . Crosson, Ig
G .0
1 0
0 0
0
1 0 0 0 0
1 0
P 1 0 0 0 0 0 0
St. Edwards Osborn, rf ...... Moloney, rf ..... Rickard, rf ..... Halpin, If ...... Robiletto, If .... Fitzgerald, c .... Jehle, c ........ Seidner, rg ..... Oitzinger, rg. If. Shinkowitz, 1g .. Clark, 1g ....... DeVore, 1g .......
O’Day, 1g ........
Total
Student representa-
tive wanted for our
Popular Loose Leaf
Memory Book
For particulars address
INTERCOLLEGIATE PRESS
Dept. 3
Kansas City, Mo.
Lyons Hall, rf .... Pasewietz, rf Doerschel, If Montie, If . Huisking, c Moscow, c . Curry, rg .. Vettel, rg .. Link, 1g ... Philbin, 1g .
Total
Off-Campus Augustine, rf Nigro, rf ... Vitt, if .. Rodriquez, c Monahan, c .. Woodka, rg . Flinn, rg .... Cunka, 1g ...
Total
G 2 1 1 1 1 .1
0 3 .1 .0 .0 .0
0
F 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0
p 1
0 1
1 0 0 0
0 1
1 2 0
0
Freshman Chadwick, rf Barnet, If .. Frye, c .... Burke, rg .. Carter, rg . Martin, 1g .
Total
Carroll Fillapitch, rf Haberg, rf . Cullen, If .. Rog, c .,.____ McArdel, rg Matthews, Ig Margrett, Ig
Total
11
G 1
1 0 0 0 0 0
0 1 0
3
G .1 .0 .2 .0 .0 .0 .0 .0
3
1
F 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0
p 2
0 1 0
2 0
0 0
1 0
Lyons Sauseville, rf Fanelli, rf . Bickford, If Meyers, If .. Bontempo, c Podiasza, rg Finnegan, Ig McKey, Ig ..
Total
3
6
THE UNIVERSITY OF BUFFALO
School of Dentistry
Three Year Curriculum
Catalogue Mailed upon request
For further information address
SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY
25 Gaedridi Street
Berffalo, N. Y-
G 0
3
3 0 0 .1
F 1 1 0 1 1 0
0 1
1 0
0
1
7
4
3
G 0 .1 .0 0 .0 .1 .0
F
1 0
0
0
1 0
0
p 0 0
1 1
1
1
2
6
F 0 .
0 2 0 0 0 0
3
p 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 0
5
2
LIGHTWEIGHT
G
.............1
............0
............3
............0
............3
............0
............0
............0
F 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
p 0 0 0 0
1 1
2
0
6
St. Edward’s Ward, rf..... Crego, If.... Wink, c ..... Carroll, rg ... Fisher, Ig ..
Total
Badin Montgomery, rf Bolger, If ... Schroanter, If . Freeman, c ... Misterley, rg .. Curran, 1g ....
Total .....
Morrissey Seward, rf Streitch, If
Phone 3-1254
R 1 1 1 1 0
.4
c .1 0 0 0 0
1
G 0 .1
F 0 0 1 2 - 0
1 0 0
1 0 0
F 0 0
Drs. Singler & Probst
DENTISTS
> 405 Associates Bldg. South Bend, Indiana
0
0
0
0
2
p 0
0 0 0
3 0
3
0
9
Twenty-nine
February 5, 1932
«
Gilcher, c ..................0	0
Dugan, rg ,...................0	0
Pappe, 1g ...................0	0
McNichols, 1g ...............0	0
Total .......................1	0
Sophomore	g	f
Montgomery, rf ..............1	0
Evans, rf ...................1	0
Kohlman, If .................1	0
Underhalb, c ................0	1
Ryan, rg ....................0	1
McGinnis, rg ................1	0
Roak, 1g ....................0	X
Total ...................,...4	3
Corby	g	f
Blommaert, rf ...............X	' 0
Brennan, If .................0	X
Dunleavy, c .................X	0
McDonald, rg ................X	0
Reinbolt, Ig ................0	0
Total .......................3	X
Sorin	g	f
Asman, rf ...................X	0
O’Malley, If, rf ............0	0
Kennedy, If, rf, c............X	0
W. Brown, c, rf...............0	0
R. Brown, rg ............... 2	0
Colville, Ig ................2	X
Total .......................6	1
Dillon	g	f
Quinlan, If .................0	0
Carr, rf......................0	0
Perks, c ....................X	0
X	Fox, rg ......................0	X
2	Forekek, rg ..................0	X
0	Spalding, 1g .................X	X
0	—	—
— Total .....................;......2	3
5	----
Brownson	g	f
Van Etten, rf................0	0
p	Carrico, If ..................3	0
0	McGruive, c ..................0	0
1	Coogan, rg ...................2	2
0	Gravel, 1g ...................X	2
2	, _	_
1	Total ........................6	.	3
0 0 Off-Campus	g f
—	Tylutki, rf	................0	2
4	Watson, If	.................0	0
Hertz, c ....................0	0
p	Brennan, rg ..................0	0
"	Ciarvisella,	1g ..............2	2
0	_
1	Total ........................2	4
X	____
1 Carroll	c f
~	Baker, rf	...............  3	0
®	McDonald,	If ................0	X
Thole, If,	rg................5	2
p	Graves, c,	rg................4	0
2	Lynch, 1g	.................0	0
0	Welsh, Ig	.................0	0
1 — — 3	Total .......................12	3
X 2 Freshman	g f
—	Burns, rf ....................X	0
7	Higgins, If ..................0	0
Tourney, c .'................0	0
p	Lee, rg ......................0	0
1	Wijcik, Ig ...................0	1
X	—	—
0	Total ........................1	1
0 0 X
3
p X 0 X 0 X
p 3 0 X 2 X
p 2 0 2 0 0 0
4
p 0 0 X X 0
0
N. D. MEN AT MILLROSE
(Continued from Page 2X)
but the exceptional running of Howard Jones so far this season has forced Jack Edwards out of the combination.
Jones is expected to ran the first leg of the race tomorrow night with Captain Horace Steel running in second position. Jimmy Healy, veteran Penn runner, will be the third to carry the baton with Bill Carr, national indoors 300-yard champion, running anchor.
In the trial for the team places held last Saturday, these four men stepped off quarter miles against time with unusual speed. Their marks were: Carr, :50.8; Healy, :51.5; Steel, :52; Jones, :52.5.
Coaches Get Salary Cuts
By Intercollegiate Press.
Madison, Wis., Feb. 3.—A special faculty commission, investigating athletic conditions at the University of Wisconsin, suggested this week that all athletic coaches be put on the same basis as other members of the faculty, their salaries being dropped to accord with regular faculty salaries.
Hello Men!
Smith s Cafeteria ! 11 E. Jefferson Bind.
Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you re hungry
SURPLUS STOCK
Men’s High Grade
Double Tap Sole—lion Heel FIELD SHOES
FOR MEN OR BOYS
Last year’s price was $3.85. A shoe for all outside workers.
ENDICOTT-JOHNSON Men’s Oxfords $1.95
GIL-BRO’S
330 S. Michigan St.
Thirty
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING McCORMICK
(Continued from Page 27)
you. He wasn’t hurt though,” continued Bill, “he was from Illinois.” Which may mean almost anything.
The two best track stars that he has ever seen or competed with have been Elder, and Tolan of Michigan. He expects his team this year to make a fine record, even if it is weak in one or two departments. He is especially anxious to win from Illinois.
Gene Austin
Famous Victor and Radio Singer and his
Victor Recording Orchestra
Sunday, February 7
Tickets on Sale at the Palais Ball Room and Oliver Hotel.
And continuing our policy to bring the best to South Bend we present •
TWEET HOGAN and his Drake Hotel Orchestra Valentine Party, Sunday, February 14
He has no particular hobby. Spends his summers playing tennis to keep in condition—“for dances and things.” Enjoys reading short stories, chiefly because of appreciation of them gained in courses here, and of the modem novelists, likes Willa Cather best. Throws out his chest when he admits residence in Sorin sub, but then winks. Has not yet decided what he will follow when he gets out of college.
“Break the record? Well, I’m going to try!” And he will.
RESERVES WIN FROM JOLIET JUNIORS 30-20
Holland, O’Connor, Newbold Lead “B” Team’s Offense.
The Notre Dame “B” team avenged an early season setback at the hands of Joliet Junior College Wednesday night, winning 30-20 on the home floor. .
Joliet opened the scoring on a charity toss by Flannagan and ran the count to 6-2 before Notre Dame got their bearings. Newbold then added two baskets to the “B” team’s total and the game was tie. Oelerich garnered two under-the-basket shots, Angsten a pretty pot-shot, and Newbold another one from close in to give the Irish a 14-6 advantage.
Flanagan stopped this scoring spree momentarily, but Holland, who substituted for Tobin at center, registered a tip-in. Furlong’s basket made the count 16-9 in favor of the “B” five at half time.
Coach Smith started the same five which finished the first half, in the second period. Holland sank a neat push-in. Three free throws, by Furlong, Flanagan, and Killeene brought Joliet to within 6 points of a tie. Two baskets by Keating, three by O’Connor, who replaced Oelerich, and one by Holland put the game on ice for the “B” team.
At this juncture a new team replaced the regulars and Joliet scored seven points without a return to make the final count 30-20.
The lineup:
ISHAM JONES and his Brunswick Recording Orchestra George Washington Party, Sunday, Feb. 21
WATCH FOR PARTICULARS
Palais Royale
IXOTRE DAME	G
Keating, rf .................2
Angsten, If..................1
Tobin, c ....................0
Newbold, rg .................3
Oelerich, 1g ................2
Holland, c...................3
O’Connor, 1g ................3
Koken, If ...................0
Banas, rf ...................0
Minnot, 1g ..................0
Fehlig, rg ..................0
O’Neil, rf ...................0	’
Total .......................14
Joliet Junior College	g
Furlong, rf.............2
Flanagan, If ...........0
Ward, c ................0
Killeene, rg ...........0
Hodge, 1g ..............0
McEwan, rg'.............1
Olsen, If ..............1
Smarker, c......'.......0
Ryan, 1g .......;.......1
‘ ’ Total' .T.:./..5 -
0 0 0 9 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0
2
F 1 4 2 2 0 0 0 1 0
10
0 0
0
0
12
p 0
0
0
1
2
1
0 0
0
4
February 5, 1932
Thirty-one
INTERHALL SPORTS
(Continued from Page 26)
Sunday’s schedule saw Lyons take a 14 to 11 victory from St. Edward’s. Sal Bontempo, playing center for the west siders, was the main spring of the victor’s attack.
STANDINGS
GROUP I
Heavyweights			Lightweights		
	w	L		w	L
Morrissey ...	.1	0	Lyons 		.1	0
Sophomore ..	.1	0	Sophomore ..	..1	0
Sorin 		.1	0	Badin 		.1	0
St. Edward’s.	.1	0	Sorin 		.1	0
Corby 		.0	1	Corby 		.0	1
Dillon 		.0	1	Dillon 		.0	1
Badin 		.0	1	Morrissey 		.0	1
Lyons 		.0	1	St. Edward’s.	.0	1
GROUP II
Heavyweights		L	Lightweights w		L
	w				
Freshman ..	..1	0	Brownson ..	..1	0
Off-Campus	..1	0	Carroll 		..1	0
Walsh		..1	0	Howard 			..1	0
Alumni 			..0	0	Alumni ....	..0	0
Brownson ..	..0	1	Off-Campus	..0	1
Carroll 		..0	1	Freshman ..	..0	1
Howard 			..0	1	Walsh 		..0	1
Game Schedule
February 7
Group I—
8:30 a.m.—Lyons vs. Corby
9:30 a. m.—Sophomore vs. Badin
10:30 a. m.—Morrissey vs. Dillon
1:30 p. m.—Sorin vs. St. Edward’s
Group II—
2:30 p.m.—Howard vs. Off-Campus
3:30 p.m.—Brownson vs. Freshman 4:30 p. m.—Carroll vs. Alumni Walsh—bye.
Practice Schedule
Friday, February 5
Sorin	7 p. m.	Freshman
Corby	8 p. m.	Brownson
Walsh	9p. m.	Carroll
	Monday, February 8	
Alumni	7 p. m.	St. Edward’s
Badin	8 p. m.	Sophomore
Lyons	9 p. m.	Dillon
Golf Course Closed
The William J. Burke Golf course has been closed, and is to remain closed until the regular spring opening about Easter, according to an announcement issued this week by the Reverend Raymond M. Murch, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline.
It was further announced that climbing fences, walking across the course, and other forms of trespassing would be met with severe disciplinary measures.
Temple Play All Home Games
By Intercollegiate Press.
Philadelphia, Pa., Feb. 5.—Temple University students won’t have to catch any freights to see all the football games their team plays next year, because all eight games will be played at home. Opponents to come here are Thiel, West Virginia, Bucknell, eDn-ver, Carnegie Tech, Haskell Indians, Penn State, and Villanova.
All except the games with Carnegie Tech, Penn State and Villanova will be played at night.
London scientists have announced the isolation of a material known as pure vitamin D.
Phone	Xray
Office 2-1067
Residence 3-4041
Dr. E. S. Lucas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND - INDIANA
That Feeling of Superiority
COMES FROM
SMOKING A GOOD PIPE
We carry the better Cigars, Cigarettes and Tobacco
TONY’S SE
105 East LaSalle Ave. .
For Comfort
Four door sedan, full sized, heated cars
For Safety
Tested and reliable drivers
For Service
call
South Bend Cab Co.
4-1161
i
THS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY -LEKM9NIER LIBRARY-NOTRE DAME, LOCAL
Written for Smokers who want nard-pan facts
OU’VE seen it in Movies... on bill-boards... in newspapers... and you've heard it over the radio. The famous slogan, "They Satisfy.”
It means Chesterfields click...give smokers what they want. Now let us tell you the "reason why!” Smoke-satisfaction in Chesterfield comes from just one thing...our rigid rule of making every Chesterfield cigarette the very best that money and science can produce.
That's why Chesterfield tobaccos are the mildest that grow. That's why the paper that's wrapped
around Chesterfield is the whitest and purest cigarette paper made. That's why we not only blend our tobaccos...but cross-blend them. To bring out the fine flavor that is so definitely Chesterfield.
Everything the best... that's the whole Chesterfield story. Milder... taste better... pure. Good... they've got to be, because they're made that way. That's the reason why Chesterfields satisfy.
• Tonight, listen to Chesterfield’s Radio Program. Nat Shilkretand his Orchestra and Alex Gray,.popular soloist . . . Columbia Coast-to-Coast Network . . . 10:30 E. S. T., daily except Sunday.
THEY’RE MILDER • • THEY’RE PURE • • THEY TASTE BETTER
.01932. Ikott • Mnxs Tomcco Co.	-	-