D Day is Dad's Day
REMEMBER HIM WITH A CARD
The Book Store offers a fine selection.
THE BOOKSTORE
BADIN HALL
It’s just a few hours away—“the biggest, the best, and the last”—the 11th Naval Ball. Well, it may not be the biggest, but it is the last, and if the plans of Jack Schneider, Paul Reh-kopf, and the capable Pat Stanton work out, it will definitely be the best. But the ball is only the beginning of a weekend that RO’s are determined to tack up in the “things to remember” corner of their Notre Dame life. The graduates, all 140 of them, are making this their last fling before they give “farewell to college joys” and report for sea duty. So batten down the poop-deck, hoist the mizzen mast, and toss the galley overboard, this is our week to howl! (Ed.’s note. Imagine them giving a commission. to someone who insinuates that that is navy slang.) (Writer’s note. It ain’t my fault, Someone stole my Seamanship book and I’m lost without it.) (Ed.’s- note. Sounds like someone stole your jokebook too.)
Sam Smith,
a store where you can buy something. . . . Speaking of money, the RO’s were
hit hard in the region of the pocketbook when serviceman’s reduced prices were discontinued at the local theatres. Many an unwarned RO received a jolting when he walked up to the box-office and had his margin of reserve wiped out. . . . John Barrett was one of the unfortunate many, but he swears that never again will he take a woman to the show. It seems that his O.A.O. decided to make their love platonic. But Barrett replied that platonic love is like an invitation to come in the cellar for a drink of ginger ale. He holds quite reasonably that girls who don’t believe in kissing have no fun in reminiscing. . . . Hig-genbottorii came up with another one of his widely circulated remarks last week when he said, “To err is but human, but anybody can make a mistake.” That ranks, and we do mean ranks, with Dick Toerne’s quip, “If you think that I’ve been stupid up to now, watch me from now on.” ....
, Stan Sweeder is a schloomp.
Getting back to daily events. ... ex. RO “Pappy” Hoglund of Lyons says: that he’s glad that he saved his muster-ing-out pay. He claims that you can never tell when you might walk into
❖
LETTER OF THE WEEK
We would like to find out more about the story behind these two letters we found while rummaging through the
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan Street, Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
wastebaskets of Morrissey Hall looking for last week’s copy of “The Crow’s Nest” which was “accidentally” mislaid.
Dear Sir:
I am engaged to a girl and I have been informed that you have been seen kissing her. Kindly call around at room 215 at 11 o’clock Friday night and make an explanation.
—Lee Hostetler
Dear Lee: ■
I have received a copy of your circular letter and will be present at the meeting.
—Bernie Greenberg ♦ ■
Stan Sweedex- is a schloomp.
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
Two RO’s watching a love picture, “You’re right, Sims, your girl does kiss better than Lana Turner.”
Stan Sweeder is a schloomp. (Continued on page 21)
2"
University Calendar
For the Undergraduate School
The First Semester 1946-47
The Second Semester 1946-47
September 9-10-11 — Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday: Registration with the Director of Students’ Accounts, the Director of Veterans Affairs, and with the Deans for courses in the first semester. (Fee for registration after September 11, $5).	•
September 12—Thursday: Classes begin at 8:00 a.m.
September 15—Sunday: Formal opening of the schoolyeai-with solemn Mass, and sermon by the President.
September 16—Monday: Latest date for change in registration.
September 18—Wednesday: Latest date for registration in courses.	'
October 13—Sunday: Founders’ Day.
November 1—Friday: All Saints’ Day.
November 16—Saturday: Midsemester report for deficient students.
November 28—Thursday: Thanksgiving Day.
December 8—Sunday: Feast of the Immaculate Conception.
December 16-20—Monday to Friday: Preregistration in courses for the second semester of 1946-47.
December 20—Friday: Christmas vacation begins at noon.
January 7—Tuesday: Classes resumed at 8:00 a.m.
January 20-24—Monday to Friday: Semester examinations in all courses.
January 27-28-29 — Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday: Registration with the Director of Students’ Accounts, the Director of Veterans Affairs, and with the Deans for courses in the second semester. (Fee for registration after January 29, $5).	'
January 30—Thursday: Classes begin at 8:00 a.m.
February 1—Saturday: Latest date for change in registration.
February 4—Tuesday—Latest date for registration in courses.	•
February 22—Washington’s Birthday.
April 1—Tuesday: Midsemester report of deficient students.
April 2—Wednesday: Easter vacation begins at noon.
April’ 9—Wednesday: Classes resumed at 8:00 a.m.
April 12—Saturday: Latest date for comprehensive examinations, dissertations of undergraduates, and for submitting entries in contests for medals and other prizes.
April 21-24—Monday to Thursday: Preregistration for courses in the summer session of 1947.
April 28 to May 1—Monday to Friday—Preregistration for courses in the first semester of 1947-48.
May 15—Thursday: Feast of the Ascension.
May 24-29—Saturday to Thursday: Semester examinations for all students.	,
May 30—Friday: Memorial Day.
May 31—Saturday: Class-day exercises.
June 1—Sunday: Commencement Mass and baccalaureate sermon. Conferring of degrees at 4:00 p.m.
| Gfall
|	When the gridiron exploits of the Fighting Irish are splashed across the nation’s sports pages
I	READ THE NEWS BEHIND THE NEWS IN THE
|	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
|	Subscription rate for the 1946-47 school year — 04.00 for 27 issues.
|	Name.....................................................:------- ’
=	Address----------------------------------------------------------
|	City and State---------------------------------------------------
|	Clip blank and mail to Publications Office, Notre Dame, Indiana	.
3
^he cNotre Qame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus '	FOUNDED 1867
Qteen Hanner
By BILL BRAUN AND FRANK McCARTHY
♦ti	11111111 mu iitiiitKiiiittiiuuimuuiiuuimimn !»•«»<«• until
JOHN DEFANT, Editor
JACK HUMMEL -PAUL WEYRAUCH GEORGE COLLINS JOHNNY WALKER JOE CHENEY
Managing Editor
Sports Editor
- Navy Editor
Feature Editor News Editor
COLUMNISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS ... The College Parade SAM SMITH ----- The Crow's Nest BILL BRAUN, FRANK McCARTHY .	. The Green Banner
ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	-	- Soph Soap
JERRY OLWELL -	-	-	- Campus Clubs
PHOTOGRAPHY
JIM FERSTEL -	-	- Photographic Editor
AL KUNTZ	CHRISTY WALSH
. FRANK CACCIAPAGLIA • (Cover by Frank Cacciapaglia)
CONTRIBUTORS
JACK SULLIVAN BILLY SLA VICK GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM MICHAEL GREENE BILL PFAFF DAVE WARNER RAY CHAMBERLAND PETER PESOLI BILL LEAVEY ROBERT J. LEANDER JACK MINZING JOHN A. O'CONNOR
JIM REGAN JOHN THOMAS DICK DEITZ JIM CLEMENS PETE BROWN JIM MALER MEL GODDARD DICK DOWDLE CLARENCE ZIMMER LEONARD DENTE JOE WILCOX JOHNNY KRUEGER LEO BLABER JAMES JOHN
REV. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C. -	- Faculty Advisor
ARTHUR COUGHLAN, TOM GARGAN -	- Circulation
M. E. VARGA -	-	-	-	-	-	- Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.; 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles— San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Once again the spring semester is coming to a close amid days of languid breezes and dazzling sunshine . . . this is to be the last regular issue of the Scholastic . . . and we have neglected to print various student suggestions that have come to our sensitive ears from time to time. . . . Therefore, to consummate this obligation we belatedly state. . . .
Is it possible for the Dining Hall to usher in the coming six months’ semester with a flurry of white tablecloths . . . and taking up once again the much missed custom of steaks every Saturday night ... a tryout with midnight lights each evening depending upon the studious attitude by the students . . . limit the evening prayer signal to the ringing of a bell instead of the 15-minute twilight brownout . . . resurrect the traditional pre-game rallies . . . permit the present students as well as the alumni to obtain tickets for their families for the army and other important football games . . . reestablish the Saturday evening general confessional . . . increase the variety of periodicals on the (only) magazine stand . . . standardize the percentage system for both the mid-term and final exams . . . abolish triple cuts before and after holiday vacations . . . and . . . could the administration beneficially give less emphasis to the overwhelming number of students waiting to take our places and more to the students who are here and in need of guidance? . . .
We wait in anticipation now • Seniors learned and wise
A bead of sweat upon our brow— A look of strange surmise.
Could it be that in our zest
.	We’ve trekked the path of learning
But failed to pass the final test
And now two points are yearning!
Here and there . . . Brother Justin back again in the swing of things . . . Paul Abraham . . . though not yet a member, running for a KC office . . . Tyke Hartman sporting a bruised cranium as the result of a rough tennis match . . . Barney Slater “supervising” work on his thesis . . . George Nesbitt safely recovered from a severe attack of appendicitis . . . minus the same . . . Norm Hecht still talking about his wedding.
And so with these bits that we have garnered from here and there in an effort to bring you the lighter side of ND campus life . . . we pause in hopes that though trivial that they seem . . . they may some day evoke pleasant memories . . . when read years hence in a dusty, garret ... a dank cellar ... at a paper- sale . . . and wherever Notre Dame men gather to reminisce . . . the time has come to bid one and all farewell. ...	.
Fast climb to success
A host of good friends Riches of mind and body Enlightened understanding .	Well timed decisions
Excitement and adventure Life full of years Liberal supply of beer!
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 87, NO. 12
JUNE 14, 1946
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
214 Students to Receive Degrees
War-Photo Exhibit
Opens Mon. June 17
A former Notre Dame student who has achieved international acclaim as a photographer will bring his famous collection of war photographs to the University for a special exhibit in the Navy Drill Hall, tentatively scheduled to start next Monday, June 17, and to continue through Commencement Day, Sunday, June 30, in the Navy Drill Hall.
He is W. Eugene Smith, formerly of Wichita, Kans., but now of New York City. Mr. Smith entered Notre Dame in 1935 but left after a year to study photography, which he has made his life’s work. During World Wai* II he spent many months in the Pacific Theatre, first as a war photographer for the Ziff-Davis Publishing Company of Chicago, and later as a member of the Photographic Staff of Life Magazine.
The collection he is bringing to Notre Dame has been hailed as one of the fin-(Continued on page 19)
SCHOLASTIC DINNER
A dinner for staff members of the SCHOLASTIC will be held at 6:30 o'clock Monday, June 17, in the faculty dining halls. Plaques will be awarded to staff writers at the dinner.
Guests at the dinner will include Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.. vice president of the University; Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C., SCHOLASTIC moderator; Col. John V. Hinkel, head of the Publicity Department: James E. Armstrong, national secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association; William R. Dooley, managing editor of the "Alumnus"; Brother Alcuin, C.S.C., head of the Ave Maria Press; Professor Stritch, dean of the Journalism Department; and Leo Bud-enz, professor of Journalism and Economics.
Sokolsky to Deliver Graduation Address
George E. Sokolsky, internationally distinguished newspaper columnist, will give the Commencement Address at the 102nd Commencement of the University of Notre Dame, on Sunday, June 30, it was announced yesterday by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., President.
In making this announcement, Father O’Donnell expressed his pleasure that “Mr. Sokolsky had graciously accepted Notre Dame’s invitation to give the address on this occasion.” Father O’Donnell simultaneously paid tribute to Mr. Sokolsky’s “sterling Americanism and his constant adherence to fundamental principles.”
Senator Arthur Vandenberg, senior senator from the State of Michigan, previously scheduled to give the Commencement Address, expressed his regret that he could not attend due to the fact that by government order his presence was required in Paris for the Four Power conference this month.
Long noted as a prominent journalist and fearless speaker, Mr. Sokolsky is a native of Utica, N. Y., where he was born in Sept. 15, 1893. Son of an outspoken Jewish rabbi, he early evidenced his trait for fearlessness when as a youth he stumped for the Republican Party in a Tammany hotbed on the lower East Side in New York City. ' After finishing his journalism courses at Columbia University in 1917, he worked as a foreign correspondent for the New Republic News Service during the revolution in Russia.
In 1918, he was employed by the North China Star. Sensing incompatibility in ? China’s rising nationalistic spirit, he returned to the United States in 1930. Since then he has concentrated on exposing un-American activities in all fields of American political and labor endeavor. Feature columnist of the New York Sun, his columns are syndicated by King Features to more than 150 newspapers.
Extensive Three-Day Program Planned
Two hundred and fourteen graduate and undergraduate students at the University of Notre Dame will receive degrees at the first post-war commencement at Notre Dame on Sunday, June 30.
A total of 182 students will receive undergraduate degrees in the five colleges of the University, while 32 students will receive degrees from the Notre Dame Graduate School.
Opening of the graduation week-end ceremonies will take place on Friday, June 28, when Notre Dame alumni gather for the first alumni reunion in five years. The informal alumni program will include an alumni golf tournament, informal reunion dinners, and concerts by the Notre Dame band and glee club.
A Requiem High Mass will be celebrated at 9 o’clock Saturday morning, June 29, by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, in Sacred Heart Church. The Mass will commemorate the memory of the 324 Notre Dame men who died in World War II. The Mass will be followed by the traditional last visit of the graduates to Sacred Heart Church, at 10
(Continued on page 20)
COMMENCEMENT ISSUE
This issue of the SCHOLASTIC is the regular staff's last. Next week's Commencement Issue is being edited by James F. McCarthy, journalism senior, and staffed by members of the graduating class.
The Commencement Issue will be a 72-page miniature annuaL Because of a paper shortage, this edition of the SCHOLASTIC has been limited to 24 pages in order to permit the senior class a larger issue.—EDITOR.
5
Financial Report of the University
Dear Friends of Notre Dame:
In accordance with established practice, the University presents herewith its statement of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1945, as prepared by Pearson and Dwyer, certified public accountants, 111 West Monroe St., Chicago, Ill.
OPERATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1945
RECEIVED:
From tuition and student fees; U. S. Navy; interest on general endowment; returns from scholarships; and from all auxiliary operations, including athletics_________________________§4,207,213.70
PAID OUT:
For the operation of all Colleges of the University—Arts and Letters, Science, Law, Engineering, and Commerce (including administrative and faculty salaries, pensions, etc.) as well as operation of the Graduate School; for interhall athletics, student activities, and publications; for operation of residence halls, dining halls, infirmary, laundry, Rockne Memorial, golf course, and
general maintenance §4,233,053.41
Net Loss from University and Auxiliary operations __________________§ 25,839.71
RECEIVED:
From miscellaneous sources, exclusive of University and auxiliary operations (interest on investments, profits from sale of securities, bad debt recoveries, property rentals, etc.)_________. § 30,030.63
Net credit to surplus (to be used for purchase of new laboratory, shop, classroom equipment, additions to libraries, for research, graduate departments, etc.) §	4,190.92
While the amount to be credited to surplus is very small compared with the figures involved in our operations, the administration is deeply grateful to God that it was able to conclude one of the most critical years of its existence without drawing on its meagre reserves.
During the period ended June 30, 1945, the civilian enrollment fell off sharply because of the war, and towards the end of the period the number of Navy students trained on campus decreased from 3,000 to 1,600. Our program with the United States Navy permitted a ’•ecovery of established cost only, and the curtailment of this training program resulted in an appreciable decrease in income. Despite the higher costs of food, of maintenance of University facilities, despite mounting salaries for all University personnel, the administration is proud to report that it was able to re-fund to the Navy a total of §43,000 during this period.
It was necessary even in this restricted operation that our faculty be retained,
6
and that our facilities be maintained. The Alumni Fund played an all-important part in carrying out these objectives. Costs in our graduate division have also mounted steadily and the need of more endowment is great if this program is to he continued.
Within the next few months I will publish our operating statement for the year ending June 30, 1946. The trend of decreased enrollment alluded to above continued until the last semester of the current scholastic year and the use of facilities by the United States Navy also decreased correspondingly. It is expected that student income from this last semester will not offset the unsatisfactory results of our operations for the previous eight months. Your continued support during this difficult period of our reconversion will be deeply appreciated by myself and all members of the administration.
Sincerely yours,
(Rev.) J. Hugh O’Donnell, c.s.c., President of the University.
Official Bulletin
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Because rising prices, for some time past, have made it impossible to forecast accurately, recent issues of the BULLETIN OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME have stated that increases in the tuition and general fee may become necessary. As the University returns to the eighteen week semester in the 1946-47 schoolyear, starting next September, an increase in rates of approximately 17% a semester is necessary to offset rising operating costs plus the expense of two weeks added to the semester.
Lengthening of the semester from 16 weeks to 18 weeks accounts immediately for most of the increase, and the remainder is due to rising operating costs. While this latter part of the increase is less than proportionate to the higher costs, maximum use of facilities by the larger enrollment holds the figure of increase below what would be necessary if higher operating expense were the only factor involved.
A statement of account for the September semester will be mailed to each preregistered student approximately three weeks before the start of the semester.
E. J. Murray, Director of Students' Accounts lune, 1946.
WND Staff "Broadcast"
From Annual Banquet
Nights off for everybody come few and far between in the radio business, but the once a year exception at WND, Notre Dame, Ind., came last Wednesday as the station staff dined at the Oliver Hotel in South Bend.
Everyone was there — producers, actors, announcers, sound effects men, engineers, and advisers, besides a scattering of “imported actors” from St. Mary’s Academy.
Special guests on hand were Col. and Mrs. Hinkel, Mr. Richard Sullivan, Mr. Francis Hanley, Mr. Cook, and Mr. McCarthy.
No. 1 on Moderator Jim Kress’s list of speakers was Mr. Hinkel, head of. the department of publicity, who related his experiences with radio during- the war in Italy. Besides WHOT’s Mr. Cook and Mr. McCarthy, who spiced the meeting with some choice tales, Mr. Hanley adviser and member of the Notre Dame Art Department, went a step further, imitating Winston Churchill and Mrs. Franklin Roosevelt on tours in Africa.
NFCCS Representatives in Boston
for National Council Meeting
Representing Notre Dame this week at the national council meeting of the NFCCS being held in Boston are the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., Pat O’Meara and Thomas McCaffrey. The NFCCS (National Federation of Catholic College Students) council, made up of delegates representing Catholic colleges from all over the nation, is holding its most important meeting since its inception some nine years ago.
McCaffrey and Father Hesburgh left Tuesday morning on a United Air Lines plane, arriving in Boston in time for the first session of the council meet Tuesday afternoon. O’Meara departed on the New York Central Pacemaker— Monday, after failing to get permission to make the trip by air. The conference closed last night and the delegates will make a report to the local council next week.	4
As president of the Ft. Wayne Region of the NFCCS, O’Meara told the Boston meet of the activities of the six schools in the region and particularly the work of the Regional Congress held at Grand Rapids a few weeks ago. In his report he noted that the purpose of the federation is to assist both the colleges and the various student groups or clubs, to give practical application to the teachings of Holy Father and the Church’s leaders regarding the formation of a Christian-minded apostolate among the Catholic laity and to contribute to the spreading and deepening of a highly trained Catholic opinion.
Much importance is attached to this national council meeting because the NFCCS is beginning its postwar, program with a detailed internal and external expansion. The Boston gathering planned to rewrite the federation’s constitution, formulate national and regional plan activities for the 1946-47 school year, including a national congress, and discuss and take action in matters concerning relationship of the federation with Pax Romana arid other international student organizations.
Relative to the Pax Romana international meeting to be held in Switzerland this summer, the Notre Dame delegation to Boston planned to propose Vincent Hogan, Notre Dame graduate student, as a national officer in the NFCCS because he is attending the meet in Europe and will be able to represent the Federation there. At the’ present Hogan is in New York, making preparations for his trip to the continent.
A dozen regions and some 20 national commissions were expected to be repre
sented at the Boston meeting. An advisory committee from the National Catholic Educational Association aided the delegates in their work. Outstanding educational leaders present at the meeting were Archbishop Richard J. Cushing of Boston, Reverend Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., former national chaplain of the NFCCS, and Reverend Frank Furey, the president of Immaculata College, Pennsylvania. Father Hesburgh is acting as regional chaplain of the Fort Wayne Region because health
SENIORS HAVE GAY BALL WEEKEND
Candlelight dinner at the Oliver.
The seniors forgot their worries of passing their last examination at Notre Dame last weekend’and held one of the best senior weekends ever experienced at this university. The fun of the 1946 senior weekend will remain in the memories of the potential graduates long after the examination material has been forgotten.
With a background of candlelight and flowers, the 1946 Senior Ball Weekend was ushered in last Friday night at The Oliver Hotel.
Beautiful girls from all over the country—girls from as far as Boston and Spokane—graced the candlelight dinner table and then the dance floor. The Ro-
prevented Reverend Wm. Cunningham, C.S.C., from making the trip.
Tom McCaffrey is representing the Vets club from Notre Dame, and with the backing of the Ft. Wayne Regional Council, will seek the establishment of a national commission for Veterans Affairs, with the chairmanship being given to the Notre Dame group. Father Hesburgh, as chaplain of the Notre Dame Vets Club, will urge the national council to vote the commission into action. Plans are already made on the campus to put the commission to work, much work has been done, and official sanction of the federation is all that remains.
tary Room was the main ball room, and the two large adjoining rooms The Rose Room and The Gold Room—were trans-fonned into comfortable lounges for the evening.
The seniors and their guests welcomed the change from formal dress to sport clothes for the Saturday afternoon junket at The American Legion Lodge and Lincoln Park in Mishawaka. T-shirts replaced stiff collars for the Saturday affair. A picnic lunch was served at the lodge and the seniors danced to the best name bands in the country: through a juke box. Refreshments were served, and a community sing to the accompaniment of a piano and a French horn was the highlight of the evening.
7
Rauget Compares College Life in Interview at YCS Meeting
Andre Rauget, for the past three years president of Student Catholic Action in France, is at present on a study tour of several months in Canada and the United States. He kindly volunteered the following information to a campus interviewer during his recent stay at the University on the occasion of the final meeting of the local YCS groups.
Asked what major difference he noticed offhand between the French and the American universities, Rauget remarked that the scholastic programs appear quite different. The European university does not make the distinction between graduate and post-graduate courses. The college culminating in the Bachelor degree and the university granting higher degrees are two separate and distinct levels of education. Nor do the French universities provide dormitory facilities, a fact which makes their campus much less an organic unit. Rauget thought that the relations between students and professors were much freer and more cordial in this country than in France. The difference is no doubt due to the fact that the European university developed against a background of class differences whereas the American university has been greatly influenced by the democratic ideal. In general, he noticed that the American student is more cordial, simple, realistic and technically minded, less complicated than the French student, perhaps also less preoccupied ■with intellectual and artistic pursuits.
Since Rauget came principally to make contact with YCS", student Catholic Action, he was asked what difference he found between the two groups, those of the United States and the European models with which he was familiar. He thought that while they differed considerably in methods and techniques of the apostolate, due to the different psychology and character of the American student, he thought that he had discovered here the same spirit as elsewhere. There was a real spiritual life lived in and acquired through team work, a common effort to find Christ in the student world. In both groups he found a preoccupation on the part of the student in Catholic Action to consider himself responsible for his own world both as regards the personnel and the school society; a greater realization of social problems and a practical concern for the intellectual mission of the student, namely the search for truth. Both here and abroad Catholic Action is more a life to be lived than an organization, a
revolution taking place in one’s personal life, in society and in the Church itself.
What was his thought on the religious trend in France? Is there any hope? There is great hope, he thought. One of the hopeful factors in the present French situation is the vigor and strength of the Popular Republican Movement (MRP) which bases its action on Christian Democratic principles and whose organizers come from the ranks of Student and Worker Catholic Action in France. “During those terrible years (of the occupation),” Rauget stated, “the lay apostles of the specialized Catholic Action movements have lived through perhaps, the most beautiful pages of their history. In spite of the absence of numerous leaders, who were drafted into the army in 1939 and many of whom spent five years as prisoners-of-war in Germany, in spite of the division of France into three zones, almost hermetically closed against one another, in spite of the forced labor deportations of thousands of members, the vexations of the censorship in the Southern zone and the Gestapo in the Northern zone, in spite of the final prohibition of all activities, the closing and placing under seal of the headquarters in Paris and the arrest of the Chaplains, the movement never ceased to grow and to win the confidence of the people.”
As a final request Rauget urged that there be on the part of the students of the United States, especially the Catholic students, a deep awareness of their responsibilities as leaders not only of their nation but of the world and therefore that they participate as much as possible in the international student gatherings where an international student movement and opinion is being forged. It would be tragic if we left the formation of an international student organization and student opinion to the leftist forces alone. Rauget was delegate to the International Youth Congress in London last year where regretfully the Communists were definitely swinging things in the Communist direction.
Vice Admiral Murray
Vice Admiral George D. Murray, U.S'.N., commandant of the Ninth naval district, arrived at the St. Joseph county airport Thursday, June 6. Coming from Great Lakes, Ill., he was met by Capt. J. Richard Barry, U.S.N., commandant of the naval training units at the University. The vice admiral returned to Great Lakes the same afternoon after a visit with Capt. Barry.
"Scholastic" Awarded
All-American Rating
The Notre Dame Scholastic was awarded All-American Honor Rating by the Associated Collegiate Press in its 34th All-American Critical Service. The Scholastic and the Annapolis Log were the only entries in the college newsmagazine class to receive the rating.
The award was given for last semester’s issues. Frank Grimaldi was editor of the Scholastic during the winter semester.
In the newspaper class, the following were judged the 1946 pacemakers: North Texas State College Campus Chat, So. California Daily Trojan, Wayne University Detroit Collegian, Los Angeles City College Los Angeles Collegian, University of Minnesota Daily, and Willamette University Collegian.
Elect James Sullivan
K. of C. Grand Knight
The University of Notre Dame council No. 1477, Knights of Columbus held a special welcome meeting for the recently initiated members of the John E. Chevigny class Tuesday night in the council clubrooms in Walsh Hall. At this meeting, the last of the semester, officers were elected for the coming year.
Grand Knight for the coming yeai- is James Sullivan. The other officers are: Deputy Grand Knight—James Webb; Chancellor—Arthur McGrath; Warden —Joseph Sobek; Advocate—Fred Early; reelected Treasurer—Bill McShay; reelected Recorder—John Galloway; and Guards—John Dee and George Engler.
BX Not to Accept Books
For Resale Until Sept.
The Notre Dame Student Book Exchange (BX) will be unable to accept students’ books for resale at the close of the present semester. This action is necessary because space is not available for storage of the books during the summer. Furthermore it is not possible to determine at this time what books will be required next fall. Those now having books entrusted to the BX are requested to call for them as soon as possible.
The BX will resume operations at the start of the fall semester and will accept books for resale at that time only. Students are urged to retain their books and bring them in upon their return in September. Sale of books to commercial operators results in financial loss to the student and aggravates an already acute shortage of texts on the campus.
8
Prof. Rauch Delivers
Graduation Address
Rufus W. Rauch, Professor of English Literature, gave the Commencement address at Villa Marie College, Erie, Pa., June 6. The Most Rev. John Mark Gannon, Bishop of Erie and Chancellor of the College, presided.
The subject of Mr. Rauch’s address was “The Two Cities.” Using the great text of St. Augustine, “Two loves have built two cities,” from The City of God, he pointed out what are the tensions through history of the two ultimately opposed positions with regard to man, the meaning of time, the existence of God and the primacy of the spiritual order. The cleavage between the two Cities rises from the lives of individual men to the surface of history, and in such times as the present, he said, the ideological conflicts within civilization become more clear and nearly total, for the individual and for society, in the struggle between a secular materialism and Christian belief and action. From invisible beginnings, made in the innermost secret of the human heart, in its choice of loves, to the cataclysms of war and horror, the two Cities engage themselves in confused combat and disengage themselves into opposed camps of truth and error, of good and evil. He suggested to the graduates that it is the vocation of every educated Christian to try earnestly to know the truth, to work for it and to follow it wherever it may lead.
With the vision of intellectual and spiritual truth, of moral righteousness, and of the radiance of beauty in man’s creation and in God’s, Mr. Rauch said, the Catholic life finds its fulfillment in a trinity of absolute values, consummated in supernal Love. “The two Cities, built by two loves,” he concluded, “await you. You have made your choice. More truly, it must be said, you have been chosen.”
SAC Collects $575
For Starving Europe
The Student Activities Council in announcing that approximately §575.00 was collected in the recent drive for the starving peoples of Europe, thanked all those who contributed to this worthy cause.
Joe O’Toole was appointed by the SAC as head cheer leader for the coming year. Fred Hoover, a member of the council, was appointed to be one of the judges to select the members of the cheer leading squad. Rev. Joseph Kehoe, C.S.C., and the head cheer leader will make up the selection board.
Cardinal Tien Returns After Visit to U. S.
Cardinal Tien, S.V.D., first Chinese ever to be made a Cardinal and who visited Notre Dame recently as guest of Father O’Donnell, president of the University, has returned to Peking, his new archiepiscopal see, after completing a tour of the United States, which followed his elevation last February in Rome. He flew to China.
Cardinal Tien attended a Solemn Mass coram Cardinale in St. Mary’s Cathedral in S'an Francisco. After the Mass, the Cardinal commented briefly on America through his secretary, Father John Vos, S.V.D., who declared:
“His Eminence has found the American people kind and friendly and he admires the peace and order of this land.”
King's Faculty House
Will Be Renovated
A permit for extensive renovations to the former Eileen Tourist Home, 63 N. Rover St., Wilkes-Barre, to be occupied as a residence by the faculty of King’s College, was issued to the Sordoni Construction Company recently by Edward Eyerman, city building inspector. The work will cost approximately §10,000.
The work will include painting, relighting, bathroom rearrangement, plastering, linoleum and tile work within the three-story brick building.
The work is scheduled to be completed by July 15, after which the residence will be occupied by eight members of the college faculty who will be assigned from Notre Dame and St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas.
SPEAKING OF SCHOOLS
By JOSEPH C. RYAN
Oftentimes we speak of universities like Cornell, Purdue and Santa Clara, but do we know just where they are located? Is the University of Arizona at Phoenix or Tucson? A test like this may reveal our ignorance. Listed to the left are twelve institutions of higher learning, to the right the cities and towns where they are located. Can you pair off the right city or town with each school? If you get fewer than nine right you're not doing so well. For the answers turn to Page 23.
1—Dartmouth College a—Lexington
2—University of Florida.b—Pittsburgh 3—Smith College c—Northampton
• 4—University of Missouri------d—New Brunswick
5—University of Colorado e—Hanover
6—Duquesne University_________f—Eugene
7—Rutgers University._________g—Boulder
8—Radcliffe College___________h—Gainesville
9—Gonzaga University__________i—Columbia
10—University of Kentucky.j—Spokane 11—University of Maryland_____k—Cambridge
12—University of Oregon_______1—College Park
Funeral Services Held
on Notre Dame Campus
Funeral services for Rev. Francis McBride, C.S.C., former Superior of Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C., and one of the most prominent and beloved priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross, were held Tuesday, June 11, in Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus.
Father McBride, one of the outstanding moral theologians and canonists in the nation, died Saturday, June 8, at Notre Dame during a visit to the campus. Death was due to a heart condition.
The well-known priest, who had been teaching moral theology at Holy Cross College for the past 25 years, was born in New York City, educated in Canada and joined the Canadian province of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Rev. Christopher O’Toole, C.S.C., viceprovincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, sang the funeral Mass. Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., prefect of discipline at Notre Dame, and Rev. Leonard Collins, C.S.C., served as deacons at the funeral Mass. Father McBride’s many friends among the faculty and Congregation of Holy Cross at Notre Dame paid their last respects at the funeral.
The only other known surviving relative in addition to Rev. Patrick McBride, C.S.C., brother of the deceased priest, and faculty member of St. Edward’s College, Austin, Texas, is their sister, Miss Anna McBride, of North Adams, Mass.
9
Scholastic
Photo
Contest
Edmund Wilk of Cavanaugh Hall won first prize in the Scholastic’s first annual photographic contest, and second and third prizes went to Donald L. White of Howard Hall.
White, whose photos won four of the top seven prizes, also received two of the four honorable mentions awarded. One, entitled “Ballet Fistic” was a picture taken at the Bengal Bouts, and the other a shot of the Dome snapped at the entrance to the quadrangle. David Pfuntner, Zahm Hall, with a picture entitled “Mirrored Stillness,” an across-the- lakes shot, and Chuck Perrin with a shot taken from the bottom of the
Above. View of Sacred Heart Church snapped from the base of the statue of the Sacred Heart directly in front of the Main Building—First prize photo taken by Edmund Wilk, Cavanaugh Hall.
Left, the Rockne Memorial in Midwinter—Second prize winner, by Donald L. White. Howard Hall.
"O-o-o-o" was Photographer White's caption for his third prize winner taken at the Bengal Bouts, at right.
10
steps at the grotto which he called “Stepping Stones to Sanctity,” received the other two honorable mentions.
Prizes of ten dollars for first, five for second, three for third, and two for honorable mention will be awarded to the winners. In addition to the money prizes, certificates will be given to the seven winners. The awards will be made at the Scholastic dinner Monday, June 17.	‘
It was originally planned to award 12 honorable mentions, but due to the fact that only a limited number of the photographs were considered of prizewinning caliber, the judges selected only four. Many of the photographs submitted were snapshots whose composition and quality were poor.
The judges of the contest were Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C., well-known campus photographer, who was chairman of the board of judges; Professor Frank Hanley of the Department of Fine Arts; Dale Murphy and Ralph Henning, S'outh Bend Tribune photographers who recently won four top awards in the 1946 Indiana Associated Press Photo Contest; and Edward Meehan, national advertising manager of the Tribune. The photos were judged on the basis of quality, subject matter, angles, composition, and photography as a whole.
The winning photographs are the property of the Scholastic. All others who submitted photographs may obtain them at the Publications Office, 118 Main Building.
N.D. Commerce Forum
Holds Annual Banquet
The Commerce Forum banquet, under the direction of Jim Whalen with the able assistance of Mike Yarbinet, was ■ held Thursday evening in the old fashioned but beautiful dining room of the Oldenburg Inn. The annual banquet climaxed a successful Forum season. Professor Francis J. O’Malley of the English department was the principal speaker of the evening.
John Vaughan, graduating senior from Wellesley, Mass., acted as toastmaster. John introduced Mr. O’Malley, who gave a very enlightening talk entitled “Education For What?” in which he discussed the current problems and recent trends in education. The speaker also elaborated on his concept of the purpose of education.
Professor Edmund A. Smith, assistant dean of the College of Commerce and faculty moderator of the Forum, presented a plaque to Jim Whalen. This award, donated each semester by Mr. Smith, is given to the member of the Forum who presents the most outstanding paper during the school term.
Retiring President Bill Carbine, on behalf of the Forum members, presented Mr. Smith with a beautiful gift in acknowledgment of his help and cooperation during the semester. '
Toastmaster Vaughan introduced the newly elected Forum officers: President Tom McMahon, Vice President Dan Daniszewicz, Publicity Director Frank
O’Brien, and Program Chairman Rolando Duarte.
Guests of the evening were Dean James E. McCarthy, Professor Raymond Kent, and Professor Le Claire H. Eells.
To Ordain 20 Priests
at Ceremonies June 24
At impressive ceremonies, twenty members of the Congregation of Holy Cross will be elevated to the priesthood on June 24th at 8:00 a.m., in Sacred Heart Church. The Sacrament of Holy Orders will be conferred by His Excellency, the Most Rev. John Francis Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne.
The candidates for the priesthood are as follows: the Rev. Messrs., Ralph B. Davis, William F. Hickens, John M. Sheridan, Anthony J. Lauck, Charles R. Hauser, Joseph W. Rehage, Howard A. Kuhns, Henry E. Malone, Joseph F. Murphy, Casimir J. Czaplicki, Joseph A. Rogusz, Paul E. Waldschmidt, George G. Cockshott, William J. Brinker, John F. Daly, Allen L. Cormier, James P. Doll, Walter W. Goff, Robert J. Lochner and John J. Payne.
After the ceremony, the newly-ordained priests will confer their first blessing on the Community, their rela- • fives and friends after which they will entrain for their respective parishes where they will celebrate their first Solemn High Mass. The students are cordially invited to attend this ceremony which for most is one rarely witnessed
Philadelphia Club to
Hold Summer Formal
The Philadelphia Club will hold its Summer Formal at the White Marsh Country Club in Philadelphia ■ on July 19 in conjunction with the Alumni Club,. Art Coughlan, the campus club president, announced Wednesday after receiving a telegram from the alumni organization. '
Jim Webb and Bill Meehan are in charge of making arrangements for the campus club. Admission to the dance will be §3.50, and tickets can be purchased at 107 Sorin Hall.
N. D. Hoopster in Army
Norman E. Mirrington, ex Notre Dame courtman, has reported to Company A, 3rd Medical Training Battalion, Army Service Forces Training Center, Fort Sam Houston, Texas, for basic training. Pvt. Mirrington, son of Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Mirrington of 356 70th St., Niagara Falls, N. Y., is a two-year letterman on the Notre Dame basketball team where he played forward. Mirrington held an athletic scholarship while studying towards an A.B. in economics.
11
Notre Dame’s five year enviable record of service to the United States Navy will come to a close June 30 when the remaining units based on the campus are decommissioned.
The spring of 1941 inaugurated the Navy’s introduction to the campus of Notre Dame. The NROTC unit, composed of 165 trainees selected from civilian students then attending the University, was founded. Captain H. P. Burnett was appointed Commanding Officer.
The beginning of the recent global conflict found our navy with a dearth of competently trained officers. Father
O’Donnell extended the complete facilities of the University to the Navy Department. The V-7 program designed primarily for those students who had completed their college work, or soon would be receiving their degrees, was responsible for the arrival of another naval unit at Notre Dame. This unit, the indoctrination school, prepared trainees for midshipman school at Abbott Hall in Chicago.
Founded in October, 1942
The conclusion of the war was to affect ths Notre Dame naval units. The midshipmen school, then a familiar part of the campus, sent out its final class of newly-commissioned ensigns and the school itself was decommissioned in November, 1945, and the colors presented to the University.
The decommissioning of the midshipmen school found only three navy units remaining. These were the NROTC, V-12 and V-5 units, which had been materially decreased in
Notre Dame NROTC unit standing Captain's Inspection.
Then, in October, 1942, the Notre Dame United States Naval Reserve Midshipmen School was founded. Future would-be officers from every state in the union entered the portals of Notre Dame to begin their final 16 weeks before receiving their “gold braid.” It was at this time that Captain J. Richard Barry, a veteran of 37 years of naval serv-
The V-12 and Marine units were to be the final naval activities to be stationed at Notre Dame arrived on July 1, 1943. It was during this period of time that naval personnel on the campus reached an all-high of 3,200 men.
ice, relieved Captain Burnett, who was made Commanding Officer of the USS California.
In February, 1943, still another naval activity was based at Notre Dame. The “specialist” school, whose course of work was intended primarily for engineering graduates, became a part of the University. During its span from February, 1943, until October, 1944, 2,100 officers attended the school and received specialized training.
As time progressed the might of the American armed forces began to be felt by the aggressor nations; the allies penetrated deeper into enemy held territory and the war news became more favorable. With the gradual turn of events the personnel of the naval units was decreased. The marine unit became the first casualty when it left the campus in November, 1944.
Midshipmen School Decommissioned
The allies were on the march. D day and the long awaited allied invasion of Europe arrived. V-E day symbolized the downfall of tyranny in Europe. The much hoped for day arrived August 15, 1945, when Japan, the lone survivor of the once powerful axis, succumbed to allied military might.
12
I
to SNitre ^ame
v Wr	^ears on Gampus
if
size since the ending of the war.
Now, only a few weeks remain until these units will be decommissioned, and with their decommissioning Notre Dame will once again revert to a civilian status. The familiar blue, white, and khaki uniforms will surrender to the more conventional civilian garb. The everyday formations and the stirring marches will be a thing of the past. The echo of a platoon leader calling “wun, hup two” will be only a memory.
The Notre Dame naval units have been accorded the highest praise by the Navy Department. The middie school was recognized as one of the finest in the country. Commanding Officers were always happy to welcome officers commissioned at Notre Dame because they knew of the high qualities and the excellence of training these officers possessed.
The NROTC unit has long been noted for the fine training given to men enrolled in this program. Its facilities, shared, with the midshipmen school, are modern, and the practical work as well as the theory comprising it is stressed to provide the utmost in training. The rifle team, which recently placed second in a nation-wide competition, is a further example of the high morale and efficiency of the unit. For the excellence of its publication—the Irish Pennant, the unit was awarded a Letter of Commendation by the Navy Department.
The final class of Ensigns will be commissioned June 30. Theirs will be the distinction of being the last class to receive their commissions from the University. This class will be one of the largest, numbering 140 men. Thirty-five other trainees who are eligible to be commissioned but who prefer inactive duty are to be discharged and then commissioned. The remaining 186 RO’s and V-12’s are to be sent to separation centers to procure their discharges. The trainees enrolled in the V-5 program will remain on active duty, some attending summer school and others based at naval air stations.
Notre Dame may well point with pride to a job well done. During this five year period she has sent forth 11,790 ensigns who have served with distinction on the field of battle. These men, though their stay at Notre Dame was short, absorbed the dignity and culture for which the University is famous.
Navy Men Will Remember-
Men who have received their commissions here will remember Notre Dame—her beautiful campus and its serenity and peace. They will remember the Golden Dome surmounted by the statue of Our Lady who is in constant vigilance over the lives and destinies of her students. In their memories will remain the never-say-die spirit of her athletic teams
even when faced with overwhelming odds.
Notre Dame will remember her navy men. They quickly became a part of Notre Dame. Their uniforms were always a part of extracurricular activities. They contributed both to the social and athletic tradition of Notre Dame. Many of them plan to attend Notre Dame once again, and Notre Dame will welcome them back as she welcomed them five years ago.
Color guard of NROTC unit passes in review.
13
To Hold Eleventh and Final Naval
Ball at Palais Royale Tonight
For those not fortunate enough to attend the ball there will be a broadcast over one of the local stations.
The revelry is slated to continue until 1:00 in the morning. The guests will then be escorted to their residences and the trainees will begin their trek back to their quarters to secure a few hours of sleep in order to fortify themselves for the remainder of the week-end.
Saturday morning Captain J. Richard Barry, commanding officer of the Notre Dame naval unit, will hold a review and present the winning colors to the company placing highest in the company competition. Later in the day the navy halls will be open for inspection by the guests of the trainees.
There wil be an informal get-together-and dance at the Rotary Room of the Oliver Saturday night for the trainees and their guests. Many of the navy sections are planning special parties for this night.
Sunday, the traditional day of rest, will be a welcome time for the trainees and their guests. A large number of the couples will attend Mass on the campus. Other couples will attend services of their denomination in South Bend. Sunday afternoon will probably be spent taking in a restful movie.
Later in the day the guests will be leaving for their home towns; then come the sad goodbyes, but all couples will cherish the memory of Notre Dame’s eleventh and final naval ball.
The eleventh and final naval ball will begin at 9:00 tonight when gay couples throng into the Palais Royale. The ball will be the culmination of the social events given by the members of the NROTC, V-12 and V-5 units.
The Palais Royale has been transformed by Paul Rerkopf and his staff of decorators. Instead of choosing a theme for the decorations, as has been the custom in the past, the decorations for- this ball have been designed primarily for beauty. The results of this new idea will be pleasing to all.
Soft and romantic music, characteristic of all navy balls, will be furnished by Ronnie Stevens and his band. Stevens, a comparative newcomer in the field of music, has had many successful engagements, among them the University of Iowa and the Band Box in Chicago. His band is composed entirely of ex-GI’s. Marv Simon is featured on the trumpet and Johnny Palmer will enhance the music with his songs.
Jack Schneider, chairman, was striken with appendicitis a week ago and will be unable to attend the ball tonight. His date, Jay Keating, is from Wilmette, Illinois.
As the couples enter they will be greeted by Captain J. Richard Barry, commanding officer of the naval units; Commander George Hutchinson, executive officer; Lieut. Comdr. Michael Cen-sale, aide to the executive officer; Harold Huling, batallion commander; Pat Stanton, acting chairman and Miss Ann Drie-belbis, Pat’s date.
The ball tonight will reflect many new and novel ideas, one of which is the election of a queen. The practice in the past was to declare the date of the chairman queen of the ball. Six men, elected by the members of the unit, will vote for the queen and the five members of her court.
Another new idea will be the “pinning” of the graduate dates. The men who will receive their commissions at the end of this term will present their dates with a miniature officer’s crest insignia of sterling silver. The customary kiss will follow.. Two dances have been set aside for the graduates and their dates.
The couples will be presented with beautiful leather bids which will serve as souvenirs of the occasion. The girls will be given gardenia corsages flown from California.
During the course of the evening, those couples who wish a permanent record of the night’s festivities will have the opportunity to have their pictures taken. 14
Silver Jubilee For Two N. D. Priests
Of local interest is the proximity of the twenty-fifth anniversary of ordination to the priesthood of two members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, the Revs. Kerndt M. Healy, C.S.C., and Henry Glueckert, C.S.C. Both spent practically all their priesthood years in loyal service at the University of Notre Dame.
Father Healy, ordained on June 26, 1921, became assistant editor of The Ave Maria, serving under the beloved Father Hudson until 1928. In 1928 he was named Master of Novices, a post he held until 1937. He served on the Council of the Provincial until 1940 when he became Assistant Provincial. Since 1945 he has been devoting his time between assisting in the Provincial Council and the teaching of English at Notre Dame.
Father Glueckert, ordained in June 26, 1921, did graduate research at the Catholic University of America until 1923. Since then he has served in various capacities at Notre Dame being successively Rector of Old Freshman Hall, Lyons Hall, Dillon, Howard and currently Alumni Hall. Outstanding as a scholar in the Humanities, he has taught Latin to generations of students.
Both Jubilarians have expressed a wish to spend their anniversary day quietly. Their many friends, however, will remember them gratefully in their prayers. And to both the Scholastic extends a fervent Ad Multos Annos.
Miss Jaye Keating Guest of Honor
Scholastic Sports Section j
Irish End Season with Sailors;
Have Curtain Call with Alumni
Netters End With Win Over Hilltoppers, 8-1
By DAVE WARNER
The baseball team rings down the curtain on its regular 1946 season June 16 against the Great Lakes Bluejackets at the Naval Training Station. But on June 29 it will come back for a brief curtain call performance against the Notre Dame Alumni, which was recently scheduled as one part of Alumni Reunion Day. Following the Michigan game last Saturday head Coach Jake Kline departed for New England to put things in order for his Bennington (Vt.) team of the Northern League which he will manage this summer. Also, Kline ■will be one of four western college coaches on hand today in Boston directing the play of the Western Collegiate All-Stars against the Eastern Collegiate All-Stars. In his absence Assistant Coach Wally Lemm and Bernie Crimmins will take over.
Last Saturday’s game with the Wolverines was as interesting a game as the customers could have wished. Notre Dame overcame a first inning 4-0 Michigan lead, going ahead 5-4 in the fourth. Then Michigan went to work and made it 9-5. Selecting the dramatic last half of the ninth, the Irish tried desperately
BASEBALL STATISTICS (Including Michigan game, June 8)
Players	AB.	R.	H.	Av.	PO	A.	E.	Fl. Av.
Jack Mayo, If 				 72	11	30	.417	24	3	2	.931
Tom Sheehan, c 			 62	10	23	.371	94	13	0	1.000
Elmer Raba, rf 					 54	9	19	.352	25	4	3	.907
Jack Barrett, p 				.... 24	5	8	.333	1	11	2	.857
Ed Cordasco, 3b 			....	3	1	1	.333	1	4	0	1.000
Ray Petrzelka, lb 			 40	6	13	.325	106	4	9	.924
Dick Kluck, p 			 13	3	4	.308	1	10	0	1.000
Dick Smullen, p 				 10	2	3	.300	1	10	1	.917
Frank Gilhooley, cf		.... 71	17	20	.282	30	0	1	.968
Benny Kozlik, 2b 			 47	10	13	.277	34	29	8	.869
Bill Hassett, ss 		..... 45	3	9	.200	21	39	3	.968
Frank Ciszczon, 3b		....	4	1	1	.250	0	2	0	1.000
Tom Lavery, 3b 			 23	1	4	.174	8	10	2	.900
Stan Krivik, lb 		.... 29	2	5	.172	46	3	2	.942
Joe Gehring, rf 			 16	0	2	.125	4	1	1	.833
Walt Mahannah, p			 13	1	0	.000	1	6	0	1.000
Pete Koblesh, ss 		.... 17	3	1	.056	13	13	3	.897
Tom Clemente, ph 		....	2	0	0	.000	0	0	0	.000
Tom Coccitti, ph		.... 1	0	.0	.000	0	0	0	.000
Jim Presley, c 			....	0	0	0	.000	3	0	0	1.000
Bill Sherman, p 		....	0	0	0	.000	0	0	0	.000
Totals	611	95	173	.283	452	209*	43	.939
(Continued on page 19)
to pull it out of the fire but fell a run shy when “Rebel” Raba, the tying run, was out at the plate stretching a robust triple into a not so robust homer.
“Kewp” Barrett will probably do the chucking against the Gobs Sunday in what might very well be his last pitching chore for Notre Dame. He has a five won, two lost record this season, both losses incurred at the hands of his old nemesis, Michigan. For the past three seasons Barrett’s brilliant pitching and hitting has caught the eye of many an organized ball scout as has the hitting and all around savoire faire of his battery mate, Capt. Tom Sheehan. Very definitely bowing out of the Notre Dame athletic picture at the close of the diamond season are Bill Hassett and Frank Gilhooley, a great find for a pay for play club whose hustle and cool-headedness has spurred many a rally, many a victory for Notre Dame on the diamond and basketball court.
Going into the Bradley Tech game last Wednesday the Irish had won ten, lost six for the season. Following is the individual composite record of the squad:
It wasn’t a very pleased tennis team that returned from Northwestern two weeks ago with its second consecutive defeat marked into the records, and this group of racqueteers fully intended doing something about it. So the Irish netters went out last Saturday, glided through six singles victories and an 8-1 match triumph over Marquette’s Hilltoppers.
Capt. Bill Tully made short work of Jim Walt, beating him, 6-2, 6-1, but Harry Erd and Artie Hoffman were even faster, as they disposed of Ken Ehmeier, 6-0, 6-1, and Bill Bintz, 6-1, 6-2, and were sitting in the stands as the tall Navyside netter left the court. Ed Caparo finished up Jim Doran, 6-4, 6-2,—and George Ratterman clinched ,the match with a 6-1, 8-6 victory over Gene Goeb. Ted Lyons made it 6-0 with a 9-7, 6-2 win over Ray Sullivan.
Tully and Ratterman paired to beat Walt and Ebmeier, 6-0, 6-3, but Goeb and Doran nullified the win, topping Erd and Bud Seghers, 6-3, 9-7. Tyke Hartman and Hoffman took the final match, beating Bintz and Sullivan, 6-3, 6-1.
The netters will be inactive until the Intercollegiates starting June 24th at Evanston, Ill. Tully, Ratterman, Erd, and the winner of the Joe Brown-Artie Hoffman playoff match will represent Notre Dame.
Coach Walter Langford announced last week, as the Irish concluded the season with a 6-3 record, that eight men had been recommended to the Faculty Athletic Board for letters. The monogram nominees include Tully, Ratterman, Brown, Caparo, Erd, Hoffman, Lyons, and Hartman, who cinched his place on the list by virtue of his doubles victory Saturday.
The ND Cheer Leaders wish to announce that they are in need of new cheers for next fall's football season. Prizes will be awarded to the students whose cheers are accepted. Think it over during the summer and watch The SCHOLASTIC'S first issue next semester for the date of the contest
15
IMKIICIM
By JIM CLEMENS
One of the bright lights in a rather drab outdoor track season for Coach
Elvin R. “Doc” Handy’s blue and gold clad thinlies is Raymond John Emmanuel Sobota, steady and dependable quar
ter and half miler from Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania.
Ray was born in New York City, February 7, 1928, but went to live with his uncle, the Very Rev. Msgr. John S. Sobota, in Wilkes-Barre upon the death of his mother and father when he was very young. He spent the early years of his youth at Mt. St. Joseph Academy, a semi-military school, situated near Newburgh, New York, overlooking the historic and beautiful Hudson Valley.
After he graduated from Mt. St. Joseph, Ray matriculated for four years at Mt. St. Michael High School in the Bronx, New York, stronghold of some of the finest athletic teams in that city, and a school which has made some outstanding contributions to Notre Dame teams in the persons of “Zeke” O’Connor, Steve Provost, John Lyons, Tom Costello, and Jerry Begley, to name only a few.
Ray started at the Mount in 1941 but it wasn’t until the cross-country season of 1943 that he earned his first varsity monogram. Thereafter, the slender youth, who totes 162 lbs., on a 6' 1" frame, won four more letters at track as the Mount awards individual monograms for cross-country, indoor and outdoor track.
In his junior year, Ray negotiated the mile in the creditable time of 4:45, but his coach soon realizing that the lanky youngster had the makings of a brilliant quarter and half miler, trained him for the shorter distances and thus prepared him for his future career on the cinder paths.
Ray really came into his own in his final year at the Mount when he turned in an eye-raising 2:03 half mile while running the open leg of the two mile relay at the Indoor Metropolitan A.A.U. championships. The Mount took second in this race which was won by Bishop Loughlin of Brooklyn, annually the kingpin of New York schoolboy track circles.
In the outdoor campaign, Ray climaxed a brilliant season by grabbing two seconds in the 880 and broad jump in the Bronx-Westchester C.H.S.A.A. Track and Field
Currently a first semester sophomore, Ray is in the College of Arts and Letters championships, being and, while he hasn’t decided on a major
clocked in 2:04 for the half mile, and leaping 19' 11% " into the sawdust pit.
These points helped the Mount to the team championship, their second in a row during Ray’s tenure on the squad.
Following his graduation in June, 1945, Ray came to the Irish campus in July of that year, and immediately started training for the cross-country squad. Ray was the sixth man among the Irish harrier last season and used the training to good advantage in preparing himself for the rugged indoor campaign to follow.
Running both the quarter and half mile in his first season of collegiate competition, Ray was a consistent performer and turned in the highly creditable times of :51.1 for the quarter and 1:58.8 for the half. While he didn’t win any individual firsts, he captured numerous seconds and thirds, and was a valuable man on the Irish two mile relay team.
Though the current outdoor season was bereft of any Irish dual victories, the running of the youthful Ray has been all that could be desired. Posting a :50.5 quarter in which he ran second to Michigan’s Hugh Short, and a 1:57 half at the Drake Relays, Ray has given every evidence that he will be the man to chase to the tape in the seasons to come.
as yet, he leans toward a professional career, possibly in Law. However, his big concern at the moment is the C.C.C. Meet at Milwaukee, Wisconsin, tomorrow and doing his bit to salvage some glory for the Irish in the waning track campaign.
Seven Grid Candidates
Receive Hering Award
Seven candidates for the 1946 Notre Dame football team are to be honored with Frank E. Hering medals as the result of outstanding work during the spring practice session recently concluded. The selections were made on a combined decision of Coach Frank Leahy and his assistants.
Jim Martin, freshman from Cleveland, was picked as the best blocking end. Ziggy Czarobski, Chicago junior back from the Navy, won the selection as the best blocking tackle. John Mastrangelo, Vandergrift, Pa., sophomore, who was picked as the “lineman of the week” last season following the 6-6 Navy game, was chosen as the best blocking guard. The best blocking center was Bill Walsh, 18-year old Phillipsburgh, N. J., sophomore. George Ratterman, Navy R.O.-T.C. quarterback from Cincinnati, was picked as the best passer and the hardest driving back award went to fullback Jim Mello, West Warwick, R. I., junior, who is another Navy returnee. Frank Tripucka, Bloomfield, N. J., frosh quarterback, was picked as the most improved player.
The Hering awards, named after one of Notre Dame’s early grid coaches, were first given by the late Knute K. Rockne, as an added incentive for boys taking part in spring practice. Coach Leahy, himself, received the medal as the outstanding center following the spring workouts in 1928. Leahy later became a varsity tackle.
Interhall Baseball
Scores of games played during the past week: Alumni 4, Walsh 4; Cavanaugh 9, Dillon 2; Sorin 6, St. Ed’s 2; B-P 6, Zahm 2; Dillon 9, Walsh 2; and B-P 13, Alumni 2. Standings of the league including game of June 11:
W. L. Pct.
Breen-Phillips 			6	0	1.000
Zahm 			4	1	.800
Cavanaugh 			3	2	.600
Sorin 			3	2	.600
St. Ed’s 			2	3	.400
Alumni 			2	3	.400
Dillon 				1	5	.167
Walsh 			0	5	.000
16
SfdudeM. fyiBm tlte PteAA. fawc,
— By PAUL WE YRAUCH—Scholastic Sports Editor
The Spirit of the Fighting Irish— Key to Success
“You say Notre Dame lost today? Good. Nothing makes me happier. Those lucky Irishmen!” Yes, I said that on many occasions before I became a Notre Dame student. Now, in my last effort for the Splinters column and as sports editor of the Scholastic, I will tell you why I changed my tune. This may be of little interest to anyone, but I do believe I have a point to bring forth.
As one who loves sports of all kinds, I have never held in high regard any team that consistently wins contests. It is probably nothing more than sympathy for the underdog but the honors look better when they are passed around. Notre Dame has been winning a large share of its athletic contests for* years. Before the dawn came to me, I disliked the Irish teams for that reason. But a little investigation into the matter* can change one’s mind. It is all so simple when you see what makes the Fighting Irish tick. There are two kinds of Notre Dame fans in the United States—those that love and those that hate. I have belonged to both classes but I am proud to say that I am in the former category now.
All right, what does make Notre Dame tick? The school’s athletic teams are consistently good because they are comprised of outstanding athletes. But many other schools have fine athletes and don’t win the games. The secret of the success of the Fighting Irish is the powerful school and team spirit. This may seem to be an intangible reason but it is visible year after year. When Notre Dame athletes are on the field they are not competing for personal glory but rather for a Notre Dame victory. All right, you say, that is the goal of all teams. But deeper than the desire for a school victory is the desire to respond to the students who are pulling for that victory. Notre Dame athletes have to play all out ball to win or go down trying because that is the Irish spirit. Many schools have their athletic teams and school spirit broken by fraternities. For example, at the University of Kansas this spring an outstanding baseball player decided to play ball for his fraternity on the campus rather than for the school. Many other schools find fraternities playing an undesirable part in team spirit—a Chi Foo Moo tackle
failing to work with his Beta Eta Chow teammate for the good of the team. At Notre Dame there is one fraternity—that fraternity is Notre Dame, and everyone is a member! All of this seems to be a futile explanation of a touchy subject, but maybe you get the idea.
When I came to Notre Dame, under Navy orders, I immediately sensed the spirit of the school. I began to see why Notre Dame won so many times. I soon found myself cheering for the Fighting Irish—no longer did I retort with glee when informed that Notre Dame had lost. You don’t have to be bom with Notre Dame spirit, as most Irish boosters are. The spirit can be picked up at any time after you learn the key to the success of the Fighting Irish. I have often been asked why Notre Dame is always so “good” in athletics. I asked myself the same question before I came here. In answer to the queries of others I have always tried to cite this undying spirit as the reason. I have not been able to put into words, sufficiently, an answer to the question or an explanation such as I have attempted here, but I only hope that the idea may at least be basically detected.
Thanks a Million
It would not be fitting to let my final column pass by without expressing my very sincere thanks and words of appreciation to those who have been so helpful and cooperative with me in connection with the Scholastic: Frank Grimaldi and John Def ant, ambitious
IN FlRNAPT QUIET
INFIRMARY
QUIET
Lotze, Conklin
We told Sarsleld not to eat that ticket just because it said good for breakfast.
and very capable editors of the magazine; Jim Ferstel, ace photographer and his assistants; the sports staff—the boys who really did the work in attaining whatever degree of success which the Scholastic sports section reached—Dave Warner, Pete Pesoli, Jim Regan, Mel Goodard, Dick Deitz, Billy Slavick, John Thomas, Pete Brown, Jim Clemens, John Gunther, and Phil Corboy—to mention only a few—Marguerite Varga, the Miss Leading Lady of the Scholastic, and Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C., faculty advisor. Father Laskowski has continually denied that he has any technical knowledge of journalism, yet his kind and ever-present willingness to help, surpass any advantage of technical knowledge.
Ray Donovan has come to the rescue more than once—supplying data and information for our use from the publicity office. Ray has always been most friendly and willing to help. James Armstrong, Alumni Secretary, Frank Leahy and all of the school athletic officials, and Jim Costin, Sports Editor of the South Bend Tribune, have all had their share in assisting the Scholastic sports staff.
Klinites Beat Purdue.
9-2. at Cartier Field
Jake Kline’s charges chalked up another mark in the victory column Thursday afternoon by handing the Boilermakers from Purdue a decisive 9-2 trouncing behind the effective 8-hit hurling of Dick Kluck here at Cartier Feld. For 5% innings it was a nip and tuck affair, and when the Irish went into their half of the 6th the score was deadlocked at 2—all. It was then, however, that the Boilermakers “blew up,” Notre Dame scoring twice without the assistance of the usually necessary base hits. Their 3 runs in the 7th and 2 in the 8th provided a safe margin, but weren’t necessary since Purdue failed to score after the 6th.
Handsome “Oh, Johneee!” Mayo again wielded the big stick for the Irish, getting 3 for 5 to drive in 3 teammates (much to the delight of his faithful and exuberant bobbysox fans). “Big Tom” Sheehan was also an important man at the plate as well as behind it, continuing his role as a dependable hitter with 3 bingles. Even hurler Dick Kluck joined the boys in the 7th with a long poke into deep left-center field that went for a triple. The longest drive of the afternoon, however, was Boilermaker Ehler’s four-bagger to the shadow of the left field fence in the 6th inning. The totals were: Notre Dame, 9 runs, 10 hits and 4 errors; Purdue—2 runs, 7 hits and 3 errors.—P. L. Pesoli
17
Notre Dame Trackmen Enter Collegiate Meet
By MEL GODDARD
Sixteen Notre Dame trackmen have been entered in the twenty-first annual Central Collegiate conference outdoor track and field championship meet which will be staged in the Marquette stadium tomorrow afternoon and night.
Defending the Knute Rockne memorial championship trophy which they won last year at the Great Lakes Naval Training center will be the Purdue University Boilermakers. The Bluejackets of Great Lakes were high scorers in the 1945 3-C meet, but Purdue was tops among the college teams and was awarded the Rockne cup.
Twenty-one other schools are entered, including the Big Ten champions, Illinois, led by their 440 yard world’s record
U. S. Male - R. F. D.
"REMEMBER FATHER'S
DAY"
The greatest Male day of the year —
SEND A CARD FROM
Lower’s
128 N. Michigan St.
NAME YOUR SPORT
SONNEBORN'S has what it takes!
121 W. Colfax Avenue Phone 3-3702
breaker, Herb McKenley. Lloyd LaBeach, Wisconsin sprinter and broad jumper; Kenny Wiesner, Marquette high jumper; George Walker, Illinois’ N.C.A.A. and Big Ten hurdle champion; Bill Bangert, Purdue weight man; Dwight Eddleman, Illinois jumper; Bill Leonard, Notre Dame miler; Billy Moore, Northwestern pole vaulter, and Ed Taylor, Western Michigan hurdler and high jumper are some of the outstanding individuals entered in the meet.
The necessary preliminaries will take place in the afternoon, and the finals will be staged beneath the floodlights. Parades, bands and a court of honor of campus coeds are included in the program.
The Notre Dame men who make the best showings at Marquette will be entered in the twenty-fifth annual NCAA meet at the University of Minnesota on June 21-22. This meet brings together the outstanding performers of the nation, and will probably settle down to a duel between Southern California and Illinois for the team trophy.
Coach Handy has announced that Bill Leonard will run the mile at the NCAA meet against Southern California’s Roland Sink and Bob Rehberg of Illinois and the rest of the country’s top milers.
Dunkel Rates Irish
Seventh in Nation
Dick Dunkel, noted sports statistician, has released his final 1945-46 College basketball ratings. Dunkel has rated 817 college teams on the basis of their records during the past season. He rated Notre Dame as the seventh team in the nation and as the fifth ranking team in the Midwest. Oklahoma A. & M. was given the number one ranking. It is interesting to note that Dunkel rated the famed New York University, conquerors of the Irish, as the 35th team in the nation though during the season the wizard of figures had N.Y.U. among the top ten consistently.
Irish 9fh-lnning Rally Falls Short, Lose 9-8
By MEL GODDARD
The University of Michigan baseball ? team outlasted Notre Dame to win 9 to 8 in a loosely played game last Saturday 7 afternoon on Cartier Field.	A.
Michigan got away to a four run lead ? in the first inning as a result of two walks, an error, two singles, a double and a three base hit by their right fielder, f Bob Chappuis. Notre Dame got back one run in the second on three one base > blows, then went into the lead on a four run splurge in the fourth when Barrett 7 and Lavery tripled after Raba’s double. < Two Michigan errors figured in the scoring.
The Wolverines tied up the game in : the fifth when Chappuis connected for his second triple to send Bob Weisen-berger across the plate. They pushed over three more runs in the seventh, and got their final tally in the eighth frame.
The Irish threatened to deadlock the : contest in the final round as Gilhooley walked and Mayo and Sheehan came through with singles followed by Raba’s triple to deep center field. The rally died when a mix-up of signals at third base resulted in Raba being put out trying to score.
Barrett, who started for Notre Dame, was in trouble almost every inning until relieved by Mahannah in the seventh. Giving up 14 hits and 8 runs, Barrett was charged with the loss. It was his second defeat of the year, both at the hands of Michigan. Mahannah gave up the final Michigan run, and Smullen pitched the last inning. The Wolverine starting pitcher, Cliff Wise, allowed 5 runs on 9 hits to be the winner. Block took over on the mound for Michigan in the seventh. Summaries:
RHE Michigan  9	17	2
Notre Dame __________ 8	12	2
Michigan—Wise, Block and Swanson.
Notre Dame—Barrett, Mahannah, Smullen and Sheehan.
Taylor Names Klier
All-American Forward
Leo Klier received another All-American- classification for the 1945-46 basketball season when Chuck Taylor, nationally known sportscaster for the Converse Rubber Company, named | Leo as a forward on his first team. Klier had previously received All-American honors from True Magazine besides playing in the first annual East-West all-Star game in which he was Captain of the West team.

18
SUMMARY OF NOTRE DAME SPRING SPORTS EVENTS, 1946
(This tabulation is complete with the following exceptions):
Baseball.— June 16, at Great Lakes, and Bra'dley Tech.
Track — June 15, Central Collegiate meet at Milwaukee.
June 21-22, N.C.A.A. championships at Minneapolis.
Golf — June 23, Minnesota — to be played at Princeton, N. J. June 24, National Intercollegiate Tournament at Princeton.
BASEBALL
Notre Dame 5, Indiana 1.
Indiana 6, Notre Dame 2.
Notre Dame 9, Ohio State 3.
Notre Dame: 10, .Ohio State 4.
Notre Dame-11, Purdue 4.
Notre Dame .7, Northwestern 2.
Notre Dame 3, Iowa 0.
Notre Dame 3, Iowa 0.
Notre Dame 9, Iowa 4.
Notre Dame 5, Michigan State 4.
(10 innings)
Michigan 7, Notre Dame 1.
Notre Dame 6, Wisconsin 4.
(10 innings)
Wisconsin 7, Notre Dame 6.
(11 innings)
Great Lakes 4, Notre Dame 3.
(15 innings)
Northwestern 11, Notre Dame 1.
Notre Dame 9, Purdue 2.
Michigan 9, Notre Dame 8.
Won 10, Lost 6.
TRACK
Drake Relays — Notre Dame first in 480 yard shuttle relay, third in University 2 mile relay, second in 4 mile relay.
Wisconsin 69 2/3, Notre Dame 52 1/3.
Michigan 74%, Notre Dame 47%.
Michigan. State 78, Notre Dame 44.
Indiana State meet — Notre Dame third, Indiana and Purdue tied for first.
Marquette 66, Notre Dame 65.
Dual meets: Won 0, Lost 4.
BASEBALL STATISTICS—(Continued from page 15)
PITCHING RECORDS									
Player	IP	R	H BB SO	WP HBP	ER	ERA	W	L	Pct.
Dick Kluck 			33 2/3	9	27	12	17	1	0	7	1.87	2	0	1.000
Jack Barrett ....	56 1/3	23	58	13	38	2	3	18	2.88	5	2	.714
Walt Mahannah	33	15	33	10	18	0	1	12	3.28	2	1	.667
Dick Smullen ....	25 2/3	22	26	5 110	2	1	14	4.41	1	2	.333
Bill Sherman ....	1	1	110	0	0	1	9.00	0	0	.000
Totals	149 2/3*	70	147	41	83	5	5	52	3.12	10	6	.625
* Two outs in the 11th inning when Wisconsin scored winning run, May 28, 1946.
TENNIS
Navy 7, Notre Dame 1.
Notre Dame 9, Indiana 0.
Notre Dame 5, Purdue 4. \
Notre Dame 5, Western Michigan 4.
Notre Dame 5, Michigan State 4.
Notre Dame 6, Wisconsin 3.
Michigan 5, Notre Dame 4.
Northwestern 6, Notre Dame 3.
Notre Dame 8, Marquette 1.
Won 6, Lost 3.
GOLF
Notre Dame 23, Marquette 7.
Notre Dame 33%, Wisconsin 2%.
Notre Dame 13%, Wisconsin 13%/ Notre Dame 19, Michigan 8.
Northwestern 14, Notre Dame 13.
Indiana State.' Meet — Notre Dame third, Purdue first, Indiana second.
Notre Dame 10, Michigan State 8.
Notre Dame 10, Wayne 8.
Notre Dame .22, Detroit 5.
Won 6, Lost 1, Tied 1.
FOOTBALL
Varsity 20, Old Timers 0.
PHOTOGRAPHY EXHIBIT (Continued from page 5) est to come out of the war. The 150 photographs in this collection have previously been exhibited at the Camera Club in New York City, where noted photographic experts almost unanimously have praised the collection as being unsurpassed for its striking, realistic portraiture of the stark horror of war.
Mr. Smith, who is 27 years old, has been a photographer since 1933. He is married and is the father- of three children. While at Notre Dame he took hundreds of pictures which appeared in many newspapers and magazines, as well as in various University publications.
To get his action pictures of American forces in the.. Pacific, Mr. Smith risked his life on numerous occasions. One of these times, while photographing on Okinawa a story titled “24 Hours With Infantryman Terry Moore,” which appeared in Life Magazine, he was badly wounded in the face and left hand by a Japanese mortar shell. This was on
May 22, 1945, and marked his 13th battle.
Among the histone actions that he photographed were Rabaul, Truk (first raid), Tarawa, Marshall Islands, Wake Island, S’aipan, Guam, Leyte, the first carrier-based raid on Tokyo, D-Day at Iwo Jima and D-Day at Okinawa.
Mr. Smith’s exhibit will be sponsored jointly by the Veterans Club of Notre Dame and the Scholastic. Watch bulletin boards for further announcements as to hours that his exhibition will be open. All students, faculty members and administrative officials, together with the general public, are invited.
CLASSIFIED
Faculty Members Married Veterans
PLEASE NOTE!
If you desire to sublet your apartment for the summer vacation, please call Ibseph Walsh, Chemistry Hall.
Students Navy Personnel
Any information pertaining to Rental of small apartment on permanent basis, either at end of school semester or Naval term, will be sincerely appreciated.
Contact:
E. D. SILHA. 354 Dillon Hall
19
GRADUATION SPEAKER (Continued from page 5) o’clock under the supervision of the Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C. .
Class Day exercises, including presentation of awards to deserving graduates will be conducted at 10:30 o’clock Saturday morning in Washington Hall, and ■will be followed in the afternoon by a baseball game between Notre Dame and Great Lakes. An alumni banquet will be held at 6 o’clock in the University Dining Halls, and will be followed by a concert by the Notre Danie band and a presentation by the University Theater of Gilbert and Sullivan’s operetta, “The Mikado,” in Washington Hall.
Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of the Diocese of Fort Wayne, ■will pontificate at the Baccalaureate Mass at 9 o’clock Sunday morning, June 30, in Sacred Heart Church. Samuel Cardinal Stritch, Archbishop of Chicago, will deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon.
A luncheon for winners of athletic monograms at Notre Dame Sunday noon will be followed by conferring of degrees by Father O’Donnell at 4 o’clock in the University Drill Hall. The Commencement Address will be given by the internationally distinguished columnist, George E. S'okolsky of New York City.
GUEST STARS TO ATTEND MET FORMAL
Members of the Met Club; Left to right. Bob Mulcahy, Seating Committee; Don Degnan, Met Club President; Joe Stio, Chairman of the Music Committee; Joe O'Reilly, Entertainment Committee Chairman; Mike Weinberg, General Co-Chairman; Joe Alfiere, Ticket Committee; Jerry Olwell, General Co-chairman.
Really FINE FOOD
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
TRY OUR
Spaghetti, Steaks, Chops, with crisp French Fries, green salad, basket of fresh Italian bread.
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
A Notre Dame Tradition
20
Throwing open the doors of its Georgian Room, the Hotel Pennsylvania of New York will welcome the Summer Formal of the Metropolitan Club of Notre Dame on Saturday, July 13. “Victory Night,” as the evening has been named will feature many guests stars, including Ed Sullivan, popular New York columnist; Louis Prima, if he is in town; Fred Waring, and many Tin-Pan Alley artists, Co-Chairmen Jerry Olwell and Mike Weinberg announced.
If possible, a representative from each of the New York major league teams will be there to say hello. Ex-ND greats
; Specializing in the	s
; examination of the eyes.	3
I Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
: Prompt Lens or Frame Repair : ; service in our ivn laboratory. ;
>	212 S. Michigan St. §
I	Phone 4-8251
such as footballer Paul Lillis and track star Greg Rice, both of whom reside in the Metropolitan area, will be on hand.
The theme “Victory Night” has a twofold meaning. The evening will combine a moment of recollection for all those members of the Club who died in the past war. Then the theme will turn towards the 1946 football season and will dedicate itself to victory in that respect.
Assisting Jerry Olwell and Mike Weinberg are Joe O’Reilly, Entertainment Committee Chairman; John Drews, Ticket Chairman; Joe Stio, in charge of the music, and Larry Gobler who is assisting the Chairmen.
Francis Walther and his orchestra will provide the music and the evening will be sparked with continuous entertainment.
Tickets can be had at 162 Zahm or at 436 Howard Hall.
For All Chicagoans	;
Tickets for the Summer Dance of the	:
Chicago Club can be obtained from any	:
of the following:	'
Bee Dillon, Walsh Hall; Jack Cush-	■
ing, Dillon Hall; Ed Kavanaugh, Lyons	;
Hall; Bob Wagner, Walsh Hall; Mark	S
Dooty, Howard Hall; Chuck Conners,	£
St. Edward’s Hall; Bob Bates, Zahm	&
Hall; Danny Klein, Cavanaugh Hall;
Bill Kennedy, Breen-Phillips Hall; and fe, Larry Ryan, Lyons Hall.	g
N. D. K. OF C. INITIATE 113 MEMBERS OF CHEVIGNY CLASS AT EXEMPLIFICATION
By JACK MILES
Notre Dame Council 1477 welcomed 113 new Knights of Columbus into the Order at its first major exemplification since 1942 in the council chambers of Mishawaka Council 1878 on June 9. The ceremonies were performed by a second degree team from the Mishawaka council, and a third degree team from Lima, Ohio.
The class was dedicated to the 22 brother Knights from Notre Dame council who died during World War II, and particularly to the late Capt. John E. Chevigny, United States Marine Corps, who was killed in action during the battle for Iwo Jima. Chevigny, in his student days one of Notre Dame’s greatest all-around halfbacks and later an assistant football coach, was a past Grand Knight of the council.
The initiation ceremonies were followed by an initiation banquet at the Oliver hotel in honor of the new class. More than 300 Knights attended, including members from the Notre Dame, South Bend, and Mishawaka councils, in addition to the members of the Lima degree team.
Grand Knight Robert E. Sullivan introduced the toastmaster for the evening, the Rev. Francis P. Goodall, C.S.C., chaplain of the Notre Dame council, who praised the work of Sullivan and his brother officers during the past year, describing Sullivan as “one grand Grand Knight.”
Present at the banquet were Harry J. Fitzgerald, Indiana State Deputy, and Michael I. Evans, District Deputy from Lima, who was the leader of the degree team. Mr. Fitzgerald urged the new members to be “Knights of Columbus in the temporal and followers of Christ in the spiritual sense.” Mr. Evans introduced the members of the Lima degree team.	-
John V. Hinkel, director of publicity, speaking on behalf of the Chevigny class, eulogized his former classmate, Chevigny.
Continuing, Col. Hinkel outlined the threefold duty of a Knight of Columbus: to live up to the spiritual and patriotic ideals of the K. of C., to help others save their souls, and to defend our Church against attacks. Citing Communism as one of the most menacing of the Church’s attackers, he said, “Communism today is world-wide, and
the greatest bulwark against Communism is the Catholic Church, and one of the staunchest supporters of the Catholic Church is the Knights of Columbus.”
* The principal speaker at the banquet was Timothy P. Galvin, who had been Chevigny’s brother-in-law. Mr. Galvin is the Deputy Supreme Knight of the Order, and was recently elevated to the Order of St. Gregory by His Holiness, Pope Pius XII.
Pointing to stories that the Russian people think that Americans are living in “the waning tradition of a dying faith,” Mr. Galvin termed it the challenge of the times: “the conception in the minds of a great body of people that the Christian idea, the American idea, what some people call the democratic idea, represents ‘the waning tradition of a dying faith.’ ”
On the contrary, he declared, “the Catholic Church is on the march, and if you listen, you will hear the steady tread of that march.” More and more, youth is coming to the fore in the Church, as is made evident by the appointment of more and more young Bishops and Monsignori, he stated.
Father Goodall paid a glowing tribute to Galvin, who recently was appointed a ' member of the University Board of Lay Trustees, when he said, “He feels in his heart and acts in his life the principles of the Knight of Columbus and the son of the Lady on the Dome.”
A musical interlude was furnished by an octet from the Glee Club, under the direction of Professor Daniel H. Pedtke.
CROW’S NEST
(Continued from page 2)
NOTES COPIED FROM A REPORTER'S CUFF—OR LAST ISSUE BLUES
Now that the college programs are being curtailed in their active duty form, the Navy, after several years of having various schools at Notre Dame, will leave the campus. The RO and V-12 set-ups have always been different than the other programs because we have been students of Notre Dame nearly as much as we were enlisted men in the Navy. But being in the Navy we have not always been able to see wisdom in various activities advocated by the University, perhaps because we had not the same view point as the University. However, this writer knows that there
isn’t one man among the thousand of navy men who attended Notre Dame who isn’t proud of being able to say that he was a student here. The Chief Crow has felt himself fortunate to have been able to be a part of the student body of the University and we know that the same holds through for the rest of the men in the combined units.
At this point we wish to apologize to those who perhaps could not see the humor that we professed to see in our material in past issues and to repeat that we didn’t intentionally wish to' offend anyone.
And as a parting word we wish to commend the splendid work of Harold Huling who as battalion commander performed his duties much more efficiently and received much more cooperation from the men than many a preceding commander. He proved that it doesn’t take an iron hand and a full demerit list to achieve a “taut ship” and a smart looking unit. ...
Stan Sweeder is a schloomp.
QUESTION OF THE WEEK
What is a schoomp?
❖
Oh, that would be telling.
BOOKS
For your reading enjoyment: Then and Now Our Own Kind For One Sweet Grape Past All Dishonor This Side of Innocence Valley Boy A World To Win
127 W. Washington Street
"In the J. M. S. Building"
21
Strength of Nation Being Destroyed
By Divorce, Declares Father O'Brien
“The record-shattering upcurve of divorce tearing families asunder constitutes the most dangerous atomic bomb now threatening the safety of America,” Rev. John A. O’Brien, Professor of Religion at the University, declared in a recent address delivered at a meeting of the National Council of Catholic Women of the Hammond Deanery at East Chicago, Ind.
“The strength of a nation,” said Father O’Brien, “lies in the unity and integrity of its family life, in the holy and unbreakable character of the marriage bond, in the permanent and indestructible nature of the home.
“The home is the foundation of society. Blast at that foundation and you undermine society and disintegrate the nation. This is the warning sounded by the fall of the Roman Empire. While mistress of the world, unconquerable from without, it decayed from within, and fell in ruins before the barbarian invasion.
“What happened to Imperial Rome,”
’Tre Never Forgotten" —jo Stafford
“Love on a Greyhound Bus"
—Dinning Sisters
"Blue Skies"	Les Paul Trio
’Tm a Big Girl Now" —Ray McKinley
LATEST TUNES
COPP'S MUSIC SHOP
122-24 E. Wayne St.
continued Father O’Brien, “will happen to America if we do not launch vigorous and determined measures to stop the sledgehammer blows now blasting into smithereens one out of every four marriages contracted in our land.
“Regardless of religious or political views, no lover of America can remain indifferent at the spectacle of divorce courts with unparalleled speed separating husband and wife, depriving children of the loving care of father and mother, and thus swelling to prodigious size the juvenile delinquency wave sweeping our nation like a tidal wave.
“The Catholic Church, the historic defender of the sanctity of marriage and the permanence of the home, invites all men and women to join with her in arresting the mounting number of divorces and in driving home to the American people the sobering truth that no nation can survive which allows its domestic life to decay.”
The safety and the strength of America, observed Father O’Brien, will be found in the fidelity with which husband and wife keep their marriage vows, in the generosity with which they pass on the precious gift of life to offspring, in their purity and honesty of life which they engender in their children.
“This bolstering of the family life can best be effected through an intensification of the religious life. Urgently needed to counteract the raw paganism and the ugly passions unleashed by the war is a spiritual revival of all the people of our land and a redoubling of efforts to give religious instruction to all our youth.
“The plan of released time, now operating in many states, represents an honest effort to provide an opportunity for all the students in public schools— grade school, high schools, colleges and universities to learn about God, the moral law, the duties of citizenship, the meaning of life, and the destiny of the human soul.
“The real defense of our nation will be found not behind a mountain of bristling armaments, battleships and atomic bombs, but in the ethical life of its citizens in the undiminished vigor of its family life, in the sanctity of marriage and in the enduring character of its homes. Therein,” concluded Father O’Brien, “lies the true citadel of America which no atom bomb can destroy.”
Alumni Directors Meet
on Campus June 8, 9
The Board of Directors of the Alumni Association held its summer meeting on the campus Saturday and Sunday, June 8 and 9. Members present were Thomas F. Byrne, Cleveland, president; E. Bradley Bailey, Baltimore, vice-president; William J. Mooney, Indianapolis, director; Gerald Ashe, Rochester, N. Y., director; and the local members of the Board, Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., honorary president; James E. Armstrong and William R. Dooley executive secretaries of the Association, and Rev. Francis P. Goodall, C.S.C., director of alumni relations.
Discussion centered around the registration in September as it affects the many sons and brothers of alumni who wish to become members of the Notre Dame family on the campus; the progress during the war stemmed; the development of a closer tie-in between alumni clubs and the geographical clubs on the campus; the publication of the alumni magazine; the progress of the placement program which is tied in with the undergraduate placement program under Father Goodall and Mr. Dooley; the progress of the committees in religion and citizenship in particular reference to the protest to the United Nations by President Byrne on the treatment of the Spanish question; and other details of the rapidly expanding program of the Association.
Memorial Service Honors Capt. Ball
A Memorial service in honor of Captain George A. Ball, ’36, who was killed in action in Germany, March 2, 1945, was held in Howard Hall Chapel, Friday, June 7, to commemorate the donation by his parents of a new tabernacle to the Hall Chapel.
A requiem high Mass for the repose of Captain Ball’s soul was celebrated by the Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C., former Army Chaplain. A choir composed of Howard Hall veterans of World War II sang the Mass.
Captain Ball had been on a reconnaissance with the Eighth Armored Division and was returning to his own outfit, the 78th Division, in a jeep when he was shot by a sniper. He lived about 20 minutes until the Catholic Chaplain arrived and administered the Last Sacraments.
Captain Ball lived in Howard Hall in his senior year at Notre Dame. He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. George Ball of Caledonia, N. Y., by his wife and baby daughter and by his sister Jeanne, who was a Lieutenant in the Waves during the war.
THE AGE-OLD QUESTION
Said a sweet English girl to her “duckie,”
A big soldier boy from Kentucky,
No charge if I kiss you,
I’m government issue
Lend-lease in reverse—ain’t you lucky!”
Our worthy colleague, Mr. Thomas Higgins, in his College Parade has his WJOTW Dept. We would like to plagiarize for just this one issue, and nominate our own candidate for Worst Joke Of The Year, which we submit below—
A spiritualist was holding a seance one night, when suddenly he leaped to his feet with a roar of laughter. Out of the room, down the hall, and into the street he dashed, laughing all the while. Eventually, his gleeful progress was checked by the sturdy club wielded by an officer of the law. A bystander asked the policeman why he did it. To which the latter replied “I always wanted to strike a happy medium.”
This being our final appearance this semester (for which no doubt many people heave a sigh of relief), we present some of the better (?) jokes found in this column for the last three semesters.
“Too bad about the disappearance of Professor Smith. He was a profound thinker.”
“Yes, he was always thinking, no matter where he was. The last time I saw him he was in swimming and he suddenly called out: ‘I’m thinking! I’m thinking!’ ”
“You fool! Professor Smith spoke with a lisp.”
A sailor and his girl were riding out in the country on horseback. As they
ANSWERS TO QUIZ ON PAGE 9
1—Dartmouth College
2—University of Florida— 3—Smith College--------- 4—University of Missouri... 5—University of Colorado.. 6—Duquesne University— 7—Rutgers University---- 8—Radcliffe College----- 9—Gonzaga University----
10—University of Kentucky. 11—University of Maryland. ■12—University of Oregon...
By ED CASO and JOE PIEDMONT
stopped for a rest the two horses rubbed necks affectionately.
“Ah, me!” said the sailor, “that’s, what I’d like to do.”
“Well, go ahead,” answered the girl, “it’s your horse.”
Officer: “Not a man will be given liberty this afternoon.”
Voice: “Give me liberty or give me death.”
Officer: “Who said that?"-
Voice: “Patrick Henry.'* *
❖
Judge: “Do you challenge any of the jurors?”
Defendant: “ Sure . . . and I think I can lick that little fellow on the end, too.”
A freshman newly arrived at South Bend was watching a local farm-hand work. He knew little about farming except that eggs came from chickens.
“Oh!” he said to the farmer, “what a funny looking cow. No norns.”
“There are several reasons why a cow doesn’t have horns,” said the farmer. “Some are born without horns. Some do not grow any until the late years of their lives. Others are de-horned while young; some breeds are not supposed to have horns at all. The chief reason this cow doesn’t have horns is that it isn’t a cow . •. . it’s a horse.”
❖
And now we present the best in poetry as found in Soph Soap-.
I took her to the cinema,
And when the lights were low, I whispered gently in her ear, “Oh, gosh, I’ve seen this show.”
For the girls ’cross the lake shed a tear, Said they, It is just as we fear.
.e—Hanover, N. J. h—Gainesville, Fla. _c—Northampton, Mass.
_i—Columbia, Mo.
..g—Boulder, Colo.
.b—Pittsburgh, Pa.
_d—New Brunswick, N. J.
.k—Cambridge, Mass.
..j—Spokane, Wash.
-a—Lexington, Ky.
_1—College Park, Md.
— f—Eugene. Ore.
We will never see
The men from N. D.
Oh, nuts, they would rather have beer!” ’ ❖
Little Audrey, mad as h—1, Pushed her sister in the well.
Said her mother, drawing water.
“Gee, it’s hard to raise a daughter.”
• ❖
And then there was the one about the three Chinese girls who never got married: To-Young-Tu, Tu-Dumb-Tu, and No-Yen-Tu.	.
❖
ADAM PHOOL SUBMITS A FINAL REPORT
Fellow Sufferers:
First on the agenda, and by right ought to be, is a big bow to the ND baseball team, in general, and the Soph, members on it in particular. Nice going, men!
While on the subject of baseball— during the Michigan-ND game last Saturday, I stood up to obtain a better view of a close play. A young woman in back of me, in gentle terms yelled, “Down in front, youse bum!” Turning around, I gently replied, “Sorry, lady, I ain’t built that way.” That stopped her.
Now without further ado, I’d like to thank you for suffering with me by reading C & P. See you in the fall.
Your buddie-buddy, ADF
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY.
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M.S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS '503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	' SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
• '
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
S25 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER, M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
• ■
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. . SOUTH BEND. IND.
5 -	•
DR. O. j: GRUNDY
REGISTERED'' PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING PHONE 3-2S74
23
Copyright Liggett & Mnxs Tobacco Co.