BEUEVE IN YOURSELF! Don't test one brand alone ...compare them all!
Unlike others, we never ask you to test our brand alone. We say . .. compare PHILIP MORRIS...match PHILIP MORRIS . . • judge PHILIP MORRIS against any other cigarette!
Then make your own choice!

Remember...
NO CIGAREHE HANGOVER
Meats
MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!
TRY THIS TEST! Take a PHILIP MORRIS—and any other cigarette. Then, here's all you do:
4 Light up either cigarette. Take a puff—don't inhale— * and s*l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose.
O Now do exactly the same thing with the other cigarette.
NOTICE PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
« PHILIP MORRIS
The Scholastic

Confusing Compact
Editor:
Apparently the theme for the Law Ball, entitled The Mayfloiver Compact, was a bit too subtle fdr the layman mind of your neophyte lead columnist. Having had a hand in the selection of the dance theme some clarification seems desirable for the benefit of Mr. Janowski.
It was thought that the words “May-uower Compact” had a unique significance, and, like a coin, had two sides to it. On one side it bore a legal connotation, and on the reverse side it recognized the season of the year. I hesitate to draw a syllogism to point out that a May flower has a place in a May dance because the inference would undoubtedly embarrass even Mr. Janowski. It was further suggested that the young ladies might be presented with favors of compacts but due to insolvency and severe financial reverses this idea was reluctantly dropped.
Bearing in mind that Mr. Janowski writes a weekly column which he imaginatively entitled The Week it is understandable that the full import of the theme of the dance completely slipped by him.
Peter F. Flaherty
R. DiTrapano
E. Can Tassel
T. Muscatelo
Days of Yore Correction
Editor:
Your boxed note on The Days of Yore is a bit misleading. The “Unidentified” building did not disappear in ashes but is still going strong. Let me give you a brief account of its life. It was built in 1886 to house the Mechanical Engineering Department which was expanding very rapidly. The first floor was given over to shop work in wood and steel and the second was used for mechanical drawing. The garret was vacant.
After the Department was transferred to the “Shops” which were built on the ground now occupied by Alumni and Dillon Halls, the Departments of Chemistry and Pharmacy took over the evacuated building; Chemistry on the first and third floors and Pharmacy on
(Continued on page 34)
Van Heusen brings ’em back alive for you ... a bag-	I
full of nifty new ideas in wildlife patterns. In com-	I
pletely washable cottons ... or in lustrous rayon—	■
with short or long sleeves. Good hunting, fellows, in I Van Heusen jungle print sport shirts..	I
Cottons, Short sleeves—$3.95	I
Sheer cottons. Short and long sleeves—$4.95 & $5.95	|
Rayons, Short and long sleeves—$4.95 & $5.95	. |
9 Van Heusen
''the world’s smartest” Ullll IO g
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y. ।
MM BBM ■■ ^M MM MM MB Mi MM ^Mi J
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
May 11, 1951
3
AD	GLAD
S-t-r-e-t-c-h those dwindling dollars
by GREYHOUND
the low-cost, convenient way home
One Way	One Way
CHICAGO ........$	2.00 ST. LOUIS . $ 6.50
BOSTON _________ 18.60	NEW YORK . ....	16.65
BUFFALO ________ 9.35	PHILADELPHIA ...	15.25
CLEVELAND .......	5.40	DETROIT.......	4.30
LOS ANGELES_____ 41.75	MEMPHIS.......	11.05
WASHINGTON ......	13.85	GRAND RAPIDS . 3.00
DALLAS........	18.60	KANSAS CITY ....	9.75
MILWAUKEE ...... 3.30	MADISON .... ...	4.20
NEW ORLEANS......	16.30	OMAHA. .	.	11.80
MINNEAPOLIS....	9.05	DENVER________ 21.85
Plus U. S. Tax
Main at Western
GREYHOUND TERMINAL
Phone 3-8283
greyhoun:
SENIOR PROM GOERS!
Simplify Saturday Picnic Preparations with a BOX LUNCH
V2 Golden Brown Fried Chicken
Gobs of Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.15
JOE NABICHT'S RESTAURANT
“Chicken in the Rough”
213 N. Main Open Sunday
4
The Scholastic


Top of the Week
A super-duper Senior weekend . . .
A “Long” Cruise
Tonight’s Senior Ball has shoved the Far-Eastern policy debates out of the campus conversation spotlight temporarily and practically all of Notre Dame’s fourth-year men are busy getting last minute details arranged for a terrific evening’s entertainment.
Johnny Long and Ork will provide the music for tonight’s gavotte and we wonder how many times Blue Skies and Shanty Town will be played between 10 and 2. Maestro Long plays a very beautiful fiddle according to press releases and since this is National Music week, we’ll be expecting a couple of choruses of The Flight of the Bumble Bee along with current favorites I Apologize and On Top of Old Smokey. This is where students of Arthur Murray and George Davis make other dancers look like Freshman tackles in Swan Lake.
The local florists and campus flower representatives have graduated into higher income brackets and have sold enough blossoms to cover Badin Hall. The cleaning establishments won’t have to worry about going to the cleaners after this week’s surge of black and midnight blue tuxes and tails.
Incidentally, the favors foi- tonight’s Ball are still being kept secret. This is a traditional custom around ND and so are the favors themselves, for that matter. As far back as we can find out, Notre Dame jewelry boxes have been the treasured mementoes given to the dance dates of Seniors at this traditional affair. It looks like Jewel-boxes 4 to 1, slightly lower if the track is muddy.
Another Tradition
The Old Timer’s game in the Stadium tomorrow is also another traditional aspect of Senior Ball weekend and a traditional headache to Coach Leahy.
We look for the 1951 Varsity to win hands down, in spite of the return of Leon Hart, Emil Sitko, and a host of ex-ND players who know their football better than they know themselves.
Signs of the Tinies
Maj’or league baseball parks will once more start collecting the balls hit into the stands for the boys in the service. This was quite the thing during the last war, and everyone in the ball park or by their radio (those were the glorious days before television) listening to the game wondered j'ust how many balls went to servicemen and how many went to the ushers’ sons. Who knows?
Some chewing gum companies are doing away with the tin-foil around the
individual sticks of chompin’ material. Pretty soon we’ll have to start crushing tin cans, saving old newspapers and Religious Bulletins, and asking ourself this question before we take that weekend to Chicago: “Is This Trip Really Necessary?”
Those pink things bloomed again in front of the Administration Building to offifficially announce another- Spring. With all the lilacs, tulips, and grass growing and all the birds and furry animals chit-chatting incessantly around the campus, its hard to find a quiet place to study for finals. It is also hard to find energy to study, but we remember those famous words of Gonfalon P. Crudnik, ex-50 who said on this date one year ago: “I don’t have to study. They can’t touch a Senior.”
Bottom of the Week
. . . with the exception of Saturday classes, as usual, for the maj'ority of Ball-goers.	•
STARTING *
THURSDAY/
MAY 17th
DOORS OPEN 12:45 37c PLUS TAX 'TIL 6:00 P. M. 54c PLUS TAX AFTER 6:00 P. M.
DOROTHY
JARMILA
WITH
M- G-M frtsents “TheGresit
from a
tavern of the
top , orld!
w
TERESACELLI -RICHARD HAGEMAN- CARL BENTON REID
Written by Sonya Lnim and	Lndn ip «	by Dorothy Caruso'3 Biography of ha Husband
Directed by RICHARD THORPE • Produced by-JOE PASTERNAK • A*>ocatr Producer JESSE L. LASKY A Metrv-GJJwvn-Majcr Picture
Mario Lanza! New WoV.
story of
The - - c the fabulous , who
Caruso sang his way lowly
to the
COLOR BY
Technicolor
STARRING
MARIO „ ANN
Kirsten Novotna
BLANCHE JfHEBOM
May 11,1951

MAY 11
ROCKNE MEMORIAL—Tonight’s the night — the biggest night of the social year. The Senior Class will up-anchor at 10 o’clock for their Moonlight Sail and not return to shore until 2 ayem. Johnny Long and his men will be aboard rockin’ the boat. All those going to the Ball have been granted 3 o’clock permissions as well as car permissions. TNT permissions have not been granted for the purpose of dispersing the hordes who will be lining the levee in front of the Rock.
DRILL HALL (through Sunday, May 13)—The first student art and hobby show will open tonight at 5 p.m. and run until 9. Tomorrow and Sunday the hours will be 3 p.m. to 9. For those touring the campus this will be an interesting spot.
|	COLFAX (through May 16)—Doris Day is the star of Lullaby
i of Broadway (Legion of Decency Rating A-2). That, alone, should be enough to satisfy any entertainment-hound. She gets better and better in every pic. She not only packs this one with plenty of songs, but also comes forth as a tip-top tap dancer. As her partner she has Gene Nelson, who can now enter the inner-circle formerly dominated exclusively by Kelly and Astaire. There’s not much plot to the picture, but who cares about plot? Day is in it.
GRANADA (through May 17)—Rod Cameron and Adrian Booth, the Lunt and Fontaine of the sagebrush stage, team up again in Oh, Susanna (A-2), and “oh, all right” western in color. Ghost Chasers has Lee Gorcey and Huntz Hall in the cast . . . the ghosts are the least frightening part of the picture.
AVON (through May 12)—The coming attractions for Inside Straight (B) tried to make you believe it was the most engrossing, the most enthralling, the most gripping movie since The Jazz Singer. Needless to say, it isn’t. In fact, it’s a dud. David Brian, Mercedes McCambridge, Arlene Dahl and Barry Sullivan are unexplainably wound up in this mess. The only reason why this film might be remembered is because of the longest poker hand on record that runs through it.
MAY 12
STADIUM—The annual Oldtimers’ Game starts at 2:30. All students will be admitted free at gate 15. Tickets for dates and outsiders will cost $1.25.
WASHINGTON HALL—June Allyson and Dick Powell team up for The Reformer and, the Redhead, a slick, glossy comedy, the type that appears in the Satevepost, where the original story did appear. It’s on the half-brain side but good fun.
PALAIS ROYALE—The Monogram Club holds its annual dance. It is open to all classes.
MAY 13
SACRED HEART CHURCH—A section at the 9 o’clock Mass will be reserved for Seniors and Their dates.
OLIVER HOTEL—A Communion Breakfast for 100 Senior Ball couples will start at 10:30. Father Hesburgh will give a talk.
MAY 17
COLFAX through May 23)—The Great Caruso (A-l) will undoubtedly be put on the year’s list of best musicals. It has everything. Mario Lanza and Ann Blythe are its stars. There’s a tremendous serving of operatic numbers. The story’s good. The costumes and sets in technicolor are beautiful. And the music . . . it’s terrific! You don’t have to be a long-hair to enjoy this film. It’s everyone’s dish. Don’t miss it.
Vol. 92 May IL 1951 No. 25
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor KENNETH A. THOREN, '51 Associate Editors WALTON R. COLLINS, '51 JOHN H. JANOWSKI, '51
JOHN J. POWERS, 52 News
ROBERT G. FINNEY, '53______Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE, '51_________Features JOHN F. MEANEY, '52________Sports
JACK R. VARLEY, '52_______Assistant Sports WILLIAM H. FRASER, 52_____Photography
LEON GARDNER, '52______________.Librarian
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT, 51....Advertising G. M. McARTHUR________________Advertising
ROBERT WILDEMAN, '51___________.Circulation JAMES ROGERS, '51__:___________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS____________Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Roger Blatz, Justin Bolger, Don Carbone, Pat Carrico, Dick Cody, John Corrigan, Valentine Chun, Carl Eiberger, Tom Godfrey, Dave Hayes. John Kelly, R. O. Murphy, Walt Murphy, Pat O’Malley, John Quetsch, Dave Quinn, Bill Rady, Berry Reece, Neil Scarlett, Ken Stead, Pau! Zalecki and Ron Zier.
SPORTS STAFF: Bill Brien, Jim Brislin, Bill Delaney, Joe Deiss, Jack Economou, Roger Fernandes. Bob Froelicher, Mort Kelly, Bill Londo, Fran Meaney, Bill Riley, Frank Ronnenberg, Bob Rust and Joe Straub.
FEATURE STAFF: Jack Bradshaw, Jay Conlon, Bill Stapleton. Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta, Dick Cody, Charles Hands and Hugh Schaedle.
PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF: Gordon Brickson, Paul Fitzgerald. John Kinville, Charles Lenz, Harold Munger, Charles F. Murphy, Jr., Al Muth, C. Douglas Powers, Berry Reece, and Jerry Sheehan.
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Within a few hours several hundred members of the Senior Class will be sprucing up for tonight’s Ball. Bill Carew puts on a dress rehearsal for all underclassmen. Tomorrow afternoon—either the Oldtimers’ Game or picnics and softball. Sunday: Mass, the Communion Breakfast, sorrowful goodbyes and finally a check of empty wallets and pockets. Photos by Dick Bennett, ’54.
The Scholastic
6

The Half Way Point
■Our Lady’s month of May is nearing its half-way mark and the student body’s participation in the excellent devotional facilities has been sadly lacking. A skimpy handful are attending the Monday through Friday periods of Adoration from eleven o’clock to one in the Sacred Heart Church with Benediction at one.
In previous years the tradition of singing hymns to the Blessed Mother at the Grotto each night has drawn large crowds of students. This vear. though, hardlv a murmur is heard.
The reasons why these traditions arc not being upheld are hard to find. The nightly devotions at the Grotto are held at 6:45. Maybe this is an inconvenient time. From observation, it seems as though the large bulk of students eat dinner between 5:30 and 6. Many students stop at the Grotto between 6 and 6:30. It might be better, then, to advance the devotion fifteen minutes or maybe even a half hour. But even if that’s the case it’s a wonder more students haven’t seen Father Grimm about this change.
True, there’s nothing compulsory that says we must attend adorations or take part in singing hymns. They are on the periphery of our religion. But in a time like this we should be more than happy to take advantage of the facilities that are offered us.
Furthermore, it seems doubly strange that if these May dcvotionals had warranted such response in the past to establish them as traditions at Notre Dame then why should they be petering out this year?
Everyone knows the most powerful instrument for assuring peace is prayer. We are given extra opportunities to make pleas to Our Lady for intercession during this month of Mav. We shouldn’t let them go to waste. We should take advantage of them—now. o
A Giant Back Pat
It’s hard, if not altogether impossible, to compare the efficiency with which dances are run. After the Prom the Juniors said it was great: it couldn’t be beat. The Freshmen were all pleased with the outcome of their dance last Friday night. And in about ten hours the Seniors will be saving their dance was tops.
Even though it’s done, there’s really no sense in arguing about the dances on a comparative basis. So long as those who go to the affairs have fun then that should be enough to satisfy anyone.
However, there does seem to be more boasting this vear than ever before about the dances. And the odd part about all the wind is that it is backed up with solid and successful achievement.
Does it only seem so, or is it really true? Have the dances this Spring been better run than ever before? You’d be led to believe so if vou listened to anvone who attended >	J
them. There’s been a steady stream of praise. Usually you hear some derogatory words. This Spring the story has changed.
The griping and continually dissatisfied aspect of the average student’s character hasn’t changed so radically to O	O
be the reason behind this reversal. Therefore, it must certainly be to the credit of those men who have run the dances.
Perhaps it is a freak year. From all reports every man named to a dance committee this Spring has carried out his job with perfection. If there has been any instance where one man has fallen down then another person has quickly come along to cover up the breach.
After the Prom the Juniors were so dizzy with satisfaction that they justifiably thought no other dance could be carried out with such perfection. But the Freshmen’s dance came off without a hitch and right now it looks as if the Seniors will turn the trick, too.
A lot of men have put in a great deal of time, energy and resourcefulness into making these dances successful. Their work cannot be praised enough. Everyone who has attended these big Spring dances, including tonight’s, owe a tremendous debt of gratitude to their fellow students who have turned the trick and 'made the dances memorable.
Salute to Swatters
This week the Scholastic salutes the 1951 baseball team in a special section from page 22 to 26. Although the season still has ten games to go on its schedule, including this afternoon’s game with Illinois, we feel the squad deserves a well-earned blow of commendation for the performances it is turning in.
Unless something unforeseen should happen, the team will most likely wind up its year with a record far better than the one turned in by last year’s diamondeers.
The only regret connected with this Spring’s squad has been the relatively' few games scheduled for Cartier Field. Out of a 27 game schedule, only ten were set for the home diamond. It’s too bad the student body hasn’t had more of a chance to see the squad. There’s always next year.
May 11, 1951
7
If someone offers you the	' -
Brooklyn Bridge fo, $1.89
Watch out, he's a swindler, and if someone offers you the	'
Empire State Building >°r $1.37
Call the police for he's a swindler, too: but when we offer you
THE DOME . ..$1
it’s no fake, it’s no swindle—it's the biggest bargain in town.
Were selling the 1947,1948,1949, and 1950 Domes $ $8 books for just
for the next two weeks, so get your copies today at
Publications, Farley Hall Basement
Well mail them for you for an extra quarter a copy.
8	The Scholastic


VOLUME 92, NUMBER 25
MAY II, 1951
Seniors Take Moonlight Cruise Tonight
Johnny Long Plays For Ball at Rockne
Tonight for Notre Dame’s Seniors it’s Johnny Long and his orchestra and a Moonlight Cruise at the Rockne Memorial. Closely organized and highly anticipated, the Senior Ball will have as its two queens the dates of co-chairmen Jim Hennessy and Hank Madden. Hennessy’s guest is Miss Jane Brown of Louisville, Kentucky, a Freshman at Rosemont College in Philadelphia. From River Forest, Illinois, and St. Mary’s College comes Miss Judy Hogan, the date of Hank Madden. Miss Hogan is a Senior at the local institute.
The Long outfit arrives at Notre Dame after musical conquests at better dance spots from New York to Los Angeles. Long is noted for his highly danceable music. During intermissions Jerry Costello and his quintet will play.
Ground rules for the Ball include dancing from 10 to 2 with 3 o’clock permissions, and driving a car during the weekend will be considered legal.
Much mystery surrounds the type of
Miss Jane Brown
favors to be distributed to Ball guests. Those in charge have been silent regarding the matter other than to say that the favors will be handed out starting at 10:30. Programs for the dance will be on a first come, first served
Miss Judy Hogan
basis. Due to the unexpected large number of Ball goers an insuffifficient number was printed originally. A second printing will not be available immediately "and so -a'few might not receive their programs this evening. However, Co-chairman Jim Hennessy gives assurance that those who are shorted will be able to pick up their programs within the next few days.
Week-end activities continue tomorrow at 2:30 p. m. with the Varsity-Old Timers game in the Stadium. Williams, Groom, and Co., will perform for Seniors and their guests plus some 25,000 other interested parties.
Tomorrow night the local lettermen play hosts in their annual social splurge, the Monogram Club dance. Gene Hull and his orchestra will furnish the music at the Palais Royale. .
The social pace will continue Sunday. A section in Sacred Heart Church will be reserved for the Seniors at 9 o’clock Mass. At 10:30 there will be a Communion Breakfast in the Oliver Hotel ball room. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., will speak.
Those responsible for the planning of the dance, besides Hennessy and Madden, are the following committeemen: Tom Wolff, bids; Jack' Becker and Bob Moriarty, decorations; Randy McNally and Jack O’Brien, publicity; Bill Whiteside, weekend arrangements; Bob Engel, patrons; Bob Klingenberger, secretary; Frank Muller, finance; Al Guarnieri, hotel reservations; Jim O’Donnell, programs; Tom Digan, favors; and John Worthington, treasurer.	.
Navy Secretary Will Address Graduates
The Honorable Francis P. Matthews, Secretary of the Navy, will deliver the principal address at the Notre Dame Commencement Exercises to be held here Sunday, June 3, it was announced by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University.
Father Cavanaugh, in making the announcement, said that Mr. Matthews has accepted the University’s invitation to address approximately 725 Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students who will receive degrees at the Commencement Exercises. The' 106th Notre Dame Commencement will be held for the third successive year in the Stadium, in order to accommodate all of the relatives and friends of the graduates. In the event of bad weather, however, the exercises will be held in the Navy Drill Hall.
Following a series of preliminary activities, the main program will begin with a Solemn Pontifical Mass at 9 a.m. in the Stadium. The Most Rev. Leo Pursley, d.d., Auxiliary Bishop of Fort Wayne, will deliver the Baccalaureate sermon.
Robert J. Nicodem, from Seymour, (Continued on Page 16)
May 11, 1951
Powers, Earls and Ward Named Editors Of Student Publications for Coming Year
At the annual publications banquet, held last night, Jack Powers, Ray Earls, and Joseph Ward were named as next year's editors of the Scholastic, Dome, and Juggler, respectively. The announcement was made by Mr. Dale Francis, Director of Publications at the University.
Powers, ’52, who has served as news editor for the Scholastic during the past year, is a Journalism-major from Long Island, N. Y. He will succeed Ken Thoren as editor-in-chief of the campus weekly. Selected associate editors for the forthcoming year were Jack Meaney, ’-52, and Bob Finney, ’53. Finney, present assistant news editor,
Scholastic Editor Jack Powers
Dome Editor Ray Earls
is an electrical engineer from Kansas City, Mo. Meaney, whose home is in South Braintree, Mass., vacates his post as sports editor to assume his new duties.
Don Carbone, ’53, from Chicago, will take over the job of news editor. Associate news editor will be Pat Carrico, ’54, of Louisville, Ky. Both are in the College of Arts and Letters. Promoted from assistant sports editor to the head of that department was Jack Varley, ’52. Varley, who hails from Youngstown, Ohio, will be assisted by Bill Londo, ’53, of Green Bay, Wis. The activities of the feature department next year will be directed by Dick Cody, ’52. Cody comes from Chicago.
Retaining the offices they have held are Bill Fraser, ’52, head of the photography department, and librarian Leon Gardner, ’52. Fraser’s home is in Phoenix, Ariz., while Gardner comes from Danville, Ill.
Ron Zier, ’52, of Glen Rock, N. J., will handle the advertising for next year’s Scholastic, while Bill Kerwin, ’52, from Freeport, N. Y., will head the circulation department.
Earls, ’52, will assume the duties of editor of the Dome after serving as halls editor for the past year. A journalism-major from Portland, Me., he will replace present editor John O’Brien. Associate editors for the 42d Notre Dame annual will be Jerry Costello and Frank Link, both of the Class of ‘52. Costello calls Hawthorne, N. J., his home town, while Link is from Sandusky, 0. Ernest Buckley, ’53, of Portland, Me., has been appointed busi-
Assoc. Scholastic Editor Jack Meaney
ness manager for the 1952 yearbook. Activities editor for the forthcoming year will be Tom Schoen, ’54, of Louisville, Ky. The sports department will be directed by Fran Meaney, ’54, of Braintree, Mass. Lou Bourjaily, ’53, who comes from Oak Park, Ill., will handle editor Earls’ former job of halls editor.
Ward, ’52, will take over the direction of the Juggler upon the June graduation of present co-editors Dave Yerex and Walt Clements. Ward, whose home town is Baltimore, Md., is an English-major in Arts and Letters. Serving as assistant editor- for the campus literary quarterly will be John Engels, ’52, an English-major from South Bend, Ind.
Assoc. Scholastic Editor Bob Finney
Juggler Editor Jack Ward
10
The Scholastic
E. M. Morris, Donor of Inn and Member
t Of Lay Board of Trustees, Dies in South Bend
I
“In the passing of Ernest M. Morris the University has lost an alumnus whose loyalty and generosity will ever be an example of all who love Notre Dame. His forceful, brilliant leadership in the associate board of lay trustees and his wise, unselfish counsel to successive administrators of the University for many years have furthered vitally the plans and recent growth of Notre Dame.
“The new Morris Inn will ever be a monument on the campus to his invaluable service and a memorial for generations to come of a gifted and devoted son who wore his alma mater’s monogram deeply imprinted on his heart ...”
This was the tribute paid by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, to Ernest M. Morris, who died early May 3 in the South Bend Memorial Hospital. Death was caused Sy a cerebral hemorrhage and kidney failure. He was admitted to the hospital April 24 after being stricken suddenly with his fatal illness.
An active alumnus of Notre Dame, Mr. Morris was a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees, and formerly served as president and vice-president of the board.
Last year Mr. Morris contributed §1,000,000 to Notre Dame for the construction of the Morris Inn to provide living accommodations and dining facilities to all persons having occasion to visit the University. The building will be completed early next fall.
In the field of charities, the Morris gifts were almost unlimited. Besides his great gift to Notre Dame, Mr. Morris founded and financed the E. M. Morris School for Crippled Children in South Bend, established the Morris Chemical Research foundation at the South Bend Medical laboratory, and was instrumental in the creation of the South Bend Symphony orchestra and was one of its principal contributors. Other gifts included a collection of paintings to the South Bend Art Association, Inc., and a group of buildings to a Campfire Girls camp near Vandalia, Mich.
In the early 1900’s, Ernest M. Morris borrowed §100 so he could enter the College of Law at Notre Dame. In 1906 he graduated with his law degree and practiced for ten years before entering the financial business. He became president of the Board of Public Works in South Bend in 1914.
From 1926 to 1930 he was president of the National Association of Finance Companies. He was president of the First Bank and Trust Company of South Bend from 1931 to 1936, and has been chairman of the Board of the same bank since that time.
MR. E. M. MORRIS
At the time of his death he was president of the Emmco Insurance Company, the Emmco Casualty Insurance Company, and of the Associates Building Company. Mr. Morris was also chairman of the Board of the Durham Manufacturing Corporation, and was the director of the Clark Equipment Company.
Band Follows ND Concert With St. Mary's Performance
Sunday afternoon the Notre Dame concert band will present a spring concert at St. Mary’s College beginning at 2:30 p.m. Weather permitting, the concert will be held outdoors. There will be no admission charge and the performance will be open to the public.
Conducting the band through a varied program of numbers will be H. Lee Hope. Mr. Hope stated that the program is substantially different than that of Tuesday night’s concert held in the Drill Hall. One carry-over, how
ever, will be the underscore music from the movie Tap Roots which Mr. Hope feels is new and enjoyable enough to bear repetition.
Included in the program are compositions by such artists as Bach, Lehar, Gould," and Morrissey. Gene Hull will present a saxophone solo of his arrangement of Jimmy Dorsey’s Variations on Contrasts. The ever popular Fiddle Faddle, composed by Le Roy Anderson, will be performed by William MacMillan on the marimba. Closing the program will be-.the traditional band rendition of the Notre Dame Victory March.
Tomorrow afternoon the Notre Dame Marching Band will join for a brief spring showing at the annual Old Timers’ Game. Next Tuesday a few selected members of the marching band will take part in a joint review of the Naval and Air ROTC units.
On Saturday evening, May 5, Mr. Hope was a guest at the concert of the Roosevelt Military Academy Band held in Kimball Hall, Chicago. The director of the Academy Band is Howard Hornung, ’49, a member of the Band while at Notre Dame.
Symposium Celebrates Anniversary of Encyclical
Four specialists at the University of Notre Dame will conduct a symposium commemorating the sixtieth anniversary of Rerum Novarum in the Notre Dame law auditorium next Tuesday, at 8 p.m.
Speakers at the symposium on Rerum Novarum will include Rev. Paul E. Fryberger, c.s.c.. of the Department of Economics at Notre Dame, speaking on “The Nature of an Encyclical”; History Professor James A. Corbett, on “Historical Backgrounds of Rerum No-rantm”; Rev. Thomas J. McDonagh, C.S.C., of the Department of Economics, on “Economic Implications in the Encyclical in the United States.” .
Rev. James E. Norton, c.s.c., vice-president in charge of academic affairs at Notre Dame, will serve as chairman of the symposium, which is under the joint sponsorship of the Departments of Economics and History at Notre Dame.
Designated as one of the “five great encyclicals,” Pope Leo XIII’s Rerun: Novarum, promulgated to the world May 15, 1891, positively attacked the problems of the new industrial society and the rising socialistic revolt against abuses under economic individualism. Subsequent great social-economic Encyclicals are based on Pope Leo’s teaching, including Pope Pius" Xi’s “Reconstruction of Social Order” and “On Atheistic Communism.”
May 11, 1951
11
Junior Moot Court Finalists Compete June 9 For Dean's Award, Intercollegiate Team
A law dignitary—probably Mr. Cody Fowler, President of the American Bar Association—will pound a gavel in the Notre Dame Law library June 9 and say, “Court will come to order.” Then the finals of the Junior Moot Court competition will be very much in action.
The four finalists, who have survived the original October field of 32, will be angling for the Dean’s Award and a berth on next year's three-man intercollegiate squad, as well as cash awards. They are Robert Emmett Fitzgerald, Alton, Ill.; Joseph Spalding, Uniontown, Ky., Robert Stewart, Pueblo, Colo.; and E. Milton Farley III, Richmond. Va.
Besides Mr. Fowler, two as yet unnamed justices from the Indiana Supreme Court are to serve as judges for the sham-trial. These finals are being held in conjunction with the annual convention of the ND Law Association, composed of alumni barristers.
The coveted Dean’s Award was instituted in the Spring of 1950 by Law Dean Clarence E. Manion and is a bronze plaque on which the names of the winning twosome are yearly inscribed. Cash prizes, donated by the Law Association and consisting of S50 each, will go to the victorious duo, and the
MOOT COURT FINALISTS (l-r) Milton Farley, Robert Stewart, Joseph Spalding, and Emmett Fitzgerald confer with Prof. Edward Barrett about finals on June 9.
12
losing pair will garner $25 each.
Next October the top three wranglers of this year’s finals will represent ND in the District 7 Moot Court intercollegiate competition in Chicago. The winning team and the runner-up there will proceed to the national finals, held annually in New York City sometime in November.
All moot court trials, the June finals being no exception, are appellate cases, with each two-man team taking either the appellant or the appellee side. Fact situations may be either a rehash of an actual court case or purely hypothetical. The one in the finals, submitted by Prof. Edward F. Barrett—a faculty moderator along with Prof. Robert E. Sullivan —will be hypothetical. It will involve the legal question: “May a State refuse admittance to the Bar to a member of the Communist Party?'*
Winners are, as in all mock-trials, to be judged not on their actual winning of the case, but on their forensic ability, which consists of the preparation of their written brief, their ability to present their case orally, and their keenness in answering the queries of the judges.
With the time to be announced later,
the interested public is welcome to witness the simulated procedure of an actual appellate court in the coming Dean's Award Competition. The fictitious name given to the ND court to which all trials are appealed is the Supreme Court of Hoynes.
To June Graduates, 1951:
Congratulations on the completion of your studies. Welcome to the Alumni Association. It is your Association from now on, and we anticipate your activity in the Class Reunions, the Local Clubs, and in the general program by which we hope to make our alumni reflect the spirit and progress of the University itself.
Commencement Announcements
Each Senior being graduated in June is entitled to ten (10) announcements, given him without cost by the University.
These announcements may be secured by the Senior, in person, at the Alumni Office in Carroll Hall, beginning on Saturday, May 12, during office hours.
Commencement, Admission Tickets
Tickets for the Baccalaureate Mass and for the Commencement exercises can be obtained (with the privilege of ten to each) at the Alumni Office, at the same time that announcements are secured.
The Director of Studies Office gives the details to you as to the Baccalaureate Mass and the Administration Reception.
Alumni Status
Each graduate is automatically inducted into the Alumni Association by virtue of his degree. He receives the Alumnus magazine and other prerogatives of the Notre Dame alumnus.
Addresses
The Alumni Association uses the home address given in the student directory unless otherwise instructed. All questions may be directed to the Alumni Office.
Special Information Note
Alumni football ticket preference for 1951 will be based on 1950 contributions.
However—for January, June and August, 1951 graduates, contributions any time until June A, 1951, will qualify the contributor for such preference.
James E. Armstrong,
Alumni Secretary
The Scholastic
Sweet Wins Close Senior President Race; Blair, Poden Head Juniors, Sophomores
Last Tuesday was election day at Notre Dame. Over 2,000 students went to the polls and cast their ballots in what has proven to be one of the closest vote marathons ever held on campus.
Twelve slim votes separated the top four candidates in their rush to the tape for the Senior Class presidency. George Sweet got there first with 132 votes. Close on his heels was Jim Mullaney with 130, John Moran 128, and Frank Bleyer 120. Charley Schaeffer received 63 votes, while Bob Fink and Emmett Cater polled 53 and 17 votes respectively.
For the office of vice president
Freshmen and Dates Enjoy Spring Dance
Jim Mutscheller lead the way with 293. Gene Grue got 127, Glenn Harvey 121, and John Masini 94. Bob Cossabone won class secretary with 259; John Petitbon got 213, and Bob Phillips, 139.
Sal Fiorella was elected treasurer with 207 votes. Dick Stubbing came next with 171, then Ray Earls 130, and Jack Hynes. 122. For council representatives it was Hank McCormack and Lou Grip-po with 234 and 295 respectively.
The story was much the same in Junior Class races as to close elections. Floyd Blair and his 204 votes beat out Jerry Kelly's 171 for president. Dick Wolfgram came in third with 112. For vice
president it was Jim Hutchinson with 184 markers. He was followed by Bill Bird, Larry Eaton, and Lou Basso who received 169, 140 and 105 in that order.
In the race for secretary, Mike Dolan won with 241 over 204 for McDade and 145 for Conwell. Bob Rust was named treasurer with 224. Paul Curtin polled 202 while Bob Schaefer received 163.
Bob Poden was swept into office in the Sophomore Class tilt with 277 votes. Ron Mealey took the follow-up position with 182, and Ed White came next with 166. For veep it was Fred Mangialardi and 255 counters. He was followed by George M elsh’s 191 and Eddie Hannan's 151. There was a close go for secretary in which John Lattner came in on top with 181. Next was Don Kennedy’s 158, Joe Gallagher’s 167, and Paul Robst's 148. Don McLaughlin took treasurer with 211. John Reynolds placed with 186, followed by Don Hoffman’s 162, and Marv Brezette's 93.
LAST FRIDAY’S FROSH DANCE Chairmen George Welsh (I.) and Ed White pose beneath trellis in ‘‘Rockne Park” with Joyce McNamara and Mollyann Brezette.
Glee Club Performs Tuesday, Wednesday
On Tuesday and Wednesday evenings at 8:15 p.m. the Notre Dame Glee Club will appear in formal public concerts at the St. Joseph School Auditorium on the corner of Hill and Colfax streets in South Bend, right on the Notre Dame bus line.
The 40-voice, nationally famous male singing ensemble will once more be under the direction of Daniel H. Peatke, F.A.G.O., head of the Notre Dame Department of Music.
A selective and balanced program has been arranged by the club to include classical, semi-classical, popular, and ND songs. Tickets for either night’s concert may be purchased from any Glee Club member or at the door for S1.00 for adults, 40c for children under 12 years of age.
In another spectacular development this week, the Glee Club held elections to determine the officers for 1951-52. The balloting was spirited and close as William E. Toomey of Holyoke. Mass., became the president-elect of the Glee Club. Other officers chosen at the balloting were Richard J. Basgall of Offerle, Kan., vice-president; Thomas M. Welsh of Parma, Ohio, secretary, and James C. Etling of Munster, Ind., treasurer. All of these newly elected officers null take over their duties next Fall and will be assisted at that time by two business managers and two publicity managers to be appointed by the officers in the near future.
I

May 11, 1951
This Is Really Revolting
TRUE to the fashionable journalistic organs of today, scandal and corruption seem to be the only “newsworthy” items offered to a beleagured public, but seldom is the constructive aspect of the truth of things recorded. Furthermore, the predominant strain in all editorializing' is the question whether or nor we are creeping towards the socialist settle with all its oppressive implications. At no time as at the present has the community been so ignored by the press. Supposedly in a democracy it is the elementary institutions of family, church, and community which create and give vitality to a nation. As these elementary institutions break down, their functions tend to be usurped by the more formal institutions of state and national government. But these latter institutions in some cases can only serve the human desire for security, which is basically spiritual, by mechanically administered material support which in many cases deteriorates into political charity. The underlying struggle today is between pluralism and collectivism, not between Socialism and Capitalism.
We have been fortunate in the United States in having a pluralistically organized society. In many areas today pluralistic institutions on the path of disintegration have been revitalized by a new and positive approach.
Behind the Stockyards of Chicago, the core of the meat packing industry of the nation, is a square mile of poverty, bad housing, poor health, nationalist rivalries and labor unrest in a district known to social engineers as a “blighted area,” to Upton Sinclair as The Jungle, to James T. Farrell as the stamping ground of Studs Lanigan, and to its neighbors as “Back of the Yards.” Behind the determination of these 125,000 people of the district to tackle and solve their own problems is an experiment in democracy, the “Back of the Yards Neighborhood Council.” This Council is a microcosm of the orderly revolution which is slowly but steadily gathering momentum throughout our country.
This desolate district, where the air is constantly permeated by fetid odors, has now been transformed by the most powerful upsurge of organized individualism yet to come into being In the United States. These serious-minded inhabitants of Packingtown had been surveyed by the social worker approach until they were sick of the research. These
14
By Walter Turner, '51
people have learned from years of bitter experience that the greatest menace of our American industrial civilization lies in the growing isolation of the individual from the community. That the battle against slum conditions and slum areas means battling all those economic and social forces in the city, state and nation, that create the human cesspool called the slum and all the powerful elements that profit from its existence.
Through the instrumentality of their Council, they have never avoided a fight when great issues and principles were involved. They have already clashed with the powerful packing industries and the once powerful Kelly-Nash machine and defeated them both. They have fought because in a competitive city like Chicago, any new power group has to go through battles, if it is going to survive and accomplish its tasks. Their thinking on pressure is very simple, as one Council member expressed it,
“We believe that democracy is a government constantly responding to the pressure of its people. The biggest hope for democracy is that Americans will overcome their lethargy and that more and more people and groups will become articulate and formulate their needs. The basic big- business, organized labor, the Grange, and others are constantly exerting pressure while the vast majority of unorganized Americans have no spokesman. What are we? We are active, informed, participating, organized citizens, and organization means always pressure of one sort or another. We lobby actively in Washington and at Springfield for any legislation in which we are interested. Business, labor, and agricultural pressure groups represent not above 30 million people. We are part of 100 million people in the United States who are left out in the cold, and who also have rights. We aim to fight for those rights.”
Despite the fact that 90 per cent of the people in the Back of the Yards are Catholic, there are national rivalries and animosities which are deeply rooted from their various European back
grounds. In the community one finds a variety of nationalities, Poles, Lithuanians, Slovaks, Germans, Ukranians, Irish, and Mexicans. In the midst of this Catholic settlement is one strong German Lutheran parish, a Russian Orthodox Church, and a Jewish synagogue. Thus, because of the diverse problems involved, primarily due to the mixed nationalities, the people of the Back of the Yards had to compromise on some broad program. The only possible solution to bring- them to mutual agreement was a Community Congress, in which the participants soon realized that the problems which the people thought as only “my” problems were common to them all.
Mutual agreement was not brought about in record time, but only gradually through the efforts of a small group —armed with an invincible weapon, trust in the individual and faith in democracy. Saul Alinsky, a son of Jewish immigrants, while working in the “Back of the Yards” as a state criminologist combating the menace of juvenile delinquency came in contact with an Irish Catholic, Joseph B. Meegan, who was the recreational director in Davis Square Park and a native of the neighborhood. When Alinsky expressed his ideas, Meegan was eager to help. The only other supporters of the program at that time were Bishop Bernard J. Sheil, founder of the Catholic Youth Organization and G. Howland Shaw, formerly of the State Department. Together, Alinsky and Meegan set out and they interested a dozen priests, labor leaders, merchants, and young men representing the various clubs and nationalities, in uniting their organizations into a neighborhood-wide Council. On July 14, 1939, they called a Community Congress — from this congress was shaped the Back of the Yards Neighborhood Council—the toughest, friendliest legislative assembly in the world.
The Council was formed with the chief motivating forces, as rugged individualism, enlightened self-interest, and common work. The Council’s first concern of course, was for the children. Mainly because the Back of the Yards possessed one of the highest rates of infant mortality in the Middle West, the Council opened immediately an Infant Welfare Station. In 1939, 97 per cent of the children in the neighborhood had (Continued on Page 32)
The Scholastic
NATURE FROM LEGISLATION
Notre Dame Lakes Enveloped in Legend From Hurried Creation to Present Time
As the old saying goes, the Notre Dame Lakes are ‘‘many things to many people.” Lyonites bless them in the Spring, curse them during the winter, and claim them for their own. Others consider the lakes as just a couple of puddles between two institutions of higher learning. They are sailed over by boatmen, stirred through by swimmers, fished on by anglers, run around by athletes, slept beside by sluggards, fallen upon by skaters, stepped into by the unwary, and known about by almost no one.
But the story of the lakes is an interesting one, and on their watery expanse depends a goodly percentage of the local legendry. It is a historical fact that The Notre Dame Lakes were once one
Text by Joel Wells, ’52—Tom Driscoll, ’52
large lake, much wider than their present circumference. This lake, together with its island, and the knoll that the Community House now stands on, formed the last link in a long chain of lakes that extended into Michigan and ended by overflowing into the St. Joseph River.
There are a number of interestingstories about how the lake split in two. According to one, a roadway was filled in to provide easier access to the land on the far shore. Another says that the original lake shrunk in circumference and depth as its sources and outlets were cut off, until it divided and reached the
present dimensions. By far the most intriguing story is the one which tells of a law passed by the Indiana legislature in the old days, placing a ta.x on lakes of a certain size. Since Notre Dame at this time was operating on a very limited budget, priests, nuns, Brothers— everyone, as a matter of fact, including the livestock—spent that same night filling- in a wall of mud across the lake, laying a path on it, planting trees, falling into the water, and just having a good time all around. It was a fantastic, but successful, scheme to beat the tax.
The Buried Crown
There is another legend connected with this narrow strip of land which
divides the two lakes. According to the story, somewhere in it is buried, a royal bejeweled crown; how it got there the legend does not clearly explain, but the University is quite explicit about students who dig into the fill looking for valuables.
Of the two lakes, St. Joseph’s is by far the deeper. A sounding last year discovered that in one spot it measured 75 feet down, which makes it one of the deepest small lakes in Indiana, while St. Mary’s is only 45 feet in its deepest part. To keep the lakes from further shrinkage, rainwater is now piped directly from the stadium and other places into them. Along with their gradually diminishing size, a heavy growth of seaweed is also troublesome, especially in St. Mary’s. The weed flourishes during the late Summer, then dies when the lakes freeze over for the Winter. These dead weeds then clog the bottom, and the lakes must be dragged annually with a special chain rig that cuts a great portion of the weeds loose and hauls them ashore. The weeds do serve one practical purpose, however, and that is to provide good feeding-grounds for the fish near shore, and they can often be seen swimming in shallow water, hungry but cautious.
Lakes Need Warden
Recognized game warden for the No-trd Dame Lakes is a custodian known only as Brother Boathouse, who, legend has it, is the holder of six college degrees. It may surprise some to discover that the lakes are run so formally as to require a warden, but apparently some one is needed for such tasks as’ overseeing the yearly operation of stocking the lakes with the thousands of game fish that the Indiana Conservation Department supplies. In the past four years almost 10,000 Small and Large-mouth Bass have been added to the original motley fish population, a decided improvement over the erratic operation which the previous 30 years had been. As a result of these donations the lakes are fast becoming two of the better fishing sites in this area, since they are private property and have not been heavily fished. While Bass and Blue-gill are the main lure of the lakes, there are also Perch, Sunfish, Crappie, Redeye, and Bull-heads. For those who like the bizarre, a flashlight and a spear are all the equipment one needs for gar.
Now it is Spring again. To the fish who will be harried and tempted for almost half a year, May is the first of a six-month Reign of Terror, but to everyone else it means the Hegira. Down to the lakes the procession goes each day, armed with portable radios, typewrit
ers, sun lotion, and water wings. Through May, June, July, August, September, October. And then the Notre Dame Lakes will belong to the fish again.
Graduation
(Continued from Page 9)
Wis., will present the valedictory address. He will be followed by William T. Carey, class orator, and James C. Hennessey, class president and chairman of the program.
The principal speaker, Mr. Matthews, a native of Albion, Neb., was appointed Secretary of the Navy on May 25, 1949, by President Harry S. Truman. He previously had served for 16 years as Counsel for the Reconstruction Finance Corporation of Nebraska and Wyoming.
Honorable Francis P. Matthews
Since 1941, Mr. Matthews has been a director of the United States Chamber of Commerce for the Department of Finance, and was Chairman of the Committee on Socialism and Communism of the U. S. Chamber of Commerce, which issued reports on Communism in 1946-48.
The Secretary of the Navy, although himself not a war veteran, was active during World War II in welfare work for the United States armed forces and subsequently in relief work for the peoples of the liberated areas of Europe. He was one of the founders of the United Service Organizations created for the entertainment and welfare of GI’s.
Mr. Matthews brought a long legal and banking career into the post of Secretary of the Navy. The Secretary is president of the First Federal Savings and Loan Association of , Omaha; director, president, and general counsel of Radio Station WOW, -Omaha; director and member’ of the Executive Committee of the Northwestern Bell Telephone Company, and a member of the law firm of Matthews, Kelley, Matthews, and Delehant in Omaha.
A leading Catholic layman, Mr. Mat- ' thews served as Supreme Knight of the Knights of Columbus from 1939 until 1945. He is a Knight of St. Gregory . with Grand Cross; Knight of Constan-tinian Order of St. George; Knight -Commander, Grand Cross, Knights of Holy Sepulchre; and Secret Papal “ Chamberlain with Cape and Sword.
Mr. Matthews was vice-president, board member and member of the Ex- L ecutive Committee of the National War Fund; Chairman of the Executive Committee of the National Catholic Community Service; member of the Board Secretary of War Prisoners Aid; and Co-chairman of the Associated Service for the Armed Forces.	-
Met Club Plans June Dance Atop Roof of New York Hotel
“Music Over Manhattan” will be the theme of the Met Club’s summer formal June 8, when the New Yorkers dance to the music of Francis Walther and his orchestra at the Roof Garden atop Hotel Pierre in the empire city.
A total of 175 tickets will be available for the dance, and may be obtained from J. Riva in 225 Breen-Phillips or J. Cronin in 214 Walsh. Bids are $4.25 to members and $5.50 to non-members.
Murray to Head Lawyers;
Sweeney Named to Council
Notre Dame’s future lawyers have chosen Robert A. Murray to head the Student Law Association next year. Other new officers elected with President Murray in Monday’s voting are VicePresident John Kelly, Secretary John G. Roy, and Treasurer Andrew V. Giorgi-
As their representative on the Student Council, the lawyers elected John F. Sweeney. David Thornton will represent the Freshmen law students in the Association.
16
The Scholastic
Stay Council Elected; Navy Trip Approved
Jim Garvin, Toni Reedy, Jim Mannion and Joe Gallagher—these are the men who along with the Class Officers chosen Tuesday will represent the students on next year’s Student Council. They were elected to the Stay Council at the regular Council meeting Tuesday night.
At present Jim Garvin holds the office of Council secretary, while Tom Reedy manages the Council office in the Main Building. Jim Mannion heads the Junior Class and Joe Gallagher is Freshman Vice-President.
Under the direction of Jim Garvin, the temporary chairman, the new Council has already begun to organize. A special meeting was held last night so that the members could get acquainted. Next Tuesday there will be a second meeting at which the new Councilmen will elect their officers for next year.
One of the features of the Council meeting a week ago Monday was the announcement that the student trip will definitely be to the Navy game November 3. The Council received a letter from the Administration giving final approval to this trip, but as yet it had received no word on whether there will be a free day the Friday before.
Also it was decided at the meeting last Tuesday that this year’s Monogram Dance tomorrow’- night will be held dowmtown in the Palais Royale rather than at the Rockne Gymnasium. The Council found it would be unable to break its contract with the Palais.
Bill Anhut, President of the Council, appointed Joe Gallagher to check the Senior Ball for camera men competing wnth Hal Munger, official Council photographer. Also Joe was to check to see if there was any cutting in on the flower concession for the dance.
The Council continued to work on a r,e-‘T vised Hall Council Constitution after it was returned by the Office of Student Affairs with only a fewr changes. It will be resubmitted to Fr. Kehoe for any additional changes and his final approval.
Also at the meeting the Council approved several large contributions from the Campus Charity Chest to worthy causes. The largest contribution was 31,000 to the Overseas Service Program. This was less than in previous years when the proceeds of the Mardi Gras Carnival have gone through the NFCCS -directly to this program. Also the Council authorized a $500 contribution to the nearby Logan School for retarded children and $200 to the American Cancer Research Society.
Hobby Show Opens for Three-Day Run
The first annual Student Art and Hobby Show opens at five o’clock this afternoon in the Drill Hall and will continue through the weekend. Two prominent South Bend artists judged the 100 entries earlier this afternoon, awarding certificates of merit to the best paintings, sculptures, photographs, and hobbycraft.
Paintings, in both oil and water colors, predominate in the exhibit. All entiles are the work of graduate and undergraduate Notre Dame students.
The show is free and is open to the
WND Inaugurates Early Morning Record Program
Another new experiment by WND was started this week in inaugurating an early morning show. “Out of the Sack with Chas, and Jack” is the original title of this innovation. It is WND’s attempt to put some good listening on the radio in the morning in revolt against the polkas and farm news that are so prevalent on South Bend stations.
Charlie Schubert and Jack Hynes will continue to conduct the show if they get up on time. They plan to handle both the announcing and engineering themselves, while. at the same time making theii- own breakfast with the coffee pot and hot plate present
“OUT OF THE SACK” comes WND for breakfast with Schubert (I.) and Hynes.
public. The Drill Hall doors will open at 3 p. m. tomorrow and Sunday, and will remain open till nine o’clock all three nights.
According to Chairman Tom Snyder, the show will become an annual affair, if enough interest is shown this year. The exhibit is sponsored by the Blue Circle.	'
Assisting Snyder with the show are Dick MacDonald, handling publicity; Roy Strickfadden, displays; Bill Kelley, arrangements; and John White.
in the studio. A new aspect of this early morning program lasting from 6:30 to 7:50 will be announcements of the campus events of the day.
WND will go off the air at 8 a.m. immediately after the “Sack” program and resume broadcasting operations at 12 noon.
An interesting statistical note in this year’s improved service to the students from WND is the fact that last year the station was on the air only 58 hours a week as compared to the present 87 hours.
After conducting one of the numerous surveys on campus, the station managers revealed that most students prefer semi-classical music to study by. Therefore, from 3 to 4 every afternoon will be reserved for slow, quieting tempos.
May 11, 1951
17
HOLMA Y FOUNDER
By Rudy Unger, ’52
drills various players are awarded the Frank Hering Award for having snown the greatest improvement and proficiency in their positions.
Strangely enough, Frank Hering, for over fifty years one of Notre Dame's greatest sons, devoted to her service and ideals, was a Presbyterian.
I I i
i
t i
i ! !
' This Sunday morning cards, telegrams, and flowers will be delivered to the homes of Notre Dame students throughout the country; and in the Sacred Heart Church the pews will be filled with students attending Mass with extra fervor, and Communion lines will be even longer than usual—all because this Sunday is Mother’s Day.
When you do your bit to help honor your mother Sunday, you might remember also the man responsible for the founding of Mother’s Day. A Notre Dame man by the name of Frank Hering.
Frank Hering was one of Notre Dame’s greatest sons, a man with unlimited talents and with unequaled devotion to his ideals. One of these ideals was motherhood, and because Hering was so moved by his respect for it, he decided to do something to have it commemorated and honored by all. We set aside the second Sunday of each May to pay national homage to the mothers of America.
It was back in 1904 at a meeting of the Fraternal Order of Eagles in Indianapolis that Hering made his first appeal to fellow Eagles to set aside a date to pay tribute to mothers. That was the beginning. In the years to follow Hering carried his plea throughout the country, speaking in such widely separated cities as: San Francisco, Boston, Savannah, Milwaukee, San Antonio and Baltimore.
By 1930 when this holiday had been fully accepted by the whole nation, people began to wonder who had first suggested the idea. The American War Mothers Organization, after an investigation into the origin of the day, declared that Frank Hering had been the first to recommend such an anniversary.
The following year the Order of the Eagles erected a tablet on the spot in Indianapolis where Hering had made his first apepal.
Then in 1912 at an Eagle convention in Cleveland, Hering speaking as the President of tthe Eagles and editor of their national paper, told his brothers, “The fundamental considerations of this organization are based on sentiment; and of sentiments that cling to the End of life and touch the mellowness of early years . . . the finest one is that enshrining mother. I recommend that this Grand Aerie enact a statute giving each subordinate Aerie ... an opportunity of holding Mother’s Day exercises on any Sunday during the y^ar.”
Founding Mother’s Day was but one achievement in the colorful life of Frank Hering. Coming to Notre Dame from the University of Chicago, Hering received the degrees of Bachelor of Philosophy and Bachelor of Law. He became a professor of English here at the University and also the University’s first paid football, as well as baseball, basketball, and track coach. He not only coached but played as well and managed on the side to act as Athletic Director.
Hering’s recommendation became a law of the Eagles before the year was out. Two years latei' President Woodrow Wilson, in an official proclamation, declared that the second Sunday of May in each year -would be a national holiday in honor of mothers.
He was a member of the University’s lay board of trustees for ten years, was very active in political circles and was an accomplished poet.
Though he passed away in July, 1943, his memory is commemorated each Spring when at the end of football
FRANK HERING
Fr. O'Brien's Latest Book
Tells Truth About Catholics
What’s the Truth About Catholics? by the Rev. John A. O’Brien, author and lecturer at Notre Dame, has just , been published by Our Sunday Visitor Press of Huntington, Ind.
Written as a contribution to better understanding and good will among peoples of different faiths and races, the work portrays the common misconceptions of Catholic Faith and practice, and demonstrates how these caricatures unconsciously breed antagonism and ill will.	.	I
“Most of the prejudice obtaining among members of different creeds,” ; Father O’Brien points out in his book, “would speedily vanish if people really s understood the faith of others instead of a travesty of that belief. Too often creedal differences are exploited for ( political purposes — a practice which should be frowned upon by members of all faiths.”
What’s the Truth About Catholics? is a sequel to Father O’Brien’s current , best-seller, Truths Men Live By, which has been widely acclaimed by leaders of all religious faiths as offering to all people an inspiring philosophy of life. *
Commerce College Is Host To World Trade Conference
More than 100 representatives of all phases of foreign trade met yesterday in the fourth annual World Trade Conference, sponsored by the College of Commerce.	4
Principal speakers at the one-day Notre Dame conference included Colonel Redington Fiske, of New York d City, editor of “Export Trade and Shipper," and Richard P. Hildreth, of New York City, advertising coordinator of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey.
The Notre Dame World Trade Conference was founded to effect an ex- J change of ideas among businessmen and educators while stimulating world trade.
Chairman of the conference was Professor Wesley C. Bender, Head of the Department of Marketing.
The Scholastic
18



Old Timer Game Set For Tomorrow
Si+ko,Williams, Groom Lead Oldsters'AHack
Over 25,000 people are expected to make their way to Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow afternoon to watch the Notre Dame football team take what they hope will be the first step on the comeback trail to the National Championship. The varsity of ’51 will meet the varsity of other years in the annual Old Timers’ game to close out six weeks of Spring practice. Kickoff time is set at 2:30.
Among the Old Timers set to return to play against the ’51 Irish are Emil Sitko, of the San Francisco 49ers, Gus Cifelli of Arizona, and seniors of last fall’s squad — Bob Williams, Jerry Groom, Bill Flynn, Dick Cotter, Jack Landry and Fred Wallner. This Old Timer outfit will add talent right up until game time tomorrow and may assemble as powerful a team as that which handed the Varsity a 25-7 setback in last year’s game.
But even if the Oldsters are as strong as last year, they’ll find their job to win a bit tougher against the present Varsity squad. The ’51 outfit didn’t look too good on offense last Saturday, but then they had many of
their key men missing, and it was about time for the defense to steal the show anyhow.
There will be many new faces in the Irish lineup tomorrow, both on offense and defense. So far they have looked good in Spring practice and with the lifting of the ban on Freshmen participating in collegiate athletics, Coach Leahy may have had a good stroke of
OLD TIMER’S GAME
Students will be admitted to the Old Timer’s Game tomorrow at gate 15 at the Stadium, upon presentation of athletic ID cards. Tickets for dates are priced at $1.25, and may be obtained at the main ticket window. There will be no reserved seats for the contest. Game time is 2:30 p. m., and gates will open at one o’clock.
luck. Newcomers to watch are Joe Katchik, Men Mavraides, Ray O’Neil, Fred Mangialardi and Al Kohanowicz at end; at tackles Fred Poehler, Dick Hilinski, Bob Ready, and Joe Bush; guards Jack Lee, Frank Varrachione, Sam Palumbo, and centers Art Hunter and Jim Schraeder.
In the backfield, some of the new men expected to shine for the Irish in the
Fall are Joe Heap, Neil Worden. Clarence Zimmerman, John Lattner, Bob Martin, Frank Paterra and Bob Rigali. In addition, the freshman backfield of 1948, which many thought was the fastest in Notre Dame history, will start as a unit tomorrow. At the halves will be Bill Barrett, back in top form again, John Petitbon, who looks much faster than he did last Fall, and at full, Del Gander. Directing their attack will be John Mazur.
Starting at ends foi- the Varsity will be Captain Jim Mutscheller and probably Joe Katchik or possibly Menil Mavraides; at tackles Dick Hilinski and Bob Toneff. The guards will be old reliable Paul Burns and Varrachione and at center, Hunter. Chet Ostrowski, shifted from end, is expected to be a starting guard in the Fall but is out of the Old Timer game with a dislocated elbow. Paul Burns had a highly swollen knee last week and may not make the contest either. Jim Hambjr and Jim Bartlett, two other centers, may be out of the game due to injuries also.
The Old Timers will be handled by John Druze, assisted by Wally Ziemba. The game will again be sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley.
NEAL WORDEN	JOE HEAP	FRANK PATERRA
May 11, 1951
19
Freshmen Nip Varsity In Basketball Preview
Notre Dame’s fresh Frosh rose up to slap down their elders, 46-43, in the Freshman-Varsity basketball game last week. The contest marked the closing of spring practice for Coach Jordan’s squad.
Leading most of the way, the first-year men received a scare as a Varsity rally just fell short. The Varsity drew almost even at 44-43, but the final whistle sounded and a couple of post-game charity tosses made the winning margin respectable.
The Freshmen had a slight 19-17 edge at the halfway mark. And right after the second half got started they surged ahead, 31-22. But the Varsity came back to keep the game on the fire, dropping in 10 straight points to take the lead. A quick Frosh basket gave them the top spot again and they held it the rest of the way.
High man for the day was Johnny Reynolds, Freshman guard, who lefthanded 11 tallies through the strings. Entee Shine, Reynolds’ running mate, accounted for* 10 Frosh scores. Bob Wray’s eight points led the parade for the Varsity. The scoring was pretty evenly spread out among the two teams with all the Varsity men and all but two of the- Frosh breaking into the point column.
Dan Bagley played his last game on the Fieldhouse floor and hit for six. Marty O’Connor and Neal Fichtel collected another six for the graduates.
The Freshmen had their usual lineup with the exception of Ed McGinn who took over Joe Bertrand’s spot. Bertrand is hospitalized with a liver infection and has been laid up at the Infirmary for six weeks and will probably be there for a few weeks more.
McGinn teamed with Bill Sullivan at
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
May 11—BASEBALL at Illinois 12—BASEBALL at Illinois TRACK Pittsburgh here GOLF Wisconsin here TENNIS at Duquesne TENNIS at Pittsburgh FOOTBALL Old Timer’s Game here
14—GOLF at Minnesota
15—BASEBALL Michigan here 16—BASEBALL Northwestern here
18—TENNIS Detroit here
the forwards; Shine and Reynolds were at guard; and Dick Rosenthal was spotted at center.
For the Varsity starters it was Bagley and Jack Neumayr at forward; Norb Lewinski at center; and Gerry McCloskey and Don Strasser in the back court. Bob Wray played a good deal and appeared much improved over last winter’s early games.
Both teams experimented with the double pivot. Shine and Rosenthal shared the Frosh bucket and Wray and Lewinski the Varsity’s.
FROSH block Neumayr’s scoring try.
The game was played cautiously by both teams. Only occasionally did the pace speed up and then it was only for a moment. They stuck pretty much to working the ball slowly into shooting position. But the sets weren’t neglected as both McCloskey and Sullivan connected on beautiful long ones.
Working under the Jordan system, the teams played a little uncertainly, but they seemed’ to get the idea of defensive emphasis pretty well on the whole. The few rough spots were caused by the newness of the style, and need only practice to be corrected.
BATTING AVERAGES
		AB	R	H Rbi Avg		
Tom	Boland		.48	9	14	6	.292
Harry Durkin			.56	15	16	13	.286
Stan Konopka			.14	2	4	1	.286
Jim	Gillis		.48	9	13	5	.271
Len LeRose				.35	4	8	1	.250
Jim	Manning			.12	1	3	3	.250
Joe	Ridge		..34	5	8	0	.235
Jim	Gibbons		.14	3	3	1	.214
Bob	Manning			.45	6	9	7	.200
Pat	O’Neil		.46	5	9	5	.196
Jack	Cunningham	41	5	7	4	.171
Ming flround the Halls
K. of C. “Strong Man” in Softball
The “big four” teams in each of the softball leagues remained unscarred last week as they advanced closer to their respective loop crowns. In all there are five undefeated teams, with the Blue league having two of them in a dead heat for first place.
Starting off with the Gold league, it was St. Ed’s continuing their winning ways by dumping Alumni Hall, 8-3. It was the fifth straight triumph for the Saints, who are now in undisputed possession of first place, since Howard Hall suffered its initial setback, being upset, 12-5, by Sorin.
Turing to the Blue loop, we find Farley Hall and Vetvile all locked up in a first place tie with four wins apiece. The all-important game between these two clubs was scheduled for last Friday, but through a mutual agreement it has been set for a later date. In last week’s contests, both teams passed their crucial tests, with Farley beating St. Ed’s in extra innings, 13-6, and Vetville edging a strong Zahm outfit, 6-5.
Moving to the club leagues we find the Detroit Club out on top of the “A” loop as a result of its 28-8, drubbing of Milwaukee last week. Their record thus far stands at 4-0, just a half a game in front of the second place Kansas City Club, who sport a 4-1 mark.
In the other club circuit it looks as if the K. of C. is running away with everything but the equipment, since they lead the “B” pack with a 5-0 record. In last week’s affair they slugged the Aero club, 17-7, to keep their streak alive, and give pitcher Don Savage his fifth straight victory.
—Jack Sand, ’54 (Continued on Page 28)
SEASON’S RECORD
Notre Danie 1, Ohio State 0.
Notre Dame 3, Iowa 0.
Notre Dame 11, Iowa 10.
Notre Dame 5, Indiana 6.
Notre Dame 4, Indiana 5.
Notre Dame 1, Michigan State 9.
Notre Dame 5, Pittsburgh 1.
Notre Dame 10, Pittsburgh 5.
Notre Dame 5, Purdue 2.
Notre Dame 4, Northwestern 2.
Notre Dame 13, Illinois Normal 4.
Notre Dame 6, Illinois Wesleyan - 10. *
Notre Dame 2, Illinois Wesleyan 5.
20
The Scholastic
by
Previewing the ’51 Irish
Tomorrow’s the day Frank Leahy shows off his ’51 Irish for the first time, and the question on everyone’s mind will be “How good are they?”
Well, they are pretty good—at times. They are a definite improvement over last Fall’s outfit at any rate. Leahy has had much more material to work with this spring, and most of it is pretty high grade stuff. But a lot of it is also inexperienced, and you can’t go overboard just yet.
With this increase in material, Coach Leahy will be using the two-platoon system tomorrow and will no doubt use it all next Fall, too. The offense has looked good at times—so has the defense. But a much better judge of just how good will come when they run up against the Old-Timers tomorrow. Here’s how the team figures to shape up for the game and the season ahead:
ENDS: Jim Mutscheller and Joe Katchik will probably hold down the starting spots with Menil Mavraides and Don Penza as their relief. Katchik, 6’9” and 260 pounds, is a football machine if there ever was one, but there is often some trouble in finding the key to make him go.
Mavraides will have charge of the PAT department and he doesn’t miss very often, quite a change from last year.
On defense it will be Bob O’Neil, Fred Mangialardi and Al Kohanowicz, who also plays offense. All three are hard to move out of their positions on end sweeps and really help solve one of the big problems left over from last year— how to keep the other team from gaining ten yards per* end run.
TACKLES: Bob Toneff and Soph Dick Hilinski, who looks and plays like Toneff, head a large group of capable candidates—Joe Bush, Tom Murphy, Tony Zambroski, Jim Weithman, Carl Trail, Chuck Doud and Jim Dunlay. On defense it will be Bob Ready and Fred Poehler, two of the roughest customers around.
GUARDS: Paul Burns is back for the third year and will probably team with ex-end Chet Ostrowski in the Fall. Chet
will miss tomorrow’s game because of an elbow injury, and his place will be taken by Frank Varrichione. Defensively, Jack Alessandrini has been terrific in his diagnosis of plays as a line-backer, and has two standouts alongside him in Sam Palumbo and Jack Lee. Letterman Art Perry and Frank Johnston will be out in the Fall provided they are not wearing khaki. Al Petranick is anothei’ good prospect.
CENTERS: Art Hunter will get the call tomorrow and may keep it even when the injured Jim Hamby and Jim Bartlett come back in the Fall. Aggressive Jim Schraeder is another top candidate. Byron Boji and Art Nowack have been doing great jobs as defensive line-backers.
QUARTERBACKS: Agile John Mazur will be in keeping with the Irirh tradition of fine quarterbacks, and will get some help from rapidly improving Bill Gaudreau. Zip Zimmerman is a Frosh standout who needs experience and that’s about all. Jack Wise may get the punting job.
HALFBACKS: The Leahy stable is full again. John Petitbon and Bill Barrett have been their old selves this Spring. Frosh Joe Heap reminds you of Larry Coutre and Frank Paterra, John Lattner, and Bob Kigali are other flashes. Jack Bush has been strong on defense as has Soph Bob Martin, who will probably get the safety spot. Dave Flood has been used mainly on defense, but has really looked good the few times he has carried the ball.
FULLBACKS: This may be Del Gander’s year. He’s been running well—fast, hard, picking his holes, following his interference. Neil Worden is a Soph prospect who is a tough man to stop, and has been used occasionally on defense as a linebacker. Don Bianco and Tom McHugh round out the top quartet.
That’s the Irish for ’51. They look good on paper, and they could turn out to be as good on the field. But until they do, let’s be as pessimistic as Coach Leahy himself. It’s a long way from nowhere on the AP poll to anywhere near the top.
Prediction of the Week
This Old Timers game is one of the toughest for a sportswriter to call. One year the Old Timers plan on having a great team but come game time and half the players don’t show. Last year it was just the opposite—everybody came, or so it seemed, and the Oldsters ran all over the Varsity.
We don’t know who will be in there tomorrow for the grads so we’ll have to take a guess and call it:
Varsity, 14; Old Timers, 13.
I
Golfers Victorious in Two; Lose to Northwestern, 17-13
The Notre Dame golf team won two of their last three matches but they are not yet above the five hundred mark. The season’s record now stands at two wins, three losses, and a tie.
The Irish golfers won their first match a week ago Thursday on the University course beating the University of Detroit, 25-2. Team Capt. Tom Veech and Bill Fischer, playing in his first match of the season, took nine points between them.'
Tom' Klett and Tom Matey, consistently one of the best golfers on the team so far this season, gained 7^4 points against their opponents. Joe Moresco and Preston Murphy took the remaining points.
At the Edgewater Country Club in Chicago the next day the Irish golfers put the Ramblers of Loyola to rout with a score of 21-9. It was the sixth straight time the Irish had beaten Loyola on the golf course.
The Irish took an early 6%-2j4 lead in the doubles play and then proceeded to walk away with most of the singles matches. Veech, Matey, Murphy, and Warren Higgins all blanked their foes in the singles.
But last Saturday at Evanston the Northwestern Wildcats came from behind to win 17-13. Veech and Fischer, who won their doubles, 2^4-%, were the only ones to win the singles for Notre Dame. Veech blanked his opponent, 3-0, and Fischer got two of the three points.
Even though he was the low man for the Irish, carding a 72, Matey still lost his match to Bob White, 2-1. White, who was the medalist for the day, shot a par 71.—Bill Delaney, ’52
STUDY ABROAD
Any student planning to study in France in the summer or coming schoolyear should see Father Philip Moore, in Room 232 of the Main Building, as soon as possible.
May 11, 1951
21
BASEBALL SEASON -J 951
Diamond Crew Wins Three, Drops Two; Face Michigan, 'Cats at Home This Week
Notre Dame's young varsity baseball squad will head into the final third of its ’-51 season with single games next week with Michigan and Northwestern. The Irish will meet the Michigan Wolverines for the second time this season next Tuesday, May 15, at Cartier Field.
On Wednesday, May 16, the Northwestern Wildcats will also come to town for a return engagement with the ’51 Irish nine. Last week at Evanston, Ill., the ND squad edged the Wildcats, 4-2.
In the five games that they played last week the Klinemen won three while dropping two to bring their season won-lost record to eight victories and five defeats for a .615 percentage. Last week’s sked was a rough one with five games in as many days.
For their first two triumphs over Big Ten representatives, Purdue and Northwestern, the Irish got some magnificent pitching to win 5-2 and 4-2. In their game with Illinois Normal the ND bats exploded to sew up that contest, 13-4, with their greatest showing of offensive power this season. But the final two-game series with Illinois Wesleyan ended the week in disaster for the Irish cause when the Notre Darners dropped both encounters by scores of 10-6 and 5-2.
One of the bright spots of that Tugged five-game stretch was the fine hitting of sophomore shortstop Harry Durkin and senior backstop Tom Boland. Durkin is the leadoff man for the Irish while Boland is the clean-up hitter.
Durkin smashed out nine safeties in 21 trips during those five games for a stratospheric average of .429. Two of those nine hits were homers while two others went for two bags apiece. He also has two stolen bases. Together with Boland he has accounted for 12 of the 30 runs that the Irish scored during that five-game period. Each tallied six runs. Catcher Boland blasted out seven hits in 19 tries for a .368 percentage. He hit one double, a triple, and stole a base. Durkin batted in six runs while Boland had three RBI’s.
Rookie pitcher Stan Konopka started last week’s baseball hostilities off right with the 5-2 victory over Purdue. It was his third straight win. The Boilermakers got to Stan for nine bingles, the most any team has made off Konop
22
ka this season. But he proved toughest when the chips were down.
The sophomore hurler fanned 12 opponents and managed to keep Purdue from scoring for 8 2/3 innings. Then a fly ball which would have been the final out, was lost in the sun by the Trish left fielder and two Boilermakers tallied. First sacker- Jim Gillis led ND’s 10-hit attack with three for four. Durkin and Boland each got two safeties.
Northwestern’s Wildcats were tamed the next day by the Irish captain, Bob Nemes, who set them down, 4-3, with a neat three-hitter. Notre Dame could get only five base blows themselves off a trio of ’Cat chuckers but they took advantage of five walks and made their hits count as they came from behind twice before winning the hard-fought ball game. Boland led the Irish at bat with two safeties.
The Klinemen exploded for 15 hits including three home runs to bury a hapless Illinois Normal squad, 13-4, for the Irish’s fifth consecutive victory. Harry Durkin knocked out two of the round trippers while second baseman Bob Manning got the other.
Notre Dame had their big innings in the first, fourth, and eighth. They tallied five times in the fourth and scored three times in each of the other two frames. Single runs were added in the second and ninth cantos. Dick Mc-Guane, hurling his first game for ND, went the distance while yielding nine hits.
Illinois Wesleyan then decided to make the Notre Dame stay in Bloomington, Ill., a nightmare. They whipped the Irish twice, 10-6 last Friday, and 5-2 last Saturday.
In the first game they raked two Irish Pitchers, Jack Ruckelshaus and Jean Ferryman, for 15 hits. The Wesleyan nine tallied twice in the very first inning and sewed up the contest with a six-run outburst in the fourth. Miller went the route for the vanners and he was in serious trouble only once, in the sixth, when the Irish dented the plate for five of their six counters.
Last Saturday’s encounter brought together ND’s winningest pitcher, Stan Konopka, and Illinois Wesleyan’s big lefthander, Ralph Bruck. Bruck got a four-run cushion in the very first frame when Konopka beaned three Wesleyan
batsmen and got tagged for two singles as the winners scored four of their five markers.
But those four tallies were enough for Bruck. The Titans gave him some brilliant support afield as he scattered six base blows and whiffed seven Irish batters. Konopka struck out six and allowed seven hits.
Klinemen Grab Eight Out of First Thirteen
Notre Dame’s baseball season may be only half over but the team has already won as many games as last year’s squad did during the entire season. It j took the Irish nine only 11 games to notch eight wins, a big improvement over last year’s 8-14 mark.
The Irish started the season fast by winning their first three games, all against Big Ten opponents, but then proceeded to drop their next three, likewise against Big Ten rivals.	J
After this three games losing streak, the Klinemen racked up five straight wins before dropping a two-game se- > ries over- last weekend to Illinois Wes-	;
leyan. Their present mark is eight	£
wins against five defeats.	i
Pitching was the big problem when •' Coach Jake Kline started this season £ but so far he hasn’t fared too badly t in this department. He has received ; three one-hit performances, two by Stan Konopka and one by Captain Bob Nemes. Nemes has also pitched a three-hitter against Northwestern. Thus far these two have been the backbone v of Kline’s mound staff, winning five of	|
the eight games between them. They	Z
have been charged with two of the five ND losses.	<
Up until his loss to Illinois Wesleyan ( last Saturday, Konopka had three	F
straight vans to his credit and was the only undefeated Irish pitcher. His	t
record now is 3-1. Bob Nemes’ record is 2-1.
Other Irish pitchers who have been d credited with wins are Joe Durkin and	&
Jean Ferryman, both in relief, and	C
soph Bill McGuane. Losses have also been charged to Jim Gibbons, a five-inning affair called by rain, and Jack ® Ruckelhause, one against Indiana in re-lief and the other last week to Illi-nois Wesleyan.
Big sticker- for the Klinemen so far this season has been Harry Durkin, ® with two homers and 13 RBI’s.	«
The Scholastic B
COACH JAKE KLINE
JAKE KLINE, Coach. The 1951 season marked the eighteenth year for Clarence (“Jake”) Kline as tutor for the Fighting Irish, diamond crew. Jake was named head baseball coach at Notre Dame in 1934 to succeed the late George Keogan, who wished to devote his full time to basketball coaching. Kline won baseball monograms at Notre Dame in 1915, 1916 and 1917, playing third base and hitting well over .300 all three seasons. He captained the 1917 team which had a ten and four record. Kline turned down an attractive offer to play for the Pittsburgh Pirates to go overseas in 1918 and 1919 to serve with the Infantry in World War I. Upon his return he was named Director of Prep Ath’.etics at Notre Dame, a position he held in 1920 and 1921. In 1922, he became player-manager of a club in the Southern Minnesota League. The following two years he played in California and from 1925 until 1930 when he returned to Notre Dame as Freshman coach he played and managed various clubs in the Utah Siate League. In his years at Notre Dame Jake has compiled a record of 193 wins, 133 losses and two ties. According to Kline, the high point of his collegiate playing career was in 1916 when his three home runs helped Notre Dame to wallop Michigan, 14-6.
BOB NEMES, Jersey City, N. J., captain and pitcher. Bob has so far done much to help overcome the worries Coach Kline had about a competent pitching staff. The only returning pitcher from last year’s team with a monogram to his credit, Bob has a record of two wins against one loss. In the opening game of this season he gave up but one hit as the Irish downed the Ohio State Buckeyes, 1-0, in a real pitcher’s duel at Columbus. Later in the season his three hit pitching led the Irish to a 4-2 triumph over Northwestern. In his Sophomore year he turned in a record of five wins against no losses to help lead the Klinemen to one of their besf seasons—a record of 18 wins and six losses and the championship of District Four in the NCAA championships. Playing on last year’s team which won eight of 22 contests, Nemes won three, lost five.
CAPT. BOB NEMES
DICK GIEDLIN
DICK GIEDLIN, Trenton, N. J., an All-American first baseman in his Sophomore year for his performance in the NCAA playoffs, Giedlin was looked upon as the 1951 infield mainstay in preseason dope. However, Dick broke his ankle scoring the winning run in the season’s opener and was lost to the team for the remainder of the year. As a Sophomore Giedlin hit .324 during the regular season and a phenomenal .533 in the NCAA playoffs. Last year he hit .317. A Commerce Senior, majoring in finance. After his graduation in June he hopes to play pro ball.
May 11, 1951
23
JEAN FERRYMAN, Omaha, Nebraska, pitcher. Jean is in his third year on the Irish squad but this is his first year on the mound. So far he’s been used mostly in relief and has a v.-in over Pittsburgh to his credit. A strong man at the plate as well as on the mound, Jean posted a .400 batting average in his infrequent trips to the plate last year.
JEAN FERRYMAN
JIM GILLIS, Huntington Beach, Calif., first base. Jim started out the season as the regular right fielder but came in to play first base after Dick Giedlin’s injury. Gillis was the clutch hitter for the Irish during their first few ball games, driving in the winning run on three different occasions. Gillis, who batted .278 in '50, is after his third monogram.
HARRY DURKIN
JIM GILLIS
HARRY DURKIN, Newark, N. J., shortstop. Harry is one of the classiest shortfielders the Irish basebailers have had within the last few years. He also possesses a strong throwing arm and is a good lead off man at the plate. Harry’s best day so far was the game last week against Illinois Normal when he cracked out two home runs. Just a sophomore, this 5’11” ball hawk still has two years left to play for Jake Kline.
BOB MANNING, Peoria, Ill., second base. Bob is another of the many soph starters on the team, has started almost every game the Irish have played thus far. Bob, along with shortstop Harry Durkin, gives the I^rish a strong double play combination, something they lacked last year.
PAT O’NEIL ♦
PAT O’NEIL, Chevy Chase, Md., outfield. Another of Jake Kline’s many sophs. Usually a strong man at the plate, Pat led the tough Northern League in hitting two summers ago with a .347 average. In the opener at Ohio State, O’Neil made several great catches in Bob Nemes’ one-hit pitching victory.
JACK CUNNINGHAM, East St. Louis, Mo., left field. Jack was the regular third sacker last year, but because of the infield strength this season, Coach Kline switched him to the outfield. Last year he hit only .240 but over a third of his hits were for extra bases. Jack is a Junior and still has another year left to play.
BOB MANNING
JACK CUNNINGHAM
24
The Scholastic
JERRY LEDWIDGE
JERRY LEDWIDGE, Pinckney, Mich., pitcher. Jerry hasn’t been able to match the performance expected of him as yet, but Coach Kline believes that with a little more work he’ll come around. Depending more on control than speed for his effectiveness, this 5’10” left hander calls the knuckler his best pitch. Pitching in 16 1/3 innings last year, Jerry gave up 17 hits, walked 22 and struck out 14.
TOM BOLAND, Columbus, Ohio, catcher. Tom led the Irish at the plate last year, hitting .318, one point above teammate Dick Giedlin. He is a Senior in Commerce and is after his third monogram this year. The largest man on the team at 6’4” and weighing 200 pounds, Boland is also the team’s long ball hitter.
TOM BOLAND
JIM GIBBONS
JIM GIBBONS, Chicago, utility. Jim started out the season as a third baseman but since then has played right field. Jake Kline has also used Jim’s strong arm on the mound in hopes of strengthening the pitching staff, but Gibbons suffered a five inning game loss to Indiana earlier in the season. Jim is a good major league prospect, with a lot of left-handed hitting power. Also a basketball player of note, he won a monogram as starting guard on last season’s Irish quintet. He is out foi- the season with a fractured ankle.
LEN LE ROSE, Chicago, third base. Len is one of three Irish sophomores who started out the season at infield positions. Hitting as well as throwing from the right side, Len occasional!}' hits that long ball. He stands 5’11”, weighs 175, and is a good fielding third sacker.
LEN LeROSE
JOE RIDGE
JOE RIDGE, Balboa, Canal Zone, outfield. Joe came a long way to play for Notre Dame, and it shows up in his play. Besides being one of the fastest men on the squad, Joe is also one of its top hustlers. Another soph, he expects to stay around for a couple of years more providing he doesn’t get “the” call.
STAN KONOPKA, Newark, N. J., pitcher. So far this season, Stan has been the most effective of Coach Kline’s pitchers. In his first 16 innings, Stan allowed only two hits and no runs. So far this season, Stan has posted wins over Iowa, Pitt and Purdue. He relies mostly on fast balls with just enough change-ups and curves to keep enem\ batters off balance.
STAN KONOPKA
May 11, 1951
25
Visions of *52 Varsity Spur Frosh Players Through Daily Diamond Practice Sessions
By Fran Meaney, ’54
It’s sliding and bunting, base-running and bat-swinging for the Freshmen diamond hopefuls. There’s none of the glamor of regular games — only the everyday task of practice and more practice.
But there’s a reason for it. As Freshman Coach Gene Ritzenthaler put it: ‘‘Developing the proper mental condition for baseball is very important. We try to teach the boys to think for themselves quickly and intelligently, and to be alert at all times. Through constant practice we hope to make second nature the proper response to any action or situation.
“And, of course,” added the coach, “we work for mechanical perfection in their every movement; no detail is too small. We’re not too interested in who’s the best hitter, pitcher or so forth, right now. What we want to do is to develop all the boys to their fullest. Then we can pick and choose, but not now. Our job is strictly one of training—the individual and the team.”
Over 80 first-year men answered the call for squad candidates but that number has since been whittled to 25. And how are the boys shaping up this Spring? “Well, I can’t say they’re any
FRESHMAN BASEBALL hopefuls await call to duty for Cartier Field practice session. (l-r), Bill Noonan, Jack Sand, Bob Brown, Tom Moore and Bob Davidson.
better than the usual Frosh squad,” the coach replied cautiously. “But then, I can’t go back further than last year since this is only my second season at Notre Dame, but I’ll say this group is about the same as last year’s.” Since 1950’s Freshmen have grabbed a few Varsity spots already, it seems as if the Frosh may again have some outstanding material.
There’s strength down the middle — an excellent catcher, a strong pitching staff, a deft keystone combine, and a fast, hitting center fielder. “That’s where you need your best,” observed the coach, “and I’m pretty satisfied with what we’ve got.”
Behind the plate is Dick Gaberik, a Farleyite from Berwyn, Ill. Coach Ritzenthaler considers him the outstanding prospect on the squad. Gaberik has a rifle arm that’s sure death for any imprudent base runner, and he’s no slouch with the bat, either. In 1949 his American Legion nine captured the Cook County Championship in competition with the best that Chicago and environs had to offer.
Oddly enough, the four leading pitchers are all left handers. Bill Bernsden rates the nod as the top hurler. He
and the No. 3 pitcher, Bill Timmerman, both hail from Breece, Ill., and Zahm Hall. A little unusual for a southpaw, Bernsden combines plenty of speed with consistently good control.
George Moresco’s big asset ’ is hairline control. The Zahm resident has perhaps more “stuff” than any other of the pitchers, and, because he can put that ball wherever he wants it, he is extremely effective. Together with Shortstop Hal Reilly, Moresco calls Staten Island, N. Y., his home.
Johnny Reynolds of Maplewood, N. J., and Breen-Phillips is the last of the “Big Four” mound corps. Because of spring basketball practice, Reynolds wasn’t able to begin work with the diamondmen until last week, and so he is still pretty much of an unknown quantity.
Around the second sack Coach Ritzenthaler has a couple of smooth fielders in Hal Reilly and Dick Colloton. They can powder the ball, too, and flank the No. 4 man in the batting order. Colloton from Mason City, Iowa, and Farley Hall and Zahmite Reilly form a deadly double play combination.
In center field is Mark Tremblay from Cambridge, Mass. Tabbed by the coach as the most consistent hitter on the squad, Tremblay is continuing — but in a lesser degree — his phenomenal batting of high school. Playing for St. John’s of Cambridge, the stocky left-handed outfielder belted the ball for a better than .400 average in both his junior and senior years. He lives in Breen-Phillips.	.
Rounding out the infield are Dick Rosenthal of St. Louis and Farley at first base, and Bill Stanley of Terrace City, Long Island, and Zahm at the hot corner. Alternating at third base with Stanley is Don “Ace” McLaughlin of Lakewood, Ohio, and B-P. Rosenthal is another courtman who has just recently switched to baseball.
Zahm and Farley share the remaining outfield slots with Fred Bellissimo in left and Brian Kelley in right. Both are husky power hitters and Bellissimo bats in the clean-up position. Another Bay Stater, Bellissimo claims Belmont, Mass., as his home. The sunfield patrolman, Kelly, hails from Jerry Groom’s stamping grounds, Des Moines, Iowa.
That’s the Frosh picture for ’51. Give or take a few, these will be the players pressing the battle for Varsity berths come next Spring. There’s a lot of good natural ability sprinkled throughout the squad, and, under Coach Ritzenthaler’s tutelage, the boys could very well be ready with the needed “know how” when the time comes. Anyway, they’re hoping.
The Scholastic
'.<1 • w ••
26
Netters Defeat Marquette, Lose to Michigan Rivals
The Irish tennis team dropped three matches last week to Michigan foes before defeating Marquette here last Sunday.
Western Michigan gave the Irish
KEN ANGYAL
their second loss of the season a week ago last Thursday when they defeated Mr. Langford’s crew, 5-4.
Again it was the final doubles match that decided. With the score tied at four all Tom Overholser and Dick MacDonald took the first game without
United Air Lines' 300-mile-an-hour flights will get you home for summer vacation faster than you ever thought possible, and flying luxurious DC-6 Mainliner 300s is fun and inexpensive too! For reservations, see your travel agent, or:
Leave after your last class—
FLY UNITED
and be Home
in a few Hoon
UNITED AIR LINES: Airport Terminal. Call 2-1401.
trouble, 6-2. But they lost the next two, and the match, 6-4, 6-4.
Ken Angyal and Ray Smith won their doubles and both of their singles matches. Overholser was the only other Notre Dame winner.
The next day at Ann Arbor the Michigan Wolverines defeated the Irish netters 7-2. It was the 28th win in 28 starts for the Wolverines.
The feature of this match was the brilliant singles contest between Angyal and Wolverine Capt. Al Hetzeck. Ken lost after having match point in the 10th game of the final frame. Hetzeck, however, won the next three games and won the match 6-3, 2-6, 8-6.	.
Returning to their home court did not help the Irish any as they lost to Michigan State, 9-0.
It was the third defeat in three days for the Irish and the 16th Spartan victory in 22 matches.
Last Sunday the tennis team finally returned to winning ways defeating Marquette, 6-3. The Irish won the match in singles play, taking five of the six matches. Only Ray Smith lost his match.
Jim Hennessey, who had won both of the doubles matches in which he appeared this season, seems very likely to be lost for the rest of the season. Hennessey had been playing only in the doubles on doctor’s orders, but now he has been ordered to take a complete rest.
Mr. Langford does not seem too optimistic about the remainder of the
matches with Hennessey out of the lineup.
Furthermore, the netters are faced in their remaining matches with the toughest opponents on their schedule. The future looks bright for next year, though; for it is said a few of the Frosh contenders can already beat Varsity men.—Bill Delaney, ’52
Parker at a price you can easily afford. Smooth Oc-tanium point gives delightful writing ease. Fasc-acrion filler, visible ink supply. 4 colors, smart gift box.
{no F. E. fox)
Notre Dame Book Store
Notre Dame, Indiana
May 11, 1951
27
Inter-Hall Sports
(Continued from Page 20)
Dillon Wins Baseball Crown
The Western division of the interhall baseball league has finished its regular season and Dillon Hall, with a 4-0 record has emerged the champion.
Going into the week’s play both Dillon and Morrissey were deadlocked for the league lead. On Tuesday, they met in a bitterly contested struggle In which lefty Joe Gormley pitched the senior hall to a 4-3 six inning victory.
Dillon jumped to a 4-1 lead in the first four innings, punching hits over and through the infield. Meanwhile, Gormley was breezing along smoothly, tossing no-hit ball. The Dillon infielders ano outfielders sharply turning potential hits into easy outs.
In the fifth inning, Jerry Cox garnered Morrissey's first hit on an infield smash through second. Morrissey threatened to tie it in the sixth when a walk, two hits and an error gave them two markers and put John Wilczynski on first with the potential tying run. However, Gormley bore down and forced the last batter, Cox, to hit a bounder to second, ending the game. Angelo Percich led the winner’s attack with two bingles. Jim Flaherty was the losing hurler.
Securing the top spot, Dillon gained a forfeit win over Alumni on Friday. They now await the Eastern division winners, whom they will meet in a best 2 out of 3 series.
The same day of the Dillon-Morrissey fray, Ed Mahoney twirled a two-hit shutout as his Walsh mates slammed out a 9-0 victory over Zalnn Blues. This gives Walsh a 3-1 record, putting them third behind Sorin and Zahm Orange who are tied for the lead.
Zahm Orange and Breen-Phillips each gained a forfeit win over Zahm Blue during the week’s play.
—Bill Noonan, ’54
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUPS
Old Timers	Varsity
Bill Wightkin E--------Joe Katchik
Bill Flynn...---T....Tony Zambroski
Bill Higgins....G........Paul Bums
Jerry Groom-----C........Art Hunter
Fred Wallner----G.—Jack Allessandri
Gus Cifelli.....T--------Bob Toneff
Jim Martin......E....Jim Mutscheller
Bob Williams Q  John Mazur Bill Gay........H John Petithon
Dick Cotter H_________Bill Barrett
Emil Sitko.....F........Del Gander
Kick off: 2:30 p. m.
Irish Trackmen Routed by Missouri Tigers; Seek Revenge Tomorrow Against Pittsburgh
As their only guest of this outdoor season, the track team will have the University of Pittsburgh on hand tomorrow when they show off their wares to a pre-Oldtimers Football game crowd on Cartier Field at 1:00. Track manager Bill McLaughlin, who did an excellent job of running the indoor track contests on schedule, expects to have the affair over by 2:30.
Last year in the Smoky City, Pitt edged Notre Dame by the slenderest conceivable margin—65 2/3 to 65 1/3— their third win in an eight meet series. If that loss is not sufficient incentive for a ND win tomorrow, the Irish may be driven by a desire to wipe out the ignominy of last week’s defeat to Missouri by a 105 to 26 score. A 102-24 lacing which the 1924 Illinois squad hung on the Irish was the previous school record for track ineffectiveness.
Returning for the Panthers is Dick Firsching, who won the 440 yard run in last year’s contest with an outstanding 49.2 effort. The Senior Ball guests should see an exciting race when he ties up with Irish soph John Hastings, who ran a 49.0 losing effort last week in the Missouri debacle, and with Lou Lepry and Norm Weltes, who hit 49.5 in the same race.
Sprinter Buck Ewing, the most potent point produced last week for Notre Dame with a 220 yard dash victory and a 100 yard second, will be counted on for a good showing tomorrow against the Pitt sprinters, Patellos and Giron.
A Pitt publicity release announces that Frank Kuzma can hit 4:18 in the mile, which means he is worth watching tomorrow. On the basis of last Fall’s Notre Dame-Pitt cross country meet Frank Luterancik should be a good two miler. He beat all the Irish two milers -then except Ben Almaguer, and finished a close second to him.
In the field event sections, where Notre Dame is pitifully weak, Pitt has a little strength. Returning for the Panther are Al Yedlicka and Patellos, who won last year’s pole vault and broad jumping events respectively. Their cocaptain Bob Arthurs has thrown the discus 143 feet this season which exceeds any platter toss made by an Irishman this year.
Despite the dismal score of last week’s meet, none of the Irish performances were anything of which even the most rabid Notre Dame fan could be ashamed. In addition to the previously mentioned races of Ewing and Hastings, other noteworthy performances were turned in
by Almaguer, who hit a fast 9:36 in » taking second place in the two mile, and * the mile relay team which lost its race j by a whisker. John Mohar was also ) nipped at the finish of the half mile in * a fast 1:56.
Jack Murphy threw the javelin 180	!
feet to take third place. This was not as -long as some of his efforts of previous years, but still good for his first competitive effort of the year. Phil Carnag-	p
gio vaulted 11’6” to take third place iii	j
the pole vault.
Other Irish third placers were high J jumper Hughes Wilcox, miler Harry j Snyder and shot putter Bob Toneff.
—Ted Prahinski, ’51
Administration Lauds May Day Ceremony
With the recent May Day celebration climaxing the years’ activities, the |' NFCCS Apostolic Chapter wound up its I first year here with a final meeting last I Monday afternoon.	' t
Gene Gorski was elected temporary chairman of the chapter. A Sophomore YCS member, Gorski has handled the . publicity for the May Day ceremony. He will now manage any chapter business during the summer and will preside over the fall1 meetings until a permanent chairman can be elected for the fall semester.
May Day Chairmen Bill Hubert and Dan Collins led a discussion to evaluate this year’s May Day, in order to improve the 1952 commemoration. Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C. s. C., vice-president in charge of student affairs, paid a surprise visit to the meeting and extended the Administration’s congratulations to all the men who conceived, promoted, and conducted the candle light ceremony. Total < expenses for May Day, to be paid by the Student Council, approximated $40.
Before adjourning, the Apostolic Chapter council, composed of representatives of the Third Order, Knights of Columbus, Liturgy Club, and YCS, discussed plans for next year.
Chapter officers for the past semester were Chairman Buck Hennigan and Secretary Ed Burke. Other representa- , tives included Jack Boehm and Bill Kelly of the K of C’s, YCS men Hugh
. Braun and Gene Gorski, Fred Brice and Mike McDonald of the Third Order, and p Liturgists Don Krebs and Bill Motzel.
The Prefects of Religion, Rev. Richard i Grimm, c. s. c., and Rev. Robert Fagan, ( c. s. c., commended the NFCCS chapter for its achievement during the past year.	?
The Scholastic	%
28
NFCCS to Sponsor Pilgrimage to Mexico
A Mexican Good Neighbor Pilgrimage to the Shrine of Our Lady of Guadalupe will be conducted this summer under the sponsorship of the National Federation of Catholic College Students and the National Newman Club Federation.
There will be three pilgrimages in all, beginning on June 18, July 9, and July 30. The 22-day tour will include, in addition to Guadalupe, such places of interest as Mexico City, Acapulco, Taxco, and Puebla.
Fare for the pilgrimage is $311, which does not include transportation from the student’s home to Mexico City, the starting point of the tour. First class hotel accommodations and meals will be provided.
Applications for the pilgrimage should be made immediately with Thomas Cook and Son, Inc., the agency appointed to conduct the tour, at 587 Fifth Avenue, New York 17, N. Y.
Application forms and further information on the NFCCS-NNCF pilgrimage can be obtained at the Student Council offiffice in the Main Building.
New Blue Circle Officers Chosen for Coming Year
Officers of the Blue Circle for next semester are: Chairman Ed Noonan, Vice-Chairman Dick Cotter, and Secretary Vic Kroeger. Elections were held Monday evening in the Law Building.
Although he is a senior, Cotter is eli-g-ible for office since he will be attending law school next semester.
Juniors Noonan and Kroeger are natives of Illinois, while Cotter, heavyweight champion of the Bengal Bouts, hails from Minnesota.
ROTC Groups Will Receive Awards at Tuesday Review
Next Tuesday at 3:30 p.m. the NROTC, AROTC, and University Band will combine in a review for the purpose of formally bestowing various military awards which have been won this year. The review will take place on the quadrangle east of the Rockne Memorial. It will constitute part of the annual inspection of the Cadets:
Awards to be presented include the Chicago Tribune awards for military merit, the William Randolph Hearst medals and plaque won by the NROTC rifle team, and the American Legion award for outstanding naval science achievement.
yti P&p&nAteab
Real Italian Pizza
Pizza with home-made Italian sausage 75c
Pizza with scamorza Italian cheese 75c
Pizza with fresh mushrooms 75c (Served from 7:30 till 11)
THURSDAY — STEAK NITE — $1.25
“A favorite with Notre Dame men33
PAPANDREA’s Spaghetti House 415 North Michigan	Phone 3-0903
Yes, the new Spalding DOT* with improved "TRU-TENSION" Winding, combines maximum distance with sweet feel... True uniformity assured, plus fa-
/f SAYS HEPt tHirMEwSRKL DOT »s soutni
mous DOT "click".
"TRU-TENSION" Winding is also a feature of the high-powered Spalding A1R-FLITE. For real toughness it's the KRO-FLITE and the TOP-FLITE*.
TUSY AIN'T
kidding

SPALDING* ™
★At Pro Shops Only
SPALDING DOT
May 11, 1951
29

By Jerry Morris, ’52
For the first time in its musical history, Hollywood has produced a film which is devoted almost exclusively to Grand Opera. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer’s “The Great Caruso” brings to the people of America the most lavish display of opera by filming the life of the most famous tenor of all time. The movie is devoted to beauty in every capacity. Its soprano stars have been chosen from the most beautiful as well as the most talented of the Metropolitan Opera. The sets and costumes are splendid and many, and the entire effect of techni- ' color is dazzling.
After a long and tedious search for the right star to play Caruso, Mario Lanza, a comparatively new star, was given the leading role. To Lanza it was the chance he had always dreamed of, a chance to play Caruso. The great tenor of the Golden Age of opera had always been the idol of Mario Lanza’s life. As a boy in Philadelphia, Lanza had listened carefully to all of Caruso’s records and read everything available on the tenor’s life. His own beautiful voice was becoming more mature and he decided to perfect it. Long years later, he had reached the first part of his goal and was singing opera in South America. It was the movies, however, which gave Lanza the medium he wanted to bring opera to all the people.
“The Great Caruso” brings opera to the people in the largest possible sense. It presents arias, duets, quartets, and even sextets from 15 different operas, as well as songs like Because, Toma A Surriento, and Ave Maria. Dorothy Kirsten, Blanche Thebom, and Jarmila Novotna are the three beautiful sopranos who sing the leading arias with Lanza, and lovely Ann Blyth plays his wife. The rest of the cast is comprised largely of members of the Metropolitan Opera and the singing effects are splendid. Lanza’s singing is good, his naturally beautiful voice sounds hauntingly like Caruso’s and if at times his singing is dramatically forced, it is because his voice does not have the power and depth of Caruso’s. The fact is that Caruso was originally a baritone and as his voice gradually raised in range to tenor, he never lost the full, rich, deeper quality of the baritone. Lanza’s voice has a shade of this baritone quality, but it is more just a slightly heavier lyric tenor voice. In the movie, however, the Caruso effect is perfect and the similarity of voice is beautifully adequate.
Technically the movie presents opera in a style which is certainly more sump
tuous than any opera house in the world. It gives the sets and costumes a badly needed face lifting. The result is that the millions of people who will see The Great Caruso have an opportunity to
Blanche Thebom and Mario Lanza
see scenes from grand opera which place its best foot forward. The costumes, for example, are changed at every opportunity, and Lanza alone had 129 changes. 500 costumes were needed for the opera sequences alone, and 500 dress suits were required for the opera audiences.
All in all, Hollywood has gone all-out in an attempt to bring Caruso and Opera to the people of America in a style that is appealing to all. They’ve done quite well.
Placement News
Mr. William Dooley, director of the Placement Office, wishes to announce that on Wednesday, May 16, a representative from the Indiana State Employment Service will register all those students withdrawing from school at the end of this semester. This includes graduates and all others who are withdrawing from school and seek employment. The registrant’s application will be sent to the employment office in the area in which he wishes to work so that he may more easily get a position there. There is a special division for teacher applicants. All interested persons are urged to take advantage of this excellent opportunity. This service is free to all and no appointments need be made.
On Tuesday a representative from the Studebaker Corp, will interview accounting majors.
YEARSAGO
,_____-By PAUL ZALECKI, ’53------
Fifty Years Ago
From the May 11, 1901, Scholastic: The Notre Dame band, under the direction of Professor Roche, presented a lawn concert Sunday evening. . . . The baseball team defeated Purdue, 25-14. . . . Norwood Gibson, a pitcher on last year’s team was signed to play for the Kansas City Blues. . . . Strength tests in competition for the records held by such colleges as Yale and Harvard were to be held on campus during the week. . . . Father Morrissey, president of the University, left for Baltimore, Md., to see Cardinal Matyinelli presented with the red hat.
Twenty-five Years Ago
From the May 14, 1926, Scholastic: The stage star Margaret Anglin visited the campus when she was in South Bend for a performance of W. Somerset Maugham’s play “Caroline.” ... A group of Latin American editors meeting at the University commented upon the fact that Notre Dame was the first North American University to establish an exchange of students with the universities of South America. . . . Tommy Mills, formerly of Beloit College, signed a contract to come to Notre Dame as assistant coach in football, basket-ball, and handball. . . . The Culver Military Academy track team defeated the Notre Dame freshmen, 66-56. . . . Jack Adams, of Walsh Hall, made a hole in one while playing the Erskine course last Sunday. . . . He got his ace, which was the longest in the records of golf, on the 232-yard fourteenth hole.
Ten Years Ago
From the May 16, 1941, Scholastic: The University announced that Monsignor Fultoir J. Sheen, of the Catholic University, would deliver the baccalaureate sermon, and that Joseph P. Kennedy, ex-ambassador to Great Britain, would be the commencement speaker. . . . Jack Malloy and the campus 12 were scheduled to play for the freshman dance at the Progress Club. Tickets were one dollar. . . . The varsity defeated the Old Timers, 24-12. . . . Representatives of the Marines, Army, and Navy visited the campus to receive enlistments into the armed forces. . . . Senor Eduardo Alcayaga, a Chilean professor studying at Notre Dame, spoke to the students on the interpretation of international economic problems in the light of the two great encyclicals, “Rerum Novarum” and “Quadragesimo Anno.”
30
The Scholastic
I
I
*■
Project Announced In Germ-Free Life
A new basic research project, designed to provide a better idea of the role of “normal’.’ bacteria in the disease of radiation sickness, will soon be inaugurated in the Germ-Free Life Laboratory of LOBUND Institute at Notre Dame.
The project, which will be conducted by LOBUND scientists in collaboration with the Atomic Energy Commission and the Office of Naval Research, was announced recently at a meeting of the Biology Committee of the Notre Dame Advisory ’Council for Science and Engineering.
The LOBUND radiation sickness project will be housed in a new “radiation wing” of the Institute’s Germ-Free Life Laboratory. The new wing, which is nearing completion, was built and equipped by Notre Dame with assistance from the Atomic Energy Commission.
By obtaining a better understanding of the role played by “normal” (as opposed to disease producing) bacteria in radiation sickness, LOBUND scientists hope to pave the way for the discovery of better methods of control and treatment of this disease. LOBUND research will treat that phase of radiation sickness in which the bacteria invade the blood stream by penetration of the intestinal wall.
Members of the Biology Committee, who inspected facilities for the new radiation sickness project during their Spring meeting at Notre Dame, include E. C. Kleiderer, of Indianapolis, executive director of research and control at Eli Lilly and Company; Bradley Dewey, president of the Dewey and Almy Chemical Company, Cambridge, Mass.; Edgar Kobak, New York City business consultant and former president of the Mutual Broadcasting System, and Harold S. Vance, chairman of the board and president of the Studebaker Corporation, South Bend.
State Interviewers Announced For NYU Law Scholarships
Chief Justice Arch N. Bobbitt of the Supreme Court of the State of Indiana will interview candidates for the New York University Root-Tilden scholarships. at 10 a.m. June 12 in Indianapolis. The interviews for the $2100 per year law scholarships will be held in Room 323 of the State House in the capital city. Deadline for filing applications is the last day of May.
The scholarships, named for two graduates of the NYU Law School, Elihu Root and Samuel J. Tilden, will be offered each year to enable 20 young men, who show promise of becoming “outstanding lawyers in the grand American tradition,” to attend the school. Candidates will compete on a rating of one-third for leadership capacity, one-third for extra-curricular activities, and one-third for scholarship.
Chief Justice Bobbitt will have as his associates Richard P. Pinkham, president of the Indiana State Bar Association, and Eugene C. Pulliam, publisher of the Indianapolis Star and News.
Candidates chosen from Indiana will then be interviewed by a committee for the Seventh Federal Circuit, consisting of Chief Judge J. Earl Major and Franklin J. Lunding, Federal Reserve Bank chairman, both of Chicago, and Clyde E. Wildman, president of De-Pauw University, Greencastle, Ind.
WHITE BUCKS
Widener's Shoes
123 W. Washington St.
We Buy, Sell, and Trade
USED CARS
Operated by Notre Dame Alumnus and Student
(See Dave Matthews, Law School)
M & M Used Cars 1955 Lincoln Way East, South Bend
~~ •“(—trrrm nna mil 209 West Colfax Avenue Paul Whalen, Mgr.
May 11, 1951
31
It's Revolting
(Continued from Page 14)
mouth diseases and bad teeth, 92 per cent had positive tendencies toward T.B. largely as a result of malnutrition. Since then, by the benefit of regular medical examinations by a competent doctor in the station; nurses and nutritionists to instruct the mothers how to keep the children well and help them to develop healthy emotional attitudes, the Council has been successful in their fight against the health problem in the district.
In the Back of the Yards Senate, a street athletic group of 14 boys is given an equal voice with a church of 10,000 members or a union ■with 15,000. From the 185 Senate members who meet monthly an executive council is chosen. The General Council, which meets annually—averaging 600 delegates— gives various groups in the neighborhood proportionate representation. Thus through the cooperation from these active organizations, the Council can reach any individual and get behind any problem within twenty-four hours.
The Council campaigned still further for the needs of the people in Packingtown. Next it went into action both at Washington and at Springfield, and lobbied successfully for the hot lunch i	and free milk program. This has Deen
;	established, not only in all public and
;	parochial schools but on the summer
•	playgrounds as well. These regular
i	meals are an important factor, since
i	80 per cent of the mothers in some of
। the parishes are employed.
•	One of the Council’s subtlest jobs is
!	its Credit Union. The interest is	fixed at
i	the low rate of one per cent	to lure
f	borrowers away from the loan	sharks,
!	but chiefly as a means of getting in
I	touch with the people in order	to help
I them learn to manage their finances.
i The whole program in its endless ram;	ifications is self-financed. The Council
I
i	was at once accepted by the Community
I	Chest because the packing house em-
J	ployees had long- been liberal contribus	tors to the Chest. They could not be
।	refused a share of their own money. If
|	more funds are needed, the labor
|	unions and the merchants gladly chip in.
| The greatest achievement of the Back | of the Yards Neighborhood Council is I that two of the most powerful authoritarian institutions, the CIO unions and the Catholic Church, are cooperating democratically under its influence, with I each other and -with the whole communi-| ty. .
। Previous to 1939, the Back of the | Yards had been known as a stinkhole of I crime. Juvenile delinquency, which dur-|	ing the war years was given elaborate
I	32
attention in the movies, newspapers, magazines had no increase in the Back of the Yards during these particular years. The Council holds on to the belief that by raising the economic level, finding more jobs, is the chief answer to delinquency, because petty thieving is generally due to a quest for spending money.	.
Indirectly the Council is aiding in the . fight against Communism. The people will never. become Communists if they have a fair chance to participate in the advantages of democracy and feel that the government is theirs. This is easily understood, when one realizes that wherever Communism appears, it Is the result of a frustrated sense of justice.
The Council has a fine working relationship with all the worthwhile Public Service Agencies in Chicago. The Council informs the community of the services that are available and acts as a neutral ground and as a clearing house for community problems. The local weekly organ of the Council—the Journal, is itself good evidence of the movement. It reported the doings of the representatives the Council sent to Washington to lobby for an investigation of the shortage of livestock in the yards, which was responsible for a large layoff of packinghouse workers. The Journal revealed the violations of the Building and Sanitary Codes and got immediate action from the City Hall on the situation.
THIS Neighborhood Council is a new type of leadership and takes on a character of great generosity and accomplishes much more by the force of example then by word. It is worthy of thought that a sense of belonging and wanting to do things is spreading to other areas and giving people new courage. Its influence and example of miraculous recovery has abolished the stigma of “coming from” the Back of the Yards and transformed it into a source of pride.
No State will ever be able to give a person a sense of satisfaction, pride, and knowledge that.he is able to do it himself. These three elements are the backbone of the dynamit character of the Back of the Yards Neighborhood Council movement. The patronizing talk of the outside social worker, who used to “go down” into the Yards with the pious hope of uplifting the unfortunate is resented Back of the Yards.
The Council is not a political ideology, or based on a religion—it is a conviction of the relevance of the corporeal works of mercy which has moved the people. It is a program that is limited only by the horizon of humanity itself.
Democracy requires the enlightened partnership of citizens. The people who live under totalitarian systems do not need to understand them—all they need to do is to obey. When they are “explained” to the people it is in order that the people may the more readily obey, not that they may be enabled the better to carry on the business of government. Under democracy they must actively participate in making that •will.
The Back of the Yards Neighborhood Council is nothing more than individual responsibility and individual initiative coordinated to correct realistically the social injustices, and to insist upon and work for their rights through their social organization. They feel that they have the right for the obtaining of certain opportunities and advantages for their children, which would be comparable to those enjoyed by children of more economically fortunate parts of our population. And they are organized, into the Back of the Yards Neighborhood Council, to achieve for themselves, through themselves, these rights.
NFCCS Names DeCrane, Zalecki as New Delegates
Sophomores Al DeCrane and Paul Zalecki are the new senior and junior delegates, respectively, to the National Federation of Catholic College Students. They will represent the student body on the FortWayne Region NFCCS Council and be responsible for coordinating all NFCCS activities on campus.
The delegates were chosen at a meeting Monday of the campus NFCCS Council. DeCrane, who delivered the keynote address at the recent NFCCS Regional Congress, is a member of the Blue Circle and captain-elect of the Debate team. A member of the Scholastic staff, Zalecki was one of Notre Dame’s voting delegates at the congress. Both men are subject to the approval of the Student Council.
Several other members of the NFCCS Council will- accompany the new delegates to Terre Haute, Ind., this Sunday to represent Notre Dame at a Regional Council meeting at St. Mary-of-the-Woods College.	'
Met Soprano Sings at ND
Soprano Blanche Thebom of the Metropolitan Opera was the featured performer in a concert given by the South Bend Symphony Orchestra in the Navy Drill Hall Sunday evening.
The concert, frequently held here, was well attended by townspeople and Notre Dame students. The South Bend Symphony Orchestra is conducted by Edwyn Hames.
The Scholastic
'A
-•4

Student Council Approves 'I Am an American Day'
The Student Council last week approved a campus observance of “I Am An American Day,” to take place on Sunday, May 20.
“I Am An American Day” is the day set aside annually for the “recognition, observance, and commemoration of United Staates citizenship, and for the special recognition of those of our youth who have attained their majority and for those foreign-born who have become citizens through naturalization during the past year, according to a proclamation signed by Harry S. Truman, president of the United Staates.
The purpose of “I Am An American Day” is, again in the words of the President, “to strengthen our nation’s unity of purpose” through increased devotion to the fundamental principles of individual liberty, equal opportunity, and justice for all.”
In taking official cognizance of “I Am An American Day,” Notre Dame joins hundreds of other civic, educational, fraternal, social, patriotic, labor, business, community anod church organizations throughout the nation.
Senator to Address Annual Law Banquet
The Honorable John W. Bricker, United States Senator from Ohio, will deliver the principal address tomorrow night at the annual banquet sponsored by the Notre Dame Student Law Association.
The banquet will climax the third annual Practicing Law Institute today and tomorrow in the Law Building. The Institute, designed to be of assistance to practicing attorneys of northern Indiana, is jointly sponsored by Notre Dame and the Indiana State Bar Association.
Geologists Elect Officers
The Notre Dame Geology Club elected officers for next year- at a meeting last Wednesday afternoon in the Main Building.
Those elected were Louis E. Reig, president; Bill Haskins, vice-president; Charles Cazeau, secretary, and Bill Staley, treasurer. The final meeting of the year on May 16 will be conducted by the new officers.
------------------------------- Dentist
DR. RALPH BERMAN 408 Platt Bldg., 105 W. Wayne St.
Hours-. Mon. 9-12 Thurs. 9-12 & 1:30-5	PHONE 6-3627
Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12	Res. ph. 7-1409
CANOE TRIPS
into Quetico-Superior wilderness. Only $4.50 a day per man for complete camping equipment, canoes and food supplies. For Booklet, write: Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS — Ely, Minnesota.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY—WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J. M. S. Bldg.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry Diseases and surgery of mouth and Jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis 702 J. M. S. Building So. Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
Makes a Man Love a Pipe and a Woman Love a Man
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
Aquinas Library
and
Bookstore
Your Catholic Shopping Center in South Bend
110 E. LaSalle
May 11, 1951
33
«
WMF
Plague of the Posters
The coming of the automobile sounded the death knell to nature. Since the beginning of time, men stood in awe of the beauty of nature: of the trees and the flowers and of lakes and forests and hills. Nature held sway over men’s emotions for many centuries.
Then came two Great Facts and nature quietly stole away without even folding up her tent. The two Great Facts were: Advertising and the Automobile.
Both of these Great Facts combined to produce the unsightly Billboard. Nature was hidden by pictures of products to be sold: cars and bread and clothes and nectars of distinction and light-bulbsnatchers and shoelaces and movies-to-be-here-soon.
In spite of the fever for hiding nature behind the Billboard, the campus of the University of Notre Dame held out valiantly. Here, in this northern spot in Indiana, you could still see a tree if you had a yen to see one. There were no Billboards.
Then, in the Fall of the 1950-51 academic year, came the Plague of the Posters to the Notre Dame campus. It came insidiously, almost unnoticed, proving the corruption of men’s minds by the Great Facts and the Billboards.
And now, in the Spring of 1951, the Plague of the Posters seems here to stay. A tree is not a tree is not a tree: it is a Poster: and a Poster is a Poster (whether it advertises next week’s Council dance 01* the Firehouse Blues plus You) is a Poster.	_
Nature might as well give up the fight. The odds are too great.
Music
Last Sunday night Blanche Thebom, well-known mezzo-soprano, gave a concert with the South Bend Symphony orchestra in the Notre Dame Drill Hall. This concert marked the end of the season for the local musicians.
This year’s music “season” in South Bend totaled some 12 concerts, all of which were good, some of which were outstanding. Looking at the South Bend Symphony Orchestra and the Civic Music Association together, one cannot fail
to see cultural opportunities in this community which are not, unfortunately, widely known or cared about at Notre Dame.
The two series this year presented such outstanding artists as Kirsten Flagstaad, Artur Rubenstein, the Ballet Theater of America, and Blanche Thebom. The programs, as they are taking shape for next year, promise to be equally good.
Both the Symphony series and the Civic series of concerts have special prices for students. Most of the concerts are given in John Adams High School Auditorium on Sunday evenings. Those students who enjoy hearing good music and good artists, and those other students who complain at the “lack of culture in this town” should look into these music programs, and maybe shell out a few bucks for a season ticket—and for a season of enjoyment.
More Music
The two campus music-making organizations are also touted for honors this week. The Notre Dame Concert Band, under the direction of H. Lee Hope, gave a fine concert last Tuesday night in the Drill Hall. With a program including Schumann, Lehar, and Strauss, the band successfully combined the popular and the refined level.
The Spring Concert, always popular with the students, proved once again that the ND Concert band “has it,” in just about every way.
The Glee Club winds up their activities next week with a couple of downtown concerts. Like the Concert Band, the Glee Club is a popular and good organization. And both of them, in our opinion, have done an especially fine job this year.
Senior Ball
Marking the end of a heavy dance season tonight, the Seniors will whirl in the Rock “main ballroom” (short for Gym) tonight, for the last time in their college careers. We wish them all a good weekend and happy memories. (Sentimental, isn’t it.)
The Last Word .
Won’t be long, kiddies . . -
Letters
Continued from Page 3)
the second. Finally a fire—two fires to be exact—completely gutted the building leaving only the walls which stood untouched for some years. Then the peaked gables were torn down leaving only two stories. A more artistic roof was put on and the building given the name of the Architecture Building. It may interest you to know that the famous scientist Doctor Albert Zahm was the first to occupy the old building.
It may also interest you to know that the priest at the right of the old Boat House is Reverend Martin J. Regan, C. S. C., who sponsored the Boat Club. In those days it was a going organization with a long waiting list, because the members had special privileges not given the other students.
(Rev.) Joseph Maguire, c. S. c.
Former head of the Department of Chemistry, 1898-1921.
VACATION STARTS at the
RAILROAD STATION
And You Can SAVE up to 28% on GROUP COACH TICKETS
Here’s the Low-Down on Low Cost! Gather a group of 25 or more heading home in the same direction at the same time. Buy group PLAN tickets. Each group member saves 28% compared to regular round-trip fares, or up to 45% compared to buying oneway tickets in each direction!
Go Together—Return as You Please!
You all leave on one train. But you can return separately, in time for reopening of school. Group Plan savings apply as far as you all go together. Then buy individual round-trip tickets the rest of the way.
Plan Your Group Plan Savings NOW!
Your nearest railroad passenger agent will help you organize a group to get these big savings... good on most coach trains east of Chicago or St. Louis, north of the Ohio and Potomac Rivers, and west of New York City.
Or, if you're traveling alone, save on Regular Round-Trips.
For Comfort and Safety IN ANY WEATHER
Take The Train!
EASTERN RAILROADS
The Scholastic
34
Choose your
ARROW SHIRTS
FROM THE COMPLETE SELECTION IN THE MEN'S SHOP AT
First Floor
ROBERTSON
of
BLOCK BROS.
Comer Michigan & Washington
Jewelers to Notre Dame
for more than 25 years.
Basque Shirts
In South Bend you’ll find
ARROW SHIRTS
at
Every man wants several of these cool basque shirts for summer — they're the coolest, most comfortable leisure shirts we know. Trim-fitting. Smart looking. Perfect with all your sports outfits. See them at your favorite Arrow dealer's.
§1.25 to §3.95
A R ROW SHIRTS & TIES
H arrow ") underwear • handkerchiefs • sports shirts
Make GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
Men’s Shop
(Street Floor)
813 - SI7 S. Michigan Street
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
May 11, 1951
55
A
THE UNIVERSITY library lemmonler library
NOTRE DAME
LOCAL
WHAT EVERY SMOKER WANTS
frYQlL
Mildness
See BARBARA HALE starring in "LORNA DOONE
An Edward Small Production • A Columbia Technicolor Picture
Always Buy H E STE R FI E LD
Copyright 1951, Lggett & Milks Tobacco Co.
Vo unpleasant After-Taste
Hundreds of prominent TOBACCO GROWERS SAY: “When I apply the Standard Tobacco Growers’ Test to cigarettes, I find Chesterfield is the one that smells Milder and smokes Milder/'
A WELL-KNOWN INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATION REPORTS: " Chesterfield is the only cigarette in which members of our taste panel found no unpleasant after-taste?
