in naira com
SCHOLASTIC
umu campus ncuus iwm
RICHARD REID
Received Laetare Medal Sunday
IN THIS ISSUE . . .
550 LEAVE FOR NEW YORK REID GIVEN LAETARE MEDAL MONSIGNOR SHEEN TALKS CAMPUS OBSERVES ART WEEK
ARMY GAME PREWRITE CROSS-COUNTRY TEAM WINS
NAVY GAME
INTERHALL FOOTBALL
THE WEEK
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS INTRODUCING SPLINTERS
NOVEMBER 13.1936
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.
HIS job is to look for trouble before it happens.
He is one of many who inspect telephone apparatus regularly, even when nothing is wrong. His work is called "preventive maintenance.”
This work is of the highest importance. It helps to prevent interruptions to the service; often forestalls costly repairs, or replacements; helps keep telephone service at highest efficiency.
To plan this work requires management with imaginative foresight and the ability to balance the
many factors involved in the maintenance problem.
Tonight — call up someone in the old home town — after seven, when rates to most points are lowest.
BELL TELEPHONE
I
Duke university
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE DURHAM, N. C.
Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three and one quarter years) or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character and at least two years of college work, including the subjects specified for Grade A medical schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.
QUICK PICK-UP FOR
Soothing, refreshing to hot, tired, reddened eyes. Great for eyes irritated by reod-ing, dust, wind, smoke, or light glare. Use it daily.
EVES
CONVERTS BEGINNERS—
CONVINCES VETERANS!
it SOMETHING WONDERFUL
goes on inside
''WKShW

cooling mesh screen
interii
ft
mvftc tiMMin SHAPES
This simple appearing yet amazing absorbent filter in* vention with Cello*
ALSO CIGARETTE
r >cxt
iuicea Filter
FINEST BRIAR MONEY CAN BUY
OMHEARD OF WIDE
ARD CIGAR HOLDERS
and out of mouth.
Prevents tongue bite, raw mouth.
wet heel, bad odor, frequent expectoration.
No breaking in.Improvea thetasteand aromaofany tobacco. .
THE ONLY PATENTED ‘CELLOPHANE"- SEALED FILTER-IT REALLY FILTERS
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917, Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 70
November 13, 1936
No. 7
ARMY SPECIAL TO LEAVE FRIDAY
DR. HAAS TO DISCUSS RELIGION RELATED TO PHYSICS
TWO SECTION TRAIN WILL CARRY 550 STUDENTS EAST ON RECORD TRIP; LEAVE SOUTH BEND 1:00 p.m.
Dr. Arthur E. Haas, former professor of physics at the University of Vienna, Austria, and now a member of the faculty of the University of Notre Dame, will deliver a lecture on “Physics and Religion,” in Washington Hall next Thursday night, November 19.
In this lecture Dr. Haas will demonstrate that the chief arguments which materialism and atheism raised against religion in the nineteenth century seem to have lost their force through the development of physics in the twentieth century.
The convictions of Dr. Haas, whose textbooks are regarded as standard throughout the world, and have appeared in ten languages, are based on twenty-five year’s teaching experience and study in England, Austria, and Germany. He is an associate editor of Gibbs Commentary, an important work of physical science which is to be published by Yale University this Fall.
A world famed authority on the atomic theory of matter, Dr. Haas delivered two lectures on theoretical physics in the Cushing Hall of Engineering last March when he visited Notre Dame for the first time.
Dr. Haas is teaching theoretical physics at Notre Dame and' collaborating with Professor George Collins in an elaborate research program to investigate phenomena produced by high voltage electricity.
Servers Hear Lunn
At the last meeting of the Server’s Club in the Sacristy of Sacred Heart Church, Arnold Lunn spoke on “The Purpose of College.” Mr. Lunn pointed out that a student does not retain all the fact that he memorizes while ’ in school, and added that if the student develops a curiosity for knowledge and learns to think he has had a successful college career.
By Graham Starr
As a fitting climax to weeks of anticipation, a record number of 550 Notre Dame students will leave on the Notre Dame Special train to New York tomorrow afternoon, where they will witness the 1936 edition of the traditional Notre Dame-Army football clash at Yankee Stadium. It will be the 18th in a
Professor Emil Jacques “Art—a cultural factor.”
FACULTY TALKS MARK OBSERVANCE OF
ART WEEK
•
■ Under the direction of Mr. Stanley S. Sessler, associate professor of art and president of the St. Joseph Valley chapter of the American Artists Professional League, student artists were winding up the annual celebration of National Art Week.
The complete program for the week consisted of several radio addresses, a dinner, and a tour of the (Continuer on Page 22)
series of consecutive annual games between these traditional foes.
This game marks the greatest number of student-miles ever to be travelled on a Notre Dame student football trip in recent years. Of the 550 is included the new 100-piece Notre Dame Band, directed by Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta.
The first section of the train will leave South Bend at 1:00 p.m., followed by the second section, to contain the band and remaining students, at 1:30. The first street cars providing free transportation to the station in South Bend will leave promptly at 12:30.
At 8:05 ajn., Saturday, the first section will arrive at the Penn station in New York City, followed by the second section 15 minutes later.
After both sections arrive, the band followed by the students, will march from the station to Hotel McAlpin at Broadway and 34th St., where approximately half of the Notre Dame delegation will make its headquarters.
At last year’s tilt, the Fighting Irish were held to a 6-6 tie by the “Marching Cadets.” So far this year, the U. S. Military Academy has dropped but one game out of six, while Notre Dame has lost two out of the same number.
The opening whistle for the battle Saturday in Yankee Stadium will be souonded at 1:30 p.m., E.S.T. The affair will be a memorable one to student trippers with the gay crowds, the capacity attendance, and the cus-tomaray color always attached to the occasion.
Not to be outdone by the Cadets of West Point, the Notre Dame band (Continuer on Page 22)
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.
RICHARD REID, FAMOUS EDITOR, RECEIVES 54TH LAETARE MEDAL; FATHER O'HARA OFFICIATES AT PRESENTATION
By Louis Da Pra
Richard Reid, Augusta, Georgia, lawyer, editor and distinguished Catholic layman was formally presented with the Laetare Medal, Sunday, Nov, 8, at a meeting of the twenty-first annual convention of Laymen’s Association of Georgia at Augusta.
The presentation was made by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, who lauded Mr. Reid as a pioneer in Catholic Action in the United States.
Father O’Hara said:
“Notre Dame selects you, Richard Reid, for your services in that army of enlightenment, the Catholic Laymen’s association of Georgia. You and your fellow workers began their pioneering in Catholic action on the logical assumption that a more understanding spirit between Catholics and non - Catholics of your state should mean a more unified front against the enemies of both.
“The University of Notre Dame honors you because you have been temperate and wise. You have given enlightenment on your faith rather than stirred oppositions by raucous controversy. You have taught by example rather than by word that there are more links of love to unite men than shafts of hate to keep them apart.”
Four bishops took part in the presentation of the medal, which has been given each year since 1883 as a recognition of merit and as an incentive to greater achievement. The name of the recipient is announced on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent, and the award is recognized as the highest award a Catholic can receive in the United States.
Mr. Reid has been active in the public life of Georgia since 1919, and has achieved fame as editor of The Bulletin, official organ of the Catholic Laymen’s association of Georgia, and as a contributor to America, Commonweal, The Catholic World, and The Ecclesiastical Review.
Previously he had served as editorial writer for the Augusta Chronicle and as news editor and columnist of the Augusta Herald.
A member of the law firm of Mul-herin, Reid and Mulherin of Augusta, Mr. Reid has been past president of the Exchange club of Augusta; member of the National Executive Board of the National Council of Catholic Men; and has been prominent in activities of the Boy Scouts of America.
He was bom in Winchester, Mass., . Jan. 21, 1896, is married and the father of four children. He holds
bachelor and master of art degrees from Holy Cross and a law degree from Fordham university.
Recipients in former years include Frank H. Spearman, Hollywood author; Genevieve Garvan Brady, New York philanthropist, John McCormack, renowned Irish tenor, and Admiral William Benson, United States Navy.
Journalism Staff Aids News Anthologist
The Notre Dame Department of Journalism has been chosen to assist in the preparation and seletcion of copy for the 1935-36 edition of the “Best News Stories of the Year,” Dr. John M. Cooney announced last week.
The Best News Stories series originated at the Iowa University school of journalism, and is this year being published by Houghton Mifflin Company of New York. Dr. Cooney and the Notre Dame journalism staff has been assigned - the task of covering Indiana publications for suitable material.
“Best News Stories of the Year” has been published for three years at the University of Iowa, and this is the first time the publication has been accepted by a nationally known publishing concern.
ALUMNI HEAD WRITES OF VISIT TO ROME
IN NEW 'ALUMNUS' ■ •
In the November edition of the Notre Dame Alumnus, Arthur J. Hughes, president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, published an account of his recent pilgrimage to Rome, where he had an audience with His Holiness Pope Pius XI. The purpose of the visit was to pledge the allegiance of all Notre Dame men to the Pope “in the cause that is perhaps closest to his heart at the moment—combating the onrush of Communism.” Mr. Hughes said: “The Holy Father not only gave his approval to our undertaking, but what is far more important, he bestowed upon it his blessing and his hope for its success.” President Hughes would like to see the Notre Dame Alumni send its president each year to Rome on an official pilgrimage as a tribute to the Pope.
The story of Fred Snite, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1935, is reprinted from Caravan, a magazine of the Far East. Mr. Snite is in Peking, China, stricken with infantile paralysis. He is fighting bravely for life in an Iron Lung which enables him to breathe by artificial respiration. He is confident that he will recover and has made decided progress during the summer.
Byron V. Kanaley, chairman of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University of Notre Dame, tells of the University and its fight against Communism at the meeting of the Chicago Chapter of the National Catholic Alumni Federation, at which he presided.
“Communism cannot be strong where Democracy thrives and where the teachings of the Catholic Church prevail,” said Kanaley, “Notre Dame has a tradition almost a century old of Democracy. I say it is fitting, and expected, that that University would be among the first to warn and prepare for this fight on Communism which threatens our national, our family, our Christian life.”
A. S. M. Hears Gill
James P. Gill, chief metallurgist of Vanadium Alloys Steel Company, spoke last night on “High Speed Steel” before the University chapter of the American Society for Metals in the auditorium of the Cushing Hall of Engineering.
A nationally known metallurgist, Gill this year received the Edward De Mille Campbell memorial medal from the American Society for Metals in honor of outstanding work in his field.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.
5
K. C., VINCENTIANS TO OPERATE WALSH HALL "REC"
•
Walsh hall recreation room has been reopened under the auspices of the Knights of Columbus and the St. Vincent de Paul society. It has been completely reconditioned with new cue sticks and cushions, resurfaced bowling alleys, and two new ping pong tables. It is open to the students at popular prices. . .
A large number of Knights attended their quarterly communion breakfast last Sunday in the Lay-Faculty dining hall. Rolland Poulin was the chairman and the other speakers were Frank Jones, ’29, member in the law firm of Obenchain, Jones and Butler of South Bend; Lew F. Kelley of the Vincentians; Eli Abraham, graduate student; and Bill Bowes, junior law student.
At the last meeting the Knights made plans for their football dance the night of the Northwestern game. Also Professor Turley of the Classical departmen gave an interesting account of the life in Italy and the attitude of Italian college students at Pavia to the Fascist movement.
About 40 Knights and their candidates attended the last smoker held during the Navy game. Smokes and refreshments were served at the half.
At the next meeting the Knights plan to set a definite date for the first degree initiation and also make plans for the immediate furthering of the membership campaign.
Fathers Burke and Hope Write School Songs
Two songs written by the Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., and the Rev. Arthur B. Hope, C.S.C., members of the Notre Dame faculty, for the University of Portland, in Portland, Oregon, were recently adopted as official school songs by that institution.
The words for “Alma Mater” which is dedicated to Portland alumni were written by Father Burke while Father Hope composed the music. Father Hope also wrote the school’s pep song, “Fight, Fight for Portland U.”
Both priests were at one time members of the Portland University faculty. Father Burke was president of the-western school from 1919-25, and Father Hope was an associate profes-sorof philosophy there from 1932-34.
The First Catholic college in the United States was opened in 1677 at
Newton, Maryland.	. . ■
MONSIGNOR FULTON J. SHEEN CONCLUDES LECTURE SERIES ON COMMUNISM WITH TALK TOMORROW NIGHT
By Robert McClain
The Rev. Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen, noted author, orator, apologist and professor of philosophy at Catholic university, who has been delivering a series of lectures this week on “The Cross and the Crisis,” will conclude his talks tomorrow evening at 8:00 p.m. in Washington Hall. “Apostleship and Communism,” will be the topic of his conclud-~	ing lecture.
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE HEARS L. BURNETT
AND F. HAINES
•
Lawrence Burnett and Frank Haines, seniors in the College of Science, inaugurated the delivery of student papers for the year at the 135th meeting of the Academy of Science. Papers of this kind will be
Scientist Frank Haines Peers At a Mystery.
given by seniors, and those who have been in the Academy for two consecutive semesters throughout the year. ’
Haines titled his paper, “What Is Cancer?” He pointed out that the cause of cancer is not known and that no truly successful cure has been advanced. Also that the reason why an older person is more likely to be affected by this growth is that the old tissues do not replace themselves as quickly as young tissue, and that the irritation must react over a long period of time. The Academy also learned that the majority of deaths due to this disease is in. female species.
The second paper, delivered by Mr. Burnett, dealt with a great American, who is now almost forgotten. The paper, “Edward Drinker Cope,” briefly introduced and sketched Edward Cope’s early life. A very effective parallelism was drawn, comparing Cope’s life with that of the Frenchman, Lamarck. The Academy members were told that undoubtedly America has her greatest naturalist in this scientist of the last century. Mr. Cope was an authority on reptiles, but his most famous work was done in paleontology.
Opening his lectures last Monday, Monsignor Sheen chose as his subject, “The New Apologetics,” he pointed out the methods which apologists must utilize to fight this philosophy of life called Communism.
“Future apologetics will not be concerned with a conflict between religion and science but with the interest of man. The struggle of the Church is not internal and opposition from without is not intellectual but moral,” he declared.
He stated that Communism is more than an economic problem, it is a philosophical problem. The struggle of philosophy in the next few years will be fought between the collective man of Communism and the free man of Christianity. Apologetics has to revive man’s personality which Communism mechanizes.
“A few centuries ago the Church had to battle to defend the freedom of the man to be a saint but today the Church has to battle against Communism and defend the freedom of the man to be a man,” he concluded.
Taking as his subject Tuesday night, “The Philosophy of Communism,” Monsignor Sheen explained the errors in the philosophy of Communism and the absorption of the individual as tools of the state.
He pointed out the extremes of Liberalism as opposed to Communism: Communism is right in its protests against social injustice, long hours, overemphasis on absolute property rights and low wages but these protests are not the monopoly of communism, nor its essential doctrine.
“Because there are rats in the bam, Communists would bum the bam. We believe in driving out the rats. Communism’s method is wrong, because it is based on violence. The proper way to establish earthly paradise is not by class hatred and struggle. Catholics believe in violence too, but not to our neighbor as the Communists, but to our selfishness; in other words violence against the egotism which would make us Communists,” he said.
Wednesday night, Monsignor Sheen spoke on, “The Tactics of Communism.” Tonight his subject will be, “Personalities in Communism.” -
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.
LAWRENCE FORETELLS FUTURE OF COST ACCOUNTING
•
W. B. Lawrence, certified public accountant from Chicago and accounting advisor for the National Association of Photo-Engravers, spoke before members of the Accountants’ club of the University of Notre Dame last Friday night in the auditorium of the Law building. Mr. Lawrence’s topic was “Why Cost Accounting?”
Author of the text, Cost Accounting, which has been a standard text ’ in the College of Commerce for a decade and a former professor of accounting at DePaul university, Mr. Lawrence reviewed the history of accounting, tracing the developments of cost accounting since 1915.
He laid particular stress on esti- mating, budget, and standard cost systems, and demonstrated the widespread use of cost accounting not only in manufacturing concerns but in mercantile and banking institutions as well.
Pointing out that cost accounting as applied to these industries is merely a breaking down of costs to enable managements to obtain a clearer view of each department, Mr. Lawrence explained how this shows up losses which otherwise would not be discernible.
He concluded his talk by an estimation of the future advancement of cost accounting, and predicted a bright future for it based on its expanding ability during the last few years.
Previous to the meeting, Mr. Lawrence was guest of honor at a dinner presented by the faculty members of the Financing and Accounting de. partments of the College of Commerce and by the officers of the Accountants’ club, headed by Paul Doran, held in the Lay-Faculty dining hall. .	.
Senior "Dome" Pictures Being Taken Daily
Pictures of seniors to be used in the 1936 Dome, Notre Dame yearbook, are being taken every week-day afternoon from 1:30 until 5:00 o’clock in the basement of Walsh hall. All Notre Dame students who will receive their degrees in 1937 are asked to have their pictures taken for the senior section; seniors in six-year ’ combination courses or those who will not receive their degrees until 1938 are not-eligible for this section.
Dome Editor Tom Radigan renewed the Dome’s request for pertinent, snapshots of student activties; such .as candid camera views of campus life.	•
35 "Scholastic" Editor Wins Harvard Award
John D. Carbine, ’35, former Editor-in-Chief of The Scholastic, has been honored with a “Faculty” scholarship at Harvard Law school in Cambridge, Massachusetts during the past two weeks.	.
The “Faculty” award is given annually to those who, in the preceding year, have maintained the highest averages in their respective courses and have shown a special aptitude for the law in general.
Carbine was graduated from here with an A.B. degree in June, 1935. He majored in Economics, and during his sophomore year was awarded the Sullivan Award for greatest improvement in his general scholastic average.	.
In addition to his work on The Scholastic Carbine was a member of the Blue Circle and active in interhall sports. His home is in Rutland, Vermont.
Boston Club Meets
The Boston Club, in a meeting in Carroll Rec., Friday, November 6, laid final plans for its Christmas dance. This dance will be held in Boston at the Hotel Kenmore on Monday, December 28. Bids for the dance will be §2.50, and dancing will be from nine until two. The orchestra has at yet not been decided upon, but it will be one of the leading orchestras of New England.
Dr. John M. Cooney Speaks At Dedication Of Memorial To Rev. John Banister Tabb
Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the Department of Journalism, returned to the campus this week from “The Forest,” Amelia County, Virginia, where he was one of the principal speakers at the dedication of a monument to Father John Banister Tabb on Saturday, November 7.	:
Dr. Cooney, is president of “The Forest” Memorial Association, and
Dr. John M. Cooney
Heads Dedication Program
was one of the prime movers in the program of erecting a marker to the memory of Virginia’s famous. priest poet. The movement , had its incep-
COMPTROLLER TELLS SCOPE OF N. Y. A.
EMPLOYMENT
•
Mr. F. M. Lloyd, comptroller of the University of Notre Dame in charge of student employment, has correlated the National Youth Administration program of employment with Notre Dame’s own program of student work projects in order to furnish an opportunity for Notre Dame men to earn a portion of their expenses.
Three hundred and seventy-five of the 850 students employed by Notre Dame are working on the' N.Y.A. projects, designated by the youth administration act as being socially desirable. Each project employs students well-fitted to the work; the intention being to make the administration of the federal funds profitable to students and the University.
Most of the work is conducted on the campus: mounting biological specimens under the direction of Dr. Theodore Just, indexing Catholic publications and source literature under Rev. Joseph H. Fiedler, C.S.C., and Librarian Paul Byrne, campus beautification under Brother Robert, C.S.C., and Michael Moser, and clerical and corrector’s work in all departments are some of the projects.
(Continued on Page 20)
tion on the Notre Dame campus about a year ago, and through the efforts of the association, the marker was erected last summer.
“The Forest” is located about 35 miles from Richmond, Virginia, and is the birthplace of Father Tabb. One acre of land on which the monument stands was donated to the Association by Mr. Ephraim Anderson of Amelia County who has deeded it to the Virginia State Commission of Conservation and Development. The Commission will care for maintenance of the plot.
On the dedicatory program with Dr. Cooney were many prominent Virginians including Governor George C. Peery, the Rev. Dr. John A. Kelliher of St. Peter’s, Richmond, Dr. Lewis H. Taylor of Aemlia County and Washington, D. C., and Wilber C. Hall, chairman of the state conservation commission.
Professor Francis Kervick, head of the Department of Architecture, is also one of the founders of “The Forest” Association, and has served as its secretary. He accompanied Dr. Cooney to Virginia for the dedication ceremonies.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.
7
"ART IS DIGNIFIED." JACQUES TELLS LISTENERS
•
“Art is always beautiful, dignified and noble; it is the most beautiful expression of any age of man,” declared Emil Jacques, associate professor of art and well-known artist, in a radio address, last Monday evening, over Station WFAM, South Bend, in the first of a series of addresses in observance of national art week.
Tracing the history of art from its beginning, Professor Jacques stated that it is possible to delineate and judge the culture of people through its painting and art. America, however, he asserted, is primitive in this in comparison to the history of other countries.
In his talk, “Art of Painting in America,” he said that there was a great deal of uncertainty in the minds of many people concerning modern art. He pointed out that the artist uses nature to express his emotions in colors.
Professor Jacques expressed a hope that there would be a better understanding of art in the future. Real art is logically simple; easy to understand, he said.
“The government has spent more money in the past four years on art than ever before,” he declared. He pointed out the impetus given to mural work in recent years after it was feared that the art of the muralist would die out.
Professor Jacques was well pleased by the indicated revival of mural work_ which he likened to opera as easel painting can be likened to an aria or sonata. Today, government funds have aided in the increase of mural expression, and muralists are in the forefront of modem art tendencies and discussion.
Lunn To Speak Before Bookmen Wednesday
Arnold Lunn has tentatively agreed to speak at a meeting of the Bookmen on November 18- at 7:45 p. m., in the former library of the Hurley Hall of Commerce.
In the event that he will not be able to appear before the meeting, different members will review some of the books which the club has purchased recently.
Robert Mullen will comment upon “Burning City” by Stephen Vincent Benet. “Green Margins” will be reviewed by John Schemmer. Other new books, “The People, Yes” and “Essays Ancient and Modem” will be discussed by Harold Williams and Thomas O’Brien.
"Lawyer" To Present Many New Guest Writers
•
The Lawyer, which will make its initial appearance this month, has"announced an imposing array of distinguished men who will make contributions to this edition.
The group is headed by Mr. Joseph E. Keller, of the Federal Radio Commission, and by Mr. James J. Kearney, a member of the Law Faculty of Loyola University' in Chicago. The list of featured articles is supplemented by one of our own Law Faculty, Professor, William M. Cain, and Mr. Francis W. Matthys, who graduated from Notre Dame last June.
One of the features of last year’s Lawyer, “Indiana Annotations to the Restatement of the Law of Agency,” will be continued in this edition.
The remainder of the magazine will be completed by the students of the Law School, who have prepared articles on recent cases, notes in supplement tothese cases and book reviews.
Those who have charge of this last branch are the following; Anthony W. Brick, Arthur Gregory, William L. Struck, James H. Levy, Robert J. Schmelzle, William R. Bowes, Arthur R. Martin, Harry Grube, W. J. Sheridan, Thomas Proctor, and Guy McMichael.
Premier Issue Of "Scrip" Reveals
New Talent. New Names. New Cover
The first edition of Scrip, literary quarterly under the editorship of Philip Welsh, met favorable approval among the student body following distribution last Friday afternoon. This
John Gallivan
issue is particularly well done, and from all indications should do much to en-h a n c e student interest in this literary publication. -
Considerable comment was offered with regard t o the attractive new
cover of Scrip. Hugo Melchione, senior in the department of fine arts, designed the cover, whose chief charm is contained in its simplicity. The combination of gray and brown is especially effective.
Several works of fiction were in
।
cluded in this premier edition. All of them are entertaining and show considerable improvement over former years. “A Night Out” by John
CAMPUS ART TO TOUR FIVE MIDWESTERN
STATES SOON
•
The work of Notre Dame’s own student artists is once more on tour. The paintings, creations of art pupils of former years, will be exhiibted at twennty-four high schools and academies in five different states.
In the exhibit are thirty-two large mounted mats of drawings, original designs, and watercolors. In addition there are sixteen framed oil paintings.
The exhibit will start from South Bend, where it will be on display in the South Bend Central High School for two weeks, then will go to Mishawaka. The exhibit’s itinerary includes schools in Indiana,, Michigan, Illinois, Ohio, and Wisconsin.
In connection with this exhibit, it was announced that the group of paintings by last year’s art students which was sent to St. Mary-of-the-Woods college for the second annual Indiana Catholic High School and College art show, had received various awards.
Hugo Melchione, senior art student, took a first prize honorable mention for his charcoal life, displayed in the pictorial section; he also took a sec-(Continned cm Page 8)
William Gallivan; “Channel Crisis” by Justin C. McCann; and “Big Crowd” by Herman Romberg were among the most outstanding of those appearing in Scrip’s 1936-37 debut.
Revival in the writing of poetry was manifested by the excellence of the verses contained in this issue. “Kinsman to the Sea” by Joseph O’Brien, C.S.C., and “Pitch of Pain” by William A. Donnelly are two of the excellent works of poetry. Other verses were submitted by P. Q. Wylie and Chester Soleta, C.S.C., to complete a fine poetry section.
“Langland’s Way” by Francis M. O’Laughlin is a comprehensive consideration of the long English poem “Piers the Plowman.” Mr. O’Laughlin considers not only the work itself but also the author’s life and background. “Each age, almost every country has its interpretation of the Way. Medieval England’s was William Langland’s “Piers Plowman.”
The newly inaugurated department of criticism chooses for its first topic the cinema production of Romeo and
(Continued on Page 8)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.
FORUM CLUB HEARS TWO SPEAKERS;
TOUR PLANT
o
Professor Eells, of the Finance Department, and Don Eldriddge, sales manager of Wyman’s, in South Bend, were the guest speakers at the last meeting of the Commerce Forum. Professor Eells spoke on consumers’ credit, and Mr. Elderriddge outlined the principles of retailing and merchandising.
A meeting of the board of directors, composed of three senior and three junioi* members of the Forum, made an appropriation for the dies of the Forum keys. The keys, which are emblematic of Forum membership, will be ready for distribution some time this week.
On Friday, November 6, 45 members participated in the tour of inspection of the Studebaker plant in South Bend. This tour consists of following the production of an automobile, from foundry to assembly line.
The annual Forum Questionnaire was started on Tuesday, November 10, by a staff of 20 members. The questionnaire is used to determine the buying habits of Notre Dame men.
"Scrip" Reviewed
(Continued from, Page 7)
Juliet. The comment is favorable with considerable praise expressed of Miss Norma Shearer’s portrayal of Juliet. The critic appears to be well pleased with the selection of actors for this Shakespearean tragedy.
The Freshmen sketches were among the best ever to appear in Scrip. John Meany, Earl D. Schalliol, Carl Schal-liol, and Burley Clay Johnston contributed interesting sketches to this first issue. Further cooperation, it is hoped, will aid in the development of one of the most interesting features of this magazine. ‘
Campus Art Tours
(Continued from Page 7)
ond prize of five dollars for his advertising design in the creative arts division.. Notre Dame almost made a clean sweep in this section as George Delker took first prize with his advertising design; and Francis Kroeger, art editor of The Scholastic, won honorbale mention in the same group.
The exhibit at St. Mary-of-the-Woods began November 1 and .will . end .November ,15. It is the second annual exhibit of the schools, and has ' earned considerable praise. The prizes for the .winning pictures were donated by Mr. P. C. Reilly of Indian- : apolis.	’
Philip Flahavin Welsh, of Anderson, Indiana, and you’ll have to take our word for the middle name . . . resident of 315 Sorin Hall . . . basketball player extraordinary and editor of Scrip.
Editor Welsh has two secrets which he nurses with infinite care . . . one of them is his record on the St. Mary’s High School basketball squad . . . the other is the identity and
whereabouts of P. Q. Wylie. We can tell you the tale of the first secret, but the second is shrouded in deepest mystery and a coat of peroxide.
Get the picture: Struggling lad persists through three years of trials on the basketball squad without a blow . . . senior year . . . section tournament .... our boy gets the crisp call and wades into action . . . the crowd roars, our hero groans . . . he gets the ball, shoots, and bags his one and only basket of a long career . . . that’s “Dead Eye” Welsh.
But P. Q. Wylie? . . . He’s here, he’s there, he’s everywhere, but Editor Welsh refuses to be quoted . ... some say Wylie is the Anderson spelling for Welsh . . . others don’t say anything . . . especially Welsh.
Flahavin Welsh is pixilated according to best reports ... he constantly plays a tatoo on his lower lip with moistened finger tips ... he is constantly late for meals but usually manages to find a seat . . . He may have to move from Sorin if the other inhabitants ever see his huge collection of books . . . it’s something of a* record for Sorin.
Phil writes constantly, but nobody knows what happens to the manuscripts . . . never indulges in poetry . . He is an English major with a prodigious-average and plans to enter University of Michigan next year for a Law course.	'
. Editor Welsh is currently billed "as -Saint Mary’s favorite blind date '. receives some mysterious call period-
NEW LIBRARY REPORT SHOWS SWING IS TO NON-FICTION
•
Now that midsemester examinations are in the background, the leisure attention of those who spend this time in plying through the card indices of the library will be rewarded with recent arrivals of new books designed to give their readers an interesting and practical slant upon nearly every field.
If your interest is in sociology, Seventy Years of It, an autobiography by E. A. Ross will satisfy your wants. For the art student, or those interested in art, Making a Lithograph by S. Wengenroth is one of the most popular books. .
Of interest in the new arrivals is Original Reading for Catholic Action, written by Burton Confrey, former professor at Notre Dame, which is dedicated to Paul R. Byrne, librarian of the University library. The library has also received another recent book by Mr. Confrey entitled Readings for Catholic Action. Both books have been increasingly popular since they were published.
Rubber, an up-to-date book on the present day activities in the manufacture of rubber, edited by coauthors Howard and Ralph Wolfe, gives special attention to the experiments on synthetic rubber by the late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C.
In the American Literature section several books should be most attractive. One of these is Now That April’s Here by M. Callaghan. This book is comprised of 35 short stories which have to do with the problems of love, conflict, and of the men confronted by these problems.
In the list of short stories the most prominent is Stories for Men by Charles Grayson. This anthology is composed of such well known writers as H. L. Mencken, Damon Runyon, Alexander Woollcott, and Ernest Hemmingway. The main vein in each of the stories is a distinctive “mannish” appeal and a striving away from the feminine.
ically that sends him scurrying across the road . . . Possibly he’s paving the way for his younger brother who is due here in two years.
Philip Flahavin was bom on his mother’s birthday . . . February 6, 1916 . . . Last week produced one of the finest copies of Scrip seen on the campus in many moons . . . Still retains a more than slight bashfulness . . . He persists in wearing that bombastic coat that can be seen and heard for blocks". . .'We musn’t let him forget he was once a 'demon reporter for The Scholastic . . . a news man who made good. - .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.
9
THE WEEK
By John A. Gillespie
WRANGLERS TO BEGIN HALL DEBATES ON MONDAY
Open Letter
Dear S.A.C.,
A few weeks ago you fostered a campaign to boycott some local theatres unless they acceded to your demands of clean vaudeville with clean advertising. Your purpose was laudable and you are congratulated for your attempted purging of the illegitimate theatre, but, if you’ll permits our two-bit’s worth, we feel that your tack was misdirected. We laud your protest but feel you led with the wrong hand.
We believe that the bills presented are more laughable than obscene. The comedy is artless; the performers don’t know they are ludicrous, but they are. Perhaps we don’t get indignant quickly or easily enough, because it strikes us that the objectionable presentations can be ridiculed out of success. Glance at the advertising; it’s enough to make you bust a suspender button. There are the inevitable French titles — you know, that exotic touch. Then examine the names of the “stars:” there is always a Chinese cognomen to lure the balcony trade. And, funniest of all, is the boringly ever-present assurance that the show is either direct from a decade run in New York at top prices (only thirty-five cents to the South Benders), or that the crowned heads of Europe were in the aisles of their castles during the command ‘piffaw-mance.” If you want to succeed in your campaign, get the boys laughing at the shows; most of us are in stitches already.
Yours for ridicule,
Food Item
Like a call from the pleasant past comes a letter from last year’s Scholastic chief, John Moran, of New York. He reports that a foreign movie entitled “The Mysteries of Notre Dame” is featured at the 55th Street Playhouse For no apparent reason he wants to know if the mysteries could be the dining hall coffee and meat cakes. Tactfully we refuse to answer, on the grounds that it might tend to incriminate us. After all, John, we have to live here.
•
Things We'd Like to Know
The names and ages of the two horses that pull the University wagon so gallantly about the local flats.
Why the acreage adjoining Alumni hall was fenced in, thus negating so many thrilling sport spectacles.
What would happen if someone asked for hors d’oeuvre at the candy store.
What would happen if a brash person asked for a mud pack at the campus tonsorial temple.
Why “Bearskin” doesn’t retire to a non-controversial life of farming.
Bravado
The incident which we are about to relate was viewed about two sheetchangings ago, but it’s still good. Lee Moorman, of the Detroit Moormans, entered the caf for breakfast, bought a mug of coffee, sat at a table, and took a large crumb cake from his coat. He had brought it from his room, shunning the cafeteria pastries, and he attracted more than a few titters from the nearby late eaters. We know he did it just for publicity, so we’ll totally ignore his try at notoriety (The usual space rates, please, Moorman).
Flight
Roosevelt and Landon? Oh, yes, but did you hear about the fire in Cavanaugh Hall? Now there was something. In the highest heat of the balloting smoke was discovered in the basement of the hall. An absentminded student had tossed a lighted cigarette down the laundry chute; sheets and miscellaneous debris flamed. Notre Dame aidermen rushed to the scene, and, as they say in the best journalistic circles, “soon had the blaze under control.” Most of them regretted their interest—it was a mild fire. But a resident, lacking confidence, seized a chest of drawers, crammed into it all his valuables, and fled out the front door. The august political assemblage guffawed, even as you would have. Fifteen minutes after the ashes were cold, the South Bend fire department puffed in. Anticlimax.
Please, No More
As if enough hadn’t happened already, we saw a pipe for sale in the candy store; “Notre Dame” is lettered on it, and to make things more definitive, the numerals “40.” Just the right note for the Christmas vacation. Can you imagine a freshman walking through his home town at Yuletide with that fine pipe clenched in his even, strong, white teeth, smiling benevolently and condescendingly at the awed high school kids? We can stand just so much of that; then we explode in a bright blue flame.
Monday evening, Nov. 16, the first in a series of Interhall debates will
take place at 8:00 o’clock in the auditorium of the Law Building. The debates, all sponsored by the Wran
Richard Meier
glers Club, will e x t e n d to the Christmas vacation, and the final debate will be held at St. Mary’s College.
■ The schedule for the Junior-Senior debates during the coming week is as follows: M o n-
day, Howard Affirmative vs.
Walsh Negative; Tuesday, Sorin Affirmative vs. Brownson-Carroll Negative; and ending the first round Wednesday night with the Dillon Affirmative opposing Alumni Negative.
At the meeting last Thursday evening in the Seminary room of the Law building, James Burke offered a speech on the subject “Summary of the Political Campaign, Results, and the Possibility of a Change in the Future.” A discussion by the members of the club followed.
Edward Boyle and James. Burke were voted into honorary membership of the club during the meeting last week. This brings the total honorary membership to four, all of whom are in the law school.
With the announcement of Interhall debate it was also mentioned that the Wranglers’ have been invited to present a weekly broadcast of a portion of their regular meetings. This however, has been deferred until the Interhall debating has been completed.
At the present time the active membership of the club is twelve with a maximum quota for the club set at 20. The remaining eight vacancies will be filled at the conclusion of the Interhall debate as is the custom.
Richard Meier, president of the Wranglers, has announced that at tonight’s meeting, the paper will be given by Clifford Brown, a member of the club. A discussion of the paper will follow, and a few additional plans for the Interhall debate will be considered.
San Jose State College is now sending out life-time athletic passes to graduates who while students, proved their high quality in the field of sports.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.
CALENDAR
Friday, November 18
Classes end at 12:00 noon; Student trip to Army game, leave South Bend, 1:30 p.m.; “Scholastic of the Air,” 4:00 p.m., WSBT through campus radio station; Lecture, Msgr. Fulton Sheen, “Apostleship and Communism,” Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Saturday, November H
Mass for football team, Sacred Heart Church, 6:25 a.m.; Army trip cavalcade arrives New York, 8:25 a.m.; Football game, Army vs. Varsity, Yankee stadium, New York, 1:30 p.m.; Football game, “B” team vs. Illinois “B” team, Stadium, 2:00 p.m.; Dinner dance, Notre Dame club of New York, Hotel Pennsylvania, 7:00 p.m.; Benefit military dance, Hotel Astor, Vincent Lopez and his orchestra, 9:00 p.m.
Sunday, November 15
Student Masses, at Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Communion breakfast, Rhode Island club, Lay-Faculty dining hall, 8:30 a.m.; St. Vincent de Paul meeting, K. of C. chambers, Walsh Hall; K. of C. officers’ meeting, K. of C. chambers; Student trip goers leave New York, 2:00 p.m.
Monday, November 16
Student trip comes to an end, 6:55 a.m.; Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; S. A. C. meeting, basement of library, 6:30 p.m.; Chesterton club meeting, engineering auditorium, 8:00 p.m.; Interhall debate, Howard affirmative vs. Walsh negative, Law auditorium, 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday, November 17
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Patricians meeting, Law building, 7:45 p.m.; Arnold Lunn lecture, “Olympic Games; Old and New,” Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.; Interhall debate, Sorin affirmative vs. Brownson - Carroll negative, Law auditorium, 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, November 18
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Press club meeting, Law building, 7:45 p.m.; Bookmen meeting, Hurley Hall of Commerce, 7:45 p.m.; Maryland-Dis-trict club meeting, Hurley Hall of Commerce, 7:45 p.m.; Interhall debate, Dillon affirmative vs. ' Alumni negative, Law auditotrium, 8:00 p.m.
Thursday, November 19
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Lecture, Dr. Arthur Haas, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m., “Physics and Religion”; Cracow club meeting, Law building, 6:30 p.m.; Band smoker, Lay-Faculty dining hall.
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O'Boyle
First Hand Information
If conditions in Nebraska penal institutions are soon changed, a young law student of Nebraska University and his father, a prominent criminal lawyer of that state, will be to some extent partially responsible. Cooperating with the Governor and the State Prison Board of Nebraska, these two men allowed themselves to be arrested, finger printed, and “mugged” under the name of “De Witt” and sentenced to a . state penitentiary on a fraudulent real estate charge.
Only the Governor, the Board and the prison warden knew their real identities. Permission for them to undertake this study was granted through the influence of the governors of two states only on the condition that after their release they would immediately turn in a complete report of their experiences to the State Prison Board for state perusal.
More Material for Tunis
Now that Mr. Tunis has delivered his annual tirade on collegiate professionalism in sports, we are waiting for him to turn a typewriter barrage on Mussolini and condemn his policies regulating Italian athletics. Certainly H Duce falls under the Tunis ban for when the Italian Olympic squad visited him every member of the team who returned with an Olympic honor was given a sum of money in proportion to the victory scored. Special attention was given to Italy’s star athletes who are fathers or soon expect to become Benedicts in the form of insurance policies worth 10,000 lire. The policies are to be applied to the first child of each married athlete.
In Passing
Who started those “Knock, knock, who’s there” sillies? At last the wretch has been disclosed. Put your shooting irons away, though, since it is too late to do anything about it. Who was it? The answer is none other than William Shakespeare. If you doubt it, as we did, the De Paulia correctly refers you to the great Bard’s immortal “MacBeth.” In the script of this play the Porter thrice utters that fateful phrase “Knock, knock, who’s there?” (Incidentally he makes it “Knock, knock, knock, who’s there.”
“What’s Sauce for the Goose,—”
Some students at Hastings not so long ago were sharply reprimanded for.leaving one of their classrooms' ten minutes after the bell had assembled the class. When asked why, they said that the professor had not
From The Files Of "The Scholastic"
•
Nov. 8, 1879—The Penmanship department is in a flourishing condition under its present management.
Nov. 13, 1880 — Snow-balling has been strictly prohibited by our worthy president, and for very good reasons.
Nov. 12, 1881 — The cat on the roof of Phelan Hall, attracted no little attention Tuesday afternoon.
Nov. 11, 1882 — It is said that the walls of our beautiful church are already splendidly decorated, and do not require the addition of such superfluous ornaments as hats, caps, etc.
Nov. 14, 1885 — As we sit in our sanctum, dreaming of new, the martial tread of footsteps and the stentorian tones of the captains come from the campus and fall upon the tympanum of our ear.
Broccoli To Read Paper On Wilde Tuesday
Matthew Bruccoli, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters and president of the Patricians, will deliver an interpretative discussion of the checkered life and times of Oscar
Wilde, brilliant English writer prominent at the turn of the century, at the organization’s regularly scheduled meeting to be held next Tuesday evening.
His will be the first of a
Matthew Bruccoli series of critical and biographical lectures and discussions on classical and neo-classical writers arranged by the program committee of the Patricians under its new plan. The committee has adopted a plan whereby the members present their papers in alphabetical order.
No meeting was held this week in deference to the Msgr. Fulton Sheen lecture series, “The Cross and the Crisis,” presented in Washington hall.
At a previous meeting, Thomas Doody, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, read a paper disclosing startling features of the life and fashions of the Romans and Greeks.
arrived by that time. The next time that particular class met their professor told them that his hat was on the classroom desk thus showing that he was there. The following day when the professor arrived the room was empty except for a single hat on each desk.	'	’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAF SMOKE
It’s been a long time since we’ve had a whole page to ourselves, with a cartoon and everything! It looks as though we’re back for keeps. Things have been happening, other things besides 3-0 scores too. But still that Navy trio won’t be quiet.
JOE HENEBRY (Howard) is still talking' about that 95 yard run he made three years ago, back in good old Plainsfield . . . JACK McMAHON (Cavanaugh) was anxious to secure accommodations for a guest over the Ohio State week-end — there was no room at the inns and Jack even tried the Infirmary, but they too had the S.R.O. out.
After the Storm Department: The campus Republican Club, including such men of Walsh as SAM MI-NELLA, JAMES BALES, JAMES BURKE, along with brother MITCHELL TACKLEY, are still waiting for the rural vote to come in. Rumor has it that the Republicans are going to vote next week. But remember boys — “As Maine goes, so goes Vermont.”
Military tactics do not cover the peculiar trouble suffered by PAUL GUARNIERI at band practice. It seems Paul has special pratcice shoes, in round numbers about size 12, the eminent cornetist has some difficulty maneuvering both himself, the horn and the shoes. He has applied for a license to run a private parade.
FRANK EGAN, dean of the Amateur Plumber’s Union of Walsh Hall, has made the most of his discovery of a small wheel in his closet. It sseems the wheel operates a valve which in turn controls the water bubbler, which in turn sprays the noses of the thirsty, who in turn mumble and mummer while Demon Egan chuckles.
It is rumored, rumors are forever popping up, that “HUNGRY JOHN” ULLMANN was seen near the handball courts. Now to those who do not know “Hungry John” that sounds innocent enough, but for Ullmann to be in the same county with any form of physical exercise is the biggest news since Mallett left the campus.
We note with glee that in a Sunday morning newspaper, demon columnist MARK HELLINGER picks Notre Dame over Navy. Order the keeper of the seal to strike out a medal for Mr. Hellinger for his undying Irish optimism — that’s the old never - say - die spirit! He probably thought somebody was tinkering with his radio.
Short shots: ED GANNON was last
seen peering through a bristly growth, grooming for an Abe Lincoln part, no doubt . . . President JOE QUINN has the Jersey Club sign hanging department up to a new peak, never were signs more robust . . . RICK GILLIS has decided not to secede, after all the State is the thing Rick says, any given State . . . Then there’s BEN SCHEARER, yes indeed, the original Fred Astaire, Doc Cooney’s pride and joy from away back with his clocklike precision at halting classes. Ben’s sure a card! . . . Hand me that accordion !
Up and At ’Em Department: “TIGER” STROKER stomping out of the laundry without his other shirt simply because he didn’t have a ticket.
There are several names we have decided not to mention in this column; some of them have slipped our mind, so that there will be no misunderstanding we would like to jot the others down. The list includes such stalwarts as JOE GALLAGHER, “GEECH” PURYEAR, “TEX” DURKIN, JACKO’LEARY, JERRY SCHEAFFER and several others. Strange we can’t remember why it was we shouldn’t use those names.
"I TOLD YA IT WASN'T AT THE POLO GROUNDS"
We have gathered, very painstakingly, a list of names in and about New York where one guest (?) might possibly be able to find a pile of husks during the Army week-end— but we’re holding out—for a nominal sum. Demon Scribe RICHARD RILEY recently crashed the hallowed pages of The Pointer, West Point magazine; ever since he saw the issue Dick has been striding with military precision; we look for a Sam Brown belt any day now.
Here’s a kick: CHARLEY ROG-GENSTEIN is going hunting Saturday morning — Let’s have one quick chorus of “ ’Mid Shot and Shell,” and then three minutes of silence for the ducks — lucky fellows! But then, how would you like to have Roggenstein hunt you — he’d practically haunt you in fact.
We overheard a long and involved story recently in which Sorin’s HOWIE MURDOCK had the leading role — the whole thing has slipped our minds a little, but it had something to do with a big dance, a big noise, a big wind, and Murdock. It was very good.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Discz Quasi Semper Vidurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus
Founded 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C........Faculty Adviser
PAUL FOLEY...................    Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER..................Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie__________________The Week
Anthony F. O'Boyle College Parade
John Hurley---------------------Feature Editor
Robert L. Grogan“Scholastic of the Air" Joseph Rotondo----------------In The Juggler Vein
News Staff
Louis DaPra_______________________________________News Editor
Harold A. Williams______________________Assistant News Editor
Michael Mongoven Frank Reilly
Richard Riley-----------------------------Robert McClain
Graham Starr
Vincent Hartnett")	.
Gregory Byrnes >_______________________________Literary Editors
Harold Williams J
Sports Staff
Eugene Vaslett__________________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe------------------------Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley--------------------------------Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride----------------------------Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby_____________________________John Cufford
Charles Callahan William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott--------------------------------James A. Waldron
James Dunn
Francis Kroeger_________________________________Art Editor
William R. Dooley. ’26_______________________________Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Vol. 70
November 13; 1936
No. 7
NINETEEN DAYS OF HISTORY ...
YESTERDAY for the nineteenth time the world paused to remember the cessation of its last great war.
Eighteen years have passed since hysterical soldiers threw away their guns in the stink and mud of trenches. Eighteen years have brought a steady healing of the wounds of conflict, it has brought too, a dullness in the consciousness of men when they try to recall the vivid horrors of the war.
Most of us are so-called “War Babies,” some few of us are old enough to have a vague memory of the first Armistice Day. It is to us that this nineteenth anniversary is particularly important.
To the men who fought in France this day is best forgotten; to the men who missed fighting by a year or two, and to the men too old for service, the need of forceful reminders is still not necessary. It is to tomorrow’s
soldiers that Armistice Day should carry a pointed and shrieking message.
None of us has seen first hand the -wrath of a world gone gun crazy. None of us has felt for himself the weight of a rifle aimed at a fellow man; none of us has fallen exhausted into trenches; none of us has worn the metal headgear of the soldier. Neither has any one of us known the hilarious joy of the dawn of a first real Armistice day.
No war in the history of the world has left scars so hard to heal as the last one. No war has involved every man woman and child in every country of the earth as closely as the last one. In one sense we, who must eventually decide the course of the world’s armies, can still see and feel the effects of battle. We have seen a world gone crazy with unreasoning joy, we have seen the rocketing boom of a world hurrying as fast as possible from the scene of its woes, and we have seen too the crash of that world—we have felt lean years of depression. So in a subtler way we have been at war.
Yesterday commemorated the cessation of hostilities at the front—there has never been a cessation of the hostilities created in the hearts and minds of men by war.
Yesterday the world took stock, yesterday the world must have realized that only now, with a new period of sounder prosperity starting, we are beginning to feel a real Armistice. The world has levelled the trenches of battlefields—now the world must realize that after eighteen years it must level the trenches of the future, must keep forever stifled the gnawing hate that breeds war.
UNIVERSITY THEATER...
INTO what special form of lethargy has the University
Theater fallen? For some unknown reason it never has been found necessary to enlarge the facilities at Washington hall to accommodate the throng of ambitious actors, but at least in the past there was some activity and we did see some good productions. This year things seem to have hit a definite impasse. No word of secret rehearsals has leaked out, and certainly no public plans have been announced.
Once more the cause lies in the student ranks. No one else is to blame if a strictly student activity is allowed to die a slow death. Faculty direction will be immediately forthcoming at the first sign of student interest.
The student theater is one of the oldest of extracurricular activities, it is one of the richest in tradition, and one of the most valuable in the training it gives. It seems a shame that so little can be done on our own campus to utilize the skill we must possess, to work under the fine direction that is available, and to foster an activity that once ranked at the top in any list of activities.
Student publications from various other schools outline ambitious plans, review many student productions, reveal a general campus enthusiasm for theatricals. Wayne University in Detroit, smaller than Notre Dame and with students scattered over an entire city manage to produce a play a month.
The University Theater group will undoubtedly issue a call for candidates in the near future—a good response would go a long way toward reviving campus dramatics.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.	13
Off For Heidelberg
By Robert Mullen
Editor’s Note: This is the first in a series of articles to be written for The Scholastic by Robert J. Mullen. Mullen was a sophomore here last year and won a scholarship to the University of Heidelberg in Germany. He has agreed to tvrite to The Scholastic from time to time telling of student life in Europe, especially the life found by an average American university student. His first article deals principally with the trip across the Atlantic.
It was September 5. For the past two w’eeks I had made an extensive tour of the East and this day finally brought me to New York. My first stop was at the North German Lloyd dock where the gigantic SS Bremen was moored. After checking my baggage I began my tour of the city. Times Square, 42nd Street, Fifth Avenue and all the rest. No doubt every one could spot immediately I was the “country boy come to town.” The only time I looked in any other direction but toward the zenith was during the few moments required to cross the streets — and even then I was nearly killed.
While on the observation tower of the Empire State Building I noticed a group of young Italian boys who apparently were from some training ship. Accosting one of their members I found out that he could not speak English, and I by no means could speak Italian. Ah! — but the German saved the day! He could speak it very proficiently, and though my German was anything but fluent, we did manage to carry on a very interesting conversation. He was but fifteen years old, and had been on the training ship for more than a month. He had been in many foreign ports, and New York was his last stop before returning home. That was my first attempt at German conversation —and it would have to be in New York!
About 10:00 p. m. I boarded the SS. Bremen and made what little inspection of the ship I could with everything locked at the time. At midnight the last warning signal was given. Then followed the goodbyes, “aufwiedersehens,” waving of handkerchiefs, yelling, singing, and crying. Shortly after 1:00 a. m. we weighed anchor. As the dock slowly slipped away I began to realize just what “aufwiedersehen” meant. One
year in foreign lands lay ahead of me! For several hours I remained on deck and watched the lights of Manhattan slowly slip away. It would be late in the summer of 1937 before I would again see our Statue of Liberty.
For the first time in years I was rocked to sleep, and the last thing I heard was the soft lullaby of swishing waters.
* * *
Our first day out was a bright and sunshiny, but cool day. I finally had the chance to see what my cabin looked like. Two bunks, clothes’ closet, wash basin with hot and cold water, a good size mirror, a rug, airconditioning, and of course, a key. My cabin was quite narrow, but since no one shared it with me, I was quite comfortable in my private suite. With the ship rolling a bit I knew it would be a delicate, if not dangerous, oper-atinon to shave. Bracing myself as best I could, I got up the old Notre Dame fighting spirit and began the battle. I emerged victorious, but not unscathed.
Not long afterward I made the acquaintance of a lively crowd. A motion to make an inspection of the ship was unanimously seconded. My cabin was situated on the starboard side, near the center of the ship, on “D” deck. This was an ideal location in that the effects of any rolling or pitching were least felt here. Both in the bow and stern on the “C” deck were the parlors. Here all parties, dances and other social affairs were held. The enclosed “promenade” was on “B” deck, and it was here that most of the people had their deck chairs. But it was in the bow on “A” deck—the open deck—that our crowd decided to make its headquarters. Though we could not make a round-trip tour of the • ship on the dack, we had plenty of room and occasion for all the walking and exercise we cared to have. The dining room is located in the stern, and one worked up a healthy appetite just walking from the bow to the stern! Don’t kid yourself by thinking that the SS. Bremen is a rowboat! In the stem on both “A” and “B” decks the pingpong tables, shuffle boards, and other deck games, are found. The one disadvantage, or rather discomfort, of this section is the incessant vibration. The ship propellers revolve at a terrific rate—and you feel it too! After a while one becomes accustomed to it, but the process of acclimation is sometimes a painful one.
From this brief account it can be seen that we had plenty of room for everything — except shaving! One other thing — Did you ever take a salt-water bath? If not — try it! But if you are the temperamental type — stay away. One can be driven insane by trying to work up any kind of a lather — even with special salt-water soap. No matter how earnest or energetic the efforts may be, I can assure you they will always be futile. You would think that one lesson would be enough for anyone. But, boy! — Can I take it! — I lived through three' of those nerve-racking occasions.
With the perfect sailing weather we had it was impossible to become seasick. Aside from the few who were so predispossessed with the idea they must get seasick the moment they stepped on board the ship, and, consequently, were sick before the ship had left the harbor, every one had a glorious time.
On the second night out a Bock Beer festival was held. I mention this because it was perhaps the liveliest and jolliest evening of all. The last evening, however, is a strong contender for these honors.
Thursday, Sept. 9, the third class passengers made a tour of the ship. Being an early riser — never before 12:00—I thought I had missed my chance to get a real glimpse of the “insides” of the boat.’ It was therefore a most pleasant surprise when a professor from the Mt. Wilson observatory and myself received a special invitation from the commodore’s secretary to inspect the ship. At 5:00 p. m. we found ourselves on the bridge, which, as you know, is the “holy of holies” on any ship. The first mate explained everything to us, even showing us how the different mechanisms operated. This was followed by a tour of the ship which lasted until dinner time. I really felt quite flattered by the compliment paid me, for it isn't often that anyone but a high officer can get on the bridge.
* * *
Land ahead! Friday, Sept. 11, 7:00 a. m. —Cherbourg. All my heroic efforts in getting up so early were in vain. Fog obstructed any decent view of the historic harbor. About 10:00 we were in Southhampton. Again fog made any satisfactory study of the town impossible. In a few hours we were on our way again up through the channel bound for our final stop, Bremen. -
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.
ATHLETICS -
IRISH GRID TEAM MEETS ARMY SATURDAY IN ONE OF SEASON'S HARDEST TILTS;
IRISH TO TRY FOR COMEBACK
IRISH BEAT BUCKEYES IN THRILLING GAME BY 7-2 SCORE
By John Cackley
Notre Dame’s bruised but courageous grid squad ■wall again renew its colorful and traditional rivalry, Saturday afternoon, against a mighty West Point eleven in Yankee Stadium, before approximately 75,000 people.
The Irish and Cadets never fail to stage a four-act performance that leaves the fans either in a state of hysteria or one bordering on nervewracking fatigue, and the 1936 contest promises no exception. Even though both teams have been decisively defeated, they nevertheles possess the necessary “punch” and drawing power to furnish 60 minutes of thrills and spills for the ' football-minded public.
Coach Gar Davidson’s proteges had the misfortune to bump up against Colgate’s Red Raiders two weeks ago, and received their lone blot thus far on the schedule. Playing more or less of a “breather” schedule, Army has triumphed over Washington & Lee, Columbia, Harvard, Springfield, and Muhlenberg. In doing so they have annexed 181 points to the oppositions’ 35.
Notre Dame, with a vastly inexperienced combine from last year’s holdovers, has succeeded in winning from Carnegie Tech, Washington U., Wisconsin, and Ohio- State, while dropping a pair of hard-fought affairs to Pitt and Navy respectively. The Gold and Blue has captured a total of 69 markers compared to 44 registered by the enemy.
Monk Meyer is again slated to be the spearhead of the Generals’ attack, while in all probability he will be
(Continued on Page 21)
McCOffM/CfC
Cross-Country Win
Undaunted by the fact that crosscountry was this year relegated to the list of forgotten sports at Notre Dame, the Irish harriers quietly slipped up to Chicago last Saturday where they captured the sixth annual Loyola Invitational meet. Leading Notre Dame to the tape were the two sensational sophomores Steve Szuma-chowski and Greg Rice who tied for first in the record breaking time of 18:13.9 minutes for the 3% miles course. The old mark of 18:14.4 was set by Billy Zepp of Michigan State Normal in 1934. This was the first time that the Irish had ever won this meet and they did it to the tune of 33% to 35%, the margin being over Milwaukee State Teachers.
John Francis staged a gallant finish for Notre Dame to tie for fifth place and he was followed by Arch Gott and Bill Donnelley. The Irish took an early lead in the jaunt over the windswept course, at one time having their five men in front as a team trophy Coach Nicholsan’s boys won a large gold figure mounted on a handsome onyx base. In the field of 50 runners from ten midwestem schools Illinois State Normal finished third with 63 points; Wheaton fourth with 114; Illinois Wesleyan, 134; Western Illinois State Teachers, 135; Loyola, 170%; Wabash, 177%, and Armour Tech, 218.
On The Enemies' Trail
TO DATE:
Army — Defeated Washington & Lee; Columbia; Harvard; Springfield; and Muhlenberg. Lost to Colgate.
Northwestern — Defeated Iowa; North Dakota; Ohio State; Illinois; Minnesota; and Wisconsin.
Southern California — Defeated Oregon State; Oregon; Illinois; and Stanford. Tied Washington State. Lost to California.
THIS WEEK:
Army plays Notre Dame. Northwestern plays Michigan. Southern California plays Washington.
By Al Bride
The largest crowd evei- to push its way into the local stadium witnessed an alert Notre Dame team triumph, 7-2, over the tricky ball-handling outfit from Ohio State. Led by Cal-fornia’s speedy “Bunny” McCormick and the hard driving sophomore fullback Simonich the Fighting Irish dominated the Ohioans in every de-

partment with the exception of punting.
Rain which showered at intervals did not dim the enthusiasm of the capacity crowd which was brought to its feet in the closing minutes by a determined Ohio State drive that was reminiscent of last year’s contest. Taking the ball deep in its own territory Ohio State passed its way to the Irish 12 yard line before losing the ball on two incomplete passes into the end zone.
Ohio State scored first, capitalizing on a fumble early in the second period. From near his own goal line Miller, on a fake kick, broke through the line only to lose the ball when he was tackled hard by the Scarlet secondary. Ohio State registered a first down, but was then stopped with a touchdown in sight. A safety was good for two points, and the Irish were trailing, 2-0.
After an exchange of kicks the Laydenmen started to move. A pass to McCormick was good on the two yard line, and on the next play McCormick started swiftly to the left, cut in sharply over tackle, and dashed into the end zone for a touchdown. Wojcihovski was rushed in to hold the ball for Danbom, who booted a perfect placement to make the score 7-2.
The second half found Ohio State (Continued on Page 20)
■ • THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.	15
ON DOWN THE UNE
By Mike Crowe
What a job radio announcers are going to have with the Fordham lineup next year? There is a possibility that the Rams will line up with WOJCIECHOWICZ at center, ALEX YUDAKAITAIS at left end, and MAURICE TROJANOWSKI at left tackle.
Eureka, Illinois has returned to normal once again. Eureka University on October 31 won its first football game in five years. Shurtleff was the unsuspecting victim. Of course classes were dismissed on the Monday following the victory.
STEVE OWEN, coach of the New York Giant professional football team, says that BRONCHO NAGUR-SKI of the Chicago Bears is the only
player he ever saw who ran his own interference.
FRANK BRIDGES, coach of St. Mary’s of San Antonio, must have a powerful voice if he wants to keep his husky gridders under control. The head man weighs a mere 135 pounds. His first string tackles, SMITH and STANDIFER, scale 282 and 303 pounds respectively.
Marquette’s anxiously awaiting to spring two rip-roaring halfbacks on opponents next year. When this year’s star backs depart, their places in two instances will be filled by a pair of freshmen backs who answer to the names of Kaiser and Wilhelm.
TED LIVINGSTON, star Indiana tackle, was too small to play high school football at Geneseo, Kansas. Ted has grown up since then. The Hoosier tackle weights 210 and stands at six feet-three inches.
One of the best Fordham fans in the country is BABE RUTH. The Bambino hasn’t missed a Fordham football game in years, and reports circulated say that if Fordham is a Rose Bowl representative, Babe Ruth will follow them to the Coast.
Though their first game is two months away, sixty candidates are practicing daily for the University of Chicago water polo squad. This is many more than Coach Clark (Continued on Page 17)
CADET SCRIBE REVIEWS ARMY'S CHANCES IN COMING BATTLE WITH LAYDENMEN LOOKS FOR HARD-FOUGHT GAME
WATROUS & DEVANY PLAY GOLF TEAM
A
In a tightly-played exhibition golf match two weeks ago, a quartet of Notre Darners made up a three-hole deficit and split 18 holes with Al Watrous and Joe DeVany, professionals from Detroit. The best individual scores—a par 72 for AI Watrous and a 73 for Captain Lou Fehlig of Notre Dame—were remarkably low, considering the lateness of the season, although the clear, moderate weather seemed more appropriate for May 30 than for Oct. 30.
It was a low-ball match, with the lowest individual score on each team determining the winner of the hole. The professionals were under a considerable handicap, having only half as many chances as Lou Fehlig, Bud Donovan, Al Mailhes, or Gene Milbourne of scoring par or sub-par holes. But by exceptional shooting, especially by Al Watrous, one of the country’s best shots with an iron, who just missed an eagle on the tenth hole when his drive with a number six iron struck the pin and fell one inch from the cup, the Detroiters stayed ahead of the Notre Dame foursome until the eighteenth hole. The . final low-ball score was 67 for the professionals, 68 for Notre Dame.
At the end of eight holes, the teams were even. Then Watrous made three birdies, on the ninth, tenth, and eleventh holes. The twelfth was split, Notre Dame made up two holes on the 13th and 14th, and the next three were split. With Watrous and DeVany one up, Al Mailhes guided a long slow-rolling putt into the 18th cup for a match-tying birdie.
Father Holderith, coach of Notre Dame’s golfers, was surprised and delighted with the scores turned in by his foursome. The two visitors praised the home squad, pointing out, however, a few technical faults committed by each of the four men, and declaring that Notre Dame’s golf team should certainly remaian as one of the top-rankers in intercollegiate ■ competition.
Watrous and DeVany both remained at Notre Dame oxer the weekend, seeing the football game with Ohio State as guests of the University.
By George V. Underwood, Jr.
Sports Editor, The Pointer
There really isn’t any explanation for the Army-Notre Dame rivalry. The two schools have little in common except an inordinate desire to push each other all over the gridiron. Yet the bare fact prevails that the Army-Notre Dame series, started in 1913, has expanded into one of the most spectacular competitions in football.
The appeal of the annual classic is national in scope; in fact a casual observer might think that the sporting public had taken the game away from Army and Notre Dame. But if the feeling in South Bend parallels that at West Point, the little affair at Yankee Stadium is very much the personal property of the Army and the Irish. In spite of patriotic ties and the like the Corps has come to covet victory over Notre Dame almost as much as a win over Navy. And it is all quite understandable. The Middies have licked us only once in the last fourteen years, while the rampant Ramblers have taken us over the jumps with annoying regularity.
This year finds the Army thirst for victory insatiable. There isn’t a man at the Academy who has seen his Army beat Notre Dame. Last year’s thrilling tie was a heartbreaker, and the Corps is hoping that the pagan gods of pigskin deal more kindly with the Army next Saturday.
The Navy upset victory over Notre Dame has put Army on the spot. In order to save face Army must carry on where Navy left off. It just isn’t cricket to let the Navy do anything distinctive or unmatchable.
Army started the season with a ball club rich in potentialities. The sensational win over Columbia in Yankee Stadium broke the Stadium jinx and presaged a successful year. The Harvard score stimulated the
(Continued on Page 21)
WOJC/HOVSW
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.
INTRODUCING
We were in the cafeteria last Sunday morning having a rather belated breakfast when the football traveling squad and all its trimmings came in, some fifty strong, not so fresh from Baltimore, to have breakfast. Breakfast for the boys was on the house, so to speak, except that a few of the managers were there to worry about the bill the gridsters would run up.
The boys started gathering in theii* food and passing by the cashier with a triumphant gleam in their eyes while the managers took in the bills. The bills weren’t so bad considering the size of the fellows who were ordering food until a tall dark fellow walked up to the cashier with what looked like a Thanksgiving dinner on his tray. The manager’s eyes started to pop after the cashier had been tolling things off for about five minutes, and when the final bell rang our friend the manager practically toppled off the chair. Joe O’Neil had bought himself $1.17 worth of breakfast, which is breakfast in a grand style, even at cafeteria prices. Later on it w?"> found that he was not the grand prize winner of the team as Pepper Martin had nosed him out by two cents with a total of $1.19. But from .the way it looked to us O’Neil was the winner; he had more bulk in his meal. And that is Joe O’Neil who, if he isn’t raising his punt average, is raising the football teams’ expense account and helping Paul Barker and his assistants worry themselves to premature grayness.
Joe O’Neill
Joe is the big kicker on this year’s team. When Bill Shakespeare graduated last year the coaching staff looked around in desperation for someone to fill his shoes in a punting respect, and they lit on our Joe, who plays left end for the Irish. Joe has done pretty well this year. He hasn’t come close to Shakespeare’s booming punts of 60 and 70 yards but, for that matter no one will for a long time to come. But Joe’s punting, pass receiving, and all-around ability have been good enough to rate him an All-American prospect by none other than the All-American Board of Football; so regardless of comparison-with Shakespeare’s punting Joe is doing all right by himself.
Born in Philadelphia, and now living in Phoenixville, Pa., a small suburb of the Quaker town, Joe attended LaSalle High School where he seemed to be the whole athletic institution there. He won eight letters in three years of varsity endeavor. Football, baseball, basketball, track, all received his athletic attention, and from them he received the captaincy of his basketball team, and an All-City rat
ing in basketball, football, and baseball. Who could ask for more?
Tom Conley, coach of LaSalle, who was later to become end coach at Notre Dame and then head coach at Carroll, influenced Joe to try out at the Irish school. Joe had a hard time of it at first; Dom Vairo and Marty Peters had been there ahead of him
Joe O’Neill
and Joe had to wait his turn. In his sophomore year he saw little action, appearing for a few minutes in the Purdue and Wisconsin games. But in his junior year plenty was heard from him. Especially in the Ohio State fracas of that year. He was on the second string line, the heroes of the closing minutes of play, and from his and “Red” Zwers play Irish supporters weren’t worried about the end situation for 1936.
This year he has been doing remarkably well in his first string capacity. He’s been the foremost pass catcher on the team, and naturally the foremost punter. He’s found himself in a few tight spots this year, and in one instance none other than a referee came to his assistance. It happened just last Saturday during the tragedy at Baltimore. The Irish were backed up to their own goal line and Joe was called upon to punt the boys out of danger. He was back on the last line of the end zone, and by his own admission “pretty tightened up.” Who wouldn’t be in that spot where a misstep would be fatal? The referee walked up to him and casually told him that somebody was asking for him down in the dressing room. Sounds sort of silly asking for a man in the middle of a football game but the remark served its purpose. It took the tension out of Joe and enabled him to punt safely out of danger, and today Joe is plenty thankful to that particular referee for aiding him.
So far this year his pass catching has been of the best. In the Carnegie (Continued on Page 23)
DETERMINED SQUAD IS SET FOR ARMY
•
Varsity football practice was resumed Monday with grim determination after the heart-breaking setback at the hands of the Navy Middies last Saturday. The spirit of the squad in practice bodes no good for the Army cause this Saturday afternoon.
Most of the team members came out of the Navy game in good physical condition except for minor bruises. Larry Danbom, star fullbuck, and Frank Kopcsak, senior tackle, were the only ones who suffered anything worse than bruises. Danbom aggravated an old shoulder injury on one of his plunges into the hard-charging Navy line. He will be used sparingly in the Army game.
Kopczak suffered a recurrence of the injury that he received in the Carnegie Tech game. It is doubtful if he will see action Saturday. Fullback Steve Miller is still limping as the result of injuring his ankle in the Ohio State game, and his playing possibilities are uncertain. •
Coach Layden is still stressing the fundamental blocking and tackling in every workout. His methods have brought results too; for, although they were beaten, their blocking and tackling last Saturday showed improvement over early season work, especially in the first half when they ripped through the Navy line for sizeable gains. Besides the instructions in blocking and tackling, the Varsity scrimmaged the Freshmen using Army plays.
The forward passing attack was also given a thorough going over. The inability of the Irish to get under the long heaves of Wilke and Kovalcik was given the needed attention. The passers were also instructed to throw with more speed and precision so that the defense doesn’t have so great an opportunity for interception.
In the Navy game the first two teams rolled up plenty of yardage and played well on defense, but the much needed tochdown wasn’t forthcoming. Consequently the coaches also stressed the need of added scoring punch. If last week’s setback is attributed to the lack of student support in the stands at Baltimore, it should easily be remedied this week for over 500 students are making the student trip to New York to watch the Irish make “mule hide” out of the Army mule.
Despite the tough breaks in last week’s game and the consequent defeat, the team’s morale is at a very high pitch. All week the players went at their blocking and tackling with added vigor and incentive. They plan to revenge themselves on another branch of the service, the Army, and thus make the student trip a jubilant success.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.
17
RESERVES RUN OVER BOILERMAKERS AT CARTIER FIELD
e
Notre Dame’s B team chalked up its first win of the season Saturday at the expense of the invading Purdue university reserves by a 26-0 count, the Irish using five teams in all and showing a wealth of individual talent.
The shining star in the Irish attack was Johnny McMahon of Indianapolis, brilliant sophomore back whose running, passing, and defensive play were of championship caliber despite the fact that he was handicapped by a broken hand.
The first bit of scoring occurred when Dan Sullivan dashed into the open, aided by beautiful blocking, and continued the 30 yard jaunt to the goal line. This scoring habit of the Irish was repeated twice in the second quarter, once on a plunge by Di Matteo, and another on an off-tackle slant by Schorsh. Both scores were a result of McMahon’s passing and running combined with good blocking.
Continued line thrusts by Hambley and a 15 yard pass from Russ Nickel to O’Laughlin accounted for the fourth and final touchdown of the afternoon. Nardone accounted for the two extra points kicked during the contest. Notre Dame tallied twice more in the final period only to have them nullified by referee’s decisions. Once “Moose” Gottsacker wiggled and wormed his way 94 yards on a beautiful return of a punt only to have it called back because of an offside penalty. Later on in the period Red Darcy completed a pass to Crowe for a touchdown, but this was also called back. There was an abundance of Irish material for this contest as approximately 86 men were in uniform for the game.
On Down The Line
(Continued from Page 15)
Shaughnessy had to report for football at the Midway this season.
HORTON SMITH, professional golfer, doesn’t smoke or drink. When he recently refused a smoke and a drink, a friend asked him if he had any weaknesses at all. “Well,” Horton confessed, “I’ve been weak on quite a number of putts.”
POP WARNER says that JIM THORP’S greatest trouble was lack of ambition. The big Indian never wanted to practice or play in-a game against weak competition. Thorpe was a great showman and wished only to strut his stuff before capacity crowds.
MIDDIES FIELD GOAL SINKS IRISHMEN 3 TO 0 AS NOTRE DAME PASS ATTACK FAILS BEFORE BALTIMORE CROWDS
SO THETSAT
Young Bill Ingram, who comes from a Navy family famous in Annapolis football annals, authored another glowing chapter in the Ingram saga here this hair-raising afternoon as he paced the midshipmen to a victory over the Irish of Notre Dame.
Young Bill, son of Commander Jonas Ingram, and a nephew of Navy Bill, ran and passed, tackled and blocked, proved a demon at intercepting the desperate Notre Dame passes, and polished off his big afternoon’s work by kicking the field goal in the third period which sent the Irish tumbling down to defeat by a score of 3 to 0.—James M. Kahn— New York Sun.
The Navy today was a fighting, effective football machine. Instead of a tugboat outfit it was a formidable craft drawn along to victory by dazzling Bill Ingram. Ingram’s toe sent the ball soaring between the enemy uprights to climax a brilliant battle before 57,500 spectators and send Notre Dame to defeat, 3-0, for the Navy’s third triumph in ten contests with the Irish.—Irving Vaughn, Chicago Tribune.
Bill Ingram, last to carry on his family’s brilliant gridiron tradition at the Naval Academy, booted a 25-yard dropkick squarely between the uprights in the third period today to give the Sailors a 3 to 0 victory over Notre Dame and extinguish a losing streak that had sent the Middies reeling before three major foes this season.—Associated Press, Denver Post.
A fighting-mad Navy team, aroused by three consecutive defeats at the hands of Yale, Princeton, and Penn, refused to bow its bloody head again Saturday afternoon and stunned a crowd of 57,500 fans here by defeating a green-clad Notre Dame team, 3-0, in as magnificent a display of courage and skill as any Navy team has ever presented under such great odds—Jim Costin, South Bend News-Times.
By the margin of a clean, whistling drop-kick the downtrodden midshipmen from the United States Naval Academy started to travel the high road of victory, before 58,000 spectators in the Baltimore Stadium this afternoon, defeating Notre Dame, 3 to 0. Bill Ingram kicked a field goal from the 16-yard line late in the third period to give Annapolis its first major triumph of the season.—Harry Cross—New York Herald-Tribune.
It was a strangely impotent Notre Dame team which was swamped in the wake of an underrated Navy last Saturday at Baltimore. The final score was 3 to 0, as 57,500 spectators watched Bill Ingram lead an inspired team of midshipmen to their third triumph over the Irish in ten years.
The team which bowed to the Naval Academy was far different from the one which subdued Ohio State a week before. The Irish lads started out brilliantly, but soon the strain began to tell on them, and Notre Dame hopes sunk lower and lower as play after play was stopped
Bob Wilke
He Passed and Passed.
at the line, and attempted passes settled in the arms of waiting Tars.
The Irish staged four big drives, which in any ordinary game should have netted them at least six points apiece. However, they were never able to cover those last ten yards without encountering a mishap of some kind or other.
The first big march came immediately after the opening kickoff. Joe O’Neill received the kick and was downed on Notre Dame’s 39 yard line. Wijcihovski picked up ten at his right.end. He then collaborated with Danbom for another first down. At this point Wilke dropped back and fired a pass to Wojcihovski on the Navy 16. Wojcihovski got six at right tackle, and Simonich, in for Danbom, took two plays to make it a first down on the Navy four. Wojcihovski smashed through for three, but was thrown for a loss on the next play. Simonich then fumbled, and Ferrara recovered for Navy on its two yard line. Navy punted out of danger, ending the first and most serious Irish threat.
The second string started the next quarter, and immediately engineered (Continued on Page 19)
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.
Splinters From The Press Box '	By Cy Stroker
Strange things have been going on in the football world this season. It has been such a year of upsets that the hair on the heads of all prognosticators has turned a premature gray. But there is. nothing more strange than the record of the Notre Dame team to date. Before the season began it was admitted by one and all that the Irish were in for a bad year. But the Layden-men so dominated the first three games they played that things began to look definitely up. Then, after Pitt, down again. Up again with Ohio State. Down again after Navy. Up, down; up, down. It’s driving us crazy.
Three games remain on the schedule, — three tough ones. We don’t expect to win all three nor lose all three. All of the coming teams are tougher than Navy, but we refuse to think that the team can not do better than it did last Saturday. Not that we expect to win all of the games. We should be poor sports indeed if we were disappointed at not getting a national championship every year. A victory over Army and Southern Cal would erase all disagreeable memories of the Navy game. One thing we learned last Saturday is that a football game is never “in the bag.”
From our penthouse atop Walsh Hall we have been spying on the dear children who play touchball (or is it passball now?) in the back yard. The boys put on a daily show that is really thrilling to watch. They have a system of forwards and laterals that would put any team’s razzie dazzle to shame. And for high stepping, shifty, broken field running we recommend that you come over and watch Jack (The Week) Gillespie, the Galloping Ghost from Jersey. The boy is really good.
Notre Dame’s old bugbear, injury, is rearing its ugly head again this season. This year it has been striking hardest at members of the first and second teams, and promises to keep some of the most valuable Irish players on the bench. Larry Danbom and Vic Wojcihovski have both been on the injured list since the Pitt game. Frank Kopczak, first string right tackle has been able to play in only two games, and one of those for only a few minutes. Miller, Gleason, Tonelli, and Horan have also been able to play only a short time during the season. All of which makes things look pretty rosy for Army and Northwestern.
The approach of basketball brings to mind another problem that has been muddling around in our head for several years. It’s this: How come Notre Dame’s basketball team doesn’t get more acclaim? For years it has been piling up one of the finest records in collegiate basketball, trimming the cream of the court crop in all sections of the country. And yet, outside of Indiana, people seem to take this as a matter of course and give all attention to Irish football teams, which haven’t had as good a record since 1931. Of course the games with N.Y.U. in New York in the last two years have had a capacity house, which fact might be the method that people use to approve of basketball teams. If that is the case and if Coach Keogan wants to feel satisfied, he won’t read the newspapers, but count heads.
When we went over to Sorin this week to see Friend Fromhart we found that he had barricaded his door and had crack machine gunners peeking over the transom, guarding against our approach. We could interpret this in no other way than that our presence was unwelcome. We suspect that the whole trouble is that “Pappy” is in no frame of mind to do any predicting after last week’s upsets. Our suspicions were confirmed when we heard, emanating, from within the room, the rumbling of a bass voice which told us that Wally was not, — to put it mildly, — in a jovial mood. Consequently, we donned our spangled turban, got out the trusty crystal, and went to work as follows: -
Notre Dame over Army
Indiana over Chicago Syracuse over Columbia Dartmouth over Cornell Carnegie Tech over Duquesne Alabama over Georgia Tech Navy, over Harvard Purdue over Iowa Ohio State over Illinois
Pitt over Nebraska Princeton over Yale . U.C.L.A. over Washington State Wisconsin over Cincinnati Texas Christian over Centenary Arkansas over Southern Methodist Marquette over Mississippi Georgetown over Manhattan
Maryland-District Club Organize bn Campus
' •
A Maryland-District club, composed of students from Maryland and the District of Columbia, was formed at the first meeting of the group held November 4, in the Hurley Hall of Commerce. At the meeting the constitution was ratified by the nineteen members and the election of officers took place.
Charles Brosius, of Lime Kiln, Maryland, was unanimously chosen president. Harold A. Williams, of . Baltimore, Maryland, was elected vice-president, John P. Braddock, of Washington, secretary, and John Leb-herz, of Frederick, Maryland, treasurer.
The constitution and list of the officers was submitted to Gene Ling of the Presidents’ Council for acceptance.
The next meeting of the club will be held next Wednesday, November 18, in the Hurley Hall of Commerce. Plans will be made for the organization’s campus functions, and a possible Christmas activity either in Baltimore or Washington.
The club membership includes the Rev. Edwin J. Schneider, St. Charles College, Catonsville; John P. Braddock, Washington; Charles Brosius, Lime Kiln; James B. Burrow, Washington; James M. Corcoran, Washington; Bernard Daley, Westminster; Donald B. Driscoll, Washington; George C. Howard, Washington; John Lebherz, Frederick; Phil Maloney, Washington; Edward Mattingly, Cumberland; Joseph McDermott, Midland; John Morgan, Washington; Seth Reed, Washington; Francis Traynor, Cumberland; Ralph Wachter, Frederick; John L. Wesley, Washington; and Harold A. Williams, Baltimore.
• '
Iowa ns To Breakfast On Nov. 22
At a meeting in Carroll “Rec” last Sunday morning, the Iowa club laid final plans for a Communion Breakfast to be held in the Faculty Dining Hall on Nov. 22. Joe Harrington is chairman of the committee for arrangements of the breakfast.
One of the interesting points to be discussed at the Communion Breakfast will be the Christmas Dance. Plans for the dance are tentative so far, but it will probably be held in Des Moines sometime during the holidays.
A smoker is on the schedule for the Southern California game. Committees for the smoker and for the dance will be appointed at the Communion Breakfast.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.
19
Navy Game
(Continued from Page 17)
from the Navy 48 yard line, Binkow-a big push of their own. Starting ski cracked tackle for seven. Koval-cik slashed through for a 19 yard gain, putting the ball on the Navy 22. Binkowski, in two plays, made it another first down on the 11 yard stripe. Kovalcik picked up five, and then tried a pass which was incomplete. Another pass, Kovalcik to O’Reilly, was caught by the latter beyond he end zone, and Navy took over on their own 20.
Again in the fourth quarter the shock troops raised Irish hopes, but they dwindled when Kovalcik’s pass to Sweeney was incomplete in the end zone for a touchback.
Irish Make Final Try
The last serious attempt by Notre Dame occurred when the second team, aided by the completion of Kovalcik’s long pass, worked the ball down to the Navy 23 yard line. Layden sent the regulars in, and Wilke passed to Puplis for a first down on the Navy 9. This last hope fizzled when Antrim intercepted Wilke’s pass into the end zone.
Navy in the second half was all Bill Ingram. It was his running and particularly his pass defense which hurt the Irish so much. In the fourth quarter alone he intercepted three Notre Dame passes, one of which was disallowed for interference.
About halfway in the third quarter, Schmidt kicked out of bounds on the Irish one yard line. O’Neill, kicking fro mthe coffin corner, gbt off a good punt to the Notre Dame 45, but there Ingram took it and lugged it back to the 22 yard line. A pass was incom- • plete. Ingram then raced off tackle for 12. He and Schmidt made four more, and then he tried a pass which Antrim let slip through his fingers. On the next play Ingram- dropped back to the 17 yard line, and from there kicked the field goal which gave Navy the three, points and victory.
The Notre Dame team which lost this bitter struggle was weary of mind an,d limb before they ever stepped " onto the field. No team could meet Pitt and Ohio State successively and not feel the effects. But the biggest factor in last week’s defeat seems to be the desertion of one of their most dependable allies. It’s called by some people Fate; football writers call it “the breaks,” but Notre Dame calls it “Irish Luck.”
PAT O’BRIEN, the slick-tongued Warner Brother’s film star, was once a law student at Marquette as well as being a member of their football team.
BASKETBALL TEAMS DATE WAY BACK TO 1898 MODERN FIVES UNDER KEOGAN HAVE CREATED RECORDS
In 1898 five Notre Dame men, members of the first basketball team to be assembled at the University, took to the court in a rather unorganized state and played three games in the first season of its participation in a sport which was still in its early stages of development. In spite of the fact that this team played but three games, its great importance is recognized for it gave birth to the sport of basketball at Notre Dame.
Since 1898 Notre Dame has produced teams which rank among the greatest the country has ever seen, and the members of these teams have been among the finest basketball players of the nation. In fact, her basketball teams have become almost as famous as her immortal football squads.
Frank E. Hering was the coach of this first year’s team, and he was succeeded in the next season by J. Fred Powers. The team played but two games this next year. Very few colleges had a basketball team at the time because the game was still in its infancy.
Because the sport progressed rather slowly it was dropped by the University athletic officials in 1889, but was resumed again in 1907. During the period from 1899 to 1907 the sport had developed rapidly, and when it was resumed a 29 game schedule was immediately arranged. Bertram G.
Coach George Keogan
He Will Start His Razzle Dazzle Soon
Maris was appointed coach of the new team.
By 1908 the sport had become fully organized at the University. The team enjoyed a good season and won its last seven games without a defeat. The 1909 team came along and won its first fifteen games, setting a winning streak of 22 games. This squad played teams from all over the country, and it took the Buffalo Germans, famed professional team of the time, to stop their streak. Thus even in the first two seasons in which the sport was really organized, Notre Dame had already manifested her superiority in the game which she is still exhibiting today.
The game developed as a college sport. In 1923 George Keogan succeeded Walter Halas as basketball coach, and then began what might be called the Golden Age of Notre Dame basketball. In the six years previous to Keogan’s coming, Notre Dame teams lost 64 games. But in all his record at Notre Dame, Keogan has lost but 65 games. Since 1923 he has an all time percentage of .765, a better record than that established by any other major coach over the same period of years.
After his first and second years here, in which his squads won 26 and lost 18 games, he turned out three of the greatest teams the country has ever seen. His 1925-26 team and the
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.
1926-27 teams each won 19 out of 20 games. The 1927-28 team won 18 and lost 3 games. Another great season was the 1931-32 one when the Irish won 18 out of 20 games.
Most of the Notre Dame basketball greats have been developed by Coach Keogan. Among them are Nobel Kizer, Louis Conroy, Johnny Nyikos, Francis Crowe, and Ed Smith—each of them an All-Western player. Coach
YOU CAN’T CHEW OFF THE MOUTHPIECE!
STEMBITER
YELLO-BOLE
AT YOUR DEALER

Keogan has developed three All-Americans, Ed Krause, Johnny Moir, and Paul Nowak.
Two of these All-Americans, Moir and Nowak, will be the mainstays of this years team. Captain Meyer, recovered from the injury which hindered him last year, should be back in stride. The guards are still uncertain, but the two Tommies, Wuko-vits and Jordan, will probably'’ fill the positions. The 1936 team left a string of 14 consecutive victories behind it, so the present team will have an excellent chance of carrying out this string to an all time record for consecutive victories. The basketball future of this year’s team is as bright as the past has been.
N. Y. A. Program
(Continued from Page 7)
Included in the work projects off the campus are: a survey to evaluate worth of high school vocational training, and vocational tarining given to local C.C.C. units by a group of graduate students.
This is the third year of federal assistance to Notre Dame students. The funds for projects, apportioned to Notre Dame, has assisted many students during this time to continue in school.
Ohio State Game
(Continued from Page Ik)
using every trick in its “razzle dazzle” in an attempt to break loose for a score, but the hard charging Irish line broke up most of the plays before they could get under way. In the closing minutes red shirted receivers managed to elude the Notre Dame secondary, and several completed passes brought the ball to the Irish 12 yard line. In a desperate attempt to score before the gun went off the Ohioans threw two passes into the end zone, both of which were incomplete. According to the new rules Notre Dame received the ball, and for the remaining seconds they held on to it.
One of the features of the game was the performance of Simonich. This husky 200 pounder whs given his chance, and he came through in a manner that ought to give the other fullbacks something to worry about. Time after time he crashed through the powerful Ohio line for* gains. When not advancing the ball through sheer power this second year man was clearing the way with some of the best blocking displayed by an Irish player to date.
New Club Charters
“Every club must be rechartered in order to be recognized by the officials on campus.” This is the order issued this week to the presidents of all clubs, by Gene Ling, president of the presidents’ council.
All the clubs will have to go to Mr. Ling to obtain a new charter for the coming year. The list of the clubs who have obtained these charters will be sent in to the office on Nov. 23.
President Ling warns all clubs of the inconveniences that will be encountered by them if they do not obtain a new charter.
Dr. E. J. Cain
g “Now you boys take your 20^ cigarettes and run along. Fm dancing J ||	with Arthur because we both prefer TWENTY GRANDS.” ■
Plas local
tax states
Copr. 1936 The Axton-Fisher Tobacco Co., Inc.
WE CERTIFY that we have inspected the Turkish and Domestic Tobaccos blended in TWENTY GRAND cigarettes "and find them as fine in smoking quality as those used in cigarettes costing as much as 50% more.
(Signed) Seii, Putt & Rushy Inc. (In collaboration with tobacco expert)
ALSO OBTAINABLE IN FLAT FIFTIES
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.
21
Army Scribe Predicts
(Continued from Page 15)
new-formed hopes—it seemed that the Army mule had found a new kick. And then Pitt broke down the myth of Irish invincibility as Army rooters went around with their tongue in cheek and one eye on the Notre Dame date.
Then came the rude awakening. Woody Wilson, brightest of the new stars to shine in the Army firmament, fell a victim to pneumonia, and his moleskins were put away for the year. Preston, regular en, aggravated an old hip injury. Monk Meyer picked up a mild case of influenza— Swede Ohman, stellar guard, went to the hospital with the same disease in bigger proportions. Pete Kopcsak, starting fullback, put the final crimp in a weak shoulder, and his sub, Bull Davis, developed a bad case of influenza. Long and Ockershauser, yearling backs of great promise, picked up a pair of sprained ankles. Sullivan, reserve end, dislocated an elbow, and Jack Dobson, standout start, hurt his knee so seriously that he had to give up football for the year. With injuries taking the punch out of the team, Army took a nosedive against Colgate on the same Saturday that Notre Dame found itself in the Ohio State game. Overnight the dope bucket had been upset, and . Army fell back into its accustomed role of underdog for the Notre Dame game.
Now it seems that Army and Notre Dame will shoot the works against each other in a desperate effort to vindicate themselves. Neither team has a winning streak to de
fend. The pressure is off, and both are out for a little old fashioned revenge. Notre Dame’s defeat by Navy means nothing to Army or the 80,000 who will jam into Yankee Stadium next Saturday. The Army - Notre games never run according to form —anything can happen and usually does. But whatever happens the admirable spirit of friendly yet intense rivalry between Army and Notre Dame will maintain.
Army Prewrite
(Continued from Page 14)
capably backed up by Wing Jung, the diminutive Chinese boy who packs 140 pounds of potential dynamite. Meyer will need no introduction to Captain Johnny Lautar and his mates as he made a habit of “calling” on the Irish in the 1935 classic to the discomfort of all concerned.
The quarterback position will be handled by Bob Kasper, while Texas Jim Craig and Arpad Kopscak are mainstays in- the Cadet backfield. The flanks are strongly fortified with the presence of Captain Woody Stromberg, a crack pass receiver, and Maurice Preston, a veteran of last fall’s aggregation.
In the tackle and guard posts Army has a host of able competitors that include Jim Mather, Stan Smith, and Swede Ericksen. This will be Davidson’s final season at the Point, and apparently he would like to depart from the academy athletic board with one Notre Dame victory to his credit.
Elmer Layden will be seeking a much-desired “win” for the Irish, after their two recent setbacks. The
squad is particularly anxious to prove that the 6-6 tie last year was no fluke, and they will be endeavoring to chalk up a substantial margin on the top side of the ledger. As far as it is known the starting lineup will remain intact with the same men that saw action against Navy. The student body and the University 100-piece band will leave for Manhattan on the Notre Dame “Special” tomorrow afternoon.
E/ect Pawlowski Head Of Cracow Club
Joseph T. Pawlowski of South । Bend was elected president of the
Charles L. Phillips Cracow Club at a meeting held recently in the auditorium of the Law Building.
Frank Kopczak of Chicago, was elected vice-president; Anthony Su-lewski of New York City was made secretary; and Anthony Koczon, of Homtramck, Mich., was elected treasurer to round out the roster of officers for the year.
Joe Krupa read a paper on the “Life of Charles Phillips” at the last meeting. Krupa treated most of the details of Professor Phillips’ life with special emphasis on his work at Notre Dame and his life in Poland. It was Professor Phillips’ life-long interest in things Polish, as well as a realization of the good he did among Polish people, that the name of the local Polish club was officially changed in 1933 to honor him. ’
Activities of Associated Students of the University of California last year showed a net profit of 3159,872.02.
MA/(£ /t a
AND HAVE A GRAND TIME ALL THE WAY!
Keep your crowd together . . . and keep expenses down ... do your group traveling in a chartered Greyhound bus. Have more fun and save more money! Kates per person are reduced far below even Greyhound’s regular low fares. Your bus becomes your private car . . . goes where you wish when you wish. It’s modern, roomy, well-heated, easy-riding. And you know when chartering a Greyhound coach that you are dealing with a responsible travel organization ... a dependable, well-managed company, famous for its nationwide service.
or Information — Phono or Wri REV. FATHER JOHN KELLEY
St. Vincent de Paul Society—Campus UNION BUS DEPOT
135 S. Lafayette St., South Bend—Phone: 3-8283
W GREYHOUND



J


3

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.
Student Trip
(Continued from Page 3) will display its skill in a special act at half time.
Immediately followed by the second section, the first section of the student train will leave the Penn station at 2:00 p.m. Sunday. Both will arrive here early Monday morning in time for classes. Street car service back to the campus will be provided.
"The frost is on the pumpkin and the ‘dogs’ are in the fire!”
Some fun at the
DUNES/
A crisp fall evening for an appetizer — Duneland for inspiration — and roasted ‘‘dogs” will taste better than dinner at the Ritz. You bring the “dogs” — South Shore Line will take you quickly and SAFELY to the Dunes..
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

The Army game was the choice of a majority of students for the annual student football excursion this year. This choice, referred to University authorities by the S.A.C., was given oificial approval several weeks ago.
Rochester Club Dance
Final plans for the Rochester Club’s Christmas dance, to be held December 26, were made at the club’s meeting last Sunday afternoon. Among their other activities for this year will be a Communion breakfast shortly after the close of the football season, and a joint breakfast or supper with the Buffalo Club during the second semester.
Nothing definite has been decided about the latter, but arrangements are expected to be made shortly.
you WIN
WHEN THEY TIE
Wear a Botany Tie to tomorrow's football game... and get a new one free.. .if the game ends in a tie score.
SEE YOUR FOOTBALL PROGRAM
I Your Campus dealer has	■
Botany Wrinkle-Proof Ties ■ I BOTANY WORSTED MILLS, PASSAIC, N J. I
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians i - ।
228 South Michigan St.	j
South Bend, Ind.	।
Dr. Haas Lectures
(Continued from Page 3) new loan collections at the library. One of the most important feature of the entire week was the tour of the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery and the accompanying lecture on the new acquisitions.
The new Meyer loan consists of paintings of masters of the French, English, Dutch, and Flemish schools in the period from 1640-1830. The Bendix loan is composed of representative paintings of modern French and American impressionistic artists from 1840 to the present. The two collections show clearly the presentday trend in art and afford a remarkable contrast for comparison.
Radio talks that were given during the week follow:
Sunday, 4:20 p. m., (WSBT) Mr. Sessler spoke on “Art About Town,” giving a summarized report on art activities about South Bend and its vicinity; Monday, 7 p. m. (campus studio) Mr. Jacques on “The Art of Painting in America”; Tuesday, 7 p. m. (campus studio) Mr. Sessler on “Art on Your Menu;” Wednesday, 9:30 a. m. (WSBT) Mr. Jacques on “Art, a Cultural Factor.”
Last night in the lay faculty dining hall, a dinner was held to celebrate the week on the campus. A musical program followed the dinner, and the evening was concluded with a conducted tour of the new exhibitions in the Art Gallery.
To conclude the week’s activities, Professor Sessler lectures today at 3:00 p. m., to the South Bend Chapter of the Hoosier Salon Patrons League; the lecture to be in the form of a gallery • talk at the Central YWCA.
Established 30 Years
L^Mt^lTRE^B
OPTOMETRISTS
222^2 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, NOVEMBER 13, 1936.
23
Introducing
(Continued from Page 16)
game he caught two passes for 20 yards gain; in the Washington game five for a gain of 23 yards, and one touchdown; Wisconsin two for 30 yards; Pitt none, but what Irishman could do anything that day? The Ohio State game saw him catch four for 37 yards, and he just missed a touchdown on one of them when he stepped out of bounds as he was about to cross the goal line.
The Pitt game of this year had one bright spot in it; that was O’Neill’s punting; he averaged 44 yards that day, and though it didn’t do much good for the Irish cause, it gave Notre Dame supporters something to talk about.
Fellow sufferers, take heed, a football player* is in the same boat as most of us this week. His last words as we went out the door of his room voiced the eternal question, “You don’t know where I can get any Army tickets, do you?”
MAX ADLER
“The Big Store on the Corner”
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors. . .
EUsmnrtlf a
is Arrow Headquarters For Men of Notre Dame
Arrow shirts . . . Arrow Ties Arrow handkerchiefs . . . Arrow Trunks in our Men's section . . . Main Floor.
And why not! Arrow has collared and cuffed undergraduates since 1856.	■
Now, as then, Arrow remains the popular favorite. Ask for Arrow and be assured of fine quality with authentic style at a price easy on your pocketbook.
Sanforized Shrunk. A new shirt it one ever shrinks.
A TRADITIONAL MUST AT
ARROW
NOTRE DAME
ninon