The Notre Dame Scholastic
489
COMMENT
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Last week this column voiced the opinion of many men who are accustomed to spending a good deal of time in Brownson “rec.” They suggested that cards be furnished for use, just as checker boards are. We have received a severe admonition from those in charge of the recreation room and have been told that if we wanted to play to bring our own cards, or if we would pay for every deck that was “lost,” Brother Aloysius would furnish the cards. Such faith that people have in us students! Since this poor scribe cannot hope to undertake such an obligation, the boys will just have to bring their own cards or while away the hours in study—a shame!
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
EMIL
.Assistant Managing Editor Neil C. Hurley
L. TELFEL—Editor-In-Chief
Managing Editor John E. Bergan
Assistant Managing Editor John A. Kiener
Associate Editors James J. Kearney James Carmody William W. Corr
Edward E. Brennan Austin Boyle
John Pick
Edward R. Brennan Paul J. Hallinan-Lloyd Teske
The Week	Make-up Editors	College Parade
Richard J. O’Donnell	Walter V. Beesley	Daniel C. Williams
Music and Drama	Feature Editor	Campus Clubs
Frank E. Seward	James K. Collins	W. Leslie Raddatz
Nezus Staff
William C. Karl, News Editor William F. Fitzgerald, Assistant News
It is certainly pleasing to learn that college men aren’t the dumbest people in the world, thanks to Columbia university. According to the Spectator, the university’s newspaper, 53 of the college faculty recently “flunked” an exam. The only ones who didn’t were afraid and wouldn’t subject themselves to the embarrassment which the failure would entail. After a look at some of the questions that were asked, it is no wonder that the professors failed. A few of them were: “Who were the Piccolomini?”, “Who was Tillman Reimenschneider?”, “Who invented the phrase ‘categorical imperative?’ ” and “Translate‘Nescire autem quid antea quam esse pueram’.” These samples are almost as difficult as those given the sophomore English classes every day, but are easy compared to the semester exam questions. Don’t feel bad when you can’t answer a tough one; maybe your inquisitor doesn’t, know the answer either.
John Conley Myron Crawford Richard Molique Joseph Degnan
Cleve Carey
James E. McFeely, Jr.
Anthony R. Schreiner F. Granger Weil Walter Johnson Lawrence Dunda
Editor
Lawrence Prybylski Edmund StephanWilliam Knox
Sports Staff
Henry B. Asman, Sports Editor George Belting James Kearns
James H. Rorke, Local Advertising Mgr.
James L. Rizer, Foreign Advertising Mgr.
Bztsiness Staff
Frederick Bauer
Raymond
T. Edward Carey Irvixg B. Halper
John R. Blanda, Local Circulation Mgr.
Andrew McGuan, Foreign Circulation Mgr.
J. Naber
John P. Hess
JOHN F. STOECKLEY—Graduate Manager of Publications Merle Baldwin, Publications Office Manager
Vol. LXIV
FEBRUARY 13, 1931
No. 16
Members of Mr. Kelly’s acting class are much perturbed over the status of one of their classmates. The cause is a mere triviality, of course, but nevertheless should be considered. It seems that the question of amateur standing is the issue simply because Tim Moynihan is enrolled. Knowing that Tim has become famous since his episode with the “wild” bear in “Maybe It’s Love” and is therefore a professional, the boys are afraid that association with him will cause them to be called before the A. A. A., etc. There is a committee working on the affair now.	W. V. B.
The Week—Richard J. O’Donnell-----------------------------491
Junior Prom Tonight—William Fitzgerald and Lloyd Teske____492
List of Guests___________________________________________494
Prom Committees_________________________________________495
A Man About the Campus—William Knox_____________________498
Music and Drama—Frank E.	Seward________________________499
Glances at the Magazines—Edzoard R. Brennan---------------500
Book Reviews—John Pick__________________________________501
College Parade—Daniel C. Williams-----------------------504
The Wink________________________________________________505
Campus Clubs—W. Leslie Raddatz 506
Editor’s Page 507
Wilson Wins Millrose 600—Henry B. Asman 508
Nordy Hoffman—Irving B. Halper 509
Splinters From the Press Box—H. B. A----------------------512
On Down the Line—Cleve Carey----------------------------520
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC. Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage or All Notre Dame Men.
B'
					 															
490
The Notre Dame Scholastic
“MAKE A SONG FOR ME”
We were dancing in the dawn
And her icistful, yearning plea, Whispered softly, gently, sadly— “Make a song of love for me!”
And so I made a little song;
Made it sad and ivise
Because she smiled at me
- From depths of ageless eyes.
■	—E. L. T.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
491
♦ THE WEEE *
1 HE immediate success of a column such as this would be assured were it possible to have as a super-special added attraction the weekly appearance on the opposite page of an eye-soothing countenance such as the one which Joe Lopker presents to us in this issue. This method of stimulating interest in a page is not a new one. Mr. McClelland Barclay has attracted the. attention of most of the world to the advertisements which he features by similar means. The slogan which is run in connection with his paintings has come to have a twofold meaning. It is possible, moreover, that the original idea it expressed has been entirely forgotten. Though we have no slogan to run with this week’s presentation, the accompanying poetry should suffice. If it is found to be lacking, the picture should speak for itself. And if you find that to be insufficient, you may look up John Kiener, who should be willing to go into details, and elaborate to any length that you care to have him The winsome young lady, who is the main attraction of the week, happens to be John’s Prom date. The prospects of an enjoyable week end in South Bend and its most famous suburb have brought her all the way from Shaker Heights, Ohio, which is spelled C-l-e-v-e-l-a-n-d on the map. Mr. Kiener will probably be glad to furnish further information concerning the address, phone number, and so forth.
yX-FTER looking through every available English dictionary for an adjective to describe this year’s j'unior formal, Jack Collins finally decided to let the dance be bally-hoed in an adjective-less manner. This may not have been according to the best of advertising procedure, but it was at least the truthful and logical thing to do. For no class festivities ever turn out to be what those who attend expect them to be. The man who takes a blind date, no matter how optimistic he may usually be, never has any expectations, good or bad. The enamored ones who have the source of the daily mail as partners for the evening ordinarily expect so much that they are bound to disappointment. The pessimists are consistently surprised by a pleasant evening. So the only right thing to do is to preserve the adj'ective until the dance has passed into the school’s social history. Then the concensus of opinion may be determined; and if it be decided that the maj'ority had a louse (that old French word) time, the dance may be labelled the “Prom Louse.” If, on the other hand, everyone is satisfied that the evening has been well spent, it might be alliteratively dubbed the “Prom Perfecto,” or some other such impressive name.
—o—
I’HAT absorbing toy, the yo-yo, which was in such popular favor on the campus at this time last year, has been supplanted by a more thrilling, more virile, more exhilarating form of sport within the last week or two. Howard hall is the building wherein the lately adopted fad has been reigning, and every evening the basement may be heard to resound with the delicate pitter-patter which probably gave the game its name. You’re right the first guess—Dear reader, ping pong is upon us. The Howard hall boys who failed to make the interhall track team are taking out their vengeance on the little celluloid
ball. You would be surprised at the perfection which some of the devotees have attained in manipulating those little wooden rackets, and in skimming the miniature pill over the miniature net. What won’t the younger generation be up to next? When the warm weather arrives, and drives these hot house athletes out of doors, we may expect to find croquet mallets appearing, and the campus to be covered with those steel hoops that are necessary to a real, stimulating, nerve-testing game of croquet.
F ORTUNATELY for the University’s good name, ping-pong is not the only minor sport that is running in competition with indoor track and basketball. The less virile, perhaps, but more scientific sport of boxing is also attracting some attention. South Bend’s supporters of the manly art of self defense are this week promoting a tournament in the local armory, and several of our Fighting Irish have entered the contests. Though the meet is titled the “Golden Gloves Tournament,” it is doubtful that the participants will have their amateur standing endangered. Billy Magarrall, Morrissey hall’s bantam representative, will therefore still be eligible for spring football practice. The student interest in the bouts in town should stimulate a revival of enthusiasm for boxing on the campus. Previous to last year, the sport had dropped entirely from the athletic curriculum. When Bob Hellrung, the outstanding promoter of the class of 1930, held the S.A.C. tournament, he succeeded in getting a large turn-out in the gym. Tex Rickard could not have managed the affair better. The Student Activities council might do well by following the precedent of last year, and getting the campus bag-punchers out of the “work-out room,” and into the ring.
T is a sort of Scholastic tradition that the editor of The Wink never carry on with his j'ob for more than half a semester. Austin Boyle (yes, he was the Beamy Bard,) survived considerably longer than most of his predecessors, but his successor has got off to a rather trying start. He has met with no little trouble as the result of his first attempt. Two talking pictures recently shown in South Bend dealt with a pair of noble journalists who endangered their very lives that their newspapers might continue to print “the truth, and nothing but the truth.” It’s the latest screen version of the old theme in which “the shows must go on.” In the aforementioned films, one gentleman ended his career in prison, and the other made a hasty exit from this world through the indiscreet handling of a can of explosives. You would think, consequently, that all members of the Fourth Estate would be inclined to consider the moral of these stories, and be exceedingly careful in what they put into print. The Wink of last week, however, precipitated a turbulent outburst from one of the so-called gentler sex, who felt that her dignity had been insulted. She is said to have burned up several of the company’s wires in giving vent to her wrath. The cause of her wrath is said to be inquiring as to whether or not she has a big brother, and if so, how big. Until he finds out, his family will be seeing a great deal of him.
492
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Vincent Cavanaugh
President of the Junior Class
Tonight John J. Collins and his assistant committeemen will watch the curtain rise on the “Prom St. Valentine,” to take place at 10:00 o’clock in the Palais Royale ballroom.
For weeks, Collins and his committees have worked to make this year’s prom the greatest in Notre Dame dance history. From all indications and from the promises of the chairman the Prom will equal, if not surpass, the more famous proms in the history of the junior classes. Each
WEEK-END PROGRAM
Friday, Feb. 13—
10 p. m., Junior Prom, Palais Royale Ballroom.
Saturday, Feb. 14—
1:30 p. m. — Notre Dame-Butler Track Meet, Gymnasium.
Informal Parties, South Bend.
6:30 p. m. —: Dinner Dance, Oliver Hotel.
St. Valentine Motif
Is Feature of ’31 Prom
»»»»»»»»»»»
Miss Gertrude Brennan Guest of Mr. Cavanaugh
❖-----------------------------------
department of the dance has worked untiringly and if the results can be measured by the amount of work done the Prom will surely reach every expectation.
Decorations Novel
Decorations in keeping with the St. Valentine motif will tend to make the affair distinctive. Co-chairmen Joel Ostrander and Benjamin Mikes have taken advantage of the date for this year’s prom by introducing this scheme. A large water fountain will stand in the center of the dance floor, and an eight foot valentine bearing the numerals “32” will be placed at the east end of the room. Other decorations will add to the effect, making the ballroom a veritable Cupid’s paradise. From this fact alone the dance promises to be decidedly outstanding.
Clyde McCoy’s orchestra has been selected by the music committee headed by Philip Dunleavy, to furnish
the music for the dance. His experience gathered while playing at the more well-known universities and colleges throughout the country has earned for him a reputation among the undergraduate set. He will be remembered particularly for his rendition of “Sugar Blues” over station WGN in Chicago. This and other musical accomplishments on the air have increased his favor with the public.
The music committee is to be commended on securing an orchestra so favored in college circles as that of Clyde McCoy, in spite of all the difficulties encountered.
Moran Selects Favors
Attractive silver compacts to grace milady’s dressing table are the favors for this year’s prom. The sets, which were distributed this past week, are a departure from the usual favors. They bear the junior class numerals and the University seal.
The programs arranged by Joseph McCabe are very attractively bound and have a blue and gold cord. Each page contains a quotation from some major poet. The cover is oramented with the University seal done in gold.
Miss Margaret Uprichard of Lakewood, Ohio, as the guest of Chairman Collins, will be the queen of the Prom St. Valentine. Vincent Cavanaugh, president of the junior class will entertain as guest of honor, Miss Gertrude Brennan of Chicago. Other guests have arrived from all sections of the country including California, Florida, Arizona, and Washington. Another feature which makes the Prom unique is the fact that two of the guests come from the other side of the Atlantic, Marie M. Means of Monte Carlo, Monaco travelling the greatest distance, Virginia Barett of
*
The Notre Dame Scholastic
493
Clyde McCoy to Play For Juniors and Guests
« « « « « « « « « « «
❖----------------------------------
Dublin, Ireland, being a close second.
Juniors and their guests will dance to the strains of “My Heart Tells Me” written especially for the Prom by Walter F. Philipp, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. E. Kath-eryn Ullmen, a senior at St. Mary’s college, has written the words. During the past week the song has been featured by William McAleer, a senior member of the Glee club, at the Granada theatre, and has been well received by the public. Clyde McCoy promises special arrangements of the song.
Guests of Honor
In accordance with the usual custom the juniors have invited as guests: Dean and Mrs. James McCarthy; Mr. Paul Byrne, University librarian; Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic; John Dempsey, editor-in-chief of the Juggler; Paul J. Hallinan, editor-in-chief of the Dome; Louis Brennan, editor-in-chief of Scrip; Joseph Guadnola, editor-in-chief of the Laivyer; Walter Terre, editor- inchief of the Catalyzer; Timothy Ben-itz, chairman of the S.A.C.; Edward Madden, chairman of the Blue Circle; Louis Heitger, director of public relation at the University; Robert Ruppe, chairman of the S.A.C. dance committee; John Connolly, secretary of the S.A.C.; Louis Esposito, treasurer of the S.A.C.; John Saunders, president of the senior class; and Edward Dailey, president of the sophomore class.
Patrons Announced
The patrons and patronesses for the Prom are as follows: Mr. and Mrs. William E. Benitz; Mr. and Mrs. Pedro de Landero; Mr. and Mrs. Louis Buckley; Mr. Daniel C. O’Grady; Mr. John Connolly; and Mr. Cletus Chizek.
Miss Margaret Uprichard Guest of Mr. Collins
An invitation has been extended to the juniors and their guests to attend the Butler-Notre Dame track meet which will take place tomorrow afternoon. Seats directly opposite the finish line will be reserved. Admission will be fifty cents a couple on presentation of the A.A. book.
A formal dinner dance will be held tomorrow evening at 6:30 at the Oliver hotel. The Music Masters have been engaged to play and Leonard Condon, chairman of the dinner dance, promises a very interesting program.
Much credit is due to the publicity committee for their success in bringing the Prom more vividly to the minds of the students and to the juniors in particular. During the past few days while the students have been going over to the refectory phonograph recordings by Clyde McCoy and his orchestra have been reproduced.
John J. Collins
General Chairman
Everything is now in readiness and within a few hours the Prom St. Valentine of the class of 1932 will pass from anticipation to realization.
SONG
“My Heart Tells Me”
Words by Katheryn Ullmen Music by W. Franz Philipp
VERSE:
When I’m with you, I know, dear Love has at last come my way,
Oh! can’t you guess,
What I have to confess, Won’t you listen to what I have to say?
CHORUS:
My heart tells me that I’m in love with you,
Love me, dear, and tell me that you do
You are all I care for ' Why deny it any more;
Three words are all that I would have you say,
Whisper them your own sweet way
So if you love me, dear, why don’t you say that you do, My heart tells me that I’m in love with you.
494	Th
GUESTS AT
Kathryn Meyer, Mishawaka. Indiana Virginia Geurink, Shaker Heights. Ohio Mary Ruth Fairman. Oak Park. Illinois Elizabeth Richard. Mishawaka, Indiana Josephine Hoerstman. Mishawaka, Indiana Clare Mary Lynch. Cleveland. Ohio Leala Ebel, Laporte. Indiana Audrey March. Chicago. Illinois Claire Van Paris, South Bend, Indiana Marjorie Kent. South Bend. Indiana Virginia Armstrong. South Bend. Indiana Thelma Kiinehurst. South Bend. Indiana Virginia Felter. Chicago, Illinois Helen Cook. Mishawaka, Indiana Helen Callahan. St. Mary's, Notre Dame Dorothy O’Grady. Chicago, Illinois Lucille Weigand. Wichita, Kansas Helen White. St. Alary’s. Notre Dame Madalyn Smith, South Bend. Indiana Mary Baker, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Mary Virginia Gall. St. Mary’s. Notre Dame Loretta Cooper. St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Harriet Wilson. St. Mary’s. Notre Dame Jean Cravens. Neosha. Missouri Patricia Harman, St. Mary’s. Notre Dame Vera Rogers. Evansville, Indiana Mathie Green. Chicago. Illinois Marian Sullivan, St. Mary’s. Notre Dame Dortha Hipskind. Richmond. Indiana Ramona Reigel. River Forest. Illinois Hortense Moritz. Michigan City. Indiana Laverne Hicks. Streator, Illinois Florence Pomerantz. South Bend, Indiana Mildred Albright. Mishawaka. Indiana Ursuline McGuire. St. Mary’s. Notre Dame Gladys Hunt. South Bend. Indiana Ellyn Marks. St. Mary’s, Notre Dame May Brennan. Chicago, Illinois Kathryn Bosler, Tulsa. Oklahoma Margaret Storen. St. Mary’s. Notre Dame Cleora Neid. South Bend, Indiana Helen Pralil, Bloomington. Illinois Elna Beyer. South Bend. Indiana Josephine Goetz. River Forest. Illinois Marie Collins. Rochester, New York Doris Bromann, Oak Park, Illinois Elizabeth Link. Norwalk, Ohio Julia E. Huff, South Bend, Indiana Esther R. Stoeckinger, Mishawaka. Indiana Helen O'Brien. Chicago, Illinois Tessie Roth. Canton. Ohio Ruth McMillan, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania Dorothy Henna. St. Mary’s. Notre Dame Clara Kullman. River Forest, Illinois Eileen McCarthy. Davenport. Iowa Patricia McCarthy. Davenport. Iowa Marjorie Langanatti, Hot Springs. Arkansas Mary Wagner, South Bend. Indiana Catherine Lord, Chicago, Illinois Lauretta Read. Covington. Kentucky Julianne Bartz. St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods Patricia Willemin. South Bend, Indiana . Maryon Casey, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Mary Vinson, Mishawaka, Indiana Elizabeth De Groote. South Bend. Indiana Marion Kellogg, Lafayette. Indiana Dorothy Leddy, Elmhurst. New York Ruth Mary Broeker, Omaha, Nebraska Mary K. McGowan. Atlanta, Georgia Rosalind Nye. DeKalb, Illinois Margaret Heiney. St. Mary's, Notre Dame Alice Melntee, Mishawaka. Indiana Marian Walsh, Akron. Ohio Mary Frances Eder, Crown Point, Indiana Zelma Frick, Chicago, Illinois Margaret Costello, Binghamton. New York Marvinette Barrymore. New York, New York Inez Savoldi, Three Oaks. Michigan Angela Probst. South Bend, Indiana Mary Joan Gallagher, Chicago, Illinois Edna Fogarty, Trenton, New Jersey Margaret Kelley, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Frances Curran, St. Mary's, Notre Dame Helen Grimm, South Bend. Indiana Robylee Spence. West Frankfort. Illinois Mary Loretta Snite, Miami Beach, Florida Nora Farley, South Bend, Indiana Rosemary O’Farrell, Miami Beach, Florida Margaret Kelly. River Forest, Illinois Florence Hansen, Argo, Illinois Mary Alice Conaghan. Pekin, Illinois Virginia Kappus, Elmhurst, Illinois Joan Kappus, Elmhurst, Illinois Ruth Miller, Lakewood, Ohio Joan Hauxhurst, Kenilworth, Illinois Helen Carroll, Chicago, Illinois Mary Wagner, St. Mary’s. Notre Dame Florence Glenon. St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Margaret Mangold, Evanston, Illinois Pauline Juilleret, South Bend, Indiana Margaret Carmody, Chicago. Illinois Ira Kizer. South Bend. Indiana Anne J. Yant, East Chicago, Indiana Irmgard Petzel, Chicago, Illinois
e Notre Dame Scholastic
THE 1931 JUNIOR PROM
Josephine Patricia Murphy. Chicago. Illinois Belle Fernicola, Newark, New Jersey Frances Fernicola, Newark, New Jeisey Jean 'Alschuler, Chicago, Illinois Marian Magnan. Aurora, Illinois Margaret Fall. Milwaukee, Wisconsin Francis McMillan. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Sophie Evans. Chicago, Illinois Helen Phinney, Chicago, Illinois Mildred L. Baker. Chicago. Illinois
• Louis Burp. Long Beach, Indiana -Mary Stockdale. Parsons, Kansas Betty Myers. South Bend, Indiana Vivian Lots. River Forest. Illinois Don Robbins. Mishawaka, Indiana Clara Dietl. South Bend, Indiana Alice Kenefick, Michigan City, Indiana Elizabeth FeNack. Davenport, Iowa Marie Ernst, Chicago, Illinois Betty McDonald, Gary, Indiana Betty Winterburn. Albany, Georgia Ruth Knisley. Battle Creek. Michigan Mary Elizabeth Hayes, South Bend, Indiana Helen Black. Battle Creek, Michigan Isabelle Kennedy, St. Alary’s-of-the-Woods Martha Page, St. Maiy's, Notre Dame Mary V. Bearinger, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Georgina Tamy, Chicago, Illinois Loretta Paynton. St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods Dorothy Owen. Chicago. Illinois Mary Lou Savage. Chicago. Illinois Mary Ellen Hogan. St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods Margaret Delmore, Webster College Frances Murphy, Chicago. Illinois Margaret Switzer. St. Maiy’s. Notre Dame Ruth Brennan. Chicago. Illinois Annabelle Mahan. St. Mary's. Notre Dame Ruth Nickol, Chicago, Illinois Vivian Summers. St. Mary's. Notre Dame Lucia De Bojac, New Orleans. Louisiana Mary McKeever, Tulsa. Oklahoma Loretto McCarthy. Taos, New Mexico Florence Borst. Mishawaka. Indiana Isabelle Kelly, Gary, Indiana Dorothy Ball. New Rochelle. New York Vivian Wentz, New Rochelle, New York Ellen Vandervoort, Battle Creek, Michigan Mary Dana. Fond du Lac, Wisconsin Mary Durm, Niles, Michigan Agnes Kohl. Minneapolis, Minnesota Rosemary <*?is, Gieat Falls, Montana Kay Fahey. Chicago. Illinois Delphine Murphy. Marywood Academy Virginia Barett, Dublin, Ireland Mary Robinson, Waterbury, Connecticut Maiy Fogartj-, Springfield, Illinois Helen Smith. Detroit, Michigan Alice Buckley, St. Mary’s. Notre Dame Wanda Miller, South Bend, Indiana Josephine Flannigan, Chicago, Illinois Rose Marie Mikes, Chicago, Illinois Katherine George, St. Mary's. Notre Dame Jane Mix, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Catherine McCormack, Chicago, Illinois Vivian Breaux, St. Mary’s. Notre Dame Katherine Murphy, Lake Forest, Illinois Mary Elizabeth Roche, Chicago, Illinois Rita Collins, Chicago, Illinois Rosanna Gorman, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame ' Helen West. St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Marie Maloney, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Mary Cherdran, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Betty Claire Waltz, St. Mary’s. Notre Dame Ela Block, Mishawaka, Indiana Alice O’Toole, St. Maiy’s, Notre Dame Louise Petritz, Rockford, Illinois Virginia Jarvis, Port Washington, New York Mary Alockler, Chicago, Illinois Rachael Hargreave, South Bend, Indiana Alice Hixon, Milwaukee. Wisconsin Jayne Hall, Chicago, Illinois Margaret Jordan. South Bend, Indiana Ruth White. Ypsilanti, Michigan Maiy Bailie, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Katherine Ragan, Milwaukee. Wisconsin Mildred Weyland, Racine. Wisconsin Jacqueline Ramsey, Oakland. California Margaret Deming, Chicago, Illinois Virginia Koch. St. Mary’s. Notre Dame Mary Ryno. St. Joseph. Michigan Edna Schuster, Joliet, Illinois Doris Kendall. South Bend, Indiana Harriet Neufold, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Dorothy Beck. Waterloo, Iowa Irene Komasinki, South Bend, Indiana Lillian Hozel, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Maiy Beth Genoclico, St. Mary's. Notre Dame Theresa Hozinski,' South Bend. Indiana ' Virginia Vogg, Indianapolis, Indiana Mildred Peters, Benton Harbor, Michigan Alice Braunsdorf, South Bend, Indiana Leona Kochanowski, South Bend, Indiana Olive Schwartz, St. Maiy’s, Notre Dame Mary Grace Brown, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame
Albertine Gagnier, Churubusco, New York Mary Cass. South Bend. Indiana Marjorie Seibold, St. Mary's-of-the-Woods Marie H. Means, Monte Carlo, Monaco Eleanor Collins. Cleveland Heights. Ohio Margaret Uprichard, Lakewood. Ohio Gertrude Brennan, Chicago. Illinois Irma Crumley, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Hana Chudleigh, St. Alary’s. Notre Dame Cecelia O’Mahony, Indianapolis. Indiana Helen Haney, South Bend, Indiana Helen Pellitier, St. Joseph, Michigan Ruth Downey, St. Alary’s, Notre Dame Eleanor Kirby, Indianapolis, Indiana Margaret Burke, St. Alary’s. Notre Dame Lucy Beasley, St. Maiy’s. Notre Dame Mary Paul, Ann Arbor, Alichigan Florence Jansen, Elmhurst, Illinois Dorothy Zaback, St. Mary’s. Notie Dame Ada Banford, Ashtabula, Ohio Alice Albin, St. Alary’s, Notre Dame Elizabeth Leahy, Chicago, Illinois Virginia Lacey. Chicago, Illinois Alary Rowen. St. Alary’s, Notie Dame Alary B. Weis, South Bend. Indiana Helen Halley, South Bend, Indiana Bernice Jena, South Bend, Indiana Agnes Lennon, Joliet, Illinois Kathryn Redmond, St. Alary’s, Notre Dame Alary Lee Bayley, Tulsa, Oklahoma Dorothy Rodgers. Houston, Texas Alary Delaney, Wichita Falls, Texas Josephine Niles, Mishawaka, Indiana Dorothy Gregg, Connersville, Indiana Mary Ullmen, Oak Park, Illinois Charlotte Armstrong, South Bend. Indiana Zana Van Valin, South Bend. Indiana Jean Graham, South Bend, Indiana Jean Christman, South Bend, Indiana Elizabeth Daly, Chicago, Illinois Evelyn Carpen, Benton Harbor, Alichigan Alabel Piers, Phoenix, Arizona Afadeline Culman, Cie Elum, Washington Jeanette Holland, St. Louis, Alissouri Virginia Feely, Portland, Oregon Alary Ann Balchmider. Sheboygan, Wisconsin Alarie AIcKenna, St. Alary’s, Notre Dame Grace Hanlon, Oak Park, Illinois Jane Dolver, Chicago, Illinois Alary Catherine Walter, South Bend, Indiana Grace Rehme. Rashville, Indiana Bernice Cannon, St. Alary’s, Notre Dame Mary O’Connor, St. Alary’s-of-the-Woods Rosina Roessler, South Bend, Indiana Agnes Whalen, St. Alary’s. Notre Dame Alary Alargaret Zoss, South Bend, Indiana Eleanor Krebser, St. Alary’s, Notre Dame Gertrude McCarthy, St. Alary’s, Notre Dame Corrine Peek, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Dorothy Walsh, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Mary Byrne, St. Maiy’s, Notre Dame Ruth Flowers. South Bend, Indiana Frances Barber, Chicago, Illinois Orlene Moore, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Mary Gillen, South Bend, Indiana Virginia Cronin, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods Mrs. R. J. Dunda, South Bend. Indiana Theresa Maroney, St. Alary’s-of-the-Woods Alary O’Leary, Chicago, Illinois Mary Angela Bergan. South Bend, Indiana Grace Vary, South Bend, Indiana Elizabeth Nicar, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Ruth McNabb, South Bend, Indiana Margaret Hall. Evanston, Illinois Marney Kathaling. St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Dorothy Ahern, South Bend, Indiana Jean Brady, St. Mary’s. Notre Dame Katherine Kitzpatrick, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Ruth Faulkner, South Bend, Indiana Alary Van Etten, Chicago, Illinois Dorothy Shipman, Benton Harbor, Alichigan Mary Gaffrick, South Bend, Indiana Marwin Pierce. South Bend. Indiana Maryhelle Denny, Chicago, Illinois .Marjorie Hoyt, South Bend, Indiana Grace Burke, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Evelyn Gill, Chicago, Illinois Julia Foley. Chicago, Illinois Katherine Lenger, South Bend, Indiana Donna Belle Parvis, South Bend, Indiana Celia Janeske, South Bend, Indiana Rosemary Williams, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Helen Smith,- Iowa City, Iowa Ida Randel, South Bend, Indiana Helen O’Keefe, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Teresa Ryan, South Bend, Indiana Dorothy Stover, Hubbard Oaks, Illinois Isabella Eidley, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Dorothy E. Richardson, South Bend, Indiana Nancy Lee Wilkinson, Louisville, Kentucky Victoria DeFrees, South Bend, Indiana Mary Virginia Harfst, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame Helen O’Conner, Chicago, Illinois-Loretta Sheehan, St. Mary’s, Notre Dame
The Notre Dame Scholastic
495
ROSTER OF COMMITTEE CHAIRMEN
Albert Carter ■ Philip Dunleavy
John Litcher	Joseph Lopker
E. Tighe Woods
Leonard Dunn
Leonard Condon
George Higgins
THE COMMITTEES
TICKETS—Leonard Dunn, chairman ; John Kramer. Raymond Geiger, William Van Rooy, Nicholas Kalmes, Murray Booth. Joseph M. Foley, Leo Schiavone, Thomas McKevitt. John Ryan, Clay Johnson.
DECORATIONS—Joel Ostrander, chairman : Benjamin Mikes, co-chairman ; Peter- Trolio. John Perone. Frank Kelly. Hugh Ball. Florence McCarthy. John Cooper. John Werner, Edward Melchione.
PATRONS—Tighe Woods, chairman: Roy Catizone, Clayton Duerr. John Grams. Rollin Baldwin. Paul Murphy.
PROGRAMS—Albert Capter. chairman : Bud Argus, Jack Geddes. Richard Oelrieh. Harry Behrmann, John Jackson.
RECEPTION—John Litcher, James Gleason, co-chairmen ; Emmet Murphy, Francis Graham, Timothy Sullivan, Clement Theisen, Maurice Matthews, Benjamin Salvaty.
PUBLICITY—George Higgins, chairman : Joseph Lopker. co-chairman : Joseph McCabe, Robert Gorman. Neil Hurley, Joseph Petritz. James Carmody. Neil Rau, Paul Hallinan, Myron Crawford.
FAVORS—Gabriel Moran, chairman: James O'Shaughnessey, Leo Fagan, John Cole, Casimir Dyniewicz, James Simmons.
MUSIC—Philip Dunleavy, chairman; Edward Fitch, William Weir. Frank Burke. John Norris, Norbert Crowe, Charles Spangenberg.
ARRANGEMENTS—Theodore Kremer, chairman: Charles Nash. Paul Host. Anthony O'Neill, James J. Collins, Thomas Mahaffey.
DINNER DANCE—Leonard Condon, chairman.
Gabriel Moran
Joel Ostrander
James Gleason	Theodore Kremer	Benjamin Mikes
496	The Notre Dame Scholastic
OFFICIAL COAT-DF-ARMS ADOPTED	w“
FOR NOTRE DAME BY PRESIDENT P®4™SI
Heraldry Authority Designs Escutcheon Symbolic Of The Blessed Virgin
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, has announced the adoption of official armorial bearings for Notre Dame. Father O’Donnell some time ago commissioned M. Pierre de Chaignon la Rose, of Harvard university, perhaps the foremost authority on heraldry in the United States, to design a coat-of-arms for the University. M. la Rose’s final design is reproduced in full color as an insert in this issue of the Scholastic.
Heraldry as an art is almost as old as the recorded history of the human race. Reference to symbols representing an individual or a family can be found in the Old Testament, in the classic poetry of Greece and Rome, and in the unlettered traditions of primitive races. It was during the Middle Ages, however, particularly during the Crusades when all Christendom united to reclaim the Near East, that heraldry developed from a crude art to a mature expression of family and institutional ideals and traditions. The study of mediaeval heraldry is a fascinating though complex science. Ecclesiastical heraldry, almost as old as the Church, is more or less closely related to the liturgy of the Church. It is entirely appropriate that the University of Notre Dame should have and use an authentic coat-of-arms, symbolic of her history, traditions, and ideals.
The colors blue and gold are the colors of the Blessed Virgin to whom Notre Dame (her very name) is dedicated. There are various heraldic emblems symbolic of the Virgin Mother of God in addition to the colors blue and gold. Since the official title of the University is “Uni-versitas Dominae Nostrae a Lacu” (by the lake), the star, reminiscent of the beautiful epithet Star of the Sea, was chosen as Mary’s symbol in the new shield of arms. At the base of the shield are two wavy broad lines of silver, always used in heraldry to represent water, here used to express “a Lacu” of Notre Dame’s
name. Thus the star and the waves of silver become poetically expressive of the dedication of the University to the Star of the Sea.
The Cross represents the Congregation of Holy Cross, whose members founded and still administer the University. The open book is always emblematic of an institution of learning. The phrase “Vita, Dulcedo, Spes,” taken from the ancient prayer to the Virgin, the “Salve Regina,” means “our life, our sweetness, our hope”; the combination of these phrases with the symbol for university indicates the dedication of all Notre Dame’s activities, intellectual, spiritual, athletic, and so on, to Our LadyT
The heraldic shield, bound with a circular device in which is inscribed “Sigillium Universitatis Dominae Nostrae a Lacu,” become the seal of the University, used on all official documents, including degrees.
Every Notre Dame man, whether an alumnus, a member of the faculty, or a student, may well be proud of the new heraldic insignia of his school. The Scholastic has gone to considerable labor and expense to reproduce the shield of arms in color. It has based its efforts on the supposition that many Notre Dame men, and friends of the University, may wish to frame and preserve this reproduction the authoritative symbol of what Notre Dame is, was, and ever hopes to be.
Law Schoo] Registration
According to Professor Thomas F. Konop, dean of the Law school, the registration in the law school for this semester shows an increase of ten students over last September. The enrollment now numbers one hundred and forty-nine.
At present the law school has forty-four students in the third year, twenty-eight in the second, and seventy-three in the first.. There are also two special students and two academics.
Experts Preview “Dummy” and Say Book Is Excellent.
Work on the Dome of 1931, the twenty-fifth yearbook of the University, passed the preparatory stage this week, as borders were printed, and type for senior and junior sections was set. From now on until April 1, copy will be rushed to the printers, Peerless Press, according to Paul J. Hallinan, editor. It is planned to have the bulk of the book ready for publication at that time; final setting up, and revision, binding and covers will take the remaining weeks until the publication date, May 18.
Special previews on the “dummy” by staff members and others connected with the publications this past week resulted in approval of the book. Particularly noted were the junior photographs, which are agreed to be not only the best ever taken of that third-year class but the first time that they could be definitely identified by friends. Accompanying each picture is the name and home town of the subject, thus forming an invaluable asset to juniors who plan summer tours.
The halls and the football sections also were praised by those who saw the “dummy.”
A new feature announced this week by the editor was the inclusion in the book of scenes from six campuses whose schools have athletic relations with Notre Dame. Army, Navy, Illinois and others are to make up the parade of opponents.
It is the belief of the staff that everybody in the University is mentioned at least once, and pictured at least once in the book. Anyone who has not as yet been photographed in some form or other, or who feels that his name has been omitted is asked to get in touch with James H. Dubbs, Morrissey hall, to make arrangements for a group picture of such individuals. The group will be rather small.
Foreign Commerce Club
The Foreign Commerce club will hold its regular meeting at eight p. m. _ on Monday in the old Law building.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
497
APPLICANTS ACCEPTED
AT K. OF C. MEETING
Professor Phillips Speaks on Abraham Lincoln.
Five applications for membership in the Knights of Columbus, Notre Dame Council 1477, were approved at the regular meeting last Monday night. Plans for a systematized campaign for new members, disposition of the profits on the successful K. of C. formal, and suggestions for a fourth degree chapter were also discussed.
At the conclusion of the meeting, Professor Charles L. Phillips, member of the English department at the University, gave an interesting talk on “The Early Life of Abraham Lincoln.”
The five new men who will receive the first degree initiation on Wednesday, March 4 are: Joseph J. Welsh, John M. Doran, John W. Schwantes, John. J. Munley, and Charles J. Slatt.' Second and third degree applicants will be initiated on Sunday, March 15. A committee was appointed to confer on the advisability of installing a fourth degree chapter in the local council. Numerous requests for this class prompted Grand Knight Louis F. Buckley to begin this movement.
Buckley also reported that the recent donation of $100 to the poor and the collection of old clothes have gone far to relieve much of the suffering of the needy residing in the settlement east of the University.
Profits from the formal dance, amounting to $265, will be used for the annual picnic to be held late in spring, it was announced at the meeting.
Reports on the drive for new members will be given at the next regular meeting to be held Tuesday, February 24. This meeting has been set back one day because of the Washington Birthday exercises on the campus.*
A. I. E, E. To Hold Meeting
The A. I. E. E. will meet Monday evening at 8:00 p. m. in the Badin hall basement.
NOTICE!	*
S There will be an important ? ? meeting of the news and sports s < staff this evening at 7:00 in 5 s Room 222 of the Main building. ? > The regular- 6:30 editorial staff < < meeting will be held in the Pub- > < lications office. All members ? S are required to attend.	<
SNAPSHOT DRIVE BEGINS
Prizes Offered by “Dome” For Three Best; 200 Needed.
The drive for 200 snapshots began Wednesday of this week, according to James H. Dubbs, 13 Morrissey hall, who is in charge of collecting that number for the Dome section, “The Year.” Ten or twelve pages depicting Notre Dame life at its gravest and funniest moments will make up that part of the book. Prizes are offered for the three best snapshots. The prizes are: the best, three dollars; second and third best, one dollar- each.	.
The following men in each hall have been selected to collect snapshots :
Lyons, Joseph Judge; Morrissey, Cy Collins; Howard, Sylvester Poppe; Badin, C. Sheridan Wells; Corby, Dan Carney; Walsh, Robert Cahill; Sorin, William Artmann; St. Edwards, Edward Sullivan; Sophomore, Edward Gough; Freshman, Richard Cahill; Brownson, Robert Lechner; Carroll, Thomas Pogue.
Off-Campus students are requested to leave their snapshots with any of these men, or with James Dubbs.
In the awarding of prizes, particular attention will be given to clever snapshots of student life on the campus, interiors of rooms, etc.
The contest will close at midnight, Friday, February 20.
Student Directories on Sale
Students are urged to get student directories now. A great many copies are in the registrar’s office at the present time, but these will be scarce next year. Mr. Riordan is constantly receiving orders for back number directories, some of five and ten years ago. Those who expect to keep them as souvenirs should get theirs now.
TIM BENITZ TO HEAD MID-WEST MEETING
S. A, C, President to Preside at Student Conference,.
The Mid-West Conference of universities, composed of student representatives from large universities in the middle west and the south, will convene this year for its tenth annual session at the Carnegie' Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, on March 5, 6, and 7.
The resignation of Newman Corker of the Georgia Institute of Technology, as president of the organization, leaves as his successor, Tim Benitz, the president of the Notre Dame Student Activities council. Benitz, local representative last year at Atlanta, was elected vice-president for the ensuing year after acting as temporary chairman of the conference.
Notre Dame is a charter member of this conference, the oldest association of student councils in America. The first meeting was held at the University of Missouri in 1921. The organization has for its purpose the discussion and solution of some of the vital and troublesome problems which confront the activity and scope of work carried on by the students’ councils.
Decisions were reached on the following subjects last year: Orientation of freshmen, student elections, financing of student councils, intramural athletics, publications and the student body, traditions, and the honor system. The last mentioned has been condemned by the conference for three years in succession.
Chemists Elect Officers
At a meeting of the Chemists’ club held last Wednesday evening the following officers were elected: D. Nolan, Ch.E. ’23, honorary president; J. Toussaint, president; J. Donnelly, vice-president; D. Killian, secretary-treasurer; and E. Lopker, member-at-large.
The elections of the club are held at the first meeting of the second semester. All engineers and science students majoring in chemistry and having sophomore rating are invited to attend the meetings of the Chemists’ club on the first Wednesday of each month.
498
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COMING EVENTS
Subject to change without notice.
FRIDAY, Feb. 13—Scholastic editorial meeting, 6:30 p. m., Publications office.—Staff meeting, 7:00 p.
. m., 222 Main building.—Junior Prom, 10 p. m. to 2 a. m., Palais Royale.—Basketball, Wabash vs. Notre Dame, gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, Feb. 14—Indoor track, Butler vs. Notre Dame, gymnasium, 2:00 p. m.—Movie, “Up the River,” Washington hall, 6:40 p. m. and 8:15 p. m.—Junior dinner dance, Oliver hotel, 6:30 p. m.
SUNDAY, Feb. 15—Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m.—Radio debate, Kent College of Law vs. Notre Dame, WLS, Chicago, 3:00 p. m.
MONDAY, Feb. 16—Dome pictures, 12:20, gymnasium, Pacific-Northwest club, St. Louis club, Fort Wayne club.—Italian club meeting, Room 2, Main building, 6:30 p. m. —A. I. E. E. meeting, Badin hall basement, 8:00 p. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., Room 222, Main building.—Foreign Commerce club meeting, old Law building, 8:00 p.m.
TUESDAY, Feb. 17—Spanish club meeting, old Law building, 7 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, Feb. 18—Scribbler’s meeting, 6:30 p. m., Howard “rec.”
THURSDAY, Feb. 19—Spectators’ meeting, 8:00 p. m., journalism room of library.
Chemists to Hear Doctors
Dr. Zerfas and Mr. H. A. Shonle of Eli Lilly & Company, will address the combined sections of the St. Joseph County Medical society and the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical Society on Wednesday evening, March 11. The chemical aspects of the subject of barbitals will be treated by Mr. Shonle, and Dr. Zerfas will discuss the clinical side of the story. Dr. M. W. Lyon, Jr., is president of the St. Joseph County Medical society.
SECRETARY OF WELFARE LEAGUE THANKS N. D. MEN FOR GIFTS
If the students are wondering where their donations for the relief of the poor are going they may set their minds at ease, and rest assured that whatever they have given in answer to Father O’Hara’s kindly appeal is appreciated. The prefect of religion received this week a letter from Mrs. F. G. Coffield, secretary of the Notre Dame Social Welfare League, thanking him and the students of Notre Dame for their generosity. The letter to Father O’Hara reads as follows:
The Notre Dame Social Welfare League desires, through you, Reverend Father, to thank the students of Notre Dame university for their recent donation of four hundred dollars.
The money received is to be used in carrying on the-charitable work of the League among the poor residing in the township in the vicinity of Notre Dame.
The members of the League personally distribute food, clothing and other necessities of life to these destitute people, but must look to our friends, to a great extent, for financial assistance. The receipt of your splendid donation has been an inspiration to us.
Our spiritual advisor, Reverend Edward Finnegan, C.S.C., joins the League in extending to you our grateful thanks and appreciation.
I beg to remain
Yours faithfully, Mildred Coffield (Sec’y.)
Such appreciation for the small individual donations that the men of the University have made is enough to encourage a greater interest on their part for those who are less fortunate. By contributing to the fund for charity can they help to relieve miserable conditions under which some of the Sacred Heart parishioners are forced to live.
Pre-Law Club Meets
The second meeting of the newly organized Pre-Iaw club was held last Monday evening in the new Law building, with Chairman Thomas Tobin presiding.
Plans for the Law club banquet and for a smoker to be held some time in March were discussed.
Vice-president Robert E. Lee suggested that the club adopt some form of an emblem, which suggestion was favorably acted upon by those present. '
Campus Opinions
“Do you think that basketball and track receive the proper support at Notre Dame?”
Joseph A. McCabe, Lyons hall, junior—“It is wholly natural that, in a school where football is preponderantly the main sport, other sports should suffer. For my own part the color and intense interest of a football game serves to nullify whatever small interest I might have once had in track and basketball, and I believe that this is true of many others here.”
George J. Boden, Off-Campus, junior—“Passing from football to track and basketball is, in the mind of the Notre Dame student, like going from the sublime to the ridiculous. The thrilling games with Pittsburgh are ample proofs that it is not. No doubt the let down in track and basketball is natural, for interest cannot be centered upon any one activity for the whole year.”
Howard de Vault, Freshman hall, junior—“No, I do not think so, not in proportion to the efforts put forth by the men engaged and their coaches. However, it is a natural condition following such successful football seasons as we enjoy here.”
Merle V. Baldwin, Off-Campus, junior—“I believe that track is supported well enough, as there always seems to be a great deal of enthusiasm at track meets. Basketball, however, is sadly neglected by the students. As constructive criticism, I suggest a more active program by the S.A.C., especially in securing the services of the band at the games.”
Edward J. England, Walsh hall, junior law—“The support of the student body is indispensable for the success of any branch of college athletics. Adopting as a means of measurement, the support and enthusiasm of the student body for the football team, and comparing it with that given for the other branches «of sport, is indeed very disappointing. While the support of the student body cannot be questioned as to its sincerity, the reason for the failure to respond is due to many causes. The principal one is the lack of understanding and appreciation of other sports.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
499
Music And Drama
BROWN APPOINTED AS INVITATIONS CHAIRMAN
Last Saturday afternoon was the world premiere of Deems Taylor’s new opera Peter Ibbetson. The ovation it received at the Metropolitan was rather tremendous. The audience of 4,000 demanded thirty-six curtain calls, and there was applause for twenty minutes after the performance. The stars of the afternoon, next to Mr. Taylor, of course, were Lucrezia Bori as the Duchess of Towers, Edward Johnson as Peter, and Lawrence Tibbett as Colonel Ibbetson. The music is purely lyrical; there is only one aria which can be called such. During the effective dream scenes, French folk songs are by the chorus off stage. The story of the opera is rather well known in this country. About 1917 Constance Collier and John Barrymore played it, and later a movie version entitled “Forever” was done by Wallace Reid and Elsie Ferguson. I think the Goodman theater is presenting the play later in the season. But the opera was a success, Deems Taylor and the Metropolitan company are glad, and there were enough tears shed in the audience to satisfy every sentimental heart in the theater.
There is a rumor that Leslie Howard will produce and act in “Richard II” after making his two movies in Hollywood. This movie venture is said to be for the purpose of financing the Shakespearean play. . . . Philip Barry has an idea for a new play, and is going South to write it. He wrote “Hotel Universe” near Toulons, France, the setting of the play, but he didn’t bother to come to Indiana to write “Tomorrow and Tomorrow.” . . . “The Green Pastures” opened in New York February 26, 1930, and is still running. “That’s Gratitude,” its nearest competitor for length of run, is six months behind. It opened September 11. . . . Chi-, cagoans are certainly having a terrible time about their opera house. In the old Auditorium, no one would sit in the side boxes. Now that the new opera has only back boxes, they all want side boxes. Jewels and gowns are so much more effective in side boxes. . . . Ziegfeld may produce the gorgeous “Show Boat” again in the spring. Helen Morgan' is named for her old role. . . . Marika Cotopouli,
the Greek tragedienne who was in Chicago this week, has over two hundred plays in her repertoire at present, ranging from Sophocles to Shakespeare to the moderns. She can prepare any one of them in twenty-four hours.
There are plans to do Wagner without music in Vienna. This sounds like the height of something, but it isn’t. The story of the Ring, the Nibelungenlied, is a thrilling and dramatic epic in itself. It is theatrical, too; so much so that only the metropolitan opera companies can • produce the four operas based on it. The necessary scenic effects are too difficult and expensive—the floating mermaids, the rainbow bridge, the ride of the Valkyries, the burning of Valhalla, the magic fire, and so on. The music itself is so difficult of apprehension the first several times one hears it, that this contemplated production may bring enjoyment to many who would otherwise stay away. Of course, at times the music is so loud that it doesn’t matter whether you understand it or not. Apropos to this, remember the speech of the Duchess in Dorian Gray? “I love Wagner; he’s so loud one can talk all he wants to without disturbing anybody.” These aren’t the exact words, but you’ll have to let it go at that.
MEXICAN JUDGE GIVES TALK TO LAW STUDENTS
The Honorable Richard W. Ruffin of the Hacienda of San Bartola, state of Chihuahua, Mexico, and Justice of the supreme court of Mexico, lectured to the law students this afternoon in the assembly hall of the Law building.
Comparing the courts and jurisprudence of Mexico with those of the United States, the Justice traced the origin of the Spanish and Mexican law and common law, showing the inter-dependency of each.
Justice Ruffin’s grandfather was at one time Chief Justice of the Supreme court of North Carolina. The Justice has been visiting for a short time in Elkhart, and Thomas Happer, ’29, now an attorney in that city, accompanied Justice Ruffin on his visit to Notre Dame.
John F. Saunders, president of the senior class, has announced William Brown of Swampscott, Massachusetts, a senior in the College of Commerce, as chairman of the comemncement invitations committee. On the committee assisting Chairman Brown will be Hobart Shean, Walsh hall; Joseph Dunne, Frank R. Dittoe and Kenneth Fishleigh, Sorin hall; Joseph Deeb and Bart Cronin, Badin hall; Ray Snyder, Corby hall; William Cleary, Lyons hall; and Thomas Cannon and Phillip Konop, Off-Campus.
The invitations will sell at the same price as in other years, but will contain five steel engraved cuts, making for a more attractive work.
Orders for the invitation will be taken from Monday, February 16, until Saturday, February 21, and seniors are urged to see their hall representatives during this period so that the orders may be filled immediately.
New Book’s in Library-
Included in the list of books recently added to the University library, the following new volumes should be of interest to students and teachers: Biography—The Raven, by Marquis James; High Stakes and Hair Trigger, the life of Jefferson Davis, by Robert Watson Winston. Sociology— The Second Twenty Years at Hull-House, by Jane Addams. Education —Educational Psychology, by Jules de La Vaissiere, S. J., translated by the Reverend Sidney A. Raemers, of the department of philosophy at the University; Universities, American, English, German, by Abraham Flexner-. Fiction—On Forsyte ’Change, by John Galsworthy; Certain People, by Edith Wharton. Painting and engraving— Portrait Painting, by Herbert Ernest Augustus Furst; A. Book of British Etching, by Walter Shaw Sparrow. Physical Education—Famous American Athletes of Today, by Charles Haven Ladd Johnston. Poetry—Collected Poems of Robert Frost.
Dentists Hear Prof. Kuntz
Professor Leo J. Kuntz, head of the school of education at the University, addressed the first 1931 meeting of the South Bend Dental society last Monday night in the public library.
500
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Glances at the Magazines
The Scholastic editorial of last week recommending more reading of Catholic literature by Catholics was admirably supplemented by Father O’Hara’s Religious Bulletin of February 7, warning against the promiscuous reading of popular anti-Christian literature flooding the book marts these days. Incidentally, the Religious Bulletin is one of the most vigorous, lively, and readable papers on any campus. It deals with the problems of the Catholic student in an informative and interesting way, and is read by Catholics and non-Catholics here with equal enthusiasm. Outsiders, too, realize its value. Parents of students, educators, students at other Catholic schools, men and women interested in our University, are attracted by the Bulletin, and discover in it an explanation of the much discussed spirit of Notre Dame. Yet it is an essentially personal organ, and to the personality of Father O’Hara, keen, strong, and uncompromising, is due credit for its success.
“English As She Is Spoke” is the heading of two articles in the Atlantic Monthly on pronunciation. The first is by none other than George Arliss, winner of the 1930 gold medal award of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences for good diction. Mr. Arliss tells some of the requirements of the theater in diction, and he describes the influence for good of the “talkies” on American speech—a thesis presented some time ago by Mr. Will Hays. The other article is by Mr. Frank Vizetelly, learned lexicographer of the Funk and Wagnalls publications. He is concerned chiefly with a comparison of English and American usages, and the common blunders of ourselves and our English cousins in pronouncing words.
“Talented Memories” in the Atlantic is an account of the acquaintanceship of William Rothenstein, principal of the Royal College of Art, with such celebrities of the Nineties as Oscar Wilde, Richard Harding Davis, Pater, Beerbohm, Verlaine, and Zola. His memoirs include many anecdotes and personal glimpses of the lives of these men who have made literary history.
McCready Huston, novelist, and editor of the South Bend News-Times,
and sometimes lecturer in Washington hall, has a short story published in this month’s Harper’s. The title of it is “Carrie,” and the locale, as in many others of his stories, is the mid-western city of Empire—South Bend, of course. Mr. Huston is a skillful writer, and this story is very clever satire of the attitudes and provincialisms of the city to the south.
Two other stories in- Harper's are by Catherine Drinker- Bowen, and Griffith Beems. An article by Gamaliel Bradford, “The Fury of Living,” affords an admirable treatment of that fierce and ardent lover of strong, clean life—Theodore Roosevelt.
An editorial in the World’s Work magazine calls our attention to an “Unknown Celebrity,” Dr. Karl Landsteiner, winner of the Nobel prize for 1930. There has been much publicity concerning the other winners—Frank B. Kellogg and Sinclair Lewis, but the achievements of Dr. Landsteiner are practically unknown to all except scientists. In the eyes of the latter, however, his work far outshines that of his co-winners of the prize. His discoveries in the field of immunology and his researches on blood groups have resulted in incalculable benefit to mankind. That thought is sufficient recompense for his untiring experimental labors. He asks no reward,, and avoids publicity.
Another editorial quotes Dr. Abraham Flexner’s statement that higher education in many of our colleges and universities is in danger of losing its sense of proportion, particularly in the matter of extension courses. For instance such courses as these listed at Columbia—“home laundering,” “food etiquette,” and “gymnastics and dancing for men, including practice in clog dancing”—are permissible, but at the same time care must be taken that specialized classes of this nature be not given undue emphasis while science and culture courses, the true curriculum of the schools, are comparatively neglected.
Also in the World’s Work, Roger Babson offers a new and sane solution for the current business depression. Reconstruction, he asserts, depends not on those out of employment, but on those employed. The in-
SPECTATORS BEAR TALKS
Smith and Miltner Speak on Science and Justice.
Ramon G. Smith, senior in the College of Commerce and Charles H. Miltner, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, spoke on subjects of current importance at the regular meeting of the Spectators held last week. “Science in the Next Fifteen Years” was the topic of Smith’s talk. After reviewing the present position of science and its recent discoveries, he presented the opinions of scientists regarding possibilities for improvement in the immediate future. He pointed out what may logically be expected to happen in the future of medicine, food, bacteriology, transportation, electricity, and presented a brief picture of the world fifteen years from now, including both a study of the world in peace times and the world at war. In conclusion he showed that the progress of science in the future will be determined in no small degree by the popular acceptance of the products and discoveries of science. This talk produced considerable criticism and argument.
The second talk, on the subject “Justice versus Judges and Juries” was presented by Miltner, who first summarized the prominent evils and shortcomings in our present administration of justice, mentioning especially faulty court procedure, useless technicalities, corruption of officials and incompetent juries. He then revealed the enormous extent to which these forces had caused the miscarriage of justice in the United States. Next he reviewed the court system of Europe and their apparent efficiency compared to the courts of the United States. Miltner concluded with a summary of proposed remedies for the faults in our judicial status quo. This talk also evoked considerable argument, especially regarding the true cause of an inefficient judicial system.
ability of these to maintain proper, physical condition under the strain of “the present pace in the form of speed, competition, and general high pressure” is the basic evil in our industrial set-back. Mr. Babson is recognized as one of the foremost economists of the day. His studies are based always on scientific methods, but he never overlooks the human element in business.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
501
“SCRIP” RELEASED TODAY
Only Undergraduate Material Used in Second Number.
Book Reviews
Students are the only contributors to the latest edition of Scrip, which appears on the campus tonight. In past issues several professors have been responsible for some of the literary work, but in this latest number, no material has been prepared by any above the ranking of an undergraduate.
Three short stories are included in the magazine. The first of these, by Louis Brennan, is entitled “A Realist Looks at Christmas,” and is very noteworthy. Two other stories are also included, “Last Night,” by Joseph Clemens, and “Hill Clearing,” by George Spalding. These two stories are also very well done.
Although the titles of the poems were not available before going to press, the authors are sufficiently well-known to .mark the poetry as being of high character. The Reverend Francis Thornton and Joseph Carroll among others, are represented.
Joseph Carroll has also contributed an essay on Walter de la Mare. The frontispiece of this issue is the work of Frank Conboy. It is a sketch entitled “February.”
“Book-ends” is the caption for the section of book reviews. In this section Louis Heitger has a review of “Berkeley Square,” the fourth dimensional drama, now playing in Chicago. Francis X. Nulty reviews Carl Van Doren’s Swift: A Biography.
Poultry Club to Meet
The next meeting of the St. Joseph County Poultry club will be held on Thursday, February 19. Mr. C. L. Manwarring of Mentone, Ind., is to be the principal speaker. The program is under the direction of Professor J. W. Hayward, committee chairman of the organization and head of the department of agriculture. The club had its origin on the campus about six years ago and the growth since that time has been so rapid that its quarters were moved about five years ago to those now occupied in the St. Joseph county court house in South Bend. At the present time the club is again being reorganized.
The Mysterious Universe. By Sir James Jeans. Macmillan. S2.25.
One’s first impulse, after reading-this book, is to touch the nearest wall or chair to see if it really did possess tangibility and was still able to resist pressure. The New Physics, as heralded by Sir James Jeans, has just about done away with the conception of matter as having real extension or as being- “substantial” in the popular-sense of the term.
Sir James has written a very interesting- and fairly lucid account of the latest findings and theoretical conclusions of the New Physicists. The text is not too technical to mystify the lay reader, nor is it too scientifically rigid to bore him. The author has a fine faculty for illustrating obscure theories with familiar-examples and the book is full of such “scientific similes.” Sir James shows himself to be not only one of the foremost men of contemporary science, but also displays a literary style that is exactly suitable for expository purposes.
The first chapter begins with a description of the vast magnitudes of the celestial bodies and of the inconceivable distances which separate them. The genesis of our earth is attributed to the action of a roving star which millions of years ago happened to draw so close to the sun that it raised an enormous tide on the latter’s surface. This tidal mass was finally torn into fragments by the gravitational pull of the wandering-star and these fragments clustering around the sun formed the solar system of which are earth is a member.
Having given us the . origin of our earth, Sir James leads us from astronomy to physics, which, he says, is the proper field for the search of the nature of reality. Among the new conceptions of reality described by the author are the discarding of the explanation of the universe in terms of mechanics, the modification of the _ traditional law of strict cause and effect, and the reduction of matter, energy, and radiation to “waves.” Matter is defined as bottled-up waves, while radiation or light is composed of unbottled waves.
Relativity and the ether are discussed with more or less lucidity, and the author concludes this chapter with
the words: “The universe is like the surface of a soap-bubble. While the surface has only two dimensions, the real bubble has four—three of space and one of time. The substance of the bubble is empty space welded into empty time.”
While admitting in his preface that he is “not a philosopher* either by training or inclination,” Sir James devotes his last chapter to a philosophical conjecturing on these findings of modern science. He comes to the conclusion that reality can be truly explained only in terms of mathematics, and that “the Great Architect of the Universe now begins to appear as a pure mathematician.” And since pure mathematics is really pure thought, Sir James then concludes that the world was “not only created by thought but consists of thought,” and that which we commonly think is substantial matter is nothing more than the “shadow” projected by the real substance which is unknowable to us.
Although this last chapter is rather-disappointing in its extreme Platonic idealism, and although we think Sir James is rather illogical in identifying the unknown with the non-existent, still the bok as a whole is one of the most entertaining we have read in months, and we hope that a sequel to the Universe Around Us and the Mysterious Universe will not be too far off either in space or time or space-time. Richard R. Baker.
Portrait By Caroline. Sylvia Thompson. Little, Brown. S2.50.
Portrait By Caroline, the latest novel from the pen of Sylvia Thompson, author of The Hounds of Spring and Chariot Wheels, two books by a young English writer which have attained best sellerhood .in America, offers a picture of young England, the England of Miss Thompson’s contemporaries. A post-war England in which the old moral standards have gone awry and in which certain relationships, the sort that not many years ago could have lead only to scandal and social ostracism, are presented as only inconsequential and quite matter-of-fact affairs in every day life. The novel has poise and those brilliant qualities which make for entertainment of the first order.
502
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SCIENTISTS HEAR DEAN
“Medical Ethics” Is Subject of Frc Wenninger’s Talk.
The Notre Dame Academy of Science, in its meeting Monday evening, was addressed on the subject of “Medical Ethics” by the Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science and moderator of the Academy. The address discussed the topic from definition and application to purpose and final end.
Father Wenninger defined his subject as the code of rules of right conduct for those in any way whatsoever connected with the practice of medicine, that is, physicians, surgeons, and nurses. To the interested Catholic, ethics alone cannot be the sole rule of conduct for the medical profession. The very nature of the work demands a higher sanction for action than that derived from ethical principles alone.
“The physician,” said Father Wenninger, “is the custodian of God’s most precious gift in the natural order. It is but fitting then that the Catholic theology should state and clearly define the duties of the physician. The doctor must be a man of character and virtue as well as of learning and skill. Excepting only the priest, no man has higher or more sacred obligations.”
An outline of the moral duties and rights of the practicing doctor comprised the body of the discussion.
“Dome” Breaks Tradition
For the first time in eight years, the Dome group picture of Freshman hall contains no one but Freshman haliers.
In the past it has been customary to “shoot” both Freshman and its neighbor, Sophomore hall, the same day. Sophomore, of course, by right of seniority, received first call. Whereupon, all the Sophs charged over to the Freshman abode, and thus doubled the size of that group.
This year, however, the Dome men in charge of hall photography, wanted to make the Freshman hall photo just that. So it was taken first; Sophomore immediately after. Few Freshman haliers essayed to crash the latter group.
I	NOTICE!	|
? The Wranglers’ club, honor- > < ary forensic society of the Uni- < S versity, will hold their weekly < > meeting in Room 222 of the > < Main building on Monday night, > S at 6:30.	<
WEEK-END BULLETIN
ON “PERS” RELEASED
The following is a copy of the official Washington’s birthday bulletin issued by the office of the prefect of discipline:
“Week-end permissions over Washington’s birthday are not to begin until after the last class on Saturday, February 21st. Students will not trouble the rectors or this office for exceptions.
“An official bulletin will be issued from the office of the director of studies concerning the part the seniors are to take in the program of Washington’s birthday. At this time, I wish to inform all freshmen remaining at the University over the weekend that they are required to attend the exercises in Washington hall on February 22.
(Rev. R. M. Murch, C.S.C.,
Prefect of Discipline.”
News Reporters Meet
Neil C. Hurley, assistant managing editor of the Scholastic, held the second of a series of meetings for the new members of .the news staff last Tuesday evening. The reporters were given instruction in the proper way to 'adapt themselves to newspaper writing.
Mr. Hurley announces that Joseph Petritz, director of publicity at the University, will address the journalists at the next meeting.
Spanish Club Convenes
Mr. Gilbert Coty of the modern language department, gave an interesting talk in Spanish on the commercial value of the language at the regular meeting of the Spanish club held last Tuesday evening at 7:00 p. m. in the old Law building. Mr. Jose Martinez, faculty advisor of the club, called on the Reverend Francis Maher, C.S.C., chaplain of the organization, who gave a short Spanish poem and several proverbs which the members of the club translated. Several new members were admitted to the club as the meeting was the first of the second semester.
SCRIBBLERS HEAR PAPERS
Short Story and Poem Read by Nulty and Hasley.
The Scribblers held their weekly meeting in the Howard hall “rec” last Wednesday evening. The first bit of business was a discussion concerning the judges for the current poetry and short story contests. No definite decision, however, was reached. The first paper read was a short story, “Exile,” by Francis Nulty. This was an excellently done bit of work,' although it provoked lengthy and somewhat acrimonious speeches on the “purple patches” which several members found in it. The theme of the story was conflict between father and son, and, inter-■ esting in itself, it was worked out to a logical and convincing conclusion. Following this, Louis Hasley read a poem of some length entitled, “Ein-steinian Farewell.” This was written in a manner showing the influence of several of the modem poets, and led to both a violent condemnation of the so-called new poetry and a fervent defense of it. These arguments caused the meeting to run some three-quarters of an hour overtime, and although no universal agreement was reached on any one topic, Gertrude Stein and others of her ilk suffered rather general denunciation.
At the next meeting of the club on February 18, George Spalding and Frank O’Malley null read papers.
Pharmacists Hear Talk
At a meeting of the Pharmacy club held last Tuesday evening, in Chemistry hall, N. C. Schaller spoke on “The Search for the Active Principles in the Narcotic Solanums.” Plans for editing the March issue of the Catalyzer were also discussed.
Students in the pharmacy department, members of the club, who have recently become members of the American Pharmaceutical association are N. C. Schaller, Casimir Vikasas, Karl Scherer, Marshall Wallner, David Tolchinsky and Edward Myers. This association is the official pharmacy organization in the United States. Professor R. L. Greene and Professor Lawrence Baldinger of the pharmacy departemnt are faculty members of the association.
-J

The Notre Dame Scholastic
503
TWO BOOKS TRANSLATED
Father Raemers’ Translation to Appear in Spring.
“Father Raemers has done a distinct service to the Church in America in giving us this masterly treatment of educational problems. Incidentally, he has done a thoroughly good job of translating, producing a text which reads smoothly and naturally, and which one would not dream was a translation were it not so stated on the title page. That, we submit, is the highest compliment that can be paid to a translator.” So speaks the Acolyte, in a review of Educational Psychology by Jules de la Vaissiere, S.J., translated by the Reverend S. A. Raemers, Ph. D. of the department of philosophy at the University. This volume has just appeared on the market.
Another work by Father Raemers, a series of articles appearing quarterly in the Benedictine Review, entitled ‘^Brownson, the Man,” will soon appear in book form, edited by Dom Augustine Walsh, O.S.B., the editor of the Benedictine Review. This work makes public a new proof, credited to Orestes A. Brownson, for the existence of God. It is possibly the best proof yet presented. The author reasons that the existence of a necessary being follows from the contingency of thought, assuming a fact very much overlooked, namely, that no thought is possible without an object for thought, and that no thought of an object is possible without the furnishing or equipping of the mind with the means of thinking by God, Who is Thought.
Already, in press, too, is the first of a four volume series, Compendium of Theology, by Berthier, translated by Father Raemers. This edition is intended to replace such texts as Christology, published by Pohle & Preuss, which have been made obsolete by recent ecclesiastical legislature. The new series, a summary of philosophy and theology published by the same company, will be modern in every respect, even including a treatment of the Encyclical on Christian Marriage by Pius XI. Both this and Brownson, the Man will be off the press early this spring.
!	NOTICE!	I
Scrip, Notre Dame’s literary < magazine, is to be on sale this S evening. This particular issue > is probably one of the best yet ? released. Editor Louis Brennan s announces that contributions in S the form of poems, essays, short l stories, and literary criticisms < are welcome for the remaining S issues.	5
MAGICIAN TO APPEAR
HERE FRIDAY, FEB. 20
The Reverend William H. Molony, C.S.C., in charge of Washington hall programs, has secured Blackstone, “the world’s most baffling magician” to appear at the University on Friday evening, February 20. Blackstone, now conceded to be the foremost conjurer of the day, is bringing with him a carload of scenery as well as a great number of mystical illusions.
An advertisement concerning him, printed in one of the nation’s leadingnewspapers, says: “ From Dec. 26 to Jan. 1, he played a 842,000 week during ’ which 121,833 people witnessed the performances. This was undoubtedly the largest audiences ever assembled to see the performance of a magician in theatrical history.”
Father Molony asures the Scholastic that the “blurb” is not too extravagant, and that the students will see some amazing tricks.
Classicists Hear O’Malley
At the meeting of the Classical association held last evening in the Law building, Frank O’Malley read a paper, treating of the works of Dante. A detailed explanation of his Divinia Comedia was included in ,the paper which also treated some of his Latin treatises, and his Vita Nova.
Plans for the regular February meeting were outlined by President Jack Cooper. This meeting was a special meeting held to discuss business matters. Dues were collected for the second semester and certain members volunteered to present papers at the next meeting.
Chief among the matters for discussion was the journal which the association intends to produce under the title Classical Journal. Another matter was the proposal that the association produce a play in Latin.
HINES TO LECTURE HERE
Will Address Commerce Students in Lecture on Feb. 20.
James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce, announces a lecture to be given Friday afternoon, February 20, by Mr. Charles M. Hines, vice-president of the Edward Hines Lumber Company of Chicago. The lecture will be given at 3:15 in the south room of the library and attendance is required for juniors and seniors. .
Mr. Hines, who will speak on “Sales and Service,” has had a wide experience in the various branches of the great lumber organization founded by his father. He has worked from lumber camps to executive office. A particularly interesting feature of the lecture will be the place of trained young men in the future of the lumber industry.
Mr. Hines is also vice-president of the Chicago Retail Lumber Dealers Association, a member of the Executive Credit corporation, director of the Madison-Kedzie Trust and Savings Bank, member advisory board, Phillips State Bank and Trust Co., Chicago.
Villagers’ Club Dinner
At the monthly dinner meeting of the Villagers’ club at the LaSalle hotel last Monday Dean James McCarthy of the College of Commerce and Mr. John J. O’Brien, president of the South- Bend Lathe Works, addressed the club. Dean McCarthy spoke on the value of a knowledge of commercial methods in everyday life.
After the meeting the members of the club were the guests of the Palace theatre.
“Juggler” Features Cohan
The “Broadway” number of the Juggler will appear on the campus next week. Featured in the issue will be an article by George M. Cohan, premier Broadway producer. Tonight’s Junior- Prom will also be featured and Joe Lopker has drawn a feature picture for the Prom section. This latest opus of Joe’s is the equal of his best efforts.
Several interesting short features have also been included and the magazine is praiseworthy. More information concerning this issue will appear next week.
504
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
PROFESSORS ON THE MAT
The rising power of the students in some of our universities is once again evidenced in the new faculty grading system adopted at Ohio State university. The Ohio State Lantern says in an editorial:
“Seniors will grade the faculty during the spring quarter and their replies will be used by the University in helping to determine the value of individual members of the teaching staff.
“In approving this plan, President Rightmire has given proof of his confidence in the students to judge fairly the teaching ability of professors and instructors.
“The plan is not to be looked upon as a means for ‘getting back at a professor’ for some real or imagined wrong which the student has suffered during his four years here. Seniors are expected to be broadminded enough to give their personal estimate of the teaching staff with as little bias as possible on such matters as interest in subject, sympathetic attitude towards students, fairness in grading, presentation of subject matter, liberal and progressive attitude, sense of proportion and humor, and the like.
“When Student Senate representatives attended the National Student conference in Atlanta, Ga., during the holidays, they found that representatives from most of the other colleges and universities were shocked at the very suggestion of a faculty grading system. It was deemed impossible in Eastern colleges.
“Only three other schools, Purdue, Northwestern, and Iowa State university, now use the plan.
“The adoption of the system is a step forward for the students at Ohio State, and it will prove a valuable and important innovation if handled properly.”
POST-EXAM CONSOLATION
For those who didn’t break par in the semester exams, here is consolation. Sir Henry Thornton, president of the Canadian National Railways, in an interview given to the Princetonian, defends the “average” student. He says in part:
“ ‘It is the middle third of the class in college which succeeds in after life . ..
“ ‘I don’t deplore the grind, but I do think that a man who has done something else in college beside bury himself in books has a much better chance of getting ahead later. I mean by doing something else, getting out among his fellows
and mixing with them, both in athletics and other activities. Personally, I never had brains enough to get Phi Beta Kappa when I was in college.
“ ‘I compare a college education to a set of golf sticks. You can buy the golf clubs but they can’t make you a good golfer. It is similar with a college training. The education, like the golf clubs, is merely an implement to be used. When an engineer graduates from college, he doesn’t become an engineer by the act. A doctor’s diploma doesn’t make him a doctor. The training these , men have received merely fits them to become engineers and doctors.’
“Asked what he thought would be the best preparation in college for a business career in general, Sir Henry replied, ‘If a man does not know what he is to do I think he should provide ♦ himself with as general and as liberal an education as he can. I don’t consider a man educated unless he is able to converse in at least one language not his own. He should equip himself with what we call a classical education if he is going into business. This sounds like a paradox, but I believe it. I have forgotten all of the facts and ” most of the scientific knowledge I learned in college, but in my position now I must use the training I received from my classical studies. From these one ought to derive the ability to express oneself clearly and logically as well as speak in a foreign language.’ ”
COLLEGIANA
Harvard’s loving welcome to Rudy Vallee . . . when, he appeared recently in an Eastern theatre, Harvard men in the audience bombarded “The Vagabond Lover” with ripe grapefruit... Emory university men’s wild drinking orgies in the Prohibition age . . . 993 bottles of Coca-Cola are consumed every day at Emory . . . demon statisticians figure that every Emory man drinks eighttenths of a Coca Cola each day in the week . . . the recent survey which disclosed that University of Missouri students pass about 75 bad checks a day . . . the brawny men of the University of Washington, who have just completed a thirty day beard-growing contest. . . Urbana university in Ohio, which has a total enrollment of 24 students . . . The Indiana Daily Student which states: “A column in the Denver university Clarion, Doohickey and Whatchamacallums, edited by Derfino Soandso, has been discontinued after its writer was escorted out of town recently and asked not to return by a ‘Society for the Extermination of Idiotic Columnist’ ”... we’d better keep to the well-lighted streets these days . . .
The Notre Dame Scholastic
505
♦ THE WINE ♦
Poor Beamy Bard, So still, so still.
’Smatter Bard— III?
QUICK WINKS
Adieu to the Bard . . . And were’re sorry too . . . doggone sorry . . . It’s rumored that he has left us to take over new duties . . . ghost-writing for Carideo . . . and doubling in the movies for Tim Moynihan . . . That old worm professionalism again . . . The professor of Philosophy 4a-3 treatening to give out no semester marks until he had collected five cents from each member of the class for mimeographed notes . . . Some of the class wondering whether the marks they’d get would be worth the nickel . . . And Aussie Boyle . . . you know who he is . . . going- about with desperate, hang-down look, delegated to collect those nickels . . . and supplying the deficit out of his own pocket . . . Stout Fella . . . Fourth floor Badin sending mash notes to Ben Bernie . . . The maestro’s letter of thanks in care of Jerry Roach . . . with the promise to play an entire program for- the boys . . . Famous last words: “For sale, one set of sophomore accounting books and complete room furnishings. Cheap” . . . The Glee club dressing up for the photographer . . . those without swallowtails successfully hiding in the back rows ... Ye Funny Fellow and Ye Grad Manager opening their hearts and presenting Jugglers to a few of the boys of the Scholastic staff . . . and Ye Funny Fellow threatening to sue Dick O’Donnell for his libel of the Dempseys . . . And . . . enter The Weary Bumper . . . amid a rousing chorus of groans and hoots.
MORNING
The sun comes up in splendor ivonderful
To fashion gorgeous patterns of the day Which night left bleak and stripped of color, dull.
The light shafts of the sun now speed the way, Uncovering artfully the dingy hull
Of earth, disclosing there a beauty gay.
Deirdre.
Add examination answer gems, No. ZL6592—“A paradox is a true misstatement.”
IMAGINARY CONVERSATIONS (Provided you are imaginative)
Honorable Herbert Hoover, president of the United States, and Lucy Butts, late of Woolworth’s, now calling, at the White House to protest against the continuance of the unemployment situation.
Rudy Vallee, erstwhile student at Yale university, now resident upon the scene in New York City, appearing nightly (should anyone ask you) at the Villa Vallee, and Graham Macnamee, who has played to packed houses since he gave up the idea that he was an operatic star.
Wally Winchell, foremost scandal-monger of the times, who spareth not his best friend, and the Reverend S. Parkes Cadman, who also has his public.
ALL QUIET ON THE WATER FRONT
A special dispatch from the publicity department informs us that land has at last been discovered between Walsh and Badin halls. However, such good news is tempered by near-tragedy. It appears that earlier in the week the bodies of three men, a backgammon board, and three buns were washed up on the steps of Badin. The news spread quickly and Badin assembled. And a few minutes later Inspector Grant and a crowd of Walsh haliers who had witnessed the washing- went charging over on a ferry. A row was started immediately over possession of the spoils. Who should have the board and buns? Badin’s bad, bad boys said, “Finders Keepers,” Walsh said: “(1) You can’t play backgammon; and (2) Weneed the buns for our trophy room.”
The Inspector (bless him) saved the situation. He had a theory that might interest them. It didn’t interest them, but they quit lamming one another and listened. The Inspector’s idea was that three young men (Exhibit A), on their way to the prom, and carrying their prom favors, the buns, i. e. (Ex. B.), found a backgammon board (Ex. C.), sat down for a little game, but were caught when the flood waters rose.
The theory was all wet too. Immediate developments proved that.
First, one of the corpses rolled over on its right side and with the third finger of its left hand wrote in the mud (yes sir, right there on good old Badin’s steps!)— “I leaped from a Walsh hall window after taking the law exams.” The next corpse rolled over on his left side and with the third finger of its right hand wrote—“I leaped from a Walsh hall window after taking the law exams.” The third corpse rolled over on his stomach and with only the big toe on his left foot made two long ditto marks. The three of them then rose angrily and marched off to class. “Where we can sleep in peace,” they mumbled.
Second, Professor Balfe, who had in the meantime worked his way over on a cattle boat, claimed the backgammon board, pointing proudly to the initial which he had bitten into the back of it.
Third (and last, brethren), an emissary of the dining halls proved that he buns had been stolen from the old refectory three years ago. “Of course they’re a little soggy,” he said, “but they’re just as good as they ever were.” And he hurried off with them to the cafeteria, so that they might be on the table, all nice and brown, for supper.
Intermural amity was restored. There was nothing left to fight over, so the boys from Walsh joined hands with the boys from Badin, and had a merry little time indeed, until it came time to take the late excursion boat back to Walsh. A very tired lot they were, too, but all were agreed that they had had such fun.
As for the Inspector, he is still convinced and searching for more clues. He has hired a diver, and together they have been exploring the waters in those parts, but thus far have found nothing of importance, except (of all things) an old copy of the Scholastic.
And so we close this, our maiden effort, with a prayer for	The Weary Bumper.
506
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CAMPLr CLUB J
LAST CHANCE
Work on the club section of this year’s Dome is just about completed. Since before Christmas, group pictures have been taken either in the gym or on the library steps, until now nearly all of the fifty campus clubs have been photographed. This noon the regularly scheduled work was finished with the taking of the CINCINNATI club, the SPANISH club and the PHILADELPHIA club. On Monday of next week will be taken a few groups which have been scheduled before, but which have failed to report. This will be their last chance.
Clubs scheduled for 12:20 on Monday are: the PACIFICNORTHWEST club, the ST. LOUIS club, and the FORT WAYNE club. Members of these groups should see their officers to find out why the picture has not been taken before. Each of these is a big club and should have a representative crowd out for its picture. The pictures will be taken in the gym.
—o—
CITY SLICKERS
Hardest of all clubs to photograph is the VILLAGERS. Since most of them go home for dinner it is usually impossible to get any number of them out at noon. Last week, therefore, VILLAGERS’ President Hartzer called a very special meeting of the club to be followed by a free show. At the meeting, in addition to a good crowd of villagers, was Harry Elmore, the Dome’s photographer.
GRATIS
Among the very few clubs to do anything since the holidays is WABASH VALLEY. On Wednesday evening all members who have attended at least one- meeting during the year were invited to a banquet at some mysterious address on Leeper avenue. The address is unknown to this'writer, who has heard of nothing in the past six months except the lay faculty dining hall, the Rose-Marie tea room and the LaSalle hotel.
Naturally, a big crowd was present.
—o—
SUTHUNUHS, SUH!
The LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI club came out of its post-holiday coma with a banquet at the Rose-Marie tea room on last Wednesday evening. Big feature of the affair to most of the members was that it was really a banquet; no after dinner speaker made the members long for the twenty-minute meals in the campus dining hall.
PAPERS
On Tuesday the PHARMACY club held its regular meeting in Chemistry hall. As usual two of the members read papers on subjects interesting to members of the club.
TSK, TSK
Gripe is an ugly word, but gripe club members must, if their groups are not meeting with pre-holiday regularity. It is in the winter, when campus activities have slumped, when there is little to do for amusement, that the clubs should rally to the aid of their bored members. Meetings, smokers, banquets, bowling, tournaments, all help to relieve the winter monotony. It is the duty of club officers to further the activity of their clubs.
FIRST
First meeting of the SPANISH club for the second semester was held last Tuesday evening in the old Law building. Principal speaker was Professor Gilbert Coty, teacher of French and Spanish; his topic: “The Commercial Value of Spanish.” The talk, of course, was in Spanish. Next, Professor Jose Martinez, director of the club, called on the Reverend Francis Maher, C.S.C., club chaplain, to read a poem in Spanish.	'
At the meeting were many new members. On them as well as on the old men, Professor Martinez called for short talks. Most of the speakers anticipated an outstanding second semester for the club.
CONVERSATION
No longer the newest club on the campus (last week were announced the IOWA, FOREIGN COMMERCE, PRE-LAW clubs), the FRENCH club also held its first meeting of the semester last Monday evening. The regular Berlitz conversational system was again taken up. At meetings in the future, members will give short talks in French upon European experiences, books they have read, or almost anything else.	.
—o—	-
SINGING
Proposed and acted upon favorably at the Italian club meeting last Monday was the motion that the members learn songs in Italian so that they may be able to give concerts for the benefit of the campus and possibly broadcast over the radio.
Subscriptions to some magazines and other periodicals in Italian will be secured in the near future.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
The next meeting of the ITALIAN club will be on Monday, February 16, at 6:30, in room 2 of the Main building.
The SPANISH club will meet on Tuesday, February 17, at 7:00 in the old Law building.
Next meeting of the FOREIGN COMMERCE club will be on Monday, February 16, at 8:00 in the old Law building.	.
t
The Notre Dame Scholastic
EDITCK’Z IMI
SHATTERED ILLUSION
We have long- had the idea that attending a university abroad was something of a grand lark, accompanied by very little expense, in a country where everything was not only reasonable but downright cheap. We had the impression that here in the United States we were paying for a none too thorough education with far too much cost, and that food was selling at exhorbitantly high prices.
A catalogue from the University of Grenoble, in France, changed that opinion considerably, if not completely. Figuring out the francs into dollars and cents, we find that pursuing a course at a foreign university is a very expensive procedure. There are fees for this sideline and charges for that, and as for living, even on an unpretentious scale, the cost is surprisingly high.
Take for example the cost of board and lodging here in the States as compared to the cost in France. We pay something less than $500 for housing and food for the period of a school year, while at Grenoble, which, by the way, is one of the less pretentious of the European universities, the same service runs from $85 to $175 a month, or from about $700 to $1,400 for the school year of eight months. Those figures alone are enough to remove all doubts as to the comparative inexpensiveness of being educated in Europe.
As for the lark part of the first conception, a further perusal of the catalogue reveals that students have far less in the line of extra-curricular enjoyment than we have. At Grenoble they amuse themselves with excursions by bicycle or on foot into the Alps. When, every week-end, they are allowed to visit some large neighboring town, they are accompanied by an evidently vigilant and efficient committee of supervision. The high spots of the year are visits to the old Roman towns and the annual dramatic performance in the old theatre at Orange. Once every week there are social meetings of the students, and the catalogue states proudly that there are facilities for tennis and a few other open-air sports.
That doesn’t sound like the college life glorified in Sigmund Romberg operettas. It sounds to us like a rather expensive and prosaic eight
months’ existence. Personally, we would rather spend much less money and have a great deal more amusement with our education, forsaking all the glamor, and rejoicing instead in the pleasure of hot and cold running water.
TRADITIONS
Some time ago a student who has climbed far in the service of the Blue Circle made the remark that Notre Dame had need of more traditions. “So if you can think of any good ones,” he said, “let us know and we’ll start them.”
At that time the remark caused the Scholastic to smile faintly; but lately there has been more talk from other sources about traditions, this time more vociferous, and the SCHOLASTIC is downright amused. Its editorial risibilities have been tickled because of the distorted and very hazy ideas on traditions held by some of their staunchest defenders.
Real traditions are the result of years of pioneering, of natural color, of glamor. Students are spontaneously proud of such traditions. They guard them zealously because they believe in them. The very word implies moss-covered age, a hoary antiquity, and a continuous handing down from generation to generation. A tradition is not a student or a faculty ruling. It is a heritage from the past—a crys-talization of long-observed customs.
In a sense though, we are tradition makers. For example: Notre Dame and Northwestern will play football for a shillalah, a custom started only this year, but one which stands a good chance of becoming a tradition. In the past, Blue Circles and organizations akin to it have helped to fan smouldering student spirit to such a flame that the memory of it has been an example for years. And that is another example of how traditions begin—when the fire of student enthusiasm is burning at white heat over some incident of college history. This spirit should not be confused with the often sickening clap-trap of “pep” sessions, nor should it be confused with the “rah-rah” notions of students who are too collegiate.
Publicity campaigns, campus posters, and fine oratory are not necessary to perpetrate traditions. They exist per se.
I
508
The Notre Dame Scholastic
» SPCKTS ♦
__ .
Alex Wilson Wins Millrose 600
Blue and Gold Star Defeats Roll and Edwards by Mighty Sprint Near Finish
Relay Teams Win One Race and Lose Three in Rather
Poor Showing
After being given a brilliant start in the Millrose Games at New York last Saturday by virtue of Alex Wilson’s unexpected victory in the famous “Millrose 600,” the Notre Dame track stars were unable to continue the pace and turned in an exhibition which was more or less disappointing. Wilson ran a heady race in the feature event of the evening’s carnival to defeat Eddie Roll, last year’s winner, Phil Edwards, colored star of the Hamilton A. C., and Clyde Blanchard of the Millrose A. A.
Roll took the first turn and maintained his advantage until they turned into the final straightaway that led to the tape. With a great burst of speed Wilson went around the Newark flash and broke the wire in 1:13.6, excellent time for the Madison Square Garden track. Edwards was at least six yards behind Roll, finding it ^impossible to follow his usual procedure of taking the lead at the start and holding it from there on. A near mix-up at the end of the first lap when Blanchard attempted to cut inside Roll could have changed things considerably, but served only to force Roll to remain in front of the pack until Wilson sped past him near the finish.
The Notre Dame mile relay team defeated Holy Cross and Georgetown in a race that was marked by even more mix-ups. The Holy Cross leadoff man fell during his lap and gave his mate a twenty-yard disadvantage to retrieve. Later, at the start of the final leg, the Georgetown and Notre Dame runners became confused in
passing the baton with the result that Alex Wilson finished the race without the little rod, while the runner from Washington carried the only one present after the difficulty had been
straightened out. Wilson came home ahead but it was only after considerable discussion that the Notre Dame stars were given the race and not disqualified.
Later in the evening another mile relay was run in which the men of Coach Nicholson were disqualified for dropping the baton.
Captain Johnny O’Brien gave an excellent account of himself in the 50-yard high hurdles when he placed a close third to Percy Beard of Auburn, and Lee Sentman of Illinois, in the excellent time of :06.5. In the preliminaries, O’Brien won his heat by defeating Monte Wells, nationally known hurdler.
Two days later the men made their second appearance of their eastern
(Continued on Page 510)
PITTSBURGH GAGERS TAKE SECOND EXTRA
PERIOD GAME IN ROW
PANTHERS WIN BY 35-32
Lawry Sinks Two Field Goals in Last Thirty Seconds to Tie Score; Crowe Shines.
Pittsburgh’s Panthers and overtime periods seem to be just too much for the Blue and Gold basketeers this season. For the second time in two weeks these forces combined to hand Notre Dame a heart-breaking defeat. In this last game the Panthers scraped out a 35 to 32 victory before a throng of home town supporters. As in the first encounter, the Keogan-ites led throughout the latter part of the game with Pitt staging a Merri-well finish to knot the score in the last seconds. Tim Lawry led the way in this dramatic comeback.
Notre Dame opened the battle with Ray DeCook and Norb Crowe collaborating on the scoring efforts. These two offensive luminaries put the visiting quintet in the lead by a 10 to 4 score at the end of the first ten minutes. Here the Notre Dame five ceased scoring operations long enough to see Pitt climb past them and grasp a one point advantage just before the half ended. Crowe, however, gave Notre Dame another field goal and a 12 to 11 lead just as the period closed.
Opening the second half, the play stayed on an almost even basis with the two teams fighting a see-saw battle for the lead. Notre Dame finally gained a margin that seemed to insure the game for them, but Pittsburgh and Lawry were equal to
(Continued on Page 510)

The Notre Dame Scholastic
509
NORDY HOFFMAN RISES FROM FROSH MANAGER TO VARSITY TRACK, GRID STAR
Blond Westerner, Discovered By Nicholson, Wins Monogram As Sophomore
By Irvix G. B. Halper
He is not a “Swede” although he is very often taken for one. Just ask him about it once and it’ll take him about a minute — no, not even that long, to tell you that his ancestors were of the most famous of Teutonic people, the Germans. Yes, you’ve guessed it! We are talking about none other than Frank Nordhoff Hoffman, the big, blonde star from far-off Washington.
“Nordy” Hoffman was eighteen years old when he received his diploma from St. Martin’s high school, in Seattle, having been born just six days before Christmas 1909. His accomplishments in high school were few, and it is hard to believe that one who has made such a name for himself, as Nordy has in athletics, had never competed on the high school teams during those four years of preparation for college. Yet, he never received a letter simply because he never tried to earn one.
Freshman manager (or is it “goat”?)! That was the title attached to Frank’s name after he had been at Notre Dame a month or so in 1927. It was in this capacity that he remained until one day in spring while he was performing that most enjoyable task of tossing the big iron ball back to the varsity shotputters (and any Frosh manager will bear with us in saying it is quite an enjoyable task). He displayed such zest at his job that Coach Nicholson decided too much energy was going to waste. So freshman manager Frank Hoffman made a trip down to the equipment office, the manager’s association lost a promising candidate for the head managership, and the freshnian track squad gained an even more promising candidate for shot-putting honors.
All-interhall tackle — that was his next achievement. In the fall of ’28, while playing with the Sophomore hall eleven, Nordy was selected on the first all-interhall team. The following spring found him as an under-
study to Bob Walsh, who was then rated as one of the best shot-putters in this part of the country. Hoffman performed consistently throughout the season and was awarded his varsity monogram at the end of the year.
The fall of his junior year Nordy decided to try out for varsity football. He succeeded in making the squad and, although he did not make all of the trips, he was one of that group which makes the varsity what it is.
It -was at Lansing, Michigan, during the Michigan State-Notre Dame track meet, that Frank realized the greatest thrill that he has thus far gotten out of his sports activities. Tom Lieb had been his coach throughout the greater part of the 1929 football season, and it was Tom Lieb’s name that was down on the program
as the record-holder in the discus throw for this meet. That afternoon Nordy threw the discus better than 139 feet and when he was told that he had broken Lieb’s record by more than a foot, he was “one happy man.”
He did even better in the National Intercollegiates where he was credited with a distance of 142 feet. He was also outstanding in the shot-put event all last year and succeeded in putting the 16-pound ball, a distance of 42 feet and better, on more than one occasion. At the end of the track season he was presented with his second track monogram.
Last fall Nordy was a full-fledged member of the Notre Dame national championship team. He was, perhaps, the most improved man on the entire squad, having raised himself from a place on the “nth” team to a tackle position on the shock-troops. His work during the entire season was outstanding and merited much praise from Coach Rockne.
At present he is training hard for the coming track season—his last in varsity competition. It should be his best, and those acquainted with him and with his work, look for him to show much improvement in both the shot-put and the discus events.
Hoffman is in his second year of law in the Hoynes school of law, and when he receives his LL.B. degree a year from next June he plans to enter the field of business back in Seattle. He has a great love for music and is able to find time, despite all of his outside activities, to take lessons in piano playing. His roommate, Tom Conley, must be thankful for at least one thing, and that is, that Nordy didn’t take up the saxophone.
Sports Writers Meet
John A. Kiener, assistant managing editor of the Scholastic, held a meeting in his room Tuesday evening for members of the sports staff. Kiener, who was formerly sports editor, instructed his charges in the ethics and proper construction of sports stories. “Verify your statements, and make accuracy your guiding principle in writing sport news,” advised Mr. Kiener, who has had professional experience.
Weekly meetings, similar- to those held for the news staff, are to be held in the future and as guests of honor there will be several - prominent men connected with newspapers to lecture to the beginners.
510	The Notre Dame Scholastic
ALEX WILSON WINS “600”
(Continued from Page 508)
trip in Seton Hall games at Newark, New Jersey. The mile team placed third to New York U. and Georgetown, chiefly by virtue of Wilson’s brilliant quarter-mile in his anchor position. This race was exceptionally close and could possibly have been turned into a Notre Dame victory had Wilson’s handicap at the beginning of his leg been not quite so great.
The two-mile team fared even worse and dropped from the race during the third leg. Regis Kuhn, running on the two-mile team in competition for the first time, took an early lead which he held until the quarter-mile mark was reached. The experience of his opponents and the terrific pace soon began to tell, however, and he gradually dropped back. ’ The disadvantage he gave to Joe Quigley was too great to overcome when the Georgetown and N. Y. U. number two men turned in exceptionally brilliant exhibitions, and Coach Nicholson called Brant Little off the track soon after Quigley had passed the baton to him.
PITT CAGERS WIN GAME
(Continued from Page 508)
the task. With the Blue and Gold ahead by a 30 to 26 count and less than thirty seconds to play, Lawry opened fire with his long range gun and found his target twice to get his team on an even footing with the visitors. The second of these shots left hi? hands as the timekeeper cocked his gun and managed to dance back and forth on the rim of the basket just long enough for the game to end and then dropped through for the tie.
In the overtime period the Panthers could not be denied. Lawry made another from the side of the court and Smith boosted the total with a charity toss. Johnnie Baldwin countered with a long basket to cut the lead to a single point but Willie Ko-wallis produced his sixth field goal of the evening and the scoring ■was over.
Crowe and DeCook were Notre Dame’s most serious threats throughout the game and their sixteen points contributed heavily to the cause of the Blue and Gold. Baldwin turned in his usual fine offensive exhibition and added six more markers to his growing list of scores. Pitt produced two men named Kowallis and Lawry,
to play their leading roles and they certainly filled the need. Lawry’s work in the final minutes was enough to gain anyone a collection of superlatives and Kowallis was there already by virtue of his sixteen points, the highest individual score of the game.
Pitt’s margin of victory came dir rectly from their ability to count free throws. Although Notre Dame outscored them 14 to 12 on field goals, the Panthers converted seven more gratis shots than the losers.
The Score:
Notre Dame (32) g f r
Crowe, f	6 0 3
Newbold, f	0 0 0
Gavin, f	10 1
DeCook, c	2 10
Schumaker, c 0 0 1
Baldwin, g	2 12
Burns, g	12 4
Johnson, g 2 0 1
Totals 14 5 12
Referee: Bolster.
Pittsburgh (35) G f r
Wrobleski, f	0	0	0
Kowallis, f	6	4	2
Albright, c	0	2	2
Arture, g	2	2	0
Smith, g	0	10
Lawry, f	4	2	1
Totals 12 11 5 Umpire: Lane.
Interhall Track Practice Schedule
Saturday, Feb. 14—7 p. m., Sorin; 8 p. m., Lyons; 9 p. m., Howard.
Sunday, Feb. 15—8 p. m., Morrissey; 9 p. m., Carroll.
Tuesday, Feb. 17—7 p. m., Corby; 8 p. m., Badin; 9 p. m., Howard.
Wednesday, Feb. 18—9 p. m., Sophomore.
Bringing the interhall indoor track season into being, the first preliminary meet will be held in the gym, Thursday night, February 19 at 7:30, with Sorin, Corby, Badin, Lyons, Freshman, Howard, and Off-Campus competing. Winners of the first three places will be eligible to compete in the final meet which will take place on March 14.
The second group, composed of Morrissey, Brownson, Walsh, Sophomore, St. Edward’s, and Carroll will run through their trials on February 24. Medals will be awarded to the winners of first, second, and third places in the finals, and those freshmen who equal the required heights, times, and distances will be given numerals.
Schedules for practice are to be found elsewhere in the Scholastic. Hall coaches are now putting the candidates through their paces in an effort to whip the various teams into shape before the preliminaries.
Notre . .
. . Dame
Enlivens
Its
Coat-of-Arms
Will this issue of The Scholastic be carelessly tossed aside or will you carefully relegate it to a dark corner of your room ?
No matter what you do with the body of the book you will want to preserve the beautifully lithographed reproduction of the new University escutcheon, bound next to the front cover.
By a special arrangement we will frame this lithograph at a special price for the men of Notre Dame.
Either bring your copy to the Lower store or leave it with our representative at the Off-Campus office. It will be returned to you tastefully framed and wired, ready for hanging.
FRED SULLIVAN
Campus Representative
ONE DOLLAR Complete
LOWER’S
120 N. Michigan St. South Bend
The Notre Dame Scholastic
511
The Spring Stetsons are in—the finest ever!
Exclusive styles for University men—quality of the finest—these you can take for granted when you select any one of the new Stetsons—The new shades for spring, and the proportion of the crown and brim are worthy of attention. Pewter greys, silver pearls, Sahara tans—all new! Drop in and ask to see them.
Valentines Day
Offer your Valentine Greetings with a box of Walgreen’s deli-ous Candies. Choose from a large and varied assortment . freshly made and packed.
LADY CHARLOTTE
Assortment Packed in Metal Box
Deiviile Chocolates 1'00
An ideal gift assortment. Butter creams and hard centers.
1.00
An assortment of Chocolate Covered Nuts, Creams and Vanilla Creams and fresh chopped Walnuts and Pecans.
Pound and a Half Chocolates
79c
Lucious butter creams, pecans, almonds and Brazil nuts in creamy chocolate coatings, I1/? pounds.
512
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Splinters From the Press Box
THE SUNDIAL
“Miller, Flanagan and O’Brien. The fact that this trio, all former Notre Dame players, will be in charge of Navy football reminds one that the country is becoming overrun with coaches who were former Notre Dame players.
“It’s getting so that to play on the Rockne team means that upon gradu-
WHERE
NOTRE DAME
MEN MEET
“Always in the Crowd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili Hot Tamales
Ice Cream Candy
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 N. Michigan St.
ation there is a fat coaching job waiting. It’s too bad that industrial and business concerns aren’t showing the same anxiety to grab the other graduating students.”
“These highly complimentary and quite uncalled-for remarks are quoted from “The Sundial” of the Baltimore Sun. We might venture to suggest that should Mr. Gibbs investigate a bit he would find just as many Notre Dame graduates high up, and just as high up, in the business and industrial world as are the positions of the many former Notre Dame football players in the coaching profession.
Notre Dame’s scholastic standing is very high. Her graduates enter the business and industrial world on an equal footing with the graduates of any and every university in the country, and the record they have made in the past leaves no doubt as to the thoroughness of their training and of their ability to compete with graduates of other schools. The mere fact that Notre Dame’s great coach teaches a system of football that is a consistent winner, and that he therefore creates a nation-wide demand for his students, hardly justifies the statement which can hardly be taken in any way other than as a “crack” at the scholastic standing of the University.
OUR JINX
The Pitt Panthers seem to be just that to our basketball team. Not since “Oonie” Donovan and Ed Smith held the great Charley Hyatt scoreless for more than half of that marvelous game back in 1929 has the Keogan-coached team of Notre Dame emerged victorious over Doc Carlson’s charges. If our memory serves us right, the Panthers have rung up five consecutive victories over the Blue and Gold. All of them have been by narrow margins but we believe that the two games of the present season take the prize. In each case Notre Dame outplayed her opponents for the greater part of the game only to see a small lead nullified in the waning seconds and the game forced into an overtime period. And again, in each case, the defense has been unable to hold the Pitt sharpshooters for the extra five minutes. An interesting point in the game last Saturday was the fact that
Saturday at Block & Kuhl’s
Grab Boxes 25c
Values 50c to $25
It is well sometimes to mix a little fun and frolic with the serious business of such a sale as we are concluding on Saturday.
The climax to the great Price Adjustment Sale will be a merchandising frolic of unusual character. We are going to gather up all the odd lots, broken lines and slightly soiled and damaged pieces of merchandise that naturally accumulates during such a season of heavy selling as we had before Christmas and again during this great Price Adjustment Sale.
Over thousands of surprise packages containing everything from baby panties to diamond rings and from neckwear to silk dresses will be included in these surprise packages. In fact, to add a little zest to the fun there will be a few cash prizes included.
Come at 10 o’clock and enjoy the most thrilling merchandise entertainment that we believe South Bend has ever witnessed.
Saturday morning, 10 o’clock.
BLOCK & KUHL North Michigan Street
The Notre Dame Scholastic
513
during the regular playing time Notre Dame made thirteen field goals to Pitt’s ten, but in the same time the Panthers sank ten goals from the foul line to Notre Dame’s four. During these forty minutes of play the Blue and Gold was called fourteen times for fouling, the Panthers five times.
WHAT, NO SOUTHERN TRIP?
Rumor has it that the University’s baseball team will not make a southern trip this spring. This phase of the team’s training, heretofore regarded as an essential part of the preparation for the season’s play, is to be dropped for reasons as yet unknown. This is unfortunate but is, possibly, the result of having one man as coach of two sports whose seasons overlap such as does the basketball season and the baseball spring practice session. Coach George Keogan is naturally more interested, at the present time, in the welfare of his basketball team. It requires his entire attention at a time when baseball cannot be totally disregarded. The schedule must be arranged. Batterymen should be beginning their workouts. With basketball carrying on to the middle of March, it is too late to arrange baseball games at this stage.
bowl of golden - crisp Kellogg’s Corn Flakes with milk or cream.
Scatter on some sliced banana, if you like. What a treat! And how sensible! For Kellogg’s are so extra easy to digest they help you sleep sounder and feel fitter!
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALL-BRAN, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Kris-pies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep.
CORN FLAKES
C°RN ’Iakes
(■piiiiHiittiiiitiititiiiiitiiiiiiniiiiitttiitctiiiitiiiniHtttiinitiititniiiiiMiiiiiiiiittiiiiiitiuiiii'iiiii H
J	Theatre in Chicago	j
| Glance through the theatrical	e
i	section of one of the Chicago	=
i	papers. There are always a	i
e	half dozen good legitimate	|
e	shows at this time of year.	1
1	Pick out the one you like.	1
=	Catch the live o’clock South	1
i	Shore Line flyer out of South	e
|	Bend. Dine enroute if you like.	1
I	Return	on the	after-theatre	i
e	special	leaves	Chicago at	i
I	11:15;	arrives	South Bend	1
I	1:25.	1
MPG
|	Trains every hour on the hour to	E
E	doivntown Chicago.	=
Q .................................................iiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiHiitiiiiiuiiiii.hiiPI
flHl Hl 11.1...................  ttlllllll......Hill.......IIIIIIIIIHIIIIIHIHIHIIIHIIIIIII....Hlllllllll
Novelty-Colored Corduroy Pants
All Sizes, 28 to 38 Tan, Grey or Blue Regular $4 to $5 values
$£.49
i MEN’S
| OXFORDS
E Black or Tan, Endi-
E cott-Johnson make,
| new toes, E all sizes	I
I 5 to 11	*
NOTICE	I
Five-Day-Sale	5
NUNN-BUSH |
$10 to $12 values =
Black Cf1* QC = or Tan	e
Oxfords V fcj 1
I GIL-BRO’S |
| FORMERLY —U. S. ARMY STORE e |	330 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET	|
Q HHII1IIHIIHHIIIIHIIIHIII»I«I>IIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHHI1IIIIIHIHIIIIIIIHIH!IHIIIIHIIIIIIHIIIII»Q
514
The Notre Dame Scholastic
STATISTICS ON 1930-31 BASKETBALL SEASON
(Including second Pittsburgh game)
DeCook 		F.G. 	39	F.T. 20	F.T.A. 40	PCT. .500	T.P. 98	P.F.C. 24
Newbold			28	23	33	.697	79	22
Crowe			17	4	6	.667	38	16
Baldwin			13	9	15	.600	35	19
Gavin			11	6	11	.546	28	14
Johnson 			11	4	11	■ .455	26	10
Burns			6	g	9	.333	15	21
Schumaker 		_ 3	1	. 5	.200	7	8
Staab 			1	1	1	1.000	3	3
Shrader 			1	0	0	.000	2	1
Jaskwich 			1	0	0	.000	2	6
Farris 			0	0	0	.000	0	4
Butorac 			0	0	0	.000	0	3
Totals				131	. 71	131	.542	333	152
Opponents’ totals			118	83	167	.497	319	116
Explaxatiox.- EG—field	goals ; FT—free	throws; FTA-	—free thr	ows attempted; PCT-		-percent
of free throws made; TP—total points; PFC—personal fouls committed.
Despite the fact that there are still seven games to be played before the current basketball season is brought to a close, the Scholastic has prepared the above statistics which may disclose some ineresting facts concerning the season thus far.
The most striking of these facts is the number of personal fouls com-mited by the Notre Dame team as compared to the number called on her opponents. The Blue and Gold net men have been guilty of infractions of the rules 152 times for an average
of 11.7 fouls per game; her opponents have fouled 116 times for an average of 8.9 times per game. From these 152 fouls the opponents have been given 167 free throws of which they made 83, for a percentage of .497. Notre Dame, on the other hand, has been given 131 free shots of which 71 have been made—a percentage of .542.
The above figures show that the Keoganites commit on an average of two more fouls per game than their opponents. Should these fouls happen to be “double fouls,” the rival team secures four extra tries at the basket and their average shows that they would make two of these good. Thus the teams that have been met this year have had two points given to them, we might say, before the game started. These two points, in either Pitt game for instance, would have meant a great deal.
Individually, some members of the team have an excellent percentage of free-throw shooting. Bill Newbold’s .697 is particularly noteworthy, while the five men who have been starting and playing most of the games lately have made 59 shots good out of 103 tried. This is a percentage of .573— not bad for a team.
These facts seem to point out that
A LAC
RANAD.
Starts Sunday
Another Great RKO VAUDEVILLE SHOW Featuring
Bernardo De Page The Wizard on the Mandolin and
Victor Recording Artist ------------ On the Screen---------
A Picture the Whole World Will Love Father’s Son With LEON JANNEY—LEWIS STONE IRENE RICH
An All-American Picture for All America Great for the kids—marvelous for grown-ups, too! Everything a Picture Should Be!
Get in on the Saturday bargain!
All Seats
25c till 6 p. m.
Starting Saturday
. . . OUT OF THE COBWEBBY DARKNESS of an age-old castle heavy with the dust of centuries comes ...
‘Dracula’
. . . the terrible, the fascinator, the destroyer . . . to roam the night for his weird, wild, breath-taking adventures!
It Will Haunt You!
It Will Chill You!
It Will Thrill You!
You dare not defy
DRACULA"
You must* see it!
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame’s close games, both victories and defeats, have been due, not so much to their inability to score from the free-throw line, but to the frequency of their fouling and the consequently large number of foul shots given to their opponents. Even a low average in this department has given the rivals a sufficient number of points to turn the tide of a close game.
WABASH - N. D. RIVALRY, BEGUN IN 1907, HAS REACHED 23rd YEAR
The basketball rivalry existing between Notre Dame and Wabash is one of the oldest in the country. Away back in 1899 the two teams first met, but following this game relations were not resumed again until the 1907-08 season. Since that time there has not been a break in the series which is now, therefore, in its twenty-third year. During that time Notre Dame has won twenty-four times to twenty-two for the Crawfordsville netmen.
A coincidence in this series is the fact that when it was seriously resumed in 1907, Peter Vaughn, now coach at Wabash, was mainstay on
i
the Blue and Gold five. Pete finished his college days in 1909, the year when Notre Dame was represented by her wonder team. This team did not limit itself to collegiate competition but took on professional and semi-pro teams as well. It suffered only five defeats, three of them being administered by the famous Buffalo squad of that year.
Notre Dame has won ten of the last eleven games played with the downstate team. Wabash surprised the Keoganmen with a more or less decisive defeat at Crawfordsville last year for their first victory since the 1924-25 season. Tonight’s game is the second meeting of the two teams this year, the Blue and Gold holding a 29-19 victory gained early last month.
Walsh Sent to Colonels
“Young Ed” Walsh, former Notre Dame baseball star and son of Big Ed Walsh, has sent to the Louisville Colonels of the American Association by the Chicago White Sox in part payment for Mel Simmons, an outfielder. Strings were tied to Walsh, and he will probably, be recalled at the end of the next season.
515
While at Notre Dame Ed was the main-stay of Tommy Mills’ pitching staff from 1926 to 1928. Since graduation he has been the property of the Chicago club.
N. D. TRACK IMPROVED BY NEEDED REGRADING
Coach John Nicholson had a surprising welcome awaiting him Wednesday upon his return from the East. When he resumed his duties at the field house he found the track had been regraded, something it has needed for a long time.
Under the able guidance of J. Mc-.. Allister, custodian of the field house, a street grader belonging to South Bend was kept busy, last Monday leveling the straightaways and rebanking the curves.
Formerly the turns were ten inches higher than the straightaways, now they are of equal height. The track is harder and considerably faster. The men who had previously found it difficult to run the 220 in twenty-six seconds are now doing under twenty-five, an improvement of almost two seconds.
STARTS SAT. ■ UUMkY THRU TUES. | THEATRE |
Three Great Stars in a Three Star Picture!
CONSTANCE BENNETT R OBER T MONTG OMER Y ADOLPHE MENJOU in a frank, fearless drama of a woman who went
'The Easiest Way'
with Anita Page - Marjory Rambeau

ADDED
JOE ALEXANDER
At the console of the Colfax Wonder Organ
A PUBLIX THEATRE
—ADDED—
VITAPHONE
SOUND	VODVIL
PARAMOUNT
SOUND	NEWS
516
The Notre Dame Scholastic
TRACKMEN MEET BUTLER IN FIRST DUAL TEST
Veteran Blue and Gold Squad Favored Over Opponents.
Notre Dame’s 1931 edition of trackmen will be exhibited for the first time this year to local followers of the sport when they will strive to show their class against the representatives of Butler university. Coach Nicholson has been putting his charges through a series of stiff workouts and the results shown have proved very gratifying to him. The meet is scheduled for 1:30 Saturday afternoon in the gym, and a large turnout is expected.
This year’s team is composed of veteran material, but has in addition a few sophomores from last year’s freshman outfit who are expected to plug up the holes left vacant by the graduating stars of last year, and the Blue and Gold will be represented by capable men in every event.
In Captain Johnny O’Brien and Roy Bailie, Coach Nicholson has two lads who are capable of holding their own
with the best timber-toppers in the country. In the 440-yard dash, the half-mile, and the mile, Notre Dame is very well fortified and boasts of such men as Alex Wilson, Brant Little, Joe Quigley and Regis Kuhn, all veterans from last year, and “Mickey” MacBeth and “Chink” Kelly, sophomores.
If pre-season showings mean anything, Notre Dame will have little worry in the shot-put, as Nordy Hoffmann and Marty Brill have been doing great things with the sixteen-pounder, and their practice tosses at .times have exceeded their best marks of last year. Another outstanding performer in the practice sessions has been “Dutch” Johnson, who concerns himself chiefly with the gentle art of pole-vaulting. “Dutch” has been doing around twelve-nine consistently and in one effort he cleared the bar at an even thirteen feet.
In Joe Sivak and Bert Nelson, Butler has two athletes nationally recognized for their achievements in their respective events and should give a good account of themselves in Saturday’s meet. Nelson will be remembered for his sensational recordbreaking performance of last year when he soared to the almost unbe
lievable height of 6 feet, 6% inches for a new world’s indoor record. It was not until last Saturday night at the Millrose games that this mark was exceeded by George Spitz, of N.Y.U., who shattered the previous record with a jump, of six feet seven inches.
GOLD TEAM TRIUMPHS OVER BLUE BY 41-38 IN ANNUAL MEET
Bill McCormick opened the annual Blue and Gold track meet in the Notre Dame gymnasium last Saturday afternoon with the speedy time of 6 6/10 seconds in winning the sixty-yard dash for the victorious	,
Gold team. Close behind him came Dilling and Bonomolo of the Blue team, who thus practically evened the score. The same thing happened in the quarter-mile event except for a change of color. The Blue team tied the score when Scanlon beat Gough * and Gilfoil to the tape. The Golds won the meet by 41-38.
Thrills were frequent but the most exciting part of the meet was the final “kick” of Joe Young in the half-mile. Passing Troy at the beginning of the last lap, and Rudd as they •
SMITH S CAFETERIA
The South Bend Clearing	HELLO MEN!
House Banks Invite Your Patronage
	i 1	111 East Jefferson Boulevard
UNION TRUST COMPANY AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS
BANK
FIRST NATIONAL BANK INDIANA TRUST COMPANY ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS
BANK
ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST COMPANY
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
517
came into the stretch, he continued on to break the tape fully nine yards ahead of the second man. In the one and three-quarter mile run, Howrey ran the most even race of the meet. Taking the lead at the gun, he kept it for the entire fourteen laps and nearly lapped the field before the end was reached.
Summaries:
60-yard dash—Won by McCormick (G); Dilling (B), second; TBonomolo (B), third. Time, :06.6.
70-yard high hurdles—Won by Peredin (G); Reiman (B), second. Time, :09.9.
440-yard dash—Won by Scanlon (B); Gough (G), second; Gilfoil (G), third. Time, :53.6.
1%-mile run—Wron by Howrey (G); Ewing (B), second; Grimes (B), third. Time, 8:33.3.
7s-mile run—Won by Bauer (B); Russnak (G), second; Biggins (G), third. Time, 4:04.1.
880-yard run—Won by Young (G) ; Rudd (B), second; Troy (B), third. Time, 2:05.7.
Shot Put—Won by Hoffman (B); Brill (G), second. Distance: 41 feet, 9 inches.
Pole Vault—Won by Johnson (G); Fishleigh and Slattery (tied), second. Height: 11 feet, 6 inches.
High Jump—Won by Darling (G); Hughes (B), second; LaBorne (B), third. Height: 5 feet, 10 inches.
CAGERS MEET WABASH IN RETURN ENGAGEMENT
Locals Won First by 29-19;
-Butler Here Next Week.
Notre Dame’s eager’s will try for a repeat victory tonight when they tackle the Wabash college five in the Notre Dame gym. The Blue and Gold outfit journeyed downstate to Crawfordsville, January 9 and came home with a 29-19 victory over the Cavemen. In that contest, Notre Dame, after trailing by three points at the ‘halftime intermission, came back to ‘ keep possession of the ball for eleven minutes and run up an unsurmount-able lead that gave them the victory. It was the first game in which the Keogan five displayed the dazzling speed that has characterized their playing since then, and tonight’s contest should find the locals on the long end of the score.
The Keoganites will have to watch
Chase, Wabash forward, and Howell, a guard. Both of these boys troubled the Blue and Gold in the previous game, and their recent performances has in no way indicated that they are slowing down. Both are varsity men of three years experience and will be trying hard to include a victory over Notre Dame in their senior year conquests. The Wabash team is coached by Pete Vaughn, a former football and basketball star at Notre Dame.
The Blue and Gold eagers make their last appearance of the season on the home court next Saturday, February 21, when they engage the Butler college netmen. Butler will present one of the strongest teams to appear on the Notre Dame hardwood this season. Thus far, Butler has won eleven of their twelve games, losing only to Nebraska, and flaunting a victory over Arkansas, champions of the Southwest conference for the past four years, as their prize accomplishment.
Butler’s present cage team, under the direction of Coach Hinkel, is making basketball history at the Indianapolis institution, and they will come here with a firm intention of chalking up another victory. The game should be one of the best of the season.
c*

«
QtatiiiitiiniiiiiiiiiiMtmitiHiiHiiiiiitmiiiHtiitissiiHnttiiiimiiiiitiiitiiiHiiitiiHiiiitiiiHiiiiiiinQ
EAT. H
=	=8
I	i !
I Meyer’s Fountain | |
:	Eg
=	i ।
I Every day we feature a 20c Meyer’s | I I Extra Rich Malted Milk and your | j E	E a
I choice of any of our many 15c sand- I j 1 wiches, 35c value for	j ।
your
EYES
Have them examined every year
•?
=	Corner Michigan and Colfax	|	|
| | | gj-imiiiimimHMHMiimiiimmmnMniMiiiMMii iiiiimi.
QCCASIONALLY we hear someone boast of the extreme long life of his glasses—as though it were something of which to he proud.
Our eyes are changing constantly, and the best experience proves that the ophthalmic correction provided by lenses usually requires changing every eighteen months to two years. To wear glasses longer than that means that the eyes are being forced to adjust themselves to the glasses, instead of the glasses being an aid to the eyes.
lemontrees
102 W. Washington St.
2221-2 S. Michigan St.
518
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Guaranteed
for Life?" before you accept any pen from s5 to *70
$7
Let no one persuade you to accept some inferior pen, and throw in a vague guarantee, or a fancy box, in place of a Guarantee for Life by Parker. There are no loopholes in the Parker guarantee.
And there is no other point like the Pressureless-Writing Duofold. It lets you write as easy as you breathe. Hence, not having to focus your thought on what you are doing, you concentrate on what you are saying.
Go and see these new, balanced, streamlined Beauties that have 17.4% more ink capacity than average, size for size, and are convertible for Desk and Pocket, at will.
THE PARKER PEN COMPANY Janesville, Wisconsin
^uqfold
PEN GUARANTEED FOR LIFE Othar Palnr P«m, $$.75 Md $3.50 Pencils to match all Pens, $$30 to 55
Interhall Sports
INTERHALL BOX SCORES
Heavyweights
Games of February 8
							
OFF-CAMPUS 18, CARROLL 8							
Off-Campus C F Hafron, f	10 Sezkley, f	2 0 Whalen, f	0 0 Bogner, f	0 1 Luther, c	10 Waterson, c 0 0 Buzlitz, c	2 0 Sch’tow’ch, g 0 1 Burdick, g 0 0 Jehle, g	12			p 0 2 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0	Carroll c Dehraso, f	1 Rehooghe, f	0 Crego. f	0 Halpin, f	1 Rashmner, c	0 Kane, g	2 Motsett, g	0 Dixon, g	0 Mueller, g	0 Kolb, g	0		F 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0	p 0 0 0 3 1 1 1 0 1 1
Totals	7	4	4	Totals	4	0	8
LYONS 20, MORRISSEY 6							
Lyons				Morrissey			
D. Oelerich. f Jones, f Callaghan, f F. Oelerich. f Dempsey, f Igoe, c Agnew, c Aug, g Belden, g Hilgar, g Kremer, g Gausselin, g	G 1 0 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0	F 1 0 1 2 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0	r 1 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1	T. Duffy, f Melchione, f Locke, f Clark, f Dyniewicz, c Loughrey, c Matthews, g Rigah. g Baldwin, g J. Duffy, g	G 0-1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0	F 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0	y 9 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 2 2
Totals	7	6	s	Totals	2	2	8
WALSH		14,	ST.	EDWARD’S	9		
Walsh				St. Edward’s			
Hitzelh’ger, f Dolan, f Law, f Jordan, f Tarasovic, c Lichen, c Jane, g Malloy, g Seidl, g McCarthy	G 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 2 0	F 2 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0	p 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 3 0	Addonizio. f English, f Sexton, f Sporl, f ’ Jahr, c Cummings, g Sexton, g Hayes, g	G 0 0 0 2 1 0 0 0	F 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0	p 1 0 1 o o 0 0 0 0
Totals	5	4	4	Totals	3	3	5
SOPHOMORE			12,	FRESHMAN 11			
Sophomore				Freshman			
Harrison, f Fayette, f Agony, f Behan, f Donaghue,' c Coughlan, c McGrath, g Rapier, g	a 0 0 0 1 0 0 3 1	F 0 0 0 0 1 ■ 0 1 0	p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0	Malony, f Fraelich. f Dalton, f Townsend, f Paskwietz, f Giannini, c Gaudoli, c Beacco, g Schankel. g Howell, g	G 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 0	F 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0	r 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 0
Totals	5	2	0	Totals	5	1	3
SORIN 14, BROWNSON 7
Sorin
Fishleigh, f Vetrano. f Smith, f Teders, f . Reiman, c
Monahan, c • Mahen, g
Rudolf, g Vik, g Mangan, g
c F P 4 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0
2 0 1 10 1 0 0 0 0 0 3
0 0 0 0 0 1
0 0 0
Totals 7 0 8
Brownson c f p
Conlon, f 10 1
McInerney, f 0 0 0
Monasky. f 10 0
Conlin, f 0 0 0
Melicazi, f 0 0 0
Harold, c 0 0 0
Savage, g 0 0 1
Oshorne, g Oil
Stancook, g 0 0 0
Gaspardi, g 0 0 0
Desmoyers, g 1 0 1
Totals 3 14
*
CORBY 16, BADIN 9						
Corby				Badin		
Rohrbach, f	G 2	F 1	p 1	G	F 0	p 0
				Sullivan, f 1		
A. Kolski. f	1	0	0	Christman, f 0	1	2
Palt, f	2	3	2	Miller, f	0	0	1
Snyder, f	0	0	1	Consolati, f 0	1	4
Matousek, c	0	0	1	Thompson, c 2	0	1
Ryan, c	0	0	0	Comeford, g 0	1	1
Rogers, g	0	0	0	Cooney, g 0	0	2
Streb, g E. Kolski. g Steegman. g	0 1 0	0 0 0	0 1 1			
Totals	6	4		Totals	3	3	11
Lightweights Games of February 8 OFF-CAMPUS 20, CARROLL 19 Off-Campus	Carroll G F P	G					F	I*
Roddy, f	1	0	1	Meyer, f	1	0	0
Watson, f	3	0	1	Hendricks, f 0	0	0
Rodrigues, c	9	0	1	Dosey, f	5	3	2
Curry, g	2	0	0	Morrow, c 2	0	0
Golden, g	0	0	1	Kopek, g	0	0	0
Vitt, g	2	0	3	Podraza, g 0	0	0
				Adamcik, g 0 Streb, g	0	0 0	0 0
Totals	10	0	7	Totals	8		9
LYONS 30, MORRISSEY 7 Lyons	Morrissey g f p	c					F	P
Maloney, f	0	0	0	Gandor. f 0	1	0
Gorman, f	0	0	1	Ostrander, f 0	0	0
Borda, f	2	0	0	Bansbachs, f 0	0	0
Moriarity, f	2	3	0	O’Shaugh’y, c 0	0	1
Dutt, f	0	0	0	Robertson, g 2	0	1
Willis, c	1	0	0	Eckert, g	1	0	1
Baskerville, < Brown, g Zaback, g Borda, g Bontempo, g	11 4 1 0 2	0 1 0 0 0	0 1 0 0 0			
Totals	13	4	2	Totals	3	1	3
ST. EDWARD’S St. Edward’s g f p				20, WALSH 3 Walsh g	F	p
Joyce, f	2	0	0	Myers, f	0	1	0
O’Connor, f	0	0	0	Flanagan, f 0	0	0
Tunney, f	2	0	1	Ellis, g	0	2	0
O’Brien, f	0	0	0	Fabrycki, c 0	0	2
O’Malley, c	2	0	0	Blommert, g 0	0	0
Gelhaus, c	0	0	1	Marrian, g 0	0	0
Casey, g Riley, g Frank, g	o O 1 0	0 0 0	0 1 0			
Totals	10	0	n O	Totals	0	3	9
FRESHMAN 12, SOPHOMORE 7
Freshman G	F	p	Sophomore G	F P
Horan, f	2	1		Montgom’y, f 2	0 1
O’Farrel, f 3	0	0	Sargus, f 0	1 0
Ambry, c	0	0	1	Hayes, c	1	0 0
Hugh, g	0	0	1	Burke, g	0	0 0
Carroll, g 0	1	0	Curran, g 0	0 3
- ■		- —		— -
Totals	5	2	5	Totals	3	1 4
BROWNSON 2, SORIN 0 (Forfeit)
CORBY 18, BADIN 8
Corby				Badin			
	G	F	P		G	F	p
Brennan, f	1	2	1	Brown, f	0	0	1
Perone, f	0	0	1	Bankdorf, f	0	2	1
Rahaim, f	1	1	0	Obelenus, f	1	0	2
McL’ghlin, c	2	2	1	Smith, c	1	0	3
O’Malley, g	1	0	2	Coyle, g	1	0	3
Dugan, g	1	1	1	Chambers, g	0	0	3
Totals	6	6	6	Totals	3	2	13
♦
c
The Notre Dame Scholastic
519
INTERHALL BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
SUNDAY, FEB. 15
9:30 a.m.—Off-Campus vs. Badin
10:30 a. m.—Lyons vs. Freshman
1:30 p. m.—St. Edward’s vs. Morrissey 2:30 p.m.—Howard vs. Sophomore
3 :30 p. m.—Carroll vs. Sorin
4 :30 p. m.—Brownson vs. Corby No game—Walsh
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 18
7:00 p. m.—Off-Campus vs. Walsh
8:00 p.m.—Lyons vs. Sophomore
9 :00 p. m.—St. Edward's vs. Sorin
THURSDAY, FEB. 19
7:00 p. m.—Freshman vs. Corby
8:00 p.m.—Howard vs. Badin
9:00 p. m.—Carroll vs. Morrissey No game—Brownson
OFF-CAMPUS AND SORIN LEAD IN CAGE LEAGUE
A
Standings including the interhall games of Sunday, February 8 show Off-Campus and Sorin leading the heavyweights and Freshman and Off-Campus out in front in the lightweight division. The prize winning game of the last set was the contest between Walsh and St. Edward’s lightweights in which the latter emerged the victor by a 20-3 score. Walsh was only able to count with three free throws during the entire contest.
Dosey of Carroll, in the game with Off-Campus in the lightweight group, scored 13 of his team’s 19 points with five field goals and three foul shots. In spite of this man’s outstanding play, his team was defeated by a one-point margin, 20-19.
This Sunday will see every campus team in action with the exception of Walsh, and next Wednesday and Thursday the remainder of the games in the series will be played.
| Residence	Office ।
। Phone 3-4041	Phone 2-1067 |
I	j
|	Dr.	Edgar S.	Lucas	!
!	Dentist	I
|	702 J. M. S. Building	j
I	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA	|
DUKE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.
On October 1, 1931, carefully selected first and third year students will be admitted. Applications may be sent at any time and will be considered in the order of receipt. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.
Interhall Basketball Practice Schedule
FRIDAY, FEB. 13
Varsity Floor	Apparatus Room			
Off-Campus		p.	m.	Lyons
Brownson	8	p.	m.	Carroll
Morrissey	9	p.	m.	Sorin
MONDAY,			FEB.	16
Lyons	7	p.	m.	Walsh
Freshman	8	p.	m.	Howard
Badin	9	p.	m.	Corby
TUESDAY,			, FEB.	17
Sophomore	7	p.	m.	Off-Campus
St. Edward’s	8	p.	m.	Brownson
Sorin	9	p.	m.	Morrissey
is "Call-Home” Time
f The Economical X
K Noice of h/Lillions 4
INDIANA BELL TELEPHONE
COMPANY
520
The Notre Dame Schola
On Down the Line
IF YOU DONT GRIND but want to keep eligible
. . . Ten years ago this time JOIE RAY was winning - a lot of mile races . . . last week he came in seventh in a marathon and . . . snow shoes were used ... It seems that they absolutely refuse to let any records that the late SIR HENRY SE-GRAVE may have established stand . . . GAR WOOD, motor boat racer of note, plans to break the existing record of 98.7 miles per hour . . .
Keep the old brain as clear and receptive as you can so that what it is exposed to, it takes. That means eating things that like you as well as you like them. Shredded Wheat for instance—with good rich milk. You can’t beat that combination for nourishment—and it is so easily digested that you can hurry it down and still make that first hour bell. Plenty of bran, too, in Shredded Wheat to give you the alertness that comes from regular habit. Shredded Wheat will go a long way toward making marks come easy.
. . . This pugilist who was blessed with the name SANTA certainly doesn’t believe in his more famous namesake . .'. SANTA CLAUS . . . at least he gave it up after the Illinois Boxing Commission tagged $1500 to his bill . . . BILLY PETROLLE, after winning a few nice fights decided to imitate his friend GENE TUNNEY ... he chose a fine art . . . became an archaeologist and things ran along • quite smoothly until he came across KING TUTT of Milwaukee .. . WALLACE WADE, football coach at Duke university and former mentor at Alabama, announces that when he moves into his new position he will have for assistant FREDDIE SINGTON, all-American from ’Barna
SHREDDED
. . . VERGEZ, star ball player of Oakland, has an idea he is a big leaguer before he starts ... he is already holding out on the Giants . . . wait ’til McGRAW gets hold of him . . . FREDDIE LINDSTROM will probably give up the idea of playing third or ... we don’t .know McGRAW . . . GABBY HARTNETT, of Cub fame, is loafing all winter . . . RAY SCHHALK, has a bowling alley in Chicago and has recently installed a pee-wee golf course in the place . . .
... The CHICAGO BRUINS, pro basketeers are going to tour the South and exhibit their wares . . . they plan to stop at Nashville, Chattanooga, Buhmin’ham, and Memphis ... NAT HOLMAN, star pro, is still coaching City College of New York . . . only he is not playing this year ... the HOUSE OF DAVID basketball five will soon get tired of losing .'. . then they’ll play some other team beside those Chi lassies ... the TAY-- LOR TRUNKS . . .