Disce quasi semper victurns; vive quasi eras morituras.
Vol.
XIX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 17, 1885.	No. 6.
Address from the Minims to Very Bev. Father ’ •	General.
1.
St Edward’s golden Feast once more is here— ' The happiest day of the scholastic year!
And we, your loyal “ Princes,” one and all, Gather to greet you in this festive hall. We come to pay our homage last, not least, And wish you, Father, a most happy Feast!
• 11.
Hearts full of deep affection guide our feet, As round your form in reverent love we meet; And much we doubt, if, in the cycles blest,. That have revolved since first you hailed the West, If dear St. Edward’s Feast-day ever brought. More cause for joy than Eighty-five has wrought.
■'	।	' hi.	- 1 ’
We turn our vision back to Forty-t-wo—-Not one St. Edward’s Feast appears to view So bright with pure, unmingled happiness, Among them all, our Father dear,-as this; Not one shows cause so marvellous; so clear,. For deep congratulation as this year.
.	■ - iv. .	. - . ■ -
Good wishes, flowing in on every hand.
Prove how the fountains of your joys expand;— . Show how the promise of the golden past
Has met the measure of your prayer at last. Never before, with earnestness more true, Could we proclaim a happy Feast to you!
*■ '	' ■ . v. - .
October, loved'October, sweetly brings
_• Fond memories up, and round our pathway flings The roseate beauty of sweet days that rest. Like isles of Paradise in each true breast; And kindly accents, voices rich and dear, Silent, alas! so long, fall on the ear. -
A- A A. - 'A A.
And ‘gentle faces come, the pure, the brave, As if they knew not blight, knew not the grave;
’Here they unite with us in chastened mirth, : While lovingly we .bless their fadeless worth,— . .
.Bless their devotedriess; though, chill and cold, The envious earth their forms beloved enfold! '	’
A •	■ vii. ' "" ' ■■ A A'.'
The magic influence, the.auspicious art, ' Dear Father, of your world-embracing Heart'
Ci - Is' felt anear, afar. -’TisHfAw-impels’5* -A ' f C‘‘.Grace, oflvocatibn” from! unnumbered wells ;rnsT ...
>.> -. And^td-deai‘’Holy .Gross eac^^	draws,.... j
.. -To.make .their.own wour, will, your holy ’cause ! A 5 -
VIII.
Love for you, Father, we*were justly told, Is to your children a rich clasp of gold That binds their hearts (a strong, unerring rein) To your great heart in one unbroken chain, And makes them one, devoted to one aim— The growth, the usefulness of Notre Dame!
/ix.
The ardent love for God that kept you warm In Forty-two, ’mid the fierce,-wintry storm; Amid the desolation of the place, The countless dangers of a savage race, Still burns as warm, as fresh, as pure, as bright, As when the twin-lakes met at first your sight.
That fire of Grace Divine, in very truth, Kindles within your, breast perennial youth,-"Drawing all hearts by gentle, winning sway, \ Which they, who feel once^ feel but to obey;
Makes those who know you tenderly revere As one who brings celestial treasures near.
A-. ,, A'' • xi- ’
We, as your youngest children, dearest ones— “Princes ” of great St. Edward, loyal sons— Feel deeply'honored when your praises rise - , From acclamations of the good, the wise;
: “ One of a million ”—no, it is not puerile To make their singular emphatic plural,
•	.	XII.
And say no one now living on the earth Seems to our hearts possessed of greater worth; No other one, with such undaunted power, Would seize and hold the occasions of the hour; None turn to use,1 with such unerring;glance, The opportunities.of circumstance'.
A A ■ A ' xiii. A A
Our Blessed Lady from the first hath known You, our dear, royal Father, as her own. ’Twas she who brought you o’er the sea to do The wondrous work her Son apportioned you,— . .
= A-:-work too great for man to comprehend , Its source, its current, and its glorious end.
\	xiv. . “
The noble stamp, of your devotedness	. .
".1 Has' left on all things here its deep impress: ’ ' - .
Church,1 altar, University and Dome-	.
Speak .of a saintly soul, in art, at home;.'	,
.. p^Y^t, more than all, your Priests/your,Brothers tell,. .. \0f your fafygrander work performed, so well!	<
A A A-AU <•’? A AA A-‘	A'-A? 'A-? A A -a-'
. -»A “ legend- beautiful,’’ of golden fame, .A
Is told of primal days at Notre Dame; ' A
In your, first College edifice on high,	....
J- ?■Nbar-asit'could’be to the o’er-arching-sky,-	A v.
86
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Rose a proud tower; its walls -within were graced By Mary’s statue, which you there had placed.
XVI.
There, at her feet, ’midst sunshine and ’midst showers, You gave each day your tribute of fresh flowers;
Each prayed its own deep prayer. Ah! here we find In this sweet, childlike love success outlined I He whose brave heart had courage to despise All the attractions that the world supplies,—
XVII.
Courage to spurn the charms of gallant France, And brave the storms of ocean’s cold expanse; And, for the love of Mary, joy to dwell Where not one ray of human comfort fell, O, such an one must win Heaven’s warmest grace: No wonder she has crowned your chosen place 1
XVIII.
Her statue now commands the loftiest Dome That rises o’er our loved Collegiate home ;
And at her feet, your holy Patron too
Close to our play-ground meets our loving view.
Both reign in heaven, and by celestial fame Move and control all hearts at Notre Dame.
XIX.
Our honored Father with his plans so large We now confide anew unto their charge, Assured they will secure him new success Whom future generations can but bless; For his true spirit will remain forever, ’Mid the grand fruitage of his high endeavor.
Alaska.*
. Sitka, Alaska, July 19, 1885.
Dear Scholastic:—Eighteen years ago.last March what was known as Russian America was, by special treaty, ceded to the United States. At the suggestion of Senator Sumner, the territory was given the name of Alaska, which it now bears. Alaska is a corruption of the Indian name Al-ak-shah, which means a great land or country. And it is indeed a great country. It is more than sixteen times as large as Indiana, and comprises territory equal to one-fifth of the rest of the United States. It extends nearly twenty-two hundred miles in a direct line from east to west, and measures some fourteen hundred from north to south. Owing to the numerous islands embraced by its large archipelagoes it has a shore line of upwards of twenty-four thousand miles,—considerably more than twice the combined lengths of the Atlantic and Pacific shore-lines of the United States. It has, too, within its boundaries the highest mountains, and, probably, the largest river on the North American continent. Mounts Fairweather and Crillon have an altitude of nearly sixteen thousand feet, whilst the colossus of the North—Mount St. Elias—towers up to a height of nearly twenty thousand. feet, some thousands of feet above the grand peaks and volcanoes of Mexico—Orizaba and Popocatepetl. The great river Yukon-has a length of over two thousand miles, and is navigable for fully three-fourths of that distance. For the last few hundred miles; toward the mouth it is often several miles in breadth, and .where it pours
♦ Delay in receiving engravings has prevented us „ from publishing this letter sooner.—Ed. Schol.	‘
its waters into the ocean it widens out to such an extent that one is reminded of the mighty embouchures of the Amazon or Orinoco.
The people of Indiana consider themselves as living in the western part of the country, and yet they are over two thousand miles east of the central line of demarcation—running north and south —of Uncle Sam’s vast possessions. The island of Attu, the westernmost land of Alaska, is as far west of San Francisco as is the easternmost point of Maine east of the City of the Golden Gate. Taken longitudinally, then, San Francisco would be the central city of the United States, whereas it is now regarded as belonging to the extreme West.
According to the treaty, the southern boundary of Alaska is in latitude 540 40', which should have been the northern boundary of our Pacific coast line, instead of 490 as it now is. Had it not been for the stupid treaty made in 1846 by President Polk and his secretary, James Buchanan, who allowed Great Britain to take the intervening 50 40', we should now have an uninterrupted coast line from the Arctic ocean to the southern boundary of California. As it is, Great Britain controls some of the best ports on the Pacific coast, and threatens, on the completion of the Canadian Pacific railroad, to monopolize a great portion of the through trade between China and Japan and Europe. She will then have the shortest and most direct line, and will be able to make the transit between points in Asia and Europe in several days’ less time than any of her competitors. We are now beginning to see that the patriots of ’46, who insisted on our northern boundary being “54° 40', or fight,” are the ones whose judgment should have been followed. As it is now, we are obliged, in going from the United States to Alaska, to pass through British waters—unless we choose the deep, and often rough, waters of the Pacific—and can do that only by permission of British authority. Secretary Seward felt these drawbacks particularly at the time of the Alaska purchase, and realized them fully:.on the occasion of his visit to this country, some years later.. But the matter is.settled now, and we are forced to make the best of a bad case. .	. . ;	. . .>
I do not mean to say, however, that the purchase of Alaska was a bad. bargain. On the. contrary, as the years roll by we are beginning to learn the resources of the country, and to feel that in the purchase of Alaska the United States has .added a vast, and, we may say, a rich empire to her already extensive possessions. On the occasion of a public dinner given him. after his retirement from public life, Mr. Seward was asked what, he considered the most important act of his official life. He unhesitatingly answered: “ The purchase of Alaska; ” and, after a moment’s pause, he added, “ but it may take two generations before the purchase is appreciated.”	' •
For Alaska the United States paid Russia $7,200,000—a little less than 2 cents per acre for the territory bought. At the time of the transfer the purchase was severely criticized by the press of the country, and commented on as “ Seward’s
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
folly.” Russian America was looked upon as an Arctic waste, a fit habitat, it <might be, for Esquimaux and their dogs and seals and polar bears, but utterly useless to civilized beings. It was regarded as a land where the thermometer was constantly below zero, and were the nights lasted for weeks and months. Country editors said, in their wisdom, that Mr. Seward had bought an im-mensc ice-floe, and suggested that he name it “ Polaria,” as best expressing the character of the newly-acquired territory. Even in our own day there are many who entertain similar ideas regarding Alaska, and look upon its purchase as a foolish and extravagent expenditure of the nation’s money.
It is indeed surprising that so little should be known about a country which we have had in our possession for the last eighteen years, and which has attracted more or less attention ever since the
isted. Spain, too, who then controlled the commerce of the Pacific, and who wished to retain her hold on her rich sources of revenue, sent out expeditions in search of the much-coveted passage, and many are the stories that have been told about the adventurers of bold mariners, who claimed that they really madfc the discovery of a channel leading from ocean to ocean—a channel to which they gave the name of “ Straits of Anian.”	.
Cortereal, a Portuguese navigator, sent out in 1500, claimed to have passed through the “Straits of Anian” by entering through Hudson Bay. In 1588 Maldonado, another Portuguese mariner, reasserted the ^existence of the passage referred to, and said that he had reached it by passing through the straits of Labrador. Four years later the celebrated Greek mariner, Juan de Fuca, in the service of Spain, was sent out by the viceroy of Mexico
time of Russia’s great ruler, Peter the Great, who added Russian America to his then wonderfully organized and immense empire.
Many are- the myths and marvels connected, directly or indirectly, with the history of the discovery of this northern land. After the straits of Magellan were discovered by the intrepid navigator whose name they bear, and taken possession of by the Spaniards in whose service the illustrous Portugese seaman was engaged, the united efforts of rival nations were directed towards finding a pas-sao-e from the Atlantic to the Pacific in the northern o
part of the continent of North America.
For two centuries English and Portuguese navigators were sent in search of the “ Northwest Passage,” which, it was considered certain, really ex-
and pretended to have entered the “ Straits of Anian ” from the west by entering the passage that now bears his name, and by going northward. through what is now known as the “ Straits of Georgia.” In 1778, however, the great Captain. Cook was sent out to the North Pacific coast and showed that the pretended discoveries of the navigators just mentioned had no existence outside of their imaginations, and that the so-called “North-west.passage ” as described by them was a myth. Subsequent navigators who have made numerous and thorough surveys of these regions have verified Captain Cook’s observations, and the once much-talked-of Northern passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific is now known in history only as the “ Fabulous Straits of Anian.”
88	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
True, little of positive knowledge regarding what is now known as Alaska was gained by the earlier navigators above mentioned, but they were instrumental in directing attention to this portion of the world. Nothing important in the way of discovery was accomplished until later. Peter the Great had in mind the exploration of the country, but died before he could carry out his plans. His wife, however, the Empress Catherine, took up the work, and it was continued by her successors, Anne and Elizabeth. In 1728 the illustrious Dane, Vitus Behring, was dispatched on an expedition of discovery, and first passed through the straits named after him and travelled much of the ocean between Northern Asia and what is now known as Alaska. He visited many of the islands of the Aleutian chain, and after many hardships was shipwrecked on a small island j where he, with most of his crew, died of starvation and disease. This small island, that served as a resting-place for his remains, has been named in his honor, as has also the sea he explored so well.
In 17S8 Gerassim Pribyloff, a Russian navigator, discovered the Seal Islands, the two largest of which—although they are all small—have been named St. Paul and St. George. They at once became the centre of a rich fur trade, and tens of thousands of seal skins were annually taken to China and overland, through Siberia, to Russia.
Strange to say, at the time of the cession of Alaska, no account was taken of these islands, although they have since proven to be the most lucrative portion of the purchase. The Seal Islands at best are only rocky patches in the ocean, and their combined areas would not be much more than that of a couple of average-sized counties in Indiana. St. Paul is 6x13 miles, and St. George only 6x10 in extent. And yet, since 1870, when these rocky islets were leased to the Alaska Commercial Company, the Government has realized on St. Paul and St. George alone over two-thirds of the whole amount paid for the entire territory of Alaska. The company has already paid into the United States’ treasury over $5,000,000, and the Government has secured an interest of more than 5 per cent, on its full investment.
The islands are leased to the Alaska Commercial Company for a period of twenty years—from 1870 to 1890—at an annual rental of $55,000. Besides this, the company pays the Government $2,62 for each of the 100,000 seal skins it is permitted to take each year. This gives a revenue of over $300,000 annually—a revenue that is likely to be much increased at the expiration of the present lease. And as the number of seals does not seem to decrease, notwithstanding the number that is annually killed, we may look upon the Seal Islands as the source of a permanent industry, and as capable of supplying the markets of the world with seal skin sacques for an indefinite time to come. The onlypossibility, seemingly, of the seal industry ceasing to be profitable is the chance that seal skin sacques may go out of fashion. In the event of such a change our fur traders will, of course, lay the blame on fickle woman.
In speaking of the Seal Islands I would say, incidentally, a word about the habitat of seals. Many persons are under the impression that they are found everywhere in Alaskan or Arctic waters; but nothing could be farther from the truth. We have, for instance, seen in some of our illustrated papers pictures of seal-fishing and walrus-hunting amid icebergs in the bay of Sitka. But the fact is, one may travel up and down the coast of Alaska a dozen times without observing a single seal, while he may watch in vain for one in Sitka bay for months. A walrus may not be seen in years. By far the greatest proportion of all the seals in the world are found at the foggv islands of St. Paul and St. George, where the animals assemble in millions during a few weeks in summer, where the number allowed by law are taken, and their skins shipped to San Francisco, and thence to London to be prepared for the market. But these islands are far from the mainland of Alaska. St. Paul is 1,491 miles west of Sitka and full 2,600 miles north of San Francisco.
It may interest some of your readers to know that Senator Miller, of California—the President of the Alaska Commercial Company, and the one to first call attention to the resources of Alaska —was formerly a student of Notre Dame. I had the pleasure of meeting him this summer, as he, with his family, were among the passengers on board our steamer, and he had many questions to ask regarding old friends still living at his Alma Mater. He has promised to stop off to see them on his way to Washington this fall.
Besides its seals, Alaska has many other furbearing animals. Among these may be mentioned the fox of several species, among them the beautiful and the much-prized silver fox, the beaver, squirrel, wolf, bear, marten, ermine, and the animal that furnishes the most valuable of furs, the otter. These are found in great numbers, and add considerably to the general industries of the country. From an early date the Hudson Bay Company recognized the value of Alaska as a land abounding in ,furbearing animals and had numerous trading posts established throughout the territory, many of which it still retains.
But the resources of Alaska are not limited to the fur-bearing animals, of which I have been speaking. These constitute an important factor, if you will, but there are others that promise to be equally valuable, if they are not already so. Among these may be mentioned its fish, that abound to an extent that would be incredible to one who has not visited the country; its extensive forests of valuable timber, and its rich and unlimited mineral lodes.
For its fisheries Alaska has become famous already, although it is only a few years since they were established. Alaska salmon has a preference in the markets, especially those of the Pacific coast, and are rapidly becoming known in the markets of the East. Columbia river salmon have long retained an acknowledged superiority; but Alaska salmon, of which there are several species, are far better. From Dixon’s entrance at the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
89
southern boundary of Alaska to the mouth of the Chilcat river—in latitude 6o°—one will find large canneries where thousands of barrels of salmon are put up annually. And the number of these beautiful fish taken at one haul of the seine—and they use large nets here—almost passes belief. At one of the large canneries that I have recently visited the average haul for the season has been 1,700 salmon, averaging seven and eight pounds in weight. On one occasion the seine brought in 4,000. This may sound like a fish story to your readers, but there can be no such thing as a fish story in Alaska. Here, fact is stranger than fiction in matters piscatorial. The waters at this season of the year are actually alive with fish, as they move in large schools through the narrower channels, a canoe scarcely finding room for passage.
Besides salmon, various other kinds of valuable fish are found in as great abundance. Cod, herring, halibut, trout, etc., are met with in all the waters along the coast. At Killisnoo, where we
from Victoria to Chilcat and Sitka, one sees immense forests of spruce, fir, larch, cypress, hemlock and that most valuable of woods, yellow cedar. And we doubt not that soon the lumber interest will here receive its due share of attention. The forests of Michigan, Wisconsin and the Puget Sound region are rapidly disappearing before the woodman’s axe, and it is only a question of time until we shall have to look elsewhere for timber lands; and then, if not before, the value of Alaska as a lumber district will be fully appreciated.
But just at present the mines of the country, especially the gold mines, are attracting more attention than anything else. For several years past, placer mining along the Stikine river, and about Juneau and Sitka, has been quite profitable to the few engaged in it. Within the last year or so, however, special interest has been excited in developing the rich quartz-lodes that occur in the neighborhood of Sitka, but more especially in those of Douglas Island near Juneau. Here I found, to
Greek Church, Sitka.
stopped yesterday, and where there is a large cannery, herring are caught for making oil and guano. Here the number taken at one haul of the net is much greater than in the case of fishing for salmon. I think one could safely say that there is in Alaskan waters alone sufficient fish of the best kinds to supply the markets of the world for centuries to come.
Then, too, the large and unexplored forests of Alaska promise to become eventually a rich source of revenue. Hon. Wm. H. Seward, after his visit to the country, declared that “ the north Pacific coast will become a common shipyard for the American continent, and speedily for the whole world.” Although the great statesman may have been over sanguine in his views on this matter, it is evident to even the casual observer that he did not express himself as quoted without reason. On every side,
my great surprise, what is said to be one of the largest quartz mills in the world. This will, I know, be news to most of your readers, as it was a revelation to me. The Treadwell mine, which has been quietly worked for some two or three years, now runs day and night 120 stamps and forty-eight concentrators. The amount of ore crushed daily runs up to 360 tons. The quartz crushed assays from $8 to $20 per ton, and the sulphurets obtained from concentrators will give from $80 to $150. The ledge, which crops out from the surface, is over 400 feet in width, and of unexplored depth 4 and length. A horizontal tunnel has been run into the side of the hill where the ledge occurs to a distance of 430 feet, and a vertical shaft has been sunk to meet this tunnel. These show ore in sight sufficient to last the mill, now running, for years to come. The ore is low grade, it is true, but it
96	THE itOTRE DAMk SCHOLASTIC:
is milled so cheaply that it pays handsome dividends to the fortunate stockholders of the mine. The machinery is all riin by water power^ obtained from the mountain streams near by, and it is estimated that the milling does not cost more than$i or $1.50 per ton. Only eight men are engaged in the mill proper, and I was told that six would be sufficient toFdo the work. Besides the stamps and concentrators, there are large revolving cylinders in an adjacent building for roasting the sul-phurets and numerous large chlorination vats for eliminating the gold from the ore after it is roasted. In another building hard by are two or three large retorts, where the gold is separated from the mercury, after which it is-melted and cast into bars or bricks. The steamer which sails to-morrow carries to San Francisco upwards of $100,000 in gold bricks, as the result of the past month’s “cleaning up.” Stock in" the mine has never been put on the market and cannot be had except by paying many times its face value. The owners, a few California capitalists, say they have “ a good thing and are going to hold on to it.”
The claims adjoining the Treadwell mine are said to be equall}7 valuable, and are only awaiting the advent of capital to develop them. From present indications this prosperous mining camp bids fair to become another Leadville—or, rather, another Virginia City,—and that, too,5at no distant day. The amount of ore known to exist here appears to be practically unlimited, and from my own observations I should judge that it can be worked as cheaply here—if not more cheaply—as it can be in any other mine I have ever visited.
For some.years past the Yukon region has received considerable attention from prospectors; and from discoveries already made, there is reason to believe that several mines of more than ordinary value have been located. The Yukon mines, however, will always suffer the disadvantage of a severe winter climate, which does not affect those along the coast.from Sitka southwards. .
Besides gold, ores of nearly all the other metals are found in'greater of less quantities in almost every part of the territory. Coal, too, occurs, but as yet little has been done towards developing anything but the gold mines, which here have always received, and now receive, the greatest attention.
But what, it may be asked, about the climate of Alaska? The development, on a large scale, of some of the industries spoken of, especially min. ing, will largely depend on the climate.
This question cannot be answered in a word, any more than a similar question regarding the United States... .'From- the great extent of Alaska one should naturally expect to find a varied climate, especially : when one considers that so much of it is surrounded by. water. It goes without saying that all, or nearly all, of the northern portion, has a climate of Arctic severity,.especially in the winter time. But this is farfrom true of the southwestern portion, particularly the part bounded by the ocean. It may surprise many-to learn that the winter climate of Sitka and ffie neighboring coast, for instance, is much milder than that of Notre Dame and the
surrounding country, having the same mean temperature as Notre Dame. During the fifty years that records were kept by the Russians, the thermometer at Sitka’ was observed below zero only four times, and then only for a short time. Last winter, for instance, it was extremely mild,- although it was so frightfully cold everywhere in the States. The greatest snow-fall here last winter was only two inches, and then snow lay on the ground only a few hours. Cattle remained out doors all winter without suffering any inconvenience. Ice scarcely ever forms on the water here, and rarely attains a thickness of more than one inch. Skating and sleigh-riding are luxuries practically unknown. At the Treadwell mine, already spoken of—which is about a hundred and eighty miles northeast of here,—it was not found necessary to shut down the mill more than two or three days last winter. Even then it was done simply as a precautionary measure, as the mill might have continued in operation, because the water in the pipes and reservoirs did not freeze as was apprehended. This, for a mill that is run by water-power entirely, and for-this high latitude, is, to say the least, remarkable; but it only goes to show that the miner here does not labor under such great disadvantages in winter as is popularly supposed. True, the mean annual temperature here would be considered comparatively low at Notre Dame. But then it is very uniform, never very warm or very cold. In 1883 the mean summer temperature, according to the records kept by the signal service bureau stationed here, was 530. The mean temperature for the winter of the same year was 340. At this season of the year the weather during the day is somewhat like it is in the Middle States in spring or autumn. In the evening it is much cooler, and one then finds a heavy coat or .wrap quite comfortable. It will cease to be a matter of surprise that there is here such a mild and agreeable climate, when it is remembered that the whole western coast of Alaska is washed by a warm ocean , current, similar to the Gulf stream of the Atlantic, which so tempers the climate of Great Britain and Scandinavia. Here the moderating agent, is known as the Kuro Siwo, or Japan current, and its influence is felt way up beyond “ Behring’s Straits.” Paradoxical as it may appear, the nights of Sitka are no cooler at this season of the year than they are now in the city of Mexico, 400 farther south. It was my good fortune to spend some time there just a year ago, and I found that a heavy overcoat after sunset was not at all uncomfortable. But an altitude of over seven thousand feet accomplishes for the temperature of the city of Mexico what high latitude, tempered by warm ocean currents, effects for that of Sitka.	.
From what I have, said regarding the mean temperature of Sitka—and the same holds good . for the coast region to the southeast—it can readily .be inferred that Alaska will never amount to much for grazing or agricultural purposes. True, in some parts grasses grow well and attain a height of* several feet. Various kinds of vegetables are also successfully cultivated here and there, but only
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in small quantities. Potatoes seem to thrive, as evinced in many gardens in and about Sitka; but as to Indian corn and the various cereals, their cultivation appears to be out of the question.
The annual rainfall in Sitka and all along the southeast coast is something extraordinary to any one but a “Web-foot.” The rainfall in Sitka in 1843 amounted to eighty-one inches.
And the way it rains here! The ease and selfcomplacency with which it comes on and falls, and continues to fall, day after day, and week after week—a result acquired by constant practice I suppose—without hurry, without sputter, without wind or storm, is something that must be witnessed to be appreciated. First comes a pure Scotch mist, then a dense fog, then a light, gentle, drizzling rain, that continues without any apparent effort until one imagines that it is never going to cease. But it does, at last, often only aftei- a long time, and then one is blest with a clear, light, bracing atmosphere and a bright, serene sky that could scarcely be found elsewhere in the wide world. Then one forgets the fog and the rain, and thinks only of enjoying1 the warmth and sunshine—and one does enjoy it.
And here I am, at the end of a long letter, that should have been closed ere this, without saying a word about the many attractions that present themselves to the visitor to Alaska. But a volume would not do them justice—there are so many, new, interesting, matchless. From Victoria to Sitka one can make a voyage that cannot be duplicated, I opine, in any other part of the world. All along, the steamer moves on the calm, placid waters of the numberless inland bays, channels, sounds and narrows, that are linked together and hidden away among the mountains that border the mainland on the one side, and those that rise up from the thousand and one islands, large or small, on the other. During the entire trip one is exposed to the swell of the sea only a few hours, and such a thing as sea-sickness troubles the voyager as little as if he were on terra firma. And then the magnificent and constantly changing panorama that one has always before him! At one time the beauties of the Scotch lakes, at another those of Killarney, and Como, and Maggiore. Anon the scene changes, and we have the glories of the Rhine, and the Hudson, and the Columbia. Near by. we. have beautifully-wooded islands that eclipse in number and loveliness the far-famed Thousand Isles of the St. Lawrence, and the less known, but no less beautiful, islands of Northern Lake Superior, and in the distance snow-capped mountains that rival anything to be seen in the Sierras or Swiss Alps. Now and then we meet pretty little cascades and lovely waterfalls, of greater or less magnitude, that seem to complete the picture. But this is not all. We have near us, and around us on every side, glaciers of every size, type and formation. They come down from the mountain’s crest through rocky defiles and deep gorges—reminding one of Colorado’s grand canons—and break off into the water only a few yards from the vessel, with a thundering noise that resembles a discharge
of artillery, and form the thousands of icebergs that.are visible in the waters of the North. Here we. have glaciers, miles in width, at the water’s edge, and hundreds of feet in perpendicular height, and scores of miles in length. I have known people to go to Switzerland only to see the Alps; and yet in all Switzerland there is nothing seen ■ to be compared with the glaciers and snowcapped peaks that are found here in all their splendor and magnificence. The Mer de Glace, the . Grindewaid, the Aletsch—that “ monarch of European ice-streams”—and the Zermatt, Jungfrau and the Matterhorn pale into insignificance when compared with the wonders of Glacier Bay and the Fairweather Alps. Speaking of Muir Glacier, which I had the pleasure of examining the other day, a writer of the New York World lately observed that “ all the glaciers of Switzerland would not equal this of Glacier Bay.” Lord Dufierin, speaking of the scenery of British Columbia and Alaska, said: “ It is the most superb in the world I ” And another traveller, referring to the scenery I have just been-speaking of, writes: “ This fairyland of moving extravaganzas of scenery was an amalgamation of Swizerland, Norway, the St. Lawrence, with her rapids and islands, the picturesque loveliness of Loch Katrine, added to arctic wonders of a high altitude of 6o°.” Prof. Muir, the learned Pacific coast geologist, says of the valley of the Stikine, which has its mouth near ’ Fort Wrangel, “ That it is a Yosemite 100 miles long.”	,
I have introduced these opinions of others lest some of your readers might think my account of the natural wonders of this country exaggerated. But it would be difficult to exaggerate what one can see simply from the deck of the steamer, as she goes from Victoria to Sitka. No mere description can do justice to the wonders everywhere visible, and that follow each other in rapid succession in a kaleidoscopic manner that seems almost magical. One must visit these- scenes to appreciate the splendor and magnitude of the objects mentioned. This can now be done in a short time, and at a comparatively slight expense. Meeting the wants of tourists who are already beginning to drift in this direction, the Pacific Coast Company now runs a monthly steamer from Portland to Sitka, touching at all intervening points of interest. The July steamer arrived here yesterday, . filled with tourists from all parts of the United States, and they would, I am sure, all .reiterate everything I have said about the wonderful scenery they witnessed during the whole course of their journey. The various Indian tribes, too, whose peculiar little villages are scattered all along the shore, the rich jauna and flora and the great abundance of ,; game of all kinds—which makes the country a veritable paradise for sportsmen—combined with the many beauties and wonders I have already spoken of, will contribute to make Alaska eventually.what Lord.Dufferin prophesied of. this northeast coast—“ The favorite yachting grounds of the world.”	.
The tourist frpm the East can easily so arrange
92	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
his journey to Alaska as to be constantly passing through the most marvellous scenery in the world. Starting from Chicago, for instance, let him take the Chicago & Northwestern Railroad—a road famed for its accommodations and luxuries of every kind —and sso to St. Paul. Here he will connect with
■o _
the great Trans-Continental route—the Northern Pacific—which will take him to New Tacoma on Pugent Sound. On his way he will pass the Yellowstone Park—the acknowledged wonder-land of the world. Here he will see geysers, eclipsing the grandest that Iceland or New Zealand can boast of; waterfalls, rivalling those of Niagara and the YoSemite; and canons, inferior, if at all, only to those of Colorado, and those made by the river of the same name farther south and west. From Chicago to Tacoma, by the roads named, one will always have the convenience of dining cars, the Northern Pacific being the only Trans-Continental road to afford its patrons such a luxury,—and the most improved styles of chair and sleeping cars. From the car the traveller will see the beauties of Cceur d’Alene lake, and the world-renowned wonders of the Columbia River—the cascades and the Dalles. At Portland or Tacoma he takes the steamer in which he will spend about three weeks of general repose, free from the worry and turmoil of a busy world, and breathing an atmosphere that seems to possess all the invigorating properties attributed to the Elixir of Life of the alchemists of old. At the end of five or six weeks, having passed through a succession of fairy-lands and wonder-lands, one can be back in Chicago and ready to enter again, with renewed vigor, upon the duties of life.
.	J. A. Z.
Hope.
i.
I knelt beside her bedside
Throughout the long, long night;
She was but faintly breathing, And her face was wan and white.
But still within my trusting soul
Sweet hope was rooted deep:
Mother, you’ll be well again,— God’s with you while you sleep.”
ii.
I knelt beside her grave-stone	.
Throughout the dreary day;
My heart was well-nigh breaking, ’
She being now away.	•
But still within my trusting soul
Sweet hope was rooted deep:
“ Mother, -we will meet again,— God’s with me while you sleep.”
B. T. B.
“ Hwntws ” is the name applied to the inhabitants of the South of Wales by the men of the North. The northmen have a strong dislike for a “ Hwntw,” and can hardly understand his dialect.
Art, Music and Literature.
—A Beethoven music museum will shortly be opened at Vienna. Many offers of relics and souvenirs relating to the composer’s life and works have been received, and it is expected that the collection will become worthy of the great master’s name.
—The German papers record the death of the distinguished architect of that country, Herr Anton Widmann. He died of cholera at Granada, aged only twenty-nine years. He had just finished an elaborate history of .Renaissance architecture in Tuscany, which is to be published.
—The French authorities are making great efforts to carry out their plan for forming a large collection of portraits of painters to be deposited in the Louvre—a new attempt to follow the example set long ago in the Florentine gallery, where more than five hundred portraits have gradually accumulated.
—A newly-discovered Stuart portrait of George Washington, apparently painted from life, has been sent to Washington by Colonel Robert Alexander Jenkins. It had been packed away in a garret in North Carolina for several years, perhaps since the commencement of the war, in order to conceal it from the Federal army.
—Robinson Crusoe will soon be commemorated by a fine bronze statue at his prototype’s birthplace, the fishing village of Largo, in Fife. This village was the early home of Alexander Selkirk, who returned there from Juan Fernandez, bringing the relics of his solitary stay on that desolate island. His house, “ Crusoe’s Cottage,” is now shown in the square near the sea, and some time ago still contained Selkirk’s gun and sea-chest. The Crusoe statue is to be placed in a niche of the cottage.— Home Journal.	'
—Prof. Vambery. has published “An Uzberg (Tartar) Epic” which treats the career of the famous Uzberg, warrior and conqueror of Central Asia in the beginning of the sixteenth century, who drove Baber out of the country north of the Oxus, and was the chief cause of the foundation of the Mogol Empire of India. The epic consists of 4,900 double verses, which the professor copied from the only existing MS., which is in the possession of the emperor of Austria. The text is accompanied by a translation and . annotations, and is brought out at the professor’s expense.— Atkenceum.
—A French savant, M. Garaud, has just published a book which professes to settle the vexed question of thepronunciation of Latin by the ancient Romans. He says: “The -patois of Pamiers, in the department of Ariege, is nothing else than Latin ' exiled on the borders of the Ariege. It has been brought there with its original pronunciation and accentuation. Without the aid of any book, the ear has sufficed to preserve its first form and intonation after eighteen centuries’use. The most delicate inflections of the voice have been kept. ’ Thanks to the instinct of harmony and the love of sonor-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ity, Latin pronunciation has been exactly transmitted to us.”
Scientific Notes.
—Vanadium, a white metal discovered in 1830, is worth $10,000 a pound.
—Nineteen kinds of metal are produced which are valued at more than $1,000 a pound.
—According to Prof. Tyndall’s investigations, the singularly blue color of the water of the Lake of Geneva is due to the presence of small mineral particles, probably derived from glacier dust, brought into the lake by drainage from glacier streams, and of such extreme minuteness as not to settle even when the water is allowed to stand for a long time.
—Many of the pretty anemones—the wind flower, the meadow anemone, the passe-fleur, and the wood anemone—were long since swept into the pharmacoepia under the name of pulsatilla. Now the sea anemone {Hedusa aurita} is found by some spectacled scientist to possess what he calls “ medical properties,” and its beautiful head is to be ground up into a specific for the gout.—Sun.
—The white brick now made in France from the immense accumulations of waste sand at glass factories is likely to prove a valuable industry. The process of production consists in subjecting the sand to an immense hydraulic pressure and then baking in furnaces at a high temperature, so as to produce blocks of various forms and dimensions, of a uniform white color, and of almost pure . silex. The product is unaffected by the heaviest frosts, or by the sun or rain.
—The suddenness of the appearance of the new star in Andromeda is not the only remarkable thing about this wonderful phenomenon. It has already faded to a faint speck, visible only with powerful telescopes, and while thus parting with its light it has exhibited very singular changes of brilliancy. Sometimes it has been seen to flare up with a sudden accession of light, like a fire that has found fresh fuel, and several experienced observers have seen it flickering in a manner that suggested still more closely a resemblance to actual flames. That the phenomenon was due to an outburst of heat affecting an enormous mass of matter can‘hardly be doubted, but the true story of this celestial conflagration mav never be written.—Sim.
—It has been shown that the odoriferous molecule of musk is infinitesimally small. No power has yet been conceived to enable the human eye to see one of the atoms of musk, yet the organs of smell have the sensitiveness to detect them. Their smallness cannot even be imagined, and the same grain of musk undergoes absolutely no diminution in weight. A single drop of the oil of thyme, ground down with a piece of sugar and a little alcohol, will communicate its odor to 25 gallons of water. Haller kept for 40 years papers perfumed with one grain of ambergris. After this time the odor was strong as ever. Bordenave has evaluated
a molecule of camphor sensible to the smell to • 2,262,584,000th of a grain. Boyle has observed that one drachm of assafoetida exposed to the open air had lost in six days the eighth part of a grain, from which Keill concludes that in one minute it had lost 1—69,120th of a grain.
College Gossip.
—Cigarette smokers are hereafter to be expelled from the public schools of Newark, N. J.
—Thomas A. Edison, the inventor, has presented ' Cornell University with a complete electric lighting plant.
—Frederick Billings has recently given a fine library building, worth $120,000, to the University of Vermont at Burlington.
©
—“ Hazing will be stopped at Princeton,” says Dr. McCosh, “ even if the whole college has to go.” It is a wholesome edict against well-dressed rowdyism.
—The University of Berlin, says an exchange, is the largest and, perhaps, the best equipped in the world. It has upward’ of 5,000 students, 600 of whom are American, all graduates of our colleges or the German Gymnasia.
—The 500th anniversary of the University of Heidelberg will be celebrated during the second week of August next year. The buildings of the University, the Town House, and the Heiligengeist Church will be renovated for the occasion. A new festival hall, 360 feet long by 126 feet wide, and holding 5,000 persons, is also to be erected for the celebrations.
—The Roman correspondent of the Boston/YZo/ says that Mr. James S. Barron, of New York, who is not a Catholic, has presented the American College with $100 for the promotion of elocution in the College. This was given in acknowledgment of some small attentions paid to Mr. Barron by the Rector of the American College during the " recent visit of the former to Rome.
—A teacher in a Catholic school in Manchester, “ utilizes the playful instincts ” of his pupils by adapting the game of hopscotch to the map of England, whereby, instead of hopping among mere arbitrary divisions, the youthful players are induced to hop “from one county to another,” till, gradually and insensibly, they hop themselves into a knowledge of the political geography of their country.
—The Russian Government is about to establish at St. Petersburg a Polyglot College, in which . will be taught all the modem languages of any importance, and the tongues of all the nationalities —-about seventy—under the Czar’s sceptre. The purpose of. this college is to prepare trustworthy and thorough interpreters for the diplomatic, consular, and military service, the civil officers and missionaries who have to deal with the different nations found in Russia, and the mercantile agents who have to attend to the import and export trade.
94
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WDM SCMMG.
Notre Dame, October 17, 1885.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Nine-■ teenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above ail,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5G for Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—Last Saturday morning, at ten minutes after 1, the soul of the great Cardinal Archbishop of New York passed peacefully away, after a long and useful earthly existence devoted to the service of his Creator. Cardinal McCloskey, at the time of his death, was in the seventy-fifth year of his age, fifty-one years of which were spent in the sacred priesthood—thirty-eight as Bishop, twenty as Archbishop, and ten as Cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church. His career was marked by a .quiet, peaceful energy, which, without aity out-waid display, bore such magnificent fruits as to give evidence of rare and grand qualities of mind and heart, and to crown with success each year of his life from his entrance into the sacred ministry, at the early age of twenty-four, until its close after an elevation to the highest dignity in the Church— next to the pontifical throne. Learned in sacred and secular science, wise and piudent in administration, kind and charitable in demeanor, he well deserved the high honors with which he had been invested, and he endeared himself to both clergy and people over whom he had been placed. Requiescat in pace.
Forty-Second. Annual Celebration of St. Edward’s Day at Notre Dame.
Among the many things that interest the friends of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s at Notre Dame— the new friends as well as the old friends, and especialty the students of the present and former years—there is nothing nearer or dearer than the venerable Founder of the twin educational institutions, the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C., Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, who, at the patriarchal age of seventy-three years, still lives among us to see a portion of the fruit of his labors. He it was that, nearly half a century ago, after landing on these far Western shores from La. Belle France—where he had left home and friends and ease to carry the Cross and spread the Gospel tidings of peace to men of good will—was mainly instrumental, not only in rearing the material edifices that now lift their heads in proud consciousness of their glory and grandeur and the number of youth who absorb learning and wisdom under their roof-trees, but who also gave that impulse which is yearly adding to the stability and prestige of the noble institutions established by him on the picturesque banks of St. Joseph’s River.
We are not a poet, and cannot speak in mellifluous numbers of the zeal and labors of the young missionary priest and his devoted band of Brothers of the Holy Cross in the primitive wilds of Indiana during their many years of pioneer toil and privation, and the glorious monument they leave behind them. These will form a bright page in the history of the country. Friendless and penniless came those early pioneers, when Nature,
“ Suspending the smile her heart devotes to love, And Winter revelling with protracted power,” would have discouraged men of ordinary stamp, they laid the first stones of the University that has since spread its fame far and wide, and become the pride of the State from which it never obtained a penny’s worth of support.
The early days of privation are at an end, and we who behold the final consummation of Father Sorin’s life-work naturally look up to his venerable figure with a feeling of love and admiration. The tall spires of Notre Dame rise proudly to the skies. The last stone has been laid in the Music Hall, the Science Hall, and the beautiful Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart—the Temple of the Most High, which grateful devotion is daily enriching beyond all the other buildings at Notre Dame. That priceless gem of literature, Iha Ave Maria—named in honor of the Queen of Heaven —Notre Dame—and for years edited by Father Sorin himself—has long gone forth on its weekly
O O	__ J
mission throughout America and Europe, exciting love in the hearts of thousands for the Virgin without spot or stain,—
“ Our tainted nature’s solitary boast,”— who draws all hearts to the feet of her Divine Son, and of whom it has been said that who makes her known and honored shall possess eternal life. Here,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in the twin institutions above the-twin lakes on the banks of the St. Joseph, hundreds of youth of both sexes annually throng the halls, and draw in wisdom and strength for the battle of life, beneath the tegis and maternal care of the Queen of Heaven. Who, in that chill November of ’42, could have dreamt of such vast results from so humble a beginning! But Heaven blessed the enterprise, and Father Sorin lives to see its success.' May he be long spared to his devoted children and co-laborers!
■ THE EUGLOSSIANS.
In honor of the name-day of Very Rev. Father Sorin—when so many hearts in the world and in the cloister were breathing prayers for the continuance of a ministry which has already accomplished more for God, Our Lady, and the benefit of humanity than ordinarily falls to the lot of man, the students of Notre Dame assembled to pay their respects to their venerable founder; and this year
of grace, 1885, witnessed preparations for one of the grandest celebrations of St. Edward’s Day that Notre Dame had ever witnessed. On Monday, the eve of the festival, the students and a large number of visiting friends thronged the Music Hall. After an overture by the Band, addresses were -read from the students of the various departments of the Univers-ity—the Seniors being represented by Mr. D. C. Saviers, the Juniors
and the Minims by; Christopher Mooney. These young gentlemen are, respectively, from Ohio, Kentucky, and- Illinois,— not a Hoosier among them, —but the affair was a cosmopolitan and not a sectional one. We

if!
are pleased to notice the absence of sectional ideas in the various college departments.
A pleasing prelude to the address of the Minims, was presented by the appearance of Master Cecil Quinlan bearing a large bouquet of choice flowers, which he gracefully presented to Very Rev. Father General.
An “Ave Maria” by Franz Abt, was splendidly sung by Messrs. Riley, Stephens, Kreutzer, Duffin, Padilla, and Bates, of the Senior department, after which came the dramatic performance usual on such occasions, for the entertainment of students and visiting friends. This time it was Sheridan’s play of
Very Rev. Father General Sorin.
“ PIZARRO, remodelled by Prof. Lyons, and presented by the Euglossian Oratorical and Dramatic Society. The cast of characters will be found in our local columns.
Whether the melo-dramatic tragedy of“ Pizarro ” was chosen for the sake of contrast on this occasion—and the line of contrast between Pizarro, the blood-thirsty invader, and Father Sorin, the. minister of the Gospel of peace, could not be more strongly drawn—or for the exceptionally large number of leading and brilliant roles to be personated, we cannot say; in either case it would be appropriate, for it seemed to suit exactly the personnel of the Euglossian Society. Judging from the result, a better cast of characters could hardly have been made. It is worthy of remark that although only five days had elapsed since the allotment of parts by Prof. Lyons—and not a class was missed by any of the members of the Association—


everyone seemed to be well up in his role, and the play went on from beginning to end without a hitch or stumble. The part of Pizarro was taken by Mr. Frank H. Dexter in a very creditable manner. His make-up was in itself a piece of fine art. Bewigged and whiskered, the metamorphose was so complete that Mr. Dexter’s most intimate friends could not have recognized him. The brilliant Spanish QU costu me aided voice BgMand manner in person-|H||^ating to the life the fi-^^pery and warlike Spanish adventurer. Of Rolla and Alonzo, personated by Mr. Charles A. Harris and Mr. Frank J. Hagenbarth, and Elvifo, transposed by the modifier into a youthful friend and
follower of Pizarro, and taken by Mr. C. Stubbs, we can only speak in terms of the highest praise. There is no need to mince matters here. All the foregoing parts, as well as the role of king Ataliba, played by Mr. C. Murdock, that of Las Casas, by Mr. D. Byrnes, the Old Blind Man, by Mr. Charles E. Finlay, and perhaps Valverde, Pizarro’s Secretary, by Mr. Robert B. Goodfellow, are all leading and heavy characters, imposing a severe strain on the mental and physical energies of the personators; but they were taken almost to the life, with scarcely a flaw or misstep. This makes the minor shading of distinctions in a report very difficult, and impossible in a brief report of a long
96	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
play, with so many heavy characters, without apparent injustice to some one. We cannot, however, pass without an exceptional word in praise of Mr. Byrnes’s fine rendering of the saintly, eloquent and heroic Spanish friar, Las Casas, and Mr. Finlay’s blind old Peruvian hero, in the programme misnamed “ Pedro.” Mr. Fred.J. Combe’s Orozembo, Mr. Wm. Jess’s Almagro, Mr. William Daly’s Davilla, and Master Joseph Garrity’s Topac, with others, were well worthy of mention, but with so little about the leading characters we must let these and the rest be satisfied with the general satisfaction they have given.
The various scenic aids with which the brush of Prof. Ackerman has so finely enriched the Music Hall stage would materially help the setting of any play, but none better, we think, than “ Pizarro,” into which Sheridan, after Kotzebue, has thrown a liveliness of fancy, amounting almost to extravagance, that opens a wide field for scenic effect. When first produced at Drury Lane .Theatre in May, 1799, “ Pizarro,” although brought out so late in the season, was received with an extraordinary degree of favor by the public, and was played for thirty-five nights almost consecutively. A contemporary critic said that its attractiveness was felt universally, from the king to the commoner, and that this good fortune was owing in no small degree to scenery and music. “ But,” he adds, “all the pageantry in the world could not have wrought so powerfully on the senses if the piece had not possessed something intrinsically animating.” Whatever be its literary defects, “ Pizarro” is, undoubtedly, a dramatic masterpiece. We cannot, therefore, feel too grateful to Prof. Lyons for his labor in remodelling this splendid play for male characters only, and, more than all else, for the judicious expurgation of whatever might be in the least liable to criticism from a moral point of view.
Prof. Ackerman’s artistic judgment and the magical effects of his brush were seen to excellent advantage in the fifth act, where Rolla, with Alonzo’s child in his arms, is seen in rapid flight ascending the zigzag windings of the mountain, with Pizarro and his soldiers in hot pursuit. The ancient Peruvian tower among the rocks in the middle foreground produced a fine optical illusion —maugrc the inscription!—in lengthening the vista of rocks as the fugitive flees behind it: and good acting and realistic scenery here combined in a tout ensemble that brought forth a spontaneous burst of applause from the audience.
We cannot close our account of the play without a word of thanks to one of the guests of the evening, Mr. F. Austin, of Lyon & Healy’s, Chicago, who, in response to a request, so kindly favored us with some fine cornet solos. Having heard Levy and other cornetists of world-wide fame, we do not hesitate in saying that Mr. Austin is one of the greatest living masters of his instrument, and well deserved the hearty and unanimous encore that greeted each of his musical treats.
OX TUESDAY, THE I3TH,
at eight o’clock a. m., Solemn High Mass was cele
brated by the venerable Superior-General, assisted by Rev. President Walsh as Deacon and Rev. Father Toohey as Subdeacon. The beautiful statue of St. Edward in the sanctuary was surrounded with rich floral offerings, and so brilliantly illuminated that it reminded one of the brightness and glorv which must surround the throne of the glorious Confessor in his celestial abode. The magnificent voice of the venerated celebrant never came out in richer tones. He both delighted and astonished some visitors who had heard him for the first time. At half-past nine o’clock the members of the Faculty assembled in the parlors of the Presbytery, and through their spokesman, Prof. John G. Ewing, presented their congratulations to Very Rev. Father General. Prof. Ewing spoke substantially as follows:
“To-day the Church bids us come together and make glad that God had granted to the race that one should have lived who deserved well of God and his fellows. What did Edward the Confessor that we should be summoned yearly to honor and revere his memory? Well and truly did he fulfil the law—Love thou the Lord God -with thy ■whole heart and thy -whole soul and thy -whole mind and thy -whole strength., and thy neighbor as thyself.
“In the long years that followed Edward’s death the English people, when they felt the rule and rigor of unrighteous laws, demanded of their sovereigns that they give unto them the laws of the good King Edward. By the wise and just compilation of his nation’s laws and customs, he did a lasting good to his people, and for that men called him great and good. In his private and public life he confessed in his actions God and h’s faith, and therefore did Holy Mother Church cause him to be elevated to her altars for the veneration and acclamation of her children and the world.
“To-day we have met here to rejoice that God hath given us you, and to offer to you our congratulations and good wishes, and our expressions of respect for your deeds and your character. Since, like your model, you have striven to follow, and have followed, the law, men revere and reverence you, and offer you to-day their testimony as to your good deeds and worth.
“ The good love not to hear their praises sounded among their fellow-men. I will not speak of the many zealous ministers of God whom you have reared up and sent out to bring to the sorrowful and heavy-laden the promise and cure that will wipe their tears and heal their wounds,—nor of the devoted men whom, in holy Brotherhood, you have fostered and sent forth to instruct the youth of the land in Science and Religion. I will speak solely of the great deed you have wrought and the mighty good you have done by the erection in this land of ours of this our University to be a never-failing source of Religion and of Science; for in all after-days you will be known as the Founder of Notre Dame. It he that instructeth one soul to righteousness shall shine forever in God’s presence, how much more he who shall have led hundreds in the way of truth! They that have gone out from these halls to fulfil their life-work—of which number are many of us—shall in all after-time bear witness to the good impulse and tendencies, moral and intellectual, here given to their lives; and they, in that latter time, shall be your witnesses, and shall plead for you in the great day.
“ Of your private and inner life I shall not speak. It is rounded out in its perfection, and stands as a model and exemplar to us all.
“ If he that hath done good and great things for the race deserves well of his fellow-men and secures their applause; if he that hath done all things, even unto the little ones, in conformity with law, should secure the esteem and regard of mankind, then are we rightly gathered here to-day to offer to you our good wishes and our expressions of esteem of your private virtues and your great deed of good.
“ Chosen as I have been by the Faculty of the University, as their spokesman, I, their youngest member, tender you their greetings. Accept from us our expressions of re
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
97
gard and esteem, and our fervent wishes that for many years to come you may live to hear each recurring year the justly-earned expressions of good will and respect of your fellows.”	'
Very Rev. Father General feelingly responded in fitting- terms, after which a serenade was tendered by the Band.
THE REGATTA.
The sheet of clouds which obscured the rising sun on the morning of the 13th gave but little promise of a satisfactory day for the Regatta and sports; and when heavy drops of rain began to fall, shortly before the time of the race, it was thought a postponement would be made.
At 10.30, however, advantage was taken of the short pause in the shower to start the crews off, and the first to issue from the boat-house were the “Reds,” under Captain Mathers. The rain now fell again, and as the “Blues,” under Captain Cartier, appeared with their boat, a steady but light shower spattered the surface of the lake.
There was a little uneasiness noticeable in the countenances of a few in each crew, but the “Reds” were very sanguine. McNulty, coxswain of the “Reds,” swung his crew quickly into position at the starting buoy, and in a few seconds Dexter, of the “Blues,” coolly followed.
The long, spider-like boats were now abreast, and pointing towards the turning-buoys at the end of the lake; at the word “Go!” they both shot forward. After leaping ahead on the start, the “Blues” settled down to a long, sweeping stroke; while the “ Reds ’’.sprang into a tremendously fast stroke, which carried them soon ahead, and they maintained the lead to the turn.
In the dash for the turning-buoy a fierce struggle ensued. Both boats swung gracefully around, the “Reds” about two seconds in advance on the beginning of the turn, but both leaving their buoys together. The “Blues” made straight as an arrow for the winning buoy, and now their deliberate, steady stroke began to send their boat ahead. The “Reds” swung around from their buoy into their fast stroke, but in the first quarter began to lose. At the middle of the length they crawled up, and the “ Red ” boat now had her nose even with the “Blue.” Still, this could not last long; and the “ Blues” shot quickly away again,followed closely, making a fearful struggle for the finish, by the “Reds.” The “Blues” passed the winning buoy one quarter of a boat-length ahead, amid deafening applause.	.
The winning crew then repaired to the College, where Mrs. Carney, of Toledo, O., and Miss Maude Wiley, of Lansing, Mich., decked them with the anchors which were their prizes.
The names and positions of the members of the victorious crew are as follows: Albert Gordon, bow; C. Voorhees, No. 2; G. Harrison, No. 3; J. Hamlyn, No. 4; G. De Haven, No. 5; W. Cartier, captain and stroke; Francis H. Dexter, coxswain.
At noon a grand
banquet
was spread in the Senior dining-room at which the venerable Superior-General presided. The room
had been handsomely and artistically decorated for the occasion, and the variety of flowers, wreaths and arches of evergreen, together with the numerous flags which hung from pillar to pillar, imparted a festive appearance to the scene.
The rain prevented the sports which were to take place in the afternoon. All hearts, however, were happy and joyous throughout the day, and glad that they had an opportunity to testify their esteem and effection to the venerable Founder of Notre Dame.
Field-Day.
The rain storm on Tuesday, October 13th—the regular field-day—obliged a postponement of the athletic sports incidental to the celebration of St. Edward’s Day. The weather on Thursday—the usual “ rec ” day—proved favorable, and the exercises were carried out according to the prepared programme. Very Rev. Father General Sorin, Rev. President Walsh, and other officers and members of the Faculty, together with a number of ladies and gentlemen visiting the institution, took pleasure in witnessing the sports. The following reports give in detail the proceedings of each department:
SENIOR SPORTS.	-
100-Yard Dash.—For this race were entered M. Dolan, E. Riley, J. Bates, J. Hamlyn, and F. Combe. In the first heat Dolan easily left the others, making the distance in 10 secs. F. Combe came second, and Riley third. The second heat was won by Dolan in iojzf secs., followed in the same order as in the first. This decided the contest: the gold medal being awarded to M. Dolan; second prize to F. Combe, and third to E. Riley.
Second-Class ioo-Yard Dash.—Entries: A. Williams, R. Kabat, C. Hausberg, J. Dohany, J. Rahilly, J. Cusack, F. Luhn, P. McGuire, J. Wagner, J. V. O’Donnell, H. Paschel, and J. Crowe. The first prize was awarded to H. Paschel, who covered the distance in io^f seconds; Wagner captured second prize, and F. Luhn third.
Third-Class ioo-Yard Dash.—10entries:L. Martinez carried off first prize; J. Rudd second, and O. Ryan third.
In the mile race there were entered F. Dexter, P. Chapin, J. Dohany, F. Ashton, E. Coady, and E. Riley, on the start. Chapin shot ahead, followed at considerable distance by Dohany and • Coady. ’ On the last quarter all had dropped out, except Chapin, Dexter and Coady; Chapin had the lead, with Dexter second, and gaining rapidly. A grand “ spurt ” was made for the finish, which resuited in their dashing by the winning posts abreast. The medal will be contested for by them sometime in the near future.
The three-mile race came next, and proved to be one of the most interesting events of the day. The contestants were but three in number—J. Shaide, M. Burns, and W. Harless. Shaide won easily; time, 20 min., 13 secs.
Running High-Jump.—The entries were E.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Coady, M. Dolan, J. Rahilly. Dolan gained the prize, with a record of 5 ft., 4 in.; Rahilly following with 5 ft., 2 in. The vaulting, in which much •concern was felt, did not fail to prove very inter-•esting. Dolan, as usual, came off victor, beating -his record of the preceding two years. He made '8 ft., 4 in. this occasion, against 8 ft., 2 in. made last-year. Rahilly made 6 ft., 9 in.
The hop-step-and-jump came off with J. Hampton recording 39 ft., 7J^ in. E. Nadeau put himself in second, with 37 ft., 7^ in.; and M. Dolan carried off this prize with 36 ft., 10 in.
In the standing-jump with dumb bells the prize was won by J. Hamlyn, who jumped 11 ft., 1 in.; beating McKinnery’s record of last year by 71^ in. J. Nester came second, with 10 ft., 7^ in.; W. Tiernan 3d, with 10-7 in. The three straight jumps footed up a total of 29 ft., 6 in. for Hamlyn, who won first place. J. Nester made 28 ft., 10 in.; and E. Rileys 28 ft., 7 in.
The three-legged race proved a source of much amusement to the spectators. The falls were many and humiliating; Dolan and Fred Combe, however, were fortunate enough to come in first; whilst Hampton and Straus, Chapin and McNulty came in, respectively, second and third.
In the sack-race ' W. Harless, P. Prudhomme, and W. McCartney, however, so far preserved their equilibrium as to drop in, respectively, for first, second and third prizes.
The runnings high-kick was won by P. P. Prudhomme, who kicked 7 ft., 5 in. In throwing the heavy weight—consisting of a twenty-five-pound dumb bell—the best throw, 25 ft., 2 in., was made by J. Shaide; P. Chapin came second, with 23 ft., 8 in., and H. Paschel with 22-11. Carbajal threw the light weight—a twelve-pound dumb bell—36 ft., 6}£ inches; beating H. Paschel’s record of last year by 5 ft., 5J4 in. McNulty secured second place by a throw of 36 ft., 6 in.; and F. Combe came in third, with 32 ft., 3 in.
The baseball throwing resulted in a victory for F. Combe, who cast the sphere a distance of 32-9 ft., 9 in. from himself. This beats the record made by Guthrie last year by 16 ft., 3 in. Duffin came second, 315-6; Breen and McNulty a tie for fourth, which, upon a second tie, resulted in favor of Breen, with a throw of 2 S3 feet.
This concluded the sports for the day, and as darkness came on many a tried and weary contestant left the field, well satisfied with the manner in which the sports were conducted and with his own records. Bro. Paul’s interest in getting up the prizes is appreciated; as also the kindness of Bros. Marcellinus and Leander, Profs. Ewing-and Johnson in acting as judges, referees, etc.
THE JUNIOR SPORTS	.
commenced with a game of baseball between the two first nines, the score of which is given elsewhere.	- .
Following the game came the 100-yard dash. In the first division this race was won by E. Prudhomme; Master Jewett second. In the second division H. Robinson came first, and C. .West sec
ond. In the third division E. Adams was first, and D. Tewksbury, second. The fourth division was the best contested. The first time Masters Nealis and Nussbaum ran a dead heat. The second time Nussbaum won, but only by about a foot. Next on the programme came a hurdle-race of 100 yards over four hurdles. In the first division this was won by Master Holman; G. Cartier second. G. Preston won in the second division, with Violett second.
The third division was won by D. Tewksbury, with Master Inderriedcn second. In the fourth division F. Benner was first and Kern second. In the hop-step-and-jump Cooper was first, with 36 ft., 10 in.; Hayes next, 33 ft., 4 in.; and Shields third, with 33 ft., 1 in. In the second division, Luther was first with 32 ft., 11 in.; Porter second 32 ft., 9 in.; and Preston third, 3 r ft., 7 in. Darkness intervening, the remainder of the sports were postponed to next week.
MINIM SPORTS.
First running-race: 1st, D. Sweet; 2d, S. Ciar-coschi. Second running-race: 1st. E. Farmer; 2d, A.Williamson. Third running-race: 1st, B. Nussbaum; 2d, F. Muruhv. First three-legged race: 1st, G. Landenwich; 2d, F. Dunford. Second three-legged race: 1 st, C. Campeau; 2d, F. Cobbs. Third three-legged race: 1st, L. Doss: 2d, C. Scherrer. First sack-race: 1st, H. Morgan; 2d, F. Chute. Second sack-race: 1st, J. McIntosh; 2d,-R. Graham. Third sack-race: 1st, H. Tillen-burg; 2d, E. Scherrer. First hurdle-race: 1st, J. Moncada; 2d, E. Jewett. Second hurdle-race: 1st W. McGill, 2d, T. Falvcy. Third hurdle-race: 1st, E.Doss: 2d, J. Peck. Fourth hurdle-race: 1st, R. Monroe; 2d, H. Wormer. First throwing baseball: 1st, S. Titus; 2d, J. Piero. Second Throwing baseball: 1st, F. Crotty; 2d, M. McCourt. Third throwing baseball: 1st, C. Mooney, 2d, G. Nester. Fourth sack-race: 1st, C. Grant, 2d, T. Falvey. Fifth hurdle-race: 1st, E. Falvey; 2d, O. Kintz. First one-mile race: 1st, F. Garber; 2d, J. Bull. Second one-mile race: 1st, R. Inder-rieden; 2d, J. McNulty. Third one-mile race: 1st, C. Quinlin; 2d, M. Dewald.
Personal.
—James Magoffin (Com’l), ’82, is Assistant Collector of Customs at El Paso, Texas. He received his appointment from the new Administration.
—W. T. Johnson, ’68, is meeting with great and well-deserved success in the practice of his profession at Kansas City, Mo., and ranks among the ablest lawyers of the State.
—Henry A. Steis, ’85, whom we were glad to see and welcome among us on the 12th and 12th, has begun the practice of law at Winamac, Ind. He is widely acquainted and highly esteemed in that part of the State. He has already met with encouraging success in securing a practice, and we count upon a bright future for him.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
99
—One of the college Faculty, sojourning during the past vacation in Waukesha, Wis., was placed under obligations to Mr. Henry T. Mulbu, of Chicago. A more whole-souled and genial gentleman would be hard to find. He had also the pleasure of meeting such old students as Will Nelson, P. Moran, Edward Mulbu and Mark Devine, all prosperous business men of Chicago.
—Edward T. Dechant and William H. Smith (Com’l), of ’71, and now two of the most substantial and prosperous farmers of Ohio,—the former of Franklin, and the latter of Enon,—have lately written to their old Prefect and friend, renewing old friendship of “ long, long ago.” They both intend visiting where, they say, “ many happy days were spent,” and also shortly to place their sons in their old college home.
—Among the welcome guests on St. Edward’s Day was Mr. AV. Donaldson, of the well-known firm of Donaldson & Mier, Detroit. Mr. Donaldson is also a sculptor. His statue of Marquette is proof of his genius in this line, and leaves no room for doubt that had he devoted himself to sculpture he would have become as distinguished as he is in architecture. Mr. Donaldson’s friends, who speak of him as one of nature’s noblemen, hope to have the pleasure of seeing him at Notre Dame frequently in future.
—A welcome visitor to the college this week was Mr. David Monroe, of the Literary Department of Harper’s Publishing House, New York City, who came to enter his son among the Minims. A graduate of the University of Edinburg, Mr. Monroe manifested great interest in examining into the course of studies and system of discipline followed at Notre Dame, for both of which he expressed unqualified praise. All who had the pleasure of making his acquaintance will remember him as a gentleman of rare amiability and culture.
—Among the numerous visitors who attended the celebration of the Festival of St. Edward were: Rev. L. Baroux, Rev. H. W. Grimme, Big Rapids, Mich.; Rev.J. Moitrier, Danville, O.; Chief Justice D. M. Craig, Galesburg, Ill.; Joseph P. Ross, M. D., P. L. Garrity, Mr. and.Mrs. F. Austin, T. Schillo,J. A. McIntyre, of ’83, Mrs. J. Brabrook, Miss Daisy Brabrook, A. J. Press, Chicago; Mr. John P. and Mr. Jay P. Phillips, Rochester, N. Y.; Mr. H. P. and Mary F. Myers, Hunting-ton, Ind.; Geo. Rhodius, of ’82, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. Carney, Toledo, O.; Miss Maude J. Wiley, Lansing, Mich.; Miss Ella T. Daniels, Polo, Ill.; Mrs. J. A. Smith, Evanston, Ill.; Mrs-. T. M. Daniels, Toronto, O.; Miss Tillie Felker, Evansville, Ind.; Miss Libbie Felker, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; Mrs.
* M. J. Gordon, Indianapolis; Mrs. Solon Griffin, Mrs. M. Hasson, Salt Lake City; H. McCarthy, N. Y.; David A. Monroe, of the Harper’s Publication Department, N. Y.; W. Donaldson, Detroit; Mrs. L. Orsenbach, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. Swit-zen, Mrs. G. B. Lesh, Warsaw, Ind.; Mr. James Kelley, Cheyenne, Wyoming Ter.; Mrs. James O’Kane, Cincinnati, O.; John Coad, Omaha, Neb.; Chas. E. Sweet, Dowagiac, Mich.; Miss M. JR.
Mueller, Miss K. M. Mueller, Miss B. Stejskal, Mrs. Benis, Mrs. Rubel, Chicago, III.; .Mrs. Hake, Grand Rapids, Mich.; and others whose names we did not learn.
Local Items.
—Dejeuner !
—Founder’s Day!
—What has become of the Philodemics?
—Little Charlie Grant made quite a hit on the 13th-
—The busybody has begun to get in his work alreadv.
—The kindling of the leaf is now at its greatest o	o
brilliancy.
—Founder’s Day was never celebrated with such. eclat before.
—The Band gives promise of being an excellent one this year.
—The Knights of St. Edward wore very taste-ful badges on the 13th. o	u
—The ushers and stage managers did their duties well at the late entertainment.
—The Euglossians enjoyed a very pleasant reunion after their entertainment.
—Dexter and Chapin will have a chance to contest for the victory in the mile race, next Thursday.
—A light overcoat and a nobby suit of clothes await 'an owner in the trunk-room. Owner must describe property.
—A vote of thanks is returned to Mr. Heller, of South Bend, for the efficient manner in which he “got up” our actors in “Pizarro.”
—The Euglossians return a unanimous vote of thanks to Rev. President Walsh and Rev. Prefect of Discipline Regan for favors received.
—We regret that, as we were making up our forms for the press, we were obliged to omit the
. Senior and Junior addresses to Father GeneraL
—To-morrow (Sunday) there will be a grand pilgrimage of the Holy Rosary, from Mishawaka and other neighboring parishes, to Notre Dame.
—Mr. Liteau, C. S. C., Brothers Simon, Wilfred, John, Benedict, and Cajetan, have the thanks of the Minims for assisting in decorating St. Ed- ' ward’s Hall.
—Mrs. Clement Studebaker, who for years back has furnished the floral decorations for the Feast of St. Edward, this year sent a quantity of choice cuLflowers as a tribute of esteem for the beloved Founder of Notre Dame.
—On entering the dining-hall last Thursday noon the first table to the right was the observed of all observers. Our Kentucky friend’s eyes fairly • sparkled—the cause, a bountiful turkey dinner, the gift of our young friend the Count!
—Note ox Peruvian History:—Manco Capac, the founder of the Peruvian monarchy, prob-
IOO
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ably derives his surname from his great capacity. His successors, the Incas, derived theirs from their incapacity.	Owl.
—In the Senior field-sports, the gold medal, first prize in first hundred-yard dash, was donated by Adler Bros., of South Bend. The silver medal, first prize in three-mile race, was donated by Mr. Henry Heller. A special prize for throwingbaseball was given by Mf. M. Livingston. The committee on sports are under special obligations, and return thanks to these gentlemen.
—We have received a poem on “ U. S. Grant.” The concluding lines are as follows:
“ In the eternal blue . ' There are no aching voids;
He’ll hold his grand review Among the asteroids.” .
The author claims that he received his inspiration while perusing a copy of “Vapid Vaporings.” It may be so.
—The Catholic.Telegraph, speaking of “Falsely Accused,” the play recently published by Prof. Lyons, says:
“ Dramas of this description are always in demand for college commencements. We tire of the past, and call for something new. The present drama is remodelled and adapted from Colin H. Hazlewood’s ‘Waiting for the Ver-,dict.’ Professor Lyons has endeared himself to our collegians by the care and success with which he presents plays similar to this one.”	.
—The students of the drawing classes have been fortunate enough to attract the attention of some benevolent friends and amateurs by their successful efforts in the cultivation of art and talent. They will be glad to learn that several kind donations are to reward their efforts at the end of the year. The prizes are as follows: ist, a gold medal for drawing from the antique; 2d, a silver medal for shaded figures; 3d, a gold medal for perspective, projections, architecture and machinery.
—On Tuesday the 13th, the exterior of St. Edward’s Hall was elegantly and artistically decorated for the feast. Three stories were festooned with crowns and garlands of cedar; but the most. artistic part of the decorations was a large arch, which spanned the great entrance, bearing the words, Salve, Pater! in rustic letters three feet long. The Papal flag floated over the cross on the roof, while the French flag and the Stars and Stripes waved from the wings of the building. Mr.
* Bonney was on hand, and photographed the palace, with the Princes arranged in front; .there was only one drawback—the figure of the beloved Patron in the midst of his protegees; but as he was on retreat no one wished to break in on his solitude.
—The Director of the Historical Department acknowledges with gratitude the receipt of the following articles: From Mrs. Flora Stanfield, of South Bend, a tile from the old Mission Church at San Diego, Cal.; from the Superior of the Ursulines of St. Martin’s, Brown -Co., Ohio, a souvenir oithe late Archbishop Purcell; from Professor Stoddard, two Roman coins of- the. time of the Emperor Diocletian, found in the ruins.of Thebes;
five Turkish copper- coins, silver coin, 2 lira 1867, Pius IX Pon. Max. A. XXIII; silver 1 lira 1868, Pius IX Pon. Max. A. XXIII; Victor Emmanuel, 1 centessimo 1867; two Belgium coins 1874, Leopold II Roi; from Rev. Father Fitte, Roman coin Emperor Adrian; from Mrs. Major General Shields, the sword carried by her late husband at Winchester, Va., when he repelled the forces of Stonewall Jackson.	•
—Another boat-race took place Thursday morning. The close contest on Tuesday attracted a large number of. spectators who were anxious to see the same repeated. Soon after 10, the “Blues” went on the water, with Albert Gordon, stroke; W. Harrison, 5;Jno.Hamlyn, 4; P. Chapin, 3; Alex. Gordon, 2; D. C. Saviers, 1; F. Dexter, coxswain. The “Reds” immediately followed, with P. J. Goulding, stroke; L. Mathers, 5; W. Harless, 4; J. Keegan, 3; M. O. Burns, 2; Geo. De Haven, 1; A. J. McNulty, coxswain. At the word “ Go! ” the “ Reds ” shot ahead, which position they held until the turn, where the two boats collided, owing to an insufficient space between the two buoys for both to make their turn. The excitement on shore now became intense. The “Reds” were obliged to back their boat in order to make their turn, which gave the “ Blues ” about a half length lead. .The “Reds’’soon gained, and were able to take the lead, which they held until both boats had passed the line.
—The third of the series of games for the baseball championship was played on the afternoon of the nth inst. The following is the score:
o
Stars.	a. b.
McNulty, 3d b.......... 4
Breen, 1. f..........   4
Keegan, s. s....;...... 4
Nester, c..............  4
Collins, istb........... 4
Goodfellow, p.......... 4
Crawford, c. f......... 3
Rahilly, 2d b.......... 3
McCartney, r. f........- 3
R.	I. B.	T. B.	P. O.	A.	E.
2	2	2	4	O	O
O	2	2	0	O	O
O	O	O	1	O	O
O	O	O	4	2	5
O	O	O	7	O	2
I	I	I	1	6	3
O	O	O	2	0	1
O	2	2	2	2	2
1	O	O	0	0	1
Total...................  33
Universities.	a. b.
Browne, p................ 4
Chapin, ist b........	4
Combe, c................. 4
Dolan, c. f.............. 4
Hampton, 3d b............ 4
Cusack, 1. f............  4
Duffin, s. s............4
Harless, 2d b...........  4
Collins, r.t............. 4
4	7	7-	21	IO	U
R.	I.B.	T. B.	P.O.	A.	E.
2	O	O	1	9	5
I	2	2	IO	I	2
I	3	3	8	0	3 ’
O	1	1	1	0	1
3	1	1	0	2	1
0	0	0	1	*O	0
0	0	0	3	O	0
3	2	2	0	O	1
1	1	1	0	O	0
Total..............   36	11 10 10 21 15 13
Earned Runs: Stars, 1; Universities, 3. Struck out, Goodfellow, 4; Browne, 5. Time of game, two hours. Umpire, Finlay.	- .
..’Innings:—12 3 4 5 6 7
.	, Stars:—1 o 1 1 1 o 0=4
. Universities:—o 12 12 3 2=11
—On Monday evening the forty-second annual celebration of theFestival of St. Edward, Patronal Feast of Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C., Superior-General of the Congregation. of the Holy Cross, and Founder of Notre Dame, was given by the Euglossian Association. The following was the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
IOI;
Programme : Music..............................  N.	D. U. C. B.
Address from the Senior Department...D. C. Saviers Address from the Juniors.............J.T. Cleary
Address from the Minims................C. Mooney
Assisted by Charles Scherrer and Shelly Jones.
Music............................N.	D U Orchestra
Quartette.............................Orpheonics
“ Ave Maria ”—{Franz Abt) Solo and Trio, by Messrs.
Riley, Stephens, Kreutzer, Duffin, Padilla, and Bates
Music—Piano and Violin.....Prof. Paul and R. Oxnard
“PIZARRO.”
A Drama in Five Acts Remodelledfor the Occasion. Pizarro..................................F. H. Dexter
Rolla £ Commanders of the ( C. Harris Alonzo \ King’s Army { F. J Hagenbarth Elviro (Chief Attendant).................C. J. Stubbs
Ataliba (King of Quito)...................S. Murdock
Las Casas (a Spanish Ecclesiastic).........D. Byrnes
Pedro (an Old Blind Man).................C. E. Finlay
Valverde (Pizarro’s Secretary).......R.	B. Goodfellow
Orozembo (a Cacique)........................F. Combe
Almagro..............................■.......W. Jess
Adolpho (a Sentinel)......-.................J- Keegan
Dovilla r	Associates $ J* Dal-V
Gomez j Pizanos Associates. } B. Kreutzer Hipolito.................................J.	Wagoner
Orano (Rolla’s Attendant)...................A. Miller.
Topac (a Boy).......................Master J. Garrity
Cosam ero 1	„	.	„	( A. A. Gordon
Carlos J Peruvian Officers. j R Snapp Flabeo )	. ,	, T — .	.	(A. S. Williams
Gonzalo J Alonzo S Lieutenants* j H. Long Basileo	)	r, ,	„„	( J. Hamlyn
Phillipo	}	Royal	Majordomos.	|	A. S. Triplett
Alonzo’s Child...................Little	Charlie Grant
•Peruvian Soldiers—E. Burritt, J. Dohany, J. Dempsey, J. Crowe, V. Padilla, J. Frash, V. Stickney, A. A. Gortlon. Spanish Soldiers—F. Soden, J. Crawford, P. Prudhomme, A. McNulty, J. Nester.
TABLEAU.
Epilogue......................................M.	Dolan
Closing Remarks...............Very	Rev. Father General
March for retiring.........................N.	D. U. C. B.
—A game of baseball was played by the Juniors on Thursday afternoon for prizes of silver medals. Cooper distinguished himself in batting and Benner in pitching. The game was umpired by Burns in a faultless manner. Borgrschulze scored, and
also received a medal:
Blues.	a. b.
Myers, p............. 5
Cooper, ist b........ 5
Holman, s. s......... 5
Wabraushek, 2d b..... 5
Preston, c............ 4
Dillon, 1. f.......... 4
Brownson, c. f........ 4
Hayes, r. f........... 4
Luther, 3d b.......... 4
o. R. IStB. 2d B. E. A. P.O. 301	0144
302	1104
300	OOI I
500	o 103
3 i I	0 I i 4
IOI	O O I I
400	OOOO
2 I I	OOIO
400	0301
. Roll of Honor.
SENIOR department.	*
Messrs. Ancheta, Ashton, Ashford, Aubrey, Bolton, Becerra, Bowles, Burns, Burritt, Bates, Byrnes, Baca, Breen, A. Brown, Becker, C. Crowe, J. Crowe, Coady, Congdon, Chapin, Cartier, Cusack, Craig, Dohany, Dempsey, De Haven, Dexter, Dolan, Finlay, Forbes, Ford, Goodfellow, Albert Gordon, Alex. Gordon, Goble, Goulding, Gallardo, Glenn, Hamlyn, Horn, Hagerty, Houck, E. Hampton, J. Hampton, Hagenbarth, Harris, Harrison, Howard, Holden, Hutchison, Judie, Jackson, Jess, Kreutzer, H. Kenny, J. Kenny, Keegan, Karst, Kabat, Kegel, Kleiber, Long, W. Luhn, Martinez, G. Morrison, B. Morrison, Murphy, McNulty, Mathers, Murdock, Meir, McErlain, McGuire, Miller, Neill, Nestor, Nadeau, O’Rourke, Ott, P. Prudhomme, C. Paschel, H Paschel, P. Paschel, Perley, Padilla, Rem-ish, E. Riley, Rudd, Rochford, Rodriguez, Rahilly, Redmond, Snapp, Shaide, Straus, Stubbs, Saviers, Sheridan, Stickney, Soden, Tiernan, Vandercar, Voorhees, W. Williams, White, Wiley, Wagoner, Woodbridge, Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adlesperger, Adams. iXustin, D. Ackerman, H. Ackerman, Arts, Berry, Benson, G. Benes, O. Benes, Bodley, Brabrook, Baur, Blakeslee, Brownson, Boos, Bowles, E. Benner, F. Benner, Bunker, Borgschulze, Bacigulpo, Curtis, Cleveland, Cummings, Courtney, Cain, Cooper, Chute, D. Cartier, Coles, Cavaroc, Clarke, Dousrhertv, Duffield, DilIon, Darragh, Dickinson, Ewing, Epple, Frain, Finchk, Flood, Fehr, Fisher, Fitzgerald, Grothaus, Goebel, Galar-neau, J.-Garrity F Garrity, Gordon, Hoffman, Houlihan, Hasson, Hayes, T. Hake, A. Hake, Holman, Harris, Hoye, Jewett, P. Jacobs, N. Jacobs, Jeffs, Kern, F. Konzen, W. Konzen, Levm, Luther, Long, McKendry, McCourt. Mues-sei, McConn, Meehan, McVeigh, Mueller, McPhee, McIntosh, Myers, J. Nealis, L. Newton, R. Newton, Noud, Nussbaum, Nester, O’Connor, O’Gorman, Oxnard, O’Kane, Portillo, Phillips, Press, Prudhomme. Preston, Porter, Rattighan, A. Redlich, R. Redlich, C. Ruffing, A. Ruffing, Robinson, L. Smith, S. Smith, F. Smith, N. Smith, Short, Shields, Spencer, Scherrer, Servis, Stattman, L. Thompson, W. Thompson, Talbot, Thurston, Vanselow, Violett, Vandercar, Warner, Walsh, Welch, Wabraushek, Wagoner, West, Williamson.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Bull, Ciarcoschi, J. Connors, Crotty, Chute, Dewald, T. Falvey. F. Falvey, E. Falvey, E. Garber, Griffin, Grant, Graham, Healy, Jewitt, Jones, J. Kintz, A. Kintz, O. Kintz, Keeffe, Kellner, Landenwich, Mainzer, Moncada, McIntosh, Morgan, McNulty, Martin, Mooney, Murphy, Nester, Nussbaum, C. Nealis, B. Nealis, Paul, Piero, J. Peck, F. Peck, Ramsay, Riordan, W. Smart, D. Sweet, G- Sweet, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, Sullivan, S. Titus, Williamson, Wormer.
Total.......... Reds.
Benner, p......
■ Courtney, istb. Cartier, c...... Robinson, 2d b.
. Fehr, r. f.... Nester, s. s.... Fitzgerald, c. f. West, l.f....... Porter, 3d b..-:.
.40
A. B.
6
5
5
5
4
4
4
4
■. 4
28
O.
5
I
1
3
4
Total
6	i-7
R. IStB. 2d B.
o
2
1
2
I I o
8
I o o 2 I
o o o
o o o o o o o o o
E. o o o 1 o 3 o 0 o
7 o
o o o o o o
iS
P.O.
4
7
4
3 0
1
O
o
41 25 11 6 o 4 8 20
.Score by Innings :—1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
Blues , Reds
o 2
00 o 100
1 2 301 1
Glass Honors. -	.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Messrs. O’Connor, Portillo, Berry, Edgeworth, Vanselow, Violette,'Hayes, Grothaus, Adlesperger, Brabrook, Muessel, A. Redlich, Press, Jewett, Austin, Nealis, Dempsey, Duffield, Galarneau. XV. Vandercar, A. Hake, T. Hake, Wagoner, McConn, E. Prudhomme, West, A. Ruffing, Oxnard, Spencer, W. Harris, McPhee, Scherrer, Fisher, Nester, McIntosh, Jess, W. Gordon, Cain, Bacigulpo, F. Garrity, Daly, Chute, Fitzharris, Cavaroc, Clarke, Arts, Glenn,* .Miller, Hutchison, Redmond, Neill, Forbes, J. Crowe, E. Hampton, J. Hampton, Padilla, Martinez, L. Thompson, Coady, Karst, H. Vandercar, Thurston, Bolton, Chapin, C. Harris, Harrison, C. Bowles, Holden, De Haven, Howard, G. Goble, J. Kenny, Ashton, Ford, Keegan, O’Donnell, Cusack, Woodbridge, Gallardo, Rodriguez, Nadeau, Stickney, W; Luhn, Aubrey. .
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	.
Masters Cobbs, Riordan,- B. Neal’s, Landenwich. Piero,' D. Sweet, Moncado, Crotty, McNulty, F..Dunford, A.. Smart, E. Doss, ,C. Scherrer, J. Peck, McGill, Graham, Nussbaum, JonesrF. Falvey, L. Doss, E. Connors, J. Connors, Quinlin, E.Scherrer,Dewald, G. Sweet. .
102
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Saint Gary's Academy.
One Mile West of Moire Danie University.
Alason, McEwen, Parmelee, Pierce, Prudhomme, Regan, Robinson, Schmauss, Sheekey, Smart, Servis, Smith, and Van Horn.
—Miss Maude Wiley, of Class ’83, is passing a few days at her Alma Mater.
—Mrs. Agatha St. Clair Ward, of Class’76, was present at the Entertainment on the 13th.
—P. F. Tricon, Esq., of New Orleans, paid a welcome visit to his friends last week.
—Prof. Lyons will please accept grateful acknowledgments for a copy of the last edition of the “American Elocutionist,”also of thedrama“Falsely Accused,” kindly presented to the Academy.
—The closing remarks at the Entertainment on St. Edward’s Day were made by the Rev. President of the University, and were a magnificent tribute to the life-work of Very Rev. Father General.
—At the celebration of the Feast of St. Edward, among the distinguished guests pre.-cnt were Very Rev. Father Granger, the Rev. Fathers Walsh, Fitte, Heli, Duhalde, Shortis, Saulnier, and L. Baroux; and Mr. Monroe, associate-editor of Harf-eAs Weekly.
—The devotion of the holy Rosary, in accordance with the recommendation of His Holiness Pope Leo XIII, has been made in the chapel at 8 o’clock p. m. since the opening of the month of October. Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament has also been given every evening.
—The beautiful embellishment of uHommage de Res feet Filialf presented on the Feast of St. Edward to Very Rev. Father General, does honor to the exquisite talent of Miss Agnes English, whose skilful brush adorned in a truly artistic manner the address presented on that day.
—Among the welcome visitors of the past two weeks we note Mrs. Heffernan, of Durango, Colorado; Mr. and Mrs. Jas. Walsh, of-St. Joseph’s Mo.; Mrs. W. P.*Johnson, Mr. P. L. Garrity, Mr. Egan, Miss Sheehan, Airs. Ino. Clifford, Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. Ducey, and Miss Catharine Ducey, Muskegon, Mich.; Mr. C. R. Morse, Grinnell, Iowa; Mr. J. C. Phillips, Rochester, Ind.; Mr. Winn, and Mr. and Airs. Laskey, Toledo, Ohio.
—Though the Graduating Class of ’85, of St. Alary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind., has reason to feel complimented that the essay of Miss Sheekey has appeared in a foreign paper—the Liver fool Catholic Times of Sept. 25th,—the fact that neither her name nor the place of her Alma Mater is mentioned is to be regretted. The source is as good as the essay, and as worthy of recognition. '■'In Hoc Signo Vinces” should be accredited to the Senoo
LASTIC.
—Aliss Belle Snowhook is the fortunate winner of the Roman mosaic cross. She enjoys the honor of wearing it on the brightest day of the scholastic year—the Feast of St. Edward! Those who drew with her are the Misses E. Balch, T. Balch, Boyer, Campeau, Cox, Clifford, Coll, M. Ducey, Al. Duffield, L. Griffith, Hertzog, Keyes, Martin,
St. Edward’s Day.
The beloved Festival of St. Edward was celebrated on Tuesday with its usual brilliancy. The Entertainment was begun at three o’clock, when the following programme was presented: Hungarian Storm March.........................Liszt
Misses Bruhn and Keenan.
Solo and Chorus............................ Emerson
Solo, Miss Bruhn, Vocal Class— Acc’d by Miss Barlow.
German Address...........................Aliss	Horn
Seniors’ Festive Greeting..............Miss	Munger
Vocal Duet—I. Pescaiori....................Gabussti
Misses H. Guise, and L. St. Clair, ’ Acc’d by Miss Shephard.
Wedding March.....................Mendelssohn-Liszt
Aliss Barlow.	.
“Ilommage de Rested Filial''.............Aliss	Bruhn
Aria .........................................Lucia
Aliss B. English.
Festive Greetings.................Juniors	and Alinims
Quintette Finale.............................Martha
Misses Bruhn, B. English, B. Lauer, S. St. Clair, and AI. F. Murphy.
“ ANIMA.”
(An Original Drama in Tzvo Acts?) Prologue..............................Aliss Williams
•	Dramatis Persona:.
Anima............................................Aliss	Fuller
Scientia.................................   “	Wolvin
Innocence........................................... “	Regan
Pride.........•	—........................ “	Barlow
Visiona...............................Alary Lindsey
Audita....................................Edna Burtis
Palata.................................Alice	Schmauss
Odorata............................Florence Johnson
Sensa.................................Fannie Spencer
Despair...............................Aliss Williams
Revenge............................... ‘‘	E. Alhmch
Humility.............................. “	M. Dillon
Faith................................. “	S. St. Clair
Hope.................................. “	B. Lauer
Charity............................... “	A. Heckard
Poverty............................... “	M. Munger
Purity................................ “	A.Donnelly
Obedience............................. “	E. Horn
TABLEAUX.
Act I, Scene I.
Meteor—Morceau Brillant......................Leibling
Aliss Bruhn. Scene II. Je suis Titian................................Mignon
Aliss Bruhn. Act II, Scene I.
Valse Arabesque........................Anton	Stretizzei
Aliss Shephard. Scene II. Tableau.
Alusic....................................Miss	Chute
Pinnacle Alarch............................  ..Barry
Misses Carney and Horn.
The execution on the piano of the various instrumental numbers was worthy of the Conservatory—the Misses Barlow and Shephard being entitled to especial praise. The sparkling and beautiful solo and chorus which followed the opening —“Hungarian Storm March,” so well presented by the Misses Bruhn and Keenan—charmed the
>	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	103
t
(	audience, and promises well for the vocal departI	ment, which so signally distinguished itself at the
)	late Annual Commencement exercises. The vocal
I	numbers, from first to last, were all that could be
।	desired, and fully up to the standard of June.
I	Miss Bruhn’s clear, flexible voice has even gained
'	in beauty and power; the same may be said of
Miss B._ English. The addresses, in German by Miss Horn, in English by Miss Munger, and in French by Miss- Bruhn, were all distinctly and gracefully rendered.
The Juniors presented their “Festive Greetings” ' through the mediumship of the talented young elocutionists, the Misses G. Regan and M. Ducey, 4 while the entire Minim department came forward and assumed the responsibility of their congratulatory address. The groups formed very pretty pictures. The principal feature of the evening was the original drama, “Anima,” written, in 1862, espec-1 ially for the Academy. It has enjoyed an enviable reputation, even in other convent schools, and has been frequently presented, but never by a more talented set of performers than those who chained the attention of their audience on Tuesday. The Prologue was well recited by Miss Williams, when . Miss Fuller—the Elocution medalist of ’85—appeared as “Anima.” This interesting character was admirably sustained from first to last. The part taken by Miss Munger—the Elocution medalist of ’84—was charmingly presented. Great praise is also due the Misses B. Lauer, E. Horn, G. Wolvin, G. Regan, A. Donnelly, Miss Barlow as “Pride,” and Miss Williams as “Despair;” especially the last-named. The parts of “ Palata”—the sense of taste—and “Visiona”—the sense of sight—were taken by two Elocution medalists of the Minim department—A. Schmauss and M. Lindsey. The three others who personated the senses, however, were scarcely excelled. E. Burtis as “ Audita,” F. Johnson as “ Odorata,” and F. Spencer as “ Sensa,” were lively and graceful, and ennunciated every word clearly.	’	.
The second role in the drama, in point of importance, is “Faith,” most appreciatively taken by S. St. Clair, whose rich, resonant voice is perfectly adapted to the sublime. and soul-inspiring' part. The tableau of the Annunciation touchingly supplements the disenchantment of Anima, and satisfies her desire to behold the one only perfect embodiment of exalted virtue in a created being. Miss B. English as the Angel Gabriel, and Miss A. . White as the Blessed Virgin Mary, produced, a grand effect.	-	.
The finabtableau of the Nativity should be seen to be understood.. To describe anything, so delicate in its conception and so sublime-in-its bearings is not a task to be readily assumed. The _ analysis, the pointing out- of detail, mars the gracious, the ineffable beauty which could scarcely be attained under other circumstances than those enjoyed at St. Mary’s. Fresh; young, innocent faces, unmarred by cosmetics, unsullied by the affectations and pretense of worldly contact, alone .are worthy to .present’a.-living, picture of'; a scene; which will be the joy and the. wonder of earth, of j
heaven, so long as Christianity and its benign influence shall sway immortal souls; The exquisite playing of Miss Chute during this tableau was the subject of general praise.	„
We will close our account in the words of the prologue, as delivered by Miss Williams:
“ Should our little representation serve to kindle one holyemotion in any heart, should it render the celestial virtues of poverty, purity and obedience more lovely to any soul; should the earnest drama of life find one more devoted actor from the experience of Anima, of should itawaken one thought of love towards the Child Redeemer, our desire will be accomplished, and we but too happy to proffer our humble offering to the Infant Jesus, along with the joyful commemoration of the beloved festival of our Very Rev. and dear Father General.”	.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—blisses E. Allnoch, M. Alwein, V. Barlow, M. Bruhn, A. Butler, L. Blaine, N. Brady, M. Blair, A. Black lock, C. Brown, E. Carney, L. Clendenen, M. Chute, E. Claggett, E. Coll,' M. Ducey, M. Dillon, A. Donnelly, E. Donnelly, A. Duffield, S. Degan, S. Dart, B. Desenberg, B. English, A. English; A. Egan, M. Fuller, C. Fehr, Farnsworth, D. Fitzpatrick, C. Griffith, Alice Gordon, Addie Gordon, A. Heckard, E. Horn, M. Hummer, B. Heckard, A. Henry, L. Haas, B. Haines, C. Kingsbury, N. Keenan, B. Kearney, M. Kearsey, N; Kearns, F. Kingsbury, B. Klingerman, C. Kendall, A. Kennedy, C. Lang, M. Longworth, M. Lyons, L. Levy, B. Lauer, A. Livingston, Laskey, M. Munger, J. McHale, M. F. Murphy, S. McHale, L. Meehan, M. McNamara, C. McNamara, H. Nagle, E. North, F. Rowley, A. Riedinger, H. Rose, F. Robb, C. Scully, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, F. Sullivan, M. Scully, G. Stadtler, C. Shields, L. Williams, G. Wolvin, A. White,JF. Wynn. 2dTablet—Misses L. Considine, H. Guise, C. Morrison, M. Murphy, A. Shephard, L. Trask.	,
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	...
Par Excellence—Misses E. Balch, O. Boyer, S. Campeau, M. Cox, M. Clifford, M. Coll, M. Ducey, M. Duffield,.E. Hertzog, A. Keyes, M. Mason, M. McEwen, A. Odell, O. Parmelee, B. Pierce, C. Prudhomme, M. Paul, G. Regari^ M. Robinson, A. Schmauss, E. Sheekey, H.. Smart, B; Snowhook, C. Servis,zM. Smith, L. Van Horn. 2d Tablet—Misses M. Barry, T. Balch.	,	•
MINIM DEPARTMENT.. . .	.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, E. Burtis, L. Cardagan, M. Goetz, F. Johnson, M. Lindsey, D. Lee, M;Philipps, E. Qualey, H. Rhodes, J. Wallace,'F. Spencer.	: -
■	Class Honors. .
[The following-named young ladies are best in classes— according to competitions held during the past month.] '
Geology—Misses A. Heckard, Lang, Carney, Barlow, Ducey, Munger, C. Kingsbury, Keenan; Logic—Misses Horn, Dillon, C. Kingsbury, Morrison, C. Griffith,- Fuller, Kearsey, Sheekey, C.' Scully, A. Donnelly, Williams, ’ Wolvin, Kearney, Clendenen, L. St. Clair, J. .McHale; Astronomy—Misses Keenan, Horn, Lang, C. Kingsbury, Dillon, Wolvinj C. Scully, Clendenen, Morrison, Butler, L. St. Clair, C. Griffith, Williams, Kearney, Hummer, Sheekey, J. McHale, A. Donnelly, Kearsey, Fuller; Rhetoric-Misses M. F. Murphy, Chute, Snowhook, B. Heckard, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon. Regan, A. Duffield, Kearns, Fehr, Sullivan, Brady, Trask, Guise, L. Blaine, Faxon, Nagle, Rowley, B. English; French History— Misses Chute, Dillon, M. F. Murphy, Horn, Hummer, Wolvin, Griffith,, Morrison, C. Scully, Sheekey, Kearney, Kearsey, J. McHale, Fuller, Williams, Clendenen, Keyes; Modern'1 History—Misses L. Blaine, Snowhobk, Guise; Kearns;’Regan, A; Donnelly,: Fehr, F. Sullivan ; Mental Philosophy—Misses -Alice Gordon, Addie Gordon; Faxon; •
io4	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Klingennan, Morse, Clifford, Van Horn, Hertzog, Brady, Riedinger, Levy, Bubb, Stadtler, Blair, Dart; Type-Writing—Misses Munger, Lyons, Nagle, Walsh.
Convent-Bred Girls.
A few weeks ago, at Chejrenne, in Wyoming Territory, the ceremony took, place of the laying of the corner-stone of its first convent. The address of the occasion was delivered by Judge Wright, and, as coming from a Protestant source, is a remarkable testimony to the Catholic Sisterhoods, and the glory of their success with female pupils. The following is the substance of the address taken from the press reports:	■
The object of this particular convent is to train girls and fit them for the grave duties of matronhood. No higher, responsibility, no graver duty, no more important calling can be imagined/ As is the mother, so is the man; as is the man so is the nation. The Government of a country, the morals of its people, the social life of its inhabitants, arc, . one and all, but the reflex of the hearts and the minds of its mothers. Take the oldest man in this audience, and take the youngest one, as to this their experience will be the same. Their mother was the beginning and end of the law of each. Hence it is, as is the mother, so is the man. If, therefore, a nation is to obtain the highest civilization, if it is to attain the virtues, if it is to be God-fearing and God-obeying, our mothers must be intelligent and must be Christian.	.
I don’t mean the Christianity we are wont to see in our daily'life, that tells us it believes, but has no creed, no discipline, no observance; I mean a Christianity that was like unto that of the fathers; that was austere, that had its dogmas, its traditions, its observances, its discipline. A faith that rested upon a .platform built by knowledge and a full comprehension; a creed that grew out of this faith as a syllogistic conclusion, and a discipline that held one in a straight and narrow path.	‘
How can this be attained, then, becomes a serious and an overshadowing question. Can it be attained by a material education alone? I don’t wish to be construed into an enemy of our public, school system. To the extent that it goes it is well. Its fault lies in universality. It seeks to bring all into its fold. The task of mixing oil and . water is conceded to be a difficult one. It therefore says we must attempt to mix them. . We will open our, doors to all creeds, and no word, shall be said as to any creed. We will confine, our teaching tb the material, and we will leave the -scholar to his Church and to his Sunday-school '-for spiritual education.. That is to say, five days’ work in schools, one day for recreation, and three hours on Sunday to gain a spiritual education; The percentage of scholars that devote7 these three hours out of every week to obtaining a knowledge . of spiritual, affairs; is so small that they signify .nothing as to the whole. And-what is this education? Its 'corner-stone is:rthat each person must evolve, out of his:bwn-consci6usriess''his bwii plan of sal-, vation. ,/Ifdo- whaLl ;think; -is	will J.be
saved;/ Itsone/prayer lis;tftO...God, if'ithere.rbeja God? "forgive^ me^my’sins; ifl:there's basins?”*’
F
The direct tendency of this is to abandon the spiritual for the material, to elevate the victories of this life over those of the life to come. Thus si it happens that the students of our public schools Sj" are well informed when judged from a material 1g premise, and profoundly ignorant when judged S from a spiritual premise. It is not necessary to 1/ consume your time in dwelling upon the result of this. You know quite as well as I can tell you that the result of this is agnosticism. The remedy for this lies in the marriage of.religion and education. Let them walk hand in hand. Let the lessons of the one be indelibly stamped upon the other. Ignorant belief is superstition; comprehensive belief is salvation. This, then, represents the logic that? is now building this superstructure. It means the education of the girl in her religious and worldly concerns. It means the development of J her faith, the love of virtue and fear of sin. But, it is said, I do not want my daughter educated into a Catholic. Very well, I answer, let her grow jh up without a faith, without a creed, without a discipline. Let her one prayer be, “ O God, if there be a God?” And-then answer me this question: f| What ground has she upon which she may rest S her anchor in the storms that she must face on her p| way through life? A woman without religion is ® like a man without eyes. Who is to guide him g over the rough pathway that represents his life? 3 In the hour of great temptation, without intelligent faith, without the strength that comes to her from W a life of discipline, who is to.answer, for that girl in the great crisis of her life? ,
Let us discard prejudice; let us eliminate the virus of ignorance and antipathies' from our minds and our hearts, and then look at the results... Take O the girls that graduate from the public schools and W the ones that come out of the convent, and compare the lives of the two. How will the account stand, S think you? I say to.you here to-day, and it is a subject to which I have given much heed, that the truest, purest, and best women all over the world are convent-bred.	,
And to make oiir sisters and daughters such women as-these, these holy women have come among us. Thisis the task they have come to 1111 perform. They bring with them brave-and hopeful hearts. They bring .with them a desire to win favor only with God. To this . end they have turned their backs on the world, they have renounced its pleasures, they have divorced, themselves from its-rewards. ‘ .The cold wall of a cell, lllil the crust of bread, the toil by day, the long prayers glfe by night, are the bridegroom 'of these holy women. |||| And howr much-of-heroism there .is to be found in that! - It represents a courage that- is valiant enough Sp| to be guided, by each. ; And .for such , women Ot as these; have-we no welcome?.-..We who are.of the world and are worldly; may wemot^gladly- run on' before and smoothothe wayfor them ?- And S& thus; may we not get intozthe'.liglit of.the halo that |||| illuminestheir- lives; randTye the aid of; this.encom- |||| pass our bwh:salvati6n'?r!f l-.know/notho,wlyou may- |||| ..think; butbas/fprome,'tjTib’^	I-enyy
their'strefigthsand- poweivofs self-denial; lbw "dohd v