THE CORRECT TUXEDO
$4150
^GILBERT'S
On the Campus—Notre Dame
Combine the pleasure of your next “formal” with the comfort of a correct tuxedo. Tailored with infinite skill with lines as clean as a perfect high “C” . . . in new feather-light year round fabrics that hold their press, keep their shape and give you the look “she” likes. Ivy league models with narrow lapels — no bulky shoulder padding — no trouser pleats.
I
I	■
. GET WHAT YOU NEED NOW . . .
CHARGE IT, THE
CAMPUS SHOP WAY . . .
A •	•
PAY
1
3
FEB
Whether it’s a new tuxedo, or smart leisure clothes ... or both . . . you’re invited to charge it the Campus Shop way. Get whatever you need now and pay one-third in January, one-third in February, one-third in March. Of course, there is no carrying charge for this convenient way to charge. Why not visit the Campus Shop soon?
COMMENTARY
Scholastic --------------- 4
Vol. 100 October 24, 1958 No. 4
This week’s Scholastic has a number of letters from various disgruntled readers. We hope that in the future we have enough letters to pick the best ones for print. It is encouraging to see that students are interested in campus affairs to take the time and write a letter. However, we are still receiving letters which are either personal invectives or else unfounded. We urge you to consider whether your point of view is based on facts and if it is, by all means send it along. Incidentally, we get them quicker if letters are addressed to 354 Sorin, or given to one of our staff members.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
One last remark about the hall bands — both the Senate and Father Bernard are to be commended for their actions regarding “live” music on the porches before the games. The Senate is commended for their rather bold action in stating that they were opposed to Father’s action banning the bands. Father Bernard is commended for his reversal of a previous decision in allowing the bands to “swing.” We hope that this sort of communication on campus issues and events can be continued in the future and that Father Bernard and student groups will be able to work even closer and understand each other’s position.
Eentered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
GEORGE CLEMENTS Editor
BOB SEDLACK
Associate Editor	;
Rumors are still flying around campus in regards to the Bengal Bouts and all campus boxing. As far as we can determine, the Bengal Bouts have not been scheduled at the present time and the regular fall novice bouts have not started. A full report on the whole matter will probably be available sometime in the near future.
We are sorry to see Dean O’Meara remove the Law School from another campus activity in a recent move. Each year a number of law students are nominated for the campus “Who’s Who” awards and usually several of those nominated are selected by the junior board. It seems that this year there are no nominations by the Law School and no representative from there is present to help with the selections. We are sorry to see the Law School remove itself farther and farther away from the rest of the campus, because we feel that it can have an important influence on portions of the student body.
An Apology: We would like to apologize to all those artists, cartoonists, and sketch men who reported to the Scholastic meeting on September 30 and gave us their names. Due to circumstances beyond our control (which is only the poorest of excuses) we have not been able to contact very many of you. For those who are interested in doing covers we would like you to figure out a theme for a given week end, or any appropriate subject, and submit a preliminary sketch to Bob Sed-lack, 239 Sorin, at least a week and a half before that particular issue comes out. We will then decide upon the cover. Anyone interested in doing cartoons (campus life., etc.) should submit at least eight, preferably related somehow, to Jim Yoch, 127 Pangborn. Others interested in illustrating short stories or feature articles should also contact Yoch.
RON BLUBAUGH.________________News	Editor
WALT RUDGE___________________Copy	Editor
JIM YOCH.________________Features	Editor	?
TEDDY THOMPSON_____________Sports	Editor
PETER HASBROOK—.Business Manager CONRAD SUSKI...............Circulation
BOB FANCHER__________________Photography
DAVE SOMMER________________Photography
LYN RELPH.---------------Assistant	News
ROY RUBELI.______________Assistant	News	j
BOB MARUYAMA-------------Assistant	Copy
CHAS RIECK_______________Assistant	Copy
TOM ROMANS_______________Assistant	Copy
FRANK DUDA_____________Assistant Features -JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER...Ass’t Features CHUCK MILLER___________Assistant Features
TOM ROSE---------------Assistant Sports
BOB SCHAEFER_____________Assistant Sports
BOB HORN.--------------Assistant Business
Two weeks ago we commented, in an editorial, on the coats and ties issue. Just recently the first violation of this rule set a happy precedent with regard to the disciplinary action involved. The violators were warned against further infractions of this nature; no further punishment was meted out. We would like to heartily commend the administration on this policy since we believe that, in this particular situation, a warning was most appropriate. We were glad to see that no harsh punishment was invoked and we hope that this policy will continue.
Member of Catholic School Ress Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for na- , tional advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
......	1
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examina- * don periods, at die University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, 83.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
A Thought or Two: Since the pep rallies resemble Dante’s Inferno wouldn’t it be a good idea to ban smoking in the Field House at these times — might make the rallies a little more pleasant? Also, what about cutting down on the number of meals which we eat in the dining hall? Many schools eat less than 21 meals on campus and we think it might be a good idea (though we wonder at the pragmatism of this suggestion) to eliminate one, two, or three meals and seek the bistros of South Bend for nourishment. This would not only provide variety in fare and lessen the tuition (slightly), but would also promote better relations with the restauranteurs of the area.
4	-	.	'
Publication Schedule for the 1958-59 school year, Volume 100: No. 1, Oct. 3; No. 2, Oct. 10; No. 3, i Oct. 17; No. 4, Oct. 24; No. 5, Oct. 31; No. 6, Noy. 7; No. 7, Nov. 14; No. 8, Nov. 21; No. 9, Dec. 5 (Special'Football Review); No. 10, Dec. 12; *' No. 11, Jan. 16; No. 12, Jan. 23; No. 13, Feb. 13; No. 14, Feb. 20; No. 15, Feb. 27; No. 16, March 6; No. 17, March 13; No. 18, March 20; No. 19, April 17; No. 20, April 24; No. 21, May 1; No. 22, May 8; No. 23, May 15; No. 24, May 22; No. 25, May 29.	,
OFFICE HOURS
Sunday, 7:30-11:30; Monday, 1:30-5:30, 7:30-11:30; Tuesday, 7:30-9:30; Wednesday, 1:30-5:30; Thursday, 1:30-5:30; Friday, 1:30-5:30; Saturday, not open.
- .	.	. The Scholastic
Within the past ten days, two editorials of mine were censored by Father Bernard. The essential cause for this relatively rare action was a difference of opinion as to the role and functions of the SCHOLASTIC. I personally believe that editorials written as Father Bernard would like to see them written would not be real editorials. Neither actual student opinion nor any personal interpretation of such opinion and of campus events can be published under the present circumstances- Therefore, there will be no more editorials in the SCHOLASTIC until those circumstances have changed. If we cannot publish real editorials, if we cannot express opinion contrary to the administration’s when such thinking is possibly valid or at least noteworthy, if we cannot print such material, while remaining within the bounds of Christian conduct and good taste and the best interests of the educational community, then there is no reason for printing editorials. “Commentary” will be retained in order to make minor comments and observations on current campus events and topics, but even these will not or should not be expected to always represent true opinion of either the campus or the editors.
Editorial freedom is a precious possession. To subvert that freedom to strangling and subjective restrictions, which may vary with the particular case, is an unfortunate but inevitable result of the present situation. We do not intend to mislead anyone. Our viewpoints will remain our own. The student body will have to find some other means of promulgating their thoughts. The student press at Notre Dame, the SCHOLASTIC, shall remain for the present time what it has been — a University publication with untouched potential.
—George Clements
October 24, 1958
On Cannae
with
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek.")
SCIENCE MADE SIMPLE
Though this column is intended to be a source of innocent merriment for all sexes and not to concern itself with weighty matters, I have asked my sponsors, the makers of Marlboro, whether I might not, from time to time, use this space for a short lesson in science. “Makers,” I said to them, “might I not, from time to time, use this space for a short lesson in science?”
They agreed, the makers of Marlboro, for they are the most agreeable of men. Their benevolence is due in no small measure to the cigarettes they smoke, for Marlboro is a cigarette to soothe the most savage of breasts. I refer not only to the flavor which is a delight to the palate, but also to the Marlboro container. Here is no fiendishly contrived device to fray the fingernails and rasp the nerves; here, instead, is a flip-top box that opens like a charm. Add to all this an improved filter that does not disturb that famous flavor, and you can see you get a lot to like.
Let us begin our series of science lessons with chemistry. It is fitting that chemistry should be the first, for it is the oldest of sciences, having been discovered by Benjamin Franklin in 468 B.C. when an apple fell on his head while he was shooting the breeze with Pythagoras one day outside the Acropolis. (The reason they were outside the Acropolis and not inside was that Pythagoras had been thrown out for drawing right triangles all over the walls.)
They had several meetings outside the Acropolis, but finally Franklin said, “Look, Pythagoras, this is nothing against you, see, but I’m no youngster any more and if I keep laying around on this wet grass with you, I’m liable to get the breakbone fever. I’m going inside.” Pythagoras,
© Max Shulman. 1958
The makers of Marlboro, who bring you this column regularly, are tobacconists, not scientists. But here's an equation we do know: Marlboro + you = pleasure.

iiJiiiFi
friendless now, moped around Athens for awhile, then drifted off to Monaco where he married a girl named Harriet Sigafoos and went into the chuck-a-luck business.
But I digress. We were beginning a discussion of chemistry, and the best way to begin is with fundamentals. Chemicals are divided into elements. There are four: air, earth, fire, and water. Any number of delightful combinations can be made from these elements, such as firewater, dacron, and chef’s salad.
Chemicals can be further divided into the classes of explosive and nonexplosive. A wise chemist always touches a match to his chemicals before he begins an experiment.
A variety of vessels of different sizes and shapes are used in a chemistry lab. There are tubes, vials, beakers, flasks, pipettes, and retorts. A retort is also a snappy comeback, such as “Oh, yeah?” and “So’s your Uncle Oscar.”
I have now told you the most important aspects of chemistry, but there are many more—far too many to cover in the space remaining here. However, I am sure there is a fine
chemistry lab on your very own campus. Why don’t you go up some afternoon and poke around? Make a fun day out of it. Bring ukuleles. Wear humorous hats. Toast frankfurters on the Bunsen burners. Be gay. Be merry. Be loose... For chemistry is your friend!
advertisement
The Fine Art of Dating
We recommend to all our readers an unusual book which we first saw a few days ago. “The Art of Dating” contains vital information for every red-blooded male and female on campus who likes to date, and we assume that is most of us.
Even the most socially happy and adaptable members of oui* campus have at some time experienced moments of awkwardness, sadness or general tribulation because of the opposite sex.
This book tackles every aspect of the man-woman relationship, from social manners to the large problems of religions, differences in economic backgrounds, and sex. Some subjects covered are: blind dating, pick-ups, overcoming shyness, how to be popular, the much older fellow, when the woman is older, problems in interfaith dating, crossing lines of nationality or race, getting into another social class, the bad reputation, when the girl says “no,” is he or she too popular, breaking dates, parking and petting, drinking and sex, unrequited love, what is infatuation, recovering from an infatuation, back in circulation, dating security, breaking off the affair, getting married while still in school, when he’s off to the service, etc.
Whether you are short, tall, fat, thin, poor oi' rich, in fact if you are just single, male or female, you will find this book interesting and frank. The author of this book is Mrs. Joy Duvall, who has written numerous other novels. This book is available in a specially prepared paper-bound edition at your local Keepsake Diamond King jeweler for $ .50, a substantial reduction from the $2.50 price for the hard-cover edition sold elsewhere.
ON THE COVER
“Everyone talks about the weather but no one ever does anything about it.” So Mark Twain claimed a couple of centuries ago. This rather sage observation was made a few years before the advent of Tom McGee, senior fine arts major from Buffalo, N. Y. On this week’s cover Tom depicts the typical perverseness of mid-autumn in Indiana. For a weather-hardened senior the simultaneous arrival of rain, snow, and tornado-like wind, even vicariously, via the Scholastic cover, is only one more nostalgic reminder of his alma mater.
6
The Scholastic
some lesser-known traditions
by CHARLES BOWEN
Of course everyone knows about No* tre Danie’s really important traditions, like the Saturday night blind date pool, and the custom of always writing Student Government with capital letters, but there are others which often escape the notice of the average student (or even the superior or probation student). It really is a shame to see so many fol* lowing these customs without knowing why, and at the same time missing out on the genuine pride every one of us should take in reflecting fondly on the history of our University.
Accordingly, I have gone to great ex' pense to send a researcher into the archives and bring a few of these treas-* ured tidbits of tradition into the light. I am printing them here for the first time in a single collection. Those who find them inspiring, and you’d better, you ungrateful curs, may order from this column, at special prepublication rates, a luxurious cloth tapestry edition, suitable for framing. These are hand’ embroidered in a convent on the banks of the Danube, on a piece of moldy bedsheet which was actually flapped during an Echo Yell at the first game in Notre Dame Stadium. It is especially designed to harmonize with the tapestry of the Notre Dame Last Supper, available in the bookstore. With no further ado, I present the collection:
I.	The Far Horizons Tradition: One Saturday evening in 1913, some Notre Dame students, who had just celebrated the telegraphed news of Notre Dame’s victory over Army with a lemon phosphate,* were standing on Michigan avenue, when a Pierce-Arrow pulled up to the curb, full of mad, impetuous Central , High adventuresses on their way to an ice-cream social. The astonished students were invited to climb in and go along, and although by mutual agreement they refused to talk about it afterwards, a rumor got about that kissing games were not absent from the evening’s curriculum. This story has been persistently handed down through subsequent generations of Notre Dame men, and to this day, you can see hundreds of them standing along Michigan Avenue on the curbstone, their eyes straining towards the horizons of space and time, waiting for that Pierce-Arrow, or a reasonable facsimile, to stop.
IL.	The Round Potato Tradition: During the last century, when official
* The story of how Notre Dame defeated Army with a lemon phosphate is an intriguing one in itself.
October 24, 1958
notice of Notre Dame was first taken by Rome, our founder, Father Sorin, was asked for a comment. His eyes twinkling, he made the famous Latin comment, “Orbs terrarum tuber mihi est.” This is now generally conceded to mean “The world is my potato,” (See Professor L. J. Phootnote’s recent article in Classical Studies). Unfortunately, however, the University Scribe, Bro. Sabbatical, C.S.C., misinterpreted the sentence and translated it “The potato is my world.” Puzzled as the academic community was by this cryptic statement, it was decided by the director of the dining hall that it might be a nice gesture to Fr. Sorin to serve the potatoes in spherical gobs, as a symbolic representation of the founder’s interest. Fr. Sorin, who never paid much attention to such things anyway, never bothered to correct the error, and thus it is that even now, the dining hall would not think of handing out a serving of mashed potatoes before it has been carefully sculptured into a perfect sphere.
III.	The Sorin Hall Porch Tradition: Soon after the opening of Sorin Hall (during the reign of Edward II, that was) the rector opened the front door, and, seeing that it was a lovely spring day, gave several blithe skips, followed by a little hop, and wound up on the ground five feet below with a split lip and a broken collarbone. Rising to the occasion (as well as a sprained ankle would permit) he delivered the now-famous ultimatum, “Sorin Hall must have a porch!” And so it has.
IV.	The Italian Restaurant Tradition: In 1905 the campus idol and favorite of Midwestern sports writers was Salvator Gobbo, the intercollegiate wrestling champion. (This was before Rockne invented football, of course.) At a pep rally one night, Salvator confided to the assembled student body that he found a mouthful of garlic an incomparable aid in breaking holds. This idea was so readily and enthusiastically accepted by the students that the demand for garlic was for some time nearly insatiable, and South Bend became the first city in American history to have 14 Italian restaurants before it had any Italians.
V.	The Lake Marian Tradition: It is not commonly recognized that Sister Fauna, C.S.C., one of the first of the community at St. Mary’s, was something of a scientist, and spent a lot of her time making improvements in scientific inventions. The shape of Lake Marian is
a tribute to some of her less notably successful experiments with the wheel. The lake, incidentally, was named during a Spring festival, after (as we all know) Robin Hood’s famous sweetheart.
* * *
GAME OF THE WEEK
Sunday afternoon witnessed an epic contest between the junior and senior classes over near the stadium. Nominally the game was between Sorin and Howard; however, neither side was above pooling resources with neighboring halls, and at least one player was cheered from the sidelines by his wife. It was even reported that a couple of Chicago Bears had made their way into the lineup.
Howard fought manfully, but the Sorinites triumphed, largely thanks to the intervention of Buddha. I hope this game will show everyone how clean living pays off.
Great credit is due to the Howard Hall Marching Dozen for their inspired performance before the game and between the halves. The entire hall turned out and gave a stirring demonstration of leather-lunged enthusiasm, while the Sorin rooting section, in sharp contrast ’ to the dewy-eyed freshness of their team, looked on the proceedings with a dissipated leer.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
I have been asked to aid a man who has been living under the Corby Hall porch for the past two weeks in establishing his identity. The only thing he can remember before waking up there is entering the pep rally before the Army game. He has blue eyes and a slight limp. If anyone is missing such a man, will they please notify the Scholastic?
I have also been asked to announce that St. Sophia’s School for the Ugly, in Comstock, Mass., would like to arrange a mixer with 73 handsome Notre Dame seniors. The price for the trip is $175, which includes transportation, lodging in a convenient monastery, and mixer with grape punch. Please notify this column if you are handsome.
Several people have requested to have their names mentioned in the Scholas- . tic. Anyone who is willing to send their name and 25c to me (or to John Bellairs, if you like to live dangerously) will be more or less guaranteed that.it will appear eventually. The authors reserve the right, however, to choose the context.
7
LONESOME GEORGE
Dear Editor:	.
This is being written to protest the so called “open letter from Lonesome George.” In three years here at Notre Dame we have been subjected to a number of things which we felt were uncalled for, but this “open letter” is simply outrageous. We don’t know exactly where this “Lonesome George” was sitting during the game, but obviously, judging from the contents of his letter, he was nowhere near the stadium. Had he been there he would have witnessed one of the greatest displays of school spirit that this school can boast of.
With the Irish behind by twelve points with a matter of seconds left to play, the entire student body was on its feet cheering with all the voice it had left for a team that was all but beaten. Maybe the author feels we are too used to winning to accept loss with good spirit and sportsmanship — hardly. We’ve won eleven of 23 games during our years here — a record not exactly conducive to overconfidence.
We’re tired of being blamed for the team’s losses. According to the local “open letter writers,” the team has won eleven and the student body has lost twelve in the past two and a half years. We realize the effect of cheering on the team, but let’s be realistic — the team with the most points wins.
The only result of this childish attempt at psychology is to add to the bad taste left over from Saturday’s loss.
John Adams Tim Gorman Roger Bernardi Mory Bergmeyer Bill Troy George Reeber Paul Belliveau Barrie Maguire Russ Raque Joe Anderson Tom Kelly Jerry Murphy Dee Stevenson Norm Bergeson
Sh-
it’s certainly reassuring to know that when we members of the student body fail in our obligations, there is someone, no doubt one of the few fortunates who have the “true Notre Dame Spirit,” to slap us on the wrist and lead us in the paths of righteousness. I was frankly disgusted with the fictitious letter from Lonesome George to the members of the Duke football team. Even looking at it merely as an exercise in reverse psychology, one is forced to wonder if its author is justified in practicing his ill-mastered art at the expense of the name and reputation of the students of Notre Dame. Perhaps we have lost our spirit and let the football team down, and perhaps “Lonesome George’s” letter was so subtle and well timed that it will have some constructive effect in helping to
correct the situation. But I, for one, doubt it.
Fred De Rocher, 326 Pangborn
MORE PUBLICITY
Dear Editor:
As a student who attended many Stu-


dent Senate meetings last year, and all strictly on my own, I think that the article you wrote concerning the nonattendance of students at the Senate’s budget meeting was ridiculous. You say that the students are funny for not attending this meeting. You say that there (Continued on page 17)
from our University Shop
OUR SPORTWEAR AND OUTERWEAR for college men and prep schoolers
Our interesting Fall selections for undergraduates wearing sizes 35 to 42 include new patterns and colorings in our tweed sport jackets—woven exclusively for us...water-repellent reversible short outercoats of tan cotton with red wool linings... navy flannel blazers, corduroy jackets and other items...all reflecting our exclusive styling and good taste.
(left) Tweed Sport Jackets in Greys, Browns or Olive in Diagonals, Herringbones, Stripes or Fancy Weaves, $45 (right) Heavy Tan Cotton Twill Outercoat with Raccoon Collar and Full Orlon* Pile Lining, $80 Also other outerwear jrom $40 ‘’DuPont’s fiber
■STABUSMDMW
Mens JVmishingZ^ts
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO

s
The Scholastic
UPSET-WARY IRISH BATTLE BOILERMAKERS
'Aquarelle' Kicks off Hie Fall Week' Tonight; > First Senate Dance Features Christian Band
•* Attempting to “allow a greater concentration on a few events” and thus ” “make them more worthwhile to the student,” the student government has initiated The Fall Week. Tom Cahill, chairman of the student affairs committee, explained that it was the Senate’s I intention to establish a “precedent” I * which can be expanded over the years. I The week begins tonight with “Aqua? relle,” the first of the two student government dances which have replaced the four college balls.
The sellout crowd of 550 couples will dance from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. to the
MISS JEANNE GRAHAM “Aquarelle" Queen
music of Bobby Christian and his orchestra. The dance, featuring a backdrop of sight and sound effects of the sea, will be held in the LaFortune Student Center.
* • Miss Jeanne Graham will be crowned Queen of Aquarelle by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Miss Graham’s escort is general chairman, Ted Dudley. A commerce student, majoring in marketing, Ted is from New Hall, Calif. His * activities include the presidency of Breen-Phillips Hall and membership on the Senate social commission.
I CHICAGO BAND
• The Bobby Christian Orchestra is one of Chicago’s foremost show bands. It consists of an eleven-piece band and
features a male and female vocalist. Christian and his group is currently at the top of Mercury record’s repertoire, with two recent popular hits, “Grasshopper Jump” and “Crickets on Parade.” His LP’s include “Mr. Percussion” and “Stereo.”
“Aquarelle” expresses the idea of water fantasy and the dance’s decorations are planned to reflect the theme. The main attraction of the dance will be a multicolored water fountain in the middle of Carron Court. The Court itself will be flooded with water.
The backdrop for the bandstand will be decorated screens which will be flashed with light and shadows to give the effect of waving water. In the Rathskeller, the main feature will be a room length mural, especially drawn with an underwater scene. In addition to this, the ballroom will be filled with the sound of the water splashing from the fountain.
Tickets for the Purdue game, which is the highlight of the “Decoration Week End,” have been provided for the dates of the students attending the dance.
Besides Chairman Dudley, others included Jim Wysocki and Don Chmiel who handled decorations and Bob Kral and Fran Kennedy who were in charge of tickets and accommodations. Tom Hirons was business manager and Frank Petrini took care of special effects.
Chaperones for the dance include faculty members and their wives; Mr. and Mrs. A. Caponigri, Mr. and Mrs. V. R. Raymond, and Mr. and Mrs. D. J. Crowley. Other chaperones are Mr. and Mrs. F. B. Wysocki and Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Graham, both of Chicago.
HALL DECORATIONS
Tomorrow morning the hall decorations will be judged. This year the theme, “American Characters—Fictional and Legendary,” has been selected.
All decorations must be ready by 10 a.m. in order to be judged. Winners will be announced at the game and presentation of the awards will be made at the drill hall.
A traveling trophy and $25 goes to the first place winner, $15 is the prize for second, and $10 will be awarded the hall with the third best decoration. There is also a trophy for the best freshman decoration.
The decorations will be judged according to originality, artistic perfection, and
(Continued on page 25)
Purdue Ranks Second Nationally in Defense by Tom Rose
Purdue’s Boilermakers, fresh from a stunning 14-6 victory over Michigan State last Saturday, invade Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow to tangle with Terry Brennan’s once-beaten Irish.
The high-riding Boilermakers have beaten Nebraska, Rice, and the Spartans while losing only to Wisconsin. The 14-6 win over the Spartans marked the second year in a row that an underdog
TOM FRANCKHAUSER Boilermaker Co-Captain
Purdue eleven has virtually wrecked Michigan State’s hopes for the Big Ten championship.
The Boilermaker defense was superb last week as they allowed the Spartans only 38 yards rushing and 65 yards passing while Coach Jack MollenkopFs grid-ders picked up 180 yards on the ground and completed three of eleven passes for 33 yards. Thus far against 1958 opponents Purdue has gained 1192 yards and has given up only 568.
The workhorse of the Purdue hackfield is junior fullback Bob Jarus. Jarus, the leading ground gainer on the squad last year, is again leading the Boilermakers in rushing and has carried the ball twice as many times as any other Purdue back.
The two top halfbacks on the team are Leonard Wilson and Tommy Barnett. Wilson is a steady performer and (Continued on page 21)
October 24, 1958
JUDGES AND CONTESTANTS GET TOGETHER
Devoe, Alteri Triumph in Moot Court Finals: Victorious Pair Travels to Chicago Regionals
In the finals of the 1958 Notre Dame Moot Court last Sunday night, the Law School team of Dana Devoe and Altero Alteri were declared victorious and winners of the Dean’s Award and a cash prize of $100. As winners they will represent Notre Dame in the regional competition to be held the middle of November in Chicago.
Dane Devoe is a cam laude graduate of the Universiyt of Maine, from which he received a B.A. in history in 1956. Devoe, a third year student, is director of public relations for the Moot Court; he is also a member of the Student Law Association and Gray’s Inn. His future intentions include a career of general practice in Maine. He was counsel for the appellant last night.
The other half of the winning team, Altero Alteri, advocate for the appellee, is also a third year student with membership in the Student Law Association and Gray’s Inn. Trial practice in Detroit is his present intention- for aftergraduation life. Alteri received his B.A. in history in 1956 from Wayne University and makes his home in Detroit.
Also included in the group that will represent Notre Dame in Chicago is Robert Mone, third ranked in the finals last Sunday as a counsel for the appellant. Mone is a native of Columbus, Ohio, and graduated from Dayton University with a B.A. in political science. His activities on campus include secretaryship of the Moot Court and membership in the Gray’s Inn, Law Students Asociation, and the senior staff of the Notre Dame Lawyer. He tentatively plans to -enter general practice after graduation.
Milton Munk, a graduate of Notre Dame’s College of Arts and Letters, also competed in the final argument.
The Midwest regional competition, to be held in Chicago, November 13, 14, and 15, will witness, as a first round, a trial case between the University of Chicago and Notre Dame. Also participating in the regional competition will be twenty-five other law schools from Indiana, Illinois, and Wisconsin. Judges of the cases will be state and federal judges.
The winning team of the regional competition, which Notre Dame was in 1956 and 1957, will proceed to New York in December for the National Moot Court Competition, sponsored annually by the Young Lawyers Committee of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York.
During the Chicago competition, Devoe will be responsible for both the appellant and appellee sides of the case, while Alteri and Mone will be responsible for the appellee and appellant sides respectively. Devoe’s double-sided responsibility results from the way in which the rounds will be conducted in Chicago and the fact that there are three men on the Notre Dame team.
The case argued last Sunday and the one to be argued in the Chicago and New York finals involves the prosecution of Akkro Corp, for an alleged violation of a federal criminal statute; the statute renders it unlawful for any corporation to make an expenditure in connection with the election of a United States Senator.	..
Akkro Corp., is a member of an associa-
CALENDAR
TONIGHT:	,
6:45 p.m.—Sorrowful Mother Novena in Sacred Heart Church.
7:30 p.m.—Pep Rally in the Drill Hall.
9 p.m. - 1 a.m.—“Aquarelle,” Student Senate campuswide dance in the Student Center.
9 p.m. - 1 a.m.—Law Ball at South Bend Country Club.	<
SATURDAY:
4 p.m.—Coffee Hour in the Student Center.
8:30 p.m.—Victory Dance in the Drill Hall.
SUNDAY:
1:30 p.m.—Masterpoint Bridge Touma- < ment in room 2C of the Student Center.
7 p.m.—“Where in the World,” rooms * 1A and B of the Student Center.
MONDAY:
7:30 p.m.—Ford Scholarship holders meet in the Fiesta Lounge of the Student Center.	*
7:45 p.m.—Student Senate meeting in the Ampitheater of the Student Center.
TUESDAY:
7:45 p.m.—Confraternity of Christian Doctrine meeting in rooms 2A and B of the Student Center.
7:45 p.m.—A discussion “The Algerian . Problem — Fact and Fancy” by Rev. Guillaime de Bertier de Sauvigny, C.J.M., in the Rockne Memorial Lounge, open to the public.
Anyone wishing to announce activities in the “Calendar” should call the Scholastic office between 1:30 and 5:30 p.m. on Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday; and 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. Tuesday. Written an- ' nouncements can be addressed to Lyn Relph, 332 Morrissey; Ron Blubaugh, 309 Pang- * born; or slipped under the door of the SCHOLASTIC office in LaFortune Student Center. The deadline for announcements is 9 p.m. on the Monday before the issue in which they are to appear.
tion which has advocated protectionist legislation. The association, after a donation from Akkro, advocated this policy in front of Senator Protectionist, after which he voiced support of the policy. The association thereupon supported the senator for re-election.
The senator was re-elected and the * District Court found that Akkro’s conduct was prohibited. The indictment was dismissed by a higher court, and apealed to the Supreme Court by the government. The moot courts represent the Supreme Court.
The judges for last Sunday’s competition were Justice Sherman Minton * of the Supreme Court, Judges M. Matthes and Henry N. Graven of the United States Court of Appeals and of the United States District Court for Iowa respectively.
10
The Scholastic
Lawyer Group Holds Fall Law Ball Tonight
The annual fall Law Ball, sponsored 1 by the Student Law Association, will be held tonight at the South Bend Country ► Club from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. The Ball is expected to be the largest one in the recent history of the school with the peak enrollment of freshmen law students.
Music will be provided by the Ken Morris Orchestra from South Bend. The
’	MISS ANN WEIR
nine piece orchestra has played for the law students for the last six years and is well known in this area.
The queen of the dance will be Miss i Ann Weir from Memphis, Tenn. Escortf ing her is the general chairman of the r Law Ball Frank Prebenda, from Dearborn, Mich. A third-year law student, * Prebenda completed his undergraduate work at Holy Cross College. This is his * second year as the general chairman of the Ball.
The lawyers and their dates will at. tend the Purdue game on Saturday. The day will be completed at the Victory Dance that night.
* Chairman for the ticket committee was Jim Beattie; guest committee, Denis Britt; and decoration, Joe Clancy.
Debaters Travel North
> To Milwaukee Exhibition
1	s -
I* Four members of the University dei bate team put on an exhibition debate | recently at Mt. Mary College, Milwau-I kee. John Patton and Jerry Goudreau stood for the affirmative. They were !	opposed by Jay Whitney and Joel HagS	gard. '
“Resolved: That the United States 4 Adopt the Essential Features of the British Educational System/’ was debated at Canton, Ohio, on Monday. Guy Powers and Dick Meece stood against .the Negative of Tom Banchoff and Jerry Goudreau.	’
October24,1958
Shaul Blasis Senators’ Debate on
Opposition Fais to Stop Resolution on Closing
“I’m afraid I can’t recall a more disheartening meeting,” opined' a very disappointed Denny. Shaul last Monday evening, having just:* watched the Senate pass a motion riddled by opposition criticism.
State Senator Herb Riband submitted the resolution recommending that the bookstore remain closed on Sundays since it didn’t meet the Church’s requirements on the matter.
John Patten immediately jumped to his feet and produced his “homework,” namely, ten well-rehearsed objections to Riband’s motion. The key points stressed by Patten were: 1) The Bishop of Fort Wayne is in full agreement with the administration as to the theological permissibility of keeping the store open; 2) those who work in the bookstore have the permission of their confessors to do so; 3) similar stores are kept open every Sunday at St. Peter’s, Lourdes, and Fatima.
The sophomore senator also stressed that the bookstore is kept open merely for the convenience of customers for a total of only five Sundays each year. Rev. George Bernard, C.S.C., broke in to inform the Senate that before the advent of the Sunday hours, campus visitors became a serious inconvenience to the priests by their clamor for religious articles and other souvenirs.
Brothei' Conan, C.S.C., manager of the bookstore, has offered to put a sign in the store window, explaining the permissions obtained to open on Sundays. Further, he has offered to open his books at any time to any sincere undergraduate student who wishes to examine them.
Riband attempted to answer Patten’s argument by stating a resolution of the NFCCS against such enterprises but Bill Scheckler, treasurer, was quick to point out that the resolution was barely passed at a regional meeting over the strong objections of the Notre Dame delegation.
The Senate then lapsed into a debate
Chicago Lawyer Addresses Labor-Management Meeting
The Labor-Management club held its second bi-weekly meeting of the year recently. Ray J. Schoonhoven, of the law firm of Sayfarth, Shaw, Fairweather, and Geraldson of Chicago, was the guest speaker of the evening.
Schoonhoven graduated magna cum laude from the University of Notre Dame in 1942 and he received his law degree from the Northwestern Law School. Schoonhoven spoke on “Labor Law, 1958,” concerning necessary amendments to the Taft-Hartley Act, and the effective control of union welfare funds at the national level. ■ He also discussed the right to work laws and their chances .for enactment by the states. -	, .
There were approximately 60 people in attendance..,	-	.
on its right to comment oa the lilosti— in the first place. Scheckler buried hi* head in his hands as it was timidly suggested that a Senate resolution would have nu effect on the Bookstore policy anyway. ’
At the vote, the motion passed 11-9. Shaul then proceeded to admonish the senators for their often-childish debate in the face of almost unanswerable facts.
At the conclusion of the meeting, Ed Butler, junior class president, introduced a resolution urging improvement in campus dress. The motion was with- ~ drawn when the senate recommended that students refrain from wearing blue . jeans, sweat shirts, and “T” shirts to class.	-	—Jim Byrne -
Sixteen Members Added At Commerce Gathering
New members were introduced to the Commerce Forum at a smoker held recently. The 16 new members raise the total membership to 30.
The Forum is forming plans to organize a spring conference at which they hope to have 200 businessmen who will each represent a certain type of position in industry.
The aim of the conference is to give the student a chance to meet a repre-’ sentative of the particular branch he is interested in. This conference will also provide an opportunity for top level management to come in contact with the College of Commerce, here at Notre Dame.	. -
Dean James W. Culliton will be the. moderator of this “Distinguished Speaker Program,” which has the second week in April as a tentative date.
K. of C. CoHRcil Bogins : Drive for New Members1
The Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus .is currently bidding its annual membership' drive. Throughout the state of Indiana, thein-dividual councils are trying to increase their membership by ten per cent. Ac- = cording to Bill Heaphy, publicity duur-man of the Notre Dame Council, this • means that the Notre Dame K. of C. membership should increase to about 250 members. ,	■
Over 1500 circulars have already been distributed in the freshmen hallsand K. of C. representatives have been visiting the halls, during the past week. . . <
The First Degree initiation will be held on October 29 in the Council Chambers in South Bend.	,	;
.The Notre Dame K. of C. plans a number of activities on campus, fdre-most of which, has been the Brasil. •. Bouts. In the past the bouts have raim^ -substantial sums for the Holy Crook / missions besides providing'thrillihg entertainment.. In addition,, tM Fr^tei^l Activities’ program provides.smoke^^^ annual. danc^,..apd a.picnic./
A Republican View
by
F. JAY NIMTZ (incumbent)
THIRD INDIANA DISTRICT
Since the adjournment of the 85th Congress a few weeks ago, I have traveled over the four northern Indiana counties I represent, discussing with constituents the issues at stake in the 1958 Congressional elections.
In the course of my travels I have talked with thousands of voters, individually and in groups, reporting on my stewardship during two years in Washington and sounding out sentiment at the grass-roots.
While I have found that the average Indiana citizen is aware of the importance of the coming elections, I have encountered a disturbing number of voters who are apathetic and who have said to me:
“I can’t see that it matters very much whether we have a Republican or a Democratic Congress. Why should I bother to vote?”	■
In the limited confines of this article for The Scholastic I will try to dispel this fallacy and answer this question.
Today our country stands at a critical crossroad. Democrats would take the turn that leads to big government, paternalism, welfare schemes, controls, enormous spending, crippling taxation and cynical politics by selfish minorities. Republicans prefer the path that leads to personal liberty, free enterprise, less Ing government and more home rule, balanced budgets, lower taxes and a healthy, unfettered economy.
The Democrats are clever. They appeal to emotions — not reason. Republicans believe that the people want the truth, and we have a proud story to tdl.
The Republican administration of Dwight Eisenhower has provided the best six years in the history of this country. This administration got America out of one war, has avoided other wars, and has kept the peace without surrender of principle or territory. This administration has followed a policy of strength, firmness and fairness in dealing with the Communists, a policy which has the support of a great majority of Americans — both Democrats and Republicans.
During the first two years of the Eisenhower Administration the Republicans were in control of Congress. The Republican Congress of 1953-54 helped the President cut federal spending, re-
F. JAY NIMTZ
duce taxes, get rid of stifling controls and make solid progress toward a better life for everyone. This Republican Congress checked inflation with a responsible fiscal policy and put a stop to schemes for socializing the country’s economy.
During the past four years, with the Democrats in control, many of these gains have been lost. Another Democratic victory in November will mean bigger federal budgets, heavier taxes or more inflation and more control of the people’s business centered in Washington.
A Republican victory will mean a step toward economy in government, tax reductions and protection for the value of your dollar. It will mean renewed efforts to get more authority back in the hands of the people instead of in the hands of bureaucrats.
If more Democrats are elected this year, what kind of Democrats-will they be? They will not come from the conservative Southern wing of the party. Newly-elected Democrats will come from the radical wing which controls the party in Indiana and outside the South. Democrats of the Proxmire-Douglas-Morse- Humphrey variety introduced bills in the last Congress which would
1
2
1958
cost more than 200 billion dollars over ' the next five years.
One such Democrat—Mr. Proxmire of , Wisconsin — in one year alone spon- j sored bills which would cost the taxpay- « ers more than 30 billion dollars.	;
These facts prompted Vice-President | Nixon to warn GOP leaders at Indianapolis recently that unless Republicans j are returned to Congress this year, “you t will be in for a wild spending binge by radical Democrats, drunk with visions of ? votes and not pink, but dead elephants.” ; The Vice-President discussed another i important issue at Indianapolis — the need for legislation to effectively control ; labor racketeering.	?
Concerning this he said:	*
“You can kiss good-bye any chance । for effective labor legislation if you in- ■ crease the number of those Democratic Congressmen who will owe their elec- £ tions to contributions and support of the * very labor politicians they are supposed | to control. Because, remember, labor f politicians don’t give support unless they | get 100 per cent domination of the man they help elect.”	5
In summary I would like to re-state 3 in a few words the things that Repub- 1 licans in Congress believe in and are | fighting for.	,
(Continued on page 20)
F. Joy Nimtz, Republican Member of Congress, is a forty-two-year-old lawyer, and a native of South Bend. He is an alumnus of Indiana University and School of Law there with an AS. degree in government and an UJI. degree. During his six years in the aimed forces, he rose from private to lieutenant colonel, and received decorations including the U. S. Legion of Merit and the Bronze Star, the French Legion of Honor, and others from Poland, Czechoslovakia, Norway, and the United Kingdom.
After the war, he returned to Iris law practice in South Bend and Iris membership nr St. Paul’s Memorial Methodkt Church, Masons, American Legion, and other organizations. He served on the Salvation Army Advisory Board and the Board of Directors, St. Joseph County Department of Public Welfare. After two years in the United Stales House of Representatives, he is seeking re-election this fall.
12
The Scholastic
Elections
1 Democratic View
•	by
JOHN BRADEMAS (candidate)
THIRD INDIANA DISTRICT
> The evidence mounts on every side that the Democratic Party will win the f congressional election of Nov. 4 by a landslide.
j From the election in September of Edmund Muskie of Maine to the United States Senate to the prospective 1,000,000 vote margin of Democratic guber-
* natorial nominee Pat Brown over Sena-। tor Knowland in Calif., there runs a y strong Democratic tide throughout the nation. All the surveys and the polls, the analyses and soundings, indicate that 1958 is a Democratic year. -
Why? The citizens of America know that the Republican party and its lead-► ers have failed them.
In less than three years the Eisen* hower-Nixon administration has brought our country to the worst recession since the end of World War II, at home, and to grave peril for our nation in the cold war struggle against Communism.
The leaders of the Republican party ' have utterly failed to. lead. Nowhere is this more obvious than in Indiana where
4 the Republican party is controlled by Senator William Jenner and his protege Gov. Harold Handley, representatives of that wing of the GOP that has to be dragged kicking and screaming into the twentieth century.
October 24, 1958
In the nation as a whole, over 5,000,000 Americans have for long, lingering months been either completely unemployed or bn short work weeks; in Indiana, over 150,000. Here in the Third District of Indiana, for example, we have suffered deep and continuing unemployment since early 1953, when the Eisenhower administration came to power. This persistent unemployment has meant human tragedy to thousands of families in our area. It has meant economic waste, both in lost production and lost tax revenues.
In Portage Township, St. Joseph County (South Bend), alone, the cost of poor relief since the start of 1958 has been over half a million dollars! Yet VicePresident Nixon has the gall to come to Indiana to tell us that the last five and a half years have been the best of our lives!
Far from expressing concern for the tragedy of mass unemployment, the Eisenhower-Nixon Administration has actively opposed measures designed to halt the recession and put people back to work, in Indiana and the nation. This year, for example, the Republican President vetoed a bipartisan area redevelopment bill which sought to stimulate private industry in areas of chronic unemployment like ours. Even as I write, in late October, over one-half the major labor markets in America are suffering substantial unemployment.
A Democratic Congress, with strong majorities in both Houses, would give top priority to action to get Americans off the relief lines and back on the production lines.
Republican campaigners have repeatedly promised to stem inflation. Yet in nearly every single month in the last two years, the cost of living has hit an all-time record high. Americans are now paying the highest prices in history for food, clothing and medical bills. Food costs soar while farm prices fall.
John Brademos, the Democratic nominee for U. S. Representative in Congress for the Third Indtana District, is a native of Mishawaka, Ind., and at present lives in South Bend.
Brademos, an assistant professor of political science at St. Mary’s College, is a graduate of Harvard University and attended Oxford University as a Rhodes scholar. He served in the Navy, 1945 to 1946.
In 1954 and 1956, he was the Democratic nominee for Congress, both times losing by a narrow margin.
During 1955-56, Brademos was executive assistant to Adtai Stevenson. In May of 1958, he won the Demo erotic nomination by the largest margin of votes in the eleven dbtrids of Indtana.
Brademos is a member of the MethocKst Church and a past president of International Rotations Council, Inc.
JOHN BRADEMAS
The budget-balancers of the Eisenhower Administration will present the American people with a $12 billion deficit next year, feeding more fuel to the fires of < inflation. The GOP has thus performed the remarkable feat of bringing to -America perilous inflation in the midst of serious recession.
I am one who believes that the American labor movement has contributed greatly to the living standards and the welfare of working men and women and indeed to our entire country. But I also believe that there is no room in American labor unions for the gangsterism, hoodlumism and racketeering such as _ the Democratic Congress McClellan Committee exposed.
A labor reform bill sponsored by two distinguished Senators, John Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts,'and Irving Ives, Republican of Near York, a ball with the sharp teeth of criminal sane-tions in it, was passed by the Senate by an overwhelming vote of 88 to 1.	-
Yet when the Kennedy-Ives Bill came before the House, the vast majority of -Republicans, including every GOP Congressman from Indiana, voted to kill it. Why? The Republicans wanted a live issue more than a good bill.	,
Senator Ives said, after the House > vote, that he was “ashamed” of his / party. Senator Kennedy said that only ■ .. Jimmy Hoffa would benefit from the de- ' feat of the measure.	.
Too few Americans know that Jimmy .
Hoffa and Dave Beck of the Teamsters : and Maurice Hutcheson of the Carpenters Union, the last now under indictment for alleged conspiracy in the’Indi-	. :
ana highway scandal, are all top Repub- . lican labor leaders. I say let the Repub- . licans have them! As a Democrat, I want no part of them! If elected, I will /. : join with other Democrats and Bepubli- ' cans, of honest intent to vote for a strong . : bill to clean up the racketeers in the. ' American labor movement.
We all know that a nation whose num- . -(Continued on page 16)
' ' '	■ 13 -t/
Review of Politics
by
Tom Brady
The Review of Politics, without neglecting the analysis of institutions and techniques, is primarily interested in the philosophical and historical approach to political realties.
Under this statement of intention has been published for the last two decades, Notre Dame’s contribution to the field of learned journals, the Review of Politics. Twenty years ago, in January, 1939, the first issue of this journal was published — it was no coincidence that the leading article of this first issue was “Integral Humanism and the Crisis of Modern Living,” by Jacques Maritain.
The present staff of the Review consists of Dr. M. A. Fitzsimons, editor, Professors Frank J. O’Malley and John J. Kennedy, associate editors, and Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., managing editor. The editors are celebrating the anniversary in several ways. A “Twentieth Anniversary Issue” is being published in two sections, the first of which recently appeared, a “double issue” of 280 pages. The leading article is “A Theologian Looks at Latin America,” contributed by Gustave Weigel, SJ.; Fr^Weigel’s article in the July, 1957 issue^ “American Catholic Intellectual-ism:KA Theologian’s Reflections,” touched off a.-flurry of writing^ on the intellectual Estate of American''Catholicism. The second section of the anniversary issue, another “double issue,” will appear in January and will be unique in that it will consist entirely of contributions from the Notre Dame faculty.
♦ * *
The Image of Man: A Review of Politics Reader will also appear early next year, a selection of about thirty of the. best articles which have appeared in the Review during the twenty years of its
publication. The list of authors whose works are to be reprinted in the Reader represents an imposing collection of modern scholarship and thought — Jacques Maritain, Josef Pieper, Luigi Stur-zo, Christopher Dawson, Yves Simon, Eric Voegelin; among Notre Dame scho-
lars, Frank O’Malley, M. A. Fitzsimons, Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., Aaron Abell, and the late Waldemar Gurian are some of the many prominent contributors to the Reader. The articles cover almost all fields of humanistic learning — history, literature, philosophy, theology and political science, an array of knowledge about man which exactly mirrors the scope and nature of the Review itself.
* * *
The title of the journal, being a review of “politics,” immediately conjures certain images. But a person looking for Frank Skellingtons, Irish ward captains, or rooms full of fat gentlemen smoking Pittsburgh ‘stogies’ must look elsewhere. The Review, as the statement of intention would indicate, is dedicated to the exploration of the field of “politics,” that word to be taken in the Aristotelian sense, that is, the entire public life of man — every event, every idea, every movement which pertains to man’s life in its relation to other men. A glance through the “Table of Contents” of any issue of the Review will indicate its scope. For example, in the January, 1958 issue, the first article is “What St. Thomas Means Today” by Louis de Raeymaeker; the last article in that issue is “The Trials of Indonesian Democracy,” by Justus M. van der Kroef. The Review’s scope precludes specialization so minute as to bore or exasperate the liberally educated reader, and the appeal of a broad scope and a controlled variety of material explains much of its success for it is one of the most widely read journals of its kind.
But much of the Review’s popularity and respected position among educated men throughout the world (besides its circulation in the Americas, the Review has subscribers in forty countries of Europe, Africa and Asia) is undoubtedly due to the consistently superior editorship it has enjoyed during the past twenty years. Waldemar Gurian died in 1954, before most of Notre Dame’s present student body arrived. But from the testimony of men who knew him well, Dr. Gurian’s influence was not confined to the University, nor even to the United States. I have neither the ability nor the presumption to say more about Dr. Gurian than to mention a few facts about his work at Notre Dame. The witnesses of his greatness have offered their praise of him in the Review’s “Waldemar Gurian Memorial Issue” of January, 1955.	'
♦ ♦ *
Waldemar Gurian, assisted by Pro- < fessors Frank O’Malley and F. A. Her-mens, founded the Review of Politics in 1939. Looking over some back issues !' was struck by the faithfulness with which the journal has remained by its intention to explore “the philosophical and historical approach to political reali- । ties.” This last phrase is all-important i as it indicates the Review’s dedication to presenting issues and views pertinent to human problems in the present time. When one is confronted by a particularly difficult problem in life, the easiest
14
The Scholastic
escape is the plea of perfectionism, which leads either to Utopian fanaticism or to a peculiarly sterile skepticism, neither of which can give the slightest aid in the problem’s solution. Perhaps it was from living in a society which never faced its problems (Czarist Russia, where he was born), and in another society beset by the most destructive form of millenarian fanaticism in the history of man (Nazi Germany, from which he fled), that Dr. Gurian formed his intention of making “political realities” the aim of the Review. For a journal, unlike pulp-illustrated magazines, must be a product of its editors as well as its contributors; it must bear the mark of its editors, their very presence through their careful selection of its contents.
* * *
In connection with this last observa-l tion, one has only to read Review of Politics for a number of issues to realize ' that it is a Christian journal, Christian in several senses. The primary interest is “Western” civilization, a civilization which is more than anything else a prod-•’ uct of Christianity — Christianity in its beauty, its truth, its towering strength I ► and its chronic weaknesses. It is difficult a to question the viewpoint of the Chris-7 tian intellectual as that best able to I criticize the society of which his Church j has been the primary builder. Christian | also in another sense, the Review has 1/	always presented its selection of articles
I	and book reviews reflecting a Christian
* philosophy. The champions of “Liberalism,” who at first claim to “tolerate” all viewpoints, but often degenerate into the frame of mind which regards all criti-' cisms and all ideas as equally valid (thereby implying that there is truth in । none of them), may obscure but they . cannot erase the fact that criticism cannot be handed down from a lack of philosophical principles, and that human ’ affairs cannot be divorced from their , moral implications. Even if the inherent truth of Christianity is ignored, it is absurd to suggest, in view of the history of Western civilization, that that , civilization can be understood by a philosophy or ideology, in terms of which the greater part of its history is unin' telligible (unless, of course, one believes in the progressive perfection of human knowledge, in which case the newest ideas are necessarily the most true.)
From the fact that the Review’s out" look is basically Christian, it does not follow that its contributors are all Cath-
* ' olics, or even Christian; men of various. -religious benefits have written for the Review, men like Mortimer J. Adler, Luigi Sturzo, R. H. Tawney, Hans Kohn, Russell Kirk, and Eugene Cardinal Tis-serant. The book reviews, too, are the ’ work of men from various universities.
In the latest issue, no less than seven I* ’ institutions of higher learning are represented among the fourteen reviewers, from the fields of philosophy, history, jurisprudence, politics and geography. This is one more evidence of the freedom of discussion, a freedom basic to the
DR. M. A. FITZSIMMONS, Editor
PROF. FRANK J. O’MALLEY Associate Editor
attainment of truth, which the Review of Politics has fostered, and which has in a large measure contributed to the respect which the Review has earned among thinking men everywhere. But the men who write for the Review, in spite of their seeming heterogeneity, have one basic thing in common: all are deeply interested in Western civilization, its problems and its perpetuation, a lively intellectual interest so veiy different from the detached interest of the mere antiquarian. They are interested in something of which they are a part, in a very real way.
An observer may sometimes forget that a learned journal does not exist primarily as a billboard upon which scholars may see their names in print, but it exists to be read. That which is written can hardly be judged apart from its being read, and to think otherwise is to concede that there is no difference between thought and communication. A publication like the Review of Politics offers to the educated man the best thought and finest research of many scholars, thought and research pertinent to his own problems and those of his society. He must feel it his duty to best equip himself to combat these problems through consulation with those best qualified to help him. The physical limitations of such consultation are melted away through the liaison function of learned journals.
To return to the concept of the tone of the Review. The fact that contribu-- - tions to the Review come from various corners of the world of scholarship makes the problem ;of tone an editorial one. If an' editor must accept and print every manuscript he receives, then the concept of tone must be shoved into the background or discarded. But, should the editor actively solicit articles from scholars whom he knows to be basically in agreement with the ideals and values of his journal, then a certain tone is achieved. The editors of the Review of Politics have done just that, achieving a tone of Christian realism — Christian
FATHER THOMAS T. McAVOY Managing Editor
in its philosophical principles, realistic in its approach.
* * ♦ .
I have neglected so far to speak about the men who manage and guide the Review of Politics today. The present editor of the Review is Dr. Matthew A. Fitzsimons, Professor of History at Notre Dame. A former Rhodes scholar, Dr. Fitzsimons is co-editor of The Catholic Church in World Affairs, and also co-editor of The Development of Historiography. “The British Foreign Policy: The Ordeal of Choice and Dependence” will appear in the January issue of the Review, while another of his essays, “Brownson’s Search for the Kingdom of God: The Social Thought of an American Radical,” will be reprinted in The Image of Man. Dr. Fitzsimons has been on the staff of the Review for many years working as an advisory editor, and as assistant to Gurian. The continued high quality and tone of the Review of Politics during the past three years stands as ipse loquitur evidence of the appropriateness of Dr. Fitzsimons’ succession to the chair of Waldemar Gurian.
Professor Frank O’Malley of the English Department is a familiar figure to all students of literature at Notre Dame. Professor O’Malley has been an associate editor of the Review and a key figure in its publication since its inception in 1939. The January issue will feature an article by Professor -O’Malley, “The Thinker and the Church”; another of his essayswill be reprinted in The Image of Man, “The Wasteland of William Blake,” which first appeared in the jfe-view in 1947. Much of the Revietfs readability is attributable to Professor O’Malley. He shares the position of associate editor with Professor John J. Kennedy of the Political Science Department, who is presently on leave from the University.
In addition to being head of the History Department and University Archivist, the Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy„ C.S.C., is managing editor of the Review, a po-
October 24, 1958
15
sition he has held since 1942. He was also acting editor of the Review during i the year 1955. In his capacity as managing editor, Fr. McAvoy handles the production end of the Review of Politics including such things as circulation. He is the author of The Great Crisis in American Catholic History: 1895-1900 and The Catholic Church in Indiana, 1789-1834, and has also made frequent contributions on American Church History to periodicals. “The American Catholic Minority after the Americanist Crisis” will be reprinted in The Image of Man, and the January issue of the Review will include “Bishop John Lancaster Spalding and the Catholic Minority.” Fr. McAvoy is also vice-president of the American Catholic Historical Association.
Among the Notre Dame faculty mem-< bers who have served as advisory editors t on the staff of the Review of Politics are Dr. Willis D. Nutting, Professor in the General Program, Yves Simon, prominent Catholic philosopher, and Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., Professor of Philosophy.
There are students at Notre Dame whom (I know this from experience) are totally ignorant of the existence of the Review of Politics, much less of the fact that it is published at Notre Dame by members of our faculty. The Review has something to offer to any student who is interested in the study of political ideas and problems, whether or not his field of study falls within the category of “liberal arts.” Also, the Review of Politics of this university, and the advantages it affords to the university are not inconsiderable. I mean that a journal of this sort must and does enhance the academic prestige of the insti-tion at which it is published (and contrary to what a visitor to a campus on an autumn Saturday might think, a university’s academic reputation is its most valuable asset).
This article concludes with the words of Waldemar Gurian on the role of the Catholic publicist:
“His membership in the Church of itself determines his outlook — but any serious reflection will convince him that ' he may not leave the question at that. He must ponder and meditate on its teachings, and cannot content himself with supporting and protecting the Church by universal considerations alone. The very fact that he approaches the questions of the age and the hour in the lights of Church teaching, that I according to his own conviction these questions can be answered in the light of the Church, compels him to a zealous - study of the learning of the Church, to i a careful examination of the always s pressing questions about the relation-I - ship of faith and knowledge to philosophy and theology. This study educates him in discretion and modesty. He is compelled to perceive that he is not the solver of the world’s problems or the discoverer of theories which make the world’s ills curable or, at any rate, open the way to a cure. He recognizes that each moment of actuality is but one of
many actualities and does not take refuge in the flux of time or time itself. In the pathos of life’s present struggle he senses the peace of eternity, knowing that he is not the savior of the world. His claim derives not from his own strength; his own life is always insufficient, his will to help and understand always exceeds its own power. He knows that the human spirit is not an end in itself; that there is no more an absolute literary profession and publicist work than there is an absolute philosophy.
“In this humility is his pride. In this knowledge of his unalienable insufficiency is his mission. He is never authority, but he points the way to authority, himself always fearful and concerned lest he
THE JUGGLEE
Campus literary magazine invites students to contribute works of poetry, fiction, or criticism to Joseph Ryan, Room 4, Fisher Hall.
first issue on sale: November 17
Subscription price: $1.25
Individual issues: 35 cents
Students who wish to buy a subscription or work on the business staff should consult Bob Gold-schmitt. Room 224, Alumni Hall.
make his own subjectivism figure too prominently, lest he proclaim the truth in so interesting a manner that it will not be taken seriously. The insecurity of his existence inheres in the publicist as a constant warning never to be satisfied with himself, never to lose that unrest, without which all publicist work is only an idle pastime. This unrest, moreover, may not become an occasion for trifling—it must be the unrest of which St. Augustine spoke: ‘Our heart is restless, until it rests in Thee’.” Review of Politics, XVIII, 17-18).
Brademas
(Continued from page 13) bers have just leaped to 175 million must provide for more and better educational facilities for our expanding school population. Here in Indiana, however, every Republican Congressmen voted against the National Defense Education Act of 1958, in part designed to assist states in the teaching of high school science and mathematics. Senator Jenner even moved on the floor of the Senate to prohibit Indiana, from, using, any of the funds appropriated in the bill. Governor Handley has declared he will reject the money allotted to Indiana. Yet we Hoosier taxpayers are not exempted from paying the Federal income taxes which thus go to improve the quality of education in the other 48 states, but not in Indiana.
Perhaps nowhere so much as in the field of insuring equality of opportunity for all Americans can we sense so immediately the failure of leadership of the Eisenhower-Nixon Administration. The cheap demagoguery of Orval Fau-bus has not been challenged by effective moral leadership from the White House. The vacuum of leadership which permitted the tragedy of Little Rock is symbolized by the failure of the President to indicate to this day his approval of the 1954 court decision providing for desegregation of the public schools.
Christians, who believe that all men are created equal, must continue to have troubled consciences until the American Negro can exercise fully his God-given rights.
But to secure these rights, we must have leaders who will lead. If President Eisenhower will but show the way, I am confident that Americans of good will in both parties will respond with courage and understanding.
Finally, Americans are today deeply troubled by the apparent drift from crisis to crisis which characterizes the Eisenhower-Dulles policy in foreign affairs.
From Latin America to Lebanon to Formosa, we have seen our prestige in the world dwindle to an all-time low. Both in political and economic diplomacy and in military and scientific development, the Soviet world has made major gains since 1952. In a brilliant speech on the floor of the U. S. Senate this year, Senator Kennedy documented the grave dangers with which Soviet advances in military technology confront our nation. Senator Kennedy was savagely attacked by Republican Senators for his bold declaration of facts. They said he was “selling America short.”
But, as Senator Kennedy said more recently, “No, my friends, it is not we who are selling America short. . .It is the little men with little vision who say we cannot afford to build the world’s greatest defense against aggression—it is those who say we cannot afford to bolster the free world against the ravages of hunger and disease and disorder upon which Communism feeds. The men who lack confidence in America are the men who say our people are not up to facing the facts of our missile lag— who say they are not up to bearing the cost of survival.
“And these are the men who say, with respect to our domestic affairs, that there is noway we can avoid the periodic downturns in our economy that idle five million men and 30 per cent of our key industries.. .These are the men who are selling America short. . . .
“The Democratic Party rejects these voices. . .Our party has never been the party of little men with little vision. . . and it never will be.”
It is because the Democratic Party is the party of faith in America’s future and concern for America’s people—because it is the party with the vision of a better America, that the Democratic Party will win in November.
16
The Scholastic
t	Repercussion
(Continued from page 8
is no interest in the student body. As one who is interested in student gov-• ernment, I say that the funny and uninterested ones are not these students. The failing here is in the failure of the matter to be brought to the students’ attention that this matter was going to be discussed. If student government wants interested students to back them, then why not supply them with information? With all the paper that is slid under the doors, there is not one sheet with the 4 coming events of the Student Senate. If there are to be interested and informed students, they must be made aware of the events which are to take place.
Skip Easterly, 414 Badin
SUNDAY SHOPPING
Deal* Editor:
Have the students stopped buying textbooks and toothpaste? Something disastrous must have stricken the Romy Hammes Bookstore to necessitate its staying open on Sundays. Of course, we ■ wouldn’t want our week - end guests to go home without their monogrammed sweatshirts or blue and gold puppies.
Chuck Miller, 441 Lyons
MR. BENNETT
Dear Editor:
I would like to make a few comments on a radio show over WSND on which you (George Clements) and Bill Graham were interviewed by Jim Bennett.
Mr. Bennett claimed that the Student Senate had not acted on any of the promises that were made during the election campaigns last year. The one in particular which Mr. Bennett mentioned was the proposed “Student Review.” This, according to Mr. Bennett, was to be brought up as soon as the Senate met this year. I think that once again Mr. Bennett has lost sight of some very important facts.
The most important of these is that there were only two candidates who advocated such a paper in their campaigns and unfortunately (from Mr. Bennett’s viewpoint) both of these men lost. It seems quite unrealistic to me that the men who were elected to these positions would carry the ball for their defeated opponents. This is especially true because of the fact that neither of these men is especially fond of the idea of the Student Review.
If Mr. Bennett is so interested in having such a motion brought up before the Senate, may I request that he look at Article VI, Section 1 of the student government constitution which states that the student body can cause the Senate to bring up any motion by presenting a petition bearing the signature of ten per cent of the student body. Or if Mr. Bennett wishes, I would be “honored” to yield the floor to him in a Senate meeting should he have something to say about such a motion.
Ed Butler, Junior Class President
October 24, 1958
Ford Fund Presents School with $153,000
The Ford Foundation has awarded the Notre Dame Law School a grant of $153,000 to support its program in legal philosophy, it was announced last Tuesday by the Ford Foundation. The Notre Dame grant was among awards totalling $2,950,000 made by the Ford Foundation last week.
Dean O’Meara said that the Ford grant was one of the largest ever received by the Notre Dame Law School. He expressed Notre Dame’s “profound gratitude” to officials of the Ford Foundation “whose earlier grants have so greatly advanced faculty development at the University.” According to the dean, the new fund will help underwrite the research and other activities of the law school’s Natural Law Institute.
Marterie Group to Play At Campus-Wide Dance
Tickets for the second campus-wide dance “My Fair Lady” go on sale this Wednesday in the Drill Hall from 7 to 9:30 pan. The price is $4.00.
The dance, to be held on Friday, November 14, from 9-1 a.m., is semi-formal. Ralph Marterie and his nationally renowned orchestra will provide the music. Car permissions are available for the week end, as well as hotel reservations. Three hundred tickets for the North Carolina game will be sold with the bids.
This is the second in the series of Student Senate sponsored dances for this year. Anyone may attend, regardless of class or college. The college balls of previous years were discontinued and the student government dances were instituted in their place.
Tutoring Services Resumed For Third Consecutive Year
Tutoring service, successfully initiated two years ago by the Young Christian Students group, has been resumed this year. This service under the direction of Roy Wessel, junior-senior science student leader, affords students the chance of acquiring additional instruction at a $1.50 charge per hour.
To obtain these services one must submit an application approved by the professor, designating the subject and the approximate time needed, to the YCS office in the La Fortune Student Center. A tutor will then contact the student, and they arrange convenient times for instruction between themselves.'
In order to be a tutor, it is necessary to have maintained a 90% average in the subject that is to be taught or be on the Dean’s List. The tutor must also have the approval of the professor.
Last year over 100 students were aided by this program. The YCS organization attempts to pair up tutors who have had the same instructors as the student who wishes to be tutored.
Ticket Drive Extended By University Theater
The University Theater, in its annual drive, sold a record number of season tickets. However, Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., director of the theater, has announced that subscriptions may still be obtained by calling at his office in the rear of Washington Hall from 9-11 aan. and 2-4 pan. The box office will open for tickets to the first production Hatful of Ram on November 10.
Two newcomers to University Theatre are members of the cast now rehearsing for the production Hatful of Rain. Joseph Harrington, a •froahman from Belmont, Mass., has been cast as Johnny Pope, the dope addict whose struggle against addiction provides the plot of the play. Another freshman, John Smith, of New York, is playing Chuck, one of the three dope peddlers. Both have had considerable experience in high school productions and have shown the ability to handle their roles well in early rehearsals.
The other members of the cast have been in previous productions at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. Jim Cooney, who plays Johnny’s brother Polo appeared last year as Algernon in The Importance of Being Earnest and as Ali Hakim in Oklahoma. Celia Pope, Johnny’s wife, is played by Betsy Finneran, a senior at St. Mary’s, who has appeared in Death of a Salesman and Finigan’s Rainbow at Notre Dame and in Heartbreak House and last year’s Christmas Play at St. Mary’s.
Lee Lagessie, who portrays the father, John Pope, Sr., will be remembered for his performance as the sadistic Colonel Kim in last year’s Time Limit. The role of Mother, the leader of the dope pushers, will be played by Rudy Hornish. Rudy has appeared in the musicals the past three years and has had roles in The Importance of Being Earnest, Time Limit, and Macbeth.
Perhaps best known for his dancing in the musicals of the past few years, Jerry Dodge, who plays Apples, has also appeared in such dramatie and comic parts as Lieut. Miller in Time Limit, Dr. Chasuble in The Importance of Being Earnest, and Dapper in The Alchemist. Norm Ornellas, who plays the fourth dope peddler, was seen in Time Limit last year.
CORRECTION OF HOURS
The Post Office hours, incorrectly announced in the October 10 SCHOLASTIC, are as fellows: Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., and Saturday mornings from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. When the Post Office is closed, mail may be placed in the slot beside the front door.
17
Scholastic Subscription $5 a Year Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind.
DR.N.HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Writers
are invited to bring written or, preferably, typewritten manuscripts of descriptive or critical essays, sketches or? short stories and any humor-' ous or serious fiction which, they would like to submit for publication in the Scholastic to Jim Yoch, Room 127 Pangborn, or the, Scholastic Office, second floor, LaFor-tune Student Center between 8 and 9 p.m. Sundays.
26th Year
k 332 Ss. Micbi|M Aw. MC-Chicogt 4, HA 7-2557
t l
Have a WORLD of FUN! Travel mAh fITA Unbelievable Low Cost Europe
*•* $645
Orient • Xb* $998 Atony tour* inclua* college credit.
Alio low-cost trips to Mexico $149 up. South America $499 up, Hawaii Study Tour $549 up and Around the World $1798 up.
Ask Your Travel Agent

KQDL (CROSSWORD No. 4
I
ACROSS
1. They figure in circles
5. A street; a sink
10.	It’s floated to tide one over
11.	Sheeplike
12.	A sport requiring water or horses
13.	Scott’s---- Wildfire
14.	Ragout
15.	Colors and noses do it most
16.	Me., N.H., Vt., Mass., R.I., Conn, (abbr.)
17.	Female hog
18.	Mrs. A. Lincoln’s maiden name
20.1958 model of hep
23. Good team on a wet field
26.	A Gershwin
27.	America’s most refreshing cigarettes
29.	A tall tale
30.	License
32. They’re in the middle at weddings
34.	Opposite of “outs’’
35.	Desirable kind of car
36.	steady
39. His sister's daughter
43. Forward burst
45.	Descriptive of good songs and bad colds
46.	Amo, amas,----
47.	A Gabor
49.	Cleaning woman
50.	Unaspirated consonant
51.	Part of a cherry 52. Pal of Faith
DOWN
1.	Hannibal’s highways
2.	Underage beer
3.	Dated art form
4.	under
5.	Old cars
6.	Old song title from Catalina
7.	White----, for a big wheel
8.	Picnic playwright
9.	Financial state of most under-
18.	Corking good end of a Kool
19.	Pay dirt
20.	Snitch from 	to Kools
21.	She was changed to a heifer
22.	ahead
24.	Compete
25.	The most unused word on a Saturday nite date
27.	Kools give you a choice— regular or-------
28.	Italian city
31. The word following “Just a--------”
33.-----from 20 Down to 27 Across
36.	Last line to a letterman
37.	“This one's ■ 	” (2 words) .
38.	Where Teheran is
40.	Little Sir--
41.	English-type fellow
42.	Rochester’s Jane
44. & 45. Understanding feline (2 words)
48. Roman numerals for six
10
ARE YOU KODL ENOUGH TO KRACK THIS?*
5
11
13
12
15
17
26
30
29
40
36
43
49
46
52
50
18
What a wonderful difference when you switch to Snow Fresh KOOL! At once your mouth feels dean and cool... your throat feels smoothed, refreshed!
31
34
KGDL
Enjoy the most refreshing experience
in smoking. Smoke KOOL
mild, mild menthol.. .for a cleaner, fresher taste all through the day!
Answer on.page 24
KOOL GIVES YOU A CHOICE-REGULAR... OR...KING-SIZE WITH FILTER!
C10S8, Brawn AWlUlamaon Tobaeeo Corp.
28
33
39
-to Shew Fresh ) |
KODl

with
K®L
K®L

IS
The Scholastic

At the Movies
AVON
The Bolshoi Ballet. A two-hour film depicting all the grace, precision and brilliance of the Russian ballet, starring Galina Ulanova, prima ballerina. Afternoon and evening performances.
COLFAX
White Wilderness (Oct. 24,25): Disney-trained cameramen have chronicled the natural life of the ice-cloaked polar region and the Canadian timber line. The animals are interesting; the photography is, as usual, superior.
GRANADA
The Big Country (Begins Oct. 23): One of the few recent shows which sharply defines character types. Gregory Peck, Jean Simmons, Charles Bickford and Carroll Baker smoothly co-ordinate their performances so that no star stands out above the rest. No fast draws, no barroom battles, no Indian trouble. Just the raw display of personalities and prejudices developing from a clash between an Eastern gentleman who quietly harbors his convictions, and a Western cattleman-turned aristocrat who tries to hide the callouses on his hands by manicuring his fingernails. Color, direction, violence that is real, and especially an outstanding performance by Burl Ives are only a few of the reasons why The Big Country is rightly termed excellent.
RIVER PARK
The Littlest Hobo (Oct. 24,25): A sweet little story about a small dog and his boy. Rover is almost too talented to be in pictures: he rescues a Iamb, dodges the police and hops freight cars. There is little dialogue because dogs generally don’t have much to say.
And: Snow fire. Another one with animal appeal. This is about a little girl and the stallion who talks to her. Features Molly McGowan and Silver.
Indiscreet (Oct. 26-28): Ingrid Bergman and Cary Grant are London itinerants, almost. But all the fun falls out of Bergman’s life when she finds out that Grant is not married, but single. The challenge has vanished, and so has the story. But there is a good, action packed shot of the Thames-under-fog in beautiful color- — all gray.
STATE
Harry Black and the Tiger (Oct. 24,25): Stewart Granger shoots tigers. He is happy doing this sort of thing until he gets mauled once by a cat wounded by his friend, The Coward (Anthony Steele). Word comes one night that a boy is trapped in a tree by a tiger. Propping himself against his tent wall, he says, “That tiger must die so that the boy may live and they (the natives) will worship me.” It does, he does and they do.
Also: Villa!! A little episode about Pancho Villa before he was a war hero in Mexico. He is both Robin Hood and Don Juan — he robs trains like a good bandit and surrenders the maiden of his choice to the Mexican of her choice. An accurate account of the things Pancho Villa never did.
Raw Wind in Eden (Begins Oct. 26): Carlos Thompson, while out sailing with Esther Williams, docks his yacht on the shore of Eden, about thirty feet up on the beach. Then Jeff Chandler lands his plane in the trees. The boys both want Esther who wants to leave. They fight, fix the boat and fight some more. Then the picture is over.
And: The Saga of Hemp Brown. This is the one about the Army payroll wagon that was robbed and the wrong man that was accused. He takes off after the real crook, saves his neck from a mob, makes passes at a carnival queen and turns up with the payroll. Wrong Man: Rory Calhoun; Queen: Beverly Garland.
WASHINGTON HALL
Paths of Glory (Oct. 25): A first World War story with an undercurrent which implies that cynicism and greed led to the fall of France in World War II. Kirk Douglas, Ralph Meeker, Adolphe Menjou. Shows at 6:20 and 8:25.
—Terry Shea
WRANGLERS f
Wednesday, October 15 marked the first meeting of the academic year of the Wranglers. Founded in 1923, the Wranglers is the University’s oldest continuous undergraduate organization. As stated in the society’s constitution, its purpose is twofold: first, to add to / its members’ knowledge; and second, to . stimulate thought in others.	. X
Each Wednesday evening a member /-delivers an essay which is afterward discussed and analyzed by the whole membership. Essays presented last year included such topics as Colin Wilson’s The Outsider, Scientism, Dylan Thomas, Mysticism, and Faulkner’s Intruder m
the Dust.
The first paper of the year was delivered by this year’s president, Joe Daschbach on a new book, The Affluent Society by the American economist John Kenneth Galbraith.	-
EMPHASIS ON PRODUCTION
Daschbach introduced his essay by expressing his opinion that, “One of the most significant currents in the stream -of American letters has been the invective against social abuses resulting from the American economic system... The effect of such criticism, however, has been for the most part negligible. The reason for this impotency is that too few critics have attacked the cause of the abuses. . . .Mr. Galbraith’s criticism is significantly different in that it does consider the economic cause of existing social abuses. Mr. Galbraith contends that, for the past fifty years, the cause of many of the social evils has been the emphasis in American economic theory on ever increasing production. Mr. Gal- .. braith feels that an emphasis-on ever, increasing production is a vestige of an era of relative poverty. However, he states, we are now living in an age of relative affluence where this emphasis on production is no longer applicable.
SOCIAL UNBALANCE
The Affluent Society is his attempt to / prove that we have solved the problem . of production and an injunction to re- -J =// evaluate its importance. If we fail to-do'/.;--'/;/ this, he warns, then the already appal- '' ling “social unbalance” will be aggra- , X vated. By “social unbalance” he means the ratio of wealth invested in privately produced goods, many of which he con- ; siders to be superfluous, and that invest- './;■/ ed in public services such as schools,.//;"// roads, and public housingwhichare //// “dangerously meager.”
Daschbach concluded his essay with an ;///' analysis of Mr. Galbraith’s proposed so-/"///g lution to the problem of production,
The next Wrangler essay wiU.be pre-./////-seated by Phil Gibson, a senior in General Program, on Unamuno’s
October 24, 1958
The Steam Tunnels
by Tony de Hero
When the snow starts falling earlier than its early usual, the freshmen will be introduced to what the upperclassmen term as a Victorian though effective heating system.
Through years of extensive development, the University has acquired a lovely set of steam tunnels and radiators. Some may gripe at their temperamental behavior, but all must acknowledge their heating capacity. In the last decade or so, ceiling plaster has been known to crack and even fall upon unsuspecting students, fortunately causing no major injuries. The more enterprising seniors have denounced hot plates in favor of the radiators for cooking food they store in the refrigerated basement of Sorin.
But all these things will be self-evident as all students reach their senior year here. What might be of interest to one and all is the history of our competent heating system. And even if it isn’t, you will find in this account an interesting insight into the versatility of
Nimtz
(Continued from page 12)
We believe that liberty is a personal matter — complete liberty for each individual.
We believe that each individual in America must be free, completely free, to work out the destiny of his own choosing.
We believe that each individual citizen is able to stand on his own feet without being nursed and fondled by a so-called benevolent bureaucracy.
As Republicans we fight against legislation designed to favor one class against another. We fight to keep federal control at a minimum and to return federal revenues to state and local communities, wherever possible, on a basis of equity and need. We fight for lower taxes, for less federal spending.
If you believe as we do, then you will certainly vote on November 4 — vote for the principles and the candidates of the Republican Party.
the men who devised and interred the steam tunnels.
Quite a few years ago, when the University was starting to expand, some enthusiastic professor suggested an addition to the College of Arts and Letters to be known as Foreign Service and Diplomacy. The senior thesis would consist in constructing and successfully operating a miniature under-ground spy ring and the enthusiastically mad professor hired a renowned firm of engineers to construct a set of tunnels two feet under the ground and six feet in diameter.
The equipment furnished for these tunnels was manifold and expensive. Feeble lamp posts with expiring lights were strategically placed at regular intervals and at two points large sections of the tunnels were cut out to give access to realistic German beer parlors. A full store of liquors and an upright piano, complete with a throaty female torch singer, were installed in the two parlors to give them that special flavor.
Only one drawback stopped the professor for about five minutes. The tunnels, though dimly lighted, lacked that misty appearance characteristic of spy novels. To achieve this effect, the professor abducted a number of home furnaces and burned a considerable amount of rubbish in them. The fog created was not only dense but very stimulating.
However, since Mr. Trendex was still being fed by formula, there was no way for the professor to find out how many red blooded American boys were contemplating the idea of studying diplomacy permeated by the smell of burning garbage. The department was in operation for exactly three years. At the end of that period, with only eight graduates to their credit and one man in their gradu
ating class, the associate professors quit outright and the department was painfully deleted from the curriculum of the ■ University.
Not wishing all the money invested in the tunnels to go to waste, the professor went to the president of the University with a convenient plan to convert the <• > tunnels to some other use. Since the weather was the subject of Father Sorin’s more pointed remarks, he reasoned, it would be nice to have a heating system for the whole University stemming from the tunnels. The president listened closely to this logic and, since his own furnace had been one of 1 ’ the transplanted, nodded agreement to the plan.
In no time, the buildings had brand new radiators (which remain as relics to this day) and more than sufficient heat. When the University expanded, the engineers removed the furnaces from the 4 tunnels and built one large heating plant. In doing this they walled up the beer parlors, upright pianos and all, removing the girls only through a timely show of conscience.
No one at that time knew exactly । where the beer parlors were located except the professor and the engineers. The professor died suddenly one day while teaching a class on economics and, because the engineers were the first of the lot of absent-minded technical men, the secret died with him. Up to now, ' nobody had given thought to the fact i that somewhere under our feet there are ’ two beer parlors full of wonderfully <■ aged beer.
The presence of an ancient upright piano on the Sorin porch, however, seems to prove the untiringly inquisitive na- 1 ture of our seniors.
20
The Scholastic
^ponii PktM>»
Keglers in Fifth Week; Jablonski Top Bowler
The Kampus Keglers bowling leagues of Notre Dame, now in their fourth week of competition, have made a dent in a schedule which will last the entire school year.
The Keglers this year consist of five leagues with ten teams in each league. The bowling nights for the leagues are Wednesday, when two leagues meet, Thursday, when also two leagues meet, and Friday, when the last league rolls.
Student director of the Keglers, Ed Silliman, is seeking another five-man team to complete the 6:30 Wednesday league. Interested bowlers should contact Silliman in 263 Dillon Hall.
The Northwest Motors squad of the Blue League appears so far to be the best of the Keglers as they have piled up a seven won, one lost record. In their eight games they have averaged 700 pins a game, including a 987 high and a 2780 series. Individually, Tom Jablonski of the Motors five has rolled a series of 621 and a single game 234, both high for the Keglers leagues. He also has the best average in the leagues with an outstanding 199 pins per game.
Trailing the Northwest Motors bowlers in the Blue League are the Detroit ‘B’ club, the Chicago and the Rochester Clubs in that order.
In League One the Detroit Club is in front with the Holy Rollers, Architects and Glee Club close behind. League Two is topped by the Bohemians. Trailing them are the Handy Six and Texas Club teams. The Ten Pins are leading League Four but the Michelos and the Cleveland Club are right behind them. In the final league the LaSalle Hotel has moved to the front of the standings over the Palais Royal, Project Chemists, and Chimics.
Other top bowlers in the league this year are Ted Nekic and Jim Flannery, both with better than 190 averages. Nekic has a 193 average after four weeks and Flannery, who bowls for the Cleveland ‘A’ Club, has a 191 average.
This year’s officers for the Kampus Keglers have been elected. Ray Grubbe is the president, Freda Vida is the vicepresident, and Ed Stillman holds the secretary post. Pete Jandresevits has been elected to the office of treasurer.
VARSITY TRACK
’ All varsity and freshman track team candidates please report to * the south stands of bleachers in the Field House on Tuesday, November 4, at 4:30 p.m. for a meeting with Coach Wilson.
Purdue, Irish Clash Before Capacity Crowd In Highlight of ND Homecoming Week End
(Continued from page 9) regarded as the best defensive back on the team while Barnett is a speedy, breakaway-type runner. Other halfbacks likely to see extensive action are Joe Kulbacki and Clyde Washington. Washington handles Purdue’s punting.
Ross Fichtner and Bob Spoo alternate at quarterback for the Boilermarkers, but Fichtner has played considerably more than Spoo in the last two games. Neither of them is a particularly good passer and uses the pass only to keep the opponent’s defense loosened up. Last year Fichtner completed 23 out of 58 for 355 yards and a percentage of .397. Both Fichtner and Spoo are excellent field generals, however, and their important task is to keep Jack Mollen-kopf’s powerful T-formation offense running smoothly.
The end position is strong with CoCaptain and leading pass receiver Tom Franckhauser at right end and veteran Dick Brooks at left end. Another end likely to be on the receiving end of passes is John Crowl.
The tackle position is probably the best fortified of any in the Purdue forward wall even though Wayne Farmer, an early season starter, has been lost for the year. The two starting tackles, Jerry
DON WHITE KEEK ON OPTION PLAY
Irish quarterback Don White (6) keeps the ball after faking a pitchout and takes off on a 52-yard jaunt up the left sideline. White’s exciting run was called back because of a penalty. White’s was one of a number of long Irish gains that were called back because of penalties in Notre Dame's 9-7 triumph over Duke.
Beabout and Co-Captain Gene Selawski, are both fine blockers. Beabout weighs 209 and Selawski 248.
The middle of the line which was supposedly the Boilermaker’s weak spot has developed fast. Last week against Duffy Daugherty’s multiple offense it performed brilliantly as Purdue held the Spartans to 38 yards rushing. Particularly outstanding were the performances of right guard Ron Maltony and center Sam Joyner. Both made numerous tackles and each intercepted one Spartan aerial. Maltony’s running mate at guard is Emory Turner.
Other strong members of Purdue’s forward wall are tackles Dick Mumley, Tom Ciukaj, and Dale Rems; guards John Ciccone, and Fred Brandel; and center Terry Sheehan.
Tomorrow’s game will be the 30th meeting between the two schools in a series that goes back to 1896. Although the Irish have won 20 of the previous games and lost only seven (two ties), in recent years the Boilermakers have come up with their best efforts against Notre Dame. The last four years have seen each side winning two games. Purdue won in 1954, upsetting a great Notre Dame team directed by Ralph Gug-
(Continued on page 25)
October 24, 1958
TIME OUT
This afternoon the Notre Dame cross-country team, again coached by the very competent Alex Wilson, a former Notre Dame graduate, will host six other schools in their annual fall invitational meet.
Coach Wilson again this year has led his team through an undefeated dual meet season inasmuch as the squad only has two dual meets this fall. The harriers have come through with victories over Marquette and Indiana and give indications that they are improving with each performance.
The Irish suffered the loss of the team’s two top runners from last year’s team through graduation. Ed Monnelly led the Irish throughout the season and paced the Irish distance men in the NCAA Championship Meet which the team won last year while Dale VandenBerg was the Notre Dame captain and a consistent point-getter.
So the squad was forced to rebuild this fall. Of the top four men, only one is a senior, and that is Mike Haverty, the team captain. So far, the team’s top performer has been Ron Gregory, a sophomore from St. Louis, Mo., who ran the four-mile course here two weeks ago in 20:31.8. This time was registered on one of the windiest days of the fall.
SHOOTS FOR RECORD
This afternoon Gregory will be gunning for the Notre Dame course record of 19:50 set by the outstanding ex-Kansas University distance ace Wes Santee some seven or eight years ago. If the weather is favorable, Gregory, on the basis of his past performances and his potential ability, has a good chance of undercutting the record.
The other two of the top four Irish runners are Dave Cotton and Galen Cawley, both juniors.
Western Michigan and Notre Dame rate as the top two teams in the meet with the University of Michigan figuring to finish high in the standings. Western Michigan has one of the top cross-country teams in the Midwest if not the nation, and the Irish runners will have to perform very well to cop their own meet.
The meet promises to be the top cross-country attraction of the year at Notre Dame and will be the last chance the students have to see the defending National Champions. Four o’clock this afternoon on the Burke Memorial Golf Course — the big Notre Dame invitational cross-country meet.
Too much probably has already been said about the numerous penalties assessed against the Irish gridders last Saturday in the Duke game. And, of course, it is fallacious to assume that, if the penalties had not been assessed, the Irish would have picked up all the yardage they lost on the penalties. Undoubtedly, the gains were aided and increased by at least some of the penalties.
HALFBACKS USED MORE
Nevertheless, I cannot help but be encouraged by the greatly improved showing of the Notre Dame offense. While fullback Nick Pietrosante was used sparingly, quarterback Bob Williams varied the offense more than it has been in the past games and made good use of his sophomore halfbacks, Bill Mack and Bob Scarpitto.
These three men carried the ball on 40 of Notre Dame’s. 59 running plays and accounted for 230 of Notre Dame’s 266 yards gained rushing. This is quite different from the first two games of the year in which Pietrosante did most of the ball carrying.
Not only is the running offense more diversified, but the Irish passing attack looks better. Williams also passed more on first and second downs than in previous games. Thus, the defense was not able to set for the routine running play on the first two downs as they had been in the earlier games.
Notre Dame again last Saturday showed an inability to pass the twentyyard line more than a couple of times. Perhaps this is a poor analogy, but I liken the Irish offense to the baseball hitter who is consistently hitting the ball hard but right at somebody. Sooner or later the ball is going to start dropping in for him. It seems to me that pretty soon the Irish offense is going to explode. Maybe it’s this week, maybe next. But, when it does, it may really break loose.—T.T.
New Swim Team Coach Faces Rough Schedule
The Notre Dame Swimming Club, just approved as a varsity team early this past summer, is finishing a two-week period of calisthenics in preparation for * the opening of practice.
Dennis J. Stark, the newly appointed swimming team coach, has instituted the two-week stretch of calisthenics before the team members ever touch the water. <
Stark is 1947 graduate of the University of Notre Dame and obtained his * M.S. degree here two years later. He has been with the Physical Education department at Notre Dame since 1956. Before that, he was the head of the nata-torium in South Bend and produced some of the city’s top swimmers as a swimming instructor for the YMCA.
Stark replaces Gil Burdick who was the swimming team coach for the past three years. Burdick has worked with the team on a voluntary basis all of this time.
The swimming team’s schedule this 1 year is harder than last year’s, especially since the swimmers face a Big Ten team for the first time. They meet Wisconsin in a triangular meet shortly before Christmas.
The schedule also contains perennially strong teams, such as Ohio University, i Bowling Green State University, and ' the Indianapolis Athletic Club.	< ;
This year’s squad is almost identical to last year’s in personnel, but the team is not counting on too much of an improvement over last year’s 6-5 record because of the much harder schedule.
Another hindrance to this year’s team I is that this year, since the team is a i varsity team, freshmen are not allowed to compete. Last year and in the past >?■ freshmen have been swimming members of the team.
The freshmen will probably meet the varsity once in a freshmen-varsity contest and wil probably swim in exhibi- , tions.
Co-captains Tom Londrigan and Dick Hager, Jim Hilliard, and Les Duffy will swim the distance freestyle events for the Irish while Gene Wichter, Bill Cronin, and Chris Lund will handle the shorter freestyle races (50-yards and the freestyle medley). Mike Mahaney, a short-distance freestyler, is ineligible academically this semester.
Gene Jordan, George May, and Steve Sauer will compete in the breaststroke, and Dick Dunn, Tony Haske, Tom Moran, and Pete Kroha will swim in the butterfly breaststroke event for the Irish. Jim Gerity, Dick Katis, and Paul v Zika are the Notre Dame backstrokers.
Paul Chestnut, the top diver for the past two years, returns to pace this year’s divers.
22
The Scholastic
Badin Meets Sorin in Top Interhall Contest; Six Teams Unbeaten m Sunday Competition
’ Badin, the only two-time winner in , the Interhall Football League, will have , their hands full with Sorin this Sunday | afternoon at the Interhall field.
? Howard, which will meet the preseason | favorite Dillon, this week, lost to Sorin | last Sunday, 8-0. Sorin scored shortly | before the end of the first half when Caul-? field drove in from four yards out for the score. Cheptale made a fine catch of a down-the-middle jump pass from Hide-mos for the two-point PAT, and that was the extent of the scoring for both teams. The game was marked by hard ; defensive play on both sides.
In the other top game of the afternoon Badin downed Morrissey, 8-0. A 69-yard pass play, with Pat Potter on the throwing end and Ron Lipps doing y the receiving, resulted in the only touch-! down of this well-played game. Tom Groffrey plunged for the two extra points.
The off-campus squad gained a tie with Dillon for second place as they > handed Keenan its second straight defeat, 14-0. Ed Comeilia threw 33 yards ►«' to Mike Bird for the first O-C score, but the extra point attempt failed. Rusty Weigant then made the outcome decisive £ , with a fifty-yard interception return, and f John Gamble blasted over for the two points.
•W Similar scores were prominent as
Alumni defeated Pangborn by the same token, 14-0. Lombardi accounted for
Tyler's Picks of the Week
Navy over Pennsylvania Mississippi State over Alabama Auburn over Maryland Duke over North Carolina State Kentucky over Georgia
। SMU over Georgia Tech LSU over Florida
k North Carolina over Wake Forest Michigan State over Illinois Iowa over Northwestern Michigan over Minnesota Notre Dame over Purdue Oklahoma over Kansas State Texas over Rice Air Force over Utah
* UCLA over Stanford Colorado over Nebraska
* Washington State over USC
AN HONEST CHOICE Wisconsin over Ohio State
A HUNCH
►; Pittsburgh over Army
LAST WEEK
*	14 right, five wrong, one tie
TWO-WEEK TOTALS
30 right, seven wrong, three ties, 81 per cent
both Alumni scores as he passed 20 yards to Hoosion for the first touchdown and then ran 50 yards for the second. Alumni’s defense stood out in its win over Pangborn.
In other games, Cavanaugh and Zahm fought to a scoreless tie, and Farley edged St. Edward’s 6-0. Stanford’s Tidgewell scored on a short pass in the second quarter, and that was enough as they beat their freshman rivals Breen-Phillips by the same 6-0 margin.
The remainder of this week’s schedule shows Farley and Zahm clashing in a third place battle, B-P vs. St. Ed’s, Stanford vs. Off-Campus, Morrissey vs. Pangborn, Keenan vs. Cavanaugh, and Alumni vs. Lyons.
These games are all arranged on a tentative schedule and are subject to change according to the consent of both teams.
Undefeated teams:
W. L. T.
Badin..................2	0	0
Sorin ................. 2	0	0
Dillon & Off-Campus____ 10	0
Zahm ..................... 10	1
Cavanaugh................. 10	1
Farley................. 10	1
Stanford ..............10	1
Sailors Visit Purdue; Regionals Coming Up
Notre Dame’s sailing team travels to Lafayette, Ind., this week end to con-pete in the Purdue Invitational Regatta. . This is an important regatta because its outcome will be a strong indication of the outcome of the Indiana regional eliminations on Nov. 8-9. These eliminations will determine the two schools that will represent this area in the Timme Angsten Regatta in Chicago over the Thanksgiving holidays.
Last week end the Irish sailors were at Madison, Wis., for the University of Wisconsin Invitational Regatta. Competing against six other Midwest schools, the Irish captured third place behind strong Michigan and Wisconsin teams. This was the best finish of the Irish to date. Michigan and Wisconsin are generally recognized as the strongest schools on the Midwest sailing scene this year.
The Notre Dame sailors got off to a slow start but recovered steadily as the regatta progressed and managed to finish in third, seven points behind Wisconsin and 13 behind Michigan.
The races were sailed on Madison’s beautiful Lake Mendota which borders the University campus. Sailing for the Irish were skippers Joe Boland and Mickey Pavia, and crew Dan McGovern, Dan Schuster, and John Gaffney.
October 24, 1958
Harriers Host Meet; Seven Teams To Run
Coach Alex Wilson and his undefeated cross-country team will be host to six other schools today in the third annual Notre Dame Invitational meet.
Participating in the meet are Western Michigan, Michigan, Central Michigan, Bowling Green, Loyola of Chicago, and Wabash. These same teams competed in last year’s meet which was won by Notre Dame. Western Michigan was the runner-up, losing to the Irish by only two points, 42-44.
Western Michigan will bring a strong team to the meet today. They have virtually the same team as last year.
Running for Notre Dame today will be Captain Mike Haverty, Ron Gregory, Dave Cotton, Galen Cawley, Dave Weh-lage, Dennis Johnston, and Bud Doha.
In a dual meet with Indiana last Friday in Bloomington the Irish won a close contest, 26-30. Ron Long of Indiana placed first in the race and set a new course record with a time of 17:33.0. Ron Gregory and Dave Cotton of the
Handballers Seek Charter; Intercollege Tourney Slated
The first meeting of the Notre Dame Handball club was held Wednesday, October 15. Tony Borrello, president of the club, stated that the results were very satisfactory, and 25 of the boys were present.
The purpose of the meeting was not only to meet players who want to join the club but also to make plans for drawing up a charter forming an intercollegiate handball team. As of now, the Handball club does not compete against other schools.
Irish placed second and third. Other Notre Dame runners placed sixth, seventh, and eighth.
Coach Wilson commented that he has been pleased with the team’s performance so far this year; however he added that the big meets are yet to come. He feels that the first three runners are better than last year’s and improvement on the part of the other men will help the team considerably. Gregory, he said, is running well for a sophomore and has been a welcome addition to the team.
On Monday, October 20, an intercollege tournament was scheduled to begin, and President Borrello said that many of the positions on the team will be assigned during the tournament. Many of the boys have been practicing since the beginning of the school year. Tom O’Toole, Borrello, and Bob Lotti form the nucleus of this year’s club. Many members of last year’s club have graduated; so the positions are open.
KGDL ANSWER
□QBS BBQEE Q0BE
aDnanra EonniB . „00000 M10B000
□s ___________ narara uina □□□□ □□□ □EBBS BI10 □□□BBS
Uras ihbk „ EEnraE 010030 EdHEBGl BQQBQS3 □Ena BOQ BE100 fito ana rasaa
Switch -from Mots
•to Snow Fresh KGDL
Old Spice Shampoo conditions your scalp as it deans your hair. Removes dandruff without removing natural oils. Gives you rich, man-sized lather that leaves your hair piore manageable, better-looking ‘	... with a healthy sheen! So much better for your hair than drying
soaps...so much easier to use than shampoos in glass bottles. Try it!
A MAN’S SHAMPOO in Shower-Safe Plastic!
SHAMPOO by SHULTON
24
The Scholastic
Senate Dance
k	(Continued from page 9)
adherence to theme. The judges are Rev. George Bernard, C.S.C., Rev. Anthony . Lauck, C.S.C., and Frank Montana, head ' of the architecture department.
* VICTORY DANCE
Saturday afternoon, of course, is the game against Purdue. Game time is 1:30 p.m. Saturday night the student government will present a victory dance in * the Drill Hall. Gene Bertoncini and his Lettermen will provide the music. The * dance will begin at 8:30 p.m. and $1 tickets may be purchased at the door.
On Sunday morning the junior class is holding a Communion Breakfast after the 9 a.m. Mass. It will be held in the Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn.
The Student Center is sponsoring an “Open House” all day Sunday. Music and records are featured. At 1:30 p.m. in Room 2-C of the Center, there will be a duplicate bridge tournament open to all. Merchandise prizes are being awarded.
>; Sunday evening at 7 there will be a school Rosary said at the Grotto. Rev. Glenn Boarman, C.S.C., will lead the recitation. Father Boarman pointed out that this could well be the last opportunity for gaining a plenary indulgence during the Lourde’s Centennial.
• St. Mary’s girls will attend the cere-f mony.	—Roy Rubeli
Student Body Donates Check To South Bend's United Fund
Denny Shaul, student body president, presented a check of $550 to the United Fund of St. Joseph County in behalf of the student body. The check went through Hugh O’Brien, director of personnel and chairman of the campus campaign for United Fund.
The donation came from the Campus Charity Chest, which receives its funds from the Mardi Gras. Bill McNally, chairman of the Chest, and Don Gillies, Senate spiritual commissioner, were also present at the presentation.
St. Joseph Students Hold Classes for Mass Servers
The Spiritual Commission of the Student Senate has arranged classes in Mass-serving to be taught by the students from St. Joseph’s Hall. Applications from those wishing to learn will be received from October 24 to November 3, and may be sent to the spiritual
EXCLUSIVE
NOTRE DAME DANCE CLASSES
commissioner’s box in the Senate office at the LaFortune Student Center or to Don Gillies, 327 Walsh.
The first meeting will be held in the Student Center on Wednesday, November 5, at 6:45 pan. There the applicants will be divided into classes and will receive booklets on how to serve the Mass. Seven lessons are scheduled before the Christmas vacation begins. Rev. Fredrick Barr, C.S.C., rector of St. Joseph’s Hall, has offered the use of the hall chapel for practice sessions.
minis LIBUIYui BNKSNP
New Catholic Books’ Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
Irish Battle Purdue (Continued from page 21) lielmi, and again in 1956. The Irish won in 1955 and also in last season’s opener, 12-0.
1 The Irish bounced back from their setback at the hands of Army two weeks ago to put on an impressive perform-r ance against Duke in edging the Blue Devils 9-7. The closeness of the game was the result of 135 yards of penalties assessed the Irish against only ten for Duke. One of these penalties nullified a 64-yard TD run by sophomore Irish » speedster Bill (Red) Mack.
Notre Dame out statisticized the Blue * Devils in every department except yards penalized. The Irish offense, considerably improved and more polished, gained 266 yards rushing and added 70 by passing for a total of 336 yards.
Defensively the Irish were impenetrable, especially in the second half when they allowed Duke only 42 total yards $ and three first downs.
All of the Irish points last Saturday were scored by junior end Monty Stickles. With 10:32 left to play in the first quarter he caught an eight-yard . pass from quarterback Bob Williams for a TD to put the Irish ahead 6-0. Then late in the third period Stickles came in with the Irish trailing 7-6 and booted a perfect 23-yard field goal, similar to his winning three-pointer against Army last year, to give Terry Brennan’s eleven a well-earned victory.
Mr. Murray this year will subsidize Notre Dame dance classes. The regular rate for 10 class hours is $24.00. Notre Dame students only will receive 10 class hours for $15.00. This amounts to only $1.50 per hour.
You’ll be surprised at how quickly you will become a good dancer at Arthur Murray’s. Even beginners will master several steps the very first lesson. Become a confident dancer and really have fun at your next dance.
ENROLL NOW!
CE 2-3339
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE
CE 2-3339
October 24, 1958
Rack Pc^e
two years . .
by PAUL BODY
A short two years ago yesterday, the people of Hungary, led in part by the aroused Hungarian students, revolted against the totalitarian regime that holds sway in their country. Although the West did not actively support this revolt and although die lapse of time has dulled our moral encouragement and recognition for die struggle of these people, a lesson still remains. Paul Body, an Hungarian student here at the University, attempts to show us exactly what this lesson is and how the people of Hungary have suffered at die hands of die Communists. Perhaps someday Hungary will rid itself of the strangling robes of oppression and join the free world in our search for liberty and peace for all.
The peacefully complacent Western world of 1956 was rudely reminded of the existence of the most ruthless system of slavery in the history of Europe on October 23 of that year, when thousands of-Hungarian students solemnly swore at the statue of Petofi, that they do not want to be slaves. The quick succession of events which followed led to the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, which was only suppressed by the systematic bloodbath of Marshal Zhukov’s Mongolian divisions. As the second anniversary of this memorable event approaches, we should not merely remember it as one of many remarkable happenings, but try to divine its proper significance in regard to our own times and needs.
One of the most positive and “practical” results of this Revolution has proved to be that it has called attention to the factual existence of the Soviet slave state, which has succeeded in enslaving a hundred million Europeans through the force of arms, and which has equally kept in slavery, through threats and lies, the people of Russia for the past 40 years. As a result, the theory so well liked and popularized by “intelligent” Western circles, that these “backward” peoples had never known any kind of civilized life formerly, and that they are living in their natural state now, has been rather shaken; and we may hope that it will be put in the realm of illusions, where it properly belongs.
Nevertheless, the fact that 60,000 Hungarian men and women had to give their lives, that another 20,000 still have to face the experiences of Siberian exile,, that 200,000 have had to leave their homes and families; and that over the
26
whole Hungarian people the absolute terror of Krushchev has been let loose for two years, cannot be or should not be explained by the correction of erroneous Western opinion alone. The youthful and even teen-age revolutionaries had no suspicions that they had been forgotten by the West, which their ancestors had defended at Muhi in 1241 against the Mongol invasions, or at Belgrade in 1456, or at Mohacs in 1526, or in 1848, when they had challenged, alone, the assembled coalition of Europe with the idea of freedom. It is a worthy testimony to the deeds of these modem revolutionaries, that they had not forgotten the spirit of Hunyadi, Zrinyi, Rakoc-zi, or Kossuth.
What we must never forget about this revolution is that it was primarily a victory of the human spirit and ideal over all selfishness and degradation. The feeling of desperation and dedication bom of the total suppression of the human personality was the true driving power behind it. Its seeds were bom in the unequalled spiritual enslavation of the Hungarian people during twelve long years. Never in the whole course of Hungarian history was there an instance when the total repression of all human feeling was driven to such an extreme, as during these years.
It is difficult if not impossible for citizens of the free West to comprehend the psychological mentality of eastern Europeans, who have always fought for, but were never allowed to exercise, their God-given human rights. Such is the motivation and mentality of these young soldiers who were fighting guerilla warfare in the hills of Mecsek in December 1956, or of those nine ten-year-old school children who in December 1957 were sabotaging every effort to force them to the Communist viewpoint. It was the same determination and unconquerable spirit which the young student defenders of Budapest exhibited, even though all of the survivors-were immediately executed by Mongolian firing squads. Even today the number of the maptyrs is being multiplied; as you are reading this, hundreds and thousands are being dragged to tribunals of terror. The known victims of this terror and of the deportations combined in the ranks of the university students alone is well over 3,000.
We are often told by historians and philosophers, that our age has succeeded in banishing slavery and superstition
from the earth and that their place has happily been taken by liberty and reason. The ruthless happenings in east central Europe give the uncompromising lie to this noble sentiment. The most recent of the testimonies to the utter i suppression of human dignity in Hungary is the recent secret trial and con- 4 viction of 18 university students in Budapest, who had been accused of one offense — of having published and circulated the revolutionary student newspaper “Eljiink” (We live). Six of the defendants were condemned to death, the ’ others to terms of imprisonment. No mention is made of counter-revolution- «, ary activity or antisocialist incitements. No! The charge consists today of having dared to exercise the most fundamental human right of freedom of thought.
Anybody who has expressed his ap- V proval of the Hungarian revolt explicitly y or implicitly is liable to prosecution; as 1 a matter of fact, the whole Hungarian ■ people is now being accused and convicted of having risen against the Soviet ; state. The terror regime has discarded all pretense and formality; it blandly T announces that all activities of every | individual during the revolution will be 1 re-examined, and that all the medical £ records of hospitals and doctors will be । checked. At the same time we are wit- Js nessing not only the systematic persecu- | tion of a people, but also the incredible | agony of a “Western civilization,” which has never succeeded in opposing or facing this threat from the East. What is still more appalling is that it has not shown the ability to give faith to its convictions, when those suppressed and , persecuted have displayed superhuman devotion and self-sacrifice in the service of Western principles.
The message of the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 consists of a testimony of the victory of the human spirit over the forces of inhumanity; as such it gives us inspiration and justification for our ? own convictions. The testament of Hun- ■ garian freedom fighters from the burn- ■ ing wrecks of a caserne should ever ring I in our ears:	■
We fall — our people must live:	»
A free people in the free fatherland! I This be our testament to you	ra
Let our own blood be its witness:	I
Free peoples ! In your hands do we place ■ The. life and death of our suffering ■ Race.	I
.	The Scholastic I
^§^5
HAVE BUSES ... WILL TRAVEL . . .
: • • •
.Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs ■ Group Movements of all types
CHARTER A —
• Ph. CE 3-3235 304 National Bank Bldg.
Gendel's Surplus Sales R.O.T.C. ACCESSORIES
You Save Everyday at GENDEL’S 512 SO. MICHIGAN
EDDIE’S
PINING ROOM AND LOUNGE

SPRING SEMESTER 1959 IN VIENNA: $1195 Spend 5M months in Europe. Attend the English-taught courses at the University of Vienna. Travel on 3 integrated Study Tours through 8 countries of Europe. Students live in Austrian homes. Price includes ocean transportation, room, board, tui' tion and travel. Group sails Feb. 10. 1959, on the Ryndam.
. Application deadline: December 10, 1958 Write today for free .brochure.
INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES 35 EAST WACKER DRIVE • CHICAGO 1. III.
Where dining is treated as the pleasure is was intended to be
More room for parties-too
1345 N. IRONWOOD
JUST A FEW MINUTES. FROM CAMFUS
IKORSKY AIRCRAFT
1 “"“J'liSI



THURSDAY
&

