thia b©@k is not to be iakezs froa the Library
OCTOBER 25, 1935
^he NOTRE DAME
Scholastic
Better
than
a
Letter/
Log Log Trig Slide Rule 4090-3SL wir/t K & E Improved Indicator
KEUFFEL & ESSER CO
NEW YORK
HOBOKEN, N. J.
CHICAGO ST. LOUIS SAN FRANCISCO MONTREAL
America’s Foremost Manufacturer of Drawing Materials, Surveying Instruments and Measuring Tapes
SLIDE RULES . MADE IN U. S. A.
Back of Every Achievement of Modem Engineering_____
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BERRY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
Have the SCHOLASTIC sent to your family every week.
WE DO ALL THE
WORK FOR YOU
Information from the
‘ Publications Office
MAIN BUILDING
■	(Next to Brownson)
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
Established 30 Years
LEMONTREES
OPTOMETRISTS
222 I2 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE
DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
"I’ll be in CHICAGO in 125 Minutes Flat!"
Make your appointments in Chicago in the sure knowledge that the South Shore Line will get you there on time!
SOUTH SHORE LINE is SPEEDY/
The South Shore electric trains whiz thru to Chicago in great speed . . . yet with safety that comes from decades of operating experience. And it is cheaper than driving a ear!
COLLEGE PARADE
By Robert Grogan ■
Cannibals in college? Co-ed eating will continue to extend over the weekend. By a vote taken it was found that a small majority of students prefer eating in mixed groups over Saturday and Sunday.—The Advance.
—o—
Princeton’s Progress. It is interesting to note that after 188 years as a leadei' of American colleges, Princeton University has decided to abandon compulsory class attendance —to dispose of the old “eighteen cuts a year” system. Under the new system class attendance will be compulsory only for those who fail to maintain a satisfactory average, or who violate rules of discipline. — Brown Daily Herald.
—o—
Professor: “Did you shave this morning?”
Student: “Yes sir.”
Professor: “Well, next time stand a little closer to the razor.”—Siren.
—o—
Q—“What did Dewey say at the battle of Manila Bay?” ‘
A—“I’ll take Manila.”—Annapolis Lo<7.
—o—
Papa wired to his son in college: “I am now standing on the cliff from which the Spartans used to throw their defective children. Wish you were here.”—Iowa Frivol.
A recent survey shows a gain of more than 5,000 in the R.O.T.C. enrollment, amounting to an average of about twenty percenLin forty of the nation’s leading colleges and universities this year.
It is not believed, however, that the .increase is indicative of a spirit of war among the students. It is partly due to increased enrollment, and partly to other elements such as reduced prices of uniforms, and the opportunities offered reserve officers m the Civilian Conservation Corps.
R.O.T.C. units are available only at a limited number of colleges and universities. Two years ago, DePauw University lost its right to the unit formerly stationed there. At the time a vote of the student body here was taken to ascertain student sentiment regarding military training. The vote showed that the students were highly in faror of optional training. Nothing more was heard concerning the matter.
St. Lawrence University, Canton, N. Y., promised each of its female students Sunday breakfast in bed. “It is,” said Dean Louise Jones, “a little luxury that I think every woman is entitled to.”—Time.
October 2 5, 193’5
or CHECKS
• Two of Arrow’s newest shirt designs are “Tattersall” and “Hound’s Tooth.” Both are of woven fabrics in rich full colors and make an ideal match for your rough weave suits and ties. Button-down, wide-spread, or plain collar-attached. Take a look at these smart shirts today. Mitoga model—Sanforized Shrunk.	$2
ARROW
s-----------—->
FOLLOW ARROW AND YOU FOLLOW THE STYLE
Ellsworth’s is Headquarters for
Arrow Shirts
and all that’s NEW in the ARROW LINE
Arrow Shirts for Fall Arrow Handkerchiefs Arrow Underwear Arrow Hand-made Ties
men’s shop	.main floor rear
Ellsiimritfs
Three
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"] at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXIX
October 25, 1935
No. 5
UNIVERSITY TO HONOR PHILIPPINE PATRIOT
ETIENNE GILSON, NOTED PHILOSOPHER, RETURNS FOR SHORT LECTURE SERIES
Wednesday, Nov. 13 will be observed as Philippine’s Day at the University, it was announced this week from the office of Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president. The date marks the inauguration of Manuel L. Quezon as the first president of the Philippine Islands.
Relations between the University and the Spanish speaking countries have always been cordial and it is expected that the observance will serve as a tribute to the long friendship.
Figures of national importance in political and diplomatic circles as well as prominent members of the Catholic hierarchy will join the students in the ceremonies.
As part of the program of observance the University will bestow the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws and Letters on Carlos P. Romulo, member of several Philippine commissions which have been instrumental in securing American steps toward independence of the islands. Dr. Romulo is in America studying recent developments in American journalism which he hopes to foster in his own Philippine syndicate, the D.M.H.M.
Dr. Romulo will join Gilbert K. Chesterton and Guglielmo Marconi as the only holders of honorary degrees granted by Notre Dame. Mr. Chesterton was the first recipient when the honor was bestowed upon him during his visit in 1931, the second was awarded to Marconi in 1933.
The Philippines claim more than fifty names on the rolls of Notre Dame alumni and it is believed that such early recognition on the part of the University will go far toward cementing friendly relations between this country and the island republic.
DEBATING MEETING
The first meeting of those interested in trying out for the varsity debating team was held in the basement of the library Monday, Oct. 21. Anyone desiring a try-out, who failed to attend this meeting, is requested to get in touch with Prof. William Doyle at his office on the fourth floor of the Main Building.
UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. Confers honorary degree.
“SCHOLASTIC” ENVELOPES
For your convenience, official “Scholastic” envelopes, twelve by nine inches, have been put on sale at the Notre Dame Bookstore. These envelopes will enable you to mail “The Scholastic” flat, without rolling it up. They are priced at a cent each, and it is advisable to secure your supply before the present stock is exhausted.
“The Scholastic” may be sent through the mails for two cents, provided no rotogravure section is inserted between the pages. W-hen the rotogravure section is included, the cost is three cents. Since the postage required is determined' by the weight of the publication, there will be a slight extra charge whenever the number of pages exceeds the present twenty-four.
“Scrip” literary quarterly, may be mailed for from four to seven cents, depending on the weight of the edition, and whether the rotogravure section is included.
By Gregory Byrnes
Professor Etienne Gilson, of the College de France and director of the Mediaeval Institute of St. Michael’s College, Toronto, Ontario, arrived at Notre Dame today to deliver a series of four lectures on mediaeval scholasticism.
At 8 o’clock this evening in Washington Hall Professor Gilson will discuss “Forerunners of the Renaissance in Mediaeval England.” On Saturday morning at 10 o’clock and again on Monday at 10 and at 4:15 M. Gilson will address the Notre Dame Institute of Mediaeval Studies on the subject “The Problem of the Theoremata and the Meaning of Scotism." This series of lectures is open not only to the members of the institute but also to all students and faculty members who are interested. The public may obtain tickets at the office of the Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline.
M. Gilson- lectures during the fall term at the Mediaeval Institute of St. Michael’s College which is part of the University of Toronto. He visits here annually in his capacity of consulting director of the newly-formed Notre Dame Institute of Mediaeval Studies. This will make his fifth annual visit to the campus, and he will be the fourth European lecturer to appear this year at the University. He is one of the foremost Catholic historians of mediaeval thought and as such, travels to many well known colleges and universities both in America and in Europe.
In the belief that a study of the economic and social philosophy of the middle ages would reveal many things that could be successfully applied to present day problems he organized the Mediaeval Institute of St. Michael’s College and has remained its director until the present time. So successful was this work that he felt that a similar institute should be established in the foremost Catholic university of the United States. He laid the groundwork in his previous visits and now he returns to find the Notre Dame Institute of Mediaeval Studies already a flourishing organization. The Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., head of the Institute, will welcome Professor Gilson to the campus.
October 2 5, 1935
Five
WRANGLERS PREPARE FOR OPENING OF THE INTERHALL DEBATING COMPETITION
COMMERCE FORUM TO HEAR BUSINESS TALKS
Enthusiasm Shown In Trials
“Interhall debating has met with more enthusiasm so far this year than it received all last season,” Chairman Richard Meier announced this week. Competition for the Lemmer Trophy, which will start October 28, will cen-
Chairman Richard Meier He has only a 97.U1 average.
ter about the question: “Resolved: That Congress should have the power to over-ride by a two thirds vote a decision of the Supreme Court declaring an act of Congress to be unconstitutional.”
In view of the timeliness of the question and the ease with which material may be gathered for the arguments, the Wranglers are looking for a spirited season of interhall debating in an effort to wrest the trophy from Walsh hall, who were winners in last year’s contest.
The first meeting of the Wranglers, University forensic oragnization which sponsors the interhall competition, was held on Oct. 9 in the Law building. Edward Boyle addressed the society on the need of a constitutional amendment to correct some of the major defects that now exist in the economic system.
The speaker pointed out that our economic stress is based on a fourfold evil: disharmony between capital and labor, a dog-eat-dog rule of morality, the mal-distribution of national production, and the narrow base of wealth ownership. His remedial measure called for a constitutional amendment guaranteeing a living wage to all workers.	•
On Oct. 16 Charles Boyle presented the second speech of the year. He advocated a system of co - operative ownership of industry, stressing the benefits that such a system would give to both capital and labor.
Regular sessions of the Wranglers will be held every Wednesday evening at 7:45 in the Law building.
S i x
COTILLION. . .
Three hundred and ninety - one couples, one of the largest crowds to attend a Notre Dame Sophomore Cotillion in recent years, danced to the music of Ben Pollack’s orchestra at the Palais Royale from nine to one on Friday, October 18.
Dance chairman Charles Callahan said that he considered the Cotillion a success not only from the social side but the financial as well since §400 was cleared. No definite plans have as yet been made as to what will be done with the money. The chairman said, but he intimated that it will be turned over to the Bengal Mission Fund or the St. Vincent de Paul Society.
Adhering to the traditions of past Cotillions, the Decoration committee had the Palais Royale ballroom adorned with an illuminated “N.D.” and Notre Dame monogram blankets. South Bend’s radio station WSBT broadcast a portion of the dance music from 10:00 to 10:30 p.m.
Saturday afternoon a large group of Cotillion guests witnessed Notre Dame’s victory over Pitt from a special section reserved for Cotillion guests on the Pittsburgh side of the field.
Approximately 150 couples rounded out the week-end at an informal football dance given by the Senior class at the Progress Club Saturday evening. The music was furnished by one of the local orchestras. Joseph R. Foley was chairman of the affair.
EX-EDITOR TEACHES
Emil L. Telfel, ’31, who edited The Scholastic for 1930-1931, has been appointed director of the journalism classes at St. Norbert’s College at West De Pere, Wisconsin, it was announced this week.
Telfel this year will teach courses in elementary journalism and advanced short story writing, and will in addition to his teaching act as faculty supervisor for the college publication The St. Norbert Times.
While at Notre Dame, Telfel was active in dramatics and debating along with his work on the campus publications. He was later employed, in newspaper work in Texas and became associated with St. Norberts last year.
By Lindsay Phoebus
At its first meeting, the Commerce Forum of the University made plans for having a number of nationally prominent speakers at its meetings during the year. This initial gathering took place in the Law Auditorium on the evening of Oct. 16. There Professor James E. McCarthy, B.C.S., Dean of the College of Commerce, Professor Wesley C. Bender, A.M., and Professor LeClair H. Eells, A.B.,
Vice-President Ray Deely Tarrytown, N. Y. is proud.
M.B.A., spoke to the members of the Forum. The speakers were introduced by Robert W. Cavanaugh, president of the Forum. Vice-President Deely was instrumental in arranging the program.
Many important plans were discussed and adopted for the year. There will be two meetings of the Forum each month, to be held on the second and fourth Wednesdays. Every other gathering of the organization will be of a social nature and will be held in Brownson Rec where food will be served and entertainment will be supplied. These particular meetings are to be held in the evening. The assemblies intermediate to those mentioned will be brought to order at 2:15 in the afternoon in the Law Auditorium. Several smokers, Communion breakfasts, and a banquet to be given at the end of the year, are anticipated by present members of the Forum.
Arrangements have been made by the organization to hear several nationally prominent men’s opinions on subjects in the field of Commerce with which all of these speakers are intimate. Among others will be: Edwin Koboc, vice-president of the N.B.C., H. H. Heimann, president of the National Credit Men’s Association; John Carson, secretary to Senator Couzens of Michigan; Leo McGivena, promotion manager of the New York Daily News; Daniel McMahon of the Chicago Tribune; and John P. Roach of the Roach, Williams, and Cunningham Advertising Agency.	’
The Forum will also issue about 1500 mimeographed copies of a Questionnaire. Its purpose is to attempt (Continued on Page 7)
The Scholastic
DEATH TAKES alumnus LARGE DELEGATION WILL FOLLOW TEAM
AND FORMER EMPLOYEE
TO OHIO STATE GAME NEXT SATURDAY
Death touched the Notre Dame campus as well as one of the University’s last year’s graduates, during the past week. Vamum J. Parish, ’35, of Momence, Illinois, was killed in an explosion while James McCaffery, University employee, died in an automobile accident.
Parish, was one of two Notre Dame seniors to win a three month Public Affairs Internship awarded for the first time last year by the National
Varnum J. Parish R. I. P.
Institution of Public Affairs at Washington, D.C. As a result he spent a quarter of last year at the National Capitol studying and actually participating in routine affairs of governmental bureaus, as well as getting an insight into the practical workings of government machinery.
Mr. McCaffery was superintendent of general maintenance here at the University. He had retired from his position at Notre Dame on Sept. 1, this year, after 48 years of service. His proudest boast was that he helped to carry steel for the erection of the golden dome on the Main building in 1879, after the first Administration building had burned. One of his earlier positions on the campus was that of foreman of the University bricklayers. For a long time he worked under the supervision of Brother Albert, C.S.C., and the work ' of laying many of the cement walks in front of the quadrangle was shared by him. From the time of the University administration headed by the Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C., to that of the present administration, James McCaffery was always an active worker for the University.
Of McCaffery, Professor Francis X. Ackermann, who was very well acquainted with him said: “He was a steady worker, always on the job. I’ve known him as long as I’ve been here. I always thought he was a wonderful man.”
The Scholastic also extends con-• dolences to Joseph W. Ratigan and James H. Comeau on the deaths of their fathers, and to Mr. Robert McAuliffe, assistant prefect of discipline, on the death of his brother last week.
ASSISTANT PREFECT
Robert H. McAuliffe
Filling a difficult position.
Robert H. McAuliffe, graduate of the war class of 1918, has been appointed assistant to the Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline.
Immediately after his graduation Mr. McAuliffe served with the American forces in the World War, being discharged after the armistice with the rank of second lieutenant. Since that time he has been connected with the University in several capacities. He was instructor in the department of journalism from 1923 to 1925, was later associated with the Ave Maria, and has since served as director of off-campus students.
Mr. McAuliffe has been actively interested in the newspaper business, and was employed by the South Bend News-Times for 15 years. .
Since his graduation Mr. McAuliffe has been an active worker in alumni affairs being associated with the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley.
COMMERCE FORUM (Continued from Page 6)
to determine student tastes for different types of articles and for different mediums of advertising, for advertising purposes.
Those who wish to apply for admission to the Commerce Forum should see President Cavanaugh, or VicePresident Deely, 307, Walsh Hall.
The Ticket Sale Ends Today
Nearly 600 tickets were distributed for the student trip to the Ohio State game during the two day sale, Oct. 21 and 22, at the Athletic Office. The ticket sale was supervised by the S. A. C., under the leadership of Hal Stine.
Financial hazards, early in the week, resulting from the Cotillion week-end forced the S.A.C. to reopen the sale again today, from 9 to 5 o’clock. With the last possible rush occurring today the total ticket sales will easily swell to over 600. This total includes tickets to the accompanying members of the University band.
A definite time has finally been selected for the return trip to South Bend. The student special will leave Columbus promptly at 1:00 a.m., Sunday, in order to arrive in South Bend before 7:00 o’clock.
The arrangements for the departure from South Bend remain unchanged. At 6:30 a.m., Saturday, a number of trolleys will transport, without charge, the student travelers to the Pennsylvania station in South Bend. The student special will leave promptly at 7:00 a.m. for Columbus.
PRESS CONVENTION
The fourteenth annual meeting of the Associated Collegiate Press was held in Chicago on Oct. 17, 18, 19. Notre Dame was represented by John Moran, editor of The Scholastic, DeLancey Davis, editor of the Dome, and William Dooley, business manager of publications.
Included on the list of speakers was Leland Stowe, Paris correspondent of the New York Herald Tribune, who spoke on “The European vs. The American Press.” In his talk Mr. Stowe pointed out that in no other country, save perhaps England, does the public press present all the news in such an unbiased fashion, free from political influence as it does in America.
Editor Moran attended the sessions of the roundtable newspaper, a series of discussions devoted to the college paper published less than twice a week. Dome Editor Davis and Business Manager Dooley were present for the yearbook program, which included a series of talks on the most efficient methods of editing college annuals.
Seven
October 25, 1935
LIBRARY FINDS WAR BOOKS MOST POPULAR
SCHOLASTIC REVIEW TO BE HEARD WEEKLY
University students, obviously interested in the East African situation, made increased demands upon war literature this week, according to the University library, putting new popular fiction, strong, virile biographies, adventure stories, and a series of books unveiling unethical practices of American commercialism out of the spotlight.
Walter Millis’ impartial and anal-lytical study of the psychological forces back of the United States entrance into the World War, The Road to War, led in circulation followed by Humphrey Cobb’s, Path of Glory, a deep, moving tale of the French army told with classic simplicity. Considered the top flight of war literature of the decade, a movie version of this book has been acclaimed greater than What Price Glory. Heaven High and Hell Deep by Norman Archibald describes the realistic tale of World War aviation.
The graphic biographical account of the famous brothers who have built a gigantic empire in Delaware is vividly told in John K. Winkler’s, Dupont Dynasty. Matthew Josephson’s Robber Barons, depicts American capitalism from 1861 to 1901 as a gaudy stage full of gaudy characters. Peter Fleming’s, Brazilian Adventure, is tops for adventure stories of the week with its sincere account of the hunt for the ill-fated Captain Fawcett in the wilds of Brazil.
Near the top in circulation is Christopher Hollis’ The Breakdown of Money, which gives historical reasons for the breakdown of money and shows the role money has played in shaping the world’s history. Rev. Raymond Murray’s, C.S.C., Introductory Sociology, is another book by a faculty member in demand. Historical works which have many calls are Be-tita Harding’s, Phanton Crown, the dramatic account of Maximilian and Carlota in Mexico, and Joseph Shearing’s, The Angel of Assasination, the story of the beautiful Charlotte Cor-day and the French Revolution.
New fiction titles in demand are Lucy Gayheart, Willa Cather’s latest work, a novel of a small town Nebraska girl and her romance with a middle-age singer, and Joseph Cronin’s, The Stars Look Down, now Tuning periodically, the story of conflicting passions and hates in the Neptune, a coal mine in the north of England.
I. Claudius by Robert Graves still rates as tops for historical fiction pursued closely by Helen White’s, Not Built With Hands, the delicate handling of the story of the great pope, Gregory VII, and the heroic Matilda (See column 3 same page)
Eight
X? about the camPus
James Payton, manager of minor sports, better known as “Doc” may be a little man but he is big enough to combine Commerce and Law. . . . Would like to go into business, but
admits he’ll probably wind up behind a tuba in some orchestra. . . .
Played all last summer with a group of DePauw students. . . Toured throughout Middle West . . . Even stopped at South Bend Inn . . . His father leads a well-known eastern orchestra and also uses the misnomer “ Doc.” . . .
Hasn’t missed going to Marion, Ind., twice a month since his freshman year ... A Ruth thereabouts likes his guitar strumming. . . .
His cross country team was the first to defeat Pitt last Saturday and the accomplishment was by a good five point margin . . . Escaped from the managerial fold temporarily but was recaptured by head-man Wirry. . . . Leads the C. C. Bunion Boys on their evening jaunts about the lakes. . . . Once tried out for track having been a hurdler of note . . . Nicholson took one look and told him to stick to managing. . . .
Taken four cuts in three years. . . He quit school for a week . . . Doesn’t know why . . . Once came to school on Founder’s Day and waited ten minutes for the prof. . . .
The only manager living off campus . . • Likes carrying yard stick at football games . . . Reminds him of his ball carrying days in high school. . . . It’s as close as he can get. . . .
On Monday, October 28, at 9:30 p.m., C.S.T., there will be a dramatized broadcast of the life of the Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., from Station WSM, the Campus Theater of The Air. This is the annual Notre Dame Broadcast from this station.
The Scholastic of the Air, a quarter houi' summary of news from the columns of the campus weekly, presented last Friday after noon for the first time from the local radio studio, was so well received by students and by the outside public that it will be made a permanent feature and may be heard each week at the same time —3:15 Friday afternoon.
Today’s Scholastic of the Air will be edited by Robert Grogan and Lindsay Phoebus of the News Staff and James Waldron and Arch Gott of the Sports department.
The programs presented from the local studio during the past week were as follows: On Monday afternoon Tom Radigan and Arem Jarret continued the series of lightly educational programs entitled “The Man Who Knows.” Dick Snooks was the announcer. On Tuesday afternoon Paul Locher, pianist, and Bob Heyward, soloist, presented a musical program. Tuesday evening listeners heard Professor Lawrence H. Bal-dinger, head of the department of Pharmacy, give an interesting talk on the many aspects of pharmacy. Tom Proctor announced this feature.
On Wednesday afternoon a new series of programs was inaugurated sponsored by The Bookmen. Harry Cozad, president of the Bookmen, was the speaker and William Fitzgerald was the announcer. It is planned to make this program a regular weekly feature. Thursday afternoon featured the regular sports talk which has already proved to be one of the most popular programs..
WAR BOOKS
(Continued from first column)
of Tuscany, retold in the highest type of historical fiction. Seven Pillars of Wisdom by T. S. Eliot and Oscar Odd (O.O.) McIntyre’s, Big Town, unframed vignettes of America’s greatest city, still, continue strong.
Joseph Matthew’s, Partners in Plunder; Arthur Kallett’s Counterfeit; and Bissel Palmer’s, Paying Through the Teeth, all unveil unethical and fraudulent practices in advertising, merchandising, drug and food adulteration, fraud in dentifrices, and other chiseling tactics of American commercialism, in maddening and provocative texts.
The Scholastic
FROGS, TURTLES, DOGS ENTER EXPRESS DEPOT
Twenty-eight years ago the first express office was established on the campus. Situated, as it is at the present time, in the annex of the Administration Building it served merely as a clearing house: At that time all express consigned to Notre Dame had to be picked up at the South Bend freight depots by school employees and then distributed through the campus agency.
The agency was not operated by any one company but served such firms as the Wells Fargo Express, The Adams Express, the South Eastern Express, the U. S. Express, and the Railway Express Agency. Eight years ago the American Railway Express Agency took over the campus office and established a branch agency.
In charge of the Notre Dame agency are Brother Angelus, C.S.C., and Robert Haley, of Fort Wayne, Ind., a junior in the College of Law. Haley has occupied the position of express agent for the past two years.
The busiest time of the year for the express office is the opening and closing of school when trunks and other forms of luggage of approximately one thousand students are sent to all sections of the United States. Between these two rush periods the agency handles on the average of 200 express shipments a week. Seventy-five per cent of the freight coming into the campus agency is consigned to students; the rest to the University. Most peculiar express shipment to arrive this year was an old-fashioned, upright sewing machine addressed to a Dillon halier.
Croaking frogs and toddling turtles are a common sight in the express office for frequent shipments arrive addressed to the Science department. Dogs are another form of “live express” received. Recently two shaggy Newfoundland dogs arrived for Du-jarie Institute. “Patrick Michael,” the Irish terrier who is serving as Notre Dame’s new mascot, was shipped in by express.
One of the most common incidents occurs when a student receives a letter from home stating that in a few days a chair, trunk or dresser will be shipped to Notre Dame by express and that it should arrive at such and such a date. Every day at 12:30 the expectant receiver will faithfully appear at the express agency to claim his article. After being turned away eleven or twelve times by the words “Nothing here, sorry,” the would-be receiver finally writes home to inquire about the shipment only to receive a note from his parents to the effect that they haven’t had time to ship the article.
CAMPUS OPINION
Ed. note: This is the fifth in a series of snapshot interviews with students about campus topics. The writer this week chose seven upper-class athletes at random and asked:
“Do you favor the entry of the United States into the 1936 Olympic games?”
Paul Rubly, track, Walsh: “I don’t think America should enter. The Olympics were instituted primarily to determine world champions in different fields of sport. To achieve this end, no racial discrimination should be permitted.”
Paul Rubly
Dimples tvhen he smiles.
Dick Pfefferle, football, Sorin: “I don’t believe they ought to hold the Olympics in Germany. In all probability Germany has good Jewish athletes who won’t stand a chance under the circumstances. I don’t think America should enter the Olympics in Berlin, because Jews, whether they’re Americans or not, won’t be given an even break. America should never enter a contest where this is true.”
Lawrence Danbom, football, Corby: “We certainly should send a team over to Germany to participate in the next Olympics. A wholehearted international response to these games might go far to settle the prejudices existing among nations today—especially in the minds of the younger generation.”
Arch Gott, track, Corby: “I am against the United States entering the Olympics in 1936 chiefly because of the opposition that Hitler has thrown at the Catholic and Jewish faiths. My idea would be to move the coming Olympic contests to some other country until such a time as Hitlerism ceases to exist. Olympics should be non-political according to everybody but Herr Hitler.”
Jack Frawley, track, Corby: “We
(Continued on Page 23)
From Files Of The Scholastic
September 22, 1906—“Wanted— Men between the ages of 15 and 30 to report to Coach Barry today and every day at three o’clock. Each man will be presented with a football suit, free of charge, and all that is expected of the recipient is that he appear on the field in said suit. Barry will do the rest.”
September 30, 1906—“The squad (football) is still increasing. On Thursday, twenty-two men reported to Coach Barry.”
April 27, 1907—“A young man with the name of A. A. Stagg for a signature (a very suggestive name you’ll admit) broke into the spring football squad at Chicago the other day, and now the dopesters are referring to him as ‘Eckersall the Second’ or the H.’ ”
January 26, 1907—“And so Mike Diskin has come back at last. We were lonesome for you, Michael, and it wasn’t because your hair is, or your eyes are, but we just were, that’s all.”
March 16, 1907—“Brownson Hall, the largest department in the University, is still growing and larger than ever.”
April 20, 1907—“Important—Will the Minim, Junior, or Corbyite, with the raspy throat, please forget his obligations to sing at Saturday morning services. This is an extreme measure, but we were forced to it. We beg it as a request.”
January 17, 1903—“The young fellows who are in the habit of idling away an hour or two every day in the Library, spitting tobacco juice on the floor, and otherwise misbehaving, will please take warning and conduct themselves properly or they will be severely dealt with.”
April 11, 1903—
A little chubby hand
On mother’s loving lips;
There is no stronger band Than a little chubby hand.
And at each fresh demand, The parent fondly nips A little chubby hand On mother’s loving lips.
—A. J. D.
CAPITOL DISTRICT CLUB
At the first meeting of the New York Capitol District club, called by President Sherbonne Herrick, a good representation of members was present. The meeting was held in the K. of C. rooms in Walsh basement Monday evening, Oct. 14.
•October 2 5, 1935
Nine
HOME MADE VERSES AND SHOWER ROOM BALLADS GIVE WAY TO "VICTORY MARCH"
CALENDAR
By John A. Gillespie
At any home football or basketball game, Professor Joseph Casa-santa’s boys can be seen and heard playing a set of fiery, triumphant battle songs to the ragged but powerful accompaniment of some 2700 ardent student voices. -
One of the first duties required to freshmen is the learning of these songs. Periodically the students are reproached for not knowing the lyrics, for not voicing them with sufficient volume. At the end of every football contest, while the crowd rushes for the exits, the student body remains in its place, and solemly or joyously, depending on the success of the team, chants them.
Freshmen sing in their rooms; even seniors, who have heard the marches repeatedly, have not lost their love for them, and, if questioned, will claim that Notre Dame has the best collection of school songs in the country.
But the Irish played football games for many years with no accompaniment other than sporadic, homemade cheers, which varied with every battle. This deplorable state of affairs can be realized when we read the combination challenge and threat hurled at visiting Purdue representatives at the turn of the century:
“When Purdue comes to town They are sure to be done brown. We’ll run up an awful score Purdue 0, Notre Dame 24.”
Obviously, something had to be done.
That something was done by Father Michael Shea, ’05, and John F. Shea, ’06. They realized the need and tried to fill it with “The Victory March,” an effort that they thought insignificant, but which has grown to be recognized as one of the finest of college songs. Perhaps it was only just that two members of a notably musical race, the Irish, should contribute the battle-cry of “Fighting Irish.” The song made its appearance in 1908, and rapidly rose to fame.
High schools throughout the country have appropriated the melody and graciously substituted lyrics. It must make a Notre Dame man snarl and gnash his teeth to hear a wheezing high school orchestra lead a student body to “Cheer, cheer for old Po-dunk High.” Imitation, however, is the surest sign of success.
Bands visiting the Palais Royale ingratiate themselves with the dancers by inserting somewhere into the program a slightly ‘jazzed’ version of “The Victory March.” Perennial juvenile vaudevillians at the Palace Theatre know that the audience can be won over by a rendition
of this tune, whether by piano, orchestra, or xylophone. The advent, in later years of “Hike, Notre Dame,” and “Down the Line” only added to its prestige.
Professor Joseph Casasanta “Shake down the thunder. . .”
A letter written by Father Shea reveals that he and his brother had composed the song principally as an incentive to succeeding classes; he regarded it as “very amateurish” and was greatly surprised at the success it attained, a success that he attributed to Professor Casasanta.
From 1908 to 1924, there was an alarming dearth of musical talent in the enrollment, and no new songs were composed. But in 1924 Joe Casasanta presented a receptive University with “Hike, Notre Dame” and two years latei' “Down the Line.” Vincent Fagan, ’20, wrote the words to both melodies. Prof. Casasanta later collaborated with the Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., in producing “When The Irish Backs Go Marching By.”
This collection of Notre Dame songs has become justly famous in the field of college music. Any orchestra that plays a college medley finds it difficult to omit all four. The Glee Club has recorded them; University bands and orchestras have made discs of them; self-appointed alumni have revised their lyrics.
So when you sing any of these.four remember their origin and tip your hat to the lyric writers and tunesmith; rejoice that your school has songs of quality; and should you ever feel the creative urge for music, Professor Casasanta will welcome you.
Friday, October 25
Scholastic news broadcast, WSBT 3:15 p.m.; Lecture by Etienne Gilson, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.; Scholastic staff meeting, Editorial staff 6:30, general staff 7:00, .editorial offices.
Saturday, October 26
Football, Notre Dame vs. Navy at Baltimore, Md., broadcast, WSBT, 12:45; Cross Country meet, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State at East Lansing; Movie, “What Every Woman Knows,” Washington hall, 6:30 and 8:15 p.m. .
Sunday, October 27
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a.m. Officers meeting Knights of Columbus, Walsh hall clubrooms, 10:30 a.m. Interhall football 9:15 and 2:30.
Monday, October 28
University Radio broadcast over WSBT, 3:15 p.m. Broadcast from WSM, Campus Theater of Air, 9:30 p.m. C.S.T., “Life of Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C.”
Tuesday, October 29
Lecture by Desmond Fitzgerald, “Leon Bloy,” Washington Hall, 8:00 pan.; Broadcast from campus radio station over WSBT, 7:30 p.m.
Wednesday, October 30
Meeting of Campus Radio group, Engineering bldg., 6:30 p.m.; meeting Charles Philips Cracow club, Law Bldg., 6:30; meeting of Wranglers, 7:45, Law Bldg.
IRISH CLUB
The eerie screech of the hobgoblins and the whisking of wandering witches’ brooms sweeping ’cross the cobwebs of old Brownson Rec. Room will signal the fact that it will be Halloween night. For many years past Halloween night has come and gone—noticed but unheralded. This year, however, the witches will be met with a gala reception held under the auspices of the Irish Club.
On Thursday evening, October 31, the Irish Club is going to have a big Halloween party and smoker. Present plans are being formulated under the direction of Chairman Pat Donnelly calling for entertainment and refreshments well in keeping with the season. Cider and doughnuts will furnish the better part of the refreshments. New members will be introduced to the members of the club. There will also be several prominent speakers that will elaborate on the “Celtic Influence of Gaelic Ghosts on Campus Irishmen.” ’
Ten
The Scholastic'
CASASANTA REVEALS PERSONNEL FOR BAND
Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the University music department, recently announced the personnel of the University band. His announcement was made only after he and some 85 students of the University had worked at fever heat for five days. At the end of this short time, the band was completely organized, except for marching formations for the Kansas game. This work was all done in short order previous to the time of the game with Kansas. Professor Casasanta deserves great commendation for snapping his men into line in such a short period of time. Members of the band are also to be complimented on the excellent cooperation which made such rapid organization possible.
At present, the personnel of the University band is as follows:
B Flat Clarinets: F. Barbush, J. Boyle, R, Brennan, P. Halbert, A. Huber, P. Locher, F. Marino, F. May, J. Schemmer, R. Smith, V. Tetrault, H. Tomaschko, and R. Trousdale.
B Flat Cornets: A. Benedetti, E. Bernard, R. Crockett, L. Demer, F. Detscher, W. Drury, P. Guanieri, R. Halbert, T. Hanifin, C. Jansky, B. Keffler. F. Kelly. R. Kins. P. Kluding, G. Kristel, M. Maceri, R. Marre, M. Maurello, M. McGinnis, H. Miller, C. Rohleder, E. Theis, and R. Wilson.
Piccolos: J. McNeil, and F. Schoenfeldt. Drum Majors: L. Alaman and T. Grady. Percussion:: C. Clark, R. • Deely, K. Haag, J. Lee, R. LeMire, G. Porter, J. Rotondo, and T. Shiels.
E Flat Alto Horns: R. Bernard, D. Draper, T. Mallon, J. Murphy, and J. Jaeger.
E Flat Alto Saxophones: C. Dohnalek, G. Keen, De LeMire, R. Pfeiffer, and F. Williamson.
Oboes: G. Besanceney, and A. Hellmuth.
B Flat Tenor Saxophones: W. Eberhardt, B. Murdock, L. Palumbo, N. Tinnes and P. Vender ley.
Baritone: L. Boyle.
B Flat Trombones: J. Cackley, L. Donnelly, W. Jordan, J. MacDonald. R. Norris, C. Norton, R. Richards, G. Smith, H. Theis, and R. Trousdale.
Sousaphones: A. Davidson, F. Grazier, R. Holtz, B. McIsaac, J. Roach, F. Schaefer, J. Thatcher, and G. Vesey.
ITALIAN CLUB
The Italian Club opened its 1935-36 season with an open meeting in the Carroll Recreation Room on Tuesday, October 8. President Disenzo and Secretary Bruccoli expressed the hope for a successful year after seeing the attendance at this meeting.
Among those present were Professor Hugo Schilke, of the University of Pavia, guest of honor, who addressed the club concerning current Italo-Ethopian affairs; Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., chaplain, Professor Staunton, and Professor Pirchio.
PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL
Routine matters were discussed by the Presidents’ Council at their regular meeting last night, October 24, in the University library.
President Carmi Belmonte issued copies of the Students’ Activities Council’s charter to the member class.
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
Up in “Hell Row,” as the third floor of Sorin is known, Joe Graham was telling Marty Peters a few weeks ago that when he attended Columbia College in Iowa, a “Joe Graham Day” was observed once every year in recognition of his ability as a football player and general all around athlete. He even produced clippings to substantiate his claims. Marty, not to be outdone, boasted that “Peters Day” is celebrated annually on this campus. Well, now that the boy with the educated toe has won the Pitt game for us, it mightn’t be such a bad idea for us to support him by holding such a holiday in his honor. And while we’re at it, how about having a “Shakespeare Day,” or a “Fromhart Day,” or special holidays in honor of Carideo, Millner, Pfeffer-Ie, Lautar, Solari, Mai*tin, Kopczak, Wojcihovski, and every other member of the Notre Dame squad? Better still, let’s declare a vacation from now until the end of the football season.
•
One never knows when a knowledge of football fundamentals is going to stand him in- good stead. Ask the boys in Howard. As a certain group from that hall was returning to the campus a night or so before the Pitt game affair, a local policeman spotted one of its members breaking a University regulation. The long arm of the law reached out for the culprit, but the lattei* stretched his legs and set a course around Dillon Hall. In spite of the speed at which the criminal was traveling, the cop steadily gained on him. Meanwhile, the pursued one’s cronies . formed a pack in full cry behind the policeman. Here it was that their knowledge of the fundamentals of football came to great advantage. One after another they tried to block the officer out, never completely succeeding, however, but causing him so much distraction that finally he lost sight of his prey. Every one of the accomplices in crime made good his escape. Who said crime doesn’t pay?
•
Whenever the Notre Dame varsity scores a point against an opponent in one of the away-from-home games, we barbarians register our enthusiasm by snake dancing through the corridors, mauling each other, and, in general, acting like raving maniacs. But Father Marr, of Walsh Hall, has a much subtler method of rejoicing on such occasions. If news of a Notre Dame touchdown is broadcast over the radio, he will ring the hall
bells six times. When the extra point is made, the bells ring once again. We understand that the Walsh rector provides himself with a cigar every time he rings the-bell.
Don’t anyone ever try to get the use of a phone after Lyn (Jenny Lind) Phoebus first gets to it! If the song bird’s one and only is at the other end of the wire, a fellow might as well make up his mind that the sanest thing to do is to find a phone elsewhere. Phoebe, under ordinary circumstances, can be depended’upon to occupy a booth for at least a half hour at a time, but when his number one girl is listening in, neither earth quake, fire, nor flood can remove him from the phone’s mouth until he’s been broadcasting for as many as two hours.
O
Even the dogs from “Hollywood” across the way seem to be in search of higher learning these days. A white mongrel strolled through one of two open doors of Judge Kane’s class a week ago and quietly seated himself on the speaker’s platform. The professor, unaware of the canine’s presence, lectured on. Only when the pup comically cocked his head to one side and seemed to assume a genuine interest in what was said did somebody give him away by snickering. A student was delegated to put the friendly mutt outside, but he, becoming too chummy with the dog, delayed longer than the impatient teacher cared to wait; so a second bouncer was appointed to do the dirty work. Just as the class was about to settle down again, in through the second door sauntered the four legged student. By the time the business of ejecting the inquisitive one a second time was accomplished, the bell rang much to the chagrin of Mr. Kane and a great deal to the merriment of his scholars.
Off the record:
John Carbine and Andy Maffei smoked the pipe of peace in a New York night club this summer.
Coach Nicholson might find some fine sprint men among the gang that makes the dash from the chapel to the cafe every Sunday morning.
Tom Proctor was offered ten dollars to stay away from Fordham and only five to stay away from Notre Dame. He stayed away from Fordham.
O,ctober 2 5, 1935
Eleven
IN IIHE JUGGLER VEIN
CAFSMOKE
Tops of the week—Miss Connie Bauccio of Brooklyn lias promised to be Mrs. Nicholas Casillo (it’s authentic, Nick told us) ... Charlotte Simon got John Maloney a date with a “very nice girl” says John . . . Somebody should offer to teach Dean T. B. Campbell the art of driving a Chevie correctly. At the present rate he’ll use up his salary for gas (NOT so much gas when in first, sir . . .) . . . “Lady Esther, please send me your generous gift of powder and Face Cream,” this constituted a postal card message mailed by some beauty seeking Howardite. . . .
If Ed Neaher snubs you on the campus he hasn’t gone high hat but has lost his glasses and will offer a big “thank you” if the finder returns same to the Mission House . . . Mike Tackley is forsaking law babble for the horse saddle (after a month he knows how to mount the horse and the three lawyers are instructing him have pledged themselves to teach him how to dismount within the next month. These four horsemen love the turf, for they are also replacing divots now . . . Dan Vogt realizes the ‘future’ is almost upon him; he reads “Child Life Magazine.” (or is he learning how to behave himself?). . . .
George Murphy is ever bragging about the girl who lives across from the Yankee Stadium (Christmas will soon be here George — what’s her address ?) . . . The Three Pals, George Ireland, Warren Brown and Arch Ward (ask George) . . . Sports Editor Brown of the Chicago Herald-Examiner told Managing Editor Prendergast of The Scholastic that the latter could throw the present wrestling champion (physically or verbally?) . . . Those men seen back of the post office after breakfast are the hall mailmen. We hope they get a heater out there for winter months . . . Let it be understood now and forever that “Man Mountain” Mallett does not ask for publicity; he’s a natural and he doesn’t pay for publicity either, even though he does promiscuously fling quarters to the cafe tray carriers. . . .
“Cotillion Inaugurates 1935 Social Season,” what are the Sophs going to do for the rest of the year? . . . People and things nobody saw the day of the Pitt game — the street cars (trolleys) . . . the governor’s stately Chrysler . .. Peter’s kick . . . the new - family car . . . and last but not least —The FUNNY FELLOWS (heh! heh! sez we twirling our moustachios). . . .
Special notice to St. Mary’s girls; reward to finder of key to 227 Badin (?) lost on your campus Friday by Fred Crollard . . . Another munificent reward will be given to anyone offering information as to what junior locked the gate at St. Mary’s, Cotillion night, thus giving many a Sophomore the jitters. . . .
Fred Siepietowski, rabid Popeye fan, goes for Kellog Bran now that Pop is on the radio . . . Cotillion Chairman Callahan, in a daze, said to Father Hoff, “guess I didn’t hand any paper in” . . . The Funny Fellows must compliment the Sophomores on their choices for Cotillion dates, MAY ALL OTHER CLASSES FOLLOW SUIT ... It was a busy week and we’re tired so until next time we’re watching the flabby frosh, the flaming Sophs, the flamboyant Juniors, and the floundering Seniors (also MM. and ‘Shadow’ Rich.)—THE FUNNY FELLOWS.
THANKS
Helping out THE FUNNY FELLOWS this week was a sophomore contributor who signs himself Hpesoj Ikswolwap (’sfact).
A college magazine is a great invention, •
The college gets all the fame,
The printer gets all the money,
The staff gets all the blame.
In the old days they called it Rugby and the players did the kicking. Today they call it football and the fans and Alumni do the kicking.
According to Ripley there is a Santa Claus, Indiana: Is there no limit
to the things for which this state is responsible ?
No, George, “Body and Soul” was not composed by a metaphysic prof.
The season’s winning remark comes from the fellow who, when the prefect walked in on a dice orgy, chirped, “Believe it or not, this is a charity game.”
No Henrietta, a reverie is not a man who wears white knickers and blows the whistle at the football game.
For Feminine Fans
Backfield — Not the space between the house and the garage.
Linemen—Not a telephone employee nor a collegiate conversationalist.
Time out—Not a watch in hock.
Fan—Not a Westinghouse product.
Play—Nothing to do with a girl’s dropping her handkerchif at opportune moments.
Punt—Not a play on words or a flat-bottomed boat.
Touchback—Not a loan repaid.
Coach—Not a product of Fisher Body.
Spinner play—Not a yo-yo nor an invention of the Rotary Club.
Penalty—Not an altruistic sacrifice.
Referee—Not a golf player.
Signals—Has nothing to do with Boy Scouts, (if she still believes in Boy Scouts don’t take her out.)
Forward Pass—Not the English translation of “faux pas.”
Quarterback sneak—Not caused by hereditary influences.
Run—Has nothing to do with hosiery or noses.
Twelve
The S ch o I a st i c
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victuals Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C................Faculty	Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN .......................... Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST .................. Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei______________________________________The	Weefy
William V. Ellis________________________________________Art	Editor
News Staff
Paul Foley-----------------------------------  News	Editor
Robert L. Grogan Assistant News Editor
Clifford F. Brown Anthony O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus___________________________Gregory Byrnes
Joseph Ratigan Paul Biagioni
Irwin L. Goldman________________________Harry A. Baldwin
Robert F. Ervin_______________________________Louis DaPra
John A. Gillespie___________________________________Bertram	Smith
Harold A. Williams_____________________________________John	Hurley
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker__________________________________Co-Sports	Editor
James A. Waldron__________________________________Co-Sports	Editor
John Cackley-------------------------James M. McMullen
Eugene Vaslett______________________________________Michael	Crowe
Allen Bride___________________________________Arch Gott
John Glanzner
William R. Dooley, '26______________________________Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
October 25, 1935
AMERICA AND THE OLYMPIC GAMES
tj
ll-ITLER is in complete command of all Germany and all that is German. He is dominating the Olympic games to be held next year in Berlin. His policies and beliefs are outrageous to most thinking people but his legion of followers in the Hinterland are loyal to his doctrine to a man. Any one who followed the proceedings of the past Nazi Congress and of the Reichstag cannot help but notice that the Left Wingers in the Nazi party are in complete control. Hence we find the legalizing of the Swastika into the national emblem and the proposal to move all Jews out of the county, preferably to South America.
Hitler is the absolute ruler. The Catholics, Jews and some Protestants are the victims of his unjust campaign. The United States’ entrance into the Olympics cannot but stir up international disputes. Relationships between countries will be strained and broken. It is just like pouring gasoline on fire. Who can tell what it may lead to? The people want no trouble with foreign powers and by keeping the Olympic team at home the A.A.U. officials can act both justly and wisely.—J. P. P.
REACTION FROM THE AUDIENCE
The question of too' much noise at the Saturday evening movies in Washington Hall crops up about this time each year. The Scholastic usually receives verbal or written complaints from those who object to the outbursts
October 2 5, 1935
of laughter, cheering, or hissing at the slightest provocation. Undoubtedly a lack of good taste is sometimes shown, but we do not think the average undergraduate does this deliberately; it is merely a bit of meb psychology, Plus the desire to express one’s self in what has developed into the accepted Saturday night custom.
The Scholastic does not wish to preach regarding what is good or bad taste. We merely point out the evil and leave the rest up to the individual student’s sense of decency and fairness. In passing, we suggest that the custom of singing the University songs before the show be revived this year, for besides being one of the most enjoyable features of past Saturday evenings in Washington Hall, it will give the more robust a chance to “let off steam” before the actual performance begins.
RING UP THE CURTAIN, II
I-'AST week the University Theater made public a tentative schedule of three dramatic productions for the coming year, but pending official sanction, the titles, dates, and other details of the presentations have been withheld. Professor Albert Doyle, in charge of the productions, stated definitely that no favoritism will be shown in selecting the various casts when rehearsals begin. The actors, whether freshmen or seniors, will be chosen solely on the basis of individual merit. We therefore urge all who possibly can to make the most of this opportunity, and, if there is a sufficiently large initial turnout, we suggest that the dramatic schedule for the year be not limited to three productions alone. A series of one act plays, with several units working on them at one time, would provide an adequate number of vehicles for campus thespians. If possible, one “Play Night” could be set aside each month, from December to May, and two or three one-act productions presented.
This proposal, as outlined above, is an ambitious one, but it is entirely in keeping with Notre Dame’s capacity and ability to keep abreast, of the most progiessive educational developments in other universities. It would stimulate the latent theatrical possibilities of the campus and should really be the making of the University Theater as an alert, progressive group. That there is a definite need for a revival of campus theatrical activity was pointed out editorially by The Scholastic some two weeks ago. Another indication of the lack of interest in dramatics following last year’s single presentation upon the boards of Washington Hall is the fact that the Speech Department was forced to cancel a course in the technique of acting when not enough students signed up for the class.
We do not think that a single “Play Night” a month is beyond the capabilities of the University Theater. In the editorial columns of The Detroit Collegian of Oct. 3, we notice that Wayne University, a much smaller institution than Notre Dame has instituted a “play-a-week policy” despite the obvious limitations incident to a smaller student body from which to draw material, etc. We offer this proposal to the University Theater and the student body in general. If the plan has any insurmountable objections, any factors which would render it impossible, we would welcome your suggestions and criticisms. A large turnout of dramatic candidates in response to Professor Doyle’s call will be a valuable index regarding the practicality of the proposal. How about you cooperating and helping stir Notre Dame out of its theatrical lethargy?
—J. S. M.
Thirteen
ATHLETICS
MIDSHIPMEN OUT TO SINK IRISH DREADNAUGHT
LAYDEN'S CHARGES TO FACE VETERAN NAVY TEAM IN BALTIMORE TOMORROW
CONLEY REPORTS NAVY HAS POWERFUL ELEVEN
Navy Tries For Third Win
One of the nation’s most promising rivalries will be renewed tomorrow at Baltimore, Maryland, when Notre Dame lines up for the opening kickoff against a strong and fast Navy team.
Past performances can be forgotten when these two teams meet. Notre Dame has always been established the favorite in the past. However, it has been two years since the ■ Notre Dame eleven defeated the courageous Annapolis crew. In 1933, a heavily favored Irish team lost to the Sailors 7-0. In that game, Notre Dame registered 21 first downs. The Irish limited Navy to four first downs. Last year’s battle played at the huge Cleveland Municipal Stadium ended in a 10-6 Navy victory. Again the Irish outplayed the Middies. Notre Dame was credited with 14 first downs. The Middies managed to make only two. Notre Dame followers are hoping that tins year’s team remembers that the pay-off comes only when the last white stripe is crossed.
On the basis of this season’s play, Notre Dame ranks as a slight favorite. In four games, the Laydenmen have scored 77 points. Navy has scored nine points in the same number of games. Opponents have registered 16 points against Notre Dame. Fourteen points have been scored against the Navy defense this fall.
While Notre Dame was vanquishing the Pitt Panthers last Saturday 9-6, the Sailors lost a thrilling 7-6 decision to a powerful Yale team. However, the Middies outrushed, out-
The Coaching Staff of the U. S. Naval Academy watching the Notre Dame defeat in 193^.
passed, and outclassed Yale. That most important extra point gave Yale their necessary margin.
Navy has good reserve material. Thirty-three men saw service in the Yale fracas. This indicates that Notre Dame’s reserve strength will undoubtedly be called upon to halt numerous Navy replacements.
Claire Cutter, a star tackle, will not be around to halt the Irish running attack this year. Incidentally, he kicked the placement which gave Navy an early 3-0 margin in last year’s game. Buzz Borries, AllAmerican halfback, has also left the Sailor forces. That boy could do anything 6n a football field. He kept the Irish defense on the alert all afternoon last year as he led his team to victory. Clark, a fullback, has graduated and with his departure, the Middies lost a very valuable kicker and line plunger. Dornin, who made the Sailor’s touchdown last year when he caught a forward pass from Buzz Borries, will not be present to stop end runs tomorrow.
Navy will probably line up with Soucek and Fike playing end. Their ability will be put to the supreme test by Messrs. Wilke, Shakespeare, Woj-cihovski, Pilney, and Gleason. Hessel and Ferrara, two brawny Middies, are bulwarks at the tackle positions. Peters, Millner, O’Neil, and Zwers will have a busy afternoon trying to block those two mammoth tackles. Dubois and Morrell have been starting at the guard positions for Navy. They have been making life miserable for opposing backs. Navy’s center needs no introduction. Robertshaw
(Continued on Page 16)
Last Monday the football squad again took the field in preparation for the Navy game at Baltimore tomorrow. Coach Elmer Layden was pleased by the fact that no one was injured seriously in the tough Pitt game, but he gave the first team the day off to
Andy Pilney “An Irish Torpedo."
recover a little from the strenuous time they had out on the field against the bruising Panthers.
The rest of the squad, however, polished up on offensive plays because Tom Conley who scouted the .Navy-Yale game last week brought back word that the Navy defense is much improved and that their team is bigger and heavier than last year. Conley has warned the Irish to be prepared to stop a dashing Middie fullback, Schmidt by name, who is supposed to be a worthy sucessor to the great “Buzz” Borries. Notre Dame men have occasion to remember the latter.
Tuesday and Wednesday the varsity worked on defense against the Frosh team who were using Navy plays. Wednesday, a long scrimmage was held and Coach Layden spent the entire afternoon trying to brush up the downfield tackling, and drilling into his men the fact that they faced a hard task when they encounter the Sailors at Annapolis tomorrow.
Thursday afternoon the squad entrained for Baltimore, and this afternoon they will go through some limbering up operations at Annapolis as (Continued on Page 22)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
N. y. AND CALIFORNIA SPORT SCRIBES AT GAME
NOTRE DAME HOLDS WIDE MARGIN OVER NAVY IN SHORT GRID SERIES
The sporting world was very much interested in the clash between Pitt and Notre Dame last Saturday, judging from the number and the repre- . sentiveness of the sport writers at the contest. New York was represented by F. J. Powers of. the New York Sun, Robert Pollock of the New York Times and Paul Gallico of the New York Daily News. Los Angeles was. present in the person of John Gallagher of the Los Angeles Times. Bob Murphy of the Detroit Times and Lou McKenna of the St. Paul DispatchPioneer Press were present. Chicago had Jim Kearns and Terrence of the Chicago Daily News; Warren Brown of the Herald-Examiner ; Wilfrid Smith of the Tribune; Jim Gallagher of the American; and Henry Fink of the Suburban Sport Service of Chicago.
Besides these well known commentators the following papers were represented: Michigan City Dispatch, Huntington Herald Press, The Pitt News, Mishawaka Enterprise, Sharon (Pa.) Herald, Kokomo Tribune, Kokomo Sentinel, Plymouth Daily Pilot, Evanston News, Fort Wayne Joumial-Gazette, Dayton (Ohio) Herald, Aurora (Ill.) Beacon-News, Sioux City Journal, Michigan City News, Lansing State Journal, Kankakee Republican-News, LaPorte Herald-Argus, Lima (Ohio) News, Dayton Daily News, Joliet Herald-N ews, Anderson Herald, Moundsville (W. Va.) Journal, and the Davenport Daily Times.
Paramount News, Fox Movietone News, Pathe News, Universal Newsreel, Hearst Metrotone Newsreel, and Wide World had cameramen here. All these besides the radio broadcasters.
On The Enemy's Trail
TO DATE:
Ohio State has defeated Kentucky, Drake, and Northwestern.
Northwestern defeated De Paul and was defeated by Purdue and Ohio State.
Army has defeated William and Mary, Gettysburg, and Harvard.
Southern California has defeated Montana, and College of Pacific, and lost to Illinois and Oregon State.
THIS WEEK:
Ohio State plays Indiana. Northwestern plays Minnesota. Army plays Yale.
Southern California plays University of California.
SO THEY SAY
The square leather toe of Marty Peters, Notre Dame end, place-kicked the Pittsburgh Panthers to a 9-6 beating here this afternoon before a nerve wracked gallery of 51,000. The weather was excellent for baseball, a warm
Martin Joseph Peters
“Peters’ puppies pickled Pitt”-Gallico
sun hanging high throughout. Both teams grunted and groaned lustily in their mutual efforts to suffocate each other. They almost did, and the fracas teetered until the final seconds on the verge of a 6-6 tie. Then the “Rambler” backs mopped their brows and on Pitt’s 34 yard line, with but a few minutes to play, Shakespeare and Carideo took turns chiseling the sturdy Pitt line back to the Panther 18 yard stripe.
The Panthers froze there, so Peters sauntered into the Irish backfield and booted a perfect place-kick over the bar.—Paul Gallico, in the New York Stmday Netos.
A Notre Dame team of the old tradition, with courage to come from behind, today broke the Pitt domination of three years and evened the modern series with the Panthers in a thrilling football game. The score was 9-6.	.
A 36-yard field goal by Marty Peters, Irish right end produced the deciding points with three minutes left to play in the final period. The kick went high and straight, but the near-capacity crowd of 51,000 waited breathless as referee Frank Lane took plenty of time to make certain before he lifted his arms to heaven in the gesture which symbolized the thoughts of all Notre Dame.—Francis Wallace, in {he New York World Telegram.
It took a bit of Frank Merriwell heroics to do it, but the Fighting (Continued on Page 22)
Eight Games Played to Date
1927—Notre		Dame,	19;	Navy,	6
1928-	—Notre	Dame,	7;	Navy,	0
1929-	—Notre	Dame,	14;	Navy,	7
1930-	—Notre	Dame,	26;	Navy,	2
1931-	—Notre	Dame,	20;	Navy,	0
1932-	—Notre	Dame,	12;	Navy,	0
1933-	—Notre	Dame,	0;	Navy,	7
1934-	—Notre	Dame,	6;	Navy,	10
By John Cackley
The series between Notre Dame and Navy is one of the shortest in
Frank Carideo
Threw pass to beat Navy in ’29
football history here, yet one of the most glorious from the Irish point of view. The Annapolis Middies have encountered Notre Dame teams on gridirons in Baltimore, Cleveland, Chicago, and Notre Dame; and out of eight different occasions they have garnered but two victories.
The Midshipmen hold the distinc-(Continued on Page 23)
October 2 5, 19 35
Fifteen
INTRODUCING
NAVY GAME (Continued from Page 1-1)
By Cy Stroker
The game with Pittsburgh gave Marty Peters more publicity than a lineman usually gets. Sports writers are prone to praise the backfield for their speed and power in advancing the ball, for their ability at passing, and for their long punts, and to ne-
doing big things for the Notre Dame team ever since the Kansas game of 1933.
Peters was born and raised in the much publicized town of Peoria, Ill. There he attended Lee Grade school and Spaulding Academy where he
X PETE SCORED
AB the onlv QliNcJTre Dame
UMlNTME 193^-^g/NAVYGAME CATCHI N& r a pass on
LAST PlAt


MES
J OF NOT
*DAMES
was an outstanding player in last year’s battle. He plays a fighting, driving game. Coach Tom Hamilton has been using King at quarterback, Case and Pratt at the halb-back positions, and Schmidt at fullback. This quartet is a smooth working unit which will cause any opponent 60 minutes of anxiety.
Can the Irish survive their fifth hurdle? The team has been playing smart, consistent football. Unless the breaks are overwhelming, the Irish should come out of tomorrow’s game with their fifth consecutive triumph.
Many a gridiron fan has jumped on the Notre Dame band wagon. They think the Irish have the stuff this year. As many others are still pessimistic. If the team can overcome the Navy obstacle, many will look forward to a confident Notre Dame team facing Ohio State next week. Notre Dame must play their remaining games as they come. An upset can occur any time if a team isn’t prepared when facing a schedule full of dynamite which is now confronting the Irish.
Coach Layden will probably start his regular line-up. It is still doubtful whether or not Mike Layden will see action. The rest of the squad is in good condition and are ready for the Sailors.
KICXS
__ .
THE POINTS AFTER TOUCHDOWN POR
THE IRISH o o
MUY • PETERS-1
•7 Notre

gleet the line players who make those things possible. They seem to forget that there would be no gains from rushing if the line did not open holes for the men to carry the ball, that there would be no thrilling passes nor long punts if the ends, tackles, guards, and center failed in their job of blocking the opponents out of the play.
It took that famous placement kick to open the eyes of the press to Marty Peters’ ability, to give him the attention his work at right end earned him long ago. Marty has been
4


launched his athletic career. In prep school he played right end on the football team, center on the basketball team, and first baseman on the baseball squad. He played on the same basketball team as Notre Dame’s Joe Voegele who was a leading point-getter on the Irish Quintet until his graduation in 1934.
Marty’s first game with the Notre Dame varsity football team was the Kansas game of 1933. In that year he also played in five other games. In the 1934 season he played in every game except the Texas contest. His
value at right end is shown by the fact that he was on an equal with Dom Vairo, the Irish captain in 1934. Besides his placement kicking skill, Marty is adept at snaring forward passes and is outshined in this respect only by his running mate, Millner. In the Navy game of 1934 he caught a pass and brought the ball over for the only Notre Dame score. His points after touchdown have helped the Irish score immeasurable on several occasions.
When the football season is over, Marty exchanges his moleskins for a basketball uniform to play center under the tutelage of Coach Keogan. This year Marty is to be co-captain, sharing honors with Ford. In Marty’s first year basketball, 1933, he showed himself to be so good that Keogan shifted All American Krause to guard to make room for Marty at center. Last year he was high scorer on the team.
When summer rolls around, Marty drives a truck in dear old Peoria to keep in trim. This is a very strenuous occupation so he finds it necessary to prepare for it during the school year by spending his spare time sleeping. In spite of this tendency, however, Marty maintains a good average in the Physical Ed school and dreams that some day he may become a great coach.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
PITT SIDELIGHTS . . .
By Jim Waldron
Planes were flying overhead all day as the students recalled the small plane which circled above when Mike Sebastian ran some 60 yards against Notre Dame in 1933. To make matters worse, the whole aeronautical school at Bendix played follow-the-leader during half-time intermission.
—o—
The way the Irish tacklers were missing the Pitt ball carriers, people thought Coach Sutherland had spread butter on the suits of his men. It will be “Farewell to Erin” if they don’t hit the Ohio State and Navy backs with clean solid tackles.
—o—
When Bill Shakespeare swung his good right leg against the pigskin in the second period, a greater kick had not been made in the Notre Dame Stadium. The exact .measurement from the point at which the ball was kicked until it was picked up was 90 yards. Shakespeare was standing one yard behind the goal line and Greene picked it up on the Pitt 11-yard stripe.
—o—
Sometime when the chance presents itself, see the pictures of the Pitt game. It will show that William “the Bard,” is a magician as well as a good football player. When he dashed through the Panther line fox-the Irish touchdown, there was about as much room as a visitor could find in South Bend Saturday night. It was a case of personal ability and not good blocking by the line.
—o—
South Bend was not the live-wire spot which everybody thought it would be after the ball game. Students, alumni and friends sitting in the stands played a tougher game than the boys on the field. One student got a nose bleed, several thousand got layyngitis (lost voice), while the vast majority came back from town early and went to bed to avert a nervous breakdown after big “Pete” place-kicked his All-important field goal.
—o—
Down in Peoria, Illinois, there was a “hot time in the old town tonight.” When the now famous native son, Marty Peters, became the hero of the Fighting Irish, the editor of the Peoria Star brought out his “wartime” type. Splurged across the front page in the heaviest of heavy type, “Peters Hero in Irish Win.”
Ernie Quigley, umpire, and Jesse Harper, former Notre Dame director of athletics, will be referee and field judge respectively at the Kansas-Kansas State game at Lawrence, Kansas this Saturday.
FORWARD PASS COMBINATION OF DORAIS TO ROCKNE REVOLUTIONIZED FOOTBALL
By Arch Gott
’Tis a bleak chilly November afternoon in 1913. A throng of 5,000 is huddled in the Army stadium at West Point prepared to watch another undefeated bone-crushing Army team smash its way over a small blue-
Knute Rockne
jerseyed trible hailing from the middle west — Notre Dame. The battle wages and when the long session is over, the crowd, stunned by the startling exhibition which they had witnessed, stares in amazement at the scoreboard hardly believing what they see, Notre Dame, 35; Army 13. By turning their big guns on the unsuspecting soldiers, these courageous “Irish” warriors had upset the entire football world and had succeeded in forcing the Army to a state of complete surrender. The cause of this uprooting of football tradition?— The Forward Pass!
The preceding summer, quarterback Gus Dorais and a squat tow-headed Notre Dame end, Knute Rockne had practiced hour upon hour trying to perfect an idea of theirs, the forward pass. Early in the 1913 season, Notre Dame tried this new invention under fire in games against Ohio Northern and South Dakota. At last the time came when this valiant band of 19 players dashed onto the field on the aforementioned November afternoon —highly confident and drenched with “Fighting Irish” courage.
“Then ‘Dory’ put over a long forward pass. While the big Army line lay asleep in the grass. There was racing and chasing to break up the stride;
But the brave soldiers wavered, rolled over and died."—SCHOLASTIC, 1913.
Late in a yet scoreless first quarter, Dorais of Notre Dame called his own number—the ball was snapped to him and as the heavy Army line surged in to trample him down, he coolly leaped to one side and heaved the ball easily into the air just out of the reach of the charging soldiers and into the ready arms of Rockne, 30 yards beyond. The Army team became panicky and on the next play tried to provide some sort of a widespread defense to prevent any more passing. But Dorais was not to be outsmarted —he called the number of the great Eichenlaub, fullback, who plunged through the scattered line for a long gain. Time and time again Dorais mixed his plays, first passing to Rockne or Pliska for 30 or 35 yard gains, then giving it to Eichenlaub for those crashes through the line. An Army team, miserable and bewildered, managed to put together two smashing drives which netted them a couple of touchdowns in the second quarter but the rest of the contest was all Notre Dame.
This game saw the Irish obsessed “with a score thirst that couldn’t be quenched!” Using superb generalship, Dorais—145 pounds—“as agaile as a cat and as restless as a jumping jack,” provided the incentive which spurred his team on to their precious victory. All five Notre Dame touchdowns came as the result of passes and in 17 attempted forward tosses only four were incomplete. During this memorable game 243 yards were gained through passes alone. A true exemplification of the “Fighting
Gus Dorais
Irish” spirit was demonstrated further in this game by the fact that Notre Dame made only one substitution and called only one time out in the entire game; this latter being when Pliska had to tie a shoestring.
As the New York Press said after the game, “The Indiana team did not have to hammer at the line for scores. It just had to toss the ball over to an end and another touchdown was chalked up for Notre Dame.” This quotation expresses thoroughly the coming of a new era in football. Notre Dame by the introduction and (Continued on Page 23)
October 2 5, 1935
Seventeen
NOTRE DAME DOWNS PITTSBURGH 9 - 6;
AS ACCURATE KICKING FEATURES GAME
HOWARD IN TOP BERTH IN INTERHALL STANDING
By Gene Vaslett
The Irish of Notre Dame served notice to the country at large and 52,000 spectators in particular that they are once more on the march to football greatness, last Saturday when they conquered the Panther of Pittsburgh in a stirring game that kept
Fred Solari
Pitt felt his pressure.
the spectators in constant uproar from the opening whistle to the closing gun. The Notre Dame team not only avenged themselves for three previous defeats at the bands of the clawing Panthers but made it doubly satisfying by coming from behind in the second period and forging ahead with but three minutes to play to triumph by the score of 9-6.
A great Pittsburgh team came out of the Smoky City to do battle with the sons of Notre Dame anticipating a duplication of the past three years but did not reckon with the right foot of Marty Peters or the stalwartness of the revised Irish line. Led by Random- and LaRue, backs who seemingly refused to be stopped, the Panthers determinedly went about the task of trying to subdue the Irish for the fourth successive year.
It looked very much as though the Panther would turn the trick once more when Bob LaRue slipped around left end midway in the first quarter and headed for the Irish goal eighty yards away with four Pitt men in front of him and only Wally From-hart in position to stop him. From-hart, however, frustrated this attempt by running along with the interference and on the 20 yard line feinting the four men out of position and allowing Fred Carideo to make the tackle from behind on the 18 yard line. Fromhart’s play on this 62 yard run was the outstanding defensive performance of the game. On the la yard line the Panthers could gain but four yards in three plays, and on the fourth down Patrick dropped back to attempt a field goal but the kick (Continued on Page 21)
CROSS COUNTRY
Last Saturday Pittsburgh’s domination over Notre Dame was completely blotted out by a dazzling, new blue and gold picture. The blue and gold brush was first wielded by Coach Nicholson cross country team who, led by John Francis, outran the thinlies from Pitt to win 25 25-30.
Seven runners from each school left the starting line for a three and a half mile trip around the lakes. Nicholson’s boys displayed a complete lack of respect for Emily Post by sticking together as a unit, and refusing to intermingle with the hare and hound boys from Pitt. For about two miles the Irish joggers cold shouldered the Pitt runners and kept by themselves. At this point the pace began to show its effects upon the runners, and the field spread out with each man watching out for himself.
The first runner to cross the finishing line was John Francis who won handily. Johnnie was competing in his first varsity competition for the Irish, and was complete master of the field throughout the race. Tost of Pitt was the second man to come panting in followed by Leo McFarland of the Irish. Tost ran a smooth race all the way and was the only member of the Panther team to seriously bother Francis. McFarland, in placing third, demonstrated that he still retains the ability that made him the leading cross country man of two years ago. Kirkpatrick and Gormley staged the closest duel of the morning with the Pitt star barely nosing out Nicholson’s second year flash. The remainder of the runners were strung out and came pulling in during the next few minutes. McKenna, Irish miler, took sixth position and was followed by three members of the Panther squad. The next four men were all wearing the colors of the Irish and assured Notre Dame of a victory. Hennessy captured tenth position. Next came Arch Gott and Herb Kenyon finishing together to tie for eleventh position and the last man on the Irish team, McGrath, led two Pitt men over the line.
This was the first meet of the season for the cross country boys, and they showed promise of developing into one of the best teams of recent years.
Cotillion Sunday found a large number of the fair week-end guests crowding the side lines to witness the best played games of the interhall season. Upsets and ties marked the third round of games which bring Sunday morning joy and Monday morning stiffness.
In Group I only two games were played, both of which ended in ties. Sorin, the defending champions, rolled (could we say staggered) out of bed
Harold “Curly” Reagan “Walsh’s small-large man.”
only to find their opponents failed to make an appearance. Walsh and Howard both were the victims of tie games and thus Howard leads in the race to see who will play in the stadium.
The biggest upset of the year was registered when the Alumni boys, who have yet to win a game, held the preseason favorites, Howard, to a scoreless tie. It is rumored that either the cotillion or the Saturday evening victory celebration was the cause of several of Howard’s regulars being unable to be on Cartier field by game time. As it was, there were several new faces in the Howard lineup and all the ravings of the remaining regulars could not furnish the spark needed for a score.
Corby’s delegation of eleven fighting men again gave evidence that they can not be counted out of the race by holding the hitherto unbeaten Walsh eleven to a 6-6 score. This game was characterized by hard tackling and blocking which temporarily laid out two players. The boys from the old gold coast scored first when “Curly” Reagan cut back over tackle to knife his way across the goal line. Vickor’s attempted drop kick was short. The boys from “by the sea” came back to even the score in the same period. An attempted forward pass was blocked, and after bobbing in and out of several hands settled in the arms of Ed Boyle who streaked the remaining distance to the end zone. Riley’s placement was blocked and the score remained deadlocked. The second half found both teams fighting hard for the points that (Continued on Page 20)	.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
By Joe Prendergast
PITT FALL
Fifty-two thousand people were silent. Marty Peters’ toe met the ball — it went soaring — sailing, slowly but deadly straight to its mark and pandemonium was set loose. The sport writers were excited, Elmer Layden’s arms shot straight up simultaneously with Frank Lane’s and the Panther clawing spell was broken. 9 to 6 there lies the score and there lies a story.
A LOYAL FAN
John Griffin, a seventeen year old high school youth from Pittsburgh, idolized Notre Dame and everything connected with its name. Friday afternoon he started thumbing rides from Pittsburgh to Notre Dame to see his championship Notre Dame team whip Pittsburgh. The rides were scarce and it was getting dark so John picked up an outgoing freight. He arrived in South Bend Saturday morning and jumping off the freight severely,injured his ankle. An interested passerby saw his plight and . asked him where he was going. He told him that he was headed for the game so the friendly gentleman took the boy up here to the campus and told the boy that if his ankle bothered him any more to go over to the infirmary which he promptly did. Dr. McMeel taped up the strained ankle and put the youth to bed. After lunch one of the kind Sisters went in to see how the boy was doing and found him missing. After the game the boy returned, thanked all concerned for what they did for him and stated that he had arranged a ride home with some Pittsburgh people. The injured ankle was still up like a wind-bag but he saw what he came on to see—a Notre Dame victory—and since he had a ride home he had better take it. He left with a warm spot in his heart for Notre Dame.
BEAR STORIES
Take this one from Larry O’Toole and then take it with precaution. Jerry Bodenbach, a good friend of Larry’s from Pittsburgh and a graduate of Central High in Pittsburgh, was leading the Pitt cheers last Saturday in the Stadium. It seems that Jerry, although he came out with the Pitt rooters, had nothing whatsoever to do with the school. He is a junior at Duquesne and said he was leading the yells for Pitt as a favor for one of his friends. To top off all this en-
(Continued on Page 20)
IRISH HARRIERS MEET MICHIGAN STATE
AFTER VICTORIOUS CONTEST WITH PITT
By Al Bride
IRISH RUNNER
John McKenna
FENCING
While the football team is out blocking and tackling, while the basketball team is sharpening its eye, while the track squad is conditioning itself, Mr. de Landero’s fencing candidates are working out every day in the small gym north of the basketball court.
Though this is but the third year of intercollegiate competition for the Blue and Gold fencing enthusiasts, every aspirant is working as if he is anticipating another undefeated season. The morale of the team is high because of the unusual success Coach de Landero’s men had last year.
Co-Captains Kehoe and Carlos de Landero along with Telmo de Landero will be mainstays of the fencing team this season. Opponents will find it difficult to defeat these three able fencers. Other promising candidates are Bob Seco, Jack McAuliffe, Dick Snooks, Vic Mercado, Tom Doody, Pierre de LaVergne and Morrow.
Tomorrow the Notre Dame cross country boys face their second test of the year. Michigan State’s strong aggregation will attempt to hand Coach Nicholson “round the lake boys” their first defeat. The boys from up north have as strong, if not stronger, team than Pitt sent here last week, but if the Irish runners step out and run as they have been in the past week’s practice sessions they will be hard to beat.
The victory over the Pitt team has left no false impression in the minds of the Irish joggers and they have been hard at work every day this week. Monday Nick had the boys over the five mile route and despite the soft underfooting the Irish team turned in the best practice time, 27 minutes, ever turned in over this distance. The last few days have been more or less tapering off practices so that the “hill and dalers” will be in tip-top shape for the meet.
It appears that the same team that defeated Pitt will attempt to do the same against Michigan State. Last week’s winner, John Francis, is again expected to be among the first to finish the journey around the lakes. He can expect/to be pushed all the way by “Spanky” McFarland who, after a year’s layoff from cross country, has regained the form that made him one of the mainstays of the 1933 team. Another member who has shown the ability to be among those battling for first place is Gormley, the only sophomore starter. Because of sickness Arch Gott has been slow to round into first class condition, but during the past week he has picked up considerably. The other members of the starting team, Hennessey, Kenyon, McGrath, and McKenna, have all shown improvement and are expected to aid in keeping the Irish slate clean.
A youthful admirer with the traditional Navy goat.
October 2 5, 1935
Nineteen
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
(Continued from Page 19)
INTERHALL FOOTBALL (Continued from Page 18)
ON DOWN THE LINE
would mean victory, but each team put a stronger defense than offense and the game ended 6-6.
There were two close, hard fought games in Group II. St. Ed’s again came out on top, giving them three wins and undisputed claim on first place. Freshman dropped a close contest to Brownson 2-0 while Off-campus won by default.
St. Ed’s heavy aggregation had their hands full when they met up with the unknown team from Carroll. This was Carroll’s first appearance on the field of battle and only a weak offense halted them from knocking off St. Ed’s. The winners finally pushed over a score by using straight power plays. “Doc” Sullivan added the extra point to make the score 7-0. The dorm boys muffed two scoring plays. The first was a well executed sleeper pass which caught St. Ed’s napping but the end was hauled down before he could get in the clear. In the closing minutes a five yard penalty gave the Carroll lads the ball on St. Ed’s ten yard strip with first down and five to go. An attempted end sweep netted a five yard loss and the following passes were unsuccessful.
Freshman hall, after winning by a forfeit and drawing the bye, finally got into action. They dropped a hard fought game to the other dorm team, Brownson, 2-0. Neither team was able to punch through for a touchdown, although the boys from the “cardboard palace” dropped several passes that looked to be potential scores. Just as the half was to end a Freshman back was going to try a to run with the ball. In the second drop kick, but he was rushed and had half the Brownson team forced Freshman back to their goal line and then blocked a punt and were credited with a safety.
Group I.	W	L	T Pts.
• Howard x_x.-x_:_________  2	0	1	. 5
Corby 1	1	1.3
Walsh 1	0	1	3
Sorin----------------1	0	1	3
Alumni 0	.	.1	2	2
Lyons----------------110	2
Badin______:-------— 0	3	0	0
Group II	W • L T, Pts.
St. Edwards_______:--3	0-0	.6
Off Campus :_lx___:--2	1 - - 0	4
Brownson ____x__-x—--2	10	<4
Freshman ~-------_xxxxxx- 11	0	.2
Carroll __x._--------110	2
DiHon	 si- -0 2	0	0
Morrissey. -_________  - 0 3	0	0
Schedule for Sunday:
. • Group-IE’
Oct. 27, 9 :i5 a.m.—Brownson vs. Morrissey. Cartier ,N; 'Dillon ,'vs'.- Carroll, . Cartier - S; Freshman vs. Off-Campus, Cartier Oval.. •
J '	'	> '
, Group I. •
2:30 p.m.—Corby vs. -Alumni," Cartier' -N; . Sorin vs. Lyons, Cartier S; Walsh vs. Howard Cartier Oval.
By James A. Waldron
DID YOU KNOW:
Most of the officers coaching the NAVY football team are submarine men or flyers. TOM HAMILTON is the aviator grid mentor of the Middies. NICK LUKATS, the Notre Dame backfield star who won the unforgettable Army game of 1933, is now a movie actor in Hollywood. But he still follows football. Says the TROJANS will lose five games — to ILLINOIS, CALIFORNIA, STANFORD, NOTRE DAME, and PITTSBURGH. The KIRKSVILLE (MO.) TEACHERS COLLEGE saw its string of victories terminated at 27 in a loss to ST. LOUIS UNIVERSITY. There’s a funny fellow at the Coliseum in Los Angeles. Concealed somewhere near the sidelines he discharges a revolver when Southern California is carrying the ball in the period. Mistaking it for the timer’s gun, play stops, and players start to leave the field. RIVERS MORRELL (185) who was not quite big enough to make HOWARD JONES’S Trojan team, saw considerable service last fall at Annapolis, where they are not so choosy about football physiques. BOBBY GRAYSON, the sensational STANFORD halfback, will enter WEST POINT next year, if he can get a scholarship.. They’re betting even money he can. Among the promising backfield candidates for the NAVY team this year is WILLIAM INGRAM, son of the legendary JONAS. He lacks his father’s turret-top physique, but is fast and durable. His uncle is NAVY BILL, who coached at ANNAPOLIS and CALIFORNIA after setting the Severn afire as a quarterback.
•
FOOTBALL FATALITY:
A long high football punt from the good right toe of Halfback EDDIE PHELAN of the high school eleven in Marblehead, Massachusetts, dropped into the hen yard of MIL-LIDGE O. NICKERSON. The ball struck a hen on the head, killing it instantly. The first football casualty of the season cost the high school $1.50.
•
A FAMILY AFFAIR:
It will be brother against brother when MORAVIAN COLLEGE meets SUSQUEHANNA at Bethlehem Pa. on October 26. Moravian is coached by PAUL STAGG; Susquehanna by ALONZO STAGG, Jr. Both are sons of .grand old ALONZO STAGG, whose Pacific Coast team will scare '.the wits out of some big elevens on the coast the same day.
tangled affair Jerry told Larry that he really was rooting for Notre Dame to win the ball game and his antics were just for show. This is O’Toole’s story, not mine.
•
ANCHORS AWEIGH
Tomorrow the Notre Dame varsity stacks up against a fine all around Navy team in Baltimore. The last time the Irish visited that quaint Maryland city the result was anything but satisfactory. The midshipmen rated the underdogs were out-gained in everything but the important matter of the score. This year the case is much the same but the Notre Dame team is different from that 1933 outfit. Navy will be playing bang-up football to re-establish their somewhat fallen prestige after the surprise licking they received from the Yale Bulldog. It is somewhat of the same situation as Penn was in last Saturday. Yale had beaten them in a great second half rally the previous week-end so they turned all the steam on and trampled Lou Little’s roarless Lions into the deepest submission. Notre Dame has a great fighting squad, but Navy is plenty tough and it will be a hard one to win.
SCORECASTS
For those who do get down this far in the column and do read the forecasts of the coming game, I suppose I should say if you want to get the real dope on the games and then a little worldly knowledge, read McLemore. The beating this corner took last Saturday was prolific. Thirteen games were correct, three ended in deadlocks and nine went the other way or the very much wrong way. The elevens in the South upset our calculations greatly. Of the four winners we selected in the South not one went the winning way. For the season the count is 66 wins, 26 losses and four ties. This week we select:
NOTRE DAME 20; NAVY 0.
Dartmouth 6; Howard 0.
Colgate 14; Holy Cross 13.
Army 7; Yale 0.
Columbia 10; Michigan 7.
Princeton 19; Cornell 0.
Pittsburgh 21; Penn State 0.
North Carolina State 7; Manhattan 0.
New York Universify 14; Georgetown 0.
Pennsylvania 28; Lafayette 7.
Syracuse 32; Brown 0.
Alabama 19; Georgia 13.
Rice 13; Texas 6.
Temple 21; West Virginia 7.
Ohio State 30; Indiana 0.
Kansas State 13; Kansas 7.
Marquette 26; Mississippi 13.
Minnesota 14; Northwestern 0.
Chicago 13 ; Wisconsin 6.
Creighton 20; Grinnell 0. Iowa 19; Illinois 13.
Michigan State 14; Washington Univ. 0.
Nebraska 28; Oklahoma -7.
Purdue 7; Carnegie Tech 0.
California 10; Southern California 0. .
The S c h o.l a s t i c
Twenty
NOTRE DAME DOWNS PITT
(Continued from Page IS) went wide and the first Pitt threat was stopped.
The first quarter ended with the ball on the Irish 48 yard line in Pitt’s possession. Then Randour, Stapulis, Patrick, and Shedloskey pushed the ball to the Irish two yard line, and Patrick went over for the first score of the game. Wayne Millner blocked the attempted conversion.
Then came the break of the game for the Notre Dame team. Following the kick-off by Pitt the Irish were unable to gain and Bill Shakespeare dropped behind the goal line to kick. He sent a booming punt far over’ the head of the Pitt safety man which was finally downed on the Pitt 17 yard line. The ball had traveled more than 90 yards before being touched by a Pitt man. The Panthers were unable to gain and Greene dropped back to kick. His punt landed on the 45 yard line but bounced back and back to the Pitt 20 yard marker and it was the Irish ball. A Notre Dame fumble lost four yards then Carideo in three plays crashed his way to the five yard line and Shakespeare slid through right tackle for five yards and the first Irish score against Pitt since 1931. The place kick of From-hart was no good and the score was tied 6-6 when the half ended.
The third quarter found the same Irish team that had started and
played throughout the first half without replacements, take the field once more. The play see-sawed back and forth during the quarter and neither team seemed to have the advantage in play. Coach Layden made the first substitutions of the game late in the third quarter when he sent the second team into the fray and gave his regulars a much needed rest. The quarter ended with the ball in the possession of Notre Dame on their own 48 yard line.
The final period saw the first team return after five minutes of play had ensued. With but five minutes of the game remaining Fromhart returned a Pitt punt 18 yards to the Pitt 34 yard line, and Shakespeare and Carideo collaborated in taking the ball to the Pitt 19 yard line. Three plays gained nothing, and with the precious seconds ticking away the remaining two and a half minutes Fromhart called upon acting captain Peters to attempt a field goal, seldom used in Notre Dame play, from the 26 yard line. Fromhart held the ball as Peters’ foot swung back and met it. The upraised arms of the referee and the bedlam in the South stands conveyed the news that the kick was good and that Notre Dame had defeated the Pittsburgh Panther for the first time in four years. Jubilant students and teammates acclaimed Marty Peters as the man of the hour with cheers that •were deafening.
Then followed a wild two minutes of play with Pitt desperately trying to score and the Notre Dame supporters yelling for the gun, that would signify Irish victory, to be shot. Pitt attempted double laterals and passes but to no avail, and the game ended with Fred Solari intercepting a Pitt pass.
The entire Irish first team led b\* Shakespeare, Carideo, Peters, and Millner played great football reminiscent of the Rockne era when a Notre Dame team wouldn’t be beaten. Pressmen acclaim the team as the greatest Irish squad since Rockne, and the Pitt performance last Saturday only added more force and truth to the statement.
The lineup:
Notre Dame (9)	Pittsburgh (6)
Millner ______________LE____________ Souchak
Pfefferle ____________LT_____________ Matisi
Lautar----------------LG----------Glassfor.l
Solari -----------C Klisskey
Martin _______________RG	Dalle Tezze
Kopczak ______________RT_____________ Detzel
Peters _______________RE_______________ Shaw
Fromhart _____________QB_________ Michelosen
Shakespeare __________LH___________ Randouer
Woicihovski _________RH______________ La Rue
Carideo ______________FB____________ Patrick
Touchdowns — Patrick. Shakespeare: field gial—Peters (placement).
Referee—Frank Lane (Cincinnati). Umpire. Frank Birch (Earlham) : Field Judge, J. S. Gethell (St. Thomas) ; Head Linesman. W. D. Knight, (Dartmouth).
NOTRE DAME 6; NAVY 10—1934
October 2 5, 1935
Twenty-one
FOOTBALL PRACTICE (Continued from Page 14)
a last effort to get ready for the kickoff on the morrow.
Mike Layden, right half who has been out for two weeks with an injured leg, was back in there during all practise sessions and from all observations he appears to be all set to help sink a couple of ships Saturday along with the rest of the team. John Michuta of course will not play, and it seems as if he is out for the season. Frank Kopczak in replacing Michuta last week played a fine game and more than ever before showed that he can capably handle the tackle position which was so unexpectedly thrust upon him by the sudden loss of Michuta. If the line holds as well as it did against Pitt, the Sailors had better prepare for some stormy seas tomorrow. The Irish are ready!
UNIVERSITY INAUGURATION
Announcement has been made that November 15 will be the date for the inauguration of Dr. Herman Gerlach James as the twelfth president of Ohio University. This announcement was made by the Board of Trustees and the faculty of the University and invitations have already been sent out. Among the college executives invited is the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame.
PLAY COMPETITION
Stage magazine this week announces a drive for one-act plays in an effort to revive this form of 'art. Authors are invited to submit their manuscripts for publication, and plays found acceptable will be paid for at the rate of $100 upon their appearance in the magazine. Only plays which have neither been published nor produced will be considered. Contemporary plays and those which can be acted within 45 minutes ■will be favored.
Contestants are advised to retain a carbon copy. Stage reserves full publication rights, but no production rights. Send manuscripts to Stage, 50 E. 42nd St., New York City.
BITS FROM OTHER CAMPI
Northeastern University in Boston will award two Civilian Conservation Corps scholarships of §100 each this year. The money will be applicable on the second payment of tuition of §200 in the colleges of liberal arts, business administration or engineering.
The University of Texas will in time become the richest institution of learning in the world. It owns two million acres of land that will yield oil and precious metals.
Twenty-two	,
SO THEY SAY
(Continued from Page 15)
Irish of Notre Dame, victors over Pittsburgh in a 9-6 thriller last Saturday, today find themselves once more occupying a spot in the sun where other Irish teams held forth so often.	'
Off that dramatic, last-minute victory surge over the Panthers Elmer Layden and his squad must now rate high up in the top flight of college football a special target for every squad they must face in the next five weeks of the season. And that is true despite the fact that this team of Layden’s, game, able, offensively strong and above the average in smartness, is definitely not yet up to the par of Notre Dame’s great years. —James S. Kearns, in the Chicago Daily News.
Notre. Dame’s football team came from behind to smite down the Panthers of Pittsburgh, 9-6, before 51,000 spectators today. It was the largest crowd to watch a Notre Dame home game in the last four years.
Twenty-three of the Ramblers -were heroes of the victory tonight as campus and town went wild, but it was Martin Joseph Peters, the 6 foot 3 inch, 205-pound giant from Peoria, Ill., who was the toast of toasts. It was Peters, the basketball star, who provided the precious 3-point margin.
With the game deadlocked at 6-all and three minutes to play Marty dropped back on Pitt’s 25-yard stripe and booted a perfect placement to win one of the most gruelling gridiron duels in al! Notre Dame football history.—Paul Michelson, in the Associated Press.
JOURNALISM SPEAKERS
Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, spoke Thursday evening, Oct. 17, in the journalism room in the library on the subject, “What Constitutes News.”
“Anything that is of interest and is timely is news,” he said. He cited the example of Joe Louis, who two years ago was of interest to no one outside of his relatives and friends but who now is constantly the subject of feature articles and news stories.
Saturday morning, Oct. 19, Ray Hunt, picture editor of the Chicago Daily News, addressed the members of the department of journalism in the basement of the library. Mr. Hunt spoke of the problems that confront the. tabloid editor, the means used to get pictures for this type of paper. He said there was more call for good newspaper men now than there has been in the past ten years.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS NEWS
The Knights of Columbus will hold their first Communion Breakfast of the year next Sunday. These affairs constitute one of the most pleasant activities of the local council and are always looked forward to with considerable spirit.
Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh has been selected by Lecturer Edward McNally as the speaker for the occasion. Speakers of the highest type are always obtained for these events, and Father Cavaugh fulfills this requirement.
The Knights will assemble at the eight o’clock mass and will receive Holy Communion for the brother of Frank Matavovski and the father of Phil Clark, both deceased. Breakfast will be served at nine o’clock in the faculty dining hall.
At the last regular council meeting held last Monday, Professor Paul Bartholomew was the principle speaker. Mr. Bartholomew gave an interesting and instructive talk on the constitutionality and practical application of the A.A.A.
A highly spirited discussion was carried on during the business meeting, nearly all of the members present taking part in the rather heated argument. The motion at issue was tabled until the next meeting.
PROFESSOR RAUCH SPEAKS
“Shakespeare and the Modern Di- . lemma” was the subject of a talk given by Professor Rufus W. Rauch of the University English department at the October meeting of the Catholic Forum held Monday, Oct. 21 in , the LaSalle Hotel.
Professor Rauch pointed out that Shakespeare lived in times just as troubled as thte present and that the w philosophy of his work shows that he foresaw much of the struggle between might and right that has taken place since the Elizabethan days.	,■
Others from the University who participated in the discussions were: Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., and Rev. Patrick Duffy, C.S.C.	4
Paul Martin, former editor of The I Scholastic, now associated editor of the South Bend News-Times, gave an interesting survey of the Catholicity j of the philosophy found in the works of Shakespeare.
The next meeting of the Forum is scheduled for Monday, Nov. 18.	-I
-------------------------------I
HERE AND THERE
Probably the most unique scholar-	1
ship in America is one offered by Hamilton College. Worth §500, it is open to all men in America by the ' name of Leavenworth.	4
A Colorado University student	,
caught drinking is forced to attend Sunday school for three years. Yes, every Sunday.	L
The Scholastic
NAVY SERIES
(Continued from Page 15) tion of being one of the college elevens that has played before the largest crowd in the annals of American football. The Gold and Blue squad met the sailors in 1928 before the record breaking assemblage of 120,000 spectators.
Previous to this meeting Navy had lost two games by narrow margins, and the Irish had taken the measure of Loyola (New Orleans), and felt defeat at the hands of Wisconsin’s Badgers. It was not until early in the final quarter when Niemic faded back and tossed an aerial to Colerick that the Rocknemen finally penetrated the stubborn Navy defense for a 7 to 0 triumph.
In 1929 the Irish came from behind to turn back the Middy tide at Baltimore. Navy had registered a touchdown late in the initial period to lead momentarily. A few plays later the Green ground out a 62 yard march which was climaxed by a pass from Frank Carideo to Elder for the tally.
Forty-five thousand fans were on deck in 1930 to witness Navy and Notre Dame dedicate the local stadium. They not only saw impressive ceremonies, zut also viewed Jumping Joe Savoldi in the role of leading point-getter that left the sailors far behind, 26-2. The big Italian got three touchdowns, one of them resulting from a 48 yard gallop.
In 1931 and ’32 Hunk Anderson’s squads rolled over the Midshipmen with ease. In the former struggle the regulars were dismissed at halftime after piling up a comfortable margin. Sliding and slipping on a muddy, rain-soaked field the Irish succeeded in plastering a 12-0 beating to Navy in Cleveland’s Municipal Stadium during the season of ’32.
The future admirals pulled the unexpected in 1933, when after an exchange of punts in the first half Buzz Borries skirted the Green’s right flank for the only marker of the afternoon. Last fall, the Hamilton crew led aagin by Borries and Slade Cutter launched an aerial attack that culminated for a score near the end of the initial stanza. Then with resumption of play in the final half Skipper Cutter place-kicked the oval through the uprights for* the winning percentage. Andy Pilney streaked up the sidelines in the waning moments of action, while a well aimed forward to Marty Peters a few minutes later gave the Irish their only score of the day
Johnny Fogel, Notre Dame third string center, had a record of intercepting 16 passes and scoring 11 touchdowns while at Mt. Carmel High School in Chicago. It was Fogel who intercepted a pass in the Wisconsin game and ran for a touchdown only to have the play called back.
October 2 5, 1935
FORWARD PASS (Continued from Page 16)
successful use of the forward pass, had sponsored the triumph of the new spectacular aerial game over the old-style line play which was so much a part of football systems everywhere. The game had finally been opened up making it less dangerous for players and many degrees more interesting for the spectators. At first many critics condemned the forward pass as a happy-go-lucky play that would fail more often than it would succeed but consequences have proved otherwise until the present day when the forward pass is as much a part of the game of football as the pigskin sphere itself.
Down through the years the pass developed with more and more intricate formations being introduced and each year it was used in Army-Notre Dame games, always playing an important part in the subsequent outcome. In 1916 the soldiers out-passed the “Irish” in their annual fray thus turning the Notre Dame invention into a Frankenstein.
Along came 1920—Gipp year— Army game! That day besides running, plunging, and kicking, George Gipp passed—“a thing of beauty” said newspapers. Army lost 27-17. Gipp has been adjudged by many experts as the greatest passer of them all and the day after the 1920 game his play was said to be the greatest individual game seen at West Point since the afternoon when Jim Thorpe of the Carlisle Indians defeated the Cadets single-handed and single footed.
Came the Four Horsemen to claim their spurs. In 1923-24 these gallants ran through and tossed passes over Army teams for two victories, 13-0, and 13-7. “Outlined against a blue grey sky” warbled Collier’s Grantland Rice,” the four horsemen rode again. In dramatic lore they are known as Famine, Pestilence, Destruction, and Death. These are only aliases. Their real names are Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden.”
Down the calendar Notre Dame continued to pass to glory not only in Army games but in their other frays as well. In 1928, 80,000 screaming fans saw Notre Dame defeat the Army 12-6 because of a supreme strategic move by their coach who sent in Johnny O’Brien in the closing minutes of play to catch a long pass from Niemic to run to a touchdown and victory. The coach of course was the revered Knute Rockne who had invented the forward pass 15 years before and had achieved remarkable triumphs by its use ever since.
Now in 1935 the forward pass is seen everywhere that football is played and it ranks as one of the outstanding characteristics of the game. The forward pass stands as a monument to Notre Dame and to her beloved son, Knute Rockne.
CAMPUS OPINION (Continued from Page- 9)
should enter the next Olympics but only if it is to be conducted without religiuos prejudices expressing themselves. The Olympics are international games and have always been run on the highest principles of sportsmanship. Such principles are not being followed in Germany at present, so why not hold the games where fair sportsmanship is certain to be observed?
William Fallon, tennis, Alumni: “If Olympic candidates are assured of a fair chance to prove their merits there is no reason why this country should not engage in the next Olympics. Fair play is a maxim of the sporting element in this nation and the members of our team are not selected on the basis of their respective creeds. Certainly we should be represented and perhaps a beating by our men might convince a certain European political figure that religious purges are not apt to help the international sentiment towards his high handed attempts at dictation in ' a sphere about which he knows nothing.”	'
LIBRARY PICTURES
Four paintings and two marble busts by distinguished artists have recently been added to the University’s Wightman Memorial Art Gallery as loans from the collections of Dr. N. A. Ferri, Mr. Edward Roch-baum, and Mr. E. J. Rose, all of Chicago, Hl.
From Dr. Ferri’s collection appear “David and Goliath” by G. F. Barbieri (1590-1666), the Italian historical painter famed for his strong colorings and use of shadow effects; and “Christ” by Francesco Solimene (1657-1747), another Italian painter, whose style is known for its ease and surety rather than for its grace and truth. These paintings hang in the North Gallery.
The “Circumcision” done by the Dutch painter David Vinckelbooms (1578-1629), and loaned by Mr. E. J. Rose, hangs in the West Gallery.
Mr. Edward Hochbaum has placed on exhibition in the West Gallery “The Rainbow,” a work of John Constable (1776-1837), British landscape painter who is especially noted for his treatment of sky as a compositional quality.
The two busts, also from Mr. Hoch-baum’s collection, are the work of the English sculptor, Sir Francis F. Ghan-tery (1781-1842). Mr. Chantery’s work is exhibited in the West Gallery. One shows Queen Victoria at the age of 18 and the other is a likeness of her husband Prince Albert, both of which are noted for their characteristic and pleasant expressions.
Twenty-three
