
K0TF£IHME:SJi0igSn(
•PIS^E-Q^SI
x/i vt •	SI • ^A S •/\Q i\lT\/l^/S •
Vol. XXXII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, April 15,- 1899. .
No. 27
Love and Hate.
FRANCIS C. SCHWAB.
SF I should find that you were cold to me And did not come as freely as your wont, Until I felt it was a stinging taunt
To look upon your face;—if I should see In you no trace of what you used to be, . Till your departed love my couch should haunt, - Till all the streams ran low within life’s font,—
Should I.then judge hate forced your love to flee?
Nay, n • y, dear heart, you should not think it so—
Disuse may do what too much use will do;
The coward’s fear, the courage of the brave, May cause the same effect; and therefore know
That signs of hate may sit on love’s brow too. A garb of hate oft hides a love grown grave.
He Used his Latin.
FRANCIS J. MAURIN.
OHN SANDERS had finished the medical course and spent his last vacation in those enchanting Maine woods . immortalized by Thoreau. Upon his return home he had many adventures to relate, but none so
interesting as the one he told me when I visited him last autumn. We were speaking of the utility of the dead languages one evening at supper, when John said that the discussion reminded him of an adventure he had had that summer > in the Maine woods: At our request he told it.
One day in my wanderings through, a dense pine wood I came upon a hut. It seemed so unusual to find .any sign of the genus homo in those solitudes that I determined to find ■out what sort of being had made this place his
. abode. When I came closer to the hut, two and said with a grin:.
fierce dogs ran out of a kennel-near the door- “You can cure my dog?”
step to attack me. . I drew ouU my revolver in defence, but had no occasion to use it, since the occupant of the hut came forth and commanded the dogs to go back to their kennels.
The old man—for such was the occupant of the hut—greeted me and asked me what I wished. In my dilemma, I answered tliat I came to get a drink. At this request, he invited me into his hut where he told me to' be seated while he prepared a cup of coffee. While he busied himself at the fireplace, I became greatly interested in the equipment of the hut. The first thing that caught my eye was a-huge . volume lying open upon a rude writing desk. The bracket above the desk was piled with the works of Emerson and Thoreau, Defoe’s Robinson Crusoe and a few volumes on natural history and botany. Under the desk was. an . herbarium and a microscope. All these things convinced me that he was an intellectual character.
While I. sat gazing at the only picture on ' the wall—a miniature of a young woman—he placed the coffee and wafers before me.and bade me. drink. He conversed with me while I supped the coffee, asking what I was and what I did here. After answering these questions, our conversation drifted upon various -subjects—literature, natural history, botany, and finally upon dogs, on which topic he became, eloquent. . ,
“My dogs,” he said are dearer to me than men could ever be. Men betray and deceive; dogs, never.” Here he petted his.dogs fondly.
I left with an invitation to calf again. When I knocked upon the. door on my second visit . I received.no answer. Impelled by curiosity .1 opened the door slowly, and saw . the her- .: mit leaning over the form of one of his hounds. , When I greeted him, he turned round strangely, . .


•S5S-.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
47°
I approached the dog, and upon examination found that he was dead and already corrupted. The hermit watched me closely as I examined the dog, and when I told him that the dog was dead, he said weirdly:
“But you must cure him.”
I answered with a smile: “ How can I cure a dead dog?”
“Then I will make you cure him,” he said, and he drew from his writing-desk drawer a revolver. “ Now,” he said, pointing the gun at me, “ will you cure him?”
A cold feeling came over me when I realized that I was dealing with a maniac, and I said confidently: “Yes, I can cure your dog.” This satisfied him, and I pretended to examine the dog, but really was racking my brain to discover some means of escape. A thought struck me, and I said wisely:
“Your dog can be cured, but I must have the drugs.”
“What' drugs?” he asked. I answered by mentioning two of the most difficult names in materia medica. To this he said nothing, and I' suggested that either he or I go to get them. This suggestion he answered with emphasis.
“Neither of us shall go.” Then he called out, “ Sancho, Sancho! ” At the sound of his master’s voice, the remaining hound came bounding through the open door.
“Now,” said he, “write your prescription;
Sancho will take it to town.”
Here I pulled out my memorandum, and jotted down these words in Latin: “In magno periculo sum. Statim ad me venite.—J. Sanders.” I handed it to him, secretly fearing he might know Latin. He looked at it with a satisfaction that drowned my fear, and after addressing it to Dr. Smith, I placed it in a pouch on the . dog’s collar.	-	_
At his master’s command to take the note to John Wabbelson, the dog ran off with as much intelligence as a human being. I had three long hours to wait, since the town was twenty miles distant. All this time the hermit . clutched the revolver and stared sadly at the dead dog, often calling him by his name.
Suddenly human voices were heard at the door. At this sound the hermit raved, cried “ Deceiver, deceiver,” and aimed the pistol at me. Lresigned myself to death. As the door opened the pistol clicked. The rescuers, perceived the situation, seized the madman, arid wrested the weapon from his hand. I examined the revolver and found its chamber empty.
Ideals.
J. CLYDE LOCKE.

‘ Everett Winthorp was wealthy. His.father had lately died, and as Everett was an only child, he inherited all his father’s immense fortune. His wealth, however, could not all be reckoned on a money basis. He had, besides his worldly possessions, a pleasant disposition, a great, warm heart, and, in short, all the qualities that went for winning him many friends. Of a liberal education, he possessed all that modern institutions of learning were capable of giving him; nor did he lack any xof those qualities which are so essential to a young man, and which the world above all things else admires in him, namely, push and energy.
But Everett was in a predicament. He was involved in a love affair,— a love affair that
had begun in his boyhood days. When he was ? but a child he had played with a little maiden	:
on the street. The two became schoolmates;	i
and more than ordinary schoolmates they 1 were, for their names were coupled together : in the little love rimes of their companions. ; Ere their school days were over, friendship had 1 ripened into affection, and as the years went • । on, affection had been conquered by that I powerful god—Love. Then they had plighted I troths; some day they would marry.	|
Now that Everett had come into possession I of his great wealth, he was confronted by that | question which nearly every sensible young 1 man of wealth has pondered on: “Does Char- I lotte really love me for my sake, or does she	1
love me for my wealth?” This was the question | he often repeated to himself. “I really love | her,” he would meditate, “ but still I have my	1
doubts about her sincerity. I am certainly	1
justified in weighing this matter well before I	i
go too far. Then, Charlotte has her faults, too, | serious faults. She is not quite my ideal.”	I
Poor Everett was at an age when he could	|
begin to see imperfections; but he had fallen	|
into the error of believing that some things	|
must be perfect; he did not know that perfec-	|
tion was a negative quantity here on this	1
earth. He had. his ideals, and,was moved with	]
the impulse of youth to find them. He had	?
his ideal woman. She was not Charlotte. He	;
dearly loved her, but was intoxicated with the	1
absinthe of idealism. Arid his doubt of the	;
sincerity of . her love he used as a shield .
I
kJ

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
behind which he would engage in the bitter strife of capturing his ideal.
In the wilds of the mountains in a land far across the sea, a lonely hermit had taken up his abode. A rude cave in the mountain side was his only shelter, and for clothes he used the skins of the animals he had killed for food.
One dav as the hermit sat before his cave gazing into the valley, he was surprised to see his haunts disturbed by another human being. A man was coming straight toward him through the - shrubbery.
“ My young man,” said the hermit, when the stranger had almost come up to him, “what
seek you here?” ■ “Something I can o not give,” answered “And pray, what hermit"
“ Peace of mind.”
not the
is
And think you that
471

find, or that you can stranger.
that?” inquired the
I can not give that?
First tell me your trouble, and then 1 will use my charm and relieve your mind of its burden,” answered the hermit, making a few mystical signs. ’
“I fled from the woman I loved,” said the stranger. “We were engaged, but I doubted her love for me. I—”
“ I know,” said the hermit interrupting him. “She was not your ideal. You thought her false; you also saw her defects; and you fled from her to break your engagement. You have since wandered in foreign lands and have met strange women; but among them all you have not found your ideal. Listen, my friend, here is the charm.
“When I was a young man as you are now, I was a painter. I was ambitious. I hoped to paint something that would out-rival all the works of art—something that would be a masterpiece of masterpieces. I determined to paint scenery; and I set out to find a model. I could run across nothing that suited me. I saw defects in the mountains and hills, in the forests and in the fields; the ocean was not grand enough to honor my canvas, and it was a waste of. time, I thought, to use oil to reproduce the imperfect lakes and rivers. In what seemed a fruitless search for a model, I came to this wild mountain land, I was sitting beneath that tree yonder, one evening, and . I happened to turn my gaze heavenward; the starry firmament met my sight. And as I looked upon that great Work of God I was struck with amazement. There was a perfect
model. I had travelled through many lands for a model when I could have found it at home. : I began to paint, but soon I despaired- I had ' found my model, but could not paint it; it was beyond my power.	'	.
“ My friend, you see me here to-day a lonely hermit. And why? Because I despaired when I found that I was not worthy of my ideal. I thought Providence cruel and heartless. Young man, you seek your ideal woman. She may exist, but not here on earth; you are not worthy of her. But do,not do as I did. Despair not. Be content with the lot for which God intended you. Go—go back to your sweetheart. Where your love dwelleth, there dwelleth also what is nearest to your true ideal.”
The hermit still dwells in his cave in the mountain wilds; but long ago Everett Win- . thorp took Charlotte Travers to be his wife. , And many times, now, as they sit beneath the starlight before their pleasant home, Everett thinks of the realization that came to the . hermit, and thanks the same stars that the hermit did despair, and was able to tell him this story.
“The Old Clock.”
RALPH J. ELLWANGER.
Mr. Blake had moved into his new house, and was just settled when his wife suggested that they should give a party to open the
new mansion. Mr. Blake sented, and invitations were friends.
The night of the party
accordingly con- ' soon sent to their
came. At eight
o’clock everyone was present. Of course, the ' host showed his guests around the house. — While they were roaming about, he called their attention to an old clock. He told his friends . of his great attachment to this timepiece, and . grew quite pathetic at certain points in his remarks, which he closed by saying, in a voice full of emotion:	-
“Gentlemen, I have wound up that clock every night for forty years.”	;
He had evidently made an impression on his visitors,— a solemn impression, had not some one, who had been carefully examining the J clock, cruelly remarked:	.	.	. .<
"Well, I always did think you were something of an idiot. That’s an eight-day clock.”



^5-
A*

-;a
472	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Two Deaths.
LINUS C. O’MALLEY.
Xn old man tottered out into the moonlight. The snowflakes shone as opals and diamonds. Between rows of trees that appeared sombre even in the moonlight, he walked—walked until he came to the gate of the cemetery; slowly, tremulously, he crept in. The tombstones were ghost-like. Down on his knees he sank by a new-made grave, so new that the black of the upturned earth and the white of the snow were mingled, producing a desolate grey effect.
A cloud obscured the moon—all was black. The quietude became more intense, broken only by the old man’s sobbing and the mournful wailing of the wind through the branches of the trees. Another heart was broken.
Kindly the snow covered the quiet form of the old man. The next day the feeble sexton dug another grave.
They had not been separated long.
How I Lost my Dinner.
FRANCIS C. SCHWAB. .
At last I was seated in the train. My desti-zr nation was a small place called Ampton, and on my way there I passed through the town of Marlo, where my aunt, who is a widow, lived - with her daughter. I had written to her several 'J days before that I should have dinner at her house at eleven; for I had to continue my journey at noon. I promised, however, to stop ' on the way back in the afternoon and spend my. entire vacation—a week—with her.
Strange to say, I had never seen either my aunt or her daughter; but from descriptions of her I knew that she was an amiable old lady, and . _ I was told that my cousin was very pretty.
My aunt replied to my letter, expressing.her pleasure at my coming. She also said: “I am sorry that no one will be at the station, to meet you. Julia will be away till half-past eleven; but you can easily find the place. You will see from the station a row of six houses exactly . alike. Mine is the third from the corner.”
~ When the train stopped at Marlo, I hurried > off—the only arrival at the place. The town > was smaller than I. had thought. I walked
along the platform. past the solitary individual whom I supposed to be the station-master, and looked around. Sure enough the first thing that caught my eye was the row of houses, directly facing me. There were two paths— one leading-to each end of this row. I took a short cut to a position opposite the space between the middle of two houses, and was trying to decide which one to enter. I was saved that trouble. A slovenly-looking girl opened the door in one of the houses and smiled. She came to the gate.
“How do you do?” she said,and then without stopping, “ Ma told me you wuz cornin’. • .
“Great Scott,” muttered I, as I heard this butchery of English issue from a large mouth set off by a pug nose, “ mighty fine cousin this is.” I managed, however, to tell her I was glad to see her.
“ Jes’ come in and set in the parler. I guess you kin play the pianner. We’ve got a new un, Ma’s .got the key, but I kin get it for you.
I resolved to make the best of it—at least till I got my dinner.
“Indeed,” I said, seating myself at the open window overlooking the adjacent lawn, “ I don’t play the piano.” -
“Don’t you? Now that’s strange! Jim Daly that works in the plainin’ mill kin play ‘ Home, Sweet Home’ and lots of tunes he made up himself.”
The rattle of dishes in the room back of us gavte me courage:
“ Jim Daly must be a remarkable, man,” I said, wondering why my aunt didn’t come to greet me. The girl informed me.
“ Ma’s busy with the dinner. She’ll.see you as soon as she kin get away.”
By this time I had decided that this would be the last meal—if I ever got it—that I would take under this roof. I made,up my mind to tell my cousin that an engagement would rkeep me in Ampton all week, so I could not stay with them. I started in:
“I am sorry I have to, leave so soon after dinner, and that—”	-
“Oh! are you? Ihn sorry too. We could have a nice talk. I started to take singiri’ a couple of months ago.”. / j :
This was getting worse; I said nothing to this choice bit of information. I was- afraid she would volunteer to sing.
My silence didn’t disconcert my attentive cousin in the least. She continued:
“Yes, I practise singin’ everyday. :Ma’s kind agin it; but, the^parson. said in his sermon
.-;-£=5w
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
473
las’ Sunday" that a young girl ought to be . accomplis’d. So ma isn’t so down on it now. .
She thinks .the parson’s just so. I don’t think
, so much of him.” ,	.
“ I have no doubt that the parson is a good .man,” said I, stealing a look at; my watch?— “Twenty minutes past eleven!” I was getting anxious about my dinner. I couldn’t afford to miss, that train. The rattling of the dishes became more violent. The girl was silent. I said:	-	. '
. “I am afraid that business—” -	'
“That’s it. You men alius have business. Jim Daly’s alius figerin’ in his book that he carries in his pocket.”
“Yes,.I shall be kept longer—”
“Poor Jim’s that way too. Why, he often stays in the mill longer than seven in. the"-evenin’.”	'
I gave it up: My cousin kept on eulogizing Jim Daly. I waited and waited; she talked and talked. After a while I took another peep at my watch—“Twenty-five minutes to twelve.” This was getting serious, I did not like to mention dinner to my cousin. She knew I was . in a hurry;, for she undoubtedly saw my letter.
I heard a gate-lock click just then, and looked ..out the window just in time to see a pretty girl'go into the next house. I made a final effort to tell my cousin that I could not spend my vacation there.
“ I shall not be here for supper nor all next week,” I blurted out, expecting a gush of disappointment from her.	.
“ That’s too bad,” she said. ■
“So you’re getting cool,” Lmuttered, “then 1’11 stay away without saying more about it.”
At that moment I heard a heavy knock on . the front door, and then, the old lady herself came through the hall to see the visitor.
Out of the window by my side, I noticed a
Varsity Verse.
z-.	. AT THE FOOT-LIGHTS.
fRESHMEN past-and Freshmen future, Students, friends; and all. our readers, _ We the class of nineteen-nought-twp, - ?
Make our timid bow before you, .	= ' .
Here present to you-our efforts, r Our. attempts at writing stories,
. Essays brief and sprouting poems,— .	~ .
Anything, in short, to please you. . •
. Judge not harshly these productions; "	,
Though we’ve tried to make them 'plbasing;;./ Stilb we know they are not perfect; ■	.
So we. beg. younkind indulgence, : ♦ Z As you read to-day’s Scholastic. .H..E. B.
THE ORPHAN’S “IN MEM,ORIAM.”	'
'•	' -	' I-	. ‘	.	■ ’
. The hand that , lies upon your brow,
. And; fondly clasps yourown, > . L. ; The smiles that, greet you gently.now, . - - .
The voice of kindly tone, . .	1
The patient heart that yearns, to please, And soothe away-your tears,— ’ :
Dear boys, you will-remember?these, - s- • : -	- In after years..	, . ;	. .
. -	. ?	- II. ' J . ■/ ■ -	:
The fairy-land of. youthful joy . < Soon vanishes from sight,. '	.
And time will many “a dream, destroy . That dazzles with delight? - <	'
What can replace a mother’s kiss?	; -
Her love that hushed your fears?
Deaf boys, you will remember, this, ...	.
In after years.
R. J. E
kind-faced old lady standing at.the, next gate • .
- WHEN SPRING IS HERE. .	. .
When sparrows chirp the whole day long And fill?the earth with, gladsome, song;
When buds'are sprouting from the. trees And fragrance charges every breeze,— <
Then spring is here. -	'
The robin with.his blood-red breast -
Is here to make the earth more blest; - J The brilliant“ white Is changed to green;
Nor. ice- nor snow can then be seen; -■ • -	. When spring is here.	;
Mi

ft-

■3
and the girl I saw before in the doorway.
“I’m sure that train came in,” she said; Julia, you run- down to the station and ask the station master if anyone got off to-day.”
Then I saw my mistake. I rushed out and explained to the man at the door, that I had got into his place. I told my aunt and cousin about it, and I hurried to the train without any dinner, just as a file of men went into the boarding-house I had been in. I came back, however, and spent my vacation very, agree- ’ ably, except that once in a while my pleasure was marred by the sight of the girl with the. pug nose.	.	.	. .
Then can we hear the silvery, brook .	<
' That murmurs in the shady nook; " . 1 •
Then can we see: the clouds of. white
'	. That-float within the golden light, ' i
When spring is here. . .
0 then indeed the sky is blue,— ’	;
All nature has a brighter hue, . - .'.-tk? The crocus peeps up from, the ground,. ■ There’s gentleness in every sound, . .
When spring is here. F.X.S?
,	DISAPPOINTMENT.	>
At break of day a ship sets out to sea; .	-	<
Twilight, the wreckage floats along the shore: : .
.. E’en sb, from hopes storm-dashed on the sea of time Mem’ries’alone come drifting back to me. , L. O’M.





• -I
+74
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

A Modern Ghost Story.
HENRY E. BROWN.
The rooms of the Manhattan Club of New York were crowded. Every seat in the readingroom was occupied, every cue in the billiard-room was in use. Down in the bowling alley scores of men were patiently waiting their turn, and above them in the gymnasium scores of others were boxing, wrestling, contesting in all the various trials of physical skill and endurance. And besides all these, there were many others gathered round the card tables or seated in groups idly talking.
In one of these groups were two young men most opposite in character and appearance. The first, Harry Marvale, was a small, slender fellow, with light brown hair and a face that was almost girlish. His form was slight, but one could see that it had been made strong and supple by long practice in athletic sports: indeed, Marvale had been considered one of the best quarter-backs that Yale ever produced. And yet despite his football reputation, Marvale was timid-to the last degree, and was so easily frightened that he might almost have been called cowardly. Even to-night, as he sat there surrounded by friends, he turned deathly pale and trembled like a leaf at every fresh flash of lightning or thunder clap. The other man, his direct opposite, was Jackson Bort. Bort was a comparative stranger to most of those present, for he had but lately
come to New York, and was not even now a . regular member of the club. His name had been proposed by the president of the club who . knew him only slightly himself, and he had been elected an honorary member. ; He was a dark, small man of stocky build, with what might have been a handsome face, had it not been for the sneering expression almost always there; besides this, at times there came into his eyes a look that fairly made the flesh creep. During the three weeks which had elapsed since his first appearance at the club, he had made but few acquaintances and not one real ' friend.
1 Shortly after Bort joined the group in the club, there came a frightful clap of thunder, Ibuder and sharper than any that had yet
come. Marvale started perceptibly when the clap came, and after it had passed he sat for . several seconds pale and trembling. Bort had
seen Marvale grow pale, and now, turning to
the man next to him^ and with the sarcastic . smile on his face more pronounced than ever, he said in a voice loud enough to be heard by every member of the group:
“That- poor little fellow has been tied to his mother’s apron string so long that he’s about as much a coward as a two-year old baby. I believe if he were to see a rat he’d have a fit.”- .
Marvale heard this speech, and all his nervousness vanished instantly; turning angrily toward the speaker, he said:
. “I suppose you think you are brave; well, I’ll bet you one hundred dollars I’m not as easily frightened as you are.”
“Done!” cried Bort eagerly, thinking he had struck an easy mark. He reached out his hand; it was grasped by Marvale, and the bet was made. Instantly a crowd gathered around them, and eager questions poured in from all sides. “What was the bet?” “How are you going to decide?” “How much time are you going to take to scare each other?” By consent of both betters it was left to two men, one selected by each better, to decide these questions. These two men brought in the following report: “Each one is to do whatever he can think of to frighten the other, keeping, of course, within the law, and doing no harm to his opponent. They are to have until the evening of the second day thereafter in which to work.” With that the men left the club and -took their separate ways to bed. Next morn. ing when‘Marvale appeared at the club, one of
a
5 % & i 'Si


i
1
his friends came up to him and drew him into one of the side rooms.
“ Say, Harry,” he said, “that fellow Bort came up to me this morning and asked me if you were -afraid of ghosts. Of course, I had heard, about the bet you two made last night, and so I knew what he was up to.”
“What did you tell him?”
“Why,.I told about the time some of the fellows played.the ghost racket on you at Yale, and how you were so blamed scared you came near kicking the bucket. I told him it wouldn’t be right to try ghost with you and he promised
riot to do it; but somehow, I don’t take inuch stock in him, ancbso I thought I’d better let you know.”	:
“All right, old -fellow, much obliged- to you. I don’t think he’ll be able to do much now, for?forewarned is forearmed.’”
He shook hands with his friend and started away. . Then an idea seemed to strike him, for stopping abruptly he turned round and came



- ’ ' l;

NOTRE DAME. SCHOLASTIC.
47S
back to where his friend was still standing.
“Say,” he asked eagerly, “did you tell him that it would be dangerous to try the ghost racket on me?”
“ Yes. I told him you were so deathly afraid of ghosts that the shock would most likely be too much for you.” .
“Good for you, old man! By Jove! I believe we’ll be able to turn his own game against him. And say, old fellow, don’t tell anyone that you told me about this. I’ll have to go and fix things up.”	.
Having again bade his friend good-bye. he left the club and started to walk down town. He had not gone far before he caught sight of a cab. He hailed the driver and was soon e #	I
inside, having first called to the driver—“To the wax-works.”
Meanwhile, Bort on his side had been preparing for the night’s work as ghost. For he had not hesitated for a moment about carrying out his plan, although he had been told that, the result might be fatal. The scheme which he had in mind was made possible, owing to the fact-that Marvale was, at the time, staying at the very hotel at which he himself stayed.
Late that night, or rather during the first hour of the next morning, a white, muffled figure might have been seen, to steal out of Bort’s room and creep softly to Marvale’s door. Here a bent,wire was inserted into the lock, the bolt was slid back and the door .was softly opened. Once inside the room, the figure closed the door and the place was left in darkness. Next, the figure moved silently to the middle of the room. Here the hood which had covered the head and face was thrown back. The face which was then revealed was horrible to see.- The eyes were sunken in their sockets, the cheek bones seemed ready to break through the skin, and the mouth seemed a perfect volcano, from which fire darted forth continually. For perhaps a second the figure stood thus; then the right hand was lifted and swung forward, and the next instant something hit against the pillow on the bed. Twice this was repeated; at the third trial the missile struck the sleeper. The sleeper stirred and seemed to rise upon his elbow. Then there came a gasping cry, the sleeper fell back on the bed, and all was still. Instantly the ghost lost all semblance of ghostliness. The white covering, which turned out to be . a sheet, was thrown aside; the false face was removed, and Mf. Bort appeared in his true form. A low laughiof.triumph came to his lips.
“ Ha, ha, my little gambler! I guess I win out this time. L hardly think you’ll be able to L scare me into fainting as I have you. Now -for a grand awakening.”
So saying he walked lightly over to. the washstand, picked up a pitcher of water, and . again approached the bed; he poured the whole contents of the pitcher on the sleeper's face. The sleeper never stirred. Now it was J Bort’s turn to be frightened. The warning which Marvale’s friend had given him in the morning now recurred to him in all its force.
“My God,” he hoarsely whispered, “what if.this has proved fatal?”	’
In an agony of dread he stooped over the - : sleeper and placed his ear close to the mouth; * he could hear nothing. Swiftly he placed his hand on the sleeper’s breast; there were no pulsations of the heart. A low cry, half groan t half sob escaped the wretched man. He fell full length upon the floor.
When Bort came to, Marvale was bending over him, and by his side stood the two men who had been chosen to decide the bet., ‘.‘You see,Bort,” said Marvale, “I knew that. you were coming to-night, and so I asked these gentlemen here to be present. They have decided that I win the bet.”
“Well, but I don’t understand. I was sure ,. your heart wasn’t beating when I felt it.”
“Oh! that was easy,” said Marvale. “Here, . let me introduce you to my friend,” he added, and, going to the bed, he pulled back the covers and revealed a-wax dummy. “You see -when I found but what you intended to do, 1/ . got this thing rigged up and concealed myself ■ behind the bed. You know the rest, and 3 think you’ll agree that I win the bet.” ; .
“ You can have your old bet,” growled Bort, as he slunk towards the door.
Marvale made the two judges promise that they would not tell of the night’s adventure, . but somehow the story got out, and Bort has not yet heard the end of it.	,
Against the Twilight Hour.
How sweet it .is, against the twilight hour, When all the daytime’s tedious toil is o’er, When books are put aside and “duties” done, To rest the mind of all its studied lore.
And when the Prefect taps the silver bell, How. gladdening, is the thought of slumber deep
So soon to come; how sweet the long, calm rest;. God bless the man who first invented sleepl , .	.	. J 5. ’ '	.	’ L.M.F. Z.
I

476	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Who Is Who.
SEDGWICK. HIGHSTONE.
As I alighted from the car, a wet morning several weeks ago, in front of the Traders’ Bank, where I was employed as teller, I espied an envelope lying on the curbstone; although I was late for work I stopped to pick it up. It was saturated with water, and the address was obliterated; but in the accustomed corner was an uncancelled stamp, showing the letter had never been mailed. I .put the letter into my pocket, and there it remained till noon. When I had given the waiter my order at the restaurant, where I was accustomed to dine, I thought of the letter, and decided to. peruse it while being served. I found the envelope, •unsealed it, and drew out a single sheet of . paper. But the paper, like the envelope, was . in a bad condition from exposure to the rain; . the address and salutation of the letter were both indiscernible. With great diligence, how-O	O'
ever, I succeeded in deciphering the remainder of the letter which read as follows:	•
Mr.—I shall expect you this.evening at 8 o’clock. Come. Don’t fail.—Alice Jackson.
At home, April io.	101 College Ave.
I was at first tempted to throw the letter away in disgust, but on second thought a bright idea occurred to me. Alice Jackson - was the beautiful woman I. had seen at the theatre a few nights previous accompanied by Sir John Langdon, who, I was informed, would , soon lead the fair Alice before. Hymen’s altar. My friends had often remarked about the great likeness that existed between Sir John and - myself; in fact, they declared that I was his “ double,” and, indeed, I was of the same opinion as I gazed upon Sir John that evening for the first time. Miss Alice had doubtless intended this note now in my possession for . Sir John; for to what man would she take the liberty of writing in this free and familiar manner but to him? Yes, it must be a message to Sir John, but Sir John shall never be the recipient of the note. Why should I not . . impersonate him, and call on her in his place, A receive the sweet kisses, the angelic smiles, and catch the melodious; words as they , fell .:	from her petal-like lips ’ Yes, I would do it.
.	7 I could scarcely wait for the hour to arrive
~A-A when the bank would close, but finally I had A ? placed the last book in the vault, and found A? myself out in the open air ready to begin F : A ? my bold undertaking. I immediately sought
my tailor and hatter, procured a silk hat and . i other apparel corresponding to that worn by j Sir John, and eight o’clock found me pressing | the button at the Jackson mansion on College Avenue. I was at once ushered into the drawing-room by the maid, who, thinking I was Sir । John, did not ask any superfluous queMiions. | The moment I crossed the threshold I became 1
- 1 very nervous; my collar seemed to choke me | (it was a very high style such as my counter- | part was wont to wear); my gloves began to | rip up the sides, the air seemed stifling. At last | I heard gentle footsteps, the curtains parted, i and a middle-aged lady with snowy hair stepped | into the room. What was my surprise! I never- | theless concluded that the woman before me | was the mother, and I must greet her as Sir I John, doubtless, was accustomed to do. With I flushed face I arose and clasped her hand, and ] was still more perplexed to receive the follow- 1 ing greeting:
“ Sir John, I am delighted, but still surprised to see you, as I thought while Alice was in New York, selecting her trousseau, the rest of the family would not be favored with your presence.”
Alice in New York—and still I had found	j
the note written by Alice that very morning!	i
Could I be dreaming? There was a mistake somewhere, so I must continue to play my part until the mystery is explained.	;
“Yes, I am greatly disappointed this, evening,” said Mrs.. Jackson," as I expected the caterer to call that I might talk with him	J
about the wedding luncheon. I wrote a note	’
to him this morning, requesting him to call 5 at 8 o’clock, but he did not comply. Those ; caterers are such an independent class. . I
At last I saw it all: the note I had found—	i
curse my luck—this morning, was most cer-	’
tainly the note written to the caterer, and	|
not to Sir John. Fool that I was to jump	1
at conclusions! But how came the signature,	|
Alice, at the end of the note? Simply enough	I
after a moment’s reflection. Alice Jackson	|
was the name-of both mother and daughter.	I
■ A A A—-—' ' —»■— ----------	•	I
.	The Race .	~ |
. ' -A ' 4	•; ■ \	' -j
“ Pit-it-ty, pi-it-ty,” down the track .	]
>	~ Goes the fleeting; bay.	1
- Swiftly her hoof sends the echo back!	!
. “ Pit-it-ty,* pit-it-ty,” down the, track,,	!
A . Now she is past, the foremost black, ,	j
,	^ A Leading the rest of the way;	1
A . . “Pit-it-ty," pit-it-ty,’’-down, the track -	.	|
- . Goes'tEetfleetihg,bay?" N. R. F..	. |
"?'A\A	> ;/A VA .	" *	- -|

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
477
Their Fateful Boat Ride.
ALEXIS F. COQUILLARD.
Harry Bronson was now twenty-five years old. Since his graduation, four years ago, he had hardly been able to earn a living.
This bright May afternoon, Bronson was desperate. The rent for his room was due. He had only fifty cents in the world, and might not have a job for a week. While in this dismal mood, his door opened and the landlady handed him a letter. “Another bill,” thought Harry; but soon he perceived his mistake when he saw the handwriting. It was from his college chum, and on it was written:
“Saratoga Springs, May, 1896.
Dear Harry:—Come, spend a week or so with me at my summer cottage. Be on the 6:14 train to-night. I’ll meet you at the depot in Saratoga. -
Your chum,
Phil Stuvesant.”
“Of
I’ll be
Phil giving
course, I’ll accept the invitation and mighty glad to do it?”
met Harry at the station, and after mistake. Poverty is generally an advantage.
him a hearty greeting, said:
• “We’ll hurry home and eat a good supper.”
The first few days were spent pleasantly: boating and fishing took up a great deal of the time. On the evening of the fourth, Phil brought Bronson to call on Miss De Vos, the belle of the resort. She was beautiful and besides this her father was a millionaire, owning much stock in the New York Central.
Miss De Vos was charmed with Bronson’s handsome face and graceful manners. She asked him to call again. He was determined . to marry her. He called again and again.
Now, Bronson had only three more days to spend at Saratoga. He realized that something must be done promptly, so he formed what he thought was a good plan. That evening Bronson invited Miss De Vos boat riding, and she accepted the invitation readily.
Sunday was an ideal day for boat riding. At
two in the afternoon Bronson assisted Miss advanced the army of deliverance. Ignored
De Vos into the boat. He rowed around the lake for twenty minutes. Then, while rowing hard, he let an oar drop. When he bent over to reach it he upset the boat. Both fell info the water. When Miss De Vos appeared above the surface, Bronson put his arm around her waist and swam to a dock near by where they were quickly rescued. This was ‘ not difficult to do, since Bronson had one foot on bottom all the time. \
Meanwhile, Mr. De Vos had been walking along the beach, probably thinking over some railroad transaction, and saw the whole performance. He understood what were the motives which led Bronson to cause the accident. Though he felt like administering a severe rebuke, he kept his temper. . .

He also
kept his daughter.
Great Men.
GEORGE W. KUPPLER.
To become great, you must work. It is only ' through hard and persevering toil that men reach prominence and renown. We have many , examples right in our own country, where . poor, humble young men have written their ? names on the tablet of Fame.
We often hear it said of this or that man that he was born of the poorest and humblest " parents, and that with every obstacle to overcome, he became great. This, I believe, is a .
The majority of the intellectual giants of ‘ the world were nursed at the sad and tender . breast of poverty. The majority of those who/, have climbed highest on the shining ladder of-fame began at the lowest round; They were -./ reared in the moss-covered huts of Europe, in the log cabins of America, in the factories of our large cities, amidst the smoke and din of // labor and on the verge of want; they were . rocked by the feet of mothers whose hands, / at the same time, were busy with the needle . ■ or the wheel.	;
Great men do not live alone. They are surrounded by the great They are the instruments used to accomplish the tendencies of their generation. They fulfil the predictions of their. _■ age.	.	•	.	?
Through all the centuries gone, the mind of man has been encompassed by hosts of' ; strife and jealousy, Slowly and painfully.has .
by those they wished. to rescue, hated by those they were longing to save, these noble soldiers and. deliverers fought without applause, labored without thanks, suffered with--out pity, and many have died vilified and abhorred. :
These great men sacrificed all for the good of mankind. They gave all and did all: that men might- strive for right. In their endeavors they lost all but truth and self-respect?




478
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
iwmmiw.
RTF
Notre Dame, April 15, 1899.
Ipu&Iisfjcto c&rrg ^aturhag touring JTrrm Eime at Ji. B. ISlnibrrsftg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
_ Terms, $i.50 per Annum. Postpaid. • Address:	THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Board of Editors.
SHERMAN
RAYMOND
PAUL J. STEELE, ’97; O'MALLEY, ’98;
JOHN J. DOWD, EDWARD C. BROWN, JULIUS NIEUWLAND, JAMES F. MURPHY,
99; ’99! ’99;
995
LOUIS T. WEADOCK, ’99;
LOUIS C. M. REED, I9OO;
RAGAN, ’97;
THOMAS A. MEDLEY, ’98;
JOHN F. FENNESSEY, EUGENE A. DELANEY, JAMES J. TRAHEY, JOSEPH F. DUANE,
99;
’99;
99;
99;
MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, ’99;
FRANCIS O’SHAUGHNESSY, ’oo;
THOMAS J. DILLON, I900;
ST. JOHN O’SULLIVAN, I9OO.
F. X. MCCOLLUM,	\
H. P. BARRY,	£
HENRY S. FINK,	'
Reporters.
—The University was highly honored by some distinguished visitors yesterday: Father Whitney, S. J., Father Conway, S. J., President and Vice-President of Georgetown University, Father Lehy, President of Holy Cross College at Worcester, Mass., Father O’Hara, President of Mt. St. Mary’s College, Emmetsburg, Md., Father Sherman from St. Ignatius’ College, Chicago, Father Callahan; Roger Park, Chicago, and Father Fox from Fordham. The students regretted that these gentlemen had to hurry away so soon, and hope they will come again to visit with us longer.
—In this issue the Scholastic introduces to you some of its younger friends, whom we have been pleased to admit to our fraternity. The. members of the board of editors will be t making their farewell bow in the course of a . few ‘weeks, and these fellows that take our places this week are likely candidates for posi-_ tions at the editors’ table in the next year. At present they are the rhetoricians. Not a startling name, to be sure; but nevertheless the . young men have very clever traits about them. 1 As an initiatory bow into our fraternity they
come forward and present you with this, the of the seven that were put out: Mr. F. G. Rhetoric number of the Scholastic. - *	*. Schoonover was-elected Vice-President.
—The Scholastic, in congratulating Messrs. Steele, Schumacher and Barry, feels as though it is paying a compliment to itself, for all three of the gentlemen belong to our board. Steele and Schumacher are staff-members; Barry is one of the reporters. Thus, as we have had ample opportunity of learning the capability of the men, we feel quite certain that we will have a terrific celebration around the sanctum about May 4. .The Scholastic men have won everything thus far, and they will win again. After going through the severe ordeal in the preliminaries here' they should be ready to oppose any theories the men at the capital city can advance. It is certain that they will hold up our side of the question in such a manner that Notre Dame may feel proud of them, for they are all representative men. There are others among us, it is true, that could do good work and are noted for being long-winded fellows. Yet these gentlemen failed in the struggle for first place, and now it becomes them to bow to the winners, for they are the best, as they have proved themselves capable of- holding down all others. Messrs. Steele, Schumacher and Barry are the Varsity debating team; Notre Dame puts her cause in their hands. Success to them!
—Good, manly young fellows are the residents of Carroll Hall. • Recently the Philopa-trians,one of the societies of that department, went to South Bend to hold its annual banquet. Some of the members, forgetting that they were representing an institution where none but gentlemen will be kept, ventured to grow over-hilarious, and their conduct was very unbecoming. The remaining members of the Philopatriansf—and not they alone, but the whole student body of Carroll Hall with them,—were unanimous , in denouncing the actions of these few. Steps were taken at once to show the University that Carroll Hall men will not be backward in. maintaining their portion of the honor of the institution. A meeting of the Philopatrians was held, and the seven disorderly members were ejected. No sooner was this known than other members of the hall, wishing to show their, approval of the measures adopted, hastened to apply for membership to the: society. Eight new men—Messrs. Sinnott, . Neeson, Kortlander, Phillip,.Irwin, Banholzer,
Hubbell and Zeiglef. were admitted in place

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
■ 479
Books and Magazines.
Pictorial Lives of the Saints. Edited by John Gilmary Shea, LL. D. Benziger Brothers.
This is a book of five hundred odd pages, profusely illustrated, and issued in a form that can not fail to attract those that are interested in the lives of the great saints of the Church. To the busy Catholic of to-day, who should know at least the main events in the development of the Church’s history and in the lives of the holy men and women of the past, this work is invaluable, because within its substantial covers is contained a concise and interesting account of those that passed their days in the service of God and of their neighbors. After each “Life” is given a suitable reflection, so that the work is at once a prayer-book and a history of the Church. Every Catholic family in the land ought to have a copy of this book, which is so cheap that even the poorest can possess it, and so well edited and printed that the simplest and the wisest can. equally enjoy it. This work will certainly go far toward stamping out of the minds of Catholics the ignorance which prevails—more widely than is generally supposed—in matters of the first interest. [Price one dollar.]
Elementary Physiology. Benj. Moore, M. A.
New York. Longmans, Green and Co.
The number of text-books on every topic has become so great that it is a matter of no little difficulty to make a selection. Even when
you have succeeded in this you are not done, ,
for new ones appear so frequently you must be ever choosing. In science this is particularly true, and more especially so in the science of Physiology. Most text-books on this subject have much-in common. Mr. Moore has done what other recent writers have done: he has given a clear, scientific, elementary -treatment of the subject of Physiology. He has, however, done more than other authors on the subject have done: he has added an original feature which makes the book more valuable and desirable for use in elementary classes. He has summed up the subject in convenient form by adding a number of well-selected and important questions covering the principles of the science in an appendix. By this means the student may gain a sound elementary knowledge of his body easily. .	.	-
—We recently had the pleasure of reviewing.
a clever little book of recitations by Lucia B.
Griffin, entitled “The Wedding Gown.” The, and against the President at that time.
selections'are new and quite varied in charr acter, and, together with the half-tone portraits that are on every other page, make the book very valuable to the student of declamation.
—The Rosary is a splendid Catholic magazine. The April number is unusually , pleasing with its choice variety of stories, prose arid' verse. The essays are very vyell written, and deal with subjects deeply interesting to every. American Catholic. The stories are all clever, and well worth reading. The verse is as good as we commonly find in magazines.
—The Literary Digest is the. most cosmopolitan high-grade news magazine published^ In its columns are no weighty essays or lengthy, stories; nothing but the most condensed and best news on politics, science, history, art and letters finds room in its pages. By the squibs taken from leading newspapers of the country,; the Direst furnishes the combined views of good editors on political questions; the-letters of Stevenson and Landor deal with literature and art; other columns contain notices of inventions, religious discussions and foreign topics. All in all, the Digest is a valuable and praiseworthy publication.	.
—A first-class American magazine is the monthly published by J. B. Lippincott arid Co. of Philadelphia. It lacks the depth, and stateliness of thought that mark. the Forum ■ and North American Review, but in its varied;




make-up it is, perhaps, more acceptable tp.the ordinary reader. One does not always read to fill one’s mind with'information touching upon great political, literary or historic questions^ There is another kind of reading, perhaps far more extensive and that is followed by lovers. Of fiction. A magazine containing in-its. col-, umns both fiction and essays cleverly written = is the one to take most readily with the public. The publishers of the Lippincott magazine seem to be very fortunate in the selection of matter for their columns, or at least: we would think so from glancing over the pages of the April number. In this edition there, is a lengthy but complete story by Anna Robeson Brown entitled the “House, of Pan.” It is.a
$

>^4
clever thing, and the plot; works out fairly well. The article, “The Men who Impeached Andrew Johnson,” by Frank A. Burr, is interesting in many ways. First, because it gives , one a good idea of what an important affair the trial was in our history; secondly, becausei it follows the lives and fortunes i of the men/that voted for




3SS
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A Word to Candidates for Athletic Teams.
Steele, Schumacher, Barry.
In Popular Science for April, 1899, there is an interesting article on the effects of tobacco on the physical development of college students. Dr. E. Stuvers, from measurements of 187 of the class of 1891 at Yale, found that the nonsmokers gained in weight during the college course 10.4 per centum more than the regular smokers and 6.6 per centum more than the occasional smokers. In height the non-users of tobacco increased 24 per centum more than the regular users and 12 per centum more than ■ the occasional users. In increase of chest-girth the non-users had an advantage of 26.7 per centum, and an increase of lung capacity of jj.y per centum.	.
Dr. Edward Hitchcock made observations on the class of 1891 at Amherst with these results. In weight the non-smokers increased during their course 24 per centum more .than the smokers; in increase of height the nonsmokers surpassed the smokers 37 per centum; in gain of chest 42 per centum, and in gain of lung capacity 75 per centum.	'
In France the difference in scholarship between the students that smoke cigarettes and those that do not was found to be so marked that the government forbade the use of tobacco in all government schools:
The increase of lung-capacity in the two colleges mentioned is very significant. An athlete’s power is not in legs, arms, back, but in his heart and lungs. A smoker can not have “good wind.” ;
Fermentative dyspepsia, sour stomach, acne or pimples, in college students are nearly - always effects of tobacco. Irritability, dulness,' distaste for . study where a boy may really wish to work, but can not force himself to
The final debate in the ,series to determine who should be the men to represent Notre Dame at Indianapolis, was held last Saturday evening. There has been spirited fighting all through the preliminaries, and the race for honors was very close. Many that were picked for winners six weeks ago dropped by the way in the early debates, and the result has overturned many predictions.
Those debaters that expected to win realized early in the year that they would have a very hard fight to make, and thus went at their work with earnest endeavor. This made the contest very interesting, so much so, that those that had money to bet that they could pick the winners, soon began to realize that there were many after that honor, and that their favorites- could not put these others aside as easily as they expected.
In the very first preliminary some good men dropped; in the second more strong men found themselves out of the race, and when the lineup for the finals was reached, the following six men were left: Messrs. Tierney, McCollum and Steele for the affirmative; Messrs. Weadock, Schumacher and Barry for the negative. Of these six, it was hard to predict who would .be the winners, and in considering the many surprises that had come to light during the course of the primaries, only a few ventured any predictions.
The question over which all the discussion has been raised is, Resolved: “That under existing conditions the abolition-by the civilized nations of the world of their armies and navies other than those required for domestic police force is feasible.” !	J
Mr. Tierney opened with strong arguments for the affirmative; Mr. Weadock followed with equally: weighty arguments for the negative. Messrs. McCollum and Steele followed in turn
/	\ do so, are, in nearly every case, results of
. 7 - . a deranged stomach, and the derangement is caused by tobacco.	.
■747’.-- There is nothing in a cigarette itself that for the affirmative; Messrs. Barry and Schu-
\ 7- makes it.worse than other forms of tobacco, but macher for the negative. When al 1 was said 7 z 7 its cheapness, handy shape for a short smoke, and the judges had made their reflection on ■4.4.: and^inhalatibn, are the sources of evil in its argument and delivery, they gave their deci-r7 <:	use. If you insist upon the use of tobacco the sion in favor of the men thus: Mr. Steele, first;
-7. 7 ; safest form is the bulldog pipe, and the best Schumacher, second; Barry, third; McCollum, 7 /7.4 7 bulldog is the Morell McKenzie pipe, which fourth; 2Weadock, fifth; Tierney, sixth. Mr. . 7 7 . 7 ha8 a roll of absorbent paper in the stem; McCollum is the alternate. The judges were
>74//Cigars' irritate the throat and cause catarrh, Mr: J. B. Stoli, Editor of the South .Bend Times, <27344’ 547^	smoke- ex-Congressman . Ford, and Mr. C. O. Davis of
4Y/7 > ;7 are^swalldwedThan when a pipe is used.:	- the Soutfi BendiHigh^Schobl/ The debate’will
4 -/4/44 4	-4 7 3 ”'77//'^ 44y A^	be held May 3, at Indianapolis. -',4 7.7
4	5 / ’	’ -7	- 'x—' x ~ 'J J* 1 “	\	4 z ' ~5'" - < '.is _ 1 •, -	_ -	' ' "
r -<• ’ ‘ • X.- •* «'*“ 1. . - " '	.'■’■‘"*■’7’'.- ' ' _ , I	, * X -	' **.-■*■' - - ~	*"-*'4 ' ' '4 - - Y	4 7 ~ ‘ * - ' '	,	’
- r*; **** - -* * - « - .	■*	' " - - ‘ . 4 _ ■" ». ** * . _ * , 4 - -1. 4 ~ 1 -	~	' - x -	~ 1 '•* - y -	4 ■ ***'---*'.	s	•
’ . 42 4 ■ ■'4 ■='. •• T"* 4	- '2 ~	3 - -- .	- 4 • •_	- "J- ' 4 4"	‘	?/•-■ "S» X"	,4' - ' Z- - — L	w _ ■ '	-
4	> 4-5,: .-g-' _ '■ 7 r .V" >*-	T1' : - ‘ ’’7 '’-"'f-	- 44^- _ -	■- ~ " * 7 .	? '■-O f
—
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. '

Exchanges.
Personal.
The-Princeton Tiger and the Harvard Lampoon have continued their clever nonsense without a break, and not once have they fallen below the standard that long ago was set by them. Their counterpart in the West, the Wrinkle from Ann Arbor, also is exceedingly clever, and it can hold its own in a comparison with its Eastern contemporaries.
* *
The Monthly from the. University of New Brunswick is a very pleasing paper both, in its appearance and in the matter found between
its covers. The division of its made; equal attention seems . fiction, essays and verse, and assured.
contents is well to be given to thus variety is
£ #
The April number of the Dial contains several essays, a story and much.- good verse. The paper on Mrs. Augustus Craven is note- • Worthy; it is very well written and acquaints us with a character that has been much neglected, a “finished artist and Christian lady,”, a novelist, whose name in France is a household word, but whose life and work have been overlooked here in America. “The Royal Archer’s Proof” in the same number is a clever ' narrative poem, and the paper on Macbeth .treats the subject in a very clear manner.- The exchanges and other departments as usual are well written.
The St. Vincent’s
* * .
Journal calls the Scho-
lastic its esteemed contemporary, says that it has no desire to antagonize science, and thus with becoming grace retires from a further controversy upon the subject of empirical psychology. We are very glad to know that the Jottrnal is too sensible to fear that science is a bogy to our religion; but if the Journal man will read over his exchange- column in the March number and notice his statements therein to the effect that psychology is breaking church windows and that evolution militates
against dur faith, he will be forced to admit
against bur faith, he will be forced to admit and has become associated with his father in that we had some grounds for believing that the wholesale, drug business at his home in his anathema Was directed against science in Wyoming. :	.
general father than against a scientific, error. Among theTecent visitors at Notre Dan.
The writer in the Journal, or anyone :else/has .was the Rev. Tather.-.Griffin,-Assistant^ Rector , a perfect right to examme a; new theory; of He, was accompanied,by the Rev. Father Mac-science and point opt error in it, if error there Fadden, the .patriot priest of; Donegal, Ireland, be. But to do this it is not necessary, to cry whose -loyalty to his native land cost him “ Wolf ” at science in general. \	several years’ confinement in an English prispn.
—Rev. N. J. Bies of Bellevue, Iowa, called ? recently at the University.-	•	■ X
—Dr. T. A. Lilly of Chicago spent Sunday with his sons of Sorin Hall. '	\
—Mrs. M. Lawrence of Marion, Ohio, was a recent visitor at Notre Dame. . .
—Mr.Victor Oberting of Lawrenceburg, Ind., was the guest of his son of Carroll Hall. /
—Mr. M. J. Bligh of Logansporte, Ind., was . the recent guest of his son of Carroll Hall. . .
—Rev. F. Fintan, O. B. S., of South Dakota spent, a day of the past week at the University. .
—H. J. McDonald of D. B. Fiske & Co.. .
Chicago, was a recent guest at the University- :
—Mr. and Mrs. William McDermott of Fond- .. du-Lac, Wis., called recently upon Mr. Brucker of Sorin Hall.	.	.
—Mrs. John Maloney of Covington, Ky., was, ;
the recent guest of her son, Mr. Maloney of Brownson Hall.	-
—Mr. M. J. Gibbons and son of Dayton, Ohio, were the guests recently of Mr. Gibbons : of Brownson Hall.
—Mr. Taylor and daughter of St. Louis were	'
at Notre Dame recently visiting Master Taylor of St. Edward’s Hall.	.	.
—Mr. Stewart McDonald, Student ’95-’p7, who at present is attending Cornell, spent last . , J Sunday at the University.
—Mrs. T. Hayes and daughter of Cincinnati _ were the guests for several days last week of Mr. Hayes of'Brownson Hall.
—Miss Margaret Zeigler of Milwaukee spent
^'■35
a few days of the past week at Notre Dame visiting her brother of Carroll Hall.	J
—Mr. James Fraser of New York spent last Sunday at Notre Dame; he was accompanied -by his son who entered the University. \	’
—Mr. George Stoffel of Dayton, Ohio, spent several days of last week at Notre Dame visiting his grandson, Mr. Krug of Carroll HalL
_ —Mr. Thomas Burke Reilly, A. B., ’97, holds an important position in the public schools of ; New York City. Besides his regular work he -expects very, soon to be engaged in lecturing before the night school. .	.	;
—Mr. Frank Harrison, student’94-96, was a recent visitor at the University. Mr. Harrison has completed a thorough course in Pharmacy

§


a
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—The ex-Minims defeated the Minims last Thursday, by the score of 18 to 6.
—Funk (on the bleachers at the baseball game:—“I used to be a pitcher once”
Greisheimer:— “I'guess you’re mistaken.
You must have been a tank.”
—The Carroll Hall Specials have added another scalp to their belts by defeating the “Deweys” of Brownson Hall in a closely contested game last Thursday. The score was 14 to 9. The playing of Noonan was especially praiseworthy.
—Justice of the Peace Weadock held court last Saturday. The case of Gibson vs. Brown wfas on trial. The plaintiff was represented by Messrs. Monahan and Haley; the defendant by Messrs. McCormack and Brucker. The verdict was in favor of the plaintiff. The question involved wras one of sale.
—There is no wonder that we can not have good baseball at Notre Dame when the following names are applied to the teams. The “ Squirts ” and “ Filipinos ” are aggregations of . Sorin Hall; the “ Dew’eys” “ Lobsters,” “ Barnstormers” and “Aguinaldos” belong to Brownson. All the members of the “ Squirt ” team will try to work that name into a yell.
—The tennis players are doing active work in the court of the new gym. It is the best place for tennis we have ever had, and the fellow's seem to know it, if we can judge^from the large number that are doing practice work. The.results are very encouraging, and there is not the least doubt but that Mr. Eggeman will have a team to manage that will bring a few more victories to our University.
—If you are uncertain just what to wear for a spring suit come take a look at “Freddie.” All the boys have been holding back waiting for some one to take the lead in spring fads.
. Fred will fill this long-felt want. The only drawback is that the color of his golfs are misleading. The red, white and blue stripes on his pedal extremites look like a barber pole. Fitzwilliams, O’Riley and McLaughlin were misled by the colors, and followed Fred two miles hoping to get a shave. Fred will be on exhibition in the art gallery at 2:30 p. m.
’	—The sketching class of Prof. Paradis held
its regular meeting Thursday forenoon. Mr.
. M. J. Cooney was elected President; R. L. Fox, ; Vice-President; C. E. Scheubert, Secretary; E. C.
Elitch, Manager. The class will meet every , Reed showed that he was not only a forcible
Thursday. The work will consist of sketching from life and landscape views. All those having any talent, or who would like to take up this work, are invited to be - present next Thursday. The class under the supervision of ■ Prof. Paradis will take a trip into the country and take its first instructions ini landscape , \ drawing? J . ' ~ f
—The Philopatrians held their regular meeting last Wednesday evening, April 12. The programme was a very interesting one. Mr. Schoonover rendered Hamlet’s Soliloquy, in a very pleasing manner. Mr. Bender recited “ The Goblins ” very creditably. Messrs. W. Higgins, McGrath and Mahoney, gave numerous descriptions of the society’s banquet down town last week. Mr. Putnam recited “The Watermjllion Thief.” Brennan sang a song. He has a strong voice, and would become a good singer if he would cultivate it. Messrs. McLaughlin and Maurus were present. A very interesting programme has been announced for the next meeting. .
—While some of the residents of Sorin Hall are growing more refined, others are becoming more warlike. There was a trade over there the other day which, in point of the articles exchanged, is the most unique that ever occurred. Mr. Dorley had an old horse pistol that was made for Julius Caesar, and, having no use for it, tried to pass it off to somebody else. Fitzpatrick had a mandolin of the 1870 model, that; he was tired of playing. Dorley and “Fitz” had a dual concert last Monday. “ Fitz ” clawed off a few agonies on the mandolin, while Anthony shot the pistol seven or eight times. Dorley was charmed with the music of the mandolin, Fitz with the report of the pistol. The result was that they exchanged instruments.
—The last games of the inter-hall chess tournament were played Sunday in the Sorin Hall reading parlors. The contestants were Romley vs. Blackman and Murphy vs. Baab. Baab succeeded in defeating Murphy, deciding the tournament in favor of Sorin Hall. Romley, the Brownson crack, made a clean record for himself by winning every game he played. Blackman of Sorin came a close second, losing only one game. The record of the individual

players is as. follows: Brownson Hall
Won
Romley 4
Gaston 2
Murphy 1
Cortez o
Lost
o 2
o J
4
. Blackman Meyers
. Baab Hay
SORIN
Won
Hall Lost i 2
3
2
2
—The “Squirts,”or square-heads,as you like, of Sorin Hall crossed bats Thursday with the Lobsters of Brownson Hall on the Varsity diamond. There were many startling discoveries made in the course of the game. Mr.
editor, but had more athletic quality in’ his make-up. He actually caught a fly and knocked a foul tip. Shag was there in profusion. He raised lots of dust and otherwise injured the campus with his ox-like movements. The Squirts changed batteries as often as they thought of it, even going so far as to put Meyers in the* box. Murphy and Reuss did
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
i good work for the Lobsters. Murphy worked hard, but after all, he is only, that same “Lobstah.” The result was a tie; but for clean, i correct Iplaying, the umpire was strongly ' in favor of giving the game to Brownson Hall.
—The game of base—very base—ball between the Lobsters and Crabs last Sunday resulted in a score of 36 to 29 in favor of the Lobsters. The members of the Lobster tea.m with Mr. Murphy, the typical, main enthusiast, are strutting about like young Ansons, and refuse ■ heroically to have anything to do with the vanquished. Mr. Murphy was noticeably the :	central figure among the Lobsters, and it was
,	to his skilful work behind the bat (away
behind) that their victory was due. Think of it—he let only 89 balls pass him, he was • knocked insensible several times, but nothing could induce him to leave the game. After the game was won, the players, grateful to Mr. Murphy, demonstrated their joy in a very real' istic manner, administering numerous boyish stimulants to his already bruised frame. His remains were carried from the field, and a good i . Samaritan, perhaps Riley, gently dashed a cup t of water in his face and he came his senses.
The Crabs were evidently weaker than the.Lob-1 . sters, although the individual work of “ Hamm ”■ | and “Greasehammer” merit considerable praise.
They are both expert contortionists.
Head Quarters Notre Dame Cadets. Notre Dame, April 12, 1899.
General Orders, No. 3.^The following is a complete list of the officers for each company of Cadets:—Co. A—Captain, Atherton; First . Lieutenant, Neeson; 2d Lieutenant, McAdams. Sergeants and Corporals rank in the following order: Sergeants—Newman, Sherlock, Evans, Duggan, Stich. Corporal, Britt.
* Co. B—Captain; Murphy; 1st Lieutenant, Krug; 2d Lieutenant, Morgan. Sergeants— Schoonover, Brown, Land, Manderfield, Ernst. Corporals—Althoff, Kortlander, Rush, Best, Weidmann.	.
Co. C—Captain, Geoghegan; 1st Lieutenant, Bellinger; 2d Lieutenant, Werk. Sergeants— Slevin, Sinnott, Fink, Quinlan, Mulcare. Corporals— Moxley, Zeigler, Mahoney, Graham, Giffen, Luken.
. Co. D — Captain, Ragan; 1st Lieutenant, . Curtis; 2d Lieutenant, Eigelsbach. Sergeants— Breslin, Groogan, Clyne, McCormack, Higgins. Corporals—Naughton, McGrath, Kasper, Mct Cambridge, Hogan, Ill. -
The position of Quartermaster-Sergeant is vacant owing to the promotion of Morgan to 2d Lieutenant of Co. B. The list of Corporals for Company A is not yet complete.
.	By order of
.	J. J. Green,-Comd’t of Cadets,
, W. M. Geoghegan, Cadet Capt. and Adj.
483
—Our friends, Anthony and Joe. of Brownson Hall, take unusual pleasure in making their afternoon promenade in the direction of- the little school-house, where a little “ maiden ”	f
tries her best to impart her acquired mental store to the country youngsters. Joe, in his -own gallant way walks majestically into the little school-house, followed by his seemingly backward friend, and after the customary . method of procedure, which embraces numerous smiles, bows and exclamations of joy and surprise, he prepares to question the shaggy students. Then they get an early recess on account of the distinguished visitors. Joe experiences so much delight now that he has to hold tight to Andy or he would be dancing a jig, or who knows but what he might be proposing when the other had his back turned.. Each labored frantically to surpass the other in the number of smiles given and received, but -somehow or other the count lost, for Joe’s face gradually became one smiling whole and remained so. Joe did most of the entertaining, which consisted in delivering a few remarkably stale jokes and many allusions to the pleasant weather. Just how he enjoyed the tcte-a-tete in an old romantic school house, and how delightful it would be to be a pupil under Miss —. Whereupon Miss — blushed, and of course had to say she wished it were just reversed. So they went on, Joe talking Anthony listening and Miss — gigling in-a. girlish manner, until circumstances made, it imperative that the visitors should leave.
- --Baer’s Terriers and Hennebry’s Rough Riders met on the field in a game of baseball; the stakes were two pies, and each team , was -determined to win or lose its pie. John Svens-den came to bat with blood in his eye; he had played ball in Cincinnati, and his team looked upon him as its prop. The umpire called one strike, John looked at him scornfully; two strikes the umpire said, the-crowd yelled in derision;.then.when three strikes were called, a riot nearly ensued, but the catcher fumbled , the ball, and, like a baby carriage, John started . for first base. Schaefer followed John at bat, having learned baseball in Paris, and, being a left-handed batter, he started for third instead of first base. But these little mistakes did not stop the interest of the game. Jack O’Brien was handling the ball for the Rough Riders, like Riley handles MacDougals “ Long Toms.” Sylvester Sullivan started after three fouls and .pulled the tail feathers off two. Me-Laughlin was making an enviable reputation in the pitcher’s box until—came to bat. He struck the ball at the center of curvature, and started -it skyward as though -gravitation existed only in text-books. John, Baer, Hamiltori.and_M.pren tore across the field after the ball—they all had their eyes upon the airy visitor, and came together with a clash.: That is the reason why the game wasn’t won—but it wasn’t lost; yet
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
through superior knowledge of the law, the Rough Riders took possession of the pies. Baer thinks John lost the game; but when we look at his superior sliding, his wonderful propensity to strike out and coach, we must say the gods were not propitious.
—The Minims are a revelation in athletics.
There are at least ten Carrollites who had this idea well fixed in their minds.
have
Both
departments had ■ their representatives in a dual meet which was held in the new gymnasium Sunday afternoon. The Minims were victorious by a score of 58 to 14. They feel elated over their victory, and justly so. Even though they did hamper their opponents by barring out any very promising athlete whom the Carrollites wished to have in their team, still the chances for victory seemed to be equal. Williams, Blanchfield and Taylor made a good impression on those who witnessed the various contests. F. Weidmann made the best showing for the Carrollites. The Carrollites were so sure of victory before the contest began that they would not allow their younger brothers more than fifteen or sixteen points. The score indicates plainly that the tables were turned; and the princes ran away with the big score, while the Juniors worked hard for their few points.
The Scholastic is glad to see these interhall meets started again, and hopes that it will lead to the old-time rivalry that once existed between the various departments. This will . build up our athletics wonderfully. Now that we are members of the Western Intercollegiate Association we can not allow any opportunity to pass that will in any way help to push our - teams to the front. We congratulate the young boys on the showing they made Sunday, and will watch their work with interest in the future. . The following is the summary:
‘	40-yard dash—Williams won; Blanchfield .
second. Time, :O5|-.
9J) shot put—Abercrombie won; Blanch-field second. Distance, 26 feet.
.■ 880-yard run—Strong won; Kasper second. Time, 2:52. _
_ Running Broad jump—Williams won; Com-' . erford second. Distance, 14 feet 5 inches.
Pole vault—Taylor won; F. Weidmann, second. Height, 6 feet ,7inches.
. ~ 220-yard dash—Williams won; Blanchfield second. Time, :3Of.
440-yard run—Blanchfield won; Wagner second. Time, 1:14.	'
:	High, jump—F._Weidmann and Williams a
tie. Height, 4 feet 3^ inches. Weidmann won : first place when the bar was lowered. ,
? 4O-yard: hurdles—Williams won; :Weidmann
- second. Time, :07g.	i .
The Varsity Track and Field men acted as	.	-
officials. J. Eggeman was starter; M. Connors ,:Summaiy—Notre Dame, y^SouthBend, 2. TJree base
j A -	j ■ • j t --hit,-Brown.; Two-base.-hit, Audleman;,Fleming, Brownf2).
and P. Corcoran . were judges,p-and :Mr. , J.DoublfLplayrMcCdrmack.toClark-td,Gaffney. Umpires, ’McLaughlin;, timer.-	\ ;	-Gibson and;Eggeman. ,p-4,	. ; - -
—The Varsity played its first game last Thursday against a team from South Bend. If we can judge from the first showing of the men we are going to have the fastest team this year that ever played under dur colors. Holland made his first appearance in the box and did very well, allowing only four hits, three bases on balls, and striking out eight men. He and O’Neill, the freshman catcher, were the two men of the team most closely watched by the rooters, as they were the only men that had not played before on some of the sub-teams. O’Neill has a hard task on his hands to step in and fill the place left vacant by Powers. However, if he plays as well all season as he did in his first game he will not be a disappointment. He is a sure back-stop and a good thrower. Captain Macdonald will play as well at first if not better than he did last year, when he made a record for himself as one of the best first basemen in the West. Brown at second is a good man and a heavy hitter. Fleming and Donahoe need no introduction to our readers. They will both play faster and hit better than they did last season. The outfield — Farley, Becker and Follen—had no opportunity to show what they could do, as the only balls that reached them were a few grounders. Considering that they had no practice this spring the visitors played a very strong game. The double play in the first inning by McCormack, Clark and Gaffney was the prettiest play of the game. When they are properly organized and have played a few games together, the men from the Bend will have a good team. They scored two runs against the Varsity on an error by one of our players. -Dwyer, Arndt, McCormack and Audleman did the best work for them in Thursday’s game. The line up and summary are as follows:
South Bend	A.B.	R. H.	S.H.	P.O.	A.	E.
Dwyer, s.:s.	4	0	1	1	-7	3	1
Arndt, 3 b..	4	0	1	0	O	0	0
Bryan, c. f.	.	4	0	0	0	I	0	0 .
Gaffney, 1 b. (C.),	4	°	0	0	12	0	1
Schaefer, 1. f. '	4	1	0	. 0	0	1	0
McCormack, p.	3	0. 0	0 .	I	4	I ‘
. Audleman, c. . .	. 3	.1 -1	0	I	0	■7 ,
Clark, 2 b.	.	3 -	, 0	0	0	. 4	4	2
La Field, r. f.	3-	0 ’ 1	0	0	0	I .
- -	— •	■ —	■ ■■		I —	■ -
Totals	32 ■	2 -	4	I	24	12	8
Notre Dame	A.B.	R. H.	S.H.	P.O.	A,	E.
Donahoe, s. s.	4!	. I 2	’ 0	•4	4	Q
Brown, 2 b.	'5 -	- 2 ',2’.	- io	4	. 2	O
' Fleming,' 3 b. '	. -5' .	- 2	3	0	. 1	0	I
McDonald (C.), rb.	; '4. -	p O '	1 .	11	0	0
■Follen, r. f.p. p '	.4 :	O < I .	' . 1 ’	. 0	0	O
Becker, c, f. \ .	4	1 1	0	p	0	- O
Farley, 1. f. ' . \	.4	0 :-O	1	b	0	O
. O’Neill, c.	. -	' ’4 - .	i 0	1	9	1	0
Holland, p. '		. 0 ■ 0	. T .	8	4	0.
- - _		—-	-	1. .	— ■	. ■ -	J-	*	
' -Totals’ --	37 ’		-■ 5 A	•37	•II	I