
,. 

Cl) 
s 
0 
..
..
c.) 
C
......c 
u
Cl) 
c.) ~ C
w ~ 
+, 
Cl) ..,a
z ..,a ::,. "'C ~ 
Cl) 
-
N 0 .... .... (I 
IZl ~ C:
<( "d. ~ 
..c Cl) C. 
.....,i 
... 
~ ~ en 
C
(.9 ~·­
Cl) ::s ....
I <( 
0 ~ <
u,~ ('I') \0 
.... 

~ ""' QI 
I-
z 
z 
~ w 
E-4 
C 


::::, 
I­
U) L 
-U) 
w 

~ 
<( 
C 

·W 
I-
u,
·o ~ z 


5 


Program Guide 

Request Line: 631 -6400 Mailing List:· 631 -4070 


Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  
7 -9 a.m  Marc Hillygus  Emily Dauis "Just for the Waitresses"  IOdel Pagelen "The Coroner's Report"  
9 -11 a.m.  Mike Seel "Ya sure ua betcha"  Kate Babka "Spacely Been Hu rt"  PaUI Phllllps "CTHULHU Broadcastina"  
11 -1 p.m.  B111 Lamonica "Junior Samples' House of Stllle"  Matt O Mike  Chris Weirup "Dr. Loue and the Prime Directive"  
1 -3 p.m.  Anne Healy  Sal Cllelln & Keuin Kriner "The Good Touch, Bad Touch Show•  Chris Goodwin "Sellout"  
3 -5 p.m.  Lnns Seidensticker "Mu Shorn"  Ron Fanelli "Ron's Entry into P~kn11"  Doug McEachrn "So whats the big dealabout pauement onyway?"  
5 -7 p.m.  Doug McEachrn & Kate Connell SKR!  Peel Sessions 5 ­5:3D Spoken Word 5:3D -6  Dead Rir  
Ethnic Music  Anne Marie  
7 -9 p.m.  Kelly Daugerdas "How Catholic Rm I?"  States of Rhythm  Erin Koukoulamatis "Return of Reagon Youth" 
Sports Talk  
9 -11 p.m.  Jason Lyons "Puncture Wounds of the Stars"  Lael Tyler "LIi' Blobner and the Pon-goloctlc Soiorfilm Hunt"  Joe Adams  
11 p.m. -1:45 a.m.  James Kennedy "I'm. Only Doing This o Impress JJ Philbin"  Joe t..:annon "Tweezer S:p,fi,o:h"  Ted Leo "Srning Heil"  




rn 
rn 
(L) 
u 
u 
:::s 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
(L) 
~ 



M 
0, 0, 
T"" 
0 
M 
a: 
w 
m 
:E 


Ii: w 
w 
UJ 

Special Shows 5-7, or 7-9 Monday: SKA/Ethnic Tuesday: Syndicated/Spoken Word Sports Talk Wednesday: Dead Air Thursday: Disco/Industrial Friday: Reggae Saturday: Hip Hop Sunday: Metal 

of the Fighting Irish 


Sunday

Thursday 
Friday 

Saturday 
Justin Cole

Sarah Oauis 
"The Lots or Rodiont 
Boiled Juicy Show" 

Kelly Burns & 
Ted Liebler 

Jennifer Fa ill a 
"Jet Set Go rage Sole" ., 
(The Swinging Sounds) 

Joe Murphy 
Steue sostak 
"Trumpets, 

"Giue Me a Shot rumpets, Trumpets" 
at Letterman" "Who likes


Susan MarH 
Limbaugh~ I do!
,,. 

Matt Fischer 
ean Sulliuan 
"SIJOA" 

Classic Cheese 
Industrial 
with Mel 

Craig Gillard "Totally 
-;; 

Hndy Ennis 
"Anyone Who Soys 'Bubblegum Grunge' Hosto Spend-the Night
.. 
Doue Sheppard end Jon Sobelstrom "Reggoe sunsplosh 
Hour" 
nno 


10:00 a.m. -1:00 p.m. 
Bear! 
Jeff Brady 
nnie enes y "Psst.•• the cookies ore done. Yeoh, the 
ones with the 
. roisins!,, 
Joe Euans & 
ChrisBlanford "Barf" 
racy nnion "Recovery Room" 
Paul Rhee "g·azing •.. " 

Chr-is Concannon Owen Smith & 
Nancy Strzelecki "Its Kosher with Us" 
Eric

Jack Rusina 
Christiansen 
eonmne ou er Kelly Snouely 
11 Potholders, Licorice. 
ond the Leprechaun 
,ltm le of Oeoth" 



Metal 
LarmoyeuH 
"Just Likes Le as" 


FROM THE EDITOR 
Each year, various students are cited by the S.U,D.S. task force for underage drinking, whether in a bar or at a party. And each year, the same students react angrily toward the citations. They feel wronged -singled out for committing a crime that the majority of students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's commit frequently. 
Actually, these students are in the wrong place at the wrong time. The South Bend police force is not singling out a certain student; the South Bend police department is doing its job. By going to that bat before turning 21, by walking over to a party at Turtle Creek with 125 of you closest friends and having one or two or 10 beers before turning 21, even by stopping at a friend's apartment for a quick drink before going out before turning 21--:'-all of these are iJlegal. If you drink before you turn 21, you are breaking a law. If you get caught, you'll get fined. 
I'm not trying to be preachy or holier-than-thou, just realistic. I drank before i turned 21; I went to all the bars I could get into ... until I got caught. 
And I blamed the police. But it was no one's fault but my own. S.U.D.S. is out there. And if you go off campus and drink before you turn 21, you too may meet S.U.D.S. But, remember, they are only doing their jobs 
· when they write out that citation. Turn to page 4 to learn more about 
S.U.D.S. and underage drinking at Notre Dame. 
ALSO IN THIS ISSUE ... 
Campus life writers Bridget Bradburn and Daniella Schmidt show what it's like to be at Notre Dame when your significant other isn't: the pro's and con's of a long-distance relationship. Sports writer Chris Regan takes a look at the extremely talented and successful women's volleyball team. News editor Mark Mitchell examines a directive from the Office of Student Affairs banning all dormitory initiation rites. And Entertainment writer Steve Susco relates his summer experiences as a production assistant on a movie set with Oprah Winfrey. 

HELLOS AND GOODBYES ... 
Scholastic welcomes T. Ryan Kennedy to the editorial board. Ryan will be News editor Mark Mitchell's assistant for the remainder of the year. Scholastic also says farewell to Entertainment editor Tony Leonardo, who will. be pursuing other interests. 
Which reminds me, we are still accepting applications for a to fill the spot. If interested, please call or stop by the office. Enjoy the issue. 
-Margaret S. Kenny 

Scholasticis pub/ishtdwttkly throughout tht schoolytar tXctpt 
Utters to Scholastic must bt typed and include "the writer's name, durl11g a1:1mination ,:urd vRCation ptriods Rt tht University of 
addrtss and phone number. University students should include Notrt Dame, Notre Damt, IN, 46556 and printed at Tht Paptrs, theirytar in school and coll,gt. Faculty members should include Inc. Milford, IN 46542. Tht subscription rat, is $25,00/y,ar and 
their department. All letters must be signed, Names will b,back issu,s are avai/ablt at $1.25 /copy, Th, opinions expressed 
withheld upon request in certain instances. in ScholRstic art those of the. RUthors and edit.ors and do not 
Scholastic rtseroes t~e right to reject letters that are libelous or 
necessarily represent tht opinions oftht entire editorial board of 
obscene by the laws ofth, Unittd States, Scholasticalsowill ttlit Scholastic or ofth, University ofNotre Dame, its administra• 
for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic tion, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent 
style. necaustofspace,Scholastic cannot print all letters received. 
tht opinion of tht majority of tht ,x,cutivt tditorial board. 
Mtl1tuscripts artwelcome. Allunsolicititdmaterials btcomt tht 
Address all correspondence to : property ofScholastic. 

Tht Editor Scholastic Copyright 1993 Scholastic Magazine. Allrights restrutd, Repro· 
Lafortune Center duction in whole orin partwithoutwritttn ptnnission is prohib­
Notre Dam,, IN 46.;,;5
ited. 
SCHOLASTIC 


NEWS 






Death Sentence 
Student Affairs shuts down hazing and initiation rites with a searing new directive 
by Mark J. Mitchell IV 
Fifty freshmen are kneeling on the pave ment, dressed only in bed sheet togas, hanging their heads while upperclassmen drag dead fish ac:ross their heads. This is not :EAE, it is Zahm; this is not rush week, it is Odin; this is not Michigan, it is Notre Dame. And Student Affairs has decided to make that distinction very clear. The solution: ban all initiation rites and hazing on and off campus. With an official directive having the force of a university regulation, Student Affairs has entirely prohibited any sort offreshman initiations which go beyond activities termed 'welcoming.' The directive reads, "The only way in which to assimilate new members into this community is to welcome them. Initiation­related rites, ceremonies, exercises or ac­tivities of any kind jeopardize the self-es­teem and safety of students, affect the uni­versity as a whole and are, therefore, strictly prohibited." The directive goes on · to state that any residence hall or club that does single out its freshmen for initiation will suffer severe sanctions. In addition, all individuals in­volved in the hazing will be subject to sus­pension and dismissal. · That officially closes the book on all sorts of freshman initiations .. "If it looks like it, sounds like it, smells like it -then it is an initiation and it is no longer acceptable on this campus," said William Kirk, assistant vice-president for residence life. "It is clear that when these activities separate out fresh­men as a group and force them to do things which are out of the ordinary, then these activities tend to demean and ridicule mem­bers of our community. This is not open to interpretation," said Kirk. 
Dillon Hall has been notorious for its freshman initiation scavenger hunt.in which freshmen are forced to coliect items includ­ing toiletries and feminine products that are then poured, sprayed and wiped on the re­turning freshmen. The scavenger hunt has been shut down. "It was a mob mentality at work, and it' sjust not right. These freshmen have no choice as to what hall they are put into; it's not like a fraternity which they 

i Hall. "I have always felt that it [Odin] has 
· Zahm Hall feshmen endure a humiliating dousing with shaving cream as a crowd · looks on. These scenesare archival material now-Initiation rites are over. 
choose -the computer assigns housing at random. So no one has the right to say you havetodothistobelong," saidFatherJ oseph Carey, C.S.C., rector of Dillon Hall. 
Father Carey noted that the hall govern-· 
ment also decided to cancel the annual 
Dillon pep rally before the first home game 
of the year because the hall staff could not 
guarantee the rally would not turn into an 
initiation rite. "Every year the freshmen are forced to dress in togas, and the upperclass­men get them drunk before the pep raI!y. It's difficult for freshmen to say that they don't want to participate because they want to be accepted. Right now, I don't see how the rally can go on next year," said Father Carey. 

"This is not directed atone hall; we are not singling out one hall as bad. We have received enough information about . these activities this year that we have chosen to act," Kirk noted. In fact, the halls with the most well known initiation rites have been Saint Edward's, Dillon, Flanner and Zahm. 
Odin, Zahm's initiation ceremony, was reputedly 23 years old and had become a yearly attraction as it brought freshmen across campus, forcing them to wade through the library reflecting pool and slide through mud pits behind the band hall. They are all over now. 
· "We never did it to harm or punish the freshmen. Safety was ournumberone prior­ity, and as much as they dread the first half, the freshmen all enjoy the second half," said James Penilla, president of Saint Edward's 
built camaraderie and friendship among the freshmen -the have all lasted through something, it brings them together," said Father Thomas King, C.S.C., rector ofZahm Hall. 
Everything-fromSaintEdward'sswim 

in the lake to Planner's late night serenades -is cut off by this directive, which will be included in next year's edition ofdu Lac. In that any activity isolates freshmen as a group, Student Affairs considers it to be an initiation and will respond with serious dis­ciplinary action. 
"Notre Dame stands for welcoming; we're supposed to make everyone feel at home, not force them to slide through mud and kiss a girl to belong," Father Carey said. 
. 0 


SEPTEMBER 30, 1993 
NEWS 


S.U.D.S. cracks down on off-campus drinking while off-campus crime increases 
byOanh Vo 

Drunk driving is the leading cause of . death among 15-24 year olds in this country. 
*Alcohol is the most widely used drug on the college campus with 86 percent ofstudents reporting alcohol use in the past year. 
* 
45 percent of students reported alcohol use on a weekly or more frequent basis. 

* 
Students across the nation consume an average of5.11 drinks per week. 


Statistics like these are 


was under control, and 
the reason why groups such 
the music was not that 
as S.U.D.S. exist. 
loud. Weweren'tbeing 
S.U.D.S., an acronym for 
rude or obnoxious. It
Stop Underage Drinking 
was just a bunch of
and Sales, is a police task 
people sitting around
force formed in 1986 for 
drinking and talking." 
the purpose of enforcing 
First time offenders
the Indiana State Liquor 
. normally get a pre-trial
Laws as they pertain to un­
di version from the
derage drinking and sales. 
attorney's office. They
This means that bars and 
are given a $120 fine,
liquor establishments are 
20 hours ofservice, and 
monitored on aregular ba­
gi puton probation forone 
sis to make sure that they 
year. Within that year,
are operating within the limits of their license. 

S.U.D.S. is also responsible for investi­gating reports of underage drinking at par­ties and businesses. With the increase of underage drinking problems in South Bend, the South Bend and Mishawaka Police de­cided to join forces with the Saint Joseph County Poli~e. Indiana State Police and the Indiana State Excise Police in 1984. to re­duce these problems. According to Ser­geant James Moon, head of the S.U.D.S. program for South Bend, S.U.D.S-is a coop­erative effort between police agencies to service this community .. 
"The number of students who drink has increased drastically in 20 years," said Ser­geant Moon. "A patty 20 years ago would have consisted of10-15 people and probably a case of beer. Today, there are 50, 60, even 100 people at some of these parties, and instead of a case of beer,· there are kegs of beer." 
S.U.D.S is most known by students for raiding bars and off-campus parties. In the 1992-93 school year, over 175 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were. cited for underage consumption ofalcohol. The most toxicated women were. trying to escape. Students were asked to present identifica­tion. Those over 21 were allowed lo leave, and those under 21 ·· were given a breathalyzer test. Sixteen Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were cited for under­age drinking. 
According to senior Matt Carbone who was cited for minor consumption ofalcohol that evening, it was a small party with at most40people present. Carbone felt that the situation did not warrant a raid. "We were being very responsible," said Carbone. "There were designated drivers, the party 

A question on many students' minds: does the heightened police coverage of underaged drinking detract from police. handling of the Increased crime at Lafayette Square. 
recently publicized raid was at an off-cam­pus party on East Navarre Street three weeks ago. Two plainclothes female police offic­ers entered the party and observed that there were several underage drinkers present. Several minutes later, S.U.D.S. officers showed up and broke up the party. Accord­ing to Sergeant Moon, two {)Olicemen were stationed at the back door because two in-if no other offenses are cited the charges are dropped. A second violation will list both offenses on permenant record. Students under the age of 18 must go through juvenile detention. Carbone, who was already charged during his sophomore year for using false identification, is sched­uled to appear in court this week. Since this is a second offense for him, he cannot un­d_ergo pre-trial diversion. He will pay court costs and most likely be fined. 
There are several different ways that 
S.U.D.S. 
finds out about about these parties. 

S.U.D.S. 
has a hotline that neighbors, par-


SCHOLASTIC 
ents and other students can call in to report a party or any complaints about a party. In the case of high school parties, sometimes printed fliers have been mailed to the police station. On occa­sion, a teacher or a student may even call in S.U.D.S. hoping that a person whom they are concerned has an alcohol prob­lem is arrested and gets the treatment necessary. 
"It's not very hard to find a party," said Sergeant Moon. "Oftentimes, just driving around and watching, we can spot several parties going on." To en­force the law, officers do not have to be in uniform but they are required to iden­tify themselves. Just because a bar or an. establishment is not raided does not mean police officers are not present or that there are no minors. It is up to the discretion of the officer to decide whether a party should be raided. Mostly, it depends on the number of complaints received about a particular business or house. 
A raid does not necessarily constitute arrests either. There have been times when bars have been raided with no citations, and other times when over 100 students have been cited for minor con­sumption as was the case with The Com­mons in the fall of last year. Recently, Corby's was raided, and only two stu­dents were cited. 
According to Mark Pogue, Coordina­tor for the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, underage drinking is not a problem unique to the university. 
S.U.D.S. raids have also occurred at Indiana and Purdue universities, and Purdue, as well as other schools around the state. Pogue felt that Notre Dame students drink as much as students from any other college and maybe even more. "Notre Dame, like a lot of colleges is very demanding, therefore, some stu-. dents feel they should party just as hard as they've studied/' said Pogue. It is students who get into a pattern of think­ing this way that concerns Pogue. 
"Sometimes in college we end up with 'college alcoholics' whose only way to cope and have fun is exclusively with akohol." · For Pogue, it is important for students to be aware that there is a place on campus that students can go to to seek confidential help if they have an alcohol prob­lem. The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education provides a resource center for alcohol education. Italso·does an intake ofevaluations and presents educational programs in the residence halls and for each freshman class. 

Pogue feels that the Irish-Catholic tradition of the university may contribute to some of the underage drinking. For some Irish Catholics, alcohol use is part of their culture. It is an accepted form of relaxation. Some of these students started drinking in high school and continue to do so in college. 
Sergeant Moon feels that increased underage drinking in college is a result _of the new found freedom that students face when they enter col­lege. According to Moon, 19 is the mean age for 
· liquor law violations, which puts most students in their freshmen or sophomore years. "Every fall there is an influx of freshmen who are away fromhomeforthefirsttime,"saidMoon. "They want to be adult, so they drink and frequent off­campus bars." Pogue advises students to obey state alcohol laws because, like with any other law, they are there for a reason. "You're not supposed to 
"A party 20 years ago would have consisted of 10-15 people and proabaly a case of beer. Today, there are even 100 · people at these parties, and instead of a case of beer, there are kegs." -Sergeant James Moon 
drink before you're 21 not because it's morally wrong, but because it's for your best protec­tion," said Pogue. By holding off until 21, students don't even have to worry about the legal ramifications so they don't have to hide behind doors or worry about raids by the excise police. Pogue stresses that students can have a good time on this campus without drinking. How­ever, ifstudents do drink, Pogue tells students to be responsible drinkers. 
Pogue said, "Notre Dame has less of a prob­
lem with other drugs than state schools. There are less reports and less arrests for drug violations. " 
According to Sergeant Moon, there has been an increase in the use of fake I.D.s. Students are warned that they can be cited for furnishing false evidence of identity, considered a Class C misdemeanor. Stu­dents who provide another student with a fake I.D ., whether itis given or sold, are also subject to being charged. A class C misde­meanor is punishable by up to 90 days in jail and up to a $500 fine. Also, students should be aware that they can be charged with public intoxication, a Class B misdemeanor, despite having a legal blood-alcohol level. Students are not allowed to ask for a breathalyzer test to prove sobriety. 
Carbone advises students against using a fake I.D. "It's not worth the risk. Wait til you're 21," he said. On the night of the bust on E. Navarre Street, Carbone presented his false I.D. to a police officer. Theofficerwas able to recognize that it was a fake. Luckily for ·carbone, he was only cited for minor consumption. 
Sergeant Moon advised: "Don'tput your­self in a position to be victimized, and a lot of students. do that when they leave cam­pus." According to Moon, many date rapes, robberies, assaults and auto accidents are the result of one or more parties being intoxi­cated. For this reason, the police department feels it is important to crack down on under­age drinkers. They are no tout to get students as many students believe. . 
Moon stresses that enforcement is a big part of the job of S.U.D.S. but prevention is also an important part as well. Before Christmas and events such as prom, 
S.U.D.S. officers do presentations at local school and businesses to try and prevent some ofthe casulties that may occur on these occasions. 
On campus, state law is not as strictly enforced as in town. Getting in trouble for alcohol consumption on campus is minor compared to the major consequences that results from the same offense off campus. Students who get in trouble off campus are also subjected to on-campus disciplinary actions as well. 
Some students feel that SUDS is not very effective in deterring students from drink­ing. "It just makes them sneakier," said Carbone. 

NEWS COMMENTARY 

A Worn-Out Welcome 
Student Affairs kills hall spirit as it crosses the line to shut down initiation rites 
0 ne hundred Flan_ner freshmen are kneel!ng on the ~av~ment i~. · front of the mam entrance of Pasquenlla East, smgmg their hearts out to the tunes of "Brown-Eyed Girl" and "Wonderful Tonight" when a security guard walks outside and tells their 'fear­less leader' (as he is called) that they'd better pack their bags because the campus police are on their way. The freshmen are stunned and heartbroken. What are they going to do about this? A bunch of classy young men (sober, too, if it makes you feel any better) singing to eager, receptive women of PE, many of whom are on their way down to get front seats, and what, the campus police are coming? You can't be serious. But the spirited freshmen, the originators of 
by T. Ryan Kennedy 
the singing tradition, do not give up. Instead, they sit down on the cement an.d whisper among themselves desperately seeking a plan. Yes, a plan would be nice. Suddenly, "Wonderful Tonight" is heard, playing softly from a speaker above, perhaps from a third or fourth floor room. The Flanner Cocks cheer with enthusiasm, and pick up where they left off, this time with a much lighter tone: "And then she asked me ..." 
The sight of this all-out class, this Flanner serenading as they call it, will bring out the soft side in nearly anyone and everyone, with the exception of a dorm security guard or two and the iron-fisted Office of Student Affairs. 
Ironically, twenty years ago, it was Student Affairs that set up the stay hall system to substitute for Notre Dame's lack of fraternities. It was Student Affairs that changed the hall system from living by class to living for four years in the same dorm with mixed classes. It is Student Affairs, now, that tries to build dorm spirit by allowing the halls to compete against each other by team, to sponsor theirown social events and to form their own communities. 
And now they've decided that the dorms have too much spirit. Students are getting too creative, so its time to shut them down. As soon as they come up with their own ideas, that's when it gets dangerous. Why don't they just expel everyone so that they can become the students, and then maybe they'll see why its so difficult to follow ludicrous rules? 
That's not to say that the asinine antics of some of the other dorms are appropriate or have any place here. They don't. But what's wrong with a little dorm spirit? What could be more harmless than serenading? It's not like we're singing and hurling bottles at the windows or anything. We just sing. In fact, during the real romantic parts of the song, we kneel; and to other songs, we dance with the many girls who have come down to sit on the front steps of their dorm. The last time I checked, the Glee Club and the choir didn't consider it ridiculing and demeaning to sing songs and neither does Flanner or the young women in Siegfried, PW, Farley, Badin and Pangborn. 
The song has ended and the police have arrived, but the Flanner freshmen have succeeded in entertaining and welcoming whole­heartedly the womyn of PE. "Now off to Farley," our 'fearless leader' exclaims as the young freshmen rise·with unphased excite­ment for another run to the Victory March. 
· We live on a campus that is as known for its spirit as it is for its academic and athletic prowess. And that spirit is fostered through halls with character. If you take away our right to creativity, who's going to build that spirit-you, Student Affairs? No, I don't think so. The students make the spirit, not the Office of Student Affairs. 
"A few poor performances on the part of some halls should not be the only thing Student Affairs takes into consideration when after 23 years it decides to regulate initiation rites." 
Serenading is not the only form of initiation that should be permitted on the Notre Dame campus. A few poor performances on the part of certain halls should not-be the only thing Student Affairs takes into consideration, when after 23 years it decides to regulate initiation rites. It may well be time to put an end to the sicker, more vicious, hazing ceremonies that go on, but it is never a good time to cut out a major part of campus life such as classy serenading. · 0 

NEWS COMMENTARY 
FILL THE GIPP'S BOX!. 
email: gipper@nd.edu mail: 303 La Fortune phone: 631-7569 · 
18)
"Zi" Jax: 631-9648






CampusWatch 
BY THE GIPPER 
INFORMATION, ATTITUDE AND PARANOIA 
The Gipp's many dedicated and hard working Scholastic writers have been running in to problems trying to research articles. The basic problem is this: No one will talk. As with. all articles pertaining to the top-secret party apparatus (a.k.a. the administration), the Gipp must reiterate that he is not making this up. Sample interview: "Hello. This is the Gipp [not his real name] from Scholastic magazine. I wanted to ask you about ... [insert non-controversial story idea here] ... " "I don't have anything to say. I have no comment, I don't want to comment, and I don't want to be commented on as having no comment." <Click> Next call. _ "Hello. Is this the office of Student Af­fairs?" "Maybe." "Well, this is the Gipp, from Scholastic magazine. I was wondering ... " <Click> THEY DO CARE 
sponses to this letter. His options: 1] Refuse singing in the shower, they are also no However, the Gipp does not want Lo leave 
to pay the bill and forfeit all the material longer allowed to call their gathering place his dedicated readers with the impression 
rewards of his college education. 2] Fax the the "Swim House." That'll teach 'em. that he thinks the democratic open-minded 
office a Xerox of his fanny. administration doesn't care about Students. PERGOLA HELP WANTED If the administration didn't care about the DON'T KELP THE SWIM TEAM First ofall, "pergola" is the correct name Gipp, it would not have sent him mail. The Gipp's secret source told him that for that architectural monstrosity that looks Take for example the letter the Gipp re­while moving the bulkhead which divides like an open-air greenhouse on DeBartolo ceived from the Office ofStudent Accounts. the Rolfs swimming pool, the men's swim quad. That is an SAT word. lt read: "Your student account remains un­team nearly "broke" the pool. The guys Second, the bolts are rusting. paid. No gra~es, transcripts or any official from the team were moving the bulkhead Third, the little fountains overflow, alot. documentation of academic records at the (and allegedly were messing around) when The water from these cleverly ·designed University of Notre Dame will be issued the bulkhead got wedged into the sides ofthe water-spewing devices has been turning until your account has been paid." pool. Had they moved the bulkhead further, the flower beds into mud pits. This was all it said. It wasn't signed. It sources say, the damage would have cost the The Gipp is unconcerned, however. In included no sensitive disclaimer like, "We university thousands of dollars. Further­two weeks the sun will be gone until May, realize that paying $20,000 a year is a big more, the pool takes five days to drain and incessant rain and the snow will eliminate burden on your budget, butcould you maybe five days to refill. In short, they got lucky. visibility, and all the flowers will be dead. please pay whatever you can when you get a Perhaps as a reaction to the incident, the Other than that how was the play Mrs. chance." It didn't even say, "Dear Gipp." team is not only prohibited from making Lincoln? The Gipp is considering appropriate re-some bizarre traditional "69" cheerand from 
D 

SEPTEMBER 30, 1993 7 



CAMPUS LIFE 


Notre Dame students discuss the pros and cons ofhaving a hometown honey. 
will undoubtedly admit that these relation­Sometimes these attempts prove successful, 
by Bridget Bradburn 

ships are anything but easy. But time after and sometimes all efforts somehow fall

and Daniella Schmidt 

time, ambitious couples attempt to make short.
A mailbox filled with sentimental their long distance relationships work. Some couples find that after a long sum­
love letters. A mer spent together, simply 
framed 8 x IO glossy on the 

desk. Long, expensive day is the hardest part of a 
phone calls. The stuffed long-distance relationship. 
animal won at last year's "I hate the fact that he 
carnival.· can't be a part of my daily 
Or a different situation: a life, meet the people I meet 
hope that time and distance and see the things I see," said will end the relationship. freshman Paige Reeves ofher . Dreading the double ring of boyfriend from home. "And an off-campus call. Piles of [I also hate] that he has a life 
unanswered, sappy cards. going on without me." 
Stu den ts that can relate to Even after the initial 
either one these scenarios .! separation shock subsides, 
probably recognize the long-distance relationships 
common signs of a long-· present other difficulties. 
distance relationship. Junior Greg Nowack has 
In an age of quick travel been with· his hometown
it 

and high tech communica-rn honey for fourteen months. 
tions, long-distance rela-2s For him the greatest hardship 
tionships have become a is not being able fo be there 
phenomenon expanding for the "occasional, unex­
across many college cam-peeled things that come up," 
puses. Notre Dame is no stich as the car accident his 
exception. girlfriend was in last year. 
Although each long-dis-"I find it hard to see my 
tance relationship is friends spending time with 
unique, most of them share their boyfriends when Ican't 
some prevailing qualities. do the· same," said sopho-
Anyone who currently has more Shannon Griesmer, 
or who has had a "home-Freshman Kevin Haggard gazes at a picture of his hometown honey as who has been going out With 
town honey," or an HTH, he talks to her. her hometown honey for two 

SCHOLASTIC 
years. 
However,junior Jake May pointed out the 
importance ofgoing out and "trying to enter­
tain yourself socially and not becoming a 
hermit, no matter how lonesome you may 


be." 
An element of spontaneity, such as unex­
pected phone calls, cards and gifts, helps to 
keep the relationship strong despite the 
stress of separation, according to most stu­
dents involved. 
One benefit mentioned by students in 
long-distance relationships is how much . easier it is to become friends with members of the opposite sex atNotre Dame. "Because I wasn't looking for a boyfriend, I made closer guy friends," said sophomore Kate 
Mawdsley. 
Freshman Kevin Haggard agrees. Be­
cause he has a girlfriend, he is "much more 
relaxed" about meeting girls and feels less 
pressure to make a good impression. 
Perhaps the most common question aris­
ing in long-distance relationships is how 
frequently a couple keep in touch: "I just discovered something new," he said. "E-mail!" 
Such forms of communication, however, can become frustrating. Dwyer finds it hard to talk to and write to his girlfriend "when [he] can't look at her." 
So why would someone knowingly choose to suffer' the expense and heartache ofa long-distance relationship? Why would these people ignore the advice ofwell-mean­ing friends and relatives who advise them to not waste the best four years of their life? 
"It was never an issue," said Haggard. "We knew we had a strong enough relation­ship. We just assumed we would stay to­gether." 
Both Griesmer and Roby had planned on dating other people, but neither of them did. "Since Sean and I made it through my fresh­man year, we knew we could do it again," said Griesmer. 
Despite having the best of intentions, the strain of separation sometimes becomes too stressful for long distance couples. 
ing to Mawdsley. 
Junior Amy Bethem believes that prob­lems arise in long-distance relationships be­cause "you tend to talk about the future too much; you base everything on the future and really don't have a relationship in the present." 
Wilder describes her ex-boyfriend as the "hometown honey from hell." Her very jeal­ous boyfriend demanded that she justify her friendships with other males. In addition, she received a letter every day and had enormous phone bills. 
"I was his security blanket," she said. "We were so concerned with each other that our grades began to drop." 
Despite her own negative experience, however, Wilder said she believes long­distance relationships can work. She said it depends on the people involved; they must be understanding and keep friends of the opposite sex. 
A great ad vantage ofa hometown honey is that. separation can test the trueness of love and determine whe.ther 


needs to communicate. or not a relationship is "Sometimes talking on meant to be. Relation­the phone a lot was ships that last through­worse than talking out four years ofcollege once a week," said jun­often show a high level ior Angela Roby. of maturity, dedication However, this has and trust. not dissuaded many And for those students from running who find the stress and up outrageous phone conflict of such a rela­bills talking to their tionship is more trouble hometown honey. "I than it is worth, their experiences at working nior Lynn Wilder. out problems can be To avoid depletion very valuable. It like­of savings accounts, wise can take a great 
many couples opt for level ofmaturity to real­the slower but vastly ize that being involved cheaper postal service. in a long-distance rela­
Freshman ·Grant tionship is more harm­Dwyer and his girl­ful than beneficial to friend of 14 inonths BrentTadsen those involved. 
have a notebook in Sophomore Jen Loynd makes another expensive long-distance call. Each long-dis­
which they keep a jour­nal. They send it back . and forth as a means of keeping each other updated on daily events. 
Technology offers further alternatives. Nowack expressed his excitement over his recent discovery of a free and faster way to Mawdsley said that she and her ex-boyfriend wereC'too innocent" in thinking that it would be easy to stay together. But "changing personalities, new friends and different in­terests" contributed to their breakup, accord­
tance relationship is 
unique, and each couple has its own motives. for the choices and decisions they make. Distance can be quite a hindrance. But, as freshman Denise Groves said, for those who pursue it, "dis­tance can be a natural aphrodisiac." . 


SEPTEMBER 30, 1993 




CAMPUS LIFE 
A Clean Bill of Health for the Infirmary? 
Student complaints about the infirmary abound despite 
by Matt Pollack 

The campus cold has finally caught up with you. You had successfully dodged it for weeks, watching everybody else sneeze, cough and wheeze. But now it's gotten you. After exhausting your per­sonal supply ofTylenol and cold medicine, borrowing more cough drops than you will ever be able to reimburse and even having mom send some chicken soup, you still feel terrible. You are down to your last resort: the infirmary. Properly called the Health Services and Coun~eling Center, the infirmary is de­signed to meet the medical needs of Notre Dame students. However, as some students I. 
explain, this is not always the case. 

ii
,, 
Knott Hall sophomoreBridget Casey had an unsettling experience at the infirmary last year when she fell ill a couple of weeks before spring break. 
"I was really sick," she said. "I had a bad cough and a high fever so I went to the infirmary, where the doctor examined me and said I was fine." However, Bridget still felt sick a week later when she went home forspringbreak. "Soiwenttoadoctorback home and he told me I had pneumonia!" she said. 
Fellow sophomore Ivette Castillo had a similar encounter. The Knott resident suf­fered from a high fever and severe sore throat earlier this semester. "I went to the infirmary and saw a doctor," Ivette said. 
· "He said it was just a virus that would go away on its own. I was sent back to my dorm, with no treatment or medication. I went back a week later and was diagnosed with tonsillitis. I had an abscess on my tonsil. I'm still taking medication and will 


recent improvements. 
probably have my tonsils removed." 

While stories like these are frightening, they are exceptions to the norm. Carol Seager, director of University Health Ser­vices, said that she has heard no complaints concerning misdiagnosis. 
"We are able to treat roughly 85% of the medical cases here on campus," she noted. The infinnary employs three full-time physi­cians who are all family practitioners, ac­cording Lo Seager. 
Seager said that the most popular com­plaint is the wait. ''I went in just to get my cold checked out 
and I ended up waiting for over an hour and a half!" complained freshaman Pete Wernau. 
According to Seager, this fall has been busier than normal for University Health Services. Seager estimated an average of 125-130 students visit Health Services each day. In order to avoid the wait, Seager recommended going to the infirmary during its slower periods. Usually, Mondays, Tues­days and Fridays are the infirmary's busiest days. 
"A student will be suffering with some­thing like a sprained wrist for a couple of 


\ 
weeks and will decide'to have it checked out over a weekend. Naturally then, Mon­days and Tuesdays become crowded." she said. The busiest hours ofthe day tend to be 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. · 
Not every experience with the Health Services Center is a bad one. "My visit to the infirmary was less than thirty minutes," said Cavanaugh Hall freshman Jeremy Murtaugh. "Later, I lost my medicine. I went back to the infirmary and they took care of everything really quick[ly.]" 
While the infirmary is not perfect, im­provements are constantly being made. "We're currentlyin the process ofautomat­ing everything," said Seager. "We're plan­ning on putting everything on computer." She described this transition as the infirmary's major project for the year. 
In addition, they have reduced the num­ber of inpatient beds on the second floor from twenty-five to eighteen in order to make more room for other services. Health Services is constantly looking for ways to improve, according to Seager, so "a ques­tionnaire is given to about every tenth per­son that they can fill out anonymously and return with their comments." 


"University Health Services is attempting to provide the best medical care possible for the students," said Seager. Their resources were put to the test last year following the swim team bus accident that killed two stu­dents and both emotionally and physically injured many more. "That was probably the most severe incident we've had to deal with in my nine years here. It required the best from everyone at University Health Services." 
Along with the doctors, University Health Services currently employs a complementing staff of nurses and other medical personnel. Outpatient clinics are open to students twenty-four hours a day, providing every­thing from general check-ups to specific services such as laboratory tests and X-rays. Furthermore, a visit to University Health Services is free except for the charge of any medication prescribed, equipment used or treatment required. 
University Health Services is an essential part of the Notre Dame campus that ad­equately provides care for most of the University's medical needs. However, as sophomore Dave Green remarked, this by no means makes a trip to the infirmary an event to anticipate: "I don't want to have to go the infirmary unless I'm sick with the plague!" he said. 0 




Send information for your event to: Jenny Tate, Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 631:.7569. 
Thursday 30 
Multicultural Fall Festival: "Culture on the Quad," 12:00 p.m., Fieldhouse Mall. Lecture: "Modes of Crosscultural Encounter," Fred Dallmayr, University of Notre Dame, 12:15 p.m., Room C-103, Hesbmgh Center. Multiclutural Fall Festival: "Fireside Chats," 12: 15 p.m., Notre Dame Room 202, Lafortune. Soccer: SMC vs. Hope College, 4:00 p.m., SMC Socce.t Field. Multicultural Fall Festival: "Entertain­ment on the Quad," 5:00-6:00 p.m., Fieldhouse Mall. Post-Gnduation Volunteer Day: 7:00­
10:00 p.m., CSC. Film: "Neria," 7:00 p.m., Snite. Movie: 'The French Connection," 8:00 & 
10:30 p.m., Montgomery Theater, LaFortune, $1. Acoustic Cafe: 9:00-12:00 p.m., Lafortune. 
Friday i 
Multicultural Fall Festival: "Culture on the Quad," 12:00 p.m., Fieldhouse Mall. Mulliclulural Fall Festival: "Fireside Chats," 12:15p.m., Notre Dame Room 202, Lafortune. Multicultural Fall Festival: "Enter­tainment on the Quad," 5:00.6:00 p.m., Fieldhouse Mall. Soccer: Notre Dame men vs. South Carolina, 8:00 p.m., Alumni Field. Cross Country: Notre Dame Invita­tional, 4:00 p.m., Golf Course. Film:l'El Mariachi," 7:30.& 9:30p.m., Snite,$2. Movie: "Sliver," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Movie: "Guilty as Sin," 7:00 & 9:30 p.m., CarrolrHall, SMC,$. . Folk Dancing: "7:30 p.m., SMC Club House,$.. Tennis: Women's F.ck Classic. 
Saturday. 2 
University of Notre Dame 3 & 6 Mile Runs: "Domer Run '93," 10:00 a.m. Volleyball: SMC vs. North Central College, 11:00 a.m., Angela Athletic Facility. Volleyball: SMC vs. Carroll College, 
2:00 p.m., Angela Athletic Facility. Soccer: SMC vs. DePauw, 2:00 p.m., SMC Soccer Field. Football: Notre Dame vs. Stanford, Stanford. Movie: "Guilty as Sin," 1:00 & 9:30 · p.m., Carroll Hall, SMC,$. Soccer: Notre Dame men vs. Penn State, 
8:00 p.n1., Alumni Field. Film: "El Mariachi," 7:30 & 9:30 Snite, $2. Movie: "Sliver," 8:00 & 10:30, Cushing Auditorium, $2. Multicultural Fall Festival: "Taste of Nations," 8:00 p.~., Stepan Center,$. 

1 C 
F p C 


,unday 3 
'ennis: Notre Dame women's Eck :lassie. 'acuity Cello and Piano Recital: 2:00 .m., Karen Buranskas and William :emy, Annenberg Auditorium. 
Monday 4 
Film: "Wend Kuuni," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2. . Film: "Chinatown," 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2. College of Business Career Day: 9:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m., CSC. 
5 

Film: "Small Happiness in a Chinese Village," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2. Film: "Reassemblage," and "Napolean," 
:00 p.rn., Snite, $2. olleyball: Notre Dame vs. Illinois State, :30 p.m., JACC. olleyball: SMC vs. Depauw, 7:00 p.m., ngela Athletic Facility. 

TOUCH 
FOUR 

Wednesday 6 
Soccer: Notre Dame women vs. Wiscon­sin-Milwaukee, 7:00 p.m., Alumni Field. Fourth Day Meetings: 7:15 pm., Stanford­Keenan Chapel. Arts and Letters Career Day: 12:00-4:00 p.m., CCE. 
Movie Theatres: 
100 Center Cinema I&II: 259-0414 
Scottsdale Theatre: 291-4583 

Town & Country Theatre: 259-9090 
University Park Cinema East: 277-7336 
University Park Cinema West: 277-0441 
Fonim I & II Cinema: 277-1522 
SPORTS 

Set For Success 
The 14th-ranked Notre Dame women's volleyball team has been spiking past 
by Chris Regan 

Where were you at 7:30 p.m. after the Michigan State game? The dining hall was closed. The tailgaters were over. Parties hadn •~started yet. You may have been trying to figure out where to go that night. You might have been thinking about what to . wear. You may have been trying to figure out where to go. If you "really enjoyed the game," maybe you were trying to figure out . where you had been. Maybe you were play­ing Nintendo; or you might have been watch­ing your friends playing Nintendo. Face it, from dinner until around 10 p.m. you were probably doing nothing. Mean­while, the 16th-ranked Irish volleyball team faced New Mexico State in the A.C.C. A small crowd offans cheered Notre Dame women's volleyball to a 16-14 hard-fought victory over New Mexico State in the fourth and decisive game. This game punctuated a first­I place performance· by the Irish in the 1993l Shamrock Invita­tional. MVP honorsI went to All-American 
l 
candidate Christy Pe­ters. Janelle Karlan 
and Molly Stark were
l! 
selected as members of :( 
i 
the all-tournament 

' 
team. 
This year's squad is coming off an exciting 1992 season that took it toa 30-8record and the NCAA tournament. 

the top teams in the nation 
While key seniors graduated, a number of 
factors make this squad even better: out­
standing coaching, veteran leadership 
and impressive rookies. 

A record of37wins and Olosses equals 
three national titles in football. However, 
in volleyball, it takes such records to win 

a national tille. Notre Dame head coach 
Debbie Brown knows this; when she was 
a student at USC in 1977 her team went 
37-0 to capture the golden ring ..As the 
Irish position themselves to make con­
secutive runs at the NCAA tournament, 

they are counting on the experience of 
their coach to show them the way. 
Successful coaching comes in part from 
playing experience, and Coach Brown 

has a lot of it. In 1980 she was selected as 
co-captain ofthe U.S. Olympic volleyball 
team. 

"My experience as a player enables me to relate with my players as players," said Brown. "When I ask them to do something, I know it can be done. Playing lends credibility to you as a coach." 
Brown has engineered a remarkable turn­around for the Irish. She took a 9-27 squad in 1990 and turned it into a 26-10 post-season qualifier in 1991 and a 30-8 NCAA tourna­ment team last year. 
"They have exceeded my expectations so far this year," Brown said. 
A coach's best friend is talent, and the 1993 Irish squad is loaded. It starts at the top with a record holding co-captain setter and flows through the team to a starting freshman out­side hitter. 
Co-captain Janelle Karlan holds the school's all-time assist record with more than 4100. She surpassed the previous record in her junior year and is rackiF1g up even more assists this year. According to Coach Brown, Karlan's court sense allows her to make good decisions with her sets, putting them not just where they can be hit but where they can be hit best. 
"Janelle makes excel­lent choices on the court," said Coach Brown. · 
Co-captain Julie Harris is also a key leader forthe Irish. Harris is one ofonly two experienced middle­blockers on this year's squad, and her height and steady play in the middle give opponents something to think about when they come to the net. 
Blocking, defense and 

passing are all strengths for starter Molly Stark, who was among the team leaders in several statistical categories last year. She is a durable and versatile player, playing all but one match in· 1992. 
Every team needs specialists, and Dyan Boulac is the go-to-player for the Irish on de­fense. Boulac is looked to in crucial return situa­tions. 
All-American candi­date Christy Peters, per­haps the most gifted of all the Irish players, will be 
. signing her namy all over the Irish record books be­fore she leaves in 199~. Peters is consistently the focus of the Irish offense, notching a stunning 24 kills in only three games against Long Beach · State, ranked number one in the country, earlier this year. Peters had only two years experience before coming to Notre Dame, but hard work and talent has made her tJ-Je most 

·feared offensive weapon • in the Irish arsenal. Defense is a strength for Peters. as well; she often sets high marks in both kills and digs for the Irish. Furthermore, she has been known to take it to another level against top-flight competition. Nicole Coates, also a junior, brings power to the Irish game. Thunderous spikes provide in­stant motivation in crucial situations. Backing up Peters at left outside hitter, Coates provides high quality depth. Brett Hensel and Shannon Tuttle represent the sophomore class. Because of Hensel 's versatil­ity, she plays every position except middle blocker. Tuttle is the only setteron the team apart from Karlan and brings excellent blocking skills to the position.she will take possession of next year. Playing behind Karlan, Tuttle has seen a 
fair share of play1ng time and had a remarkable game against Morehead last year, hitting 1.000. Five of the team's thirteen players are fresh­
men. One freshman, Jenny Birkner, has broken into the starting lineup and has earned the respect of her teammates and coach. . ­"There have been timeouts where I have called things specifically to set Jenny. I have that much 

confidence in her," said Coach Brown. Birkner's solid play is characterized 
· by very few hitting errors, which Brown attributes to Birkner's excellent passing skills. Furthermore, Birkner rose to the challenge of playing the number one team in the nation with considerable 

The Irish volleyball team has a brutal schedule this season with games against 13 of the top 25 teams in the nation. 
maturity. <'Against Long Beach State, I just went out and played," said Birkner. 
The rest of her class is no less remark­able. Jennifer Briggs saw substantial playing time against New Mexico State. In high school she led her team to three consecutive state titles, and this year she is playing primarily at.middle blocker. 
Freshmen Kristina Ervin, an outside hitter, and Laura Reckmeyer, a middle blocker, will both be part of the team nucleus in the coming four years. 
Freshman Jennifer Rouse sustained a shoulder injury that will keep her out this season. But her 6'5" height leaves her far from unnoticed. Next year she should provide an outstanding presence for the Irish in the middle. 
As integral to the success of this squad as talent is team chemistry. De­spite all the new faces, the players and coaching staff believe a strong bond translates into excellent teamwork on the court. 
Coach Brown expressed surprise at "how well the freshmen get along with each other as well as the upperclass. I'm not sure just how that happens but it has in this case," said Brown. 
Skilled players plus teamwork and an ex­
perienced coach equals a national champi­onship, right? Well, not just yet. The Irish face a murderous schedule this season. 
The team faces 13 of the top 25 teams; six are top ten squads, three are in the top five. The Irish are 3-2 against ranked opposi­tion so far, including a victory over number nine ranked Illinois and a close loss to number one Long Beach State. The Irish lost two games that were almost too close . to call against Long Beach State. 
"We can play with any team in the nation right now," Peters said. 
The team goal for the year is to host an NCAA tournament game at Notre Dame. (There should be no Nintendo-playing that night.) Accumulating enough post season victories to take the team to regional compe­tition is another goal. 
Coach Brown believes that a champion­ship team is a possibility for this group of players, but "it would take some upsets." 
· Irish volleyball is building a tradition at Notre Dame. With an extraordinary group of players and a challenging year, the team is bound to experience some spectacular highs. 
One thing is certain: this team is a serious contender on the national level and will continue to be in the foreseeable future. 
"We cannot be taken lightly," warned Peters. "Ifa team takes us lightly we'll beat them fast.'' 
However, if this trend continues, it may not matter how the opposition chooses to look at Notre Dame because this squad is on its way to the top of intercollegiate volley­ball. 0 
SPORTS 


After a 33-16 loss to Stanford last season, Notre Dame is 
ready to prove superiority 
Stanford. rapid. So far Armour has four receiving by Jeremy Dixon This season, Stenstrom has been improv~ touchdowns, and Cline has averaged 73 ing his statistics. He is averaging 301 yards yards per game. • A dream-like season culminating in a passing per game, which includes 382 yards Senior Ellery Roberts is slated as the 
24-3 rout of Penn State in the Block­and five touchdowns in a 41-37 upset against starting halfback. After missing the entire buster Bowl marked the return of head coach Colorado, ranked eighth at the time on Sep­1991-92 academic year due to a back injury, Bill Walsh to the helm of the Stanford foot­tember 18th. he was granted another year ofeligibility by ball program. It was the first time in more "It's great for our confidence," remarked the NCAA.. Gradually playing more and than 50 years that the Cardinal won ten Strenstrom about the victory against Colo­more last season, Roberts finished the year games and was the first bowl victory since rado. "We needed this game to gain a lot of strong to solidify his starting position. Walsh's last season at Stanford in 1978. momentum. We didn't quit." At the start of the season Walsh said, 
Despite all of these honors, most Notre Stanford;s receiving corps consists ofonly "Ellery is being groomed for a major role in 
Dame football fans only remember one thing one returning starter, but with the help of our offense, and we are looking for Ellery to about the Cardinal last year: it pounded the junior split end Justin Armour and senior take that next step and become a great col­Irish, 33-16, at Notre Dame Stadium. This tight end Tony Cline, improvement has been lege running back." was the largest Stanford win in.the 
So far this season, Roberts has history of the nine game series. failed to live up to expectations. 
It looked like it would be a He has tallied one rushing touch­blowout for the Irish when Cardi­down and averages 42 rushing nal quarterback Steve Strenstrom yards per game. · was sacked for a safety on the first In addition to Roberts, Stanford play of the game. The Irish then expects contributions from fresh­scored two more touchdowns, man standout Mike Mitchell, the jumping to a 16-0 lead. When the number two ranked prep running 
·teams left the field at halftime, the back in the nation last year. So far, score was 16-6. But the tides he has touched the ball only ten turned in the second half, and times. Stanford forced five Notre Dame At the beginning of the season turnovers while scoring 27 inore the Cardinal returned four starting points and shutting out the Irish. offensive linemen, seniors Brian 
Saturday; head coach Lou Holtz Cassidy, Glen Cavanaugh, Steve and the fourth~ranked Irish will be Hoyem and Jeff Bailey. But ready for revenge when the two Hoyem and Cassidy are out with teams collide at Stanford Sta­injuries, forcing Walsh to find re­dium. placements. Walsh called the de­
The Cardinal is led this year by velopment of this group "one of senior quarterback Stenstrom the most critical factors in 1993." who, at the beginning of the sea­However, in the first game, a 31­
son, · had started 25 consecutive 14 romp by Washington, the line games. Last year he averaged200 gave up seven sacks. 
Stanford Sports Information 
passing yards per game with 14 Ranking sixth in passing of-touchdowns. With . two more . Cardinal senior quarterback Steve Stenstrom led . fense in the country and averaging years of eligibility remaining, the offense to a stellar second half against the Irish 326 yards per game, the Stanford Stenstrom could break many of last year In which Stanford scored 27 points against offense has turned in very impres­the passing records that John Notre Dame. Stenstrom completed 11 of 13 passes sive numbers this season. How­for 116 yards and one touc_hdown in the game.
Elway compiled while at ever, despite such statistics, their 
rushing game has failed to produce. This year the Cardinal has averaged only 71.3 yards rushing per game, ranking it last in the Pac-IO. _ 
On the other side of the ball, the Cardinal has its problems. Last year's defense was rated one of the best in the nation, but Stanford returns only four starters this season, so Walsh had to restructure the defense. 
The defensi_ve line is anchored by se­niors Tyrone Parker and Jason Fisk, two starters from last year's squad. Sharing time at the other. defensive end is junior David Carder and sophomore Pete Swanson. ­
"Defensively we lost experience and maturity under pressure," Walsh said. "We have some talented young players who hopefully will benefit from the legacy of our '92 seniors. But clearly we lack play~ng experience and depth at some positions on defense." 
Perhaps the biggest challenge is re­placing All-American outside linebacker Ron George and defensive back John Lynch, a four-year starter. The ~ardinal returns one starter in the linebacker corps, senior Toby Norwood. He is the top tackler returning from last year's team. Last season he tallied 12 tackles against the Irish. 
"One of the critical factors for the 1993 season will be the development of those 


men who will replace our graduated seniors. 
And for them to begin to feel comfortable'as 
starters," stated Walsh. "They have to take 
on that responsibility and also the role of 
leadership that was lost due to so many se­niors graduating." The Stanford secondary, which was fourth in pass efficiency last year, returns only Vaughn Bryant after losing Lynch and first round draft pick Darrien Gordon. Bryant hadfive interceptions lastyearand · has one so far this season. This is the limit of the Cardinal's defen­sive experience. Opposing teams have thus far preyed on the young Stanford defense. It gave up 593 yards of total offense to San Jose State, including 380 yards in the air, and just escaped an upset. Opposing quarterbacks have picked apart the Cardinal secondary, averaging 548 yards a game against Stanford and 32 points per game. With both teams coming off an unim­pressive weekend -Stanford lost to UCLA and Notre Dame struggled to beat Purdue -and with the upset last season in the back of the minds ofboth teams, the Cardinal and the Irish will be ready on Saturday to prove who is superior.. . 

MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 


Cindy Daws: Daws, a freshman from Northridge, CA, led the Notre · Nate Ruder: Ruder; a junior from Fairport, NY; led the Irish men's. Dame women's soccer team to a victory against sixth-ranked North cross country team to victory in the National. Catholic Invitational at Carolina State.last Friday; She netted two goals in the game. The Irish Notre Dame last weekend. Ruder.placed first in the race with a time beat the Wolfpack 3-0. of 25:01., · · 
BRUNO'S 
PIZZA 1111Q 1111 
Bruno's North Bruno's South Open for carry out and delivery only. Accepting reservations on weekends. One eighteen inch pizza for $13. Available for private parties and banquets. 115 N. 31 Gust North of campus) Open at 10:00 a.m. on football Saturdays. 2610 Prairie Avenue 
273-3890 
288-3320 

"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We now deliver our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 




SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!! 


ENTERTAINMENT 

A Forum on Postmodern Infoculture 
I'd like to remind everyone that money makes things work in this country. Every­thing we see, hear or do is somehow based on money. This is capitalism at its finest. The problem does not lie in the fact that ~o~ey runs everything; on the contrary, cap1tahsm is a very sustainable and opportunis~c sys­tem. The problem with money becommg the controlling force behind almost all of society's functions is that many people ei­ther don't realize the force of money or are somehow deluded into believing that orga­nizations can run without making money. 
Media in general is a prime example of this. Where do newspaper and television stories come from? Investigative journalism is being replaced by companies that sell stories much like advertisements. 
Newspapers often garner stories fr~m "press release" companies, otherwise known as P.R. firms. P.R. firms are hired to get their client pos.itive media attention, whether the client is RJ Reynolds, the N.R.A., Absolut Vodka or the University of Notre Dame. 
For example, let's say that I wanted to make myself look like a very wise and trust­worthy philantropist. I would hire one of these firms to write up a very positive story about me giving away my money. The P.R. firm would then send out copies of this story to newspapers around the country. The P.R. firm would also try to get me on talk shows and "news" shows. 
In other words, the P.R. firm would sell the concept of me being a philantropist. Almost any "expert" you see on a television show was "sold" to that show by a P.R. firm touting his or her expertise. . 
· Being a capitalist country requires that every aspect of our culture can be bought and sold. Government is a business: Clinton hired David Gergen to "sell" his govern­m·ent. Ideas are sold, concepts are sold and 
by Tony Leonardo 
people are sold. It's a cold fact. You do realize that this magazine is paid for by advertisements and our tuition. You've al­ready bought it. 
The Sheen of the Dome Sources close to me have revealed that Martin Sheen, star of Apacalypse Now and father of Charlie Sheen and Emilio Estevez, is a fan of the Fighting Irish football team. When picked up at Newark airport last Sat­urday, he asked the driver (a friend of mine) what the score of the N.D.-M.S.U. game was. My friend, however, did not know, but was curious as to how he became a Notre Dame follower. The story is something like this. While attending a rally of some sorts dur­ing the 60s, Mr. Sheen, along with other attendees, was arrested. One of the persons belonging to this group of rebels was a graduate of the Notre Dame Law School. This person (I couldn't find out his name) represented all of the persons in custody. Needless to say, he and Martin Sheen be­came very good friends, as evinced by the factthatheisMr. Sheen's lawyer to this day. Mr. Sheen, a big sports fan to begin with, took a liking to the Fighting Irish, and has since been an avid follower. He then mentioned something about his son working on some baseball sequel in Miami. He couldn't remember the name of the movie, to which my friend responded correctly, "Major League II?" Notre Dame football over family: a tradition. 
Fox Chase Fox's tally is now in -sort of. Chevy Chase's late-night battlefield entry on Fox has officially been in full swing for two weeks now. Unfortunately, I haven't seen it. Nor, apparently, has anyone else. An infor­mal poll has revealed that Chevy's show is pretty bad. The media hasn't liked it either. The reviews of Conan O'Brien's show have 
been far from spectacular as well. No one seems to have taken a fancy to either one of these duds. But Dave has still been rolling along at a comfortable pace, earning two points for heavily outdistancing the compe­tition. 
The Tally: CBS:.3 NBC: 2 Fox: 0 and Ted Koppel earns a hero cookie for ABC. 
Paracom? Viamount? Paramount Communications, which owns Paramount Pictures, Simon & Schuster, Madison Square Garden, the New York Knicks, the New York Rangers and seven TV stations, has formed a merger with cable giant, Viacom Inc. Viacom owns MTV, VH-1, Nickelodeon, Showtime, the Movie Channel, syndication rights to Roseanne and the Cosby Show, and five TV stations. This is quite a significant deal. Paramount Viacom International is now the fifth-largest entertainment/media company with a cash base revenue of $6.1 billion a year. Sports, movies, books and television shows now work together under this mega-corporation. · · . · . This merger could bring about many bi­zarre possibilities ... Ren and Stimpy could be the new mascots for the New York Knicks, Simon & Schuster could publish a book written by Beavis and Butt-Head to go along with the already planned Beavis and Butt-Head movie to be made by Paramount Pictures. MTV's Kennedy could end up starring in her own movie as well. Perhaps it'd be called The Age ofAnnoyance. 
Answers to the Ian Quiz I naturally assumed everyone knew their Ians, so I keenly omitted the answers. The Ians are: Gillan, Jesus Christ Superstar; MacKaye, Fugazi; McCullouch, Jesus & Mary Chain; Hunter, Mott the Hoople; Curtis, Joy Division; Astbury, the Cult; Anderson, Jethro Tull. 

~ 
. . . . . -' ' , , . . 
~ 
ENTERTAINMENT 


Mama, don't let your kid grow up to be an actor 
for cashing future paychecks (if any were to 
unless you know where it's going.'' This by Steve Susco come). was something I neglected to think about On top of all that, I was still jobless and 
before I agreed to the job. 

I Conceding to the fact that an aspiring
i penniless when July rolled around. 
Don't get me wrong; working on the film
actor such as myself (who had no con­
'I Then, quite suddenly and out of the blue, 
j; was one of the best experiences I have ever 
nections whatsoever in the entertainment 
astroke of luck I was offered a job as a 
had with the industry. It's just that it was my
industry) would get nowhere without an 
Production Assitant (PA) on the set of a 
first time on the crew of a film, and there 
agent, I resolved to spend last summer in 
television movie called "There Are No Chil­
were certain, well, "unwritten rules» that I 
Chicago and "make the rounds" in the quest 
dren Here," which was based on a book I had 
was not made aware of. These included : 

for talent representation. I ignored the 
read for Arts and Letters Core class the widely-spoken dissuasions of "the starving 
1) The PAs are scum. Treat them as such.
actor doing anything for food" and, with the 
2) If anything goes wrong, it's the PAs 
help ofa Notre Dame alumnus, found a place 
"On the first day of fault.
to live on the far West Side of the city. 
3) The PAs eat last. 

And iffinding an apartment could be best shooting I was 
4) The PAs get paid last." 

described as difficult, then trying to get an 
5) If something illegal needs to be done, 
agent was as easy as convincing Notre yelled at thirty-five 
make the PA do it. Thert tum hiin in to the
Dame's administration to establish a co-ed 
authorities and swear he was only working 
dorm on campus. times. Exactly. And 
for the day. 

The first month on my own in a city 1,000 
by thirty-five 

miles from home was comprised mainly of 
· So while the experience was productive in
ghastly auditions and horrendous inter­
different people­the long run (the VERY long rt.in,) it was
views. My nutritional intake included three 
nothing shy of an overwhelmingly nerve­
to five full meals a week; only my multi­none of whom I had 
shattering, infinitely stress-ridden, blood­
vitamins and Vitamin C supplements (7,000 
and-guts-sadistfc kind of job.

mg/day, no joke) kept me from withering seen before." 
Yes, for a wliile I actually considered 
away to nothing. The gunfire outside my 
temp work. Call me a masochist.

window, five nights a week on the average, previous semester. The movie was being 
On the first day ofshooting I was yelled at 
took a while to get used to as well. My best produced by and starred Oprah Winfrey, 
thirty-five times. Exactly. And by thirty­
friend,, the only person I knew within one talk show deity/actress/mega-producer. 
five different people-None of whom _I had
hundred miles of Chicago, wouldn't even At $80 a day, I· unthinkingly and 
ever seen before in my life. I hadn't even
visit me. unhesitatingly accepted the offer. I figured 
done anything wrong. They were all other 
Then it got worse. I was carjacked three it would be a great deal on several fronts: 1) 
people's mi.stakes-things that generally
weeks into the summer, a mere two blocks I'd be able to eat twice a day; 2) I'd make 
went wrong on the first day ofshooting. But 
up the street from my apartment. Fortu­some really nice contacts; 3) I'd be able to 
it didn't matter because I was, after all, a
nately, my wallet was devoid of funds, and eat twice a day; 4) I'd have money to get new 
mere trifling of person.

my assailants were too young to know how acting pictures taken; and 5) My two meal,~ 
I was a PA. · 

to drive a stick shift, so they only made off a day would be free. 
I learned quickly how to see it coming. 
with every ID in my possession. So much Someone once said, "Never get on a boat First the producer would call the director and 

Quick Takes on Summer Sounds
yell at him over the cellular phone. Then the 
director would yell at the 1st Assistant Di­
rector. He, in turn, would yell at the 2nd 

Assistant Director. Then she would yell at . 
the Production Manager. 
At this point, I would start looking for a 
place to hide. And if I hadn't found a place 
by the time the Gaffer was yelling at the Best 
Boy and the Key Grip was spouting exple­
tives at the Boom Man, it was time to run 
away as fast as possible. 
It was very much like a line of dominos, 
each one as about as tall as the Hesburgh . Library, falling down one after another and I was always standing in the shadow of the 
last domino, just waiting for it to fall. But 
instead of Touchdown Jesus, this line of 
dominos was adorned with the enormous 
semblance of Oprah Winfrey. 
Yikes. 
During the two weeks of shooting, many 
other memorable things happened. Like the 
time when the 2nd Assitant Director locked· 
my keys in my jeep during an on-set deliv­
ery, and my jeep just happened to be sitting 
in the middle ofa shot that needed to be taken 
immediately, before the sunlight shifted and 
ruined the entire scene. 
Then there was the time that Oprah's 
bodyguard smashed my torso· against the 
side of his Range Rover because he didn't 
recognize me as a member of the crew. 
And so on and so forth. 
At the end of the summer, I left Chicago 
twenty pounds lighter, with three agents, a 
handful of contacts, a smattering of bruises 
and a major monetary debt. ButI was for the 
most part physically unscathed and mentally 
a much wiser person. I had learned that 
while it is iinportantto take risks ifyou want 
a dream to become a reality, you have to be 
able to take a few hundred punches along the 
way. I learned that living on your own in a 
city filled with millions can be the loneliest 
thing in the world. I learned that becoming 
successful in the film industry was going to 
be a much greater challenge than I could 
ever have anticipated. I learned the value of 
an indestructible spirit and an immovable 
determination. 
And I learned that sometimes you have to 
stand obscured in someone else's shadow in 
order to someday cast a shadow ofyour own. 
D 
SWV-Its About Time 
Like 1LC; and unlike most college radio women, SWV takes their right to sexuality and sexual choice for granted. They don't need to advertise what they could do ­they move beyond thatfostead and sing about what they like to do. I find their particularly smart and sexy brand of bubblegum music more liberating and challenging than a thousand "Riot Girl" tapes and I can't think of a better way to fight the powers that be in the age of AIDS than to play "Right Here" or "Downtown" really loud and sing along. 
8 out of 10 
by John Strieder 
Rage Against the Machine-Rage Against the Machine 
No one tries harder than these guys. Imagine -rap rhythms played by "real" instruments, metal fused with hip-hop to make white music with "soul." Sound leaden and ill-conceived? It is. But it's hard not to feel a certain measure of affection for their tribute to Public Enemy, "Bring the Power Back." Hey, at least they take a stand and their intentions are good. 
4 out of 10 

Winston Pe:rforlllance is Mystifying 
by Anne Heaton 
Monday night George Winston mysti fied his O'Laughlin Auditorium au­dience with his divine tonal quality -the touch that is never forced, nor timid. Win­ston also carefully created a stylisitc mosaic, which entailed the playing of Hawaiian slack key guitar, stride piano and harmonica. An African piano piece, the swing of Tho­mas "Fats" Waller and the Peanuts' theme song also added to the diversity of his pro­gram. In the commencing medley, including "Irish Traditional," Winston dynamically gripped his ragtime-like chords and dug into three note descending chromatic runs. Also, his performance of right hand forte stacca­tos perfectly contrasted with the left hand legatto arpeggios. The second piece, "Rain," appropriate for the evening's weather, rose and fell with broken chords and hand cross-overs, genu­inely sounding out the fluctuations between heavy torrential rains and slight sparse drops. Winston further demonstrated his abilities through the precise execution of frequent trills, quick brushes of high chords and soulful ritards in "Blosom and Meadow." Winston's lively musical spirit was exem­plified when he played Vince Coraldi's "Peppermint Patty" and "Rain Rain Go Aw~y." Teddy Wilson influenced cat and mouse stride piece added to this gregarious exposition. 
There was surprising rhythmic vengeance in the Peanuts' theme, as Patty could be pictured walking about in a pout A mental image was also created with the movement of a cat, the left-handed steady chord and note motion, who stalked a neurotic mouse, the right-handed improvised runs. All ofthis musical excitement did not fluster Winston's typical Linus-like presence, with straight back, yet loose physique and bend­ing wrists. 
Winston executed the innovative tech­nique ofpulling taut a piano string and then playing the corresponding note in order to create hollow steel and drum sounds, He also behaved traditionally, dressing in jeans andperforming calming songs such as Randy Newman's "Living Withbut You." 
Winston's relaxing mannerof playing and a selection ofsongs that are the antithesis of regimental Bach P.ieces enabled him to avoid the formal recital atmosphere of most pianists ( defied by Victor Barga with hu­mor, but few others). Overall, Winston's sound, an eloquent interpretation ofcrescen~ dos, pianissimos and other dynamics, was the key to his heart-felt performance and the reverent appreciation it inspired. O 

ON OTHER CAMPUSES 
News ofthe Biwrrefrom the Nation's Universities 

Red Light, Green Light Maims 
It's all fun and games until someone hurts his shoulder. Particu-· larly ifthat someone happens to be your starting left tackle. Univer­sity ofKansas football player Rod Jones sustained a shoulder in jury, not on the field but in the classroom. Jones was playing the children's game Red Light, Green Light" in his Theater and Film 105, improvisation class when he came down on his shoulder. Jones' playing status was questionable at the time of the injury. 
Kansas coach Glen Mason is no stranger to the perils ofthe game "Red Light, Green Light." While completing a student teaching requirementfora bachelor's degree at Ohio State University, Mason taught his physical education class to play "Red Light, Green Light." Mason yelled out "red light" so aggressively that one child started to cry. "Since that day, I hate that game 'Red Light, Green Light.' I hate it even worse now· because I might lose a player for a weeek because of it," said Mason. Well, Coach, maybe you and your boys shouldn't play so rough. 
Record Shopping in the Buff 
How far would you go in order to buy music cheaply? Twenty 
two men and women attending college in Gainseville, Florida, were willing to go pretty far-in fact, willing to bare it all. The Florida record store Yesterday & Today offered fifty percentdiscounts to students willing to shed their clothes and purchase music in the nude. The whole thing started as a low-cost advertising campaign geared to grab people's attention. 
But some of the attention the promotion grabbed came from the law enforcement sector ofthe community. Local police said the sale constituted solicitation to commit a crime and ordered the store to stop the promotion. Store manager Scott Williams remains un­daunted. "That'snot to say you can'tcome in naked. We just won't give you a discount," said Williams. It's hard to envision many Notre Dame students _:_ due solely to South Bend's inclement weather, of course-participating in lhis sort of promotion. 
Edited by Jenny Tate 


Greek ~ystem Parties On 
It's official -fraternity residents consume much more alcohol than other students do. Members of the Core Institute for Alcohol and Other Drug Studies used responses from 568 fraternity-house and 438 sorority-house residents to confirm what many have as­suined for xears. Fraternity residents consume an average of 20 drinks a week. Other male students, on average, consume eight drinks a week. Sorority sisters don't quite keep up the gruesome pace of their male counterparts, but they still consume, on average, six drinks a week. Other female students average three drinks a week. The Core Institute defines a drink as 1.5 ounces ·of liqour, 4 ounces of wine or 12 ounces ofbeer. Hasn't anyone from the Core Institute has ever visited Notre Dame on a football weekend? Wouldn't that wreak havoc on their statistics?! 
Oh, Miserable Purdue 
Staunch Notre Dame football fans really had to brave the ele­ments at last Saturday's contest at Purdue. Hearty game-goers didn't just have to prepare for the rainy weather. Those who made the trek also had to think about getting inoculated. The week preceding the Notre Dame-Purdue contest was marked by an out­break of measles on Purdu_e's ca~pus.· So if you are feeling pretty good that pneumatic symptoms have yet to surface, don 'trejoiceyet; the measles have a11 incubation period of several days. 

22 
·SCHOLASTIC 

---=----==-----------------­
-. . ' ' ,.., ­

WEEK IN DISTORTION 
The Memory Game 
The fears and frustrations ofrenewing acquantainces 
than I am. I'm worth remembering. Me catch his eye. How do you dispense milk 
by Emily Mily 
That guy over th,ere looks so familiar. Who is he? Do I know him? Oh, that's right. I met him at a party last weekend. Matt, I think. He was so cool. Really friendly and outgoing. I'm sure he remem­bers me. We talked for more than ten minutes. Butstill ... somepeoplearesobad with names and faces. How frustrating. I'll just sit here and act casual. Ifhe stops to talk, I'll ask him how the rest of his weekend went. A nice neutral question. If he says, "Hi," but keeps on walking, I'll acknowledge him. Nothing too fancy. But I'm acting casual, right? I'll look straight ahead-but up a little-perfectly poised to catch an eye; yet not staring at him. Ifhe looks at me, I'll smile. Nothing too personal. Nothing too out of the ordinary. Just a weak smile. The smile a friendly­yet complete -stranger might give. Enough to encourage but not enough to look foolish. Then again, I could call out his name. I'm sure now that it is Matt. He lives in one of the towers. He's a sophomore. Pre-med and English, I think. Oh yeah. He likes Pink Floyd, too. I knew he was cool. Wait-· What if he doesn't remember me? What if he looks right at me with a totally blank look on his face? I would be devastated. Horrified. Humiliated. No, if he starts to walk by, it's better to just let him go. After all,ifhedoesn'tremember me, do you think I'd admit that I remember him? No way! That would be pathetic. That would be· losing. I'm interesting. Me calling out his name would be saying that he is more interesting than I am. I'm special. Me calling out his name would infer that he is more special 
calling out his name would mean that he was more worth remembering than I was. People like me. Me calling out his name would make him think more people like him than like me. He'd think thatlliked him! As ifl would just humiliate myself that way. You've got to be kidding. He'd probably think I sat around obsessing about him all week. He'd think I looked him up in the dog book. He'd think I scanned the phone book for him. He'd think I'm desperate! No way! 
Shoot. 
He walked by. I could've sworn he glanced over here though. Or was he just trying to find where his friends were sitting, That's probably it. How could he n~member ine? But still ... some people are good with names and faces. He was so friendly last weekend. He couldn't just forget, could he? 
I know. I'll give him a second chance. Maybe he does remember me but he just didn't see me. I'll get up and walk by his table. He won't be able to miss me. If he remembers me, it will be obvious. I know how to read these guys. I'll have to watch really close, out of the comer of my eye. Really slick. Really subtle. 
Quick! Go get some milk before he gets engrossed in his dinner. Great idea. I am getting kind of thirsty. Milk would hit the spot right now. Come to think of it, I haven't gotten enough calcium lately, either. More· milk, yeah. What do you know, the milk dispenser is in full view of his seat. This will just give him that second chance he needs. I'm sure he was simply looking really hard for his friends before. I'm sure he remem­bers me. How could he forget. Nearly ten minutes we talked. But still ... I guess it was a little dark. Okay, one glass of skim should hold off the osteoporosis for today. He is right behind me. I should do something to with flair? 
This is ridiculous. How old am I? Twelve? I've had plenty of calcium today, and I'm not thirsty. Okay, walk back to the table and give up. I should just admit to myself that he forgot. 
Wait-
What was that? 
He looked up! . A flicker of recognition?! 
I'msureofit. Calm down. Deepbreath. I'm playing it cool. I'm not going to make the first move. I'm not going to put myself on the line. No way. I'll just wait for him to call meover. It'sjustamatterofseconds. I know he remembers me. The flicker. I saw the flicker. 
Oh. He just started talking to one of his friends. He's not looking my way at all. I guess he doesn't remember. 
Thank God I didn't embarrass myself and do something foolish like talk to him. I'm glad I didn 'tadminhatl remember his name, dorm, age and major. At least he doesn't think he is more interesting than I am. At least he doesn't think he is more special than I am. At least he doesn't think he is more worth remembering than I am. At least he doesn't think I like him. 
I played this one perfectly. I never let down my guard. He never knew I knew. And he never will. 
This entire episode has been completely absurd. I'm sure guys never go through this kind of thing. Maybe it's better to just forget everyone. Then you never have to wonder if they remember you. 
I don't want this milk. I'm leaving. Oops. I spilled it all over the tray. What a mess! Oh well, these things happen. Not worth crying about, I guess. . 
23 



:.j . 


Sponsomf6y: 
~fufticuftura(•£;J..JCUtiz1l' Couutif 

Saturday, October 2 . 
8:00 pm to Midnight 
Stepan Center $1.00 admission 

Food from around the world! 
me: Mr. ·Ramzi Bualuan 
Great pre-SYR Party! 
Heritage Dance Company 
8:30: Troop Notre Dame · 
9:00: Ballet Folklorico Azul y Oro 9:1 5: iSabor Latino! 1 0:00:Dance Contests­
Limbo Merengue Twist Jitterbug 
11 :00: D.J. 


Grist For The Mill 
/ LCOt, i'M SORN, "&LK 
NT\LL I 6Er A BETTER. 
OB, I CAtv 1T l'AY 'i'OU. vsr 'DON'T HAVE THE I #"'. 
=-: 
. . /,f 
'~,~ 

MR. ~TLE.J<., YO<li<.E A IVH 1r1:. MALE WITH A i>llll..OMA FROM A FINE l'\1.IVATE LJN/Vl=-RSITY... you 5/Mhi' ~ "E>E WELL 
OFF . 
I 
Rick Grey 

l'LEASE DON', FOi1.CE u..s TO i<Et'O..;,SESS .• , 
wrl,4T, MY .$58 Woi(T1-I 
01= t"E'RSONA 
oELDf.JG//.JGS 
.,.,,._,..-Al'.,.....~~....;. .. 

:T WE r,\U.ST H 
• wH-e:; you 
CAUG+{r lit' Ot-) 1:.t-lTS•.. 
f\/1Af!.K AL o 2 zAM

TAl-~5 FROM Tl-lS "OP OF THE DoME® 
!)ID You HcAR. Tl-lAT f R.ED1S GETT/JJ6 A 'SGx Cl-{AliJGc ND 
wAY(
opGf2.AT1O,v ? 
)
l 

YeAH-Hf1S PRElTY WELL1 HG 
l.S l rTEf<. A FTEI<. AL.WA '(S COu:ll T30Nb sTDOD UP YO-CRE,liM--­Pol< 1H6 zsggntv16 Wl 1rf ,Hf; 
lN A f<OW 
T36SrOF1rf£M 
)
~ 



Do you feel a responsibility to . ?
your envzronment . ... 

•I""' ~ ~ 
. 
""' .. 

I . 
I 





"' Q, u. r-E nv i r· o n m. E!: nt:_a I {): e, s.t iu y '' THURSDAY OCTe7 $3 

IITlJDlt.NT UNION IU >AH I, 

7:30PM STEPA CE TER 

'
Tickets availc1/Jle at the LaFortune Info Desk 1 
J 





