Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 29, 1883.	No. 4
An Overdone Subject.
Air: Rosin the Bozo.
1.
Oh, give us a rest with your Rockies, Your cafions and gulches and springs;
Apparently, some people’s stock is
Restricted to that sort of things.
Pike’s Peak—Uncompahgre—Mount Blanca— I’ve seen them and taken their scalps—
Their levels, I mean, and they rank a Long way below Andes or Alps.
11.
I’ve crossed at a moderate amble
The Great Continental Divide;
It’s only two jumps and a scramble
To get up old Shavano’s side.
A man in contemplative mood ’ll
Find little to set him aglow:	_
No hill of the wretched caboodle
Ascends to perpetual snow.
in.
Nor does their appearance betoken A grandeur of substance or mode;
They look like the heaps of stone broken
To mend a macadamized road.
And as .for the climate, ’tis buncombe
To talk of salubrious air,
Most invalids die there, and some come
Back twenty times worse than they were.
IV.
Oh, who that has stood on Plinlimmon
And viewed the bright prospect below,
Would e’er give a blighted persimmon
For all Colorado can show?
When some would persuade me to dwell in Those regions of cactus and sage,
I tell them to go to Helvellyn, And then they depart in a rage. -
Justin Thyme.
Sobieski and Poland.*
Two hundred years ago, Poland was one of the most brilliant and powerful nations on the face of the globe. From the year 750, when her first chief magistrate was elected by the free vote of that
* Address delivered by Prof. T. E. Howard, ’62, A. M., LL. M., at South Bend, on the occasion of the celebration of the 200th anniversary of Sobieski’s famous victory at Vienna.
liberty-loving people, and especially from the year 999, when one of the most distinguished of those chief magistrates, the renowned Boleslass, was saluted as king of Poland, the people had grown in civilization, power and glory, until in the 13th century they surpassed all the northern nations in the prowess of arms. Even from the first entrance of the Turks into Europe the Polish kingdom was looked upon as the bright shield of Christendom. The secret of these Ions' centuries of uninterrupted glory may be found in the free character of the Polish nation. Native tyranny never existed in Poland since the first dawn of the nation in the Sth century. No king ever sat upon the Polish throne by right of inheritance. No one was ever allowed to rule merely because his father had ruled before him, but every ruler of the land, in that long list running over 1,000 years, was chosen by the elective voice of the nation. In this is the singular glory of the Poles, that they have always been a free people so long as they were independent of foreign domination. In this love of freedom and in this splendid history they share in glory with the Republic of Switzerland, with the free cities of Germany and with the Italian republics ; but their glory is even greater in this that the nation existed longer even than that of Switzerland, and was never destroyed by internal broils as were the Italian republics. Such was the proud, free, powerful and warlike kingdom of Poland, when, in 1674, John Sobieski was elected king. If ever a great ruler and a great people were perfectly matched and in every way worthy of one another, it was when John Sobieski was chosen king of Poland. His reign is worthy of ranking' with the most brilliant period in the history of any people of .ancient or modem times. And what was the condition of the world at that day? It is difficult for us to realize, after the danger is past, the state of a great people, or of the best part of the human race when some dreadful calamity is impending. Let us, if we can, try to feel what Europe was when Napoleon, after the victories of Jena and Austerlitz, held the nations terrified and trembling in his grasp. Let us imagine with what dread men held their breath while the opposing hosts struggled on the field of Waterloo. Let us consider France humbled to the dust a few years ago and accepting terms dictated to her from the foe then in possession of her capital. Aye, let us recall our own peril when our broth
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ers in their madness laid violent hands on the sacred household of the nation. What foreboding of evil! what dread and dismay! men groaning in spirit even as if the end of all things was upon us! But also what courage of brave souls! what hard closing of the lips and determination to do, and, if need, die for the right! What a time to rouse all that is noble and heroic in human nature! It does seem that the most dreadful wars, pestilence, and other calamities, are but blessings in disguise,.as it is by them that we learn what a noble being man is. Without the Turkish invasion of Europe, the splendor, the fame of John Sobieski and of that Polish people of whom he was the chosen leader, would not be before us for contemplation to-day. Two hundred years ago this morning the great empire of Austria was in her death grapple with the Turkish power, and all Christendom stood trembling for the result. Two hundred years ago this evening the barbarian invader had loosened his grasp and had turned his back upon Vienna, flying to his stronghold at Constantinople for safety. A giant in battle and a nation of warriors were at his heels driving him in confusion and forever
o ,
from Christian Europe. Was this an ordinary great man? Were these ordinary people that had performed this prodigious action? My friends, the battle two hundred years ago to-day was a turning tide in the history of the human race. If the Polish people had never produced another great man but Sobieski, if they had never done a great deed but what they did on that day, they would not have lived in vain, but have deserved to rank forever among the great nations of the earth. Great deeds are done by great means. Had not the Poles been a great, war-like nation, had’they not been a free people for 900 years, they would never have produced such a man as John Sobieski; nor would they on this day have driven the victorious and all-conquering Turks back in terror from the heart of Europe. This anniversary is, therefore, not only glorious in memory of the great deed done on this day, and the great man who planned and led in the action, but it is even still more gloriT ous in the people who produced such a man and who, under him, executed such an achievement.
Had the Polish armies under Sobieski been destroyed on that day, what, in all probability, would have been the fate of Europe? Should you seek an answer to this question, look at the barbarous nations of Asia and Northern Africa, where once dwelt civilized and enlightened peoples; look at Egypt, lately the theatre of war with England. What an abject, helpless race, and yet Egypt was once the most highly-civilized nation of the earth. In the Providence of God, Christianity could not be destroyed; but by the same Providence John Sobieski and the Polish people were raised up to save Christendom from that imminent peril. -
And now, fellow-citizens, what was the reward which the Polish nation received from the nations of Europe for this great service, and for having stood so long and. so bravely as the bulwark of civilization against barbarism ? It would seem that this matter of reward was committed to the na
tions most immediately benefitted. The nations : most likely to fall under the power of-the Turks	.4
were Russia, Austria and Germany; and these very	. ?
nations, to show their gratitude, proceeded almost 7. at once, under one excuse and another, to attack and harass the heroic people who had defended < them in the hour of their peril. It is said that a k man hates no one so intensely as he does one who has done him a service. It is an evil in human nature that we dislike those to whom we are under obligations. This is the detestable crime of ingratitude, one of the basest to which our poor human tv nature is liable. But whatever the cause, shame it is to say that for one hundred years aftei’ the death of Sobieski the kingdom of Poland was desolated by wars brought upon it by its most immediate neighbors, until in 1772, was enacted perhaps the most cold-blooded crime ever committed against a a nation—the infamous partition of Poland. In that year Frederick the Great of Prussia, Catharine of jg Russia, and Joseph II of Austria, sat down together as robbers, and with reeking swords parted fS the living kingdom of Poland amongst them. No wonder the poet, in contemplating this awful mur- || der of a nation, exclaims:
“ O bloodiest picture on the page of Time 1 ”	eg
No wonder these robber governments by recent orders caution the Polish people within their	fg
borders to be careful not to recall too vividly the	B
history of those former days. The memory of	S
that past might, on such an anniversary, madden	g
the people of Polish blood beyond all endurance.
These rulers still fear the consequences of that ft unholy partition. In nations, as in individuals, K “’Tis conscience that doth make cowards of us all.” The truly brave is he whose heart does not re-	g
proach him, and the robber king, even like the petty	g
thief, is ever uneasy for fear some one may re-	g
member his crime and-bring him to punishment.	§
One hundred years ago, the Polish nation ceased	S
to exist, except in the hearts of its people, and one	g
hundred years ago our own nation sprang into ex-	g
istence. There are many things besides this co-	8
incidence to connect us in sympathy with the	1
people of Poland. The free form of government	|
under which they lived for a thousand years, the	I
great service they performed for Christendom, for	1
civilization and for liberty, in driving the despotic	|
Turk back to the confines of Asia, and still more	|
by the sympathy and assistance given us in our	a
War of Independence. The first name in Polish	1
history, after that of John Sobieski, is our own	|
Thaddeus Kosciusko. Our tongues are clumsy in	1
getting around the numerous consonants‘in Polish	8
names, but there are two Polish names, at least,	S
which are almost as familiar to our lips as the	1
names of Washington, Lafayette and Franklin,	i
and these are the beloved names of Sobieski and	3
Kosciusko. The first saved Europe from barbar-	S
ism, and the second in his youth crossed the Atlan-	3
tic to draw his sword in defense of a free people	8
struggling with an old despotism, and in his ma- I ture age that same Kosciusko led his own people | in that last great struggle they made to recover |
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the freedom wrested from them by other despotisms of Europe. The people that brought forth such two men as Sobieski and Kosciusko need never despair of producing great men, and the people that celebrate with enthusiasm the great anniversaries of their nation, as this anniversary is celebrated throughout the world wherever a Polish settlement is gathered together, may well feel that the love of country is planted deep in their breasts never to be taken from them by any partition. America may well rejoice in the acquisition of such blood to her citizenship. Those in whose veins has coursed for over a thousand years the blood of freemen, whose hearts have throbbed for over a thousand years to the love of liberty and independence, who have torn themselves from their native plains and braved the perils of sea and land to live among strangers, in a land of freedom, these surely must be worthy citizens of a free nation. Welcome to America, ye sons of Poland! Welcome to a land which your own Kosciusko helped to make free, to a land where the name of John Sobieski is revered—but never, in all your happiness, forget that old land of your fathers, nor the great people of whom you are a part. Let not the mighty deeds of your ancestors perish from your memory, but let them continually nerve you to a noble and heroic life in the land of your adoption. May the name and the glory of John Sobieski be an inspiration forever, and-may each anniversary of this great day still find the Polish people, as he was, guardians of liberty and religion, ever ready to do and, if need be, to die for God and country!
The Future-of the Classics.
Much longer from pleasure’s light errands— Nor Terence.
The irreverent now may all scoff in ease At the shade of poor old Aristophanes. And moderns it now doth behoove in all Ways to despise poor old Juvenal;
And to chivvy
Livy.	. -
The class-room hereafter will miss a row Of eager young students of Cicero.
The ’longshoreman—yes, and the dock-rat, he’s Down upon Socrates.
And what’ll
Induce us to read Aristotle?
We shall fail in Our duty to Galen. No tutor henceforward shall rack us To construe old Horatius Flaccus.
We have but a wretched opinion Of Mr. Justinian.
In our classical pabulum mix we no wee sop Of yEsop.
Our balance of intellect asks for no ballast From Sallust.
With feminine scorn no fair Vassar-bred lass at us Shall smile if we own that we cannot read Tacitus No admirer shall ever now wreath with begonias
The bust of Suetonius, And so, if you follow me, We ’ll have to cut Ptolemy.
Besides, it would just be considered facetious To look at Lucretius.
And you can
Not go in Society if you read Lucan.
And we cannot have any fun Out of Xenophon.
—From Bric-h-Brac, in October Century.
[Written after reading telegraphic reports of the Phi Beta Kappa address of Charles Francis Adams, Jr., and retained, with apologies, after receiving fuller reports (and the orator’s subsequent explanations), for the sake of the labor bestowed on the Versification by the author, who is pleased to be assured that his poetical Prophecy is' Fallacious.]
No longer, O scholars, shall Plautus
Be taught us.
No more shall professors be partial
To Martial.
No ninny
Will stop playing “shinney”
For Pliny.
Not even the veriest Mexican Greaser
Will stop to read Cresar.
No true son of Erin will leave,his potato
• To list to the love-lore of Ovid or Plato.
Old Homer,
That hapless old roamer,
Will ne’er find a rest ’neath collegiate dome or
Anywhere else. As to Seneca,
Any cur
Safely may snub him, or urge ill Effects from the reading of Viigil.
Cornelius Nepos
Won’t keep us
From Chihuahua, Mexico, to Notre Dame, Ind.
A PARTY OF STUDENTS ON THEIR WAY TO COLLEGE TRAVEL FIVE DAYS WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARS.
On the morning of Monday, Sept. 3d, an unusually interesting sight presented itself at the depot of Chihuahua. Fourteen young men, from the best families in the city, were about to bid farewell to their- homes and friends to begin a long journey to college. Besides these, there were also in the party Mr. A. Zahm, and Mr. A. O’Reilly, of the “Old Reliable,” Hannibal & St. Joe, who kindly agreed to take charge of the excursionists for Fr. Zahm until they should mee't at a point named east • of the Mississippi. The trip, as mapped out, was over the Central Mexicano to El Paso del Norte; then over the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe R.R. to Kansas City; thence over the Hannibal & St. Joe to'Chicago, and from there to South Bend over the Lake Shore road. A Pullman palace car, chartered for their exclusive use by Rev. Father Zahm, awaited them at El Paso, Texas, and ran all the way through to South Bend,—a distance of
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
nearly, two thousand miles—without change. It was a most delightful journey from beginning to end. There were no delays or accidents on the way; the conductors and managers of the.roads extended every courtesy, and the scenery was always changing. Moreover, the students were all acquainted with one another, and had one of the best palace cars on the road all to themselves; they had no business matters to worry about, and from the time they entered the car until they reached their journey’s end they were at home and at ease.
As the train pulled out from Chihuahua, a large crowd of people, from all classes, were assembled to see it off. There could be seen at the side of the track, first the fruit-sellers and laboring men, with their sandals and large straw hats; then the women, with black shawls over their heads, standing in groups, or sitting along on the ground playing with their pretty little dogs—perritos; and beyond them, Mexican horsemen, with their noble steeds and elegant saddles. As we leave the city in the distance, all its buildings become indistinct except the grand old cathedral which rears its two enormous towers and roof high above' all the other buildings of the capital. This, and the mountains near by, were the last view the students had of their native city. We were now gliding over a long, smooth line of track, through a level plain some twenty or thirty miles wide and more than two hundred miles long-; it is covered from one end to the other with excellent grass, and herds of cattle, numbered by the thousands, and flocks of sheep, counting tens of thousands, are fattening on it. Nothing more can be seen here except an occasional hacienda, or farm house, some miles distant from the railroad. The prairie has rather an arid appearance, and the atmosphere is usually very hot; but wherever there is a house, and a well to supply water, there are abundant trees which afford a refreshing shade.
After riding three or four hours, one is informed that he has just reached the limit of a single ranche. The whole, comprising an area of about one thousand square miles, belongs to Governor Luis Terrazas, and is only one of his smaller tracts of land.
Shortly after leaving this, we enter a region of clear, yellow sand, looking like the bed of an ocean. The sand is rippled by the wind and standing in huge banks like snowdrifts. From want of water, the place is almost entirely destitute of plants, yet some of the most delicate white flowers spring up and thrive on the burning soil. There is one kind of plant so hardy—the Resurrection plant—that it may be wrapped up and sent to Europe, and as soon as it touches water will begin to grow again. It is said that it may be stored away for seven years without injury; and, in fact, it is kept in that condition for an indefinite time by those who have it for sale.
. Leaving this part of the country, we reach the northern boundary of Mexico, and go through the inspection process at the Custom House of El Paso del Norte, and cross the Rio Grande. This river is just as it is marked on the map: an immense broad stream draining a large tract of country; but it has
never carried steamboats and never will. It has an indefinite bed, sometimes overflowing with water and covering the plains far and wide, sometimes so dried up and narrow that one can walk across it with ease. It is a vast mountain stream with its source in the snow-capped peaks of the « Rockies ” which in the rainy season goes thundering along in one terrific, irresistible torrent, carrying huge boulders before it, and tearing away its banks so much sometimes as to entirely change its course. It has an ever-shifting channel, low banks and a bed of quicksand. It is invariably a disappointment to the young American geographer who has so often dreamed of rowing up and down its placid waters, beneath the shade of large overhanging trees, in pursuit of game—wild cats, bears, Indians, etc.
Reaching El Paso, Texas, we found our special car on hand and two more students waiting to join the party. The change from the “ Central Mexican© ” to the Pullman was a most agreeable one, and the expression hay mucho 'polvo^ “ There is lots of dust,” became es -niejor aqui^ « This is something like it.” The only accident so far was the loss of a sombrero and a little delay caused by a trunk.
An hour later we reached Las Cruces, New Mexico, and four more students joined the party. It was now dark, and after all had taken a hearty lunch they sang their evening songs and went to bed. Early the next morning we reached Albuquerque, and found thirteen more awaiting us, which completed the party. The car was now agreeably filled, and there was nothing to think of for the next four days except how to pass the time most pleasantly. To this end the scenery contributed considerably. We were changing from one class of people to another: to-day, we behold the adobe houses and pueblos of the Indians, and hear the language of Leon and Castile; to-morrow, we see the peculiar buildings and lively streets of “ El Gringo.” We were passing from the mountain scenery of New Mexico to the broad, level plains of Kansas; from the forests of pine and cedar and pinon to where even the smallest' tree was not visible. Later on, we were to cross the two largest rivers in the country, and see some of the largest and most enterprising cities of the West. The extensive crops and improved implements of agriculture, as well as the condition of the soil, were a novelty also to most of our, party, as this was their first visit to the country. To observe all these closely required considerable attention, and afforded a great deal of interesting comment. There were also two other means of amusement, viz.: singing and reading, in which most of the party occasionally took part.
Our porter was an excellent singer, and had the best disposition of any on the road. Every evening he helped to while away the time with his old familiar songs, and in a short time “Jack ” was a universal favorite. On the morning of the last day the boys collected a handsome purse and presented it to him, with the wish that he might accompany them on their return homeward.
All along the line we were treated with distin.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. '	53
guislied consideration by the officials and employees of the various roads. Nothing was left undone to make our trip pleasant and agreeable. All are specially indebted to Mr. H. B. Keeler, of the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fd Ry., for his kindly interest in the excursionists. From the beginning to the end he looked after our welfare, and left nothing undone that would conduce to our convenience or comfort. To Mr. A. J. O’Reilly, also, the genial, wide-awake Agent of the Hannibal & St. Joe R.R., who kindly volunteered to assist Mr. Albert F. Zahm—who had the party in charge —chaperone the excursionists from Chihuahua to Notre Dame, much is due. During our five days’ journey he was untiring in his efforts to serve us. He anticipated our every want, and made preparations accordingly. He imparted a portion of his own happy nature to everyone of the party, and contributed much towards making ours one of the most pleasant—as it was certainly the largest and the one travelling the greatest distance—students’ excursions that was ever organized. To Messrs. King, White, Hooper, Lowell, and Johnson, Gen. Pass. Agents respectively of the Central Mexicano, Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fd, the Hannibal & St. Joe, the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy, and the Lake Shore railroads, the party is also under obligations for courtesies extended. Everything was done that could be done to make our long trip one grand picnic.
At one place our train was held half an hour, and a special dinner prepared for us; and at various other places it was delayed for similar purposes. On Friday noon, at Galesburg, Ill., we joined Father Zahm’s special car from Denver, and-the two cars, containing over seventy-five persons, went together to South Bend. At Chicago, a special locomotive was attached, and took our two Pullmans without stoppage or delay on to Notre Dame.
To the people of Chicago, our car and its occupants were more of a novelty than a circus. A •large piece of canvas was attached to the side of either car, and upon one was written in large characters: “Students from Denver, Colorado, to Notre Dame University;” upon the other, “ Students from Chihuahua, Mexico, to Notre Dame.” The latter excited the greatest curiosity among the bystanders, and they stood with open mouths looking at the placard and at the car windows trying to explain the matter. Mexican money passed for three times its value, and the boys themselves for heroes. When they put on a stern appearance and began to speak together in Spanish, the curious visitors left the car with a suspicious, tail-down look, as if fearing an insurrection. On one occasion, the boys bought all the candy from a train agent, and as he turned to leave, sent a shower of candy and boxes over him like a hail-storm.
We reached South Bend at about eleven o’clock at night, and were conyeyed to the College in a long train of carriages, numbering about twenty altogether. The place looked unusually beautiful to the old students. All the electric lights were
burning; the fountains were in full play, and the new Dome appeared in all its magnificence. It was a welcome resting-place to the students after their long journey, and they seemed to appreciate it most heartily.
On the whole, they had had a safe and pleasant trip; they had enjoyed themselves in a variety of ways, and had seen many things that were'entirely new. They had feasted their eyes during the day, enjoyed their songs with “Jack ” in the evening, and romped at night after bedtime, till they fell asleep. When they drew near the end of their journey, some expressed a regret that it was over so soon, and all signified a wish to seethe porter Jack Brown again in June.
The Chihuahua car, although in charge of Messrs. Albert Zahm and A. J. O’Reilly as chaperons of the excursionists, was, as being a part of his “ Western Contingent,” under the immediate direction of Father Zahm, and subject to his orders from the time it left El Paso until it reached South Bend. And although he was not with our party, he was in constant telegraphic communication with it from the time it left Chihuahua until we joined his Denyer car at Galesburg. He was “ wired ” from all the principal stations as to the progress and condition of the party, and knew the number and names of all on board as well as if he had been with us. His messages to us, whether from Denver or from his “ special ” en route, were always read with interest, as they gave us renewed assurances that we should meet our northern friends at the appointed time and place. The meeting at Galesburg was indeed a pleasant one. Although nearly all the occupants of our party were strangers to the excursionists from the “ Rockies,” still we were bound for the same college-home, and had the same interests in common. For these, and other reasons, we soon became acquainted, and long before we had reached Notre Dame all were fast friends, and, to judge from appearances, had been acquainted with each other for years.
To Sr. Don Alberto Zahm—who became quite Mexicanized during his stay in Chihuahua—the excursionists in the car “ El Paso ” (for this was the name of our “special ”) are indebted for many acts of kindness and attention, and for contributing, with Mr. O’Reilly, towards making our trip one that will be long remembered by all as one of those pleasant events that go so far, humanly speaking, towards making “life worth living.”
Viajero.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—M. Paul Meyer has discovered another old French manuscript—this time in a private library at Courtrai. It is a fragment of a versified life of St. Thomas of Canterbury, dating from the thirteenth century.
—One of the best landscapes in the American department at the Munich Exhibition is said to be that of Mark Fisher, formerly of Boston, but now
54
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the occupant of a London studio, and a regular contributor to the Grosvenor Gallery Exhibitions.	.
—In « Topics of the Time,” of the October Century, the editor says: “ The magazine enters upon its fourteenth annual ‘ fall campaign,’ we are happy to say, with a circulation and an audience numbering thousands beyond those of the last or of any former year in its history.”
—“Le Chevalier de Saint-Megrin,” the posthumous opera of Flotow, is to be produced at Cologne in December. The libretto is said to have o
been written by a well-known French Bishop, who was on intimate terms with the composer. The plot is taken from “Henri III et sa Cour,” the well-known drama of the elder Dumas.
—At Seitendorf, near Neutitschein, in Moravia, is a wooden church, erected in the fifteenth century. During repairs which were being recently carried on, some very old Gothic pictures were discovered hidden away under double folds of linen cloths. . The Governor of Moravia has directed the Royal Conservator of Antiquities and Historical Objects to take these pictures under his protection.
—In commemoration of the two hundredth anniversary of the defeat of the Turks by Sobieska (1683), an exhibition has been opened in the Stadt-halle, at Vienna, of historical objects associated with that event. There is a large collection of ■ books and medals, the tent of the Grand Vizier Kara Mustapha, and a chain used for binding Christian prisoners, all lent by the King of Saxony.
—At Udine, after eighty-five years, the lion of St. Mark, which was pulled down at the time of the French invasion, has once .more been put up on a Corinthian column in the middle of the Piazza Vittorio Emanuele. The new lion is in Vicenza stone and is the work of the sculptor Signor D. Mendini. Like the lion at Venice, one of its paws, raised, rests on the Bible, on the open pages of which are cut the words: Pax tibi, Maree, evangelista meus.
—Among the curiosities exhibited at the Louisville Southern Exhibition are thirteen medallions or castings of iron representing Christ and the twelve Apostles. These were cast from , native ores, nearly one hundred years ago, at the old Bellewood furnace upon the Cumberland River in eastern Tennessee, in moulds made of green sandstone. Considering the rudeness of methods and the infancy of art in that section and time, they have a finish, smoothness and polish that is remarkable. The delineation of features, the eyes, brow, chin, etc., are nearly, if not quite, equal to the very best grade of chisel work.	-
WHAT CERTAIN MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS SAID:
Violin.—“ I’m nothing without my beau!
Trumfet.—“My.hopes are blasted!”
Harf.—“Alas!-I am unstrung.” _	'	-
Banjo.—“ My master is nigger-dly.”
Drum.—“T admit I’m beaten.” .
Guitar.—“ Plucked 'again! ”	.
Violoncello.—“ My position is un-knees-y.” Harmonium.—“ How’s your poor feet ? ” Hurdy-gurdy.—“ One good turn deserves another.”
Piano-forte.—“ Take care, I’m not collared!
Bones.—“ Give us a shake of the hand.”
Street Organ.—“ Oh!. you’ll remember me.” Church Organ.—“ Well, I’m bl owed.”
—H. E. D.^ in London Musical World.
—Dr. Bernard Schafer, the distinguished archaeologist and Professor of Exegesis at Munster, has lately issued two important pamphlets on the subject of the Biblical Deluge. Attempts have been recently made, especially by several Protestant theologians, .like Gartner, Zollmann, etc., to connect the “ diluvium ” of geology, distinguished by its well-known striated boulders, with the Noachian Flood of Holy Scripture. Professor Schafer shows that this connection is quite untenable, and can only injure the cause it is meant to defend; and that the geological period referred to was separated by vast intervals of time from the historic period. In his second work, he offers the positive historical proof for the truth of the Biblical. narrative in an exhaustive summary of the universal traditions of all nations. The historical material thus brought together is of the highest 00	o
interest and value, as is also the geological information contained in the former of the two brochures.
—It was announced last week that the Anglican vicar of Stratford-on-Avon, the Rev. G. Arbuthnot, is not opposed to the exhuming of Shakespeare’s remains, as proposed by Dr. Ingleby, one of the life trustees of Shakespeare’s birthplace, in a work just published by him, entitled Shakes-feards Home. The object of. the proposed exploration of the.tomb is to compare the poet’s skull with the monumental bust in the church, and also to set at rest the controversy about the many conflicting portraits of the poet in existence. Before the remains can be exhumed, however, the consent of the Mayor and, Corporation would also' have to be obtained. The proposal is exciting a great deal of comment in Stratford. On this announcement the Standard remarks:—“ What opinion the municipality of Shakespeare’s native town may have on the matter we do not know, nor is it a matter of much consequence. Unless Stratford-on-Avon differs from other towns, the consent of the Secretary of State for the Home Department must be obtained for any disinterment. Sir William Harcourt may, at all events, be depended on for refusing his sanction to an act so utterly defenceless, so directly opposed to the poet’s own deliberate orders, and so certain to arouse the indignation of every right-thinking man. Apart, altogether, from the bad taste—or worse—which could dictate such a proposal, and the opprobrium which would be sure to follow the act, could it be possibly effected, we have against it the pathetic appeal which the poet ordered to be inscribed on the flat stone which covers his grave: ‘ Good friend, for Jesus’ sake, forbeare Tbdigg the dvst encloased
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
55
heare: Bleste be ye man yt spares thes stones, And cvrst be he yt moves my bones.’ These pleading words ought, to any intelligent man—far less to a ‘ Life Trustee of Shakespeare’s Home ’— be a sufficient veto against the notion at present mooted.”—London Weekly Register.
Books and Periodicals.
The Paper Mill Directory of the World. A Complete Catalogue of All the Paper and Pulp Mills on the Globe. Issued Annually. Holyoke, Massachusetts: Clark W. Bryan & Co., Publishers. Price, $i, cloth.	‘
The enterprising publishers of The Pa'per World and The Builder evidently know what the people want, and, as far as they are concerned, spare neither pains nor expense in supplying that want. The Paper Mill Directory is a substantially-bound volume of nearly 20b pages octavo, well •arranged and neatly printed. Although the labor and expense of procuring and properly arranging the material must have been very great—all "the paper-making countries in the world being repre. sented—the book is placed at the low price of $1. We learn from the Preface that the German Empire leads the world in the number of its paper mills—1,108,—the United States coming next, with only 1,099. This item is a nut for the advocates of free-trade to crack. We should like to see a comparison made between the factories in other branches of industry and those at-home. Perhaps, after all, the “ bloated bond-holders ” that build and run our mills and factories are not nearly so bad nor half so strong as they are represented. Besides the list of paper mills, the advertising pages of the Directory furnish a ready reference to leading manufacturing houses in various parts of the United States.
—The North American. Review for October presents a most attractive table of contents. Senator N. P. Hill writes of “ Gold and Silver as Standards of Value,” and maintains that silver should be coined as well as gold, not for the purpose of inflating the currency, neither in the interest of the silver-mining industry, but for the broader and more equitable purpose of preserving uniformity . in the value of metalic money, and of preventing such contraction of the 'volume of money as would produce financial disaster. In “ Some Aspects of Democracy in England,” "A. V. Dicey makes clear to. the American reader how it is that, while all the forms of monarchy and aristocracy persist in Britain, the democracy, or, in other words,-public opinion' absolutely controls the action of the government. Under the title of “ Co-operative Distribution,” the Rev. Dr. R. Heber Newton gives an instructive historical sketch of the rise, progress and fluctuations of co-operative merchandizing in the United States during the past fifty years. Prof. W. Boyd Dawkins writes of “ Early Man in America,” whose mode of life and whose implements appear to have been identical with those of the races that contemporaneously inhabited
the Mediterranean countries,..the Nile basin, and the tropical forests of India. The possibility of “Astronomical Collisions,” whether of the fixed stars with one another, or of comets with the sun, the earth, or the other planets, is considered by Prof. C. A. Young. Van Buren Denslow, in an article on “Board of Trade Morality,” makes a vigorous defense of the practices of the Corn Exchange, and in particular replies to the strictures of Mr. Henry D. Lloyd, contained in the Review for August. Frederick Harrison contributes an article, invaluable to the historical student, on “Histories of the French Revolution.” Finally, the Rev. E. E. Hale presents an inventory of the volume and distribution of “Social-Forces in the-United States.” Published at -30 Lafayette Place, New York. $5.00 a year, 50 cents a number.
—October brings the concluding number of The Century year, and of the twenty-sixth volume of the magazine. Illustrated articles and critical, biographical papers give a popular look to' the number. The portrait of Longfellow which accompanies Edmund C. Stedman’s admirable essay on the poet, is thought to be one of the best of The Centiiry series of frontispieces. It differs from most of the Longfellow portraits in emphasizing the serious side of his nature. Mr. Stedman may be said to apply to the poet’s works the best standard of contemporary judgment. His estimate is high, yet discriminating, and his remarks on Longfellow’s literary methods are of the highest value. Richard Grant White’s “Old New York and its Houses ” is one of the most interesting- among the illustrated articles, being a racy criticism of the commercial spirit and building- taste of the past twenty years. Of striking interest is his description of the beauties of New York Bay, as it appeared to him in youth. William H. Rideing’s interesting jaunt about London, “In the Footsteps of Thackeray,” describes and illustrates houses and scenes described in Thackeray’s novels, and also places of interest like the Charter-house, where Thackeray received his early schooling. H. H. contributes an illustrated paper on the “ Outdoor Industries of California,” and George Bird Grinnell* has a practical sportsman’s paper on “ Snipe-shooting.” “ Topics of the Time” discusses “The Democrats and the Presidency,” “ Law and Order Leagues,” “ The Lack of Earnestness in American Politics,” and “ Professor Jevons on Education;” while “Open Letters ” contains short articles of interest and importance, including Charles Dudley Warner on “ A NewTnterpreter of Greek Art,” namely Dr. Charles Waldstein, a young American, who.is lecturing at Cambridge University, England; Henry Irving’s Stage Management,” by Walter Herries Pollock; “ Some of the Younger English Poets— E. W. Gosse and Andrew Lang”; “Tame Butterflies,” by E. Brightwen; “Two Southern Novelists,” by T. B. Dorsey; “A Recent Decision on the License Question,” by E. V. Smalley; “ Chief Justice Taney in Relation to the Dred Scott Case.” by J. A. Walter and Courtenay De Kalb; and “The John Brown Raid,” by S. H. Brown. .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
mwsewsiK.
Notre Dame, September 29, 1883.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
' Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students. •	'
All the weekly local news of the University, including tire names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take.it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it. .
Terms, Sr go fer Annum.. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, .
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all. such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.	•
—At the Notre Dame University, members of the Faculty, are officers of the Boat Club. Scholastic, we do not understand how such things can be.—Badger.
Possibly. We have a strict Faculty when discipline is concerned, but they don’t chase the boys round'with shot guns or revolvers, or keep themselves aloof or secluded. There be Facilities and Facuities, Badger.
—The societies are all now fully organized, and, as might be expected from the unprecedented number of students in attendance, show a large increase in membership. This is as it should be. No student should fail to profit by the advantages which are to be derived from a membership in any of the various religious, literary, dramatic and athletic organizations existing in the College. -The object for which each of these societies was established manifests its character and indicates the particular benefits to be gained by union with it. And to any student having in view the completion and perfection of his collegiate education, it must at once be evident that in this respect he has at hand a powerful means for the speedy and perfect attainment of the end contemplated.
—We are glad to learn that the authorities-have decided to introduce a new feature into the lecture course this year which will impart to it additional interest. We refer to the engagement, as already announced, of distinguished speakers from outside the College. It is well known that the effect produced by a lecture upon any given literary or scientific subject is to awaken greater interest in the question treated, and impress more deeply in the mind lessons already learned, or at least stimulate investigation and research. In years past the authorities have by no means neglected this important branch in collegiate training. At stated intervals lectures have been given by members of the Faculty upon philosophical, scientific, literary and historical subjects, and always with interest and profit to the student. These, of course, will be continued, and with the new feature to which we have referred, will make the lecture course at Notre Dame all that can be desired.
Not the least of the advantages which the students of Notre. Dame enjoy—though we are sorry to say one which few seem to appreciate—is that presented by the Scholastic. Its columns are open to all, and the opportunity is thus afforded for the acquirement of something which cannot fail to prove useful in after-life, viz., the ability to write with clearness and propriety. So necessary, in fact, has this qualification already become that, of late, schools of journalism have been seriously mooted as desirable adjuncts of educational institutions. There is no lack of writers, but the number of those who think systematically and compose with simplicity and force is small. In colleges where a students’ journal is published there is no need, we think, of introducing a class of journalism as a special department: the existing facilities . will be found ample, if only fully profited by. It is not in the power of any. teacher, no matter how ele-.gant a writer he may be, to impart to his pupils the artistic qualities of composition, but it only requires persevering effort to learn to write forcibly and intelligibly. Practice is what is most needed, and, precisely, what is most neglected. This is afforded by the college paper. The smallest boy is free to contribute local items, and when he has sufficiently advanced in his studies to write essays they will be equally acceptable. The habit will thus be acquired almost unconsciously of saying in writing only what can be expressed with clearness and- order. .The daily papers, the magazines, even the quarterlies, teem with the writings of men and women who never learned to unsnarl their ideas.. Hence the demand for contributors who can write untrammelled English, such, for instance, as Cardinal Manning’s. • The reading public are tired of needless amplification and deceitful verbiage, in proof of which the big dailies are going out of fashion, and, papers in which ideas are expressed in as few words as possible, in which news is condensed, and “ dead ” matter of all .kinds carefully excluded, are becoming more and more popular.	~
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
57
We hope the students of Alma Mater will always deserve to be classed among those who have not neglected the proper study of the English language, and that they may deserve such praise, we advise all to write for the Scholastic early and often.	.
—The recent letter of the Holy Father, Leo XIII, - on historical studies, is deservedly attracting widespread attention throughout the Christian world. The words of His Holiness in this remarkable document are such as must exercise great influence upon every thinking mind, no matter to what form or shade of belief it may adhere. . Apparently, the first and immediate object which called forth the writing of the letter was the desire to set before civilized peoples the true status of the relations between the Papacy and the Italian nation. A candid, unprejudiced study of history, a plain, true statement of facts must reveal the truth that the temporal power of the Popes was never an usurpation or an infringement on the rights and liberties of the people, but that, from the very first beginnings of Christian Europe, the very nature and causes of things led to its establishment and continued existence. Again, the great and manifold benefits which the influence of Papal arbitraments has conferred upon civilization should not be lost sight of, but duly weighed and considered. At every age, since, the beginning of Christianity, the power and influence of the Popes have been acknowledged and called into exercise— In our own days, this fact is brought prominently forward, when we see that the Papacy, though apparently in subjection, is the great moral power in the Christian world. The justice and right of the temporal power of the Popes, and other facts immediately concerning the Church, are established by history, and the fact that the Supreme Pontiff has decreed that the invaluable treasures of the Vatican library be thrown open to the historian, and all are invited to a careful study and publication of its contents, not only shows that the Papacy has no fear as to the result, but reveals a deep-seated desire that the facts of history be placed in their true light before the world.
& &
In particular, the Pope urges upon all,- and especially the young, the study of history—but history written as it should be. The first law of history, he says, is not to Ue; the second, not to fear to speak the truth, and then there should be no suspicion of writing in favor or -hatred of anyone. He suggests, too, as necessary for the use of schools, the compilation of compendious manuals.
This letter reminds Christian youth of a study which, if not already followed, should be engaged in without delay. The importance of a knowledge of historical facts and a deep study of the philosophy of history cannot be overestimated, and we hope ~ at some future time to have more to say upon the subject. For the-present, suffice it to say that we . can follow this study not only without detriment to other pursuits, but even with great advantage and profit tp thejn.	.	. .	-
Resolutions in Memory of William .8. Cleary- .
We, the undersigned Committee, appointed by the Senior Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary to draft appropriate resolutions on the death f of William S. Cleary, respectfully submit the following:
Death is always sad; but when one dies who is near and dear to us—with whom we have lived as fellow-members in one great family, united together by the mystic bonds of friendship and affection, sympathizing one with another in the triumphs and disappointments of many months or many years, death brings with it a deep and long-abiding sorrow.
Death, too, seems always to be unexpected; but it is only when one who is young and strong and hopeful, gifted alike in mind and in body, with brilliant prospects and ‘ honorable ambition, is taken by some accident or violence from us, that we appreciate the calamity of a really sudden death, and the shock and the sorrow that it must ever bring.
We, therefore, who knew so well, and miss so often, our late schoolmate and friend, to show our respect for his memory, our sorrow at his sudden death, and our deep and sincere sympathy for his parents and friends, have adopted the subjoined resolutions:	"
Resolved: That in the death of William S. Cleary the University has lost one of her most brilliant students; we, a genial, faithful friend; his state and his family, a loyal and gifted son.
Resolved : That his memory which will be ever green in the hearts of his many friends among Faculty and stu- ' dents at his Alma Mater, can be- most truly honored by works of piety offered for his soul; and that members of the Archconfraternity are recommended to often remember him in their prayers.
Resolved : That our sincere sympathy is ever with his bereaved parents and friends; and our hope that in their confidence of his resurrection and his life beyond the grave, they may bear, with patient resignation, his absence from them here on earth.
Resolved: That these resolutions be printed in the Notre Dame Scholastic, and copies sent to the family of the deceased.	,	’. .
C. A. Tinley,)
T. E. Steele, t Committee.	-
Elmer A.Otis, )
Personal-
—Eugene Grant (Com’l), ’82, is chief clerk in a wholesale house in Denver, Col.
—B. Kreitzer (Com’l), of ’78, the famous Nimrod and genial young collegian, is in the jewelrybusiness with his father, in Peru, Ind. '
—Wm. Farrer, of ’79, is a partner in a Law office with his father and uncle at Peru, Ind. ■ Will is a promising young attorney, and will surely sustain his portion of this great firm.
—G. Webb (Com’l), of ’70, has one of the best grocery houses in Peru, Ind. Grover is hale and hearty, .has two of the prettiest of children, and always does his utmost to make it pleasant for his old college friends. . ’	. '
—One of the College officers, calling at Peru, during vacation, heard the best account of. Notre Dame’s old students, and although not seeing them all, was assured they were a credit to their Alma Mater and themselves. Amen, boys!
—W. H. Arnold, A. B., valedictorian of .the Class of ’S3, and also the successful competitor for
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the English prize essay, is at his home in Washington, engaged in the real estate business, and has already, we are glad to learn, secured extensive patronage. Mr. Arnold is also engaged in the study of law. We wish him all possible success.
—We had a pleasant call from Mr. Elmer Crockett, of the South-Bend Tribune Company, this week, in company with Mr. Tarbell, of South Bend. We understand the Tribune Company have in preparation, and nearly completed, a history and description of the prominent business establishments in and around the city. It will be completed before the opening of the Northern Indiana Annual Fair, in October.
—Mr. P. McAuliffe, of the Valparaiso Herald, and his brother, Mr. D. McAuliffe, of Valparaiso, Ind., were welcome visitors to the College during the past week. They- expressed, themselves surprised and delighted at all they saw. In particular their visit to the printing-office, while affording extreme pleasure to the typos, was, at the same time, as they expressed it, an occasion of particular interest to the visitors. We are glad to be able to say that the Valparaiso Herald, under its present management, is rapidhr becoming a power, and deservedly exercises great influence in the State. We wish it and its able editors many years of usefulness.
—Eugene' F. Arnold, A. M., LL.M., of ’78, who held the Junior chair of Law here last yeaj, and erstwhile a member of the Scholastic Staff, has, with his brother-in-law, Mr. W. H. Landvoigt, opened a law office in his native city, Washington, D. C. Mr. Landvoigt has for many years past been engaged in the Departments at Washington, "and the new firm intend to make a specialty of de' partment practice. With their knowledge of the rules governing the departments, Messrs. Arnold & Landvoigt cannot fail of securing special advantages for their patrons, and wherever they are known their integrity is beyond question. It therefore gives us pleasure to commend the new firm to those of our readers who have business to transact in Washington. The business card of Messrs. Arnold & Landvoigt will be found elsewhere in the pages of the Scholastic.
Local Items.
—And still they come! .
—u Class Honors” will be published next week.
—G. Schaefer is the Philopatrian Attorney-at-law. , x	.	,	•
—The Sorins are organizing games for St.
Edward’s Day. - .
—The Bulletins for September will be made out next Thursday.	- -
—The Sorins are having their Society Room beautifully fitted up; - .	\	J
—Philo, Cecil- and Charlie are practising the three-legged race for the 13 th. .
-—Sancho and. Nep again rejoice. < They have united forces for the fall campaigh. ‘
—The nose of the leading mutineer in the new mural painting is a temperance lecture in itself.
—The members of the Academy at their next meeting will consider “ The Utilitv of Logic.”
—Steam was found to be a very comfortable convenience~on the last two or three cool mornings.
—Father Zahm is organizing a grand expedition, to be made up of leading statesmen from" Mexico.
—A collection of rare pamphlets has been added to the Library. Their titles will be made known at a later date.
—Cecil’s friends advise him to have a - second celebration of his birthday, as it so unluckily fell on a Thursday—“ rec ” day.
—Owing to the large number of students in attendance, divisions and subdivisions in many of the classes is the order of the day.
—The play of “ Cataline ” has been substituted for the “ Lost Heir.” A select combination of the Euglossians will appear in the cast on the 13th.
—Most Rev. Archbishop Riordan is expected to visit the College during the coming week and spend a few days before leaving for San Francisco.
—Our Rev. Vice-President, assisted by Albert F. Zahin, ’83, is actively engaged in the work of “ teaching the young Mexican idea how to shoot.”
—With what- reverberating echoes do the cries of “Man the life-boat!” “Boat ahoy!” “John Maynard!” “Fire!” resound through these classic halls!
—The wire connecting the steam-house with the water-tank seems to make a pretty good clothes line. A beautiful (?) coat may be seen hanging on it.'	'
— Mr. C. Tinley, in response to an enthusiastic invitation, displayed his oratorical powers in an artistic manner before the Euglossians, on Thursday evening.
-VThe gentleman with the dinner-pail, who attempted to ride the smallest of the burros last Saturday afternoon, is requested to call at the office and settle. ’
—The full organization of The Staff, it is hoped, will be effected in a few days. Those who wish to join actively, will please drop their names in “ the box.”
—The Curator of the Museum gratefully acknowledges the receipt of an old and curious Indian lance, donated by Rev. A. A. Lambing, of Pittsburgh, Pa. -	‘
■ —“Ismene, our own dear sister, darling one,” turned up last Thursday morning. It is rumored that Miss “Antigone” also is'still alive and may be expected every day. '	1	..
—One of the greatest curiosities lately added to' the Museum is a silver ring, made by Manuelita, daughter , of Manuelito, chief of the Navajoes, donated.by Mrs. Wm. Cole, of Denver, Col.
„—The ten-o’clock rule is beginning to work very smoothly, though at times a little opposition is made.;, W-ho’’was the White Knight that appeared suddenly oh the scene the other night?
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

—With Zahm and O’Connor back, and Quinn daily expected, a Greek Play in June becomes a certainty, though the genial Professor of the Hellenists refuses to commit himself so early in the year.
—Mr. Solon, a student at Notre Dame, delivered an eloquent and forcible address before the St. Joseph T. A. & B. Society, of St. Patrick’s Church, in the Society’s Hall, Sunday evening.—South-Bend Register.
—Among the projects on the tafiis is a new dining-room for the Minims. This has become almost a necessity, owing to the crowded state of the present apartment and the difficulties attending the work of the public reader.
—Several items were found in our box this week, but we were obliged to consign them to the wastebasket as they did not bear the naines of the writers. Remember that no anonymous communications can be accepted for publication.
—C. W. Murdock has taken unto himself a wheel—a Columbia A i we believe,—so the prospect foi* a bycicle club and bycicle race on fieldday—October 13th—grows brighter. Bring on your wheels, gentlemen, and put yourselves in training.
—A very interesting game of baseball, lasting through 13 innings and ending in a tie, was played last Thursday afternoon, on the Juniors’ Campus. The sides were captained by Masters Rothschild and Cavaroc; the batteries were Masters Wile, Menig, Waixel and Holeman.
—Among the late donations to the Cabinet of Curiosities must be mentioned a minature painting on copper, a relic of the 16th century; presented by Signor Gregori; and the skull of an Indian chief found at Ft. Comfort, Ohio, the gift of Mr. Galar-nean, of the Senior department.
—The big pile of stones in front of old science hall is fast disappearing. They are being carted away to form the foundations of the new building. B. Alfred has his men well at work, and is evidently determined to see that his part of the undertaking is done with thoroughness and despatch.
—Heller, the tonsorial artist of South. Bend, has fitted up a shop at the University, and will spare no pains to give satisfaction to all who 'patronize him. Mr. Heller is highly spoken of by those who know him. He and his assistants will be found at the shop in the Gymnasium building all day on Thursday.
—The Band this year promises to be the best at the College for many a year. The .members play with surprising skill.and perfection, considering the short time that has elapsed since their organization. We have no doubt that during the coming year not the least among tfie pleasing features of our musical programmes will be given by the Band.
—The Junior Archconfraternity, under the Directorship of Rev. President Walsh, was reorganized on last Sunday evening, and the following officers elected:' D. G. Taylor, 1st Vice-President; W. P.' Mahon', 2d Vice-President; J. H. Fendrich, Recording Secretary; W. Mug,. Corresponding
Secretary; J. Halligan, T reasurer; H. F oote, Censor.
—The new Reading-Room for the Minims is rapidly approaching completion under the skilful direction of B. Alfred. The apartment will be 120 feet long by 30 wide, and when fully completed and furnished will be one of the finest at Notre Dame. No doubt the young “Princes” will not fail to profit by the many advantages which will thus be placed within their reach.
—Prof. Gregori has completed his new mural painting, “ The Mutiny at Sea.” Though smaller in size, it compares favorably with his larger paintings in point of artistic merit. But two more paintings remain to complete the Columbus’ series. The subject of the next is “ The Departure from Palos.” . Work on this painting will not be begun until after the Professor’s return from Detroit, whither he goes to do the fresco painting of the Pro-Cathedral.
—At the Moot Court, last week, the case of Jackson vs. the Ohio & Mississippi Railway Co. was tried, Judge Hoynes presiding. Messrs. Kolars and Steis for plaintiff, and Messrs. Conway and Geisei* counsel for defendants. Mr. V. Burke was the sheriff, and G. Schaefer clerk of the court. Mr. Alfred B. Christian took a verbatim report of the . testimony which is highly spoken of by those who understand stenography and have read the report.
—B. August invites the public generally to call and see the fine large painting which has been placed over his rooms in the tailoring establishment.' It is a large canvas picture (6 ft. x 4) with three figures represented—two Seniors and a Minim— dressed in the latest style. The words “ Merchant Tailoring” are placed above in large, highly-colored letters. The whole is the work of Prof. Ackerman, and reflects great credit upon the artist. Call and see it.
—A game of ball was played on the 23d inst. between a picked nine of the Juniors and the Apprentices’ Chib, in which the former were victorious by a score of 18 to 9. The Juniors’ battery was composed of Masters McGill and Nester; Masters Heithouse and Burns were the Apprentices’ battery. T. McGill and C. Combes, of the Junior nine, did some"good playing; the former at the bat, and the latter distinguishing himself in general as an amateur ball player.
—The Senior-Archconfraternity was reorganized last Sunday evening by Rev. T. E. Walsh. The following officers were elected for the first session: President, C. A. Tinley; Vice-President, E. A. Otis; Recording Secretary, H. Porter; Corresponding Secretary, J. C. Larkin; Treasurer, N. H. Ewing; First Censor, C. Murdock; Second Censor, H. Steis. At the close of the balloting, President Walsh addressed the Society, after which the meeting adjourned.	•
—The 3d regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association took place Sept. 26th. The meeting opened with an organ selection by W. Schott. Essays were read by D. Taylor, 'G. Porter, W. Mug, W. Mahon,"W. Schott, J. Eendrich, J. Courtney, G. Schaefer, M. B. Mulkhern. Declamations were delivered by F. Dexter, F.
•S
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Hagenbarth, J. McDonnell, E. Wile, W. Henry. Public readers for this week are D. Taylor, W. Mahon, J. Fendrich, H. Foote, W. Mug, W. Henry, and F. Dexter.
—The ist meeting of the Columbian Dramatic Club took place Sept, the 25th. The following are the officers for the present session: Rev. Father Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Prof. J. F. Edwards, Honorary President; Prof. J. A. Lyons, President; Bros. Emmanuel and Paul, C. S. C., Promoters; L. Mathers, ist Vice-President; C. J. Kaufmann, 2d Vice-President; J. M. Eisenhauer, Treasurer; W. C. Orchard, Recording Secretary; Geo. N. O’Brien,- Corresponding Secretary; Fred Fishel, Censor; J. A. Hyde, Marshal.
—The 3d regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society was held Sept. 23d. The meeting opened with a musical selection by A. Plischke. Master J. Dwenger read a composition on local topics. Master J. T. Cleary personated the “Eastern Nabob” to advantage. Recitations were given by C. Cavaroc, C. Mason, R. Devereux, C. Miihler, F. Curtis, J. Henry, B. Rothschild, J. Rhodus, A. Warner and D. Taylor. Master J. T. Cleary was elected ist Prompter, and Master E. Holbrook 2d Prompter.
—The Professor of Greek having authorita-tively announced that there is to be no Greek Play in June, a movement is on foot among the Thespians and Hellenists to consolidate and to bring out next February a translation of the “Medea” of Euripides. The following cast has been suggested:
Medea.............................W. W. Gray, Jr.
Jason.................................-J- A. Solon
Children of Medea..........T.	Fenlon and E. Fenlon
Tptooo^—the nurse of Medea—	J. Larkin
Choreutes—Leader of the Chorus of Corinthian Maidens—
A. Zahm.
—The 2d regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held in St. Edward’s Hall on Tuesday, Sept. 25th. The question, “I Would Rather be an American than a European ” was the subject of an interesting debate. On the affirmative side were Masters Devereux, Rebori, Kraus, and McPhee; on the negative, Masters B. Lindsey, Morrison, F. Otis, and W. Stange. The points on both sides were well sustained, but B. B. Lindsey’s argument in favor of Europeans gained the victory for his party. Fairly written compositions were read by F. Bunker and W. Stange. The meeting, which was an especially pleasant one, closed with a speech from the President.
—The first regular meeting - of the Thespian Society was held Friday evening, - Sept. 21st. The election of officers resulted as follows: Director, Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C.; President, Jos. A. Lyons, A. M.; Critic, F. B. Devoto, A. M.; First Vice-President, Jas. Solon; Second Vice-President, Elmer A. Otis; Recording Secretary, W. H. Bailey; Corresponding Secretary, J. McIntyre; Treasurer, Chas. A. Tinley; Historian, T. E. Steele; Librarian, W. W. Gray; Marshal, E. Fenlon; Censors, F. W. Gallagher and S. Dicker-son; Sergeant-at-Arms, J. C. Larkin; Prompter,
N. Ewing. The Thespian Society is in a flourishing condition this year and will, without doubt, sustain the reputation it has always had of being the leading Society of the Senior department.
—We have received from the University Press, Notre Dame, Indiana, a copy of the drama, in four acts, “ If I were a King ” (for male characters only). It was composed for the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society, of the University of Notre Dame, by a member of the College Faculty, and has been arranged by Joseph A. Lyons, A. M. The play is exceedingly well written, and is of a decidedly high order. The plot is interesting, as usual, closing with the triumph of virtue, and the shepherd boy, who in his dream sighs to be a king, at last realizes that he is the heir apparent. The drama is especially well adapted to schools and literary societies. A special limited edition only is printed, and the price is 50 cents.— Catholic Examiner.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anchando, Ancheta, Agilera, Bowers, Burns, Brosseau, Barron, Buchanan, Becerra, Bailey, J. Burke, F. Burke, V. Burkej Brown, J. Carroll, C. Carroll, Coll, Carbajal, Cussen, Callan, Cass, Cartier, Jas. Cusack, Jno. Cusack, Crawford, Creel, Celia, T. Carroll, W. Coghlin, Callaghan, Campbell, Delgado, De Groot, De Wolf, Donohue, De Haven, Dolan, Delaney, Eisenhauer, Ewing, Fogerty, Foster, Farrell, T. Fenlon, E. Fenlon, Fitzgerald, Gonsor, Goulding, Gonzalez, Guthrie, Gieser, Gutierrez, Gray, F. Gallagher, Garret, Galarnean, J. Gallagher, Hyde, Henderson, Howard, Hofstetter, Hellebush, Johnston, Jones, Kerndt, Kimmel, Kaufmann, Kolars, Lucas, Larkin, Meyer, McErlaine, Mahon, McKinnery, Mathers, Mason, Marquez, C. Murdock, S. Murdock, Middendorf, McIntyre, Neeson, Newman, Edward O’Brien, Eugene O’Brien, G. O’Brien, O’Connell, Ott, O’Kane, O’Dea, O’Rourke, Orchard, Otis, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Pour, Porter, Rudge, Ryan, Rogers, Reach, Stull, Steis, Scholfield, Sykes, Shields, Spencer, Steele, Saviers, Solon, Smith, Tinley, F. Uranga, J. Uranga, Veale, C. Warner, Wilson, Whalen, Warren, Wheatley, Wall, Wright.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Aikins, Arnold, Anchando, Arkins, Borgschulze, Barons, Berthelet, Barela, Baur, Breen, E. Chirhart, A. Chirhart, Crawford, Chaves, Curtis, Cavaroc, Clarke, Costigan, C. Combe, F. Combe, Divine, Dorenberg, Devereux, Dexter, Devine, Dennis, Eisenhauer, Fehr, Fendrich, Fierro, Foote, Garrity, Gerlach, Grothaus, Hagenbarth, Halligan, Huestis, E. Howard, B. Henry. W. Henry, Holbrook, Hopkins, Houlihan, Hagen, Houck, Johnson, King, J. Kelly. M. Kelly, Letcher, G. Lewds, Loscher, Mulkern, Monschein, Miller, Menig, Mahon, C. McGordon, J. Mc-Gordon, Moye, McDonnell, Marcotte, Metz, Murphy, Mug, Muhler, Nester, S. O’Brien, J. P. O’Donnell, Plischke, C. Porter, E. Porter, Rogers, Rothschilds,-Reynolds, Rhodus,* Ruppe, Schaefer, Shea, Smith, Sedberry, Schmauss, L. Sheuerman, M. Sheuerman, Schott, Stumer, D. Taylor, Tarrant, Trepanier, Uranga,Wile,Wagoner, Wa-brausshek, Waixel, Weber, Wright, Williamson, Yrisarri.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Amoretti, Boos, Crotty, Cummings,' Dirks-meyer,' Devine, Dungan, Ernest, Fitzgerald, Gonzalez, Grunsfeld, E. Kelly, Landenwich, Lewis, B. Lindsey, E. McGrath, Morison, A. Mullen, F. Otis, O’Kane, R. Papin,' V. Papin, W. Prindiville, Stange, Schmitz, E. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, L. Scherrer, Stewart, W. Tomlinson, C. Tomlinson, Johns, JI Addington, Thomas, Weston.
* .Omitted by mistake last.week.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
6x
Saint JHary's Acabemy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Mrs. John English, of Columbus, Ohio, and her daughters are cordially welcomed back to St. Mary’s.
—On the 15th inst., at the regular Academic reunion, the Misses Murphy and Williams read selections; on the 23d, Misses Todd and Munger.
—On Tuesday, St. Catharine’s Literary Society was reorganized, and the officers chosen as follows: President, Miss Loro Williams; Vice-President, Miss Anna Murphy; Secretary, Miss Emma Neu; Treasurer, Miss Martha Munger.
—St. Angela’s Literary Society on the same day was also reorganized. Officers: President, Miss Lena Spotwood; Vice-President, Miss Mary Scully; Secretary, Miss Charity.Babcock; Treasurer, Miss Minnie Fisk. No reports handed in from other Societies.	.
—The badge for polite and elegant deportment drawn for every week in the Junior department, opens the scholastic year with the following brilliant array of competitors: Ida Allen, Dora Best, Rushie Bailey, Mabel Barry, Ida Cummings, Manuelita Chaves, Sarah Campeau, Mary Dillon, Edith Dodge, Catharine Fehr, Bessie Halsey, Helen Jackson, Sybil Jackson, Ellen Jackson, Agnes Keyes, Kittie Lord, Claudia Lucas, Mary McEnery, Mary Murphy, Ida Malboeuf, Winifrid Moshier, Marie Papin, Clara Richmond, Eva Roddin,’Ada Shephard, Minnie L. Schmidt, Nellie Scott, Hannah Steumer, Ellen Sheekey, and Viola Turpie. The successful competitoi* is Miss Minnie L. Schmidt.	.
—The bright Minims’ study-hall was the scene of a pretty little exhibition on Sunday after Vespers. The distribution of “ Good Points ” was held there for the first time. Alice Schmauss recited “ Somebody’s Mother”; Mary Lindsey, “The .Child’s Wish,” by Father Ryan; and little Virginia Johns brought out from the wonder-land of the Kindergarten an apt and amusing personation of the worm and the butterfly. Her elder sister, Lily, then read an instructive little article from the “Youth’s Department” of The Ave Maria. In the entire building there are no sweeter, happier faces, nor is there a more cheerful, delightful room than the one now appointed to the use of the Minims. Facing the rich landscape to the south, of the Academy, it is always bright and sunny, and little hands, are always busy at recreation adorning it with lovely things which children generally delight so much in beholding around them. The Prefect of Studies was rejoiced to find that all the little ones merited and received 100. She declared that the Juniors and Seniors would have to take g-ood care to maintain their laurels in future, o	e	*
since the Minims were entering so earnestly upon the labors of the scholar’s life. .
—Among the visitors during the past week were the following: Miss E. Tally (a former pupil), Lake Side, Ill.; Mrs. M. Heneberry, Mr. M. P. Bergan, and Mrs. Anastasia Heneberry Bergan (Class ’78), Peoria, Ill.; Mrs. Dewlacher, Mr. I. G. Maclay, Mrs. Eldred, Mrs. I. Steinfield, Mrs. -M. Metz, Charleg G. Barth, Mrs. I. Allen, Chicago; the Misses Hanlon, Mr. R. Van Fleet, Grand- Crossings, Cook Co., Ill.; Mrs. M. R. Cen-over, Freehold, New Jersey; Mrs. F. Gavan, Lafayette, Ind.; Mr. A. C. Brown, Marenette, Wis.; Mr. John Breen, Mr. Walter Breen, Loogootes, Ind.; Mrs. N. Hale, and Miss F. Hale, Independence, Iowa; Miss Alice Hayes, Louisville, Ky.; Mrs. C. M. Conlan, Miss Erwin, Neenah, Ill.; Miss F. Speyer, Lexington, Ky.; Mr. Jacob Phil-lipson, Warsaw, Ind.; Eugene F. Arnold, esq., Washington, D. C.; Mr. and Mrs. Cones, Indianapolis, Ind.; Miss Dhux, Kankakee, III.; Miss Shisser, Danville, Ill; Miss M. N. Faulkner, Miss E. Higgins, Elkhart; Mr. Seiras,' Mrs. Ginz, Mrs. Milburn, Mr. and Mrs. S. Ham, Mr., and Mrs. Faulkner, St. James’ Hotel, South Bend; Mrs. B. W. Ryan, Ponca, Neb.; Mrs. A. Hagan, Fortville, Ind.; Mrs. Gordon, Elkhart, Ind.; Misses H. Willems and A. Schneider, Chicago.
Constancy, a Mark of Sterling’ Virtue.
As unfaithfulness is contemptible, so constancy is admirable. Walking^ al oner the shores of the Dead Sea, the traveller is attracted by a charming fruit. He plucks to eat thereof, but the Dead Sea apple crumbles to ashes at his touch. Who would seek to gather this treacherous fruit—the counterpart of falsehood, and the fit representative of deceit and its allurements, while mockery has no more perfect type?
The bright sun of spring-time has wooed the little flower to escape its close, winter prison house, and in all the sweetness of novelty and floral beauty it ventures forth and smiles in the face of the calm, blue sky. Night comes down: the keen northwest wind,-envious of the conquest made by the sunshine of yesterday, strikes with his icy breath the tender flower, and the morning finds it prostrate, withered and lifeless. What a pang thrills the heart on beholding the ruin wrought by the despotic wind! Alas! how many a flower of hope and joy has sprung up, prematurely, from the warm sward of the affectionate heart but to meet the blasts of stern disappointment! Who has not seen the fair, white brow of the consumptive; the clear eye, and the deep hectic flush ? beautiful you may call them, but, alas! their beauty tells a bitter story of death and decay. Ah! fatal brilliancy, deceitful bloom! how many souls ye'have, flattered !■ how much of high promises, you have overthrown!	-
But let us turn our thoughts from these painful scenes, and reflect on the lovliness and majesty of constancy. It is the reflex of heaven, and, as a
62	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
virtue, it stands as the guarantee of its final possession. In student life there is no trait of character so sure to win the laurel crown of success.
Observe the pupil who has just entered upon her scholastic career. The monsters in her path, which she meets at every turn, do not affright her. She came to engage in the mighty contest of Education; she has anticipated every obstacle; she has armed herself with steadfastness as with a coat of mail. She begins her task, day by day, with the knowledge that her efforts must cost her pain and labor—perchance tears and disappointments, but she is constant. Nothing worth having is secured without^sacrifice, and great and painful sacrifice. She is sure of this: she will persevere. Shall she expect to obtain by inspiration, or at a trifling expense, what has cost others the toil and self-denial of a lifetime?
No! she is made of sterner stuff. She has given herself to a higher ambition than that of indolent self-satisfaction. She will surrender to no obstacle whatever; she has committed herself to a life of interior merit. Pain to her is pleasure, when she is sure that her discomfort but serves to advance her on the path of intellectual culture.
“When we reflect,” said one, “that it is the thinking principle of our being that is to be saved, we cannot take too great pains to set in motion every means calculated to invigorate and perfect that never-dying principle.” .The standard of pain and enjoyment, in the mind of the wise scholar, is in direct opposition to that of the thoughtless lover of pleasure. She has not, like the foolish butterfly of fashion, entered upon her life career for the idle purpose of enjoying herself. No! her aim is as far above as the heavens are above the earth. Her object is to bring out and augment, so far as it is in her power, the value of the divine trust confided to her soul. These lofty sentiments mould the motives which actuate her at all times, and they render her very presence a source of strength and joy, holy ambition to all around her. She is to the circle in which she moves, what the intense flame is to the fuel in the grate. The flame burns and communicates its own life till the whole substance is one mass of fire. In a like manner she invigorates and exalts the tastes and efforts of her companions till their aspirations become like her own, all glowing with the promethean fire of exalted thoughts, and a holy and irresistible purpose.
But if constancy be so necessary to the success of the student in her academic career, how tenfold more important it is in the career of life! Would one be trustworthy, this quality should be as the -apple of the eye. Constancy is the fruit of sterling virtue. By the fruit the tree is .known; so virtue is tested by its constancy.
Would that the trifling, aimless beings, who fancy that fickle, wayward actions exalt them in the estimation of others, could be impressed with the fact that they do but flaunt in the face of the world their own disgrace! How many a bold eye would be cast down! how many an ostentatious display of nature’s fleeting charms would be exchanged
for the retiring air and gentle grace of beautiful Christian modesty! and, better still, how joyously would society reap the precious fruitage of sterling virtue in homes fortified by Christian steadfastness of purpose!
Constancy is the synonyme of perseverance, and perseverance, “ conquering all things,” brings to the soul the fruition of its immortal hopes.
A. Ryan, Class ’83.
Boll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SFNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
ist-Tablet—Misses Adderly, Allen, Ashton, A. Babcock, C. Babcock, Bruhn, Beal, Billings, Black, Call, Cummings, Castanedo, Campbell, L. Carney, Dunne, Duffield, Danforth, Dowling, Dungan, L. English, B. English, Evarts, Fendrich, Fitzpatrick, Fogerty, Fisk, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon, Ginz, Gove, Gavan, Gage, Helpling, Heneberry, Heckard, Hunt, Hale, Hack, Horn, Holt, Haney, Hart, Johnson, Keenan, Kearns, Kearney, Kearsey, Keating, King, Legnard, Lintner, Leahigh, Munger, A. Murphy, M. Murphy, Mohl, McCarthy, Neu, O’Connell, L. Priestman, M. Priestman, Papin, Platte, Quill,.Reilly, Ryan, Russell, Reynaids, Ramsey, Rosing, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, Sheridan, Sheekey, Scully, Schmaltz, Spotwood, Sear, Stackerl, Todd, Udall, Vandebogart, Weckler, Williams, Wilson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses Allen, Best, Barry, Bailey, Barth, Cummings, Chaves, Campeau, Dillon, Dodge, Eldred, A. English, Fehr, B. Halsey, H. Jackson, E. Jackson, S. Jackson, Keyes, Lord, McEwen, Murphy, Malboeuf, Moshier, Metz, Papin, Richmond, Roddin, Shephard, Schmidt, Scott, ' Stumer, Sheekey, Turpie. 2d Tablet—Misses A. Duffield, Naylor, Otis, Regan, Snowhook, Wolvin.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses L. Chapin, J. English, L. Johns, V. Johns, Lindsey, Murray, G. Papin, Reynolds, Schmauss, Van Fleet.
Class Honors.
Graduating Class—Misses Fendrich, Johnson, Todd, Noonan.
ist Senior Class—Misses Keenan, Gove, Call, Dunn, Duffield, Campbell, Reilly, Mohl, Papin.
2D Sr. Class—Misses Heckard, Munger, Danforth, L. Black, L. St. Clair, Rosing.
3D Sr. Class—Misses Kearney, Sheridan, O’Connell, Wilson, A. Murphy, Kearsey, Keyes, A. Babcock.
ist Preparatory Class—Misses Richmond, Fehr, Spotwood, Regan, H. Jackson, Kearns, A. Ryan, Halsey, Schmidt, Moshier, Scully, Dodge, Snowhook, Wolvin, E. Jackson, Van Horn, Bailey.
2D Prep. Class—Misses Campeau, Lord, Castanedo, Roddin, Otis, Turpie, Chaves, Dowling, Schmaltz, Burger.
Junior Prep. ClaSs—Misses L. Johns, Schmauss, M. Barry.
ist Jr: Class—Misses M. McEwen, Chapin, Lindsey, Scott.	.	.
2D Jr. Class—Misses G. Papin, Reynolds, V. Johns, S. Van Fleet.	-	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	. 63
St. Mary’s Academy,
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
AND SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE.
Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course is thorough in the Preparatory. Academic. and Classical grades.
The institution possesses a complete set of chemtcal and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive he.roariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular course of academic studies
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the be<t Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a large-Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, amt organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and mactice.
Esthetics and Composition —A large Musical Library in French German. English, and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture. Chorus Singing and Hannony. *
THE SCHOOL OF .
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe,drawing and paint-ingfrom life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Aits in English, French, German. Italian, and Spanish is connected wnli the School of Design Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of 1 he Department.
Graduating Mecrnls are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Vusic. or it the Art Department.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue. for which address
MOTHER SUPERIOR.
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
Wabash, St Louis & Pacific Rwy.
7 he Popular Passenger Route of America I
Smooth Track, Steel Rails, and Elegant Equipment serve to make a
TRIP OVER THE WABASH
Safe, Rapid, and Pleasant !!!
*** Special Tickets Sold to Students attending Notre Dame University.
Tourist Tickets to all Summer Resorts throughout the Country, at Greatly Reduced Rates, for’Sale by all Agents of the Great Wabash Route.
Special inducements offered to Colonist, LandSeeking, and Emigrant Parties.
IF YOU ARE CONTEMPLATING
A JOURNEY IN ANY DIRECTION you should, apply either in person or by letter toy the nearest Agent of • ‘	.
The Great Wabash Route
and obtain full information, Tickets, etc.
Rates always as Low as other Lines, and facilities for ease and comfort far superior.
F. A. Palmer, Pass, and Ticket Agent, Indianapolis, 40 W. Washington St.
. Jno. C. Gault, 2d Vice-Prest., St. Louis, Mo. ’
ARNOLD £ LANDVOIGT, (E. F. Arnold, class of ’78 ) Attorneys-at-Law, 131 C Street, South East. Washington, D. C. Practice in the District Courts, and Conrt of Claims, before the Executive Departments and Committees of Congress. Special attention given to securing Patents, Pensions, and to Claims of all kinds.
The . Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted.. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years.- The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.	'	• •
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months.
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.	.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
... Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,'
. Notre Dame P.O., Ind.
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUN-
TRY WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP THATTHE
CHICAGO, ROCK MDSPACIFICR'Y Calls the attention of travelers to the central position of its line, connecting the East and. the West by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of ears, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Blufls, Xieavenworth, Atchison. Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches, Magnificent Horton Reclining Chair Cars, Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri River Points. Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St.
Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
• A New and Direct Line, via Seneca and Kankakee, has recently been opened between Richmond, Norfolk, Newport News, Chattanooga, Atlanta, Au- -guata, Nashville, Louisville, Lexington, Cincinnati, Indianapolis and Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneapolis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
AU Through Passengers Travel on Fast Express Trains.
Tickets for sale at aU principal Ticket Offices in the United States and Canada.	-
Baggage checked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less advantages.
For detailed information, get the Maps and Folders of the
GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE, At your nearest Ticket Office, or address R. R. CABLE, E. ST. JOHN,
Vice-Pre*. A GenlM’g'r,	GenlTkL*Fan.Agt.
CHICAGO.
64
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of CLASSICS,	LAW,
MATHEMATICS,	MEDICINE,
,	SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more thorough business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution. In all the courses the best systems of teaching are adopted and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President.	•
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address	___ '
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. .	Notre Dame P. □., Indiana.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May 27, 1883, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.25 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.00 p.m.	-
11.23 a.m'. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.55 a.m.
9.10 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 245 a.m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a.m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m
12.20 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line arrives at Toledo, 540 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo 3.55 a.m.
6.21 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.28 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.35 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.05 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m.
Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
4.55 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.50 a.m.
Chicago, 8.20 a.m.
740 a.m Limited Express. Arrives at Laporte, 8.20 a.m.
Chicago, 1040 a.m.
1.30 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.30 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.15 p.m.; Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
4.35 p.m.-Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 p.m.; Chicago, 8.00 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
T. W.t CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland. '
A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W..Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Bass. Agent, Chicago.
P. T. WRIGHT,. GeriTSup., Cleveland.
JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l M’ger, Cleve’tnd.
Michigan Central Railway
- T)m« Table—Nov. 16. 1N79,
	•Mail	’Day Express. 9 00 a m 11 13 “ 12 15 p. m 1 4> •' 4 05 “ 6 30 “	♦Kal. Accom	t AliabtK fNIght Express. Exprec-.	
Lv. ^hicag'* - -- Mich <‘ny- Nibs----“ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson ; -4-. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m q 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p m 3 45 •- 6 48 “		4 14) p.n ti 35 “ S 05 " 9 50 -	5 15 p m 7 40 •• 9 0u - 10 28 - 12 50 a.m 3 35 -	9 10 p ru 11 30 “ 12 48 a tn 2 28 *• 5 U0 -.- 0 ' ‘
	♦Mail	'DayExpress.	•Jackson Express.	t Pacific Express	tEvet ’g Express. 8 10 p.m 1 15 • 1 38 a.m 330 “ 4 55 “ 7 30 “
Lv. Detroit - - -“ lackauu - - -“ Kalamazoo -■ •• -Niles - - - -“ Mich. City Ar. Chicago - -	7 t’O a. m 10 20 ' 1 15 p. U: 3 05 “ 4 3" • 6 5d “	9 35 «. ni 12 15 p. m 2 37 *• 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	'5 55 p. m 4 50 a, m 6 50 -8 fS “ 10 35	9 50 p m. 12 45 a.m. 2 43 “ . 415 ‘ 5 30 “ 8 00 “	
Niles and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv >o. Bt nd—8'45 .'•..tn. 6 7O p.m “ N. Uame-8 5S " 615 :
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	7 15 “
•Sunday excepted. tDaily.
♦GOING 8<>UTH Lv Niles—	7u5u.ni. 4 15 p.m
*• N. Danie— 7 4u “	4 4b ‘
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 *	4 55 ”
tsaturday and Sunday excepted
0 W. Ruggles, ...
H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. T. A.. Chicago, Ill. .Gen’l Manager, Detroit. Mich. - G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.