This book is not to b« taken fron the Library

The Notre Dame
Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY $2.60 THE YEAR
FEBRUARY 9 Nineteen Thirty-four
“Maybe that won’t mean a thing to you. I’m just suggesting that vou Irv OLD GOLDS a few days . . . and then let vour taste decide.”
r-
you
“T7RANKLY. don’t
claret
feel a bit annoyed when someone tries to tell you what cigarette you ought tosmoke? It seems to me that’s a question for your taste to decide. “7 say all the leading brands are good. But I’ve settled down to OLD GOLDS because they’re so nicely made, so smooth and mild, and free of bite and rasp.

No better tobacco grows than is used in OLD GOLDS. And they are PURE. (No artificial flavoring)
CIGARETTE
Tunc in on Ted Fio-Rito‘s sensational Hollywood Orchestra every Wednesday night—Columbia Chain
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	k I	I I B
x sx I he INotre Dame Scholastic mJXte	Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.	FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postageSection 1103. October 3. 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns...
Mitchell C. Tackley.
Associate Editors
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD..............EDWARD	J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN..._.............. JOHN	E. CONLEY
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD.............MICHAEL	F. WIEDL
Departmental Editors THOMAS J. STRITCH.......................  The	Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK................. College	Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL.......................Staff Artist
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY................Graduate	Manager
....Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor
.........................Ve7f» Editor*
......... '-------ROBERT F. ERVIN
'.................IOHN W. WALKER
--------_-----------.LOUIS R. HRUBY
News Staff
THOMAS G. PROCTOR) JOSEPH A. BUCCI j' ROY O. SCHOLZ______ WILLIAM A. KENNEDY GEORGE P. LEYES____ FRANK KELLY
Sports Staff
JOHN D. CARBINE_____________/
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING____j ..........Sports Editors
NICHOLAS J. CONNOR._____________HOWARD T. WALDRON
CYRIL F. STROKER
Volume LXVII
February 9, 1934
No 15
CONTINUITY
An effective object lesson was given The Scholastic last weekend in a feature of Notre Dame life that is all too frequently overlooked. A middle aged man walked into the Sorin hall headquarters of the publication Saturday noon with an apologetic curiosity to see “the room where I used to live.”
It developed in the course of the conversation that the gentleman, Mr. Paul J. Ragan, had been in charge of The Scholastic in 1897-98. He had taught the father of last year’s editor when the former was captain of the Notre Dame baseball team at the turn of the century. He had taught two men who were later to become presidents of the University. He had been manager of the baseball team of 1899. He was an early participant in many branches of student activity that have continued, altered possibly, but still functioning, to the present time.
He spoke considerably of the changes in Notre Dame since the years of his student career here. Yet through all the changes, many things have remained intact. Undoubtedly minor* among those institutions, if measured on a comparative scale, but definitely important in their own sphere, are several branches of student activity. Consideration of that fact of continuous life should add something to current appraisals of the several branches of activity.
Student organizations are not personal toys; they are not fields for personal gain, nor for the exploitation of temporary advantages. They are established organizations that have been handed down from a long line of managers and editors and presidents and chairmen. Each new set of office holders would do well to consider that: they are a part of something that has existed because of the efforts of dozens of predecessors, and that will, if properly handled, probably continue to exist for at least that many more generations.
Though it is a little damaging to personal pride and to the sense of being necessary, such a realization should make for a better estimate of the real nature of the office holders’ positions, and for a healthier condition of the various organized activities.
PLEASE
In the course of the past years it has often been seized upon as a case in point by good natured critics of this publication, that The Scholastic annually presents at least one editorial chanting Keep Off The Grass. Those pleas for a cessation of property spoliation are not nearly so ludicrous as the condition which make their repetition necessary. That they should have to reoccur unvaryingly in a community that is supposed to be of at least average intelligence, is not quite understandable.
Several considerations enter into the average reaction to the current practice of tramping across the lawns and shrubbery of the University campus. In the first place, the offenders are trespassing: the property in question is not theirs; their treks across the lawns are in violation of the stated wishes of the property owners. In the second place, selfish interests are not served by such carelessness. It is a safe assumption that every student who has ever had visitors here felt a pride in the things of the campus which were beautiful, and a sort of embarrassment at every eyesore. Yet the objects of the latter category are nearly all products of student thoughtlessness.
The solution of the difficulty can be achieved by individual effort and by group concentration. First keep yourself on the sidewalks and paths, and then start checking your neighbors. The violations are not chargeable to any one class or to the residents of any one or two halls. Seniors cut through the main quadrangle as regularly as freshmen. Alumni and Dillon send contingents across the east side of the Dining Hall lawn, and residents of Morrissey and Lyons tramp through their own front yard. Only a cure that is as universal as the evil, can restore the campus to the naturally beautiful condition that it was before the spoliation began.
A .splendid example of pleasing one’s public was continued this week as the Juggler scored probably its biggest success of the year. The editors are to be congratulated for the way they have met their situation, being guided, but not dictated to, by the tastes of their reading public.	'
F e b r u a r y .9, 1 0 3 J:
0 r €
THE WEEK
Academy of Science Holds 100th Meeting
By Thomas J. Stritch
By Richard B. Tobin
0, Be Joyful
Happy Second Semester! This is no time for ceremony, but what of that? It is our considered opinion that too little hurrahing attends the entering of a new era. Surely marks and examinations are important; and for the seniors this is the only semester that doesn’t count, so watch us go. Our goal is even seventy in everything.
There is no examination story to compare with that of last year about the boy who pleaded insanity when the time came to display what he knew in blue books; though we know of several cases of temporary insanity after examinations. The editor of the Juggler gets some sort of recognition Tor taking one exam for two • courses. On the whole it is our* understanding -that the week-end’s unpleasantness was handled very well by the faculty, and that except for the distinct chill of the Carroll Rec Room, registration was never done so efficiently.
It is pleasant to see some old faces around again. Now that Jerry Roach is back we feel that there are things which will be well taken care of, and the situation brightens up generally. Nice to see George Melinkovich, and Jim Gilfoil and other such too. And we’re sorry to lose others.
•
Folio
Gnt of our bibliophiles dropped in on a rumamge sale downtown the other day to see if any incunabala had wandered into the rummage and could be had for considerably less than one of Crosby’s songs. He poked about and unearthed a set of Shakespeare, in excellent condition, which he thought would suit him admirably, if priced right. So he approached the manageress, a large amiable woman, who was ready to hawk.
“How much?” he said.
“$3.50” she informed him.
The bibliophile clutched his pocketbook. “Well,” he said, “that wouldn’t be so bad if it were complete. Of course, it’s too much for an incomplete set.”
“What do you mean, incomplete?” allowed she. “It’s all there.”
“What about ‘Wimbledon Hall?’ ” he tendered.
“Wimbledon Hall? It ought to be there. Now let me see. . . . Did you look in the index?” She ran through the list of titles.
Finally, satisfied that there was no “Wimbledon Hall,” . she relented.
“Well, that’s funny,” she said. “They said it was complete. I guess I’ll have to let you have it for $3.”
The bibliophile took it, smiled a sad smile, hugged a half-dollar. As he went out you could have heard ’ him murmuring, from Othello:
Thus credulous fools are caught. And many a worthy and chaste dame, even thus. All guiltless, meets reproach.
•
Zoology
Well, the Juggler has fumbled again. Before that mad staff is through half the student body will have resigned for sheer shame and spend the rest of their lives trying to forget. This time it’s a deplorable error in sex. Anybody who knows . anything at all about sex will have discovered by this time that it is the male peacock who spreads his colorful tail, not the female. Now, if it were the peahen, which, as every schoolboy knows, is the female of peacock, that would be a different and correct thing, and therefore, apparently impossible for the Juggler. But the peahen is an unlovely bird, whose sole appendicular ornament consists in a single, forlorn feather, after the manner of Yankee Doodle; and this would not appeal to the artistic soul in the Juggler, or even put the idea over. So, instead of scrapping the whole notion, like a principled publication, they screwed up the sex.
If, at any time during the next few weeks, you see a band of outraged peacocks hovering over the campus, don’t hesitate to deliver up the responsible parties. After all, we have no quarrel with the peacocks.
O
Notes of Our Times
Two exciting incidents helped brighten up the week. Over in Dillon the hot water pipes broke in an empty room while the yearlings were at supper, and when they came back there was quite a mess. The scene of the break looked like a Turkish bath house, and you can imagine what the room below it, winch was inhabited, was like. They finally got the water shut off, and swept the refuse down the stairs and out the side door. Damages not covered by insurance.
After fourteen years in one room Mr. Fenion has branched out and acquired a bedroom. Folks said there were strange sights when some of that furniture was moved.
Fifty members and guests attended the banquet celebrating the 100th regular meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science held Monday
Father Francis J. Wenninger
His Chib has 100th meeting.
evening in the Lay Faculty dining hall.
The speakers of the evening were: the Reverend Francis J. Wenninger. C.S.C., dean of the College of Science and Moderator of the Academy; the Reverend Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C.; Mr. Henry B. Froning, head of the department of chemistry; and Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady. Other members of the faculty of the University present were: Dr. Theodore K. Just, Dr. George Paff, the Reverend Charles A. McAllister, C.S.C., Mr. James A. Reyniers, and Mr. Donald J. Plunkett. The speakers were introduced by John D. Porterfield, who acted as toastmaster.
Meetings Initiated In 1926
The first regular meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science was held on September 27, 1926. The membership then comprised about thirty students of the College of Science whose scholastic average was 85 percent or more. Although there had been scientific organizations as early as 1868, none had been of a lasting nature.
Since its founding eight years ago, the Academy has been an active honorary scholastic society. The membership is limited to those students in the College of Science whose scholastic average is at least 85 percent and whose membership has been rec-(Continued on Page 5)
Two
The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, February 9
Junior Promenade, Palais Royale Ballroom, 9:30 p.m.; Movie “Paddy, the Next Best Thing,” with Janet Gaynor, Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p.m.
Saturday, February 10
Track, Notre Dame vs. Marquette, Notre Dame gymnasium, 2:00 p.m.; Basketball, Notre Dame vs. St. Xavier, Cincinnati; Junior Prom Dinner Dance, Oliver Hotel, 7:30 p.m.; Movie “Adorable” with Janet Gaynor, Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p.m.; Debate, Notre Dame vs. New York University, Engineering Building, 8:00 p.m.
Sunday, February 11
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m.; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p.m., for freshmen and students in Lyons and St. Edward’s halls 7:30 p.m.; Interhall basketball, gymnasium, 1:30 p.m.
Monday, February 12
Meeting of candidates for Scholastic Office, Ave Maria Building, 8:00 p.m.; Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Temple, Philadelphia.
Tuesday, February 13
Wranglers meeting, Law Building, 6:30 p.m.’
Wednesday, February 14
Ash Wednesday.
Thursday, February 15
Scholastic meeting, Ave Maria Building, Editorial staff, 6:30 p.m., General staff, 7:00 p.m.; International Relations Club, Library, 6:30 p.m.
Prof. Casasanta Directs Annual Orchestra Fete
Profesor Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the Department of Music, directed the annual Orchestra Festival held by the Berien County, Michigan, public schools in Niles last Wednesday evening, February 7.
Upon i nvitation of the Superintendents’ Association, Prof. Casasanta served as guest conductor of the combined symphony orchestras of all the public schools in Berrien County. About 300 schools were represented at the musical festival.
Among the men prominent in the field of music who have been selected as guest conductors in the past several years are Glenn Bainum, director of the Northwestern University band; Joseph Maddy, leader of the University of Michigan band; and Harold Bachman, a noted Chicago musician.
February 9, 1934
89th Annual Flag Presentation to Mark Washington’s Birthday Here
Applicants---
All members of the present Freshman, Sophomore, and Junioi’ classes who wish to apply for positions on the staff of The Scholastic are requested to report at the editorial offices, located in the Ave Maria building, next Monday evening, February 12, at eight o’clock.
Shakespeare Lecture Course To Be Given In South Bend
A six-lecture course on Shakespeare and the English Kings is to be offered in South Bend by Mr. Joseph E. Neff, under the auspices of the South Bend Community Fund, on six Sunday evenings, beginning February 11. A special rate of one dollar for the entire course is being offered to Notre Dame stuednts.
All proceeds from the sale of tickets will be given to charity, since Mr. Neff is contributing his time and the Progress Club is offering the lecture hall without charge.
The lectures are to be given at the Progress Club, and will begin at eight o’clock on the eveningss of February 11, February 25, March 4, March 18, March 25, and April 8.
Tickets may be obtained from the office of the Community Fund, Chamber of Commerce building in South Bend, or by calling Mrs. James S. Steele, chairman of the ticket committee.
Ssssler Speaks
Stanley S. Sessler, of the Department of Art in the University, spoke to the Midland Academy of Art at the Paulon Art Center in South Bend last Monday night, February 5.
“Idealism in Art” was the topic of Mr. Sessler’s lecture.
CONTENTS
Editorials .................  1
“The Week” .................. 2
Academy of Science .......... 2
Washington Exercises ......   3
Calendar ...................  3
Junior Prom.................. 4
“Scrip”...................... 4
Marquette Trip .............. 5
“Nezvs of the Week” ......... 6
“Man About Campus” .......... 8
“College Parade”............ 10
Marquette Meet.............. 11
Elmer Layden .............   12
Minnesota Game ............. 13
“Introducing” ............   14
“Splinters” ..............   15
WALDRON IN CHARGE
Notre Dame attaches a special significance to Washington’s birthday. Traditionally, the senior class has observed the national holiday with exercises and a flag presentation. Thursday, Feb. 22, the class of 1934 will do its part in observing the 89th annual celebration.
President James V. Moscow of the senior class has appointed Howard T.
Howard T. Waldron 89th Chairman
Waldron, College of Arts and Letters, as general chairman of the Washington Day activities. Other members of the committee selected by Moscow are Raymond Piontek, College of Commerce; John B. Land, College of Engineering; Richard B. Tobin, College of Science; and John S. Monte-donico, College of Law.
The Washington Day exercises had their origin in 1845, when the University arranged a program in ob-. servance of the day. At that time, the responsibility of the program was given over to the graduating class. Since then, it has been an annual event.
Moscow To Give Flag
The presentation of the flag will be made on that day by President Moscow to Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president and acting president of the University.
As yet, the full program has not been announced. It is expected that the University band will participate in the exercises and that a senior orator will deliver the traditional appreciation of Washington’s Farewell Address, and that a senior poet will present an ode to Washington.
The entire graduating class takes part in these exercises. Caps and gowns are worn by the seniors. The entire program and directions to the seniors will be forthcoming in a University Bulletin to be released in the near future.
Three
©
300 Couples Expected To Attend Prom At Palais Royale Tonight
Phillips Edition Of
“Scrip” Out Feb. 16
TED WEEMS WILL PLAY
In an atmosphere of gay dignity, three hundred couples will dance tonight to the music of Ted Weems at the annual Junior Promenade to be given in the Palais Royale Ballroom from 9:30 to 1:30. Suitable decorations, program-favors, and the song “My Prom Memories,” written by James Marohn and sung by John Ryan, add color to the occasion.
President Thomas K. Lalonde and Chairman William E. Miller will have as their guests the Misses Elizabeth Gutchess, Toledo, Ohio, and Mary P. McArdle,> Pittsburgh, Penn., respectively. ,
Following the Prom, Juniors and their friends will continue the weekend with a Dinner-Dance given on the Mezzanine of the Oliver Hotel Saturday from 7:30 to 12:00. Mickey Isley and his orchestra from Gary, Indiana, will present their music. A track meet Saturday afternoon, and Mass Sunday morning at 9:00 o’clock in the Sacred Heart Church are included in the weekend.
The following is the bulletin concerning the- Prom issued by the Prefect of Discipline:
“The hours for the Junior Prom are from 9:30 p. m. to 1:30 a. m. In place of residence at 2:30. No excuses for late returns will be accepted.
“Those attending the Prom may use automobiles over the week-end, Friday to Sunday inclusive, provided they notify their Rectors. Automobile excursions to nearby cities and towns are strictly prohibited.
“Please note the disciplinary regulations of the University about bringing visitors into residence halls. The University parlor and adjoining room will be open to guests and vistors over the week-end.
“These regulations are to be interpreted strictly and violations shall result in dismissal from the University.
(Rev.) P. H. Dolan, C.S.C.
Prefect of Discipline”
Engineering Lecture
A lecture on “Chain Broadcasting” supplemented by graphs and demonstrations, was presented by R. C. Giese, of the American Telephone and Telegraph company, to an audience of 200 in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, Monday night, February 5.
Four
Mystery Man----
Mystery surrounds one of the inmates of Royal Walsh. Andy Auth, (nickname—“lover”), one of the dignified seniors of the second floor, has adopted a Greta Garbo complex. He moves in mystery.
Last week-end, the night of the Junior Prom at St. Mary’s, he was seen promenading in his pajamas at the late hour of 8:30 oclock. He was helping the prom-trotters to button collars, adjust ties, being careful to interject an occasional sly, sarcastic remark concerning that element of Notre Dame that invades the St. Mary’s dances.
Not less than half an hour later, this “quick-change man” was swaying to the music of Pink-eyed Carson Donnelly in the Louis Quatorze Ballroom across the lake.
Steffanson, Beebe Lecture Here During Past Two Weeks
Two lectures, other than that of that of Colonel Sweeny, were given the students during examinations. One lecture was by Viljahmur Steffanson, explorer of the Arctic regions; the other was by William Beebe, naturalist and explorer.
Steffanson spent most of his time in showing “civilization lines” of the earth from past ages until now, and then pointed out the rapid strides in airplane travel over the region of the “frozen north.”
Beebe showed specimens of his findings in fish and demonstrated his use of the diving bell “Bathysphere,” which was displayed in the Hall of Science at the World’s Fair.
Both lectures were illustrated with slides. ■
Charles Wightman, Donor Of Art Work Here, Dies
Charles Wightman, donor of over a hundred of the works of art in the University galleries, which bear his name, died in California on January 9.
The donation of these masterpieces to the University some years ago was made in honor of Mr. Wightman’s wife. He was a resident of Evanston, Illinois, and enjoyed a nation-wide reputation as a collector and a patron of the arts.
The Phillips Memorial issue of Scrip will be ready for distribution next Friday, Feb. 16, Editor Paul McManus announced this week. Dedicated to the late Charles Phillips, the second number of the school year contains a dozen or so tributes to Professor Phillips by various well known writers.
Brother Leo, of St. Mary’s college, Oakland, Calif., whose book reviews in Columbia have made him known all over America, is one of the contributors. Margaret Anglin, famous actress, Laetare medalist, and friend of Professor Phillips, also writes in the Memorial issue. James Louis Small, who was associated with the late professor in Knights of Columbus work in France, and who wrote articles for Commonweal concerning their life during that time, is a third who offers tribute.
Reviews Last Book
The Rev. John F. Cavanaugh, former president of the University, reviews Professor Phillips last book, Paderewski, The Story of a Modem Immortal. Professor Stephen Ronay of the English department tells of a trip through England which he and Mr. Phillips made in 1931. A sonnet by Professor Norbert Engels, also of the Department of English, is the verse tribute for the issue. William Dusch, senior in fine arts, has finished a splendid portrait of Prof. Phillips for the frontispiece.
Two pages of Professor Phillips’ own poetry are included. Excerpts from various newspaper accounts on his death have been collected for the issue.
Co-Worker Writes
Sigismond Stojowski, to whom Paderewski was dedicated, and who was of aid to Mr. Phillips in the preparation of the book, is another who adds his word of praise in the Phillips Memorial issue of the literary quarterly.
The cover is to be heavier than usual, of eggshell paper, with a medium brown ink used for decoration and lettering.
Prof. Manion Speaks
Professor Clarence E. Manion, of the College of Law, was a speaker at the annual banquet of the Indianapolis Bar Association, in that city, Wednesday, February 7.
At noon of the same day, Professor Manion spoke on “Socialism and the New Deal” at a Rotary luncheon in South Bend.
The Scholastic

Col. Sweeny Gives Brilliant Talk Here
Efforts Being Made To Sponsor N. D. Student Trip To Marquette
By Thontas Proctor
“No, I certainly would not advise college students to take up professional soldiering as a career,” stated Colonel Charles Sweeny, and shook his head vigorously. And yet as the reporter marked the commanding figure and personal charm of this man of many campaigns, Notre Dame’s own soldier of fortune, he could not help but note that the career of soldier had been quite beneficial in many ways to Charles Sweeny.
Colonel Sweeny graduated from Notre Dame in 1889, after spending-two years here. As a student he showed no warlike tendencies. In fact he wrote sonnets for The Scholastic. But since leaving Notre Dame and the United States Charles Sweeny has earned himself international recognition as a professional fighter. He has fought under many foreign banners; during the World War he won eighteen decorations in the French Air Service. He was a personal friend of men great in the annals of war, of foreign potentates. Even now he speaks of “his friend Kemal Pasha, dictator of Turkey,” whom he knew when Kemal was just gaining power during the World War. Sweeny has seen nations rise and fall.
Does Not Glorify War
At the present time Colonel Sweeny is in active service in the fa' mous French Foreign Legion in northern Africa. Though the subject of his lecture to the student body Monday evening, January 29th, in Washington Hall, was "Famous Soldiers I Have Known,” the Colonel divulged many bits nf information concerning the Legion to the student body and also to the French Club, whose group he addressed in French the following afternoon. In the course of his lecture to the students Sweeny, in an informal manner, traced the careers of famous soldiers and war-time leaders with whom he had lived or whom he had studied. Among these were the great German air-ace, Baron Richtofen, and the Turk, Kemal Pasha. The lecture or group of stories was interwoven with humorous and tragic incidents of war.
Colonel Sweeny does not glorify war, but he looks on it in the hard and casual manner of the professional soldier. One always feels when talking with him that he knows so much more than he will ever tell. He does like to destroy illusions though. Speaking to a fortunate few he tore down the “movie-made” impression of the French Legion. It is not a body
Fat Men---
A group of seniors have organized what they call va “fat man’s club” which meets semi-weekly in the gymnasium. The purpose of the organization is the reducing of surplus weight. The club is under the guidance of Pete Bloemsma, and meets Tuesdays and Thursdays at 1:30 p. m.
Among the campus personages who have joined the ranks of the club are David Froehlich, Bob McDonough, Jack Quirk, Cappy Smith, Tarze Kiple, and Frank Messina. The requirements for admission are a little excess weight, a pair of gym shoes and shorts, and two hours a week of spare time.
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
(Continued from Page 2)
ommended by the dean. Active members who have been members for two consecutive semesters and who are eligible for a third semester, and who have read a parer of merit, are entitled to wear the key of the Academy.
The purpose of the Academy as stated in the constitution is “the promotion of interest in all branches of science and the diffusion of scientific knowledge among members, and the general student body of the University.”
Cap and Gown Notice!
Any senior who as yet has not been measured for cap and gown may have a last chance to do so in Walsh Hall basement, Monday afternoon from 4:09 to 5:09 o’clock. John Kiely and Irwin Kiep are in charge of caps and gowns.
of criminals,” he said “but rather a body of professional soldiers, who, though often skilled in some other pursuits, have definitely adopted soldiering as a career. The Foreign Legion does not wear the uniform of the “motion picture Legion.” The Legion, like the Roman Legions of Caesar, has first conquered, and is now engaged in the civilizing of Northern Africa.”
Colonel Sweeny would not give his opinion concerning warlike developments in Europe and Japan. It is the opinion of those who asked him that he knows the situation, but after all, Colonel Charles Sweeny is a soldier on leave. He is a soldier and not a diplomat or a politician.
S. A, C IS NEGOTIATING
Basketball fans at the University may have the privilege of attending what advance notices label Notre Dame’s best games of the season when the squad travels to Milwaukee
Georss Shields
‘'More neics next week.”
for the return game with Marquette the weekend of March 10th. George Shields, President of the S.A.C., announced today that negotiations are under way at the present time in an effort to make this trip possible for the students.
Request has been'made to the officials at Marquette for a reservation of one hundred tickets for the Notre Dame student body. If this reservation can be made as many students as there are tickets available will receive permission to attend the game. The trip will probably be made in busses which wil carry the rooters right through to Milwaukee and avoid any changes at Chicago.
Usual Weekend Rules
The usual rules governing weekend permissions will be in force for those going. A letter from home to the hall rector granting permission will be necessary. The busses will leave the campus Saturday noon and return Sunday evening. This will not be an official student trip, but will carry the same privileges and stipulations.
The proposed trip is by no means final as yet. It is expected that tickets will be very difficult to get. Over six weeks before the date of the game, 2,600 reservations, exclusive of student applications, had been made. If, however, arrangements are completed, details will be announced in a subsequent issue of The Scholastic.
February 9, 19 3 4
Five
Debaters Will Meet N.Y.U. Here Saturday
Varsity debate number six will be staged tomorrow evening at 8 o’clock in the Auditorium of the Engineering Building, with two speakers from New York University furnishing the opposition. Notre Dame will be represented by Hugh- Fitzgerald and William Kirby on the affirmative side of the question, “Resolved: That the powers of the President should be substantially increased as a settled policy.”
W. J. Coyne, debate coach, says that probably Professor Doesburg of Northwestern University will act as critic judge for this important decision contest. The local debaters have had but one decision debate this year, and this one was lost to Michigan University.
Radio Debate Last-Week
Last Saturday afternoon at 1:30 over Station WLS, Chicago, two negative speakers from Notre Dame, John Locher and John O’Connor, argued with debaters from Kent College of Law in Chicago on a slightly revised statement of the last semester question. Locher and O’Connor debated “Resolved: That the emergency powers of the President be made permanent by a constitutional amendment.” This debate was heard by a large audience in the studios.
Coach Coyne states that negotiations are being made for a possible trip to an Annual Debate Tournament held in Iowa City late in February. Two debates with Northwestern “B” teams are definitely scheduled for February 22nd.
Bookmen To Hold Meeting To Honor Late Professor
Acting on a suggestion of Professor Camile McCole, faculty advisor of the Club, the Bookmen at their regular Monday meeting voted to hold a session in the near future in remembrance of the late Professor Charles Phillips.
The meeting will be devoted to the discussion and study of the works of Professor Phillips. His latest book, Paderewski — A Story of a Modern Immortal, was one of the volumes added to club’s library for the new semester. It will be reviewed by one of the members at the memorial meeting.
The Bookmen devoted considerable time to the semi-annual selection of books and in order to make future selections more wisely and expeditiously, subscribed to the lists of approved books sent out by the Cardinal Hayes Literary Committee.
Six
News of the Week
By George Leyes
The thunder over Europe is becoming louder every day as selfish and national interests push towards war. Peace or war seems to hinge on actions of Hitler to Nazify Austria. Chancellor Dollfuss asks for protection against this aggression from the League of Nations but it is doubtful whether anything effective can be done as Germany does not recognize the league. Since Dollfuss cannot depend on France for aid, it leaves Austria more than ever on her own and Hitler- able to do just about what he wants in Nazifying Austria.
In Paris the government is quiver-ering on an unstable foundation as thousands of royalists, communists, socialists, and fascists disgusted with graft, high taxes and scandal put on some really fancy rioting. The government interprets these riots as a movement to overthrow the republic and set up a dictatorship. The people seem to have lost all confidence in the republic and the government has responded to these ominous signs by clamping a strict censorship on all news.
Russia and Japan are at loggerheads, both accusing each other of war-mindedness. As the relations become more tense Russia is building-up her Eastern frontiers by fostering immigration, granting special privileges and increasing army salaries.
The only really sincere country in Europe at the present time is England who desires peace at any price, even to letting Germany re-arm. United States is determined not to meddle in this European mess of nationalism and intrigue. The huge appropriations for the building up of our navy and air force with the navy getting the lion’s share of the money indicates clearly the policy of this country to mind its own business and merely to defend her frontiers against invasion.
One form of relief that the government is finding harder to stop than it was to start is the CWA which now has four million men on the payroll. The huge appropriation bill for its continuance until summer was passed in the House with only one dissenting vote. How are the other six million unemployed going to compete with the higher cost of living? It appears that Senator Black was' not far wrong last summer when he advocated a 30 hour week and a higher minimum wage as the solution for absorbing these men into industry.
Pharmacy Banquet to
Be Held February 15
Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, head of the Pharmacy department, will be chairman of a Pharmacy Club banquet and meeting to be held in the Lay Faculty Dining room, next Thursday, February 15. The occasion of this gathering is the annual inspection of the Pharmacy department by members of the State Board of Pharmacy.
Messrs. Dean Miller and A. J. Daugherty, president and secretary respectively of the South Bend Pharmacy Club, are cooperating in the arrangements. Others expected to attend, besides several South Bend pharmacists, are E. A. Ridgely and F. W. Meissner, members of the Executive Committee of the Indiana State Pharmaceutical Association, and local faculty members.
Kenney To Speak
After the banquet, the group will go to the Chemistry building, where a short program will be presented. William J. Kenney, senior in Pharmacy, is to address the club and its guests on the subject “Potentromet-ric Titration.” He will also demonstrate this process. “The History, Preparation, and Uses of the Barbiturates” is the title of a paper to be given by Robert Ervin, sophomore in Pharmacy.
The meeting will be adjourned after extemporaneous talks by members of the visiting organizations.
Cracow Club Plans To Hold Banquet Soon
At a general meeting of the Cracow Club, held Mo'nday evening, February 5, plans for a banquet to be held the latter part of this month were discussed, and committees were appointed. ’ The chairmen of these committees met Thursday evening with the general banquet chairman, Charles Karnasiewicz, for the purpose of making definite plans.
The committees appointed were as follows (in each case the first named being chairman): Finance—Thaddeus Grabeski, Norbert Mizerski, Leonard Krajenski, and Frank Patka; Refreshment — Carl Makarski, Julian Podraza, Richard Kowacek, and Adam Novak; Hall—Cornell Deren-gowski, Eugene Rybicki, Alfred Snia-dowski, and Daniel Kalczynski; Purchasing— Joseph Orzechowski, Joseph Novak, John Tokowid, and Joseph Zdanowicz; Membership — Albert Orzechowski, Paul Manoski, Raymond Piontek, and Edwin Kalczynski.
The Scholastic
Notre Dame ‘Lawyer’ Released Last Week
K. of C. News
War Is Inevitable
Wranglers Conclude
By Joseph Bucci
The Notre Dame Lawyer, edited by Thomas L. McKevitt, senior in the College of Law, made its second appearance of the school year last week. The January issue of the quarterly law review featured two articles by local professors of law and one by John Tracy Ellis, Ph.D., Catholic University, ’30.
Professor William M. Cain, of the Law School, contributes “Congested Dockets and Measures for Relief,” an article based upon the Third Report of the Judicial Council of Michigan, edited by Prof. Edson R. Sunderland and Mr. Edward C. Curran. It is taken from a study of. the activities of reviewing courts in thirty-four states, and a comparison of the output of judicial decisions in the courts of last resort in those states.
Prof. Ellis Writes
This report exhibits the comparative expedition with which those courts dispose of judicial business. It appears that, in some states, the courts of last resort are about three years in arrears with their business, while in others, the court keeps about abreast of its docket.
“The Catholic Church and Peace Efforts,” by John Tracy Ellis, at present a professor of History at the Colege of Saint Teresa, is a continuation of the treatise on the same subject presented ' by Prof. William Roemer in the November issue of the Lawyer. Prof. Ellis gives more of a historical aspect and states specific instances of when the Church has intervened in various controversies between nations to bring about and maintain peace.
Part four of “Priorities in the Law of Mortgages” is submitted by Professor William D. Rollison, of the College of Law. Maurice W. Lee and Joseph A. McCabe furnish Notes, while Myron Murphy, Prof. Cain, and Donald F. Wise offer Recent Decisions. Book Reviews are presented by Thomas Gately.
Irish Club. Discusses Plans
For St. Patrick’s Day
The Irish club met last Wednesday night, February 7, in Carroll Rec, to discuss plans for a proposed St. Patrick’s Day dinner to be held next month. Complete announcements will be made later by President John J. O’Connor regarding the place and time decided upon, as well as the question of opening the banquet to students outside the club.
February 9, 1 9 3 i
By Ray Martin
The revival of the attendance prize should prove some incentive to the members to be present at more meetings than they have in the past. Last Monday John Cary won a Parker pen-and-pencil set, generously donated by Brother Lovely. There is always something worthwhile offered, and it would be unfortunate if a name were drawn when the person was absent.
The last meeting was especially entertaining. It was decided to hold the exemplification of the second and third degrees on the first or second Sunday in March, and to hold the first degree at the meeting following the next one.
For the entertainment phase of the meeting, Lecturer McGahren was fortunate to secure a man whose talents have been kept somewhat under cover, particularly insofar as the Knights are concerned. We refer to Father Leo Heiser, who gave us a rollicking-half hour of song. The bewildered look on the faces of the three visitors from Michigan who walked in when Father Heiser was giving his inimitable imitation of Galli-Curci on an off-night was attendance prize enough. Mr. Connelley, in an informal talk, mentioned some of the difficulties besetting a manager of the University dining halls in comparison to the manager of a hotel. Those that heard him will mitigate their censure on the meals in the future.
The advance report on the dance, announced by Grand Knight Sexton, shows that the council activity was supported well enough to insure profit.
A new rule concerning the bowling league was adopted. In order to be eligible for the trip to Milwaukee, a man must be present every night. The trip will probably be arranged for the weekend of the 10th of March, to con-espond with the date of the Notre Dame-Marquette basketball game. The bowlers making the trip will have a chance to see the game after bowling, or bowl after seeing the game, according to the present arrangements.
Movie Schedule Announced
Movies to be shown in Washington Hall tonight and tomorrow night are:
February 9 — “Paddy, the Next Best Thing” with Warner Baxter and Janet Gaynor.
February 10 — “Adorable” featuring Janet Gaynoi- and Henry Garet. .
Because of the Pittsburgh basketball game February 17, there will be no movie that weekend.
“War And The College Mah” was the subject for an open forum of the Wranglers, honorary forensic society, at the regular Tuesday meeting in the. Law Building. War was discussed from all angles and. points of view, with President Arthur Sandusky in charge.
Beginning with the recent publication of war pictures in Hearst papers, the members discussed war propaganda, possibilities of future wars, necessity of preparedness, and the personal question, “Shall I Go To War?” It was the concensus of opinion that war in our and immediately following generations is inevitable, that preparedness is a necessity; but that certainly the work of the pacifist should be carried on with ever-in-creasing zeal.
John Heywood led a short discussion on the cryptographic proofs of mistaken authorships of famous works of literature, dealing particularly with the Bacon - Shakespeare controversy.
In the line of business, the members voted to hold the annual banquet Tuesday, February 19th in the Rose-Marie Tea-Room. Richard Ballman is in charge of arrangements.
LaRaza Club Makes Changes
In Constitution at Meeting
The first meeting of the La Raza club for the second semester was held Monday evening, Brias presiding. Mr. Juan Pedevilla, Notre Dame alumnus from South Bend, and honorary member of the club, was the • guest of honor.
A number of motions from different members of the club were given favorable consideration and approved by unanimous or almost unanimous votes. The principal resolutions concerned the revision and re-statement of the constitution of the club, the organization of a club basketball tournament, and the creation of a bureau of information on events, conditions, accomplishments, and developments in the various countries from which the LaRaza members come.
The following committees were appointed to further these projects: Constitution: Gutierrez, Valdes, Bonet, E. Creel; Basketball: Kenkel, Gutierrez; Bureau of Information: M. Yriberry, Singson, Ducasa.
•The report of the' treasurer for the first semester was read and approved. Disbursements for secretarial expenses were authorized, and the distribution of Club stationary to all the members was announced by President Brias.
Seven
Rules Received For
K.ofC. Scholarships
The following information has been received by Reverend J.‘ Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies, concerning the Knights of Columbus Graduate Scholarships to the Catholic University of America:
As eligible candidates the following conditions must be fulfilled:
“1. Only unmarried laymen who have received the degree of Bachelor of Arts, Science, Laws, or an equivalent academic degree, are admitted to the examination.
“2. Students who will complete a baccalaureate course at the close of the current academic year may take the examination for these scholarships, but they must have obtained the bachelor’s degree before entering the University.
“3. In awarding the scholarships preference is given to candidates who are Knights of Columbus or sons of members of the order.”
March 1 Is The Deadline
Applicants may apply for blanks from the General Secretary of the University. These should be sent in with complete information before March 1 of the academic year in which the examination is to be held.
The examination is held annually, shortly after the Easter vacation. The exact date of the examination will be published in the Columbia magazine. Graduate or seniors may take tins examination at Notre Dame. The examination principally emphasizes English, Mathematics, and American History. Specimen examinations in these three subjects may be obtained by the applicant. Further, each student is required to take an examination in Physics or Chemistry or Biology; and in Latin or Greek or French or German or Spanish.
“Before the award is made the candidate is reouired to sign an agreement embodying the conditions of tenure of the Scholarship. The award of scholarships is announced at the close of the academic year. The scholarship is granted for one academic year. During that time it entitles the holder to board, lodging, and tuition in the University. It may be continued for four years provided the work of the scholar during the first year is satisfactory. At the end of that time, the holder may apply for a scholarship granting him free tuition but not covering any other expense.
“Each Knights of Columbus Scholar is required to pursue courses of study in preparation for the Master’s (Continued on Page 16)
E ig h t
At Notre Dame the pun is not the lowest form of wit. This is well for Mr. William Charles O’Toole because it makes him a
O’Tooles which
well-rounded sort of individual. He is already looked upon as a “regular,” a suave politician, and a sociable type of fellow, so with this form of humor added to his personality he presents a nicely balanced make up.
Bill is the seventh of a dynasty of nine Pittsburgh , is now, or soon
will entrust its spiritual and educational guidance to Notre Dame. The
six O’Tooles who preceded Billy established a precedent scholastically and otherwise which he is endeavor
ing to maintain.
This Hat Fitzmaurice Too
But more about O’Toolian wit. The puns emanating from Bill are spontaneous, rapid-fire, and incessant. Like “Red” Tobin he is surrounded by a galaxy of stooges who awaken him (in the morning), bring breakfast to him, supervise his extra curricular activities in The Bend, and when no one else does, laugh at his jokes. We’ll employ a hypothetical stooge to give a few examples of the old jester’s wit:
Stooge: Doesn’t Zilch live in Augusta, Georgia?
Our Hero: Augusta wind blew in the window.
And again.
Stooge: Do you know Fitzgerald? O’Toole: This hat Fitzgerald.
Now and then he comes through with one such as this:
Stooge: what is the difference between a reply to a riddle and my uncle’s wife who has a bad eye?
O’Toole: A reply is the answer to a query and your aunt, sir, has a queer eye.
This could go on ad nauseam but there are other sides to Bill besides these wise crevices. As for politics, we call to your attention the fact that he is president of the Pittsburgh Club and secretary of the senior class. He is an English major and defends his chosen curricflar with a vehement recalcitrance. Upon telling you what
Plans Are Outlined At Action Club Meet
The newly formed Catholic Action Club of Notre Dame held its first meeting Friday evening, February 2, in the Main Building. The Reverend William A. Bolger, C.S.C., head of the Department of Economics and Politics, and director of the group, presided over the meeting.
The main purpose of this meeting was to determine a time and place for regular meetings and to outline to the some forty members a program of work. It was decided to take up the subject of human sterilization as the first study. Considering the agitation in Europe in favor of sterilization and the growing agitation in this country it was decided that this is a most timely topic for Catholic consideration. The men were divided into four groups to apply themselves to the principal divisions of the topic.
Will Be Study Club
As outlined at the meeting by Father Bolger the purpose of the club is to study the teachings of the Catholic Church on the social and economic questions of the present day. Thus the members will be able to understand thoroughly the Catholic point of view and to extend the influence of the Catholic Church through their contact with other people. The club is to be essentially a study club. The members will study the different phases of the topic assigned and discuss these phases at the meetings after the presentation of a paper by one member.
The next meeting will be held Friday evening, February 16, at 7:45 in Room 327 of the Main Building. Edward Kirby was appointed secretary.
course he is taking he invariably assumes that it needs some defending. He is devoted to Burchell and his other compatriots whom he terms the intelligentsia of Notre Dame.
There are story tellers and, I suppose, story tellers, but when Bill O’Toole engages in a “session” it becomes a sublimated seminar. He rolls off his tales with a finesse that leaves his listeners well .nigh spell-bound. One after another these yams come forth from a master of bull slinging. O’Toole is not to be outdone; he is the vital principle as well as the source of all mental activity when the fellows get together in a talk-fest. Possibly there are talkers who can match his delivery but there are none who can match his repertoire.
So there it is—an inadequate and yet a fairly revealing presentation of Bombastic Bill O’Toole.
The Scholastic
Grosso Is Appointed Head of French Club
At a meeting of “Le Cercle Ffan-cais,” held Jan. 22, George Menard, retiring president, appointed as his successor for the ensuing semester, Louis J. Grosso, Alumni Hall junior in the College of Arts and Letters. With the installation was given the authorization of appointing the subofficers who will administer with the president. As yet these selections have not been made definite.
At the meeting further informa- • tion was presented concerning the proposed plan to show a French movie for the entertainment of the student body, and to afford an insight on French customs.
On the following day at 1 o’clock members of the club were addressed by Col. Charles Sweeny who spoke on the contacts he had made through the French Foreign Legion with Arab civilization. The Colonel cited the surprisingly keen intelligence and versatility in languages of the Arab when educated. He further mentioned the strict adherence to faith and the great influence of the wayside story-teller in swaying at will the emotions of his listeners from joy to sorrow.
The French Club Meeting held Monday night, Feb. 5, at 7:45 in Carroll Rec had for its primary purpose the confirmation by president Louis Grosso of the appointments of his under officers. Harold May, Commerce Junior was chosen as vicepresident, while to Robert Forbes, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was acceded the capacity of Secretary. To provide for a committee to assume the duties of publicity and programs at meetings, Grosso selected George Martinet as chairman to assume charge of the entertainment for the next meeting of the organization.
After a promising discussion of plans for smokers to be held intermittently during the year and also for a banquet to be given shortly before Easter the members practised several French songs, led by Prof. Langwell and George Menard.
The meeting was adjourned until the next session which will be held at the regular time and place on Feb. 19.
Spanish Club Meets
The Spanish Club, under President Ed Holman, held its first meeting of the second semester last Thursday evening, February 1. At the next meeting important busines will be taken up and it is the wish of President Holman that all members be present.
February 9, 1 9 3 k
Famous Historical Letters Now On Display In Library
An interesting and valuable historical exhibit of letters of statesmen and other famous figures is now on display in the University Library. In the center of the display is a parchment letter signed by Abraham Lincoln and Edward W. Staunton, Secretary of War. The letter is dated March 22, 1862, and bears a United States army commission for Don Carlos Buell.
There is a letter sent to Father Sorin by General William T. Sherman, which mentions the death of his son Billy, who was buried at Notre Dame, the body later being removed to St. Louis. There are also a letter of Charles Sumner, American statesman and leading opponent of slavery, who was assaulted in the U. S. Chamber by Preston Brooks, and an indignant noted headed “Republic of South Carolina,” written by E. M. Whaley cancelling his subscription to the Freeman’s Journal.
Documents written by such famous figures as Horace Greeley, noted journalist and fo'mder of the Nem York Tribune, Jefferson Davis, Stephen Douglas, and Thomas (Stonewall) Jackson, complete the exhibit.
‘Dome’ Snapshot Contest To Terminate March 1st
Students who have not yet entered pictures in the Dome Snapshot Contest are reminded that they have until March 1st to turn them in. There are three prizes of Domes and cash offered to contestants.
Many pictures have already been received. Any type of picture which portrays a part of student life is acceptable, such as views, metings, action photos, rooms, and others. Any one who wishes to enter the contest should turn in his snapshots at 156 Alumni with his name, address, and a description of the photo written on back of each picture in soft lead pencil.
Catholic Magazine Reprints
Father Miltner’s Address
The Catholic Educational Review, in its February issue, has reprinted in full the address delivered by Rev. Charles' C. Miltner, C.S.C., at the Regional Conference of the Catholic Association for International Peace, held here last Nov. 19.
The address, entitled “Peace and the College Curriculum,” declares that it rests upon the teacher to instill into the student a love for peace. After that, it is up to the student himself.
New Library Books Cover Many Fields
The following books have recently been added to the University Library:
Psychology: Psycho-Analysis and its Derivatives, Hugh C. Miller.
Religion: Adamanta or The Diamond Age.
History and Description: The Man of the Rennaisance, Ralph Roeder; Mexico Before Cortez, John E. Thompson; Races and Ethnic Groups in American Life, Thomas J. Woofter.
Physical Education: Americans at Play, Jesse F. Steiner.
Economic History: The Machine Unchained, Leo Hausleiter; Population Trends in the United States, Warren Thompson.
Commerce: Communication Agencies and Social Life, Malcolm Willey.
Sociology: Rural Social Trends, Edmund Brunner; Borstalians, J. W. Gordon; The Eugenic Predicament, Samuel Holmes; The Metropolitan Community, Roderick McKenzie; Social Case (Fork, New York School of Social Work; The Neiu Morality, George Newsom.
Fine Arts: Das Neue Kollwitz-Werk, Katherine Kollwitz.
Literature: An Introduction to Liturgical Latin, A. M. Scarre.
Fiction: Bonfire, Mrs. Dorthea (Canfield) Fisher; Ida Elisabeth, Sigrid Undset; Peter Abelard, Helen Jane Waddell.
Biography: The Life and Friendships of Dean Sivift, Stephen Gwynn; The Pursuit of Death, Benjamin P. Kurtz.
Medicine and Psychiatry: Health and Environment, Edgar Syden-stricker.
Sophomores Are Requested
To Select A, B.. Major
Toward the end of the second semester, all sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters will have to decide in which department they will major. This decision, being of great importance, should not be made until the student has conferred with the head of the department in which he expects to enroll. There are eleven departments.
To facilitate the proper choice of a major subject a form letter will shortly be mailed to each sophomore. This should be preserved and returned to the Dean, of Arts and Letters with the choice indicated.
Fr. O’Hara Vacationing
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, is on a vacation in the southwest. Father O’Hara will return to the University in the latter part of February.
Nine
. ‘Dome’ Photography Is Near Completion
The Dome photographer will be on the campus for the last time during the week beginning Feb. 12. Group pictures of the city clubs will be taken on the stage of Washington Hall every day from 12:30 to 1:05. The presidents of these clubs have received cards in the mail notifying them of the time assigned to them and the price of the picture.
Cards have also been sent to the activities men who have not yet had their pictures taken. For that purpose the Walsh Hall Studios will be open from 1:30 to 5 o’clock every afternoon this coming week. Any seniors who have not yet had their pictures taken may also come at this time. As this is the last time the photographer will be on the campus it is essential that all these pictures be taken.
The cards sent to the activities men will serve as credit slips. To have pictures taken those receiving must present them to the photographer. Any activities man who has not already had his picture taken and who. does not receive a card, and any club president who does not receive a card should see William Burkhardt, Managing Editor, 156 Alumni.
Prof. Hoyer Speaks To Plymouth Kiwanis Club
Profesor Ray Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance department, addressed the Kiwanis Club of Plymouth on Monday on “The Boy Problem and Scouting.” The meeting commemorated Scout Anniversary Week which is being observed throughout the country on the completion of twenty-four years of scouting in the United States.
Noted Alumnus Dies
The funeral of Pat Malloy, ’07, was held in Christ King Church, Tulsa, Oklahoma, on Friday, February 2. Mr. Malloy died suddenly in El Dorado, Arkansas on Wednesday. He was president of the law class of 1907 at Notre Dame. At the time of his death he was a distinguished Oklahoma attorney, and at one time he was Assistant Attorney General of the United States.
Notice!
Students majoring in Philosophy who desire further opportunity for review of their philosophical studies, should confer at once with the head of their department, Room 255 Alumni.
T e n -
College Parade
By James T. Fitzpatrick
The annual of the UNIVERSITY OF DENVER asked H. R.- H., the Prince of Wales, to act as judge of a beauty contest and received this rebuff: “Sir:
“I am desired by The Prince of Wales to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of Dec. 7 in which you ask His Royal Highness to act as a judge in this year’s selection of the “Campus Beauties” of the UNIVERSITY OF DENVER.
“His Royal Highness appreciates your suggestion but I regret that he has to make it a rule never to act as judge in competitions of this description.”— the letter was sent by the Prince’s assistant private secretary. The Denver Clarion’s comment: “He is going to be king—but he balks at choosing seven queens.”
Baby kissing and the proffering of repulsive cigars are outmoded practices among vote-seeking governors we take it, after reading the following press dispatch in The Stanford Daily:
“Sunny Jim” Rolph’s latest bromide is his rumored plan to make a speech in the nudist colony during the coming campaign. Said Rolph about the invitation: “I am thinking of accepting the invitation, but I don’t want to be elected president of the colony and not be able to return.”
Girls at the UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA are subject to a fine of $10 or imprisonment for six days if caught wearing a fraternity pin on campus—Students in an English class at OKLAHOMA A. and M. are fined one cent every time they misspell a word—a fine of $1,000 and five years in the jug are the possible penalties for INDIANA students caught lending their football tickets for NOTRE DAME or PURDUE games.
* * * *
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY is making its own contribution to history via intelligent responses by students. This one is from The Hoya:
A political science professor, we are told, recently asked a member of his class what the Government was doing to preserve wild life in America. The student replied, “They repealed the Eighteenth Amendment.”
❖ ❖ ❖
Remember we said something about a professor who was going to give us some definite data about the law of averages? The results of his efforts are disclosed in the TEMPLE University News:
Paper on NRA Read At Economic Seminar
Last Monday evening at 8 o’clock in the Law Building members of the Economic Seminar were addressed by Richard Balliet, junior in the College of Arts and Letters. Balliet chose for the title of his paper, “Leisure Time Under the N. R. A.”
Covering the history of the matter up to its present-day importance, the speaker revealed that previous to economic organization leisure- time presented no great problem, but the advent of the Industrial Revolution brought a marked ihfluence to beai' on the importance of the question.
With succeeding years the problem of what to do with leisure time has arisen to a position of startling importance throughout the industrial world. Remedies up to now have brought only temporary satisfaction. “Leisure time has arrested the attention of the government, so important has it become as a problem to the American people,” said Balliet. He then went on to outline the steps being taken under the N.R.A. to remedy the difficulty, and also made mention of the more important proposition being investigated for further correction.
Following the commendations on the appropriate paper, plans for enlarging the Junior membership of the organization were discussed.
Senior Proofs For ‘Dome’ To Be Returned Feb. 21
Senior proofs for the 1934 Dome may be returned to the Walsh studios any afternoon now except Saturday or Sunday from 4:30 to 5:30. The time limit for this is February 21. Anyone who wishes to have pictures made may also order them at that time.
Thirty Seniors Graduate
Approximately thirty seniors graduated this February. These students will receive their degree in June at the commencement exercises. Seventy-five new students entered the University, registering in this second semester of the school year.
“Pennies are evenly divided between heads and tails, says a professor at the UNIVERSITY OF WEST VIRGINIA. He flipped 200 different pennies 40,000 times to prove his theory.
* * *
From the same organ: A student meeting at TULANE, held in the interest of world peace, broke up because of continued bickering among the students present.
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Cagers to Play Four Marquette to Face Irish Trackmen Games In Ten Days jn geason Opener Here Tomorrow
By John D. Carbine
The next two weeks will be busy ones for the Keoganites. Not only do they go on their annual eastern trip, but they play return games with Pittsburgh, the only eastern team to defeat them this year, and with Michigan State, over whom they barely eked~out~a~ one point victory immediately following their return home.
On their eastern trip the Keoganites will meet two teams which appear on the Irish schedule for the first time. Tomorrow night the Irish cagers meet St. Xavier’s college at Cincinnati, and on Monday night they play Temple university at Philadelphia.
St. Xavier’s is one of those small colleges which every now and then jumps into the sporting limelight by upsetting better known and favored rivals. Xavier has a strong team this year but it is difficult to see how they will be able to stop the Keoganites’ attempt for then* fifth straight victory in a new string. Cincinnati fans, however, evidently do not expect a one sided contest for all of the 8,000 available seats for the game had been sold last Wednesday.
Meet Temple Monday
Temple lost a 33 to 29 decision to the undefeated City College of New York team last Saturday night mainly because they were unable to toss their free throws into the .basket. The Owls made only 11 out of 25 attempted tosses from the charity stripe. Messikomer, a forward, is the leading scorer on the Temple team which is entirely made up of former Philadelphia schoolboy stars. Rosan, his running mate, rates second only to Messikomer in the scoring column. Fox, a six foot, two inch giant, holds down the center post while Brown and Freiberg take care of the guard positions.
Next Saturday night the Pittsburgh Panthers, only conquerors of the Irish this year, invade the Notre Dame gymnasium. Old Doc Carlson, the Panthers’ veteran hoop mentor, has a strong experienced team this year. For some reason, however, they did not click during the early part of the season. Butler defeated them by a decisive margin and several other teams also turned the trick. The Panthers began to hit
. (Continued on Page IS)
Golf Course - - -
As a forewarning to the class of inveterate shankers who insist on playing golf as soon as the snow disappears each spring, the following information was released this week:
The University golf course will not be open until after the Easter vacation period. Absolutely no play or practice will be allowed on the grounds of the course before that time. Students are asked to cooperate with the University by not trying to gain access to the course before the official announcement of its opening is made.
No Trespassing
The use of the golf course grounds as a short cut by persons walking to or from South Bend is strictly forbidden. Anyone seen walking on the course or climbing any of the fences surrounding the grounds, will be subject to the usual penalty inflicted for trespassing.
Both of these measures were adopted in order to prevent damage to the greens and fairways. Considerable work has been done since the fall to improve and beautify the course, and premature play or heavy pedestrian traffic would undo the work already done.
Bad Weather Halts Local Ice Skaters
Snow, exams, and generally poor weather combined forces to prevent any serious ice-skating during the past two weeks. It is true that some sturdy pioneers braved the elements to enjoy the sport, but the small area of cleared ice on St. Mary’s lake evidently has discouraged the majority.
Plans for inter-hall hockey and speed skating contests have been-delayed until more favorable weather appears. The season should be well started by this time since skating will - last foi* at most only another month, but the condition of the ice has discouraged any attempts on the part of the skating club to erect a hockey rink. Hope, however, should not be abandoned for this Indiana weather may change for the better.
METCALFE IN SPRINTS
Pole vaulting will begin at 1:15 p. m. with the remaining events promptly at 2:00 p. m.
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Ralph Metcalfe, fresh from a Millrose victory over Emmett Toppino in New York last Saturday, will lead a Marquette track team here to meet the Notre Dame crew in the fieldhouse tomorrow afternoon.
In its initial appearance of the season the Irish will find themselves confronted with the usual well balanced Hilltopper team. Although composed of fifteen sophomores the Milwaukee tracksters will provide a tall barrier for the Nickmen to overcome.
Three of the first year men teamed with Kubash, a veteran, to capture a third place in one of the many college relays in the Millrose A.A. track meet. Jessell, Beckett, and Kleist completed this quartet.
O’Neil And Geissman Back
Outstanding among the returningmen are Orville O’Neil and Bill Geissman, middle distance men. O’Neil captured a first place in the dual meet between Notre Dame and Marquette last year and also won the one mile jaunt in the C.I.C. meet here. Geissman stole the two mile show in the two way affair and ranked third in the colorful field of two milers in the C.I.C. festival.
Ralph Metcalfe, national sprint champion, -will be the marked man tomorrow in his final appearance here in dual competition. The Chicagoan has developed rapidly since the Christmas holidays and although he is still experiencing some difficulty with his start, he is the unanimous choice in the 60 yard dash tomorrow. Nick will send Huller, Frawley, and Gioe into action against Metcalfe.
The several events tomorrow will be the proving ground for sophomores on both teams. Notre Dame will send eight new men on to the track in quest of points. This group includes Gioe, Frawley, Layden, Meagher, Rubly, Bernard, Ducassa, and Sullivan.
Fagan, Layden, and Link will trip (Continued on Pajre 12)
February 5, lSS.'f
Eleven
Elmer F. Layden Assumes Duties As Athletic Director, Grid Coach
Panthers End Irish Streak at 22 Games
By Howard T. Waldron
GLAD TO BE BACK HERE
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
The regime of Elmer Layden as Director of Athletics and head football coach of Notre Dame began officially on February 1 when the horseman settled himself in a swivel chair
Elmer Layden
“. . . hope for little and expect less.” and prepared to carry out the many duties associated -with the dual role which he occupies.
Layden expressed complete satisfaction with his position here and is pleased to be back at Notre Dame after an absence of a number of years. Changes in policy, if any are to be effected in the future, have not as yet been shaped into definite form. Several minor changes are being planned, such as the revival of intramural competition. Layden is aware that interest in this field has lagged, and he proposes to rejuvenate it with a plan of his own that will create enthusiasm among the students.
Spring Practice Nears
No predictions regarding the 1934 football team were forthcoming from the office of the dynamic Athletic Director. “We hope for little and expect less,” was the sum total of promises made.
“Spring practice will begin as soon as the snow clears away so we can locate the field,” Layden said in regard to the coming practice session. At that time the entire squad of candidates are expected to report to learn football as taught in the Layden creed.
Layden will demand three qualities of all men who plan to play on his ball club next fall. In his own words they are: “We want fellows out there
MARQUETTE TRACK MEET
(Continued from Page 11)
the light fantastic over the high hurdles in an attempt to somther Chet Trost and Ken Schoenecker, who walked off with second and third places respectively in the Irish-Hill-topper affair last year. In the low hurdles this trio will be fortified by George Meagher, sophomore broad jumper and hurdler.
In the quarter mile trot Rubly, Bernard, and Bowdren will be pitted against Jessel, Kubash, and Joe Dzwinel. The Irish are strongly fortified in the middle distances with such men as Roberts, Shiels, Troy, Moran, Young, Duke, and Van Pet-ten capable of registering points.
The high jump, with Vince Murphy piloting, is the most promising spot on the team. Krause will team with Murphy to face a quartet of Marquette sophomores. Jack Edwards, Beanie Cavendar, and Jim Howard will do battle with Carroll Roark, Marquette veteran pole vaulter. Sullivan and Finkel conclude the list of entrants. They will heave the shot put against Trost and Elliott.
who like to play football, men who have enthusiasm, and players who know their fundamentals; hard blocking and tackling in particular. A team that knows its fundamentals is never badly beaten and is always in the ball game.”
The recent trend to direct the Notre Dame system of offense toward power plays will be discarded by Layden. Although he likes power to an extent he is on the alert for speed, deception, and brains, much as was Rockne.
Rule changes, to become effective next fall, Layden believes, will be very conservative. At the recent coaches’ meeting in New York City the collegiate mentors appeared satisfied with the regulations governing play on the gridiron. For this reason Layden feels that the changes made by the rules committee, which meets in two weeks at Atlanta, will be fewer in number than they have been in several years.
Tennis, golf, and other sports will figure in the revival which Layden is planning so as to give the University as complete a sport program as it can handle.
History repeated itself with an annoying exactness, on Jan. 20, when the much-beaten Panthers of Pittsburgh, the last team to defeat Notre Dame before they started their 22 game winning streak, beat the Irish by a 39-34 score. The Pitt win, which lacked only one point of being identical to their home victory last year, came abo^t through one of the greatest second half rallies in Pitt basketball history.
In seven short minutes, the Panthers swung back from becoming the twenty-third mark on the Irish winning streak and upset the applecart by scoring nine points to take a lead that they never relinquished. At halftime, Notre Dame led 23-16. Four minutes of the second half rolled by and still Pitt couldn’t score. Meanwhile the Irish had made two baskets to put the score at 27-16.
Panthers Stage Comeback
It was then that the Panthers bore out the old adage that a team may be down but they’re never out until the final gun sounds. The law of averages fell on the side of the Pitt sharpshooters for the first time during the evening and they began to rack up points with uncanny regularity. The low-ceilinged, poorly lighted court, of which they knew every nook and cranny, buzzed with tension as they made their winning bid and held it.
Notre Dame tied the score at 23-28, but the Pitt team was “hot” and nearly everything that they threw i'p at the backboard fo-md the friendly circle of the rim and dropped through. Side shot, long shot, and even hard angle shots swished through as the last link in the Notre Dame chain of victories refused to be made.
A valuable hit of strategy displayed by Pitt was the fact that they played two men on Cantain Ed Krause, the key-man of the Irish offense, and kept him almost scoreless in the second
half although he did rack up ten points in the previous half.
S mini ary:
Pittsburgh (39)	FG	FT	FT A	PF	Pts.
McCamant, rf ....... 1	5	6	3	7
W. Hughes. If ------ 4	3	4	4	11
Wain?, If ____________ 0	2	2	1	2
Cribbs, c ------------ 3	0	13	6
Ochsenhirt, rg C. Hughes, 1g
4	13	19
1	2	2	3	4
Totals 			13	13	18	15	39
Notre Dame (34)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Voegele, rf 			 3	3	3	4	9
Jordan rf 				 1	2	3	3	4
O’Kane, If 			 0	0	0	0	0
Peters, If-g 			 3	1	3	2	7
Krause, c					 4	9		o	10
Ireland, rg 				1	1	1	3	o
Ford, rg 			 0	0	0	0	0
Crowe, 1g 		..			 0	1	1	4	1
Totals 			12	10	18	16	34
Referee: Frank	Lane,	Cincinnati:		umpire:	
Reese, Dennison.
T ive Ive
The Scholastic
Pony Forwards Star In Win Over Valpo
Krause Sets New Scoring Record With 22 Points As Gophers Fall
By Cy Stroker
Freezing the ball in the last minute of play, Notre Dame eked out a 27-25 victory over Valparaiso on the local floor last Wednesday night. The unexpected strength of Coach Christiansen’s men took the Keoganites by surprise and it was not until the second half that the Irish broke away for a six point lead.
The first half started off with a vigorous battle for supremacy, Valparaiso at first taking a 6-3 lead when Kowalski made good two follow up shots. Crowe soon retaliated with a long shot and Ford, who replaced Jordan, dropped two baskets within a minute of play. The half ended with Notre Dame ahead 15-13.
O’Kane Scores Twice
A battle royal raged in the second half. Notre Dame, finding many of their bucket plays broken up, resorted to long shots. O’Kane, during the last few minutes of the game, broke through the Valparaiso defense to sink two short baskets. Valparaiso, however, soon scored again when Bauer,, dribbling down the floor, made three beautiful long shots. Successful foul shooting gave Notre Dame a 27-23 lead, but Kowalski, with a minute left to play, sent the ball through the hoop from mid-floor. The Irish, receiving the ball on the final jump, succeeded in keeping it until the game ended.
Notre Dame showed a lack of its usual finesse, its offensive sallies being, for the most part, effectively broken up by the Valparaiso men. The Irish defense, however, kept the Valpo men from high scoring.
The line-up:
Notre Dame (27)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Jordan If 	 1	0	1	0	2
Voegele rf 	 0	2		1	2
Krause c (C) 	....... 1	0	0	1	2
Ireland. Ig 	 0	0	1	3	0
Growe rg 	 -	0	0	2	1
Allen 1g 	 0	0	0	1	0
Petars rf.	 1	a	4	0	5
Ford If 	 3	2	2	0	8
O’Kane rf 	 2	0	0	2	4
Totals 		10	7	11	10	27
Valparaiso (25)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Bauer If 	 ‘1		4	0	11
Gessing rf 	 0	0	0	1	0
Barnekoff c 	 1	2	4	3	4
Rucinski Ig 	 0	0	0		0
Kowalski rcr 	 3	2	1	3	S
Karr 1g 	 0	0	0	0	0
Saur c 	 1	0	0	0	2
Baran rf 	 0	0	0	0	0
Totals 	 0	7	12	10	25
Referee: Warren, (Chicago).			Umpire:	
Stonebreaker (Wabash).
Fencing —
The Notre Dame fencing team lost a close match to the veteran University of Chicago team at the Notre Dame gym on Jan. 27. The Irish fencers put up a stiff battle against the Chicago men, all of whom are experts of many years’ standing. In consideration of the tremendous odds against the local team and of the fact that the recent meet was the first one of the season, Coach de-Landero considers the result very satisfactory.
Although Chicago won eleven out of the seventeen bouts, Notre Dame scored 58 points against 64 for Chicago. Grosso and May were high scorers for the Irish. The result of the match are as follows:
Chicago (64):—Foils 6, Sabre 3, Duelling Swords 2.
Notre Dame (58):—Foils 3, Sabre 1, Duelling Swords 2.
CAGE GAMES
(Continued from Paso 11)
their stride about the middle of January and probably reached their peak when they defeated the Keoganites on January 20.
The defeat not only snapped the Irish winning streak at twenty-two games but it gave the Panthers the right to boast that they were the only team to defeat the Irish in two of the last three games played. Pittsburgh won an early season game from the Keoganites in Pittsburgh last year. That was the last defeat the Irish experienced before they invaded the Smoky City again this year.
Pittsburgh’s greatest scoring threat is Frank Hughes, a forward. Hughes scored 11 points against the Irish in Pittsburgh and has been leading the Pittsburgh scorers all season. Paired up with Hughes at the forward positions is McCamant who is an excellent floor man and a fair shot. Wainio acts as an understudy for both of the forward posts. For center Doc Carlson has the tall Cribbs.
After Pittsburgh comes Michigan State. State forced the Irish quintet to go three overtime periods before they finally went down to a 34-33 defeat. The most unusual thing about the Spartan team is that it has no one individual star. Rather than being a group of good basketball players grouped around a great individual star, State’s team is a composite group of good basketball players welded together into a strong quintet.
IRISH FIVE WINS 43 TO 34
By Howard T. Waldron
Using every variety of shot that can be found in the basketball handbook, All-American center, and Captain Eddie Krause racked up twenty-two points for a new Notre Dame scoring record and a 43-34 victory over Minnesota Tuesday night on the Irish court. Playing the greatest scoring game of lu's brilliant basketball career, Krause made ten field goals and two free throws before he left the game with six minutes left to play.
Incidental to the great effort of Krause was the fact that this made Notre Dame’s twenty-sixth win in twenty-seven starts and their sixteenth consecutive home victory. It also made the fifth win of the season over Big Ten foes.
Roscoe Scores 16
Overshadowed by the brilliant play of Krause but equally as colorful in his game was George Roscoe, Gopher forward, who bagged sixtenn points. He played good enough ball to win any ordinary game for his team but he didn’t receive enough scoring support from his mates. Roscoe, a decidedly unorthodox player, had worked out a one hand shot, made with his right hand, that was unusually accurate and impossible to stop.
At the end of the first ten minutes the score was tied at 13-13 and it looked like anybody’s ball game. But the Irish began to hit their stride and gradually drew away from the Gophers to lead 23-17 at half time.
Summary:
Notre Dame (43)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Voesele rf 	....	.. 1	0	2	2	2
Ford, rf 		.. 0	0	0	0	0
Jordan. If 		2	1	1	0	5
O’Kane. If 		.. 0	n	0	0	0
Peters, c 					o	0	sy	10
Krause, c 	:		..10			1	22
Elser, c 		.. 0	0	0	0	0
Crowe. 1g 		..0	1	2	2	1
Newbold, ig 		.. 0	1	1	1	1
Ireland, rg 		.. 1	0	0	o	9
Allen, rg 			.. 0	0	0	0	0
	—	—	—	——	—
Totals 		..19	5	11	10	43
Minnesota (34)	FG	FT	FTA	PF-	Pts.
Baker, rf 		.. 1	4	4	o	6
Roscoe. If 				.. 7	2	2	3	16
Norman, c 		2		4	2	7
Farrell Ig 		.. 0	0	0	1	0
Sochacki. Ig 				.. 1	0	0	0	2
Svendsen, rg 			.. 0	1	2	2	1
Barnum. rg 		. 1	0	0	1	2
Kane, rg 		. 0	0	0	0	0
	—	——	—	—	—
Totals 		..12	10	12	11.	34
Referee: Nick Kearns (Depaul) : umpire:
John Sehommer (Chicago).
February 9, 1 9 3 4
TItirteen
Sophs Win Handily In Class Track Meet
Introducing...
CagersWhip Maroons To InitiateNewString
The Sophomore class easily captured the annual indoor interclass track and field meet held in the fieldhouse last Saturday afternoon with 42 points. The seniors were second in points scored with 35, while the juniors were next with 27 points. The first year men were last with 12 points.
Mike Layden of the sophomore class was the high point man of the meet with ten points. He scored first places in both of the hurdle races. The sophs captured first positions in seven of the thirteen events run. They finished first in both of the 440 yard runs, in both of the hurdle races, the shot put, the two mile, and in the broad jump.
The seniors were the only class that scored a slam in any of the events. Roberts, Troy and Farrell finished one, two, three in the second half mile run.
Order of events:
440-YARD RUN—Won by Rubly, (So.): second, Bowdren (Jr.) ; third. Laframboise (Sr.). Time, :52.3.
440 YARD RUN—Won by Bernard, (So.) : second, McGrath (So.) ; third, Prasons (Fr.). Time. :52,6.
SHOT PUT—Won by Sullivan, (So.) ; second. Finkel (Sr.) ; third, Levicke (Fr.). Distance, 43 feet, 3 inches.
65 YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Layden, (So.) ; second, Fagan (Sr.) ; third. Link (Sr.). Time, :7.5.
TWO MILE RUN —Won by McFarlane. (So.) ; second, Duke (Sr.) ; third, Gott (Fr.). Time, 10 minutes.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Meagher, (So.) : second. Davis (Jr.) ; third, Boyle (Fr.). Distance, 22 feet, ten inches.
POLE VAULT—Won by Howard, (Sr.) ; second, Edwards (Jr.) ; McCarthy (Fr.) ; White (Fr.) ; Ely (Fr.) ; Saffa (So.) ; Cavender (Jr.) tied for third. Height, 12 feet.
HALF MILE RUN—Won by Shiels, (Jr.) : second. Ducassa (So.) ; third, Francis (Fr.). Time, 2:5.
HALF MILE RUN—Won by Roberts. (Sr.) ; second, Troy (Sr.) ; third, Farrell (Sr.). Time. 2:5.4.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Murphy, (Jr.) ; second. Conrad (Jr.) : third, Krause, (So.). Height, six feet.
60 YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Layden. (So.) : second, Fagan (Sr.) ; third, Link (Sr.). Time, :7.9.
60 YARD DASH—Won by Boyle, (Fr.) : second, Jordan (Fr.) ; third. Mulligan (Fr.). Time, :6.6.
60 .YARD DASH—Won by Gice, (Jr.) : second, Mahoney (Fr.) ; third, Layden (So.). Time, :6.6.
60 YARD DASH—Won by Cavanaugh. (Fr.) ; second, Moore (Fr.) : third, Crotty (So). Time. :6.7.
60 YARD DASH—(Finals)—Won by Gice. (Jr.) ; second, Moore, (Fr.) ; third, Frawley. (So.). Time, :6.5.
MILE RUN—Won by Young, (Sr.) ; second, McKenna, (Fr.) : third. Moran. (Sr.). Time, 4:41.5.
By John D. Carbine
Rumor has it that for four years, MacAllister, the equipment manager at the Notre Dame gymnasium, has taken a cursory glance over his counter at a diminutive young fellow asking for a track suit and handed him a freshman outfit. In 1930 Mac
Captain Joe Young
Heavier than ever: 127 pounds. was right—the diminutive felow was a freshman. In 1931 and 1932 the diminutive fellow had to argue with Mac to convince him that he was not a freshman but a candidate for varsity track. In 1933 Mas hastily realized his mistake, withdrew the proffered freshman suit and smiling apologetically pushed a varsity outfit across the counter. The diminutive fellow was, you see, Joe Young, captain of this year’s track team.
Half-Miler In ’32
If this story be true, Mac may be easily pardoned for his mistakes. Joe Young is the lightest and the smallest man ever to win a Notre Dame monogram. Wearers of the monogram whose avoirdupois totals less than 150 pounds are rather rare but when Joe in his sophomore year won his he weighed but 122 pounds.
Joe first reported for track as a half miler during the 1932 indoorseason. He did not win any meets that year but he was a member of Notre Dame’s championship two mile relay team made up of Eddie King, Clyde Roberts, Alex Wilson, and himself. In winning the two mile event at the Drake Relays in the remarkably fast time of 7:48, this team not only set a new Drake Relay record but also ran the fastest American two mile of the year.
Last year Notre Dame’s crafty track coach, “Nick” Nicholson shifted
Led by Leo Crowe and Joe Voegele, Notre Dame’s eagers defeated the basketeers from the University of Chicago on Jan. 24 by the score of 37 to 28. This victory of the Keog-anites in their first game after their record winning streak had been snapped dispelled all fear that the Irish had been demoralized by the Pittsburgh defeat. Rather they seemed to relax after the strain of record setting had been removed.
During the first half, the scoring of Haarlow and Lang was able to keep the Maroons within striking distance of the Irish. Lang’s two baskets in 45 seconds of the period shrunk the Irish lead to three points and made the score Notre Dame 17, Chicago 14 at half time.
Peters Lead Rally
The Keoganites started a rally at the outset of the second half which netted them 14 points while the Maroons, with Lang and Haarlow bottled up by the Irish defense, were able to register but four points. Marty Peters led this scoring spurt with four baskets. Chicago rallied after this spurt but could not overcome the Irish lead and the gun sounded with the Keoganites holding a 37 to 26 advantage.
The score:
Notre Dame (37)	FG	Fl'	PF	FTA	Pts.
Voegele, f 		... 3	1	3	1	
Jordan f 				... 1	2	1	2	4
Krause c 		.. 1	1	3	2	3
Crowe g 		... 5	1	0	1	11
Ireland g 		... 0	0	0	0	0
Peters -f 			... 5	0	0	1	10
Allen g 	.•.		.. 1	0	0	0	2
Alberts f 		.. 0	0	0	0	0
Totals 		-16	5	7	7	37
Chicago (26)	FG	FT	PF	FTA	Pts.
Haarlow f 		.. 5	0	0	0	10
Pyle f 		.. 1	0	2	0	2
Peterson c 		.. 0	1	2	2	1
Lang g 			.. 4	1	0	1	9
Oppenheim g 		.. 0	0	4	2	0
Weiss g 		.. 1	0	1	0	2
Flinn f 		.. 1	0	0	0	2
Totals 		..12	2	9	5	26
Joe from the half mile to the two mile event. Young was a consistent point winner for the Irish. He won in the Illinois and Butler meets, placed second in the Army, Pittsburgh, Michigan State, and Ohio State meets and finished fourth in the Central Intercollegiate Conference affair.
This year Nick has shifted Joe once again. Tomorrow Joe will start in the mile against Marquette. Joe ought to have a fine season, this year for he is heavier than ever. (Weight: 127 pounds)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
Notre Dame Subdues Detroit Quint, 36-17
Notre Dame, thoroughly outplaying an undefeated University of Detroit team, emerged victorious by a 37-16 score last Saturday night at Detroit. The Irish, with a strong offense, found little trouble in control-ing the ball for the greater part of the game.
Jordan began the scoring early in the game with two baskets and Crowe followed with a long.shot. The Detroit defense was powerless to stop the rapid scoring and succeeded in getting the ball for only a few hurried shots, several of which found the basket. The half ended with Detroit trailing 18-9.	-
In the second half Keogan put in Krause at center and Voegele and Peters at forward. This combination worked to perfection and soon left the Detroit men far behind. Voegele scored four baskets, Krause three, and Peters two. Hayes and Skrzycki led the scoring for the Titans, taking long and swift shots in the lulls between the Irish attacks.
The line-up:
Notre Dame (36)	FG	FT FTA PF Pts.
Voegele rf —		.... 4	2	4	2	10
Jordan If 		... 3	13	0	7
Krause c 	-		... 3	113	7
Ireland rg 		... 0	0	12	0
Crowe 1g 			... 3	110	7
Peters c —		... 2	12	0	5
Allen rg 		... 0	0	0	0	0
Ford rf 		.... 0	0	0	10
Newbold ig 		... 0	0	0	0	0
Totals 		...15	6	12	8	36
Detroit (17)	FG	FT FTA PF Pts-.
Bleach rf —		... 1	112	3
Hayes If 		... 2	0	114
Skrzycki c 			... 3	17	2	7
Pegan rg 			... 0	2	4	3	2
Roisterer 1g .—		... 0	0	13	0
Lauer 1g 		... 0	1111
Mylott rg 		... 0	0	0	0	0
Barry 1g 			... 0	0	0	0	0
Totals 				... 6	5	15	12	17
Dr. E. J. Cain
Dr. H. H. Rogers
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
213 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
I
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
RUNNING IRISH
Tomorrow afternoon the Notre Dame track team will open its 35th season. There are many things that could be written about Notre Dame track teams, but none would be more true than this: they deserve -more support than they have been getting in recent years.
This isn’t a holier-than-thou oration for we have been as guilty as anyone in underestimating the importance and success of the Irish track squads. But we’ve come to see, in the past year or two, that they are . mighty worth-while organizations; and we wish that a lot of others would come to that realization too.
Consider the recent history of track here. Championship teams were a regularity for several years, outstanding performers were the annual occurrence, and — possibly the most important — men who had never before competed were developed into steady point-winners.
Features of that sort should make any sport immensely attractive to spectators. They are the regular things on Nicholson - coached Notre Dame teams, so allow yourselves a little interest in track, and feel safe in expecting a large-scale return in thrills, enjoyment, and Notre Dame victories.
O
POINTS
We’ve seen some remarkable scoring exhibitions since we started watching Notre Dame basketball in the early winter of 1930-31. But we’ve never seen anything quite so general as Tuesday night’s splurge when the Irish measured Minnesota.
Captain Ed Krause’s total of 22 points represented a great accomplishment in itself — and we don’t doubt that it might have been greater had Moose chosen to play the pivot line more. But there is also to be considered the fact that Roscoe dumped in 16 points with his smooth one-handed efforts. And Marty Peters made ten-points to bring the three-man total up to 48. That averages more than one point every minute by one of those three men.
Moose’s ten field goals and two free throws gave him the biggest individual total we’ve ever seen a Notre Dame player score in a single game. Joe Voegele chalked up eight field goals and four free throws for a 20 point total while the Irish were wal
loping Albion 41-20 on December 9, 1932. Krause, himself, scored 19 points against the Army here in his sophomore year.
The highest individual scoring record we’ve seen accomplished in the Notre Dame gym was hung up by Joe Reiff of Northwestern during his sophomore year. The shapshooting Wildcat counted twelve points in the first half and fourteen points in the second for a total of 26 as the Purple trimmed the Keoganites 44 to 29 here on December 12, 1930.
Penway
Stationery
L	Linen
;	Finish
II
I Fine quality linen finish. 24 i sheets and 24 envelopes. Large I assortment.
Bridge Score Pad FREE!
Peau-Doux
(Po-Do)
CARDS
2 Decks in EChf* Twin Case
' Quality linen finished stock, i I . well seasoned for snap. Beau- ; i! tiful modernistic backs, gilt or ' , silver edges. Large assortment.
I	,
Walgreen s
DRUG STORE ?
208 N. MICHIGAN ST1
L. Newman, Mgr.
February 9, 19 31
Fifteen
€
On Down The Line
ti th
4 P i< fi P
c n P
s fi r s b
s I c n
s<
1
<> t
<1
(
( 1
s t
y d
By Nick Connor
A few nights ago MAX BAER was challenged to a fight in a New York night club, but he declined with the statement: “When I fight I get paid for it.” . . . There are many ways of working your way through school, but TED ROSQUIST, Ohio State’s all-around star, has probably the oddest job of all. He earns his board and keep by digging graves . . . RAY HULEN says, “never say die.” Because at thirteen both of his legs were paralyzed, yet he developed himself into an all-Conference guard on the Pacific Coast, and he is now the freshman coach at TEMPLE . . . Mathematics cost ARMY a good football prospect. HARRISON STAFFORD, former U. of Texas star, was forced to leave West Point as a result of his failure to pass the midterm exams. . . PRIMO CARNERA, while in Florida in training for his coming bout •with Tommy Loughran, decided to move into high society. He was the guest of Mrs. William Randolph Hearst at the Roosevelt birthday ball where he assisted in the entertaining. . . For the first time in 28 years HARRY WILLS will not go on his two weeks fast dui-ing which time his weight would drop from 240 pounds to 185.
The leading money maker during 1933 was Mrs. John Ray Whitney’s two-year-old SINGING WOOD. He earned $88,050. . . ’Tis said that Charleston, S. C., has a regularly organized race track that dates back as far as 1792. . . Why is it that every year that the West Point football team has beaten YALE by a big score it bas been defeated by NOTRE
1
(
(
o I
d (
s
1
s
( (
( (
o
1
1
A Better Position
You Can Get It
Hundreds of teachers, students and college graduates will earn two hundred dollars or more this summer. SO CAN YOU. Hundreds of others will secure a better position and a larger salary for next year. YOU CAN BE ONE OF THEM. Complete information and helpful suggestions will be mailed on receipt of a three cent stamp. Good positions are available now in every state. They will soon be filled.
(Teachers address Dept. T. All others Dept. S.)
CONTINENTAL TEACHERS AGENCY, Inc.
1850 Downing St.	Denver, Colo.
Covers the ENTIRE United States
School Officials! You may wire us your vacancies at our expense, if speed is urgent. You will receive complete, free confidential reports by air mail within 36 hours.
Sixteen
DAME? . . ■ Johnny Morriss, famous hurdler, will soon give up school teaching in Louisiana and enter N.Y.U. He will continue on the track under the colors of the N.Y.A.C. . . . IRVING JAFFE claims to be the fastest human. He skated a mile in 2 min., 30 and two-fifths sec. . . . Statistics show that BABE RUTH’S strolls to first base have totaled over 30 miles. . . The oldest jockey in the world celebrated his 83rd birthday on Nov. 17, 1933; he is LEVI BURLINGAME. . . Harvey Olson, former Purdue center, is the editor of the new student publication, “The Riveter.” . . PETE VAUGHAN, coach at Wabash, was a member of the 1908-’09 NOTRE DAME basketball squad which held the record for consecutive victories until this year’s Irish five came along. . . In five home games the Southwestern Lynx’ profits amounted to $27.82. This is depression for you.
BATTLING - BOZO, the gangling boxing clown was recently jailed for using his mother-in-law for a punching bag . . . HOD ELLER, hero of the 1919 World Series, now a radio policeman in Indianapolis, was recently suspended for leaving his squad car to take a snooze in a coal yard office . . . BABE RUTH, who recently signed for $35,000 to play for the Yanks, is getting $78,000 for 39 disc records for radio advice to youngsters . . . JIM LONDOS, heavyweight mat king, claims that JOE STECHER, ex-champ, is tougher now than when he was champion . . . BEN CHAPMAN improves his stance at the plate and his swing by practicing before a full length mirror at home. . . . Japan has sent invitations to 15 track and field stars to visit that country next summer . . . The CHICAGO BEARS, National pro champions, are “Going Hollywood” while
on their western barnstorming trip. M. G. M. recently signed the entire squad to appear in a movie short . . . During the last 12 months, 11 world swimming marks were broken by Japanese tank stars.
The quickest K. O. of the year goes to JACK PETERSON, British heavyweight, who flattened Charley Smith 10 seconds after the opening bell of the scheduled 1 O-round bout. . . . Five members of the N. Y. RANGERS have played more than 400 games together; they are the Cook brothers, Murdock, Ching Johnson and Boucher . . . And Les Patrick, manager and coach of the Rangers, has not missed a playoff or championship ' hockey game in the last 15 years . . . We have often heard of people having money to burn, but BABE RUTH is the first that ever had money to tear. He once tore up $600 in checks while cleaning out his locker . . . FRANKIE PARKER says, “No pro tennis for me.” After he finishes school he intends to go into business and forget all about tennis . . . FOOTBALL still rates as the most dangerous sport, with polo second, and wrestling third . . . ILLINOIS great stadium is all paid for, and the school officials claim that Red Grange’s wiggling hips turned the trick . . . GLENN CUNNINGHAM again defeated Gene Venzke, this time in the Millrose games running the mile in 4 minutes and 11 seconds.
K. C. SCHOLARSHIPS
(Continued from Page 8)
or the Doctor’s degree in the Schools of Philosophy, Letters, Sciences, or Law.
“Knights of Columbus scholars are expected not only to observe the dis. ciplinary regulations established by the University, but also to exert a wholesome influence upon the general student body by the faithful discharge of their academic duties and their conduct as Christian gentlemen.
“If the scholar’s progress in study is not such as might reasonably be expected, or if in other respects he should prove undesirable, the scholarship may be withdrawn.”
For further information in reference to these scholarships all communications should be addressed to “The General Secretary, The Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C.”
A. B. Figures
The number of students registered in Arts and Letters for the second semester corresponds exactly with the number enrolled in the first semester.
The Scholastic
I
I.
INTERHALL BASKETBALL
By Nick Connor
With the opening of the current Interhall basketball league last Sunday it was easy to see that the exams were over for the teams were not playing under the strain and tension that they did in the practice games a few weeks ago. Every one of the games were closely contested even the game between the Off-Campus and Brownson lightweights, in which game the freshmen from the Main building were unable to score a point.
Dominic Vairo led the Badin heavyweights to a 14 to 13 victory over the Morrissey five despite the efforts of Joe Nigro of the sophomore hall. Vairo was the high scorer with ten points while Nigro was next in line for honors with seven. The heavies from St. Ed’s were able to eke out a close game from the hall football champs, Lyons, 15 to 9. St. Ed’s held a 10 to 5 advantage at the half way mark.
From all indications Sorin’s net teams are again going down to defeat as they have done in former years. The first year men from Dillon were too much for the seniors as they dropped them 19 to 15, in a heavyweight game. These above mentioned games were all played under the first division..	-	---------- '
' fn Group II, Brownson won a thrilling game from the downtowners by a quick basket in the closing minutes of the game. The freshmen won from the Off-Campus aggregation 24 to 22 as a result of Stillwagon’s long shot. The other freshmen team from the
Main building, Carroll, won a tight game from Freshman hall 25 to 23 after they had held a 14 to 9 advantage at the half.
In Group I of the lightweight division the St. Edward’s-Lyons game was packed with more thrills than any of the other junior games. “Curly” Reagan provided the necessary spark and basket for victory as St. Ed’s won 14 to 12. Badin had as their
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective
Residence Phone 4-6354 Shoes
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist Foot Ailments
432-34 Associates Bldg. South Bend. Ind.
leader a young man named Graves, who piloted their team to a 19 to 16 win over the Morrissey lights. And the little old men from Sorin were handed their first defeat by the Dillon freshies 11 to 9.
In the second division the Off-Cam p u s lights completely whitewashed the little fellows from Brownson 14 to 0. But the Brownson’s fel
"WHEN A FELLER
NEED5 A FRIEND"
There’s genial sunshine and comfort in BRIGGS Pipe Mixture . . . the delightful new tobacco that is winning smokers everywhere. Mellowed in the wood for years, until it’s biteless, mild, and rare in flavor! Try a tin of BRIGGS and let it talk in your pipe instead of in print.
low house mates took a one sided game from Freshman 22 to 13. And Howard’s juniors won a 14 to 7 game from the Walsh lightweights.
The complete schedule for games to be played on Sunday, Feb. 11 are as follows:
Group 1—8:30, Morrissey vs. Dillon; 9:30, Sorin vs. St. Edward’s; 10:30, Lyons vs. Corby; Badin—bye.
Group 2 — 1:30, Brownson vs. Freshman; 2:30, Carroll vs. Alumni; 3:30, Howard vs. Off-Campus; Walsh —bye.
February 9, 19 3 4
Seventeen.
GOOD TASTE—YOU CAN’T MISS IT
the top leaves—they’re under-developed-they are harshl
The Cream of the Crop 'The tendercst, mildest, smoothest tobacco"
NOT the bottom leaves—they 're inferior in qualify—coarse and always sandyl
American Tobacco Company
Luckies’ finer smoother taste comes
from the finestTurkish and domestic

Copyright, I9M4. Dm
leaves for they are the mildest, most
tender leaves. And every Lucky is
Direct from the Metropolitan Opera House
Saturday at 1:5 5 P.M., Eastern Standard! line over Red and Blue Networks of NBC, LUCKYSTRIKE will broadcast the Metropolitan Opera Company of New York in the world PR1 M1ERE of the new zkinerican opera “MERRY MOUNT,
Always the Finest Tobacco
tobaccos. We use only the center
so round, so firm, so fully packed.
and only the Center Leaves


BREAKFAST for 8 o'clock martyrs
Faculty Members Will
Speak at Niles K. C. Meet
Two members of the faculty will participate in the banquet following exemplification of the first three degrees of the Knights of Columbus in Niles, Sunday evening. Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., chaplain of Notre Dame Council, will deliver the principal address, while Professor Ray Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance department and a trustee of the local council, will preside as toastmaster. The Grand Knight of Niles Council is Anthony S. Cook, who received his degree at Notre Dame in 1932.
Here’s an alarm-clock for appetites that like to sleep late in the morning. Crisp, delicious Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, rich in energy.
Try them tomorrow morning with milk or cream. Add fruits or honey, and you’ll actually enjoy getting up for breakfast.
Kellogg’s are a real treat at night, too — after a date, or a cramming session. They make an ideal “night-cap.” So light and easy to digest. Kellogg’s Corn Flakes encourage sound, restful sleep.
Always oven-fresh and crisp. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s All-Bran, PEP, Rice Krispies, and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—real coffee— 97% caffeine free.
CORN FLAKES
O • OVEN-FRESH • fl g RAVOWKFECT g
g	g
INTERHALL STANDINGS Heavyweights
Group I.	W	L	T	Pct.
St. Edwards		 1	0	0	1.000
Badin 			 1	0	0	1.000
Dillon 			 1	0	0	1.000
Lyons 			 0	1	0	.000
Morrissey ...		  0	1	0	.000
Sorin 			 0	1	0	.000
Corby 			 0	0	0	.000
Group II	w	L	T	Pct.
Brownson 			1	0	0	1.000
Carroll 				1	0	0	1.000
Off Campus .		 0	1	0	■ .000
Freshman 			 0	1	0	.000
Howard 			 0	0	0	.000
Walsh 			  0	0	0	.000
Alumni 			 0	0	0	.000
	Lightweights			
Group I	W	L	T	Pct.
St. Edward’s		 1	0	0	1.000
Badin 					 1	0	0	1.000
Dillon 					 1	0	0	1.000
Lyons 						 0	1	0	.000
Morrissey 			 0	1	0	.000
Sorin 			 0	1	0	.000
Corby 				 0	0	0	.000
Group II	w	L	T	Pct.
Howard 				1	0	0	1.000
Off Campus		1	0	0	1.000
Carroll 				1	0	0	1.000
Walsh 			 0	1	0	.000
Brownson 				 0	1	0	.000
Freshman 			b	1	0	.000
Alumni 			 0	0	0	.000
FOR FLAVOR
Burke’s Eye Service
Assures you properly FITTED GLASSES EYES EXAMINED
•
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY Optometrists & Manufacturing Opticians
228 S. Michigan St. Established 1900
Twen ty
The Scholastic
Phone:2®** <-5661 Residence 8-4041
X-RAY
DR. E. S. LUCAS DENTIST
702 J. M. 8. Building South Bend Opposite Oliver Hotel Indian*
Established 30 Years l^montrees OPTOMETRISTS
222 Yz South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
•
Patient* all over the world.
Now If Your Eyes
Require Glasses
they will be properly prescribed, correct in styling to be inconspicuous — yet enriching your personal appearance. Always painstaking craftsmanship — regardless of the amount you prefer to expend, and unvarying quality of materials so you may find Better Vision with Greater Comfort.
•	REASONABLE
•	DEPENDABLE
•	PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES
DUPLICATED IN OUR
OWN LABORATORY.
In five places at once
—by telephone
Conference telephone service—a new telephone convenience—enables a number of people far apart to talk together as freely as though gathered around a table.
This fosters quicker interchange of ideas in business — saves time and money — expedites decisions. For example: an executive wishes to discuss plans with his district managers. His telephone is connected simultaneously with each of theirs—all can talk, all hear everything that is said!
Through constantly developing new uses, Bell System service grows more and more valuable.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
WHY NOT SAY ••HELLO" TO MOTHER AND DAD?
-RATES ARE LOWEST AFTER 8:30 P. M.
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY -LEMMONIER LIBRARY-NOTRE DAME, LOCAL 769340
You buy Chesterfield cigarettes every day. You may buy them one place today and another place tomorrow —or you may buy them the same place every day.
It is estimated that there are this day769,340 places in this country where Chesterfields are on sale all the time.
To make Chesterfield Cigarettes we get the , best tobacco and the best materials that money can buy.
We make them just as good as cigarettes can be made.
We pack them and wrap them so that they reach you just as if you came by the factory door.
You can buy Chesterfields in 769,340 places in the United States and in 80 foreign countries.
"A package of Chesterfields please”
Chesterfield
© 1954, Liggett & Myeks Tobacco Co. •
the cigarette that’s MILDER
the cigarette that tastes better