Che
Dotrc Dame Scholastic . • -
•^iSCe-QVASI-SSmPeR- V1CTVRVS- VIV£ -QVASI- CRAS-MORlTVRVir
Vol. XLIX. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, November 27, 1915. No. 12.
At Benediction.
j HE tapers burn with starry grace Before the Host’s sweet, hidden Face.
But when the sacred rite is done
Those stars are darkened one by one, And cloud-like vapor curled and white -Goes up toward heaven as in flights In that far city where the days And nights are rich with joyous praise, I wonder do those lights now meet In silvery'radiance ’neath Christ’s feet, And are they mingled very high A starry throng in heaven’s sky?
.	S. S.
----------;-------------
An American Catholic University.*
BY WILFRID WARD.
LARGE buildings surmounted by a gilded dome, arrests the attention of the visitor to the very ordinary commercial city of South Bend,j in
the State of Indiana. It stands on high ground just outside the town, and one is told in answer to one’s enquiry “That is the University of Notre Dame.”
The prominence of the dome, which can be seen for miles around, the statue of the Madonna which becomes clearly visible as you approach nearer, and. the name of the district, which is the same as the name of the University, gives one a curious feeling that the whole region has been , placed by deyout Catholics under • the protection of the Blessed Virgin. At first I thought that the great French priest, Pere Sorin, who founded this prosperous home of learning in 1842, had dedicated his work to Our Lady as a spontaneous act. of devotion. But I soon learnt' that the connection of the spot, both with the name of Mary and with the devoted French, clergy, is far older and far
more romantic. Pere Sorin did not impose on modern commercial America a name associated with Catholic devotion; he found the name as a relic of an earlier European settlement than the English.
The early French missionaries, Marquette, LaSalle and Allouez all preached to the Indians in this district. The neighboring river already bore the name of St. Joseph 200 years ago. “St. Mary of the Lakes,” was the designation given by these early Apostles of America to the part of the country in which the University now stands—adjoining the two Lakes—of St. Mary and St. Joseph. It was the centre of a Christian wilderness extending over a large part of Indiana and S. Michigan. A thriving communitv of Christian Indians had been formed about 16S0 by Pere Allouez, and continued by Pere Chardon, “a man wonderful in the gift of tongues,” and by others down to 1759, when a party of English soldiers defeated the French at Fort St. Joseph, and the missionaries were carried to Quebec among the prisoners.
Then ensued a sad time of bereavement for the Christian Indians. No priest visited them for seventy years. But the tradition of the “black robe”—as they called the Jesuit missioner—was handed on from generation to generat'on. And the practice of Christian prayer continued among the Pottawatomies— the principal Indian tribe of the South Bend neighborhood. In 1830 the Indians learnt of the Michigan labors of Father Gabriel Richard in Michigan, and sent a deputation under their chief, Pokagon, to wait on him at Detroit and plead for a new Mission of Christian priests for Indiana. Pokagon’s speech on the occasion, as given by Judge Howard in his history of Notre Dame University, is simple and touching:	'	Al.
* For permission to reprint this article we are indebted to B. Herder, 17 S. Broadway, St Louis, Mo., the American agents for the Dublin Review. ,
f So named from the south bend of the river-St-Joseph
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
178
My Father, I come again to implore you to send us a Black Robe to instruct us in the Word of God. If you have no care for us old men, at least have pity on our poor children, who are growing up as we have lived, in ignorance and vice. . . We still preserve the manner of prayer as taught to our ancestors by the Black Robe who formerly resided at St. Joseph. Morning and evening with my wife and children, we pray together before the crucifix. Sunday we pray together oftener. On Fridays we fast until evening,. men, women and children, according to the traditions handed down by our fathers and mothers, for we ourselves have never seen a Black Robe at St. Joseph. Listen to the prayers which he taught to them and see if I have not learned them correctly.	•
And thereupon the chief fell on his knees, made the sign of the Cross and recited in his own language the Lord’s Prayer, the Hail Mary, the Apostle’s Creed and the Ten Commandments.
The result was that three priests were sent in succession to the district of St. Alary of the Lakes. Pere Stephen Theodore Badin was the first. Born at Orleans in 1768, he was already sixty-two years old. He had been ordained at Baltimore by Archbishop Carroll in 1793— the first ordination in the United States— and had passed ’ a life of great missionary activity. Pere Badin forthwith purchased the section of land containing the two lakes—named after St. Alary and St. Joseph; and his work was taken’up in 1832 by Pere de Seille, a Belgian, and afterwards by Pere Benjamin Petit—a young lawyer of Rennes, a man of singularly heroic and beautiful character who abandoned the legal profession and became a priest at twenty-four. His devotion to the Indians— as shown in his published letters—was almost a romance. In the very midst of his work for them, when his personal ascendancy was giving the native tribes a Christian zeal which gladdened his heart, the Government 'gave the order that . the Pottawatomies should be removed to the far west. The removal was carried out with roughness, occasionally with barbarity—many were driven at the point of the bayonet. Eventually it was found that Pere Petit’s influence over them was so great and so helpful in inducing the Indians to consent without further opposition to their cha.nge of abode that he was invited by the military authorities to join the emigrants, and the remainder of the journey became a kind of Christian pilgrimage. It was full of hardships. Alany died and were buried on the way to the appointed settlement sixty miles beyond
tlie^western line of Alissouri, where Pere Petit finally consigned his charge to the Jesuit Father Hoeken, who was to attend to their spiritual needs in their new home. But the hardships and fatigue of the journey and the grief of separation had been too much for the devoted and affectionate Frenchman, who died of fever at St. Louis on his way back to St. Alary of the Lakes.
To this spot—hallowed by the memories of so many holy Frenchmen in the immediate and remoter past—came in 1842 another French priest, the founder of the University of Notre Dame du Lac, Pere Sorin. His statue faces the visitor as he drives up to the University—a venerable figure with a strong face and a long beard. His memory is still green, for he lived to be an old man and died in 1S93. He, too, like the missionaries Allouez, Chardon, Badin and Petit, represented a movement of apostolic zeal among the French clergy, for he was one of the Priests of Holy Cross— a society formed and moulded by Pere Basil Aloreau, of the diocese of Alans, a contemporary and intimate college friend of the famous Jesuit, Pere de Ravignan.*
The picture of Pere Aloreau, which I have seen, suggests the saint whom his biographer has described. Asceticism is stamped on the features, zeal burns in the eyes. He had always been eager for foreign missionary work, and when Bishop de la Hailandiere, of the American diocese of Vincennes, visited France in 1839 and appealed for missionaries to Help him among the Indians he readily responded to the appeal and sent a band of seven priests. Pere Edouard Sorin was among them. Pere Sorin had already dreamed of America as a field for work, having listened in his youth to the appeals for help made in the seminaries of France by Bishop Brute—an earlier Bishop of Vincennes. After a solemn ceremony at the mother house at Alans on the feast of our Lady of Snows, August 5, 1841,. he and his friends set out for Havre, whence they sailed as steerage passengers for New York.	.
The present President of the University of Notre Dame, Dr. Cavanaugh, has told the story of his great predecessor’s journey briefly
* The society was formed by the fusion of the already existing Brothers of St. Joseph with the Auxiliary Priests of the diocese of Alans—a community somewhat resembling the Oblates of St. Charles and initiated, by Father Aloreau himself.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
and simply in his little history of the Fathers of Holy Cross. On arriving at New York, Pere Sorin kissed the earth in token of his devotion to the land of his adoption and the scene of his future mission. His first Mass in the new Cathedral was said on September 14, the feast of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross. After three days’ rest at New York they began their 1,000 miles’ journey to Vincennes—and three weeks saw them in their new home.
The foundation of a college was a scheme from the first near to Pere Sorin’s heart. There was no opening for this near Vincennes, and after a year spent in mission work and in learning English he very gladly accepted the Bishop’s offer of the tract of land near South Bend, already known as St. Mary of the Lakes, as the site of his future college.
A remnant of the Indians still dwelt in the neighborhood. They were absent on a hunting expedition when he arrived, but on their return they greeted the newcomers with joy. And Pere Sorin succeeded in some sort to the missionary work of Badin, de Seille and Petit, whose memories were held sacred among the natives.	"
The carlystoryof theUniversity is a testimony to the unflagging determination of Pere Sorin and his colleagues. They began with less than £300, in addition to the land—a sum which must have made the enterprise seem simply quixotic to onlookers “of little faith.” The sequel was full of vicissitude but too long for these pages. It is a story of the triumph of indomitable faith and courage over constantly recurring obstacles which seemed often to make the accomplishment of their great design quite hopeless.
“On several occasions,” we are told by Professor Edwaids, who is familiar with the story of these days, “Notre Dame was on the point of being sold for debt. One day the farm horses were takeii out of the stables and sold by a creditor. Another time there was not a morsel of food in the house. The unexpected arrival of a gift of money from a stranger prevented the students from going to bed supperless.” The intimate record of those years is a catalogue of never-ceasing anxieties and liabilities to be met. In spite of all obstacles, the University was founded and prospered. But Pere Sorin’s faith and courage were put to one more, supreme trial: for a great fire
179
destroyed nearly the whole University in 1879.
The vital force which finally triumphed was the unconquerable spirit of the saints. And no pages of President Cavanaugh’s book struck the present writer more as giving the secret of the strength and perseverance of the founders than the account of the formation of the Seminary and of the influence of the saintly Pere Granger, who was appointed its Father Superior in 1852.	.
With the opening of St. Aloysius’ Seminary and the appointment of Father Granger as Superior in 1852 a new era commenced. The Seminarians were entirely separated from the rest of the College fraternity, and followed strictly the rule of life drawn up for them. Their course of studies was scrupulously adhered to. A delightful glimpse of the Seminarians of that day, as they appeared to the eyes of a boy who was destined to become a great figure in the Church in this country; is afforded by a brief memorandum drawn up for me by the Rev. Walter Elliott, C. S. P. Father Elliott, who entered Notre Dame as a student in 1S55. writes:
“The Novitiate buildings (St. Aloysius’ Seminary) and locality formed the most conspicuous feature of the great natural beauty of Notre Dame, placed as they were on an eminence between the lakes. It was to us a sort of Mount Thabor. There the elect children of God, the novices, prayed, watched, studied, and from thence came forth apostles of education and religion. We had all sorts of notions concerning the life led and the course of study there, and sometimes more than a fabulous idea of the spiritual regime. I have had since then a long experience of priestly and community life, and I have no recollection of men whose appearance and conversation were more edifying than these scholastics and novices. Associated with their religious demeanor was a certain air of perfect manliness, candour and simplicity of character. Fathers Sorin and Granger, in fashioning members of Holy Cross, did not spoil Americans. The* traditions they established in this respect has, it is plain, been perfectly maintained by their successors. Nor were the men in the Novitiate ever infected by any injurious tincture of ‘liberalism’ or unreasonable and unreligious-offensiveness of manner.”
The holy man whose spirit communicated itself to the Seminary so completely—Pere Granger—is graphically described by Dr. Cavanaugh :	'
The work that Father Granger did, and especially the extraordinary holiness of the man himself, made an indelible impression on all who came under his influence, and were the inspiration of many a good and useful life. My own recollections of Father Granger go back no farther than 1S86, when he had already begun to show the feebleness of old age, yet I can never forget the impression of utter unworldliness. —other worldliness it was— that surrounded him like an atmosphere. He had a fine sense of humor, was tender-hearted and companionable, and most human in all the traits of character;. yet it is literally true
i8o
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
that it seemed impossible to interest him in anything that was not directly connected with religion. It is not easy to describe the veneration in which he was held by the members of his community. As for the outer world,- his retiring nature made it almost impossible for anyone who had not spiritual relationship with him to know him at all. He will be best remembered as the favorite confessor of the students in the early days. As such he exercised an influence as permanent as it was profound; I have known old students of Notre Dame—prosperous business men of middle age or better—to travel two hundred miles merely to go to confession to Father Granger. Father Elliott, who as a boy and man knew him intimately, thus speaks of the power he exercised in the confessional:
“As I remember Father Granger I recall the ideal confessor for boys. His openness of character attracted us irresistibly, whereas his sanctity placed us under the spell of divine grace. No matter what tricks we had played or sins we had committed, no matter how much we feared God’s vengeance, we were never afraid of going to confession to Father Granger. The fundamental principles of religion flowed out from him in resistless influence—the fleeting character of- this life and its joys and ambitions, the worth of an immortal soul, the supremacy of Christ in the world, the attractions of a good life and the beauty of the maxims of the Gospel. Such sentiments as these sprang into the mind at the sight of Father Granger after we had come to know him in confession.” Equally tender and enduring was the impression made on the mind of another youth who was later on to become* a distinguished Catholic layman and a Laetare Medallist. The Hon. Timothy E- Howard, who came to Notre Dame as a student in 1S59, reflects the goodness of his own heart and expresses the feelings of hundreds of other “old” boys in these words: “That location (the Seminary, or ‘Novitiate,’ as it was then called) seemed the most sacred spot on earth to me, and was presided over by one of the most saintly men I ever knew, Father Granger. I think—without disparagement to any — that he did more than all others to make Notre Dame a holy place to every youth. The most blessed experience I have is membership in the Archconfraternity, when we used to go to the ‘Novitiate’ at five o’clock, winter and summer, and find Father Granger and the seminarians in adoration before daybreak in that most heavenly chapel that I shall ever know.”
Pere Granger encouraged thet practice of Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament, and the President’s personal memories as to the effect of this devotion on the young men, laymen as well as ecclesiastics, both at the time and in later life, are very interesting reading.
Not only the young men who looked forward to ' the priesthood as the goal of their ambitions, but the' collegians, whatever their vocation, were permitted to spend an hour of one night each month before the Blessed Sacrament. The silence of the time, the extraordinary fervour inspired by the peace, the quiet, and the loneliness, the feeling that for one blessed hour one'was face to face with God while all the rest of
the world slumbered, produced a never-to-be-forgotten effect on all who came under its spell. Again and again I have heard Archbishop Riordan, tears in his eyes and in his voice, speak of the nocturnal adoration, of the holiness with which it clothed the seminary in the eyes of the collegians, and of the almost sacramental influence exercised by the spirituality of Father Granger. “Under God I owe my priestly vocation to him,” the Archbishop once said in an address to the seminarians, and Father Elliott seems to be conscious of a similar indebtedness, for he writes: “The nearest contact I had with the ‘Novitiate’ was in the visits of the Nocturnal Adoration Society, of which I was, happily, a member. Once a month after supper we journeyed to St. Aloysius’ House. There we made our confession and watched by turns through the night before the Blessed Sacrament, placed in exposition, and received Holy Communion in the morning. When I entered the house I felt as though I had passed within the veil of the Holy of Holies, the place was so silent and the silence was so religious. The hour of absolute recollection somewhere around midnight or just before dawn was a time of the most powerful divine influence. Forty-nine years have passed since those visits, and I still enjoy their spiritual fruits. It seems to me that every essential virtue of religion struck the deepest roots in my soul during those hours of devout adoration.” This beautiful devotion, the memory of which is so gratefully treasured by the ancients, is still maintained in Holy Cross Seminary. Once a month the Blessed Sacrament is exposed from night prayer until after Mass the next morning, and during the deep silences of the night, the seminarians rise in groups to watch by turns before the Blessed Sacrament, to adore, to meditate, to petition. God grant that the fruits of those lone and loving vigils may be as precious and abiding as in the days that are sped! .	•
Pere Sorin lived to see the University rebuilt after the fire of 1879, and brought almost to its present extensive development. In his latter years he became General of his Order in America, the Presidency of the University passing to other hands. But he continued to make it his headquarters. He always cultivated the most friendly relations with his non-Catholic neighbors, and when he died in his eightieth year in 1893 . he was universally mourned. It was; indeed, a sad year for Notre Dame, for it saw also, the death of Pere Granger and of the brilliant young Irish President, Father Walsh. . The University now counts over 1,000 students. It is by far the largest Catholic University in the United States. Its success is ; acknowledged: Many non-Catholics are educated there. . Old students love to return to their . a/m a mater: It offers its alumni as complete a course of University education as any institution in the country. It has trained many Americans who> have been greatly dis
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
tinguished in after life. Yet as one reads the record of its foundation one cannot but feel that the force which has created an organism which has proved so effective for this world has been the other-worldliness which gave those saintly French priests courage to attempt the impossible and to accomplish it. And the triumph of Catholic devotion in the creation of this practical American institution seems to the visitor to be symbolized in the great golden dome which arrests the traveller’s eye surmounted by the statue of the Madonna. The large statue of Pere Sorin preserves for posterity his remarkable features, which speak alike of force of will and of piety, of French heroism and of American practicalness. “Force is from the heights.” The faith which inspired Allouez and, later on, de Seille and Petit in their missionary work on this spot among the . Indians also inspired Pere Sorin and Pere Granger, the founders of the University. And in that interesting land in which so many races have blended and the citizens of so many countries have done good work for their adopted home, these fruits of the zeal of the Church of France—unquenched by the horrors of the Revolution—are fascinating to look on. True American energy—the heritage of the soil— has been present from the first. And the romance of French piety has never deserted the Americans who continue the work of Pere . Sorin and Pere Granger. Indeed, Pere Sorin in his long life in his adopted country caught much of the spirit of practical enterprise which has made it what it is. Pius IX loved to hear from his lips when he visited Rome his story of indomitable and successful zeal.
So completely American has the University become that no one dreams of the French accent in speaking of Notre Dame or the founders of the University. Pere Sorin has become Father Sorin; Pere Granger, Father Granger, each surname pronounced as though it were English. Even the words Notre Dame are pronounced as though they are English words. The legacy of French devotedness and French spirituality has been faithfully kept and the memory of the holy French priests is religiously preserved. But the University is thoroughly American. Notre Dame du Lac has a lineage which connects it with the Church of the royal St. Louis. It has a . practicalness and hopefulness in its response to present needs which blend it with the inspiring story
181
of that modern Catholic revival in America which has been so important a feature of recent ecclesiastical history.	?;•
In-this deeply interesting home of education the present writer spent two happy weeks :in the present year. He learnt much, received great kindness and made many friends—among them the exceedingly able and zealous President, Dr. Cavanaugh, and Father Hudson,the venerable editor of the Ave Maria, a Catholic journal which counts some 30,000 readers. These words are inspired by the atmosphere in which he then lived as well as by the records - of the past which he was impelled to read-in order to understand the origin of this impressive blend of French and American influences:.
He hopes on a future occasion to publish some account of the actual working of an institution of which the origin has in itsoAnuch of religious romance.
Answered.	-G
Said I to the Crow:
“ Oh, what do you know	Z .
Of Life and it’s mysteries?	Vs.-.
And why acquire	i	,
Such mournful attire?	''I
Enlighten me, if you please.’-*	< v
The Black Knight winked -G*G And cocked his head,
Then simply: “ Cause,” GG-, At length he said. ~ G .
I cried to Red Breast:	'TG
“Your life is a jest,	C A 4
.	Your troubles are all too few!” "GG
From the hour of birth	.	_ GjI-
Your tune is mirth,	? GG’:
Now what is Life’s cost to you?” --GG He looked the part	? GG
Of thinking deep, - GGG Then Robin turned	G-G
And answered: “Cheap!”GG
Wailed I to the bee:
“Surely you will help me GGG'G In my quest for elusive Truth 1AG1	-
How can I forget '	' ”r :	•
All worry and fret .	'
And feel the pure gladness of Youth?”
He flew so quick	;
It made me dizzy,	-
And as he passed .
He hummed “Keep bizeee!”
•	D. Edmondson -
182	THE NOTRE D
How Things Turn Out.
BY JAMES A. O’DONNELL.
Jane Russell was a girl of nineteen years, and although she was not what could be called pretty, nevertheless she was not decidedly ugly. When she smiled in her half melancholy way, one would say she was rather attractive. But for some reason unknown to Jane or unexplained by anyone else, she was far from being a social success. She had no close friends among the girls and scarcely any friends at all among the boys. Although no one ever spoke ill of her, she did not have any chum nor was she ever invited out by any of her friends. Occasionally she was seen with a group of girls, but most of the time she was by herself,. and even when with the girls she never expressed herself except when asked a question. Many people passed comments on this strange girl, but no one could explain why she was “not one of the rest.’’.. Some said she was happier by herself, but to see her sitting alone on the porch in the evening, or idly reading, would surely lead one to believe that she was anything but happy. Others thought that her parents were too strict with her, but in reality they tried in every way to make her happy. But this simple girl did not complain of her lonesomeness and when in company with anyone she acted so agreeable and seemed to try so hard to make friends that the young people pitied her more than they censured her. However, they would never invite her to any of tlieir. parties or dances because she was such a “peculiar person” in their minds. Indeed she led the life of a hermit.
But suddenly there came a change in her weary life, so complete a change that one would have scarcely believed it possible. All her lonesomeness and sorrow were changed to joy. She had now gained the constant companionship of the boys and girls with whom she had so long wished to be numbered. No longer did she have to sit on the porch during the evenings of the dances and parties, for now she f was'“one of them.” This change was made possible by the coming of. a young man to the town who paid - marked attention to Jane Russell. - The more popular girls could not explain, or understand why so plain a girl as she should fall in love with so popular a young
ME SCHOLASTIC -
man. The young man was no other than Bill Philipps, better known to college football followers as “Big Bill Philipps” who had been chosen All-American fullback in ’09, To, ’u,	.
and known from coast to coast for his long kicks and his phenomenal line plunging. He < was a handsome, big, broad-shouldered fellow with dark hair and a tanned skin that made his teeth show unusually bright when he laughed. He dressed in the extreme English fashion that showed his graceful figure to the best advantage. His general appearance -reminded one of a clothing advertisement in a magazine and one would have sworn his face was the one copied by the Arrow Collar Ad. The coming of such a fellow was quite an event in this small town, and of course he was entertained royally by everyone, and each “Village < Queen” looked her prettiest when he was in the same crowd with her; but he went with them all and treated each the same until he met Jane.	'
They met quite by accident. Jane and Flossy Moore, a neighbor girl, were standing talking on a street corner waiting for a car
' home, when Bill happened along and came up to greet Flossy, who introduced him to Jane. As soon as he heard the name his smile broadened. He invited them into a confectionary store and later accompanied both of them home. They first came to Flossy’s house, but Jane, contrary to former times, did not go the rest of the wav to her home alone.
The handsome fellow went with her and he _ looked grander to Jane as she looked up into his smiling face while they walked along conversing lightly, but Jane’s great surprise came when he asked her if he might call some night. v‘ She was so astounded and so happy she could hardly talk. Finally she managed to control her tongue and made a date that very night. When he left smiling she felt happier than she had ever felt before, and the gloom around her was rent like the veils of the temples; she seemed ~ to be floating in paradise when she rushed up the front steps ’ and, into the house to greet her parents with the news that Bill Philipps was coming to. call that night. ’	.
Thus it was started and the affection between the two seemed to grow from day to day an(d she became the happiest girl in town. Soon she discarded-her .plain' clothes for the most -stylish ones, and had her hair fixed in the latest fashion,J thus ’ becoming one of the prettiest -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
girls in town. Then it was that she became one of the most popular of the social set, and every -Ione was anxious to be invited by her whenever she entertained.
Bill Philipps sat in his room writing a telc-A gram. He paused and wondered how it could be possible for a detective like Pinkerton to suspect such a girl as Jane Russell of committing a murder, but why was he being paid a big salary and all expenses if the great Pinkerton did . not have some clue. He looked worried i	and finally wrote:
Impossible Russell girl could have done it.
Nothing doing yet.	Philipps.
i	He then received the following message:
Take her to place often. You have one week more.	Pinkerton.
’	Pie was getting sick of this sort of thing as
he thought it cowardly to go around putting up a false front. Lately it was getting especially -	hard, for he had fallen in love with the one he
■	was “shadowing.” He feared his career as a
detective would be cut short, but he cared little,-for he was a capable and game man, prepared to meet difficulties, especially if he won the ~r ■ heart of Jane, who, he was sure, was innocent.
But he knew he must follow instructions in order to hold his position, so he decided to . test Jane no matter how distasteful it was to him.
The next three or four nights he and Jane walked many times over the place where the crime had been committed, and finally she suggested that they walk another way, saying ' she had seen something dreadful happen there.
. His heart sank as she went on to say that she had seen Clem Davis, a prominent man, kill another man there, but warned Bill not to tell.
. Nothing more was said about it that night, •	but the next morning, Bill seized Davis and
'	through his knowledge of the facts and a big
bluff, wrung a confession from him that won great praise from the town and a big raise in . salary from Pinkerton.
That afternoon after Jane had shyly answered “Yes” to his first question, she said, “I hope ' I did not cause this man’s arrest, for I don’t want to be mixed up in this.”	.
“Never fear,” Bill said, “your name will never be mentioned in this case; you know I
. was sent here by Pinkerton to gather evidence, but I didn’t dare tell anyone my mission here—” J but Bill didn’t say on whom the evidence was H to have been gathered.	.
183
Wizard.	'
Night slow uprose, a wizard shadow-capped, And spread his dark hands ’cross the sky afar,.
Then with his magic breath, the whirring wind, . Blew forth the silver bubbles, star on star. ‘ '	 0. P.
The Duchess of Malfi—A Criticism.'
BY RAY M. HUMPHREYS.
According to competent critics, Webster’s “Duchess of Malfi” constitutes one of the finest examples of the “Blood Tragedy” in the English language, if not in the human tongue. It is a dramatic, highly colored romance of crime and intrigue, detailing in all its Jforrible vividness the sufferings of a weak- woman, and the 'cruelty of a violent oppressor,—or. rather a brace of them,—Duke Ferdinand', the arch-criminal, the Cardinal, his trusty - compatriot in crime, and Bosola, their savagestool and the efficient instrument of wholesale slaughter. The play also exhibits in masterly hues the unscrupulous deeds of a wronged man bent upon a subtle revenge,—Bosola agajn; an evil woman, ruined by her. own transgressions,—the notorious Julia, and finally /the righteous man against whom all these potent forces of il1 are concentrated,—Antonio. Serving as a sort of subsidiary action is a series- of violent deaths, ghastly murders, and reckless suicides — without which no self-respecting “Blood Drama” would be-quite complete. ?
It is a maxim of literature that the work of any period reflects rather minutely the character and customs of the times. Due to this fact no doubt, the “Duchess of Malfi” was tremendously welcomed arjd attained a wonderful and universal popularity on- its premier presentation. Such a type of recital ./was thoroughly enjoyed in the rougher days.Lof past generations. The wildly excited masses who then howled with uniform delight every; time the hero disemboweled the villain, werg; but the prototypes and the ancestors of ptfr-modern gallery gods, who laugh. uproariously every time a character comes in violent contact: with the stage floor. They demand action -at the cost of elegance. A hard blow of a sledge hammer delivered on the bald pate of the comedian will bring down the house quicker than any emotional spasm on the part of the
iS4	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
prima donna. Cuffs, kicks, slaps, jolts, jars, are all and each capable of evoking a storm of mirth. But the genuine drawing card is the villain,—and ' always has been the villain. Both to-day and yesterday, in the modern melodrama and in the ancient “ Blood Tragedy,” that character is the one around whom all the interest sways and against whom every nonsleeping member of the audience feels himself personally pitted. Like the , rural ite,—on-his first visit to a theatre—who shouted to the hero to kill the villain or he would, the spectators are always “pulling” for the deep-dyed scoundrel to get his, and get it heavy. Shakespeare himself glorified the villain by a rather limited use of him in most of his tragedies, but Webster, an intense student of human nature, advanced a step farther, and based his villains upon the gory models of Kyd—who was a past master in the art of villain creation—and the result was that Webster’s villains were the acme of' perfection, if such a phrase can be used. As the villain and the accompanying bloodshed form the essence of the “ Blood Tragedy, ” it necessarily follows that Webster—mastering the villain and systemizing the blood spilling— was eminently successful in the writing of this form of tragedy.
The theme of the “Duchess of Malfi” is found in Italian history, and is, properly speaking, ■ merely an entangled web of lust, mutual suspicion, hate, and gore. There is nothing extraordinary in any of Webster’s plots, in fact they are all involved and filled in with slender splashes of art; they lack breadth and possess small unity, showing an utter want of the qualities which come from proper concentration on a master motive. The “Duchess of Malfi” has aptly been termed a murky background illumined with a very few brilliant episodes. Every part of the play seems to have been written with the same amount of effort, so that a general blur is the usual result of a first reading. The play once grasped, however, is capable and worthy of study. A brief summary of the action might be written as follows: Antonio, steward of the castle, is beloved by the . Duchess, although' her brothers constitute themselves a committee to select her husband and forbid'her the right of choice. Eventually, the Duchess gives birth to a child, and later to two more, who are quite reasonably supposed to be bastards. Bosola, an under-steward; hastily informsJthej brothers, Ferdinand and
the Cardinal, and they commission him to unearth the guilty lover. Bosola is led to suspect Antonio, and soon obtains convincing proof, which he duly communicates to his masters, who plan instant revenge. Antonio, warned, flees with his elder son. The Duchess is subjected to various cruelties and is finally imprisoned with madmen. Shortly after, Bosola and his hired assassins, at the instigation of the brothers, strangle her and her two younger children. Then Bosola seeks his promised reward and obtains only a pardon from Ferdinand as his remuneration. He swears revenge, goes to Rome, and sees the Cardinal, the other knave, who employs him to seek out and kill Antonio. Meanwhile Julia, the Cardinal’s paramour, falls desperately in love with Bosola. He persuades her to learn the Cardinal’s secret. The Cardinal - promises to reveal all to her if she will kiss a certain Bible in the apartment. She does so willingly, and immediately expires. The crafty Cardinal had poisoned the book.
• Then the man of all crimes, Bosola,* is hired to remove the body, and to this end is given a key. The servants are instructed to remain aloof under all circumstances. Night falls and Bosola returns, determined to slay the Cardinal. In his excitement and in the dark he accidentally murders Antonio, who is also prowling about the premises. Then Bosola attacks the Cardinal, and in the general melee following he succeeds in dispatching Ferdinand, who has come to Rome unexpectedly. But Bosola is wounded, as is the prelate, and they both give up the ghost at about ±he same moment. The servants rush in and with them Delico, Antonio’s friend, who dramatically announces to the hushed and perspiring audience that he will himself provide for the orphaned lad, Antonio’s eldest son. Hence all ends happily amid the raucous clapping of the spectators.
Hence it is evident that the plot is nothing wonderful; that it is not particularly elevating or pleasing. It is too exaggerated for proper presentation. The entire action is based on lust, which tends to shame rather than interest the average reader of the work. However, the greatest fault to criticise seems to be the loose manner in which Webster has molded his plot—-he has succeeded in disregarding the three unities to a marked extent, and a strict attention to text is .therefore necessary in order to realize the true significance of situation or dialogue., The plot is labored and weakly handled.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	185
>	xJ
; But if Webster was vulnerable on plots, he ;	more than	made up for it in the masterly
>	delineations	of characters which he has penned,
।	and in the	dramatic situations which he has
evolved. No playwright has ever excelled him { when it comes to providing a poignant, passionate, or delicate situation. He always finds the ; suitable word, the right utterance, not alone - for the personages of the cast, but for general humanity under the duress of intense emotional pressure. He knew humans too well to err in _	even the slightest detail. Nor are his situations
.	ever dull, for he offers a mighty variety in
i	which are finely revealed all the phases of the
k?	struggle between the human soul and sin and
fate. He is, moreover, able to sustain these ! situations ■ at an unusually high dramatic pitch, as in the wonderfully prolonged scene of the Duchess of Malfi’s assassination. But because he crowds so many different items into < each single action, and so overburdens his dialogue with profoundly studied matter, ■ it is sometimes difficult to interpret his actual ! meaning. His characters, however, are apparently more clearly defined. The Duchess, the ~ . rather sordid heroine of the drama, is well executed, and it requires but little imagination to picture her as she must have looked, so . completely has Webster outlined her for us.
In Ferdinand we have a more obscure view ’ of a powerful character, but this fault is probably x due.more to intention than to lack of ability.
' It is in the villain that Webster marshals all his genius and talent into action. We can plainly picture Bosola, a melancholy, discontented courtier, of dark and evil appearance, ready to deprive the innocent of their lives if the pay is sufficient. We can readily under-j stand him and even predict his future actions, :	as well as we can guess his former one. Bosola
- is a character which even Shakespeare would have been proud to create. As a profound villain, a human imp of satan, Bosola will ever stand unrivaled, and it seems that Webster has here drawn a character that will exist as long as the world exists, and will ever be an impressive example of the prime disturber of the peace in the centuries long past. In - the Cardinal we find emphasized the passive type of villain, the kind that will direct but not accomplish. In Julia we can see the utterly degraded woman, wrapt up in her own vain glory, an egotist, and a purveyor of scandal, malice, and sin. Antonio, the ‘supposed hero, is but dimly

characterized, and he detracts no attention from the more important personages of the play. Delico is simply defined as a true friend of Antonio’s and is altogether unimportant.
One of the faults discernible to present-day readers is probably found in the picturesque utterances of the • different characters under great stress of anger or excitement. The dialogue abounds in such pretty phrases as: “Oh you screech-owl!” “Son of Satan!” “Thou foul black fiend!” and other choice expletives of splendid power and vividness, but possessing too much of the ridiculous to make any permanent impression. Anyone in a frivolous mood can pick up the book and turn the tragedy into a cheap comedy by applying the rules of common sense and modern criticisms. The terms used by Webster are all of a sad and solemn nature; even in the throes of his love scenes, his tendency is to drag in all the gloom and ghastliness possible. His great forte lies in his admirable and remarkable faculty to grasp the inner and outer workings of the diseased and guilty human soul. His profound passion seems to be in exhibiting; the darkest, blackest side of human life.
As an organic whole, the “Duchess of Malfi” may be said to be a good play from the artistic-' point of view. Looking at it in a moral light;' it is distinctly bad. Rather poorly knit, it' holds the interest by the human qualities embodied in the characters rather than from story interest. It may be a bit too melodramatic, but it is hardly fair to judge its form under the present system, as time and style change in the drama as well as in everything else, and the fashion of yesterday may look out} of place and silly to-morrow. Hence it} '.may.; safely be said that the “Duchess of Malfi” is a good play of its type, but that its day of y usefulness is over, and that it will never again-:' be seen by the public, unless some enterprising.;- -motion picture man sights the possibilities, y congregates a troop of ex-convicts, collects a;} barrel of red paint, and produces the “reel stuff:”
,	Here’s to You! •	-
Here’s to the man so honest and true	- <
Who pays all his debts whene’er they fall due;
Here’s to the lad of the curly locks
Who shares with the Hall his Thanksgiving box.
(This toast we can’t drink, it’s only too true Such models of virtue are very few).	D. E.
186
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
What to Read.
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Terms: $1:50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Notre Dame, Indiana
XLIX. NOVEMBER 27, 1915 No. 12.
Board of Editors.
TIMOTHY GALVIN, ’l6 RAY HUMPHREYS, ’l6	SPEER STRAHAN, ’17 LOUIS KEIFER, ’16
EUGENE MCBRIDE, ’l6	D. EDMONDSON, ’iS
HOWARD PARKER, ’17	ARTHUR HUNTER, ’16
HARRY !	SCOTT, ’18
—Carelessness is a sin without excuse: there is no plausible reason why it should exist. It causes more trouble and ruin than a dozen other human failings com-Carelessness. bined. It is the cause of practically all the mistakes made in business life and is a potent factor for evil in social circles. If a doctor or druggist is careless, and can be proven so, prosecution follows. Careless driving is punished wherever laws exist. People as a rule have come to look upon carelessness with a deep-rooted disgust. Individuals and corporations generally are fighting carelessness tooth and nail, lor they realize its harm. But the careless student swings merrily along in the same old careless way,— and then wonders why he doesn’t get better marks.
Carelessness in school work is common. The fellow who gets into the habit of skimming over his text and dashing off his tasks in a slipshod manner seldom rises above mediocrity. He is missing the deeper parts of his education and he cannot expect to draw rare material from the surface. The'student who deliberately hands in slouchy papers day after day is simply riding for a hard fall. Instead of a passing mark he should receive all that he merits,—a plumb zero. Carelessness is not a disease or an infection, it is merely the sign of the’ deterioration of will-power,:—a = sure symptom of laziness raised to the nth power.
/
To make friends with one good book is often a greater force in influencing one’s character than all the impetus individuals can supply. Everyone must recall how on finishing “David Copperfield,”- “Dombey and Son,” or the “Christmas Carol,” for the first time,—he felt that his stature had been increased at least two inches. But this is really true in a mental way of all reading of the classics. And although not many can attain to the mesters at once, still there are numberless books, good books and interesting books, waiting for the normal college man to make acquaintance with.
Here at Notre Dame there are special facilities for this variety of reading. “The Apostolate of Religious Reading,” located in Brownson Hall, is a library, whose reason for being is the provision of worth-while reading matter for those attending the University. The title of the library does not mean, however, that only books of a professedly religious character are to be had. There are a number of spiritual works, and these are volumes that sustain deep thought; but for the most part, the five hundred volumes include biographies, essays, books of - travel, and an abundance of novels and short-stories. Most of the titles are from the best non-Catholic authors, yet the productions of those writers who are Catholic in spirit are given places of honor according to their worth. An effort is constantly made to procure complete sets of such lights as Newman, Benson, Crawford, Ayscough, and Sheehan. Moreover, the list is kept strictly up-to-date, Brother Alphonsus appreciating as a favor any suggestion or information about new books which have not come to his notice.
Every man at Notre Dame should be reading from .the Brownson library. We are well aware of that- stock objection,—lack of time. One can never acquire a habit unless he makes a beginning. Those men in college who have become the greatest readers, have acquired ' the habit through an economy of study time. They have kept a good book close by them, and have taken it up at chance intervals of five or ten mimutes through the day. Action like this would soon remove from us the magazine that takes its
(
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	187
name from the color of its cover, and the novel that is king for a day.
As the years go by, there is' less and less reason for the prejudice against stories by Catholic authors. “The Golden Rose” by > Mrs. Hugh Fraser is acclaimed by one critic to be the best novel in twenty years. When one has read far enough into the story to know the characters, the interest will have been so strongly aroused that it becomes almost impossible to leave the book until it is finished. -	. In this, a modern Catholic novel, is a situation,
the like of which one might search the whole field of English literature for, and not find. In ‘ general, all Marion Crawford’s works have an accentuated quality of interest, but par-ticularlyis itpresent inhis trilogy “Saracinesca,” - “Sant’ Ilario,” and “Don Orsino.” Recently, an English teacher, in recommending “Saracinesca” to his class, made the offer to release them from the accustomed written work while they read the volume in question, adding that his apparent generosity was prompted by the knowledge that the book would be so interesting, they would complete it in two ' or three days.
. The novels of Benson and Ayscough likewise fire the imagination, and create a great deal more than temporary impressions. A man who has left college without knowing "Initiation,” has missed one of the treats of his school life, ' but if he once reads this splendid novel, he will not be content until he has also read “None Other Gods,” “Come Rack, Come Rope,” “Marotz,” “The Blindness of Doctor Gray,” and others equally fine.
The young men at Notre Dame are urged in every way to avail themselves of the Apos-tolate Library. Branches have been*established in several halls, and if you wish, the books arc delivered at your door each week. There is not one university in a thousand that has such a library as this. Now is the time to get z 'interested. Catholic writers, superior as they are, are known by hardly one educated layman in fifty. - Books by Catholic authors may not, this month or next, be classed among ■ the “six best,” but in the years to come, many of them will wear the regal purple of the classics. We have an opportunity to know these books now. Let each one be this one man in fifty. Let him take for his own a coterie of these friends who will cheer and delight him in the days that are to come.
Personals.
—Hugh O’Neill (LL. B., ’91) has removed-his law offices to the Conway Building, Clark and Washington Streets, Chicago, HL
—Ambrose O’Connell (Ph. B., ’07) has removed his offices from 119 Nassau Street to 61 Broadway, New York City, where he will continue to engage in the general practice of the law.
—Seumas McManus left for his home in New York Monday evening. During - his short stay at Notre Dame he visited at the Lilacs, the old home of Maurice Francis Egan, of whom Mr. McManus is a great admirer.
—Mr. Otto Schmid (Ph. B., ’09) is taking preliminary steps to found a Notre Dame club in Kansas City. The club of course will include old students as well as graduates. Persons interested may communicate with Air. Schmid, at 1204 Grand Avenue Temple, Kansas City, Missouri.
—The marriage of Miss Mabel Elizabeth Hager to Francis Roche Canning (LL. B., ’14) took place Wednesday, Nov. 17, at Los Angeles,’ Cal. Frank was a popular student in his day and was known in these parts as “Carazosso”' Canning. Mr. and Mrs. Canning will be' at home in Perris, Cal., after December 1.	:
—Paul J. Donovan (LL. B., To) is one:of the recent graduates who has been doing things-’, in his community. Recently he represented/ the Attorney-General in the celebrated Durand E hoof and mouth case and won. the decision / in the supreme court. Since that time he has represented the city of Oak Park, the two Boards of Education, the Library Board, and the State of Illinois in the largest tax case . ever presented in the state. It is certainly gratifying to hear of the great work of many i of our young graduates. We delight in their success.	■ . ’
—The following characteristic letter has just _ been received from Rev. Henry M. Kemper?..? (Litt. B., ’05; A. M., ’06), now a missionary in Kerrville, Texas:	. -
Just a line, before I start on a hard fifty-mile drive, C to let you know that a delegation of my Notre Dame-' boys will go to Austin on Thanksgiving day tb/see your eleven give another licking to the Longhorns'. My boys will go with the gold and blue pennants, and stocked with the old Notre Dame yells, familiar sounds in our Washington Hall and campus. Are
i88
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
I
-i
you not confident now that the Notre Dame boys will win? ’ -
—Francis J Kilkenny (old student, ’92) contributes to the National Banker, published in Chicago, an illuminating article on “The Federal Reserve and State Banks.” The standing of Mr. Kilkenny among experts is well revealed in a note appended to Mr. Kilkenny’s signature bjr the editor of the National Banker: “Mr. Kilkenny served as confidential secretary to three former comptrollers of the currency, but is now in the Investment Banking Business in Chicago. He is thus thoroughly conversant with his subject—his wide experience having given him an unusual insight into the conditions affecting the Federal Reserve System and State Banking Institutions.”
—John H. O’Donnell (LL. B., ’15) recently passed the bar examinations in California and is now practicing at Oakland. He writes:
Out of sixty-two applicants but twenty-eight were admitted. I was one of the fortunate ones. Notre Dame having been of much service to me, I shall tell you something about the examination. On Monday we had a written test, and the next three days were devoted to an oral examination by the Judges of the Appellate Bench.
.The Chief Justice asked the preliminary questions, and after learning of my brief existence in the state stopped and questioned my ability to have read the Codes. Apparently I was doomed. He then asked me where I.studied, and when I told him, he cheered up and let me by.
When I went for my license the clerk told me that Judge Lennon wanted to see. me. He said that I was the first Notre Dame man that had come before him and that he was well satisfied. He also invited me to call on him if he could be of assistance to me.
Obituaries.
SPIRE BERRY.
Word has just been received at the University that Spire Berry (old student ’08) died at his home in Tulsa; Oklahoma, about the first of August as the result of an automobile accident. We request prayers for the repose of his soul.
HON. JULIUS CAESAR BURROWS. .
, The Hon. Julius Caesar Burrows died at his home in Kalamazoo, Mich., November 16th, at the age of seventy-two.\ Mr. Burrows had served with distinction; as a senator from Michigan. He delivered the. Commencement-Addressing^.	..
The New Jersey Club.
The students from the State of New Jersey met last Friday night for the purpose of organizing a New Jersey Club. - The following officers were elected to pilot the Skeeters through the first year of their existence. A. L- McDonough • of Plainfield, president; C. U. Foley of Newark, vice-president; T. J. Mullin of Newark, secretary; T. A. Mangin of Newark, treasurer; A. J. LeaMond of South Orange, sergeant-at-arms; P. K. Keenan of Montclair, chaplain; J. J. Carrol of Patterson, steward; and F. J. McDermitt of Newark, reporter.	’
The one claim to pre-eminence of the Skeeters over the other state clubs in the University, lies in the fact that they have elected a chaplain and a steward. The duties of both are as yet uncertain, but they elected them anyway.
The purposes of the club are: 1st, to promote friendship among the students from New Jersey; 2nd, to entertain all visitors at Notre Dame from New Jersey; 3rd, to secure travelling rates for the members; 4th, to further the interests of Notre Dame in New Jersey; and last but not least to have a good time both at Notre Dame and in New Jersey.
The first attempt of the club to carry out the last of the above-mentioned purposes will occur immediately after Christmas vacation. It will be in the nature of a banquet, to be held at the Oliver Hotel. Arrangements were also made "to secure a special car on the Lake Shore •Limited for the Christmas trip.
The Old Days.
■ • What’s in the Name.
What’s the matter with two or three fireescapes for Sorin Hall?” asks the Scholastic for Nov. 17, ’88. “They would be extremely convenient.” Yea, bo! They builded better than they knew.	’	.
Scholastic, January 20, 1906.
“A year book coming into existence at a university must even as a child coming into the world, be given a name. The Notre Dame Year Book has been christened The Dome. The appropriateness of this title, the editors .believe, will be seen at once, as it must call to the mind of every student, past and.present, the , distinctive feature of their Alma Mater, the chief'and crown of. the many beauties
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of Notre Dame. There is something spacious about the title too. It suggests a broad outlook on the part of the editors as well as lofty purpose, and to the student body it should indicate that there is room in the book for all. “The Dome we believe, adequately represents the character of a work that is to be representative of all Notre Dame.”	■
The issue of December 22, 1905, contained a resume of the season’s football and a long write-up of the following pigskin tossers: Patrick A. Beacom, guard; Nathaniel ’Silver, quarterback; Clarence J. Sheehan, center; William A. Draper, halfback; “Barlow” McEvoy, end; Arthur Funk, tackle; William E. Downs, fullback; Dominic Callicrate, end; Richard W. Donovan, guard; Maurice M. Downs, tackle; Rufus Waldorf, fullback; Lawrence McNerny, quarterback; Frank T. Healy, Frank Munson, and Thomas Joyce.
Issue of December 12, 1874:—“There has long been a custom here of giving a short vacation to the students during the Christmas holidays. This custom has been judged injurious to the discipline and to the progress of the students because it interferes with the regular order of classes......It has consequently been decided that the vacation this year will begin on Wednesday, the 23rd day of December, and will end on the 2nd day of January, 1875. During this vacation we will publish the Scholastic as usual, and we would advise all going home to make arrangements to have the paper sent to them. We would also suggest that each person going home should make a Christmas present of five or six subscriptions to the Editor of the Scholastic on their return. Classes will be carried on as much as possible for all students who remain at the University during the Holidays.”
In the Personal column for Feb. 27, ’75, we find that:—
“Joe Shanks of ’72 is in Milwaukee, Wis.”
“Frank Murphy and lady, of South Bend, were at the exhibition on the twenty-third.”
“Why not get up a spelling match in Washington Hall?” asks the Local Editor in April, ’75. “There would be plenty of fun. Who will make the move?”
Ten years ago yesterday Purdue settled the state championship by taking us into camp to the tune of 32-0. Draper, Callicrate and McNerny starred for the Gold and Blue, but ineffectively. McNerny really scored by booting
189
the ball over Purdue’s goal post, but the play was not allowed. The longest- run of a Notre Dame man was Draper’s of thirty-five yards. McNerny’s quarter runs and* Silver’s work at right end were also features of the game.
January'- 30th, ’75—“It was a cold walk over to'St. Maw’s last Sunday.”
Even in those days there was frost for the N. D. men across the old Three. I.
The much-maligned Notre Dame Journalist of to-day is not the originator of local “bear” stories. As proof we wish to submit the following from the Scholastic for Feb. 6, ’75—‘ ‘The wind last Wednesday blew a couple of- young fellows over the woodpile near the Sacristy. It was a good thing for one of them that the church wall was on the other side of the pile;, were it not for its stopping him, he would have been landed on the other side of the lake.”
Local News.
—Three more weeks until Christmas.
—Found: a signet ring. See Bro. Alphonsus.
—Have you begun to peruse the time-table? .
—The first snowfall occurred this year on Nov. 15, eighteen days later than in 1914-
—Brother Alphonsus has a .number of caps and a hat that-were left in Brownson diningroom.
—The Freshmen “election” has been declared no election and a valid election has been called for by the authorities.
—What has become of the special barrel-of-water idea made use of on the football trip to Texas two years ago.	.■	.
—A meeting for organization purposesLwas called Friday evening for members and prOS?-pective members of the New Jersey Club-.' ;
—Those who are to compete in the BreefiJ? Medal Contest', to be held early in December,? are advised to begin work at once, if they hk^ef not already done so.
—The Breen Oratorical Contest will bfe held in Washington Hall, Wednesday evening; lDec;.}i& All participants are requested to handrin-theif' names to Prof. Lenihan at once.
—Five' extra cars were run through direct to the Lake Shore depot* Wednesday noon for the accommodation of the students who wished to take the 1:21 flier home.
—The Notre Dame Council, Knights.: of
too	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
’ Columbus, met Tuesday evening to take action on the ^applications for membership which have been received this year.
—Mr. Raymond F. Kohl, a former student in the course of architecture, is located in Canton Ohio, where he is with a Catholic architect, whom he styles “a prince to work for.”
—Father Farley accompanied Coach Harper and his select troupe in their invasion of the Southland, partly to visit Father McNamara and parti}’ to see the rout of the Longhorns.
—News has been received at the University of the serious condition of Raymond Sullivan (LL. B., ’15) who is in a hospital at Des Moines, where he will undergo an operation. His mother is at his bedside.
—The first break in our nine-months’ almost “non-stop” endurance run occurred during the week incident to the observance of Thanksgiving. Classes were suspended from Wednesday noon to Friday noon.
—The Dakota Club, which was organized ' recently, held the first of a series of entertainments last Saturday evening. Arrangements have been made to hold several banquets and informal smokers during the coming winter.
—In order to limit the size of the Washington Hall audiences in the future to the capacity of the theatre, it has been' found necessary by the . University to require tickets of admission from all visitors. Such tickets may be obtained from Rev. Joseph Burke, C. S. C.
—Hon. Burke Cochran, prominent orator, lawyer and ex-congressman, of. New York City, will spend Sunday at Notre Dame. He will stop off here on his way to Chicago where he will speak at the banquet to be given in honor ofethe alumni of De LaSalle Institute.
—The men of Walsh Hall, wishing to show their affection for their prefect and their appreciation of the fact that he was appointed to accompany the team on the Texas trip, presented Father Farley with a handsome black leather travelling bag before his departure.
—Stanley B. Cofall of Cleveland, Ohio, will lead the Junior Lawyers during the present year. The popular “Stan” will have as his ‘ ‘ interference ’ ’ Vernon Helman,, vice-president; Frank M. Kirkland, treasurer; V. De Paul Vaughan, secretary; . Joseph Dorais, sergeant- '
. at-arms. .	■ . f v ,	.
—The Texas . Club now, , has a membership
of eighteen. Its officers are: Wallace Coker, : president; James Odem, vice-president; Odin Clay, secretary-treasurer. It is rumored that the Longhorns are planning a party at the ; Orpheum to take place as soon as “exams” are over.	■'	■
—On Friday evening, November 12th, the 5 Brownson Literary Society held a “smoker” : in the refectory. Valuable and instructive talks were given by Father Cavanaugh, Father- । Walsh and Father Bolger to the sixty members present^ A finished reading: by William Henry was another feature of the event.
—Arrangements are being made for some good specialty work for the Glee Club concerts. Something new and fresh is what the men are looking for. A committee has been appointed to look after this work. President McDonald . is an ex-officio member of the committee and the other members are Harry F. Scott, chairman, Frank Welch and John U. Riley.	_
' —A new custom introduced this year among the students of Brownson Hall may be of interest ’ if unworthy of imitation, to the members of the other halls. The mail is distributed at dinner and supper at each table in the dining-room, ‘‘ and the “head” keeps a daily record of how many letters each. one at his table receives during a week. At the end of the week the one having had the most letters must buy a cake ' for the table..	.
—Professor Kervic presided at the first meeting of the Architectural Club, Monday evening. He spoke on the purpose and benefits of the club. Mr.JRudolph gave a talk on the life and work of the late Wm. R. Ware. After the speeches a lunch and smoker was enjoyed by the members. The club officers for the ensuing year are: Joseph F. Flynn, president; Jacob Bckel, vice-president; Casimir Krajewski, secretary-treasurer.
—-The “lost sheep” have been found. Young Lalor was discovered working on a farm only k six miles . from his home. The wandering Brownsonite was received in open arms like the prodigal son of the Biblical parable. On. the other hand, “Pat” Gallagher turns up in ’ t Minneapolis surprised to learn that he had been
. “lost. ” He had- been travelling in (The. South for some time and .had merely neglected to write home while he was gone. . ’	|
—Because - the : bulletin announcing Mr.
Milton -Mclntyre Brown’s ..lecture on “ Rome ” j
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
igi
. contained an “invitation” instead of a “requirement” an unusually small crowd was present I	on Saturday night. Those students who did
;	attend were treated to a rather uninteresting
J	trip to the Eternal City, that favorite haunt
;	of lecturers. Not only did the conductor’s
f	voice lack clearness, but he had little more
|	than a speaking acquaintance with his stations.
|	The discourse compared unfavorably with Mr.
?	O’Donnell’s lecture on the same subject last
year.
_	—Father Cavanaugh gave a short talk to
j.	the boys in Carroll Hall last Monday morning
y	at which time he outlined his plan for the
formation of a Junior' Band. He promised ■ : . his hearty support and co-operation if the band ' should be organized. John Minavio and Frank s Carey have been appointed to develop the < talent and ability of the candidates. The following students of Carroll have applied for positions in the band: J. Malone, G. McDer-
•	mott, A. Burnondy, B. J. Rakosz, G. Kenny, 5 J. Holden, F. Smith, B. Susen, G. Barry, W. Kenny, C. Connolly, J. Holman, T. A.
' Olney, W. Barbour, J. Welsh, G. McDermott, A. Nigro, M. C. Newgass, R. Follet, E. R.
;	Bailey, R. Worman, A. J. McGrath, C. J.
j	Burke, G. Mclnerny, T. W. O’Connell, F. ’
Walter, A. M. Estelle, and A. Bohrer.
•	—The Notre Dame Glee Club will give its
first concert in Washington Hall on the evening of December eleventh. On December fifteenth the club will sing at St. Mary’s. Shortly after
, the Christmas holidays a trip will be made to ; Fort Wayne for a concert at that place.
,	The best selection is Kipling’s “On the
Road to Mandalay,” in which James Foley S'-	'	•
has the solo part. The club is rapidly perfecting its technique by means of frequent practices J held under the direction of Ward Parrott, of Indianapolis, who has had considerable experience along this line at Harvard. He hopes . to develop the club to a premier standing " in the state.	.
- In conjunction with the Glee Club a mandolin club has been formed. Members of the two
* clubs hope to be- mutually helpful in their endeavors to revive first-class music of these
; two types for its lovers in the student body T of Notre Dame. .
>	:—A psychological examination requested by
A the Bureau of Education at Washington, D. C., was held Friday, November 12, 1915', under
the direction of Rev. Thomas Crumley. The purpose of the examination, which was given to the members of Father Crumley’s classes, is to show the relative value of learning by aural and vocal methods. The results will be sent to the board at Washington, there to be tabulated and analyzed along with the results of the examination as conducted in other colleges and universities throughout the-United States by a board of expert psychologists.
—The Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C. S. C., eminent litterateur and poet, has just received two very beautiful photos of original paintings executed by Edward J. Holslag, one of the foremost artists of the day.
The original pictures are tremendous in size' and belong to a series that decorates the interior of a handsome new bank at Pueblo, Colorado. They are historical in nature, one representing the vivid action of a great cattle round-up, while the other shows a pack-train on a perilous journey.	■
Edward J. Holslag with Edwin H. Blash-field are conceded by most critics to be the two greatest American artists in mural decoration, and Mr. Holslag enjoys the distinction of being the chief factor in the establishment of America’s foremost work of art, the Congressional Library at Washington D. C. Through his wonderful ability he not only executed many paintings of unusual beauty for this famous building but the-designing, the laying out of the color scheme, and the complete execution of the entire work came under his personal supervision and judgment. Besides this, there are, throughout the world, hundreds of State buildings, banquet halls, barks and private homes that show the touch of his genius.	.
Edward J. Plolslag besides being a friend to f Father O’Donnell of Notre Dame, is a brother W of Frank Holslag, the congenial adventurer who' - J recently returned as a student to our University; ' from the battlefields of Europe.	' 7 -•
—After having defeated Walsh by the score, of 6 to o, Brownson cinched the interhall “water- . football” championship last Thursday by trim-; ming Corby, 7 to o. The feature of the game was . the weather, which was wet. It rained and rained and rained. Indeed the game might as well have been played on St. Mary’s Lake. An open field offered no advantage to the one carrying the ball for, putting one foot forward, a la Vernon Castle, he would do the Kitchen . Sink Slide and light on his back or thereabouts—
192	. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
in most cases on his thereabouts. But despite the two feet of water and mud on the field, there was some good- football played. Allison, left half, and Murphy, quarter, were the stars for Brownson, while Kline, McDermitt and Coughlin played a good game for Corby. The touchdown which was sufficient to win the game came in the second quarter. Corby fumbled the ball on their own thirty-five-yard line. Allison recovered it and slid down the field for a touchdown, winning the game and the championship.
Safety Valve.
Mr. Santa Claus.
In Care of Editor of Valve.
Dear Editor Valve:—
I am a poor little Scholastic only 49 years old and I would like to have something new for Xmas, please.
Can I have a new cover, and a new head for my front, as my Disce quasi semper victurus is broken in two, and the top of my head is all wore off. I get a lot a cussin from the pressman and. from others in the printing office, and I look kind’a banged up when I go out to the public—you know—
So dear Mr. Editor if you can find some nice man who will fix me up and make me look nice I’ll be a nice good .thing for a long time.
‘	‘ Resp., your own dear little Scol.
- ***
How is it that Yost didn’t pick an All-American, an all-Western, or an all-Michigan eleven?
*** *
Did you ever have a garter break while you were at home in your room? No, of course, you didn’t. But when .you go calling on someone with whom you wish to make a hit you’ll find the old garter has come loose and is trailing behind you all over the parlor.
Dear Editor:—
For the last two years my nerves have been completely- shattered. I am a victim of insomnia and spend most of the night walking the floor. I sometimes doze a, little between three and four, but I find it necessary to; rise at four as it is impossible for me to sleep after that hour. Could you offer a remedy?.
*	»	Jim McMahon. .
Dear' McMahon:—	-	.
We are not, equal .to the task put before us. We know, of no cure for your kind of insomnia. We were about to suggest that you make a practice of going to sermons as Ave have seen you sleep peacefully through several sermons; but we fear it would be a hardship for-you, in this weather as you are so delicate. The
plays, is placed at right half back. The American Aviator because of its great speed is placed at fullback, snow;.might- make your; “footsies” cold.: Onions are The American Dollar lands the berth of quarterback, said to havea soporific effect. /Have your roommate and in the minds of all fair critics this player deserves eat a bushel. or two of onions..every night, and try . an All-Time pick. At running a football team he is sleeping’on theAvihdow-siH holding;a soup spoon in recognized as the greatest in the world, and it is safe yduriright hand and :the “ Pilgrim’s Progress ” in your to say that, even - Chicago U with this player in its .left.'yThfow^ydurleg -over ;theback- of’ your chair, and backfield would be- ah ■’unqualified, success. .	.
it will be only a short while till your foot is asleep. If necessary put each part of yourself to sleep at a different time.—Editor.	_
***
We would like to see a post season game this year
between
Yale and Northwestern.
It was the long
A FRESHMAN COMPOSITION.
evening. The moon was flashing in the sky, rows of trees, like people with St. Vitus’
dance, bowed to everything that passed, and the sun just sinking below the horizon looked like the red head of a boy disappearing behind a fence. There was no sound of any kind save the barking of dogs and the creaking of a rocking chair as it moved pro and con on the front veranda ofjMabel’s house. Mabel was in the chair and the proing and coning of the rockers disturbed her not a bit, for her upper and lower lashes caressed each other, tightly shutting out all the world from the maid’s nut-brown eyes— she was asleep. Suddenly a beetle beetled and Mabel arose with a start. Her Latin book had fallen to the ground-and picking it up she began vigorously to decline mensa, but just as she got to.the ablative—
{Dear teacher this is as niuch
as I could write as I
had
no time).
***
ALL-AMERICAN PICK BY
RG
LG LT
LE
Chicago American The American Boy Cincinnati American
Scientific American
New York American
S. VALVE.
Boston American
L H
C
R T Young American
R E Philadelphia North
American
R H North American
Review
Q. American Dollar
F. American Aviator.
The ability of the Chicago American and the Boston American in guarding the National honor gives them an unquestioned place on the All-American team. The .American Boy and Young American are picked as tackles. They are steady, brilliant players and are always ready to tackle anything in sight. The ends of the line are filled by the Cincinnati American and ■ the Philadelphia North American. Both of these, while not very much in evidence are good, consistent players, always in the game, smashing their opponents’ interference, and never failing to get their man. The position of center goes'to the New York American, center of the Hearts Combination and probably the most sensational player of all time.
The selection of the backfield presented few difficulties. The Scientific American, undoubtedly the most scientific player in the country is awarded the position of left half back, and the .North American Review, for its recognized ability in picking out the weaknesses of its .opponents and taking advantage of their mis-
■ >.