Dotrc Dame Scholastic
DlSCe-QVASl SemP^R- victvrvs- • vivg -QVASI- CRASMORITVRVS-
Vol. XLV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, November ,18, 1911.	No. 9.
	- - t - • "	-
The Rose of Life.
WILLIAM J. BURKE,’13.
| STOPPED to pick a flower forlorn Which nestled in a tiny bud
When lo! a crimson drop of blood,— O rose, hast even thou a thorn?
Why then repine, when life looks fair, And full of fragrance as the rose, . We feel beneath the leaf that blows ' The pressure of the thorn that’s there?
Socialism and the Trade Unions in the U. S.
JOHN F. O’HARA,
Introductory.
AND,. labor and capital are the factors. of production. In the United States, as in every: country where large-scale production is carried on, there have been, differences of opinion as to the proportionate ' share of each of these? factors in
production, and consequent differences with 'regard to the share of each in. the goods produced. • -The conflict between economic theories about. :
- of production has, in the .United: States; harrowed ; itself down to . a struggle between those in
/ controLofcapital and the laborers, each having ment,” as he calls the practical . application "in view- increased compensation at the expense , of the socialist system, and yet he gives a more of ? the other. ' . ,	. :	. 5	definite picture of the aims of the. movement
• fa the ;U^	struggle between/ when he says: ‘‘TheSocialMovementin modern
. capital and -labor has taken . ,two/principal times seeks to bring, about - what Js usually defimte forms,—-socialism and the trade union. /described ;.as ?the lemancipation of the; prole-
■- Eaehisan expression ofdiscontent with pre- tariat.’’/ He explains his meaning: / “ Ws ‘ mailing conditions of capital and labor, .but emancipation has two aspects, anidealanda the two differ as to means of bringing about material; one. A class may regard itsdf as
a reform ip their relations. ^The object^of this paper will be to show in what the trade- -union movement in the United States resembles American? socialism,iand in what , the^ two movements are at variance. The. matter will not be treated /historically except where it may seem necessary for. a proper understanding of the point at issue. In determining.the -principles of each system, the official , published documents of each will be used. The aim is- . simply to outline the distinction between the two systems and their respective move-’ ments, with no attempt to show the value of either to the worker;
American Socialism. :
.Socialism is defined by Professor Ely as that. ‘‘contemplated system of industrial, society which proposes the abolition of private property -in the. great material instruments of production, and the substitution therefor ..of collective . / property; and advocates collective management: . of production, together with the distribution
. of social incomeby society, and private property ' in the larger proportion of this social income.*’ . This definition outlines the aims of socialism, : but makes, no reference, to the means to the end desired. Ely justifies this attitude on
.the ground that there,is a great difference in . opinion-as to how this change must be brought
Doctor Sombart is: more, technical in his description/'of.1 the aims?of rthe social .move-

130
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
emancipated in the ideal sense only when it is at least economically independent.... In the same way there is no emancipation in the ’ material sense so long as those conditions continue which are the real cause for social inferiority of the class as a class, conditions which result from the capitalist system.”
The central ideas of socialism have been included in the following modem working definition: “Socialism is a system which has for its aim the re-distribution of the world’s wealth by means of the socialization of the means of production, to be brought about by the economic forces that have determined the course of history up to the present day.”
The absence of a hard-and-fast set of principles makes it difficult to determine, at any one time or place, just what constitutes socialism. Socialism in the United States, however, has taken definite shape in the formation of the Socialist Party, and the enunciation of the principles of this party may be taken as the official pronouncement of American socialism. For the sake of accuracy it must be noted that a rival party of socialists, the Social Labor Party, is still in existence in the United States, but the small influence of this body (as evidenced by the party vote in the national elections of 1908, which was only 13,825 as against 402,283, the vote of the Socialist Party) and the growing influence of the Socialist' Party, make it fair to consider the latter party as the true exponent of what may be termed A merican socialism.
The Socialist Party was organized in the United States at the Indianapolis convention of 1901, when the Social Democrat Party of Debs and a faction of the Social Labor Party joined interests and drew up a declaration of principles that has served as a text to the Socialist Party, and as a base for the national party platforms of 1904 and 1908. These three documents may be taken as the official expression of American socialism.
That the Socialist Party of the .United States is not a separate political party, distinct from the system of Marx and the European socialists, is evident from the opening paragraph of the first platform of the organization,' which declares “ its adherence to the principles of International Socialism.” International Socialism is the concrete expression of the principles of Marx, first framed in the statutes of the International Association of . Workingmen.
These statutes were drawn up by Marx himself at the meeting of organization held in London in September, 1864. By affirming its adherence to the International, American socialism accepts Marxian principles as . its foundation.
Trade-Unionism in the United States.
A trade union may be defined as the organization of the workers of one trade into a body for the purpose of securing greater advantages in bargaining with the controllers of capital, .with a view to obtaining more independence and a larger share in the product of labor. The historical evolution of the trade union is of no concern-here; the trade union as an active force exists in every country where capitalistic production is carried on. Tradeunionism in the United States finds its best expression in the combination of the inde- ‘ pendent trade unions in the American Federation of Labor.
The American Federation of Labor is a national organization of more than thirtyyears’ standing, made up of independent trade unions, which has for its object. “ to render employment and means of subsistence less precarious by securing to the workers an equitable share in the profits of their labor.” The membership of the. organization at the . present time is about 2,000,000, and as it stands now without a serious rival in its special field, its principles and actions may be taken as the expression of the spirit of tradeunionism in the United States. We will look, then, to the official publications of the American Federation of Labor for the expression of the principles of trade-unionism for a comparison with the tenets of American socialism. .
The Political Aspect of Both Systems.
The principles of socialism are worked out along political lines by the formation of distinct political parties. Whatever may be the opinion of modern writers with regard to the social movement and its impending necessity, independent .of any organized movement in its behalf, the fact remains that socialists unite and seek to attain their ends by political means. The call of Marx, “Proletarians of all lands, unite!” has been- met by the formation of national political parties of socialists. Socialist platforms and party pledges and active campaigning in party organs and by .party orators, are the means of keeping socialist propaganda ' before the people; and special: emphasis is
e
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
laid on the fact that socialism is a political system. ' ■	■■	’	- - ■■ ■
• Trade-unionism is not a political movement.
The American Federation of Labor has consistently refused to affiliate itself with any of the great political parties. The committee report on the message of President Gompers to the convention held at St. Louis, November 14-26, 1910, has the following to say of the action of the Federation in this regard: “The success which labor has attained in the recent political campaign has, in our judgment, been due to keeping steadily in mind that labor is partisan to a principle and not to a party; ■ and if we are to continue to be successful, we must keep the same idea constantly in mind.”	-	•
Decisive expression was giv,en to this determination of the American Federation of Labor to keep out of politics on different occasions when this body has come into conflict with socialism. Doctor Aldrich, in a ■ sketch of the American Federation of Labor, reviews two attempts, one in 1890 and another in 1894, made by the socialists to gain the recognition of the Federation. The debates on both occasions showed the sentiment of the delegates toward a political system of labor movement. The first debate was on a motion to recognize a branch of the Social Labor Party by membership in the Federation. By more than a three-quarters vote the proposition was rejected. In 1894 an attempt was made to pass resolutions similar to-those passed by the radical British Trade ’ Union Congress, and which demanded, in part, “the collective ownership, by all the people, of the means of production and distribution.”
It is clear, then, that in this the two systems are at variance: socialism is a political system, while trade-unionism is a system of social organization which seeks to obtain for' labor a- nearer equality with the capitalist class by means of the strength that comes from union. This is a general difference: the specific differences which arise from the separate constitutions and demands will be considered in detail.	.
' •	--	(To be continued.) .	■ •	•
Culture makes the whole world our -dwelling place, our palace, in which we take our ease and find ourselves at one with all things.—Spalding.	.	•
The Reformation of “Bud.” '
ARTHUR.J. HUGHES, ’ll,. *
“Well, Georgie Washington may not have been strong on giving out the--scare heads on the yellow dailies, or mutilating ‘the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth,’ but I- don’t see how that has anything to do with his not being a devotee- of the. old weed. It is my-belief that he would have had just as high a regard for truthfulness had he been’ given- to going ‘ about his army with a long, black pantella for a companion or. a generous mouthful of ‘ peachy7 scrap as a thought producer. These pale-faced .‘Willies’ can preach all they want -to. against the • use of tobacco, but the history of this land is chuck full of men who wouldn’t give the biggest chunk of fame they ever got together for the enjoyment they have derived from the long evenings spent at the family fireside, in reading and chatting and smoking.” - ■
The above opinion was rendered by “Bud”. Ranseau in the presence of his friend whom he seemed to know only as “Bill” since it was by this name he always addressed him. “Bill” had discontinued smoking about six weeks before, and it was through his good example that “Bud” decided to quit. It had been one whole week since “ Bud ” had smoked, and the desire to do so was. growing in strength as the -days passed on. Anyone who has smoked knows that after one has tried to quit, how ideas will come into one’s mind which tend to make smoking as an altogether proper and harmless enjoyment; and if these ideas are allowed tc continue they will impress upon one the fact that life’s success depends on having a cigar or pipe within reach at all times. “Bud” was passing this stage in his attempt at reformation. • He brought to his mind those men who. had smoked and . still succeeded, and tried.to make these examples justify his weakness. =	- ;	.
“Bill” had quite outgrown such frivolities •and was a confirmed non-smoker by. this. time. His arguments were all directed against smoking, and he found it difficult indeed to understand how “Bud” was unable to see the error of his ways and his ideas. His interest in “Bud” impelled him to try and save him from resuming a habit which now appeared so dis-
132	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
gustingTand useless in his eyes. And it is in :	the course of one bf these salvation meetings
‘	that our story opens. “Bud’s” argumen-
■	tative powers were whetted by the eternal
•	craving which he experienced for a smoke,
and “Bill’s” rebuttals were at times weak in comparison.
“‘Bud,’ I think it is unfair to sight George Washington as an example of a man who did ,	not smoke and still succeeded, for it has been
, some years since George claimed America j	as his fatherland; and I think being so great
‘ a general, so great a statesman, fully repaid •	him for denying himself an occasional smoke.”
■I	“Yes, but, ‘Bud,’ don’t you think that
i'	smoking affects a man? Don’t you think it
if	interferes with his. mental abilities? for you
must concede that it affects him physically. If you will admit, as with all fairness you should, it does affect a man’s power to think and to /	plan, don’t you think that it will have some
i;	bearing on his making a success of himself
/	in the world?”
• i	“Bud” laughed. It was getting interest-
j’.	' ing, and he replied: “Say, Bill, when I was a
r	kid going to a little country schoolhouse,
l’	we used to study physiology out of a book
*!	that was queered on tobacco and booze as bad
f	as an old Yankee preacher. It had a chapter
| J	on respiration. In this chapter it described
■	at length the make-up and workings of the lungs,
i;	Another chapter dealt with the muscles, another
|;	with the eyes, and so on. Toward the end
;■	of every chapter the book went on to describe
/	the evil effects of tobacco and the demon rum -
/	on that particular organ of the human body.
J	We kids used to be interested in that stuff
i;	at the end of the chapters, at first, for it was
i	mighty interesting reading. But one day some
;!	fellow took exception to the author and that
L	precipitated a general uprising. Every kid in
£ .	the class cited an example of a man who was
J -	smoking and also playing “hide and go seek”
/ -	. . with the old demon, too, and showed how these
i i	old degenerates were enjoying i the best of
health; how their muscles and their lungs .	and their eyes were in a fairly good state of
' .	preservation, judging from outside actions
of these men. We kids had our teacher jpjetty near cornered wheh.be brought up that old . point that you are trying to work in. He asked us if we thought it .had affected the .mental side of those. men we quotedasexamples.
./’/	Of course that got us ldds, for we bad not yet
reached the study of psychology, and for us to say whether these men had got their minds in any way compromised by their waywardness was a thing impossible. The teacher, I remember, retired from the field with the air of a brilliant warrior. But since that time I have seen men without the semblance of a mind who would refuse to touch tobacco as energetically as we would refuse a deadly poison. I have seen men, too, who were not idiots, .but who used very poor judgment, who failed to make a go of anything they took up, and they did not use tobacco. On the other hand, I have seen some of the most brilliant men in every walk of life who used the weed. It didn’t seem to have much of a clouding effect on their minds.”
“ Yes,” answered Bill, “ I will admit that there is a good deal in this thing of a man being born with ability and talent, and that he will succeed in so far as he is a possessor of these gifts, but don’t you think that these men you observed to be so brilliant would have been even more brilliant, more effective; don’t you think their life work in the end would have been of greater importance had they refrained from indulging?”	-
“ Bill, you seem to think smoking a bad thing, and that being the case I advise that you keep yourself separated from it as long as possible, but in my case I have as yet to find any plausible reason why I should follow your example, and until I find such a reason, well—me for a pipe or a good cigar.” ,
Bill was beginning to think the case a hopeless one. “ Bud ’’ seemed to be firmly convinced that to gain fame mid renown one must smoke. He realized, too, that in.his arguing with “Bud” he was liable to incur his anger and lose his case because of this. While thoughts such as these: were passing through^ Iris mind, “Bud” broke in^fy	*
“ Bill, I’ll tell youTwhat I’ll do. : You sight me three or fom of your, illustrations. They may .be men who have .failed in life by the .use of tobacco; or they may/ be meh who. have gained fame by./.not using it. / Make .these -examples ■ just what; youchoose.and if after considering them I. am unable to show that * tobacco had nothing -.to. do/ with it, I will then embrace - your, faith and -live the - balance of
■ my life a burning example of whatthe.non-use / of the weed is able to bring about.” As “Bud” rfihjfd^ tl^e tefephoiie rang. Bill was wanted. Before he left; however, he hprriedly scribbled
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	133
his arguments on a piece of paper, leaving them on the table for Bud’s consideration.
About two hours after Bill returned to Bud’s room. It was dusk. The room was rather dark. The odor of a cigar was evident. Looking towards the window Bill thought he discerned a broad film of smoke hanging in the air. ‘ Bud was stretched out asleep on the couch. Bill turned on the light, and on the table he found his arguments answered and he also found the stub of a recently smoked cigar. He read over the points which he had given Bud to answer and then the answers which'had been made to them. They were as follows:
I.	No gentleman at the present time wishes to have his photograph taken with even a cigar ■ in his hand, and yet we scarce see a portrait or drawing of General Grant without seeing him either smoking or holding a cigar. Also we see this great man dying at a comparatively early age from a sickness brought about by the use of .tobacco.
Answer: General Grant and his black cigar may not look good to the “gents” of today in a frame, but General Grant with that same black cigar in his possession did more for this flag of ours than any four hundred of those “gents” could do with their hands filled with guns, swords and ammunition. As to his death, a person has “got” to die some time, and who knows but that his smoking during his -life killed off thousands of typhoid-fever germs and thereby saved his life many times.
II.	The best-known physicians after a careful study of the effect of tobacco concur in the opinion that it is a poison and has a very harmful effect on the human body.
Answer: The “best physicians” are believing everything these days. We’ve got some that tell us to chew our food slowly, and then we have some more who tell us that the proper way to eat is to chew our food very little, and in backing up their theory they sight the lion and the. dog as animals which hardly chew their food at all, and yet enjoy the best of health; When I find-our “best physicians” disagreeing on whether it is dangerous to eat meat or best to eat vegetables and then find some more who come along and say that to eat nothing is. the ideal .which we. must seek, I come to the conclusion that the “ Docs” are up “ Salt Creek ’ ’ when it comes to “ doping ” out .: anything reliable ■ these days. Twenty
years ago when a man had a stomach ache his mother gave him a big dose’of salts and that ! ended it; but now our “best physicians” carve him up a little, and if he lives to tell . the tale, they deduct two hundred “ bald eagles” from his bank account and pronounce him cured. No, Bill,- you have got to show up something better than the “ opines” of the “best physicians” to convince me that tobacco is “wrong.”
III.	It has been figured . that the ordinary smoker spends a small fortune during his lifetime for tobacco. Were this amount invested . yearly, that is the amount he spends for tobacco every year, and the interest compounded, it has been figured that at forty-five the'smoker would have to his credit about five thousand dollars, enough to buy him a home for his old days.	'	.
Answer: A man that reaches the age of forty-five years and hasn’t got a home,—well, he is either an imbecile or an individual upon whom hard luck has fallen with a vengeance, and in either case tobacco would have nothing to do with it.	,
IV.	What does she think about it?
This question was written on the other side of the paper and Bill found no answer written by Bud. He was wondering why “Bud” had failed to give this question any notice, and as he was thinking he unconsciously picked up the half-smoked cigar which lay on the table to his right. He held it between his fingers as he used to do when he was a smoker. He knew that his case had ■ failed, . -fcr “Bud” had been smoking that selfsame cigar. He felt rather downhearted at his ? failure to make “Bud” see the thing in what now appeared to him the right light. As he sat musing he heard a slight movement on the couch, and on glancing toward it saw “ Bud ” rubbing his eyes and looking about the room in an effort to become aware of his surround- . ings. His. eyes fell on Bill and then on the cigar which was between his fingers. Bud began to chuckle, only to break into a hearty laugh. He saw that Bill was looking at the piece of paper and he said, extending his hand: ;
“ Put ’er here, old scout; I kiiew you'd come to look at this thing in a sensible way after; _ that reformation fever had passed over you. So, my answers put you right on the subject, ’ . did they?” Bill did not understand.
. “Bud,”_ he inquired, “ what’s the drift?
guess I am not ‘on.’”	. . •.; ' y —
134
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“ Leave off that air of mystery, Bill, and tell me what that is that you have in your hand. Is 'it a ‘Bobby Burns’ perfecto?”
Bill for the first time realized that he was holding the cigar which he had found half smoked on his coming into the room.
“I am simply examining the evidence, Bud,” he said. ‘‘I see you have broken through your resolution and have begun smoking again.” Bud remembered he. had left the cigar stub on the table and said:
“And you were just considering breaking too? Eh, Bill?”	’	;
“ No,” Bill answered, “ but I was wondering why you did not answer all the' points of my argument. There is one question which you seem to have ignored.”
Bud got up and stood looking oyer Bill’s shoulder.
“You see, Bud,” Bill said, “you seem to have neglected to turn the paper. I have another question on the other side for you. Of course, now you have broken through and my argument is lost; it is too late for you to try to answer it.” Bud became interested.
“Let’s see it, Bill. What is it?”
Bill turned the paper and held it so that Bud could read. He read.it aloud: “What does she think about it?” He seemed to dwell on the question for a time and then said:
“< am sorry now that I didn’t see that, Bill, for all the other points you brought up did not convince me, in the. least, blit had I seen that one I would still be as strong' in my resolution -as you are. The fact of the matter is she told me only last night how glad she was that I no longer smoked. She told me how she admired a man that' had strength of will enough to keep himself clear ' of the uncleanliness of tobacco. That’s what she thinks about it and that’s what I am going to think about it. - There are times, you know, Bill, when a fellow has that craving for a smoke so well developed that: he forgets the little helps that his dearest friends have given him, but now I am - done with smoking. - You cannumber me among your converts, Bill, and'at
forty-five I, too, will be. living, in a home of my own with, coin to my. credit and a clear, brain and strong body, for, regardless of what I said, I always knew it was far better to. live the better and cleaner life'. ;.So -we'will’throw, the old cigar away, Bill,and I thank you that you made me*think of her.” ’ • • .	—
Varsity Verse.
Resume of Newman’s Travelogue. /kiid now we have seen
-	On bright picture-screen:	.
. The Em’rald Isle green Of blue-eyed .Kathleen;
The home of Shakespeer	.
Zmd other folks queer ■	' .
Who clamor with cheer: • .
“Vote for women, Peer”;
The mountains massy, The manners classy, • The fine-smile sassy Of Bonny Lassy;
Falling with a whack . On peasantry’s back The mighty knout crack . Of the Russe cossack;
In one hand a stine Full of beer, not wine, lads of country mine	.	‘
Sing der. Wacht am Rein.
.	A. N. O. N.
Verse Writing.
What torture worse Than writing verse When the jug of fancy’s dry?
Methinks there’s none Beneath the sun,— Give me a rhyme or let me die!
W. J. M.
. N. D’s Little Team. N. D. had a little team . Its fleece was gold and blue And everything the captain wished The team was sure to do.
It followed him down South one. day . To meet the “Little Giants”
And when they tried to tie its tail,— Displayed , a little science.
.	'	R. S. O’N
“Who Was the Star Today.”, Who was the star today, today? -Who was the star today?	•
Who was the football idol—the hero of the fray?
. Was it the Dutchman ‘Bergie’ ?	'
Answer, me, mister,—-say— * -
Must I wait for the News in the morning?
J Who was the-star today? - ’
A Word on Hood’s Poetry.
The puh is at best a boisterous form of humour quite out pfplaceinany kind of poetry we can conceive df, unless it be a drinking song.. And when, further, the pun is in the least open
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	135
to the suspicion of being forced, it is almost as far from humour, even, as it is from poetry. Some of Hood’s puns are good humour, it must be admitted. For example, “They went and told the sexton, and the sexton tolled the bell,” “So I must curse my cruel stars and walk about in Wales," etc. But not one of his “humourous” poems is free from some such barbarous “perpetration” as “A man that’s fond precociously of stirring, must be a spoon,” entirely indefensible, and calculated to inspire the reader with either deep pity or disgust for the author:
Of Hood’s serious poems, “The Bridge of Sighs,” and its kind, there can be no such criticism, and we form quite a different mental picture of the author. There is depth and sincerity of sentiment in them, and they arouse equally deep and sincere sentiments in the reader. They reveal the poet’s great, sympathetic heart, and we are sorry that he wasted his talents catering to a depraved public taste for inferior humour. Yet, perhaps, he is not to blame as his bread depended upon it.
S. E. T.
Self-Evident Propositions.
I	.—Books may be divided into three classes: good, bad and indifferent.
II	.—No man is educated-who has not read and assimilated a large number of good books.
III	.—The man who does not do. outside reading while he is in sch >-?i will always be too busy (or too lazy) to do such reading.
IV	.—Since the average student finds but little time at his disposal after lessons have been prepared, he must, if he would educate himself, restrict his reading to the Good books.
•	V.—It is a fallacy to suppose that good
books must be uninteresting,—quite, as much a fallacy as to suppose that good medicines must have a bad taste. .
VI.—The library of the Apostolate of Religious Reading, open to every student without cost, contains only, the Good books. Besides essays, books of religious instruction, history, and discussions of live questions of the day the library is especially rich in good fiction by. such masters as Frank Spearman, Father Benson, Rene Bazin, and Marion Crawford. Have, you a book out? If not see your hall representative today.
. ' - - - . '
Catholic Fiction.
LOUIS J.. KILEY, ’13.
- I.—The King’s Achievement.—Benson.
Robert Hugh Benson’s novel, “Ihe King’s Achievement,” might be characterized as a delightful and instructive combination of history and fiction. The story deals with the beginnings of the Reformation in England and is a complete account of the troublesome times of the reign of Henry VIII. It covers the period from the fall of Wolsey in 1527 to the fall and execution of Cromwell in 1540.
But aside from the statement of plain historical' facts this work is valuable for the insight which it gives the reader into the English life and customs of that age. It contains detailed descriptions of the life on the country estates of the well-to-do class, in the various religious houses throughout the kingdom, and finally at the court of the king and in the-palaces of his nobility.
That Benson’s version of historical facts is the true one we may be sure, for he. draws it from such well - known^and ^accredited sources as the works of the Rt. Rev. Abbot Gasquet. This book may, therefore, be considered a correct picture of the times, as against those accusations brought against the monasteries of that period; accusations to the effect that they had outgrown their usefulness, become corrupt and turned their attention wholly to amassing wealth. These false charges date -back to the times of Henry VIII. when1 they were used as excuses for having the treasures and lands of the religious placed in the king’s hands.
The novel is divided into three books entitled respectively: “The King’s Will,” “The King’s Triumph” and “The King’s Gratitude.” These give a complete character presentation, of Henry. The first book explains how his indomitable will overcame all obstacles, even public opinion. His personality, magnetic in most respects, bound to him men who were, ready and willing to do his, bidding in all things. The second book takes up the progress of his -work, the destruction of the monasteries and his becoming the acknowledged head of the English Church. “ The King’s Gratitude” is a fitting tribute to the value of royal favor
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
in those days. One by one Henry’s friends go to the scaffold. He never spares a minister even the most faithful, once the latter’s unpopularity brings discredit upon himself.
At this period of English history, it may be noted that religion was one of the most powerful and dominant forces in the lives of the common people. Even the king himself, afterwards the most bitter enemy of Catholicity, was, in the early days of his reign, its most zealous and ardent defender against the attacks of heretics on the Continent. Though the country squires of the time, with their love of hunting, gambling and pleasures of all kinds seem worldly enough, they, nevertheless, paid a great deal of attention to religion. No estate was without its chaplain, and every evening a bell sounded calling the household to the chapel. There, kneeling in the dark, they would all recite with the priest the prayers they knew7 by heart and beg God for a quiet night and a perfect end.	•
_ But in no part of the kingdom very naturally was religious life so deep-rooted as in the monasteries.. The daily routine of the monks was devoted to one end and that was the performance of the great “Opus Dei,” as it was called. The author takes the monastery of l^ew'es as an example of the type of religious houses of that time.
The monks rose at midnight, sang the night office, went back to rest and rose again early in the morning. Then from the numerous altars in the great church there ascended a stream of sacrifice to Heaven. After these masses, “mixtum”—bread and wine or beer— was taken, and then the Lady Mass was said. Following this came the chapter in which faults were confessed, penances inflicted and parts of the martyrology read. After a brief interval all assembled for high mass. The rest of the day was spent in manual labor of some kind. In the evening vespers were sung by the whole community. At dinner and supper a monk read portions of the scriptures from a stone pulpit at one end of the dining-hall. As soon as the meal was begun the food and drink for the poor was set aside. After vespers . the monks were at liberty to go and warm themselves at the one great fire kept for the purpose in the calefactory; then the compline
• also given to understand that any evidence . damaging, to . the : character, of' the. religious would not be unacceptable. :
Fromtheins tractions and powers given the visitors it was evident that the plain: had _	...	for jts ultirnateji endthe. entire dissolution of
„ Then, to disturb this beautiful and' peaceful the monasteries. Resort Was had tb all sorts life there burst the storm of the Reformation, of schemes to cause dt<ss^nsi«m q0inng: the ~
was sung, followed by Our Lady’s Anthem.
It did not, however, burst suddenly. From the time of the king’s divorce from Catherine and his marriage with Anne Boleyn, there was a vague and uncertain presentiment of trouble throughout England, and especially in the religious houses. A certain woman known as the Holy Maid of Kent had been imprisoned for words she had-spoken, among them a statement that the king would live only six months after his second marriage. Then Thomas More and Bishop Fisher of Rochester were thrown into prison in the tower for refusing to take the oath of supremacy. That oath was being administered right and left; the king gradually threw aside all restraint, and all prospects of the breach with Rome being healed were lost. It soon became evident that Henry intended to administer the oath to all those living in monasteries and convents, and, furthermore, that he would tolerate no criticism or complaint about the cburses he pursued. Early in the trouble several Carthusians were hanged in their habits for refusing to acknowledge the king as head of the English Church.
It was soon seen that the oath of supremacy had not been universally accepted, and it was felt by the king and his ministers, the chief of whom at this time was Cromwell, afterwards made Lord Essex, that the principal source of resistance was the religious houses,, which were considered the stronghold of the papal power in. England. They therefore determined to bring them under the crown. A further reason for adopting this course was to obtain revenue, as the royal funds at this time were running low. The crops had been most disappointing and the tenants were unable to pay their debts. To make up the deficit it was deemed, .wiser to draw on the wealth of the monasteries rather than to arouse the people by any form of a direct tax.
. To accomplish these ends it was planned to visit every monastery and convent in the kingdom and to obtain an exact account of the temporal wealth of each-and of the submissiveness of its inmates. The visitors were
3
I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	137
nmates themselves thus rendering monastic ?	life impossible. Episcopal authority through-
I	out the kingdom was suspended, and what
V	was practically papal power was granted to
I	the visitors. They were authorized to release
.	from their vows all religious who desired it,
Iaud ordered to dismiss all who had been pro-
• fessed under twenty years of age. They were to encourage all who had any grievance against ।	their superiors to forward complaints. Finally
|	they were instructed to seize any church ftir-
!!	niture or jewels that they might judge would
|	be better in secular custody.
I ■ Many were the pathetic scenes throughout England along the routes of the visitors. These men would drive up to a convent or monastery one day and depart the next with their horses laden with the altar vessels and other valuables of the religious and their pockets full of evidence, much of it false, concerning the evil habits of the inmates of these houses. Young nuns who had been professed under twenty years of age were turned out of the convent, most of them against their will, and the only provision made for them was a gift of a secular dress and five shillings. With this they were left in the world of whose ways they knew so little.
Such actions as these naturally aroused the English people, but the revolt which began in the north was quickly suppressed by the king.
. Nor are the common people to be blamed for |	the spread of the anti-Catholic spirit. It was
impossible for the unlearned to know what
■ to believe. Benson gives a long account of the means taken to turn the favor of the commons from the adherents of the Pope to those of '	the king. Eloquent preachers’were^put in the
..	pulpit to denounce the old and expound the
new religion; the professors’of the ohfreligion rwere accused of fraud, avarice, immorality J;1	. and hypocrisy. The distribution of monastic
I	wealth was held out to the people as a means
j	of relief from taxation. One after another, the
religious houses were despoiled and tom down, relics were exposed to public ridicule and shrines were seized and burned. Then to further k	the feeling .against Catholicity and its practices
1	bands of actors, known as “ Mummers,” were
’I	organized who went about the country acting ,
J	a parody of the mass.
The story is chiefly concerned with two !	brothers, Ralph and Christopher Torridon,
..	andagirl, Beatrice Atherton. Ralph, the
elder of the two brothers, possesses a character strong in some respects and weak in others; . He is in the service of the king’s prime minister Cromwell, and is easily convinced by that unscrupulous man that the courses taken by those in power are the right, ones. He is the, more easily convinced in that, as he is of a very worldly nature, it needs but a hint of some • honor or reward to induce him to perform some service for his master. Although respectful to his master and full of admiration for him, he is, nevertheless, cynical, haughty and overbearing in his treatment of others, even of his own family. While taking a wholehearted, sincere interest in his work/ he is deceitful and tricky in many cases and makes . use of deceit in his attempt to win the love of Beatrice. He succeeds in this for a time, only to lose her in the end when the falsity of his character is made known to her. ’ After spending the best years of his life in waging war against the Church, he dies, like so many of Henry’s best friends and most faithful servants, in the Tower, receiving the sacraments from the hands of his brother who was one of the victims of his persecution.
Christopher, the younger brother, is of a quiet, religious disposition. He enters the monastery at Lewes just before the troubles begin. After the community is expelled he goes to his old home for a time and then to the Continent to resume the monastic life. He is a very strong character, being firm in his convictions and willing to suffer anything in support of his principles. He draws upon himself the enmity of the king by refusing to sign the surrender of the property of the mon- -astery. Although persecuted throughout his whole life by his brother and finally turned out of the home he-loved by him, he is, nevertheless,, at his deathbed to pray for him and to ad- -minister the sacraments.
Beatrice Atherton is a singularly noble young woman. At first she . has a firm belief . in Ralph who wins her gratitude and- respect by pretending to intercede for her friend and benefactor, Thomas More, when, in reality,? he is engaged in- obtaining evidence against him.. When, however, Ralph returns from the visitations and she hears of the cruel deeds . he has performed she gives him up, but does not cease to love him.. Her gentleness and good- * ; ness are the means of converting first Ralph’s 1 mother and then of saying. Ralph himself.- ..
138
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
. Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the University of Notre Dame
Teims: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame, Indiana
Vol. XLV. November 18, 1911. No. 9.
Board of Editors.
JOHN P. MURPHY, ’ 12
PATRICK A. BARRY, ’ I 2
CYRIL J. CURRAN, ’l2
SIMON E. TWINING, ’13
Louis J. Kiley, ’13
EDWARD J. HOWARD, ’l2
RUSSELL G. FINN, ’l2
WILLIAM J. MILROY, ’13
JOHN F. O’CONNELL, ’13
Maurice Norckauer, '14
—We quote the following editorial, entitled “Conditions at Notre Dame,” from the South Bend Tribune of Tuesday last.. It is gratifying to find that the
The “Home University’s work and the Paper’s” Tribute, conduct and character of ' her students are so highly appreciated in the home city by the home
paper.
' The authorities of Notre Dame University, at the beginning of the present school year, placed a ban on cigarette smoking. Saturday’ thres students were expelled from the-institution for violating the order. Some time ago these three students were found smoking. and warned that a second offense would result in expulsion. When they u ere found guilty of another * infraction their dismissal was' ordered. The authorities of the university when they placed the ban on cigarette smoking not only proved their courage, but assumed the lead in a movement which is likely to become general in educational institutions. In radically enforcing the order they are showing determination highly commendable in quality.
That the standard of morality among college students is far from as low as it is being so generally represented by those who are making sweeping allegations there can be no doubt. That the conditions in colleges generally are being much misrepresented is clear to anyone familiar. with the situation in any single such institution. That there are minor evils which
furnish a basis for sweeping assertions is . true, but ' that these minor evils. can be eradicated through courage and determination on the. part of college . authorities is well. pointed in the. position assumed by . the Notre Danie authorities.
In this connection it is certainly not "amiss to pay a deserved compliment to Notre Dame1. The standard -
of morality among students is uniformly higher than in some of the great institutions of learning throughout the .country. Students are not here given to demonstrations which are responsible for the general charges of critics. If the chief critic cf conditions in American colleges were to conduct an investigation at Notre Dame we do not doubt but that he would have. to revise his opinions, or become more specific in making.his charges.
—The success which has attended Mr. Newman’s travel pictures should prove, gratifying to the lecturer and to the University. The
. number and variety
The Grave and Gay in of the pictures pre-The Lecture Course, sented . gave a very fair idea of the countries represented. One saw some of the sordid side of life,—though not too much,— and one saw rich scenery and picturesque people likewise. There was a fine optimism present throughout which had a wholesome effect on the audience.
Without at all wishing to detract from the good impression he created, we may state that Mr. Newman’s stationary and moving pictures made his running comment easy enough. The eye was so occupied in seeing that the ear took a kind of leave of absence and had a rest. It is just as well, for the eye is more effective in the work of education than is the ear.
We can not have entertainments like Mr. Newman’s all year round. No doubt we would tire even of them if we had. Other lectures are coming, not so light, so easy and so entertaining as those of Mr. Newman. They make more for serious instruction and will show greater research and scholarship. It will.be well for us to give our. mind to them too, thus blending harmoniously lighter entertainment with deeper, more serious work..
—The results of the elections of last week, considered in their entirety, are not particularly encouraging to either political party. Locally both suffered reverses in some The Recent places, and in others were in Elections, varying degrees successful. But it can not be said that either has
grounds for excessive jubilation. If anything has been made evident,; it ; is: this, that the race for the presidency next year is to be the closest in many decades. Usually the political sentiment m the country istested by the resuits in New York. If that were accepted
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	139
as the criterion, it would seem that the Democratic party was again doomed to defeat, for the.state elections went decidedly against it. In these times, however, when .the opinion of the electorship in the different parts of the country is so divided on vital questions. of national policy, it'is impossible to judge by the action of any one section what the voters are going to do on election day in 1912. New York has a very large representation in the electoral college, but it is not large enough to elect the Republican candidate for the presidency, if the rest of the country goes democratic. That this is not improbable is evident from the disorganized' conditions of the party in power and the apparently general dissatisfaction with the present tariff.
One remarkable thing about this election was the tremendous gains made by the socialists all over the nation. They have at last become a formidable factor in politics. If they are not to keep on growing' in strength, some definite step must be taken by the other parties to counteract their influence.
—The unpleasantness brought about by the eleventh hour protest against Captain Pickering of Minnesota reveals a sorry condition .
of affairs in the Confer-
The Eleventh Hour ence. We believe that
Protest Again. Minnesota is right in the stand she has taken in declaring that Wisconsin acted unfairly in not revealing earlier the evidence against Pickering. It is not the highest sportsmanship to cripple a team a few days before a game by disclosures that could have been made z seasonably to allow a team to replace any man who is under suspicion.
Notre Dame suffered in this respect very severely last year when Michigan protested Philbrook and Dimmick two days before a scheduled game on a ruling made by a Conference official covering a technicality and in no way affecting the amateur standing of either of the two players. It will be remembered that the two accused men were charged with playing beyond their time. . It will also be recalled that Michigan was not .a member of the Con. ference, and .had no evidence against the. men except the ruling of the arbitrator which had not then been laid before the ConferencerCom-mittee. Moreover, the Michigan management
had been asked ten months before the game when a contract was to be signed if there was any objection to Notre Dame’s playing either Philbrook or Dimmick, and the answer was, No.
,.v It would seem that we have much to learn in sportsmanlike conduct from our Eastern brethren. They conduct affairs a great deal better. If any college in the East has reason to suspect that a member of the team of another college is tainted with professionalism, nothing is said to the opponents before the game. After the game is over, the college which has reason to believe that all is not right will play the scheduled game, but will sever relations at the close of the season. When evidence is incontestable it is presented only when there is plenty of'time for the college playing the accused man to coach somebody for his place. The East may be effete in some things, but in athletic dealings they can teach us much. In fairness and sportsmanship we have lessons to learn. ■ --------------------—=——
—Puck, whose other name is Curiosity, was strolling through Paradise with Sophia, who, in English, is called. Wisdom. In the course of their saunter they came Pessimism, upon many varieties of flower .	and shrub. These, being all in
,bloom, presented a picture of incomparable loveliness, so that Sophia was delighted beyond words. But turning, she beheld Puck who, with an expression of great astonishment on his countenance, was staring at something upon the ground. Drawing near to discover the object of his attention, Sophia perceived it was a shadow. Thus roused from his rapture Puck seized Sophia by the sleeve and excitedly demanded the meaning of the shadow, saying that he could not apprehend its nature. ‘‘It is,” he exclaimed, “a false thing, and mocks the truth. It pretends to be an image of the tree, but it contains neither color nor fragrance nor any charm of, appearance, and is a dead thing. What may this signify?” And Sophia smiled at Puck’s wonderment and answered: “ What you see is the unclean spirit of the beautiful tree. Everything in the world has two aspects, one is hopeful and full of cheer, the other doubtful and despairing. The shadow, Puck, is pessimism, andit disfigures every / noble thing in life.	-
The tale of Puck and Sophia, tree and shadow, ' points its own moral.	:	c _ .
i4o	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
‘ Ross Crane’s Otherwise Brilliant Program.
Mr. Ross Crane, cartoonist and entertainer, appeared in Washington hall a week ago Thursday. In so far as he confined himself to his proper department—that of drawing,— his efforts may be pronounced eminently successful. But his branching out into other fields was fatal and marred the whole effect. Numbers such as his are placed in the course with the intention of affording both instruction and pleasure. Mr. Crane’s drawings accomplished both purposes, but his other offerings might profitably have been omitted. Poorly rendered vocal selections, weak attempts at elocution, and very weak attempts at humor are a serious subtraction to an artist of Mr. Crane’s ability.
Aims of the Gaelic League.
The Rev. Michael O’Flanagan of the diocese of Elphin, Ireland, lectured to a rather small but deeply interested house Thursday evening on the Gaelic Revival. Father O’Flanagan presented the purposes of the league in dear, concise language, and betimes brought from his sympathetic listeners generous applause when he wandered from facts and figures to the high regions of patriotism. Father O’Flanagan is a worthy representative of a high cause. He is not given to overstatement; he phrases his thought after the manner of a craftsman in language; and There are moments when his words are rich with feeling. We will listen to him anytime with pleasure.
Ex-Governor O’Tero’s Visit
Ex-Governor Miguel O’Tefo of New Mexico (student ’75) visited the University last Tuesday. His time was too brief to permit his meeting the students,' but he has promised to return and give them a formal talk. Governor O’Tero was a prominent figure in the campaign which terminated in the dection of a democratic governor on November 7th. O’Tero is the leader of the progressive Republicans in his State, and he joined forces, with the democrats f or the defeat of the regular republican candidate.
There are few who know the game of politics -so well as Miguel O’Tero; Byappoiritmerit of President Roosevdt he - was Gbvdnor of New Mexico from 1897 to 1966.	?
Doctor Banks Tonight
Tonight Dr. Edgar J. Banks will lecture in Washington hall on “Bismya.” The lecturer is perhaps the greatest living authority on the subject of which he treats. It is true that he makes no attempt to beguile his audience with light text, or to titillate them with shopworn jokes, but anyone who can enjoy a serious lecture will enjoy Dr. Banks, and no one has any claim to be called a man of educational culture who can not listen with pleasure, to a serious lecture.
Attendance at these lectures of Dr. Banks is not compulsory. Those should attend who are capable of appredating a lecture of this nature.
“Babylonia.” ’
Last Saturday Dr. Edgar J. Banks gave the first of his series of lectures on the mysterious world of the East. Dr. Banks is riot a popular lecturer whose appeal is general. He is a student and a scholar who stands in the very front rank of workers whose life aim is to construct a civilization from what remains of bygone peoples.
--------- ■ -------
Travelogue V.
Mr. Newman’s series of five travdogues was completed on, Wednesday night with the lecture on Germany. The distinguished gentleman is orie of the most popular, lecturers in the course arid deservedly so. His engaging personality and pleasing delivery, added J to the uhusual quality of his plates and moving pictures, combine to iriake a most delightful entertainment. The trip through Germany maintained the high standard of the preceding ones, and many are of the opinion that Mr. Newriiari saved his best for the last. We will be pleased to see his name bn future schedules.
. - ~ -------------«••»-—-——■'
■	“DaritetheScholar.”
The welcome accorded Dr. Walsh Monday evening is an indication; of the interest his lectures hold for all at Notre Daine. /hie previous week the Dbctbr spoke ori the “ Modern University Mari, ”hispiricearidinfluence in the world arid hispropet attitride tdwafd religion.; He. chose the lateProfesSor Dwight
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	141
••	as a typical example. This week he undertook
B	to explain the position of the University
I	Man of olden times and drew an analogy
I'	between the lives of Dr. Dwight and the poet
‘	Dante. As in the preceding lecture he made it-
evident that religion and science, and,.in fact, knowledge in general, are anything but incompatible. It is noticeable that as Dante’s :	knowledge increased so did his depth of
j	religious thought. All told Dr. Walsh’s first
'	lecture was decidedly superior to the second.
George Griswold Hill Coming.
The date for the lecture by Mr. George Griswold Hill has been changed from November 21st to November 22d at five p. m. Mr. Hill is one of the foremost newspaper men in the country, and as such was selected to make the grand tour with President Taft as correspondent for the New York Tribune. His subject is “Journalism,” and a rare treat is promised for those who enjoy serious talk.
Society Notes.
Brownson Literary and Debating.
The sixth regular meeting of the Brownson Literary and Debating Society was held last* Sunday evening. -The question debated was: . -	Resolved, That judges should never be recalled
1	because of the unpopularity of their decisions.
Messrs. J. McCarthy, E. Riedman and C.
I	Vaughan composed the affirmative, while I.
*	. Murphy, R. Guppy and A. Clay defended the
negative side of the argument. The decision was awarded the affirmative because of their superior delivery. General discussions on the subject were given by D. Hilgartner and F. Mulcahy. The Rev. Critic then explained the importance of team work in preparing a debate, and expressed his desire that the
■' S3ciety secure - a debate with Holy Cross hall.
After the regular meeting the members of the society assembled in the small refectory to enjoy the first smoker of the season. While ,	the young men puffed at their perfectos, Mr.
*	E. Walter, toast-master, called upon various
speakers. Mr. C. Vaughan spoke on “Pep,” '	explaining . how necessary it .is , on the side-
lines as well.as on the gridiron. Mr. G;,Marshall, .	manager of Brownson .athletics, told how the
old “Brownson spirit” was going to win the

interhall championship. The “honor system” -which is - used in a few Eastern schools, was discussed as to its practicability by Messrs. Bernet, Bogy, Clay, Hilgartner, Martin, Viso and Smith. Father Burke, the guest of honor, related in an amusing manner some famous “skives” he had participated in. The setting of these were chiefly near Leeper Park or the banks of the St. Joseph river. Father Carrico then closed the1 smoker with a talk on the success of the society in general. ------------------ ----------------
Personals.
—Ambrose B. Reid, who was recently elected Judge of the Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County, was educated at Notre Dame University and admitted to the bar in 1878. He moved to Pittsburg in 1890, where he has since. practised law.	. •
—From the South Bend papers we learn that Rev. John DeGroote, C. S. C., pastor of -St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, a former student of the University, gave a very notable address before the Melting Pot, of the Commercial Club during the week. The society voted Father DeGroote a rising vote of thanks in appreciation of the felicitous manner in which he handled his theme, and the South Bend Times of Thursday evening discussed the subject of the address in a thoughtful editorial.
—The Hon. J. J. Cooke (LL. B. ’94) has assumed his place as Judge of the City Court, Beardstown, Illinois, and has already made a most favorable impression. We quote from the Morning Enterprise of Beardstown: ■
“ On every hand we hear glowing compliments on the manifest ability and fitness of the new Judge, the Hon. J. J. Cooke, as evidenced in his rulings, orders, decrees, and decisions, and in the respectful and prudent manner -in which he deals with all propositions presented.”
Calendar. .
Sunday, Nov. 19—Reception to Faculty byWalsh Clubs. _
Monday, Nov.. 20—Varsity vs. Wabash at Crawfords. ville.	’ ’
Wednesday, Nov. 22—George Griswold Hill on •. “Journalism”, 5 p. m.	’ .
Thursday, Nov.. 23—St. Joseph vs. Corby in football.
Saturday, Novi 25—Brownson vs. St. Joseph in foot- .
ball.	. J .
. Dr. Edgar J.--Banks, “Egypt,” 5:00 p. m.
142	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Local News.	..
—Monday the Varsity lines up against Wabash.
—A luxurious bathroom is being installed on the first floor in Sorin.
—Last week the minims walloped the exminims io to 3 in football.
—The Faculty of the University are to be entertained tomorrow evening by the Walsh Clubs.
—Bulletins were sent out Thursday morning and by this time home folks “see us as others see us.”
—On Monday, Nov. 20, A. O. Jones wilHecture before the Architectural^Club in Walsh hall Assembly Room, 7:30 p. m. All are invited.
—Two new Walshers and a Brownsonite blew in with the blizzard this week, Messrs. D. Sullivan, J. Ward and H. Uhl.
—T. Ryan has returned to school, and Brownson’s hope of winning the interhall flag is thereby fanned into flame again. '
—Edward McGough, of St. Joseph’s, who was called to Lincoln, Illinois, a week ago by the death of his grandmother, has returned to the University.
—Co. C is equipped with khaki uniforms, Co. D has ordered like equipment, and it is probable that the whole battalion will soon ‘ have khaki in addition to their “conventional gray.”
—Mr. Newman’s concluding lecture Wednesday was a fitting finish to his successful series. The sight of the statue of Liberty and Old Glory as we entered New York harbor brought rounds of applause.
—Note to Hall Reporters:—As you are not in the employ of the blow-out department on last page, kindly give your time to purely local news. Heaven be kind, we have enough of Safety Valve without you wasting your time at it. News, not Valve. “ wit,” is what these columns want.
—The season for the theoretical work in military science has come. The subject of Captain Stogsdall’s lecture Wednesday evening was “The Rifle; Its Parts and Nomenclature?’ Battalion drill will be held every Friday. One company only will drill on .Mondays and Wednesdays, the others reciting on text-book work.
Athletic Notes.
Varsity Closes Home Season with Victory.
; Notre Dame vs. St. Bonaventure, Cartier field, November n, score 34 to o. This, in brief, is the dismal result of a five-hundred-mile journey by an aspiring squad of New York football players. They did well, particularly in the last half, but the strength of Coach Marks’ pupils would not be denied.
The absence from the lineup of most of the - regulars, gave the gold and blue reserves an opportunity to display their talent, and the final score attests only too well to the manner in which affairs were conducted. Until the opening of the third quarter the size of the score seemed unlimited. The visitors took a brace, however, after Pliska had welcomed the. period with a touchdown, and worn the honors for the balance of the game.
L. Captain Pickett was the star for St. Bonaventure, with Fleming, Monahan, Regan and Clare lesser lights in the constellation of New Yorkers. The leader of the eleven seemed even better than the fullback of the Butler team, who caused much comment a few weeks ago, going through the gold and blue line repeatedly in the third and fourth quarters for the needed .ten-yards. On one occasion he placed the ball , on the Notre Dame ten-yard line, from where it was almost possible for the visitors to accomplish their secretly cherished hope to score on the Varsity. The punctured. line patched itself, however, long enough to prevent the catastrophe. Three vain attempts gave the ball to Notre Dame, and Kelleher punted out of the danger zone.
Pliska and Kelleher starred for the Varsity, plunging through the gaps made in the opposing line by our own dreadnoughts for the requisite distance time and again. Lee gave several thrilling exhibitions of speed on end runs and helped much to swell the total.
St. Bonaventure lost its best chance to score in the last period when Regan received a perfect pass from O’Neill carrying the oval 45 yards and tossing it to Weber when Bergman tackled. Weber added 15 yards to the gain after picking tip the ball while travelling at top speed, but Referee Tighe denied the contention of the visitors that the ball was recovered on a fumble, holding the pass by Regan incomplete
4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	143
I -I ; I s
and returning the pigskin to the 35-yard mark. Line plunges proved unavailing and the ball went over as it is wont to do under such circumstances.
The first half furnished convincing proof of the advantages flowing from the wearing practice through which Coach Marks has put the squad. It also gave Lee a chance to display some of the heady work which has earned him the “ sub ” quarterback berth. Pliska received the ball on the kickoff and advanced it 10 yards. Lee was quick to notice the nervousness of the visitors and worked a series of rapid plays which brought the ball to the three-yard line. A temporary halt was called by the stubbornness of St. Bonaventure, a fumble on the last down giving the ball to Pronto. Philbrook broke through and stopped the ball about a foot from the goal, and the thirty knot gale aided Lee in returning the kick to the 10-yard line. Kelleher scored the first touchdown around left end, Pliska kicking goal.
St. Bonaventure sprung a surprise in the opening quarter by making first down through the gold and blue line, Fleming covering the distance in two attempts. Pliska intercepted a clever double pass which might have caused some damage, giving the Varsity the ball in midfield. An exchange of kicks, with the wind favoring Notre Dame moved the ball nearer the goal, and fine plunges by McGrath and his mates of the backfield, aided by a 15-yard pass to Dolan counted for another score.
The second quarter was a repetition of the first. The reserves showed the confidence essential to victors bn every gridiron, while St. Bonaventure seemed unable to concentrate their efforts effectively. Berger and Bergman relieved Pliska and Kelleher after the third touchdown of the game, and added their mite with two more, raising the score to 29. The. rest between the halves gave the York state team an opportunity to devise a new combination which held the gold and blue to a lone touchdown for the latter .part of the. game. The improvement was noticeable in all parts of their machine. Monahan at right tackle, opposing .Philbrook, showed real ability when he held his own with the giant of Coach Marks’ squad. Regan made a. number of pretty tackles, and Pickett and Fleming slipped through and around every now and then for as much as the law allowed.
The last opportunity , to encourage the team
drew forth some spirited cheering from the rooters’ association.. The Brownson brigade of amateur musicians furnished a surprise which may account for the loose playing of St. Bonaventure during, the first half.. The lineup:
Notre Dame (34)	St. Bonaventure (0)
Elward, Armstrong,	L. E. Philbrook (Capt.) •	L. T. ' Yund	L.	G. Feeney,	O’Neill, G. Smith ,C. Harvat	R.	G. Larson	Dugan	R.	T. Dolan	R.	E.	Carney, Smith McKeown Kelly, Weber Pronto, Eustace Dugan Monahan Regan
Lee	Q.	B. Kelleher, Bergman	R.	H. Pliska, Berger, A. Smith Salmon	L.	H. McGrath	F.	B.	O’Neill Clare Pickett (Capt.) Fleming
Summary—Touchdowns: Kelleher, Pliska (3), Berger (2). Goals from touchdowns—Pliska (3), Lee. Officials—Tighe (Indiana), referee; Dunbar (Yale), umpire; Williams (Fowler), head linesman. Time of quarters—15 minutes.
Score by quarters	1	2	3	4
Notre Dame....... * * 12 17 5 o—34
St. Bonaventure............. o	o o o— o
Two games remian to be played before the close of the season. Wabash at Crawfordsville, Nov. 20, and Marquette at Milwaukee, Thanksgiving day, Nov. 30, are the final offerings. The rest allowed the regulars following the Pitt contest has worked wonders with the squad, and defeat in the closing games will be excusable only on the ground of superiority by the opposing elevens. The daily scrimmages of the past week have been a source of satisfaction to the coach, and with an even break in the luck of the game, the state championship, depending on the Wabash meeting, and a favorable settlement of the tie of two years’ standing with Marquette, will be brought back to Notre Dame during the next two weeks.
Brownson Falls Before Walsh.
Walsh beat Brownson Thursday in one of the most spectacular interhall games ever witnessed on Cartier field. From the first whistle it was a game of strength vs. skill. Skill won ten to nothing.
During the first half neither team could gain ground in the danger zone. Walsh elected to play the open game and a few forward passes carried the ball toward Brownson’s goal, but it was lost every time on downs. The Brownson
144	NOTRE DAME
boys could not get started and were slow in smashing trick plays.
The intermission between the halves gave new life to both teams'. Elward received the ball from the kickoff in the third quarter and ran fifty yards before he was tackled. From here Brownson advanced the ball to the one-yard line, but could not push it over. Mc-Nichol standing behind his goal line covered the whole field on a trick pay, aided by splendid interference and made a touchdown. He failed to kick goal. In the same period Hayes fumbled a punt on the goal line and Harry Newning fell on the ball for Walsh’s second touchdown. McNichol again failed to kick goal. The remainder of the game was a repetition of the first quarter with the advantage on neither side. Elward was the mainstay of Brownson. His fierce tackling and running with the ball featured the contest.	■
Every Walsh man should be mentioned for his playing. Kinney was continually breaking through the line, and Baujan and H. Newning were all over the field. McNichol - was the star of his team, and his clever running kept the oval in Brownson’s territory much of the time.
Safety Valve.
South Bend has been declared in our limits. At least we so infer from recent decision handed down by supreme court (People vs. Cig. Smokers). . *** -
' PH2
The matter has been taken up by the Faculty During the morning recess.
Walsh hall assembly room. . ***
During the week a mysterious stranger was seen hovering around C. F. The gates of the great egress were at once locked and' barred, but M. S. is still loose. That bull-headed Mr. Spiro, we’ll get ’im yet.
. *** .
St. J oe used to have a society in years agone. However, certainly, my gracious, those boys are so busy this year making everything shine like a nigger’s heel they haven’t time to say Jack Barry. 7 _
. *** . . - \
The'Fants. "	“
- Paul Douglas Fant . / Enfant	'	. •
■	.	Triumphant _	.
~ Elephant ;	~
'■ '	-7	~	**♦- / ~
Walsh men (?) announce they were hot among the "groundlings” who “roared” at Mr. Alf Thoirias’
SCHOLASTIC
crude imitation of Harry Lauder, November second —Scholastic Local News.
Methinks the lady doth protest too much.—Mr. W. Shakespeare. **♦ . ■
Last week our sapheaded weekly contributed “out weighed ten pounds to the man” to PH1.
♦♦♦ What Tickles the E. S. B.
“You may go, but be back on the last car.” ■ The Prof, forgetting to assign a lesson.
“Son, I’m enclosing $10.00 for incidentals.” Hot Buns.
A good moving picture of a blizzard would put the Hill street cars out of commission, and that’s the truth.
The law classes have a daily quiz now. At first the lawyers objected strenuously, but court overruled objection, and denied an appeal. Quite so, quite so.
*♦* Our Ciceronian Lineup Finis Sinister Custos Sim ter - Captor Sinister
. .	Medius
Custos Dexter '	•	~
Captor Dexter	.
Finis Dexter	,
Deorsum-in-quatuor-partes-divisum Semi-deorsum-dexter. -Semi-deorsum-sinister	•
Deorsum plenum
. The fact that Sr. Dante Alighieri, after much difficulty, through deep roads and bad weather, arrived at the truth that ducks fly in a wedge doesn’t prove conclusively, or conclusively prove that Sr. D. A. was a U. man. This in our h. 'judgment. '
.. *** ' ' : “These,” says the Inter-Ocean, “are pictures of noted Maroons and of Coach Stagg whose tricks befuddled Northwestern yesterday.”	- -
Now if anybody wants to get chesty over befuddling dear old N. U, why. let him chest.
. . *** Coming . .	.
<	Thanksgiving '	.
Spring wheat -	~
- The Book of'Lines'; ’ ■ • ‘ ‘ ' ■ . • .
It is To be feared from , certain symptoms [just theword!]thatweareto have a hair-lip epidemic.
. Keep your feet dry!; ...	5 . . / - - .	-
: ...	-J.. '. -
“This” says Mr. Blue, “will prove the end of
.interfiall athletics.” And the end of . the2 world 'will follbw hard:after, no doubt . . J s -... . . J'
3 N. P. Chasresigned.Let us all be resigned.