(the nctre dame
t
5
i In This Issue:
NEWS
Catholic Press Association Convene . . . Commerce Forum Dance Tomorrow ... Students Back Clean-up Drive... The Week . . . College Parade ... Man About
SPORTS
Irish Close Season Tomorrow . . . Cagers Meet First Opponent . . . Old-Timers Reunion . . . Cross-Country Team Runs ... Introducing . . . Splinters
Photo by Jack Lacey
SATURDAY'S MILLIONS
Winning Photo-of-the-Month
November 26.1937
Germany, Italy and Japan don’t declare wars—but they fight them. Why do they keep these wars “unofficial’"? And why are they fought? To get raw materials? Colonies? To relieve population pressure? John Gunther, famed correspondent, explodes these alibis and tells you the real reason for the wars of conquest waged by the “Have Not” nations.
This Peace is a Cheat by JOHN GUNTHER Author of “INSIDE EUROPE”
CLEAN CATFISH IN BED
Dave saved up $1.10 to marry Patience, but all he got was trouble. A riotous short story, Love’s Arm Is the Longest, by George Sessions Perry, author of Edgar and the Dank Morass. ’
I LIVE THREE LIVES—A debutante who married a rancher describes her strange threecornered life. By Cornelia Dew.
AND articles, stories, serials and cartoons.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188
Vol. 71
November 26, 1937
No. 9
EXECUTIVE BOARD OF CATHOLIC PRESS GROUP HOLDS PRE-CONVENTION MEET AT N. D.
Ihe members of the executive board of the Catholic Press association of the United States will hold their annual preconvention meeting at Notre Dame, beginning Saturday, Nov. 27, and extending to Sunday, Nov. 28. The board meets at Notre Dame this year in response to an invitation tendered by the
Very Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame.
Father O’Hara will entertain the members of the board at luncheon in the Faculty Dining hall, Saturday afternoon. Later, board members will be the guests of Father O’Hara at the football game between Notre Dame and the University of Southern California.
Following the game, the executive board will begin deliberations. The board will be the guests of Father O’Hara at dinner, and afterward will hold an evening session. Another meeting will be called Sunday morning and the final session will take place Sunday afternoon. Father O’Hara has appointed a special committee, headed by Thomas L. Barry, director of publicity, to entertain the guests.
A preliminary meeting of the board was held at the Hotel Stevens Chicago, this afternoon. The meeting was called by Vincent de Paul Fitzpatrick, president of the Catholic Press association, to sort out a great deal of the important matters facing the board at its pre-convention session. Chicago was choseit as the site for the preliminary meeting because most of the board members will pass through Chicago on their way to Notre Dame.
| All students interested in sub- | | mitting for publication in the | | Scholastic short stories, poems, | | familiar essays, essays in histor- | | ical or literary criticism, are in- | | vited to bring manuscripts to the | | Scholastic offices in the Ave | | Maria Building, Monday, Tues- | | day and Wednesday evenings | | between 7 and 8 o’clock; or to | | room 328 Main Building, morn- | | ings from 9 to 11 or evenings | I from 8 to 9 o’clock.	I
Publicity Director Barry
Host to Catholic Press
Italian Club Welcomes Freshmen Members
•
At a recent meeting of the Italian club, President William Di Bri-enza, a senior in the College of Science from Brooklyn, N. Y., welcomed the freshmen into the fold.
Prof. Pasquale Pirchio, club moderator, and Rev. Stanislaus Lisewski, G.S.C., guest speaker, informed the freshmen and reminded the older members that the purpose of the club was to increase interest and knowledge of Italian art, culture, and literature. The speakers touched on such topics as the cultural, economic, and political status of modern Italy.
When the formal discussions had been terminated, the members and their guests joined in singing Italian songs. They were aided in this en-(Continued on Page 22)
PRIEST TELLS PLIGHT OF MEXICAN CHURCH
• By Fred E. Sisk
One of the problems of persecution facing the Catholic Church is the current one in Mexico. Considering this problem, Rev. Michael de Sanctis, Missionary Apostolic of the El Paso diocese, delivered a highly informative speech entitled, “The Church in Mexico,” last Tuesday evening in Washington Hall.
“The persecution in Mexico at present,” Father de Sanctis began, “does not appear to be as cruel as during the time of President Calles. However, in reality, it is more Satanic, because it goes to cut the sap of faith which the children receive from the Church and through them the people of the next generation.”
“The Mexicans,” the priest continued, “defend themselves in their one way, and if they can resist the present persecution, the faith of Mexico will be preserved. In the big cities of Mexico where children are prohibited from attending parochial schools, the sisters and priests go to the houses disguised as workmen to teach and instruct the children in the principles of the Catholic religion.”
“There were approximately 500 priests murdered by Calles, and we may safely say that one-half of the others, who were cast into dungeons and unhealthy prisons were rendered useless in their ministry. Then, we have to likewise consider that for about twenty years there has been no seminary functioning in Mexico, and, therefore, we can understand their need for priests.”
Father de Sanctis explained that the purpose of his apostolic crusade is to rescue the Church from perse-tution in Mexico as Ireland was saved from the Protestant persecution.
Since Catholic seminaries are not permitted in Mexico, there has been a seminary established at Montezuma, Las Vegas, New Mexico. This institution, built last September, already has 360 students who are instructed by Mexican theologians. Mexican boys, however, must first learn Latin, Greek, and other studies before they can enter the seminary in Las Vegas, and for this project Father de Sanctis has been instrumental in developing plans for a preparatory seminary on the outskirts of El Paso in Nev.-Mexico.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
FIRST ISSUE OF NOTRE DAME "LAWYER" OFF PRESS TODAY; CAIN ARTICLE FEATURE
By R. J. Anton
John E. De Mots sank contentedly into the depths of his easy chair in the corner of his room, 204 Walsh Hall, late this afternoon and exhaled a sigh of relief. The Notre Dame Laivyer was safely in the hands of its subscribers. The Lawyer, a quarterly law review, has a circulation of 400. This list includes
125 student subscribers and exchang- , es with the various Law schools throughout the country. The remaining copies are utilized by former Notre Dame Law students.
The review contains articles by the students and the faculty of this and other schools. Besides these articles the publication contains notes, recent decisions, and book reviews. The student contributors to “Notes” are those representing the second year class while “Recent Decisions” and “Reviews” are written by ‘‘last year’ men. This policy of dividing the features among the different classes is a new innovation which has been instigated in an effort to give all law students an opportunity to contribute to the periodical.
In this issue there is an article by Judge William M. Cain of the Law School faculty, entitled “H. R. 4721. Prohibiting Comment Upon the Weight, Sufficiency, or Credibility of the Evidence at the Trial of Cases in the Federal Courts.” Judge Cain was formerly on the bench of the supreme court of Nebraska.
He answers, in this article, an argument of a Kansas judge, in relation to a legislative measure now before the Congress, to curb the powers of the federal judges. In regard to this bill there has been a great deal of recent comment.
Clarence J. Ruddy, the editor-in-chief of the first Notre Dame Laivyer has contributed “Young Men in American Political History.”
“The Place of the Judiciary in the Life of the People,” by Judge Walter B. Jones, of Montgomery, Alabama, completes the first section of the issue.
The articles contributed by the law students include: “Contempt of Court,” by William Langley; an article dealing with the proposed Child Labor Amendment, by Joseph B. Sha-pero; “Minimum Wage Legislation,” by John De Mots; “Suretyship,” by Rex E. Weaver; “The Use Tax,” by Carl Doozan, and “The Integrated Bar,” by John J. Lechner.
February 15, 1890 — We wish it understood that all cigars sent to the Staff must be free from duty. It is sometimes embarrassing to receive a bill for the box sent by some enthusiastic admirer.
John De Mots
First “Lawyer" hits the street.
Prof. Campbell Speaks To Mission Crusaders
“Christianity is firmly rooted in China now after many centuries of tireless labor on the part of missionaries,” said Prof. T. Bowyer Campbell in addressing the meeting of the Notre Dame Unit of the Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade recently in the auditorium of the Law Building.
Mr. Campbell, a member of the Notre Dame faculty in the history department, believes that the work of the Catholic missionaries in the Far East will survive the struggle now going on between China and Japan. He said:
“There are today in China many thousands of Catholics in the well-educated and intellectual classes. And the converts among the poorer classes are making excellent Christians.”
Prof. Campbell pointed out that Christianity at first had a most difficult time making any headway because of the self-satisfied attitude of the Chinese people.
Jerry Green, president, announced the opening of a drive for members and appointed these men to the membership committee: Pat Bannon, chairman, Maurice Leahy, Walter Gerend’, Edward Aubrey, and Charles Morrow. Cancelled stamps will be collected in all the halls under the direction of William Demling and Tom Carty.
An Old Clothes Committee, Roger Huter, chairman, will collect old clothes and magazines which will be distributed through the local conference of the St. Vincent de Paul Society.
The next meeting will be on Dec. 1.
DRAMA CLUB PLANS FIRST PRESENTATION
•
The second meeting of the newly formed dramatic club, under the direction of Professor Thomas E. Mills, was held Tuesday evening, in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering.
It is the hope and desire of Professor Mills to bring together the talent about the campus and create a more lively interest in dramatics. He sincerely believes that there is a great deal of dramatic talent here on the campus, and has expressed his desire to help any student who feels that he is dramatically inclined. It is the wish of Professor Mills to give the student experience in acting and also actual practice in managing and presenting stage productions.
General tryouts are to be held during the meetings in the near future. As announced last week in the Scholastic six or seven one-act plays will be presented during this semester with the first, “Moonshine,” a drama of the Kentucky hills, to be presented shortly.
Met Club Makes Plans
With an unusually large number of first-year men in attendance, the members of the Met Club officially welcomed the freshmen from the metropolitan area of New York into their ranks at the annual Freshman smoker on Tuesday evening, Nov. 23, at 8:00 o’clock. The smoker was held in the north basement of the Library and was in charge of President Ed Condon. After introducing the freshmen to the upperclassmen present, President Condon laid before the meeting the business to be discussed.
First to be considered were the plans for the club’s annual Communion breakfast, to be held Dec. 12 in the West dining hall. William Arnold, of New Rochelle, is in charge of arrangements for the breakfast.
Although plans are not yet complete for the Christmas vacation dance, it was stated that there will be a departure from the usual method of selling tickets. This year they will be sold on the campus. The chairman of the committee in charge of the dance is Gene Vaslett, senior from Brooklyn.
The Met Club, according to President Condon, may run its regular Christmas special train to New York, although the customary reduced rates for club members will not be available this year. The train, as in previous years, will be exclusively for the use of Notre Dame students.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
GERMAN WRITER TO ADDRESS FORUM
STUDENT BODY UNANIMOUSLY BACK PROGRAM TO STAMP OUT OBSCENE LITERATURE
The Notre Dame Commerce Forum announced at a general meeting on November 18 that Dr. Melchior Palyi would address the members of the Forum on Dec. 6. His address will deal with a subject relative to the field of banking. One of the largest crowds in the history of the Forum was present for the meeting held in the Hurley Hall of Commerce.
Dr. Palyi’s address is one that all Commerce students should not fail to attend, Charles Brosius, president, said. After graduating from the Munich Graduate School of Commerce Dr. Palyi studied at the University of Munich from which he graduated with his Doctor’s degree in Commerce. Dr. Palyi has added a wide range of experience in Europe. He was first associated with a major German bank. During the World War he held a position in the Austro-Hungarian National Bank.
He took up teaching among other activities following the war. In 1923 he became an advisor of the German government’s Industrial Nationalization committee. Five years later Dr. Palyi was the economist for the Deutesche Bank in Berlin, the largest continental banking institution of Europe. He also has had contacts with Dr. Schacht and other leaders of German finance and politics.
In 1933 he taught in England while he worked at the Midland bank. The next year he came to the United States as visiting professor at the University of Chicago. He has also taught at several other middle western universities. At the present time he is carrying out a major research project dealing with finance in tKfe Middle West. One of his books entitled Chicago and the Credit Market has already been published.
Crowley Trade Talk
At a recent meeting of the Propeller Club, organization of students interested in foreign trade, President Thomas Crowley gave a talk on the “Outlook of Foreign Trade” in which he spoke of the glorious past and the bright future of the American Merchant Marine.
The club recently was awarded a banner for past achievements, and a letter from Mr. Toady, national secretary of the Foreign Trade Convention, congratulating the club on their progress was read at the meeting.
For future gatherings the group plans to obtain certain experts on foreign affairs to address the members.
By F. G. Barreda
The war to cleanse the magazine racks of salacious and obscene literature begun by the South Bend Deanery Council of the National Council of Catholic Women has spread throughout Indiana and is rapidly gaining national momentum. 50,000 South Bend citizens joined Mayor George W. Freyermuth in
G-Man Edgar Hoover
Filth Breeds Crime.
Candid Camera Artists Hear Expert's Talk
•
Fifty members of the newly organized Camera club attended a meeting held Wednesday, Nov. 17, in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. Mr. Claus Setterlund of South Bend, president of the Midland Camera club, was the speaker of the evening. He delivered a lecture on the developing and printing of pictures.
A general discussion followed the talk during which the new members asked questions about the work. Membership cards were distributed to new members. . The officers are pleased with the great amount of interest being shown by the members. Committees were appointed to arrange future programs and to secure able speakers.
The winning picture of the first month’s contest appears on the cover of The Scholastic. Jack Lacey, senior, submitted the snapshot. The judges for each month’s contest are: Professor Thomas Barry, Stanley S. Sessler and Eugene Vaslett, editor of The Scholastic.
Submissions for the following month’s contest will be received up to December 7 at the Board of Publication’s Office in the Main Building.
signing the pledge to refrain from reading or in any way support lewd magazines or the dealers who sell them.
Early this week volunteer students, working under the department of the prefect of religion, canvassed the residence halls at Notre Dame seeking signers for the pledges. With a unanimous response from the student body, a general boycott of all retailers selling pornographic literature was assured. South Bend druggists claim that they are compelled by the magazine agencies to handle obscene publications with the good.
Mrs. E. H. Freiburg, leader of the magazine drive committee, and Mrs. A. P. Perley, chairman of the South Bend Deanery of the N.C.C.W., are working in conjunction with the mayor, the C.Y.O., the Boy Scouts, the city clubs, and church groups of all denominations in stamping out the new racket. Decency in literature can only be effected by purging the magazine stands, it was declared.
For the past two weeks the Fort Wayne Diocesan edition of Our Sunday Visitor has devoted the entire front page in promoting the new campaign. The Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of the Fort Wayne Diocese, commended the new movement whole-heartedly before the national meeting of Bishops at the Catholic University of America in Washington this month. Similar campaigns to the South Bend drive were announced as getting underway in several states.
In a recent statement to the press, head G-man J. Edgar Hoover, director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, attributed the alarming increase of sex crimes to the reading of sex literature badly presented through the magazine channel. Public opinion should consolidate itself against the criminal influence which is trying to pervert the mind of American youth.
Publishers are helpless when confronted with a unified boycott against indecent literature. It is expressly for this purpose that the new campaign was formulated. Rev. Richard J. Grimm, assistant prefect of religion, who is in charge of the University’s campaign supporting the South Bend drive, urged the students to sign the pledges and back the movement 100 per cent.
Simultaneous action is being fol-( Continued on Page 22)
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MUSIC OF "MODERNEERS" TO BE FEATURE OF COMMERCE FORUM VICTORY DANCE
By Graham Starr
“Commerce Forum football dance—Columbia Athletic club, Nov. 27, 8:30-11:30, $1.00, stag or drag” is the invitation, printed on modernistic posters placed in all the halls this week, to the students to attend the Commerce Forum’s first dance. Music will be provided by the Notre Dame “Moderneers,”
Henry Theis, music chairman, announced this week. Tickets can be bought from any of the officers or from committee chairmen. Tom Reardon is head of the ducat distributing committee. Jack Zerbst, who originated the dance posters, is in charge of arrangments.
AH members of the College of Commerce faculty are invited to attend as guests of the Forum. David Bolger is taking care of the dance patrons. Frank Delaney is acting as general chairman over all committee chairmen.
Since this is the first dance sponsored by the Forum, its success ■will affect future dances, according to Charles Brosius, Forum president.
Tickets will be available as late as Friday night. Those wishing tickets may obtain them from:
Phil Maloney, Dillon; Dick Anton, ■ Howard; Jim Metzler, Morrissey;
Wayne Wahl, Lyons; Bob Sass, Zahm; Ed Disser, St. Edwards; Dick Scannel, Sorin; Charles Brosius, Walsh; Bob Hackman, Alumni; Jim Wrape, Cavanaugh; Jim Distel, Freshman; Charles Magner, Badin.
Contest Lures Visitors
Not limited to sectional enthusiasts, the Notre Dame-Southern California game will include foreign as well as American fans. From Windsor, Ontario comes a party including Vern de Geer of the Windsor Star, who will be present to cover the game for his home paper.
Hawaii will be represented by 17 year old Michiko Iguchi, one of 50 girls from the 4-H club, all state champions in cooking, who are to be present at the game.
Tomorrow’s combat will be more than the usual Saturday thrill for Miss Primrose DuBos, daughter of Dr. Charles DuBos, French member of the faculty, since she will be witnessing a football battle for the first time.
Although football is not strange to them, 25 Los Angeles newsboys will attend the game. Indianapolis will also be represented by a delegation of 45 potential newspapermen.
Boston has been displaced as the home of the most Harvard alumni. New York has more than 7,000, the new alumni directory revealed.
Arthur J. Hughes
From Communism to Reconstruction.
Lawyers To Hear Talk By Arthur Hughes
•
The Law Club will have its monthly social meeting in the Faculty Dining Hall at 8:00 p.m., next Tuesday night, Nov. 30th. The principal speaker of the evening will be Arthur J. Hughes, former President of the Alumni Association, who will deliver a talk on “Reorganization of Insolvent Corporations.”
Mr. Hughes instigated the fight of the Alumni Association against Communism. Mr. Hughes, then president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, had a private audience with His Holiness Pope Pius XI, at his summer palace, Castle Gandolfo, on Sept. 19, 1936. Mr. Hughes, in discussing the threat of Communism with the Holy Father, pledged the aid of 10,000 alumni members, the faculty and student body of the University to aid in the campaign against Communism.
Mr. Hughes received his Ph.B., in 1911. He was valedictorian of his class and editor-in-chief of the Notre Dame Dome. On returning to the University he took his Law degree in 1917. Since that time he has been engaged in the general practice of Law in Chicago.
UNIVERSITY RECEIVES GIFT FROM CARDINAL
•
From Rome, Italy, recently came a long, slim cardboard box to the campus express office addressed to Rev. John F. O’Hara, C. S. C., University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The box contained a paschal candle, four feet in length and weighing approximately five pounds, from His Eminence Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli, papal secretary of state.
Extending from the bottom to the top of the candle are beautiful clusters of hand-painted roses, and at the center is an accurate minature painting of Murillo’s “Immaculate Conception.”
The candle was sent by Cardinal Pacelli to the university as a token of appreciation for the courtesy shown him at the time of his personal visit to the campus on Sunday afternoon, October 25, 1936.
Cardinal Pacelli’s visit to this country marked the first time that a papal secretary of state had ever personally come to the United States. At a special convocation held that Sunday afternoon in Washington Hall, the university conferred the degree of Doctor of Letters on His Eminence during his brief stay here.
At the time of his visit, Cardinal Pacelli expressed sincere pleasure for the generous welcome extended to him by the faculty and student body of the university.
Insurance Opportunity
The Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company, through its agent, Willard L. Momsen, has informed the university of an educational program it is offering to university graduates throughout the summer of 1938.
The object in undertaking this system is to equip young men to approach the field of life underwriting from a professional standpoint. The fundamental principles and mathematics of life insurance will compose the beginning curriculum, after which the advanced phases of life underwriting, involving such normal business procedure as estate analysis, estate conservation, taxation and life insurance trusts will be studied.
The company is interested primarily in residents of the Metropolitan area of New York and desires applicants to submit information regarding age, residence address, academic background and special interests to the main office, 347 Madison Avenue, New York. All applications must be sent before December 10 to enable the company to arrange personal appointments during the Christmas holidays.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
MORRISSEY - ST. ED’S
IN DEBATE FINALS
•
“Resolved, that the National Labor Relations Board shall be empowered to enforce arbitration in all industrial disputes”—that political question will be answered on next Tuesday evening when Morrissey Hall’s wranglers exchange verbal blows with the St. Edward’s Hall debaters at the interhall debate finals in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering at 8 p.m.
Prof. William J. Coyne, department of speech, will witness the proceedings in a double role; he will
Charles Osborn “I hope, I hope, I hopeV’
judge the contest, but he will have an eye peeled to scout possible material for his varsity debate squad.
St. Ed’s statesmen ■will challenge the Morrissey claim to the trophy that was awarded to the latter a year ago when Pierre de la Vergne coached Morrissey to victory over 12 other residence halls. De la Vergne piloted Dillon Hall to the title in the 1935 tournament.
St. Edward’s squad, winner of the upper bracket in the elimination rounds that included 13 teams, will defend the afiirmattive of the question. Al Hanlon, Albert Schmitz, and Walter Johnson will speak in that order. John Tobin, a member of the Wranglers’ club, campus debate society, has primed the St. Ed’s speakers.
Opposing the question will be Morrissey’s defending champions, including Robert Blake, Thomas Wall, and Gerald Flynn, winners of the lower half of the bracket. Charles Osborn, an associate of the Wranglers, has tutored the Morrissey team.
Promoter of speech interest and sponsor of the interhall debate for more than a decade, the Wranglers’ club, composed of only 13 loquacious young men, is again the leading spirit of the contest.
AND THUS WAS BORN THE GREATEST, MOST BELOVED COLLEGE SONG OF THEM ALL
By Vernon Sneider
From Joe Doyle, city editor of the Holyoke, Mass., Transcript-Telegram, by way of the Notre Dame Alumnus comes the story of the “Victory March.” “Johnny Shea and Mike Shea went to Notre Dame. Johnny was captain and shortstop of the baseball team. After graduation, Johnny went home to enter _____________________________________politics. His brother Mike turned to ** the church and is now Rev. Michael
Stadium's New "Voice" Tries Lungs Tomorrow
•
The 50,000 fans who will jam the Notre Dame stadium tomorrow afternoon to witness the Fighting Irish, tangle with the Trojans of Southern California will be on hand to hear a play-by-play diagnosis of the gridiron tussle. Installation this week in the stadium of one of the most modem loud speaker systems in the country will provide the crowd with an accurate sideline description of the 60 minute grid fray.
It was revealed by University authorities that the complete installation of the' foud speaker equipment would be completed before game time. The system, an RCA Victor set, uses three 50 watt amplifiers to carry the undistorted voice sounds within a surrounding radius of three miles from the broadcasting point on the field sidelines.
One of the outstanding features of the new hook-up will be the fine clarity of the words transmitted through the scoreboard apparatus.
This device, which will supplant the old loud speaking system, was purchased during the past week from the Great Lakes Distributing Company of South Bend. J. F. Donahue president of the firm, announced that the new purchase will assure Notre Dame having the most modem stadium loud speaker apparatus in the United States.
O. V. Swisher, of Chicago, commercial sound sa!5te engineer for the RCA, has been busy this week supervising the installation of the sound device and making a technical checkup of the wiring and synchronization. J. T. Wallace, of Chicago, RCA field engineer, and Allen Kester, sound installation engineer for the Great Lakes Distributing Company, are going over the final connections of the wiring.
With football rivalry growing keener every year, Notre Dame, through the installation of the new speaking device, has improved her claim to having the most modem and the best equipped stadium in the country.
J. Shea. John and Mike wrote the “Victory March” — Johnny writing the words and Father Shea the music.
“In his school days and later when he was organist at St. Patrick’s cathedral in New York, Father Shea used to take piano lessons from Prof. William C. Hammond, one of the best organists in the east—so they had much in common.
“One winter day when Father Shea was in Holyoke on vacation he met Prof. Hammond. Father Shea told about the song. Mr. Hammond wanted to hear it and invited Father Shea to come down to the Second Congregational Church that afternoon at 5:00 o’clock and try it out on the Second church’s new organ. So brother Johnny Shea invited himself, Gordon Powers, Bill Kelly, and Joe Doyle to attend the private organ recital.
“There were the four Irishmen, Kelly, Doyle, Powers, and Shea, sitting in the front row of pews. At the organ was Father Shea—a Protestant church, mind you—and behind him, near the organ, sat Prof. Hammond. The only light in the church was that over the keyboard of the organ.
“Suddenly the strains of the “Victory March’ rolled up from the organ. Kelly, Powers, and Doyle perked up and whispered to Johnny as to the name of the selection. And Johnny said, ‘That’s going to be Notre Dame’s No. 1 song, but Notre Dame doesn’t know it yet.’
“While the stirring tune was being played, a group of men walked into the chancel. They looked toward the organ key-board and were no doubt given the surprise of their lives when they spotted a man wearing a Roman collar thumping away at the keys. It happened that one of the men—they were church deacons gathered for a special meeting—went to high school with Father Shea, and he introduced the priest to his brother deacons. At the request of Prof. Hammond, Father Shea again played the Victory March for the deacons.
“ ‘You’ve got something there,’ one of the deacons said to the brothers.
“ ‘We’ll tell the world they have,* was the reply of Kelly, Powers, and Doyle.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
TWENTY LAW GRADS PASS BAR EXAMS
Dean Thomas F. Konop was quite pleased to hear that the graduated members of last year’s class were faring so well with the Bar Examinations tendered them in their respective states. Out of 27 students graduated from the Law school last June 24 took Bar Examinations.
Twenty prospective barristers have gained passing grades on their quiz. One of the remaining four is still waiting to hear the result of his test. Three did not take an examination.
“Computing our figures on a basis of 20 out of 24 passing grades we find that 83 per cent of the aspirants were successful,” Dean Konop said. “If we assume that the unknown quantity, the fate of the twenty-fourth student, is favorable, then we find that the percentage of the passing ‘quizees’ mounts to the admirable figure of 87 per cent.”
Five out of every six men in last year’s graduating class have passed their bar examinations on their first attempt. That this is a fine record is further illustrated when we realize that these men took their examinations in such states as New York, Indiana, Illinois, Ohio, Colorado, Michigan, Arkansas, Wisconsin, and Missouri.
In the State of New York one student, Anthony W. Brick, took and passed his examination. In Illinois Francis A. Dunn, Arthur R. Martin, and Anthony T. Scolaro; Indiana, Archibald G. Graham, who led his class with an average of 93.48%, Harry T. Grube, a special student, Caesar J. Kalman, Guy H. McMichael, Robert D. Malarney, Edward'A. Olczak, John M. Pilarski, Maurice M. Tulchinsky, and John Whiteleather, also a special student.
Wisconsin, Robert C. Albert, and James H. Levi; Ohio, Glenn A. Blake; Colorado, Arthur C. Gregory; Michigan, Marvin A. Krueger; and Missouri, Peter P. Viviano.
Gurion Works in Print
Heading the list of three articles appearing in the Oct 8 issue of the Commonweal is “Stalin’s Purge,” written by Dr. Waldemar Gurian of the department of politics in the University.
Dr. Gurian has also written a second article dealing- with the Bolshevistic State Union in Russia which is in the-current issue-of-the-Commonweal.
Since his arrival on the campus, Dr. Gurian has also written an article for the October issue of the quarterly Dublin Review and the December number of Foreign Affairs. Affairs.	.
Malicious tongues say he’s the only Irishman here who can walk underneath the brass rail in the Caf without stooping. Standing five feet seven (his own estimate) in his new shoes, John Joseph Deane, Milwaukee’s gift to the Irish, indignantly denies this.
Answers to the call of “Diz,” but has earned the appellation, “Oscar Deane” by Father Farley in his morning round-up in Sorin sub. Was quite a whiz as a fullback on the Marquette high school outfit, and still
delights to show his roomie how he scored a touchdown way back when (odds are that the roomie won’t last till Christmas).
Did some quarterbacking on Bill Cemey’s “B” outfit in his sophomore year, and was bound for the land of milk and honey on a 60-yard sprint against Purdue when he tried to outguess the safety man and was outguessed in turn. The shock was so great that he hung up his spikes and took to philosophy and the classics.
Got himself elected president of Patricians by wholesale handshaking and a hour treatise on Aeschylus. With the political bee in his head, Diz took the stump as candidate for senior class treasurer. In some mysterious manner he always managed to be the sole survivor of his party —tagging down at the end of the line like a political ghost haunting the victors.
Took up a he-man’s vocation of wrestling beer kegs by day during the summer and as playground supervisor for the Luther Burbank park at night. Kept this up until a young lady squawked, and then, being an irrepressible gentleman, he complied.
Diz can be seen every day, coTd or fair, striding from Sorin hall to the
TO AIR NOVEL RADIO FARE NEXT WEEK
By Robert Sheppard
“Campus Roundup,” a program under the direction of Jerry Hogan, is one of several promising new programs that will originate in the campus studio this week. This program, which is in the nature of a variety hour, will include songs, instrumental solos, dialogue sketches, and two minute skits.
Anyone interested in participating in future productions of this program should get in touch with Jerry Hogan in Morrissey Hall. This program will be aired at 4:15 Tuesday afternoon.
Another new program awaited with interest is “Periscope.” This will be a broadcast of campus news. Edward O’Connor, junior in the department of English, will be the commentator. This program will be on the air every Thursday afternoon at 4:45.
Opening program of the week will be “Campus Parade,” Monday afternoon at 4: ±5. This is another new program. Norbert Alexsis, director of the program, will interview students on questions relative to collegiate life.
The regular faculty talk Monday evening at 7:15 will be made this week by the Rev. Arthur Hope, C.S.C. Father Hope will explain the background of Father Badin’s labors in northern Indiana. In a future talk the character and work of Father Badin will be discussed.
Other regular programs of the week include: Tuesday at 7:45, “The Little Jamboree”; Wednesday at 4:15 “Man in the Tower,” with Redmond Duggan, and at 7:15 a skit by Jack Solan and company; Thursday at 7:45 the department of music program; and Friday at 8:15 the sports program with Steve Miller.
Law building, where he’s a budding law student, in his bearskin wrap. Give him two long ears and a tail and he would be another bunny. Some fellows claim he’s the original “Bearskin,” but Mr. Withey thought he was a pretty fair writer.
Likes to read Collier’s and see pictures like the “Prisoner of Zenda” because he has a yen for the’days when knighthood was in flower and damsels were always in need of rescue. Thinks that these time are too prosaic, and would like to retreat to an attic with a loaf of bread and a volume or two of St. Thomas.
Made quite a reputation for himself by learning a whole philosophy course the day before exams, and now his friends wonder if he can hit the comprehensive in like fashion. Most of them don’t think so, for ‘lightning doesn’t. . . .’
For a little fellow, he’s okay.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
THE WEEK By Harold A. Williams
“Staring"
Those fun-loving, insouciant Commerce boys are at it again. Having nothing to do in one class since the fly-catching season has passed, a group of the more mischievous Commerce boys have invented a game called “Staring.” There is only one rule to the game: As soon as the class bell rings those playing the game have to stare at a spot on the ceiling. The one that stares the longest, of course, wins the game. The Commerce boys say that it isn’t as easy as it sounds because one _(the Commerce boys didn’t say “one,” they said “you”) must take into consideration stern professorial squints, sore necks, and the temptation of looking out the window or falling asleep.
One fellow it is claimed, has sat through 12 classes, a matter of some ten hours, without taking his eyes off the spot on the ceiling. That’s what we call determination. An indomitable fellow like that is just bound to succeed in the world.
•
Celebration
Recently a Sophomore, for reasons unknown to us, was asked to stay out of the dining halls for a week. For a week, the disciplined Sophomore ate in the Cat'. The day that his week was up the Sophomore decided to celebrate his return to the dining hall. He celebrated by going downtown for dinner.
Mr. Eells
On one of those crowded Friday nights at Rosie’s, Professor Eells, his wife, and young daughter, age 5, were sitting at a table in the back room waiting ( as one always does at Rosie’s) for their spaghetti. After five or six minutes, the little girl became impatient and began to wander around the room. A Notre Dame student began talking to her and after two minutes of animated conversation on his part, the little girl smiled and said “Okay.” She dashed back to her father, climbed up on his lap, and whispered something in his ear. At first the professor scowled, then he smiled, and then he laughed. He whispered something to his daughter, she smiled and said “Okay.” The little girl skipped back to the Notre Dame student and said, “My Daddy said it was okay to go to the show tonight because he isn’t going to throw a surprise quiz tomorrow morning in Money and Banking.” Mail
Gene Vaslett, the editor of the Scholastic, receives more than his share of peculiar requests and contributions in the mail. During the "”<;t few weeks he has received let
ters from a social bureau in New York, the New York Public Library, the Gamma Kappa Delta girls of Northwestern, and an old maid from Arkansas. The social statistics bureau wanted a survey on where the Notre Dame boys went after dances; the New York Public Library wanted a copy of the Feb. 12, issue of the 1922 Scholastic; the Gamma Kaps wanted fifty boys for their dance after the Northwestern game; and the old maid from Arkansas wanted a picture of the Scholastic staff. But these were all topped by a letter received the other day. It was from the United Brewers Industrial Foundation, who wrote, “We believe you and your readers will be vitally interested in a striking effort at self-regulation of the brewing industry to the public.” With the letter they enclosed the “Brewers Code of Practice.” This is printed on expensive, water-marked stationery in old English type with a few illuminated letters thrown in for good measure. Unfortunately, the Brewers’ Code of Practice is too long to reprint, but j'ust to give you an idea what a beautiful and solemn piece of prose it is, we’ll reproduce the first few lines of the code, “The Brewing Industry of the United States, custodian of an art and science practiced since the beginning of recorded history, in convention assembled. . .”
Gene is still trying to figure out why the United Brewers Industrial Foundation sent the Brewers’ Code of Practice to the Scholastic.
•
Record
A new record for tardiness, we believe, was established last Wednesday when Bill Tunney strolled into a 3:15 class held in room 109 of the Commerce Building at one and one half minutes past four.
Sorin Hall
Sorin Hall made a Boston paper the other day for the first time since 1902 when a member of the now defunct Sorin Hall Literary and Dramatic Society fell off the roof of Sorin and landed on an English professor’s open umbrella. No Sorin man fell off the roof the other day nor did they revive the Sorin Hall Literary and Dramatic Society, but a Boston sports writer, striving for local color in a football story on Notre Dame, wrote reverently and knowingly of “the Golden Dome of Sorin Hall.”
•
Tomorrow
We hope that it rains tomorrow j’ust so the boys from California will feel at home.
DR. DU BOS SPEAKS
TO BOOKMEN
•
Last week the Bookmen discarded their books and went to a new and unusual source for men interested in literature. Extemporaneous talks by members featured the meeting of last Wednesday night in the Law Building.
The members who spoke confined their discussions mainly to books they
Bookman Williams
Didn’t go to Gamma Kappa Delta
had recently read or to establish the philosophy of contemporary authors. As the limited time would not permit all the members to speak, it was decided that the rest of the talks would be carried over to some meeting in the near future.
President Hal Williams announced that Dr. Charles DuBos would speak at the next meeting. Dr. DuBos, newest addition to the faculty of the Euglish Department, is an eminent French critic and writer.
John Walsh, club librarian, announces the arrival of some excellent new books, including “Kristin Lav-ransdatter,” by Sigred Undset, winner of Nobel Prize of 1936.
New Club Organized
Another new club made its appearance on the Notre Dame campus this week, when the Upper Peninsula club received a charter. The club held its first meeting a week ago last Tuesday, Nov. 16. As they had an attendance of 25 students, the members decided to elect their officers and chose Robert LeMire, as president. Other officers selected at this meeting were John Foley, vice-president, and George Nolan, secretary-treasurer.
The club is made up of men who live in the northern part of the State of Michigan, which is commonly-known as the “Upper Peninsula.” This section has been represented, by some of Notre Dame’s outstanding athletes including such men as George Gipp, Nick Vairo, Larry Danbom, and Ed Simonich.
10
DOME WORKERS BUSY IN OFF-SEASON TOO
While other University publications’ workers are putting out their weekly, monthly, or quarterly stints, it may seem to some that the 14 members of the Dome staff are lying idle waiting until April rolls around to begin their work. But this is not so. Since the second week of school these upperclassmen, after fixing up “what shows in the picture,” have
Editor Frank Reppenhagen Only six more months.
found their way over to Walsh basement for their scheduled five-minute sittings.
Then came a flood of proofs. Which one to return became the question of the day. Some were sent home to receive the parental choice; others were submitted to the candid straw vote of the members of the dorm. Still others were subjected to the cruel test of fate: “heads or tails?” But finally the choices were made, and the proofs were returned to the Dome.
Yes, the Dome is the University yearbook, and it takes just one year in which to produce it, too. Editorin-Chief Frank Reppenhagen, Buffalo, N. Y., and Managing Editor James Raaf, St. Clair, Mo., are three weeks ahead of their own schedule, so efficiently are they keeping up with themselves. No more junior and senior pictures can be taken after next week, so the few who have not had pictures taken are asked to appear in the Dome room in Walsh hall some time from 1:30 to 5:00 p.m., Monday to Friday inclusive.
The members of the Dome staff come from all over the country, and represent several colleges of the University. The complete staff, announced this week by Reppenhagen, is as follows:
Francis Kroeger, South Bend, art editor; Jolm Starkie, Topeka, Kans., snapshot editor. Section editors: Mark Mitchell, Chicago; Robert Parks, Rice Lake, Wis.; Robert Shep-
(Continued on Page 23)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
By John A. Callaghan
Purtibus Purtribus
Pueribus kissibus Sweeta girlorum Girlibus likibus Wanta somorum.
Girlibus paterbis Enter parlorum Kick pueribus Exit duorum.
Nightibus darkibus Nonus lamporum Jumpibus fencibus Pantibus torum.
—Exchane.
Daffinitions
Hun—What lover call each other.
Register—The person who puts the red marks on schedule cards.
Mat—Very angry.
Graphic—What a policeman directs. Surge—a kind of jersey.
Topaz—to walk by.
Crest—The edge of a piece of toast. Hollow—What people say to each other when they meet.
Delete—The cream of society.
Avail—What a lady wears on her hat.
—Exchane.
Ideal
We swore up and down that we wouldn’t write this but it takes up space. So we are the 189th college column to use the following description of the ideal college date.
1.	She doesn’t eat much.
2.	She’s good looking.
3.	She doesn’t each much.
4.	She dances well.
5:	She doesn’t eat much.
Jottings
Conversation piece: First Senior: Busy? Second ditto: You busy? First ditto: No. Second ditto: Then let’s go to classn . . . Duquesne coeds are unanimous in declaring that they would regard a man refusing to go to war as a coward, while men students prefer to be “living cowards than dead heroes.” The Duquesne Duke, student publication, conducted the poll. ... If all the students who eat in our dining halls were laid end to end they would reach. . . . Overheard: He calls his girl Geometry, she is so plain and solid. . . . Swiped: He’s so rich that he doesn’t know his son is in college. . . .
Juke Wohlfarth from burdened Badin: “I come from Pittsburgh where dances are naturally good, but even Pitt couldn’t put one over like our Cotillion. Ask DiMatten; he knows. See that tux? Well, it’s going places . . . this evening . . . about a quarter to nine. ...”
CALENDAR
Friday, November 26
Meeting, Scholastic editorial staff 6:30 p.m., general staff, 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, November 27
Football, Notre Dame vs. University of Southern California, stadium, 1:30 p.m.; Movie, Washington hall, “The Gorgeous Hussy,” first show for freshmen only, 6:40, second show, 8:20 p.m.; Commerce Forum Victory dance, Columbia Athletic Club, 9:00 to 11:30 p.m.
Sunday, November 28
Student Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6, 7, 8, 9, a.m.; Meeting St. Vincent de Paul Society, Knights of Columbus Chambers, Walsh Hall, 11:00 a.m.; Devotions, Sacred Heart church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Monday, November 29
Meeting, Academy of Science, Biology Building auditorium, 7:45; Meeting, Patricians; Meeting, Server’s club, Sacred Heart church, 7:45 p.m.; Meeting, Economic Round Table at Rose Marie Tea Room, South Bend 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, November 30
Meeting,' Knights of Columbus, Walsh Hall Chambers, 8:00 pan.
Wednesday, December 1
Meeting, Bookmen, Law Building, 7:45 p.m.; Meeting, Wranglers, recreation room, Law Building, 7:45 p.m.
Chicagoans Pick Band
December 27 is the date set for the annual Christmas formal sponsored by the Notre Dame Chicago Club, at the Drake Hotel. John Buck-ley, president of the organization, and William Riley, general chairman for the dance, announced that Jack Russell and his orchestra will provide the music for the occasion, which will be presented in a unique cabaret style. The tickets will be three dollars ($3.50 at the door) and may be obtained from all hall representatives.
The Chicago Club will meet November 30 in the Badin Hall Rec, at which time final arrangements for the holiday activities, as well as a plan for securing a Christmas poor fund, will be decided upon.
Numbered among the future club activities will be a communion breakfast on Dec. 5, and a handball tournament for members only, which has been postponed until after the Christmas vacation. All club members are urged to participate in these various activities.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	II
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
Samplers Stymied.
A manufacturer of expensive typing paper is running an ad which offers readers 100 sheets free for merely sending in an attached coupon. It was read with avid eyes by one of us and the scissors clipped around in nothing flat. Then a pertinent little parenthesized sentence sprang up to deflate the triumph of getting something for nothing. “Students, and those outside the U.S., enclose $.50).” My, how those manufacturers are catching on!
Cotton Crusade.
About a week ago some thirty sorority gals of Northwestern gave up wearing silk stockings and went back to the cotton variety. They were going to show the Japanese that they couldn’t invade China without paying dearly for it. Now we find that the dear things have repented and have gone back to silk. (“It’s a nasty scuff on the vanity, isn’t it girls, when the boys begin to say, “Who’s the schoolmarm?”).
Thumbnail Descriptions.
(Thanks to a contributor). Gene Dolan (Deadpan) . . . Bill Condon (Inflation) . . . John Donnely (Deflation) ... Ed Simonich (The One-Man Gang) . . . Dick Foley (Tailor Made) . . . Hal Williams (Dimples) . . . Jack Mahoney (Jitters).
Cavanaugh Capers.
The following announcement was made necessary in Cavanaugh one night recently: “Fellows, the telephone company appreciates the number of calls you’re making, but they request that you quit calling undertakers and sending them to unsuspecting people.”
Another of the cubs has been calling up people by the name of Wolf; tells the person on the other end of the wire that he’s the third little pig and isn’t afraid of the big bad wolf.
We’ll wait for them to pull the old one about the bird seed and then get up a petition.
Scenario.
One minute to play. The hated enemy is ahead 6-0. Our hero goes in as his team gets the ball on their ten-yard line. Huzzahs arise from the crowd. He’ll pull this game out of the fire, egad. The ball is snapped. There is much razzle-dazzle but the ball finally reaches the “game-out-of-the-fire” puller who is now standing back in the end zone. (It is a double reverse with a triple spinner, you see). From his spot in the end zone he sees the enemy charge him. There
is no escape forward but a daring plan comes to a mind into which daring plans pop with the frequency of rain in South Bend. He dashes back and up into the stands—up past the 40th. row, the 50th., until the scoreboard halts his progress. Behind him the leering enemy crush and maim bodies in their chase after him. He now turns to face them. A smile quirks his lips (The kind of smile that always goes with a jutting chin, dimpled cheeks, baby-blue eyes, and slightly ruffled, blonde, curly hair). You can see that something is definitely afoot. Yes indeed, for off he goes to the right dashing down through the crowd: adoring maidens bending their backs to make a platform for him to run on. He nears the last row of seats and it begins to look as though he’s going to make it and justify our spending of the two-bits. But what’s that? Two uniformed figures have leaped at him and have knocked him to the very hard concrete. A voice growls in his ear, “Where ya going, buddy—and how’d you get by the gateman in the first place?” The gun goes off ending the game. Fadeout with the tear-stained face of the hero in a closeup. (Somewhere along the line we think we were cheated).
STA PI PM
“And it’s a bargain too, I hear they’re even having a football game between the sabers and the foils!”
The Meanest Man Again.
The man who gives his little boy a nickel to go to bed without supper, steals it from him during the night and then makes him go without breakfast for losing the nickel.
New Form of Criticism.
Freshman (looking at picture of Senior’s best girl) “Boy, she must be awfully rich.”
Concept (out of the Ark).
“Do you smoke?”
“No.”
“Do you drink?”
“No.”
“Well, then, do you eat hay?”
“Of course not.”
“Boy, you’re not a fit companion for man or beast.”
Short ones.
Something we never expected to find in a philosophy book: “Honesty is the best policy where the police force is efficient.”. . . . The South Bend individual who told “The Man on the Street” that a Rhodes scholar was a civil engineer working his way through college. . . . Another typographical error, this one from the
(Continued on Page 22)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C........Faculty Adviser
EUGENE F. VASLETT................Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA PRA____*_________________Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
Harold Williams The Wee^
John Callaghan College Parade
John F. Clifford____________________Splinters from the Press Box
Thomas Healy________________________________In the Juggler Vein
Netes Staff Vincent DeCoursey__________________________________News	Editor
George Haithcock_______________________Assistant News Editor
Frederick Sisk___________________________________Graham	Starr
Robert Sheppard Vernon	Sneider
Joseph Miller Thomas	Marker
James Dempsey______________________________________John	Kohn
William C. Fay________________________________Fructuoso	Barreda
James Gorman______________________________Richard Anton
James Hufnagel
Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitcheli____________________________Sports Editor
Frederick Digby________________________Assistant Sports Editor
Nick Lamberto__________________________Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe_____________________William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan Ed Brennan
Eddie Huff
Art Staff George Elmore__________________________________Art Editor
Tom Powers-------------------------------------Ed Kort
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collesiate Digest
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 237 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Vol. 71	November 26, 1937	No. 9
Contribution
LAST WEEK this page carried an editorial commentin on the lethargy of the Catholic college press. It carried rather a serious indictment of the apparent listlessness of the hundreds of Catholic publications being issued from the various Catholic institutions of higher learning. Mention was made of the move, an embryonic move, to rectify this lackadaisical attitude.
Tomorrow, as if in answer to that editorial, the executive committee of the Catholic Press association will convene here at Notre Dame in a pre-convention meeting to discuss important business. For the publications of this University we welcome them and if we do not seem too presumptuous we would like to offer a constructive suggestion to them in connection with this young movement that we made mention of last week.
Would it not be possible, through the medium of this potent organization, the Catholic Press association, to work for the improvement of the Catholic college press? To be more explicit, could machinery be set in motion to bring about a unified Catholic college press? At present the publications of Catholic colleges are unified in spirit. They are all working under the ideals and practices of Catholicism, but, they are not unified in a manner that would make them the constructive force they could be in the collegiate and national picture of this country.
There is in this country today no unified collegiate press. Individual collegiate publications have brought about many movements, or aided many movements, through vigorous editorial campaigns. If individual publications could do this what could hundreds of publications campaigning along similar lines and along Catholic lines accomplish? We earnestly believe that a unified Catholic college press could be a great constructive force. We present this contribution to the executive committee. A powerful organization such as this could set in motion such a plan. We hope they will consider it for what it is worth and aid in making the Catholic college press a vital force in Catholic and national circles.
The New Crusade
FROM THE very moment of its founding Notre Dame has always stood at the forefront of all drives, crusades, and reforms which were motivated by public welfare. On this campus was sown the largest and most influential Catholic drive against alcoholic beverages and the evils of tobacco smoking. Its whole cry was for temperance; its methods differed from the prohibitionists. It made a plea to common sense; the other appealed to penal statutes.
Again, when the Legion of Decency was growing out of its swaddling clothes and making insistent and righteous demands for the purification of the cinema, Notre Dame led the way.
Today, Notre Dame again assumes the forefront of another drive. This is the drive to rid the newsstand of all that type of literature which appeals only to the low and the debased emotions. Notre Dame has been fortunate in that it has not any need, as do other retailers, to purchase magazines by the block-system, the good with the bad.
Now, through the medium of pledge cards, the University asks you to co-operate with this latest drive, a drive which was started in South Bend under the auspices of the National Council of Catholic Women. PubTic opinion helped to clean up the cinema and the theatre, and overwhelming public opinion will aid to eradicate lewd and filthy literature which today clogs up our newsstand, and aid in ridding the nation of a moral poison. Educators and psychologists tell us that a great deal of our crime today is traceable to the reading of low literature.
You can help a lot in this crusade. Sign your pledge card. You do not only aid in ridding the newsstand of filthy magazines, but you will also aid in a positive fashion by encouraging the reading of good literature. This must be a consumers’ crusade as the retailers are practically helpless as a result of the block-system. Concerted action will drive salacious literature off the market, clean up the newsstand, and help immensely in reducing crime.
Notre Dame has always stood in the forefront of these drives and crusades because the student body has stood up with the University. Again, the University appeals to the student body for support and aid. Do not fall down in this supremely useful and beneficial drive. Indecency will remain only as long as people will tolerate it. It is evident that people in general, and Catholics in particular, no longer tolerate it. It is time for quick, decisive action. The women‘of South Bend have pointed the way. Let us not be so ungentlemanly as to let them down.	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
All the Perfume
The light wind chased the scrape of Paul Conley’s footsteps through the darkness to the lake where the scuff filtered the soft slap of the water. Paul Conley was young — twenty-two was very young for a graduate assistant—and Paul Conley was troubled. He was a stranger even after’ seven weeks at Notre Dame; he was a stranger where there were no strangers. He had expected his strangeness to wither as his familiarity with the campus blossomed; but, instead, he found his strangeness increasing, day by day.
Nor was he experiencing the pleasure in his teaching which he had anticipated. Of all his classes the eight o’clock that morning had been the most disappointing. Granted the student were looking ahead to the afternoon and the Pitt game, still an interesting lecture should have drawn them from their lethargy. But when he read Lycidas, they yawned; when he quoted Macaulay, they writhed in their seats.
Even Hercules had failed him. (Hercules was the mental nickname he applied to the big lineman in seat 4. The frisky little Irishman in 5 was Puck.) Even Hercules had been the one boy in the class to feel the tragedy of Lady Macbeth’s remarks, “All the perfumes in Arabia will not sweeten this little hand.” A boy with that perception had depth; he was a joy to work with. Unconsciously, he excused Hercules. You couldn’t blame him for day-dreaming — he’d probably been thinking about Goldberg.
The “1-2-3-4-5 — BeeEaaAATTTT PITT” roared intermittently from the walks below the window hadn’t helped the class to concentrate, either.
Perhaps his lectures hadn’t been entirely faulty. The thought failed to soothe—he didn’t know that the older profs filibustered on game-daymornings, that two years hence he himself would filibuster. Now, he was disturbed. The quietness of the night did not soothe. The stars were far flung friends, and the moon was noncommital. . . .
The pre-game tenseness, the will to win, was all new. At New Haven, the game was the interesting prelude to the dance. Here, these boys had wanted to win. It had been in their
By William Cullen Fay
eyes in their talk. English had been forgotten.
Of course they’d lost. Pitt was too good. He knew Pitt was too good. They should have known Pitt was too good. Their cheering throughout the first half bothered him. His binoculars had followed the play; he had seen the ease with which Pitt stopped the offense; he had noted the strained desperate pitch of the defense. Goldberg, always slashing, always threatening, and always a last blue jersey to stem the advance.
At the half his mind was made up. The tide was slipping away from Notre Dame. Pitt would break through, perhaps soon, perhaps later. Still, he felt differently. He had been watching Hercules with his wild charge, realizing that the fierceness
Encore
“She is taking French she tells me And I wonder in dismay
If ’twill last until ■vacation— Pcste! jc nc parle pas francais.
I can manage, with attent:on And a dictionary, too. To interpret all her phrases—
Illa foi, oui! Comprcncz vous?
Will she, when she finds my knoivlcdge Is a sham, a thing untrue,
Say at parting, kind or cruel, revoir, D." or “Adieu"?
—D.V.C.
of the charge must eventually spend it. Yet, he found himself hoping that somehow the charge might be recharged.
The touchdown in the third quarter had startled him. Didn’t they know they were tired. But the missed extra point brought apprehension. As they lined up to kick off he sensed that the string was run out— stretched to the last strand, to be sure; but there just wasn’t enough string. The stands were roaring at a miracle. He watched the players punch fist in palm, heard them shout. But each shout found them drawn more compactly; then the backs were shouting from the end zones . . . and the white shirt dove through.
Why didn’t they stop cheering. The tide was coming in, now; and the white shirts were surging and breaking over the blue wall like a savage surf. Hercules was lunging now;
the charge was gone. The hands were holding in gasping sides and the shouts were whispers.
Why didn’t they stop cheering? The gun puff at the end left him baffled, slightly angered that he had permitted himself to hope. As the jostling crowd punched him down the runway and through the exit, he waited for the students to voice his own disappointment. But mostly they were silent. “If that class hadn’t clicked? . . . but they were certainly in there pitchin’!” They were praising Hercules, too. Hercules had played great ball. But Hercules had failed, too. Pitt had gone through him at the end. . . .
He had planned to re-read Macbeth that night, but for once Shakespeare held no pleasure. The picture of Hoffman galloping to the five-yard line bobbled up and down on the frontispiece. The whistling in the hall and the splash from the showerroom irritated him. They were going downtown to the shows just as though they had won. Not that they should sit around and brood, but the whistling. . . .
Finally he set the book aside, and tossing on his topcoat he tramped off across the campus. Lake St. Joseph lay charred in the darkness. He had never circled the lake; and, acting on impulse, he began to grope along the winding path.
The disappointment of the day trailed with him. Hercules fumbling for the definitions of Metaphysical Poet, Hercules who had felt the trag-- edy of Macbeth. Again he saw Hercules knocked backwards and the white shirt pounding on and on to fall across the goal line.
Why was he a stranger in this place? Why was he brooding while the others were downtown. He was disappointed in Hercules; the others were proud of him. “All the perfume,” Hercules had once said.
The night was lifting and the stars lowering down. “All the perfume,” Hercules had said. The Dome was clear in the night. Unconsciously, he paraphrased, “No, nor could all the last quarter in the world erase the memory of those gallant first three.”
Now, disappointment was gone. The stars were close friends. And the moon was hooked fast in a tumbling puff of jet.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ATHLETICS
IRISH GRIDDERS MEET STRONG TROJAN OUTFIT TO CLOSE SUCCESSFUL FIFTIETH SEASON
By Fred Digby
The Irish of Notre Dame close their 1937 football season tomorrow afternoon when they meet the Trojans of Southern California. This twelfth consecutive game between the two teams represents the oldest intersectional rivalry between a Pacific Coast school and a school from another section of the country.	_________________________________________
The records of the two teams give the Irish the edge over the Trojans. The latter have won three games, lost three, and tied two. The Irish have dropped only two games, tied one, and number the strong Minnesota, Army, and Northwestern teams among their victims.
This, however, is no basis for comparison between the two teams, for the records were almost the same last year and, though they were outplayed, the Trojans tied the Irish 13 to 13. The same thing may quite possibly occur again this year, for the Irish have shown in game after game that they lack scoring power.
Trojan Coach Jones Out of the West. . . .
The games between these two teams, however, have usually been high scoring affairs. A previous average of 24 points a game marks this battle as a potential scoring thriller.
Eight of the first Irish eleven will see service for the last time in the Southern California game. All the first string linemen except the tackles will be lost. Len Skoglund, Joe Ruetz, Pat McCarty, Joe Kuharich, and Chuck Sweeney will all be playing their last game. In the backfield Andy Puplis, Jack McCarthy, and Nevin McCormick will be toting the ball for the last time.
Notre Dame holds an edge in the (Continued on Column 3)
OLD TIMERS RETURN FOR TROJAN GAME
•
Members of Notre Dame athletic teams from 1905 to 1910 have been invited to return and help celebrate the completion of the 50th anniversary of Notre Dame football at the Irish-Trojan contest here tomorrow.
As most followers of Notre Dame are aware, the Fighting Irish took the field in a football game for the first time against Michigan on Nov. 23, 1887. This progenitor of modern Notre Dame teams lost its first engagement 8 to 0, but showed the Wolverines that same spirit which has characterized its successors e v e r since.
Among the old timers who have received invitations for tomorrow’s game are such Notre Dame men as “Cap” Edwards, Don Hamilton, “Pete” Vaughan, Peter G. Dwyer, George Philbrook, Billy Ryan, Joseph Collins, Samuel M. Dolan, Albert M. Kelly, Luke L. Kelly, Edwin J. Lynch, Robert L. Matthews, and William C. Schmitt, all members of the 1909 team;
“Gus” Dorais, who played in 1910, was forced to decline the invitation because his team, Detroit, plays Duquesne tomorrow.
Of the 1905 outfit, those who are expected include Robert Bracken, Dominic Callicrate, William Draper, Arthur Funk, Lawrence McNerny, and Thomas McAvoy. Most of these men also played in 1906, but additional members of the 1906 squad are Ray J. Scanlon and Oscar D. Hutzell.
Returning members of the 1907 and 1908 teams include John F. Ber-teling, Henry Burdick, Albert Mertes, Paul McDonald, Robert Paine, Ulric Ruell, and Thomas H. Sullivan.
Besides Dorais, 1910 men invited are Walter A. Clinnin, Charles F. Crowley, William C. Martin, Chester-(Continued on Page 19)
RELEASE PLANS FOR HALL CAGE LEAGUE
•
By Clarence T. Sheehan
The Interhall Basketball season will open immediately after the Christmas holidays, according to an announcement made today by Mr. John A. Scannell, head of the department of physical education. As in other years there will be a league for both heavyweight and lightweight eagers. Sixteen teams are expected to enter each league. This will be the largest turnout in the history of Interhall basketball.
Practice sessions will get underway on Monday, Nov. 29. The candidates for the Freshman Hall teams will report to their coaches immediately after night prayer in the gymnasium. A complete practice schedule which covers the period until the Christmas holidays, has been prepared and each coach will acquaint his team with it’s warmup dates.
The heavy snow which fell over the week-end prevented any activity in the Soccer Loop or in the Touch Football tournament.
The Interhall basketball coaches are, in the heavyweight division: Freshman, Schulz; Zahm, Conrad; Cavanagh, Nardone; Brownson, Theisen; Carroll, Bums; Badin, Kell; Old Infirmary, O’Hara; Off-Campus, To-nelli; St. Edward’s, Kolander; Howard, Dollard; Morrissey, Kovalcik; Lyons, McCabe; Alumni, Malesweski; Dillon, Rogenski; Walsh, Conrad; Sorin, Dahar.
In the lightweight division, the following coaches are assigned: Freshman, Kolander; Zahm, Dahar; Cavanaugh, Dollard; Brownson, Rogenski; Carroll, McCabe; Badin, Male-sewski; Old Infirmary, Kovalcik; Off-Campus, Schantz; Howard, Schulz; Morrissey, Nardone; Lyons, Kell; Alumni, Theisen; Dillon, Bums; Walsh, O’Hara; Sorin, Hofer.
series, having defeated the Trojans 6 of the 11 times. The Trojans have won four games. Last year’s tie was the first in the series.
Tomorrow will be homecoming day for the members of Notre Dame athletic teams from 1905 to 1910.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME FOURTH IN CROSS COUNTRY
•
Competing in its only meet of the season, Notre Dame’s unofficial team placed fourth in the twelfth annual running of the Central Intercollegiate cross country meet held on the Michigan State course at East Lansing last Monday morning. Indiana, without question the most formidable collegiate cross country team in the nation, retained its championship with a low score of 27 points, while Michigan State, which had successfully defended its I.C.4.A. championship a week previously, scored 47 points to take the runner-up position. Wisconsin’s previously undefeated team nosed out Notre Dame by 82 to 84, while Butler was fifth with 127. ■
Jimmy Smith, Indiana’s lanky colored star battled it out with his team mate, little Tommy Deckard, and won in the last few yards in 20:15. Although Jim Whittaker of Ohio State edged out Mel Trutt of Indiana for third place, Indiana was given the first three places in the team score because Ohio State had not entered a full team. Charlie Fenske, N.C.-A.A. mile champion from Wisconsin, fought off the powerful finishing sprint of Greg Rice, Notre Dame’s N.C.A.A. two mile champion, to beat him by a foot for fifth place. Waite and Frey of Michigan State finished seventh and eighth, while Jones, an unheralded but brilliant star from the small college of Earlham, beat out Steve Szumachowski of the Irish team for ninth place. With the exception of Whittaker, all of the first eight men had placed fifth or better in either the mile or the two mile of the N.C.A.A. championship at Berkeley, California last June.
All of the runners were hampered by the severely cold weather and by the poor condition of the course which was slippery with snow and hazardous with mud that had hardened unevenly. Notre Dame was further hampered by its lack of the preliminary competition necessary for a big meet, and by the absence of Gene Gormley, its third man, who was unfortunately called home last Saturday because of the very serious illness of his mother. Coach John Nicholson, who asserted that he had never seen a more formidable collection of collegiate cross country stars assembled for one meet, was not disappointed with his team’s showing. Several of the individual runners, however, felt that they should have given more worthy performances. The five men who competed for Notre Dame were Greg Rice, Steve Szumachowski, John Francis, Curtis Hestor, and Bill Donnelly.
IRISH BASKETEERS OPEN AGAINST COLUMBIA; KEOGAN'S SQUAD STRONG FAVORITES
By Charles Callahan
There’s snow on the ground and the season of the year when the Fighting Irish move indoors to continue carrying on their athletic fame is almost here. Five evenings hence—next Wednesday to be exact—the 1937-38 Notre Dame basketball campaign begins. The opponent is Columbia College from Dubuque.
SO THEY SAY
“Appropriately enough, Notre Dame’s Irish marched to victory in Dyche stadium yesterday on the feet of a lad named Charley Sweeney. He snatched a blocked punt out of the wintry air and took a few hurried but unmolested steps to a touchdown which defeated Northwestern’s Wildcats, 7 to 0, on a field fringed by snow and 45,000 wel chilled spectators.”—Irving Vaughn in the Chicago Sunday Tribune.
“Sweeney—Charles Aloysius Sweeney—told it to Northwestern today.
“The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame conquered their Big Ten archrival, Northwestern, 7 to 0, in freezing, windswept Dyche stadium, and it was Sweeney of Bloomington, Ill., hero of Notre Dame’s triumph over Navy and Minnesota, who scored. It was Sweeney also, who on three other occasions, contributed defensive gems which helped keep the desperate Wildcats, playing their final game of the season, from scoring.”—Associated Press account in Youngstown Vindicator.
“Since the opening game of the year Notre Dame hasn’t scored more than one touchdown per game and Saturday’s affair was no exception; but that one touchdown, scored by “Chuck” Sweeney after Alec Shellogg blocked Bernie Jefferson’s punt, was enough to defeat Northwestern yesterday afternoon at Dyche stadium, the final score being 7 to 0.”—Tom Le Strange in the Philadelphia Bulletin.
“For the third time this season “Chuck” Sweeney took it upon himself to insure victory for Notre Dame Fighting Irish, this time at the expense of Northwestern; by scoring the lone touchdown of the game after a blocked kick in the second quarter yesterday at Dyche stadium.”—United Press report in Topeka Capital.
“Charles Sweeney, Notre Dame’s right end, yesterday chalked up Northwestern’s name alongside those of Minnesota and Navy on his list of personal victories, for he snatched a blocked punt out of the air to score the touchdown that was responsible for Notre Dame’s 7 to 0 victory.”— St. Louis Times-Star.
The first five has All-Americans Johnny Moir and Paul Nowak, plus Captain Ray Meyer on the front line at forward, center and forward re-
Guard Tommy Jordan
Starts Wednesday night.
spectively. Cool Tommy Wukovits and alert Tommy Jordan hold down the guard berths.
Behind this group there is a present second-string quintet composed of diminutive Mike Crowe and ballstealing Ed Sadowski at the forward posts, sophomore Mark Ertel at center, and the scrappy “Duke” Ducharme and sophomore Gene Klier in the back court positions.
Space keep us from giving much mention to the other members of the squad. It’s a shame to list them under a heading of also being on the squad —but, what can we do. Therefore, here they are: forwards — Carson Wagner, O’Connor, and Walker; centers— Ellis, and Shields; guards — Oberbrennan, Gaglione, and Smith.
Remember, next Wednesday night! See you there!
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING By Mark J. Mitchell
VARSITY FINISH LAST WEEK OF PRACTICE
Patrick Francis McCarty will play his last game as Notre Dame Varsity center against Southern California, tomorrow. In so doing he will close a college football career which saw him rise from mediocrity to a position in which he has already merited All-American honors. His play this year particularly on defense, has been of such quality that it caused many of the old timers to harken back to the days of Jack Robinson, Tom Yarr, and even the immortal Adam Walsh.
He was bom in Toledo, Ohio on Dec. 30, 1915 in the same house his family lives in today. His mother was German and his father Irish, and they must have given Pat a good start. For today he towers 6 feet two and a half inches skyward and depresses the machine marked “No Springs—Honest Weight” until the hand wavers about the 200 mark.
Continuing the policy he inaugurated after the Pitt game, Elmer Layden decreed Monday a day of rest for his “one-touchdown” varsity, hoping that the U. S. C. game will result in a victory. His hope is well-founded, as the Army and Northwestern victories followed practice-free Mondays.
Tuesday the boys had a look at some of the U.S.C. formations designed to shake loose agile Ambrose Schindler, ace Trojan back. Incidentally the players may just as well accustom themselves to the presence of officials, because in last year’s game blocking by the whistle-tooters was a great factor on the Trojan side. It will be recalled that Larry Danbom was completely taken out of a play on a neat block by one of the officials, a touchdown resulting for* U.S.C.
All of the varsity players should be in fine condition for Saturday’s game, although Shellogg and Pat McCarty are sporting “shiners” as mementos of the Northwestern game.
Last year U.S.C. used eleven for-fations, from any one of which a score might have resulted, so Elmer is hoping the team gets over its one-touchdown business for a change.
His high school record at Central Catholic in Toledo speaks for the early brilliance and versatility of this latest Fighting Irish pivot man. He participated in football, basketball, and baseball. In the first of these sports he was captain and all-city center in 1933, his senior year. The same year he received all-tournament honors in basketball.
At Notre Dame he was just another lineman for two years. In third year he understudied Fred Mundee, and did it so well that at the end of the season he found himself the possessor of a gold “N.D.” in recognition of his efforts.
The past summer he occupied himself with the care and tending of a large five-ton steam roller for the Lucas County (Ohio) Engineering department. This undoubtedly accustomed him to dealing with large objects, and may account for no small portion of his success against such forward walls as those of Minnesota, Pittsburgh, Army, and Northwestern.
For this season has been successful, almost entirely, from the McCarty viewpoint. He played almost every minute up until the Pitt game, when he had to leave the field in the second half because of two broken ribs. However,
he taped them up and started against Army, again playing most of the game. Northwestern saw him still with the first string until the fourth quarter when he had to be led from the field because of a deep gash over his left eye.
In connection with this an interesting anecdote is told. Of course every one in the stands remarked how dirty some of “them Northwestern fellers” must be. But Pat’s version is this: He says, “I was tackling Don Heap when Beinor rushed over to help me. I saw him leave his feet and dive right toward my head. I still can’t understand why I didn’t duck.”
Pat will be out there tomorrow wearing a specially designed headguard something akin to that of Joe Ruetz, and playing his heart out to show that he deserves that All-American honor card he received after the Army game. When the shades lengthen and the crowd wends its way out of the stadium, Pat will walk off the old Cartier sod for the last time. But before this takes place we can promise you that the Trojans will know they played a ball game against a real center and Fighting Irishman— Patrick Francis McCarty.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
FENCERS SEEK POLISH AS OPENER NEARS
•
After five weeks of diligent practice, Coach Pedro de Landero has his 1938 fencing team fairly well lined up. The round-robin tournaments, which have been held for the past two weeks, have shown more promising material than was originally expected.
Especially promising are Jim Graham and Charlie Colgan, who are candidates for the epee posts, while Captain Zerbst, Mahoney and Guerin showed better than usual form in the early epee-bouts. Vic Mercado, the boy from Woodhaven, Long Island, has proven to be a real foil-man, winning nine of his first ten matches. Captain Zerbst still seems to be the best sabre man on the squad. Although he was victorious in matches with Sal Scarlata, Donovan, Gavan, Graham and Michelson, all of the boys gave him severe competition. Veteran Sal Scarlata has failed to show his usual efficiency because a heavy academic schedule keeps him from the necessary practice. Even so, the saber event will be the strongest section of the Notre Dame aggregation, with Zerbst and Scarlata as the only two letter men in this group. Of the other, Mercado, Graham and Colgan have had varsity experience against outside opponents. This is the smallest group of experienced men that has reported for fencing posts in four years.
The freshmen fencers are whipping into shape, although individual bouts have shown that they will need plenty of practice before they can face actual competition. Michelson, a freshman sabre man, has been outstanding in his fights with the more experienced members of the squad. The sophomores are developing gradually with the recent intra-squad practice, but if the 1938 team wishes to better last year’s record of four victories, three defeats, and one tie, there will have to be some vast improvements.
A rather severe schedule which will include the University of Chicago, Northwestern, Washington U., the University of St. Louis and Wisconsin faces the almost green Irish about the second week in January.
In the meantime, the freshmen are to be drilled in fundamentals and calisthenics to loosen up those muscles which are not usually brought into play in other athletics. While the freshmen are learning the art of lunging, parrying and retreating, Coach de Landero and his assistants are looking for individual talent; they have been encouraging specialization, with the hope that by means -of intra - squad tournaments they might give the men a fair substitute for actual competitive experience.
Great Games, Wierd Plays, Thrill Finishes Have Marked Irish-Southern Cal. Series
By Bill Donnelly
Anything may happen tomorrow afternoon when Notre Dame meets Southern California in the twelfth consecutive game of one of the craziest and most thrill-making rivalries in the history of football.
The Irish won three of the first four games by one-point margins, overwhelmed a favored U. S. C. team to win the national championship in the last game Rockne coached, lost three games under Hunk Anderson, who was apparently Jonahed by the Trojans, won two games for Elmer Layden, and also played last year. Each battle has been ideal for the spectator who does not fully appreciate the technical excellence of an impregnable defense; with a total of 135 points for Notre Dame and 131 for Southern California, there has been an average of over 24 points a game.
In 1926 Notre Dame traveled to
Schwartz Tries Right Tackle
Los Angeles for the first game of the series. With his team trailing 12-7 after 58 minutes of play, Art Parisien entered the game at quarterback for the Irish, ran once himself, called two running plays, and threw two left-handed passes, the second of which completed an 80-yard march for the winning touchdown. Thus, the very first game of the series was given a story-book ending.
The next game, played at Soldier’s Field in Chicago, was won again by a Notre Dame pass and the failure of Southern California to kick the extra point; the score was 7-6. In 1928 the Trojans overpowered the Irish, 27-14, in the least favorable season Rockne ever experienced. Notre Dame’s 13-12 victory in 1929 won a national championship before the largest crowd ever to see a football game—112,912 paid admissions in Soldier’s Field. Bucky O’Connor starred in 1930’s 27-0 slaughter of the Trojans, a vin-
। dictive reversal of the score which the Los Angeles sports writers had predicted.
Southern California scored two touchdowns and a field goal in the final quarter of the 1931 game to win 16-14 and break Notre Dame’s string of 26 victories. It was Hunk Anderson’s first defeat as head football coach at Notre Dame, but after that
Marchy Schwartz
the Trojans never let up on him. In the next encounter they won by a 14-0 score, and in 1933 they brought a little fellow named “Cotton” Warburton to Notre Dame to lead his team to a 19-0 victory.
Mike Layden scored both touchdowns of the 1934 game to give brother Elmer his first victory over Southern California. In 1935 Wally Fromhart scored on a touchdown pass and intercepted a Trojan pass for a 73 yard runback. Bill Shakespeare, also playing his last game for the Irish, threw two touchdown passes and scored on a seven yard end run. The final score was 20-13.
Fate had evidently decreed that ten games without a tie was enough, and last year it practically moved mountains to keep the Trojans on even terms with an Irish team that scored 19 first downs to the Trojan’s one which resulted from a penalty. The first Trojan touchdown was due to a lateral pass that bore much closer resemblance to a forward fumble.
Southern California not only received a tremendous break when
Chuck Jaskwhich
“Bud” Langley broke up an Irish touchdown by intercepting a pass on his own one yard line, but the referee ran perfect interference for the for-(Continued on Page 22) .
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
IRISH, ILLINI B-TEAMS TIE 6 TO 6 IN SNOW
By John F. Clifford
The curtain drops tomorrow on the 1937 football panorama, closing one of the most bruising, battle-marred seasons in the game’s history. In this extravaganza of collegiate athletics Mr. John Q. Public was privileged to see some of the best games he may ever hope to witness. There were fourthquarter rallies; there were first quarter up-sets. There were the usual number of good teams mediocre teams, and disappointing teams—there was everything anticipated before the season got under way. But what made this season different from those of the past four or five years was the shift in the locale of undefeated teams from the Mid-West to the Atlantic and Pacific seaboards. And yet this is not surprising. Fordham, Pittsburgh, California and Santa Clara have been on their way up the ladder for several years, and only one oi' two bad steps have caused them to miss a rung and drop. They’ve stepped carefully this year, but there still remain Duke for Pittsburgh, a bad team with which to end an heretofore undefeated season; and N.Y.U. for Fordham, the Rams remembering only too well what happened to their Rose Bowl hopes last year after this game.
V
This shift of potential National Champs from the Mid-West to the East and Far West does not mean that better football is played in these localities. What has happened is that such teams as Notre Dame, Minnesota, Northwestern, and Ohio State lined themselves up against the toughest opposition possible, and marching tooth-and-nail into every game, it became impossible for them to ride rough-shod over the opposition. Every inch of ground was paid for dearly —consider the goal-line stands the Irish met this year. No team “wallops” another—note the scores of the last seven Notre Dame games. That such a policy is commendable (or even reasonable) is open to dispute. But indisputable is the fact that if any team sporting such a schedule should remain undefeated through the season, it would be unanimously acclaimed National Champ. And now the “last scene of all that ends this strange eventful history” —the Trojans of Southern California versus the Irish of Notre Dame. It is fitting that the denouement for the season should be an intersectional clash. Not the best on the Coast, but representative, Southern Cal will show the MidWest what the Far West has—or has not. To-morrow’s show may be a tragedy, perhaps a comedy, but certainly no farce.
v	.	•
We have held off any attempt at praising the work of Chuck Sweeney in the past weeks, feeling that anything further said in this column would be superfluous. However, his work at Northwestern last week demands recognition. We won’t elaborate on the fact that he is the best end seen at Notre Dame since Wayne Millner’s day; we need not proclaim him the classiest line man in the Mid-West—that is generally conceded. But let it be proclaimed that any All-American committee omitting the name of Charles Alexander Sweeney from its first team cannot consider its selection for 1937 acceptable by this department.
V
It is just exactly six of one and half-a-dozen of the other so far as the combined varsity and “B” teams of Notre Dame and Illinois are concerned. Earlier in the season the two varsity squads splashed to a scoreless tie at Champaign and last Saturday afternoon the “B” squads shiv-vered amid the snow flakes and skidded to a touchdown apiece on Cartier Field.
Offensive activities were generally confined to mushing back and forth between the 40 yard lines. Illinois scored midway in the first quarter when Amacher, Illini fullback slipped through right tackle and ran 35 yards to the Irish five where his attempt at a Christiana failed, and he flopped. The ball rolled into the end zone where Fourier, the Illini right end, fell on it for a touchdown.
Notre Dame scored near the close of the second quarter. Olsen blocked an Illini punt and recovered the ball on the Illinois eight-yard line. Johnnie McMahon banged through for a touchdown on his second shot at right tackle.
Illinois chose to kick off and Paul Morrison, Irish halfback, gave the seals and penguins a thrill when he ran back 66 yards to the Illini 24, but the half ended before the Irish could put the ball in play.
The second half produced nothing but red noses. Neither team threatened until the last two minutes when the Irish backs got their snowshoes under control to penetrate to the Illini 18.
' The lineups:
Notre Dame (6)	Illinois (6)
Arboit _____________L.E__________ Schou'da
Shellogg ___________L.T----------- Dremann
Zuendel ____________L.G--------------- Fee
Adamonis ____________C______________ Hayes
Karr ______________.R.G____________ Porter
Albert _____________R.T________ Fiegenbaum
Kelley _____________R.E___________ Fourier
Tuck _______________Q.B____________ Huston
Riffle _____________R.H_______ Thistlewood
Mandjiak __________L.H._____________ White
Archer _____________F.B___________ Amacher
One final fling for Steve Miller. Equipping himself with the latest thing in shock absorbers (On sale this week by the FLM Enterprise, Inc.) Steve bends a wary orb on the national football program and ventures the following predictions for all youse guys. Batting for .823 last week and .752 to date Mr. Miller looks good with:
Officials—Referee. Forest Wood; Umpire. Mike Layden; Head Linesman, Frank Hogan: Field Judge, Charles Hafron.
Substitutions—Notre Dame: Biagi. O’Neil, Fitzgerald, Rogenski, Olson, Sullivan, Broscoe, Kelleher, McMahon, Morrison, Green, Kerwin, Nardone, Dahar.
Illinois: Cahn, Favo, Horton, Sexton, Hayes, Murphy, Buechel, Hardy, Shinkoff, Engelmen, More, Brovelli.
NOTRE DAME 14; SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 0
Holy Cross over Boston College Stanford over Columbia Pittsburgh over Duke Georgia Tech over Georgia Nebraska over Kansas State Fordham over N.Y.U.
Baylor over Rice
Michigan State over San Francisco Texas Christian over So. Methodist Navy over Army
Oklahoma A & M over Centenary.
Tulane over Missouri
Alabama Poly over Florida
The Mellon Institute News announces that Harry L. Wunderly, Ph.D. in Chemistry, ’37, is now a part time assistant to Dr. E. G. King on the Cork Fellowship.
P. G. M.: Mr. Farley will be glad to know of the increased poundage going out to home towns Monday morning.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SHELLOGG AND SWEENEY COMBINE TO DEFEAT NORTHWESTERN 7-0. BEFORE 44.000
By Andrew F. Wilson
The 1937 Irish football team continued its record-breaking, seldom-scoring
offense, and equally record-breaking shutout defense by beating Northwestern Saturday at Dyche Stadium, 7-0. After Al Shellogg shot past Fred Vanzo to smack Jefferson’s goal-line punt up in the air, Chuck Sweeney cut over to his
left to grab the ball and score from
second
out, in the
three yards
quarter.
After a brief flurry in the middle of the first quarter when Northwestern banged through for three first downs and 45 yards to the Notre Dame 36-yard line, Skoglund, Sweeney, Beinor, Shellogg, Ruetz, Kuharich and especially McCarty had the Purple offense well restricted. Heap did put a 12- and a 10-yard run together at the start of the second half for two first downs, but this march stopped dead on the Notre Dame 40 with an incomplete pass and end run by Jefferson that failed to gain.
Notre Dame played a careful, hard, wise game against a big tough team. The only obvious innovations in the Irish attack were more than usual employment of running plays from punt formation with Andy Puplis back, and a forward-lateral pass which Stevenson, Skoglund and Puplis worked for eight yards in the third quarter.
Northwestern was completely ineffectual in the second half, having shown signs of crumbling under pressure in the opening quarters. After taking McCarty’s long second-half kjckoff on the goal line, the Wildcats pushed up 60 yards in their last display of hard running. Jefferson, who never was himself after Shellogg and Sweeney combined to block his punt and score the game’s only touchdown, kicked weakly from Notre Dame 40 to the 22. Puplis went back in punt formation, and for the fifth or sixth time started wide to the right, Northwestern’s strong side, protected by Number One End Kovatch and Number One Backer Up Vanzo. This time Kuharich, Thesing and McCormick did their blocking perfectly, knocking in both Vanzo and Kovatch. Andy easily cut back away from Jefferson, defensively the weakest man in the Wildcat secondary, and headed diagonally up the field to his left. Safety-man Heap moved over with him, managed to force him too close to the sideline for effective faking, and knocked him off balance on the Northwestern 34-yard line after a 44-yard run, the longest gain of the day. It settled Northwestern into a defensive role for the rest of the afternoon, and made Notre Dame’s job of sustaining a seven-point lead much ■easier.
❖
BRUSHING UP
By Ed Brennan
Trojan coach, Howard Harding Jones, is now completing his 26th year as a football mentor in ‘major league college football.’ For many years, Jones has centered his offensive strength around one man, and this season it is Ambrose Schindler, star running back. As a result, the Trojan slogan seems to be, ‘as Schindler goes, so go the Trojans. . . . ’
Southern California places a great deal of confidence in its line. Practically all the scoring done at their expense this year has been on passes that an unseasoned backfield let go over their heads. . . .
Ohio State counted twice against them on passes; Oregon chalked up two touchdowns in the first half, one for 80 yards; Stanford likewise, scored its 7-6 win via the air, and Oregon State also put two passes over the Trojan goal. . . .
Getting back to Schindler, once more. He is regarded as one of the hardest running backs that has come out of the west in a long time. Schindler’s athletic abilities do not end with football, for on the track team he is a broad jumper, high jumper, and high hurdler. He is tied for individual scoring honors with Vic Bot-tari, California ace, both speedsters having crossed the goal line eight times. . . .
According to Davis J. Walsh, International News Sports Editor, Pittsburgh is due to take it on the chin tomorrow when the mighty Panthers meet the Duke Blue Devils. . . .
Army and Navy will renew their rivalry for the 38th time on Saturday. . . .
Bob Hoffman, sophomore fullback, is responsible for the bulk of the Trojan’s blocking on offense, and he has earned the reputation on the coast as one of the hardest hitting secondary defense men. . . .
Red Morgan, Southern Cal’s regular right half back, was so low in his football standing last year, that he was on the second team of the goof squad. He started this season the same way, but Howard Jones, after seeing Red perform one . night, de-
19
On the Enemies' Trail
TO DATE:
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA h a s defeated College of the Pacific 40-0, has been defeated by Washington 7-0, has defeated Ohio State 13-12, and Oregon 34-14, has been defeated by California 20-6, has played to a tie with Washington State 0-0, has been defeated by Stanford 7-6, and has played Oregon State to a tie 12-12.
THIS WEEK:
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA plays Notre Dame.
OLD TIMERS
(Continued from Page H)
McGrath, Torgus H. Oaas, and John T. Stansfield.
In addition to these football men, athletes who participated in other sports will probably attend. Many of the baseball players have, since they graduated, had careers-in major and minor leagues. These include such well known personages as Harry A. Curtiss, Otto Koepping, Carl Centlivre, Bernard E. Daniels, and Bert Daniels.
Track men from this period expected are Rev. Michael L. Mortality, present director of Catholic charities in Cleveland; James Wasson; Fred Steei-s, member of the Board of Lay Trustees and secretary of the Central A.A.U.; Forrest C. Smithson; Forest Fletcher; Clarence Cripe; James O’Leary; Leroy Keach; John W. Murphy; Dr. J. H. Roth; John W. Roach; and John J. Scales.
Additional baseball stars are John F. Shea, who with his brother Rev. Michael Shea, wrote the “Victory March”; Edwin D. Bonham, G. A. Farabaugh, Frank A. McCarthy, Coe C. McKenna, Samuel O’Gorman, William E. Perce, Wendell T. Phillips, Anthony J. Stopper, and C. L. U. Clemens.
It is understood that any men who may have inadvertently been omitted from the list to whom invitations were sent, are to consider themselves invited just as the others.
cided to play a hunch, and start him against Ohio State. Jones apparently had an unknown ace in the hole, for Morgan’s great blocking in that game was one of the chief factors in the success of the Trojan’s running attack. Needless to say, Red’s association with the goof squad is a thing of the past. . . .
Marshall Goldberg’s mother and father are the proprietors of a moving picture theater in Davis-Elkins, West Virginia. ...
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Don Notre Dame Helmets for Last Time Tomorrow
These are the Faces that Launched, Sailed, and are Bringing to Harbor Another Great Irish Football Team
Coach Elmer Layden
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	21
“—That Sail the Seas"
By James Dempsey
Symbol is the term given to a visible object representing to the mind the semblance which is not shown but realized by association with it. In 1930, Edward Nash Hurley gave $200,000 to the University of Notre Dame for the construction of a commerce building. The bronze clipper which surmounts the commerce building is the symbol the University used to show its appreciation of his gift. This symbol was chosen because of Mr. Hurley’s great record of achievement which he made as chairman of the United States Shipping Board during the World War.
Edward Nash Hurley was born at Galesburg, Illinois on July 31, 1864. After attending public schools in his native town until he was fourteen years old, he then entered the employ of the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy railroad. While there, he held various shop positions and later became locomotive engineer. In 1888, he was employed as a traveling salesman for the United States Metallic Packing Company of Philadelphia. Only a few years elapsed before he was made manager of that company.
Together with Henry J. Kimman, inventoi’ of a portable piston air drill, he invented the portable pneumatic hammer. The Standard Pneumatic Tool Company of Chicago, Illinois, was organized by him in 1896 to manufacture the hammer and the drill. It was one of the pioneer corporations for manufacturing pneumatic tools in the world. Starting without any capital, the first tools were made in a barn in Lawndale— a suburb of Chicago. Though the tools were successful when they were placed on the market, the small income received from them forced him to sell the English patent rights for $125,000. This provided capital for the American business. In a few years, Mr. Hurley made enough money so that he was able to sell his holdings for a substantial sum and retire to his estate at Wheaton, Illinois.
The year 1906 saw him organizing the Hurley Machine Company of Chicago for the purpose of manufacturing floor scrapers for dressing hardwood floors and to introduce the Thor electric washing machine, the Thor electric ironing machine and the Thor electric vacuum cleaner into the home. In 1913, President Woodrow Wilson recognizing his achievements in the industrial field, ap
pointed him United States trade commissioner to South America to make a report on banking and credits there for the Department of Commerce. On his return from there in 1914, his book entitled Banking and Credit in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, and Peru was published. Besides being very valuable in promoting trade relations between the United States and the southern continent, his work was so valuable that he was selected as first vice-president of the Federal Trade Commission. Later, after making a success of the commission, he was appointed chairman. He resigned in February, 1917.
In May of the same year, after the United States had entered the World War, he became a member of the Red Cross War Council under Henry P. Davison, helping to formulate the Red Cross War program and organizing the first campaign for $100,-000,000 which was to be used by the organization.
Then, as a climax to his brilliant career, he was appointed chairman of the United States Shipping Board on July 24, 1917. In this position, it was his duty to produce the needed tonnage without which the allied powers could not carry on the war. As president of the Emergency Fleet Corporation, by Oct. 15 of that year he had 393 American vessels afloat ready for action. By buying Japanese and Chinese ships, by repairing the captured German and Austrian sea-crafts and by seizing idle Dutch vessels that were found in American ports, he was able to build up the greatest merchant fleet America has ever had. Ninety-six ships were launched on a single day, July 4, 1918, a feat unparalleled in the world’s history. On August 5, 1918, he announced that the shipping board was producing ships faster than the German submarines could sink them. And at another time, he promised to have 25,000,000 tons of an American merchant marine ready by 1920 if the war was to continue that long.
Five days after the Armistice was signed, he went to Europe to study ocean transportation conditions abroad and to formulate plans for the use of idle German ships in German ports to bring home American troops and to carry food supplies to Germany. With Marshal Foch, generalissimo of the allied armies, Hurley went to Treve, Germany, where the shipping agreement was perfected
with the German delegates. He was also chairman of the first civilian delegation to enter Germany after the war, representing the allied and associated governments. Remaining in Paris until February 1911, he served as a member of the Supreme Economic Council of the International Labor Commission.
Within a few weeks after his return, he mapped out a comprehen-sice scheme for a permanent American merchant marine. On July 29, 1919, his resignation from the Shipping Board was accepted. Under his direction, America’s shipbuilding industry had become the foremost in the world and its merchant marine the second.
For his brilliant record of achievement in public service, he received the American Distinguished Service Medal, the decorations of commander of the Legion of Honor of France, the Order of Ta Sho Cha Ho of China and was made Grand Officer of the Crown of Italy. He was also honored by the University of Notre Dame which awarded an LL.D. degree and the Laetare Medal to him and by the conferring of the D.C.L degree upon him in 1920 by Knox College.
On Nov. 14, 1933, death climaxed his spectacular career. He died of leucocythaemia, an excess of white corpuscles in the blood, at the Passa-vant hospital in Chicago. Edward Nash Hurley was buried the following day in Calvary Cemetery at Evanston, Illinois.
The University of Notre Dame will always remember Mr. Hurley as one of her benefactors while the world will remember him as a great manufacturer, author and a leader among men.
Their traditional “yes” and “no” intelligence tests were graded by an electric machine that defies flattery or red apples and doesn’t believe the first hundred papers are the hardest.
This attraction of likes is most pronounced in the matter of physical traits, with blondes being attracted to blondes, athletic men favoring athletically inclined women, and men of sedentary inclinations finding small women to their liking.
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
From the Files
February 1, 1890 — Our friend John wants to know if those roosters can’t be choked off and let the quiet denizens of Sorin Hall have a good night’s rest.
February 15, 1890—There was a “bear” dance on the lawn last Tuesday; two walking beggars attended by two bears entertained the boys with the dance and wrestling match. The hat was passed around.
He'll Hutt.... and He'll Putt
_ ... not when you GO by South Shore Line
9 Old Man Winter can do his worst, and still you get there on time via South Shore Line. You just step aboard a fast electric train and forget all about traffic or highways, straight through to your destination. In the winter, more than ever, you save time and money when you travel by South Shore Line.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
ITALIAN CLUB MEETS
(Continued from Page 1)
deavor by the accompanying music of Peter Alonzi, a sophomore in the College of Commerce, and Thomas Delra.
Di Brienza plans to repeat many of the Club’s activities of former years, dinners, inter-club activities, and outstanding Italian features will be included in this year’s curriculum. Di Brienza is aided in his work by officers Harold Rizzi, Frank Gagli-one, and John Julian. Mr. Rizzi is vice-president, Mr. Gaglione has charge of the club’s funds, and Mr. Julian takes care of all secretarial work.
SOUTHERN CAL HISTORY
(Continued from Page 17)
tunate Trojan when he became so absorbed in the proximity of Langley’s feet to the sidelines that he
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our oivn laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8211
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
Intelligent service
Reliability
34 years' experience are our endorsements.
Optometrists Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
forgot his own material presence on the field. At another time Ed Beinor recovered a punt that had brushed against Ambrose Schindler before bouncing into the end zone. Schindler slammed his helmet to the ground in disgust at his own carelessness, but circumstantial evidence has no value in football and the referee’s eyes had been elsewhere. The final score of the mad game was 13-13.
JUGGLER VEIN
(Continued from Page 11)
Lead (S.D.) Daily Call’. “Fair tomorrow with no increase in temptation.” . . . A i ew field for those intellectuals who are always complaining about the scarcity of courses open for electives— “Pogonology” — the study of beards or a treatise on the subject... A spiked bed has been suggested for John Schwartzel who is beating out all contenders for “the laziest man in school”... Possible expulsion faces those caught removing silverware from the dining hall. Found in the dining hall: One spoon with the embarrassing label “South Bend Country Club.” . . . Picture of comfort: Dick Moller sitting in a tub full of hot water reading one of the old authors.
STUDENTS SUPPORT PLAN
(Continued from Page 5)
lowed in surrounding communities. Until the magazine people put a stop to their tendency of offering moral poison from the printed page, their circulation figures are in store for a sudden collapse. American families can no longer tolerate photographs of nakedness parading under the disguised term of “art.”
The heat is on and will not be turned off. At present plans are being contemplated for fostering the new campaign on “The Catholic Hour.” This is the largest religious program on the air and is carried through 56 stations on a coast-to-coast network every Sunday at five o’clock.
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
1002 Tower Building
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
DOME MEN BUSY
(Continued from Page 10)
pard, Richmond, Va.; Paul McArdle, Pittsburgh, Pa.; John Shortall, Dallas, Texas; and William Waters, East Norwalk, Conn. Assistant editors: Thomas Powers, North Wilbraham, Mass.; John Griffin, St. Louis, Mo.; John Walsh, Chicago; and William Donnelly, Queens Village, N. Y.
An effort will be made to have a larger student snapshot section this time. Reppenhagen made it emphatic that, although Dome photographers are always covering campus life, the student body should not hesitate to send in prints of its own to John Starkie, 135 Dillon hall. All unused prints will be returned. In the past the number of student snapshots sent in was not large enough to fill the space allotted for them. The index, introduced last year, will be enlarged and complete this year.
Bill Morrissey from the hall of the same name: “Gee! I can hardly wait. Gosh!”
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Roney in tin
The “ Yello-Bole” treatment—real honey in the bow) —gives this pipe a “well-broken-in” taste immediately, AND impregnates the briarwood thoroughly as you smoke, so its wonderful flavor is preserved permanently Special attachment gives (1) automatic free draft (2) double-action condensor.
YELLO-BOLE
ALSO "CARBURETOR” "STEMBITER". "1MPERIAI” YEUO-BOlES, $1.25 & $1.50
T O B I
N's
TOB/N says:
IRISH MIXTURE
CORKTOWN
COOKIE JAR
are blended to suit the taste of pipe smokers who like quality tobacco. We stand back of this claim.
MclNERNY & COMPANY CIGAR STORE
110 North Main Street .
Lunch	Billiards
A HAT FOR EVERY MOOD
bv Stetson
Wear this Stetson gaily_in town over the week-end or just knocking about the country. Its smart lines are right in any company.
Stetson Hats
Patronize SCHOLASTIC Advertisers
about Chesterfields