ui non dote
S3J0L0ST1C
UUEEHLU OPUS DEUS rmilHE
News
SCHOOL YEAR OPENS FACULTY CHANGES SUMMER ACTIVITIES STUDENT TRIP "COLLEGE PARADE" THE "WEEK"
Sports
LAYDEN INTERVIEWED
FROSH-VARSITY
TOMORROW
FALL GOLF TOURNEY
FROSH PRACTICE INTRODUCING
SPLINTERS
REV. JOHN F. O'HARA, C.S.C. "First Things First."
SEPTEMBER 24. 1937
2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
HOW WILL NOTRE DAME FINISH?
A FOOTBALL EXPERT TELLS YOU IN THIS WEEK'S POST
IN THE SAME ISSUE
SEVEN MUST DIE. Begin a peach of a South Sea mystery. Thirteen on an adventure cruise that gets too dangerous for comfort. Second of seven parts. By JamesWarner Bellah.
FOUR SHORT STORIES by George S. Brooks, Dorothy Thomas, Ray Millholland, and Arthur Train.
FOUR MORE SPECIAL FEATURES. What the newspapers didn't print about the White House fight on the Court. Plus more articles, serials, cartoons, humor and what not. Pick up your copy at the newsstand now!
NEXT WEEK DON’T MISS
A new romantic novel, “And One Was Beautiful,” by Alice Duer Miller. A young girl’s love for a man the world condemned. Here’s a plot that will keep you in suspense from the first page. In six parts starting next week.
WHAT’S the football forecast? Good, bad, or medium? What men from here will be in headlines? Here’s a football expert’s prophecy, and a team-by-team appraisal of your competition. Over 200 players are named, the choice of coaches and sportswriters for fame this year. How the new kickoff and forward pass rules will change the game. Who’s paying for players this year and who isn’t. Pages of good dope, enough to make you a one-man expert, and dinner table marvel. Don’t miss it.
Pigskin Preview
by FRANCIS WALLACE
AUTHOR OF "I AM A FOOTBALL FIXER”
CDtp If you haven’t received your copy of “1937 Football Schedules,” showing new rule changes, this year’s games, ■ IbCIL and 1936 scores of 119 leading colleges, ask at the business office of the paper publishing this advertisement.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Auhorized June 25, 191.8.
Vol. 71
September 24, 1937
No. I
FATHER O'HARA TRACES EARLY RELIGIOUS TRADITIONS IN OPENING DISCOURSE
DEATH CLAIMS LIVES OF FOUR N. D. MEN
By George Haithcock
The history of the long spiritual tradition that has consecrated the campus of the University of Notre Dame was traced back to a lonely Indian mission founded on St. Mary’s lake, over a hundred years ago, by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., as he spoke to more than 1,000 students gathered at a solemn
high votive Mass at 9:00 o’clock, Sunday morning, in Sacred Heart Church, marking the formal opening of Notre Dame’s 96th scholastic year.
Prior to the Mass, members of the lay faculty, dressed in caps and gowns, marched in a colorful procession from the Administration Building to the Church.	‘
The annual Mass of the Holy Ghost was celebrated by the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, who was assisted by the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., deacon, and the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., sub-deacon. The Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., acted as master of ceremonies.
Father O’Hara told how the entreaty of a group of Pottawottomi Indians brought the first priest to this section and how the first college building was established on this campus:
“If in your years at Notre Dame you come to love this hallowed spot, never forget that it is yours only because Chief Pokagon asked Father Richard for a priest,” he declared in describing the journey made in 1830 by the chief and a band of his Pottawottomi Indians to Detroit to seek an audience with Father Gabriel Richard, Vicar General of the Michigan district of the diocese of Cincinnati.
Father O’Hara urged the newcomers to grasp the opportunities for intensive religious practices that Notre Dame offers. He counseled them to “put first things first” and to possess at all times the proper moral courage to carry out the dictates of their judgments. He said:
“I believe that you will bring goodwill to your work at Notre Dame; I trust that you bring with this a deal of common sense and proper moral courage. Common sense tells you that you should study during study time; that you should appreciate what your parents are doing for you; that (Continued on Page 21)
Professors Myers and Jacques R. I. P.
Beat Enrollment Mark
Rising above all other enrollment figures since the depression, the present number of students attending Notre Dame is 3,072, according to the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies. This figure will drop a little, but when it is compared with the total enrollment of the same time last year, 2,964, there is shown to be an increase of almost 3.7%.
The College of Commerce claims the largest membership with 1,068 students enrolled. The College of Arts and Letters, usually first in the running, lags behind Commerce a little with 1,023. The Law College has 116 class cards to its credit. 461 prospective engineers and 308 science enrollees complete the colleges of the University. Graduate students, not counted with the colleges above, number 96.
The faculty, including professors, associate and assistant professors, instructors, graduate assistants, and special lecturers, numbers approximately 250.
During the past summer Death took four men of Notre Dame.
The first to die was Professor Fred Myers, professor of English. He died in St. Joseph’s Hospital of a rare blood disease, leukemia. It was four years ago that he first became afflicted with the disease, and it was at this time that the doctors gave him but two years to live, yet his courage and equanimity helped to prolong his life to double their verdict. During the last few weeks of the last school year his strength faded, and death came to him on June 4,two days before commencement.
Another noted figure on the campus succumbed to a heart attack. This was Professor Emil Jacques, head of the art department at the University. Before returning to his cottage he decided to take a cool plunge in the small lake in northern Michigan where he was vacationing. A sudden attack gripped him, and his body was found by fishermen the next morning, in the shallow water near the shore. He was an internationally known artist, and will be missed by the faculty and students who worked with him. His death came on June 17th.
Two students of last year also died during the summer. On July 12, Rocco Detaranto, science student, and on July 27 Charley Winegardner, commerce graduate, died in their homes after operations.
Winegardner, one of last year’s most promising graduates, established a name for himself on the campus as a director of the Commerce Forum aand as treasurer of the St. Vincent de Paul Society.
NOTICE
All those interested in contributing to the literary pages of THE SCHOLASTIC are invited to call at the Scholastic offices in the Ave Maria building, Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday evenings between 7 and 8 o’clock.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MINNESOTA BATTLE IS POPULAR CHOICE AS STUDENTS VOTE ON ANNUAL TRIP
MANY NEW TEACHERS JOIN FACULTY
By Edward Huff
Scott Reardon, president of the S. A. C., announced today that the Minnesota game, at Minneapolis, Oct. 30, has been selected as the student trip for 1937.
Mr. Reardon has appointed a special trip-game committee to handle the
preliminaries. Frank Delaney will act as chairman, assisted by Gene Dolan, Paul McArdle, John Me-: Auliffe, Tom Donahue, and Tom Judge.
Reservations will be received at the old laundry office in Badin Hall, on Sept. 29-30. A five dollar deposit must be made with all reservations.
The S.A.C. estimates that the entire cost of the trip will be §20.00. Tickets will cost S3.30, and the railroad fare will approximate §13.60.
The students will probably leave South Bend at 10 p.m., Sept. 29. The sttudent train will leave Minneapolis for South Bend late Saturday evening.
Present plans indicate that the students will leave the campus at 10:00 p.m. on the Friday preceding the game, and that the student train will leave Minneapolis for the return trip at a late hour on Saturday night.
A diligent canvas of the dormitories and the twelve campus resident halls, in which more than 1200 students were contacted, disclosed that more than 600 undergraduates favored the selection of the Minnesota game. Other considerations found the Northwestern game a second choice, just ahead of the early-season contest with Illinois.
The Minnesota game, which has been sold out for weeks, is predicted to be the football classic of the year.
Bookmen Meet1
The Bookmen had their first meeting last Wednesday night and discussed plans for the coming year with an enthusiasm that promises much for the ensuing year.
They laid the' ground work of their schedule when they discussed their first task, that of new memberships. The first step in this regard was to appoint Bill Mahoney, of Chattanooga, Tennessee, as Chairman of the Membership Committee.
President Hal Williams brought up the all-important topic of a proposed schedule of lectures, which met with the approval of all present. With this part of the meeting out of the way, the members immediately went into a discussion of new books to be reviewed. Many of the members were anxious to place certain of their favorites on this list.
Headman Reardon On to Minnesota.
PRESIDENTS SELECT COUNCIL'S PREXY
o
At a meeting of the Presidents of the various campus clubs, which was held Wednesday night in the north basement of the Library, a president of the council of clubs was selected to serve for the balance of the year.
He is Charles Callahan, head of the Boston club.
Under the direction of John Kelley, Walsh Hall, lots were drawn and the name of the future leader revealed. The office last year was under the direction of Gene Ling, and the new president promises to carry out the ideas of the former incumbent. The activities of this organization are unknown to the greater majority of students although its work is none the less important. It is through this officer, the president of the council, that the various clubs receive their charters, and without the approval of the council no campus club can obtain this certificate of recognition.
The first act of the new president was to issue a call for the various presidents of the campus clubs to get in touch with him as quickly as possible; this applies chiefly to those presidents who were not present
The addition of three internationally famous mathematicians to the faculty this semester has placed the University of Notre Dame in a preeminent position in this field among the universities of the United States.
These new professors are: Canon George Le Maitre, priest-professor of mathematics and theoretical physics at the University of Louvain; Dr. Kurt Godel of the University of Vienna; and Prof. Emil Artin of the University of Hamburg. In addition Dr. Eugene Guth, also of the University of Vienna, has accepted a teaching fellowship at Notre Dame for the coming year. He will collaborate with Dr. Haas in a series of special mathematical research problems.
In the College of Arts and Letters new instructors engaged for the year include Dr. Waldemar Gurian of Lucerne, Switzerland, who will conduct classes in economics dealing with the reform of capitalism and classes in politics concerned with the philosophy of the Russian government. Professor Matthew H. Fitzsimons, formerly of Oriel College, Oxford, will teach history and also conduct a seminar on the works of Orestes A. Brownson. Mr. John J. Fitzgerald of the University of Louvain will serve as an instructor in philosophy. Prof. Francis J. Hanley of the Rhode Island School of Design has also been added to the faculty of the department of art.
New College of Commerce instructors include: Mr. Bernard B. Finnan of New York City, accounting; Mr. Harold J. Heck of New Roads, La., finance; and Mr. James Dincolo of Medford, Mass., accounting.
Other instructors and graduate assistants being added to the teaching roster include: Albert L. Vitter, physics; Robert L. Anthony, physics; Lawrence F. Stander, electrical engineering; J. F. Froning, chemistry; Finnan Krieger, mathematics; F. P. Jenks, mathematics; Rev. Bernard Topel, mathematics; Charles S. Barnhart, engineering; and Arthur Milgram, mathematics.
Professor Stanley S. Sessler has been appointed to fill the position of art department head which was left vacant by the tragic death of Professor Jacques.
when the selection was made. For . . according to the announcement “no campus club is eligible to use the name of the University with its own unless it has a charter, and such charter can be obtained only through the council’s action.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
MANAGERS RECRUIT FRESHMAN AID
NAME DEPARTMENTAL EDITORS, ASSISTANTS FOR SEVENTY-FIRST "SCHOLASTIC"
Fifty freshmen answered the call for candidates sent out by John P. Donnelly, senior football manager, last Monday night, Sept. 20, 1937, at 6:30, at a meeting held in the south stands of the gymnasium.
Outlining the actual work accomplished by the managerial staff here at Notre Dame, John Donnelly pointed out to the embryo managers the advantages derived from the position, stressing especially the training for future life.
He then introduced William P. Condon, senior from Greenville, Miss., manager of equipment, and Thomas A. Kelly, senior from Anaconda, Mont., manager of track, who gave thumbnail sketches of their departments and spoke briefly upon what was to be expected of the managers in their particular divisions of the staff.
After a formal introduction of the remainder of the organization, the meeting was turned over into an open discussion with the senior managers answering any questions concerning the work planned for the year.
Book By McCole
One of the best of the critical books to come out in recent years has just been published by C. John ’ McCole, former professor of Poetry and literature at the University.
The book is entitled Dacifer at Large, the strange title deriving its name from the lines of St. Marc Girardin: “Formerly the imagination created saints for its legends, today it makes devils for its novels.”
Published by Longmans, Green, and Company, the volume treats of some of the trends of modern literature currents that are influencing American writers today and will continue to do in the future.
Emmett Crowe, seventh of his family to participate in athletics for Notre Dame, opposed Charley Reimann of Navy when both were in high school. Reimann, who started against Notre Dame at fullback last fall, was with Shelbyville, Ind., high school, while Crowe was with Jefferson high of Lafayette, Ind., Crowe threw a pass intended for Bob Vyver-berg, now of Purdue’s squad, Reimann tried to bat it down but deflected it into Vyverberg’s hands, and the latter scored a touchdown on the play. Crowe and Reimann will meet again at Notre Dame stadium Oct. 23.
By F. G. Barreda
With this issue The Scholastic begins its seventy-first year of publication, introducing several popular departments and featuring a new trend in style and composition.
News assignments and make-up
arrangements will be in charge of Vincent DeCoursey of Kansas City, Kan. DeCoursey, who succeeds Louis DaPra as News Editor, is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters. George Haitchcock of Nashville, Tenn., has
Newsman DeCoursey “Gimme News.”
FROSH LEARN SONGS AT CONVOCATION
“Cheer, cheer, for old Notre Dame” was the cry that rang through old Washington Hall last Friday evening, Sept. 17, as the men of ’41 participated in their first convocation.
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, introduced by Student Activities Council President Scott Reardon, extended a warm welcome to the first year men. Then Rev. James J. Trahey, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, explained some of the main rules and regulations of the University, and presented Mr. Robert McAuliffe, also of the office of discipline.
Next, Elmer Layden, head coach of football and athletic director, told of the odds both great and small which the team has to face this fall.
After the speaking, Professor “Joe” Casasanta led the boys in sending “a volley cheer on high” to “wake up the echoes cheering” Notre Dame. Cheerleaders Frank Farrell and John Celia taught the freshmen some of the yells and cheers of Notre Dame.
Another convocation is to be held before the Drake game to practice cheering a little more.
Prof. Raymond A. Hoyer, of the boy guidance department, completed a ten-day leadership course for youth leaders at the University in mid-July. The classes were sponsored by the Knights of Columbus and Catholic Youth Organization.
Sports Editor Mitchell Follow the Irish.
been named to fill the post of assistant News Editor.
Sports activity will be covered by Mark Mitchell, of Chicago, who has been appointed editor of the athletic section. A junior in the College of Arts and Letters, Mitchell will feature his column, “Introducing,” a weekly write-up on the individual satellites of the Notre Dame sport kingdom. Fred Digby, of New Orleans, La., will serve as assistant Sports Editor.
Several alterations have been ef-ected in the sports section. “Splinters from the Press Box,” the commenting column of everlasting popularity, will be written by John Clifford from New Haven, Conn. Another Connecticut man, John Callaghan of Greenwich, will tackle the column, “College Parade.”
In addition to the usual artistic illustrations, the Sports Department will carry cuts of the Irish football opponents. Pre - game information and opinions from rival grid universities will be furnished by story exchanges between collegiate sports editors.
Featuring a satiric and humorous review of weekly campus activity will be two other columns of chitchat pattern. “The Week” is to be handled by Harold A. Williams, of Baltimore, Md., and “In the Juggler Vein” will also be a feature.
Besides the innovation of a new cover design created by Art Editor George Elmore, of South Bend, several typographical changes have been made, including a remodeling of headline make-up.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MARIO PIERONI. LAW STUDENT. WALKS — WITH NO COMPLAINT — IN DARKNESS
By William C. Fay
FATHER MARR IS BACK FROM WORLD TOUR
Mario Pieroni is a new student in the Law School. He has been blind since he was four years old.
We went walking last Sunday afternoon. As we left Alumni Hall and started across the campus towards the Main Building I asked him a question: “How could you walk down the corridor and stop precisely at the stairs? Have you counted the number of steps from your room to the stairway?”
“No,” he answered, “a few blind people actually count steps to ascertain their position. I rely chiefly upon my ears. For example, the echo to my footsteps changed as I approached the steps. Then too, I know that there is a cross-corridor just before the steps. When we reached the cross-corridor I felt a draft on my ankles.”
Mario walked rapidly with no hesitation in his gait. Only a faint brushing, as his right elbow kept in contact with my left arm, was an indication that he did not actually see Walsh Hall as we walked by.
“I was down this way last night,” he remarked. “I saw ‘Maytime’ at the theatre.”
“Do you like movies?”
“Only musicales. I liked ‘Maytime’ for the lovely music—especially the movements taken from Tschai-kowski’s fifth symphony.”
We passed Sacred Heart Church. “Have you ever thought of buying a dog from the ‘Seeing-Eye,’ Mario?”
“No,” he replied, “I don’t think I would like a dog—not for a constant companion, anyway. There would be certain advantages, but I’m afraid that, in time, I would become too dependent upon the dog; and then I would lose my sensitivity of ear.”
We were walking through the archway behind the Main Building. “Where are we now, Mario?”
“In a sort of tunnel,” he answered. “There is a roof above us, but both ends are open.”
We passed through the archway and walked along the porch. “Where are we now?”
“We’re still beneath a roof, but the left side is now open . . . and there are pillars.”
“Could you tell that from echoes, too?”
“Yes.”
“Do you make mental pictures of people when you hear them talk? For instance, what do you think I look like.”
■ “Well, I’d say that you were about 'five-feet-ten and weighed about 150 pounds. Am I right?”
“Right. How did you know?”
“Mostly, from your voice. I hear it and estimate its position. Of course, I get some idea from my hand resting on your arm. It’s a little harder to estimate weight, but stoutness and slimness show up in the voice. Incidentally, a woman’s voice is more truthful about weight than a man’s.”
We turned into the Freshman . Quadrangle. “You live in Muncie, don’t you, Mario?”
“Yes, I took my pre-law course at the Ball State Teacher’s College in Muncie.”
„ - We were approaching Cartier Field. “Would you like to stop at the athletic field? I think the varsity’s scrimmaging, this afternoon.”
“I’d like to very much,” he acquiesced. “You know,” he continued, “I can feel the drama in a situation, even if I can’t actually see it enacted. I enjoy ball games, and I like the sensation of excitement that fills a crowd at a big football game.”
We walked into the field and stood along the sidelines. “The varsity has the ball, and they’re to our left coming towards us,” I explained.
The lines piled up and there was a sodden impact as the ballcarrier was knocked down.
“Who carried the ball that time?”
“Simonich,” I answered.	x
“He hits hard, doesn’t he? . . . Whose voice is that—the one with the strident, insistent note?”
“That’s Layden.”
“Who’s calling signals?”
“O’Reilly.”
“Oh yes, I’ve heard of him. I’ve heard Husing describe the games over the radio.”
The play swept to the far side of the field. “That was an end run, wasn’t it?”
“Yes, McCarthy carried the ball; but how could you tell?”
“I could hear the running feet grow fainter.”
With practice over we walked back to Alumni. Once up the stairs and within the corridor, Mario withdrew his arms from my elbow. He walked unhesitatingly down the hall and stopped before his room. His left hand probed momentarily for the lock, found it; then his right hand slid the key into the lock.
He turned to me and extended his hand. “Goodbye, Bill. Stop in again. I want to show you something about the Braille system.”
We shook hands. “Goodbye, Mario.”
That there is no place like home was made more clear to Rev. George Marr, C.S.C., upon his return home after a six months trip around the world. As representative of the University, Father Marr left the campus last January for Vancouver, B. C., where he boarded a ship for Manila.
His stay at Manila was most pleasant. Especially inspiring to him was the reverence and devotion shown by the thousands who made the religious pilgrimage. Before leaving there he was honored at a banquet given by the Notre Dame club of Manila.
Leaving Manila, Father Marr travelled westward to French Indo-China thence to Calcutta and Bombay. From this point he made a visit to the Holy Cross missions at Dacca in the diocese of Bengal. Concerning this visit he may have cause to speak to the students during the semester.
Continuing his trip homeward through the Holy Land, Rome, England, and the cradle of the Congregation at LeMans in France.
Even if he was as homesick for Walsh hall as Lowell Thomas, whom he had met in Rome, had described him as being, the trip was far more thrilling than he had expected it would be.
Guth Prediction
Dr. Eugen Guth, renowned physicist formerly of the University of Vienna and now a member of the faculty of the University, is of the firm belief that the future of the world trade is in the hands of the physicists and chemists who are now at work experimenting in laboratories throughout the United States.
As an example of what these men can do to influence trade, he cited the work of the late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., in the field of synthetic rubber. He is firmly of the belief that some day this will become superior to the natural rubber. Dr. Guth is an authority on the physical structure of synthetic rubber.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
NO SUMMER LETUP IN N. D. ACTIVITY
PLAN ACTIVE YEAR FOR ITALIAN CLUB
N. D. PRINTER IS SENT TO CONVENTION
Three thousand twenty-four students left the campus early in June, but Notre Dame activities did not cease at that stage. By the third week in June, more than 800 students, the largest number since the depression, were enrolled in the summer sessions.
Formal opening of the summer school, at which 400 Sisters from 25 different religious orders were registered, found Rev. J. Leonard Carrico., C.S.C., director of studies, the celebrant of a solemn high Mass.
Sixty-three degrees, including thirty advanced honors, were conferred on students at the commencement exercises that brought a close to the nineteenth summer session at Notre Dame, Tuesday, August 3.
Rev. David Mathew, Litt.D., of the University of London, who taught a course in the 17th century background of American history, delivered the commencement address in which he expressed his fears of another European war.
Less than a fortnight after the termination of the regulation school year, 20,000 parishioners of the South Bend deanery, comprising eleven cities and thirty-six parishes, took part in the third annual Eucharistic celebration at the Notre Dame Stadium in a program arranged by the Catholic Youth Organization. Rev. Joseph P. Turner, C.SS.R., a Redemptorist Father, assisted by 1,000 altar boys, was the celebrant at benediction.
A colorful candle-light procession from Sacred Heart Church to the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes brought to a close, on Sunday, August 8, the nineteenth annual retreat for laymen conducted by the Holy Cross Fathers for which 1,400 men from all stations in life were present.
Rev. Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C., director of laymen’s retreats, and Rev. Leo F. Flood, C.S.C., retreat master, conducted the ceremonies, and were assisted by Rev. E. R. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., Rev. J. E. Hart, C.S.C., and other members of the Holy Cross mission band.
Weeks before, more than 200 Fort Wayne diocesan priests, under the leadership of Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop, attended the annual clerical retreat at Notre Dame. Following the retreat, which was conducted by Father Turner, a number of candidates in the Congregation of Holy Cross were ordained by Bishop Noll.
Disaster struck the University chemistry hall on Friday morning, June 18, when fire caused by a short circuit, broke out in the research laboratory. The damage amounted to ?7,000.
Early this week A. William Di Brienza, a senior in the College of Science from Brooklyn, N. Y., announced that the Italian club, one of the campus’ language cultural organizations, will promote a series of outstanding activity during this school year.
Di Brienza, who succeeded Joseph Mangelli as president of the group, stated that in conjunction with Professor Pasquale Pirchio, club moderator, the organization will present outstanding speakers who will discuss the cultural, economic, and political status of Italy.
It is hoped that the social activity of the group will maintain the high standards of previous years. Dinners, inter-club activities, and outstanding Italian features are planned. Last year the club brought the noted woman lecturer Mrs. Hazel Chase West of Evanston, Hl., to the campus.
Di Brienza hopes that all students of Italian descent and all those interested in Italian culture would join the organization. A membership drive will begin in the near future.
Fate of China Destined to Remain Big
Puzzle as New Students Dawdle
By Fed E. Sisk
Note to Mr. Vincent DeCoursey:
If you will remember, you assigned me an interview with the three students at the University from China about the current Sino - Japanese question.
I’ll admit that last year I was stumped for a while with some of the stories I was supposed to get, but this assignment has them all beaten.
Evidently I’m not the only one who is baffled by this, because no one in the University knows exactly where they are. The three—John Soong, William Soong, and Chi Jui Sung— are, we hope, either still in home town, Tsingtao, China, or somewhere between there and Notre Dame, Indiana.
John and his brother William will be freshmen in the University if they arrive. John has registered for the Commerce school, and William’s plans are to enter the Engineering School. Both were graduated from the Kiar-
An old familiar figure was missing from the composing room of the Ave Maria Press while the first issue of the seventy-first volume of The Scholastic was going to press.
He is Joseph Guentert, assistant foreman of the composing room, who is at present attending the Indiana State Federation of Labor convention at Terre Haute, Ind., as a delegate of local 128, South Bend, which winds up today.
This the first Scholastic which Joe has had nothing to do with for ten years. He will, however, be on the job, ready to go, next week when the second edition goes to press.
SYMPATHY
A somber note was added to the pressroom this week when it became known that the father-in-law of Andrew Pecze died early Thursday morning.
Mr. Pecze has been employed by the Ave Marla press room for twenty years. The Scholastic extends condolences to him and his bereaved family.
chow-Tsinaw Railway Middle School in China.
Their cousin, Chi Jui Sung (or Soong, is a graduate of the Catholic. University of Peking, China, and he intends to enter the graduate school of Notre Dame. He likewise comes from Tsingtao, China. Chi Jui is married and has two children.
Since it was announced that the three would enter the University this semester, many inquiries have been made about them. For instance, one lady by telephone asked to speak to one of the Chinese boys; she explained that her son was in China at the present, and not having heard from him, she would like to know the condition of the city where he is. Like many other interested persons, the lady was told simply that the Chinese boys had not yet arrived.
That’s the story, Mr. DeCoursey. The Sino-Japanese question will have to wait for a while until John, William, and Chi Jui come.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CALENDAR
FIND ESKIMO RELICS ON ALASKAN ISLE
This is the first of the weekly calendars that will appear in the Scholastic. Within a fair degree of accuracy we can vouch for its completeness; hut the Scholastic can not be held responsible for any errors or omissions. Club secretaries are urged to submit notices of meetings at least a week in advance of publication.
Friday, September 24
Mission for underclassmen, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p.m.; Scholastic staff meeting; general staff 6:30, open meeting 7:00.
Saturday, September 25
Football game, Soph-Varsity, Stadium, 2:30 p.m.; Close of mission for lowerclassmen, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a.m.; Continuation of open golf tournament.
Sunday, September 26
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6, 7, 8, 9, p.m.; St. Vincent de Paul meeting, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh Hall, 10:45 a.m.; Opening of upperclassmen Mission, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p.m. Continuation of open golf tournament.
Monday, September 27
Mission services for upperclassmen 6:30 a.m., 7:30 p.m.; Distribution of Drake game tickets to seniors, Athletic Association office, 1 to 5 p.m.
Tuesday, September 28
Mission services, upperclassmen, 6:30 a.m., 7:30 p.m.; Meeting, Patrician club, Law Building, 7:30 p.m.; Meeting candidates for literary section of Scholastic, Scholastic offices, Ave Maria building, immediately after close of Mission services; Ticket distribution for Drake game, juniors.
Wednesday, September 29
Mission services, upperclassmen, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a.m., 7:30 p.m.; Ticket distribution Drake game, Sophomores.
Thursday, September 30
Mission services, upperclassmen, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a.m. and 7:30 p.m.; Freshman ticket distribution, Drake game. .
about the camPus
One of the best ways in the world to get attention focused on yourself is to hang around the Notre Dame football bench. Most people would enjoy the experience; not so John Donnelly
—claims that it gets tiresome assuring people that he is not the mascot. Is five feet seven without a haircut__ claims that it is not size that counts and will quote figures to prove it. . . Has the unique distinction of being from Michigan City . . . distinction lying in the fact that he will admit it.
Has made more week-end trips to have suits measured than wardrobe justifies. . . . missed the Ohio State game of two years ago to get a button sewed on his vest. Claims that blondes and brunettes overlook him too easily. . . Which is not hard. . . and is going to see what luck he can have with a redhead next.
Before becoming manager of football his chief claim to fame was a fourth place prize in the nation in a Gorgas Memorial Essay contest in his senior year in high school.
Lives with roommate Bill Condon . . . he manages too. . . in 201 Sorin . . . a Jack Spratt affair with Condon having the expanding waistline and John the worried and hungry look. . . or was it Thursday’s chicken.
(Columnist’s note: The art work on this column is done by Tom Powers, junior art student of Howard Hall.
Eskimo relics which possibly go back beyond the Christian era were the reward of a summer Alaskan expedition of which Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., head of the department of sociology at Notre Dame, was a member. The expedition, sponsored by the American Museum of Natural History and the University of Alaska, spent the entire summer digging in two areas—the Yukon Valley, where various evidences of early Indian culture were unearthed, and St. Lawrence Island, where early Eskimo culture was studied.
On St. Lawrence Island, located in the Bering Sea forty miles from Siberia, Father Murray and others in the group dug into long-abandoned subterranean houses built of whalebone. . . houses which, untouched for centuries, yielded valuable evidence sought by anthropologists. Members of the expedition were aided in the excavating by Eskimos from a nearby village who were in reality helping to unearth the mounds of their early ancestors. The ancient whalebone dwellings were discovered in a sod-covered mound, all that remains of an Eskimo village. At a depth of a foot and a half the party encountered frozen ground, and it was necessary to use salt water from the Bering Sea to thaw the earth for digging.
The greatest part of Father Murray’s work was done on St. Lawrence Island where the climate is cool but not uncomfortable, the temperature ranging from 40 to 60 degrees fahrenheit.
INDUCT OFFICERS AT KNIGHTS MEET
• ;
At the first regular meeting of the University council Knights of Columbus held Wednesday night, the officers for the year were duly installed. The Knights will be led this year by Grand Knight James L. Quinn.
Other officers installed were: J. Richard Foley, deputy grand knight; J. Kenneth Veeneman, John Murphy, Robert Weaver, John Collins, Joseph Canale, Gerard Schaefer, Peter Fluge, David Fox.
The trustees of the organization, Professors Raymond A. Hoyer, Frank Flynn, and Stephen Bocskey have returned to take up their duties once more. The new editor of the Santa Maria, official campus publication of the Knights, received his official appointment. He is Louis J. Dunn, last year’s managing editor of the Dome. James E. Rocap was announced as the head of the ushers.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK By Harold A. Williams
CASASANTA CALLS BAND PRACTICE
Notes
Wasn’t it Bacon who said, “Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested”? The new Student Manual, we presume is one of few meant to be chewed and digested. And this we did for our own edification and protection, (it’s a lot easier to digest than the steak). The only thing we couldn’t chew and digest was on page 22 (top). It says, when speaking of returning from a late per, that the student must sign in with the “night clerk.” “Night clerk!” Shades of Brownson hall! What happened to the good old “night watchman”?
The biggest sensation the first day back was the news about the renovated candy store. We hurried over and among the changes noticed were two doors, soda fountain, pop corn popper, and bustling commercial atmosphere. No doubt the soda fountain and pop com popper are great improvements, but we’re not so sure about the bustling commercial atmosphere. We think of Brother Prosper, Brother Leander, Brother Philbert and their hallowed old-world background. It encouraged dawdling and dreaming over the milk and cakes. And you’ll find it’s going to be hard to dawdle and dream around the pop corn popper. We’ve tried it already.
Miscellaneous: Maids in Freshman Hall for the first time; the extra street cars on Sunday afternoon; the new girls in the caf; the Freshman who comes from Ho-ho-kus, New Jersey; Soong, Soong, and Sung; the removal of Eye-Sore hall; and the disappearance of the ugly partitions from the dining hall.
Sympathy
We hereby extend our sympathy to five disillusioned Freshmen. They are, in the order of their disillusionment; the high school football captain who expected to be met at the station by Mr. Layden, and who has yet to get a clean pair of sweat socks from Smiling Mac; the social-minded chap from New York who thought Saint Mary’s was a fashionable school with at least a few beautiful girls; the Freshman fresh out of a very strict prep school with a few ideas on college life until he learned he was allowed out once a month until 12 (if he is a good boy); the young man who saw a Warner Brothers college picture just before he arrived and learned he was to live in Freshman Hall with a fellow from Chicago for a roommate; and the poor bewildered soul who was notified by Mr. Lloyd’s office that he was to work as a waiter
in the student dining hall and was drilled for the rest of the summer by his conscientious mother on the correct way to serve from the left and take from the right.
Then of course there are the 900 some disillusioned freshmen who haven’t received a letter every day from the girls they have left behind them. Somebody ought to tip them off that the letter-every-day period doesn’t begin until they are Sophomores—about two weeks before the Cotillion.
•
Freshmen
During the second day of registration we were busily filling out a census card for the last time when an intelligent looking Freshman asked us if we wouldn’t look over his card. We don’t know much about filling out census cards but we agreed. On the line where one was to write the degree he wanted the Freshman had written in a scholarly hand, “Magna cum laude.”
A friend of ours was walking over around the Freshman territory when a polite young man stopped him and asked him if he could please tell him the way to the Rockne Memorial Field House. The suddenness of the question and the utter sincerity with which it was asked completely took our friend’s breath away. Our friend said the Freshman was such a trusting chap that he hated to tell him the truth. He ended up by pretending that he too was a Freshman and truthfully saying that he was also looking for the Rockne Memorial Field House.
Heh, heh
For some reason or other this story tickled us more than any other. Perhaps it was because it demonstrated that the student does have a chance. It seems that there was a student who became involved with the authorities around the place in a serious way last year. He had stepped on the grass or forgot to fold his napkin or something of the sort. Anyway, he was in a pretty tough spot because they weren’t going to let him come back. Bad influence and that sort of thing, you know. But he pleaded and pleaded and finally the authorities gave in and agreed to let him back. But only on one condition—He would be campussed for the entire year. A stem and effective measure as many of you no doubt know. But not for this fellow! His application was approved just before school started. Since all the halls were filled, he was assigned a room on Hill Street.
Maybe it was the weather, maybe the thought of the Minnesota game, or Army—in any event almost 100 musicians reported for tryouts for the University band.
Things were just getting quiet
Prof. Casasanta
Hunts musicians.
around here. No more lines at the main office, no more carrying trunks or telling the freshmen where St. Mary’s is when all of a sudden the band started practice. From the sound coming from Washington hall last Monday one would think all the one man bands of Major Bowes hour were having a convention.
However, the transformation, when it comes, will be just as startling. Professor Joseph Casasanta has done remarkable things with the boys in the past and no doubt will do it again.
If anyone is interested in playing with the band there is still time to report. The entire band personnel has yet to be chosen. And remember —practice makes perfect. Or haven’t you noticed?
Dr. Haas is Honored
During the past summer honors were bestowed upon two well known figures at Notre Dame, Dr. Arthur Haas and Mr. Charles Maginnis.
Dr. Haas, professor in the University’s department of physics, was elected a fellow of the American Physicist Society. This honor is shared by only 100 of the society’s membership, which numbers 5,000 physicists. According to the constitution of the organization: “There shall be elected to fellowship only such persons as have contributed to the advancement of physics by independent, original research.”
Mr. Maginnis was elected president of the American Institute of Architects for 1937-38. He received the Laetare medal in 1924 and is the designer of a number of buildings on the University campus. These include, Alumni hall, Dillon hall, the Law building, John F. Cushing hall of Engineering, Cavanaugh and others.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
S. A. C. STARTS PLANS FOR PEP SESSIONS
COLLEGE PARADE
By John A. Callaghan
SUNDAY MARKS START OF ANNUAL MISSION
A full year of activity lies ahead for the Student Activities Council, announced Chairman Scott Reardon of Sioux Falls, S. Dak., a senior in the College of Commerce. The S. A. C., the campus organization comprised of representatives from each of the four classes, serves as a part of the student government and as an intermediate agency between the student body and the University Administration.
The initial task of the year to be undertaken by the Council will be the pep meetings preceding the four home football games of the season: Drake, Navy, Pittsburgh, and Southern California. Decoration of the residence halls and the campus at large are planned for the week preceding the Pittsburgh game, Nov. 1-6. Contemplated as the largest of the pep rallys will be the one on the eve of the Southern California game during the Thanksgiving festival.
An explicit announcement has been made by the Council to the effect that it will not supervise in any official capacity any dance that it sponsors. Rather it is to be understood that all student dances will be delegated to their respective classes or other corresponding campus agencies.
As has been the annual custom, the Council will direct and supervise all campus elections. It will aid and assist the athletic department in the contemplated Winter Sports Program. University tournaments in billiards, bowling, and ping pong, are to be in charge of the S. A. C.
A swimming meet to be held in the South Bend natatorium in the early spring is being arranged by officers of the Council. All students of the University are eligibile to participate in this aquatic contest which ushers in another chapter to the growing sports department.
Until a further notice is posted, the S. A. C. holds its meetings every Monday evening in the North room of the library.
“—It seems hard to get down to work again after enjoying the pleasures of vacation time. But we will soon become accustomed to it; and, then, anyway, we will have her letters to comfort us during the long winter.”
“The football goals are up on Carroll campus. No excuse now for not playing.”
“—Hello, old man! Glad to see You back!”—From files of Scholastic. 1898.
Pro-Scribblers
The University of California comes through with a flourishing business in professional note - taking. They hire good note takers, send them to lectures, mimeograph the notes and place them up for sale. But the nasty old professors object. The business heads insist that their clientele is made up entirely of students who want supplementary notes and those who wish to concentrate on the lecture without the bother of taking notes. The whole system is called Fybate. All of which is beyond our feeble comprehension—and the profs still object.
Boo Club
Out in Arkansas a hardy group of cinemaddicts have oragnized themselves into the first Boo Club in these parts. The main assault is upon the “film ad.” After drowsing through the latest super-colossal Hollywood film, the club members rise up manfully and boo the latest showing of kitchen equipment at Steiner’s Super Store. All of which is fine and dandy. But couldn’t the thing be put to a more wide-spread use—the extinction of the double-feature program. What have we got to lose— join the nearest Boo Club or start one!
M-m-m-m-y Goo-goodness
The University of Oklahoma has instituted a clinic offering facilities for diagnosing and correcting speech difficulties. Here we quote from the story covering the founding of the clinic: “The department head explained there is a large number of people who need speech training and correction and the earlier they receive it, the better chance they have to recover from their ailment. The odds against recovery for adults are 2-to-l while they are 2-to-l in favor of children’s recovery.” Astounding!
Jottings
Definition (via The Pointer) of a “snap course”: A course in which the professor does not check the roll, make assignments, give failing grades, and which is not existent. . . Students at Kansas State College spend approximately two million dollars each school year according to the Daily Collegian. Which shows the average buying power of State students to be $550 a year . . . The Northwestern Neios claims an order of fried bilateral, non-mitameric, tri-ploblastic caelomacoelous animals with dorsal calareous exoskeleton, visceral regions and nephridia is merely one of fried clams.
In accordance with the outstanding religious program of the University, the Student Missions, held annually at the beginning of the Notre Dame school year, were begun last Sunday night in the Sacred Heart Church.
Rev. Thomas D. Richards, C.S.C., of the Holy Cross Mission Band, is conducting the first mission, Sept. 19 to 25. All freshmen students of Lyons, Badin, Carroll, and Old Infirmary made this mission. All other students are to attend the second mission beginning Sunday night, Sept. 26 at 7:30 p.m. and closing Oct. 2.
The second mission will be conducted by Rev. William Burke, C.S.C., former member of the Holy Cross Mission Band and present pastor of Christ the King Church. He will also deliver tonight’s mission in the absence of Father Richards.
In the order of services, Benediction follows the sermon every evening, with Mass and instruction the following morning. The bestowing of the Papal Blessing tomorrow morning will terminate the first mission.
Topics for the sermons of both missions are: Sunday night, “The Purpose of Life”; Monday night, “Sin”; Tuesday night, “Death”; Wednesday night, “Judgment”; Thursday night, “The Mercy of God”; Friday night, “Perseverance.”
Instructions for the first and second missions will be on “The Meaning of Religion,” “The First Commandment,” “The Mercy of God,” “The Fifth Commandment,” and “The Sixth Commandment.”
Confessions will be heard daily in the Basement and Dillon Chapels after supper, and in the Church during and after both morning and evening services. A limited number of penitents can be accommodated during the morning Mass.
Plan Program
The Patricians will meet Tuesday night to discuss the new year’s program, membership, and speeches, it was announced today by John Deane, president.
According to present plans, the organization will make an extensive drive to increase its membership. Any student interested in the classics is invited to join.
The officers for the coming year include Joseph Nigro, vice president; John Kohn, secretary-treasurer.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
• II
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
With this, the initial column of “In the Juggler Vein,” we have thought it appropriate to include a few remarks of the famous (and some not so famous) relating to college and what one gets out of college. (Warning: Freshmen are not to take this too seriously if they wish to avoid complications with their professors).
* * *
Theodore Roosevelt said a thorough knowledge of the Bible was worth more than a college education. A thorough knowledge of anything is worth more than a college education.
* * *
The three creatures skinned to provide the essentials of college training are the coon, the sheep, and dad.
* * *
The main trouble with colleges in America is that the professors don’t recognize ability and the students don’t possess it.
* * *
Nothing irks a college' boy any more than shaking out the envelop from home and finding nothing in it but news and love.
* * *
To get the full significance of the college spirit it is necessary to wait until it turns against a losing football coach.
* * *
A Parasite—the large loutish looking football player who piles on top of the other 21 men for effect, after the play is complete.
* * *
The Frigidaire people got their idea sitting in a concrete stadium in November watching a football game.
* * *
Definition: Football is a game in which one side of the stadium wants to see eleven men killed and the other side of the stadium wants to see eleven men killed.
* * *
One of the smaller colleges in New England reports this story as the perfect squelch of the last scholastic year. Numbered among its students was a young man who was quite stout, but whose mentality was not in proportion to his size. After an especially poor recitation, one of the professors said to the student:
“Young man, you are better fed than taught.”
“That may be because I feed my
self and you teach me,” was the answer.
* * *
On the other side of the fence, the following story is included to bring that warm glow of victory to the faculty. In one college, some years ago, there was a professor who was an able instructor, but who was disliked by his pupils because, as the Irish say, he liked to give them a lick witn the rough side of his tongue.
He was called to another room one day, during the recitation hour, and while he was absent a stray dog wandered into the room. The students caught the animal, hastily made for him a pair of wire spectacles, and tied him in the professor’s chair. When the professor returned, he found the animal there.
“Ah,” he said, “I see that during my absence you have held a meeting and have elected one of your members as chairman.”
* * *
One-act Play. (N. B.—Coward had no part in this).
Scene—ND bookstore.
“Is This The Way to St. Mary's?”
Characters — two alleged students one obviously in the freshman class.
Freshman: “Say, fellow, I’m looking for information. My roomie went out last Sunday afternoon and came back early lookin’ sorta glum. When I asked him where he’d been, all he said was ‘St. Mary’s.’ Now, you look like you might know something. What is St. Mary’s?
Other: “St. Mary’s, St. Mary’s. The name is familiar. Oh yes, that’s the name of the lake behind the main building. Could that be it?”
Frosh: (undecided) “I don’t know. Herb doesn’t strike me as being the kinda guy that’d rush off the first Sunday here to view the scenic grandeur of the country—like looking at a lake (abruptly) Well, it doesn’t make any difference. Just thought you might know. Say, how long have you been here anyway?”
Other: “Six years this year. I’m ( a senior lawyer.”	I
(Curtain)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Rev. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C.........Faculty Adviser
EUGENE F. VASLETT..............  Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA PRA.......................Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
Harold Williams The Week
John Callaghan-----------------------------College Parade
John F. Clifford-----------------Splinters pom the Press Box
News Staff
Vincent DeCoursey_____________________________News Editor
George Haithcock-----------------------Assistant News Editor
Frederick Sisk-----------------------------Graham Starr
Robert Sheppard------------------------Michael Mongoven
Vernon Sneider-----------------------------Edward Huff
Joseph Miller------------------------------Thomas Marker
James Dempsey— -------------------------------John Kohn
William C. Fay-------------------------Fructuoso Barreda
James Hufnagel
Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitcheli-----------------------------Sports Editor
Frederick Digby______________________Assistant Sports Editor
Nick Lamberto Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe______________________William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson_________________________Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan
Art Staff	.
George Elmore________________________________________Art	Editor
Tom Powers Charles	Reddy
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 237 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Vol. 71
September 24, 1937
No. I
CURTAIN RAISER .. .
IN THIS, our first issue, we present the opening section
of the seventy-first volume of The Scholastic. We personally hope, like every other Scholastic staff has hoped, and every Scholastic staff will hope, this will he the outstanding Scholastic in the history at Notre Dame. However, with twenty-five issues before us we have no inkling of the caliber of the magazine that we will turn out. We can only say that everybody concerned will earnestly try to make this the best, beyond that it is impossible to say more.
In regard to the magazine itself. In essense The Scholastic born this issue will be no different from any other Scholastic that has gone before. It will embody the same high ideals of Catholic journalism as the previous seventy. Mechanically there have been few changes from last year’s book. The same features will appear, written of course, by new men with new ideas. The literary section, inaugurated last year, will be continued, and contributions to this section from the student body at large will be welcomed heartily. This section is entirely the students’ and is meant to serve as a mirror of campus literary endeavour beyond the scope of journalism. We urge students with a literary bent to submit their efforts to us for publication.
Competent coverage of the news is insured by a staff of experienced and capable men. Naturally there will be mistakes. Who can avoid them? However we believe, this year with such an experienced staff, there will be a minimum of journalistic slips. Bear with us if and when they occur.
So, the curtain is up. We’re on our way through twenty-six acts. Dim the house lights. “Spot” on the seventy-first Scholastic. We hope you like it.
JOIN UP ...
EXPERIENCES and problems are the bane of a freshman’s existence. No problem, it seems, is of greater moment to the class of ’41 than the choice of extracurricular activity. It demands thought. For these are recruiting times for the numerous campus clubs and or- . ganizations which foster and offer a social and cultural outlet for the new men. Freshmen are sought by presidents, moderators, and boosters to get on the band wagon of this or that organization. Their watchword is join up.
The Scholastic extends to the freshmen an invitation to accept the hue and cry of join up. It makes college life just so much more interesting, so much richer in experience. Yes, join up, but with caution. For your welfare it would be well to read pages 28 and 29 of the student manual. Investigate the nature and scope of the organization you wish to join, its membership, and its history and traditions. Then, join up.
It is well to remember that at Notre Dame extracurricular activity is secondary to the primary object of education: study. Extra-curricular work over-done is a detriment to study; well-done it is an aid in starting a most pleasant four-year stay here. It acquaints you with your fellow students, gives you a chance to participate in campus life, and to be of a distinct service in perpetuating the Notre Dame spirit.
Well-known campus groups such as the musical organizations, the University radio staff, and the managers’ organization welcome freshmen into their ranks. It is relatively easy for the newcomer to feel at home and to enter the good fellowship of the campus. Do so. The welcome sign is out.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
After School
By Paul H. Hesser
It was a warm spring day in early April and one was sure that there was to be no more had weather because of the budding plants, the flocking birds, and the greening trees. Also the restlessness of the sixth grade in the Lakeside school was another indication that slumbering spirits were arousing themselves.
Tommy O’Toole was likewise affected, but, because of inevitable circumstances, Tommy could not look forward to much enjoyment during the remainder of this day. He was “jugged” until five, because of many various and sundry misdemeanors typical of a sixth-grader. This was a very unfortunate situation for anybody to be in, but doubly so for Tommy. Yes sir, it totally disrupted Tommy’s plans and he began to formulate means for an escape. But no means presented itself.
An important event was to occur that afternoon at four o’clock and Tommy’s desire to witness it had become an obsession with him. At exactly four o’clock that afternoon they were going to blast the stone pillars from underneath the bridge crossing Catfish Creek, and for a week Tommy had been anticipating the event. Every day he would rush to the location and see how the dismantling work on the bridge was coming along. Yesterday a workman had told him that the superstructure was nearly all cleared away and the contractor had set two o’clock the next day as the time for the high explosive to arrive. Tommy had also leanied that it took about two hours for the setting of the charges, and at three-thirty all trucks and equipment were to be cleared away. This meant that at four o’clock the big show was to come off.
But here he was, that snitcher, doomed to spend the afternoon writing a penance. There was no hope of getting out early either, because Miss Briggs had the jug class and she always waited for her girl friend who worked. That meant five o’clock all right.
The three o’clock bell rang, and the children rushed out into the warm sunlight but the jug class trudged haltingly up to the study hall. In a few minutes the duties were assigned and silence descended over the hall. Tommy looked longingly out the window and thought of the rock-fall that formed a little cave where he had planned to sit, protected, and view the exciting spectacle. Why couldn’t they let you go when you
had finished writing your penance? Wasn’t that bad enough without making you stay all afternoon? Besides, growing kids need sunshine; Miss Smith, the hygiene teacher, had told them so. Nobody seemed to pay any attention to the hygiene teacher when she interfered with punishments.
For a seemingly tremendous length of time the hands of the clock crawled reluctantly around the face. At five minutes to four Tommy’s agony was at its height and his spirits were at their lowest. At four o’clock he fancied that he heard a distant roar; he could see the gigantic cloud of smoke and dust rise from the disintegrating pillars, the flying debris, and the big slabs raining down near his selected shelter.
“Gosh; this is worse than a rainy Saturday.”
“What did you say, Thomas?” Tommy jumped when he heard Miss Briggs’ voice at his elbow.
“N-nothing, Miss Briggs, I didn’t say nothing.”
“Well, you have been loafing, Thomas. Hurry now and I’ll let you go a little early,” she admonished.
Instantly Tommy began to scribble. Maybe he could get there yet. Maybe they had been delayed for some reason.
“Boy I hope so,” he whispered.
At four-fifteen Tommy was hurrying out of the door as fast as he could go without being called down for running. The minute he was outside he began to run. In about fifteen minutes he was in sight of the creek, and another five minutes brought the bridge in sight.
“Aw shucks! It’s all over. But what. ...???”
An ambulance was roaring up the road, its siren screaming. As it rushed past Tommy, another and then a third could be seen leaving the company field office. Tommy found himself running again as fast as he could, and as he neared the office he could see men running about and figures stretched on the ground.
“W-what happened?” Tommy stammered breathlessly to a policeman who was stringing a guard rope between the trees.
“Get back there, buddy . . . people been hurt. . . stay outa th’ way.”
Tommy stood where he was, frightened. Something had gone wrong,
but what? Suddenly a compelling idea siezed Tommy and scarcely before he knew what he was doing, he was running up through the bushes.
“I bet I can see it all from the cave,” he thought.
Circling back to the stream he ran down to where the cave was.
“Oh-h-h-h-h. . . ! The cave! It’s gone! It’s . . . it’s. . . gosh!”
The cave was gone and Tommy suddenly understood it all. The workmen’s shack was located near the cave, and it and the cave and the whole hillside were all wiped away.
Tommy spied a man whom he knew to be one of the blast crew. He rushed over to the man. “Jim! Jim! what happened?” Slowly Jim turned and Tommy could see that the side of his face was covered with bandages and his dusty shirt and overalls were torn and tattered.
“You better get away from here, kid, it’s dangerous,” Jim warned. “The charge started a landslide, most of the crew hurt, some of ’em dead.”
Tommy peered past the man’s shoulder and he could see that stretcher bearers were carrying misshapen forms away.
Suddenly he felt a sick feeling in his stomach and he turned away and started up the hill. He turned toward home and he found that his knees were weak and his stomach was turning over and over. When he reached a small clump of trees near his house he flung himself down on the ground and lay there with conflicting emotions working havoc in his brain.
“Dad told me not to go near there too, Tommy groaned. After spending perhaps a half hour in the bushes Tommy composed himself and went into the house.
“Where have you been, young man?” his mother asked.
“Aw, Miss Whitehead kept me in for shooting paperwads. But I didn’t start it,” Tommy added hastily. “That new kid hit me first but the teacher only said I must have done something to deserve it. She likes him ’cause he holds the door open for her and washes the board ’n stuff.”
Without further ado Tommy was rushed up stairs to wash up for supper, and, therefore, nothing more
(Continued on Page 20)
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
3 b ATHLETICS 4 E
ELMER LAYDEN BEMOANS "SUICIDE SCHEDULE," BUT HOPES FOR WIN OVER DRAKE
NUMEROUS VETERANS OPEN FALL TRACK
By Mark Mitchell
“A Question Mark,” was Elmer Layden’s characterization of the 1937 t Notre Dame Varsity, this week, in an exclusive interview with The Scholastic. The head coach exuded his usual pessimism as he pointed out that all but three of last year’s regulars would have to be replaced. Besides that the Irish open
against Drake which last Friday beat Central College, 47-0.
Minor injuries always incident to getting a team in shape have seriously hampered practice the past two weeks. However, at present the team is in such condition that it should be able to present its strongest lineup when the Bulldogs come here a week hence.
Coach Layden refused even to contemplate the possibilities any farther ahead than the opening game. Obviously such a suicidal schedule prevents “pointing” for any one game.
A tentative starting lineup would include Captain Zwers and Skoglund at ends; Beinor and Alec Shellogg, or Kell and Emanuel at tackles; Kuhar-ich and Ruetz at guards; Pat McCarty at center; Andy Puplis at quarter; McCarthy and McCormick at halves; and Tonnelli or Simonich at full.
Skoglund and Zwers are both experienced men, and are backed up by Sweeney, Clifford, Murphy, and Earl Brown. Tad Harvey promises to give the regulars plenty to worry about at tackle. McGoldrick and Bossu will be on deck at guards. Fogel and Longhi at center will round out a potentially strong line.
In the backfield veteran Chuck O’Reilly and Bill Hofer will understudy Puplis. Max Burnell, Red Gleason, Jake Kovalcik, and Johnny McMahon provide experienced reserve material for the halfback posts. Binkowski, DiMatteo, and Hambley are among the fullbacks to be reckoned with.
The team looks strong in reserve material. There is a great variety of combinations possible both in the line and backfield. But only time and the other end of that schedule will tell just how good the 1937 Irish are.
With the Drake game but a week away, Layden is counting strongly on the Frosh-Varsity game tomorrow to help him decide who will actually start against the Bulldogs. But whoever does, everyone of these fellows will be fighting for a regular position from start to finish.
Head Coach Layden Weeps Again.
EFFICIENT MANAGERS START THEIR WORK
The late Knute Rockne not only developed a new system of football at Notre Dame; he also established a new method in the recruiting and gradual training of student athletic managers. This Notre Dame managerial system has become only a little less widely imitated than the sideshifting ends, the balanced “T” formations, the “Hike-one-two-one-two.” Such schools as Harvard, Pittsburgh and Purdue have just recently adopted it.
The usual college managerial aspirants turn out as “scrubs” for one particular sport during their sophomore year, work up to an assistant managership as juniors, and take full charge of their sport as seniors. This is comparatively easy on the prospective managers. But where the sports program is so all-encompassing and so actively followed by the students, (Continued on Page 20)
By William A. Donnelly
Coach John P. Nicholson intends to have a good track team this coming winter and spring. To make sure that no softness of muscle develops before that time, he began outdoor practice last Tuesday — a month of intensive reconditioning after the long summer lay-off. The practice will be brought to a climax with the fall handicap meet scheduled to take place in the middle of October.
For the second successive season there will be no recognized crosscountry team. However, since Nick believes implicitly that cross-country has been very important in helping him to develop such famous runners as Alex Wilson, the Olympic star, and Greg Rice, the National Two-Mile Record Holder, he will continue to send his distance men around the lakes and over the hills until the middle of November. The crosscountry group may compete in one meet to defend the first-place cup which, though unrecognized, it won in the Loyola Invitational Meet last year.	'
The outstanding runners among this year’s returning regulars are Captain Bill Mahoney, hurdler; Steve Szumachowski and Gene Gormley, two milers; Greg Rice, miler; John Francis, half miler; Pete Sheehan and “Mike” Micek, quarter milers; and Adam Wolf and Bill Clifford, sprinters. The most important field event men are Bill Faymonville in the shot put, and Dan Gibbs and Hal Langton in the pole vault.
Among last year’s freshmen the most likely candidates are Ted Leonas, high jumper; Bob Lawrence, hurdler; Curtis Hester, half miler; Henry Halpin, quarter miler; “Red” Martin, miler; and three sprinters — Tom Shields, Steve Coughlin, and Bill Tucker. Nick, who can tell a great deal more about a runner’s potentialities than the runner himself, asks for a large turn-out of first-year men this Fall.
Leo McFarlane, Notre Dame crosscountry captain in 1935, has been named coach of basketball, baseball, and cross-country at St. Mary’s high school in Lansing, Michigan, his home town.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
IRISH WORK AT ODD VACATION JOBS
VARSITY CLASHES WITH FRESHMEN TOMORROW IN SEASON GRID PREVIEW AT STADIUM
By Fred Digby
If you need any graves dug or ice carried or buildings constructed, you might see Coach Elmer Layden about it. For, after the past summer, the members of his present Fighting Irish squad are capable of performing almost any job you can name.
Captain Joe Zwers, for example, who will lead the Irish through their 1937 campaign, is an excellent grave
Varsity End Skoglund Did He Work?
digger and cemetery caretaker after his summer’s experience. He did just that work in his home town, Grand Rapids.
A whole construction company might be organized from Layden’s team if you’re man enough to handle them. Joe Ruetz and Joe Kuharich, both of whom are expected to be first rank contenders for All-American guard honors this year, worked on construction jobs. Kuharich was employed on the compus in the work on Zahm hall, while Ruetz was working over in Elkhart. Ed Longhi worked on the same type of job under his father and was kept stepping all summer. Emmett Crowe and Harold Gottsacker are two others who could be used on construction jobs.
Jim McGoldrick kept cool by toting ice around to the back door.
Andy Puplis spent his summer as a “trucker” in a farm machine company. Gene Ely worked in a grain elevator. And you might add Ed Broscoe to those constructionists for he spent his time as a camp carpenter. Denny Sullivan reported back with a summer full of asbestos engineering.
Ed Simonich, last year’s sensational sophomore fullback, worked in a mine in his native Michigan.
Unlike most of the fighting Irish, halfback Jack McCarthy had a “white collar” job, working as a clerk in the Chicago Board of Trade’s offices.
(Continued on Page 20)
By Nick Lamberto
Notre Dame football adherents will get a sneak preview of their favorite team in action when the Varsity meets the Freshmen in their annual clash at the stadium tomorrow afternoon. The kickoff is scheduled for 2:30 pan. Central Standard Time. The Starting lineup for the 1937 edition of the Fighting
GOLFERS SECOND IN INTERCOLLEGIATES
Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., coach of varsity golf, took a six-man squad to Pittsburgh in the third week of June and directed them to second place in the National Intercollegiates at Oakmont Country club. Tom Sheehan and Bud Donovan, who qualified for match play in the final 36 holes, were eliminated in the second round of play.
Compiling a team score of 649 strokes, Notre Dame finished five strokes behind Princeton university’s team champions. Northwestern was third. In figuring the team total, the scores of the four lowest men of each team were considered on a 36-hole medal play basis.
Forty-one colleges and universities were represented, and twenty-six of these boasted complete six - man teams. Other members of the Notre Dame squad were Capt. Lou Fehlig, Al Maihles, Gene Milbourn, and Bill Castleman, all of whom received silver medals for their efforts.
The starting field of 167 players, paired in twosomes, found tougher going during the first day’s play than on the second. Notre Dame was seventh down the list at the end of the opening day, but a reversal of form shot Irish stock into the runnerup post on the next double round.
Football Tickets
Dates for the distribution of tickets for the Drake University-Notre Dame football game, October 2, are as follows:
Seniors—Monday, Sept. 27
Juniors—Tuesday, Sept. 28
Sophomores—Wednesday, Sept. 29
Freshmen—Thursday, Sept. 30
Tickets may be obtained from the Notre Dame ticket office at any time during the day on presentation of athletic association books.
Irish is as yet tentative and may be determined largely by individual and team play in tomorrow’s contest.
Coach Clarence “Jake” Kline and his assistants Steve Miller and Hank
Quarterback Puplis Still Calling ’em.
Pojman will trot out a team of green-shirted hopefuls composed of allstaters, prep-school stars, and obscure high school players. Coach Kline is pessimistic about the outcome this year because of the short time his squad has been practicing. Future varsity stars may dot the lineup of the Frosh but it takes weeks of practice to whip them into a coordinated unit.
Fans will get some idea of how the varsity will look and act without the services of Bob Wilke, Joe O’Neill, Johnnie Lautar, and Bill Steinkemper who traded the pigskin for a sheepskin last June. Wilke’s triple-threat-ing at left half back will be especially missed.
The probable starting lineup for the Varsity will find Capt. Joe Zwers at right end, aided and abetted by smiling Chuck Sweeney and Johnny Murphy, both returning letter men. At left end Len Skoglund seems to have the nod but he is closely pressed by Jerry Clifford and Earl Brown.
At the tackles where a winning team must have power and stamina there is an unusual variety of heft and brawn. The only dubious elements are their speed and ability. At right tackle it’s a tossup between Paul Kell and Alex Shellogg. Denny Emanuel and “Gable” Beinor are running a dead heat at the left tackle post.	.
Two South Benders have the guard posts sewed up at this early date.
(Continued on Page 20)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING ByMark j-Mitche|1
It was with no little trepidation that we accepted the duty of turning out this weekly stint along with the other tasks incident to the position of Sports Editor. But our worst fears were realized only when we tried to find out something about the guy we were going to introduce.
From the usual sources we got the usual data, but you can’t write a
column with nothing but figures and dates. So we went to Joe Zwers himself. We might have saved ourselves the trouble, for the bespectacled, red-headed football captain will discuss just about anything before he’ll talk about himself. About the time our chin was dragging on the walk a Good Samaritan came along in the person of a former roommate of Joe’s. Consequently, we are able to give you here today, Captain Joseph Bernard Zwers of the Notre Dame Varsity.
Joe has always been the kind of an athlete you never hear much about. In high school at Grand Rapids he played football and basketball, captaining the latter team in his senior year. But he was, nevertheless, always the dogged, workmanlike player about whom headlines are not written.
Coming to Notre Dame in the fall of 1934, he played right end with the first string frosh. The opening of the following season found him hopelessly lost in the shuffle of reserves. But before the last game he was understudying Marty Peters, with a monogram to his credit. Last year he played through eight games as a regular until a painful injury forced him to the sidelines for the Southern California
c^pt. we Zhttf
SHEEHAN LEADS GOLF TOURNEY WITH 149
•
Out of a field of some 60 golfers, Tom Sheehan of the Varsity ended the first round of the Eighth Annual Fall tournament three strokes ahead of his nearest rival, Bud Donovan. The latter, also a Varsity man, is the defending champion. Sheehan’s 76 on Saturday gave him a two stroke advantage which he increased Sunday with a 73, while Donovan was carding a 78-74—152.
Milo Wolf tied Donovan with a 78 on Saturday, but slipped to sixth place with a poor round of 81 the next day. Pat Malloy’s 73 on Sunday earned him third place after the previous day’s 81 had landed him in a three way tie with Huter and Quinn for sixth.
The winner’s name will be engraved on the William J. Burke Memorial trophy. This prize, which consists of a silver plaque upon which is engraved a topographical map of the University golf course, was donated by the widow of the late William J. Burke. The plaque is a permanent possession of the University, and hangs in the library.
The' leaders:
Tom Sheehan ...........76-73—149
Bud Donovan ...........78-74—152
Pat Malloy .........  81-73—154
J. Bokeman ............79-76—155
P. Donahoe ............80-78—158
R.	Huter .............81-78—159
M. Wolf...............78-81—159
J. Stulb _____________81-78—159
M. Quinn .............81-80—161
C. Bennett............86-76—162
S.	Neild .............84-78—162
game.
Still he was just an unheralded wingman until his mates decided to do something about it, and consequently gave him the highest honor—the captaincy of the Varsity football team.
That is the practical, business-like side of Joe. He has another. The light of his life for the past four years has been a little Grand Rapids lass named Barbara. Rumor has it that he sometimes deserts the O.A.O. to bat in the Lake League. However, we wouldn’t put too much faith in this.
A senior in the College of Commerce, he is majoring in business administration, and hopes to find a niche in the great world of commerce when he finishes. He amuses himself with a banjo, one of those crazy bat-the-ball-and-it-comes-back-and-hits-you-in-the-face affairs, and (so said another rumor) reading poetry. We are not sure what kind he reads, but it is probably of the action variety. He’s that kind of a guy.
This, then, is the 183-pound six-footer who will lead the Fighting Irish through their 1937 schedule—a hearty German lad with a husky, pleasing voice, who runs signals in the fourth floor corridor of Walsh, who really plays the game for the fun of it, and who is, on the field and off, everything that a Notre Dame football captain should be.
Ex-lrish Golfer Stars
Returning to his home in Miami, Florida, from the Pacific coast, Winfield Day, ’36, and captain of the varsity golf team in his senior year, stopped over last week to visit his former coach, Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., and to engage him in a friendly round over the William J. Burke - University of Notre Dame course.
Day, four-time Notre Dame campus champion during his undergraduate days, competed in the national amateur championship during the late summer at the Alderwood country club, Portland, Oregon, where he reached the quarter-final round, being eliminated on the nineteenth green by Bud Ward, nationally famous amateur golfer.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
NOTRE DAME "BEES" OPEN AT NIAGARA
The Notre Dame “B” squad opens its usual annual schedule of five games on September 26, when it travels to Niagara Falls to play Niagara University. In October it plays
“B” Coach Cekney .500 Is Pretty Good.
a home-and-home series with the Purdue “B,” at Lafayette the 2nd, and at Notre Dame the 16th. The last trip is to Champaign, to play the “B-men” of Illinois, Octobei-30th. Illinois ends the schedule by returning the visit on November 20.
The Irish reserves are all men who because of slight deficiencies in skill or weight or experience are not ranked high enough to be outfitted with one of the 83-game uniforms of the varsity. Unlike the “A” squad men, their enjoyment of the game of football is unsupplemented by the undeniable pleasure of being the subjects of newspaper clippings, pictures, autograph hunters. Together with the freshmen, the “B” men learn the plays and systems of Minnesota, Pittsburgh, Navy, and other varsity opponents, for scrimmage purposes. Hence in their own games the reserves often surprise both opponents and spectators by shooting the orthodox Notre Dame balanced line and shift with the starting eleven, then substituting a team which employs the unbalanced line, the single-wingback formations and shovel passes of the Navy.
This system is valuable for its surprise-effects, but the learning and unlearning of new plays and formations every other week or so gives the “B” men little time to become really expert with any one particular group of plays. So despite the pres-(Contimied on Page 20)
RIGGED FOR FUN
In Which Our Scribe Gives Us Some Inside Dope on Tennis’ Stormy Petrel, Bobby Riggs
By William Cullen Fay
Some two Junes ago the Solons of the Lawn Tennis Association were greatly befuddled to learn that Bobby Riggs had defeated Frankie Parker for the Clay Court Championship of the United States. After all, Parker was the jelly consomme in their Davis Cup. He practiced faithfully, ate his spinach, and went to bed every night at nine. Undoubtedly, he was on the way to being America’s finest player. And Riggs?—they’d heard some pretty wild stories about him.
For instance, hadn’t he gone dancing the night before his final match in the National Junior tournament? Of course, he had won the match, anyway—but everyone knew that dancing and tennis didn’t mix. Parker didn’t dance. The Solons almost regarded Riggs’ win as an affront to strict training and clean living.
But, Solons being only Solons, they missed the humoi' in the situation. They hadn’t been in the third-floor corridor of the Argonne Barracks, at Culver Military Academy, that August evening when Bobby started out to his dance:
.Gaily caparisoned, Bobby was blithely stepping down the corridor when he met his opponent of the morrow, who was sedately encased in pajamas and was very evidently headed for bed. Bobby met the situation. In courtly fashion he bent forward from the hips and intoned a stately “Good Evening.”
And again, Solons being only Solons, they couldn’t see the humor of the situation because most of them had never seen Mr. Riggs. Bobby is about five-feet-six in height, and some three-and-one-half feet of that is hoopy legs, built along the general architectural lines of a croquet wicket—not the legs that lend themselves to Victorian posture.
Of course, since the Parker match the Solons have seen Riggs many times—usually in the final round of some tournament. But the Solons don’t like him any better. They complain that he plays at playing tennis instead of just playing tennis, and to prove their point they’ll tell you about his activities in the International Team Matches with France, at the Merion Cricket Club, Philadelphia, last September.
It seems that Bobby was scheduled to play Destremeau, the French champion, at two o’clock in the afternoon. Along about nine in the morning Bobby wired the Solons that
he was motoring down from New York with Wayne Sabin and would arrive well before two o’clock. Two o’clock came, and went. Two-thirty. Two-forty-five. And — a telephone call from Riggs.
“I’m in Trenton Jail,” he stated matter-of-factly over the phone. “How about sending someone down here to bail me out?”
The Solons bailed. And finally, at 3:45, Riggs walked out on the court to play Destremeau.
But Bobby had an explanation. He had borrowed a car from a friend, but hadn’t bothered to borrow the owner’s card. Nor had he bothered to observe a Trenton sign; nor, it further came out, had be bothered to heed a whistled invitation to stop and talk things over with a cop. Consequently the Trenton police held him on three charges. In Trenton, those three charges run into expensive bailing.
That evening and the following morning the Solons watched Bobby very carefully, and precisely at 2:15 they pushed him onto the court to play Petra, the French No. 2. By that time the team score was France 2, United States 2, and the fate of the whole tie hung on the Riggs-Petra fray.
The match was nip-and-tuck. Bobby took the first set at 7-5, and finally reached match point at 6-7, 30-40 on Petra’s service in the second set. Petra served. Bang! Bobby clouted his forehand down the line, but the ball was out by inches. Deuce. Bobby reached advantage again. Bang! Again his forehand missed the sideline. Deuce again. Four more times Bobby reached advantage, and four more times his forehand missed fire. Finally, he held his seventh match point. Bang! He clubbed his forehand. Chalk flew up from the sideline and the match was over. United States 3, France 2.
Later the Solons asked Bobby rather pointedly just what the big idea was. In their opinion matchpoint was no time for horseplay. Bobby explained that he thought it would be fun to end the match with a forehand placement.
All of which made the Solons like Bobby even less. Consequently, in the spring they passed him over in the nominations for the Davis Cup Team, placing Parker and Grant before him. In fact, they even nominated Wayne Sabin as alternate— and Sabin, fine player that he is, doesn’t belong on the same court with Riggs.
(Continued next week)
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
YEARLINGS PRODUCE QUANTITY. QUALITY
By John F. Clifford
High above the teeming humanity at 34th Street and Seventh Avenue in New York City there is inscribed in blocks of immortal granite one sentence that has been the by-word of many a uniformed Santa Claus. “Neither heat nor cold, nor wind nor rain, nor the gloom of night shall stay these couriers from the swift completion of their appointed rounds.” That is the motto of the United States Post Office Department throughout the country; and, though a few people realize it, these words are responsible for a special delivery to Oshkosh as well as the daily letter to Carroll Hall. To the casual observer the above has no legitimate place in a sports column, perhaps, but follow us. Many years ago, when Notre Dame was a bleak wilderness, a rough ridin’, straight shootin’ bunch of Westerners had the job of carrying the mail across the plains of the country, then wild and woolly. These men were known as the Pony Express. Undoubtedly, they rode through this country; perhaps their routes carried them across the Quadrangle, through Cartier Field and over the ground on which the Stadium now stands. Their job was to carry the mail whatever the odds—and the odds were Indians, buffalo, and the elements. The above quotation was first applied to the Pony Express and later adopted as the motto of the Post Office Department.
On Sept. 15, a Freshman squad of about 40 experienced men reported to Coach Kline and his assistants. However, the ranks of the ’41 gridmen have grown steadily since the first call and at present number 150.
To-day history repeats itself: again a Pony Express rides the plains of -Notre Dame. Like the rough riders of old, this Pony Express “carries the mail,” even though Jim Farley would frown upon the method. The odds of today are seemingly as insurmountable as those of 100 years ago—not Buffalo or Indians, but Panthers, Wildcats, Gophers and even the Army and Navy. Pep talks are not in our field—we leave them to Elmer Layden. But with the torrid heat of the Drake battle, the bitter cold of the late November Southern California game, the wind of the Pitt backs and the rain of Army passes, remember, Pony Express—and Power House, too—remember your heritage. The mail must go through! .
Football at Notre Dame, especially this time of year, casts an obscure shadow over the rest of sportdom. And this is to be expected. The fact that Glenn Cunningham breaks a record in the 800 meters, or that Spec Towns takes a cavalry horse over the hurdles is no longer news of the “man-bites-dog” variety, and deserves no more space than the announcement that the Cubs are still in the National League race. But for the benefit of you Freshmen who have heard little or nothing of the track team, better known as “Nick’s boys” in season or out, let us introduce to you a young lad from whom a great deal will be heard before the 1940 Olympics roll around.
His name is Greg Rice, and he lives in Missoula, Montana. Last Spring in the Indiana State meet held at Notre Dame, Greg pushed Jimmie Smith and Don Lash to a 4:12 mile, (being timed in 4:14 himself) and as a reward won a trip to the National Intercollegiates at Berkeley, California. Now, the mile is Rice’s specialty, though his place in the half last year helped pull the Irish through many a close meet. But when the judges and timers matched watches at the completion of the mile at Berkeley, our hero was found to have ended up in fourth place. Determined to show that Montana shall henceforth be known for its runners as well as for its mines, Greg entered the two mile race, fully realizing the worth of Feiler of Drake, Frey of Michigan, and Tommy Deckard of Indiana. Every real champion shows his mettle under the stiffest of competition, and stepping out to a new N.C.A.A. record Greg showed himself a real champ. He shattered the five-year old record of 9:16.7 by two and a half seconds, and that is stepping! So, you Frosh, watch this man. He’s going places. The kid’s good! ’
Frosh Coach Kline !
Fast backfield material has already shown a degree of prominence. At this early date, Line Coach Pojman said it was difficult to designate outstanding men, but he felt that candidates from Chicago, Iowa, and the East were particularly encouraging. As has usually been the case, the bulk of material hails from the MidWest.
Coaching is under the able direction of Jake Kline, who has been officially designated to lead this year’s aggregation. He is supported by. Steve Miller, who will handle the back field detail, with Henry Pojman and Joe McMahon drilling the line men. All the coaches are former varsity men: Miller starred at full, Pojman at center, and McMahon held a guard berth.
The squad is being drilled in the fundamentals of the Notre Dame system, and in all probability will scrimmage next week, in preparation for real action against the Varsity on Sept. 25.
Wallace Predicts
Francis Wallace, Notre Dame alumnus, designated “Bunny” McCormick to be the best little man in football this fall in his article, “Pigskin Preview,” printed in the latest issue of the Saturday Evening Post. Notre Dame’s team will finish second to Minnesota in the mid-Western rankings when the season is over according to him.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
TRACKSTERS STRONG IN SUMMER MEETS
NICHOLSON BACK FROM EUROPE TRACK MEETS VERY PLEASED WITH YANKS SHOWING
Third place in the C. I. C., and ninth in the National Collegiates were the honors garnered by the Notre Dame track team during the summer. The C.I.C. meet was held at Milwaukee, on June 4, while Berkeley, Calif., provided the site of the National, and the date was June 19.
The Nickmen accounted for 28 tallies at the Wisconsin get-together. Bill Faymonville was the heavy point getter by placing first in the shot-put and the discus. Johnny Francis gave the N. D. total a four-point boost when he ran second in the half-mile.
Gregory Rice finished third in the mile. Don Lash won this race and also the two mile. In each he set a new meet record. Another Blue and Gold man who placed third was Eddie Boyle in the broad-jump.
Fourth’s by Pete Sheehan in the quarter, and “Chick” Levicki in the discus, plus a second in the mile relay gave Notre Dame her total of 28. Indiana won the meet with 39 points, while Illinois nosed the Irish out of second money with 29 markers.
In the N.C.A.A. clash, held in midJune, over 40 schools took part. Out of this field Notre Dame, with only Rice and Faymonville entered, were ninth.
The outstanding performance on the coast from a Notre Dame angle was the victory of Greg Rice in the two-mile run. The little Montana gamester, running in the event for the second time in his life, set a new meet and Notre Dame record. His time was 9:14.2. Rice also ran fourth in the mile.
At Milwaukee, Faymonville won the discus with a heave of 145 feet 1 in. At California he threw the platter 148 ft. 5 in., but could get no better than sixth. The first and the fourth by Rice, and the sixth by Faymonville gave the Irish 15 points.
At a meeting of the letter-men, Bill “T-bone”Mahoney, was elected captain for the coming year. Mahoney is a hurdled and a monogram man of two year’s standing.
Fall Tennis Tourney
Entries for the Annual Tennis Tournament for upperclassmen closed Wednesday, with first round play starting yesterday. Although the entry list was incomplete as The Scholastic went to press, it was understood that the entire Varsity squad had signified its intention to play. There was also a fair number of other upperclassmen in the pairings.
By Mike Crowe
It was funny. They would serve you wine and beer along with your meal and not charge you a cent for it. But if you asked for milk or orange juice, there was always an extra charge.” John Nicholson was recalling one of his many experiences this summer while directing ten American track and field
BASEBALL TEAM ENDS SEASON WITH WIN
A successful squeeze play ended the 1937 Notre Dame baseball campaign in triumph. It occurred during the ninth inning of the second of the two-game Commencement series here with the University of Iowa team.
After having lost the first fray 6-1, the Klinemen were behind 2-1 as they prepared for their turn at bat in the last of the ninth. Johnny Braddock, first up, tripled. A single by “Chuck” Borowski and the score was tied. Bob Mohr beat out a bunt and advanced Borowski to second. Captain Ennio Arboit, pinch-hitting, sacrificed putting Mohr on ' second and Borowski at third. Puplis flied to left. At this point the game-winning squeeze was put on. It was almost a steal of home by Borowski. However, Joe O’Neill, who was batting", figured that he would give “Browser” at little help. He sent up a little pop-bunt that landed safely because of the fact that the Iowa infield—as is natural with two out— were playing back. Borowski was across the plate and when O’Neill beat the throw to first, the game was won and the season terminated.
Johnny Goncher pitched in the curtain-closer and allowed but six hits. Manders, of Iowa, allowed the Irish but two bingles in the first game. On the mound for Notre Dame in this contest were Rydell, Boyd, and Captain Arboit.
Returning monogram men for next spring are Captain-elect “Chuck” Borowski, ex-Captain Ennio Arboit, Johnny Braddock, Jim Carson, Larry Doyle, Johnny Goncher, Alex Kovze-love, Johnny Moir, Joe Nardone, Andy Puplis, and Oscar Rydell. Bob Mohr did not return to school, but Jimmy Corcoran, sophomore sensation two years ago, who was forced to leave the University last spring because of pneumonia, is back and in the best of health.
“—Do not be seen on the “Pike” after 10 p.m. or you may have an opportunity of taking an early vacation.”—From files of Scholastic, 1898.
athletes on a European tour.
“Nick,” as he is known by the students, came back from Europe looking fit enough to play an end position for Coach Elmer Layden during
Track Coach “Nick” Nearly Missed the Boat.
Notre Dame’s strenuous schedule this fall. Maybe this is the reason. We’ll let him tell it. “None of their tracks are the standard distance as we have them over here. Some were 300 yards, another would be 100 yards longer, and still another might be 440 yards and so on. Well, I had to run so fast finding the correct spot from where to give instructions to a runner that I really believe I did more running than the actual competitors.”
It was an enthusiastic, happy group which sailed on the Berengaria in midsummer. Accompanying Coach Nicholson were Ben Johnson, Columbia sprinter; Chuck Belcher, Georgia Tech quarter miler; Elroy Robinson, San Francisco Olympic Club 880 man; Leroy Kirkpatrick, Southern California hurdler; Jack Patterson, Rice Institute hurdler; George Var-off, pole vaulter; Ken Carpenter, Southern California discus thrower; Cornelius Johnson, high jumper; Bob Peoples, javelin thrower; and Allee, the San Francisco Olympic Clubs, shut putter.
Track meets were held in London, Brussels, Orleans, Paris, Strasbourg, Baesle, Berne, and Milan. Only for the sake of comparison, three attendance records will be given to show evidence of the enthusiasm displayed (Continued on Page 22)
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
After School
(Continued from Page 13) was said concerning the subject.
That evening aftei- supper Tommy’s father opened the extra he had bought in lieu of the regular evening paper and began to read to Mrs. O’Toole the account of the explosion and its dire after-effects. If their eyes had not been so intent upon paper and knitting respectively Tommy’s parent would have noticed a peculiar reaction in him as he heard more particulars of the disaster.
“You see what would have happened had I not warned you to stay away from that place,” Tommy’s father explained.
“Yes sir,” but Tommy did not notice his father’s peculiar scrutiny for he was on his way out of the room.
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.

Efficient Managers
(Continued from Page 14)
as at Notre Dame, such a mild system is very inadequate. According to the Notre Dame idea, the managerto-be starts to work in his freshman years, stays active from September to June, and gets a sample of every school sport. There is no “specialization” till the Senior year, where the eight hardest-laboring members of the original freshman group are elected by the graduating managers to the various sports according to their general ability. There are numerous compensations for all this expenditure of time and effort—freshman numerals, major monograms to all Seniors, trips with the teams, contacts important in later life.
The entire staff of managers—approximately 50 freshmen, 25 sophomores, and eight juniors—comes under the jurisdiction of each Senior throughout the year. So starting with football, and continuing on with indoor track, basketball, fencing, outdoor track, baseball, golf and tennis, the managers are always at hand in sufficient numbers to handle the Managers’ Organization is the most versatile and most active of all campus groups.’
“The work on the new gymnasium is being pushed along as rapidly as possible. The building will be unique in every way when complete, and our athletes will have training quarters of which they may be proud.”—From Scholastic, 1898.
NOW—ACCEPT
SELLING INK
Vacation Jobs
(Continued from Page 15)
\— |
The Shellogg brothers, Al and Fred, stayed on the campus and worked at odd jobs. Paul Kell of nearby Niles was a playground supervisor.
Some of the boys went a bit ritzy with country club jobs. Jerry Clifford, who is definitely due for some good luck this year, worked at the Chicago Beverley Country Club. Ed Beinor life-guarded at the Lakeside Country club in Bloomington, Illinois. Babe Marshall and Red Gleason were other who occupied themselves getting sun tans and saving lives.
So if you want any clerks or cooks, linemen or icemen, oilmen or salesmen, for next summer, the address is Mr. Layden, coach of the Fighting Irish.
Varsity-Frosh Game
(Continued from Page 15)
They are the two Joe’s, Ruetz and Kuharich, the twin assassins. Right behind them in the guard race are two Philadelphia boys, Walter “Babe” Marshal and Jim McGoldrick. At center Pat McCarty has the edge over John Fogel and Ed Longhi who are both coming up fast.
The backfield combination is Coach Layden’s principal headache. At quarter he has Andy “Lugs” Puplis and Chuck “Beetle” O’Reilly to choose from. Bunny McCormick has the call at right half but Danny Sullivan and Ennio Arboit are making strong bids for recognition. Motts Tonelli, Ed Simonich, and Hal Gott-sacker are the chief contenders for the fullback position. The left half situation is acute, but Jack McCarthy, Max Burnell, and Benny Sheridan are there to remedy it.
After the regulation game with the Frosh, the Varsity will probably taper off with inter squad scrimmage.
THIS 20,000 WORD, 192-PAGE
WEBSTER’S DICTIONARY
"Bees" at Niagara
(Continued from Page 17)
GEE, BILL, WHERE DID YOU GET THAT KEEN WEBSTER'S DICTIONARY?
WHEN YOU BUY A BOTTLE OF PARKER QU INK I
Offergoodotfym U.S. A. and only while Supply of
With the Purchase ef a 15c Bottle of
*RirLer w
—the amazing new writing ink that cleans a pen as it writes. Made 2 ways—WASHABLE for home and school—PERMANENT for accounting and permanent documents. Made by The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis. Get Qiu'nk and free dictionary at any store selling ink.
ence of a multitude of able men— both strong linemen and speedy backs—the “B” squad record is rarely better than .500. The general rule is an even split with Illinois and Purdue—perennial apponents— and victories over Niagara every other year.
There are about 50 men on the “B” squad,.of which the more active graduating seniors receive a monogram sweater distinguished from the varsity award only by the small letters “A.A.”—Athletic Association.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Coach Elmer Layden, when asked about his Notre Dame football prospects, replies: “After reading about the Far Eastern crisis, I know what I’m saying when I say we haven’t a Chinaman’s chance.” The Irish face Drake, Illinois, Carnegie Tech, Navy, Minnesota, Pittsburgh, Army, Northwestern, and Southern California in that order.
Father O'Hara
(Continued from Page 3)
you should avoid bad companionship and occasions for sin; that you should cultivate the simplicity that implants humility in the hearts of the true scholar. Common sense tells you all these things, and yet you may lack courage to carry out the dictates of your sound judgment.”
“Others have gained that courage at the altar-rail, where morning after morning, throughout four years at Notre Dame, they have sought the intimate union with our Divine Saviour which only divine goodness could have made possible. You gain that courage by making a point to live in the state of grace during your four years at Notre Dame—to rise quickly from a fall, to fight harder than ever against a fall.”
It’s Got What It Takes
to help you rate!
FULL
^VACUMATIC
HOLDS 102% MORE INK THAN OUR FAMOUS DUOFOtD
tuss than actual sial
Pencils to match, $2.50, $3.50, $3.75, $5
The Revolutionary Pen That Won’t Run Dry In a New and Superlative Model—the Speedline
INK SUPPLY
It’s not how much a person has in his pocket that determines whether or not he selects the new 1938ParkerSpeedlineVacumatic —it’s how much he has above his shoulders!
Some other pens cost as much as this revolutionary invention, yet no one having the “low down’ ’ on pens wants to pay these prices without getting these new-day advantages. For example:
A new all-time high in ink capacity, hence a Pen that never starts anything it cannot finish. A Pen that shows the ENTIRE ink supply—shows when to refill
—hence one that never runs dry in classes or exams.
An utterly exclusive Style— laminated Pearl and Jet—now with slender Speedline shape—• the most restful ever conceived.
And not merely modern in Style, but wholly modem in mechanism, too. Its SACLESS and patented Diaphragm Filler radically departs from all earlier types, regardless of whether they have a rubber ink sac or not.
Be sure to see and try this pedigreed Beauty today at any good pen counter. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wisconsin.
Makers of Quint, the new pen-cleaning writing ink, 15c, 25c and up.
GUARANTEED MECHANICALLY PERFECT
Pens, $5, $7.50, $8.75, $10

22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Start Charity Work
•
Once again the Vincentians are to take up their work of charity for the year. With cases already on file in the office the members of the organization. The new president of the society, Charles Beasley, received his
We’re glad to See You Back!
Good luck to all of you—and greetings, Class of 1941. South Shore Line trains are still the fast, SAFE way to go to Chicago—with fares geared down to college bankrolls. There’s a train almost every hour ... to
appointment Monday from Mr. Hiss, president of the Particular Council of South Bend.
The first meeting of the club will be held Sunday morning at 10:45 in the chambers of the Knights of Columbus in Walsh Hall. At the meeting Mr. Hill will address the members. The other officers will be notified of their appointment at this time. All members are earnestly urged to .be in attendance.
Coach Nicholson
(Continued from Page 19)
by the Europeans. 60,000 watched the London meet, 25,000 attended at Paris, and 32,000 turned out at Milan.
The first meet was an international affair held in London. Running so soon after landing, the boys didn’t show up very well. They won the 100 yard dash, 220 yard dash, high
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our ozvn laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8211
jump, and the discus throw. Then Nick added, “We started to clean up after leaving London. We really pointed for each meet and the results were always satisfactory.” Nick had a world of praise for his athletes. “A group of nice, clean boys,” was the plain way in which Nick praised the ten men entrusted to his care.
Coach Nicholson stated that “The Racing Club de France” in Cologne is really something to see. The stadium, used for a trick field and soccer, seats 45,000 people. This club has ten more fields for soccer and English rugby. In addition to these there are numerous tennis courts and swimming pools.
Among the British athletes, the Notre Dame track coach selected as outstanding, Stan Wooderson, one of the premier milers of today, Ward, who is a great three miler, Brown, a 440 and 880 man, and Finlay, a splendid hurdler.
There were banquets everywhere for the American group. Autograph hunters besieged the athletes even as the European girls fought to reach Robert Taylor when he landed in Europe a short time ago.
Upon arrival at a city, the group was always met by the mayor' and other officials. Wine drinking followed, then speeches. It was an enjoyable experience at first but Nick expressed his team’s attitude later in the summtr when he remarked, “It got rather boresome, those speeches and all that wine.”
Coach Nicholson hopes that many European boys will be inspired by the performances of the Americans. More tours of American athletes are expected to follow, and it probably won’t be many years before the European boys really become track conscious.
and from the heart of Chicago’s Loop.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
V. S. Pat. No. 2,082,106	—
YELLO-BOLE ’I”
LATEST DISCOVERY IN PIPES
This new way of burning tobacco gives you a better, cooler, cleaner smoke. Updraft of air from bottom cools smoke, keeps bowl absolutely dry, takes rawness out of any tobacco, improves combustion. Carburetor Yello-Bole also gives you the famous honey-treated bowl. Nothing else has its flavor. At dealers* now.
CARBURETOR
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
Scholarship to Warsaw Given Pawlowski
•
Joseph Pawlowski, former glee club soloist, will sail from New York Oct. 1 to commence voice studies at the University of Warsaw, Poland. During his stay in Warsaw Pawlowski is scheduled as a guest star with the Polish Metropolitan Opera Company and the Polish National Broadcasting System.
While in attendance at the University of Notre Dame, Pawlowski was under the supervision of Professor Joseph Casasanta of the department of music. In addition to his glee club work he also was president of the Charles Phillips Cracow Club and drum major of the University band. One of the first of his race to be given a voice scholarship, he is no stranger to radio fans having appeared on both the Columbia and the National broadcasting systems.
SWIM in one of the finest pools in the country .
NATATORIUM 1044 West Washington St. (for ladies and gentlemen)
Open daily, except Monday, 12 to 9 p. m.
Sunday, 2 to 6 p. m.
•
25 cent admission fee includes suit, locker, towel, soap, plunge and use of sun lamps.
PHONE 3-8611
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
• First year men will do well to take a timely tip and stock up aplenty with button-down Gordon oxford shirts. They’re designed expressly for college men—and tailored to reflect casual correctness—a campus classic for long wear and smart style. $^
Mitoga—tailored-to-fit	Sanforized-shrunk
ARROW SHIR TS and TIES
Intelligent service
Reliability
34 years' experience are our endorsements.
Optometrists
Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
The smartest Shirts expressly for College men
ARROW SHIRTS $2.00 and $2.50
in the Men’s Shop . . . Main Floor Rear
Blsuuirt^s
refreshing mildness and delightful aroma—that taste that smokers like ...
. . . it’s because Chesterfield links together —blends and cross-blends—the finest aromatic tobaccos from Turkey and Greece and the best mild ripe cigarette tobaccos from our own Sunny South—
^njoy Chesterfields. . . THEY SATISFY
Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.