• ©L • Dot re Dame Scholastic
■ DI5CE- QUASI • SEMPER-VICTVRUS- -VIVE-QUASI • CRAS • MORITURVS•
•F-X-A-
Vol. XLI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, May 16, 1908.	No. 31.
Life’s Shadows.
Thomas A. Lahey, ’ll.
yHE stems that bear the rosebud, hide The thistle and the thorn;
The sun that decks the ebbing tide With saffron net-work quaintly dyed, Must fade away when dies, the day And other distant scenes adorn.
The green-clad vines that gayly swing Where sun-kissed valleys lie;
The budding trees, the flowers of spring, And all the joys it’s sure to bring, Draw forth a smile, and bloom awhile, Then fade away and droop and die.
The warp and woof of life may glow With threads of shining gold, But ah! a little touch of woe, A little sorrow softens so
It’s dazzling gleams—’tis then life seems To bear the stamp of God’s own mold.
The Sweat-Shop Evil.
Albert F. Gushurst, ’09.
N almost every large city in the United States there exists. a system which ranks among the greatest evils of our times. Most people do not even know what the. sweating- system is; and
many of those. who do know what it is do hot understand why it is said to be an evil. The sweat-shop evil is simply a condition ’ or a result of the sub-letting of contracts, usually in connection with the clothing business. A manufacturer has a large order to fill; instead of making the
articles himself, he lets the goods out to some Contractor, who, in turn, sub-lets some of the goods to smaller contractors who, in most cases, sub-let again tp the poor families who live in tenement houses. This, in brief, is the sweating system; a system seemingly, simple in itself, but a power for evil almost incomprehensible.
This plain description of the system reveals no evils; nor is it evident whv there should be evils connected with such a system, but a study of the system shows evils of almost every order. There is an evil in the simple sub-letting of contracts. The first contractor, in order to make a profit, must do the work cheaper than the manufacturer would have to do it; the second contractor, also, has to make a profit; thus each time a contract is sub-let the pay to the workers is lowered, and finally, in the case where the work is taken to the homes, the pay to the workers is almost nothing. But the workers can not complain, because their lives and the lives of their families depend upon the pay they receive for their work in the 'sweat-shops; and in the case where home work is a necessity, on account of the inability of members of the family to go the sweat-shops, these poor people regard it as a privilege to be allowed to do work in their homes, no matter how low the wage.
Most contractors have factories of their own which are required by law to be kept sanitary, but which are never any better than' the law actually compels them to be. To these factories the .older and stronger members of the family come to work. Here these poor people are compelled to work and sweat like slaves from early morn till late, at night, moving as fast as their
5U
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
tired bodies are able, because it is only by working fast that they can earn enough to keep themselves and those dependent on them alive. They work by the piece, and the pay is so small that an adult woman is not able to earn over fifty or sixty cents a day—a little more than enough to pay the rent. This is the sweat-shop proper, and a sweat-shop it surely is. But this is not the worst feature of the system. The small sum earned in the sweat-shops by the older members of the family is far from being sufficient to support the entire family, and for this reason work is taken to the homes, ■ if the filthy, unsanitary places where they live may be so called; here everybody works, even little children scarcely able to toddle around. Here, during the day when the older ones are working in the factory, children, that should be in school and those not yet old enough to go to school, are at work. They know nothing of the pleasures of childhood; they only know that they must work, and their little easily moulded bodies are deformed and worn out in a vain effort to keep the wolf from the door. Little girls, eight and ten years of age, stay at home, instead of going to school, and tend the still smaller children; in many cases they even have to care for the sick, while the mother is toiling in the sweatshop earning the bread which is to keep them alive.
True, there are laws against such conditions. There are laws, for example, compelling owners of sweat-shops to have the work rooms well aired, clean and sanitary; there are laws forbidding the taking of work to the homes; finally there are laws compelling children of school age to go to school; but these laws are not enforced. In fact, the only law that can be enforced with any degree of success is that providing for sanitary factories. The trouble is that these laws take'away the means for support of these poof families and provide no further. The result is that the poor victims are compelled to face starvation or to hide and carry on their work in violation of the law. Naturally, they hide from the law and as soon as they are discovered betake themselves to some more obscure hovel. Thus many of the garments that we, wear are made in filthy, foul-aired, germ-infected '
places; made by the hands of poor, tired and over-worked women and children, who are, in many cases, suffering from contagious diseases, or, at least, caring for ones who are. These erarments become filled with the germs of disease, and later we who wear them are seized with the same disease and know not whence it came. Children of school age, and under, work in these foul places, earning the few cents a day which is necessary to help support the family. Their eyes are strained, their backs become bent, and their vitality slowly ebbs away. How these poor, half-fed, half-clothed breathers of foul air and dwellers in filth and misery, must envy the society dog, which is petted and fed on rich foods, is bathed in perfumed water, and even dressed in beautiful and costly clothes 1
This eyil, which is sapping the life blood from these poor people and is endangering the whole country by spreading disease, should be stopped, and can be stopped, but only by the united efforts of the people throughout the country. Everybody should refuse to buy goods that are made in sweat-shops, not alone because the making of these goods causes suffering, but also because it is dangerous on account of disease germs to wear such goods. This alone is not enough to put an end to the system, nor is the passing of laws and appointing of a few officers to see that the laws are enforced. No, we must go further than this: the people throughout the country must take the matter in hand and care for these poor wretches after the laws and the decreased sale of sweat-shop goods have deprived them; of work. Is it not better to care for them now, to lend them a hand now, while there is still hope of saving them from ruin, than to wait till we. are compelled to care for them; to wait till they can work no. longer, till their morals- are corrupted, their bodies wasted and their souls lost?
.	. . .. Remorse.
Timothy P. Hagerty, ’ll. .
'THE day. is gone, .and now. with * vain regret 1 The thought of duty left fundone appears; But; strange, instead of working now, we fret ; Qur-hearts and time away ; in idle tears. .
NOTRE; DAME
Wilkins at the Bat.
John C. Sullivan, ’ll.
SCHOLASTIC	515
was to be determined by what he did.
As the pitcher took his position in the . box, a sudden hush fell over the-large field., The hush became more noticeable as. the. man in the box prepared to throw the first ball. Suddenly it was. seen to leave the pitcher’s hand. All eyes were centred on .	•
the batter. Wilkins. swung and the umpire called strike one. The next three were wide ones, and it looked as though the batter was to walk. The next ball pitched was exactly over the plate, and to the surprise of the grand stand and bleachers, Wilkins • let it pass. It was now two to three on the batter. A quick and nervous glance on -the part of Wilkins at the crowd showed him that the fans were on his side. As he glanced around he reviewed the faces of hundreds, many of whom he had known for years, yet in that moment of intense , excitement, he recognized but one. She was sitting in the centre of the grand stand, bending over, anxiously watching every move of the game he had taught her so . perfectly that she understood the science of ' it as* well as any of the more strenuous ' fans on Astor Field. He could not have ■ missed the anxious look on the face of his fair one as he turned his attention to the crowd. The encouragement from that look . meant more to him than all the cheering on the part of the team’s supporters. As he turned the next moment and faced the . . . pitcher, he felt more confident than he had. ever felt before. His face was stern and his nerves tense. His grip on the bat tightened < as he waited to receive the coming/ball. '	♦’
A solemn hush fell over the large field, and-at that moment a single cheer would have. 2 been out of place. All waited, eagerly the ; . approaching moment. He stood, at the . plate apparently calm and collected, eagerly waiting the next move on the part of the pitcher. As he saw the pitcher’s grip ' tighten on the ball for a final effort, his ; eagerness only increased. The solemn hush over the field was somewhat disheartening . to him, but he remembered the face he had seen in the grand stand, and the next ri moment he swung fiercelv at the ball,, hitting it squarely, sending .a line drive over second base, scoring both runners, and the annual game between Carlyle and - ri Westlawn., was over.
, “Strike two,” called the umpire as Wilkins, the heaviest hitter and the star of the fast Carlyle team, swung fiercely at the ball.
It was a beautiful June day with all nature in bloom. The flowers, which were carefully nursed under many an April shower, and petted by the kindly rays of the warm, enlivening, and cheerful sunshine of the ever-joyous and happy month of May, were radiant with beautv. • The grass in its rich • verdure and the trees in their spring foliage told of a rejuvenated nature. The redbreast robins flying about added to the beauty of the early summer day, and in the branches of the trees there -was the music of many voices.
It was on the afternoon of such a day in June that many hundreds journeyed from the great' metropolis to the small college town some miles up the Hudson. The occasion was the annual meet on the baseball diamond between Carlyle and Westlawn. The rivalry between the two colleges for honors in the national game had always been keen, but as each had credit for one game won in the preceding two years, it was especially so at this time, as was evinced by the hundreds who left the toil and worry of city life for a brief afternoon to witness the contest on Astor Field between the two colleges. The game had now progressed to the last of the ninth inning, with Carlyle, the home team, at the bat. It was a splendid exhibition, and the great.crowd bubbled over with enthusiasm, as Wilkins, the shortstop, and the idol of Carlyle, stepped up to bat. The score was three to. two in fayor of Westlawn. There was a man on second and third. Two players were out, but this did not dampen the ardor of. Carlyle’s supporters. They, knew Wilkins was not the man to fail his Alma Mater in an emergency. As he stepped up to bat, he was greeted with round after round of applause by his more enthusiastic . friends,. arid by the waving of pennants by his fairer, but none the less ardent supporters. It seemed as if the all-important moment .had come, and that the winning or losing of the game
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Varsity Verse-
OUR TWIRLERS.
Chauncey ” twirls, there’s joy at Notre Dame, * There’s ne’er a doubt that we will win the game;
No matter what the team, it’s all the same When “Chauncey” twirls.
When Scanlon twirls, the visitors look sick;
They shake with fear when they take up the stick;
They go to bat, but sit down mighty quick When Scanlon twirls.	•
When Ryan twirls, the world quits going ’round;
Outside the field no N. D. fan is found;
All come to see the boy upon the mound When Ryan twirls.	.
When Philips twirls, the royal rooters shout, For they behold their rivals all strike out;	•
The boy within the box puts them to rout
When Philips twirls. .
George J. Finnigan, ’10.
WELL?
In all the English language, There’s one word I dislike, .
It seems to grate most harshly on my ears;
And truly when there follows
The fatal question mark,	'
The word at once gives rise to untold fears— Well?
If I am slow at rising,.
Or miss a while at night, I’m always sure some friends are found quite near;
'	I smoke before the building,
Or loiter there from class, ’Tis never long until I plainly hear, .	WeU?	=
Perhaps outside of Sorin, Let’s say it’s just at rec,— The freshmen lawyers scatter every way;
From the building rushing, ■ A pack of frenzied sheep, _.
They’re ducked, and thus insulted gruffly say: ' WeU?	'	’
Then too we think of class work, _ That surely makes me 'blue;
The duties in each course and classes all, Unless we keep our work up And hand in aU that’s asked, We’re certain, then to hear the teacher bawl—
WeU?	:
Oh, would I might find something.' .	.
-	. At which line I might’star,	.
And all the world might stand-and shout hooray! To me would come the learned, And standing gasp for breath,
Then, all excited, sputter forth and say:
Swell!	.	..
M; L. Moriarty,’IQ.
RAISING THE DOUGH.
Upon the moonlit deck they sat, Concealed by her Easter hat.
Her little hand in his.
Ah, happiness! ’twas surely theirs,
For what of earthly dreams compares
With a lover’s dream of bliss ?
“My love,” said he,-“what would you do If I should now propose to you?”
His heart was beating wild.
“I’d tell my dad to take his pen And write me out a check for ten,” She said in accents mild.
“Well, now,” quoth he, “that’s strange, I swear;
Yes, marvellous, I do declare.
Now, why would you do that?”-“Because,” she said, with crimson cheek “Dad promised me the ten I seek If you’d propose within a week,
So let’s look for a flat.”
Denis Morrison, Jr., ’10.
THOUGHTS ON SPRING.
The trees now sprout, all plants take life, The skylark sings high in the air
How sweet the songs in tones so free;
To God they are a breath of prayer.
Upon a sunlit bank I’U sit,
Whose grassy vales I love to see, The. milk-white steed reposes there, ’
My thoughts, too, there are always free.
The warm sun sparkling high above, - Fills land and sea with blissful air, To. soothe and cheer a soul if- sore.
Oh spring! you free my heart from care.
J. J. O’Brien, ’10.
.	A NARRATION.
Spring vacation,
’	A flirtation,
.	Presentation,
..	. Conversation,
.	■ Admiration,
.	Fascination,
Supplication,
’ .	" Affirmation,
•' ■	Jubilation,
"... .	Osculation,	.
Duplication, Conjugation ■ J ‘	Provocation,
‘	Disputation,
: \	:	(Then vexation),	•
■'.-L	..	, Altercation,	.
Lachrymation,	*
........	Desperation, '
.. ' Profanation, . Abjuration,
-	‘ Separation*	“	' -
•	-	- Thomas A. Lahey, ’ll.
NOTRE DAME
Water Wagon.
Jesse H. Roth, ’10.
“Steve” Mantell stood staring into the fire. He was disgusted with everybody and in particular with himself. How long he stood glaring into the blazing embers he could not tell; he was aroused at length by the entrance of “Bob” Grider, his roommate. Bob hung up his hat and coat on the rack before addressing his friend.
“Come on, Steve, old fellow, don’t feel so blue about it,” he said, as he laid his hand on his friend’s shoulder, “it was a bunch of tough luck and couldn’t be helped.”
“No, it wasn’t, Bob,” contradicted the despondent young man, looking into the empty bowl of his pipe, “ it was my fault, every bit, and I should be run out of school bn account of it.”
“Now, Steve, you shouldn’t look at it that way,” continued Bob, persuasively, “just because the touchdown was made around your end is no reason that you are at fault.”
Mantell did not answer but returned to his study of the fire. Again he saw the gridiron, the blue-clad adversaries and the crowded bleachers. A lump arose in his throat, and he grew sick at heart as he recalled that time after time the visitors circled his end for long gains, and at last a play was sent through him for a touchdown which resulted in the defeat of his team. He remembered that he looked toward the bleachers, looked for but one face and that was turned away.
A strange expression came into his eyes . and his jaw became square and set. His teeth bit through the amber stem, and the pipe was shattered on the tile at his feet. - “I’ll do-it,” he cried as he turned and faced his friend.
“Do what?” asked Grider in surprise.
"Steve walked over toward his friend, . placing both hands on his shoulders and forcing him to look squarely at him, he explained:	.
“You know what has been the matter with me, what the cause of our .defeat this afternoon-was, and what I’ll have to fight from now on. I- want you to remember
SCHOLASTIC -	517
what I’m going to say. I’m going to show that I can be a man. I’m going to stick to the water wagon a whole year.”
With that he seized his hat and stalked out into the night. From that moment he began a new life; the old Steve Mantell was gone forever.
“I guess I’m on the water wagon now for fair, laughed Steve as gathering the reins into one hand, he pushed forward the lever with the other and left a broad wet track on the pavement behind. After several minutes he continued: “Wouldn’t the fellows smile if they saw me now? And I’ve made a resolution to stick to the water wagon for a year. Well,” after a pause, “I’m as good as my word, I’ll stick.”
What had happened to our. hero since the football game? Practically the same that happens to most young men who start out to seek their own way unaided by a friend. In order to remove himself as far as possible from old acquaintances and temptations he had sought to put as many miles between himself and his home as was possible under the circumstances.
Five days later found Steve in a famous winter resort in the southern part of California with but a few cents in his pocket. After a futile search, in which he had almost given up in despair, we find him at noon on the third day standing on a corner trying to decide whether he should beg a bite to eat or wait and see what the results of his afternoon efforts would bring. He did not have to. answer this question, for he was startled from his study by a cheery voice and turning found himself staring into the kind face of a big Irish policeman. The young man stated his case as clearly and briefly as possible.
“Don’t ye let that wurry ye me b’y,” laughingly reassured the officer; “jist follow me, 1’1 fix yese up all roight.”
And before Steve was aware of it he was trying to keep step with the blue-coated Irishman. The next morning Steve Mantell of Harvard began his year on the water wagon.
• ••••••••
One warm afternoon almost three months later, Steve Mantell was driving along a fashionable thoroughfare when an event
5io	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
occurred which disturbed his peaee of mind for several days. He had ceased long ago to give any attention to 'the gay traps and ‘ chugging cars that whirled past. He did not want to attract attention for fear of being recognized, and he did not want to know that some of his former acquaintances were near. For this reason he attended strictly to business. He was leaning far back in the shade of the canvas top with his eyes almost closed. Before him he seemed to see a pair of large brown eyes, watching him from the trees, from the windows of ■ the splendid mansions that lined the street, and even from the sidewalk. The features slowly relaxed into a smile and—he sat up with a start and stared open-mouthed at the back of a rapidly receding car.
“That laugh,” he gasped, “could it be possible that she is staying out here this winter?”
All the rest of the afternoon he half feared yet hoped that she was. For days he scanned the faces of the passers-by hoping against fear that he would see her again. As the days wore on without any sign of her he had almost decided that he was dreaming on that particular afternoon.
It was a week later. He had just passed a corner when he heard a hoarse “hank” warning him of the approach of an automobile. He did not pay much attention to it. But the heavy car skidded on the wet pavement and came so close that it frightened the horses, a big team of bays, and before Steve could gather the reins well in hand they were dashing down the street at a tremendous pace. He knew if nothing unforeseen happened he would be able to stop them without much trouble.
But before he had gone a block his face suddenly became white and all the strength seemed- to leave his hands. Not more than . a hundred feet ahead a small child had stepped from the curb; and was crossing the street directly in front of the rushing steeds. To turn to the left was out of the question because a large car was rapidly; approaching, and the wheels of his wagon were scraping the curb on the right. What could he do? A single false move and the child would be crushed. Suddenly he was conscious of a pair of large brown eyes staring at him from the auto. ;. A ?	: -
“Steve!”
He scarcely heard his name called, for summoning all his strength he jerked the team to the right and fairly threw them up onto the curb. The heavy wagon poised for an instant on two wheels, and then with a tremendous crash lay in a shattered heap at the base of a huge iron post.
Steve did not know how he was found bleeding and half dead on the pavement, nor did he know how tenderly they picked him up, and it was weeks before he learned who had ordered him taken to her father’s house and who had nursed him back to health.
When he awoke he was barely conscious of a cool breeze blowing across his face. He lay several minutes staring at the ceiling, not trying to think, but just content to stare. He turned his head slightly and thought he saw a familiar face, but before he could speak or look again he slipped back into a deep sleep. When he awoke again he looked up into the face of his old friend and roommate.
“Well, old man, I see you’ve decided to come back and enjoy life a little while longer,” laughed Bob.
Steve tried to raise his hand to greet his chum, but found that it was bandaged and helpless.	.
“Now, .you just lie still and don’t try to say a word,” said Grider in a tone of authority seeing that the invalid was preparing to speak.
“Where am i?” asked Steve.
■ “Look here, young fellow, if you don’t keep that fan of yours closed you’ll be in a worse place than this pretty soon.” He picked up a magazine and began to read.
It was-not until he was able to sit up that Bob told him about how a certain young lady. with large brown eyes had recognized him on the afternoon of his heroic act, and had notified him and also Steve’s parents' who w’ere travelling in Europe at the Time and who were due to arrive the next day..
“And now, old fellow,” said Bob, “you’re coming back to school as soon as you’re well again.” .	//	/
' For answer Steve merely, shook his head.
“Don’t let that worry you any more, Steve,’’ assured the other- “ thefellows never
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	519
blamed you for it; they all said that it was tough luck.” '	.
Steve’s eyes lit up with a sudden fire.
“Look here,” he said slowly and firmly, do you remember what I promised you the night I left?”
The other nodded.
“Well, I’m as good as my word.”
And he was.
A Breath of Spring.
'	Harry A. Ledwidge, ’09.
yHE poet hears the robins sing
Of all the marvels that the spring
In dainty negligence has wrought,
Of what the southern winds have brought, Of what the summer still shall bring, Of perfume that the rose shall fling, And how the honey bee shall cling: ■
All this in mists of dreams unsought The poet hears.
He secs the iridescent wing, The tender buds of green a-swing;
He feels the sluggish pulse of thought
To quicken at a dream uncaught;
And while the dells with rapture ring;
The poet hears. '
He builds the lofty rime the while, The hearts of all are free from guile
And innocent of sin and wrong;
But with the gusts of wind along
He hurries down the forest aisle,
Or lingers at the rustic stile,	■
■ But where the violets defile.
And all the woodland rings with song, He builds the lofty rime.
No earthly things as cheap or vile,
But filled with nature’s cunning wile,
He sees the weakest and the strong;
But where,the brooklets’ currents throng, And all their music reconcile,
He builds the lofty rime.
Beneath the sky ’tis his to share
In all that’s good and all that’s fair,
In Maenad spring’s oblivious hours,
In joyous dance when April showers
Elusive scents.that spring from where	-
Back blowings of ambrosial hair .
Are lurements of a sweet despair
That he must leave tho’ crowned with flowers Beneath the sky.
He is- the master and the heir,-	;
With all the world for kingly chair,
He knows the. elemental powers	-
. That build the haunted lilac bowers, Through -which he wanders free from care ' ’ " Beneath the sky.	‘
A Living Advertiser.
Anthony Rozewicz, ’ll.
Once upon a time there was a fellow who called himself a student. The only reason he had for designating" himself as such was that he attended an educational institution; in reality, however, he did not look like a student; he did not act like a student; he did not talk like a' student,—he had only one characteristic of a student, and that was that he dressed after the fashion of some students. Yet it is probably not stuT dent-like to try to dress like, this fellow I am talking about; hence this fellow did not resemble a true student even in regard to his dress.	.
Well, this funny chap I speak of was about five foot six, neither fat nor slender, with shoulders as round as a semicircle; his head and chest inclined forward as if he were getting ready to pick up something which his eyes had detected three or four yards ahead. The boys used to call him Jack Rumdrum. .
Jack Rumdrum’s hat was the most conspicuous piece of his attire. It was a light grey dunlap whose rim was strikingly , decorated in college colors,—and college colors of this institution were extra loud. Perhaps this was one reason why Jack was fond of them. The part, of the hat which was not otherwise ornamented, served as a convenient memorandum: There were written names of intimate friends and classmates, scores of baseball and football games, diaries, short, foolish editorials, jokes and. also a few references to text-books. Jack usually wore this hat low on the forehead and slightly towards the right of his head. From afar this piece of dress looked like « a ten-dollar hat smeared with grease; at a shorter distance it looked like an enormously large pen-rag. A person had to see it only once, and he could never forget it, it made such a fierce impression on him.
The next piece of apparel which would disturb the retina even of a blind man, -was Rumdrum’s trousers. The color alone was not the most attractive feature. The size was unusual. The size would perhaps not be so noticeable if this young fellow
Oft
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
had not the habit of keeping his hands in the pockets. Whenever he thus concealed
To the May.

his hands, those baggy corduroys of measured at the hips at least three across, and took up three-fourths of
his feet the

James Kehoe, ’ll.
As to the coat Jack was equally on alert that it be of the latest style. He
the was
very particular in regard to the cut, and ' always took pains that the color exactly correspond to his fancy. I can not but say that Jack could distinguish the beauty of colors better than any woman I ever knew. He was not an expert when it came to judging dark colors, but when it was a question of light, loud colors, I venture to say that no one could beat him. Jack never bought a suit of clothes that was dark, because he could not tell whether it was beautiful orjiot. He always went to the other extreme and purchased a suit as loud as he could get, because the louder the color was, the easier he could see the beauty therein.
I wish I were able to describe the neckties that Jack Rumdrum wore; but I can’t because he never wore one long enough for a person to take a decent glance at it. In spite of this I am still at a loss that I can’t give you some description of these ties. Certainly it can not be because Jack tried to keep the people’s eyes off them. No,
QUEEN of springtime, sweet and fair, Now that winter’s gone away, Well we know that thou mayst dare
Rule the world in thy dear sway;
Thou art beauty in its prime, Goddess of the bright springtime.
Lord, protect our beauteous May From the lingering winter’s gales, Make it merry, bright and gay, King of heaven’s brightest vales, And we’ll sing this merry chime, Goddess of the bright springtime.
Thou art fairest month, sweet May, Decked in flow’rs with perfume rare;
Order and we will obey;
Burden us with thy sweet care, For we bear thee love sublime, Goddess of the bright springtime.
The Transformation.
Edward P. Cleary, ’09.
Mrs. Ralph Doglap-Hunt sat dejectedly helpless on the huge leather easy chair in the library of her Genteel Avenue mansion.
not at all. Jack was so eager that everybody Close by her side, well propped by cushions,
should see his neckties, that he stuck glittering pins in them, so that if the tie itself failed to attract, the pins would make up for the deficiency. Ah! now I see why I can’t give an account of Jack’s neck pieces. It is because I do not know which one to begin with. Well, to clear up the difficulty, let me say that Rumdrum had at least one of each kind of ties that can possibly be purchased at a clothing store, and he had two or three . . of certain particular kinds which especially:
pleased him. Of course, those ties pleased him best that were the farthest from black and the nearest to red.
and with meerschaum working overtime, sat her husband, Ralph Doglap-Hunt. Seemingly unmindful of each other’s presence, the two continued to gaze at the crackling pine log, as it showered the surrounding tiles with tiny sparks of red and lent an air of delicious warmth to the cool spring evening. Finally Mrs. Hunt broke in:
“ Really, Ralph, I am on the verge of prostration. I would willingly give every diamond, every article of jewelry or plate that was stolen if. I could only feel that Thorobred was still, alive and safe from
harm. Last evening, for the first time since
I believe I have said enough about Jack Thorobred came to our home, he failed to return from his daily wander. It seemed so
Rumdrum to show that he was not a student at all. He was a living advertisement for all latest styles in dress, and I am sure that he was a better advertiser than any bill-board or any daily newspaper, no matter of how great circulation.

•

tigs i
fe ■


ai
strange,'and the robbery taking place the same evening.	.	.
“Ralph, I think you had better call the . carriage and go right down to that horrid. ( place—I believe they call it the pound—and	j

NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
3
: inquire whether or not my dear little darling is caged up with all those vile curs from every part of the city—and with no one to care for him, or even give him a kind word. Thorobred always showed such good breeding; he was so particular about his company, and then his food. You know I have always had his steak broiled for him,
even after the colored butler left, because they had such a good time and grew to

>1 a Sr
I
he declared I fed ‘potah house to the white dog and let the puh old black dog lick the plate.’ So ridiculous!
“One peculiar thing which I have noticed about Thorobred was that every day about four o’clock, for the last month, when Louise let him go for a romp in the court, he would act as though perfectly content, in fact, enjoying himself to the fullest extent. The minute her eye was turned, however, he would slip away through the rear gate, and in spite of all her searching, he could not be found. Strange to say, he would return promptly about half-past four. I trusted ! him and did not bother myself as to his . whereabouts. Now, I suppose, I must pay for my carelessness.”
Bored by the account of the bull pup’s various lovable qualities, none- of which appealed very strongly to Hunt, and stirred up by his wife’s nervous irritability, he felt that it was time to heed her bidding.
Without a moment’s hesitation he rang for .the cabman, and in a few moments was being borne quickly to the office of the chief city dog-catcher at the city pound. He was shown out to the yards where were confined some hundreds of dogs of every species, age, size and condition of fortune. As Ralph passed through the large iron gate, separating the office from the pens or yards, he noticed in front of him a little tow-headed lad of some five or six years, leaning sorrowfully against the bars of the first enclosure.
Hunt saw the longing look on that wistful countenance, still almost baby-like, his poorly clad body, and above all the sight of two large teardrops arrested in their flight from the sunny brown eyes, only to repose mournfully on the colorless cheeks.
“ Why are you crying, my little friend ?” Hunt asked. The lad hesitated for a
moment, as though unwilling to confide to foreign ears a matter so close to his heart. TheSn. he falteringly whispered to Hunt, the
story of his misfortunes. His name was Tony. He lived in the alley back of. a great white house. And one day when he was playing on the pavement all by himself, a little dog came running by and stopped to play with him. Tony gave him a piece of his bread, and every day after that the little dog came out to play with him, arid
be real chummy, but yesterday a big man came along and took his little dog. Tony cried all night, but it didn’t do any good. Two more big hot tears sprang from Tony’s eyes while he said:	'
“Please, mister, won’t you git me back me dog?”	■
“Yes, my lad, but tell me, which one is your dog?” and he glanced in through the pickets.	.	~ *
“There he is,” sobbed the little fellow, pointing to Mrs Hunt’s pet, “the white one.” Just then Thorobred rushed up to the fence, as he recognized his two masters.
Hunt soon had the miscreant underpins arm, Thorobred’s fat little jaws shaking with joy. Leading the urchin by the other hand, Hunt passed out of the city pound and was" soon homeward bound.
Mrs. Doglap-Hunt was at the front entrance beaming with happiness as she perceived herThorobred safe in her husband’s . charge. “But who was the stranger?” She looked inquiringly at her husband. His only answer was to drag the ragged, reluctant Tony into the spacious reception room. Ralph Hunt related to his wife in a few words the story of Thorobred and Tony. When it was ended she took Tony into her arms. She had forgotten Thorobred, and -
had felt her first affection for a
child
Song Birds.
Joseph A. Quintan, ’ll.

P'HEERED by the breezes that summoned fresh spring, Chanting soft music, they joyously fling
Notes of their gladness abroad-through the land; '
High admiration from men they command.: -
Joy to the wanderer plodding his way,
Joy to the children intent at their play, Comfort to sufferers, pleasure to all, This is the motto of song birds till fall.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid-
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. Notre Dame, Indiana. .
Notre Dame, Indiana, May 16, 1908,
Board of Editors.
ROBERT L. BRACKEN, ’OS FRANCIS T. MAHER, ’08 IGNATIUS E. MCNAMEE, ’09 JOSEPH J. BOYLE, ’OS EDWARD M. KENNEDY, ’OS FRANCIS X. CULL, ’OS GEORGE J. FINNIGAN, ’10 RICHARD COLLENTINE, ’09 HARRY A. LEDWIDGE, ’09 THOMAS A. LAHEY, ’ll
WILLIAM LENNARTZ, ’OS VARNUM A. PARISH, 'OS JAMES J. QUINLAN, ’08 JAMES J. FLAHERTY, ’08 ROBERT L. SALEY, ’08 OTTO A. SCHMID, ’09 COE A. MCKENNA, '10 EDWARD P. CLEARY, ’09 PETER E. HEBERT, ’10 JOHN B. KANALEY, ’09
Let the presidential term be of six years duration and let the President not succeed himself in office. Then we would receive the benefit of an undivided attention, and the best efforts would be put forth by the chief executive in order that he might do something to demand a second recognition from the citizens of the country. Let the salary of a senator be raised to twenty-five thousand dollars a year, and make it a condition of holding office that the senator pursue no other profession outside of his official business as senator. This country can easily afford to pay such a salary, and it would place our national legislators in a position to be independent of alien considerations, and they would be able to give their best thoughts to the elevation of. the national standard.
Such reforms would place our national assembly in a much better position to deal with national problems, and would have the president and senators give greater attention to the welfare of the nation.
—Some species of radicalism, we believe, finds nourishment in every thorough-going citizen’s heart. And, therefore, we would ask our conservative friends to Radical bear with us a while if we Suggestion, permit our columns to urge for public consideration a few reforms in our national political regime.
It is a known fact that the political interests of a certain party or man of that party, and not the public welfare, are consulted before .measures of reform pass our national Congress. The Tariff Reform question is. a good example of how politicians, juggle our most vital problems, until what they call policy prompts them to act. At present the President may serve two terms; and therefore his policy prompts him to be very careful that he do nothing to hurt the feelings of corporate managers and the sensitive public. In other words, the first term' of . a: president, under the present system, is spent, largely, in catering to popular fancy and in laying foundations for his coming campaign for a second election. The 1 man’s ; interests are divided . and he is not able to give his best effort to the duties of his office. <	?
— One of the many influences that tend to hinder young men from developing a refined literary taste is the daily newspaper.
• Therein are set forth in glaring Newspaper accounts the scandals, suicides, Reading, etc., of the day; therein complex political and social questions are aired. How does such literature affect the young reader? Doubts arise which his inexperienced mind is unable to settle. He is led to look at facts from the manufactured view-points of’eminent publicists, and he is unconsciously brought to believe in these false opinions. Moreover, his mind is excited toward sensationalism, and when something of real literary merit comes to his notice he finds it too dry. Experience has shown that even the skilled musician can not dabble in “ragtimes” without being injured thereby. Neither can the literary man set aside the classic for the novel or newspaper without loss to his literary taste. If this can be said of the trained intellect, much more does it apply to the young. For a mind . nourished on sensationalism can not develop a refined taste for or produce literature of a lofty and elevating nature.	:	'
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	523
—What ha-s been said concerning the prophet might be said with almost equal force about the genius. Neither of them are favorably received in their The Plight own time and country. Genius of is a troublesome thing; it Political Genius, is disturbing, and, in nearly every case, too radical. Some one has said that “it is inclined to be anarchistic.” With genius meeting us at every corner we would feel much confused, and, probably, life would not be so happy after all. We have been accustomed to walk with, and talk with, and deal with the average man; 'and our sense of harmony and of what is proper, is justified in suspecting any one who is radical enough to depart entirely from the common thought and the ordinary w*ay of reaching- an end. The genius is beset on every side with trials and difficulties. To be a common man among the common people is to be happy. A genius must ever strive to persuade the people that his ideas are correct and orthodox, and he never has a chance to get into the hearts of the people of his own time and locality.
If a person is caught in the act of thinking on a suspicious line of thought, the news is published to the world and. his popularity is almost sure to wane. Think what you may of the political reformer, the man of forethought, the questioner, the prophet, his work will never receive the general acclaim of popular favor which is accorded to the man of common, honest thought on commonplace topics. “To be an average man,” it has been said, “is to be truly great.” Our men of national fame can prove the statement.	-
’ Men of true genius are rare; and when they are found, good judgment is always . present to teach them' the safe road into the hearts 6f their fellowmen. But woe to the man who misjudges his own powers and assuming the role of a genius, attempts, unadvisedly, to force his ideas upon an intelligent public. Radical changes are "not easily ' brought about, because men are, jealous of any one who attempts td alter establishedr customs. Let the average man exert to the Utmost the powers within him, -and the world will have an army of efficient'men. /	'
Silver Jubilee of the Laetare Medal.
To-morrow, Sunday, May the 17th, an interesting function will be held at’Notre Dame University. The occasion is the Silver Jubilee of the foundation of the Laetare Medal which Notre Dame annually confers on some distinguished layman. The Lzetare Medal owes its existence to a suggestion made by Prof. James F. Edwards, founder * of Lemonnier Library, Bishops’ Memorial Hall and the University Museum of History.,
There was one year in which the Lfetare _ Medal was not formally conferred. The Faculty had acted as usual, so far as selecting a name was concerned,' but the distinguished gentleman so selected, while gratefully appreciating the honor, felt that he could not accept it. He -was a convert from Protestantism and had written a book before his conversion in which he violently attacked -the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin. When the light of. faith, dawned he was proportionately grieved by /his blasphemy, and to expiate his fault he made a vow that he would not accept any honor or distinction whatever, but would labor for the spread of the Catholic faith unremittingly, and absolutely without recognition. The University faculty, while regretting the fact that the Medal could not be, accepted by him, delicately appreciated his reasons, and declined to confer the Medal that year upon any other candidate.
The living recipients of the Medal are: . William J. Onahan, formerly City Comptroller of Chicago and organizer of the first American Catholic Congress in Baltimore; Henry F. Brownson, son of the illustrious Dr. Brownson, and himself an author of reputation and a philosopher of depth and breadth; Thomas Addis Emmett, grandnephew of the immortal Irish patriot, New Work’s most distinguished ' surgeon, and author of many standard works on his specialty; Judge Timothy E. Howard, formerly Chief. Justice of Indiana and author of the Indiana Tax Law, which is recognized as a model for other states; W. Bourke Cockran, distinguished as orator and statesman and unapproached by any other orator of his day; R. C. Kerens, whose record as a Senator and the tactical
524	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
leader of his party, is as spotless as it is brilliant; Charles J. Bonaparte, Mr. Roosevelt’s great Attorney - General; Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, the merchant prince of Boston, the model of Catholic business-men; Dr. J. B. Murphy, Chicago’s eminent surgeon and educator'; Dr. Francis J. Quinlan, whose fame as a throat specialist long since broke through the confines of New York City and spread throughout the land; Katherine E. Conway, editor of the grand old Pilot; and this year’s recipient, Dr. James C.-Monaghan, for twelve years head of the Consular Service of the United States Government, for many other years holder of important consulates, a man of infinite charm, whose golden oratory has made him known as his beautiful character has made him loved from ocean to ocean.
A Solemn High Mass will be celebrated by President Cavanaugh in the University Church, famed the world over for its art treasures, at eight o’clock, Sunday morning. The Jubilee sermon will be preached by the famous author and critic, the Reverend John Talbot Smith, New York City. The Medalists who are certain to be present are: Mr. Onahan, Judge Howard, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Dr. Quinlan, Dr. Murphy and Dr. Monaghan. Bourke Cockram and Mr. Kerens are likely to be present, though there is some doubt on this point owing to illness in Mr. Cockran’s family and to unusual and unexpected duties arising for Mr. Kerens. The Pilot is the difficulty in the case of Aliss Conway, and Mr. Bonaparte is busy wielding the big stick. Dr. Emmett and Major Brownson plead age and infirmity.
The students of the University will march in procession from the administration building to the church, seniors arid professors in cap and gown, followed by the Medalists. After the Mass a reception to the faculty and senior class will be held in the parlor of the administration building. Dinner will be served in the Brownson dining-room at noon, after which there will be a smoker for the faculty and guests. The formal conferring of the Lfctare Medal will take place at 7:30 in Washington Hall Sunday evening. Mr. William J. Onahan will preside at the function in his capacity as Dean of the Medalists. Following the introductory remarks by the presiding officer, Judge Howard
will deliver an address on the Lastare Medal. The audience will then sing the famous Notre Dame song, so much admired for the beauty, of the words as well as the pleasant melody. President Cavanaugh will read the official greeting of the University to the new Medalist and formally present the medal. Dr. Monaghan will reply, and the evening’s exercises will be brought to a close by a reception to the recipient of the Medal for 1908.
Messages of congratulation have already been received from many eminent prelates, and it is probable that the history of this remarkable gathering will be issued later on as a pamphlet.
Philopatrians’ Day.
Last Thursday was known as Philopatrians’ Day at the University, not because of any special activity at the University but rather because of a certain inactivity on Carroll Campus due to the fact that the Philopatrians had gone to . spend the day in our neighboririg city. About fourscore of the boys of Carroll Hall are members of the society, and fine fellows they are.	-
At half past ten o’clock in the forenoon these young gentlemen boarded their special car at the entrance to the University grounds. Probably it would be more exact to say their train, for the special consisted of two coaches, and these brought them back again to the University at 9:15 in the evening.
The day was spent pleasantly in the city of South Bend. The day itself was in many respects ideal, in spite of a threatening sky that was somewhat lavish with rain in the forenoon; there was, however, a sufficiency of sunshine in the afternoon.
The principal event of the day’s program took place in the evening at 6:20. This was the annual banquet at the Oliyer Hotel. Present at the spread were eighty-one members of the society in addition to the director, Brother Cyprian, and several invited guests, The Rev. President of the University was in the banquet room, and with him were Fathers Crumley, Quinlan,
NOTRE DAME- SCHOLASTIC	525
Murphy and Heiser. Brother George was there and also Brother Vincent. Professors Farrell and Shea were likewise present. A musical program was rendered by Frank’s orchestra, and at the close of the banquet there was an address of congratulation and appreciation by the Rev. President of the University. The following is the
MENU:
Canape Berne
Celery Radishes Olives
Consomme du Jour
Planked Shad Roe
Sliced Cucumbers
Veal Sweetbread Patie, Supreme
Petits Pois	-
Fresh Strawberry Sherbet
Roast Spring Duck, Apple Sauce ’ Mashed New Potatoes
Fresh Asparagus ' Petits Tomatoes, Farcies Apple Pie a la Mode Caf^ Noir
The Lectures of Dr. Lutoslewski.
Dr. Wincenty Lutoslewski, professor of psychology in the University of Cracow, Austrian Poland, spent three days at the University last week and delivered lectures on Polish Law, the Story of Poland, the Logic of Plato, and the Training of the Will.
Dr. Lutoslewski labors under a slight disadvantage as a lecturer since English is not his" mother tongue, and his pronunciation is sometimes startling. His range of vocabulary, however, and his scholarly selection of words excite the wonder of the hearer when it is remembered that the Doctor speaks three other languages beside his native Polish more fluently than he speaks English. Merely from the point of view of linguistics he is very remarkable. In addition, Dr. Lutoslewski is an authority on the subject of Plato, on whom he has written a monograph which is accepted by scholars as authoritative.
Another side of the distinguished Doctor’s character only partially revealed in his lectures betrays itself in intimate conversation. He is a mystic whose soul bathes on shores where waves of endless yearning break.
Freshman Inter^Hall Debate.
The debating contests of the present scholastic year are now finished, and federal incorporation is through with its trials and tribulations as well as- its triumphs and jubilations, so far at least as Notre Dame is concerned. The subject has been discussed here before judges by 34 members of the student body and by 6 representatives of other colleges, in a total of 103 speeches, not counting rebuttals. Popular election of United Senators was discussed by 23 others, making a total of 56 who took part in our local debating contests. This, of course, does not include the regular debating work done in the societies.
Last Tuesday evening Holy Cross and Brownson met in the final contest of the freshman interhall series, the judges being Mr. W. P. O’Neill of Mishawaka, Mr. I. E. Neff of South Bend, and Mr. J. F. Nuner of Mishawaka. The presiding officer was Prof. Farrell of the University. The decision of the judges was two to one in favor of Holy Cross. The debate was a very spirited ;one, and shows that we have the right kind of material developing in preparation for the Varsity contests of the next three years. - Mr. Wenninger was particularly strong not only in his constructive speech but also in his . rebuttal. Mr. Donovan was next in order of individual merit. It may be said that all the contestants did so well that a high standard has been thus set for all future freshman debates. Holy Cross was represented by Messrs. B. Mulloy, C. Miltner and * F. Wenninger; Brownson was represented by Messrs. P. Donovan, J. Sullivan and G. Sands, the former defending the affirmative _ of the question of federal incorporation, the latter defending the negative of the question.
—------.
Shop Orders and Stationery.
Owing to the large number of accounts that are to be made up and closed before Commencement, the secretary announces that those of the students who require shop orders or stationery must arrange to procure same not later than May the 21st. Cash will be required for purchases made after the above date. .	• -
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Reminiscences of the Civil War.
Athletic Notes.
Last Wednesday afternoon we had the . pleasure of listening for the second time this year to a lecture by General Newton Al. Curtis, the hero of Fort Fisher. General Newton is the'author of “From Bull Run to Chancellorsville,” one of the best volumes of memoirs of the Civil War. The lecture last Wednesdav was somewhat reminiscent in its character, a fact that made, it most interesting since the distinguished gentleman was himself so prominent a figure in the great war. General Curtis is personally attached to the University by ties of friendship which are so dear to him that he feels like one who might call Notre Dame his home.
Public Speaking Announcements.
About June first there wall be a contest in oratory open to all the students of the . University, except the members of the senior class. The. contest will be held in four sections : one for juniors, one for sophomores, • one for freshmen, and one for the members of the preparatory department. In each section there will be a prize of ten dollars.. Fully fifty persons have already signified their intention of taking part in the contests. On account of the fact that there are so many entries the judges will hear the speakers in the law room, and admission will be granted to only a few spectators.
. Those who are still undecided in regard to the contest should bear in mind that the experience gained in these contests will enable the ambitious student ■ to attain special success next year not only in the oratorical contests but also, in the debating contests. Next year one of the alternates selected for the Varsity , debating teams will be ’tatyn on The trip to Washington, D. C., for the Georgetown debate. Besides the trip to Georgetown there 'will probably be
. another. We may go to Ohio; State University. Then, too, our freshmen have a similar chance, if arrangements can be . made; with other schools. Entries for the June oratoricals will be received by Father Quinlan- who will explain the conditions of the contests. ; < X= J w wty i
The Varsity left on Wednesday afternoon on the eastern trip. The trip will be the longest ever taken by a western college team as it will extend over two weeks and nine games will be played. Yesterday the eastern schedule started with Syracuse. In turn Williams, Dartmouth,. Vermont, Boston College, Fordham, Seton Hall, Georgetown and Western University will be played. The team will return on May 26, and will play Indiana here on the day of their return.
With an even break of luck Coach Curtis is confident that they will win every game on the trip. The fact that Notre Dame each year has a team that ranks with the best in the West, will afford a passable comparison between eastern and western college baseball.
* * #
Only a short account of the games played on the trip taken through the state is available, and is as follows:
*
Notre Dame, 5; Wabash, 2.
In the first game on the trip Wabash furnished the opposition. Dubuc was on the hill, and allowed the Little Giants five hits. Notre Dame won all the way, starting in the first round and scoring in the first five. The hitting of Daniels, McDonough and Captain Brogan was the feature of the game. -
Score:	-rhe
Notre Dame 1 1 1 1,1 0 0 0 0=511 3 Wabash   0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0=2 5 5 Batteries—Dubuc, McDonough, Irwin, Bowens.
- * * - .
Notre Dame, 1Indiana, 0.
The first game with Indiana proved to be quite an affair. “Dreamy” Scanlon was opposed to Johnson the State School star, and both rnen pitched good ball; ihe honors, however, all . came to Scanlon. McKee’s ’ single in the fifth, scoring ZBonham, won ’ the game. • - T. • a	.=
Score::	.. ’ '	R h -e
-Notre Dame......00 O' 0 10 0 O p=l;9::lx/ Indiana.;..-...0 0 ?0 0 0: 0<0 -0 0=0 .4 -2 ’ Batteries^—Scanlon,.McDonough, Johnson, Thompson., -
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame, 13; Indiana, 3.
In the second game with Indiana the Varsity simply romped away with the game. Dubuc, pitcher for the Varsity, and Sieben-thal for Indiana. Indiana never had a look in, as every Notre Dame man hit the ball like a fiend, and Siebenthal was pounded all over the yard. R. Scanlon, McDonough and Brogan were the heavy hitters.
Score:	r h
Notre Dame......0 0 1 0 0 2 3 7 0=13 13
Indiana.........0 0000020 1= 3 4
Batteries—Dubuc, McDonough, Siebenthal, Thompson, . * * *
Notre Dame, 22; Knox, 3.
On May 6, the Varsity gave Knox College a beating that will go down in the athletic history of Knox on the wrong side of the page. The score was 22 to 3. Seventeen hits' were annexed by Notre Dame, Ruell being the worst offender with four. In the eighth inning the Varsity scored 11 runs, batting around once and a half. Daniels had credit for a double and a single in one inning. “Dreamy” Scanlon was on the hill, and the visitors did not even hit up speaking acquaintance with him.
Notre Dame..........................R h p a e
Bonham, If..........................3 2 10 0
Brogan, 3b..........................1	0	2	0	0
Daniels, lb.........................4	3	3	0	0
Cutshaw, 2b.........................4	2	3	1	1
Dubuc, cf....................    ...3	111.1
Ruell, ss.........................  2	4	0	3	1
Centlivre, rf.......................1	1	1	0	0
R. Scanlon, c.......................3	3	15	1	2
Scanlon, p........................  1	110 0
Totals............................22	17 27 6 5
Knox............................    R	H P A	E
West, 2b............................1	0 16	1
Ellis, If...........................0	10 0	1
Richardson, 3b......................1	12 11
Mettler, p..........................0	0 14	1
Essex, c............................0	0 5 2	1
Grant, ss.......................    0	12 0	0
Duncan, cf..........................0	0 10	0
Aldrich, lb.........  .'............0	0 12 0 0
Prince, rf..........................1	0 0 0	1
Totals......................    ....3	3 2413	6
Notre Dame.........:.0 4 1 4 1 1 011 *=22
Knox...............0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0= 3
.Two base hits—Ruell, Cutshaw,. R. Scanlon, Daniels. Home run—Cutshaw. First base on balls—off Mettler, 8; off Scanlon, 3. ■ Struck out—By Mettler, 6; by Scanlon, 11. Stolen bases—Bonham (2), Brogan, Daniels (3), Cutshaw, Ruell, Centliver, R. Scanlon (4). Double, plays—Cutshaw to Daniels, Dubuc to Cutshaw. Passed .balls—Essex, 7. Hit by-pitched ball—Daniels, Duncan, Prince, R. Scanlon. Umpire—Farabaugh. : .
Last Saturday the Varsity trimmed Rose “ Poly ” 5 to 0. Dubuc and Backman made a grand get away, and it looked for a time as though a real pitcher’s battle would be witnessed, but. Dubuc was the only one to ‘ finish, for after the fourth inning Backman was bumped hard and often. McDonough’s hitting was easily the feature of the game.
Notre Dame........................b	r	h	p	a	e
Bonham, If........................4	112	0	0
Brogan, 3b.......................  3	0	0	1	2	0
Daniels, lb......................  4	1	111	0	0
Cutshaw, 2b.......................4	0	1	3	4	0
R. Scanlon, rf....................4	0	0	1	0	0
Ruell,’ss.........................4	110	2	0
Centlivre, cf.....................4	1	1	0	0	0
McDonough, c.....................  4	1	3	9	3	0
Dubuc, p..........................4	0	1	0	2	0
Totals.........................35	5 9 2713	0
Rose “Poly.”......................b	r	h	p	a	e
Shook, ss.........................3	0	0	2	6	0:
Hadley, lb...................:...4 0 2 16 1 1	■
Uhl, 2b.........................  4	0	0	0	6	0 =
Backman, p........................4	0	2	0	3	0
Schmitt, If.......................3	0	0	2	0	1
Barrett, cf....../....M...........3	0 0 0 1 0
Abott, c..........................3	0	0	3	0	0
Piggett, rf.......................3	0	0	0	0	0 ‘
Heidinger, 3b.....................2	0	0	1	2	1'
Totals.........................  29	,0 4 2419 3
Notre Dame..........0 0 0 0 2 0 2 1 *=5
. Rose “Poly”.........0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0=0
- T wo base hit, McDonough; struck out, by Dubuc 10, by Backman 3; base on balls, off Dubuc 3, off Backman 1; hit by pitcher, Heidinger; umpire, Tindall.
’ ' - * * ■ ■
In the tryout for the track men, held on -Monday, Woods threw the hammer further than any Notre Dame man has ever been credited with. The distance measured 125 feet 8 inches. O’Leary proved to be the fastest sprinter on the team, clipping off the 100-yard dash in 10 1-5 and the 220 in 22 2-5. Dana ran the half with ease in 2:05 2-5.	.	.
Coach Maris and the track team left for Lansing, Michigan, last evening where they will meet the Michigan “Aggies” in the first outdoor meet of this season. The meet was held this afternoon.
- ' * * - _ - ' -
A COMPLETE ACCOUNT OF FIVE . OF THE NINE GAMES WHICH WILL BE PLAYED ON THE TRIP AND A BOX SCORE WILL BE. PUBLISHED IN THE SOUTH BEND DAILY NEWS.	.
528	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notice to Parents and Guardians.
In view of the near approach of the. Summer Vacation we deem it wise to inform parents and guardians that the University can not advance money for transportation, clothing or other extra expenses connected with the home journey. Remittances for these purposes ought to be forwarded in time, and may be sent either to us for this specific purpose, or directly to the students themselves.
The final statement for this scholastic year will be rendered as early as possible in June. On receipt of the bill please remit immediately so as to enable us to close our books before Commencement, June 18.
The University of Notre Dame.
A Victory in Oratory.
Last night, at DePauw. University, Greencastle, Ind., our representative in oratory, William P. Lennartz, met the chosen representatives of four other states and won second place. In many respects this oratorical contest is most representative of the standard of oratory in the middle states. This is the first time that we have had an opportunity of meeting the leading colleges of Illinois, Michigan and Wisconsin. The gentleman who won first place last night was formerly Wisconsin University’s representative in the Northern Oratorical League and was this year victorious over the representatives of Illinois University and other prominent universities of the state of Illinois. This year he is attending the Northwestern University. In winning second place our representative, chosen in the state contest in Greencastle two weeks ago, was beaten only by G. P. Wishard, oi Northwestern University, and was victorious over F. B. McKay of the University of Michigan, and the representatives of the universities of the states of Ohio and Pennsylvania.
----------------- - *
Local Items.
—Found: Some cuff-buttons left in shirts sent to the laundry, a bunch of keys and a fountain-pen. Apply to Brother Alphonsus.
—Mr. L. B. Andrus, chief electrical engineer of the Indiana and Michigan Electrical Co., ' will address the Engineering Society the latter part of the* coming week on some popular engineering subject.
—The Holy Cross T. P’s won their second game with the Latinos last Sunday; score, 12 to 5. Duarte pitched a great game for the Latinos, but owing to ragged support
and divers errors, Holy Cross had an easy . victory. McElhone starred in the box for the T. P’s, giving only a few scattered hits as practice for the rest of* the team who backed him up like leaguers.
— The following is an alphabetically arranged list of all who took part in the tryouts for the freshman and Varsity debating teams: J. Beckman, W. Carey, R. Collentine, J. Deery, J. Donahue, F. Doorley, G. Finnigan, J. Fox, E. Funk, P. Haggerty, A. Hebert, P. Hebert, M. Juraschek, J. Kanaley, L. Langdon, T. Lahey, W. Lennartz, E. Lyons, C. Miltner, M. Mathis, B. Mulloy, LMcNamee, W. O’Shea, V. Parish, J. A. Quinlan, J. J. Quinlan, R. Rath, G. Sands, 0. Schmidt, S. Skahen, J. Sullivan, J. Toole, F. Walker, F. Wenninger. In the preparatory department the following took part in the discussion of the popular election of United States senators: H. Burdick, W. Burke, R. Cain, F. Carroll, T. Cleary, J. Corbett, J. Dean, J. Foley, J. Freuchtl, A. Heiser, A. Hilkert, J. Kelley, H. Mack, F. Madden, L. Mullen,. W. Minnick, A. McDonald, G. McCarthy, G. McKennie, F. O’Brien, J. Stack, G. Steiner, W. Zink.
—Last Sunday morning Mr. Sinnott, with some of his engineers, assisted Mr. L. B. Andrus—electrical engineer for the Indiana and Michigan Electrical Company—in performing a test to ascertain the exact nature . of an induced current set up in local telephone circuits by the secondary of an autotransformer. The test was performed at their city station on Colfax Avenue, South Bend, and was entirely successful. These auto-transformers three in number are used to step up the voltage from 13,000 to 25,000 volts and are connected together in the star fashion. Now, when the neutral point of this connection is grounded—which is a necessity—this point of neutrality would not remain fixed electrically, hence instead of being a neutral point it would have a potential between itself and ground, and actually produced a current of a much higher frequency than that of the generator. The frequency of this current was determined by the aid of tuning forks from our physics • laboratory. The speed of the generator supplying the transformed current was carefully'adjusted until a pitch was obtained from the transformer that corresponded to the pitch of one of the tuning forks—256 vibrations per second. Calculations showed that the fundamental tone was 43 vibrations per second. The induced current was therefore of the 2AG, dr approximately the sixth harmonic which was agreed upon. The fault will be elimitated by inserting in series with this grounded neutral a special design of a choke coil which will admit .a. current of the first harmonic to pass to ground, but not one of the sixth harmonic. -