9I1SV1OH9S
3H1
^GILBERT'S
On the Campus—Notre Dame
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY ...
PAY 1/3 IN JULY . . .
PAY 1/3 IN AUGUST . . .
PAY 1/3 IN SEPTEMBER . . .
NO CARRYING CHARGE
GET READY FOR HOT WEATHER NOW
AT THE CAMPUS SHOP . . . ENJOY THE CONVENIENCE OF A CAMPUS SHOP CHARGE ACCOUNT
)
The Campus Shop is ready for hot weather with a complete selection of famous Palm Beach clothes. So why not select yours now and enjoy the convenience of your handy Campus Shop charge account. The Campus Shop has a complete selection of sizes for all men ... in handsome colors and patterns. See them soon . . . look your best . . . feel your best . . . this summer!
PALM BEACH WASH 'N WEAR_________________$39.95 and $45
PALM BEACH SLACKS, from........................ 9.95
PALM BEACH SPORT COATS, from.................. 29.95
On the Campus—Notre Dame
3
On Campis WShubnan
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, ‘‘The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.}
TILL WE MEET AGAIN
Seven years now I have been writing this column for the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes, and each year when I come to the last column of the year, my heart is gripped by the same bittersweet feeling. I shall miss you sorely, dear readers, in the long summer days ahead. I shall miss all you freckle-faced boys with frogs in your pockets. I shall miss all you pig-tailed girls with your gap-toothed giggles. I shall miss you one and all—your shining morning faces, your apples, your marbles, your jacks, your little oilcloth satchels.
But I shall not be entirely sad, for you have given me many a happy memory to sustain me. It has been a rare pleasure writing this column for you all year, and I would ask every one of you to come visit me during the summer except there is no access to my room. The makers of Marlboro Cigarettes, after I missed several deadlines, walled me in. All I have is a mail slot into which I drop my columns and through which they supply me with Marlboro Cigarettes and such food as will slip through a mail slot. (For six months now I have been living on afterdinner mints.)
I am only having my little joke. The makers of Marlboros have not walled me in. They could never do such a cruel thing. Manly and muscular they may be, and gruff and curt and direct, but underneath they are men of great heart and sweet, compassionate disposition, and I wish to take this opportunity to state publicly that I will always have the highest regard for the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes, no matter how my lawsuit for back wages comes out.
I am only having my little joke. I am not suing the makers of Marlboros for back wages. These honorable gentlemen
The makers of Marlboros and the new unfiltered king-size Philip Morris Commander have been happy to bring you this uncensored, free-wheeling column all year long. Now, if we may echo old Max: Stay healthy. Stay happy. Stay loose.
4
have always paid me promptly and in full. To be sure, they have not paid me in cash, but they have given me something far more precious. You would go far to find one so covered with tattoos as I.
I am only having my little joke. The makers of Marlboros have not covered me with tattoos. In fact, they have engraved no commercial advertising whatsoever on my person. My suit, of course, is another matter, but even here they have exercised taste and restraint. On the back of my suit, in unobtrusive neon, they have put this fetching little jingle:
Are your taste buds out of kilter?
Are you bored with smoking, neighbor? Then try that splendid Marlboro filter, Try that excellent Marlboro fleighbor!
On the front of my suit, in muted phosphorus, are pictures of the members of the Marlboro board and their families. On my hat is a small cigarette girl crying, “Who’ll buy my Marlboros?”
I am only having my little joke. The makers of Marlboros have been perfect dolls to work for, and so, dear readers,
have you. Your kind response to my nonsense has warmed this old thorax, and I trust you will not find me soggy if in this final column of the year, I express my sincere gratitude.
Have a good summer. Stay healthy. Stay happy. Stay loose.
© 1961 Max Shulman
A Gringo Reply
Editor:
I fear that the “resolute Latin-American,” author of last week’s Back Page, is all too imbued with the ideas which are the very source of the policies which he would attack. Granted that the present Latin-American foreign policy leaves much to be desired. It is plagued by a^ recurrent idealism that has, in the past)1 proven untenable, and will, unquesion-ably, so prove itself again. Yet you Latin-Americans, cry for “reliable Americans,” who would “protect the American Ideals”: precisely these ideals are the source of past and present difficulty. They have necessitated the abrupt shifts in policy, the returns to a political realism in times of crises.
What, I would ask the Latin-Ameri-^ can, is the purpose of a national govern-^ ment, as regards foreign relations, if not to provide for the security of and promote the interests of its citizens? Only when there have occurred protracted lapses of high idealism have drastic measures representing the return to realism been necessary. To suppose that the U. S. Government was conceived to help all men, provide for the wants of the world, is to refuse^ to accept history, is not only to b^ idealistic, but idiotic. The Latin-American complains that “the gringo leaders were not moved by altruistic ideas”: all to unfortunately, they were!
But the crowning touch is yet to come: you, an idealist, would ask us, not only to be idealists, but to be fools as well (if the two can be separated). You demand American aid with “no; strings attached.” This would: (1)^ place the aid directly into the hands of those “contemptible, dishonest bureau-?, crats,” whom you have admitted rule your countries, with no possible way of determining what way the aid will be utilized; (2) not serve the interests of its contributor, the U. S. Government; and its taxpayers — the only possible rationale for granting government aid (Continued on page 24)	1
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class ( mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, _ Box 185, _ Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC. ____	J
/'	fr
The Scholastic
Vol. 102 No. 24
May 19, 1961
il The Notre Dame
^8.
Founds 1867	' ; !
editor-in-chief > CHARLES RIECK

€
associateeditor
ROYRUBELI



THOMASWEISS Jdhn McCabe

1
THOMAS SULLIVAN ThomasHoobler ,
I
X*

;^W^edi*<>r'A.;'
MiJAAAES; KILROY ^^^Hii^(£ary



art
editor
THOMAS HANSEN
WALTER DALY, Jr.
s
businessmanager
®t\JC»EPH<iNNIGAN-
circulation manager
JAMES HICKEY
^v,
sV
moderator
<>*v
REV.GEORGE BERNARD
;

news staff ••;/•; •• JosephCaspar Frank Cuiffo LawrenceKavanaugh JamesOliver
„ Thomas Scheuring SteveStapp
. Steve Stuecheli <
sports staff
’ Osr1"
*>.	*\s7.>v'c?	•


Whenever you leave town, carry money only you can spend: Bank of America Travelers Cheques. Lossproof, theft-proof, cashed only by your signature. Sold at banks everywhere.
blue., suit
wi-tb-ihe
You’re needed...just as your father and grandfather were. It’s an obligation that a lot of qualified college men have to meet...that of serving your country, when and where you are needed.
And the Air Force needs college-trained men as officers. This is caused by the rapidly expanding technology that goes with hypersonic air and space flight. Your four years of college have equipped you to handle complex jobs. You have the potential to profit from advanced training... then put it to work. There are several ways to become an officer.
First there is Air Force ROTC. Another program, relatively new. is Officer Training School. Here the Air Force commissions certain college graduates, both men and women, after three months’ training. The navigator training program enables you to win a flying rating and a commission. And, of course, there’s the Air Force Academy.
An Air Force officer’s starting salary averages out to about what you could expect as a civilian. First there’s your base pay. Then add on such things as tax-free rations and quarters allowances, free medical and dental care, retirement provision, perhaps flight pay, and 30 days’ vacation per year. It comes to an attractive figure. One thing more. As an officer, you will become eligible for the Air Force Institute of Technology. While on active duty many officers will win graduate degrees at Air Force expense.
Why not contact your local Air Force Recruiter. Or write to Officer Career Information, Dept. SC15, Box 7608, Washington 4, D.C., if you want further information about the navigator training or Officer Training School programs.
U.S. Air Force
There’s a place for professional achievement on the Aerospace Team

The Scholasi
I ©
prologue
The time has come to write the final -30- and our feelings are mixed. There is relief, sorrow and anticipation in our hearts, but most of all, there is pride in being members the Class of ’61. The past four years have been a period of transition, of shifting emphasis and attitudes. Some are disturbed by it, others are pleased.
We are the first class to graduate with a losing football record. We are also the first class that has seen a 6 million dollar Ford Foundation grant. We will not be here to directly benefit from it, just as we will not be here to benefit from the new library, the new Drill Hall, the new Vetville. But they were bora in oui* time.
Yet, something even more valuable has come forth in these ^our years — serious, mature student responsibility and concern. Seniors in the Student Senate have witnessed a shift from the personal diplomacy of Brady and Shaul to action by the entire Senate. Where once they worried only over dance budgets they now debate the activities of a meaningful Academic Commission, of a well-endowed International Commission, of a controversial Race Committee. They are beginning to realize that their role is not to serve but to lead the students.	'
This same awareness is evident in other areas of student ®ife. Such dissimilar things as Notre Dame’s proposed Peace Corps project and the Engineering College were studied and evaluated by students.
After the Thanksgiving demonstration the students acted: the editorial, the numerous commendations, the Committee of 19, the Report have all resulted in a re-evaluation, which is now underway, of student life at Notre Dame. Already there has been a Dining Hall Survey and a study of Permanent Hall Residence.
$
But while we may be the initiators and leaders of the jiew student, we do not claim to be unique. What we have Wegun must and will be carried on by those that follow. ’-New problems will arise, but they will be met, and sought, by an even more responsible student.
> And just as we will graduate under a Dome that is being ^stripped of old gold so too we will be graduating from a ^University that is discarding some of the things that have aged. Just as there will be a new Dome on a new base, so ^too there will be a new student in a new University. The Dome will remain; the uniqueness of Notre Dame will re-^main, but the way must and will be different.
—R.R.
chapter 1
To even the most lethargic student on campus, Notre Dame — the university, the community — must give the impression that its history of achievement lies mainly in the future. To many it seems that very little has been done in the past, or this year, and that its history will begin in earnest when it has become not the “greatest Catholic institution,” but a great university, and the heir of the intellectual tradition that inspired twenty great Catholic universities of the Middle Ages.
We are, in effect, still waiting for a philosophy of Catholic education that can provide a consistent growth and accumulation of facilities.
We have been told by Father- Hesburgh that we must be contemporary. And if the university is to have any relation to our society and its political-social life, it must be so. But how does one become contemporary. Simple rejection of the values of the past would be naive and destructive.
What is necessary is a penetrating re-examination of the forces and spirit that formed the great Catholic institutions of the past to determine what attitudes were held by educators then towards the demands of their temporal society and its culture. These are the attitudes which must be held in essence even today. The problem is to reinterpret their essential values in light of the present here and now situation. And if the adjustment results not from the coercion of society but from a more mature Catholic wisdom, the past has not been destroyed but served.
Notre Dame, almost alone among Catholic institutions, has this opportunity to become a great university, in view of its physical resources and world recognition.
This challenge is most severe and significant to Notre Dame’s undergraduate colleges. From this group will come Notre Dame’s widest contact with the professional, managerial, and educational elite that determines the makeup of American culture. For these young men, intensely specialized projects — high energy physics or East African research — will mean very little. Nor will the new library, with all of its two million volumes, provide an important increase in their opportunity or ability.
What will matter to the colleges that form the backbone of this institution is the decision for either legitimate and valid rethinking or superficial compromise made with the demands of our technocratic and pluralistic society. Will the pursuit of excellence be interpreted as a crash-program to produce more highly skilled persons to the neglect of the literary and philosophical traditions of the West, and the spiritual heritage bequeathed to this university as scion of the Christian Fathers and medieval Doctors?
On the other hand, will we allow text-book blinders to block out the expanded horizons that 19th and 20th century mass society has laid bare? To ignore the effects that the ecumenical movement must have upon the typical argumentative apologetics course is to be as short-sighted as to refuse the insights that modern philosophy offers to the natural sciences. Or will we refuse to concede that our niggardly attitudes towards technical and administrative skills are totally inadequate in view of the daily impingement of the corporation upon even those aspects of our lives that we consider the most human?
Related to this purely academic consideration is the problem of this university as a community of men living together while bound by the goal of attaining Christian wisdom. Certainly the problems in this area are far from solved. The controversy over morning checks and lights-out is only surface manifestation.
And the problems will multiply and become more acute, unless the university is able to surmount the past, as it has done academically, and accept none of its “traditions” at face value. It must realize that the development in the academic side of the institution of the past 30 years has implications for the daily-life processes of the men who work here.
—C. R.
7
^tay 19, 1961

from abstract ideas...fundamental knowledge at Esso Research
()
<1
New insight into the interaction between hydrocarbons and catalytic surfaces has been acquired by Esso Research scientists using advanced techniques for fundamental studies of adsorption on heterogeneous catalysts. The first results were obtained from a detailed infrared study of adsorbed acetylenes.
Acetylene, deuteroacetylene, methyl and dimethyl acetylenes are strongly chemisorbed on alumina even at room temperature. The first three can also exist in a weakly adsorbed state. The strongly held species are held perpendicular to the surface through the
8
acetylenic hydrogens, except dimethyl acetylene, which is held parallel to the surface. All the weakly held acetylenes are held parallel to the surface. The sites responsible for the strong chemisorption of acetylenes are different from those responsible for the strong adsorption of dimethyl acetylene. Surprisingly, no strong chemisorption of either acetylene or dimethyl acetylene was observed with silica.
These results raise several challenging fundamental concepts. Thus, the head-on adsorption is quite unexpected for a molecule containing a reactive triple bond, and it is perhaps surpris
ing that only substitution by two inductive methyl groups can activate the acetylenic triple bond sufficiently for ; sideways adsorption. Finally, the great * difference between SiO> ‘and AI2O3	>
raises important questions concerning	j
the role of the oxide in the adsorption. /]
This work is continuing together : with other basic studies of adsorption on catalysts including such advanced methods as microcalorimetry and conductivity.	:
... adapted from a scientists notes at ■ EssoResearch and EngineeringCompany . P. 0. Box 45B, Linden, New Jersey.	t
€
The Scholastic
UNIVERSITY TO GRANT 1300 DEGREES AT JUNE COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES
Hammarskjold Forced to Cancel Graduation Speech; Substitute Key Speaker for Program Not Yet Known
Approximately 1300 candidates for graduate and undergraduate degrees will participate in the 116th annual Baccalaureate Mass and Commencement exercises. On Sunday, June 4, His Eminence Aloysius Cardinal Muench of Rome, Italy, will celebrate a Solemn Pontifical Mass on the University Mall. The Baccalaureate Sermon will be delivered by His Eminence Laurian Cardinal Rugambwa, Bishop of Bukoba, Tanganyika. Following this ceremony honorary degrees will be conferred by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. Unfortunately UN Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold, scheduled to present the commencement address will not be able to attend. Called to Europe suddenly, Hammarskjold was forced to cancel his commitment here last Monday.
Organized activities for the Senior Glass prior to the June exercises began Wednesday, May 17, with the Senior Dinner in the South Dining Hall. Beginning Friday, June 2, and running through Sunday, June 4, the seniors, their parents and friends will be entertained, courtesy of the University. The University Concert Band is scheduled to perform in the Navy Drill Hall at 7:30 p.m. on Friday. Babes in Arms, the University Theater, will be pro-nuced on stage in Washington Hall immediately following the concert.
A Last Visit ceremony for seniors only is on tap for Saturday at 9 p.m. To be preceded by an academic procession from the Main Building and followed
by the procession from the church to the Field House, it marks the beginning of the actual commencement activities. Class Day exercises and ROTC commissionings will be conducted after the visit. Another concert and University Theater presentation are also scheduled for that night.
An academic procession to the University Mall from the Main Building will initiate Sunday’s exercises. The Solemn Pontifical Mass on the Mall is to be celebrated at 9 a.m. At 2 p.m. the commencement address and conferring of degrees will be held, though only Doctoral degrees are to be given individually due to the size of the graduating class. The respective college deans or department heads will distribute the remaining honors to the students in private.
In case of inclement weather, all the above outdoor activities will be moved inside. The Baccalaureate Mass, commencement address and other official procedures will be conducted in the Field House. However if this happens only a limited number of guests will be able to personally attend owing to these rather cramped facilities.
Father Hesburgh will confer the honorary degrees before an expected crowd of 8,000. The following will be so honored: Dr. J. A. Stratton, president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Dean Erwin N. Griswold of the Harvard Law School; John W. Gardner, president of the Carnegie Corporation of New York; Dr. James E. Webb, head of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration; Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg, chairman of the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission; James Johnson Sweeney, director of the Museum of Fine Arts of Houston, Tex.; and Dr. Arthur J. O’Connor, Scarborough, N. Y., physician.
No substitute for Hammarskjold has been chosen at this time. Nevertheless the program as outlined above will remain the same.
In order to graduate each undergraduate must be approved for graduation by his dean, have a cumulative average of 2.00 or better, pass the current semester’s work and settle his account with the Office of Student Accounts. No grade information will be handed out prior to commencement, but those students who fail to qualify due to current semester failures will be notified by their respective deans.
To accommodate those students graduating this June who have not lived on campus or in South Bend, rooms will be available in Cavanaugh Hall upon request.
Soph Heads Juggler, Pledges Improvement
At the Publications Banquet held May 10 in the Moriis Inn, John Reishman, a sophomore English major from Charlestown, W. Va., was named editor of the Juggler. Associate editor responsibilities will be shared by Ray Kelly, Edmund Burke, Mike McCarthy and Frank McConnell.
Reishman recently won the S1000 first place prize in a short story contest sponsored by the Thomas More Association and the McGeary Foundation.
As part of a concerted effort to improve the quality of next year’s Juggler, an unprecedented enlargement of the editorial and auxiliary boards has been planned. Next fall Tom Sullivan, Michael Cummings, William Veeder, Robert Green, Martin Green, Dennis Brennan, Gerald Hewitt and Richard Sobonya will compose the editorial board. Their functions will primarily consist in selecting and criticizing all manuscripts submitted for publication. It will be their duty to decide which articles are acceptable and which are not.
Applications for positions on the sophomore auxiliary board are now being accepted. A deadline for all letters of applications has been set for Sunday, May 21. Interviews for openings will begin Tuesday, May 23 and continue until all have been screened. Those interested in joining the 'Juggler staff should direct their correspondence to John Reishman in 411 Lyons.
The Juggler is a focus for creative and critical literary abilities of Notre Dame students and appears three times during the year. All students are invited to submit fiction, poetiy and essays to the editorial board.
Plans for next fall include an. increased circulation drive, resumption of book reviews and continued absence of the art section. As part of this circulation drive the editors plan to return early in September and personally conduct a subscription drive among the freshmen.
Notre Dame Lawyer Names Editorial Staff for Next Year
The Notre Dame Laivyer, a quarterly law review published by Law School students, recently announced the editors who will head next year’s staff. George P. McAndrew’S, a graduate of Notre Dame, was named editor. Joseph P. Summers of Saint Paul, Minn., will be associate editor. N.D. graduate George R. Pelletier will be ai-ticles editor. The post of notes editor wull be filled by Michael E. Phenner. The legislation editor will be Raymond Brown, and James Harrington of Brooklyn, N. Y., will serve as case editor. The managing editor will be Temple University graduate Stanley B. Nelson. James K. Stucko will handle book reviews. The office manager will be William E. Kelly of Chicago, Ill.	.
9
May 19, 1961
Scholastic Appoints Staff Positions for 1961-62; Two Students Tie for Weiss Assumes Editorship of Newsmagazine First in Book Contest
Tom Weiss, a junior political science major from Evanston, Ill., has been named editor-in-chief of The Scholastic for the 1961-62 school year.
Holder of a Dean’s List average, Weiss moves up from the job of news editor which he held this year. He takes over from Charles Rieck who guided The Scholastic through the stormy year just past.
Weiss’s right hand man will be associate editor Mike Zwettler, a junior
Emphasis on diversification.
English major from Upland, Cal. Also on the Dean’s List, Zwettler is on the AB advisory board. He fills in for Roy Rubeli who was Rieck’s cohort-in-print.
John McCabe, a sophomore AB Dean’s List student from Evanston, Ill., moves up from assistant news editor to fill the post vacated by Weiss. Assisting the news editor will be Joe Caspar, Thomas Scheuring, Steve Stapp, Steve Stuecheli, Vince DeCoursey and Walter Kissel.
Taking over the job of feature editor is Tom Hoobler, a freshman in the AB school from Cincinnati, Ohio. Assisting Hoobler will be Carl Wiedemann, Brian Barnes, Bob McGowan, Ralph Martin, Frank McConnell, Gordon Quinlan, Dick Jensen and Tom Luebbers.
The present assistant sports editor, Bill Cary, a junior communication arts major from Milwaukee, Wise., will direct the sports department. Helping
Cary in reporting the Irish athletic fate will be Robert Chiappinelli, Thomas Walsh, Terry Wolkerstorfer, John Bechtold and Jim Higgins.
The overseer of Scholastic art work will be Tom Hansen, a junior fine arts major from Chicago, III. Phil Larrabee, an AB sophomore from Sacramento, Cal., and on the Dean’s List takes over the position of copy editor and Robert Buckley, a sophomore in the College of Commerce, from Chicago, Ill., has been appointed business manager. The man most responsible for Scholastic distribution next year is Circulation Manager Jim Creagan, an AB junior from Lorain, Ohio.
“The powers that be,” are represented by Prof. Donald Costello of the English Department who will be the faculty moderator.
Commenting on future Scholastic policy, Weiss stated: “Recent controversy about the role of The Scholastic as a student publication has only emphasized that a fundamental reconsideration of its nature and aims is definitely needed. Indeed, the fact that reconsideration was initiated this year is what provoked the controversy in the first place. The Scholastic cannot and must not try to fulfill the functions
of a daily paper, bulletin board, critical journal and weekly Juggler. Rather, the problems and events that concern the University, its community of faculty and students, must be treated both in depth and with courage; this must be the mission of The Scholastic next year.”
LIBRARY REGULATIONS
All books borrowed from the University Library will be due May 25. Books not returned before this date will be subject to fines. Beginning at this date, and continuing through the summer session the fourteen-day loan period will be reinstated.
Special borrowing privileges will go into effect after May 25 for the duration of the examination period.
From nearly 50 entries Richard Jensen, an A.B. math major, and Michael Swords from the College of Science were named joint winners in a contest sponsored by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University* They will divide equally the prize of $100 in credit at the University Bookstore for the best lists of books acquired for their personal libraries during the present academic year and the best accompanying statements setting forth their purposes in building their libraries.
Three other students received honorable mention. They are Richard Kienast, a junior in the General Program; Johi^ Glynn, a junior history major and Francis Miceli, a freshman in the College of Arts and Letters.
Judges in the contest were faculty members Rev. James Zatko of the Department of History, Professors Richard J. Thompson of the General Program, William V. D’Antonio of Sociology, Edward A. Fischer of the Department of Communication Arts and John T. Frederick of the Department of English. ।
Father Hesburgh expressed pleasure in the large number and high quality of the entries received in the contest this year and authorized the announcement that a similar award will be offered in 1962.	r
Gettelfinger Named Chief Editor of 1961-62 Annua?
Thomas Gettelfinger, a junior from Louisville, Ky., has been named editor of the Dome for next year. He takes over from John Flanigan, this year’s editor.	j
Assisting him will be Frank Ober-koetter as new associate editor. Assistant editors are Frank O’Connell and Bill Sullivan. Bill Dodd takes over a« business manager and Dan Omilianowf ski and John Weber will be the new-editorial assistants. John McGuire along with Austin Degroat will succeed as copy editors. The art department will be headed by Pat Saxe and Dick Gem-perle.
The new section editors will be Charles Murphy as head of features. The organization editors will be Emert Wyss and John Wagner. Bill Lieber and Ed Dwyer will succeed as academic ed(| tors. Dennis O’Donoghue and John Pezzutti take over as seniors’ editors. The halls and sports will be represented by Bill Burglechner and John Ahern.
In view of last year’s changes, Gettelfinger announced that there would be no major changes in the format of the book for next year. Last year the Dome won awards for excellence in competition with other yearbooks throughout the country.	'f
The Scholastic
10
Della Maria to Head Blue Circle Next Year; Scanlin, McGranery Will Also Head Society
Marine Corps Sends Recruiting Team Here
Next year’s Blue Circle Honor Society activities will be headed by Joe Della Maria, chairman of the society for 196162. He will be assisted by Bill Scanlin of Sayre, Pa., as vice-chairman and Jim ^McGranery of Washington, D. C., as secretary-treasurer.
Della Maria, a junior from Chicago, HL, an English major, served as president of Keenan Hall in his freshman year and was cochairman of pep rallies during the last year. He is a Navy ROTC regular- and has been a member of the Glee Club. Scanlin was president of the Society of Mary and McGranery was chair-man of Who’s Who selection this year. All three officers have been ^Dean ’s List students at one time or another.
No new projects. The new chair-man plans no additional major projects at present but intends to concentrate efforts on bringing the Circle closer to the student body. If this is accomplished then such activities as orientation, pep rallies and leadership training will bring to students a more complete reali-_zation of what they can learn from •Notre Dame and what they can contribute to it.
Della Maria considers the freshman orientation program the most important single activity of the Blue Circle. In introducing next year’s freshman class to Notre Dame, the Circle plans to stress the importance of the intellectual aspect of a student’s life.
Help Week has been effective, according to the new chairman, in increasing ^Jotre Dame-South Bend relations but he feels it is too small. He hopes to promote campus-wide participation in this project next year.
Plans are underway for the freshman orientation weekend by Tom Smith. Student trip preparations will be supervised by Mike Sanderson, while Kim McGee will head the Membership Committee next year. John Mooney will be entertainment chairman for the Society’s social activities.
Along with these committees the Blue
Glee Clubbers Select Crowe As Singing Group President
John Crowe, a senior from Eden, N. Y., was elected president of the Glee Club. He is a member of the Herodoti-ans and the Blue Circle. Fred Weber, a General Program senior, was elected arice-president of the group.
Tom Fabish will be the new secretary, and Nick Harkins was elected treasurer. Both new officers are juniors.
The Glee Club Jias just recently returned from their annual Easter tour. This year- they traveled to the West Coast. The group traveled 6500 miles playing before a total audience of ten thousand persons.
Prof. Paul H. Pedtke is the director \of the organization.
^May 19, 1961
McGranery, della maria, scanlin
Service with a smile.
Circle will continue its other important annual activities such as campus tours, Who’s Who selections and election returns.
New members announced: In addition to next year’s officers the Circle has unfolded its choice of new members. A record number of students applied for membership this year. The 200 applications were double the amount anticipated. Since the Circle membership is constitutionally limited to 45, only 22 could be chosen to fill the vacancies left by graduating seniors.
The following men were selected: seniors, Bill Cashore, Rich Catenacci, John Crowe, Jim Finn, Albert Hamilton, Mike Hartnett, Steve Weidner, Charles Wong; juniors, Tom Bishop, Tim Haidinger, Bob Hellrung, Joe Kis-slo, Paul Lehner, George Maddock, Ed Malloy, Charlie Murphy; sophomores, Jerry Adams, Fred Haroman, Clark McGranery, Tim Morrison, Mike Raff, Pat Whelan.
Engineering Prof Will Attend Space Research Conference
Dr. Francis M. Kobayashi, associate professor of engineering science here, will be among one hundred representatives of education and industry attending a conference on “Solar Physics and Re-entry Dynamics” at Virginia Polytechnic Institute in Blackburg, Va. The sessions will be held in August.
Professor Kobayashi is a specialist in engineering mechanics. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1948 and holds three degrees from the University including a doctorate in science.
A Marine Corps Officer Selection team will visit the campus from May 22 through May 26 to explain the Marine officer programs and interview applicants for commissions. The team will be located at the South Dining Hall between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m.
Seniors may enter the Marine Officer Candidate Course (OCC) or the Aviation Officer Candidate Course (AOCC). The OCC is designed to prepare the applicant for the duties of a Marine ground officer, while the AOCC will prepare him for assignment as a Marine aviator.
Students for either program will attend a leadership training course after graduation at Quantico, Va., for a period of ten weeks. Having successfully completed the course he will be commissioned a second lieutenant.
In the case of OCC he will be assigned to Officer’s Basic School at Quantico, or if in AOC, he will be transferred to Pensacola, Fla., for flight training. Both of these programs are available to either midterm or ftill-teim seniors.
Freshmen, sophomoi-es and juniors are eligible for Marine Corps Platoon Leaders Class (PLC) which is either ground or aviation training.
The PLC program not only assures the student of a commission upon graduation but allows him to count all time enrolled in the program as longevity for pay purposes. This can mean as much as $127 a month over the regular pay of second lieutenant.
Radiation Chief Travels To Europe for Lectures
Dr. Milton Burton, director of Notre Dame’s Radiation Laboratory is currently on a three-week tour of Europe giving a series of lectures and conferring with prominent European scientists.
Presently he is in Vienna meeting with officials of the Intel-national Atomic Energy Agency. Tomorrow he is scheduled to arrive in Moscow to present a lecture series sponsored by the Soviet Academy of Sciences.	’
During the past week Professor Burton was a speaker at the Conference on Nuclear Electronics held in Belgrade, Yugoslavia. He presented a paper on “Nanosecond Decay-Time Techniques” based on research conducted by himself and Juan Yguerabide, a Notre Dame graduate student.
From May 27 to June 2 he will address a Symposium on Radiation Effects and Milieu at Nontreux, Switzerland. His subject will be “Environmental Effects in Radiation Chemistry of Organic Substances.”
Professor Burton expects to return to the Notre Dame campus June 2.
11

Navy ROTC Appoints Battalion Commander; Commerce Junior Smith Captains Cadet Unit
/hi Q^aitam
Commerce, J. Albert Smith, has been appointed commander of the Navy Battalion for the coming year.
Captain J. E. Hackett, USN, Professor of Naval Science at Notre Dame, formally transferred the command of the battalion from senior Thomas D. Ryan during the change of command ceremonies held last Tuesday in the Navy Drill Hall. Charles M. Switzer, a junior in the Engineering school will be Smith’s executive officer.
Smith, who comes from Indianapolis, Ind., has been active in the Navy, having been a member of both the drill team and the basketball team. He has also been elected president of the TriMilitary Council.
During the ceremonies, senior Tom Carpenter, commander of Bravo Company won the Naval Institute “honor company” award in recognition of Bravo Company’s victory in the Presidential Review this year. Another senior, marine Dan Luecke, won the USMC Gazette Award.
Other honors were given to Junior Carl Houck who received the Reserve Officers Association of Indiana award and the Society of American Military Engineers award. Sophomores Tom McGowan and Paul Lehner along with freshmen Mike Glockmer and Don Del-manzo received the Chicago Tribune award for military leadership.
Sophomore Ed Barton and freshman Ed Hughes also received the Reserve Officers Association of Indiana award. Hughes, with freshman Alfred Frey, were the winners of the Naval Institute
CAPTAIN HACKETT, TOM RYAN, JOSEPH SMITH Navy makes replacements on home front.
award for the highest mark in Naval History. The Horwitz award for outstanding military bearing was bestowed on senior Don Hickey.
Ryan, who took over the reins of the largest NROTC unit in the country last year in a similar ceremony, is a chemical engineer from Buffalo. He has been a Blue Circle member and recipient of a Navy scholarship and a National Science Foundation grant.
Fulbright Lectures Program Allots Stipends to Professors
Two Notre Dame faculty members have been awarded Fulbright grants according to a recent State Department announcement.
The Rev. Astrik L. Gabriel, O.Praem., the director1 of the Mediaeval Institute and a fellow of the Royal Historical Society in London, and Dr. Alvan S. Ryan, an associate professor of English, have been named as recipients.
Both professors will lecture at German universities. Fr. Gabriel will lecture on the history of international relations at the University of Munich and also at the University of Freiburg. Prof. Ryan will lecture at the University of Sarbruecken on American literature.
Prof. Ryan will leave for Germany at the end of the coming summer session. His wife and daughter will accompany him. Fr. Gabriel does not plan to leave for Germany until May, 1962.
In Retrospect
“Our primary role is to make a I significant contribution to the academic.” 1 Fortunately, John Keegan did not let I
his philosophy of stv^, I . dent government in- I ’ terfere with his run- 1 ning of student gov- a ernment. The Sen- ■ ate’s “significant con- ■
tributions” various fields cellence.
Philosopher
covered of ex-
candidates may
King be
somewhat disillu- I sioned on arrival in the Senate, but des^- ■ j pite its shortcomings, it serves a definite I need. In addition to coordinating stu- H dent activities it is a voice of student ■ opinion. Action taken on the Student ■ Centex’ closing policy last fall, the din- I ing hall improvements, the stands taken I on the riot and Thilman’s; all these were I fruitful expressions of student opinion. I
The work of the Academic commission I undex- Jack Walsh was excellent. The I quality and frequency of lectures, poetry I readings, and symposia easily exceeded^ I*
former years. One reason for the increased allocation given mission by the Senate. One
this was the com-problem
this year: the lack of student interest in the two symposia may have failed to justify these costly ventures.
Notable was the increased cooperation between the administration and student government. The primary expression of this happy union was the dining hall questionaire, but the administration’s sympathy toward permanent hall residence and toward incorporation of the student government fee into the general bill was also significant.	.
Decisions were made by a small group: Keegan, Rice, Haggard, John Clark, Colleton, some others. What this group decided outside the meeting, the Senate was asked to approve at the meeting. Often the facts were not profit erly presented and the body was forced to decide merely on the authority of one of the “senior” members.
Time and again motions for alloca4 tions were presented to the Senate, finding the Senators completely ignorant of the Senate’s financial status. Three weeks ago Tom Colleton when questioned by Joel Haggard disclosed to a surprised Senate that student government was $2,000 in the hole and tha|-the deficit would be covered by MardW Gras funds.
The Student Senate should be the most respected organization on campus. Because it is not, many men of intelligence and initiative choose not to run for the Senate and the Senate remains a medium of mediocrity. The first task before the Senate is to dispel its reputation for ineffectual action and wasted effort.	/
12
Ct
The Scholastic!


Discussion Societies Select Future Leaders: Cihak, Cashore to Head Bookmen, Wranglers
Prof. Fitzsimons Wins Men's Council Award
The two undisputed leaders among the campus discussion groups, the Bookmen and the Wranglers, have announced the selections of next year’s officers. Bob , Cihak, a junior pre-med student from 1 ©Yankton, S. D., and Bill Cashore a junior AB pre-med from Norristown, Pa., were elected presidents of their rei spective clubs. Cashore, secretary of the Wranglers this past year, succeeds John Engler, a senior from Tenafly, N. J., while Cihak replaces another senior, Jerry Kriegshauser, as Bookman president. Both men are Dean’s List students.
Tom Cassidy, an English major from p ^Park Ridge, Ill., is the new secretary of •the Bookmen taking over from Bill Hanley this year’s secretary. Mike McCarthy, in the General Program, from Greenwich, Conn., takes over from Cashore as secretary of the Wranglers.
Fourteen chosen. The new officers of the Bookmen were installed at a banquet last Tuesday where fourteen new members were also formally admitted. At the banquet Kriegshauser announced » ^that Prof. Terence Spencer will be the * "moderator of the group next year. He succeeds Prof. Alvan Ryan.
Six new members were admitted to the Wranglers. The officers and the new members were installed at the annual banquet. Prof. Frank O’Malley, as he has been from almost the club’s conception, is the organization’s silent moderator.
The Wranglers and the Bookmen are . -the campus’ two outstanding intellec-©tual or janizations. The basic consideration of both is to pursue knowledge through group discussion. The difference between the organizations is in their approaches.
Geared to intelligentsia. The Bookmen, as their name implies, discuss con-
Chessmen Chief Promises to 9Lead Expansion Drive in Fall
Newly announced Chess Club officers for 1961-1962 are Richard Jensen, president, Paul Dupuis, vice-president, and Joseph, secretary-treasurer.
According to Jensen a series of hall . chess tournaments and other activities are planned for this coming fall. A membership drive will be inaugurated next September’ to enlarge and improve the club’s potential. As in the past the chess bulletins will appear at regular ^intervals in each residence hall.
Winners in the recent Cavanaugh Hall tourney were: first place, Joe Bie-lecki; second place, Jim Foster; and third place, Jim Sullivan. The Stanford ■ Hall victors were: first place, Steve Stapp; second place, Frank Rogozienski; and third place, Skip Vaughn. Each ■ contestant was given a free chess set r and board for participating. All six ' finalists were also awarded books for \ their efforts.
cepts of human values through the study and interpretation of books. This year the members have dealt with modem British and American literature.
The Wranglers, through group discussion, attempt to discoveer the relevance of man to the world about him. The group takes a philosophical approach in its discussions. The topics discussed this year were varied, depending on the interests of the individual members.
Both organizations are conducted on a formal basis. Meetings are held biweekly. Both groups are based on the theory that voluntary discussion is at the heart of the university.
GEORGE HEIL, ROBERT BATTISTA Who needs a Golden Girl?
Heil Receives Command Of Irish Marching Band
Assuming command of the 105 member Notre Dame Marching Band, sophomore George Heil from Monroe, Mich., has received the symbolic baton from this year’s Drum Major, Robert Battista, a senior from Oak Park, Mich.
Heil earned his new position after competition with some nine other aspirants. His duties will include complete direction of the band on and off the field next fall. Presently Heil is a section leader in the Concert Band, and plays both the string bass and double B flat bass.
The selection of Heil as new drum major marks the completion of the 1962 Marching Band’s officer personnel. Con Nolan was elected president, Ivan Gra-disar, vice-president, Doug DiBianco, secretary, Pete Dempsey, social chairman, and Tom Aldert, alumni coordinator. These students will assist the regular director, Robert F. O’Brien in the planning and managing of all band functions.
Dr. Matthew A. Fitzsimons of the Notre Dame faculty was honored May 6 at the annual convention of the National Council of Catholic men in Pittsburgh, Pa. He was one of four American laymen recognized for making “singular and significant contributions to the social sciences, physical sciences, philosophy and the arts.” He was honored for his achievement in the social sciences.
Martin H. Work, executive director ’’ of the NCCM, said, “The purpose of the honors is to emphasize excellence in intellectual and professional life as a basic element in the lay apostolate, to encourage Catholics to contribute to the nation’s intellectual life, and to honor individuals who have already attained distinction in their fields.”
Dr. Fitzsimons was honored in the presence of members of the Catholic hierarchy and more than 2000 Catholic lay leaders. The prize included a set of the 150-volume Twentieth Century Encyclopedia of Catholicism for each recipient.
Professor Fitzsimons has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1937. He is the author of The Foreign Policy of the British Labor Government and, with Prof. Stephen Kertesz, has edited Diplomacy in a Changing World and What America Stands For. He is the editor of the Review of Politics, which has subscribers in 54 countries, and is a member’ of the Committee on International Relations at Notre Dame. He holds degrees from Columbia, Oxford and the University of Chicago.
Architecture Students Initiate TSD Professional Association
Eleven years of effort came to a close Wednesday evening with the installation of Sigma Chapter of Tau Sigma Delta Honorary Architecture Fraternity, here at Notre Dame. Prof. Philip Youtz, dean of the School of Architecture at the University of Michigan and TSD’s Grand Chapter Master, formally installed the new Chapter and initiated its charter members.
The Honor Society, organized in 1913 at the University of Michigan, is the only honorary fraternity for architects; stressing scholarship, leadership and character, the organization requires that a student be in the top 20 per cent of his class.
Notre Dame’s charter group is composed of four fifth-year students: Antonio Miro, Thomas Farina, John Kos-tecky and Douglas Gimber; and four fourth-year students: James Cassidy, Joseph Legan, Paul Murphy and Robert Canizaro. Initiated as honorary members were Prof. Francesco Montana, Architecture Department head, and Vito Girone, professor of architecture.
13
May 19, 1961
ND Art Professor Executes Churches' Windows, Murals
Robert A. Leader, liturgical artist and associate professor of art at Notre Dame, has been awarded commissions for stained glass windows and murals for two Catholic churches under construction in South Dakota and Minnesota. His designs were chosen in competition with those of leading liturgical artists from the United States and Europe.
For the new Church of Christ the King in Sioux Falls, S. Dak., Prof. Leader will create in antique stained glass four 60-feet high stained glass windows on the theme of Genesis. Also he will create sixteen eight-foot high abstract windows.
An abstract glass facade on the theme of the Holy Trinity and two 70-foot long clerestory windows depicting the Seven Gifts of the Holy Ghost and the Seven Sacraments will be executed by Leader- for the Church of St. John the Baptist, Mankato, Minn. In the baptistry of this church he will paint black and white murals.
The stained glass for his projects will be fabricated at the Reinarts Studios, Winona, Minn., where Prof. Leader is an associate.
He recently completed the large east window in the Co-Cathedral of St. Matthew in South Bend,
Folk Singing Festival Debuts Under Caedmon Sponsorship
Last Sunday afternoon on the green lawns of St. Mary’s the Caedmon Society held their first annual Folk Festival. Led by Andy Burd and with the aid of faculty and students from both sides of the Dixie, this informal organization entertained free of charge the accumulated crowd.
Such campus groups as the Four Winds, Wanderers, and the Milestones wei-e in attendance, as were soloists like “Duffy” Grandusky, Sonny Balin, and Doug Canfield. The Frets, a guitarbanjo-bongo trio journeyed in from Chicago for the event.
An open invitation has been offered by publicity director, George Cooney, to any and all students or faculty members with a taste for folk music. Next year the accent will be on small casual performances with absolutely no admission fee.
NAMCHT CAFETERIA
PART-TIME WORK—$2.10 per hour. FULL-TIME SUMMER WORK —$108 per week. 15 — $1000 SCHOLARSHIPS given out nationwide. CALL: MR. FREDRICKSON
CE 2-1353 between 9-12 AM
CANOE TRIPS
into the Quetico-Superior Wilderness. For individuals or groups. Write Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Ely, Minnesota.
Exams?
Here’s the easy and^
safe way to keep mentally alert:
It’s the safe stay awake tablet—NoDoz®. And it’s especially helpful when you must be sharp under pressure. NoDoz helps restore mental alertness in minutes.
NoDoz keeps you alert with the safe awakener found in coffee and tea. Yet NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable.
Absolutely not habit-forming, NoDoz is so safe it is sold everywhere without prescription. Take it while driving, studying, ; working, or entertaining. s
ANOTHER FINE PRODUCT OF GROVE LABORATORIES
Raleigh bicycles were made for college life and the student body. And speaking of bodies a Raleigh is measured by frame size, not wheel size.
For example: Collegemen over 5'9* specify 23’ frames. Men under 5'9* specify 21" frames.
Try a Raleigh out on Campus — You’ll feel better for it — Raleigh you will!!
1415 Lincolnway West
AAA Approved Cafeteria
F B EE PARKING
RAH! RAH!
ALBRIGHTS
For all details see your campus Raleigh dealer.
2720 Lincolnway West Mishawaka
Telephone BL 5-8988

14
The Scholastic
Sister Macleleva Retires As St. Mary's President
The president of Saint Mary’s College, Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C., has announced her retirement from the administration of the college, effective in August. Sister disclosed her retirement to members of the administration and faculty during the annual faculty dinner in the LeMans Hall dining room last Saturday.
President of St. Mary’s for the past 27 years, Sister Madeleva is nationally known as an educator, poet and lecturer. Enrollment has tripled since she took over and the teaching staff and number of buildings have also been expanded.
Under Sister’s encouragement, the Christian Culture Program was developed under Prof. Bruno Schlesinger. ^During her presidency, the School of Sacred Theology, a graduate school for the theological education of religious and lay women, was established.
After undergraduate work at the University of Wisconsin and Saint Mary’s College, Sister Madeleva pursued graduate study at Notre Dame and the University of California at Berkeley.
Recognized by seven universities with honorary degrees, Sister Madeleva ^holds memberships in fourteen professional societies. Eighteen volumes of her poetry and prose, much of which has also appeared in periodicals, have been published. Her autobiography, My First Seventy Years was published by the Macmillan Company.
College Administrators Elect ND Comptroller to High Post
Representatives of 368 colleges and universities composing the Central Association of College and University Business Officers elected G. E. Harwood, Comproller of Notre Dame, vice president of the organization, in a recent meeting in Kansas City, Mo.
Harwood will automatically become president of the Association in 1962-63. For the past six years he has represented the Association on the board of directors of the National Federation of College and University Business Officers. He*, has also served on the Tax Committee of the American Council on Education in Washington.
ARMY - NAVY
AIR FORCE
SUPER SMOOTH SHAVE
New "wetter-than-water" action melts beard’s toughness—in seconds. Remarkable new “wetter-than-water” action gives Old Spice Super Smooth Shave its scientific approximation to the feather-touch feel and the efficiency of barber shop shaves. Melts your beard’s toughness like hot towels and massage—in seconds.
Shaves that are so comfortable you barely feel the blade. A unique, combination -of anti-evaporation agents makes Super Smooth Shave stay moist and firm. No re-lathering, no dry spots. Richer and creamier...gives you the most satisfying shave... fastest, cleanest—and most comfortable. Regular or mentholated, 1.00.

Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
GENDEUS SURPLUS SALES
SPECIAL—A Used Alpacca Lined Parka—Only $7AS
YOU SAVE EVERYDAY AT GENDEL'S 512 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
May 19, 1961
11
enrich YOUR educational background with BARNES & NOBLE COLLEGE OUTLINE SERIES and EVERYDAY HANDBOOKS
Other shoes may look like Keds, but only U. S. Keds® can give you “that great feeling.” Because Keds have a patented shockproofed arch cushion and cushioned inner sole. And because Keds
famous educational paperbacks— over 140 titles on the following subjects:
ANTHROPOLOGY ART BUSINESS DRAMA ECONOMICS EDUCATION ENGINEERING ENGLISH GOVERNMENT HANDICRAFTS HISTORY LANGUAGES MATHEMATICS MUSIC PHILOSOPHY PSYCHOLOGY RECREATIONS SCIENCE SOCIOLOGY SPEECH STUDY AIDS
Average price $1.50 On Display at Your Bookstore
are built over tested, scientific lasts, to fit all feet perfectly, even narrow ones. Keds are right for class, gym, tennis court or dorm. Machine-washable (and they even look good clean). His: Keds “Court King.” Hers: Keds “Champion.” Get your U.S. Keds at good shoe or department stores.
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL*
*both U. S. Keds and the blue label'ate registered trademarks of
United States Rubber
ROCKEFELLER CENTER, NEW YORK 20. NEW YORK
★
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
*
$
The Scholastic J
16
DOME . ’61
fl The staff of the ’61 Dome is to be congratu-H lated for the many outstanding features of this ■ year’s publication. However the superior quality ■ of virtually all the photography must be singled I out as the most notable achievement. The shots I employed in the Features and Athletic sections ■ capture with artful precision the varying moods ■ and tempers of the activities presented — from ■ the soggy yet soaring spirit of a rainy-night’s ' B^onfire to the tense exertion of a record-seeking I broad jump. Unique perspectives into the work ■ of each academic department have been achieved. ■ We examine greenhouse foliage with the Biology ■ Department, visit with Dr. Chroust in the caf I and wade through the Engineering Department’s ■ indoor stream.
■ A determined effort has been made — with ■ much success— to eliminate the posed, static ■ shots of our supposedly active activities; and ■ the administration is presented in a warm, human ; l^.nd intimate manner. Even the seemingly insolu-fl*ole problem of presenting 4000 plus underclassfl men in a less tedious manner has been greatly ■ alleviated through fresh and mostly original stagfl ing combined with extraordinarily clear pictures. ■ The color reproduction this year is at least as fl good as in the past—though rather poor placing ■ detracts from its general effectiveness. In the ■ crucial full page shot of the Dome, however, ■ almost perfect reproduction is achieved.
■ Throughout the book copy and captions give ; Inadequate, easily readable and mostly objective ex-^^planations of the picture stories. The copy emI ployed in the Academic Section is particularly ■ illuminating and well-written, with the one nofl table and ironic exception of the introductory ■ copy on the liberal arts college. Critical mention ■ must be made, however, of the copy used to ■ describe the Scholastic, Wranglers and Bookmen, fl Entirely too much staff opinion is recorded in ■ the comments on Scholastic; and the copy for the fl Wranglers and Bookmen — in seeking to introduce 1 fl^a humorous note which is completely out of ■ character with the rest of the section — succeeds ■ only in seriously misrepresenting the purpose and ■ activities of both clubs.
■ The over-all structuring of the various sections I and layout of individual pages reveals a sense of ■ proportion and balance combined with technical ■ proficiency. The new grouping of campus fea-■ tures according to seasons, each grouping being I highlighted and introduced by a full page shot ■ typifying the particular season, is just one of the ■ many fresh and successful approaches taken to [ Bfcthe ordering of the great range and variety of f material to be presented. Tighter layouts through-fl out give the book an over-all tone of intensity, a H greater sense of movement and activity. Variety ■ of size and shading, bleeds and margins, confl tributes to the general balance and finally clocked fl rhythm.
■ The new cover is very obviously new, different ■ and original, but the value of the change seems ■ dubious. The greater cost of this material seems
; M	(Continued on page 23)
19, 1961	17
William Buckley, Jr., editor of the conservative journal “National Review,” two weeks ago delivered a speech to an overflow crowd in the Engineering Auditorium on “Liberalism and Its Effect on Our National Security.” This week, the SCHOLASTIC presents two differing views on the significance of Mr. Buckley’s remarks. Below is the first; the other begins on page 19.
Liberalism and
The National Security
5'
by David E. Schlaver
Mr. Buckley began, his talk with the wry statement that liberalism has developed considerably from the time when Woodrow Wilson taught it at Princeton. Then, the history of liberalism was the history of man’s attempts to restrain the growth of government in America. The movement, according to Editor Buckley, has grown and achieved domination. It is now a world-wide force, affecting politics, economics and philosophy. But the liberal ideology speaks to our society in a voice irrelevant to the needs of our time. He offered five propositions to account for this. I will attempt to explain each in light of Buckley’s presentation.
Proposition One: The national security is reduced in effectiveness by the intellectually popular notion having to do with the use of force.
Military power can have two uses—as firepower in a war and as a potential or preventive force to forestall a war. Few extremes justify the use of force in the liberals’ minds, thus force is only used to defend the actual territory of America. Liberalism objects to force as a preventive instrument. However, it has been recognized that the Korean War might have been prevented by a strong use of force as a preventive measure.
To be used as a deterrent, force must be credibly threatened. Hestitation before using force affects the national security. The failure of the West to take a definite stand and back it up with force, made inevitable the annexation of satellite nations by Russia. The liberals believe that it is immoral to use force for a pacific effect.
This leads to the phenomenon of pacifism. Student pacifism should be of special concern to us. In a poll at Harvard, Buckley found that one-third of the student body would rather give in to Russia than fight a nuclear war. Buckley believes that the distinction is between pacifism or peace. Thus, if there was a need for a war to preserve our way of life, even if it meant the loss of great numbers of our population, he would advocate it.
“Peace is nothing more than the existence of Christian conditions on earth,” he said. “But how can we have peace when in our midst there are plunderers and murderers. We must pray for peace, that grace will settle in the bellicose minds of men and make it possible.”
Continuing on this theme, Buckley
pointed out that if we are prepared to yield our honor, our family and our property, we have the right to be pacifists.
Why does youth show a tendency toward pacifism? Mainly because of its keen appreciation for life. Youth has just discovered the pleasures of the earth and doesn’t want to risk losing life and pleasures through war. In these young minds there has not developed the same appreciation for the American freedom and way of life that exists in the minds of those who have fought for these ideals. Youth suffers from a diluted philosophy of our way of life which is engendered by liberalism.
Liberalism, since it is supposedly trying to eradicate human suffering, has made death in war seem more painful than natural death. But actually how can liberalism be concerned with human suffering if it would just as soon see man enslaved under a totalitarian system than dying for his free way of life?
Proposition Two: The national security has been and possibly continues to be affected by the position of liberalism with respect to internal security.
The abstract ideas of liberalism deny us the right to strengthen security measures in our government agencies. There have been many cases of trusted government employees causing damage to our national security. We remember Alger Hiss, Harry Dexter White, Owen Lattimore, and Julius and Ethel Rosenberg. Each did specified damage to our country and possibly unspecified harm. Movements to strengthen our national security internally are opposed by liberals. As a result we have Communists teaching in our schools, working in the government offices and holding respected positions in their communities.
Our national security is too relaxed in Buckley’s opinion. Information leaks such as the one which enabled the Communists to drop an atom bomb in 1949 when we figured the earliest they would do it was 1954, are too frequent.
Khrushchev claims that he would help balance our budget by de-emphasizing both American and Soviet security forces. In this respect, he wouldn’t be hurting himself, since he knows our secrets already. But when the liberals follow his suggestions, they are hurting us.
Proposition Three: The national security is deeply influenced by mor-
alistic rhetoric under which we are constrained to act when we shouldn’t and not to act when we should. Our foreign policy is affected by this rhetoric. Liberals say that nations should be allowed to manage their own. affairs. We recognize this, having fought^* a revolution for those same nationalistic tendencies. When a specific case comes up, we find ourselves tied down to previous commitments to encourage independence. But often the lack of judgment on each case can affect our ma-tional security.
Liberals are quick to condemn colonialism, and as a result, we are committed to a previous position without judging each case as it comes up. As$ long as something is anti-colonial, we back it. But a decolonialized Indonesia meant a subversive interest in the Far ; East. Yugoslavia’s independence meant; a separate existence within the Soviet monolith. The dictator Tito was given a free hand—is this independence as we know and want it?
Furthermore, liberalism prevents us from stating our real position. We must use noble rhetoric proclaiming our in-(^ terest in the independence of all nations. ' This severely limits our flexibility. This same philosophy, Buckley points out, permitted the United Nations charter to be composed of “Saturday Review editorials.” We joined hands with the U.S.S.R.—who opposed all it stood for —to enact the charter. We thus recognized Russia, so now it is difficult to press claims which could have stressed . our position with the uncommitted na- ® tions.
The U.N. should have been an amoral assembly, says Buckley, where diverse nations with diverse interests could meet to exchange ideas. We suffer from an ideology which is insistent on vulcanizing our national security with mor-alism. Why must these ethical abstractions wreck our foreign policy? Our desire for equal treatment of all peoples is not primary in our own national security.
Proposition Four: The development of a nuclear arsenal is essential to the maximization of our national security.
Nuclear testing was practically abolished in the 1950’s because of a fear of radioactivity, yet scientists claim the . dangers of radioactivity in testing are i not any more serious than radioactivity I
(Continued on page 23) j.
18
The Scholastic ^
6
I
The Apostle
Father Boarmann may be worried about the dearth of religious vocations these days, but the Conservatives aren’t concerned about a dearth of political vocations. To help spread the gospel of political salvation, William Buckley, Jr., distinguished editor of the National Review, paid a visit to this Midwestern ^stronghold of Liberalism on May 9. The •filled Engineering Auditorium was a tribute to Mr. Buckley’s renown.
Among the topics covered by Mr. Buckley in his speech were Cuba, Harvard, pacifism, internal security, nuclear-testing, external security, and Liberalism. The last-mentioned pervaded all other topics, and, at the end of the evening, all those who subscribe to the creed of Liberalism must have seemed like Anti-Christs. Harvard took its ftumps early, being attacked by Mr. Buckley on several counts, including intellectual decline and political errors of great importance. I found this particular attack on Harvard very humorous. Perhaps I felt this attack humorous because Mr. Buckley went to Yale. Give me that old time Ivy League rivalry!
Cuba was the first important topic on which Mr. Buckley spoke. He sug-Jgested that we seek the answer to the Cuban problem at a reception given Fidel Castro at Harvard two years ago. Mr. Buckley thought Harvard should have had more sense than to applaud Fidel at that time. I might suggest that we look for the answer to the Cuban crisis in our relations to the Cuban government and the Cuban people during the reign of Batista. In a subtle move,
•. Buckley made no mention of Ba-
ista until after his speech. Perhaps Mr. Buckley did not think that the mentioning of United States relations with Mr. Batista would aid his cause. If this was his thought, I think he was right. I will say a bit more on Cuba later in this critique of Mr. Buckley’s talk.
Mr. Buckley’s attitude toward the use of nuclear weapons was expected. His remarks and insinuations of Liberal fear of nuclear weapons were totally unexpected. Granted that the Liberals refer- to settle things peacefully where possible, I fail to see that this indicates fear. Could it be that the Liberals make a distinction between the possession of nuclear power and the knowledge of when to use it? The editor of the National Review, in favoring an unilateral movement (military) against Cuba, made what I call a fearful mistake. I fail to see wisdom in unilateral military action against Cuba. I
'May 19, 1961
would prefer to see the O.A.S. do it. If we were to decide that Cuba needed “liberating” from communism, what would the other Latin American nations think? Mightn’t they wonder when they would be “liberated.” I think it’s about time that America started taking an interest in the Latin American peoples. The Organization of American States is capable of handling Castro. I suggest that Mr. Buckley’s proposed action would serve to do no more than demonstrate America’s complete domination of Latin America, a domination which is infinitely more subtle than Russian domination of Eastern Europe, but just as complete. The Liberal stand is to work through the O.A.S., and thus show the Latin American nations that we respect their rights to have a say in the running of the Western Hemisphere.
Mr. Buckley’s remarks on Pacifism were well-put and worthy of consideration. No one wants to let Mr. Khrushchev or Fidel Castro shove us around, and no one would disagree that the United States must show the world that it will not sacrifice to the god of communism. Yet sword-rattling and jingoistic spouting off serves no purpose. Once again it is as necessary to know when to use force as it is to have that force. Liberals are not pacifists, but we certainly do not subsci-ibe to a theory of problem-solving by force, and no other means. In regard to Pacifism, Liberals were accused of diluting the loyalty of American youth to the West. Is the Western culture, the Western “way of life,” the millenium? Even Mr. Buckley stated that his “dream world” had not yet arrived. If the Liberals are guilty of any crime in relation to loyalty to Western institutions, it is the crime of making youth think. Oui- present Western heritage and way of life is not the end-all of civilization. History has not led us to the U.S.A. — 1960, so that we can look back and say, “Well, boys, here we are!” The youth of this nation must be taught to be critical of institutions as they now exist. Youth must be taught that there is always room for improvement. Mr. Buckley, and his Conservative friends, fear the Liberals will dilute the Western World in the eyes of youth; the Liberals fear that Conservatives will cause the West to sink into stagnation.
As expected Mr. Buckley spent much time on internal security. He spent so much time speaking of the Government’s right to dismiss “security risks” when there is “reasonable doubt” of their loyalty, that he forgot to speak about
This is the dissenting report on William Buckley, Jr.’s recent speech. Another view of Mr. Buckley’s speech begins on page 18.
by R. E. McGowan
the rights of those being dismissed. Exactly how does one reach the conclusion that there is a “reasonable doubt” of a person’s loyalty? I’m sure most persons would agree that, if there is “reasonable doubt,” a person may be dismissed from security work. The argument revolves around the constitution of reasonable doubt. Books have been written on this subject, and it suffices here to say that the Liberals worry about the methods used to dismiss persons. In certain cases the defendant was never told what evidence there was against him, never saw those who testified against him, and in short, had little chance to defend himself. It seems that these security boards sometimes use undemocratic means to insure our democracy. Fine logic!
Mr. Buckley may well hit his peak when he came to Liberal moralism in foreign policy. He enjoyed his best inning when batting against Mr. Stevenson and Mrs. Roosevelt. It might be stated here that these two speak no more for all Liberals than I do. They have large followings, it is true, but certainly there are true Liberals who do not subscribe to all their theories, just as there are Conservatives who do not subscribe to the theories of Goldwater and Buckley. Mr. Stevenson and Mrs. Roosevelt were attacked by Mr. Buckley for their stand on nuclear testing, probably the best thing Mr. Buckley did all night. Unilateral suspension of nuclear testing is silly and could be suicide. However, we still must work for a universal ban on testing, or at least a controlled testing system.
Liberal moralism, Mr. Buckley thinks, loses us allies. We evidently shouldn’t take such inflexible stands as absolute abhorrence of colonialism and economic strangulation of one nation by another. It is not that we should not take these stands. It is that we should practice what we preach. Has Mr. Buckley thought of how many peoples and nations would rally to our side in the Cold War if we would back such stands with action? Mr. Buckley seems to think that our only foreign policy should be to watch American interests. Are we fighting communism to protect the world or to protect the United States? I hope we are trying to make a better world, not just a richer U.S.
On the point of Liberal moralism, perhaps Mr. Buckley would like to answer the African nations when they ask how the United States can preach freedom and the rights of man, when we dis-
(Continued on page 23)
19
ECHOES
About a year and a half ago, a J _n umber of old maintenance buildings behind the Administration Building and St. Edward’s Hall were destroyed, since they had become too old for safe usage. At that time, Dave Sommer took the pictures which appear on the opposite page. They are the ^last record of a bygone era in
Notre Dame history.
Upper left: The remains of the buildings. Modern Keenan Hall and the Infirmary can be seen in the left background.
Upper right: These are stairs leading down from the second floor of the old garage. There were four apartments up there and the building was fondly referred to in those days as “Cadillac Hall.”
-Center left: This covered porch used to run along the west wall of the old Ave Maria Press Building. When the Ave moved down to their present site in 1940 the building was used for just about —everything up until the last few years. Now the top floor is being redone to give the Sisters additional quarters.
: Center right: This is a window ;and stairway from the second floor of the old bakery shop.
Slower left: This is the old Notre Dame Fire Department, or more properly, one of the three “Old Hose Houses.” The tower was used to store and dry the hoses. In those days they didn’t even have horses so the students here had to pull the hose carts.
May 19, 1961
TIME OF HOPE, by C. P. Snow, Charles Scribner's Sons, 408 pages, $4.95.
More than other ax-tists, the novelist is concerned with human society; with the basic tensions of humanity projected against the structure of men’s relations with theix- fellows, and with the revelation of significance in these tensions through the contrast of human personality and human social action. It is a difficult task, and one in which success is perhaps more a matter of ultimate uncex-tainty and irresolution than of assurance and clear definition. Humanity is, in the last analysis, a matter not of knowledge but of awe, and the novelist aware of this, the novelist who reveals humanity in its turbulence and uncertainty is perhaps the better seer, the greater’ ax-tist, than the one who defines and parcels his characters in what amounts to caricature, which is, essentially, distortion. And certainly such a criterion helps explain the beauty and power of such a book as Sir Charles P. Snow’s Time of Hope.
Time of Hope is the third novel in C. P. Snow’s novel series, Strangers and Brothers, which now comprises eight books. The series, concerned primarily with the life story of the nar-I’ator, Lewis Eliot, is given form pxd-marily by the author’s concern with the problem of time — a problem which has occupied many other- modern writers, notably Faulkner in The Soztnd and the Fury — and the problem of the relationship of reality and observer — explored by Lawrence Durrell in his Alexandria Quartet. Each novel in the sequence covers a different segment of Eliot’s career, sometimes beginning or ending at a date earlier than that included in the previous book, and told from a constantly shifting viewpoint. In Time of Hope, the period covered is Eliot’s early life and the beginnings of his law practice in London, 1914-1933, and, for the first time in the series, is concerned with his personally Hai-rated experience, from his early relations with his mother to his man-iage to Sheila Knight.
The dominant theme of the book is Eliot’s experience with love. His mother, a proud woman who feels that she has somehow been cheated of the social station that might have been hers, chaffing at the disgrace of hex- husband’s bankruptcy, lavishes an inordinate amount of love and hope on young Lewis, and impresses the child with her belief that he must, by becoming a success of some sort, justify and remedy her imagined failure. Her love fox- Lewis — and it is a very deep love — involves an identi
fication of hex- life with his, an extension of hex- failure through his life to ultimate success. And Lewis is not able to retux-n his mothex-’s love. In one of the most moving scenes of the book, when Lewis is at the dying woman’s bedside, he describes the great chasm between them, his total inability to share himself with his mother:
She knew as well as I, that if one’s heart is invaded by another, one will eithex- assist the invasion ox- repel it — and if one repels it, even though one might do otherwise, even though one admires and chex-ishes and assumes the attitude of love, yet still, if one repels it, no words ox- acting can fox- long disguise the lie.
After his mother’s death, Lewis takes a job in an education bureau of his small English town, doing dull, insignificant work, dissatisfied with himself and with the prospects for his future. During his sojourn at the education office, however, he meets George Passant, a local solicitor, and becomes a member of the group of Utopian young people of which George is the leadex- and in which, fox- a time, he finds some satisfaction for his dreams of greatness and success. George also arranges for Lewis to leave his post at the education office and to begin apprenticeship as a solicitor- with George’s firm. Another member of Passant’s “group,” Marion Gladwell, who falls in love with Lewis, Lewis repulses almost unconsciously, disregarding her veiled self-consciously hinted offers of love after- telling her his grandiose ambitions, half-formed, and his desire for romantic love. Lewis also alienates George when he decides to become a law student, declining to work with George as a solicitor. The rift between Eliot and Passant is Eliot’s first estrangement of a close friend, and is felt by him quite severely: “In his urge to befriend, George was stronger than any man. But he needed something back. . . . George felt in his heart that I had, without caring, left him isolated and alone.”
Lewis begins his law studies, supporting himself on a small inheritance and studying by himself in an attic room. He has by this time fallen in love with Sheila Knight, a minister’s daughter, and throughout his relationship with her he comes to realize Sheila’s tragic inability to love anyone else. She tolerates Lewis fox* a while, and then begins a flirtation with someone else, hoping to find a man she is capable of loving, only to return to Lewis. “I don’t love you, but I trust you,” she tells him.
21
And Lewis is tormented, both by jealousy at hei- flii-tations and by the realization that Sheila is incapable of giving love to him or anyone else. As Lewis passes his first Bar examinations and begins what promises to be a successful legal career, he rejects Sheila twice, hoping to rid himself of her, but is forced to return to her both times.
Eventually, as Lewis begins to establish himself as a barrister in London, he begins to think of marrying Sheila. After destroying Sheila’s relationship with a man whom she thinks she loves, he finds hei* willing to become his wife. She had given up hope of ever being a normal woman, of falling in love successfully with anyone, and tells Lewis, “I’m no good now. I never shall be. I’ve played my last cards. You can have me. You can marry me if you like.” And Lewis does many her, and, burdened with the responsibility of caring for Sheila and consoling her in her constant passions of self-hatred, finds his legal career reaching an early standstill. He reaches the point of sending her away, knowing that this last rejection will destroy totally her sanity, but finds himself unable to do it. He has just seen his friend George Passant disgraced in court for the orgiastic excesses to which George’s group had degenerated, and through the suffering of his friend, and through his own near failure to win Passant’s plea, comes to a discovery of himself and his potentialities :
Somehow I was so made that I had to reject my mother’s love and all its successors. Some secret caution born of a kind of vanity made me bar my heart to any who forced their way within. I could only lose caution and vanity ... in the torment of loving someone like Sheila, who invaded me not at all and made me crave for a spark of feeling, who was sb wrapped in herself that only the violence and suffering of such a love as mine brought the slightest glow.”
Lewis returns to Sheila, knowing that his life with her will remain the same torment of lonely passion and exasperation that it has been. He realizes that with her the best he can hope for is to become a “seedy, mediocre barrister — with the particular, seediness of one who has a brilliant future behind him.” He gives no reasons for his choice; it is prompted by the same non-reasonable compulsion which has prompted all his acts, all his rejections of love and friendship and all his decisions about his career. His character has remained un-definied, as all human character must inevitably, but the novel has brought us closer, if not to an understanding of Eliot, as least to a sympathetic awareness of Eliot as a human being, to an awed realization of Eliot’s existence as a human, in all its depth and its turbulence.
The story of Time of Hope is one permeated -with mediocrity, with petty lives and with smallness, from the pro-
(Continued on page 25)
22
At the Theaters
To start things off, sort of token reviews of the movies downtown. At th^ Colfax, GWTW yields the right of way to Marlon Brando’s excursion into the art of directing himself. That this art is a lost one is proved by the fact that the movie had to be cut exactly in half to make it a bearable 2% hours. Pina Pellicer, his-latest protege, and Karl Malden, an old pro, also star in it.
As promised, the Granada has the excellent German documentary, Mein Kampf. It was composed mostly from captured SS films and includes everything from the Warsaw ghetto to Auschwitz.
The manager of the State hopes that All Hands on Deck makes it through second week, since he had nothing scheduled to follow it up. But come what may, / their phone number is CE 3-1676. OK?	i
The Avon is the Avon is the Avon, and so on. Only two people have so farj voiced their regret at not seeing the Avon reviewed on these pages, but it’s a little late to complain.
Two weeks ago we (more on this pronoun later) ran a small survey mainly for the purposes of higher learning but also for general interest value. We tried to discover whether there was any correlation between the column and student movie attendance, and it’s a good thing the results are published in the last of this series.^ Of 305 students polled, only 79 had read our review of Can-Can, only 101 that of Pepe, and 130 the one about Where the Boys Are. We recommended Can-Can in our column and 50% of those reading it saw the movie, whereas only 33% of those who did not read saw the movie. We panned Pepe and 75% of those who read that review did not see it, but 80% of those who did not read did not see the movie — that’s bad. Seventy per cent of those who read our recommendation of Where the Boys Are went to see it, and 54% of those who did not read it went to the movie.
All in all, the 305 students interviewed read 831 reviews, of which 310 were^ read from this column, 311 from Time, and 210 from all other sources. Of all the students in the sample, 163 said they went to the movies twice a month or more and 142 said they went fewer times than twice a month. None of the three reviews mentioned were read by 141 students, while 59 read one- of three, 54 read two, and 51 read all three. That’s also bad.
If you can stand some more numbers, see what they said about Washington Hall. When asked for the greatest drawback about WH, 110 mentioned it was too stuffy and hot, 86 mentioned it was too noisy, and 70 mentioned poor movies. When asked for the second greatest drawback, 91 said it was too stuffy and hot,^ 73 said it was too noisy, and 44 mentioned poor movies. These sets don’t total 305 -because many rated all three factors equally important as number one, or a couple of them equally as number two.
Asked about types of movies they prefer, they gave serious drama a first place’ vote of confidence with 107 mentions. Second was comedy with 62 mentions for that' position and 72 mentions for third place. Spectaculars came in with 84 fourth-place-mentions. 'We found science fiction is very unpopular among the students polled.. But don’t cry, AYR.	i ;
(Continued on page 32)	* i
The Scholastic^
Apostle
(Continued from page 19)
criminate against the Negro in the United States? In this same line, Mr. Buckley can scream all he wants about Liberals seeking the changing of American institutions, but take a look at the «ecord. Are there no institutions that eed changing in America? How about segregation? Even Mr. Goldwater agrees that the Negroes have rights in this area. The Liberals are willing to use the Government to insure these rights; the Conservatives are not. This all-consuming fear of a Government octopus has stilled action on this matter. Could it be that the Conservatives agree with human rights in principle, but not in action or reality? I prefer to take better view of Conservatives than Tome of my fellow Liberals. The Conservatives fear that Liberals will change the Amercian system around too much and too radically. I feel that the concept of the Government’s being used for the benefit of the common man is both respectable and noble. Perhaps such action will cause infringement on property rights in certain cases. The answer to the following question deter-^nines what your position will be: Is it •nore important to guarantee personal rights at the expense of property rights than it is to guarantee property rights at the expense of personal rights? I submit that the ideal solution is to guarantee both types of rights with no infringement whatsoever. In areas where it appears one must choose between one right at the expense of the other, though, the Liberal-Conservative battle continues with great verbosity ^nd intensity. I feel that a human is infinitely more valuable than a dollar.
Mr. Buckley’s comments on Liberalism and foreign policy were worth listening to. They pointed up certain differences in the Conservative and Liberal ideologies. Those Liberals who attended the lecture, after being told that “Liberals were to bring their own ^acts,” certainly must have been satisfied that they had taken the trouble to hear Mr. Buckley. The reactions in Liberal circles ranged from profound disgust to lighthearted humor.
I thought Mr. Buckley fell below par. I He left himself open for wide interpre-| tation, something the gentleman does i rarely. Having heard Mr. Buckley speak on previous occasions, I would sum up my reaction to his speech as dis-Mappointment. Not only did I disagree ^with what the man said, but I thought his way of putting across his ideas wasn’t at all up to his capabilities. Liberals can sigh with relief that the editor has left, and Conservatives may be glad that they had a chance to present to the Notre Dame student body I “The Apostle of Conseivativism.” We | all can be extra-happy, though. The h Leader may be coming. Yes, friends, YBarry may make the scene next year.
rMay 19, 1961
i *
-
DOME
(Continued from page 17)
to have dampened the quality of the paper, and also there is a noticeable lack of creative design. The skillful technique of last year’s Dome cover which when carried through the section heads contributed much to the artistic unity of the book, has been lost this year. In fact, the dull lines, cheap colors and repeated pictures of this year’s cover and section heads seem to detract from the book’s over-all appearance.
Besides the few criticisms mentioned above and granted that there are other minor aspects of the book to which one might object, there is yet one major section which seems to me to merit a general critique. This is the series of photos and copy interspersed within the pictures of the graduates. With two exceptions — the comments on oif-campus regulations and on morning checks — I find either the pictures or some aspect of the copy objectionable.
Three general tendencies should be noted concerning this section: 1. It holds up for ridicule those regulations which have some genuine merit; 2. It portrays as humorous certain aspects of life here which are either actually deplorable or at least not to be desired; and 3. In general it gives a wrong impression of the life of the majority of the students.
These three tendencies are perhaps epitomized in the obscene picture of a student who is disgustingly drunk (having completely passed out) and in the copy accompanying this picture which succeeds in mocking every conceivable legitimate purpose of university education.
Not ending with alcoholism, however, this series continues on to show that the typical ND student also can find time in his busy life for an obsession with sex and other enticing vices. This is portrayed through the “Monty” incident, by showing students seeking “more friendly companionship” by sneaking out of the hall after check and by always heading for the out-of-bounds district where one meets pick-pocketing St. Mary’s girls, and in the mention of the “amorous adventures of Turk Chifaaz,” who is currently working his way through school by cheating his fellow students.
These are just a few of the particulars, but one could easily extend this criticism to almost all the copy and pictures of this series. To say that this section is humorous is generally to say that the wholesale dissipation of human energy in violation of the natural law is humorous. Also, the section presents such a life of general dissipation as the typical life zealously pursued by most Notre Dame men.
The only reason for voicing this criticism now is to urge a greater caution on the part of the staff towards the introduction of elements into the annual which may be offensive to certain groups
Liberalism
(Continued from page 18) encountered in every-day life. These tests are backed by the National Security Council and the Chiefs of Staff, but opposed by “morality-minded” liberals.
The purpose of these tests is to develop a more discriminating instrument of warfare. If there is a necessity to bomb—the liberals with their moralirtic thinking should agree with this—there is an obligation to develop a “clean” bomb. There should be testing to determine strategic positions and to eliminate the need for mass decimation of populations. “Eliminate the bomb?” questions Buckley. “Must we also forget that E=mc2?”
Proposition Five: The ultimate meaning for America of liberalism, as it threatens to take shape, may render irrelevant an orthodox concern for national security.
All of our talk about national security is engaged in protecting the nation from the enemy. The enemy seeks to take over the world with revolutionary socialism. We resist subjugation by a foreign power not so much because we don’t want to be ruled from a foreign capital, but because we do not want to alter our way of life, or to forego our idea of freedom for their idea of freedom.
Buckley concludes, “These changes are what we are called upon to defend against. But can it be that the demand of the dominating rtrains of modern liberalism bind, in loose fraternity, men and women determined to make over the traditional face of America?” If these ideas are fulfilled, they will actually have the same effect on our way of life as a submission to a foreign government. The shape of the liberal ideology should be of great concern to those who formulate the national security policy and those who must live under it.
The national security must take the means to protect society as it exists. Our way of life is worth protecting at all costs. There is no alternative for Americans.
or misrepresent certain aspects of Notre Dame life. It is a matter for serious concern when such things—even though they be few—find their way into the pages of the Dome, for they are there permanently; there is no real opportunity for an effective reply to any misrepresentation.
Despite these few particular criticisms, there can only be praise for the book taken as a whole. Without neglecting the vigorous and tasteful achievement in a great many areas, still the clarity and artistry of all the photography must be singled out as this year’s most praiseworthy and successful accomplishment; and this after all does constitute the bulk of any annual and its primary value. Again, congratulations to all the staff for presenting us with a 1961 Dome firmly grounded in Notre Dame’s new pattern of excellence.
23

'Letters'
(Continued from page 4)
in the first place; (3) effectively stamp out what little enterprise and initiative may be left in Latin America by guaranteeing ready monies, come what may.
Your lack of initiative seems apparent; you desire a U. S.-financed cure-all. Such policies would eventually destroy-us both, and are totally unacceptable®
Jeremy Jon Kaye Walsh Hall
ONE WATCH SETS YOU APART
. . Utmost accuracy, lasting beauty, a name to take pride in. Not everyone owns a Hamilton. But those who do, would wear no other watch. At Hamilton jewelers everywhere.
Editor:
Last week the Scholastic published a back page purporting to "... . show how many Latin-American students interpret United States policies.” Presumably it was intended to present the typical Latin-American student’s point oL | view regarding the recent U.S.-backed* invasion of Cuba. If it is an accurate representation of such, it is hard to avoid the conclusion that the typical “restless fellow-collegian south of the Rio Grande” is somehow the prisoner of delusions of elephantine proportions.
Agreed, the United States policy towards Latin America has in the past not always been as selflessly altruistic as our southern brethren have wished. Ma-^ rines have landed to bolster U.S. busi-1^ ness interests, etc. (Although it would, be difficult to conceive of a similar his-' torical situation where power relationships have been so lopsidedly in favor of a single strong country, and yet so much forebearance has been shown. But let that pass.) Once or twice we have sinned, so let the mea culpas sound from the house-tops.
What really irks Mr. Fuster’s student/ is that he feels that the colossus of the-^a North looks condescendingly upon Latin I Americans as incompetent and irre- I sponsible—a view that affords more than I a grain of plausibility considering their I miserable record of political instability. I Hence the evil gringos come to be a I convenient scapegoat on which to hang I the troubles of an unhappy people. I
Mr. Fuster speaks of “interference I and abuse,” “flagrant violations,” “the^? old imperialistic tactics,” ad infinitum, ad nauseam. What in the name of Simon Bolivar has this to do with Communism in Cuba? In a burst of pique the student writes “American interests are not our interests.” In this case, sir, you are dead wrong. The West rises or falls with America. If we despised gringos fall God help Mr. Fuster’s angry young intellectuals, for the wolf will be at their door.
What do the hard realities imply ?$; They imply that if it is necessary to intervene south of the border to keep out Communists then Mr. Fuster and his friends must be prepared to put up with a few* indignities yet a while longer— for their sake as well as ours. And if their good sense wasn’t clouded over by fits of lugubrious pique they would thank us for it.

Kevin R. Born 305 Pangborn
The Scholastic
24
'Stacks'
(Continued from page 22)
vincial town in which Eliot is born to the seedy Chambers in which he begins his legal career. And the final act of Lewis is a consignment of himself to mediocrity and to an unsatisfying — indeed, an outrageously grotesque — marriage with an emotionally frigid ^woman whom he loves — or once loved
— only because of a deep-seated inability on his own part to give himself fully to another human being. But Snow has woven these materials — and, as in any art work, they are only materials — into a sensitive, beautifully written revelation of the immensity of one human soul, an immensity unimpaired by mediocrity, possessing its power and its particular awe as an essential attribute, as do all human souls.
Time of Hope is an excellent, even a profound novel, and a good example of the novelist’s basic task and craft. It has been said that Valery, the French poet, creates diamonds from nothingness. It might also be said that Snow, in this novel, has created profundity from mediocrity, or, better still, very great humanity in very humble shabbiness.
—Frank McConnell
Vaseline
Win a yachting holiday in the Bahamas!
Enter the ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic “Flip Talk” contest. Win a 7-day cruise through the Bahamas on a fabulous yacht plus two glorious days in Nassau —all expenses paid for you and five of your friends. Hundreds of other “water-fun” prizes, too. Entry blanks wherever ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic is sold.
Keep it under your hat! ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic is made specially for men who use water with their hair tonic. ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic won’t evaporate—it’s 100% pure light grooming oil—replaces the oil water removes from your hair.
it’s clear
HAIR
TONIC
•ROUGH PQNCFS
it’s clean... it’s
VASELINE HAIR TONIC
’VASELINE' IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF CHESESROUGH-PQND S INC
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
F""
25

MALOLO® jacket-with
CORSAIR nautical
print zip
over-sized pocket and British
notched collar. Shown with medium
Hawaiian trunks. Both of 100% fine ton in color combinations of gold blue. Jacket $6.95 Trunks $6.95
cot-and
RUGBY 100% cotton fleece deck shirt pull over in trimmed colors of white, gold, olive or navy. $5.95 TOP SIDERS deck pants and the newest British SEA KNICKERS with regimental belt. Both of 100% cotton in white, gold, natural, olive or black $5.95 and $8.95
CRICKET blazer striped knit jacket in brilliant colony colors. % length tab sleeves. Tailored Hawaiian trunks. Both knit of 100% cotton. Vivid color combinations of gold and spice. Button front cardigan $8.95 Trunks $5.95
The seAFaRiNg MaN is a
|4t<^MaN
(With a British accent)
Chart your course to the crisp, colorful look of the California sun and sea
swimwear that Catalina so handsomely combines with the new British styling influence.
MALOLO® HARBOR LIGHTS giant zip jacket with roll knit collar. Trim on sleeves and pocket, with embroidered lantern emblems. Jacket of sturdy 100% cotton gabardine. Square rig acetate, cotton and rubber trunks. In white, gold and olive. Jacket $8.95 Trunks $5.95
MALOLO® BENGAL paisley print, zipper front jacket with English accented collar over medium length boxer trunks. Both of 100% finest printed cotton in color combinations of gold, spice and blue. Jacket $7.95 Trunks $4.95
CHUKKER CHECK houndstooth knit commander's jacket. Shown with square rig trunks. Jacket knit of finest 100% cotton. Trunks of cotton with rubber added for perfect fit. Black, olive or gold with white. Cardigan $7.95 Trunks $5.95
® Catalina, Inc., Los Angeles, California. Another fine
Kayser-Roth Product.
Rasmussen’s
MAIN & WASHINGTON STS.
26
SOUTH BEND f
The Scholastic
RALPH AND HEINBECKER Seniors close fine careers
Irish Win Two; Face Spartans
ND Netters Whip Bucks; Face Warriors at Home
The tennis team continues on its merry way as the winningest team on campus this year. After whitewashing Ohio State by a 9-0 score last Saturday, the young men of Coach Thomas Fallon sported a 16-2 season record. The setbacks have been suffered at the hands of Duke (5-4) during the spring tour and old nemesis Michigan State (6-3) at East Lansing on April 21.
The lopsided win over the Buckeyes was paced by the one-two punch of Bill Hein-becker and Don Ralph. The two seniors, who have set the pace throughout the season, once again led the way to victory. Heinbecker boosted his season record to a gaudy 17-1 in singles play with a 6-2, 6-1 romp over Terry Taylor. Ralph remained unbeaten in singles play with an easy 6-1, 6-0 win over the Bucks No. 2 man, John White. Ralph missed one match due to illness.
Other singles winners for the Irish were juniors Jim Whelan and Maury DeWald and sophomores Joe Brown and Jim Bemis. Whelan beat Tom Hufford, 6-3, 6-1. DeWald took the measure of Roger Mitchell, 6-2, 6-3. Brown, the No. 3 singles man, was extended to three sets before subduing stubborn Jim Weaver, 6-0, 5-7, 6-1. Bemis had much (easier going as he won in straight sets over John Ridgley, 6-1, 6-0.
In the doubles, the team of Ralph and (' Heinbecker remained undefeated with a routine 6-0, 6-1 over Taylor and Weaver. Brown and Whelan teamed to defeat the Buckeye duo of White and Hufford, 6-4, 6-0. In the final doubles match, the Irish combination of Bemis and DeWald overwhelmed Ridgley and Mitchell by identical 6-3 scores in straight sets.
The netters host Marquette here tomorrow. Marquette, under Don Clark, has had only average success this season and should not extend the local favorites. Starting time is 1 p.m.
May 19, 1961
Slamming across eleven runs on 15 hits, Notre Dame’s diamond forces roared to a come-from-behind victory over Ohio University last Friday at Athens, Ohio.
Leading the barrage were centerfielder Bill Brutvan and catcher Walt Osgood, each of whom whacked a home run. Brutvan’s blow, a three-run model, climaxed a four-run fifth inning rally which gave the Irish a never-to-be-relinquished 5-4 lead, while Osgood’s solo homer ended the visitor’s scoring.
A five-run outburst in the seventh compounded of singles by O’Leary, Woolwine, and winning pitcher Phil Donnelly, a walk, an error and a force out, iced the decision.
Every member of the starting Notre Dame lineup, with the exception of pitcher Nick Palihnich, got at least one safety while facing five harried Ohio twirlers.
The next day the basebailers joined the football, tennis and track teams in making a clean sweep of the day’s sporting activities, as they beat Ohio 5-4.
First baseman Dick O’Leary let fly with a grand slam home run in the sixth inning, giving the Irish a 4-1 lead. Just prior to O’Leary’s clout the home team’s pitcher, Ted Stute, had purposely passed Billy Brutvan. Dave Hanson, who had beaten out a scratch hit, and George Sefcik, whose attempted sacrifice was bungled by Stute, also scored in front of O’Leary.
Walt Osgood’s second homer of the two game set with Ohio clinched the game for the Irish in the seventh inning, although the homesters did produce a threat in the ninth with a pair of infield singles.
Mickey Walker went all the way on the mound for the Irish, giving up six hits and two earned runs, as the team
WALT OSGOOD Connects for two homers
JACK MITCHELL Easy win over Valpo
won its fourth straight and brought its record to 10-15.
Last Monday, the diamondmen whipped a weak Valparaiso nine, 11-2, in a game held up by rain. The Irish scored once in the first inning on Dave Hanson’s leadoff triple and Dan Hagan’s bloop single back of third. The Irish scored four inns each in the third and fifth innings and added another pair later in the day to complete their scoring. The visiting Crusaders scored twice in the sixth with both runs being unearned.
Jack Mitchell went the distance for the win. Hagan’s four hits paced the Irish attack. Dick O’Leary continued his long range bombing with a pair of two-run four-masters, giving him three home runs in the last two games.
During the past week Notre Dame was scheduled to play Northwestern and Michigan but the results of these games were not available at the time of the Scholastic’s printing.
This coming Wednesday Jake Kline’s boys will close out their disappointing season against Michigan State’s slumping Spartans, who defeated the Irish by a 6-3 count on May 4.
The Spartans, who raced to an early season 12-2 record, have only a 2-6 slate in the rugged Big Ten Conference.
Michigan State possesses a deep mound corps, headed by seniors Mickey Sinks, Bob Ross and Ken Avery plus sophomores Gary Ronberg and Jack Nutter. Sinks has chalked up four victories, while Nutter carries a perfect 2-0 slate.
Coach Jake Koh, whose forces displayed their best punch of the season against Notre Dame with 15 hits, will rely on Pat Sartorius, Wade Cartwright, Bill Schudich and Wayne Fontes for most of his offensive punch. Sartorius is a centerfielder, Cartwright a catcher, Schudich, the captain, is a first baseman and Fontes is a second sacker.	—Bob Chiappinelli
TOM GRACE Irish golf ace
Triangular Golf Meet Scheduled Tomorrow
The Notre Dame golf team entertains Northern Illinois and Detroit tomorrow afternoon in a triangular meet on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. The meet will be the last home appearance for the Irish linksmen and will also close regular season competition. The NCAA Championships will be held at Purdue this year from June 18-24.
The Northern Illinois team is currently moving along at a .500 clip. The team is composed of underclassmen exclusively, with four juniors and two freshmen in the lineup. Tom Kerr paces the Northern Illinois group with a 78.4 stroke average for 18 holes. Dave Hellman is .1 of a point behind at 78.5. Don Klusendorf is third with a 80.7 mark while Rick Lindstrom has a 81.3. All of these boys are juniors.
The two freshmen are Bob Evans and Jim Brown. Evans ranks fifth on the team with his 81.8 average. Brown rounds out the Northern Illinois sextet with his 84.8 standing.
Detroit is an unknown quantity and also unpublicized. However, Detroit athletic teams traditionally save their best for the Irish and the Titan golfers should be no exception.
Tee off time is set for 8 a.m. for those who are functioning at this wee morning hour. For those adverse to such early hours, the local newspapers will carry results of the proceedings.
The men of Fr. Hoiderith have lost only to Michigan State and Southern Illinois this year. They also have played a tie with Iowa. In recent competition, the swatsmiths defeated Western Michigan and Hillsdale with relative ease on the Burke Memorial Course. This triangular meeting took place on May 11.
The golfers met Michigan State last Monday at East Lansing. The Irish fell again to the Spartans, this time by a score of 828-882.
28
VARSITY CRUSHES OLD TIMERS by JOHN BECHTOLD
Featuring an explosive attack seldom seen here in recent years, Notre Dame’s Varsity footballers rolled over a weak Old Timer’s team, 50-7, last Saturday. 18,000 Irish fans gathered in the sunbaked Notre Dame stadium to watch the Varsity pile up the most tallies in the history of the 31-game series.
Talented junior veterans Les Traver, Angelo Dabiero and co-captain Nick Buoni-conti were outstanding, but the crowd was most impressed by the performances of the much-heralded first-year men: Frank Budka, Paul Costa and Jim Snowden.
The majority of the crowd had come to see if these unproven freshmen could provide the spark so lacking in last season’s attack and it didn’t take long for them to get, at least, a temporary answer. With only 50 seconds remaining in the first quarter, the second team backfield, featuring these three freshmen and one of last season’s stars of the Old Timers’ game, Ed Rutkowski, entered the game and provided the most sensational highlight of the game. On his very first play, right halfback Costa took a handoff from quarterback Budka and romped around left end for a 62-yard touchdown.
Earlier, the first unit had tallied a touchdown and a field goal to give the Green a 10-0 lead. Joe Perkowski’s 39-yard field goal started the scoring romp after seven minutes of the opening quarter. Dabiero scored the first touchdown two minutes later on a twisting 27-yard scamper made possible by timely Irish blocks.
In the second quarter, the poorly conditioned and loosely coordinated Old Timers fumbled on their eleven, prompting another Varsity score. On third down, Budka rolled out to his right on
Denny Phillips (42) breaks into the clear aided by block of Bill Ford (88). Dick Naab (36) looks for someone to knock down as Old Timer George Nicula (43) comes up.
an option and weaved eight yards into the end zone.
With time running out in the first half, Budka showed his passing ability by rifling a perfect shot to end Traver in the end(^ zone, giving the Varsity a 31-0 halftime lead.
With the second unit in action, the Old Timers marched to their lone score in the third period. Capitalizing on the same porous defense which plagued the Irish all last season, the Old Timers, paced by graduating seniors Jack Castin and Frank Gargiulo, tallied midway in the quarter.
Soon after the kickoff, Budka winged another scoring pass to an all-alone (z Rutkowski, who took the pass on the Old Timers’ 40 yard line and raced to the goal to complete the 62-yard touchdown play.
The final Varsity scores came in the fourth period. Dick Naab, Denny Phillips and Rutkowski ground out yardage to take the ball to the Old Timers’ 15-yard line. From there, Budka rolled out and, with two Old Timers on him, threw 14 yards to Jim Sherlock who( made a diving catch on the one. On the next play, Rutkowski plunged off-tackle for a touchdown.
Naab closed the scoring with a three-yard ran after Mickey Bitsko had intercepted a pass deep in Old Timers’ territory.
Snowden, the much-talked-about freshman fullback, was carried from the field on a stretcher with a now commonplace knee injury after performing capably. Itf is hoped that this injury, along with the r Varsity’s defensive lapses, will be cured by next fall and that the explosive Irish offense was merely a sign of improvement rather than a result of the caliber of the opposition.
The Scholastic
Varsity quarterback Daryle Lamonica (3) prepares to pitch on rollout as Old Timer Gary Myers (89) makes desperation grab for a tackle.
Old Timers Action
GOLDEN TOE of Joe Perkowski sends ball booming through uprights in halftime kicking duel with Paul Hornung. Perkowski’s best kick sailed 55 yards.
May 19, 1961
Cindermen Battle Pitt After Trouncing MSU
Pitt Stadium will be the scene of action tomorrow afternoon for Notre Dame’s track and field team as the Irish engage in their third and last dual meet of the season against the University of Pittsburgh.
After last Saturday’s convincing 80-51 victory over Michigan State which, incidentally, was the last track meet ever to be held on Cartier Field, Notre Dame can expect the sternest opposition in three remaining trips, viz., Pitt, the Central Collegiate Conference meet in Milwaukee and the NCAA championships in Philadelphia on June 16-17.
For the traditional Pitt battle, Coach Alex Wilson is sending a still-improving Irish squad which last week featured a rejuggled mile-relay quartet of Weber, Gregory, Weldon, and Schwartz. This team will be facing a fearsome foursome of Panthers which has hardly been weakened by last year’s graduation of ace sprinter Mel Barnwell. This year the Pitt squad is stacked with a host of fine sprinters and weightmen.
On June 3 ND will be out to topple defending champion Kansas in the CCC meet. The Irish, who finished second to the Jayhawkers last year, are the current indoor champions.
The Irish wind up the season on June 16-17 at Philadelphia in the national collegiate championships. ND’s representation will, of course, be limited and at this point it is indefinite who will make the trip to Franklin Field.
On May 10 the Irish met, among others, an Indiana University team much improved from the one which defeated them by one-half point in February. In the Big State meet, the Hoosiers captured seven ot 14 events to roll up 91 % points to ND’s 77 1/10. The Irish managed to score in all but one event but still could not retain their two-year hold on the team title.
Good performances came from Bill Yaley and Tom Dempsey who finished one-two in the two-mile run. Mike Gia-cinto again came thru — this time with a season’s best of 155' 6" in the discus, for a first place, after taking second in the shot put.
In the hurdles John Mulrooney and Jim Sheeler continued to score in every meet this year as they took second and fifth, respectively, in the highs and the latter a fourth in the lows. Jerry Fitzpatrick also scored in his fourth straight outdoor meet as he took second in the 100, 220 and broad jump. Sixth places were taken by Steve Schwartz (440), Tom Bomans (javelin), Dennis Johnston (880) and Mike Terry (pole vault). Fifths by Johnston in the mile and Bob Kelly in the javelin, and Bon Gregory’s second in the mile and Carl Ludecke’s third in the shot rounded out the individual scoring.
Against Michigan State the Green fared a little better. ND weightmen swept all three places in the shot and discus to pace the first athletic victory over a Spartan
(Continued on page 32)
29
SNOWDEN, COSTA, BUDKA...
Potency in ’61
FOOTBALL fans who witnessed last Saturday’s carnage in the Notre Dame Stadium were pleased by more than the warm weather; they were elated by the white-hot performances of three Irish backs. The trio, all to be sophomores in the fall, includes fullback Jim Snowden, quarterback Frank Budka, and halfback Paul Costa. Though the spectators were able to catch only a brief glimpse of Snowden and Costa, their play, along with that of Budka, was enough to indicate that the Notre Dame offense in ’61 will pack some of the explosiveness that it has lacked the past few falls.
Steady Gainer
The 18,000 who saw Snowden blast for gains of five, three, two, three, and three yards can justifiably feel that perhaps the Irish have at last come up with the big fullback who can be counted on for the always-necessary short yardage. Perhaps, had Snowden not suffered a knee injury while assisting on a tackle, the crowd might also have seen him break away for the long gain as he did so frequently during spring drills. Said Coach Joe Kuharich after the game: “I was very happy with Snowden. He looked very good on offense, and played his corner spot adequately. As for his knee, he just popped a cartilage. As far as we can tell, there should be no problem and we plan no operation. We see no reason why he should not be ready to go September 1.”
No one was more surprised than Snowden over his sudden switch from end to fullback: “The switch was a real surprise to me. It has been a little tough getting used to playing in the backfield, but I’m starting to feel at home there now. I think I’m going to like it though — carrying that ball is really a lot of fun.” Nor was anyone more disappointed over the injury which limited his service against the Old Timers than Jim; keyed up before the game he remarked: “I really want to do well here at Notre Dame; this is the greatest school in the world and I woudn’t trade it for anything. The first time I saw the school was for the Old Timers game last year. When I saw Ihe campus and heard the Victory March and felt the spirit around here, I knew this was where I wanted to come.”
“You know, playing against pros in your first college ball game is a real test. This will be a big game for me, because after this game I’ll know whether I have it as a fullback or not” Though he did not have time to prove it to his own satisfaction, most Irish fans concurred that Jim Snowden definitely does “have” the ability to give Mike Lind a battle for the number one fullback slot in ’61.
Heme Run
Paul Costa’s appearance was also brief; so brief in fact that he carried the ball only once. However the single carry 30
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
G was enough to bring the crowd to its feet: on the most spectacular play of the afternoon Costa swept left end for 62 yards and the Varsity’s second touchdown. Not only was it the first4 time Costa had carried the ball in college, it was the first play of his collegiate career, for he and the rest of his backfield-(Budka, Snowden, and Rutkowski) had just entered the game, to the plaudits of the expectant spectators. And the fans got-what they wanted. Taking the ball from Budka, Costa got a' beautiful block from Snowden, turned the corner, and sprinted 62 yards into the end zone, shaking off two tacklers and out-^ racing another. Said Paul: “At first I just couldn’t believe it!^ I still can’t remember the play at all. What a way to start your • college career.”	j
The bruised heel which kept Costa out of action during the* remainder of the Old Timers content is expected by trainer Gene Paszkiet to heal quickly and give the 6-4, 230-pound. halfback no trouble in the fall. If so, Costa would back senior starter Angelo Dabiero at the right half spot, giving the offense further potency.
Gf
Analytical Mind
Budka 'had more chance than either Costa or Snowden to display his talents, and he did so to such an extent that the demonstration could be classified as a gaudy display. Among his achievements for the afternoon: scoring one touchdown' personally on a 9-yard rollout, passing 25 and 63 yards to. Les Traver and Ed Rutkowski for two others; and completing five of seven passes attempted for a total of 169 yards. < y
Coach Joe Kuharich praised Budka for his passing, called him “a better runner than our other quarterbacks,” and lauded him for 'his direction of the team and football sense.
Budka himself felt that the play which gave him the most: satisfaction in the Alumni game was the “111 sprint pass” to halfback Ed Rutkowski, good for 22 yards. He says he “likes to roll out, since I can pass, keep, or pitch,” and Kuharich-says he intends to give him a chance to use the play to best advantage. Of his passing to Traver, Frank said: “I like to throw to Traver. He has the best hands and is the best receiver on the team.”	£
Asked if he thought he could give starting quarterback Daryle Lamonica a battle for the job, Budka replied: “You don’t come here to ride the bench. I’m sure gonna try.” And-the competition for the signal-calling job will hurt neither; Lamonica nor Budka.	’
Although the presence on next fall’s squad of Snowden/ Costa, and Budka is not a guarantee of an undefeated season,; ■ or even of a winning one, there can be little doubt in the minds7 J of those who saw Die Old Timers game that these three will/1 definitely give the Notre Dame offense more potency in ’61. J
-	The Scholastic )
ODDS and ENDS
TIME OUT
Detroit baseball fans have a real slugger in their glory boy, Rocky Colavito. The “Rock,” seeing his father absorb both verbal and physical punishment in last Friday’s game at Yankee Stadium, jumped into the bleachers to contest the family opponent. The result: Cola-■nto was ejected and the game was then placed under protest by the Detroit management. Alas, even the most popular suffer their setbacks.
< The University of Minnesota’s baseball team, after winning 49 consecutive contests I at home, finally took the long road down. But the Gophers were a little emphatic as they suffered a double setback at the hands of Illinois, 5-1 and 4-3.
| MORE ON THE FIX: Well, it looks as if the basketball-fixing hunt is just beginning instead of ending. When North Carolina State’s Anton Muehlbauer, Stan Niewierowski and Terry Litchfield were recently “discovered,” the State Bureau of Investigation made it clear that there would be a toughening of policy; none of the above have immunity from testifying.
a Notre Dame finally succeeded in defeating its Big Ten nemesis, Michigan State. After falling to the Spartans in seven different sports (football, basketball, sailing, baseball, golf, tennis and fencing), the “Noter Doters” finally achieved success with their track team, an 80-51 victor in last Saturday’s meet at Cartier Field.
As of last Sunday, Notre Dame’s contribution to the Boston Red Sox, Carl ^astrzemski, was still having his trouble fitting big league pitching. Yastrzem-ski’s bat will soon get “warn," according to Boston manager Pinky Higgins; meanwhile, his fielding has left nothing to be desired.
While on the subject of major league hitting, it appears that the Chicago White Sox’ way of getting runs isn’t paying off this year. Bill Veeck, in an effort to get |ong-ball hitters a couple of years ago, emphasized the need for power. Well, the White Sox have power now, but notice the players they miss. Names such as John Romano and Norm Cash are now returning to haunt the Chisox pitchers.
The Detroit Tigers appear to have a fine prospect in third baseman Steve Boros. After a fine year at Denver in 1960, Boros is proving to all that he’s having no trouble hitting major league pitching. Presently, Boros is carrying a .352 average with 21 runs-batted-in.
Wisconsin’s and Michigan State’s varsity football teams didn’t have easy times in their Old Timer contests. Wisconsin’s Varsity had to count on a touchdown pass in the last forty seconds to dump the Old Timers, 24-21. Meanwhile, the Spartans had still more trouble, falling to their Alumni, 14-8. The Spartan Alumni team carried 19 professional ball players.
^May 19, 1961
The end is in sight. In just a few weeks, the Notre Dame baseball, tennis, track and golf teams will have completed their schedules (excluding the NCAA tournaments in June) and another year of Notre Dame athletics goes into the record books. With due reverence for the great years past, it must be admitted that this wasn’t an outstanding year for Irish intercollegiate teams in general—that is, as far as won-loss records are concerned.
But statistics are superficial when evaluating an athletic team because they don’t tell the complete story. More important is the attitude demonstrated by the Notre Dame teams when competing; this is what makes the 1960-61 year stand out—yes, even with less victories. At no time during the past athletic year here at Notre Dame did the student body feel that their sports representatives had “given up,” or that victory was impossible. This “never-say-die” attitude is the most important consideration, the reason why all the Notre Dame athletes should be commended.
TENNIS SUCCESS
Tomorrow afternoon, Notre Dame’s tennis team participates in its final home match of the season against Marquette before traveling to Iowa State College in June for the NCAA championships. For the Irish netters, regardless of the outcome, it will mark the end to a highly successful season as their record already stands at 16-2.
The Warrior match will also mark the end of the fifth year for Tom-Fallon as tennis mentor. During these years, Fallon’s net teams have compiled a remarkable 70-11 record. Included in this total is one unbeaten year, a tie for the NCAA title and a 17-1 season.
DON RALPH AND BILL HEINBECKER
Bill Heinbecker
Notre Dame tennis
:	There will be an added
.	sentiment	when the tennis
team has	finished its match
tomorrow;	actually, it will be
a feeling of loss. Captain Don Ralph of Bethesda, Md., and Bill Heinbecker of St. Louis, two of the finest all-around players in Notre Dame tennis history, are graduating after three years of truly great varsity competition.
Ralph and Heinbecker began their dominance of the scene in 1959. Playing the number
the great Max Brown, sophomore Ralph phenomenally
Don Ralph
two position behind won fifteen straight
singles matches on the NCAA championship squad without losing a set. Heinbecker performed just as brilliantly as he was also undefeated during the regular season. In the NCAA meet, Bill teamed with Brown in reaching the finals of the NCAA doubles.
Last year with Brown graduated, Ralph took over the number one singles position and Heinbecker was number two. If there was a slump from these two tennis sitars, it was hardly noticeable as Ralph went on to win sixteen of eighteen engagements while Heinbecker emerged with a 16-1 record, dropping only two sets. This season brought no change in the two seniors’ fine caliber of play. Thus far, Ralph has captured seventeen straight matches without a set loss while Heinbecker, playing number one for much of the season, has seventeen victories and one defeat.
Playing as a doubles combination for the second year in a row, Heinbecker and Ralph have amassed fifteen victories against a single loss. For three years of varsity competition, both men have records of 48-2 in singles; their doubles record together is 29-2. Certainly, such outstanding play merits the highest praise for Don Ralph and Bill Heinbecker.	.
SAILING CHAMPIONSHIP
Notre Dame’s sailing team, seldom publicized but often worthy, left today to participate in the Midwest Intercollegiate Championship. The sailors will pit their talents against nine teams, all competing for one of the two Midwest berths to the National Championship held at the Naval Academy on June 12-16.	—Jag KUrog

1
'Social Action1
(Continued from page 34) one example of the lack of social consciousness at Notre Dame. Why is it that so many organizations that do attempt to supplement Catholic education lack the students they need to be effective. If these organizations are worthwhile, and I think most of them are, there should be a significant number of students in them or at least interested in their work.
The biggest evil in this whole phenomenon though, is that these students feel that by withdrawing and oposing, they are fulfilling their roles as free and responsible students. They are acting freely, but not responsibly. Because responsibility implies that the individual must not only be concerned with his own good, but also with the good of others. And when a student ignores evident social needs, it cannot be said that he is concerning himself with the good of others. Ignorance may be the reason for such a lack of insight; regardless, such an omission cannot be allowed to pass. He must either be educated or overwhelmed by the power of the opposition against him.
Students must become aware of and responsible to the needs of the Univer
sity and society at large. We must begin to realize that because we are free we do have a certain amount of power which can be used to influence the society in which we live.
We cannot and must not ignore or abuse this power.
'Theaters'
(Continued from page 22)
We started this column two and a half years ago and withstood the first semester purge splendidly. And we say “we” because there’s two of us — both over 6 feet tall and 200 pounds heavy, both receiving B.B.A.’s in Marketing in two weeks, and all that makes us in combination the biggest and most educated movie reviewer this school has ever known. The name might still be a source of wonderment for many. “Tony” is for Tony de Haro, from San Juan, Puerto Rico, and “Wong” is for Jim Lee, from the fair metropolis of Chicago. How they ever got “Wong” out of his name is beyond reason. So thus we now go naked in the world, and its been a lot of fun. - Let’s hope we have a worthy successor (s), though it wouldn’t really be too hard to find one.
Tony Wong
'Track'
(Continued from page 29) team by Notre Dame this year. Fitzpatrick again took three seconds, one of them in the 120-yard dash which should have been the 100 but for an error by officials caused in misjudgment of the finish line. Fitzpatrick, who was barely ahead at 100, dismissed the whole thing with a wave of his ann in disgust.	(
The most thrilling race of the day* was the mile where Ron Gregory came from behind in the last half lap to defeat State’s Morgan Ward in 4:17.1. Gregory seems to respond well to a cheering home-field crowd.	’
—J. C. Higgins
The Scholastic is now interviewing
students for its Business next fall. Positions as Ad
Staff for Salesmen *
and Office Assistants are open to
all students. CONTACT:
Bob Buckley 319 Zahm
Contact Lens Specialist
WARNER'S RENT-A-TRAILER
Rent A One-Way Trailer
TO TAKE YOUR THINGS HOME
PICK UP TRAILER IN SOUTH BEND —LEAVE IT AT HOME
901 WESTERN
AT 7-9494
Storage for Winter Garments only $2.95
PLUS CLEANING CHARGES
FOR ALL YOU CAN STORE
“IT ISN’T” necessary to ship your winter garments home and then back to school again in the fall. You can store them at RUBIN CLEANERS in their SAFE, INSURED STORAGE VAULT. . . . Your clothes will be cleaned and HUNG in our storage vault. They will be ready when you want them. And you don’t pay until you pick them up. . . . The $2.95 pays for storage and insurance up to $150.00 in valuations. Excess values are 2% of additional amount.
CALL CE 4-3188
OR STOP IN FOR MORE INFORMATION AND FURTHER DETAILS AT
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFERSON	CORNER LINCOLN WAY EAST
1st comer across the river on the Bus Line
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
212 S. Michigan
A SNAP!
IT'S
TO'STUDY ANO REVIEW WITH
BARNES & NOBLE
COLLEGE OUTLINE
SERIES
On Display at Yaw Bookstore NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
32
The Scholastic
PAPERBACKS
Notice To SENIOR and GRADUATE MEN Students
who will complete their education and commence work this year. If you urgently require funds to complete your education, and are unable to secure the money elsewhere, Apply to STEVENS BROS. FOUNDATION INC.
A Non-Profit Educational Corporation.
610-612 ENDICOTT BUILDING	ST. PAUL 1, MINN.
I
SIGNET - MENTOR
SEVEN STOREY MOUNTAIN
Merton
CREATIVE PROCESS
Ghiselin
GATEWAY
CONSERVATIVE MIND
Kirk
SCRIBNER
CONSCIENCE OF THE RICH
Snow
> THE NEW MEN
Snow
ART OF THE NOVEL
Henry James
FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLLS Hemingway
> THE AENEID OF VIRGIL
Humphries
CRY BELOVED COUNTRY
Paton
ATTENTION: Faculty and Students • Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (Latest Ed.) • Special Price $5.85
Noire Dame Bookstore
on - the - campus
for a cool, comfortable Summer LIGHTWEIGHT CLOTHING FROM
OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP
Good Summer planning starts at Brooks .. .with good-looking, practical wash-and-wear suits and sportwear—and furnishings—designed to beat the Summer heat. Priced, too, for undergraduates.
Our Cool} Washable Suits, from $40
Colorful lightweight Odd Jackets, from $23
Odd Trousers, from $10* Bermuda Shorts, $12.50 And beachwear, s'port shirts, casual shoes, etc.
ESTABLISHED IBIS
Rati furnishings, ^ats^^bots
7+ E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL.
NEW YORK • BOSTON • PITTSBURGH • SAN FRANCISCO • LOS ANGELES
May 19, 1961
social action,
(J
and the student
During the past few years there has been a great deal of emphasis placed on the role of the student in contemporary American society. With the advent of the New Frontier and programs like the Peace Corps, this emphasis has been increased and we (students) have become more aware of the responsibility that is ours. Yet, through it all seldom have we asked two basic questions:
The first question, “Why all the sudden interest” is a question we need not spend much time considering, since it would be more appropriate to ask, “Why wasn’t there more interest in the past?” After all, we are America’s future and depending on what she produces in her schools, colleges, and universities rest the hopes of millions for future peace and prosperity. She cannot be satisfied just with producing scholars — because besides needing men well trained scholastically—America needs well rounded citizens, men and women aware of and responsible to the needs of their society.
BEYOND THE PASSIVE
But the second question, “Does a student have an active role to play in contemporary society” must be considered very carefully since there is a wide divergence of opinion on the subject. Certainly all would agree that he is obligated to fulfill at least a passive role, (that is maintaining an interest in current issues and keeping well informed on the important problems confronting our federal government and society at large. This is as far though as some people would go. They would say a student fulfills his proper role in society by just being a student in the purely academic sense. Their rationale might be based on the fact that our country has seen fit to establish and support a system of higher education and thus it must have been the consensus and is the consensus that students in America should be just students.
No one would dispute the fact that the primary duty of any student is to develop himself intellectually; however I hold that a student must do more than this. We cannot isolate ourselves from society and ignore its needs. We are students and we are citizens and even
34
more, members of the Mystical Body. Nevertheless a student cannot be expected to be as active in society as the non-student citizen, and thus the question arises to what degree should a student become active in the affairs of contemporary society.
Here at Notre Dame it would generally seem that the best way for a student to do this would be to promote actions relative to the academic community yet at the same time connected to the affairs of contemporary society. For example, the sit-ins in 1960 and the events consequent to them provided Notre Dame with an excellent opportunity to exert influence in the area of social justice in a very concrete and meaningful way. One action it could have taken would have been to establish a scholarship fund just for Negroes. This is related strictly to the academic community yet its effect on many Catholics and non-Catholics, for that matter, would have been great.
Again, why must our sense of pluralism end on the football field? Why can’t the Bookmen and Wranglers meet with similar organizations on secular campuses, once or twice a year? I pick these two organizations—there are others.
These examples are offered only to clarify my main idea of promoting actions relative to the academic community yet connected to the affairs of contemporary society.
A CONDITIONED ACTIVISM
In the first issue of The Scholastic, Mike Smith stated that “The justification for the degree of student involvement in the affairs of society at large depends on the condition of that society. Given a largely illiterate society which is currently striving to take its place among the world’s civilized nations and is also trying to exercise self-government, much active leadership by students—as the most educated class of the community—can be required.” Close to home, the 1960 sit-ins provide us with a good example of an occasion in the United States where students acted in a most extraordinary manner in order to improve the conditions of their imme
diate surroundings. And the sit-ins are only one example of student action in. the United States beyond the campus' and the classroom.
Obviously, the last two examples describe what is currently understood as student action in contemporary society bringing to light another side of the, second question I posed earlier, “Should’ students act in such manner that will take them away from their pursuit of: truth and acquisition of knowledge?” In, my opinion Mr. Smith settled the ques-^ tion; however I would make some qual-, ifications.
All students, even when conditions de-; mand cannot be as active as the students who participated in the sit-ins orl even the many students who participated in student organizations throughout the country. Each student must make a prudential judgment in regard to how active he thinks he should be.
1
Two weeks ago in the student senate, the controversial boycott of Thilman’s-was debated. Taking for granted that racial discrimination is morally and legally wrong, the reasons it was controversial were: 1) some students ar-: gued it was not within the jurisdiction; of the student senate to ask the students
to boycott; 2) some students disliked the means (boycott); 3) many students^, are psychological conservatives. r
Even if you were to admit (and I do,, not believe it was) that the student? senate was wrong in asking for a boy-' cott, how much of the opposition expressed against it was based on intellectual principles. How many of the students who opposed it made a prudential judgment?
A phenomenon, not peculiar to Notre Dame, but large enough on this campus to be concerned about is what has been^ termed psychological conservatism. That is, a tendency to withdraw instead of engage, to destroy instead of construct, to present the dangers of certain actions, but in so doing miss the opportunities that present themselves for social action and improvement. Possibly j some of the students who opposed the 4 Thihnan boycott are psychological con- 1 servatives. But the boycott issue is only J (Continued on page 32)
i f

Tailored in long sleeves $5.00 and short sleeves $4.00
The traditional look in
ARROW SPORT SHIRTS
The fabric, the fashion, the feeling... all lend the look of classic authenticity to these favored Arrow sport shirts. Distinctively printed on broadcloth in handsome, muted colorings... styled with button-down collar and back pleat
From the “Cum Laude Collection
CLASSICS...
in casual fashion
Arrow sport shirts with authentic flair . . . naturally favored by the man of defined tastes. Rich, subtle prints on fine broadcloth... well-turned out in the traditional button-down cellar. You’ll be proud to wear these sport shirts from our Arrow Cum Laude Collection.
Long sleeves $5.00 9>ort sleeves $4.00
GILBERT'
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St, South Bend

Its whafs up front that counts ,L ch ^.£TT^
---------—--•	IT
FILTER-BLEND a Winston exclusive, is one reason why Winston continues to be America’s best-selling filter cigarette year after year. Winston delivers flavor—twenty times a pack, thanks to Ifilter-BLE&dI up front—rich golden tobaccos specially selected and processed for filter smoking. Try Winston.
Also available in crush-proof box.
R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO C0_ WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.