


features 
3 In Memoriam 
· ~ 01S Expands Abroad Options 
New Senegal Program Anticipates Future Additions 

14 Managing Technology in the Classroom 
The iPad Comes to a Classroom Near You 

29) Wake up the Echos 
Mending a football program fallen on hard times 
34 An Open Letter 
To ND Emergency Alert System 


sections Opinion News 4 Culture 10 Cover li~ Sports 24 Hu1nor 31 
11 NOVEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 
There seems to be a widespread misconception that senior year is relaxing and fun. But with a quarter of the year completed, I demand to know where the weeknight parties, easy N.s and stress-free days are. 
And as friends in other majors accept job offers and check on the status of their 12 med school applications (which, I was informed, is on the low end of the scale), the pressure mounts to figure out who you will be post­graduation. Most of that exploration, however, occurs over the course of college. · 
Students are made aware of how they are growing as a community, united under the Dome (to read about what it is like to be in the Dome, see Associate Editor Clara Ritger's story on p. 16). At the same time, however, we are meant to develop as individuals, able to navigate the world beyond Notre Dame Ave. 
Many begin this exploration by, quite literally, immersing themselves in an unfamiliar world while studying abroad (see News Editor Laura Kraegel's profile of study abroad programs on p. 8). Some unabashedly pursue their interests (p. 15) and others take on physical challenges (p. 28). 
Occasionally, however, the pursuit of the person you will be can become anxiety about who you think you should be. Societal values, pop culture and a competitive atmosphere put pressure on students to be perfect academically, socially and physically. In this month's cover story, Culture Editor Chris Milazzo takes an in-depth look at what happens when initially healthy habits become physically and psychologically damaging and why Notre Dame students are particularly susceptible (p. 18). 
lnMemoriam 
Last month, Notre Dame mourned the loss of junior Declan Sullivan. The Scholastic staff's thoughts and prayers are with his family, friends and all those who continue to grieve. 
Until December, 

Erica Pepitone Editor-in-Chief 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I n NovEMBER 2010 

4 I SCHOLASTIC I n NovEMBER 2010 

the stories we live 
11 NOVEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 5 
~-------­
~--------~­
How to Get a Grant 


To Travel to Timbuktu (and I'll Charge that to ND) 
Katherine Gates 
One of Notre Dame's best-kept secrets is the money available for 1-------------------------undergraduate students to explore their academic passions and indulge their 

:. Lil' Wayne released from prison -Just when you thought autotune was 
·... done. 

·· Class of 2011: losingest class in ~· school history · ·· Go Irish, depress seniors. 
~Giants win World Series ~So, where's Cliff Lee going? 
_ Chilean Miner Finishes Marathon =-Clearly, being trapped in a mine is great training. 

~cRib is back 
;:-Are they ribs or something more? 

i-= . 
wanderlust. Whether researching the history of fashion in London and Paris over spring break or serving an impoverished community in India next summer, your dream excursion is possible. Read on to find out how your farfetched wish could be grant-ed too. 
Pin down your passion and destination: Identify what you are11 interested in researching and why. Visiting your significant other LJ -BFF, boyfriend, bromance, girlfriend, roomie -who is studying abroad in a foreign country may not fly with the grant committee. (But, while Scholastic is not one to name or point fingers, we would love for those of you who have finagled a bankrolled romantic rendezvous to teach us your ways!) Once you pick a place, half the work is done; where there is a will, there is a way-especially ifyou and your parents are not paying. Travel before the impending doom ofreal-world college debts and joblessness sets in. 
9) Learn to speak an exotic tongue: Arts & Letters majors have to & take a foreign language, so why not see what those three semesters 
· · have taught you by stumbling through sentences with locals for a few weeks in Italy or Spain next summer? ~oth the Nanovic Institute for European Studies and the Office of International Studies offer grants to improve language skills. Last year, over 100 students received funding through the Summer Language Abroad Grant Program. So that Italian coffee hour you were planning on skipping? Go and·chat up your professor~ssa to score some points. All grant proposals require you to have a faculty sponsor/supervisor. 
Learn beyond the classroom: Ifyou are not linguistically inclined ?) and perhaps want to attend a cultural event qr conference or conduct ;;;J) research on a smaller scale, Learning Beyond the Classroom ·offers 
grants during the school year overfall, Christmas and spring breaks to 
investigate a topic related to your coursework or major.,ULl Getaninternship abroad:Ifyou landed thatkiller internship already, ~ apply for funding to subsidize for housing and travel costs. Ifyou are still 
searching for that perfect fit, check out internships through the Nanovic. Make a difference: Between ISSLPs and the Kellogg Institute, there are endl~ss ways for all you idealists to experience a different culture and do some thoroughly engaging and profound volunteer work. It will make you feel warm and fuzzy, and you will appreciate the running 
water in your dorm more than ever. 
6 ISCHOLASTIC In NovEMBER 2010 



SBforME.com: 
Providing Students Discounts at Local Businesses 
Catie Mohamed 
In an effort to strengthen the relationship between South Bend and universities in the area, the Web site SBforMe.com offers students a centralized database of popular restaurants, car dealerships, shopping centers, hairstylists and other businesses. It was created not only to help students find trusted local establishments easily but also to give local businesses a modern form of advertising and a new source of clientele. 
Created this past_summer, with the motto "Saving you time and money," the Web site labels each business under its appropriate category (Services, Food/Dining, Shopping, Entertainment/Nightlife, Health/Beauty, Automotive and Dorm/Home Furnishings) to make it easier for users to find what service they are searching for. Junior English and economics major Sarah Profumo says, "It's nice to have all of the information._in one place. This is an easy way to become more familiar with South Bend." 
Freshman history major Kim Dumais says she thinks the creation of the Web site was a g~eat way for students to contribute to the South Bend community. "I thinkit's good that it helps support local businesses. It helps me get to know South Bend better," she says. 
The Web site provides each business with its own page that includes the most important information about it. By clicking the "More Info" tab for a selected business, users access a page with the business' hours of operation, address, phone number, Web site link, discounts and photos. The site also includes reviews from other customers and a map showing the location nearest to Notre Dame. 
SBforME.com helps students save money by providing special discounts for each business listed. Offers include cheaper meals, free gifts, free t-shirts, 10 to 15 percent discount~ and other rewards that are accessible with a student ID. Freshman American Studies major Mary Kate Veselik says, "It is good that they are looking out for students who don't have a lot of spare cash, especially in this tough economic time." 
Sophomore anthropology and peace studies major Suzanna Pratt, who had not heard about the site, says, "I think it's a really good idea. It could turn into something like ndtoday.com, a site that most students know about and use." 
"It's really well made and very organized. If word is spread about the Web site it would be very useful to students on campus," sophomore science preprofessional Brynne Miller says. 0 
7tR\[CT) r~ n\\nrE 
u Oust Wu Vl ~ 

Things to Do When You Leave the Football Game at Halftime 
1J 
Watch a winning team on TY. 

Marshmallow fight on God quad. 

Sneak a keg into your dorm while the RAs are gone. 

Finish your Four Lokos before they get banned. 

Sit. 
11 NOVEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 7 


NEWS 

New Senegal Program Anticipates Future Additions 
Laura Kraegel
S
are all sorts of classes on the slave trade, tudents wondering where to study literature, arts and culture, French, and the 
abroad had one more option to consider local language, Wolof." 
when the Office of International "It sounds like a really great opportunity," Studies (OIS) announced a new program sophomore Program ofLiberal Studies major in Senegal for the spring of 2012. And with Katie Bond, who plans to study French in the ideas that OIS has for future programs, Angers, says. "I've always had it in my head students can look forward to more abroad that I would go to France, but I think it's opportunities down the line. great to be able to go somewhere other than 
"There are a lot of exciting things going Europe. Europe is a culture shock, but going on, but it's all potential at the moment," OIS to Senegal could be even more of a different Director Kathleen Opel says. "Senegal is a cultural experience." great, exciting program for next year, and I Despite the cultural offerings, Opel is think there will be more in the future." not sure whether the Senegal program, 
For 11 years, Opel has worked for OIS, a partnership with Suffolk University at which employs 19 people at Notre Dame and Dakar, will catch student attention. 130 all over the world. "It's almost like a pilot program," she 
"In the time I've been here, we've really says. "We're putting the program out there added a lot of programs," she says. "We and we'll see if there is student interest. I started as a relatively small office, with just think we have about eight students who have two employees and a few programs. And over begun applications online, but we'll see if time, we've really been adding." they actually submit them. On Nov. 16, we'll 
The program in Senegal's capital city, know a lot more about how this program will Dakar, is the latest addition to the expanding play out." study abroad program. Opel says that the program does not 
"It started as a proposition from the necessarily need to be popular for it to survive. French department, which was looking for "We don't need a lot of students, but we a francophone country in Africa. There need the right students," she says. "We are already French programs in Paris and need students who have an interest in being Angers in France, but they were looking in a unique, diverse and developing country for a way to expand the breadth of their like Senegal." 
offerings," Opel says. That sentiment holds true for most study 
_. ___The SenegaLprogramaims to_offerFrench __ abroad programs, Opel says.. . . ...· students an immersion option outside of the . -''Popularity--usually ·rsn't . -the --most typical European choices. Students in Dakar important issue," she says. "It's more about will take courses with North American and meeting a niche interest." African students and live with Senegalese Planning each program is a lot of work, host families. These students, Opel says, will however, and OIS makes sure that the benefits study French while experiencing the rich for students justify the expense and labor. local language, culture and history of the "There's a lot to figure out ­West African nation. transportation, housing, food, how a "It's not exclusive[ly] for students in French program fits in with our school calendar," or Africana Studies," Opel says. "You do need Opel says. "Sometimes it goes quickly. For at least two semesters ofcollege-level French, the Hong Kong program, we took one trip but it is open to students with an interest and it was clear that it would work. But not in Africa and that part of the world, like all of them go so smoothly." students in peace studies or art history. There Senegal was·one of the quicker programs. 
8 IScttOLASTIC In NovEMBER 2010 
Still, a lot of research went into creating it, 
Opel says. 
"We started in the spring. We talked to 
three possible programs in Senegal and did 
research about them online," she says. "After 
we visited Senegal in June and picked a 
program, we presented it to the French and 
Africana Studies departments to see if they 
supported it. They did, and in the fall, we put 
the Senegal program up on the roster. It took 
less than a year." 
Even though OIS has expanded, it has 
dropped programs, too. The Innsbruck, 
Austria program was canceled last year and 
the Monterrey, Mexico program has· been 
suspended temporarily since last Decembl'!r. 
Unlike the options that Opel says "do not 
need a lot of students," Austria was a program 
independently run by Notre Dame tl1at 
depended on student interest. 
"It was a stand-alone program and 
Notre Dame had to provide the whole 
infrastructure. We had to hire the faculty 
and find housing and classrooms," Opel says. 
"We had maybe three year-long applicants 
last year. With that minimal interest, we 
couldn't support a whole staff of people." 
Although it was Notre Dame's longest­
running study abroad opportunity, OIS had 
seen diminished enthusiasm for the Austria 
program since its creation in the 1960s. 
"We had seen a steady drop in participation 
_ and_interest over .. 10 years," Opel says. "In 
the end, we just didn't have enough students. 
It couldn't last." · 
]'he Berlin program will compensate 
for Austria's cancellation and be open for 
German students interested . in studying 
abroad. That makes London the only "stand­
alone" study abroad-·opportunityJeft, Opel 
says, which will help prevent programs from 
closing in the future. · 
"We haven't had to close many programs, 
~llt there are always some that-fluctuate in 
interest," Opel says. "But the difference is ­
with affiliation programs -we. can adapt to 
the flow of students without needing to shut down the program." "It's daunting and ever changing," she opportumt1es for student groups that 



Monterrey, however, is one affiliate program says. "Since Sept. 11, 2001, there have been haven't been as well represented, like those that has been suspended because of violence in almost yearly changes related to visas and in medieval studies and classics," she says. the area around the University of Monterrey. legal provisions. We're constantly assessing "But we're trying to do all of this while 
"In November [2009], it was reported that how good the programs are and looking to maintaining high-quality programs." there had been violence near the university fine-tune them." The medieval studies major has already and even gunshots on the campus," Opel says. And beyond fine-tuning, Opel says OIS seen a new study abroad option in the St. ''And when we called the university to check in, is looking to expand existing programs and Andrews program in Scotland. The first they gave us ambiguous answers. Immediately, create new ones that cater to more areas of Notre Dame students studied abroad at St. we started planning other options in case we study, more locations and more students. Andrews last spring. had to shut the program down." "Since I've been here, we've dramatically "The Medieval Studies department came 
"In December [2009], we did decide to increased our presence in Asia," Opel says. to us last year, saying it was a great university suspend the program and in March, the "We went frpin one program in Japan to two for medieval studies and that they would love State Department issued a warning about in Japan, three in China and the summer to send students there. Someone from their the area," she says. "For students who were program in Taiwan. Now we're looking into department went to Scotland to do research, planning on going to Monterrey, we made it developing something in Korea." then OIS sent someone as well, and now we possible for them to have a program," Opel says. go to Puebla, Mexico I.I · "It's a brand new program, and I'm really 
instead." •1!11.ven if you can't study abroad for a excited," sophomore medieval studies major Butforstudentswho 7J lJf Hillary Ott says. "It really caters to my hoped the program . year or a semester, do something that major and it's at one of the most prestigious would return, the takes you out of what is corn_fortable universities in Scotland. When I came to 
continued suspension Notre Dame, I had my sights set on Rome, was a disappointment. and take _a_dvantage of one of thesYl_o:·." but now I have another great option to "Iwasslightlyupset opportunities. consider."
u,1
when I found out it I J Opel also predicts the St. Andrews 
had been suspended ,. -KATHLEEN OPEL, OIS DIRECTOR program could expand to departments because I had been beyond medieval studies in the future. looking forward to maybe studying there," "We've added new opportunities in Africa "It has a wonderful reputation for 
sophomore business major Jenni San~hez with Dakar and Cairo and we've expanded computer science and other areas," she says. "I understand that it was canceled for into South America, especially with Santiago," says. "I will need to discuss whether the important safety reasons. But after they she says. "We're looking to make it open for university would be amenable to accepting suspended Monterrey -which had both my more students, too -students in the graduate our students from other disciplines. But that business and Spanish courses -there really school, the law school and engineering may be is the sort of opportunity we're looking to wasn't another program that interested me in able to study in Santiago in the future." give to our students." the same way." Opel says OIS recognizes that students With the opportunities that OIS provides, 
---Sall, ~-~-~onterrey program w1H remain -.1~ .$ese departments have not7.?een as ,vell-Opel says sPe: ·~ncourages Nofre7J-am_e___., suspended undl the violence stops and .OIS · represented as others in terms of study abroad students to explore some type ofstudy abroad can reaffirm the safety and integrity of th.e opportunities. · option ..,.... including summer programs, university, Opel says. · ·. . . "I didn't. get too far into the study abroad internsµips and research abroad .. _"When a. few months go by without these process before I recognized that there are only "Of course I'm passionate about study probleiris;··we'l(che~ in on 'the program.. , two or three placest could go·asan engineer," . abroad, but lre~lly care aboµt international . :nid reassess/'J;he says; "We'll probably have ·.. · sopll.omore · computer engineering and .• experience in general," she says. "Even ifyou 
. someort~ visit the 'university and see if the ' Greek and Roman civilizations niajor Caitlin can't study abroad for a year or a semester, . 
•program cari be reopened. But we'll have to ·Cunningham says. "It doesn't seem like study do something that takes you out of whai: is . ensure th!lt the university arid institutions .•. abroad is easily set up for engineers or double comfortable and take advantage of one of ·.. are stillas<strong as they were;" . . . .. majors. It's a difficult thing to pull off." these opportunities;" . 8 . 
Opel says these concerns are always a part But Opel expects it to become easier in ofman_agirig the.study.abroad programs, even the future. when they are running smoothly. "More and. more, we're looking to expand 
u NovE~BER 2010 I ScHoLASTic I 9 


"lk,-.-~11,.,_',t;<l!''lrt~_,,. 
"'\""-""'(('°)~ 
"1l.-h:.•~~~ .......... wu...i11o ... .,, 
¦ -~.,_-,~----t•lll..d 
;., -~~kl.,it,.r.k~lreri...,'!"l 
•.-~-~"'•?fl!'~--1.-.1-..., 
~•-· 
,~~'1 
····~-,t,.~,A.ft
,:~.,._-... 
• ~~~&~~­
10 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 NOVEMBER 2010 




the things we do 
11 NOVEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 
~-;·. ~.--' ,~i:_ ' .----------­
. ---­
CULTURE 

NOVEMBER 
Need something to do this month? Check out a few of these events! 
(-' ~ .--. ' ·,. ; . j 
{11/-----2:'\ 
18
, . ; . ... l_............................. I
~\' ·,/' ·... ./ : :······················. . ·················· 
'-S.wi.rruneet against Utah : : 
Come to the Rolf's Aquatic Center! l at 5 pm to see the men's and Comedy: Addicted... A women's team take on Utah Comedy of Substance 
7 pm to 8:30 pm in the Chorale Concert-"God, Debartolo Performing Arts Center

Country, Notre Dame" 
The Notre Dame Chorale 
performs at 8 pm at DPAC 
Fostering Global Citizenship ! Learning Community Session ! and Lunch = 
Come to Geddes Hall coffee house! from 12-1: 15 pm to hear Beatrice ! Dupuy, a professor of French and ! Foreign Language Education at the ! 
University of Arizona, speak ! 
,,;.·········································· 

~ll~ 
· Football Game vs. Utah, 
2:30 pm. Come see the 

.,• 1 concert at
Irish play their last home 
~ Legends at IO pm
!.game of the season.

@ ..
!.~,..:\::
. '41-ti~fi-< . , 
! Study_.:i~road , ' : 
·. ri-:::1 applicat.;oiis·aroij,.. "· .
Lt!J due, sophomores! 
: (And seniors, enjoy ·-.... DARTing for the last time.) 


@ : ®········.·············:·· 
The Don Pasquale Opera comes to DPAC at I pm. Come see a
17··········································· 
Science majors, need some advice sophisticated comedy that the New on landing an internship? Come to York Times has called "brilliant" and 126 Debartolo from 4:30 to 5:30 to 
"wonderful." Tickets are available learn some strategies. on DPAC's website. 
12 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 NOVEMBER 2010· 



From 12:30 to 2 pm, in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, Monika Nalepa 
Assistant Professor ofPolitical . 
. I 
Science, will give a lecture / 
cal/ed"Skeletons in the. Closet:/ Transitional Justice in Post-/ Communist Europe." ! 


• ~<)wl 
ii•r[g':fu;:;@ [(j,~'I©~. 

rr-:f~;-/('..:.S.;·· . :(!\(, 1.~ { /, '(t 

Managing TechnOIOgy 
in the·_Classr:oom 
. ' . ; ,--:·::...:, ~~~~-~-{ . Caitlin Wilson··/) // I, /"• 
,-.-..-,·.-_-~_--·--•---•::~~. ':~• ~ ···------.-~--·.!.. _. ! i 
.A··•.··ssist~h~:Pr~fessbr of Managem~ht-Gorey'Angst's . school: ·a-·desigff.~lass, a research-based class and a First 
. •.. • Proje[f'.i.NiiiiH·gement class was ~21'.li'ttll!c:different Year of St't'ii:li~s'class involving journalin'tahd sketching . 
.· . this semester than it has been in the past. Notre As a result of these pilot classes, Angst hopes to discover 
Dame lent each student in the predominately senior class how e-publishing and new technologies can work at Notre 
an iPad, piloting a university-wide study on e-publishing Dame. Already, he believes that the university will have to 
and technolog},Jse~iri;_,the classroom. . .. -. .. .. . support e-textbooks. Manager of A.~ademic Technologies 
The E-Puhli:liini'-Working Group, a committee in the Office of Information Technqlogies Paul Turner 
created this spring to discover "what sort of e-publishing agrees. "The real question becomes,· does Notre Dame 
ecosystem inakes...the most sense here aY Notr~ Dame," ever envision,.like some universities have_ done, saying 
• Angst says,· initiat.~d. the pilot. The committ;.ee,i;_c_omposed every stude11t:gets an iPad, a piece of,w:l}l19lqgy," he says. of diverse university departments, is not studying the iPad The iPad classes are just one aspect of Notre Dame's itself, but the digital content that the iPad delivers. commitment to making the university technology friendly. 
For the pilot to remain neutral, students were not told In fact, the Academic Technologies Team in the Office of about the technology until three days b~(ore class began. Information Technologies works exclusively on this goal. Additionall~r,~eitl3er,~ngst nor the st~.~pt's.were given Although Notre Dame's standard classrooms are formal trairi1rig on· how to operate thd'iPad in order to often equipped with projectors and DVD. players, most 
r,,;.. _.· ·.....·,;i1 l>..<::.:_:\, . 
avoid biasing·their:tlse; <·· ,:-, ) classrooms lack the outlets, physical structure and strength 
In exchang1:.[~p];ie unlimited ll;S~, ,of}~1r.,P?,~~J9r ))_qth of wireless internet which would allow every student to use 
personal and ~;cademic purposes, sttidents-pa~dcipated technology such as a laptop or iPad. 
in surveys and focus groups and gave direct feedback to Turner says that the team researches emerging 
Angst. Based on the survey results, Angst says that the technologies and ways to accommodate these technologies 
students were very receptive to the new technology. on campus. 
Although students had strong opinion.:39th'"'f~r-.ana· :,---,,Qne~-~-sliJ.!1gs, "~e~feeL.~!I-9:Bgh:.~~u~Iii( 
against the iPad, .£~~)11ajqrityoft_heycla·ssfound it• to. b~.. ·. classroo111s are.' an. jmp9-rtarit)earni11g spac(!,· l;>~.t;tl1~y ···-~-usefurto()[ftfad~111ically,· stlldents_used their .. iPads.· to'·.··.· -.are : not· :the learning ••.spac~;<Hall\Vays,,dorm(·rq9~s/ ' accessthefr digital.textpook .. and to ta~~. 1191:~_s_:iri:P.:qnline .·· apartments, o~tside campus' ' . ,'everythJng••.. everywhere •. quiz2:e~.• -.. P~rs01rnlly,··\ stude1.1ts•.·· ;Yatch~'d~;;~;·edG;:Xbough1:., .is a'learnirig.. space: So w,e:trffo ;find t:echn§logies}tliat_ applications for enteri:ainm~1it and\i~t~slf~i:i''th'i!liitfii{Jr:' facilitate .that.movementiri llndm1(9fcl~~s;'.and th~i?a!f 
The benefits of this technology are not limited· to was a nice addition to that," Instructional Technologist or1. 
students. Professors can increase their efficiency and the Academic Technologies Team Jon Crutchfield says .•.... ·•. 
communicate more quickly. When students have, this The Academic Technologies Team has been involved 
technology, professors can send out media the morning of in several projects promoting technology on campus. In . 
dass and expecttheir students to have received and viewed one project, it helped coordinate a semester-long c:ourse 
it by the time class starts. Angst grades essays on _his in which students designed a technology~friendly arid 
c.~mputer and scores present~tionson his .iPad in real tim~'. .·. ped:igogically.·. flexible dassroo111.. The .·• technol9gical. 
· Thisso-called '.'iPad. dass'' is only th~ first of several •··,. fapabilities ofStinson-RemickHan; the new engi11e~ring . 
•·· c:l~sses•• w·.piC>neer.,this.. !e.fh119lCJgyi11 .. the .,dass_roo111. A.fter' ••.•..• b11ilqi11g, are.the dir.ect.resultqf this cqtuse_....'fhe bt1il~ing/





'!~tli~!tif!1i11!1fillf~fi~tiltJl!,;i~illiil!i~ilit~t¥;
In order tof explore th~ u'se··of.techno16gy in a variety·:of ·: ,have' s~ilarly flexib,le' disigns_:_: ·.. r , l-'.," , academic disciplines these·da~ses--ar·e· Aot in the b~si'n'.ess,_:_:...::.:.:,,u , ... L......:-·:..:...L-~(}j L< '.\3:C.t;,;!ij\ 
-';'i~.--~·~v-., • , ! ======= ~.-. ~---· 
. x\l{~ 
Maria Fahs 
Every few years there is hype over a new book, television show or film series. In the 1960s and 1970s, it was "Star Trek" and "Star Wars." In the 1980s, the "Indiana Jones" movies were popular and in the mid­2000s, "Twilight" set off a vampire craze. Similarly, "Harry Potter" cannot be considered a phase or mere hype. The series has come to define a generation and for many, reading "Harry Potter" defined a decade of their lives. After the bittersweet pang of finishing the last page of the seventh book, waiting for the movie releases has become a way to hold onto that anticipation and excitement for a little longer. Perhaps that is why on a Saturday night, three Breen-Phillips residents sit perched on a futon and the floor, one holding the fifth "Harry Potter" book and reading off chapter titles. "It·was [freshman] Molly [Toner's] idea during one of our hall sits," freshman Allison Bries says. The women decided that it would be fun to count down the last 50 days leading up to the release of the first part of the seventh movie, "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows." 
Every day, they list several of the chapters' titles, with a one-sentence summary and pictures. Witty remarks have included "The Mirror of Erised: So tell me what you want, what you really, really want," "Halloween: T-T-T-Troll in the dungeon!!!! Thought you ought to know!" and "The Potions .Master: Snape, Snape, Severus Snape ... " 
They are not the only "Harry Potter" lovers on campus, but they have taken care to show their love for the The Boy Who Lived. "It's completely OK to love 'Harry Potter' here, because everyone's obsessed with it at Notre Dame. How many schools can you have someone dress up as Professor Quirrell and have everyone get it?" freshman Nicole Vasquez says. 
How many times have you heard a Notre Dame student brag that the Great Hall was modeled after South Dining Hall? It's a much-beloved misconception, but students would like to think that they helped shape the "Harry Potter" movies. 
Bries, Vasquez and Toner will also be dressing up for the midnight movie. "Dressing up as a character helps you get ready for it," Toner says. "The four hours building up to it is just as much fun as watching the movie." They have each major female character covered and even some of the males. Many students like Bries are eagerly awaiting their "Harry Potter" care packages. "My 1110111 is sending me stuff for 
Luna. I can't wait!" Bries says. After so much anticipation for the book 
· releases, movie premieres, theme park opening, Harry Potter: The Exhibition, and the deluxe editions of the books and movies, it is not surprising that the women are waiting once again. 
But as Toner says, "This is the beginning of the end." After the release of part one of "Deathly Hallows," there will only be one movie release remaining. This is one of the last opportunities for Bries, Vasquez and Toner to dress up and proclaim their love for everyone's favorite boy-wizard. So it is with much excitement and a bit of sadness that they will dress up and wait for the premiere of the movie at midnight on Nov. 19. 
The love of "Harry Potter" extends beyond the halls of BP and crosses the globe. It is a phenomenon that caused children everywhere to await Hogwarts letters on their 11th birthdays, stand around for hours at the book releases, dress up as their favorite characters and read into the early hours of the morning with a flashlight in hand to see what would happen to Harry on his quest to defeat Lord Voldemort. 
After nearly a decade of waiting for the seventh book, it is fitting that "Harry Potter" fans everywhere will gather again to show their love and dedication, waiting eagerly for the clock to strike midnight. This time it is to hear Hedwig's theme once again heralding the continuation of the magic that is "Harry Potter." 
11 NOVEMBER 2010 ISCHOLASTIC I15 
' -.,, !'I • • -­
. -------------------------~---~--------~~-------~-~...::..~~---"'--·~----------~---~---------­
CULTURE 

Campus Chai:i:er 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
Lately, things at Our Lady's University have been weird for me. I feel as if I've been transported to another time, in which college tuition is still affordable and students stayed for the entirety of football games. Obviously, this feeling is misplaced, and I'm sure I'm just dreaming, but I feel as ifthe shadows offour legendary characters are looming as I walk through the expansive quads and in front of the many academic buildings. To be honest, the feeling I have is of biblical proportions. 
To paraphrase Grantland Rice of the New York Hemld Tribune, "Outlined against a blue-gray October sky, the Four Horsemen rode again. In dramatic lore their names are Death, Destruction, Pestilence and Famine. But those are aliases. Their real names are bicyclist, scooter-er, skateboarder and golf cart driver." 
I think we've all noticed the signs ofthe transportation apocalypse. The menacing click of scooter or skateboard wheels as they speed over the sidewalk. The grim realization that the bike in front ofyou is not moving and you only have seconds to dodge it. And, of course, the knowledge that that the golf cart on the "pedestrian sidewalk," despite its title, will run you over without missing an electric­powered beat. 
As a pedestrian, this renaissance ofthe vehicle keeps me up at night. I toss and turn in my bed, awaiting my dangerous trek to my 8:30 
a.m. class. I shiver during my walk to DeBartolo Hall, not because of the cold, but because ofmy fear ofthe new Four Horsemen. I suppose there's nothing I or any other students can do, but I think there are a few rules we could all follow for safer travel around campus .. 
Bicyclists, this isn't the Tour de France. No one's offering you a yellow jersey when you ride from South Dining Hall to DeBartolo in two minutes flat. There's no need for you to try to swerve in and out of swarms of innocent students. Like biking the Tour, if you do that, then everyone falls on each other (I think Lance Armstrong would agree). 
Skateboarders, chill out, bros. I know you like to pretend that you're tearing up the skatepark in California, but wiping out in front of your friends isn't as cool as it was in elementary school. Besides, taking a skateboard to the ankle hurts. A lot. On a related note, scooters were only acceptable in elementary school, scooter-ers. (Do you get around any faster with those flimsy pieces ofmetal, anyway?) 
Finally; golf cart drivers, try to remember you're neither on the open road nor on the golf course -try to drive in straight lines. There is no need to run pedestrians off the sidewalks because the alumni attending the football game in the backseat are anxious to arrive at their private brunch. (vVhy they think they can be impatient is beyond me. They sit silently at the games like petulant children who don't enjoy watching a losing team. Neither do we, but we still cheer. I await your Viewpoints, dissatisfied alumni.) 
Maybe these suggestions will end the transportation apocalypse, but I realize that it's unlikely. So while bicyclists and skateboarders take aim at their next target, I keep a watchful eye on my horizon, 
and I hope you do too.  0  
-Chris lVIilazzo  
The views of this author l\1agazine.  are  not iiecessarily the views of Scholastic  



Winding Road Merge Lane Reduction (Bikers on cellphones) (300+ going to the 
Ahead 
nearest DH, too) 
(Major traffic to DeBartolo) 

Road Signs 
Department of Transportation 

Scooters No Parking Any Time (I'm on "Rabbit" (Your bike? On the tree) speed) 

Yield Ahead  Road Close  Sharp Turn Ahead  
(Awkward moment:  (Pedestrian +  (If you see someone who  
Same-Stepping)  Skateboard + Bike  really, really, can't drive a  
accident. Ouch)  golf cart)  

16 I SCHOLASTIC I n NovEMBER 2010 




CULTURE 

. .
. . 
In Celebrati.on ofNational Book Month, Scholastic brings you past winners and nomineesfrom the National Book Awards. 
\
Maria Sellers 
~ \ 
A Review of Colum McCann) Let The G1;eat World Spin 
aw, poignant and impactful. Colum McCann's "L~the Great World Spin" draws upon the universality of the human heart. It transcends bounchlries of gendpr, belief and class to deliver the stories of everyday people. Separate lives are connected by 
"beauty ... something beyond equilibrium." 1.·. /., • 1 I 
The story begins circ~ 1974, with Philippe Petit's 'Fwin'.fowers iightrope walk. IF focuses on the standstill moment of the act, which mome~tarily·unite{ acity that bus~les with questions of war, faith; technology and art. In marl ways, it par~llels tht;1post-September 11 New York City, in which similar questions abouhd. The noveU connects corners of lives touched by the act, from an Irish priest to a 30-,ye,ir-old prostitu~e, a struggling ahist and a grieving mother, ~mong oth~rs. . 1 I '\ \ 
McCann lends different v01ces and different fones to the story of,each character,-He. 
R
"An cmc:IO<Ul tour c:o Ion:• .. , or.e ol the men eJe,c:tne. cirolound 
captures the reality ofboth life on the street n&among the uppJr echblons. He cdvers the 
nO'Jcll I h8v11rud ln:,e.:u-s.· 
young, the old, the tired and the troubled. B t Je showcases the hnity bf the humdn spirit, courageously begetting strength and attem, tin~,~ find comfort\in on~'s surroundings. 
COLUM 
With its lyrical diversity, "Let the Gr :t World"Spin" is a worth+hile, qui6k read. It 
McCAN N
paints an unapologetic portrait of 1970s ew York thit~s~ate~ today. It tilnsports the . reader into the city, its people and its com lexities. "Let ~!:teat\vo;ld S fn» lets readers 
.. ,· ..-~.-•··.-­
Meghan Thomassen 
~,~;..,;..;~i...:..,;;,..,·;;;.;,:/.:'-':'·.'-:ic;;;<,·.c.:;"-',;·:'-''',;'.;c;";;t""':•:·;:_;.c:.:..;;.:c.;c.;c.c..c.-'-'C=~-'-'"'--'-"-""--'--'--""'--'-"-~--=""-----~---'---------­
AR~ii?JSihi;al MitJ1JiJcfdi:,: 
.In Other Rooms, Other Wonders 
Daniyal Mueenuddin's "In Other Rooms, Other Wonders" begins with the quote, "Three things for which we kill -Land, women and gold" -an ominous ·opening for a collection of short stories. From the slums of Lahore, Pakistan to the wealthy vacation escapes of Paris, Mueeni1ddin weaves_ a messy tapestry of men's dreams, their struggle, their simplicity and, most of all, their failure. Whether it be through adultery, greed,· age or drugs, their disillusionments are abrupt and unceremonious. Mueenuddin switches from third-to first-person perspectives, but threads all of the tales together with one character, th_e evasive and wealthy K.K. Harounis. The individual stories are elaborately detailed and filled with textured imagery, and,as a collection, give insight into . MiddleEastem culture and its many complexities, Each protagonist has someconnection.to •K.K Harounis, which maintains the book's cohesive and mysterious nature. "In Other Rooms, Other Wonders" is a book for those who desire a literary perspective .on contemporaryMiddleEastern culture removed from the political lens that often colors it. The characters are modern, conflicted and broken, and inhabit an unfamilia~ and somewhat wild world defined by poverty and luxury, which leave.s one wondering: For what shaHwe kill? For what shall we die? . 0 
·11 NOVEMBER 2010 ISCHOLASTIC j 17 




COVER 
AN IMPOSTOR CULTURE 
Ranked No. 19 in U.S. News and Woi-ld Report's list of top national universities, Notre Dame attracts intelligent, high­achieving students that were at the top of their high school classes. Through athletics, extracurricular activities and, of course, academics, many students established their self-worth and felt comfortable with their lives both inside and outside the classroom. According to the Gender Relations Center's (GRC) director and former rector of Pangborn Hall Heather Rakoczy Russell, many students lose this feeling when they arrive at Notre Dame. 
"[Students are] expecting to indefinitely be able to set a goal and achieve it. When they get to a place where everyone's on an equal playing field, it really starts to call [that ability] into question," she says. 
Russell says that moving from a high school environment in which they were the exceptional members of their classes to a university environment composed of exceptional students creates a sense ofloss for many students and fosters insecurity. 
"It's called impostor syndrome. The idea is you [the student] get here and you think to yourself, 'I'm not ... good enough, smart enough, tan enough, tall enough, good looking enough, beefy enough ... and everybody else is and somehow I'm the person that admissions didn't catch ... but I'm the only one who feels this way,'" she says. 
It is impostor syndrome that can create body image issues. "There's this drive to be the best in all things you do. Work hard, play hard. The body issues and the eating disorders end up being a product of that culture," she says. 
"Students end up making themselves crazy because they feel they're never good enough," Russell says. She says that much of this insecurity stems from students' tendency towards perfectionism: They hope to achieve both academically and physically. 
Pressure to achieve the ideal body is not only caused by Notre Dame's high­achieving, athletic culture, but also by external influences such as pop culture and media. Sophomore Program ofLiberal Studies and mathematics major Elliott Pearce, who works as a FIRE Starter at the GRC, says that these influences place the ideal body on a pedestal that students try to reach. 
"I think that the media does have a 
strong effect on how we view our bodies. 
Notice that the only time ... leading roles 
are not played by actors and actresses in 
tip-top shape is when the directors are 
intentionally ... trying to make a point 
about body image." Usually, he says, only 
those who have the ideal body are idolized. 
"The ideal body for a Notre Dame student, 
to quote Snoop Dogg, is 'toned, tan, fit 
and ready,"' he says. 
According to staff clinican Valarie 
Staples of the University Counseling 
Center, this insecurity is also the result 
of influences unique to every student. 
"There's certainly some individual 
characteristics that we don't always know 
about. [How students feel about body 
image] is related to their emotions ... 
and, certainly, people have very different 
~!,~'. The ideal body for a 
Notre Dame student, to quote Snoop Dogg, is 'toned, tan, fit and ready.' 
-ELLIOTT PEARCE, SOPHOMORE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES AND MATHEMATICS MAJOR, AND FIRE STARTER 
experiences growing up -whether 
they've been teased about their body, if 
they've struggled with weight. They're 
carrying around ... those experiences that 
contribute to how they see themselves," 
Staples says. 
Russell says the irony of students' body . 
image insecurity is that if they talked i:o 
each other, they would realize that they 
have the same insecurities. "The reality 
is that as soon as you tell your roommate 
you feel [insecure], and as soon as your 
roommate says, 'Hey, I feel that way, too' 
... the myth is busted. The reason it works 
is that no one wants to tell anybody else 
that they have those fears because it's part 
of the shame of the fear. The myth keeps 
working because people keep it secret," 
she says. 
MORE THAN A GAME 
Many students who have body image issues are former athletes. When they reach the university level and are unable to play their sports, many of them feel a sense of loss because they no longer have the structure that playing team sports provided. 
"I miss having people: to push me when I'm working out, making me work harder than I ever do when I'm by myself, and I miss working together to achieve a goal, like winning a tournament," Maggart says. 
Russell says that because they lose the team structure and a coach's instruction, former student athletes often struggle to healthily maintain the physique they had in high school. During her time as rector, she says the majority of reported cases of body image issues and eating disorders she saw were former and current student athletes. 
"About 85 percent of the student body lettered in ... [a] sport. Then they come here and they're not the athletes they were in high school. They're calling into question how they spend their time and things that would've been life giving to them have disappeared, namely ... being fit," she says. 
Although current athletes might appear to be immune to -this type of insecurity, Russell says they are doubly susceptible to those feel~ngs. "The general population would think that they have it all figured out. Many [students] would say that [student athletes] have what they consider an ideal body type ... but they live in rarified air. They are in a community of fit people. They [think] they have to be more fit then everybody else. They're on this pedestal as really exceptional, and the way they're evaluated is by their body." 
A GENDER DYNAMIC 
No matter their athletic background, students of both sexes face pressure to achieve a certain body type. "In general, for guys it's bulk up, be bigger, be buffer. Take up mor<;: space. Whether that leads to guys using creatine or other supplements or being in the gym, it's about those six­pack abs and how ripped you are. For a woman ... take up less space; make sure your jeans don't-change from the size you were in high school. The smaller your size, the better you are," Russell says. 
Although both men and women face similar pressures, Pearce -says they react to them in different ways. "I think women here are more like!y to be dissatisfied with their own bodies than men. Many men 
20 I SCHOLASTIC I 11 NOVEMBER 2010 

COVER 
have their own body image issues as well, though." 
Pearce says that men will often deflect their own body image insecurities by placing pressure on women to conform to a certain body type. "Men often casually 
objectify the women in their social circle and 'rate' them based on their physical appearance," he says. Because of this pressure, women also deflect their insecurities by antagonizing other women and men about their appearances. 
"VVomen ... [sometimes] maliciously insult other women to compensate for their own body image insecurities. Women objectify men, too. I know a few girls who won't give you the time of day unless you're a football player or you look like one," he says. 
A DANGEROUS QUEST 
While proper diet and exercise have great health benefits, many students abandon health in their pursuit of the ideal body, which can have dangerous consequences. Phillips says that RecSports' staffis always on the look out for students who might be over-exercising. 
"IfI notice someone who's in here a lot -a lot being a few hours a day or coming back a couple times a day for a few hours ­I try to find out what they're doing. Some people are training for something, but ... over-training can be pretty devastating to a body," she says. · 
Body image issues, however, are not limited to over-exercising. Some students try to change their diets to achieve the ideal body, and many do so improperly without realizing it. Even ifthey do realize they are modifying their diet improperly, many students will rationalize their 
11 NOVEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 21 
actions. 
"Some of the signs I'll see are things like 'I'm a vegetarian.' That gives them an excuse. Another red flag is 'I don't like desserts' or 'I don't like anything status, age and ethnicity. In the past three years, we've seen many more men come to the center with an eating disorder." 
Staples says that because students are very goal-oriented, some are unwilling to 
fried.' It's these big food categories [that '//, 
students] eliminate that are red flags for me. When I get these signals and piece them together, I know what's going on," Antonelli says. 
Staples says that diet modification, if taken to an extreme, can be a sign of an eating disorder. "We see all types ofeating disorders [at Notre Dame]: anorexia, bulimia ... binge eating. We see the gambit of eating disorders on campus." 
According to the Mayo Clinic's Web site, people suffering from anorexia or bulimia are unable to maintain a healthy body weight. Anorexics might over-exercise or starve themselves, while bulimics might binge eat and then purge through forced vomiting. Both of these conditions and other eating disorders like them can have dangerous health effects. 
Although they are often associated with women, Staples says eating disorders can affect men as well. "It's certainly a misconception that [they are] just a female disorder. We're finding that this is an issue that cuts across gender, socio-economic 
22 I SCHOLASTIC In NovEMBER 2010 
'(11 
J fthink the best resource any student has ... [is to] talk to other students ... because as soon as other students realize that many of you feel these same 
insecurities ... you~,~, 
help each other. 
-HEATHER RAKOCZY RussELL, 
OIRE cTo R GR C 
seek help. "Many times [students] have set a goal and figured out how to get there, and I think many times when they've tried to make changes on their own related to their eating and it hasn't worked, sometimes there's that mindset that, 'Well, I'm just not trying hard enough.' They feel like it's something they should be able to do on their own. Asking for help is something that is hard for students with eating issues. For our students, asking for help is pretty tough." 
Body image insecurity also manifests itself in less extreme ways. Antonelli says that many students simply have poor diets. "One of the biggest messages I try to give to people in order to have a healthy diet: You've got to get enough vegetables in, and that's something I see across the board that people aren't meeting the minimum servings per day." A poor diet, however, can have serious health effects. 
"If they're restricting [their eating], they're not going to get enough calories and they're not going to get enough nutrients. For women especially, if they don't have enough calcium and calories, their bone density is going to be affected, which is more dangerous for women than it is for men. Also, if [students are] not taking in enough calories, their metabolism is going to be affected in a negative way, which is the exact opposite of what they want to do. They shoot themselves in the foot by consuming too few calories," she says. 
Severely restricting one's diet can also have mental health effects. "[Students'] concentration is_ going to be poor. Also, if they get to be too restrictive, the mind takes over. So if they try to ignore the stomach by restricting and not eating enough calories, eventually the mind will take over and people get preoccupied then almost obsessed with food. It's a very closeted thing. They don't talk about. it but inside ... if they do eat something that they think is a splurge ... they'll feel extremely guilty. That's hard to do on top of all the other things your mind needs to do in college," Antonelli says. 

FINDING SECURITY FOR INSECURITY 
Antonelli says that the university attempts to help students avoid unhealthy eating habits. "We do a lot of education in the dining hall in terms of po·sters. I go around and talk to the dorms. I do healthy eating tours of the dining halls. My message is that nothing needs to be eliminated. All your favorite foods can fit. It's all about balance and moderation," she says. 
Despite the university's efforts, some students still need help with body image issues. These students, however, have an array of resources to choose from on campus. 
"If somebody comes to me that I know has an eating issue -I can tell by what they're saying -we need to get them into the Counseling Center because it's no longer just a nutritional problem; it's a psychological problem. The sooner we get somebody in· and get treatment started, the better their prognosis for a full recovery and return to a normal, healthy relationship with food will be," Antonelli says. 
The University Counseling Center offers one-on-one counseling and has a hotline to talk to a counselor in an emergency. Staples says the Center has many other resources for students with body image issues, especially those struggling with an eating disorder. 
"We have a dietician who's available to see students. We also have them meet with a physician at the health center, so we're looking at the nutritional, the medical, as well as the psychological aspect. The actual treatment depends on what their issues are. It's about trying to help them develop some stability," Staples says. 
Russell encourages students to talk to their dorm's hall staff if they are uncomfortable going to the Counseling Center. The university, however, has more than just mental assistance. Phillips says students can enlist the help of personal trainers and exercise programs through RecSports to ensure they are exercising in a healthy manner. 
"There are so many resources for students on this campus. They can come and talk with [RecSports]. One of the things I see with students because so many of them played a sport in high school is that they come here and they don't have the structure of practice and games. Now they have to figure it out for themselves. We have personal training programs ... [where they can] work one-on-one with a trainer," she says. 
Russell says, however, that the best resource for students to deal with body image issues is to talk with their peers. "I think the best resource any student has on campus is to open his or her mouth and talk to other students because as soon as other students realize that many of you feel these same insecurities ... you help each other," she says. "Find good friends. Be yourself with those people ... so that in good times and rotten times you have a support system." 0 
11 NOVEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 23 
24 I ScttoLASTIC I n NovEMBER 2010 



the games we play
. . 
11 NOVEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 

SPORTS 
Irish Eyes On: I Jfl'? 
lJJi1_~
Matt Formica 
enior defender and soccer co-captain Lauren Fowlkes has done it all
S
in her four-year career at Notre Dame. Fowlkes, a Missouri native, 
has established herself as one of the most versatile and well-rounded players on the Irish women's soccer roster by playing all three field positions -defense, midfield and offense -during her career. The science-business major also excels in the classroom, earning both All-America and Academic All-America honors last season and pursuing that feat again this year. Fowlkes, who is currently a member oftl1e U-2 3 National Team, boasts much e;,.-perience competing at tl1e international level as well. She helped lead tl1e US U-20 squad to a gold medal at tl1e 2008 "\i\Tomen's "\iVorld Cup in Chile. But right now there's no place Fowlkes would rather be tlrnn Notre Dame, as tl1e women's soccer team begins its run into tl1e NCAA Tournament in pursuit ofa national championship. 
You earned All-America and Academic All-America honors last season. \i\That do you think is the key to having that success both on the field and in the classroom? I tllink especially in tl1e classroom -and tl1en being able to fit in all of tl1e soccer and [otl1er tllings] tl1at you want to do -time management is the biggest thing. And tl1en being organized and getting stuff done early [is important]. On the field, it's obviously a lot ofyour effort, and then the team you have around you supporting you. 
You have played all over the field during your four-year career at Notre Dame, from defense to midfield to forward. "\i\Thich position is your favorite and why? Vilhen people ask me tl1at question I always tell tl1em that my favorite is tl1e position I've been playing most recently, because it's just easier to be used to that position. But having said tl1at, I don't necessarily have a favorite. There are different things about each position tlrnt I like tl1e most. 
As a freshman, you started all 26 games and led the team in minutes played wiili 2,324. Were you expecting to have such a big role in your first year on the team? I don't tllink any freshman comes in expecting tl1at. You're hoping to be able to make tl1at kind ofimpact, but you've never played at this level befo~e. So I would say, no, I definitely wasn't expecting to do that. 
\i\That has it been like to play soccer all over the world, in places like Germany and England this past summer? Is there a favorite country you've traveled to? It's been awesome. I've been able to see so many different parts of the world and experience so many different cultures, and then also being able to play for your country and represent your country is a really rewarding experience ,and I'm very fortunate to have had that. "\i\Then I did the World Cup, we were [in Chile] for a month, so we got to see so many different parts, but Chile was awesome. I just loved tl1e people and loved the culture. I would defulitely go back tl1ere and it was beautiful as well. 
\i\That was it like to win a gold medal at the 2008 FIFA U-20 Women's World Cup? It was a surreal experience. You worked so hard for a year and tl1en it boils down to one game. And for us to win it, I've never been more excited or more happy about sometlling in my life. 
26 I SCHOLASTIC I n NovEMBER 2010 "\i\Thile playing for the U-20 National Team you missed some time with your Irish teammates, including the entire NCAA Tournament. Was that hard on you? It was definitely one of the hardest things I've had to deal with, botl1 leading up to it and after. And I think, ultimately, I made the right decision for myself, but it was really hard. It took time to -not mend relationships -but maybe get back in a good way witl1 my team here. But I think tlrnt if otl1er people were faced with that same decision tl1ey probably would've done what I did. You never know tl1at for sure. 
Is there a different feel playing for your country compared to playing for .. --•"""'""'\ 
:)hi111~ 

tl1esa1 u're c . ;-t1f~~,~~A}~;Ji --~ :~~;~ ;Xci.tli-1:¢a,ms haye cidn~ really well cl": . ' 
-"{lit~a~,~~~1i$!~:r:~~0~·-· :ind the 
·: . ' ,~t~;,jlio have come'bef~r,e,us have a r ~,, 6sphere ~,w.i;ltry to cultivate and continue eve · · at of selves. ·.~\ en_1~ence 'Yffiillllg streaks Jg~··:u:ris responded? < _ < \ ·· 
ups~ttit~ause w~~3i,~1c:~111e out to plf ':·'!!~at ga~e and ell 111 tl~gam~.:. But ~after ha~~ ~og1e. t1111e to what hap2ened arichvhat we did wrong, ultimately.this might 
·•. ' 'ng for us ~nd I think that we are going to bounce ba~kfrom .. _ ei:i~d really.figure out what we need to be succ:essfµl att:he,NCAA 
d.~,. j,,,,,,.,. . -.··.. . . . .. . . ·... ;-·,,,:c->..;•;-.:-,,.,,. '· ,... • 
· · · ie. ' extieinely im t tllis point)i:tJ:lie'se'ason. 
:if .. .. . . . . 
\:Tournament? 
...,. ',. ...,.", l''·:···· •.., . ­?f1~westill h ' }N.GAA:tfournament. I clunk 
ttliafoow more ll\:J;:1{'.9t'Jf;fr~.~~-W,e just 
15il'ilf!i'ill f l . ·:..'i:h.. e_.,., ']','·,.'s..·o·.·.·.• :.i:liat_'s.·-.what 
..._,w•_.1{_,:&,r_._,;/f,f' Wiadt. g ~:t.S~ ga~:~iltU~tfilf~"~~'p{there. 
ll1~iti,~I(1\~1:oj, A;!§t?:",~;:~:: i 
~ci(hJipefilll . a:froat. One,,d?y:I'd)i~~J,q,p ·.· ... n th,e fu1t na_ti_onal team,
;~~t~~,~;~i~~~~ti'.j',Ah)tj'~m, 
W.J:i:1t's,y9tir favorite pai'~ab . g ~CJccer at NI)? . ., .· t., . 
l~i~,£~~~~~~,iff!itt1f1i,t~211~1···. 

SPORTS 
Survey Says ... 

Melissf 
HENDERSON Monster Soccer 
Andrea 
OLSEN 
Volleyball 
Time Travel 
Brian Kaneb 
Nove1nber 3, 1993 
Hyped as the "Game of the Century" by NBC and ESPN, the 1993 match-up between Notre Dame and Florida State was one. for the ages. During the Seminoles' first possession, quarterback Charlie Ward helped execute an 89-yard touchdown drive that hushed the stadium. The Irish dominated the game, however, until midway through the fourth quarter. Led by junior Lee Becton, who had 122 rushing yards, the Irish ran for three touchdowns and went into halftime with a 21-7 lead. The Irish led the Seminoles after halftime, but the momentum changed late in the fourth quarter. Revitalized, Ward brought Florida State within 7 points in the final minutes of the game. After the Irish had a mistimed three-and-out, Ward drove them to the Irish red zone but couldn't find an open receiver. The victory vaulted Notre Dame to the top ranking in all polls, but a last-second loss to Boston College later ended hopes of a national championship. Though the Seminoles eventually became national champions, it was clear that Notre Dame was the better football team on Nov. 13, 19,93. Even Florida State coach Bobby Bowden recognized it, saying, "They made us eat everything that was said." 0 Nothing. We 
Saw 3-D,
!had a game on [which was To play,jSunday, so I the] No. 1 Absolutely not! basketball. To:stayed in and most gory watch, football. 
!watched Hocus :Pocus. 
! Yes, because I'm ! about to figure:Mother Nature/: The Social : out ifl'm a cold-jSkeleton/ luge \Poison Ivy. ] Network j weather person : or not. 





s 
The pounding of red boxing gloves between opponents begins the spar. "Box!" yells the coach. Red­faced and sweaty, with eyes focused and hair protruding from every hole in their headgear, the women spar. They keep moving despite the never­ending punches they receive from their opponent. "Time!" is called and the spar is over. Exhausted, the women pound their boxing gloves against one another once again and walk off. ViThat happens in the ring stays in the ring. Notre Dame alumnae Amy Buccellato started the Notre Dame Women's Boxing Club in 1997. She is now a Notre Dame staff member and boxing coach with her husband, Kevin. By 1999, enough female students had joined the Women's Boxing Club that it was given official club status. The first Baraka Bouts boxing match occurred in four years later in 2003. This year will mark the seventh year that Baraka Bouts will be held at Notre Dame. The women participating in Baraka Bouts have received mixed reactions about their boxing hobby. Senior Co-president and four-year member of the Women's Boxing Club Anna Dwyer says that her decision to participate in boxing is often met with surprise. She has received comments such as ""'\Vhat do guys think ofyour boxing?" "You shouldn't be doing that," and "How is your dating life affected?" Others, however, have received positive reactions. Seniors Michelle Notardonato and Holly Hinz, three-time participants and reigning champions, have astonished people with their participation in boxing. "People are impressed. They think it is awesome," Notardonato says. 
Most women join the Boxing Club to stay in shape, push themselves both mentally and physically, do something different, or regain the feeling they once had from being part of a team in high school. 
For some, the vVomen's Boxing Club is the closest thing to finding a team sport with consistent practices, less commitment than a varsity sport and a more structured format than intramurals. 
For example, boxers must meet specific requirements prior to Fight Night. Most of these requirements are physical, such as attending an average of four practices per week to keep in shape and learning the skills to pass muster, which include stance, footwork, suitable defense, the jab and power punches. Women must also compete in three spars before Fight Night and raise $200 for the East African, Holy Cross Missions that build secondary schools in impoverished nations. 
As the program grows, it brings the skill level of the boxing up to a higher quality. The club aims to have a boxing tournament comparable to the men's boxing program, Bengal Bouts, which starts with four rounds instead of two. With enough women, it could happen by next year. This year, they were very close but lacked the time to organize a tournament. 
There are 126 women on the Baraka Bouts roster and about 100 ofthose are expected to compete at Fight Night this year. 
Participants range from freshmen to MBA and law school students, and the club contains both veterans and novices to the sport. Unlike the men's program, it is rare for most women to stay active within the program for several consecutive years. Many women participate once and do not return the following year. 
Although boxing is an individual sport, boxers say there is a strong team spirit within Baraka Bouts. The understanding of sportsmanship and the fact that participants train with the women who will be their opponents in the ring on Fight Night is an integral part of the bonding. 
"[This bonding is] cool because you are helping your teammates -who are also your potential opponents -get better," Dwyer says. "You work with those who have advantages over you -or you over them -in order to improve. In this way, you put yourself to the test and push yourself further." 
After putting in the hours day after day, running one to two miles, doing sit-ups and push-ups, learning from glove drills and working through boxing training, the women will show off their skills at Fight Night on Thursday, Nov. 18 at 6:00 p.m. in the Joyce Center. Students can support the Holy Cross Missions in East Africa by donating $6 to watch the women duke it out. 0 

28 ISCHOLASTIC In NOVEMBER 2010 

·' 
PARENTS: SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 

'• 
Published Since 1867 Serving the Notre Dame Community 
SCHOLASTIC
------------------I I
National Pacemaker Award Winner 
IO ISSUES 35 DOLLARS 
SEND THIS FORM AND .
First Class or Foreign Subscribers: add 15 dollars. 
$35.00 PAYMENT TO: . 
SCHOIASTIC MAGAZINE 315 LAFORTUNESTUDENTCENTER NOTRE DAME, IN 46556
PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST. 
OR NAME:----------------­ORDER ONLINE AT 
HTTPS://MARKETPLACE.ND.EDUI: STUDENTSHOPI 
ADDRESS:--------------­
,. 
•: • I ' ' ,• • f , -' • ' '"I' .; '_/ • • • , • ~ ~ 
. . . 

11 NOVEMBER 2010SCHOLASTIC31 


HUMOR 
·' 
. 1/ 
•. • I . I 
) 
·--· 
Oh, dear, my little Giplings and Giplettes. My, oh, my. Tell me, what has happened to the days of yore when you all ran around sporting modest Minnie Mouse costumes and homemade hobo getups? What has become of trick-or­treating, pumpkin picking and good old­fashioned jumpin' around in leaves?! 'Twas not so long ago, my dearest Domers, that you were fighting with your mothers over whether or not to accessorize that pretty, pretty princess dress with a warm winter parka. 
And yet here you stand, before my baffled eyes, running around in various versions of this year's "s_exy [insert trend]" costumes. Mayhaps I'm turning into a crusty old curmudgeon -after all, I was born in 1895 -out it seems to me that your princess dresses have gotten significantly shorter, and that your winter jackets have been replaced with beer coats (and goggles, for that. matter). The only doors you rascals went knocking on this year were the ones at Fever. And while they certainly tricked you into thinking their establishment is a treat, it's safe to say that Halloween has changed forever. And perhaps for the better, now that I've mulled it over ... 
Though those adorable childhood anecdotes may be treasured around your hometown kitchen table, ol' Gipp has no time for 'em! Out with the bags full of candy and in with the kegs full of questionable off-brand booze! Whether you spent this past week letting your inner Ke$ha out or running around town as a newly freed Chilean miner, the Gipper knows that you had more than a wee bit o' fun. Nothing gets past Papa Gipp, especially predicaments such as these. 
In the spirit of shaking things up and trying on new looks, let's start this story at the enq.: A boy wakes up in a Dorothy costume he had most certainly not left the house wearing, and upon reaching into his pocket for a phone, finds a pretty little pile of puke (again, not his). What's that you say? Explain it, Gipp! I have to know! 
Fret not, my faithful followers. We'll get to the heart of the matter in no time at all! Back to the beginning we go, where this gentleman found himself preparing for All Hallow's Eve in the company ofhis very best chums and a handle (or three, or four) of South Bend's finest hooch. With light saber in hand and Han Solo by his side, our leading man, henceforth known only as Skywalker, set out for an otherwise ordinary night of collegiate Halloween debauchery. 
Upon arriving at their watering hole of choice, the men surveyed the sampling of ladies. Flight Attendant Barbie or consenting-age Hannah Montana? The options were endless, but as you Iii' geniuses can probably guess, young Skywalker made a beeline for Dorothy. He complimented her sparkly feet. She made a suggestive joke about his light saber. It was drunken mistake at first sight, my glorious little Giplings! 
After the obligatory public bump­and-grind session, they decided to make it a party of two and headed for a cab. Unfortunately, the combination of bottom-shelf booze and dirty dancing got the better of poor Dorothy, and she suddenly felt the contents of her stomach creeping their way up north! Like a true lady, however, she managed to discreetly catch her cookies as they came out, and politely disposed of them in the pocket of her dress. 
Now, how exactly young Skywalker ended up in the costume ofhis companion is not entirely known to the Gipper's informants. But such is the mystery of Halloween, eh? The Gipp will allow his loyal listeners to fill in the gaps with their imaginations. Creative you must be, my Giplings. 
Our next spooky story takes place at a club not far across town from the first, where one of Notre Dame's finest fellas was also on the prowl. After several trips to the bar, it would seem to Gipp that his judgment was a wee bit wobbly. From across the room he spied a friend of his dancing the night away with a beautiful woman unlike any he had ever seen before! He knew at once that the lady must be his; and made his way through the crowd. His good pal graciously conceded, recognizing that these two were simply meant to be together. 
The delightful duo got fresh and funky all through the night and into the morn'. When last call rang out across the bar, our lovestruck lad decided that the two should head home together for a night of platonic cuddling. The lady acquiesced, and he quickly led her to his ·lair. 
Now, Halloween is a time for putting on masks and pretending to be something that you are not for the other 364 dull and dreary days of the year. According to inside sources, what this particular lady was not was, well, a lady. For you see, my giddy Giplings, when the poor, confused chap awoke in the morning, he could not see his soulmate anywhere in sight. What he did see was a deflated blow-up doll lying beside him on what his roommates will forevermore refer to as "The Futon of Shame." 
Tsk, tsk, my tiny little tyrants! You have wreaked such havoc on this little town in such a short amount of time. And I'm so proud it's breakin' my heart! So as Halloween becomes a distant memory and dreams of Thanksgiving turkey begin to tantalize all you homesick little hellions, I beg of you .. . don't forget to mess up, move on and mail in those tips! Nothing says Happy Holidays like publicly embarrassing your best friend and earning a fantastic free t-shirt in the process. 
Teach me how to Gipper, 
G. 
T;PTHeg;PP 
o ti o o at gipper@nd.edu 
11 NOVEMBER 2010 ISCHOLASTIC I33 
An Open Letter To 
me--,----/'~":"/ e-o· ' ­
, --. ·•-•-....-. -· . . .· -. 


Sarah Ceponis 
ear ND Emergency Alert System, 
D· 
Thank you for looking out for me tirelessly, day in and day out, and always being ready to respond in the event of an emergency. Thank you for letting me know when these emergencies come, and thank you for letting me know somewhere between eight and 12 . times in as many minutes. I wish my alarm clock were as persistent as you, ND Alert. I wish it had seven modes of communicating to me, circa 7:58 a.m., that I should probably wake up for my 
8:00 a.m. final. 
And that reminds me, ND Alert, of what I most appreciate about you: your ingenuity. Not many inanimate objects are savvy enough to know that Notre Dame students have learned never to trust just one source. When we write research papers, we're required to have at least five sources. When we try to ascertain with whom our ex-boyfriend or ex-girlfriend made out last night, we make sure to ask at least five people. But of course I don't need to tell-you this golden rule of multiple sources ­
34 I SCHOLASTIC I n NovEMBER 2010 

-_. : ·_. ·. :" .' ·-,-1'"'~ -·_ I.. . ·.· . --:;.:~!;,-?:.':":,-~{T-~ 
. -1/ 10 ,,1 ,. ;-,--,-·.: ',\'--·i', ·.: ,!,_· 
er 11 em""' 
~~t :--_.----_--__-
--· 
~ -­
~<'
C'/·'•··-. •--_-. . ,-_-• 

you already know. And that is why you deliver me alerts in a minimum of five forms, including telephone call, text message, email, carrier pigeon and, new this year, ESP signal. 

I wonder ifyou might consider branching into Facebook, ND Alert. In the (very plausible) event that my phone falls into a toilet at The Backer, and I forget the password for my ND Gmail account because I just had to change it for the 23rd time, and the carrier pigeon gets lost, and I mess up the whole ESP 
-~ 
-------. 
, ~~ 
thing because I am not Harry Potter, there would be no way for me to know of an ND Emergency! Ifyou try Facebook, you could branch out in so many new ways. My advice: Do not settle for the standard wall post -it is so blase. I'd be far more excited to get a message from you, because who doesn't love that element of secrecy? You could also poke me; it's irritating, but such is the nature of emergencies. Or, an even better idea, you __could get really creative and, say, tag me in a picture ofa tornado. Itwould be a visual clue 
that an emergency is imminent. 
ND Alert, take my advice as you will. -You already do such a great job, but I just want to make sure you keep pace with the changing times. You made the right call on eliminating the use ofthe telegram this year, but you can still improve. Consider Twitter, consider fireworks spelling out messages in the sky, consider yodeling from atop the Dome. Nothing is too much. No amount of persistence is too excessive when it comes to alerting ND students ofan emergency. 
Until next time, 
Sarah 
1 
·! 
I 
EXIT INTERVIEW 
PROFESSOR GAIL BJEDJERMAN 

Kelly McGauley 
U.S. History and Gender Studies Professor Gail Bederman was recently elected to the Gender Studies Steering Committee. She specializes in the histories ofgende1; sexuality and women. Bederman holds an M.A. and Ph.D. from Brown University and is currently writing a two-volume history on the earliest origins ofthe pro-choice political movement, between 1790 and 1835. 
What isyourfavorite thing about teaching at Notre Dame? 
I find itvery interesting to teach gender and sexuality in a Catholic context. It's the reason I would never leave. Today, people are pitting Catholicism and feminism against each other, but they shouldn't be. I came here knowing next to nothing about Catholicism, but I have found that if we can bring the two together, we can think about the common good. I'd love to see what Notre Dame could do to think in terms ofhybridity, to see how both traditions could be informed by each other and grow. 
Yim often deliverlectures on why the history ofsexualityshouldbe taught in Catholic univenities. Why do you think so? 
Sexuality is important to Catholics, and students often feel torn on how to feel about their sexuality. History gives people a set of tools to understand sexuality in a critical way and make their own decisions in a way that is neither theological norideological. Things haven't always been the way they are now, and it changes people's perspective to work through the history ofsexuality, so this makes some logical sense -even if they arrive at the same beliefs they originally had, they gain a better understanding ofhow they might have gotten there. 
What would be your d1·emn lecture to hear.? 
I've been so lucky as a college professor. I've gotten to look up things, to read things, to hear things. IfI really want to find something out, it's my job to go learn it, which is an amazing privilege. I would most like to hear a lecture that the people who are in my class now would give when they are my age about the things they study as historians in the future. I want to see what [would or had] become the important topics for them. Or, I'd like to hear the lecture that people will give about the American abortion problem years from now. M}" guess is that in 120 years, people will look back on the arguments ofpro-life and pro-choice like the way people now 
36 I SCHOLASTIC I n NOVEMBER 2010 look back on gold standard arguments. At the time, they were arguing about the economy, but about something they didn't really understand -and they were ready to kill for it. My sense [about the abortion debate] is that there's a glitch somewhere that makes this subject impossible to talk about because ofcertain preconceptions and I'm hoping that we can get past that without fighting the civil war. But I would love to see where it goes. 
Why do you think it's so impo11:ant to examine the way gende1· and sexuality play into history? 
When I was in graduate school, women's history was new and they wanted to say everyone should study it because women are half the world. But the world is so complicated, so everyone has to come up with a set ofquestions. We all have a little piece ofwhat's true, and we can't talk about everything at once. The more I study the history of gender and sexuality the more I want to understand it. For instance, currently I'm trying to figure out how abortion became the problem it is. 
Wilt historians ofour time continue to find studying gender and sexualityjust as inte1·esting? 
Every generation asks certain questions. When I first started teaching, the most important thing to establish was that gender was constructed, but eventually I realized that my students had grown up learning that almost everything is constructed. The questions keep changing, and there will probably be a very different set ofproblems in the future than the problems we have now. 
Ifyou could have lived in any other time period, which wouldyou choose? 
I couldn't possibly have lived in a different time period -I would have been a different person. I'm really happy as a woman and someone ofJewish descent. I have a totally different set ofoptions now than I would have as a woman living in 19th century France. 
Was it always your goal to become a professor? What would you be doing ifyou weren't teaching? 
I wanted to be an actress. I wanted to be Meryl Streep or Blythe Danner. I wanted to do alternative acting and I was working with a feminist theater in Rhode Island, but when [President Ronald] Reagan was elected, the funding for it was cut. , It became clear to me that there was no future in that. It connects, though, to what I'm doing now. I was studying texts, and I love studying texts. 
What's the most useful thingyou learned in college? 
I took an arthistory class, and at first I was so confused by all the Renaissance art I was studying. I remember finally looking at one p~inting and being able to describe it. I'll never forget the sense ofbeing able to translate what I was seeing into words, or being given those tools. 
What wouldyou do ifyou won the lottery? 
I'd take some time off and finish my book. It'd have to be a big lottery, though. 
Ifyou could have a superpower, what would it be? 
I'd make sure everybody understood what I'm talking about in class. 0 
''! .· -·.' , -' •· ',,/ . . ' . . ; . ' ' .
~ 

' . . . ' .. , . _· .-.· . , . . " . ' ' . ' '.. . '.: . ''.: ' --' .. ­
' '
. 

*****************AUTO**SCH 3-DIGIT 465 
Presorted Standard Notre Dame Archives 1 US Postage Paid 607 Hesburgh Library Notre Dame; IN Notre Dame, IN 46556-5629 Permit#2 
I, 1,,I, 11,,,I, 1,, I, l.,I I,,, I, 1,, I I,,,, I, II, 1,, II,,,I,,, I, l, 1, I 






