DISCE- QUASI: SEMPER- VICTURUS- VIVE • QUASI- GRAS- MORITVRVS
Vol. DIV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, June ii, 1921.
No. 29.
TO THE ALUMNI AND
FRIENDS OF NOTRE DAME:
COLLEGES and Universities today are thronged with students as they have never been at any other period in their history. There is hardly a school of any importance in the United States which has not found itself all too straitened in resources to render towards its rapidly increasing student body the same measure of effective service that it gave in other times.
What is true of Colleges and Universities generally is true in very special measure of Notre Dame. For several years young men have been turned away from Notre Dame by the hundreds, because of lack of adequate educational facilities such as teachers, classrooms, living quarters and equiprment. These young men came seeking the training that is given at Notre Dame. They came because in thousands of American homes the training for Christian manhood and patriotic citizenship that is characteristic of Notre Dame, is felt to be' a vital need of the time. Proportionately, the increase at Notre Dame has been as great as that of any other college in the United States. This means, first of all, that no argument is needed as to the kind of service Notre Dame has been rendering in the past. If the work done by Notre Dame along whatever lines had not been of recognized merit, we should have no problem such as the one that we now face. But there is a problem and it is one with which the University itself cannot cope unaided. The University would have been able today, as it was able in the past, to meet .all normal and ordinary need - of equipment and expansion, but the present need is unprecedented. Buildings have been erected, extensive equipment installed, new departments have been organized, professors and instructors added to the faculty, and yet the University is unable to meet the demands of its annually increasing student enrollment.' It needs to grow ten years almost over night.
The University'of Notre Dame exists for service. For upwards of eighty years it has struggled along without any financial endowment. The phenomenal progress from its humble origin in a frame building, twenty by forty feet, to its present expansion of twenty-eight buildings, has been accomplished by .means of a living endowment-, men whose consecrated lives have been devoted to the service of education. These men have served the youth of America without any recompense other than the satisfaction of giving to their country an army of young men well trained in sound economic, scientific and philosophical principles. Associated with these men has been a group of loyal lay professors and instructors without whose faithful service the Notre Dame of today would have been impossible. This living, endowment still serves’ at Notre. Dame, but it must be reinforced by.a still larger corps of lay professors and instructors' and augmented by financial assistance on the part of the public if it is to realize all its possibilities for service. Consequently, the University of Notre Dame, for the first time in its history, is inviting public attention to its needs; for the first time in over three-quarters of a century itjs making a’ general appeal for financial assistance. .
In making this appeal our. only hope and ambition is that the University may be empowered to • give today-and in the days to come, to an ever larger portion of the public, the same kind of service ivhich it has rendered for upwards of .eighty years. TVe should have no warrant for making this appeal were it based, on any assumption for the future different from the tested record of the past.
L ---------	JAMES A. BURNS, C. S. C.,'
President.
Norre dame Scholastic
THE MEANING OF NOTRE DAME.
Notre Dame is a-national institution.
That is a brief definition, but it implies the best that can be said for any university. In these times education means service if it means anything: service in the development of the best interests of the individual and the community. The Enest commendation that a school can receive is. therefore, enthusiastic approval by the public at large of its ideals and methods.
Notre Dame has won the confidence of the American people. Students have come to its class-rooms from every state in the Union, its loyal alumni have gene back to every state in the Union. At the present time the names of young men from forty-two states are on its roster. They represent the whole of America almost as thoroughly as it is represented in Congress; they testify to a public recognition of- the national scope of the University’s standards and service.
It is not too much to add that Notre Dame has interested a large part of the world as well. This year students from fourteen foreign countries have been enrolled. Columbia University in New York is the only school in this country which has a greater number of Latin American students. These represent at Notre Dame almost every nation south of the Isthmus of Panama. In addition there are young men from Mexico, Cuba, San Domingo, Honduras, the Philippine Islands, Hawaii, and China. Could there be any better testimony to the wide influence which this University is exerting? Notre Danie’s story has gone round the world.
There are reasons for this success. From the beginning the policy of the University has been broad, far-sighted, reasonably idealistic. Its organization today is the result of careful experience. A Board of Fifteen Lay Trustees has been empowered to hold, invest and administer all endowment funds of the University for its sole and exclusive use. The faculty, divided into colleges which have large administrative powers, consists of one hundred fifteen professors and instructors, and thirty-five assistants. Sixty of these professors and instructors are salaried laymen. No effort of which the University is capable has been
spared to make its service superior even to' its reputation. Notre Dame has learned the business of education from the ground up.
Recently the interest of the General Education Board, founded by Mr. Rockefeller, was
Very Rev. James A. Burns, C. S. C.
aroused in the work of Notre Dame. Representatives of this Board investigated the University from every point of view and returned a judgment which is an outstanding tribute. “We recognize in Notre Dame the great, growing, progressive Catholic college in America” is what they said. Those are memorable words, but the action which accompanied them is perhaps an even stronger endorsement. The Board decided to donate to Notre Dame $250,000 as the nucleus for an endowment fund. These men not only took off their hats to Notre Dame; they took off their coats, rolled up their sleeves, and “pitched in.”
Very recently the Carnegie Foundation seconded the interest of the General Education
Give a little—Notre Dame gives all.
Zfie Noure dame ^cholasuic
. Board. They also expressed enthusiastically their approval of Notre Danie’s educational policy. Their funds are at the present time meagre, but they set upon the University the seal of practical approval with a gift of $75,000. These associations for the promotion of education in America are made up of experts and' sound executives who do not throw money away. Their gifts are an expression of complete confidence, which extends to the future as well as to the present. They are “cheering for Notre Dame.”
Now this interest and these gifts would have been impossible unless Notre Dame were actually the national institution which she claims to be. The General Education Board cannot use a dollar of its moneys to aid anything but general education; it cannot foster religious instruction as such. The action of this Board is, therefore a clearcut statement of its conviction that Notre Dame is working in the broad, general interests of the country. This conviction is based upon facts with which many people are not so familiar as they should be, and which we shall try to make plain here.
The charter under which Notre Dame was established has been described by the examiners as “one of the most liberal charters in America.” It is significant that the gentleman most instrumental in securing it for the University should have been a prominent Methodist of South Bend, Indiana, Mr. Defrees. Under the provisions of this Charter, Notre Dame is empowered to grant all professional, academic . and scientific degrees. Religious restrictions are utterly absent. No one has ever been prevented from attending or graduating in any of the departments of the University because of the religious belief he may have held.
It is of interest in this connection to note the actual state of affairs at present. The most important body concerned with the administration of the University is the Board of Lay Trustees already referred to. This Board is governed by a constitution which expressly stipulates that some of the members must be non-Catholics. The faculty is equally liberal in its composition. Many professors have been and are members of religious bodies other
than Catholic, and dt the present time three heads of departments do not belong to the Church. An attitude of, unqualified respect for the particular religious opinions of individual students has been firmly maintained by the University. A large number of loyal alumni are non-Catholics, and at the present time a considerable portion of the student body adhere to beliefs quite divergent from the official religion of the University. Protestants in number are to be found on the athletic teams, on the roll of officers in various student organizations, and even among those whose • education is made possible by the use of scholarships held by the University.
This does not mean that Notre Dame has ceased to be thoroughly Catholic in ideals and traditions, but it does mean that such ideals and traditions are quite compatible with generosity of opinion and the service of the country at large. The clerical members of the faculty have given themselves wholly to the difficult task of education; they seek no other reward than the consciousness of duty well done, of sacrifice honestly made, in the noblest interests of the Republic. This spirit has breathed abundant life into Notre Dame and it will be steadfastly preserved by the Congregation of the Holy Cross.
It must be borne in mind, however, that the Congregation is an entity altogether distinct from the University which some of its members serve. The Congregation is the owner of certain properties, a farm for instance, the revenue from which it uses chiefly for the education of its younger members and secondarily for the promotion of charitable enterprises. It is as a matter of fact, in debt. The University is a separate institution relying for support solely upon its own efforts. Whatever it purchases from the farm belonging to the Congregation, for example, must be paid for at current prices. Whenever steps must be taken for the improvement of the University, these must be determined upon and carried out by its autonomous government. The one great gift to Notre Dame from the Congregation of the Holy Cross is men—men who are efficient, loyal and devoted.	.
Under such conditions the University has
Notre Dame builds men—help build Notre Dame.
Nocre dame Scholastic
5i6
grown from very modest origins to its present amplitude. In 1842 the founder of Notre Dame, Father Sorin, stood with the handful of priests and brothers who were to be his associates, looking upon the campfires of an Indian village round which the wilderness stretched like an eternal forest asleep in the snows. A log-cabin was the birth-place of this University, a cabin thrown together by Indians of a race that is dead forever. But Notre Dame held on doggedly, and in 1844 celebrated her first commencement. The next was somewhat larger, and year after year the school prospered. Almost miraculously the present Notre Dame arose, stone upon stone. To-day twenty-eight buildings occupy what was once the site of a forlorn city of savages. These buildings with the manifold equipment which they contain are conservatively estimated at a value of six million dollars. The University is made up of five colleges comprising thirty-two departments of study which offer more than four hundred courses. The annual enrollment of students exceeds two thousand.
It is a wonderful development accomplished in a wonderful country. Notre Dame is selfmade in every sense of the word. During three quarters of a century of growth she received only $30,000 to aid the work of her hands. She has managed by sturdy thrift to be equal to her opportunities. At the present- time, however, those opportunities have proved overwhelming. During the past two years she has turned away more than five hundred college men because there was no room for them. She has followed the trend of education carefully and has seen that new fields of study are opening, that - hew departments of modern life are calling for trained men. She has listened. to the testimony of countless observers and has become more firmly convinced than ever that America’s young men . need the Christian character-training which she has never ceased to give. In a word, she has found out that her sendee to the nation can become larger and more valuable than ever.
On the other hand, larger service demands increased facilities which the University is not able to provide. .A group' of competent pro
fessors must be added to the faculty if larger numbers are to come for instruction. There must be more laboratory space and equipment, more class-rooms of every sort. New dormitories and departmental buildings must arise. Briefly, Notre Dame must grow. It was realization of the University’s need of a larger faculty that induced the General Educational Board to donate the nucleus of a million dollar endowment fund. It was a deep sense of her other needs that made Notre Dame resolve to appeal to the public not only for the balance of the million for endowment but for two million dollars to begin satisfactorily the urgent expansion. For the first time in her history she is asking for assistance.
Notre Dame is confident that the appeal is not in vain. She has sons and she has friends. Above all, she is certain that the nation and the community with which she is most closely associated realize the value of the service which a larger University can render them. South Bend will gain from every victory of Notre Dame. It is worth while for a prosperous and representative city to be associated even in name with an institution whose cultural and moral standards are spoken of deferentially throughout the world. It is a good thing that the citizens of South Bend should unite with the citizens of Notre Dame in the pursuit of the higher things of life. No one can doubt either that the material advantages which the city will gain from the expansion of the University must be great. Every new student is a customer and a “booster” for South Bend. The commercial enterprise of the leading manufacturing city, in Indiana will be advertised to the ends of the earth by men who come from the ends of the earth to study commercial enterprise. Open the University to more Americans, to more Chinese, to more Filipinos, to more Europeans and you will open South Bend as well. Notre Dame and South Bend belong together: they have grown up together and they must continue growing up together. They are Siamese twins.
We said at the beginning that Notre Dame is a national institution. She exists for service. In 1925 she will have proved that she repays a hundredfold for every dollar that is given in aid.
Put your dollars where you put your boys—Notre Dame.
Moure &ame Scholastic
NOTRE DAME’S MEMORY-BOOK
Part L
“A limitless expanse of wilderness, a log hut, built by unskilled Indians, through the gaping crevices of which the wintry snows swept inward, rising in unwelcome heaps on the humble cots of the occupants, a young priest with a few brothers, literally without staff, scrip, or money,—this was Notre Dame in 1842.” The foregoing passage taken from a sermon delivered by the late Archbishop Ireland on the occasion of Father Sorin’s golden jubilee, gives one some idea of the labors and sacrifices involved in giving us the Notre Dame of to-day.
The spot now occupied by the University of Notre Dame was purchased from the Indians in T830 by the Reverend Theodore Badin, the’ffrst priest ordained in the United States. At this time, and for years previous, the place was known as Ste. Marie des Lacs. With the coming of Badin the place became the center of a wide range of missionary activities and the resident pastor attended the needs of his people throughout all of Southern Michigan and Northern Indiana. The missions visited from Ste. Marie des Lacs reached from Coldwater, Michigan, on the East to the Illinois line on the West, and from Kalamazoo, Michigan on the North to Rochester, Indiana on the .South.
On the death of Father Petit, the resident priest, Bishop Hailandiere of Vincennes offered the grounds of Ste. Marie des Lacs to Father Sorin on condition that he erect a college within two years. The offer was accepted. It was then that the name Ste. Marie des Lacs was changed to Notre Dame du Lac. Father Sorin first viewed the snow covered ground on November 26, 1842 and it was then that the work began, of transforming a log church, twenty by forty feet, with a little frame house adjoining, into the University of Notre Dame as we know it to-day.
A modest church was begun shortly after • the arrival of the founders. The subscriptions were paid in labor. This little building was destroyed by fire in 1856. The corner stone of the first real building was laid August 28,
517
1843 and the annals of the School proudly record the first commencement which was held in August 1844.- The charter empowering the new establishment to grant all professional, academic and scientific degrees was given by ; the Indiana legislature in 1844. At the same time a charter was given to the manual labor school established for the training of poor boys in the different trade branches. The leading spirit in the securing of the charter.; was a Mr. Defrees, a prominent. Methodist of South Bend, and at the time a member of. the State legislature.	-
The first student to register at Notre Dame, was Alexius Coquillard of South Bend. The first graduate was Neil Gillespie, of Lancaster, Ohio, who secured the degree of Bachelor of Arts in 1849. The catalogue of the latter year, as well as the one printed in 1850 by Mr. Schuyler Colfax, afterwards vice-president of the United States, quaintly, illustrate the ambitions of the pioneers as well as point to the definite progress made by the School, at this time there were fifty students enrolled. A real stimulus came with the building of a rail-road through South Bend in 1851. . The same years witnessed the opening of the Postoffice at Notre Dame, a favor secured through the friendly action of Henry Clay.	•
There were many minor trials to be suffered by the founders of the University, but their first real cross came in the summer of 1854. Things looked rosy for the struggling college when of a sudden the dreaded cholera broke out in the midst of the community. Before the scourge had passed Father Cointet, the intimate friend of Father Sorin, - as well as twenty others died. The next few years were years of real trial. The losses caused by the cholera and a series of financial crises almost obliterated the dream of Sorin. A contemporary, writes, “On several occasions Notre Dame was on the point of being sold for debt. One day the farm horses were taken out of the stables and sold by a creditor. Another time there w^s not a morsel of food in the house. The unexpected arrival of a gift of money-from a stranger prevented the students- from going to bed supperless.”
When the war clouds of 1861 settled over
It you will do a little Notre Dame will do a lot.
f
518
Noure dame Scholastic
the country Notre Dame was far from prosperous. Yet the sacrifices made by the School and the splendid record of its student soldiers are among the proudest traditions of every Notre Dame man. The faculty, terribly weakened by the epidemic of 1854, did more than its share. Seven priests served as chaplains in the Union army. Their names are worthy of record: Fathers Joseph Carrier, Paul Gillen, James Dillon, Joseph Leveque, F. Bourget, Peter Cooney, and William Corby. The memory of the latter’s heroism is perpetuated in a beautiful bronze monument that stands on the field of Gettysburg. Military training had taken an early hold at Notre Dame. In 1859 there were two companies of well drilled cadets; the Continental Cadets for the Seniors and the Washington cadets, in their natty blue and buff, for the Juniors. The lamented Judge Timothy Howard, himself a recruit from the ranks of the cadets and a soldier of distinction says, -“Almost every member of the Continental Cadets became a real soldier in the army.” General Lynch and General Robert Healy were among the notable military leaders who learned their first lessons of war in the ranks of the Notre Dame cadets.
On the occasion of Father Sorin’s golden-jubilee many references were made to the early history of Notre Dame. Archbishop Ireland, a veteran of the Civil War, had this to say, “There were other priests and other sisters in the war; those of the Holy Cross made up the greater part of the roster; none excelled them in daring feat and religious fervor; no other order, no diocese, made for the purpose, sacrifices as did that of the Holy Cross.
Father Sorin, you saved the honor of the Church. I speak from a special knowledge of the facts, and I speak from the heart; and could the country’s martyrs speak from the silent earth at Gettysburg, and a hundred other
gory fields, their voices would re-echo with our own in youi' praise.”
A glance at the records shows that Notre Dame prospered during the days of the war. This was caused by a large influx of .students from the border states. So well did it prosper that on November 3, 1863, a special dinner was given the students, for a long cherished hope had been realized,—the enrollment had passed the two hundred mark! With the increase of students came the development of courses, particularly along scientific lines. In 1865 the degree of bachelor of science was granted for the first time to Dr. John Cassidy of South Bend.
Old timers at Notre Dame still speak in whispers when they mention April 23, 1879. That was the date of the big fire. At last Notre Dame was prosperous; its courses were rapidly developing and its students on. the increase; its museums were well stocked and its library flourishing. Then, of a sudden a fire swept over the campus and in three hours the work of nearly half a century was in ashes. The administration building, the infirmary, the general office, the students’ office, the Music Hall, the Juniors’ recreation room, and Minims’ Hall were all completely destroyed.
The spirit that has made Notre Dame possible, manifested itself at the time of the fire. When the walls had fallen in and it was seen nothing could be done to save the buildings,
Earliest Notre Dame'.
Spread the fame of Notre Dame.
'Sfie Noure &ame Scholastic
the students were gathered in the church, which had been spared, and were addressed by the President, Father Corby. With most absolute assurance he announced the reopening of the school in September, though the crackling of the timbers outside, could still be heard. The attitude of the people and press throughout the country was most gratifying. Practically every newspaper of importance referred to the matter editorially and prophesied a greater Notre Dame. The people of the neighboring towns were particularly well disposed. The printed statement issued by the college says, “South Bend displayed a most grateful sympathy in our affliction, which will be remembered so long as Notre Dame and her sister city flourish side by side, in mutual help aild good will towards one another.” A few days after the fire a large meeting of sympathy was held in South Bend, without regard to creed. The assurances of help were most encouraging to those who had shouldered the burden of re-building Notre Dame during the summer time. Many unsolicited offerings were made to the University at this time. Indeed, the widespread manifestation of friendliness was a revelation to all.
Notre Dame had but one plea to make,, and the plea was successful, “Will those who love the young, and who desire to see them brought up in the fear and love of God, help us in the good work we have to do this summer?” The college was ready to receive the students in September. This will undoubtedly remain as the great achievement in the story of Notre Dame. Night and day throughout the summer the work has progressed under the guidance of the skilled architect, Mr. M. J. Edbrooke of Chicago.
The growth of Notre Dame since the day of the fire has been truly phenomenal. One after another the buildings destroyed by the fire were restored. The widening influence of the school was felt and students began to arrive from far-off sections of the country,, as well -as from foreign lands. Many new buildings were added to the' University group: Science, Washington,.- Mechanics, and Sorin Halls, with many others socn dotted- the campus. New courses, additions to the faculty, improved
519 equipment, the beautification of the grounds, all these added joy to the occasion, when the venerable founder of the school, the Reverend Edward Sorin, celebrated his golden jubilee, in 1888. He had seen Notre Dame as a wilderness; had seen it expand into a well developed institution of learning; had seen his life-work swept away in a few hours, and now again, in his declining years could look out over a beautiful campus, dotted with buildings,— the realization of a life’s dream.
The venerable founder of Notre Dame difl not long survive the celebration of his fiftieth anniversary. He died October 31, 1893. Notre Dame had become known throughout the land and the passing of its founder occasioned general comment on the life of Sorin as well as on his greatest"achievement, the University. In. an editorial on the death of Father Sorin, the Chicago Herald, when referring to his early days at Notre Dame, says, “The spot at which he halted was absolute waste,, the only building in sight being a small log hut. His earthly belongings at the time consisted of only five dollars in money; but his trust in the beneficence of God was unbounded, and he had absolute confidence in his own energy and resolution. He took possession of the hut, setting apart one half of it to be used as a chapel, and reserving the other part as a dwelling place for himself and his companions. On these meagre foundations he began to build a college, and two years later he secured a charter for a university from the State of Indiana. From that moment the University of Notre Dame grew and flourished until under his intelligent guidance and watchful care it became what it is to-day.”
We are fortunate in having at hand a few sentences written by Father -Sorin shortly, before the end of his useful-life. They reflect the spirit of the school’s founder, as well as the spirit that has made possible a continuance of Sorin’s work. They may well conclude this sketch: “Truly a change has taken place; we. confess it the more readily, as we claim no praise but return all glory to God, to whose hand this transformation is due. Neither should we be surprised if we only reflected on the saintly memories whose extraordinary
Teaches all—-reaches all— Notre Dame,
Norre Same Scholastic
520
virtues emblamed the very air of Notre Dame when the Congregation of Holy Cross took possession of her lovely domain. Here is a little galaxy of names not often met with in any place not celebrated: the venerable protopriests of America, Father Badin, the saintly De Seille, the heroic Benjamin Petit, succeeded one another here. Here they were visited from Bardstown and Vincennes by the immortal bishops Flaget and Brute; here they prayed together, as they now continue to do in Heaven, for blessings on a spot they so dearly loved. Scarcely, then, we say, is it a wonder to find it blessed. Saintly souls, men of God, here, passed and lived here, and the precious remains of two of them speak yet in our midst the eloquent language of the purest zeal and most unbounded charity that ever prompted and adorned the heart of the apostles of Christ.”
-------------------
AT NOTRE DAME
The secret of Notre Dame lies in the fact that it has been able to keep up in a large household the spirit which usually belongs to a small one. The fine locality, the noble buildings, the two thousand students and teachers, enable the directors to produce really enchanting scenes almost at will; and the abounding life of these youths, expressed in such variety, and with such freedom ,and yet with such restraint, keeps all things sparkling, scintillating like stars on a frosty night in the Adirondacks. To my mind this buoyant life is the most precious natural treasure owned by mankind. To be near it, to enjoy it, is the reward of the parent and the teacher, who renew their own lives in the fountain of immortal youth.
They have a parrot at Notre Dame who laughs like a boy that has just succeeded in playing April fool on his chum. It is the richest thing of its kind on earth. Adam must have so laughed in the days of his youthful glory. Merely by imitation this bird has caught the echo of true human joy. How many wise, successful men have missed it!
—John Talbot Smith.
***
The career of the University is little short of a marvel, and its history is an inspiring record of sacrifice and devotion.
The astonishing feature about this growth is that the University has no endowment. The explanation lies in the faculty, which is composed of priests, brothers and laymen. The laymen, numbering forty-one, are all salaried, but the priests and brothers, who number forty-four, give their time, labor and energy without compensation. A majority of the faculty serve without pay and the University is supported by the tuition fees of the students. Its sole endowment has been one of flesh and blood.	,
—Arthur M. Evans, in 1911
NOTRE DAME
0 Notre Dame, thou beauteous place,
Where nature teems, where nature teems, And leaiming calmly grows apace,
While fancy dreams, while fancy dreams, We love thee for thy goodly worth; .
■ We love thy name, we love thy name.—
It is the sweetest name on earth,	- j
0 Notre Dame, O Notre Dame.
Altho’ thou are not sere with age, We honor thee, we honor thee, And when the wintry tempests rage, We love to see, we love to see	•
Thy towers pointing to the sky, With steady aim, ■with steady aim,	■ 7
As though the storm thou wouldst defy.
O Notre Dame, 0 Notre Dame.	'
SUNSET AT NOTRE DAME
The shadow-surpliced trees are acolytes Before a host of fire,	•
The gathering opal clouds are incense-praise, The homing birds, the choir.
Across the emerald lake, a path of gold
Leads to the temple stair,	*
And on the stillness falls a silver sound—	*•
The evening bell for prayer.
God’s blessing is upon the silent land, The mystic rite is o’er,	*
The tabernacle of the Day is closed, And Night hath sealed the door.-
When, lo I swung out by angel hands, Behold a gleam afar—	.	_ ”
The jewelled sanctuary lamp of night, The faithful evening star!
—Sister M. Rita.
If you put up your money Notre-Dame will put out the men.
Nome- dame Scholastic
A
~	-£_	y?— '	'"	'	’**•*
gotpe^amejcbolqstic
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER- VICTURUS-V1VE- QUASI- CRAS-MOR1TVRVS
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
VOL. LIV.	JUNE ii. 1921.	NO. 29.
NOTRE DAME’S EXPANSION FUND $2,000,000
GIFT OF THE GENERAL EDUCATION BOARD $250,000
GIFT OF THE CARNEGIE FOUNDATION ’	$75,ooo
SOUTH BEND’S QUOTA S500.000
■ ***
ALUMNI ? »
Notre Dame has, in its seventy-five years of existence, attained or perhaps surpassed the ideals of its valiant founders. Through sleet and snow, Sorin and Getting on the his zealous companions Band-Wagon. blazed a path into the x wilderness of Indiana and dreamed the dream that is now Notre Dame.- The tremendous upheaval in education that the world is now. experiencing has made it imperative that something be done to aid our school in the march of progress. ’ Truly, we have, in the words of the Reverend President “come to a crisis—and we must adopt a policy which will affect the future of the university for the next fifty years.” The remedy for this situation is at hand—a situation which overcrowded classrooms, dormitories and inadequate laboratory facilities will partly explain.-Notre Dame must and will put over that $2,000,000 endowment drive with the support of her student body which has never yet fallen down in a matter that called for a real exemplification of “fightin’ Irish” spirit. We have been assured of the sincere co-operation _ of the • citizens of South Bend and of loyal
alumni throughout the country. In addition to this there is one more thing that must be evident in order that the enthusiasm be kept at fever-pitch and that is the unstinted support of every man who is proud of the fact that he is a Notre Dame man. Go into “the highways and.the by-ways” this summer and sell the endowment proposition to your friends who,, perhaps, know little more about the greatest school in the middle-west than the fact that you attend it. It’s up to you, Mr. Notre Dame Man, to carry on with the plan that means more to this institution than any other task it has yet undertaken.
This drive is only secondarily a matter of dollars: it is first and' most significantly a community effort something lasting and worthwhile. What makes the Building for the cathedrals of France and
Future. England so preeminently beautiful is the fact that they were built directly by the people and for their service. Everybody was interested in putting them up, and everybody was ready, to help. Merchants were seen quarrying rock; doctors of the law did the manual labor of construction: the good will and energy of all were put to some use. Notre Dame cannot be built up in that way, but Notre Dame is going to be a community product. The whole country, and our immediate neighbors more especially, are interested in the University that we are going to be. We feel sure that they * are just as ready to lend a hand, to build beautifully for the future, and to join now and forever in the song of Notre Dame:
Cheer, cheer, for old Notre Dame, Send down the echoes cheering her name; Send a volleyed cheer on high,
_ Shake down the thunder from the sky.. What though the odds he great or small; Old Notre Dame shall win over all, When her loyal sons are marching • . Onward to victory.. s ..
The extension prbgram includes: An endowment of One Million Dollars to secure more lay professors and laboratory equipment ; the erection'of an Engineering Building, a Commerce Building, three Residence Halls, and the making of needed improvements in the gymnasium. It will mean better facilities, better forces, and better service all the way round.	„
522
Moure dame Scholastic
LETTERS OF COMMENDATION
State Department of Public Instruction OF INDIANA
Indianapolis .
May 14, 1921
It comes to me with striking force that the University of Notre Dame is soon to engage in an appeal .for .greater financial support. Knowing as I do the standing among the universities of the country which Notre Dame has long maintained, I marvel at the results achieved on the slender resources represented. Now that this great University with its magnificent tradition of service, its ideals of loyalty and leadership in the nation, and its long line of scholarly representatives in all parts of the world, is working toward a greater program, certainly the public should rise to its appeal and see that it has more than it seeks.
Very truly yours, Oscar H. Williams, State Supervisor of Teacher Training
State Department of Public Instruction of Indiana
INDIANAPOLIS
May 21, 1921 To the Friends of the University of Notre Dame:	■
We are greatly interested in the proposed campaign for the raisina of two million dollars for the University. This campaign has our hearty endorsement. We believe in the great work that Notre Dame is doing. We sincerely
hope that the last dollar of this fund of two millions will be raised speedily and without difficulty. Notre Dame deserves to succeed in this enterprise.
Very truly,
L. N. Hines
State Superintendent of Public Instruction.
- ■
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR BUREAU OF EDUCATION
Washington, May 9, 1921. Mr. James Burns, President, Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Indiana.
My dear Sir: •
I have learned with much pleasure that in the near future Notre Dame University will make an appeal for two million dollars, one million to be kept in perpetuity as an endowment, and the other million to be used for the extension of the plant and equipment of the University. I sincerely hope that the full amount may be raised, and that the University may thus be enabled to do its full share in meeting the increasing demands for higher education in this country.
Because of the rapidly increasing demands and opportunities for men and women of the higher education of the colleges and universities in all the industries and professions, and because of the increasing numbers of high school graduates from year to year, the burdens upon. all
N O
R E
D
M E
The Notre Dame
Moure dame Scholasuic
5?3X
institutions of higher learning will continue to increase and they will all'nebd much more extensive plants and equipments and larger incomes for current expenses than they have had in the past.	’
I wish for you the most abundant success in your efforts to raise this fund for the endow ment and equipment of Notre Dame.
■ Yours sincerely,
. P. P. Claxton
. Commissioner.
UNIVERSITY OP ILLINOIS president’s office
-	Urbana, Illinois
•	May io, 1921
Rev. Jam.es Burns, President University of Notre Dame	.
Notre Dame, Indiana Dear President Burns:
I wish to express my keen satisfaction in the fact that the University of Notre Dame is about to launch a campaign for $2,000,000 to be devoted in part to an extens’on of your facilities and in part to making permanent provision for the work which you are already offering. _
Notre Dame has for many years held an honorable place among the colleges, of the Middle West, and it is, in my opinion, highly desirable that its work should develop and be strengthened and its continuance be assured. I hope and believe that your enterprise will
appeal irresistibly to- your constituency and that its success will be rapid and complete.
With cordial regards and best wishes’, I am
Sincerely yours,
David Kinley '
.	President
***
PURDUE UNIVERSITY LAFAYETTE, INDIANA president’s OFFICE	1
■	■	May 10, 1921.
President James Burns, ’
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana.
My Dear President Bums:
I cordially endorse your plan and efforts to secure larger permanent endowments for the University of Notre Dame. The forces of education need to be strengthened on every hand to cope with the forces of ignorance and prejudice. Every institution - which is doing sound educational work deserves all the support it can get, whether it be supported by the State, the Church or private donations.
I am glad to learn of your plans for strengthening the work of instruction. While it is necessary to provide for larger and larger numbers of students, the real educational problem of the day is to make our work more sound and thorough and this requires strong staffs of teachers and equipment with which to work.	.	'
I wish you every success in your efforts
That Shall Be.
^fie Now frame Scholastic
524
to increase the resources of your institution in which I shall be only too glad to render any assistance in my power. .
Very truly yours, '	W. E. Stone
President.
***
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR president’s OFFICE
May 19, 1921. President James Burns, C. S. C.,
• University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana.
My Dear President Burns:
I cannot refrain from expressing to you my great satisfaction upon learning that the General Education Board has contributed the sum of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars toward a million dollar endowment for the University of Notre Dame? I am glad too that you and your associates have shown the vision that you have in the conduct of the University. Your plans to appeal for two million dollars deserves the hearty commendation of not only your constituencies but of the educational world. The growth of Notre Dame and the high standards of its’ work fully justify the appeal which you are making. I feel perfectly confident that the campaign will be entirely successful. It is scarcely necessary for me to say to you that you have my best wishes in the enterprise.
Believe me, Sir, with high esteem, Very sincerely yours, M. E. Barton President.
**♦
bishop:s house
319 WEST COLFAX AVENUE. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
May 14, 1921
The Rev. James Bums, C. S. C., President Notre Dame University, South Bend, Ind.
My Dear Dr. Bums:
The cause of higher education should be most sacred to all who are devoted to republican and democratic government. For it
is only on such higher educat icn such irstitu tions can securely rest. Notre Dame University has had a long and distinguished service in the cause of higher education which should have and no doubt has won the admiration and commendation of the general public. Let us hope it has also by that distinguished service gained the right to appeal to the general public for such financial assistance as may be necessary to enable it to meet the vastly enlarged demand for service resultant from its commendable work in the past. It is a pleasure to know that the demands upon your Institution have so greatly exceeded your equipment that you are forced to turn to the public that is so greatly your debtor for increased facilities to still further care for its imperishable interests. It is a pleasure to commend your institution to public generosity and to express the hope that the response to your appeal may be so prompt and so generous that your noble service may suffer no serious intermption.
With sincere esteem I have the honor to remain
Most cordially Yours
John Hazen White Bishop of Northern Indiana ***
UNITED STATES SENATE, COMMITTEE ON INTERSTATE COMMERCE . ,	. .	May 13, 1921
Rev. James Burns. C. S. C., President, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana	z
My Dear Mr. President:
I have just learned of your plan to announce an appeal for two million dollars at an early date, and I write for the purpose of commending' the project to my friends in Indiana and elsewhere.
Notre Dame is among the best schools in the entire west, and deserves well at the hands of all those who believe in higher education.
> Its faculty, its curriculum, its standard of morality and the success of its graduates speak eloquently in. its behalf, and I am sure that with this increase in funds, greater" opportunities
. for usefulness will be opened up and greater. possibilities, of achievement presented.
, I bespeak a cordial and sympathetic.
Sign your name for Notre Dame.
I
I
I
I	Hocre 6ame Schdaszic
1 hearing by all good citizens in behalf of this j commendable enterprize.
Yours very truly,
James E. Watson
***
UNITED STATES SENATE, committee on
TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
May 9, 1921 Rev. James Burns,
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana.
My Dear Father’Burns:
As a native of Indiana I am truly proud of the great credit that has been reflected upon the State by this truly noteworthy institution of learning. It is justly regarded as one among the really great institutions of the kind in this country, and Indiana is to be congratulated that its founders 1ccited it on Hoosier soil.
Notre Dame is known the world over and I have yet to hear it mentioned but that the mention was followed by words of commendation. A State, a church, or a cause is great only as it does great things and establishes great institutions, and Notre Dame has by its long and honorable career added credit to the record of all who have had a part in its creation and development.
With all my heart I wish for it a continuance of its great usefulness to my State and to the country.
Very sincerely yours,
Harry S. New.
NOTRE DAME SPIRIT.
Notre Dame is called the home of the ‘Fighting Irish? A few persons have challenged the usage of the noun but none have denied her right to the adjective, for all the fame that is now Notre Dame’s has been won absolutely by her spirit of ‘never give up,’ her grim determination to overcome all odds, both great and small. It has been this fighting spirit which has sent the Gold and Blue gridiron warriors through two seasons of consecutive victories. It was this fighting spirit which last fall defeated Indiana in the final quarter. It has been this spirit which has enabled Notre Dame
525
heros to play through a game with broken shoulders or smashed ribs. There have been those who could crush the Notre Dame eleven’s line, batter down its defense^ but there has been none who could break its spirit. It has been the spirit of loyalty to the school which has crowded the sidelines with both student and South Bend rooters. It has been that unexplainable spirit which has drawn from the stands a voluminous cheer when Notre Dame went marching down the field and it has been that spirit of ‘we’re with you gang’ when Notre Dame failed to gain. It has been the spirit of good sportsmanship which brought the Notre Dame sections to their feet to cheer an opponent’s well executed play or to encourage a beaten foe. It has been the spirit of appreciation of these men’s efforts who won glory for Notre Dame in footballdom which has sent the entire student body snake dancing into South Bend. And South Bend permitting such demonstrations, in fact encouraging them, has manifested a spirit of co-operation with all that is Notre Dame.
But there is another spirit at Notre Dame, a spirit even more laudable than that which permeates the activities of the gridiron or diamond, and that is the spirit of democracy. Every man at Notre Dame, those with wealth and position in the world and those who are working their way through, are on an equal social footing. Here has it been earned into actuality the theory that every man is bom equal. A freshman coming to this school has had no mark of distinction placed upon him, he has not been hazed, in fact, he has been treated by the upper classmen as one of their own. A stranger coming to Notre Dame has not been able to distinguish the freshmen from the upper classmen, the millionaires from the needy and the math, or philosophy sharks from the loaf, by the social position they hold or by the clothes they wear. Here, army shoes, khaki shirts, and corduroy trousers with even an occasional patch has been the' custom, and this by the students themselves is called the Notre Dame spirit. As the famous Notre Dame catalogue rightly says, “ One coming to Notre Dame can not escape its influence.”
—H. v.. McKEE, Editor of the Dome, '22. .
Every American should be interested in Notre Dame.—Post M. Hayes.
Nocre dame ^cholascic
526
A WORLD VIEW OF NOTRE DAME
“To see ourselves as others see us” is an operation likely to be attended with some hazard. The individual or the institution is fortunate indeed that can- face the testimony of its acquaintances. But the impressions of Notre Dame which have been carried to the ends of the earth, form one vast and varied tribute. It is safe to say that few places in America have become magnets for so many hearts, have enshrined such a wealth of friendship. The world’s view of Notre Dame, which we shall attempt to outline here, is an expression of confidence and love from many of the most gifted writers of our times. It is largely a mosaic put together from letters which their authors never dreamed would be made public, and of observations which were printed for audiences far away from Notre Dame.
Naturally one’s mind reverts with pleasure to.the favorable attention which the sons of the University have drawn to their Alma Mater: the encomiums of great athletes and teams which the press of - the country has multiplied beyond number; the ■ calmer recognitions of the fine manliness of Notre Dame representatives, such as the charming letter of Professor William Lyon Phelps of Yale expressing. his delight in having met our football team; the wholehearted praise won by our debaters from some of the most- eminent authorities in the United States. These matters, however, are well-known and- a successful school will consider them the daily, business of life.- .
But great scholars and artists, strong students of their times, and men eminent in public life have carried away from Notre Dame memories of beauty , and high effort. They have pushed aside the veil of external things and have seen .the inner forces with whose quiet help the institution lives. The world has Iieard from them; but the world has never learned even a tenth of what they have said and felt. Notre Dame has lovers in Europe, in South America, . in far-off China and the Southern Seas, as well as at home. The thick files of letters which she cherishes are almost all of them love-letters. . In 1904 the Abbe Felix Klein, of the Catholic University. of Paris, published „ an account of his American voyage under the title' “In the
Land of the Strenuous Life.” Nearly one chapter of this book is devoted to Notre Dame, which he placed before his country-men as “a great centre of religious and intellectual life” as “a beautiful academic city,” and as an institution “that can ask for money with perfect confidence.” In 1915 Wilfrid Ward, the editor of the Dublin Review, spent two weeks at the University, and later voiced these impressions in his magazine: “Notre Dame’s success is acknowledged. It is the most important Catholic school in the United States; and it has a practicalness and hopefulness in its response to present needs which-,blend with the loveliness of its- situation.” His successor ■to the editorship of the Dublin Review, Shane Leslie, was captivated, too: he speaks in many places of “the radiant dome of gold” and of “radiant hearts that dwell beneath it.”
Great Churchmen have habitually carried back to Europe favorable opinions. Cardinal Gasquet, most scholarly- of living English historians, has publicly expressed’ his “admiration”;- Cardinals Vaughan and Bourne are great friends of Notre Dame, and Monsignor Baudrillart, of the .French Academy, has given French readers a fresh impression of us. A recollection that is particularly striking is that of Robert Hugh Benson, who thought Notre Dame the “beauty-spot of America,” and one of whose most intimate books was begun here. Then, at the University of Freiburg there is the learned Dr. Francis Marin, one of the most brilliant of Spanish thinkers, who looks back upon his days at Notre Dame “with affectionate regret” and is’ never “tired of making, my friends love you.” .	.
Artists and literary men from foreign lands have spoken freely. One of the last letters from the daughter of Luigi Gregori, who added so much to the decorative beauty of the University,, recalls the fact that the old painter’s mind went back to Notre Dame constantly, “the scene of his labors and his deepest joys.” A;beautiful unpublished missive from Marion Crawford was written to. say: “I treasure as among the happiest days of my life those which I spent in the serenity of Noire Dame.’’ Cecil Chesterton commended the “ solidity of your tradition and training”; Edward Moore, the
t	-	.
- Once you needed Notre Dame—now Notre Dame needs you. • ' - •
4 I	-
i

Notre 6ame Scholastic	5 2 7
'	5
famous Danteari scholar, wrote to say that he numerous that we shall name only a few.
felt “a kinship with the spirit of Notre Dame;” and John Ayscough the novelist,- has dedicated to us some of the best of his- charming prose. Part of “Abbotscourt” was written here,-and in “American Impressions” there is a pen-sketch of Notre Dame.
. Seumas MacManus declares, “And had I a son—for whom I should naturally covet culture of mind, wholeness of soul, health of body, wealth of memory—to holy, happy Notre Dame I should hurry him.” A famous brother Irishman, Eamon -de Valera, has recently repeated the statement that “some of my happiest days in America were spent at its noblest University—Notre Dame.”
Such is the language in which Europe has spoken. It is language that comes from a far country, but the love of this University has gone beyond Europe. To indicate the ties that bind us to the end of the earth it may be well to reveal the affection which existed between Notre Dame and Father Damien, the immortal leper-missionary. Every one of the many letters which the heroic priest sent here breathe admiration and love: he never tired speaking of the “miracle in Indiana.” It was from Notre Dame that Damien’s assistant and partial successor, Brother Edward Dutton, went forth to establish even more closely the ties that bind this school, in its loveliness with the rugged misery of Molokai.
Our friends in South America are legion. The ambassadors from Chile, Argentine and Peru have been especially interested, in the foreign students at the University. When Bishop Castro, of Anend, Chile, one of the foremost social workers in the Southern Homi-sphere, came to the United States, his purpose was . to study education thoroughly. He inspected the major secular universities, like Harvard, Yale and Columbia, and nearly all the Catholic schools. “Frankly,” he declared upon sailing for Chile, “Notre Dame has made a better impression upon me than any other Catholic school in the country.” Many correspondents to South American papers have sent news and tributes to Notre Dame: our reputation is constantly growing^
Kindly voices in America have been so
It may be well to begin with an' eloquent-tribute from a novelist in whom we have long' been interested, Frank Spearman: “There is,-to me,- rib precirict- quite like that of the University of Notre Dame—there is/ irideed,- to me’ no seat of learning at" all like' Notre’ Dame.-Beautiful academic spots—Oxford arid Prince-* ton for example—commuriicate to the visitor their sense of restfulness. But to this pleasing impression of repose, Notre Dame adds the fine sense of being a home to whoever seeks its sanctuary.
“This great engine of learning moves in its. undertakings seemingly like a large, well-ordered and precisely-adjusted machine, almost noiselessly, yet instinct with the substance -of a speed and power that keep it not merely abreast, but in advance, of. the achievements of our day.”	.
Notre Dame’s own literary men have not been less generous of their praise. Charles Warren Stoddard, the wandering essayist of the South Seas, who felt that Notre Dame was the ‘home of his heart,’ whose three most delicate books were published here, and whose mementos we treasure, has written so much that it would never do to begin quoting. Bishop Spalding, Emerson’s equal for keenness of mind and pointed style, loved no place more .♦ than this and visited it frequently for its own sake. Maurice Francis Egan’s affection is still too fresh to bear description, and John Talbot Smith, our story-teller and lecturer, has written much of Notre Dame whom he visions on “that great highway of the future which she must walk unafraid, in greater glory.”
It is pleasant to remember the letter of John Boyle O’Reilly, the Irish-American poet, in which he says: “The best words of encouragement that I have ever received have come from Notre Dame”; to recall the pleasure of Francis Thompson upon learning that his poems had been welcomed in this one comer of America: to recollect how close this place was to the heart of Joyce Kilmer; and to be reminded of Ada Rehan, the beloved actress of a former generation, who treasured throughout life the memory of Notre Dame. It is good to know that Edward Lee Green, our country’s
- X
Notre Dame. '
Back a boy at
Zte Norre dame Scholastic
greatest botanist, found in this University a haven which he never ceased to love; that Ralph Adams Cram, foremost of living architects, has repeated over and over his conviction that Notre Dame’s influence will be vital in re-establishing true concepts in the art of building; that John Gilmary Shea, the eminent historian of the Church, said: "You possess in what you have gathered more material for a real history of the Church in .this country than was dreamed of by me.”
We are particularly glad to note the attitude of interest shown by many who were outside the Church. In 1891, the Reverend John M. Buckley, editor of the New York Christian Advocate, a Methodist journal, wrote a leading article on Notre Dame in which he said: "This institution does not possess one dollar of endowment, but is supported by the amount paid in by tuition and board. If there had been anything to criticize, it would have been criticized.” Some years ago a prominent journalist, Mr. Evans of the Chicago Record-Herald, sent to his paper a memorable series of articles in which he compared Notre Dame to a city and spoke at length of "the remarkable spirit of comradeship.” During the War, Governor Goodrich wrote officially, "I con
gratulate you upon the fact that within the's venerable walls there has been instilled in the breasts of your loyal sons such high ideals and patriotic impulses.”
The great, liberal Prince of the Church whose passing is universally mourned, Cardinal Gibbons, was always deeply interested in Notre Dame. "Father Sorin,” he said, laid the foun- ’ dation of Notre Dame amid poverty and privation, hardship and trial. When I look around me today and contemplate this flourishing institution, this majestic group of masonry and imposing structures, instinct with student life, it would seem that to accomplish what he did, the founder must have been in possession of Aladdin’s wonderful lamp.”
This is, with many omissions, a world-view of Notre Dame. It makes clear that the school whose effort has been a consecration to the best and broadest interests of humanity has also been beloved of humanity. If her hands are furrowed with toil and her mind heavy with the questions of the age, Notre Dame has ever been steadfastly the lady of the heart of youth. She has set her seal upon the aspirations of men; she has not faltered in her pursuit of the ideal; and she has been a mother to many who have sought for the best.
Not a World-View, but a Good One, anyhow!