1’ n is book is do t t $ § takes fFGM tW
The Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC
IND.
15 Cts. a Copy $3.00 the Year
March 4 19 3 2
March 4, 1932
One
&
—and that’s what the statistician does for industry
Definite knowledge of “where we are” and “what lies ahead” is as vital in business as in flying. For this expert navigating, the Bell System has long relied upon statisticians.
These men study present and prospective industrial, economic and social conditions in all parts of the country. They gather facts— analyze them, correlate them, discover their significance to the telephone business, draw guidance from them. They study and fore-
cast the changing requirements of the public for telephone service. They estimate the probable future demand for new services, such as radio telephony to foreign lands and ships at sea. They keep the executives advised as to current progress towards the objectives thus carefully determined.	.
Only by plotting a course scientifically can the Bell System continue to develop along sound lines.
BELL SYSTEM
A NATION-WIDE SYSTEM OF INTER-CONNECTING TELEPHONES
Two
The Scholastic
ENGINEERING BUILDING
Made Possible Through the Gift of John F. Cushing
Entrance Foyer
Tangible
Evidence of Notre Dame Engineering Achievement
c
New Home of Notre Dame Engineers
March 4, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	1^1 g	| I g ■ Entered as second-class
lished weekly at the Univers- I	I JdinA	1^ matter at Notre Dame, In-
ity of Notre Dame. Manu- ■ ■ ■	Iwrldwwlw diana. Acceptance for moA
scripts may be addressed to	~	-T. ,	_ _r .	ing at special rate of postage.
the scholastic, Pubii- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus section nos, Octobers,ion. cations Office, Main Building.	„ TT t, -c. n , o	'	authorized June 25, 1918.
a u u v< l) Li u 1 o o a
Neil C. Hurley_____________________________Editor-in-Chief
Henry B. Asman___________________Managing Editor
William W. Corr-----------------Departmental Editor
Associate Editors WILLIAM BLIND	GRANGER WEIL
News Staff EDMUND STEPHAN...........News	Editor
PATRICK CORCORAN, Assistant News Editor MITGHEL TACKLEY.. Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY ROBERT DILLON JOHN McELLIGOTT JAMES McCRALEY MAURICE GARLAND	PAUL FOLEY
BERNARD COUSINO	WILLIAM DREUX
LARRY DUNDA	MICHAEL	WIEDL
Desk Editors
GEORGE DUQUETTE	LLOYD TESKE
J. DON SULLIVAN	WILLIAM FLYNN
Department Editors
JAMES CARMODY.............The	Week
JOHN PICK.............College	Parade
JOHN CONLEY.............Campus Clubs
JOHN RYAN...........Music	and Drama
JOSEPH LOPKER...........Staff Artist
Sports Staff
JAMES S. KEARNS.........Sports Editor
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER PAUL HOST	JOSEPH MORPER
Features Staff
WALTER JOHNSON..........Features Editor
HARRY BURCHELL WILLIAM KENNEDY STEPHEN HAWXHURST TIGHE WOODS EDWARD J. O’BRIEN BRYAN DEGNAN RAY SHOLZ
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN...........Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER, Ass’£. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER, JR-......Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS. Ass’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS.........JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY McGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY... .Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII.
MARCH 4, 1932.
Number 18.
SUMM ARY
NEWS
Hillaire Belloc expected at University in the spring; Alumni Living Endowment fund makes week’s visit possible------------------------------- 0
C. “Bud” Dyniewicz is named chairman of Senior
Ball by Gene Connelly, senior class president- 6
With dead-line for news now 12:30 Friday, Scholastic in class with speediest professional papers; new equipment raises dead-line two hours over last year------------------------------------ 6
Italian consul-general presents Father O’Donnell with chevalier of the crown of Italy at the Italian club banquet held last night---------------- 7
FEATURES
Leo Schiavone attracts presidencies, including that of the Italian Club, and as a result plans to spend
a summer of study in Rome--------------------------14
The “Rec” rooms, where Carroll and Brownson freshmen are initiated into Notre Dame life---------16
A day at the Novitiate; how the Brothers live, as seen by a Scholastic reporter_______________________17
SPORTS
Sprint duel between McCormick and Metcalfe of
Marquette looms as Hilltoppers run here tomorrow____20
Eight meets on tennis schedule announced this week____21
Illinois track team whipped decisively by Notre Dame__24
Krause scores 19 points to lead way in rough cage
victory over Army 25
Official Interhall track program______________________31
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, March 4—Scholastic staff meetings: editorial board, Publications office, 6:30 p. m.; news and sports staffs, Room 222, Main building, 7:00 p. m.—Concert orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Marquette at Milwaukee.—Boston Club meeting, Walsh hall, 6:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, March 5—Indoor track, Notre Dams vs. Marquette, Notre Dame Gym, 2:00 p. m.—Movie, Buster Keaton in “Sidewalks of New York,” News Reel, Washington hall, 6:30 and 8:15 p. m.—Picture of the Blue Circle for the Dome, Library steps, 12:30 p. m.
SUNDAY, March 6—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.—K. of C. banquet, South Bend Council rooms, 6:30 p. m.
MONDAY, March 7—French club meeting, Main building, 6:30 p. m.—Bookmen meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m. —A. B. Lay Faculty meeting, 6:30 p. m.
TUESDAY, March 8—Scribblers’ meeting, Howard “rec,” 6:30 p. m.—Concert orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.—Educational Confraternity, Law building, 8:C0 p. m.—Pre-law Club meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.— Presidents’ Council banquet, Lay Faculty dining hall, 7:00 p. m.—Interhall track meet, Notre Dame Gym, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, March 9—Spanish club meeting, Commerce building, 8:00 p. m.—Pharmacy club meeting, Chemistry hall, 7:45 p. m.—International Relations club meeting, Auditorium of the Law building, 8 p. m.
THURSDAY, March 10—Spectators’ meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, Law building, 6:30 p. m.—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Butler, Notre Dame Gym, 8:00 p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK ♦
By James Carmody
Somebody gave us a very good hint concerning the way in which the Birthday exercises were conducted last week. We thought it would make a good paragraph, so we went New Yorker and did a little investigating. We found that, according to army and government regulations, the American flag must not, on pain of death or disfiguration, touch the ground or the floor. Well, there was the flag on the stage of Washington hall, and as far as we could see it was defiantly and in spite of rules touching the floor. We were elated and all set to dash off some prize ridicule, when we discovered from a very reliable source that the flag rested on a sheet (a good clean sheet) and didn’t even get near the boards. We’re considerably chastened and apologetic.
T HESE are the days when Impresario David Wark Hoffman is highly concerned with getting a lot of potential talent organized into what is commonly called “the best chorus in years.” We are referring to the forthcoming Monogram Absurdities, in which the wearers of the famous letters cavort fullsomely, if not too willingly, on the stage of Washington hall, under the eyes of Washington himself, and Demosthenes, and Cicero right there on the wall, not to mention the well known ghost of the Hall in the wings. We don’t know how successful these Absurdities will be, but they will satisfy fully if they only produce something like the famous skit in which Tom Kassis a few years back appeared as the hero’s loved one, dressed half in the style of the Welsh Singers and half in the manner of la Argentine, all topped off by one of the well known Kassis two-day beards.
We had to be out last night in all the sleet, and as we looked at the ice-covered branches of the trees we thought of a former editor of this weekly sheet. He used to run a little column called “Comment,” and he used, so he told us, to take long walks along the lake and under the trees. It was the sort of thing, this column, in which the writer marvelled at stars
hung in the lofty branches, and raved over the delicate tracery of mirrored clouds. You know the kind. Now this page and the ensuing ones may not be entirely pleasing to you, but thanks to the gods and Neil Hurley, you don’t have to glance at infinity through wild-lashing elm limbs hung with sugar-coated stars. It’s a consolation to be able to look at the ice on the Sorin bushes and say “Boy, are they the nuts!” and let it go at that.
LONG time ago we wrote a line or two in eulogy of a famous man about the campus, the time-worn Albert. We are tempted to do something of the same sort for another famous local character who passed away this week—passed away, that is, insofar as we probably shall never see her again. We mean none other than Mrs. Nick, the lady of the farmhouse. Her literal demise and the (we suppose) consequent denuding of her establishment bring real sorrow and call for consolation both for her and for ourselves. No more now shall we be able to enjoy one of her marvellous chicken dinners or hear her two huge dogs barking us into the lane. O rare Mrs. Nick!
P URSUING our love for the glamor of the stage, we wandered backstage while the Welsh Singers were having a smoke and a drink during the intermission. We met a few of them and began to make inquiries about their trips and what not, and found that they cared for the what not, which includes vacations in Chi, far more than for the trips, thereby showing how different they are from all the football men. Some fellow craftsmen from the glee club were back-stage, but they were far more anxious to meet a few halfbacks. Singers are all in the days work. What is more—this will be a surprise to Mr. Riordan, about whose new plan of selection you read last week (if you were interested)—they didn’t make one single query concerning the scholastic standing of the university. We wonder if that could have been merely ignorance on their part?
March U, 1932
Five
PRESIDENTS COUNCIL TO BANQUET TUESDAY
HIU1RE BELLOC MAY LECTURE HERE;
TO STAY AT NOTRE DAME OVER A WEEK
Seymour Is General Chairman; Manion Toastmaster.
The President’s Council will hold its first banquet of the new year at 7:00 o’clock Tuesday evening, in the Lay Faculty dining hall. Al. J. Seymour, general chairman of the banquet, has arranged the program.
Professor Clarence E. Manion of the Law school, will act as toastmaster.
Speakers of the evening will be the Reverend Raymond Murch, C.S.C. Prefect of Discipline, who will talk on the duties and affairs of the Presidents’ Council, and Reverend Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., editor of The Ave Maria, well known for his Irish wit and sound philosophy.
Prof. Phillips on Europe
Professor Charles Phillips of the English Department, will tell of some of his experiences while in England and on the Continent, and James Armstrong, Secretary of the Alumni association, will speak on the manner in which the alumni are cooperating with the various campus clubs.
Besides this program of speakers a full-course dinner is promised, to gether, with music, songs and other entertainment.
Members and their friends are eligible to attend the banquet. Tickets may be obtained from Charles Hitzel-berger in Walsh hall, Sal Bontempo in Lyons, A. J. Seymour, Phil Con-boy, or Leo Schiavone.
To Hold Meeting Sunday
A meeting of the Presidents’ council will be held Sunday morning at 10:30 in the north room of the library. All presidents of the city and state clubs are requested to bring to this meeting the charter of their respective organizations, which will be used for a definite check-up on the clubs. Whether or not a charter is held by the president of any campus organization, it is required that he attend this meeting.
Wins Honor Prize
By Intercollegiate Press.
Princeton, N. J., March 3.—John H. Rice of Macon, Ga., has been awarded the M. Taylor Pyne honor prize, the highest general distinction that Princeton university can confer on an
K.C.’i To Hold Third Degree This Sunday
Thirty-five candidates for membership in Notre Dame council, Knights of Columbus, will receive third de-
John Cahill
He runs a K. of C. banquet.
gree initiation into the order Sunday in the South Bend council chambers. Twelve candidates of the Elkhart council will also receive the degree. Initiation ceremonies will begin at 1:30 p. m.
John Cahill has been appointed by Grand Knight James Collins of the Notre Dame council, as chairman in charge of the initiation and of the banquet, to be held following the exemplification of the degree. Cahill will be assisted by Charles Fiss, Raymond Naber, John Wittliff, and Edward Barrett.
Reverend Thomas Burke, C.S.C. will be toastmaster of the banquet which will be held at 6:30, in the South Bend chambers. Father Burke will introduce James Donahoe, of Chicago, Supreme Director of the Knights of Columbus, who will be the principal speaker.
Other speakers will include John P. O’Donnell of Bloomington, State Deputy, and Louis Buckley of South Bend, District Deputy of the order. Otto Dorsey of LaPorte, State Secretary, and E. A. LaRocque of Elkhart, State Advocate, will be guests of the (Continued on Page 16)
JOURNEY SEEMS CERTAIN
Plans Not Definite, But All Indications Point To Lecture Series.
By Patrick Corcoran
“Hilaire Belloc may come to Notre Dame this spring.” That in substance is what the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, told The Scholastic yesterday.
The noted English writer will include Notre Dame in his tour of the United States should he decide to come to America. The question of his making the trip is the only matter in doubt at the present time. Arrangements are being made by the Catholic Writer’s Guild of America under whose auspices he will appear.
The itinerary will allow for at least a week’s stay at the University, during which time Belloc will deliver a course of lectures.
This will mark the second time in the past two years that Notre Dame has been host to a world-famous British author. In the fall of 1930, Gilbert Keith Chesterton, poet, essayist, and critic, gave a series of thirty-six lectures on the Literature and History of the Victorian Periods, when he spent almost two months here.
Belloc, like Chesterton, is one of the foremost of modern Catholic writers and lecturers.
The Living Endowment fund provided by the Alumni association is making the visit here possible.
Pre-Law Club Meeting!
The Pre-Law club will hold a business meeting on Tuesday evening, March 8, in the court room of the Law building. A speaker for the evening will be provided.
Pittsburgh, Pa., March 3. — In the next fifteen years there will be more changes in the American colleges than there were in the last 156 years, according to Dr. Henry Suzzalo, president of the Carnegie Foundation for
i
Six
The Scholastic
Dyniewicz Is Appointed Chairman of Senior Ball
ART GALLERY RECEIVES GIFTS FROM MRS.HER1NG
DANCE IS MAY 13TH
Connelly and Chairman Choose Various Committee Members; To Be Announced Soon.
Eugene T. Connelly, president of the class of ’32, announced late this week that C. Budd Dynewicz has been appointed to the chairmanship of this year’s Senior Ball,
C. Budd Dyniewicz
Chairmanship of the Ball is his.
Dyniewicz, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, is from Chicago and is a resident of Corby hall. He has served on committees for both the Sophomore Cotillion and the Junior Prom.
Along with Dyniewicz’s appoint- . ment came the announcement that the Ball itself will be held in the Palais Royale ballroom on the evening of May 13.
Initial arrangements got underway this week with Connelly and Dyniewicz collaborating in the task of choosing the personnel of the various dance committees. The members of these groups will be announced in next Friday’s Scholastic.
Dorothy Thompson has revealed that the hobby of her husband, the novelist Sinclair Lewis, is science.
Dead-Line For ‘Scholastic9 Now
At 12:30 Friday
By means of the most modern mechanical equipment The Scholastic is now able to present the latest campus news in record time each Friday.
By means of the new system the dead-line for Scholastic copy has been raised to 12:30 of the afternoon that the issue appears. Last week a story was printed and inserted at that hour in a trial test.
This week on page 11 there appears a photograph of the Italian club banquet, which was held last evening in the Notre Dame dining hall.
The picture was snapped at the dinner, and taken to South Bend and developed last night. Early this morning it was sent to the Indiana Engraving company, where the cut for reproduction was made.
At 9:30 the finished product was rushed by taxi to The Scholastic’s printing office in back of the Main building, where it was inserted into the form.
Since The Scholastic differs from ordinary newspapers, in that it is printed on higher grade paper and must be bound together and folded with a cover attached, the speed now being attained places it in the class with the speediest of professional papers of similai- type.
The new system marks an innovation in Scholastic history, in that it raises the dead-line two complete hours over last year, and almost twelve above 1930.
Wisconsinites Plan Dance
There was a meeting of the Wisconsin club Tuesday evening in the basement of Walsh hall. Plans concerning the Easter dance were announced, and several committees were appointed to take charge of pending preparations.
The Milwaukee Athletic club has been selected as the scene of the affair, but as yet the date and or--chestra have not definitely been decided upon. >
Two Pastorals of Philip Peter Ross School Included.
Mrs. Frank E. Hering of South Bend, Indiana has recently presented three paintings to the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery. Two of them are pastoral scenes of the school of Philip Peter Ross, surnamed Rose de Tivoli.
Although bom in Germany, Roos is regarded by the Italians as belonging to their school and one of their most clever animal and landscape painters. Both of the paintings are of farm animals. The other painting is a “Baptism of Christ” and is attributed to Salvator Rosa. One of the pastoral scenes and the “Baptism of Christ” have been placed on exhibit in the Gallery.
Jack Elder To Supervise Chicago Boys* Athletics
Jack Elder, former halfback and sprint record holder, who was graduated in 1930, has recently been appointed athletic director of the Catholic Youth Organization in Chicago.
According to Bishop Sheil, the rapid growth of the organization and magnitude of its few athletic undertakings made necessary the creation of an athletic directorship. The work will include handling the C. Y. 0. teams in various inter-city competitions planned by the society.
Eldei- will take immediate charge of all athletic activity. His appointment followed the decision of the Catholic Youth body to extend its athletic program over a year-round schedule.
Jack Elder played under Knute Rockne at Notre Dame during 1927, ’28, and ’29, climaxing his career with a 97-yard run for touchdown on an intercepted pass against Army in the latter year. During his college days he was rated as the fastest man in America for distances up to 70 yards, and is the only one to hold decisions over Percy Williams, Canadian Olympic champion.
A bust of Lafayette has been presented to New York university.
March i, 1932
Seven
PRESS BREAKS DOWN;
SCRIP DELAYED AGAIN
Joe McCabe Trys Psychology To Sell His Magazine.
Father O’Donnell Presented Insignia Of Crown Of Italy
DINNER THURSDAY
By “Scrip” Editor McCabe
The above headline isn’t true, but you wouldn’t know it if we didn’t tell you.
A press could go right ahead and break down, and no one would be the wiser, what with the papers being so occupied with the Chinese war and the depression. I don’t know why 1 should admit that the headline was untrue, any way, unless it might be the influence of Washington’s Day.
The whole idea was to get you to read this column. You see, the last few finishing touches are being put upon Scrip, so there isn’t much to say about it right now, except that the editor’s gone and sneaked a story of his own into it, and that the cover will be new and bright.
The name of Sheedy has been inserted so as to be sure of selling at least one copy in Alumni hall, and the editor is making an effort to have the magazine carry illustrations in bright inks to make it intelligible and interesting to those in Walsh hall.
So get your quarters ready — and the guy from Corby who handed in a lead quarter last time better watch his step! Is he watchin’?
Kohlbrenner Has Articles
Published In Magazines
Bernard J. Kohlbrenner, M.A., instructor in the department of education, is the author of two articles published in the March issue of The Catholic Educational Review.
“Supervision of Instruction in Certain Dioceses” is the title of the article appearing in The Catholic Educational Review. It is the result of a questionnaire study of supervision as it is carried out in the eight dioceses. Wide variations in practice were discovered, some giving much authority to principals of schools, some restricting most authority to the diocesan superintendent of schools.
In the same number of this magazine is a book review of “An Introduction to the Scientific Study of Supervision” by Professor A. S. Barr, of the University of Wisconsin, written by Professor Kohlbrenner.
Dick Escudier, A Senior, Only 6 Years of Age
By William W. Corr
“Come up and help me celebrate my sixth birthday.” That strange invitation from a senior was tendered to the writer last Monday.
Beaumont, Texas, was the scene of the birth of Dick Escudier on February 29, 1908. At present he legally celebrates his birthday every year on the first of March. But February 29 is the cause for a mammoth celebration. Although it was curtailed this year, it is invariably a hilarious time.
As a festive day it is doubly interesting because a cousin also helps, having been born on the same date four years later.
“Going three years without presents is the hardest part of the entire arrangement.” This sentiment was agreed by all present when someone voiced the belief that “it’s tough to have your only birthday in four years in a year of depression.” After looking over the boxes and bundles in that room we wondered if the depression is still on.
Many of you are probably wondering what people do that are boin on that day. We present the following facts for your information: If the birth takes place before noon the annual celebration takes place on the 28th of the month, but if the birth occurs after the noon hour March 1 becomes the day of feasting.
Would you like to be bom on the fourth year’s odd day? The present victims don’t enjoy it very much.
Law Notes
James M. Pearson, a graduate of the Notre Dame College of Law in 1926, recently notified Dean Konop that he has opened a new office in Flint, Mich., in partnership with William E. Doran, under the firm name of Doran and Pearson.
John M. Whitman, librarian of the Law school, is confined in St. Joseph’s hospital, South Bend.
First College President In This Country To Receive Award Of Italian King.
At a banquet held last night under the auspices of the Italian club, the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C. S. C., was honored by the presentation of the insignia of “Chevalier of The Order of the Crown of Italy” by Car. G. Castruccio, Royal Italian Consul of Chicago. Father O’Donnell was chosen to be so signally honored by the King of Italy, Victor Emmanuel III, in recognition of the services which he and several former presidents of Notre Dame performed in the furtherance of Italian culture at the University.
Congratulates Father O’Donnell
In his speech of presentation Cav. Castruccio congratulated F a t h e r O’Donnell on this mark of esteem which was conferred upon him and noted the fact that very few men were chosen to be so awarded, Father O’Donnell being the first college president in the United States so honored. He also sketched the history of The Order of Chevalier of the Crown of Italy, saying that it was established in 1868 by Victor Emmanuel II and was one of the three orders that may be bestowed by the King.
Gift Is Distinction for Notre Dame
Father O’Donnell in accepting said that the award came not as a personal distinction, but rather as a recognition coming to the University of Notre Dame in view of the large number of Italian-American students enrolled here and the opportunity given them to study all of the aspects of Italian culture. He said that rather than being an award for services which he alone performed, it was in recognition of the great work of Father Sorin, Dr. Zahm, Father Cavanaugh, and Father Walsh in the collection of Italian works here.
The banquet was attended by approximately one hundred and twenty people, and was marked by the attendance of many distinguished
(Continued on Page 10)
Eight
The Scholastic
WELSH SINGERS PLEASE A CAPACITY AUDIENCE
Duets, Solos and Chorus Feature Monday Program.
The renowned Welsh Imperial Singers, under the direction of R. Festyn Davies, were well received in a concert given in Washington hall last Monday night before 1,000 people. There were 12 well trained voices in the group, and their program, consisting mostly of folk songs, was firmly approved by the audience.
The Welshmen were strikingly dressed in the costumes of their homeland. They gave duets, solos and choruses. The solos were the most appreciated and scored the greatest hit of the evening.
Prominent among the popular choral numbers were Lizt’s “Leibes-traum,” “John Peel,” “Pilgrim’s Chorus” from Tannhauser, “The Long Day Closes,” by Sullivan, and Foster’s “Come Where My Love Lies Dreaming.”
Many encores were sung by the soloists. Henryd Jones, a baritone, pleased the audience when he sang the “Prologue” from Pagliacci. Other solos were rendered by Jabez Trevor, and Emrys Jones, tenors; Howell Williams, baritone, and Jack Newberry, bass.
R. Festyn Davies, the celebrated conductor, organized the Welsh Imperial Singers. For the past five years they have appeared in England and Canada, meeting with great success wherever they presented a program. When they first appeared in America on a tour they met with instantaneous approval. The headquarters of the singers in this country are in Chicago.
Zona Gale Wins Honorary Degree From Rollins U.
By Intercollegiate Press.
Winter Park, Fla., Mar. 3.—Among three men and three women receiving honorary degrees at Rollins college last week was Miss Zona Gale, novelist. She was given the degree of Doctor of Humanities. Another was Miss Annie Russell of Winter Park, retired actress, in whose honor Mrs. Edward W. Bok of Philadelphia gave Rollins $100,000 with which to build the Annie Russell Theater, now nearly completed.
EDITOR
Joseph McCabe, who besides editing “Scrip,” awl winning “Juggler” humor awards, finds time to write uproariously funny articles on his own publication for The Scholastic.
Geology Students In Peru To Study Foreign Ranges
By Intercollegiate Press.
LIMA, Peru., March 3.—A scientific expedition led by Dr. J. W. Gregory, professor of geology at Glasgow university, has arrived here to study geological formations of the midAndean range. The expedition will go into Bolivia and Chile from Peru.
The Peruvian government has appointed two geologists to go with the expedition in Peru.
Dr. Paul Menge Lectures To Moreau Seminarists
Last Saturday evening the Brothers at Dujarie hall' heard an illustrated lecture by Dr. Paul J. Menge, professor of foreign languages at Notre Dame, on “The Catacombs of Rome.”
Having visited the catacombs only recently, the professor was in position to give first-hand and authentic information. He described the catacombs and mentioned the causes for building them.	•
He also pointed out that the inscriptions of these early Christian tombs were the genesis of Catholic art. One of the most interesting illustrations was a photograph of the first picture of the Blessed Virgin, drawn about 100 A. D., and still preserved.
MARCH ‘ALUMNUS’ IS OUT
Latest Issue Reduced In Size; No Longer Wears Cover.
The March issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus was presented today by Editor James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary of the University and in charge of the monthly issues. The present issue marks an innovation in that the number of pages has been reduced to 16 from 32 and that the publication no longer wears a cover.
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, contributes a letter to the current issue in which he comments upon the Living Endowment fund recently inaugurated by the Alumni association.
The fund, it was said, is made up of voluntary contributions on the part of the alumni to care for some of the incidental expense of the University.
This year’s fund, which amounted to $5,800, was expended in the employment of lecturers, establishment of libraries for the various schools, and providing a main altai- for the Alumni Hall chapel.
An article by Registrar Robert Riordan, along with a reproduction of Father Wenninger’s recent radio address, are also contained in the latest Alumnus.	•
Oberlin Active in China
By Intercollegiate Press.
Oberlin, O., March 3.—In a special ceremony marking the 50th anniversary of her educational interests in China, now tom by war, Oberlin students and faculty members last week chose two seniors to carry on her work at Oberlin-in-Shansi.
They were Elizabeth James, president of the student Y. W. C. A. and Richard Irwin, vice-president of the Y. M. C. A. here.
Lillian Knows All About
Weight; Even Heavy Studies
By Intercollegiate Press.
Los Angeles, Calif., March 3.—Miss Lillian Copeland, American women’s record holder in the discus, shot and javelin events, has added another weighty subject to her activities. It is the study of law at the University of Southern California, where she is a student. '
March i, 1932
Nine
REYNIERS GIVES ADDRESS
Tells Academy of Science of Life Without Bacteria.
J. Arthur Reyniers, instructor in bacteriology, addressed the Notre Dame Academy of Science last Monday evening at a regular meeting held in Science hall. The meeting was open to students in the College of Science.
Entitling his paper “Life Without Bacteria,” Mr. Reyniers discussed thoroughly the technique now being perfected by members of the faculty of the department of biology by means of which it is possible to maintain a facteria-free guinea pigs over a prolonged period of time. He demonstrated his points with blackboard diagrams.
Folowing the presentation of this paper, a business meeting was held. It was announced that the next meeting, on March 14, would be conducted as an open forum.
Bookmen Hear Rolfs Compare Willa Cather, Edith Wharton
A comparison of Willa Cather and Edith Wharton as the most prominent women writers in American literature was the subject treated by Daniel J. Rolfs at the meeting of the Bookmen last Monday evening.
By means of comparison and contrast Rolfs gave a very complete analysis of the subject matter, the method of treatment, character portrayal, and style of each author. He illustrated his points with examples from the novel of each writer which he considered the best. He selected A Lost Lady as Miss Cather’s best, justifying his choice partially by saying that in her last works—her historical sketches—Willa Cather is on a tangent and will eventually come back to her mid-western theme. As Mrs. Wharton’s best he chose Ethan Frome.
As a critic the speaker felt obligated to classify the writers. He catalogued Willa Cather as a humanist, and Edith Wharton as a realist. He was rather reluctant to say which of the two is the better writer, but in conclusion answered the question indirectly by saying: “I consider Ethan Frome one of the finest novels I have ever read. A Lost Lady comes soon after.”
SECRETARY
James E. Armstrong, whose clientele stretches across the nation. His latest “Alumnus,” althoiigh shrunk in size, made its appearance yesterday and earned, among other things, several news scoops.
Dean Looks For Rugged Individualism, But Can’t Find It
By IntercoIIeKiate Press.
New York, Mar. 3.—The rugged individualism which is taken for granted in this country’s system of law, is as out-of-date as the pioneer who has been displaced by modern social living, Dean Roscoe Pound of the Harvard Law school said in an address here today before the annual meeting of the City college chapter of Phi Beta Kappa.
“Is there any such thing,” he asked, “as the independent man or the independent community ? Both have passed; yet they remain the picture behind our government and administration of justice. We postulate the self-sufficient neighborhoods of a century ago in a completely unified and inter-dependent nation.
“We must today transcend orthodox individualism and orthodox socialism to a mode of thinking that sees beyond them. We must evolve a philosophy of law for practical purposes that recognizes the human control of external and internal nature as something furthered by spontaneous self-assertion and directed cooperation.”
Practically all colleges in the country are this semester holding special Washington Bicentennial exercises.
LAETARE MEDALIST TO BE ANNOUNCED SUNDAY
An Outstanding Member of Laity Will Receive Award.
The Laetare medal will be awarded Sunday by the University for the fortySrst time. The custom of conferring this distinction upon an outstanding member of the Catholic laity of the United States was begun in the year when the award was given to John Gilmary Shea, and has been continued every year to the present time.
Made of heavy gold and inset in black enamel, the medal disc is suspended from a bar on which are inscribed the words “Laetare Medal.” The award is so called because of the fact that it is perennially announced on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent.
The ceremony is an outgrowth of the papal custom of the presentation of the Golden Rose, blessed by the Pope, to a renowned Catholic. This procedure is said to date from the time of Charlamagne.
The purpose of Notre Dame’s Laetare medal is to give suitable recognition to the services and endeavors of our Catholic laity. Prominent Catholics, comprising a list of novelists, architects, publishers, philanthropists, doctors, jurists, actors, scientists, educators and business men have been recipients of the award.
The Medal is generally considered to be one of the most singular distinctions an American Catholic can receive.
Commerce Globe Praised
B. G. Gibson who visited the campus this week in the company of Jacob Chillas, head of the Board of Education in South Bend, was enthusiastic about the new globe in the Commerce building and stated that Notre Dame was the possessor of one of the most unique and finest globes in America.
At present only one other such orb exists in the United States, which is located in the New York Times office in New York City.
Dobson is affiliated with the A. J. Nystrom Company of Chicago, Ill. This company, besides importing European maps, is one of the leading American firms in the handling of charts and globes.
Ten
PROF. GROOM’S PUPILS GIVE PIANO CONCERT
Program In Washington Hall Thursday Well Received.
Professor Willard L. Groom last night presented his students of piano in a concert in Washington hall. Though the program lasted but an hour, the audience felt that the young musicians had well displayed their virtuosity.
Opening the program with .Franck’s Fantasie, Messrs. Kaufmann and Sharpe prepared the way for one of the most popular concerts given thus far this season.
Beethoven’s Sonatina Played
Beethoven’s Sonatina, played by Messrs. Collins and Rocheleau, struck the fancy of the auditors, as did the First Movement of the Mozart-Grieg Sonata in G. Messrs. Hart and Newberry, who did the last mentioned number, appeared latei- on the program with several numbers, all greatly appreciated by the assembled group, which included members of the faculty and a group of students of music from St. Mary’s.
Chaminade’s Le Soir, perhaps the best executed number on the program, was well received. Messrs. Doyle and Reilly, however, did not appear again on the program.
Messrs. Collins and Rocheleau, reappearing for a group of dance numbers, were again applauded enthusiastically.
The Department of Music has announced that this is one of a series of concerts to be given. The concerts by the band and the glee club are scheduled for later this month.
Vergil Is Discussed
Professor Earl W. Langwell, of the department of classical and modern languages, talked on “Vergil and French Literature” at a meeting of the Patricians Wednesday evening.
Outlining some of the controverted facts of Vergil’s life, the speaker presented an exhaustive analysis of the works of the greatest of ancient writers. He gave a synthesis of the opinions of famous French writers and critics on Vergil.
Dr. S. V. Sanford, dean of Franklin College and the University of Georgia for several .years past, has been appointed president of the University of Georgia.
LATE NEWS BULLETINS
The following bulletins were received this morning just as The Scholastic was going to press and are here printed as received.
Francis Cawley advocated the international adoption of a gold and silver ratio and the abolition of tariffs as a cure for the depression at a meeting of the Wranglers last night. Such sweeping suggestions naturally induced very fiery opposition.
At the same meeting it was announced that the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., has accepted the position of faculty advisor for the club.
Off-Campus tightened their hold on first place in Group I of the interhall basketball race last night defeating Walsh, 17-15. Walsh tied the score at 15-all with 30 seconds to play, but Off-Campus counted a field goal in the final ten seconds to win.
South Bend Man To Address Villagers’ Club Next Monday
Carl Hibberd, president of the South Bend Chamber of Commerce, will be the principal speaker at a meeting of the Villagers club to be held at the LaSalle hotel, Monday evening, March 7. Coach George Keo-gan will also speak.
Following the meeting the members will attend the Granada Theatre, South Bend, as guests of the club. Final plans for the Easter dance and the appointment of committees will be made.
ITALIAN AWARD IS GIVEN
(Continued from Page 7)
guests. The Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. presided over the gath-tring as toastmaster. Some of the guests were: Mr. and Mrs. John Kigali, Mr. and Mrs. I. Valini, Judge Francis R. Allegretti, Judge J. Lupe, Judge John Sbarbaro, Cav. Bernard P. Barasa, Cav. Frencesco Bragno, Cav. Guiseppe Rossi, all of Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Proctor of Elkhart, and Professor P. Pirchio of the University.
The arrangements for the banquet were made by . general chairman, Sal A. Bontempo, secretary of the Italian club.
The Scholastic
DEATH TAKES FR. LAVIN
Beloved Priest Passes Away Sunday In St. Paul.
Reverend Walter Lavin, C.S.C., age 54, for many years professor of Latin and philosophy at the Uni-
Revekend Walter Lavin, C.S.C.
Requiescat in Pace.
versity, and hall rector, died last Sunday in St. Paul, Minn. The funeral Mass was held Tuesday in Sacred Heart Church. Reverend Timothy Murphy, C.S.C., was celebrant; Rev- . erend James Galligan, C.S.C., of St. < Thomas college, was deacon, and Rev- i erend James Hack, C.S.C., sub-deacon.
Father Lavin was born September ' 15, 1878, in Lawrence, Mass. He received the Cassock July 5, 1902, professed July 5, 1904, and was ordained to the priesthood August 2, 1906, at Notre Dame.
Active As Rector
Father Lavin was one of the best 1 known priests of Notre Dame during • the past generation. He was rectoi*	j
of Sophomore, Badin and Sorin halls.	;
During 1920 and 1921 he was assistant	5
pastor at St. Patrick’s church in J South Bend.
Father Lavin’s was the spirit that makes Notre Dame cherished by its students. He was always full of fun and this quality made his halls popular. Beloved as he was by all who	i
knew him at Notre Dame, his passing	$
will be mourned by a great many of those who have attended the University during the past twenty-five years.
February 26, 1932
Eleven
FORUM SMOKER SUCCESS
Varied Program Gets Approval of Large Audience.
The joint smoker of the Commerce Forum-Foreign Commerce club which was held last evening in the basement of Walsh hall set a precedence that other campus organizations might well follow in the future. It was the first notable attempt sponsored by a campus organization to bring the members together for an hour of complete relaxation from the daily routine of duty.
Dean McCarthy Talks
Dean McCarthy opened the meeting with a few timely remarks that served to put the audience in a jovial mood. In the more serious vein was the discussion of Mr. Homer Buckley, of the Buckley Advertising company of Chicago, who spoke on the advisability of definitely determining a career for which one is fitted before he leaves school and enters upon a business career. Mr. Buckley cited incidents to' illustrate the points he wished to convey to the listeners. Along the same line were the humorous and interesting remarks of Mr. William Donahue, of . the Chicago Tribune, who took for his topic the development of our powers of observation. He stressed the importance of this point by showing how a seemingly insignificant detail may shape the success or failure of a particular individual.
The Mahatma Trio
The first number on the entertainment program was the rendition of a series of vocal selections by a group, w’ho because of their oriental attire, were dubbed “The Mahatma Trio.” The novelty was received favorably, and the boys complied with several encores.
With the announcement that the refreshments would be forthcoming during the first demonstration of the art of self defense, the members and guests settled themselves to watch a lively and spirited boxing match between Bud Terrell and Charles Pod-laski. The main event between Jerry Duwan, heavyweight champion of the University, and Howard De Vault, ex-champ, turned out to be a merry exhibition of “tag—you’re it.” However, spurred on by the advice and invitations of the audience, the two men came back in the final round to mix it up in the real manner of champions.
The Insignia Is Presented
Cav. G. Castruccio is here shown presenting the insignia of “Chevalier of the Order of the Croton of Italy” to the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., at the banquet of the Italian Club last night. Left to right, Father O’Donnell, Father John Cavanaugh, and Cav. Castruccio.
MARCH 12 IS FINAL DATE, ANNOUNCEMENT OF PIN COMMITTEE
Members of the committee for Junior class pins announce that the final date for placing orders has been postponed until March 12. During the past few days the orders have been greatly increased.
The class pin is made from a blue Spinel stone. In previous years a background of black enamel has been used. The new pin has met with the general approval of the class.
Students are warned that any company attempting to sell pins will be banned from the campus. A member of the committee is stationed in each of the junior halls to take orders. Off - Campus students may place their orders at Room 117 Alumni hall. A deposit of five dollars is required before March 12.
New anesthetics made of synthetic perfumes, which will give the patient subconscious sensations of fragrance, have been predicted by Prof. Marston T. Bogart, head of the organic chemistry department of Columbia university.
CHICAGO CLUB TO HOLD BUSINESS MEETING THURSDAY EVE
The Chicago Club will meet in the Lay Faculty dining hall Thursday evening at eight o’clock. Plans for the forthcoming Easter* formal will discussed and a vice-president from the freshman class will be elected.
The officers of the club announce a program of entertainment which will be furnished by Cashier, O’Neil, McCabe, and Carmody. Father Eugene Burke, C.S.C., will be in attendance.
Virginia Priest Is Related To George Washington
The Reverend Richard Blackburn Washington, pastor of Sacred Heart Church, Hot Springs, Va., occupied by special invitation a seat on the floor of the House of Representatives during the exercises inaugurating the observance of the bicentennial of Washington’s birth a week ago last Monday. Father Washington, a collateral descendent of George Washington, had just previously sung a Solemn Military Mass in the Church of the Immaculate Conception.
Twelve
The Scholastic
SPECTATORS MEET; TALK ON SHAW AND DE VALERA
Pick and Flint Discuss Irish Free State and Dramatist.
Describing George Bernard Shaw as the “man who doesn’t wash his face,” John Pick appraised the famous writer at the last meeting of
John Pick
. Shaw is an iconoclast”
the Spectators in a talk entitled, “George Bernard Shaw: Iconoclast.” As the second speech of the evening, Robert J. Flint discussed “New Prospects From the Recent • Irish Elections.”
Shaw “A Literary Charlatan”
Pick, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, claimed that Shaw is a “literary charlatan,” and instead of doing the thinking for half of Europe, as claimed, he in reality follows a formula. “Shavian ‘originality’ is ready-made,” the speaker declared, “the formula is ridicule of what the human race reverences.”
It was admitted that Shaw knows how to write and is a master of wit, but many of his ideas come from other sources, many of them age-old. Pick concluded by asserting that Shaw’s importance is enormously over-estimated.
Cosgrave and De Valera Compared
Flint, also a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, opened his discourse with an explanation of the system of government in Ireland. He said that the strong two-party arrangement in vogue is very effective and promotes progress. An analysis of the characters and political philosophies of the two outstanding Irish leaders, Cosgrave and de Valera was made.
Irish Plays To Be Presented On March 17th
University players will present a program of three one-act plays on March 17 in Washington hall in celebration of St. Patrick’s Day. In keeping with the occasion, the plays are all of an Irish nature and background.
During the past week the casting of characters and holding of rehearsals have been conducted under the direction of Prof. Frank Kelly, head of the Department of Speech, and director of the plays.
“Hour Glass,” a classic by the celebrated author and dramatist, William Butler Yeats will be given. The play is a philosophical history of the wise man and the fool, and has been acclaimed by critics as one of Yeats’ best.
Two plays by Lady Gregory, “Hyacinthe Halvey” and “The Rising of the Moon” are also included on the program. The former is an Irish comedy that contains humor as well as splendid impersonation of character parts. “The Rising of the Moon” is a play, based on loyalty. It presents a cross section of life in Ireland.
Special scenic equipment and costumes are being prepared for the production of these plays. The presentation will mark the second performance of the University Theatre this year.
Rescue Party Finds Body of Prof After Avalanche
By Intercollegiate Press.
Longmire, Wash., March 3. — The body of youthful Professor Richard Pearce of the University of Washington, who was caught under an avalanche of snow in Ranier National Park, was found by rescue parties today which dug into tons of snow left by the avalanche.
Prof. Pearce’s skis had become entangled in a small tree as he was running away from the slide. Charles McDonald, a senior at the University of Washington, was also caught in the slide, but struggled free after being knocked down. He rushed on to • Paradise Inn to notify park officials while the other of the group of five dug for the professor.
DERNBACH TO SPEAK HERE
South Bend Man Will Address Boy Guidance Students.
The Boy Guidance department will have as its guest speaker next week, Dr. H. Dernbach, director of vocational guidance in the South Bend schools.
Dr. Dernbach’s talk, which will be on “The Duties of the Vocational Director,” will be one of a regular series of such lectures to be given at the University by outside lecturers.
The last speaker to address the assembly was Harold Pote, personal director of the Boy Scouts of America. His subject was “Methods of Selecting a Vocation.”
Professor Raymond Hoyer, of the departemnt, in commenting upon the lectures this week declared: “The talks of these guest speakers form an important part in the Seminar work of the course. The series this year is being devoted largely to vocational guidance in an effort to send into the schools teachers who are capable of dealing with this problem.”
Students Boo At Game, So Prexy Apologizes For It
By Intercollegiate Press.
Hanover, N. H., March 3. — President Hopkins of Dartmouth College has sent an apology to Dean Hawkes of Columbia University today as the result of booing of officials and players by the Dartmouth students at a Columbia - Dartmouth basketball game. Columbia won the game, 42-32, thus taking the lead in the Eastern Intercollegiate League.
Abent Minded Professor Found After Three Weeks
By Intercollegiate Press.
Havre De Grace, Md., March 3.— Ira Foulton Catlin, student instructor at John Hopkins University, 30 years old, was found this week, after a three week’s disappearance, wandering in the hills about Conowingo Dam, with his feet frozen and his mind apparently a blank.
He told police that he had been sleeping in the woods. He did not remember his name, nor did he know how long he had been in the woods.
Edward W. Berry, dean of the College of Arts and Sciences said the instructor was subject to melancholy spells.
March 4, 1932
Thirteen
FRENCH MOVIE PLANNED
Travelogue Depicting French Scenes To Be Shown Mar. 13.
The French club decided at its regular meeting last Monday evening to show a travel movie of France in Washington hall, on March 13. Professor Dubois, director of the club, obtained information as to French movies from a firm in New York which deals in such pictures.
Each film deals with a certain section of France and depicts life in that locality. One film lasts about fifteen minutes so that if several of these are obtained a varied and interesting picture of France can be shown. It is probable that movies of southern France, the valley of the Seine, and the coast of Brittany will be among the films selected.
After Professor Dubois’ announcement, President Jules de la Vergne gave a short talk in French in which he described a bull fight he had seen at San Sebastian in Spain. De la Vergne said that he was particularly interested in the reaction of the spectators and claimed they behaved even more frenziedly than an American crowd at a football game.
The next meeting will be held March 7, on which occasion a program of short talks has been arranged.
St. Francis College Stops All Intercollegiate Sports
By Intercollegiate Press.
Loretto, Pa., March 3. — They are going to find out at St. Francis college here if athletics are essential to a college.
'	Beginning with the college year
1932-33 next September, all intercollegiate athletics will be suspended at St. Francis.
The action was taken by the board of trustees and announced by Father John P. Sullivan, rector of the col-
•	lege.
“The decision,” he said, “was reached partly because of economic reasons and due to a desire on the part of St. Francis to experiment on the idea of whether athletics are essential for a large student body.”
1	The athletic staff members have
been notified that their services wiil not be required for one year. This year’s baseball schedule will be played out as usual but the 1932 football schedule has been cancelled.
Host Talks On Kidnapping To N.D. Press Club
Paul Host and John Sheehan provided the oratorical entertainment at the Press club meeting last Tuesday evening.
Host, newly elected football captain and Scholastic staff sports writer, traced out the news value of the Woolverton kidnapping case to the South Bend newspapers.
Showing the way the story was handled in the various editions, both extra and regular, he pointed out the method of playing up the new angles in the situation.
Sheehan, public relations director of the South Bend Lathe works, and former president of the Press club, talked on publicity. Stressing the trade journals and indicating the large field they offer to the press agent, he went into a detailed account of the method of writing publicity stories.
Both speakers were introduced by President Arthur Himbert. About twenty members were in attendance.
Met Club Plans Easter Dance; Lopez Orchestra Will Play
The Metropolitan club has completed plans for an Easter formal, dedicated to the alumni, to be held on Easter Monday, March 28. The Grand ballroom of the Hotel New Yorker has again been engaged, and Vincent Lopez and his full, original orchestra will play.
The club has also arranged for a special train for the holidays, with a one-way fare for the round trip.
With the special train, which should make it possible for most of the students from the metropolitan area to make the trip, and the popularity of the winter formal at the New Yorker, this spring dance should boast a large campus attendance, in the opinion of club officers.
Elected Correspondent
By Intercollegiate Press.
Professor Theobald Smith of Princeton university has been elected a correspondent of the French Academy of Sciences. He received 42 votes on the first ballot out of 48 cast, in Paris.
FATHER LAHEY ON AIR z OYER STATION WSBT
Discusses College of Commerce In Seventh Radio Talk.
By Mitchell Tackley
Representing the College of Commerce in the third part of the University radio series of talks being
Rev. Thorias Lahey, C.S.C.
“. . . Business men need a spiritual education too.”
broadcasted over WSBT, the Tribune station of South Bend, Reverend Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., Ph.D., professor of advertising, spoke on “The Place of a College Commerce in Preparing Students for Business Leadership” last Wednesday evening..
In. his opening words, Father Lahey stated that the choice of his particular topic topic was instigated by the fact that the American people have come to realize the necessity of a responsible business leadership. This, he said, is important if the country is to administer its .business resources for the benefit of the many rather than of the few.
Man Equalized
In a short historical sketch of the development of ancient art and the gradual accomplishments with a mingling of this art and the natural resources of the infant nation, America, Father Lahey showed how throughout the years man has become mort and more equalized.
“Now the thing for us to realize,” he continued, “is that while opportunities have not lessened, the conditions for leadership have. An investigation shows ‘that out of fifty men who have recently been voted the industrial and educational geniuses of the age, all but a scant half-score
(Continued on Page 16)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
A Man About the Campus -
Leo Schiavone
PRESENT ENROLLMENT OF UNIVERSITY IS 2,924
By Stephen Hawxhurst
Another boy from Massachusetts comes into the light of publicity— none other than Leo Schiavone.
Leo comes from Revere, but the only time this little suburb of Boston sees him is during the Christmas holidays. For the president of the Boston club, Leo sees remarkably little of Boston and a great deal of Chicago, where he spends his Easter and summer vacations and various intermediary week-ends. He also intends to settle down as an income-tax attorney in Chicago after finishing the law course he is taking now.
President of Italian Club
Besides being president of the Boston club, Leo is the president of the Italian club, and a member of the executive board of the Presidents’ council. One would think that these three positions alone would make it difficult for a man to carry on a law course and maintain even half-way respectable marks.
Leo has even more than this to cope with. He lives on the wild third floor of Corby hall, the haunt of such irrepressible spirits as Johnny Pe-rone and his gang.
After seeing Perone in any of his well-known performances, one can readily appreciate how hard it must be for Leo to live near him and still carry on the average of 87% he has successfully maintained so far.
Will Tour Europe
Leo, contrary to the general idea of a Notre Dame student is neither an athlete nor a manager. He is interested in wrestling, but is forced to enjoy this sport more or less vicariously because of the lack of facilities for its indulgence. A few years ago, however, one could have seen Leo playing football with the freshman team although he did not carry on long with it.
Although he has never indulged in dramatics or oratory here, Schiavone was well known in high school for both. He was president of the Revere High School Dramatic club, and of the school’s undefeated debating team. His interest has changed to what has now become his main avocation, the reading of novels. He has a liking,
as every one has, for Willa Cather and Thornton Wilder, with an added taste for Sigrid Undset and Turgeni-eff.
Leo is now planning his next summer with a European tour in mind.
Leo Schiavone
He was president of the Revere High School Dramatic club.
He is going to travel extensively throughout the southern part of Europe, and spend six weeks studying at the University of Rome. Who dares to question that cultural influence of the Italian club?
Spanish Club Meets
The Spanish club held its weekly meeting last Wednesday evening in the Engineering building.
John Slaughter addressed the club concerning his mining experiences in Chile, and Telmo de Landero explained the Aztec excavations now being carried on in Mexico.
Business of the meeting was concerned with the election of Leo Brias as sergeant-at-arms. It was announced that the next meeting would be held March 9 at 8:00 p. m. in the Commerce building.
Osgood Addresses A. S. M. E.
R. B. Osgood of the Jenkins Bros. Valve company addressed members of the A. S. M. E. at their meeting held last Tuesday evening in the auditorium of the Engineering building.
Refreshments were served at the. conclusion of the address.
252 Students On Probation; Decrease Over Last Year.
The enrollment in all the colleges of the University is at present 2924, according to the records in the office of the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies.
That the present adverse economic conditions have had little effect upon the registration, may be seen by the fact that the number at this time last year was 2936. At the semester 293 students withdrew from school, whereas last year 291 students left. Those dismissed for poor scholarship at the mid-year numbered 101, and those dropped in February, 1931 totaled 122.
Ten Students Less
The total number of students who have been in attendance at the University at some time during the present school-year is 3217. This is only ten less than the figure for 1930-1931. They were distributed among the colleges of the University as follows: Arts and Letters, 1315; Science, 271; Engineering, 489; Commerce, 927; Law, 156; and Graduates, 59.
Students who have been placed on probation for the present, or third, quarter total 252. This is far less than the number for the second quarter of this year which was 419. The College of Science leads with 13.6% on probation, closely followed by the College of Engineering with 13.1%. Commerce is next with 9.6%, while Law has 6.3% and Arts and Letters 5.1%. The average for the University is 8.6%.
Freshman Leads Probationers
Distributed among' the classes, it is found that the freshmen lead in the proportion of students on probation with 14.7%. Sophomores are next with 9.8%. Juniors follow with 4.4% and the Seniors with 1.5%.
Among the halls, Brownson has the greatest percentage of probation students with 20.3%. Dillon comes next with 16.1%. Lyons is not far below with 14.1%. Sophomore has 11%. Carroll, 10.8%; Morrissey 9.2%; Oif-Campus, 9%; Alumni, 8%; St. Edward’s, 6.5%; Howard, 6.4%; Corby, 4.6%; Badin, ‘1.8%; and Sorin, 1.6%. Walsh has the best record having only one student on probation, giving it a rating of .5%.
March k, 1932
Fifteen
DUMB DOME VICTIM ✓ TO BE “DOME” ITSELF
Dumb Dome Editors Trying Hard
AU Campus Editors Are To Be Fully Exposed.
“Because it feels that it cannot possibly serve any good end; because it represents a pile of otherwise good money; because it gives the editor something to do and a salary that runs to five figures; because it hopes to reflect as badly as possible the sturm und stress of campus life; because of a dozen or more equally imbecilic reasons, this volume is herewith foisted on an unconscious public.”—Foreword to the Dumb Dome, 1932.
Hallinan Direct Attack
Two years ago, the Dome, in its allegedly satiric section, handed a few audacious brick-bats to The Scholastic under the title, The Elastic. Last year the Juggler became The Jugular under the deft touches of Leslie Rad-datz.
This year-, Raddatz, now Dome editor, himself commissioned a satire staff under Paul J. Hallinan; the staff reciprocated by concocting a vitriolic, scathing (if somewhat obvious) travesty on the staid, old Dome itself.
That Raddatz will suffer because of his unfortunate choice is fairly evident from the accompanying photo-graph, entitled “The Board of Editors Meets.” Back there under the academic cap and back of that formidable mustache is a gentleman who purports to be W. Leslie Hoodatz, the power (and ’tis said, the brains) behind the Dumb Dome.
Goofy Staff Promises Surprise
On the right is probably Feil Squr-ley, in a swell hangover from the Elastic of two years ago. The flitgun desperado is Funny Fellow Bobbie Gourmet of the Jugidar. On the extreme left is Jo-Jo McCabe in the throes of editing Scraps, famed lit-sheet of the campus.
That’s only a sample. There will be twenty scenes, specially posed by members of that old school of acting, —Messrs. Lawler, McManus, Yoch, Dubbs and Nugent. The satire editor himself may appear in a fine character study done by Joe Steffel, White studio photographer.
Halls, Sports, Dances, Seniors, Juniors, Underclassmen and Clubs will receive an impartial handling. Goofy verse, goofy cuts, and a goofy staff all indicate that.
“We’ll do it, bogs,” they say; reading the lads from best to worst: McBabe, Hoodatz, Gourmet and Squrley.
FACULTY RADIO TALKS EACH TO BE GIVEN ONE DAY SOONER
Announcement has been made of the change in dates of the radio speeches being given by University professors over the South Bend Tribune station,WSBT, every Monday and Wednesday. The time of each of the speakers has been advanced one day.
The balance of the program beginning with next Monday, March 7, is as follows:
The College of Commerce
Mar. 7.—“Business Ethics,” Eugene J. Payton, LL.B., associate professor of marketing.
Mar. 9.—“Speculations and Investments,” Lee T. Flatley, M.S., instructor in marketing.
The College of Arts and Letters
Mar. 14.—“Contemporary Views of the Universe,” Daniel C. O’Grady, Ph.D., assistant professor of philosophy.
March. 16.—“Backgrounds in Literature,” Charles Phillips, M.A., professor in English.
Philosophy Notice
Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C. S. C., head of the Department of Philosophy, announced this week that there will be no classes in philosophy taught on next Monday, March 7, the feast of St. Thomas Aquinas. This is in keeping with a custom of some years standing at the University.
WASHINGTON ORATORY CONTEST IS WON BY COLUMBIA STUDENT
Bryson Hayes, a freshman of Columbia University, Portland, Oregon, won first place last week in the George Washington state intercollegiate oratorical contest of Oregon.
Hays, speaking on “George Washington’s Understanding of Men,” competed with students representing the University of Oregon, Pacific University, Oregon State College, Linfield College, Willamette University, Mary-hurst College, and Southern Oregon Normal school.
The Reverend Louis Kelly, C.S.C., formerly professor of philosophy here, is president of Columbia. The Reverend William Carey, C.S.C., formerly rector of Sorin hall, and former registrar at Notre Dame, is vice-president.
Easter Formal Planned
At the meeting of the Grand Rapids club held last week, announcements were made concerning the Easter formal. The dance is to be held Easter Monday in the Italian room of the Rowe hotel. In connection with the affair, there will be a midnight buffet supper served.
It was decided by the members to make the dance an open one, but as yet there has been no announcement made concerning the advance sale of tickets.
i
Sixteen
The Scholastic
The‘Rec’ Room-Scene of
FATHER LAHEY ON RADIO
Hectic Frosh Orientation
Commercial Course Appraised By Advertising Professor.
Carroll and Brownson “Rees” have for half a century been catering to and furnishing recreation for Notre Dame students. Under the kindly supervision of Brother Mauritius and Brother Aloysius .respectively, they have become in the last twenty-five years genuine campus institutions.
Freshmen using their cues as partners, waltzing around to radio jazz— intense bridge games—Herb Pretzel striving manfully to wrest the pool championship from Bill Hurtz—sophomores hopping around on one leg, trying to upset each other in what is identified as “chicken fighting” — an occasional impromptu boxing show or wrestling match — are all every day occurrences, glibly described by Dick Parrish, Carroll’s student manager.
An Olive Oil Champ
Brownson’s counterpart, the smiling Freddy Fayette, enjoys expanding on the many “goofing parties” which have taken place in his emporium. One particular personality who graced the campus a few years ago was led to consider himself the University checker champion.
The “champ” had a huge following, and attributed his success to the fact that before meeting challengers his supporters would always rub down his checker-arm with olive oil.
Both halls have large week-day patronage: Brownson leading with its daily average of over four hundred balk-line artists. On the other hand, however, Carroll’s candy counter far eclipses the business of any or all the apple-vending machines of ias competitors. The acndy trade assumes amazing proportions on Sunday, when the canteen is closed.
Cues and Tables of History
Each “Rec” boasts nine tables for pool and billiards. On these the annual tournaments are held. Incidentally the present title-holder is a former Brownsonite, Harold Hall. Longest runs in pool show Carroll somewhat in the rear, Bill Hurtz’s string of thirty-four being slightly overshadowed by Brownson’s Marty McKeown whose run of thirty-six created a recent furore.
The tables are almost as historic as the “Rees” themselves; apparently they are the vintage of those well-
known gay nineties. And the cues . . . most of them were made for shooting around corners!
Table number eight in Carroll— and number one in Brownson—ask any pool shark what’s wrong with
them. Then there are those three mysterious sawed-off cues, which have caused so much curious comment. Dick finally came through with the story: they are used by three diminutive Cubans, on what he calls Carroll’s “midget table.”
“Sweet Ad-o-line”
Most unusual musical talent is discovered in the two halls. Quartets, impromptu and unorganized but ambitious, gather nightly around the battered pianos to render off-key close harmony. The radio, too, plays an important part, and all the talented keep in practice to the accompaniment of Wayne King or Ted Weems; whistling and crooning are almost incessant.
Both “Rees” have a quality about them which seem to draw students. The dismayed, lonely freshman invariably makes his way to Carroll, the first few days of school, seeking companionship. Off-Campus men utilize them for morning study halls—where they play bridge between classes.
Political and Social Halls
The combined political factions of Brownson and Carroll “dorms” convene there each year at the time of freshman elections. Old grads meet their former classmates in these rooms under Washington hall. . Fathers, alumni of Notre Dame, enjoy playing a game of pool with their sons—on the same tables they used twenty years before!
That campus axiom is fitting and well earned: “If you can’t find the person you’re looking for, drop into Brownson or Carroll, he’s sure to be there.”
(Continued from Page 13)	'
came up out of poverty’,” he finished.
“What has been your educational approach to your work?” is the question now being asked the majority of the young men who seek employment today, said Father Lahey.
An intricate understanding of the details of a business must be thoroughly accomplished through the medium of study. He said that he believed the educational institutions could build a new type of commercial leadership because of the over-night demand for a professional business training.
About The Dollar Sign
Father Lahey said, “Where the dollar sign twinkles, the robber usually gathers, and the liars, and the murderers also.” To combat these factors, business organizations must pick those men who are willing to dedicate their lives, if necessary.
Without sacrificing the technical requirements, the courses of young men and women in college must be made as Christian and cultural as possible, he said.
Abuses of the business organizations should not blind us to our opportunities, spoke Father Lahey. “We have been elected as a people to take the leadership in what has been the greatest material development that the world has ever seen; but we must accept the problems of that leadership also,” he said.
Because of the boldness of the cheaters and sharpers, our young men must be equipped spiritually and educationally, he advised. The work of our college of commerce today, he concluded, should be a work of training commercial leaders of the future to a skilful, honest, responsible stewardship of the material gifts of the age.
K, C. TO HOLD 3rd DEGREE
(Continued from Page 5)
Notre Dame council at the banquet.
Representatives of Elkhart, LaPorte, Mishawaka, Plymouth, and South Bend Councils are expetced to attend, and a prize will be awarded the Elkhart 1 council for being outstanding in tiie state councils during the past yeari
The Notre' Dame “Jugglers” will furnish music for the banquet.
March 4, 1932
Seventeen
GERMAN SCORES GENIUSES
Very Few Mentally Healthy, He Asserts.
Scholastic Reporter Gives Views on Life at Novitiate
By Intercollegiate Press.
New York, March 3.—Of all the geniuses of history, few have been mentally healthy, according to W. Lamge-Eichbaum, German author, in an interview with The Intercollegiate Press today.
“In almost every instance,” he declares, “recognized genius has been coupled with insanity. “Among modern peoples a reverence for genius has often become a substitute for dogmatic religions of the past. Genius has become a goal toward which every one is supposed to be working.”
Yet, he said, genius cannot be considered “the foreshadowing of the higher evolution of our race, but rather as something which may foreshadow the ultimate extinction of our race.”
Among the few geniuses whom he believes to have been mentally healthy, Lange-Eichbaum names Titian, Raphael, Andrea del Sarye, Rubens, Verdi, Durer and Leignitz.
Those whom he says have created their principal works before they were seriously affected by psychosis include Kant, Copernicus, Stendhal, Faraday, Linnaeus and Huygens.
“The following,” he states, “died of general paralysis of the insane: Beaudelaire, Donizetti, Lenau, Leuthold, Jules Goncourt, Makart, Hugo, Wolff, and Lautensack. The following were affected with schizophrenia when they died: Tasso, Newton, Lenz, Holderlin and Panizza.
“Almost everywhere, and especially in the subjective fields of imaginative writing, religion and music, gifted ‘instanity’ gains the victory over simple, healthy talent.”
Excursion Rate To New York Over Holidays Is Announced
The Metropolitan and New Jersey clubs have arranged with the New York Central for a special excursion rate to New York and points en route during theEaster holidays. The fare will be $29.75 round trip. The length of time allowed under the special rate is still under discussion, but according to present indications it will be from March 22 to March 31. The trains will contain day coaches only.
By Roy Scholz
Across the lake from the Dome is set a somber brick building. Around it spacious lawns, perfectly culfi-
St. Joseph’s Novitiate
Here’s tchere newcomers are acquainted tvith novitiate life.
vated gardens, handball and tennis courts meet the eye.
It is St. Joseph’s novitiate of the Congregation of Holy Cross for the United States province.
Entering the portal which, in response to a bell, is swung open by a quiet novice, one sees an immaculate hall. The chant of the novices in the distant chapel and the sight of the beautiful statue of the Blessed Virgin bring a realization of its sanctity.
The novice departs with the message that there is some one to see the Master of Novices, the Reverend Kerndt M. Healy, C.S.C. He arrives shortly, and willingly explains various features of the novices’ life.
The purpose of the novitiate is to acquaint the new comers with the religious life. In order to be admitted one must have finished high school; if this requirement is not fulfilled the aspirant will enter Holy Cross seminary and complete his high school work.
Before anyone can enter the seminary to study for the priesthood he must have completed the novitiate which consists of a period of 365 consecutive days during which he must reside exclusively on the novitiate grounds.
The novices arise at five o’clock, have meditation, followed by recollection, the recalling of their medita-as they eat. After breakfast each
tion, and Mass. After this they attend breakfast in the refectory which like the rest of the house is immaculate.
Here the novices listen to a reading
has a particular duty to perform before the Little Office of the Blessed Virgin is chanted in common. The rest of the morning is spent in prayer and study; classes in Latin, Catechism and Liturgical Chant are taught.
After dinner one hour of recreation is allowed: hand ball, tennis, and billiards are but a few of the diversions the novices enjoy. At all times strict silence is kept.
The only time they are allowed to speak is during recreation hours. Except for one or two hours outside work the afternoon is spent in prayer and study. After supper one hour is allotted to recreation followed by prayers and retirement at nine o’clock.
Every Thursday is “scrub day” and the whole house is scoured. Sunday the novices take a long walk into the country. Once a mcnth they are allowed visitors, and although they may receive mail at any time except Lent and Advent they are allowed to write only once a month.
Upon completing the novitiate the novices who wish to become priests enter Moreau seminary, and those desiring to be Brothers enter Dujarie Institute. All of the religious faculty at Notre Dame who are members of the Congregation of Holy Cross at one time served their novitiate at St. Joseph’s novitiate, the virtual “West Point of the Religious Life.”
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PALACE
Quick Results
In a recent ordinance, the town of Hanover, N. H., where Dartmouth is located, required all eligible students to vote in order that it might collect a poll tax from them. This measure aroused the ire of the students. In retaliation, they attended a town meeting “en-masse,” where they introduced and succeeded in passing two very ridiculous bills. One of these proposed the building of a wall around the town eight miles high and the other, the construction of a city hall one foot wide and a mile high. Hanoverians had to take the affair to Washington to get out of building the two structures. But—it was not long before the aforementioned ordinance was repealed.
They’re Freshmen
The annual questionnaire submitted to the freshmen by the Daily Princet-onian reveals some of their strange whims:
Education facilities attracted 327.
Reputation attracted 163.
Family traditions and contacts brought 70.
A Frosh’s ideal girl should have brains, personality, beauty, a sense of humor, dancing ability, and money.
Absolute necessities to be found in the ideal girl are: a close resemblance to Greta Garbo, Marlene Dietrich, Joan Crawford and the possession of a soft, well trained voice.
A Phi Beta Kappa key means more to the freshmen than a varsity letter.
It May Be The Climate
Students of Juanita college who are found sleeping in the library are given a sleeping slip. Three slips deprive the student of the use of the library. “Because of the continual napping of some, with the accompanying evil of snoring, the unattractive picture of the indolence the sleepers present, and the use of more chairs than necessary, the committee felt that it was necessary to enforce this rule,” says the Junior-tian.
Even Good Effects
A greatly enlarged honor roll due to the increased seriousness of students affected by the economic depression has been predicted by President E. O. Holland, of Washington State college.
Dr. Holland says that financial strain and worry among the students has brought about a greatly increased earnestness in all student endeavor.
Attention, Economics Seminar
Speaking before the tenth annual meeting of the International Student Service at Mount Holyoke college, Dr. Walter M. Kotsching of Austria said he believed the unemployment situation could be blamed on the colleges for their failure to cope with vital economic problems.
What Price College?
A recent study shows that of the men who have graduated from Yale in the past five years, those selling bonds are drawing the highest salaries. The average annual wage for this group is $4,165.
Fair Warning
The leader of a book ring which stole 2,500 volumes from the Harvard library was recently convicted and books recovered. Each of these books will contain a bookplate with the following inscription: “This book was stolen from the Harvard College library. It was later recovered. The thief was sentenced to two years of hard labor.”
An Artifact?
When the Daily Northwestern purchased 12 new typewriters, it came out with the following statement:
“The new mechanical news-makers replaced machines that should have had their faces lifted and their chasses overhauled years ago. They dated back to the Rhodesian man and one of the glaciers. They produced work so blurred that only scandal stories were really legible.”
March 4, 1932
Nineteen
MIHUf PAGE
NOMINATED FOR OBLIVION
One of the most noticeable disadvantages of the Presidents’ council’s new ruling that each campus organization must meet twice a semester is the embarrassment that the edict may cause the S. A. C. and the Blue Circle.
Both, it seems, are in grave danger of losing their charter, and unless something is done in a hurry the first quartei’ will have passed without the required meeting. This, of course, unless one wishes to count their noon meeting on the Library steps to be photographed for the Dome picture section.
Supposedly, the middle initial of the Student Activities council has always carried with it the connotation of some sort of activity. That the converse has been true during the past three months is a matter of common knowledge.
Two representatives of the S. A. C. were sent on council funds to the student convention at Nashville, Tennessee. Presumably, the purpose of this meeting was to discuss ways to promote better undergraduate activities.
But that the local band of political officeholders have been all too latent and easy-going is readily apparent.	.
There are those on the side-lines, who with a lackadaisical touch will cynically remark, “Well, what do you want them to do?”
The Scholastic does not know. It has never recognized the S. A. C. as an efficient undergraduate organization. It has ever found it increasingly difficult to support with any degree of warmness the listless measures that the local “governing” body has attempted to foster.
But The Scholastic does know that if there is nothing for the S. A. C. to do, that they should be abolished.
At the University of Chicago this week, a similar organization to the one on the Notre Dame campus, voted to end their reign of “dictatorship.” The present S. A. C. could make themselves immortal in school history by ending the hoax that surrounds the name and wiping everything but their memory from the University records.
The Scholastic has no bone to pick, nor axe
to grind. But it seems ridiculous for an organization to exist, when the scope of their activity is limited to the superficial conducting of a pep meeting or two, or the half-hearted fostering of spring elections.
HILAIRE BELLOC
On the front page of The Scholastic today appears a news story dealing with the probable lecture series here of Hilaire Belloc.
Mr. Belloc is among the cleverest essayists of the language, and together with Gilbert Keith Chesterton, who spent more than two months at Notre Dame last year, probably leads the English speaking writers for savory dialectics.
As an essayist, the demolishing climaxes of Mr. Belloc’s efforts have made him world-known. Yet not satisfied with premiere literary achievements, he entered the field of politics and was elected to the Parliament of England. From this citadel he delivered many of his famous speeches.
It is the University who is fortunate in the agreement should the plans actually go through. The Scholastic, as well as all Notre Dame, proffers a sincere welcome to Mr. Belloc.
DEBATERS DEBUT
Before many days have passed the 1932 debating season will.be underway. In the past, student support of the forensic squad has by no means been up to a desirable standard. Many of the people composing an audience have been present because credit for a particular course hung in the balance.
Such an attitude towards one of a university’s major activities does not speak well for the culture and so-called better things of life which supposedly are an integral part of a collegian’s make-up.
The question which our teams are disputing this year is a timely one. Governmental entrance into industry is discussed more today than it has ever been before. A student owes it to himself to be acquainted with the arguments pro and con of such a movement.
Twenty
The Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
Harriers Face Marquette Here
Seek Fourth Dual Meet Triumph In BUTLER CLOSES CAGE
Clash With Hilltoppers Tomorrow HERE THURSDAY
Metcalfe, Tierney, Ravensdale, and Walter Lead Invaders; Gough Out For Season.
By James S. Kearns
Notre Dame’s track squad is scheduled to clash with its second traditional rival in as many Saturdays tomorrow when the Marquette harriers appear in a dual meet at the Notre Dame gym.
The Irish runners are slated to bid for their fourth consecutive dual meet victory of the season. Iowa, Butler, and Illinois have all fallen before Coach Nicholson’s charges.
Marquette Strong
The invading Milwaukee squad will boast a number of exceptional performers and a considerable amount of team strength. However, on the basis of Notre Dame’s showing in the Illinois meet, the Irish are favored to outscore the Hilltoppers tomorrow.
Leading the Marquette squad is Captain Jack Walter, Canadian ace. Walter is one of the finest milers in the midwest and his clash with Eddie King should be one of the outstanding events of the day. Walter has been clocked as low as 4:20 for the mile during his career and turned in a 4:32.6 to tie Wright of Wisconsin two weeks ago.
Wilson Favored
The Marquette captain .will also go to the mark in the 880-yard run but is not conceded much of a chance of stopping Alex Wilson, Notre Dame’s Canadian flash. Pete Walter was slated for the 880 again this season till injuries forced him from competition.
Wilson should also take the quarter-mile without a great deal of
The complete official program for the twenty-ninth annual Interhall track meet will be found on page 31.
trouble though Jack Tierney may force him most of the way. Tierney is a vastly improved runner over his form of a year ago and may extend the Notre Dame champion more than is expected.
Two Strong Dash Men
Tierney will probably be entered in the sixty as well as the longer distance. Teaming with Ralph Metcalfe, dusky flyer, he has picked up more than a few points in the shorter race this season.
Metcalfe, Marquette’s best sprinter, needs no introduction. An outstanding prep athlete at Tilden Tech in Chicago, the colored star has developed into one of the finest college sprinters in the country. Only last week he led George Simpson to the tape in the 40, 50, and 60 yard events of an invitational sprint series.
Captain Bill McCormick is slated for a busy afternoon if he is to withstand the challenge of the Marquette entrant. Notre Dame’s strength in the sixty was weakened considerably this week when Ed Gough, broad jumper and sprinter, was declared out of competition for the remainder of the indoor season. Gough suffered a leg injury while winning his heat of the sixty in the Illinois meet.
Ravensdale Meets DuPuy
One of the finest races of the card looms in the high hurdle event. Bill DuPuy, Notre Dame sophomore, will meet Art Ravensdale, Canadian sensation and likewise a sophomore, who is Marquette’s chief threat. Chet Trost, another sophomore, has shown (Continued on Page 21)
Game Date Changed To Avoid Conflict With C. I. C. Meet.
The final act of Notre Dame’s twenty-game basketball schedule will be staged here next Thursday when Butler’s eagers invade the local court.
The game was originally carded for Friday, March 11, but has been advanced a day to avoid a conflict with the preliminary heats of the C. I. C. track meet, scheduled for Friday night.
Bulldogs Seek Revenge
Coach Toby Hinkle and his veteran quintet will be seeking revenge on the Keoganites for the thrilling 37-32 defeat administered at Indianapolis two weeks back.
It is expected that the invaders will have especial watch posted for Joe Voegele, leading Irish reserve. In the first encounter, Voegele marked up fifteen points, eleven of which came in a stirring second-half rally that carried the Irish to a closing minute triumph.
Many Veterans Back
Coach Hinkle’s lineup Thursday night will differ very little from the aggregation that he used in breaking even with the Irish last season. Miller, Davis, Profflt, Chadd, and Tacket all saw service in last year’s encounters and led the way in the near upset of the Irish this year.
The game at Indianapolis was the hardest fight that the Keoganites have experienced in their fourteen-game winning streak and indications point to another thriller in Thursday night’s game.
The clash with Butler will be the last game in Blue and Gold regimentals for Captain Norb Crowe, Bill Newbold, Ray DeCook, Tom Burns, Clay Johnson, and Al Schumacher.
March k, 1932
Twenty-one
Up And Over
EIGHT MATCH TENNIS SCHEDULE ANNOUNCED
George Poredon (left) and Bill DuPuy clear high hurdles in practice run. DziPuy, sophomore star and winner of the 60-yard high hurdles, last tueek, meets Ravensdale of Marquette tomorrow.
SANCTION IS OFFICIALLY GIVEN TO OUTDOOR TRACK SCHEDULE
Official approval was given early this week to the outdoor track schedule for this spring. Three dual meets, one of which is at Notre Dame, one relay carnival, the annual C. I. C. meet, and the National Collegiates completes the schedule.
The schedule is identical with the tentative card announced early in January with one exception. A definite decision was made to have the Irish runners show at the Drake relays, April 29 and 30th rather than at the Penn carnival the same days.
The only home meet of the outdoor season will bring the Army track squad west to meet Coach Nicholson’s team on May 28.
The schedule:
April 29, 30—Drake Relays.
May 7—Mich. State, at E. Lansing.
May 14—Pittsburgh, at Pittsburgh.
May 21—Open.
May 28—Army, at Notre Dame.
June 3—Central Conference, at Milwaukee.
June 9, 10—National Collegiates, at Chicago.
MARQUETTE MEETS N. D.
(Continued from Page 20)
considerable promise in the high barriers and will be the third leading entrant.	'
Ravensdale is co-holder of the world’s record for the 120-yard low hurdles (10 hurdles). In the Wisconsin meet he had an easy time taking first honors despite the fact that he was evidently not at his best. He has already been named on the Canadian squad for the coming Olympics.
Other Good Performers
Others on the Marquette squad who should annex points in tomorrow’s meet include Leon Schram and Jerry Jelinek, pole vaulters. Schram, who placed behind Ralph Johnson in last year’s C. I. C. meet, has proven his ability to clear the 13 foot height and should win the event tomorrow.
Kores, a half-miler, Geissman who will face Gene Howery in the two-mile, and a pair of fair high jumpers just about complete the Marquette point-getting group. Should Gene Ronzani and Kukla, both basketball men, be able to make the trip, they will add considerable strength to the invaders’ chances in the shot put.
Trips to Chicago, Detroit, and E. Lansing; Courts Open.
Announcement of an eight meet tennis schedule was made this week by Athletic Director Jesse C. Harper.
Jesse C. Harper
Cards eight matches for net team.
Four of the meets are scheduled for the Notre Dame courts with the other four slated for out of town engagements.
Combined with the announcement of the schedule was the opening of the University courts for the use of the varsity candidates.
Fifty Report
Approximately fifty aspirants for berths on the varsity squad reported to the tennis manager. A number of freshmen who were included in the original group of candidates had to be dropped this week because of a ruling by which first year men are made ineligible for tennis as well as other sports.
The installation of all - weather, metal-mesh nets on the courts just north of Cartier field has been promised for the near future, and workouts are scheduled for the candidates as soon as the nets are placed. Present plans call for the starting of the first elimination tournament some time before Easter should favorable weather conditions hold out. -
First Meets Here
Opening the spring season, the Notre Dame net men will oppose the racquet squad of Indiana State Teachers’ college, Terre Haute, on the Notre Dame courts, April 15. Eight days later Western State Nor-
(Continued on Page 29)
I
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Newbold’s Basket In Tensest Moment Beat Pennsylvania
This is the sixth of a series of articles by Paul Host, Scholastic staff writer, in which he describes tense moments in the lives of Fighting Irish athletic stars.
By Paul Host
Copyright, 1932, by Notre Dame Scholastic.
Bill Newbold, Notre Dame’s scintillating forward, saw Carnegie Tech dissipate a twenty-year-old tradition on old Cartier field .when he was a freshman.
Heartbroken, he gazed through glistening eyes at the first Notre Dame loss on their own field in a score of years. Traditions mean a lot to freshmen.
Penn Had Never Won
Last winter as the high scoring forward on Notre Dame’s varsity basketball team, Bill Newbold saw Pennsylvania’s quintet well on their way to deleting another hoary tradition.
Pennsylvania had never beaten an Irish basketball team in the Palestra, the enormous Philadelphia gymnasium where the annual Irish-Quaker clashes are held, but on this occasion Bill had seen the Pennsylvania five go into the last fifty seconds of a breath-taking struggle on the long end of a 20-19 score.
Ten thousand onlookers, a capacity house for even the immense Palestra, were on their feet those last few moments. They were the audience, while on the basketball stage one of the tensest sport dramas of the year was being enacted.
Johnson Scores Too
The half had ended: Notre Dame 13, Pennsylvania 10, but when ten minutes of the final period had ticked away Pennsylvania was fatuously lolling with an 18-14 lead.
Clay Johnson was inserted into the game and quickly rang up two startling chalkers from well out on the court. DeCook made a free throw. And then Penn came to life.
Tanseer, who will be remembered for his great game at end here in ' South Bend last fall, crashed through with a hooper with fifty seconds left to play.
■ It augured ill for the traditional victory string of the Irish in the Palestra, but traditions, still meant
a lot to Bill Newbold. Both teams were clawing viciously for the ball when suddenly Ray DeCook emerged from the wild imbroglio with the then priceless oval.
Bill Newbold
Saved traditional winning streak.
Tossing caution to the winds he dribbled frantically down the floor. The Penn guards were caught short as Newbold sped down the right side of the court, and Crowe galloped down the left.
A bullet pass is hurled to New-bold under the basket. He leaves his feet at full sail, stretches his six feet almost to the rim, and eases the pellet through the net for two points and tradition.
“That was my tensest moment' in
(Continued on Page 30) :
BROWNSON, CARROLL TIE IN SECOND MEET
Off-Campus, Alumni, Walsh, Howard Qualify Men.
Last night Brownson and Carroll halls tied for first place in the second preliminary division of the interhall track and field meet. Each team amassed a toal of 16 points. Pressing close behind the winners was the Off - Campus team with 13 points. Alumni and Walsh finished a hair’s breadth behind tying with 11 marks each. Howard trailed with a score of 5.
The best record of the evening was turned in by Murphy of Walsh in the first semi-final heat of the 60-yard dash. He covered the distance in :6.4 being pushed all the way by Collins and Moeler.
Caldwell of Carroll was high scorer of the meet with 6% points. Kennedy of Walsh, and Donovan of Alumni were tied for second with 6 points.
The summary:
60-YD. DASH (semi-final heats)—Won by Murphy (W) ; Collins (A), second; Moeler (OC), third. Time :6.4. Second heat won by Donovan (A); Kristel (C), second; Miller (W), third. Time :6.6.
MILE RUN—Won by Duke (H) ; Helmer (Br.), second; McDevitt (C), third. Time 5:4.8.
POLE VAULT—Won by Coogan (Br.) ; Short (OC), second; McDonald (C), third. Height, 10 feet.
SHOT PUT—Won by Dames (A) ; Vario (Br.), second; Mathews (C), third. Distance, 38 feet, 1 inch.
65-YD. LOW HURDLES—Won by Holbach (W) ; Hill (C), second; Bospflug (H), third. Time .-7.8.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Kenny (OC) ; Kennedy (W) and Caldwell (C), tied for second. Height, 5 feet, 6 inches.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Caldwell (C) ; Kennedy (W), second; Donovan (A), third. Distance, 19 feet, 5 inches.
440-YD. DASH—Won by Bandy (OC) ; Se-ber (C). second; McGuire (Br.), third. Time :57.7.
880-YD. RUN—Won by Cline (W) ; Mathews (Br.), second; Lawton (Br.), third. Time 2:12.
THREE-QUARTER-MILE RELAY—Won by Alumni; Carroll, second; Walsh, third. Time 2:38.
NOTICE!
The Freshman - Alumni interhali game scheduled for 9:30 a. m. Sunday has been changed to 2:30 p. m. The Sorin-Lyons game scheduled for 2:30 p. m. will be played at 9:30 a. m.' This change is effective in both lightweight and heavyweight divisions,;
C. F. Weiss.
March 4, 1932
Twenty-three
FROSH CUE WIELDERS TO OPEN TOURNEY IN BROWNSON REC.
Sixteen freshmen pool enthusiasts wound up a week’s practice today, and are awaiting the opening of the tournament, tomorrow afternoon in the Brownson “rec,” which will decide the class championship.
The losers in the semi-finals will match cues for the consolation championship, while the entrants who are defeated in the opening round will be pitted against each other, with fourth place going to the man who survives.
Cash prizes will be awarded; the winners will be handed $4.00, $2.50 will be given for second place, and $1.50 for third (consolation victor).
The two contestants entering the finals and the consolation winner will be matched with the three best in the upper classmen’s tournament for a grand prize, which will probably be a loving cup.
The Sophomore, junior, and senior shares in this activity will begin as soon as the Freshmen have shot the last ball across the table. Upper classmen entries are accepted in the “rec” now.
ARMY GAME BOOSTS LEADERS’ TOTALS (Including Army game)
	v G	FG	FT	PF	FTM	PCT	PTS
Krause	16	41	38	28	30	.559	120
Newbold	18	32	19	40	13	.594	83
N. Crowe	18	33	7	30	11	.389	73
DeCook	15	30	11	15	12	.478	71
Voegele	16	26	17	17	19	.472	69
Baldwin •	9	17	5	14	5	.500	39
Burns	18	10	10	33	9	.526	30
L. Crowe	13	12	3	7	2	.600	27
Davis	11	11	3	11	2	.600	25
Schumacher	11	5	3	5	2	.600	13
Johnson	11	1	1	9	4	.200	3
Fehlig	1	1	0	0	1	.000	2
Schrader	2	0	0	2	0	.000	0
Oelerich .	1	0	0	1	0	.000	0
	—	—	—	—	—		.	—
Totals	18	219	117	212	110	.515	555
Opponents	18	128	132	187	111	.543	388
* G—games ; FG—field goals; FT—free throws; PF—personal fouls : FTM—free throws ' missed: PGT—percentage of free throws made; PTS—total points.
SAT. - SUN. - MON., MARCH 5th, 6th, 7th	| Saturday
1	All Seats
-	And Another Big
IVAUDEVILLE And Screen Show Headed by The Celebrated Star
NAN HALPERIN In Person AND OTHER BIG RKO ACTS On the Screen
CHARLES "Chic" SALE m "THE EXPERT"
STARTS NEXT TUESDAY The phantom thrill makers of a nation—bring you the thrill of your life. •THE LOST THE AERON RKO-Eadio Picture—with Richard Dix—Mary Astor—Joel McCrea—Eric Von Stroheim Never before a production to equal it—and to be shown at regular prices. '
35c
Until 6 P. M.
R K O
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
Tracksters Win Seven Races To Topple Illinois Runners
SCORE 541-2—401-2
N. D. Mile Team, Illini Broad Jumper Shatter Old Marks; McCormick Runs in :06.2.
By Joseph A. Morper
Notre Dame’s track team made partial amends for the amnhandling they have been receiving from Illi-
Coach John P. Nicholson
Scores Second Win Over Illini nois these past sixteen years last Saturday when they sent the invaders home smarting from a 54% to 40% defeat.
Alex Wilson, slim star of the Irish, was the individual star of the meet by virtue of his wins in the 440 and 880 yard events. He also anchored the winning relay team which set a new Gym record.
McCormick, King, Triumph
Captain Bill McCormick, with his world record achievement in the 60 yard dash, and Eddie King, who trimmed the far famed Dean Woolsey in the mile, also came in for their
share of the cheers of the 1,500 assembled fans, who saw the Irish win every running event.
The meet opened with McCormick winning the heat from Arning of Illinois in :06.3. Gough of Notre Dame won the second heat over Leek of Illinois but pulled a tendon in his -left leg, and was forced out of competition. Then McCormick put on his act in the finals and the Irish led 5 to 4.
Although the new record the fans expected to see hung up in the mile failed to materialize, they were rewarded with a thrilling race. Eddie King, sophomore distance star for the Irish, eked out a win over Dean Woolsey in the closest race of the day. King, setting all the early pace, didn’t relinquish his lead until the seventh lap. At this point Woolsey made his expected bid and stayed in front until they hit the back stretch. At that point, King again went into the van and stayed there until the end of the race. Roberts of Notre Dame was third.
DuPuy Cops Hurdles
DuPuy was the next Notre Dame man to break the tape when he scurried over the 60 yard high hurdles in :07.6, a tenth of a second away from the gym record set by Johnny O’Brien last year. Etnyre and Seely of Illinois followed him across the finish.
Running a beautifully timed race, Wilson won the quarter mile without any trouble. He set his own pace all the way and breezed the last 50 yards; Kelly of Notre Dame came in second after encountering stiff opposition from Leek of Illinois.
Illinois Score in Shot
Illinois went ahead momentarily when the result of the shot put were posted. Cook and Purina finished one-two in this event ahead of Finkel whose best effort was short of Cook’s heave of 45 feet, 4% inches.
The lead of the Illini was soon wiped out with the running of the 880. Wilson ran a clever race setting a slow’ pace for the first five laps. When his position was challenged, a burst of speed again sent him to the front, and he won in easy, fashion, (Continued on Page 25)
IRISH MEET MARQUETTE IN FINAL ROAD CLASH
Play Return Tilt Tonight At Milwaukee; N. D. Favored.
Notre Dame plays a return basketball game against Marquette at Milwaukee tonight and is expected to win rather handily. The Fighting Irish won the first contest, played on their home floor, by the score of 43-31 early in the season, and no matter how much the Hilltoppers may have improved it is doubtful if they have kept pace with Notre Dame in this respect.
Notre Dame Favored
With a record of fourteen consecutive victories over the strongest team in the nation behind them, the Notre Dame team is an overwhelming favorite despite the previous hard fought game with Marquette. In that contest, after a fast and rough first half which ended with Notre Dame four points ahead, the Fighting Irish routed the visitors in a furious second period attack and the second team held them at bay during the final eight or nine minutes.
Budrunas Is Threat
Notre Dame will have to face one threat tonight, however, which was missing in the early January contest. That is Budrunas, the Hilltoppers’ lanky center. The tall blond is a veteran of many games and he, if ever anyone did, had an off night in the first game. He was held to two field goals by the then inexperienced Krause, and compared with his past performance against Notre Dame, this was far from his best form.
Shipley and Gorychka, the only sophomore on the Marquette team, have been collaborating with Budrunas in leading the attack and are the boys who must be stopped by Notre Dame.
Senior Gets Commission
Robert C. Streb, a senior in the ’ College of Commerce, has been commissioned a second lieutenant in the National Reserve Corps and assigned to duty with the three hundred and twenty-seventh Field Artillery, stationed in South Bend.
Professors at Massachusetts Institute of Technology have reported a new cure for rickets, to supplant the use of cod liver oil.
March 4, 1932
Twenty-five
THIRTEEN GAMES ON BASEBALL SCHEDULE
Fast Irish Attack Sweeps Cadets To 41-23 Defeat
Spring Card Announced This Week; Hurlers Report.
Notre Dame’s 1932 baseball schedule was announced this week by Athletic Director Harper. The card calls for thirteen games for the Irish nine during the spring season. Seven of the tilts are to be played at home.
Official opening of the training season occurred Wednesday night when a squad of battery men reported for preliminary work. About fifteen pitchers and a group of catchers were included in the first squad.
Palt, Mannix Back
Outstanding among the hurling prospects are Captain Charley Palt, diminutive southpaw, and Mannix, veteran righthander. Palt was the outstanding hurler on last year’s squad and is pointing for another successful year.
While the two veterans are the only monogram winners among the pitching squad, indications seem to point to a fairly strong array of hurlers for Coach Keogan when the season opens.
Nine Conference Foes
The schedule as announced includes nine games with Big Ten teams. Chicago, Wisconsin, Northwestern, and Iowa will be met in a two-game series while a single game is pending with Indiana. Both of the Iowa engagements are scheduled for the Notre Dame diamond.
The other four games of the schedule are with Michigan State and Western State Normal of Kalamazoo. A home and home arrangement has been made with each school.
The schedule:
April 15—Wisconsin, here.
April 16—Chicago, at Chicago.
April 23—Open.
April 25—Indiana, at Bloomington (tentative).
April 27—Chicago, here.
May 4—Western Normal, here.
May 7—Open.
May 10—Northwestern, here.
May 14—Michigan State, at East Lansing.
May 20—Iowa, here.
May 21—Iowa, here.
May 24—Wisconsin, at Madison.
May 28—Northwestern, at Evanston.
May 30—Western Normal, at Kalamazoo.
June 4—Michigan State, here.
HARRIERS WHIP ILLINI
(Continued from Page 24)
just jogging over the finish line. Smith of Illinois was second, and Eddie King captured his sixth poinc of the afternoon taking third. The time was 2:03.4.
Nelle replaced Simon of Illinois as gym record holder for the broad jump when he leaped 22 feet 9% inches. Simon’s mark was a half inch shorter. Conley of Notre Dame was second, and Murphy of Illinois third.
Lennington Misses Record
Lennington of Illinois made a vain attempt to add his name to the list of record holders when he missed 13 feet 6 inches in the pole vault. His mark of 13 feet, however, was good enough for a first place.
Darling kept his record clean for the season by finishing in a tie for first with Osty of Illinois. The Orange and Blue jumper created considerable of a stir in the stands with his showmanlike tactics. Etynre of Illinois was third.
Howery Wins Two-Mile
Gene Howery, cross country captain, won his specialty, the two-miie run, in the fast time of 9:36.7. Ewing of Notre Dame was second, and Line of Illinois lasted for third honors.
The relay team composed of Mac-Beth, Kelly, Vettel and Wilson made a runaway of the mile, covering the distance in 3:27 flat. The time, although constituting a new gym record, would have been much lower had Illinois offered an competition.
Summary:
MILE RUN—Wonby King (ND) ; Woolsey (I), second; Robert (ND), third. Time 4:33.2.
60-YD. DASH—Won by McCormick (ND) ; Arning (I), second; Leek (I), third. Time :06.2 (ties American record set by Murchison in 1923).
60-YD. HIGH HURDLES—Won by DuPuy (ND) ; Etnyre (I), second; Seely (I), third. Time :07.6.
SHOT PUT—Won by Cook (I) : Purma (I), second; Finkel (ND), third. Distance, 45 feet, 4^ inches.
440-YD. DASH—Won by Wilson (ND): Kelly (ND), second ; Leek (I), third. Time :51.
TWO-MILE RUN—Won by Howrey (ND) ; Ewing (ND), second; Line (I), third. Time 9:36.7.
880-YD. RUN — Won by Wilson (ND) ;
Continued on Page 28)
KRAUSE SCORES 19
Many Fouls, Poor Officiating Mar Contest; DeCook and Stecker Score Heavily.
By T. Edward Carey
The Cadets of West Point, eager to revenge their last season’s defeat by Notre Dame, invaded the latter’s
Coach George E. Keogan
Guides charges to 14th straight win.
field house last Saturday night and were handed the most decisive licking that they have suffered all season by an equally enthusiastic Notre Dame basketball team. The score was 41 to 23.
Notre Dame students who missed seeing the Notre Dame-Army football game last fall— and they constitute the major part of the student body—saw all they wanted of the traditional intense rivalry between the two institutions in the roughest
Continued on Page 28)
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
By Irving B. Halper
Sorin opposed to Off-Campus and Carroll pitted against Badin! That is the way the lineup for the championship games, to be played March 20, appears in the heavyweight and lightweight leagues respectively. For the four teams mentioned have thus far conquered every team that has been pitted against them.
Carroll lightweights are a cinch for at least a tie for first place in Group II. They have won five games and have but one left to play, while their closest rivals have won but three while dropping one.
However, the paths of the other three undefeated teams is not strewn with roses. Sorin has Lyons to worry about. The sophomore quintet drop-
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
J. Burke,Inc-
OPTOMERIST and MFG. OPTICIANS 228 So. Michigan St.
Est. 1900
SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS TO N. D. STUDENTS
ped their first game but has been victorious in all games since. Dillon lightweights may defeat Badin when they tangle. Dillon, like the Lyons heavies, lost their first game but have managed to win every other encounter. Last night Walsh was to play the postponed game with Off-Campus. This game will have a lot to do with the final standings.
Off-Campus kept their slate free of defeats by trouncing Alumni, 19 to 13. Bogna and Vitt, “Daydog” forwards, found the hoop for seven field goals and were the stars of the game. Fayette, Alumni right forward, and Draper led the junior hall.
Gildea, Lyons left forward, and Vettel, left guard, for the same team were “on” and led their team to an easy victory over Sophomore, 27 to 12. Gildea tallied ten points while Vettel scored three field goals. Hall was another Lyons man who stood out. Wynn, Sophomore right foiward, and. Wiengand, Sophomore center, also played well.
Although Paul Host was held in check by Morrissey’s guards, Sorin managed to win, 15 to 12, mainly through the efforts of Bernie Heitz who tallied seven points and played a good floor game. Baldwin was another Sorin man who played good
ball. Denoyers and Morrow fought hard for the losers.
Carroll lightweights continued their march to the championship by defeating Howard, 16 to 8. McDonald and Pogue, right and left forward for the winners, were the outstanding men in the game. Howard lacked any real stars thought Naber scored five points.
Alumni were victorious over Off-Campus by the overwhelming score of 17 to 6. Drumgould, Alumni right guard, and Lee, left guard, did most of the scoring. Brennan and Oakes starred for Off-Campus.
McNichols and McCormick led a fighting Morrissey lightweight team to their first victory of the year over Sorin, 15 to 9. This came as quite an upset for the seniors had only dropped one game previous to this. Brown, center, was about the only Sorin man who was on his game.
STANDINGS
GROUP I.
Heavyweights				Lightweights	i				
Sorin	w 5	L 0	PCT. 1.000	Badin	w 5	L 0	per. 1.000	1
Lyons	4	1	.800	Dillon	4	1	.800	
Morrissey	4	1	.800	Sorin	3	2	.600	J
Sophomore	4	1	.800	Sophomore	3	2	.600	j
St. Ed’s	2	3	.400	Corby	2	3	.400	!
Badin	1	4	.200	Lyons	1	4	.200	5
Corby	0	5	.000	St. Ed’s	1	4	.200	■	
Dillon	0	5	.000	Morrissey	1	4	.200	
GROUP II.. Heavyweights	Lightweights								ii
*Off-C’pus	w 3	L 0	PCT. 1.000	Carroll	w 5	L 0	PCT. 1.000	
Freshman	3	1	.750	Brownson	3	1	.750	
’Walsh	2	1	.667	Off-C’pus	3	—	.750	
Alumni	2	2	.500	Howard	3	2	.600	
Carroll	2	3	.400	Freshman	1	o	.250	e
Howard	2	3	.400	Alumni	0	4	.000	
Brownson	0	4	.000	Walsh	0	4	.000	
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
ROUND TRIP EXCURSION
South Bend to Chicago
Week ends, Fri., noon thru Mori.
I Leave South Bend station, Michigan and I La Salle streets, any train Friday noon to ' Sunday noon. Return on any train up to and including 11:30 p. m. train, Monday. For in: formation phone South Bend 3-3111, or see Chas. Woods, 222 Lyons Hall.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

’These standings do not include the Walsh-	j
Off-Campus game played last night.
GAME SCHEDULE	i
March 6
Group I—
1:30 p.m.—Corby vs. Dillon
9:30 a.m.—Lyons vs. Sorin -	'
3:30 p.m.—Badin vs. St. Edward’s	।
4:30 p.m.—Sophomore vs. Morrissey	i
Group II—	i
8:30 a.m.—Walsh vs. Brownson
2:30 p.m.—Alumni vs. Freshman	f
10:30 a.m.—Carroll vs. Off-Campus	:
Howard—bye.
PRACTICE SCHEDULE
Varsity Floor	Friday, March	Apparatus Room 4
Lyons	7 P. M.	Sophomore
Badin	8 P. M.	Dillon
Alumni	9 P. M.	St. Edward’s
	Monday, March	7	'
Off-Campus	7 P. M.	Walsh
Howard	8 P. M.	Sorin	*
Morrissey	9 P. M.	Corby
.	Wednesday, March 9		
Freshman	7 P. M.	Alumni	■
Brownson	8 P. M.	Lyons
Carroll	9 P. M.	Badin
4
March 4, 1932
Twenty-seven
CHIVALRY
Out of the pre-meet dope concerning the Marquette track squad’s invasion of Notre Dame tomorrow comes an interesting tale of modem, yet old-style gallantry. Pete Walter, t stellar middle distance man at the Milwaukee school, is the hero. Unlike the story book variety he did not manhandle the villains very successfully. Reason enough: there were two of them.
It seems that, in the early portion $ of the present season, Pete overheard a pair of self-appointed appraisers passing none too tasteful remarks about two co-eds of his acquaintance. Evidently he objected. Whether or not he backed it up with physical persuasion we don’t know.
»'	The broadcasters countered by tak-
ing offense at Pete’s interruption, and they did add a bit of a reminder. Finding the track star alone, the two administered an unmerciful trimming. Pete’s reward for his defense of the
Splinters From The Press Box
By James S. Kearns
co-eds was a broken jaw, three weeks in the hospital, and complete elimination from the indoor season.
RECORDS
We hear that they’ve installed a new six-lap track for the I. C. 4A meet in Gotham this weekend. We shudder to think what will happeii to the existing records, meet, national, and possibly world’s.
The old intercollegiate speedway was one of the fastest indoor tracks in the country, and it required eight circuits for a mile. Hahn, Chapman, and relay teams without end, lowered records regularly on its surface.
It is regrettable that Gene Venzke, hero of the moment, will not be among the field on the new oval. It seems that he is still in the “schoolboy” category and is not eligible for collegiate competition.
After V e n z k e ’ s record-breaking 1,500 meter run last week, officials at the finish expressed the belief that
had he gone on the remaining 120 yards needed for the mile, he would have run the distance in 4:08. If the Pottstown flash is capable of that remarkable time, he could look for no more advantageous track than this one at the Kingsbridge Armory. All of which is merely hypothesis: he won’t be at the I. C. 4A gathering, and that’s that.
SCORERS
We’re presenting our second last scoring box this week. Ed Krause has moved far into the lead with his record spurt against Army. He is a cinch to finish in the van. Bill .Newbold, who set all the early season pace has struck a slump the past few games. The Army encounter was the first occasion in eighteen games that Newbold failed to score.
The order of finish behind Krause is uncertain. Newbold is second at this writing but Norb Crowe, Ray DeCook and Joe Voegele are all within striking distance.
It shouldn’t be necessary to add that besides being very efficient individual scorers, these men are members of one of the greatest college basketball teams in the countrv. Which, after all, is the important thing.
EAT Caramel Crisp The Original Health Confection.
The more you eat, the more you want.
A WHOLESOME FOOD—
Finest ingredients used— Candies and Buttered Popcorn.
Across from the Palace Theater (Next door to the Granada)
Caramel Crisp
Refined Atmosphere-
Courteous Service—
Sanitary Equipment—
And an honest desire to please, gain and hold student trade
The Oliver Hotel Barber Shop 205 West Washington Avenue
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
CADET CAGERS FALL
(Continued from Page 25)
game played on the local court this year. It was the first time that an Army athletic team has played at Notre Dame, and a capacity crowd of 5,000 watched the game.
The officiating was very poor, and about nine-tenth of the fouls, particularly those of Army, went uncalled, but when the Cadets made known their intention, in the opening minutes, of turning the contest into a he-man’s game the Fighting Irish were scarcely at a loss. From then on, that good, old college spirit prevailed.
Notre Dame scored six points before Besson was able to put Army on the scoreboard with a foul shot. Add a field goal for Besson and a foul for Hillis and visualize Ed Krause, the star of the contest, going into action and you have the first ten minutes of the game, with the score at that time standing 10 to 4 in favor of Notre Dame.	’
Irish Lead at Half
Stecker and Besson scored again for Army and Notre Dame’s lead was reduced to 12-8, but Krause and De
Cook went wild along about this time and when the smoke of the first half had cleared away' the score stood, Notre Dame 21, Army 14.
Voegele was the boy who saved the Fighting Irish attack when it threatened to stall in the first half, and it was his brilliant floorwork that led them in the second. Krause and DeCook kept ringing up points, while the Army was allotted an occasional field goal. Although Notre Dame led 30 to 18 at the half way mark of the second period, the vicious play kept up until the final gun.
Krause Leads Scorers
Krause scored nineteen points for Notre Dame, thirteen in the first half. DeCook and Stecker were next with ten each, although the Army ace must have been relying on the law of averages for he took enough shots to justify three times that total.. Seventeen fouls were called against Army and nine against Notre Dame.
Summary:	'
Notre Dame	(41)	b	f	p
Newbold, f .....................0	0	2
Voegele. f-c ...................1	4	1
DeGook, £ ......................4	2	0
Alberts, f .....................0	0	0
Schumacher, f	.................1	0	1
Krause, c ......................7	5	1
IRISH RUNNERS WIN (Continued from Page 25)
Smith (I), second; King (ND), third. Time 2:03.4.
POLE VAULT—Won by Lennington (I) :
Rohrback (ND), second; Slattery (ND) and	,
Schlansker (I), tied- for third. Height 13 feet.
HIGH JUMP—Darling (ND), and Osty (I),	i
tied for first; Etnyre (I), third. Height, 5	i
feet, 11% inches.	!
BROAD JUMP—Won by Nelle (II) ; Conley	]
(ND), second; Murphy (I), third. Distance.	I
22 feet, 9% inches (new gym record: old	'
record, 22 feet, 9 inches, made by Simon of	।
Illinois in 1929).	(
MILE RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (Mac-
Beth, Kelly, Vettel, Wilson). Time 3:27 (new gym record; old record, 3 :28.3, made by Notre Dame in 1931).	i
Burns, g .......................  0	0
L. Crowe, g.......................0	0
N. Crowe (c), g...................1	2
Johnson, g .......................0	0
Totals ..........................14	13
Army (23)	b	f
Stecker (c), f....................3	4
Besson, f.........................2	1
Kenrich, f........................0	2
Epler, c .........................0	0
Hillis, g.........................0	1
Herb, g ..........................0	1
Abell, g .........................2	0
Adams, g .........................0	0
Totals ...........................7	9
1
1
1
1
9 p
3
1
2
2
1
4
1
17
4
Referee—Young ; umpire—Crown.

Hello Men!
Smith s Cafeteria
111 E. Jefferson Blvd.
Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
SURPLUS STOCK
Men’s High Grade
Double Tap Sole—Iron Heel FIELD SHOES
FOR MEN OR BOYS
Last year’s price was $3.85. A shoe for all outside workers. -
ENDICOTT-JOHNSON Men's Oxfords $1.95
GIL-BRO'S
330 S. Michigan St.
March 4, 1932
Twenty-nine
TENNIS CARD COMPLETED
(Continued from Page 21)
mal will appear on the local courts in the second meet of the year.
The two following weeks will find the squad playing in Chicago, April 30, against Armour Tech, and at Notre Dame, May 6, with Detroit U. furnishing the opposition.
Three Matches Away
The first of a series of three matches on foreign courts will take the Notre Dame team to Chicago to meet the University of Chicago squad led by Scott Rexinger, Big Ten singles champion.
A two-game trip is slated for May 20 and 21. A return match will be played with Detroit on the first day and Michigan State will be met on the 21st.
The final meet of the year will bring Michigan State’s team to Notre Dame in a return engagement on May 28.
The schedule.
April 15—Ind. Teachers, at Notre Dame.
April 23—Western State, at Notre Dame.
April 30—Armour Tech, at Chicago.
May 6—Detroit, at Notre Dame.
May 11—Chicago, at Chicago.
May 20—Detroit, at Detroit.
May 21—Mich. State, at East Lansing.
May 28 — Mich. State, at Notre Dame.
Are You Suffering From
Don’t let shoddy shoes keep you hack. Look at YOUR shoes, now. How do they look? A smart, new pair of Friendly Fives will set you right.
Dr. William J. O’Shea, superintendent of New York City schools, has issued instructions that teachers are not to give pupils monotonous home work, and not to make pupils do monotonous work as a penalty for misbehavior. These practices, he said, lead to disinterest in education on the part of the children.
Debaters of John Carroll University at Cleveland recently defeated a team from the University of California.
Friendly Five Shoes have that stylish appearance that you have expected only in shoes of a much higher price.
ALL STYLES
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
Friendly Five Shoes
Baldwin Shoe Co.
110 West Wayne Street
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
Thirty
INTRODUCING
By William Flynn
A Bachelor of Arts degree, magna cum laude, with a major in English, membership in the Monogram club, and three year’s experience as prefect and waiter will be the record of Clay Johnson, reliable replacement at right guard on Dr. Keogan’s basketball team when he is graduated from Notre Dame in June.
Kent, Ohio, is the place he calls home. Kent State is his prep school Alma Mater. There he played football, basketball, baseball, and tennis. During his junior year in high school he was a member of the team that won the Ohio State basketball championship and he was awarded one of the forward positions on the mythical all-state team.
Like all freshmen who come to Notre Dame with a high school football career behind them, Johnson turned out for Notre Dame football. He earned his numerals and then asked for a basketball suit. During his junior year he was awarded a monogram. This year he has been carrying on at right guard as an understudy to Tom Bums.
.Besides finishing work for his Bachelor’s degree, Johnson is now completing his first year in the Law school. He intends to return to Notre Dame next fall and continue on with his law studies for another two years.
After that, he hopes to practice his
profession in Cleveland. He admits he is rather glad of the opportunity of spending two more years in school for he believes there won’t be many jobs for college graduates this year.
Johnson’s occupations, besides basketball and writing a thesis on “The Poetry of William Morris,” are many. He has maintained a scholastic average of 91 for seven semesters. This won him the junior Hering-Keach scholarship for monogram men last year, and this year he repeated to win the senior award.
Last year he prefected in St. Edward’s hall. At the present time he is holding down the same job on the second floor of Sophomore. Three times a day he waits on table in the lay faculty dining hall.
During the summer Johnson changes over to another form of em-
4X
Clay Johnson
ployment. For three seasons he has been life guard at Twin Lakes, Ohio. There, each summer, he says he pulls ten or twelve persons from the water who hadn’t the sense to stay within the ropes. And from this occupation he has learned one queer trait of human nature.
Clay Johnson
The perfect scholar, monogram man.
“They don’t seem to appreciate your saving them,” he says. “When you bawl them out for going beyond their depth and endangering their lives, they take offense at the offer
of advice, and consider you’re mixing in something that isn’t your business.”
This summer Johnson plans on making a change in summer employment, however. He has been offered a position with the Board of Education in Cleveland and will, perhaps, spend the summer in that city.
As for basketball teams and players, Johnson rates the present edition of the Purdue Boilermakers the best he has ever seen in action. His ' individual star is Hyatt, Pittsburgh’s ace of a few seasons ago. The runner-up, in his estimation, is Wooden if this year’s Purdue quintet.
The Scholastic
BASKET BEATS PENN
(Continued from Page 22)
sport,” declares Bill emphatically. “Up until that final basket it looked as though Penn had the game in the bag, and I didn’t want that victory string broken.
“When the referee tossed the ball up at center following my bucket, I made up my mind to get it and keep it until the end of the game, which was only a few seconds away. I got it and kept it until the gun went off. . . . I’ve still got it.”
0. A. CLARK’S RESTAURANT 104-106 N. Michigan St.
❖
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable	4
Eating House.
❖ 1
Catering to NOTRE DAME MEN for over thirty years.
♦
For a real man’s meal drop in any time.
♦ i
WE HAVE NO KEY
.1

.ary 26,1932
Thirty-one
OFFICIAL PROGRAM
Twenty-Ninth Annual Interhall Track Meet March 8,1932
OFFICIALS
Honorary Referee—Jesse C. Harper. Referee and Starter—E. J. England. Director of Meet—J. A. Scannell. Manager of Meet—Charles F. Weiss. Clerk of Course—A. E. O’Keefe. Head Timer—Michael Shinners. Head Judge at finish—John Kenney. Announcer—John Sherman.
Field Judges—Frank Buhl, Don Martin, J. W. Baker.
Chief Inspector—A. W. Wirry.
Assistant Judges at finish—Edward Fisher, John Hanley.
Assistant Field Judges—Chas. Quinn, Roh’t Sullivan.
Assistant Inspector—Robert Kelley.
Assistant Timers—Clyde Lewis, Edward Mulvihill.
Scorer—Harold Kotte.
Scoring—First place,-5 points; second place, 3 points; third place, 2 points; fourth place, 1 point. Relay: First place, 5 points; second place, 3 points; third and fourth places, no points.
8:00
Pole Vault
Interhall record—11 feet, 3 inches, Robert Russell (Fr.), March 11, 1929.
8—Maxwell (Soph.); 9—Osweiler (Soph.); 20—Louy (L); 40—Coogan (Br.); 45—Short (OC); 28—McDonald (Car.).
8:15
60-Yard Dash Trials
(Three Heats; Two qualify in each heat.)
Interhall Record—:06.4, Jack Elder (Fr.), March 24, 1926; John Abbate marco (How), Feb. 20 and Mar. 15, 1930.
1—Crotty (D); 2—Ashenden (D) ; 3—Coen (D) ; 21—Huller (L); 27— Reinboldt (Cor.); 26—O’Toole (Sor.); 36—Murphy (W); 50—Collins (A); 47—Moeler (OC); 51—Donovan (A); 32—Kristel (Car.); 37—Miller (W).
8:20
Mile Run
Interhall Record — 4:27, Edward King (Br.), March 3, 1931.
13 — Anglen (Soph.); 18 — Young (M); 24—Van Petten (L) ; 52—Duke (How.); 42—Hilner (Br.); 30—McDevitt (Car.).
8:30
65-Yard Low Hurdles Trials
(Two heats; two to qualify in each heat.)
Interhall record — William DuPuy (Fr.), Feb. 24, 1931.
4 — Hoffert (D) ; 14 — Sullivan (Soph.); 15—Kennedy (Soph.); 27— Reinboldt (Cor.); 38—Holbach (W) ; 34—Hill (Car.); 46—Kenny (OC) ; 53—Bospflug (How.).
8:30
High Jump
Interhall Record—5 feet, 9 inches, Fred Reiman (Br.), March 17, 1928.
7 — Flatley (D); 8 — Maxwell (Soph.); 11—Berger (Soph.); 19— Maher (M); 25—Favret (L) ; 46— Kenny (OC); 35—Kennedy (W) ; 31 —Caldwell (Car.).
8:30
Broad Jump
Interhall Record—22 feet, 3 inches, John Abbatemarco (How.), March 15, 1930.
3 — Coen (D); 16 — McCutcheon (Soph.); 20—Louy (L) ; 31—Caldwell (Car.); 35—Kennedy (W); 51— Donavan (A).
8:40
60-Yard Dash Finals
LIST OF ENTRANTS
Dillon
1—Crotty
2—Ashenden
3—Coen
4—Hoffert a—O’Mara
6—Schultz
7—Flatley
Sophomore
8—Maxwell
9—Osweiler
10—Rowan
11—Berger
12—Becker
13—Anglen
14—Sullivan
15—Kennedy
16—McCutcheon
Morrissey
17—Schidel
18—Young .
19—Maher Lyons
20—Louy
21—Huller
22—Robinson
23—Huisking
24—Van Petten
25—Favret Sorin
26—O’Toole Corby
27—Reinboldt
Carroll 28—McDonald 29—Mathews 30—McDevitt 31—Caidwell 32—Kristel 33—Seber 34—Hill Walsh 35—Kennedy 36—Murphy 37—Mi'ler 38—Holbach 39—Cline BBOWN”ON 40—Coogan 41—Vairo 42—Hilner 43—McGuire 44—Mathews
54—Lawton Off-Campus 45—Short 46—Kenny 47—Moeler 48—Bandy Alumni 49—Dames 50—Collins 51—Donovan Howard 52—Duke
53—Bospflug
SCORE SUMMARY
Hall	Pole Vault |	Mile Run |	00-Yn. DA8II 1	440-YD. Dash I	65-Yn. L. H. |	880-Yd. Run |	High Jump	BnoAn Jump	Shot Put	Relay 		Total	1
jophomore				1 1 1—		—					
Brownson	• •			1-		• •					
Carroll	♦ •			1-							
Walsh											
Corby											
Howard			1—	1-							
Morrissey											
Lyons											
Off-Campus											
Sorin						• •					
Alumni |				1-		u					
Dillon 1		• •	-i	1—1		-					
8:50
440-Yard Dash
Interhall Record — :52.4, Charles Kelly (Fr.), March 15, 1930.
10 — Rowan (Soph.) ; 11 — Berger (Soph.) ; 17—Schidel (M); 48—Bandy (OC); 33—Seber (Car.); 43—McGuire (Br.).
9:00
65-Yard Low Hurdles Finals
9:10
880-Yard Run
Interhall Record — 2:05, Cyril Casper (W.), March 13, 1916.
5—O’Mara (D) ; 6—Schultz (D) ; 24—Van Petten (L); 39—Cline (W) ; 44 — Mathews (Br.) ; 54 — Lawton (Br.).
9:10
Shot Put
Interhall Record — 42 feet, 414 inches, Charles Finkel (O. C.), March 17, 1931.
12—Becker (Soph.); 22—Robinson (L); 23—Huisking (L) ; 49—Dames (A); 41—Vairo (Br.); 29—Mathews (Car.).
9:20
Three-quarter Mile Relay
Interhall Record—2:27.1, Freshman hall (Kelly, Schricte, McCarthy, Bice, Troy, MacBeth), March 15, 1930.
Dillon; Sophomore; Lyons; Alumni; Carroll; Walsh.
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
If You Washed Your Own Clothes
would you rinse them in nine changes of water?
Probably not — yet at Notre Dame’s modern sixty thousand dollar laundry and dry cleaning plant every article washed goes through nine separate changes of water.
That’s modern sanitary methods! You can be sure that your linen is properly laundered here.
Further, our care and workmanship does not end with the rinsing. We pay special attention to the starching and ironing of your shirts.
In short, we know of no better place for laundry work. And we must admit, we’re quite proud of our dry cleaning, too.
I
UNIVERSITY OF ' NOTRE DAME LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING DEPARTMENTS
On Down the Line
In 42 years of football NOTRE DAME boasts of 14 teams that went through undefeated seasons . . . An average of one every three years . . . ED WARREN, Yale University captain, has only one arm . . . 115 horses have been nominated for the KENTUCKY DERBY . . . Although some of the leading horse owners in the country are women, they are not eligible to belong to the JOCKEY CLUB, the controlling turf association. . . .
790 teams annually play for the INDIANA STATE HIGH SCHOOL basketball championship . . . SAMMY MANDELL, former lightweight champion, is in secret training for a comeback ... A course in Baseball for Women is taught at COLUMBIA University . . . ARKANSAS CITY (Ark.) High School basketball team won nine games and three championships in one day . . . LEFTY GROVE and RUBE WALBERG together won 51 games for the Athletics last season. . . .
CY LELAND, former Texas Chris-tion U. track star, will not try for the U. S. Olympic team .	. JOE
BOLEY, Cleveland Indian shortstop’s, real name is JOHN BOLINSKY . . . Gov. Ruby Laffoon of Kentucky has made JACK DEMPSEY a Colonel . . . RALPH METCALFE, Marquette University Negro flash, recently defeated GEORGE SIMPSON, once the “world’s fastest human,” in the 40, 50, and 60 yard dashes . . . He’ll meet McCORMICK here tomorrow. . . .
Rumors have it that there will be a smaller basketball next season . . . K. L. WILSON, Northwestern U. Athletic director, has ordered 20,000 tickets for the Wolverine - Wildcat game next season . . . BABE RUTH is one of the best left-handed golfers in the country . . . RONNIE MARTIN, Buffalo hockey player, scored four goals in ten minutes, a world’s professional record ... Penn’s annual INTERSCHOLASTIC track meet, a -fixture for 25 years, has been abandoned this year. ...
No wonder men smoke PIPES!
EVERY PIPE SMOKER has the satisfaction of knowing he has one
masculine right that the women won’t take away from him. They do leave our pipes alone.
And though the girls may not know it, they’re leaving us one of the finest smokes a man can have.
The favorite smoke of college men
There’s something calm and soothing about a pipe and good tobacco. It leads to clear-headed thinking. Perhaps that’s why the leaders—the real men of the world—are pipe smokers.
A pipe is not die smoke for girls
College men like a pipe — packed with cool, slow-burning Edgeworth, the favorite pipe tobacco in 42 out of 54 colleges. It’s cut especially for pipes, to give a cooler, drier smoke. You can
buy Edgeworth wherever good tobacco is sold. Or for a special sample packet, write to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S.
22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys,
with its natural savor enhanced by Edge
worth’s distinctive and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —Edgeworth ReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes, 15^ pocket package to. £1.50 pound humidor tin.
-a
Announcing-
K Service of Real Value to the South Bend Merchant
» » »
THE SCHOLASTIC, in conjunction with THE JUGGLER, now offers to the progressive merchants of South Bend an advertising illustration service formerly available only in newspapers of metropolitan calibre.
» » »
This added service is supplied without cost to our advertisers. It includes a variety of illustrations and lay-outs, especially designed to have a student appeal. Stereotypes which add life and interest to your selling message will be included in your advertisement at your request.
» » »
Why not inspect our portfolio and investigate this responsive market of more than three thousand young men? We believe we can show you an economical way to increase your volume and profits. Let us tell you the complete story.
In times like these you owe it to your business self.
» » »
THE SCHOLASTIC
At The University	Notre Dame, Indiana
THS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY -LEMMONIER LIBRARY-N'JTRE DAME, LOCAL
Light up... Convince Yourself that Chesterfields Satisfy
FLIP OPEN a pack of Chesterfields!
Help yourself to a cigarette...Light up____and let’s get the facts.
Mister... you’re dead right. They’re milder!
It’s no secret in tobacco circles that Chesterfield buys the finest tobaccos that grow...Turkish and Domestic... sun-ripened, mellow, pure!
Chesterfields are blended first ... then cross-blended... to make them milder... and milder still! There’s no
THEY'RE MILDER • • THEY'RE PURE • • THEY TASTE BETTER
mistaking that rare balance of flavor built up by Cross-Blending. You enjoy it in every fragrant puff!
Even the cigarette paper is different. Cleaner, whiter, tasteless... the purest that money can buy.
Listen, smokers . . . this is straight. You can’t put taste in a cigarette . . . unless quality goes in, too.
• Pass your verdict on Chesterfield’s Radio Program, too! Nat Shilkret’s 35-piece Orchestra with Alex Gray, soloist, are on the Columbia Network every night except Sunday, at 10:30 Eastern Standard Time.
© 1952. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.