A COEIFOE PROFESSOR DISCOVERED
That Often It Isn’t a Student’s Brain but his Pen that Runs Dry—causes Failure—in Classes and Exams!
So he invented this sacless Vacumatic, and Parker engineered it to perfection—gave it 102% more Ink Capacity—made its Ink Level VISIBLE, so it suddenly can’t go empty!
YES, a scientist on the faculty of the University of AV isconsin was amazed to find how pens that run out of ink slow down classes, demoralize thinking, and Bring marks that no student wants to W’rite home about.
His observations led to the birth of the revolutionary Parker Vacumatic. This miracle pen writes 12,000 words RirLer
GUARANTEED MECHANICALLY PERFECT Junior, $5	Pencils, $2 AO,
Over-Size, $10	$3.50 and $5
from a single filling—shows when it’s running low—tells when to refill!
Any good store selling pens will show you how the Parker Vacumatic eliminates 14 old-time parts, including the lever filler and rubber ink sac found in sac-type pens. And due to this, it has double room for ink, without increase in size.
But don’t think that sacless pens containing squirt-gun pumps arelike Parker’s patented Vacumatic. This new creation contains none of these. That's why it’s guaranteed MECHANICALLY perfect!
A'Mt&umtil tiocuff
WITHOUT ADJUSTMENT
warns two ways
■&ne oi&ifai
Go and try writing two different ways with its Reversible Point—solid Gold combined with precious Platinum—skilfully fashioned to write on both sides—slightly turned up at the tip so it cannot scratch or drag, even under pressure!
Do this and you won’t let an old pen impede your learning another day. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin.

Send a Post Card for Free Bottle of Parker Quink—the marvelous new quick-drying, pencleaning ink, and throw your blotter away. Address Dept. 712.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St.
South Bend, Indiana
t
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight
Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
' South Bend
From Files Of The Scholastic
Oct. 10, 1874—“It is rumored that the class in physics will give an entertainment this winter, which will certainly be pleasing to all. It will consist of lectures on electricity and other subjects, to be enlivened by experiments.”
Oct. 10, 1874—“What has become of our flute players? A couple of years ago we had quite a number of good flute players, now there are very few.”
Oct. 17, 1874—“Baths are taken every week now instead of every two weeks.”
Oct. 17, 1874—“It is rumored that the students of the Manual Labor School are thinking of forming a literary society.”
Oct. 17, 1874—“A new English style called the Examination coat is just out and promises to be very popular about the last of January. It is cut high at the collar and buttons close, with extremely large pockets covered by equally large flaps. They are unique, dressy, and convenient.”
Oct. 17, 1874—“Hereafter we decline to publish any baseball score in which the score exceeds 20 on each side unless the game be for a championship.”
"That's news to me . . . more than a quarter of a million people work for
CIRCULATION.
Fro m The Manitou Messenger, weekly newspaper published by the student body of St. Olaf College, Northfield, Minn, we clipped the following item regarding The Scholastic:
“The truth is that most college weeklies have a circulation of about 1000 or 1500. The Messenger carries 2200. In this country, only Notre Dame and a few colleges in the East, especially Massachusetts, and some down in Alabama and other southern states Have larger distributions than the Manitou sheet.”
CHICAGO CLUB MEETING
The initial meeting of the year for the Chicago Club will be held at 7:45 p.m. next Thursday, October 10, in the Carroll Rec, located on the ground floor of Washington Hall. This meeting is especially important to all members, as there will be an election for the Freshman Vice- President ; a report of the Summer Dance, and a discussion of the proposed amendment for enlarging the activities and membership of the Club.
All the freshmen from Chicago and the surrounding suburbs are urged to attend and take an active interest in the affairs of the Club.
"pryE advertise so that you, our neighbors and cus-’ * tomers, may better understand what the Bell System is doing, why we do it, what progress we are making.
We advertise to help you use our services to best advantage. As more people use the telephone effectively, our service to all is improved.
We advertise to keep you informed of our many different services. By selling more service, we increase its value to each user.
We vary our message to interest readers of all kinds of publications. During 1935-36, special advertising for college and university publications will take you "backstage” in the Bell System. We hope you will be interested.
DELANCEY J. DAVIS
Dome
JOHN S. MORAN
Scholastic
Presenting the chairman of the Board of Publications and the editors of the three major student publications. The Rev. Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., is now in his fourth year as head of the Board. Although much of Father Broughal's time is occupied in supervision of THE SCHOLASTIC, he acts as general adviser to all editors.
REVEREND LAWRENCE V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C.
Chairman, Board of Publications.
THE SCHOLASTIC, campus news weekly, is being edited this year by-John S. Moran. Joseph P. Prendergast is serving as Managing Editor..	,	"
. SCRIP, literary quarterly, gives indications of reaching new heights under the leadership of Maurice Tombragel.
THE DOME, University annual, is already taking definite form. Delancey J. Davis, editor, and George Feeley, managing editor, promise something new in the way of yearbooks for the 1936 edition.	,	; . ■ .	■ :
Four
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entei-ed as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"! at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918. J
Volume LXIX
October 4, 1935
No. 2
NEW YORK GROUP TO REORGANIZE MET CLUB
COTILLION TO BE HELD OCT. 18;
CALLAHAN APPOINTED CHAIRMAN
By Louis Da Pra
The new year brings another fresh chapter in that intriguing mystery of campus clubs, “The Met Club Ghost.” Skeletons have been rattling energetically, low moans have been heard, shadowy, elusive clues have been appearing and disappearing ever since school reopened. ■	•
The first indication that “Finis” had not been written to the tales of last year, came when President-elect Karl Letsen failed to return to fill the chair vacated by Andrew Maffei. An investigation to ascertain who would head the club wound up with the rather startling knowledge that the famed Metropolitan Club of Notre Dame is no longer in existence!
Out of the maze of conflicting reports, rumors, guesses, and hopes, it seems apparent that the remains of the Met club, and those who would revive it are faced with several problems. First, the election of last year, in which Karl Letsen was named to succeed Andy Maffei, has been declared null and void since the club had previously been refused University permission to hold the balloting. Second, the hackneyed topic of the huge dance deficit refuses to be silenced. No records seem available to show whether anything was actually done toward liquidating the debt. Letters were sent last year and donations were solicited on the campus, with some degree of success it-was understood, but now it appears that no records of any collections exist, nor is there any indication of any payments having been made to the creditors.
In addition to these two obstacles the New Yorkers who wish a campus organization must also manage to overcome the difficulty of being without officially elected officers, without any form of written constitution, and without any actual standing as a going concern.
Sentiment among the older veterans of Met club wars seems to favor a total reorganization program, discarding, as far as possible, all the many and varied implications of the former organizations and starting the year_with a clean slate. Many favor the adoption of the Borough Plan, advanced last year by Ed Hammer.
(Continued on Page 6)
FORMER EDITOR
James S. Kearns “I like the 1935 SCHOLASTIC”
Last Saturday morning in the northeast basement of the Library, Jim Kearns, ’34, now of the Chicago Daily Neivs, spoke to Notre Dame journalism students of the life of a newspaper man. Kearns was introduced by Professor John M. Cooney of the Department of Journalism.
Juniors and Seniors will recall Jim as editor-in-chief of the Scholastic two years ago. He also handled the column in the campus weekly entitled “Splinters from the Press Box” very competently while he was editor. Spectators at the indoor track meets in the gymnasium two years ago will recall Jim’s excellent announcements of events and winners over the public address system then in use.
• As sports writer for the Daily News, Kearns confined his talk to that particular field of Journalism. He emphasized the point that a news paper man must always live on the job, and told Notre Dame aspirants that the Promotion department of any prominent newspaper is a good stepping stone to success.
Orchestra Choice Unsettled
-	By John Hurley
The sophomore Cotillion, the social event of the year for the second year men, will be held on Friday evening, October 18th, at either the Palais Royale or the Jefferson Plaza.
Charles Callahan, of Lexington, Mass., has been appointed by class president, Thomas Mulligan, as chairman of the dance.
Bids for this year’s Cotillion will be $3.00 a couple. Dancing, as in the past, will begin at nine o’clock and last until one. The Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, has announced that two o’clock permissions will be given to all attending the dance. Father Boland also stated that cars may be used by the students over the Cotillion week-end if they are registered with him.
Although no definite arrangements have been made regarding the orchestra to be engaged for the dance, Chairman Callahan announced that among the bands being considered are Johnny Hamp, Ben Pollock, and Horace Heidt.
Tickets for the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game on the following afternoon, Saturday, Oct. 19th, will be obtainable at $3.60 a couple upon presentation of the A. A. book and the Cotillion ticket. A special section will be reserved for Cotilliongoers and their guests.
As a fitting climax to the glorious week-end the senior class, according to class president, Howard Cusack, will sponsor a football dance on Saturday evening. Selection of the place the dance is to be held and of the orchestra has not, as yet, been made but the tickets will cost about $1.25.
The chairmen of the committees and their assistants, subject to change, follow: Tickets, chairman, Clark Reynolds, Bill Mehring, John Kelley, Frank. Bright; Music, chairman, Pat Carey, Ed Kilrain, Dan Gibbs, and John Anton; Publicity, chairman, John O’Donnell, Robert Leonard, Gene Vaslett, and John Ward; Pa-(Continued on Page 6)
October 4, 1935
Five
LARGE TURNOUT HEARS OPENING LECTURE OF SERIES BY FITZGERALD
Talks on Catholic Writers
By Lindsay B. Phoebus
“I propose to deal with six writers who are Catholic writers,” said Desmond Fitzgerald Tuesday night to an audience of faculty members and students in Washington Hall.’ Mr.' Fitzgerald, professor of the “Philosophy of Politics,” was introduced to his large audience by the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, as an eminent, practical philosopher of the philosophical teachings of St. Thomas Aquinas.
The veteran Dail member, also a scholar of great conscientiousness, began the main body of his discourse by pointing out that in literature writers should be judged on the norms of the literary field rather than on norms of any fields extraneous to literature. His second point was that the young mind of the contemporary world, in trying to approach reality, would find assistance in the writings of the first three of the Catholic writers with whom he intends to deal in his first three lectures.
Continuing, Mr. Fitzgerald showed that all poets try to approximate reality to the best of their ability. As an illustration, he indicated how Blake in his poem concerning the tiger attempted to approach substantial reality by making a human artisan responsible for the creation of the beast.
Reasoning that adding to our conception of real being constitutes some of the essential greatness: of poetry, that intensification of our conception of reality leads us towards the Creator, and therefore, that all really great poetry is naturally religious, Mr. Fitzgerald resumed his discourse with a treatment of Crashaw, 17th century Cavalier poet, as one of the better Catholic poets who has been sadly neglected. When he had given a few of the reasons why Crashaw had been prevented from becoming popular, the.Irish scholar and philosopher, added, “I also hope to make restitution to certain men,” namely, the five of whom he will speak in his remaining five weeks here.
Professor Fitzgerald will lecture every Tuesday evening in Washington Hall. His next subject will be
LECTURER
• Desmond Fitzgerald
Speaks to large gathering.
k/of c. news
All Knights of Columbus are invited to come to the lounge room in Walsh Hall basement to listen to the broadcast of the Notre Dame-Carnegie Tech football game tomorrow afternoon. The council radio has been recently repaired and will be in shape to afford excellent reception. Cigarettes will "be furnished to those present.
The general council meeting will be held Monday night promptly at 7:45. Official installation of the officers will be the first order of business with state officers in attendance. The Lecturer’s Hour will be headed by a talk by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C.
The officers’ meeting will be held in the K. of C. office at 10:30 Sunday morning, where important plans for the immediate future will be discussed. r Ray Martin has been appointed chairman of the membership committee, and the course of procedure for this committee will be outlined.
“The Unknown Eros” of Coventry Patmore.
Other lectures will be on Gerald Manley Hopkins, Joseph De Maistre, Ernest Hello, and Leon Bloy.
EDITOR APPEALS FOR
‘SCRIP1 CONTRIBUTIONS
According to Editor Maurice Tom-bragel, the first edition of Scrip, literary quarterly, will appear Nov. 8. Consequently^ t u d e n t contributors have, only a month to revise the man-uscripj; of Jthat pet prejudice, idea, emotion, experience, or whatever other mysterious fancy it is which impels a man to write.
Tombragel, voicing an appeal for student contributions, declared that Scrip is concerned not so much with those talented spirits sensitized to the effulgence of the soul in “Art” as it is with men who have something real to say and say it honestly, vigorously, and with the breath of life.
“A little of the effort left over from bull-sessions,” he said, “really should get itself into print, for it is rather touching that so much fine argument usually must end abortively, as it does, in mere talk. After all, it is your magazine. Argue in it if you wish. Nobody objects. Since the University is so obviously growing from year to year there is not the slightest reason why Scrip shouldn’t grow along with it. But again, that will rest entirely with you.”
By the way—bring the manuscripts to 502 Morrissey. And don’t be dismayed by the long, drab climb into the Tower. Only the climb is long and drab.
MET CLUB
(Continued from Page 5)
This would mean the erasing- of many complicated records and the inauguration of a fresh page on which the Met club accountants could work.
In order to establish any sort of order for the New York organization it will first be necessary, according to S.A.C. officials, to arrive at a clear understanding of what has been done by the old order to wipe out its deficit, and to attempt to get official University sanction for the re-forming of the club and the election of new officers.
COTILLION
(Continued from Page 5)
trons, chairman, Frank Crowley, Tom Bohem, Pete Sheehan, and Jack Fox.
Other committee chairmen and their assistants are: Decorations; Bill Gallin, chairman, Robert Callahan, and Sam Lawler; Programs, chairman, Edmond Haggar, Milton Eisert, and Ken Veeneman; Invitations, chairman, James Callahan, Robert Hackman, and Harry Fox; Reception, chairman, Richard Jenney, Al Butler, and Joseph Cockrane.
The Scholastic
S i >
FOOTBALL PROGRAM MERITS MUCH PRAISE
MANSFIELD ANNOUNCES NEW PLANS FOR CAMPUS RADIO BROADCASTS
By Bertram J. Smith
Lean Joe Petritz’s pet step-child, the official Football Program, stepped into the ’35-36 season as a rugged, promising charge. Alive with new ideas, the program compares more than favorably with other college programs in the mid-west. Little expense was spared to make this issue the best ever, beating an enviable program reputation built within the last three years under Petritz’s management. The background cuts on which the individual portraits of the teams are placed considerably increased production cost. The views of the University campus which are located on the bottom of pages twelve and thirteen are worthy of special mention.
“You Can’t Be Sure,” successful effort at novelty, testing football and campus knowledge pertaining to the game at hand, received much favorable comment. In keeping with Petritz’s policy to reflect the spirit of the campus, there appeared a picture of Joe Sullivan and a short poem on his death by Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C. “Yardlines,” a column of items on the players, is new this year.
The last of the group pictures have been banished in favor of individual cuts for the managers, coaching staff, and publication men. A convenient addition is the alphabetical’ list of players supplementing the usual numerical list.
KANSAS PEP MEETING
Shrieking, whistling, cheering students, led by the University band, made their way to the gymnasium for the pre-Kansas game pep rally last Friday evening. On the hanging grandstand at the west end of the gymnasium, Thomas J. Murphy, president of the S.A.C. introduced the speakers for the meeting to the immense and enthusiastic audience of students.
First the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice, president of the University spoke eloquently to the ralliers of our deceased football captain, Joe Sullivan. While Father O’Donnell spoke of Joe as typifying Notre Dame spirit absolute quiet prevailed. A thundering roar strained the gymnasium to its foundations at the close of the vice president’s talk. Following his unneeded introduction, Coach Elmer F. Layden spoke of the coming game. In accordance with custom a number of the players were introduced after Mr. Layden’s talk by the coach himself. All of them made interesting remarks about what would probably happen in the game.
October 4, 1935
STUDENT TRIP. . .
Thomas Murphy, president of the S.A.C., announced this week that the Students’ Activities Council, in their regular meeting of Sept. 27, unanimously selected the Ohio State game of Nov. 2 as the student trip for this season. The selection now awaits the official approval of the Prefect of Discipline, whose decision will be rendered sometime during this week-end.
Should the S.A.C.’s selection be approved, students will prepare to witness a football classic that they have long hoped would be a student trip. Since the student sentiment is strongly in favor of the Ohio State game, it is hoped by the S.A.C., that at least 500 or more students will make the trip to Columbus to support the team in a hard battle. A large student attendance is expected because a fairsized following of several hundred made the student trip to Cleveland last year to see Navy defeat Notre Dame.
Financial maneuvers have been made regarding the price of railroad and game tickets. Information has been obtained that the two tickets combined will wrest only $8.80 from student spectators. This price includes a round trip on either the New York Central or Pennsylvania Railroad, according to the one selected at a later date, and a seat in the Notre Dame student section at the Ohio State stadium.
Professor Joseph Casasanta intends to do his part to enliven this student activity by taking the 90-piece University Band to the scene of action at Columbus. It is the only certain trip that the band will make this season, and will give many who are not able to attend the home games a chance to see a well trained group of musicians in action.
According to present information on. the Notre Dame campus, more color will be added to the contest since Ohio State is making this their homecoming game. Not only this fact but the reputation of the two teams has given rise to reports that the game will fill the 90,000 seating capacity of the stadium.
DER DEUTSCHE VEREIN
The campus German club will hold its first meeting of the year in Brownson hall rec room Wednesday, Oct. 7 at 7:45 p.m. A club program will be drawn up for the year. All members are requested to be present.
Other Announcers Named
Featured by an entirely new managerial set-up, the Notre Dame campus radio station will inaugurate the second year of its existence Monday afternoon, Oct. 6.
The year will be ushered in with the presentation of a new feature called “The Man Who Knows.” The program calls for a short lecture in a lightly educated tone, plus news commentaries which will be added to the feature three times weekly, on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday afternoons at 3:15.	.
The station this year assumes a more professional aspect than it has in the past. During previous years the actual management of the station was in the hands of WSBT, the South Bend Tribune station, with the campus outlet being allowed but one hour a week. This year’s plan calls for the student organization to have som-plete charge of both management and presentation of six hours of entertainment per week.
A meeting soon after school opened brought out 65 who were interested in the station’s activities, 51 of them aspired to be announcers. From this field of candidates the following announcers for the year have been chosen: John Marbach, Norbert Aleksis, Gregory Byrne, Hal Stein, Joe Hartzer, William Costello, Jack Zerbst, Tom Proctor, Crotty, Nerney, and Jarrett.	.
Station Director Joe Mansfield plans other ambitious schemes, which include getting campus opinion from strategic spots about the campus by carrying a microphone up to some unwary student, asking his opinion on some campus matter, and getting his own words into the “mike” then and there.
RILEY LECTURE
Captain John Urban Riley of Boston, Mass., advertising manager of the magazine, Leisure, spoke this week to the journalism majors of the University.
Capt. Riley was graduate from Notre Dame in the class of 1917, receiving the degree of Ph.B. in Journalism. This graduating class in journalism is famous in the annals of the University because all the graduates enlisted in the army and saw action in France.
Seven
CHARITY PLANS BEGUN BY ST. VINCENT DE PAUL
Campus Opinion
FORMER EDITOR WRITES OF OTHER SCHOLASTICS
The Notre Dame conference, Society of St. Vincent de Paul, discussed plans for a fruitful year of volunteer social work both on the campus and in South Bend, at their first meeting held in the faculty dining room on Thursday evening, Sept. 26th.
The society, numbering thirty-five members, had the pleasure of listening to the Rev. John Kelley, C.S.C., director' of the local conference, give an account of the work of the society since its institution at Notre Dame ; . three years ago .and suggest progres-' sive measures for the future.
■ . .In addition to Father Kelley, Pro-t- fessor Frank T. Flynn, of the gradti-* .ate curriculum in social work and member, of.the advisory;board of the local conference, instructed the members as to -the proper .relationship a group of workers should, have to social work. Vincent. McAloon, executive secretary of the conference, outlined the improved program of operation for the coming year. The Rev. Russel McVinney of Providence, R. I., was guest at the meeting. Refreshments were served at the conclusion of the meeting.
Vincent McAloon has returned from Peoria, Bl., where he attended the annual conference of Catholic charities and St. Vincent de Paul societies as delegate from the Notre Dame conference. Upon his return McAloon anno un c e d that Joseph Drolla, a junior from New Orleans, La., will officially be inducted as the new president of the society in the .-near future. He also stated that the ’' society’s offices will be at 10 Lyons hall. Office hours, beginning Monday, Oct. 7th, will be from two until five daily.
ENROLLMENT FIGURES
Latest official figures issuing from the office of the Registrar' early this week give the following enrollment figures for the current semester:
In the seven colleges of the University there is a total of 2,722 students. Once again the College of Arts and Letters has the greatest number, with 873 students but the Commerce School is remarkably close behind with 859 enrollments. The remaining 990 students are fairly equally distributed among the other colleges in this order:—Engineering 386, Science 276, Law 178, Physical
Eight
Editorial note: This is the second of a series of snap-shot interviews ■ with students about campus topics. The writer this tveek chose five sophomores at random and asked: “What orchestra would you like to have for the Cotillion?”
Bill Robinson, Lyons Hall: “Joe Haymes because in not trying to be a stylist like Lombardo and Garber he is the best stylist of them all. The convenience of Johnny Hamp makes him a good second choice.”
Johnny Poore, Morrissey Hall: “Kay Kayser. I heard the fellow in Saint Louis and I like his rhythm. He has enough novelty matter to ’ break up the usual monotony of a dance.”
John Leadbetter, Badin Hall: “There is only one orchestra as far as I am concerned and that is Ray Noble’s .1 think that Ray Noble is in a class by himself.”
John O’Connell, Morrissey Hall: “I am all for Ina Ray Hutton. She’s tops. And you might add while you’re at it that if the Dance Committee chooses her I’ll go stag.”
James English, Lyons Hall: “Guy Lombardo would be a good selection. His music kind of puts you to sleep. Besides, I’d much rather sleep than dance.”
DOME
Photographs of the juniors for the 1936 Dome will be taken by appointment according to the new system instituted by Delancey Davis, editor. Dome workers will canvass junior halls next week to make appointments.
The Bagby Photograph Company of South Bend will begin taking the junior photographs on Monday, Oct. 14. This plan is intended to speed up photographic work on the ’36 Dome.
REVEAL SLIGHT GAIN
Education 129, and finally a group of Graduate students numbering 71.
Crowded residence halls, two filled dormitories, and capacity extended dining halls would seem to belie the fact that the enrollment for 1935 is but an increase of 85 in number as compared to the figures of last year which read 2,637 enrolled students. The solution for this at first glance enrollment mystery is contained in the fact that there are considerably less off-campus students this year than in previous years and consequently the residence halls on the campus are nearly all occupied.
The following comment is from the column of Paul Martin which appeared in the South Bend News-Times of Sunday, September 29.
. *“A new volume of the Notre Dame Scholastic began last Friday. I am hazarding a guess with only a small background of fact from which to reckon, but I would say this must be about the seventieth year for this venerable publication. The Scholastic was one of my early training schools in writing, and when, for the first-time I saw my name signed to one of its articles, my cup of pride was running over. Long before that I had greatly admired a Notre Dame senior named Joseph J. Sullivan, who was the editor of The Scholastic. Joe was likewise a pole vaulter on the varsity track team. I often thought the greatest distinction a Notre Dame man could have would be to edit the Scholastic. Many a time since then, Joe Sullivan, now a distinguished attorney of Chicago, has laughed when I told him of my early ambition.
“The time eventually came when my ambition was realized and the honor never became commonplace. I was proud of that job and I am still proud that I held it. Among my treasures is a picture of the board of editors. Among these may be mentioned the 1-te Lishop Finnigan of Helena, Moat.-who is buried in the Community cemetery at Notre ■ Dame. Another is Frank Commerford Walker, who has been" one of President Roosevelt’s right hands since the presidential campaign of 1932 was launched. Of this board of editors only two of us have made editorial work our means of livelihood, the others being priests, lawyers, engineers and business men.
“The Scholastic has changed greatly as years have gone on. It has, in fact, become almost a weekly newspaper. In my own day on the staff we devoted only a few paragraphs to news exclusive of sports, and even the sports news was recorded in less than a thousand words. But it was a literary magazine in which we could take some pride and some of its short .stories were as good as those found in the average fiction magazine. Its poetry was far above the average and when, 20 years ago the late Father Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., compiled “The Notre Dame Book of Verse” choosing a poem from each of the 50 volumes of The Scholastic published up to. that time, these verses attracted the favorable comment of many able critics.”—Paul Martin.
...The S c h o I a s He
JERSEY ORGANIZATION
INTRODUCES NEW PLAN
CHRISTOPHER HOLLIS GIVES FIRST LECTURE
A new experiment in financial and social plans for campus and alumni organizations was outlined in a bulletin recently released by Julius Rocca, president of the New Jersey campus club, and Thomas Purcell, ’28, of East Orange, New Jersey, president of the New Jersey Alumni club of Notre Dame.
The plan calls for the creation of a ?75.00 fund by the alumni organization to defray- the expenses of campus club activities which have been previously scheduled at a joint meeting of both organizations. Should the campus club give additional functions, they must obtain the sanction of the alumni group.
This plan arose from the necessity of operating both organizations on a sound business basis, and to insure the campus group from incurring any deficit, long a bugaboo to most campus organizations.
In conjunction with the financial program, there was outlined an extensive social schedule covering the entire year. This schedule was approved at a joint meeting of both groups held some time ago, and calls for a division of activities into three classifications: Those of the campus group; those of the alumni group; and those to be presented conjointly.
Julius Rocca pointed out that in case of joint affairs provisions have been made that they will be managed byco - chairmen representing both groups. Receipts from joint activities go to the alumni organization.
Jointly the clubs will present a Christmas dance, a spring dance, a summer dance, and a summer outing; the alumni will hold a retreat, a hard time dance, and Universal Notre Dame night; the campus organization will give a smoker and the senior banquet.
On October 9, the campus group will hold a smoker in the Knights of Columbus chambers in Walsh hall. James Armstrong, secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, and Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C., chaplain of the club, are to be the speakers. Several acts of student vaudeville will also be presented.
Tentative arrangements have been . made for the Christmal formal to be held at Essex House, Newark, one of New Jersey’s most exclusive dance spots, on Friday, December 27. Joseph J. Wade, Jr. is the campus chairman and Philip Heinle, ’35, is the alumni chairman. Andy Kress and his orchestra from Avon Inn at Avon-by-the-Sea, New Jersey will supply the dance music.	.
On the 11th of September the joint (Continued on Page 23)	'
Truly a man behind the scenes, Raymond J. Kenny is responsible for equipping- the football men for their Saturday appearance . . . Wirry gets the team to its destination . . . Ray sees to the equipment. . . Like Wirry,
he is the second of the Kenny’s to attend N. D. . . . Brother Frank played football. ...	'
Having trouble searching for culture . . . Claims the Profs, don’t understand him ... In Yonkers, N. Y.,. he is a neighbor of genial Bill Walsh of Dome fame . . . Almost Southernlike in his interests ... Is a fine judge of women. . . But shows the Northern influence in regard to horses ... Ten days at Saratoga didn’t convince him of the fact ... A filly named Marcella made him forget his losses . . . Can be found evenings sitting on the Howard stairs leading to the phone. ... A plan is being considered to furnish the booth with living accommodations for him and Tom Bott. . .
Remembers a bet he had with a certain midshipman ... A Scarsdale, N. Y. damsel figured prominently in the case . . . N. D. lost to Navy and Ray lost Rossie ... A unique name and, Ray claims, a unique girl . . . Likes Mishawaka dances. . . And, being a glutton for punishment, makes the trips by street-car . . . Drove a beer track this summer . . . Some say by the looks of his belt that he made frequent stops. . . .
Majoring in Bus. Ad. . . . Will handle the importing of the Kenny Contracting and Importing Co. ... A host of friends on’ and off the campus . . . Ray is the type of fellow -who will “get along.” ...”
By Bertram J- Smith
“The aim of statesmen and the demand of the economists today is for a stabilization of the price-level,” declared Professor Christopher Hollis climaxing his review of “The Standard of Living of Our Ancestors,” initial Washington Hall address last night. Professor Hollis, English economist, who is teaching and lecturing at Notre Dame this semester, reviewed the fluctuating standards of living through the ages, and carefully inspected the two hundred year period of price stability from the 14th to the 16th centuries.	.
He said, in part: “The standard of living of the poor was then steadily falling for almost three hundred years, from the middle of the 16th century to the end of the first quarter of the nineteenth. It is true that in the last half of the nineteenth it rose considerably and has risen still further since, so that today the workingman is definitely better off than his mediaeval ancestor, but he is not much better. And when we think of the vastly increased productive power which science has put at our disposal, that today one man can do what it took a thousand, and perhaps a million men to do in the Middle Ages, the incredible thing is that the advance in standard of living should have been so small. If we today know some things which our ancestors did not know, it is clear that we have also forgotten some things which they did know.
“The aim of statesmen and the demand of economists today is for a stabilization of the price-level. The English mediaeval kings had solved that problem five hundred years ago. For two hundred years, from the Black Death to the dissolution of the monasteries, with one short interval, they held the price-level absolutely stable. They did it by a device not unlike those today recommended by Mr. Keynes and Professor Irving Fisher. As required, they increased the volume of money by decreasing the silver contents of the coins.
“What, in the first place, broke the price-level was the dissolution of the monasteries. It did that because the recipients of monastic plate brought it to the mint to be coined, and the coining of it had an inflationary effect and sent up prices.”
Other lectures by Professor Hollis will be given each Thursday evening at 8:00. -
(Continued on Page 11)
October 4, 1935
Nine
WING COLLARS, WHITE VESTS, ASCOTS, MAKE SWANK PICTURES IN 1907 "DOME"
MONUMENT UNVEILED IN MEMORY OF GIPP
By John A. Gillespie
We have all snickered at the ludicrous pictures in our family albums —Dad in his first long-pants suit, and Mother in her ankle-length bathing suit. The styles and customs of 30 years ago seem ridiculous today; yet, in their time, they were up-to-date and smart.
Notre Dame annuals have changed also. A glance at the 1907 Dome reveals its dedication to the University president, Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. The calendar of the school year contains no drastic departures from 1935. The old-timers had examinations, too—not twice but six times a year. But what’s this?. President’s Day on Dec. 11? The ancients slipped in an extra holiday on us moderns. The Breen Medal orations flourished; St. Patrick’s Day, even then, fell on March 17. Here was a perfect opportunity for pranks: April 1 brought the Senior Prom.
Pictured as vice president is Rev. Thomas A. Crumley, C.S.C., Not the Crumley of Crumley’s Logic? None else. Other faculty members were Walsh’s Father George Marr, C.S.C., Chemistry’s Father Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., and Father Leo Heiser, C.S.C. Beneath every senior’s picture was a quotation. One unfortunate, who had better remain anonymous, labored under the curse of this descriptive bit: jewel in a ten-times barred-up chest.” There were punsters in 1907: left-handed boy who stood up for his rights.” Side-note: wing collars, white vests, and Ascot ties were indispensable to the ‘smoothie.’
. Evidently there was no rule against drinking beer. From the toast of the class, we quote:
“Raise your steins, my hearties, Drain them foaming to the dregs.”
The Dramatics section of the annual credited the late Brother Cyprian, C.S.C., with staging the best play of the year. The Thespians did not import girls for female leads; rugged athletes shaved extra carefully and tried to fool the public.
The Class Prophecy was pardonably inaccurate in predicting a war in 1926, and the annexation of Canada by America. Father William
Bolger, C.S.C., was slated for the presidency of Catholic University.
Debating was a serious, important part of the curriculum. A passage in the 17 pages devoted to forensics says of William A. Bolger: “Those who heard Bolger against De Pauw will never forget him. He fought for his Alma Mater as he never fought, nor had to fight before.”
Politics, too, had its moments. Some of the more notable parties were the Fresh Airs, Hot Airs, Wind Jammers, Brain Stormers, Mollycoddles and No-littles.
Famous seniors were silhouetted for posterity in fetching poses. One bashful fellow has both hands over his face, and another has turned his back to the ‘camera.’
On the first page of athletic records is a chunky boy representing, we suppose, a football player, although one can’t be too sure. He wears a babyblue cloth suit; the pants come hideously close to being bloomers. Under his left arm, he totes a leather object, more nearly a baseketball than a football. A bilious yellow and blue pair of stockings and a vest-like garment complete the outfit.
Shades of over-emphasis! A prominent gridiron candidate “would probably have made the team, had_he not been compelled to abandon football on account of class work.”
Wit was at a premium. From the humor pages we offer:
Professor—In what year of his life did Shakespeare die?
Maguire—The ,'ast year.
Among the advertisements a confectionery store appealed with this guarantee: No intoxicants — everything as your mother would wish it.
A poetic offering acquaints us with the prevalent brand.of slang:
“You have hunnies in your garret;
Both your lamps are black and blue. Up a tree with you, you’re frosty. Fade away, burn out, skiddoo.”
We have commented on the 1907 Dome, tracing its various sections from faculty to football, from silhouettes to society. Now, Delancey Davis, editor of the 1936 Dome, see what you can do. But we can get along with out the humor. »
The memory of George Gipp, . a heroic figure of Notre Dame tradi--tion, was made a tangible reality by the dedication of a memorial park in Laurium, Michigan, designed and built in his honor.
George Gipp, 1895-1920 R. I. P.
According to James E. Armstrong, editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus, who participated in the dedication ceremony, the park is a triangular piece of ground at the corner of Lake Linden ave., and Tamarack st., in Laurium. Near the center is a rock fountain, fifteen feet high, built of rocks from the shores of Lake Superior. On this fountain is a simple bronze plaque with the inscription: “George Gipp — All-American,” and below the dates of his birth and death, 1895-1920.
Notre Dame’s football men were i’epresented by Dominick Vairo, 1934 captain, and Larry Danbom, fullback of the 1935 squad. Floral tributes, including a gold and blue wreath from Notre Dame, were placed about the monument.
GOLDEN JUBILEE
Right Rev. John T. O’Connell, LL.D., ’06, Protonotary Apostolic, Vicar General of the diocese of Toledo, Ohio, observed his golden jubilee in the priesthood last Tuesday. The revered jubilarian celebrated the solemn mass of thanksgiving in the presence of ten bishops, 50 monsignori, 250 priests and a congregation that filled the cathedral of St. Francis de Sales of which he is pastor. Notre Dame was represented by the president, Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Rev. James French, C.S.C.. and Rev. Lawrence Broughal, C.S.C.
Ten
The Scholastic
CALENDAR
Friday, October 4
October Devotions, Sacred Heart Church at 5:15 p.m. Scholastic staff meeting, editorial rooms: editorial, 6:30, general, 7:00 p.m. Mission for upperclassmen, 7:30.
Saturday, October 5
Football: Varsity vs. Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh, 2:00 p.m. Movie, “Stolen Harmony,” with Ben Bernie, Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:15 p.m.
Sunday, October 6
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a.m. Football, “B” team vs. Niagara U. at-Niagara Falls, N. Y. Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Monday, October 7
Knights of Columbus meeting, Walsh hall basement, 7:45 p.m. October devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:15 p.m.
. Tuesday, October S
October Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:15 p.m.; Lecture by Arnold Lunn, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
BOOKMEN
Led by literary-minded Harry Cozad, president, the Bookmen plan joint meetings this year with the St. Mary’s literary club, the “Blue Pencil.” Aside from this innovation, the University Lit men will continue their activities as in the past, reports Thomas Cassidy, secretary. Bookmen activities constitute discussion of contemporary books and writers, at biweekly meetings.
Co-worker at St. Mary’s in the joint meeting project is Shirley Springer, president of the Blue Pencil.
There are five vacancies in the limited fifteen member roster of the society which the membership committee last night decided to fill this fall. Applicants will address Thomas Cassidy, Alumni; John Kirsch, Walsh; or Paul Carrico, Library.
HOLLIS LECTURE (Continued from Page 9)
2.	St. Thomas More.
3.	Queen Elizabeth and the Religion of All Reasonable People.
4.	Charles II.	. .
5.	The Founding of the Bank of England.
6.	English Capital in America.
7.	Karl Marx.
8.	Disraeli.
• 9. Booms and Slumps.
.10. Charles S. Parnell.
11. The Last Ten Years.
. 12. Economic Nationalism.
13.	The Unity of Europe.
14.	Monarchy.
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
During the last few days we’ve been spending some of our spare time getting reacquainted with the campus. Though we’ve been all of three years and most of last summer at Notre Dame, we can still find much of interest around here. A quiet stroll along the shores of the lakes, no matter how often repeated, has always had a great appeal for us, and a pause now and then to survey the beautiful scenery all about has always been one of our greatest pleasures. Sometimes at the end of such a jaunt we’ll stop by the log cabin chapel and enter, expecting to see some mysterious change inside. But it’s always quietly the same —even though Joe Mansfield was recently married there. Then while lurking about we wonder if all the University men know of this pretty little nook on the south, side of St. Mary’s Lake. Last year we met several upperclassmen who didn’t even know that we had a log cabin chapel on the campus or that the old college was close by. We surmise that there are some seniors who are not aware that the administration building is topped by a gold dome.
We’d almost forgotten several things about the old campus ourselves ; the rec halls for instance. The other evening we stopped in at the Brownson rec for the first time since our freshman year. The blaring radio, the clicking ivory balls on the green surfaces of the pool tables, and the dust-covered pictures of past Notre Dame football greats on the walls brought back many memories. We’ll never forget the times when we used to gather in the rec on Saturday afternoons with the rest of the freshmen from Brownson Hall to listen to the away - from - home Notre Dame football games being broadcast, or the occasions when it was the custom to drop in every afternoon and enjoy a lusty game of cards or pool, or the time when we practically wrecked a slot machine because it had taken our nickel and refused to operate for us. But three short years, however, have already effected a pernicious change in the rec halls. Evidences of decay and degeneration are marked by the presence of ping pong tables and even enthusiasts who will spend hours futilely swinging at harmless celluloid balls. Sissy stuff! Notre Dame has seen better days.
It’s only been with difficulty lately that we’ve been able to find time to do things like walking around the lakes,
visiting old haunts, and getting in other people’s hair. After the first -two weeks of this school year, we naturally expected to find at least • a brief period of respite during which.. we could recover our equilibrium and become somewhat orientated in an atmosphere whose spirit is definitely that of change and development. We were looking forward to a holiday that would give us time to forget the excitement of hurriedly registering for classes, getting acquainted with new professors, tearing about the campus in search of old pals, and turning the new headquarters topsy turvy in an effort at straightening them out. But we did not reckon on the early date of the premier performance of the 1935 edition of the “Fighting Irish.” Now no one, least of all we, will have any rest for the duration of the football season. What with pep rallies, bull sessions about the prospects of the team, and a high class football game every Saturday from now until sometime in remote November, not even blase friend roommate will find time to take his Sorin exercise. For definition of latter term see Bearskin or Father Farley.
Who wants to take it. easy right now anyway? These .days we’lL all have to stay on our toes if- we’re going to keep our eyes on that fast-stepping football team of ours.’ Ani we seniors. who have witnessed tlte . long, lean years of Notre. Dame football are keeping our eyes- wide open. jOf course, we’re no authorities- oiitthis game of football, but-evenwe'can fcee that this year’s squad 'of gridiron-men has a certain class and smoothness possessed by no other Irish aggregation since 1932. We have an idea that Layden’s team, in spite of having to cope with the toughest schedule in -the country, is going to do things that will make it the apple of the eye of the class of ’36.
Notes taken between handsprings at the Kansas game: We wonder if Joe Casasanta has been subsidizing drum majors. They become more prolific every year. -----
Thought while finishing this column: We’d better get this copy in right now. With that new electric clock, secured through the good graces of the Reverend Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., hanging on the wait of The Scholastic office, we’ll have no excuse' for turning our work in late.	- - -
October 4, 1935
Eleven
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN!
THE FRESHMAN
(Apologies to Kipling)
A frosh there was and he made his prayer
(Even as you and I)
To a yellow pigskin filled with air (We called him the student debonair)
But he was a frosh and didn’t care (Even as you and I).
Oh 1 the years we waste, and the tears we waste,
And the brain that we command.
Were lost on the frosh who didn’t know
(And now we know he never could know),
For a frosh can’t understand.
There was a vein of humor in him, so they called it his Juggler vein. .
Did you hear about the Scotch Soph who plans to listen to the Cotillion over the radio while gazing at his girl friend’s picture.	‘	;
“Hey Coach, put in another quarterback. This one spoils our sound system.” \
Twelve
Freshmen make blunders because they don’t know any better.
Seniors know better, but make them anyway.
And somehow or other the most futile search in the world is trying to find something funny in college humorous riiagazines.
Frosh: “I want a pair of corduroy pants.”
Clerk: “How long?”
Frosh: “How long? I don’t want to rent them I want to buy them.”
“Do you read cultural magazines?” “I have no TIME FORUM.”
CAF SMOKE
Charley Fitzimmons has been having frequent horseback dates. . . . Have you ever been in a class with Serge? He says anything and is usually right or funny. . /Sonny’ Church is probably the luckiest man on the campus, he possesses the same few hairs he had last year. . . Gus Crissi shaves with a straight razor while chewing gum. . . Otto Scherer hog-called two miles on a cloudy day, two and one quarter on other days. . . How about some of you fellows learning the first two verses of the “Victory March”"for the next home games . . . Watch Palowski who assists Louie Alaman, he was National Drum Major Champ at the Century of Progress. . . ‘S.A.C.’ Murphy knows a few girls at Smith too. . . Bacon brags of two objects of his affection at the same institution.
Two Badinites have plans for serving tea and crumpets this year, a recipe for crumpets is all they lack for a perfect English evening. . . Ray Kenny enjoys the atmosphere surrounding the 1100 block on Riverside ... So does Tom ‘Keyboard’ Bott. . . Tose, that nobleman from Norristown, claims his favorite number is still ‘805’ particularly down by Leeper Park. . . In the best editorial circles it is a well-known fact that News-Editor Foley stoops to scoop (he comes from Grosse Pointe, but we can’t all go through life without any worries). . . Soph class Mulligan will step .on Jane Wolf’s toes most pf the time during the Cotillion evening. . .
Correction, Johnson’s working for the Tribune not the News-Times. . . Lou Fehlig alternates his broken ankle from left to right every other day in order to wear his shoes out evenly. . . Rotondo promised his "irl his name would appear in “Caf Smoke this week so here it is. . . Delancey Davis is busy-these days with Dome cover salesmen. . . “A wee, sleekit, tim’rous beastie” (a rat) is inhabiting the third floor of Howard Hall, disturbing hard working seniors . . . Don’t forget the first two verses of the “Victory March”. . . We sat in with the Seniors and only one of them knew the entire song, the others whistled and hummed and looked silly doing both. . . Luke “Handshake” Tiernan gets all dressed up and doesnot go far every Sunday afternoon... Jerry Zieller .claims he went to summer school just to be near his one and only (it may not be true but it’s a good excuse for having to go to summer school). . . Ed Bartnett and Jim Sullivan almost shed tears when trying to forget the Giant-Cards fold-up. . . The Funny Fellows.
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus .	FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh .	Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C.............................Faculty Adviser JOHN S. MORAN ..............................  Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST...................... Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors •
Andrew D. Hufnagei_____________-__________________The Week
William V. Ellis__________________________________Art Editor
News Staff
Paul Foley______________________________________News Editor
Robert L. Grogan_________________________Assistant News Editor
Clifford F. Brown____________________________________Anthony	O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus______________________________________Gregory	Byrnes
Joseph Ratigan__________________________________________Paul	Biagioni
Irwin L. Goldman Harry A. Baldwin
Robert F. Ervin_________________________________Louis DaPra
John A. Gillespie___________________________Bertram Smith
Harold A: Williams John Hurley
., Sports- Staff
Cyril F. Stroker_______l____________________iCo-S ports Editor
James A. Waldron Co-Sports Editor
■ John Cackley___________________________James M. McMullen
Eugene Vaslett__________-___________________Michael Crowe
Allen Bride________.____1______'_.________________Arch Gott
John Glanzner	. "	-
- i----------
William R. Dooley, 26_______________________Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press '	' Distributor of Collegiate Digest
necessary for adequate preparation for classes and for recreation. However, in view of the latent abilities of many freshmen in some particular intellectual pursuit, the clubs are anxious" to have their ranks revitalized by the newcomers who are willing to devote reasonable effort to make their club’s activity a success. With the variety of clubs now existing, such as the Bookmen, St. Vincent de Paul Society, Wranglers, . Patricians, Press Club and the various language clubs, there should be ample oppor-. tunity for self-expression in a student’s chosen field.
Interhall football, a part of the intra-mural program which is a long established tradition at Notre Dame, is an important activity at present. It should not be overlooked. The season is now beginning and the notices on the bulletin boards in all halls, requesting fair-sized representations from the halls, should not go unheeded. Ambitious student , coaches from the physical education department are ready to aid any willing aspirants, regardless of their size or ability. For all those who are unable to compete in varsity sports, the interhall football program offers a worthwhile outlet for the student’s competitive instinct and a chance to secure the recreation he often dismisses from his daily routine on account of laxness. The call for team members is still ringing in the halls for those who should report, but have not as yet been stirred with enough enthusiasm. Answer that call!—C. F. B.
9
THE WORDS AREN'T FAMILIAR	.; .
Last Saturday we saw a Notre Dame squad display an aggressive brand of football that carried them to a splendid victory over a stubborn Kansas team. There
Ccto-er A, 1935
was plenty of fight and teamwork in evidence but it was offset by the lack of student support in the cheering and singing which means so much in an encounter of this sort. It seems to us that too many upperclassmen are beginning to believe the stories current in the daily sports pages to the effect that Notre Dame is headed for another national-championship.' At any rate they seemed to accept Saturday's victory as a matter of course and consequently
-.deft the burden of cheering to the. lower classes.
With a schedule which is as difficult as that of any university in the country, this lack of student support is hardly an auspicious beginning for the football season. For the benefit of those who may have forgotten the words during the, summer and for those who were not quite sure of them Saturday, we reprint the chorus of the Victory March:
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame, Wake up the echoes cheering her name, Send a volley cheer on high,
’ Shake down the thunder from the slues. What though the odds be great or small, Old Notre Dame will win over all, While her loyal sons are marching, Onward to victory!	J. S. M-
EXTRA-CURRICULAR.ACTIVITIES	; .
With the opening .of the Interhall football season shortly and the reorganization of the various academic clubs and other groups ,that furnish.an opportunity for participation in extra-curricular .activities, a ^weighty problem confronts the student body. Ch'o.qsing that; activ^'V ■ ity which bestows the most benefits upbn.’ a. particdlag^O
individual’ and to which his interests and abilities are ’• -most prominently inclined demands serious- deliberations from each student. A careful survey of the broad field of activities should be made before one is selected. -
To the. freshmen a few words on this subject are appropriate. Academic clubs have often experiented that the untutored ambition and enthusiasm of the beginners to secure as much as possible from college life leadsuthem to try participating in as. many outside activities as pos-• sible. To this attitude only disapprobation can be cast by the remaining members and officers/ of the clubs. Rarely does any one individual have such diversified interests and sufficient time to participate in more than two activities. He should also consider the great amount of time
October 4, 1935
Thirteen
ATHLETICS
VICTORIOUS IRISH TO MEET CARNEGIE TECH
COACH HARPSTER'S BOYS HOPE TO UPSET THE IRISH IN SECOND TILT OF SEASON
NIAGARA U. IS FOE OF "B' TEAM SUNDAY
N.D. Seeks Second In Row
By Jim McMullen
Notre Dame’s Irish worked out this afternoon in the Smoky City, while their millions of synthetic alumni waited — and continued to wonder. Tomorrow they face the Tartans of
William Shakespeare
“Gallops, punts, passes”
Carnegie Tech, three times upset nemesis of hopeful Notre Dame elevens.
Carnegie has the advantage of entering the game tomorrow distinctly underrated. Last week they opened with Case, and just managed to slip by with a 6-3 score. Now Case never has been regarded as the logical successor to the Notre Dame of ’30, yet inside dope from the east reports recently found power at the small school, which made Carnegie seem lucky to even gain a decision.
The Irish will . again look at the veterans, Terebus, Lehman, and Patt, in the Tartan backfield. In the line they will meet formerly unpleasant acquaintances in the persons of cocaptain Steve Torbovich, center, and the flashy Frank Sanford, senior right end. Coach Elmer Layden will find a chance to renew his friendship with line coach Joe Bach, who served under him at Duquesne, and is at present doing his best to give Carnegie warriors the low down on Elmer’s style of play. Outside of Torbovich and Sanford, the Tartan line is composed of heavy and ambitious sophomores who are doing their best to remind Tech fans of the (Continued on Page 20)
Fourteen
NOTRE DAME HOLDS EDGE
IN CARNEGIE TECH RIVALRY
1922—Notre Dame 19; Carnegie Tech 0.
1923—Notre Dame 26; Carnegie Tech 0.
1924—Notre Dame 40; Carnegie Tech 19.
1925—Notre Dame 26; Carnegie Tech 0.
1926—Notre Dame 0; Carnegie Tech 19.
1928—Notre Dame 7; Carnegie Tech 27.
1929—Notre Dame 7; Carnegie Tech 0.
1930—Notre Dame 20; Carnegie Tech 6.
1931—Notre Dame 19 ; Carnegie Tech 0.
1932—Notre Dame 42; Carnegie Tech 0.
1933—Notre Dame 0; Carnegie Tech 7.
1934—Notre Dame 13; Carnegie Tech 0.
Last year’s victory over Carnegie, while decisive enough, was hard won. The Scotsmen put up one of the most stubborn battles of the season, and it was anybody’s game until the final gun sounded.
The record to date is ten wins for Notre Dame and three for Carnegie. This is one of the few teams that the Irish have never played to a tie. The first contest, played in 1922, was a glorious one for Notre Dame. With a team thought to be decidedly inferior, the Irish swept the Pittsburghers to a shutout.
The game played in 1924 was one of the most interesting of the series. It was the last game of the season (Continued on Page 20)
Notre Dame Coaching Staff
The Scholastic
Oct. 6—Niagara at Niagara.
Oct. 12—Ouchita at Little Rock, Arkansas. Nov. 2—Illinois “B” at Notre Dame.
Nov. 9—Purdue “B” at Lafayette.
Nov. 16—Illinois “B” at Champaign.
By Arch. Gott
While the Notre Dame varsity is plunging headlong into its regular schedule, the “B” team composed of reserves comes in for a share of the limelight when the season opens Sunday against Niagara University at Niagara, N. Y. Twenty-five players accompanied by Coach Bill Cerney left yesterday to face their eastern opponents. Last year Niagara came through with a score late in the game to win 13-6 but the Irish outfit has been working hard this fall and the boys are all set for a win.
This year’s games will find the squad traveling for four of the five contests, playing just one at home, that being the first of two games with Illinois “B” team on Nov. 2. It is to be hoped that the date of this game will be arranged so that students will be able to attend, as that same day finds the varsity playing at Ohio State.	.
The probable starting lineup finds Crotty and Gibbs at the ends, McGovern and Macaluso at the tackles, ‘ Smith, Mulcahy, or Fox at the guards, (Continued on Page 16)
TACKLING STRESSED IN FOOTBALL DRILLS
CARNEGIE TECH IS "JINX" TEAM TO IRISH SAYS SKIBO EDITOR
By Gene Vaslett
The Notre Dame varsity football team again had fundamentals drilled into them during this week’s practice sessions in preparation for the Carnegie Tech tilt tomorrow afternoon.
To all appearances Head coach Elmer Layden and his assistants were far from satisfied with the performance of their varsity charges in their
Wayne Millner c'Ha! Ha! Bearskin.”
seasonal debut against Kansas last week-end, for blocking, tackling and other football elementals received the greatest attention in the afternoon drill sessions following the Jayhawk encounter. Tackling especially was heavily stressed as the Irish showed it to be their most glaring weakness last Saturday.	-
Only one scrimmage, held yesterday afternoon, was engaged in. The freshmen played the part of Carnegie Tech and used the Scots’ plays against the various varsity teams.
The varsity suffered no serious injuries during the game last Saturday except the bruises received by a majority of the squad. Mike Layden, right half-back, experienced no ill-effects following his collision with the goal posts during the game and will be ready to answer the opening whistle in Pittsburgh tomorrow.
A squad of forty players left last night for Pittsburgh on the Pennsylvania Railroad and were scheduled to arrive in the Smoky city early this morning. From the station the team will be transported to the Pittsburgh Athletic Association building where the Irish will set up their headquarters previous to game time. This afternoon they will have a light drill on the field which will witness the game tomorrow.
Saturday morning the team will arise and hear Mass in the Cathedral neighboring the sleeping quarters of the squad. They will return to the Pittsburgh A.A. for lunch and then go to the stadium and prepare for the game.
SPORT WRITERS . . .
The ‘nation at large’ was well represented last Saturday in the Press Box, during the Kansas game, by writers, announcers, coaches, and celebrities of the athletic world. Virtually every section of the country, with the exception of the far west, sent ‘delegates’ to observe what lies in store for Notre Dame in the season’s impending grid battles.
Among the sports scribes were Ned Irish, ace commentator of the N. Y. World-Telegram; Frank Horch of Colly ers Nezus Bureau in Chicago; Ben Jenny and S. J. Becker from the Fort Wayne Nezus - Sentinel; John Zuiker, editor of the Suburban Sport Sez-vice in the Windy City; Wm. Dill, publicity director from the University of Kansas; and, E. H. Canister, sports editor of the Columbus Dispatch. W. B. Batton and R. S. Hon-vey covered the contest for the Indianapolis Star; Arch Ward, ex-Notre Dame man and now of the Chicago Tribune; B. J. Powers and Allan Holden from the New York Sun; Ted Applegate of the Associated Press; C. E. McBride from the Kansas City Star; Jim Kearns, former editor of The Scholastic, and Bob Gorman from the Chicago Daily Nezus; W. T. Fox on the Indianapolis Nezus, and Bob Scott of Radio Wire; Jim Costin of the South Bend News-Times sports department, and Jack Ledden columnist for the South Bend Tribune; and Paul Shonahan from the Chicago American. ’
The smaller dailies included J. B. Riley of the Mishawaka Enterprise; Elwood Green from the Evening Dispatch in Michigan City; J. W. Walter of the Peru Tribzme; Warren Worsly from the Topeka Capitol; Mark Ogden of the Kokomo Tribzune; George B. Dolbin sports editor of the Battle Creek Moon-Journal; and Thomas J. Charlesworth from the Elkhart Daily Truth.
The various scouts present for their respective colleges were Alvin McMullin, Univ, of Maryland; Chet Wynne, athletic director at the University of Kentucky and former Irish pigskin luminary; A. W. Meehan and Harvey Jablonsky, the latter now line coach at West Point, of the Army; W. F. Kern, Pittsburgh; C. A. Te-mero, Indiana University; A. C. Irwin from Carnegie Tech; M. A. Kent of Northwestern; Coach Francis A. Schmidt, E. D. Godfrey, and G. R. Stinchromb, all from Ohio State; Dick Smith and Lee Zender of Wisconsin;
(Continued on Page 23)
Techmen Fight for First Win
By E. F. Mulligan
(Sports Editor The Carnegie Tartan)
PITTSBURGH, PA., Oct. .3.— (Special) — When the Irish from Notre Dame travel to the Pittsburgh stadium on Saturday, they will be the
HOWARD MARPSTEJZ.
favorites to down Carnegie’s Plaid eleven. From the scores of the past week-end, the team from Notre Dame looks touchdowns better, but the Tartans have often faced such odds as these and won. Such was the case two years ago, when the big Green team left Pittsburgh with the small end of a 7-0 score. Carnegie seems to play inspired football against Notre Dame.
Coach Howard Harpster,- who played on one of these elevens which upset the dope-bucket, has been pointing for Saturday’s game since the beginning of training. Line Coach Joe Bach, who formerly coached at Duquesne with Elmer Layden, is familiar with the Rockne system, and has been holding special practices.
Although graduation took the usual toll of veterans, the Skibo team has some promising sophomores who show signs of talent and who are counted on to fill the vacancies. With one (Continued on Page 18)
October 4, 1935 ■
Fifteen
INTRODUCING
FOOTBALL MEN HELD
VARIOUS SUMMER JOBS
By Cy Stroker
It is the .opening game for the Notre Dame football team in the year 1933. A widely heralded Irish eleven is being stopped at every point by a strong Kansas team. Coach Anderson sends in substitute after substitute trying to score, but they fail repeatedly. Finally, in desperation, he
takes out quarterback Frank Gaul and sends in a husky, tow-headed sophomore in his place. The new man barks the signals in a loud, deep voice. The backfield shifts. The play is stalled, but an avalanche of red jerseys stops progress at the line of scrimmage. After several repeti
tions of this the quarterback is removed and the crowd sits back awaiting the arrival of the new substitute.
It is the opening game in 1935. Again Notre Dame is facing that formidable wall of red jerseys worn by the team from Kansas. Again the tow-headed man is at quarterback, calling signals. But what a differ
ence. Almost every play clicks for a substantial gain. The Jayhawkers are at their wits’ end trying to figure out what the Irish will do next. • And when the game ends, the score stands 28-7. The crowd cheers and the men in the blue jerseys who were led to (Continued on Page 22)
The nice breezy days of summer may mean vacation to the majority of students, but for the football men it’s just another period in toughening up the muscles for preparation of the autumn pigskin battles.. As indicated in the following paragraphs, quite a few of the varsity candidates resorted to hard manual labor during the layoff between June and September.,
Marty Peters kept in trim by pumping gas for a filling station, and Mike Layden had his old job back as a life-guard in Davenport. Hank Pojman had quite a workout helping to assemble and rebuild tractors. John Michuta was employed by the Chevrolet company to check and re-check automobiles.
“Sonny” Church served as grocery clerk, and in his spare time attended to the window dressing. Andy Pilney played baseball to stay in shape, while in addition he wielded a shovel on the section force. After spending two weeks recuperating from an operation, Fred Solari found a position on the sandy beaches of Duxbury.
Don Elser ‘sponged’ on the family by chauffering for his brother-in-law, H. H. Werber, of Gary. Harry Becker and Fred Carideo helped T. L. Hickey contractor, to lay the foundation for the new infirmary—later Carideo left for New York and “took it easy.”
Wally Fromhart probably had the most ‘ambitious’ work of the entire group. Part of the time he slaved as prison guard in Moundsville, and then shifted his talent to a coal company. Johnny Lauter engaged in softball competition, beside doing blue-printing in an engineering office.
Bill Shakespeare spent most of his leisure moments in the country on a farm. Frankie Gaul chopped trees in the Maine woods, while also doing a little coon-hunting. Wayne Millner collected insurance on week-d^vs. -^nd swam a bit on Sundays, while Dick Pfefferle toiled the weary hours in a bakery.
"B" TEAM FOOTBALL (Continued from Page 14)
and Battaglia at the canter position. In the backfield Hoban at quarterback, Saffa and Magee at the halves, and Schmidt at full. For the most part it is a seasoned team and because of the many strenuous practice sessions under the watchful eye of Coach Cerney they have rounded into great shape. Cerney believes that he has two men on his squad at present that may develop into “A” squad material before the end of the current season. Every man on the team, however, is working for that chance.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
SO THEY SAY . . .
FOOTBALL HEROES OF FORMER YEARS CARRY NOTRE DAME TRADITION INTO BUSINESS WORLD
“Notre Dame’s fighting eleven, led by the dashing Fred Carideo, who scored two touchdowns, opened its 1935 football campaign before 20,000 spectators today with a smashing 28 to 7 victory over the University of Kansas.	'i
“Notre Dame led, 13 to 0; at the halfway point. Carideo skirted end for 15 yards to score late in the first period and plunged over from the two yard line after slashing drives at the tackle by Mike Layden put the ball in position in the second quarter.”— Ted Applegate of the Associated Press in the New York^ Times of j Sept. 29.	-' -'' ?
“Fiercely but futiley, the .Kansas Jayhawkers attempted to/ stem the march of Notre Dame’s fighting Irish at South Bend yesterday . and went down to defeat by a score ‘of 28-7. Battling every inc hof the way, the Jayhawkers were beaten by a, juggernaut which seems destined for a place rigih at the top of the football ladder this year.
“A running play was smeared for a loss of four yards, putting the ball back on the 41 yard line. Here Bill Shakespeare, the ‘Bard of Staten Island,’ dropped back and tossed a 50 yard pass to Millner who took the ball with "no one around him and stepped across the goal line.
“Shakespeare had been throwing strikes all afternoon, but previously the Jayhawkers had knocked the passed out of the hands of the intended receivers faultlessly.” — Chet Hamm in University Daily Kansan.
“Opening day was pay off day at Notre Dame this afternoon. Scoring in each of the four periods, the Irish beginning their 47th season of intercollegiate football, bowled over Kansas, 28 to 7, before a crowd of 26,000. * It was the most impressive debut a Notre Dame squad has made in four years.
Today’s decisive victory more than evened up for the scoreless tie Kansas achieved on this same gridiron in 1933, the last time the teams met. It . also gave Notre Dame an edge in the series which had its inaugural in 1904. - Notre Dame has won twice, Kansas once and there was one tie.
While there was nothing in Notre Dame’s play today to warrant prediction of an all victorious season, the observers saw enough to worry them. They saw a line that threw back Kan-' sas charges time after time without yielding a yard. They saw an alert secondary smack down Jayhawker (Continued on Page 20)
October 4, 1935
By Al Bride
The spot light of fame has pointed to Notre Dame for its fine, age old traditions, its smashing array of football heroes, and its successful graduates; but spread over the coun
Tim Moynihan
try are scores of unsung heroes who performed on the gridiron while football at Notre Dame was still in its infancy. In the last decade or so Notre Dame has sprung into national prominence as having outstanding football teams. Players who star on Saturday afternoons have their pictures printed in newspapers throughout the nation; radio announcers relate play after play until each player’s name is familiar to lovers of the fall sport; and you may even follow the high lights of the games through the newsreels at the theaters, but before all this publicity there were still football players fighting for Notre Dame. These players received little acclaim for their hard knocks other than the pure joy of playing. Today we find some settled quietly occupying themselves in business, some remain in football as coaches, while others are in the field of politics and all other paths of life.
One of the first to flash the name of Notre Dame across the football horizon was Gus Dorais. One bleak November day in 1913 on the plains of West Point Dorais and Rockne startled the football world with a new open type of play. Dorais received the ball from the center and instead of running it forward, as all back tried to do in those days, he took one or two steps, threw it over the surprised upturned heads of the Army players, and watched it settle into the waiting arms of the fleet- footed Rockne who had a clear path to the goal line. Several times this pass was completed to the bewilderment of the West Pointers and the astonishment of the small group of newspaper men and spectat
ors. As a result the breather team, Notre Dame, defeated the vaunted Army machine. For the remainder of that season Dorais continued to star in the new open game that he and Rockne introduced to the world. Graduation and later years could not keep Dorais away from the game he loved, and today we find him head coach at the University of Detroit where he is turning out successful teams.
The “Fighting Irish” have been noted for their long line of great fullbacks. This tradition was never more true than way back in 1910 when that position was ably filled by Lew Salmon. As any old timer can tell you Salmon had all the qualities essential to a good fullback; he had power, speed, and was a hard blocker. Fullback, in those days was a position that fully tested the ability and courage of the players. Substitutions were less frequent than they are today, and repeatedly the fullback would have to play 60 bone crushing minutes of clean, hard football. In spite of this Salmon’s game was always characterized by sv ch vigor and dash that one would think it was the first game of
John Colkicx
the season. Today Lew is an engineer still fighting hard problems and’ tackling tough assignments.
On the same team was one of the greatest linemen ever to open a hole in the opposing line. He was Kelly, now a lawyer in Massachusetts. Time and time again Kelly broke through to break up plays before they could get under -way. When yardage was needed for a first down or for a touchdown, the quarterback would look over the team and then call Salmon through Kelly. It was a play that seldom failed to click. Maybe that play still clicks through Kelly’s mind as he sits in the Massachusetts legislature and listens to some one of (Continued on Pa-re 20)
Seventeen
IRISH FOOTBALL TEAM DOWNS KANSAS BY 28-7 SCORE IN SEASON OPENER
FOURTH STRAIGHT GOLF TITLE BY NEW CAPTAIN
By Cy Stroker
The Notre Dame football team opened its 1935 season in whirlwind fashion last Saturday by defeating the Kansas University Jayhawkers 28-7. Before a crowd of more than 20,000 spectators, the Irish proved that they are definitely in the running for national football prominence this year.
From the very beginning of the game it was evident that Notre Dame had the upper hand in the contest. Receiving the ball on the kick-off, the Irish immediately started a march toward the enemy goal. Although they
Fked Cakideo
He was the avenger.
lost the^ball on downs deep in Kansas territory, their defense was so effective against the Jayhawkers that they quickly regained possession of it. From that time on, Notre Dame was on the offensive for about three-quarter of the game.
Fred Carideo took the honors for scoring in- the contest. Late in the first quarter he broke through the Kansas defense for the first score of the game. He repeated this feat in the second quarter to give the Irish a substantial lead over Kansas. In the third period, Michuta, who played excellent ball during the entire game, blocked a Kansas punt behind the goal line and scored a safety.
The only score made by Kansas was made early in the third period. At the beginning of the half the Jayhawkers began a determined effort to wipe out the Irish lead and succeeded in'bringing the ball into Notre Dame territory. There, surrounded by three Irish players, Green jumped high into the air to receive a pass from Hap-good and then sped over the goal line for a touchdown. McCall made good the point after touchdown.
In the last quarter,-Wayne Millner, Notre Dame’s fast -.travelling end"“ broke away from the Jayhawkers who (Continued on Page 21)
Eighteen
INTERHALL . . .
Sunday, Oct. 6, the battle starts again. Fourteen Interhall teams are anxiously awaiting the opening whistle which will start them in quest of the Interhall football championship. Sorin, the stronghold of many a husky team, and Carroll, the .dormitory occupants, are the defending champions of their leagues. In the final game last year, the speedy men from Carroll drubbed the high and mighty Sorinites in the championship struggle. However, Father Farley’s men are out for revenge this year. Will they get it? The other competitors say that Sorin .will be lucky if they win one game. This is the spirit of the entire league. Indications point toward many a knock-down, drag-out contest before the 1935 season terminates.
The 14 entries is a record list. Never before has there been over 12 teams competing for Interhall honors. The boys who play interhall ball play because they love the game. Student interest has increased this year. Every team will have a cheering section to urge them on to victory.
Group I includes Corby, Howard, Badin, Lyons, Walsh, Alumni, and Sorin. Group II includes Brownson, Dillon, St. Ed’s, Carroll, Off-Campus, Morrissey and Freshman.
The schedule for Sunday follows:
Group I
Oct. 6„ 9:15 a. m.—Corby vs. Howard, Cartier N; Badin vs. Lyons, Cartier S; Walsh vs. Alumni, Cartier oval.
Group II
2:30 p.m.—Brownson vs. Off Campus, Car-tier N; St. Edward’s vs. Dillon, Cartier S; Freshman vs. Morrissey, Cartier oval. .
JINX TEAM
(Continued from Page 15)
game under its belt, the team is set for a good showing.
The probable starting line-up has .Kopsak, brother to the two Army Kopsaks, and a talented back himself, at quarter. He is a sophomore, but is rapidly rounding into a clever quarter. Patt, veteran from last year, has been shifted from quarter to full-' back, and his 200 pounds seem to be better suited to that position than the (Continued on Page 20)
Winfield Day, number one golfer of Notre Dame, climaxed his collegiate golf career here this week by winning his fourth consecutive Fall
Winfield Day
Golf Tournament and in so doing established a new student course record for 72 holes by turning in a score of 296 for the contest.
Since his Freshman year Day has dominated the Fall Golf Tournaments played on the William J. Burke Memorial course. Day' is the first Notre Dame man to establish the spectacular record of four straight triumphs in this tournament and it seems fitting that he should also break the student record for the course at the same time. In. 1932, as a Freshman, Win won the tournament with a score of 308. In his Sophomore year he triumphed in the Fall contest with a score of 302 for the 72 holes and in 1934 his winning score was 306.
Coincident with Day’s record-breaking performances it has been announced by the Rev. George Holder-ith, C.S.C., coach of the golf team, that Day’s election as captain of the 1936 golf team has been approved by the University Athletic Board. Win has been a valuable member of the team and instrumental in the fine record of the golf team for the past , two years. Since Day has been on the team only one intercollegiate contest has been lost.
Father Holderith expressed the hope that 1936 will see another undefeated Notre Dame. golf team.
In the Fall tournament Day was trailed by Tom Sheehan, a Freshman, (Continued on Page 22)
The Scholastic
By Joe Prendergast
QUITE A DIFFERENCE
What a difference two seasons make!! In 1933 Notre Dame opening against Kansas played sloppy, erratic football resulting in a scoreless tie. Last Saturday the Irish played against the Jayhawkers in another curtain-raiser and showed smart heads-up football to down Kansas 28 to 7 with a little left over.
In 1933 the students had- shiveritis (fearing the on-coming eight > game slaughter) and last Saturday the students were besieged with bragitis. Most members of the Irish team had seen service against the 1933 Kansas eleven and were fine exhibits of the effects of the superb’ coaching Elmer Layden and his staff have given Notre Dame. This year’s squad has polish, a quality that the combines of the last few seasons were .sorely in need of. Eight games remain on the Notre Dame schedule but from what transpired on the gridiron out there last Saturday, the Irish supporters fear none of the approaching conflicts.
FLASH
Dean Nesmith, right tackle for Kansas, saw action in last Saturday's fray and in that lies a story which causes wonderment. The Daily Kansan, the official student newspaper of the University of Kansas, in the Sept. 26, 1935 issue had the sport pages covered with the story of this star tackle of two year’s experience who had for no apparent reason up and left for George Washington University. The coaches were amazed, the students much, agog and the team quite upset. Jim Pixley, George Washinton coach, was recipient of sundry charges. Here is what Chet Hamm in his Sportshots has to say on the matter: ~ “Rumors were flying as to the real reason for the Kansas tackle’s departure * without any notification to his coaches. Some were sure that Nesmith had fallen out with the coach. Others were sure that he was to be married. Rumors were numerous but they were just rumors.’’
Either Mr. Nesmith missed the train or the sport publicity department again made a touchback for "“ole” Dean Nesmith played part of the game in the stadium and showed no ill effects of a four day’s train ride to Washington and back.
(Continued on Page 22)
CAPTAIN JOE WALDRON SEEDED FIRST IN
ANNUAL FALL VARSITY TENNIS TOURNEY
By Mike Crowe
CROSS-COUNTRY ...
Intensive work is being done by the candidates for the cross - country squad in preparation for their initial meet on October 19th with Pitt. The , Panthers will clash with the Irish <
.Arch Gott “He’s Gott stuff.’’
thinlies on Saturday morning, around the three and a half mile course, prior to the opening kick-off that afternoon between Notre Dame and Jock Sutherland’s proteges.
With the nucleus of experienced monogram men returning Coach Nicholson is slightly more optimistic than last season as .he states, “We will probably -win half of them.” Among the veterans that are back include Leo McFarlane, Arch Gott, John Francis, John McKenna, Joe McGrath, Frank Karl, and Herbert Kenyon; while the new prospects are Gene Gormley, and Jim Mann.
So far in practice, the boys have looked good, and Nick is of the opinion that it will be a better team than he has had for the past several years. Last fall the harriers after getting off to a splendid start in defeating Loyola, fell into a decided slump as they lost to such strong arrays as Indiana, Michigan State, and Pittsburgh. This season the Hoosiers are being replaced on the schedule by Wisconsin, with Nov. 8th and 9th still tentatively open.
Although Tom Ottey, their brilliant speedster, has departed the Michigan State team will prove to be a very tough opponent on the Irish card, along with the Smoky City visitors and the powerful Gophers.
As yet the Gold and Blue track mentor is unsettled on just whom he (Continued on Page 22)
An unusually large number of entrants are striving to gain the tennis championship this fall. Seventy-two men are competing. There is no outstanding favorite to win the crown which was taken last year by Frank
Joseph Waldron
“Angus—He makes friends.”
Weldon, the captain of last years team.
Coach deLandero has seeded six men in the following order; Capt. Waldron, Prendergast, McNulty, Fallon, Cannon and Kilrain.
Following is the list of contenders: Harry Anderson, William Arnold, Tom Bott, John Bourke, Jim Connell, George Cannon, Charles Coy, Tom Cassidy, Bill Clifford, Bill Donnell, Robert DuBois, Bob Duffy, Jack De Garmo, Bob Erwin, Joe English, George Feeley, Franklin Fox, John Freedy, Bill Farrell, Bill Fallen, Bill Gibson, Pete Gay, Jack Gleason, Herb Gardner, Phil Hoene, R. Hennessey, Walter Harris, Ed Hackett, Vince Hartnett, Eddie Kilrain, Ferg. Kelly, Jack Loritsch, Russ Langdon, Jack McKendry,. Fred Mulcahy, John Maloney, John Metcalfe, Joe McNulty, Frank Murphy, J. D. McGlaughlin, B. E. Megin, Tom Mulligan, Dick Mailer, Pat Malloy, Don McKay, Bernard Niezer, Tony O’Boyle
John O’Connor, John Odenbach, William Page, John Prentice, Joe Prendergast, Bill Robinson, Phil Roeser, Jack Robinson, George Sauter, John Shaw, Paul Sheedy, Parker Sullivan, Dick Servaas, Joe Shapero, Art Shaughnessey, Art Selna, Joe Thornburg, Ted Trefzer, Russell Tan-gar, Bill Tobin, Arthur Vervaat, Jim Waldron, Joe Waldron, Fred Weber and Jack Zerbst.
Oct o b e r 4, 1935
Nineteen
FOOTBALL HEROES (Continued from Page 17)
the politicians talk for hours on the trust situation. For after many successful years at practicing law Kelly was elected to the Massachusetts State Legislature.
Football players have come to Notre Dame with excellent high school and prep school football records. However, one of the stars of the early years came with no build up and, in fact, didn’t even answer the call for first practice. He just wouldn’t go out for the team. Our own Father Farley, C.S.C., noticed him and finally persuaded him to report. Thus it was that Pat Beacon became the star of the team of 1903. Without any former experience, without even the desire to play football, he reported to the coaches. They saw his possibilities, taught him the fundamentals and the fine points of the game, and when the end of the 1903 season rolled around Pat was picked as one of the spark plugs of the team.
These and many more have helped to build the name of Notre Dame. The Four Horsemen, Cannon, Gipp, Smith, Carideo, and many more have helped Notre Dame skyrocket into fame, but had it not been for the firm foundation laid down by the almost unknown players of 20 and 30 and more years ago this would not have been possible. Conditions in those days were far from those of today. Equipment was scarce and inadequate. Many of the safety devices used by the players of to-day were unknown in the early stages of football. Risk of injury was much greater, both from more freedom of rules and lack of proper equipment.
Thus you can see a little of the conditions here in the days gone by, and maybe you can recall the names of some of the players. For the most part they have spent their four years here, played and enjoyed playing for Notre Dame, and then have slipped into a small or important station in life, as the case may be. But each fall as the headlines of the papers carry the tale of the fortune of tin Fighting Irish on the gridiron these heroes of past years must sit back and recall players and scenes that we shall never know.
SO THEY SAY
(Continued from Page 17)
passes save for one occasion when a set of reserves permitted a long pass to get away from them for a Kansas touchdown. They saw a hard running, intelligent full back named Fred Carideo scoot through and around the Kansas defense and they saw a right halfback, Mike Layden, who is going to give every opponent plenty of annoyance.”—Arch Ward in the Chicago Sunday Tribune.
Twentv
/
ON DOWN THE UNE
By James A. Waldron
DID YOU KNOW:
Elmer Layden of Notre Dame and Jock Sutherland of Pittsburgh agree that they won’t use Sophomores as regulars on their football clubs because a Sophomore thinks he knows, but in the pinches makes mistakes— Army has never defeated Harvard at West Point in any of the fourteen games that have been played there— Dick “Bull” Heekin, the potential All-American back of Ohio State, was in the backfield of the Georgetown Prep team captained by Notre Dame’s Jack Robinson — Maury Nee, a freshman here last year and the best athlete to come out of Georgetown Prep since the days of the two stars mentioned above, has transferred his allegiance to Georgetown University—Kopsack, the Carnegie' Tech quarterback, is a brother of the two Kopsaks of Army fame—When Navy sank the big grey Army team last year, it was the first time since 1921—Bill Clark, the kicking wizard who kept Navy’s opponents back on their heels for the past few years, did not cash in on his kicking powers until LeRoy Mills, the in-structoi' of such kickers as Frank Carideo of Notre Dame and Jack Buckler of Army, took him in hand and converted him from the long range shelling to the coffin corner creed— Pittsburgh hasn’t been beaten by an Eastern team in six years and has suffered only a scattering of reverses at the hands of more outlying powers during this period.
PAGE MR. RIPLEY:
They tell the story about the game in which Jack Robinson kicked off and caught his own kick without the ball touching the ground. Solution: The ball hit one of the opposing players on the shoulder and bounced into the arms of the surprised kicker as he ran to make the tackle. Incidentally, Jack claims that he almost scored on the play, being downed on the five-yard line.
THE WHEELS OF FATE:
When Elmer Layden coached at Duquesne, he had Joe Bach as his line coach. On resigning to accept his new post as football coach at Notre Dame, Layden put in a good word for Bach to become head coach of the Dukes. Now the Irish mentor finds that Bach has left his position at Duquesne to accept the post of line coach at Carnegie Tech, which team Notre Dame plays tomorrow.
ANCIENT TRADITION:
Whenever Navy beats Army, an ancient Japanese gong is heard on.the banks of the Severn. For three college generations, it remained as mute as the harp that hung on Tara’s walls.
CARNEGIE TECH (Continued from Page 14)
Tartans in the days of Eythe and Karsis.
Notre Dame has always had trouble with Carnegie Tech. In ’26, and again in ’28, their present coach, Howard Harpster, quarterbacked elevens that erased potential national championships from the Notre Dame picture. In 1933, Harpster, in his first year of coaching, directed the Tartans to a 7-0 setback of Anderson’s hopeless team. This year, Notre Dame is not worried about the national championship, nor does Layden have a hopeless eleven, but they do have a tough assignment facing them when they take the field tomorrow afternoon. The Irish coach plans no alterations of the lineup that faced Kansas last week.
CARNEGIE HISTORY (Continued from Page 14)
and the Four Horsemen and the Seven Mules had gained national fame. But at the end of the first half Carnegie had tied the score at 13-13 with a display of strength entirely unexpected. However, Notre Dame went on a scoring spree in the second half to win 40-19 and wind up the career of the four horsemen in glorious style.
JINX TEAM (Continued from Page 18)
former. Lehman, who played last year at full, has been shifted to blocking half. Jerry Mateion, a newcomer, playing at the other half, is counted on to show some fancy running. The line is to be well sprinkled with sophomores. Co-captain Torbovich holds down the center post, but some of the other positions are not filled definitely. Co-captain Steve Terebus, diminutive half-back, will probably be forced to watch the game from the bench, because of an old ankle injury.
Sanford looks like a definite starter at one of the terminal posts, with either DiDeminico or Moore to start at the other. Moore may get the call through his wider experience. Hen-rion and Chyczewski are counted on to play a large part of the game at tackle and guard, with new material at the other berths.
The Tartan team will enter the game with the traditional ’fighting spirit for which they are noted, in an effort to secure revenge for the overwhelming defeat which they suffered last year at Notre Dame. Victory in the annual game with Notre Dame is especially sweet to Carnegie, so watch for a clean and hard-fought game.
The Scholastic
On The Enemy's Trail
, LAST WEEK:
Carnegie Tech beat Case
Pitt beat Waynesburg
Navy beat William and Mary
Wisconsin was defeated by South Dakota State
Northwestern beat DePaul
Southern California beat Montana
THIS WEEK:
Wisconsin plays Marquette
Pitt plays Washington and Jefferson
Navy plays Mercer
Ohio State plays Kentucky Northwestern plays Purdue Army plays William and Mary Southern California plays College of Pacific	-
BANQUET FOR SCHIRALLI
Rocco Schiralli, Notre Dame football star and graduate of Emerson High school of Gary was feted at a testimonial banquet in his honor last Sunday held in Gary.
About 400 persons were on hand to honor the Notre Dame star who is the first Gary boy to gain recognition by football fans throughout the country. .
Bunch of keys found near Ave Maria. Finder can get at Publications Office.	•
KANSAS GAME
(Continued from Page 18)
had been haunting him all during the game and reached the goal line just in time to snare a pass from Bill Shakespeare for another score. This pass was one of the highlights of the game. Shakespeare, after receiving the ball from center on the Kansas 41 yard line, faded back to midfield and threw a pass from that point diagonally across the field to the Kansas goal line, a distance of well over 60 yards.
The last score of the game culminated a 60 yard drive started and finished by Vic Wocjihovski, one of the most promising of the juniors on the team. Never was a man hit harder than this rangy halfback, but the punishment he received seemed to have no effect on him, for he only plunged harder each time until he finally carried the ball over the goal line.
For a first game, Notre Dame played heads-up ball from start to finish. The tackling and blocking were weak at times, a fact which the Sunday sports writers did not fail to emphasize but these fundamentals always improve as the season progresses. The line was not as weak as the loss of so many regular players would seem to- indicate, although there is plenty of room for improvement. On offense, the backfield, Shakespeare, Fromhart, Pilney, Ca-
rideo and Layden, was certainly in fine shape.
The large margin rolled up by the first team gave Elmer a chance to put in many players who have not had much experience. One of the most outstanding of these was “Red” Zwers who proved himself first squad material. As for Kansas, in spite of the overwhelming score against them, the Jayhawkers played good defensive ball. On the offensive they did not show up so well except at the beginning of the second half.
The line-up:
Xotre Dame (28)	Kansas (7)
Millner -------------LE_____________Hayes*
Pfefferle ___________LT.___________  Vogel
Lautar _________'___LG.____________ McCall
Pojman ---------------C------------ Phelps
Becker ______________RG.____________ Sklar
Michuta ............ RT.___________ Seigle
Peters ______________RE_____________ Green
Fromhart ____________QB-------- Giannangelo
Shakespeare LH._____________________Harris
Layden --------------RH____________ Stukey
Carideo ____________  FB_________ Douglass
ZOSS NOW LINE COACH
Abe Zoss, well known figure on the campus and a native of South Bend, has accepted a position as line coach at De LaSalle Academy in Chicago. Emmett Murphy, former Notre Dame quarterback is head coach at the Chicago school. Zoss expects to return to Notre Dame at the start of the second semester to pursue his studies.
NOTRE DAME VS. CARNEGIE TECH, 1934
The Irish Defeated the Skibos, 13 to 0
October 4, I 93 5	Twenty-one
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
(Continued from Page 19)
SPLINTS
Here’s a few real slivers taken in the press box—Joe Savoldi being refused permission to enter the scribes’ coop by the head usher and viewing the victory of the Irish from somewhere in the stands . . . Coach Francis Schmidt watching the win with two of his pigskin-minded aides from Ohio State, passing up the Kentucky (the Statemen’s opponents tomorrow) Xavier clash to get a little knowledge of the Laydenmen whom he does not meet till Nov. 2, the fifth game on his schedule . . . Jim Kearns, former editor of The Scholastic and now sports reporter for the Chicago Daily News, calling the cue on the safety by giving Harris credit for the two points and helping to clear up many befuddled correspondents . . . Spots Manning asleep on the soft stadium turf when the second Notre Dame touchdown was tallied . . . The deafening silence when Kansas scored . . . The giant frame of Martin Peters who seemed to be the largest thing on the field outside of the goal posts. . . . All the scribbling boys mostly agreeing that it is Detroit’s year, first Joe Louis and now the Tigers . . . F. Powers of the New York Sun who viewed Saturday’s game still holding that Ohio State is the class of the land in football circles. He recently went the sport boys one better by stating that the Buckeyes are not three deep, mind you, but four deep in stars at every position.
SCORECASTS
Of the twenty games we picked last week, seventeen came our way, three were debits and one was a no decision affair. St. Lawrence, Hal Shumacher’s alma mater, smacked over the dopesters when it downed Gil Dobie’s “Big Red’’ team from Cornell and likewise did South Dakota and Ohio University when they licked Wisconsin and Illinois respectively. This week Jack Robinson, last season’s All-American center for the Irish, has picked the scores of twenty-five teasers. Robbie picks:
Notre Dame 20; Carnegie Tech 0.
Wisconsin 7; Marquette 0.
Pittsburgh 19; Washington and Jefferson 0. Navy 27; Mercer 0.
Ohio State 14; Kentucky 7.
Purdue 13; Northwestern 7.
Army 20; William and Mary 6.
Southern California 13; College of Pacific 0.
Tennessee 20; North Carolina 6.
Michigan State 7; Michigan 6.
Louisiana State 13; Texas 7.
Nebraska 20; Iowa State 7.
Iowa 26; South Dakota 6.
. Illinois 13; Washington 0.
Rice 14; Duquesne' 0.
Twenty-two
Duke 27; Washington and Lee 7.
Indiana 21; Centre 6.
Oregon State 13; U. C. L. A. 0.
California 3; St. Mary’s 0.
Boston College 7; Fordham 0.
Alabama 14; George Washington 0.
Tulane 21: Auburn 6.
Stanford 20; San Franisco 7.
Santa Clara 14 ; Washington 7.
Princeton 20; Pennsylvania 7.
INTRODUCING (Continued from Page 16)
victory by the husky quarterback with the blond hair.
That is the story of Wally From-hart. Born in Newburg, West Virginia on May 18, 1913. Wally grew up in the West Virginia hills, attending the Newburg Grade school and Moundsville High. At the latter school he was a three-letter man, playing football, baseball, and basketball. In basketball he was the captain. In football, he was All-Ohio Valley quarterback. At Notre Dame, Wally has played two years on the baseball team, holding down the third base position for Jake Kline.
Wally’s first experience on the varsity football team was during the Kansas game of 1933, mentioned above. For the rest of the 1933 season he played but a few minutes, one reason, perhaps, why the list of victories for that year was small.
Last year gave Wally a chance to show his ability. Throughout the season he was number one quarterback, playing in every game. He seems to have the knack of calling the play that the opponents least expect and in this way has contributed no small amount to the Irish prowess. But his ability is not confined to offensive play. As safety man he has often proved himself a nightmare to an opponent who, after having broken through the first line of defense, had high hopes of galloping down the field to victory and fame.
Aside from his athletic activities and his work as a Business Administration major in the Commerce school, Wally takes life easy. An occasional hunting or fishing trip constitutes his only recreation. During the summer he worked as a prison guard back in West Virginia.
NATIONAL INTERCOLLEGIATES
Notre Dame’s representatives on the fairways, turned in a neat exhibition last June in the National Inter-collegiates held on the Congressional Country Club Course in Washington, D. C. The University of Michigan captured the crown for team play, while the Irish ranked seventh on the list.
In the individual performances Capt. Johnny Banks and Win Day qualified. Banks beat McCloughland one up in the first round, and in the
second the Irish leader with a 75 lost out to Pat Malloy by one stroke. Win Day came through to win oyer St. Clair three and two in his initial encounter, but succumbed to Charley Yates, the defending champion two and one. Ed White of Texas garnered the title by virtue of a brilliant week of golf. Jack Malloy, of Princeton, a brother of Pat, was elected to the presidency for the coming year. Cole and Baldwin composed the remainder of the Notre Dame squad.
CROSS COUNTRY
(Continued from Page 19) will insert in the starting line-up against Pitt, a few weeks hence. Arch Gott, one of the mainstays of ’34, has been out for a few days with poison ivy but should round into shape by the first encounter. The spiked-shoe lads officially close their exhibitions on Nov. 25 at East Lansing, Michigan, where they will vie for honors in the Central Conference.
The schedule is as follows: Pittsburgh, Oct. 19 (here). Michigan State Oct. 26 (there). Nov. 2 and 9, open.-Wisconsin, Nov. 16 (there).
Central Conference at E. Lansing, Nov. 25.
FOURTH GOLF TITLE (Continued from Page 18)
with a score of 304. Following Sheehan came B. Castleman with 306; G. Melbourn, 307; P. Malloy, 308; L. Lang, 309; B. Leonard, 322; A. Chadwick, 325.
Established 30 Years
LEMONTREES ja.
OPTOMETRISTS
222^2 South Michigan Street
t
South Bend, Indiana
Welcome back fellows! If you need your glasses straightened or tightened at any time, just bring them in. You will be cared for just like at home.
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
A University of Iowa professor outlines a new tardiness etiquette: Students should wait three minutes for an instrutcor to appear, five for an assistant professor, eight for an asso-cite professor, and ten for a full professor or dean. We’ll agree if the professors will permit freshmen to be two minutes late, sophomores five, juniors ten, and seniors fifteen.
----o----
At the University of Edinburgh, Scotland, girls not only pay their own carfare when the boy friends take them out, but they must also pay for their own theater tickets.—Los Angeles J. C.
----o----
The freshmen at St. Norbert College, West De Pere, Wis., when in the company of a member of the opposite sex, must exit at the approach of a sophomore.
----o----
University of California students have devised a new method for eluding parking regulations. They overpark and get a police ticket; thereafter, they leave the ticket in the windshield and John Law passes by unconcerned.
----o----
Experiments made by Dr. Laird of Colgate University prove that heavy noon meals draw the blood away from the brain for digestive purposes, and thereby retard the speed and accuracy of mental functions. We recommend a siesta.
----o----	-
Each fraternity at the University of Cincinnati selects the ugliest member in its ranks and sends the owner to compete in the annual ‘Ugly Mug Contest.’
NEW JERSEY CLUB
(Continued from Page 9)
clubs gave a freshman party at the Kreuger club, Newark, which was attended by over two hundred persons including 35 entering freshmen. The club then ran a New Jersey club special on the Lackawanna and New ’ York Central railroads to the University.
Another step in the promotion of mutual interest between the two groups is seen in the creation of an alumni scholarship fund to be awarded to a member of the campus organization foi* scholastic proficiency.
It is the intention of Julius Rocca; John A. Hopkins, vice-president; Joseph P. Quinn, treasurer; and William B. Bruno, secretary to follow up the progressive work of the alumni organization in order to weld a close feeling of interest between both groups which eventually will lead up to a strong alumni organization serving Notre Dame in New Jersey.
O c tober 4,' 1935
FRE E
PEN-SKRIP PENCIL-SKRIP
SUCCESSOR TO INK	SUCCESSOR TO LEADS
THIS REVOLUTIONARY OFFER only lasts from September 10th to November 1st and will not be repeated! One package of Pencil-Skrip, "Successor to Leads" is being given free with every bottle of Blue or Blue-Black Pen-Skrip between these dates only! Since Pen-Skrip is already so generally used by the American public we ore using it to introduce our new Special H B Pencil-Skrip, "Successor to Leads", which fits all pencils using round or square teads. It takes six gallons of liquid to make one gallon of Pen-Skrip, the famous writing fluid which is absolutely free of sediment.
Permanent Pen-Skrip is for business—washable Pen-Skrip for college. Pencil-Skrip for mechanical pencils is in round stick form. It writes blacker, smoother, and has greatest tensile strength Purchase your supply of Pen-Skrip in the family size bottle with the Skrip-Well that al-
Uses the las' Drop
family size
9 jounces,50c 2-ounce size, 15c Both hove Skrip-Well
SKRIP-WELL
lows you to use thelast drop of fluid. No smudgy fingers. Remember during the period of this offer a free package of Pencil-Skrip. "Successor to Leads ', is included free with your purchase of Pen-Skrip Buy your winter supply while this offer lasts.
(This offer applies only in the United States)
’0ver3D%>
i	।
| Stronger j
ROUND LEAD Sectional Views of round and square leads. Those 'ound or square leads shown in diagram fit the same pencil.
For aendts using ROUND ar SQUARE
SQUARE LEAD
SHEAFFER PENS, $2.25 to $10—PENCILS, $1 to $5
SPORTS WRITERS .
(Continued from Page 15)
and C. H. Britton from Michigan State. Other persons prominent in the sports fraternity included Dick Hanley, until recently the boss of Northwestern’s Wildcats; Tom Kassis and Larry ‘Moon’ Mullins of Notre Dame’s National Champions in 1930, and now tutoring the gridiron hopefuls of St. Benedict’s College.
The Columbia Broadcasting System assigned Ted Husing and his assistant Les Qualey to narrate the setto for the invisible audience, while Ford Bond and Bob Brown were here for the N.B.C. Quin Ryan announced over WGN and WHB of Kansas City sent Harold A. Boyle. Cameramen from Fox Movietone News, Hearst Metrotone N e w s, and Paramount News were also on hand to obtain a few choice shots.
Twenty-three
"OMAHA”—Winner, one after the other, of the Kentucky Derby, the Preakness, and the Belmont
Omaha is an outstanding horse today.
And in the cigarette world Chesterfield is outstanding.
Both won their place
Apply any test you like — Chesterfields stand for the best there is in cigarettes.
They are milder... yet they let you know you’re smoking. They taste better—give you reaf pleasure.
© 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
.. tor mildness .. for better taste