In the old days, it would have taken a pole line over 700 feet high to carry all the conversations that can go through a T/z-inch coaxial cable.
IF all the telephone voices
That ride together in one coaxial cable
Traveled as they once did
Over pairs of open wire,
The sky above Georgetown University,
In Washington, D. C.,
And over all the other points
Along our extensive coaxial network, Would be a jungle of poles and wires.
•	• •
Coaxial cable—no thicker than a man’s wrist— Can carry 1800 telephone conversations Or six television programs At the same time.
•	• •
This cable is the product of
Years of continuous research and development— And another example of the way we work, Day in and day out, to make the telephone An important and useful part of your life.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
2
The Scholastic
Precision-built by the makers of the famous New Parker "51 Smart style, better-writing features seldom offered at even twice the price.
Writing’s fun with the New “21”! You glide through schoolwork on a super-smooth point of Octanium, the wonderful new 8-metal alloy. A special regulator measures ink flow to your writing pace ... prevents skips, blurs, and degrading blots.
The new-type “21” ink chamber is PH-glass for enduring, trouble-free service. (No rubber to rot!)
It stores more ink__lets you see the ink level for easy checking. Filling the “21” is easier, faster!
New style, latest precision features, real economy are yours in New Parker "21”. See it at your nearby pen dealer's in blue, green, red, black. Lustraloy slip-on cap. Choice of points. For double pleasure, get the New “21” Pen with matching pencil—S8.75.
At gift-hinting time, hint for the finest of all—New Parker "51”!
New Parker “51” and “21” Pens “write dty” with Superchrome Ink. No blotters needed! (They also use other inks.)
Copr. 1951 by The Parker Pen Company
Apr. 6, 1951
3
COLLEGE GIRLS CHEER HADACOL
At left: Miss Irene Siken-tanz, 3323 Cleveland Avenue, Port Huron. Mich.
At right: Miss Elaine Krupzak, 5082 Lapeer Road, Port Huron. Mich.
Radical May Relieve Cause of Troubles When Due to a Lack of Vitamins Bi, Bi, Niacin and Iron, that Interfere with Fun and Studies!
The marvelous benefits of HADACOL, today’s great nutritional formula, are equally helpful to young and old alike who are suffering from a lack of Vitamins B„ B2, Iron and Niacin.
Here’s what these two pretty coeds, who may have been suffering from such deficiencies, have to say: “We are two college students writing you this letter. Before taking HADACOL we were nervous, restless and unable to sleep at night. We found we were foggy all day,and ached all over. Now after taking only 3 bottles of HADACOL we are different persons. We are full of life and energy and our aches have completely disappeared. Thank you for your wonderful discovery of that remarkable product. HADACOL.”
-------------------------
SENATOR DUDLEY J. LE BLANC The Best Friend You Ever Had
Senator LeBlanc has been in public life since he was quite a young man and has always advocated the cause of the oppressed and downtrodden. It was he who introduced the law in Louisiana that gives every deserving man and woman in Louisiana a pension of $50.00. It was he who introduced the law creating the office of Service Commissioner, the duties of which office is to see that every deserving ex-soldier and veteran receives his just reward from the Federal and State Government. It was he who has consistently fought the battle of the school teachers in the halls of the legislature. He worked untiringly for
This is typical of thousands of letters telling how HADACOL relieves tire real and basic cause of deficiency distresses For HADACOL provides more than the minimum daily requirement of Vitamins B„ B2, Niacin and Iron, plus helpful quantities of Phosphorus and Calcium. It builds up the hemoglobin content of the blood (when Iron is needed) to send
these precious Vitamins and Minerals surging to every part of the body and to every body
organ.
Why not find out today why thousands say, “Only HADACOL gives you that Wonderful Hadacol Feeling.” At your druggist: Trial size only $1.25; large family size, only $3.50.
‘3
Senator Dudley J. LeBlanc the farmers and the laboring man.
You can place your confidence in a man who has by his past activities demonstrated to you that he is your friend. If you are suffering from deficiencies of Vitamins B„ B2, Niacin and Iron, don’t hesitate, don’t delay, buy HADACOL today.
FOR SALE — Tuxedo
Just like new. Size 36. $15.00.
Call 5-9060
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J. M. S. Bld?.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
So. Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
WHY PAY MORE!
Long Playing Records (33 1 /3 R.P.M.) 30% off
FREE COMPLETE CATALOGUE AND PRICE LIST.
Write to:
RECORD HAVEN. INC. (Dept. C) 520 West 48th Street New York, 19, N. Y.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
CORSAGES
FLOWERS for
All Occasions
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Flora/
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
4
The Scholastic
by
Top of the Week
Some college students to get deferments. . .
Back Again
After a very enjoyable, but too brief, vacation from the business of writing columns and doing literally thousands of last semester assignments we returned to our dust-covered desk with renewed
pound or Charles Atlas Muscle Building Courses.
Personally, we think Hadacol should be enjoyed and imbibed much in the same way as heroine or cocaine—secretly and without ads.
Busy, busy, busy
This is the time of year when everybody has more than enough to do around
school without even trying. This js the time of year when lectures, recitals, concerts, banquets, picnics, dances, smokers, committee meetings, trips, outside readings, dates, and possibly class assignments keep most of us hopping like freshly popped kernels of corn.
This year is all fouled up, if you’ll pardon the expression, and here we are with a lot of interesting things to do and a desire to hit the books. It is probably all the fault of the weather, but it is rather disconcerting to attend the monthly smoker of the Amalgamated Union for the Preservation of the Brass Spittoon and want to study instead. By the way, the A.U.P.B.S. hasn’t been approved by the Student Council. . . .
Bottom of the Week
. . . continued space limitations for this column.
vigor and a distasteful case of “no-ideasforcommentitis,” a peculiar disease which invariably hits most columnists just before deadlines. It usually clears up without serious complications after taking generous portions of amber malt beverages and equally generous amounts of co-workers’ suggestions.
Another boon to this week’s Week is the number three release of the Cigar Institute of America, Ind., that goes like this:
It won’t be long before your date looks you over carefully and then decides that what might be missing is a graceful pantella cigar jutting cockily forth from between your lean, firm joivs. Don’t be surprised, lad, when that happens, because it’s all part of a conspiracy, hatched in the cigar industry and aided and abetted by the young glamour boys of Hollywood. The Farley Grangers, Don Taylors, Jeff Chandlers, etc., have all taken to perfecto preening on screen as well as off. The odds are it won’t be long before the gals take the hint and start making not too subtle suggestions. Only thnig to do, we suppose, is to ride with the trend—or keep the gals out of the movie theatres.
All we can manage to utter after something like that is a hand-over-mouth chuckle.
H Stands for
Just a passing comment on the type of adds this magazine has been forced to accept in order to meet financial expenses. If you have not already noticed the two-column job on the opposite page, do so now!
If this type of ad is carried next week, we suggest you hold on to your hats for the rest of the semester. The next step in such a move will be ads raving about Lydia Pinkham’s Com-
Avoid embarrassment . . . gain confidence
PRIVATE STUDIOS
106 W. Monroe at Michigan	Dial 7-1517
Apr. 6, 1951
5
i:
‘i

Vol. 92	April 6. 1951 No. 20

APRIL 6
DRILL HALL—All swabbies will don their dress uniforms for the annual Navy Ball. The dance will shove off at 9 p.m. and will return to shore by 1 a.m. Tony Rulli and his orchestra will be aboard to offer music.
COLFAX (through April 11)—Bill Maudlin fans will be sadly disappointed in Up Front (Legion of Decency Rating A) if they expect to find the tenor of the World War II cartoons transmitted faithfully to the screen. This is a very funny picture, nonetheless, with Tom Ewell giving a fine performance as Willie. David Wayne is less good as Joe through fault of the way the character has been rewritten for the movies.
PALACE (through April 11)—Target Unknown (A-l), with Mark Stevens and Alex Nichol, is highly implausible in spots but still manages to come across as moderately suspenseful warfare. Donald O’Connor is up to his old mugging tricks in Double Crossbones.
AVON (through April 11)—Anyone who hasn’t already seen The Mating Season will find a lot of fun in Thelma Ritter’s fine performance. She carries the picture on her shoulders.
GRANADA (through April 9)—The Great Manhunt (A-l) is reminiscent of the early Hitchcock thrillers. It is guaranteed to keep its audiences on the edge of theii' hard Granada seats. Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., and Glynis Johns are the stars of this well-made film. Stage to Tucson (A) is a lacklustre western.
APRIL 7
PALAIS ROYALE—The Student Council sponsors the second in its Spring series of Saturday night informals. This one is called the Inter-Collegiate Swing. The bids are S1.50; the time is 8:30-11:30; and the ork belongs to Gene Hull.
WASHINGTON HALI^Chi the Town, with Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra, Jules Munshine, Vera-Ellen, Ann Miller, and Betty Garrett, will always be remembered as one of the sprightliest musicals ever to come out of the Hollywood factories.
APRIL 9
JOHN ADAMS—Jan Peerce, one of the country’s leading tenors, ■will give a concert sponsored by the South Bend Chapter of Hadassah, a Jewish women’s charitable organization. Tickets may be purchased at the door.
APRIL 12
AVON (through April 17)—Louis Calhern repeats the role of Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes that he first played on the stage, in The Magnificent Yankee (A-2). Ann Harding plays his wife in the story which chooses to gloss over the more important aspects of the Justice’s character in favor of a humorous treatment.
COLFAX (through April 21)—Too much hokum practically ruins Bird of Paradise (B), an idyllic romance of Polynesian folkways. The picture was filmed in beautiful Hawaii in technicolor. The scenery is about the only recommending feature of the picture. It stars Louis Jourdan, Debra Paget and Jeff Chandler.
APRIL 13
. PALAIS ROYALE—The slip-stickers will forget their brain-busting courses for their annual Engineers’ Ball. Two orchestras will supply continuous music for the dance. Only engineers will be admitted and bids are still obtainable in the Dining Hall at lunch and supper hours.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor KENNETH A. THOREN '51
Associate Editors WALTON R. COLLINS *51 JOHN H. JANOWSKI '51
JOHN J. POWERS '52 News
ROBERT G. FINNEY '53______Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE '51_________^Features
JOHN F. MEANEY '52 Sports
JACK R. VARLEY '52________Assistant Sports WILLIAM H. FRASER, '52____Photography
LEON GARDNER, '52______________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER Advertising
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT '51______Advertising
ROBERT WILDEMAN '51____________Circulation JAMES ROGERS '51_______________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS___________Faculty Moderator NEWS STAFF: Roger Blatz, Justin Bolger, Don Carbone, Pat Carrico, Dick Cody, John Corrigan, Valentine Chun, Carl Eiberger, Tom Godfrey, Dave Hayes. John Kelly, R. O. Murphy, Walt Murphy, Pat O’Malley, John Quetsch, Dave Quinn, Bill Rady, Berry Reece, Neil Scarlett, Ken Stead, Paul Zalecki and Ron Zier. SPORTS STAFF: Bill Brien, Jim Brislin, Bill Delaney, Joe Deiss, Jack Economou, Roger Fernandes, Bob Froelicher, Mort Kelly, Bill Londo, Fran Meaney, Bill Riley, Frank Ronnenberg, Bob Rust and Joe Straub. FEATURE STAFF: Jack Bradshaw, Dan Brennan. John Chevanne, Jay Conlon, Frank Haendler, Harry Sicmonsma, Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta. PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF: Gordon Brickson, Paul Fitzgerald, John Kinville, Charles Lenz. Harold Munger, Charles F. Murphy, Jr., Al Muth, C. Douglas Powers, Berry Reece, and Jerry Sheehan.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. The -Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: As plans stand now, this will be the last Scholastic cover by Chuck Lenz. This week the inimitable artist, who is a graduating Senior, takes a gander at the various Spring wardrobes to be seen on the campus during the forthcoming balmy months. The damsel on the bench represents the imports who will be flocking this way for dances. Her unseen expression is probably one of bewilderment as to why Notre Dame men don’t dress like Ivy Leaguers.
6
The Scholastic
Monday Nights at Eight
Now that the Kefauver Investigation has made a great many people conscious of their civic duty, it might be time to awaken some students around here similarly. Every year it’s the same thing. From Fall until Spring you can always be sure of hearing words of derision against the Student Council. The Council is everyone’s favorite scapegoat.
If anything goes wrong—it’s the Council’s fault. If a certain activity isn’t held—it’s the Council’s fault. As with all things, you never hear a complimentary word when the local liaison between the students and the administration does anything well. From most of the remarks echoed about you would think the Council was made up of some of the most muddled headed undergraduates on the campus.
Since WND is still struggling to get good reception into every hall they have not as yet applied for a TV licence to record the Council meetings. The next best step, therefore, would be for anyone to drop in on a Monday night meeting in the Law Building and see for himself how the Council operates.	.
It would be a revelation for many students. Unfounded criticism would come to a screeching halt. This is not to say however, the Council is without fault.
Once in awhile during a meeting some members prove their capacity, for wind outstrips their intellect. One or two members like to get their two cents’ worth in, regardless if it progresses a discussion or not. There are others who have a tendency to leap to their feet before thinking. They prefer to use their heads not until they are standing. Such practice often delays the matter on the floor many minutes. Contrasted with the orators are those representatives who are apparently glued in their seats without a constructive thought the entire evening. Perhaps in the long run, this type is even more harmful than those who talk too much.
Then there is also the problem of digression. Too many times the discussions are lengthened by members who like to wander away from the immediate business.
Any student who should visit Council Meeting would also note that complete attendance is rare. Sometimes the meeting is held up for a long period while the Council necessarily digs for enough members to make a quorum. It’s a sad commentary to think that some members, much less ordinary students, do not take enough interest in the meetings to attend faithfully. If a student takes it upon himself to run for an office it is only right to expect he will carry out the duties of the office once he has won the election.
Apr. 6, 1951
There is no denying the Council has some faults. But it would be difficult to find a better group of men to handle the work the present Council discharges.
The members go through a great deal of business each o	o o
week, which means they must be willing to give up their Monday nights. Right now there seems to be a general aversion toward extra-curricular activities among most students, and it would be hard to find an equal number of men who would so gladly offer up eyen this one night each week.
The Council also unselfishly gives up a great deal of time outside of its meetings, proper. Innumerable committee meetings consume many valuable hours. And since the Council is small, its members serve necessarily on several commit-	J
tees.
There’s an old saying about not kicking a guy who’s trying. This should apply to the Council. But.it does not. The group and its members must be bruised black .and blue from the verbal lashings directed their way. Some of the criticism might be deserved. The most of it, however, is not.	•
That’s why more students should go to the source. More of us should accept the Council’s invitation to drop in at -a meeting. Too many around here consider the Council an unnecessary organization that does nothing.
Also, if more students attended the meetings the Council, itself, might improve. Its members, seeing their constituents, so to speak, in attendance, would tend to sharpen their wits.
Don’t go expecting anything to compare with the Kefauver spectacle but just the same you will be surprised to see what goes on.
'The Key to Peace'
Dean Clarence Manion, of the Notre Dame College of Law, recently published a small book entitled The Key to Peace.
This book has quickly become the subject of a heavycontroversy within Catholic circles. It has been variously attacked and praised by layman and clergy alike for its statements.	.
The Scholastic this week offers a selection of the pros . and cons of this timely argument. We go further and urge that every Catholic student read these articles carefully , and intelligently. The topic is vital and as up to date as the Korean war.
The Scholastic takes pleasure in presenting this vicarious discussion of Dean Manion’s book.
7
TOP FORM PAYS OFF
or stop
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
114 East LaSalle Avenue
(open evenings)
Phone 3-0077
THE DRAFT DEFERMENT EXAM will measure college aptitude—ability to learn—and basic skills. Our Special 3-hour Survey measures these same factors for you. So, by taking our survey now you will learn how you are likely to stand on the draft deferment and similar exams.
There’s a man right here who has helped to develop the new techniques by which silent reading skills are first measured and then improved. His name is Father John A. O’Brien. He says that the Foundation for Better Reading is admirably equipped to assist you in doubling and even tripling your reading speed. People you know are doing just that right now. Why not find out how
easily and quickly you can do it, too? Facilities are limited. So, call in today.
Ever wonder why—among students of otherwise equal ability—a few can read faster—learn more in less time—get better grades—have more fun? What makes these fast readers fast? One important reason is that the skilled reader develops ability to move his eyes—as a winning athlete learns to control his body—with more accuracy, rhythm, and efficiency.
Have someone look at your eyes as you read. Note how often your eyes pause as they proceed along the lines. You see nothing when your eyes are moving. It’s only during these pauses that you are actually seeing the words. Your eyes may now be pausing as often as once for each word. You can acquire the ability to see more words—and ideas—at a glance, make fewer, shorter pauses, and thus—automatically—be reading faster. Even technical material can be absorbed quicker this way.
Film shows how often and how long your eyes pause in reading ’
—first step in re-training.
The Scholastic

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 20
Delegates From Six Catholic Colleges Here For NFCCS Regional Congress Tomorrow
APRIL 6, 1951
to the YCS office in the basement of the Law Building between 12:30 and one o’clock any afternoon next week. •
Notre Dame will be host to approximately 125 delegates from the six other colleges in the Fort Wayne Region at the NFCCS Eighth Regional Congress tomorrow and Sunday. A regional council meeting this evening precedes the congress. All meetings will be held in the Law Building.
Tonight’s council meeting is slated to start at 7:30 in the Law Auditorium. If the council’s work is not completed by 11 p. m., a second session will take place following a Recitative Mass in Dillon Chapel at 8 o’clock.
The bulk of the delegates will arrive Saturday morning. Ed Murphy has arranged for accommodations at the LaSalle Hotel in South Bend. A Blue Circle committee headed by Al DeCrane will conduct congress registration before the council meeting tonight and till 1 p. m. tomorrow.
At 1:45 tomorrow afternoon, the Congress will be formally opened by Congress Chairman John O’Connell at the first of three plenary sessions. Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, c. s. c., vice-president in charge of student affairs at Notre Dame, will deliver the welcoming address. Other speakers will include Rev. Seraph Zeitz, 0. F. M., regional moderator and regional president Jo Ann Madler of St. Mary-of-the-Woods College.
Following that, the delegates will separate to attend the panel session of their choice. The Inter-American .Action, Student Government, Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, and Interra-
STUDENT TRIP TO BE CHOSEN
Next Monday the Student Council know which trip you want, some-ball trip. Its recommendations to the University should represent the views of all the students. Because it is a thing that interests all students, the representatives would like to know just where they stand. You should let your representative on the Council know which trip you want sometime between now and Monday night.
cial Justice Commissions and the Overseas Service Program campus chairmen will meet in various rooms in the Law Building.
There will be a second major assembly at 4:30 p. m. to discuss any organizational changes and to consider resolutions presented by the commissions.
Vespers will follow in the Dillon Chapel. All religious services at Congress are being arranged by Bill Motzel and the Liturgy Club.
Tomorrow evening, the delegates will be guests of the University at the Student Council dance “Intercollegiate Swing.”
After a participational High Mass at 8 a. m. Sunday, the second day’s activities will begin. At 9:30, the five remaining commissions—Press, International Relations, Apostolic, Science, and Family Life—will conduct their panels. According to Panel Chairman Don Carbone, any one interested in the activities of any commission may attend the panels and take part in the discussion.
The third and final plenary session, at 1:45 p. m., will bring the Congress to a close.
In addition to Notre Dame, colleges participating in the annual Congress are Aquinas, Nazareth, St. Francis, St. Joseph’s, St. Mary’s of Notre Dame, and St. Mary of the Woods.
The Blue Circle will conduct campus tours for the guests at 3 p. m. Saturday and 10:30 a. m. Sunday.
The theme of this year’s Congress is Operare Sequitur Esse; its aim: more productive participation in NFCCS affairs by the students in each school.
Girls Here for Conference Available as Dates Saturday
Girls—dozens of ’em—from North, Central and South America, who will visit Notre Dame next weekend for the Tri-Regional Inter-American Affairs Conference, will also be on hand for the Student Council Dance at the Palais next Saturday evening.
Any Notre Dame man who would like a date for the dance should drop down
Advance Ticket Sale
Begins for 'Broadway'
Both reserved seats and general admission tickets for Mr. and Mrs. Broadway went on sale Monday through hall representatives. Reserved seats for the student musical, to be presented April 16, 17, and 18 at Washington Hall, sell for 80 cents and $1, while general admission tickets cost 50 cents.
First week sales are expected to go well, said co-author Bill Carey. He
LEADS enjoy rehearsal break.
added that since tickets were also being sold at Copp’s Music Store in South Bend, students desiring the better re-: served seats should buy them early.
A preview of the music in Mr. and Mrs. Broadway will be given by Gene Hull at the Engineers’ Ball and the Student Council dances. His orchestra will handle the music of the show, together with members of the Studebaker Chorus and the Glee Club.
Director-Producer Bud Powers is rehearsing several original dance specialties that he will do in the show. Intensified rehearsals at which the various parts of the musical comedy will be put together began again Sunday.
Apr. 6, 1951
Prill Hall Transformed Into Pirate's Island For 'Cutlass Capers' NROTC Ball Tonight
able the navy men to get blind dates from nearby women’s colleges. Busses will run to and from St. Mary’s.
Tonight, 200 Notre Dame NROTC midshipmen and their dates will find the Navy Drill Hall transformed into a glittering pirate’s island. Local bandman Tony Rulli will play for the annual Navy Ball. The theme of the dance is “Cutlass Capers.”
Miss Peggy Burns
Miss Peggy Burns of New York City, a Freshman at St. Mary’s College, will reign as queen. She will be escorted
‘ CUTLASS CAPERS” committeemen consider Novy Boll plans. (I. to r., standing): Jim Gruber, Paul Bruggeman, (seated) Dave Newsome, Andy Walsh, Ed Sullivan.
by dance chairman Andy Walsh, a Senior in the Notre Dame unit.
The dance is to be formal and dress uniforms will be worn. Captain and Mrs. Thomas Conley, U.S.N., Commander and Mrs.' S. A. Bobczynski, U.S.N., and Captain J. M. Daly, U.S. M.C., will form the receiving line. The grand march at 11 will take place and Miss Burns will be crowned queen of the ball. The officers and cadets of the Air ROTC unit have been invited to attend.
During the intermission, some lucky couple will enter the treasure cave and draw a prize from the treasure chest. Paul Bruggeman and the decoration committee transformed the Drill Hall into an old Spanish Main pirate setting.
The heads of the other committees are: Jim Gruber, bids and favors; Dave Newsome, publicity; Larry Ash, refreshments; Ed Sullivan, tickets and flowers. Sullivan is responsible for the procurement of flowers direct from a wholesale orchid distributor for the first time. This will put the price of corsages below the retailer’s wholesale price.
The dance will last from 4 p. m, to 1 a.m. with 2 a.m. and car permissions. A date bureau has been set up to en-
Dean Moore to Help Foreign Study Group
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School, has been asked to serve as liaison officer between the University of Notre Dame and the Commission on International Cooperation in Education. The Commission has recently been set up as a clearing house for information on all important questions which face the American student who is planning to study in foreign countries.
Among the questions on which information will be available are: the principal universities in each foreign country, entrance requirements, documentary requirements, curricula, tuition and fees, living costs and facilities for living, suitable transportation and transportation costs, persons at foreign universities who are prepared to meet American students upon arrival, intensive language courses available in this country and abroad, the problem of academic credit to be transferred back home, and how students can make their time count to the best advantage measured by the credit they get or should get.
Father Moore points out.that to secure, analyze and distribute adequate information on all these questions for the several foreign countries is a problem. The Commission has just made a start in solving it. He asks that any student planning to go abroad for study in the coming summer or schoolyear see him in Room 232, Main Building.
Co-Chairmen Appointed for Campus May Day Celebration
Dan Collins of Lyons Hall and Bill Hubert of Dillon were appointed cochairmen of the May Day celebration at the regular meeting of the Apostolic Chapter of the NFCCS this week. This celebration is an annual affair in which the whole student body participates.
Bill Motzel of Morrissey was put in charge of the organization of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine. Plans will be formulated this Spring and the Chapter hopes that by next fall a number of Notre Dame students will be teaching public school children in the fundamentals of the Catholic faith.
The surplus gained from the Catholic Press Drive will be turned over to the support of the Christopher movement.
10
The Scholastic
Alumni and Friends Throughout the Nation Commemorate Universal Notre Dame Night
Tributes were paid to the academic, scientific, cultural, patriotic and religious contributions of the University of Notre Dame by more than 20,000 Notre Dame alumni and their friends throughout the United States Monday night and during the remainder- of the week in the twenty-eighth annual observance of Universal Notre Dame Night.
Notre Dame alumni and friends in 113 communities throughout the United States and in eight foreign countries gathered together for the annual observance. Many of the Notre Dame alumni club meetings heard talks by members of the Notre Dame administration and faculty.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, spoke at the Indianapolis, Ind., observance of Uni-’ versal Notre Dame Night Monday evening. Appearing on the Indianapolis program with Father Cavanaugh was Hugh Burns, Notre Dame athletic trainer, who served as toastmaster. Bums also spoke at the observance of the Notre Dame Club of Rock River Valley, held April 5 in Rockford, Ill.
Father Cavanaugh also will speak at the Chicago observance on April 7. Co-featured with him on the Chicago program will be Mrs. Clare Booth Luce.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, c.s.c., Executive Vice-President of Notre Dame, was the principal speaker at the Notre Dame Club of New Jersey ceremonies which were held Monday in Newark, N. J.
Father Hesburgh also joined Dean Clarence E. Manion, of the Notre Dame College of Law, and Frank W. Leahy, Head Football Coach at Notre Dame, to speak at the Philadelphia, Pa., observance on Wednesday. Toastmaster of the Philadelphia observance was Ed Sullivan, prominent New York newspaper columnist, whose television show “Toast of the Town” appears each Sunday on the Columbia Broadcasting System.
Elsewhere in the United States, Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., Vice-President in Charge of Public Relations at Notre Dame, addressed the Notre Dame Club of Cincinnati. Rev. Louis J. Thornton, c.s.c., Notre Dame Registrar, spoke at the ceremonies in Memphis, Tenn., Monday and in New Orleans, La., Wednes day.
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, c.s.c., Head of the Department of Religion, ap- . peared at the observance of the Notre Dame Club of Schenectady, N. Y.,
while Rev. Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., Professor of Slavic Languages at Notre Dame, spoke at the Rochester, N. Y., observance.
Dean James E. McCarthy spoke at the Pittsburgh, Pa., ceremonies on Monday, at the Detroit, Mich., meeting on Tuesday, and at the Harrisburg, Pa., observance on Thursday. Professor James A. Reyniers, Director of LO-BUND Institute, in which germ-free life research is being conducted, was the principal speaker at the Houston, Tex., observance.
In addition to Coach Leahy, two other members of the Notre Dame athletic department attended the gatherings. Edward W. Krause, Director of Athletics, spoke at the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley in South Bend, and Bernard A. Crimmins, Assistant Football Coach, addressed the' Youngstown, Ohio, alumni.
At the Boston, Mass., meeting, John N. Cackley, Staff Project Director of the Notre Dame Foundation, delivered the main address, while Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady, Professor of Philosophy, spoke at the Grand Rapids, Mich., gathering.
Professor William J. Eisen, Head of the Notre Dame Department of Speech,
“I got caught reachin’ for a second pat of butter.”
was the speaker at the Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee, Wis.; and Raymond J. Donovan, Director of Public Information at the University, spoke at the dinner of the Notre Dame Club of Fox River Valley in Appleton, Wis.
John Burns, managing editor of the Alumnus, was in Utica, N. Y., and James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary, was in Monroe, Michigan, April 2, and will be in Chicago April 7, for Club observances.
Economist to Speak Tuesday at Latin American Colloquium
Dr. H. Theodore Hoffman, of the University of Detroit, will be guest lecturer at the Colloquium on Latin American Studies next Tuesday at 4:15 p.m. in the Law Auditorium. The subject of his paper 'will be “Economic Progress of Venezuela.”
Professor Hoffman is a student of Latin American economics. He served. ■ as Economic and Financial Analyst in the U. S. Embassy, Bogota, Colombia, from 1941 to 1945. From 1945 to 1950 he was Chief of the North Coast Latin American Section of the Department of Commerce.
The Committee on Latin American Studies, sponsor of the Colloquia, is composed of representatives of the Colleges of Arts and Letters, Law, Commerce, and Science.
Apr. 6, 1951
11
Noted Author Here For Writer's Meeting
According to Thomas E. Cassidy, dilector of the Writers’ Conference, Miss -Jessamyn West, author of two current best-sellers, will be one of the principal members of the staff of the third annual Conference to be held from June 25 through June 30 here at Notre Dame.
Miss West, who will serve on the staff of the Fiction Workshop at the sessions and who also was on the staff of the
THOMAS E. CASSIDY
first Conference in 1949, is the author of current best-sellers The Witch Diggers and The Friendly Persuasion.
It was also announced that Robert Giroux, editor of Harcourt, Bruce, and Company publishing house in New York city, will also serve on the staff of the Writers’ Conference.
Other members of the Conference, all faculty members of the English Department will include Professor Richard T. Sullivan, author of First Citizen, The World of Idella May, The Fresh and Open Sky and other well known works; Professor Frederick Nims, author of The Tron Pastoral, A Fountain in Kentucky and one time editor of Poetry magazine; and Professor John T. Frederick, author of American Literature, Reading for Writing, and Good Writing, conductor for seven years of the program “Of Men and Books” over the Columbia Broadcasting System, and for 20 years editor of The Midland.
The Conference will be divided into three groups—Fiction, Poetry and the Teaching of Creative Writing. The Workshop in the Teaching of Creative Writing will be offered for the first time primarily for those engaged in the
teaching of writing in schools and colleges who wish to confer with other teachers and veteran authors and edi-I*
tors on the problems of that field.
Board and residence facilities on campus will be available for both men and women. Fee for one workshop is S10, and $25 will cover fees for all three. Ten dollars will be charged for rooms which are optional.
Prom Ticket Sales
To Start Next Week
Tickets for the Junior Prom, “I’ll Remember April,” will go on sale the first part of next week when class representatives will canvass the Junior halls. Bids for the April 27 affair in the Rockne Memorial are set at $7.75. Feature attraction will be America’s leading trumpeter, Harry James, and his Music Makers.
The Decorations committee is at present completing plans for transforming the arena into something akin to Spring. Tentative weekend plans for the prom-goers call for a Saturday afternoon Supper Social to be held in the' Erskine Country Club followed by the Student Council dance in the Palais Royale that night. Full details on the proposed social will be announced at a later date.
Conference Discusses Prejudice in Colleges
Discrimination in colleges and universities was discussed last week at Earlham College in Richmond, Ind., at the National Student Conference on Human Relations in Higher Education. The meeting was sponsored by the Committee on Discrimination in Higher Education of the American Council on Education. Bill Anhut, Tom Carrol, and Jim Garvin represented Notre Dame.
The purpose of the Conference was “to enable student leaders to study the problems of discrimination in higher education.” Robert A. Kelly, of Sr. Peter’s College of Arts and Sciences, was the chairman. The conference studied problems of discrimination in admissions, student organizations, facilities, athletics, recreation and health curricula and teacher employment, legislation. and economic aid.
From these discussions legislation was drawn up . in the plenary sessions. This legislation will now be referred to the schools for possible application where-ever possible.
Engineers Will Dance To Continuous Music
Slide rules will lie dormant and engineering will be a forgotten art next week-end when the engineers will hold their annual Ball. An “Evening of Fantasy” is in store for all attendants and plenty of music is promised for next Friday night in the “fantastic” Palais Royale Ballroom.
Continuous music will be provided from 9 till 1 a. m. by Gene Hull’s 15-piece local campus outfit, and by the Harlan Hogan Orchestra. Hogan is musical director of station WSBT and has two shows which appear daily on that station.
Co-chairman Joseph Lotta and Bernard Lavins have announuced that the price of tickets is $3.80, which includes bids and favors, and they may be obtained in the lobby of the dining hall ox* from the respective hall representatives. However, the dance is open only to engineers, because of the limited number of tickets available. There will be car permissions and 2 o’clock privileges.
Miss Jill Harris of Hamilton, Ohio, and date of co-chairman Joe Lotta, will reign as Queen of the Ball.
Mr. Pete Skerritt, personnel director in charge of student waiters, announced that tables will be assembled on the edge of the dance floor of the Palais and that students may obtain reservations by request.
Decorations for the dance will be handled by Ray Streckfadden and the publicity director is Fred Kaufman. Jim Kohn and Chuck Lensenmeyer are in charge of ticket distribution. Program committeeman is Tom Moorman.
MD Performers Wanted For Vic Hyde Talent Show
Wanted: Talent from Notre Dame interested in winning prizes in the annual Vic Hyde talent show, which will be held at Niles, Mich., April 19 and 20.
The show is sponsored by the Niles Parent-Teacher’s Association Council, and will be held in the Niles High School Auditorium. According to Mrs. Scott Moore of Niles, program chairman, vocal, instrumental music, comedy, and specialty numbers are in demand. Harlan Hogan and his Trio will be accompanists for the show.
Prizes will be $100 for first place, $50 for second, and $25 for third. Persons -wishing to compete should write Mrs. Scott Moore, 1649 Broadway, Niles, Mich. Auditions will begin Monday and continue throughout next week.
12
The Scholastic
Dance Budgets O.K.'d By Student Council
Last Monday night the Student Council approved the budgets submitted for the Junior Prom and Freshman Dance which are to be held on April 27 and May 4 respectively. The budget approved for the Juniors, which includes an $1800 outlay for Harry James and his band, comes to $3,168. The Freshman dance expenses are considerably less, coming to $1100. The Council is underwriting both these dances.
The Council also decided to initiate a tux rental service for the students’ convenience. The price would be $3.50 to the renter' and would be handled by the Student Council. Slips were to be distributed in the halls this past week to be filled out by those who have tuxes and who would be willing to rent them for any of the major dances. Those who are interested should fill out the slips and return them to the Student Council office in the Main Building.
At the meeting the Council authorized a $1,000 contribution from the Campus Charity Chest for a statue of Our Lady of Fatima for the proposed shrine to Our Lady of Fatima on the Dixie Highway across from St. Mary’s to be erected by the Holy Cross Mission Band.
The head of the service committee of the Council gave a report on the progress his committee had been making on the coming election of class officers. According to the Student Council constitution, the election would take place on the first Tuesday in May. However this year* it would fall on May Day and possibly conflict with other activities on campus. Therefore the election may be changed to a later date. The rule that all prospective candidates must have their reports in, two weeks before the election will applyl as usual.
A request by St. Mary’s of the Woods College in Terre Haute that Notre Dame men be informed of their Senior Ball was recommended to the student body. The ball will take place on April 27 in Terre Haute. Those who would like to go should see Jim Hennessy in 334 Dillon for details.
The Council also ordered the president of the St. Louis Club to report at its next meeting. He was to explain why the Council did not receive the required letter from St. Louis alumni for the club’s Easter dance.
Other items: The Council set up a new file in its office to keep track of the finances of the various clubs. It also approved Father Baldwin’s spring fishing contest to be held from April 4 to May 25.—Tom Godfrey, ’5k.
EUROPEAN STUDY
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School, and University liaison officer with the Commission on International Cooperation in Education, requests that all students who are planning on European study either in the coming summer or in the next schoolyear see him in Room 232 of the Main Building at their earliest convenience. Father Moore may be able to be of some help to them.
Theme for NFCCS Confab Set; Site ND
“Spain and the Americas Today” will be the theme of the seventh annual conference in observance of Pan American Day being held on the Notre Dame campus on April 14 and 15 by the NFCCS.
Representatives from twenty colleges of the Chicago, Milwaukee, and Fort Wayne regions of the NFCCS will join
Air Board Visits Maxwell Base
VISITING MAXWELL Air Force Base, Ala., are (l-r) front: Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.; Dr. F. Hovda, Pres, of Purdue; General G. Kenney, Commanding General of the Air University; Dr. H. Rogers, Pres. Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute; Dr. C. Sauer, U. of California, (l-r) back: Dr. A. Adams, Pres, of American Council on Education; Dr. W. Carlson, Pres, of U. of Vermont; Dr. E. McGrath, U. S. Commissioner of Education,- Dr. L. Carlson, educational consultant from the U. of Washington; Dr. J. Killian, Pres, of M.I.T., and Dr. W. Elliott of Harvard U.
in numerous panels to discuss various phases of Inter-American relations. An invitation to attend these panels has been extended to all students who may be interested.
Among the many activities planned for the visiting delegates are a general session of the conference on Saturday afternoon and a dance in the Drill Hall that evening. The greater part of Sunday morning will be spent in the student discussion panels and the conference will come to a close later in the afternoon with an assembly in the College Church.
Host schools for the conference are Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College. Acting as chairman is Thomas Murray and secretary - is Adolfo Calero, Jr., both of Notre Dame.
Major fields of discussion are “Spain and North America” directed by St. Xavier College; “Spain and the Countries of Middle America” led by Rosary College; and “Spain and the Countries of South America” which has not yet been chosen by any college. Under each of these general topics will be various sub-topics.
Apr. 6, 1951
13
The Key
Pros, Cons of Nationwide Opinion on Treatise By Dean Manion Giving Cause of Conflict
On March 1 of this year Doubleday-Doran Publishing Company released to the reading public a small book which made a big splash. Almost simultaneously with its publication, Key to Peace set off critical discussions which were either highly favorable or almost vitriolic in their comment. As a result of this “great debate,” the Key is fast becoming a best seller, has already 100,000 copies in print, promises to sell more and soon.
The author of the Key to Peace is Notre Dame’s own Clarence Manion, Dean of the College of Law. His bombshell runs only 121 pages, including an appendix, and sells for $2.00. Originally the book was put out by the Heritage Foundation, but has since been taken over by Doubleday, through its sub
sidiary, Garden City Press.
That Key has been heralded as an “American classic” gives some indication of the enthusiasm of its supporters. Whether it deserves such rank only careful study and the test of time will prove. But that it has stirred up the proverbial hornets’ nest is no understatement.
Scholastic, in an attempt to present both sides of the discussion, is printing the pros and cons as they stand. Prominent Catholic critics have hailed and railed, and Key to Peace is selling. Incidentally, Dean Manion — who believes that democracy is best served by airing both sides — has readily given his approval for the following project which both praises and condemns his book.
PRO
Janies M. Gillis, C.S.P., in the Los Angeles “Tidings” of Feb. 2.
Statism, Greatest Danger
If I were not wary, perhaps excessively wary, of the word “great” as applied to a book, I should declare point blank that Dean Manion’s The Key To Peace is a great book. But in deference to the hypercritical who hold that not more than a hundred ‘great” books have appeared in all the history of literature, let me borrow Sam Goldwyn’s boner (or was it a conscious witticism) and say that this little volume on our present situation, political, economic and moral, is “colossal—in a small way.”
To begin with, the author doesn’t mistake the chief danger with which we are confronted. It is not the war in Korea, nor a dozen or a score of such wars, nor the world war into which they may emerge. Nor is the greatest of all dangers Communism, either as an ideology or as an impartial organization. It is not capitalism with its recurrent in-
THE KEY TO PEACE is a striking presentation of the reasons why and the one way by which we should preserve the American form of government It is a magnificent achievement and I hope it sweeps the country.—Fulton Oursler, Senior Editor “The Reader’s Digest.”
flation and deflation. Nor is it the conflict between labor and Management.
We may win all our wars local and universal, we may put an end to the class struggle, we may finally achieve financial and industrial balance immune to excessive fluctuations. We may even solve the problem presented by the atom bomb. We may win out “all along the line” and yet fail disastrously unless we do the one thing needful—save our freedom and liberty, personal and political.
Habitual Surrender
In England they seem to think they have solved their social problem by accepting a hard and fast system of governmental regulation. But in doing so they have surrendered (as Sir William Beveridge warned them that they must) some of their ancient British liberties. Here in the United States we have gone part way down the same road, and have to a relative degree lost our liberties, even though our own economic planners, less honest than the British, refuse to acknowledge the loss.
On January 17 President Truman issued an edict completely subjecting labor and management to the national government. The ukase was accepted passively, presumably because of the “emergency.” The emergency “may be for years and it may be forever.” Also in the conflict with Communism we may be induced to accept some of the dictatorial methods of Communism (without please God, its more obvious cruelties).
In World War III we may think it necessary to surrender, not to the enemy but to our own government, every
Dean Manion makes it very clear that succeeding generations of Americans have drifted more and more from the moral principles held by our forefathers.—Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, Editorial Review in “Our Sunday Visitor,” Feb. 25, 1951.
last vestige of personal liberty. Robert Ruark said in a recent column: “When we take a man into the service we put his life in escrow. He signs over his civil liberties, his individuality, his home, his economic future, to the land which he is committed to die to defend. . . . We make him subject to the Articles of War. We can court-martial him and shove him into jail or have him shot for violation of a stern code he never wrote. We can subject him to hunger and cold and heat and fear and insanity and such unpleasant things as blindness and paraplegia. We can send him anywhere and bring him back at our leisure.”
Our country did just that to us in World Wars I and II. It is doing it to us now again in Korea. We shall surrender our liberties again in World War III. Such deprivation of freedom oft-repeated, will become habitual. It will be considered natural, necessary, inevitable. We forget that the pioneer Americans left Europe to avoid just that sort of thing.
We have not only plunged into the foreign wars from which the pioneers
(Continued on Page 16)
14
The Scholastic
To Peace
CON
George Higgins, S.J., in his syndicated column appearing in the Michigan “Catholic” of Feb. 8 entitled “Father Higgins vs.
Dr. Manion’s Book.”
Our highly-respected neighbor-columnist, Fr. James Gillis, CSP, devoted his column last week to a “rave” review of a new book entitled The Key to Peace by Dr. Clarence Manion, dean of the law school at the University of Notre Dame. The book is “colossal—in a small way,” says Fr. Gillis. It’s the “wisest, most penetrating and most profound treatise on statism in a small volume.”
Both Dr. Manion and Fr. Gillis are of the opinion that we are surrendering “the liberty and freedom which we once enjoyed as Americans.” Maybe so. But there is one freedom we still possess— thanks be to God—in almost unlimited abundance: the freedom of public expression. Witness Fr. Gillis’ runningindictment, week after week, of the foreign policy of the present administration. Witness too, the fact that Fr. Gillis and I—a seasoned journalist on the one hand and a bungling neophyte on the other—still are free to disagree publicly about the value of a book like The Key to Peace, just as we have disagreed in the past about the value of a book like The Road Ahead, by John T. Flynn.
Fr. Gillis happens to think that Manion’s book is “colossal—in a small way.” I happen to think it’s superficial —in a big way. Fr. Gillis thinks that the book will do a lot of good. I think it’s likely to do a great deal of harm, particularly if it falls into the hands of our allies in the struggle for international peace. Our friends are likely to be insulted by its concentrated “Americanism.”
Implied indictment—Inasmuch as Manion and Gillis are both Irish names,
I was very much impressed with the content of this volume. The book should certainly be read by those who in our day are attempting to find a new approach or a new formula for peace. I do hope the book has the success it so richly deserves. —J. Edgar Hoover, Director Federal Bureau of Investigation.
the present writer—a fellow-immigrant, two generations removed—is particularly bewildered by their implicit indictment of the republic of Ireland. Dr. Manion says, by implication if not in so many words, that the government of the republic of Ireland (and of all other nations on Gods’ green earth, with the sole exception of the United States of America) holds to the proposition that government once instilled is unlimited in its power over its subjects.
Dr. Manion’s thesis is that “Americanism offers the only valid formula for the utimate achievement” of the ideal of human brotherhood. “The genuine and really precious diamonds of human civilization,” he says, are to be found “only in this—the United States of America.” It is unfortunate, he adds, that “every political system in the unAmerican world officially and categorically denies” the sacredness of human personality.
If this means anything at all, it means that Ireland (among other countries) is either actually or potentially a totalitarian dictatorship.
Fact and Opinion—Dr. Manion’s definition of “Americanism” is beside the
point. Americans can agree to disagree, amicably and sincerely, about the definition of their political system and their specific way of life, as long as the argument is kept within the family.
On the other hand, however—unless we have completely misunderstood the meaning of this morning’s headlines— Americans can ill afford to go around insulting the honor of all other free na-
Dean Clarence E. Manion
THE KEY TO PEACE re-emphasizes in an attractive and readable manner what the Holy Father and practically every Bishop in the United States and every Catholic paper has been stressing.—Most Rev. Charles F. Buddy, D.D., Bishop of San Diego.
tions of the world by condemning the whole kaboodle of them (including Ireland, I insist) as totalitarian dictatorships. The United States of America is a wonderful place in which to live, but it’s probably not as good as Manion says it is, nor are the other- nations of the world (including Ireland) quite so bad.
Take the case of British “socialism” as an example. Dr. Manion writes it off in sweeping generalizations as a totalitarian system of government—^Communism on a slow train.” Fr. Gillis is almost as critical, although his choice of language is somewhat more cautious and restrained. Both are entitled to their own opinion, and both- are unquestionably on solid ground in their opposition to unnecessary governmental intervention in the field of economics.
Let us not forget, however, that there is another side to the picture of British “Socialism.” Our information is that approximately 75 per cent of British Catholics voluntarily vote the Labor ticket and that the bishops of England have publicly and officially ruled that Catholics are free to belong to.the Labor party.
That doesn’t mean, of course, that British “socialism” is better than “Americanism,” nor does it mean that the bishops and the Catholic laity of England are completely satisfied with the program of the Labor party. Not at all. It does seem to mean, however, . that the bishops of England—unlike Dr. Manion—have not yet decided that the program of the Labor party is totali-
Dean Manion has written a book which very much wanted writing. Its basic theme is sound and worthy of -being shouted from the housetops.— Very Rev. Vincent J. Flynn, St. Paul, Minn., President of St. Thomas College and St. Thomas Military Academy..
Apr. 6, 1951
is
It robbed me of a night's rest, but it is so readable, sensible, cogent that I did not realize time’s passing. Clarence Manion’s book is a real contribution to peace. — Most Rev. Eugene J. McGuinness, D.D., Bishop of Oklahoma City and Tulsa.
tarian. I think the rest of us can afford to be as tolerant as the bishops.
Speaking of bishops, let us not forget either that many of the legislative advances here at home, which are sometimes said to be contrary to genuine “Americanism,” were forcefully advocated as long ago as 1919 in the famous “Bishops” Program of Social Reconstruction.” This is the sort of information that one would like to find more often in the writings of those who maintain that we are surrendering our liberty and freedom.
Maybe it was the American bishops who started us down what Dr. Manion and Fr. Gillis call the “road to serfdom.”
Wilfrid Parsons, S.J., in “America” of March 24.
At the Reformation, Martin Luther resurrected the old theory that political authority arose as a result of sin, and hence, as he said, “If all the world were composed of real Christians, that is, true believers, no prince, king, lord, sword, or law would be needed.” Thomas Hobbes later adopted the same theory to justify an absolute monarchy. Tom Paine in this country said: “Were the impulses of conscience clear and irresistibly obeyed, man would need no other lawgiver.”
Thomas Aquinas had long since exploded this theory by his teaching that even if man had'remained in the state of innocence he would have been led by the natural law to form a political state to promote the common good. Since his time, this has been the common teaching among Catholics. *
Now comes the Dean of Notre Dame University’s College of Law to unearth the Luther-Hobbes-Paine doctrine and to present it as the theory behind the American form of government. Under the heading, “Government a Necessary Evil,” he says:
In a community of saints the Moral Law would be the only law needed to provide such a community with perfect peace, complete order, and universal justice. It is only when such a community is invaded by amoral or immoral elements—or when some of the saints fall from grace—that man-made regulations are required to hold the immoral oj-amoral elements in line (p. 78).
This implicit deinal of the natural law as the basis of political society, which would have existed even if man had not sinned, is contrary to all Catholic teach- ’ ing. Aquinas taught, and all Catholics, including the Popes, have followed him, that the natural law, regardless of sin, would always have led men to form a state. Dean Manion, on the other hand, is entirely logical when he states that the “ultimate end” of “Americanism” is the “eventual stateless society” (pp 7980). This comes strangely from the founder of the Natural Law Institute.
Dean Manion also overlooks an important conclusion from his theory. Aquinas pointed out that once you admit that the state came in as a result of sin you are committed to accepting a coercive state, instead of a directive one, guiding all, even the saints, to the common good. It was precisely the coercive state which Luther had in mind when he brought back the theory to the Western world. Oblivious of the contradiction, Dean Manion grafts on to his theory a doctrine of extreme individualism which is no less unacceptable and which, almost as expressed in the terms of this book, was roundly condemned by Pius XI.
In several places, Dean Manion repeats the idea that “American government is merely an agency for the protection of human rights,” that this is its “single official purpose” (pp. 50, 66). He overlooks the fact that the Constitution itself, in its preamble, explicitly states what are its purposes: “To form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity.
We are also told (p. 53) that “‘European political science has always held consistently to the proposition that government, once installed, is unlimited in its power over its subjects”—a statement to make that great political scientist, Leo XIII, and his many distinguished followers, lay and clerical, turn over in their graves. Also, the statement that “the term ‘democracy* is not now a dependable key to the secret of a free society” might raise the eyebrows of Pope Pius XII, who not only used the term in his allocution on democracy of December 24, 1944, but also extolled it as the key to a free society
This is one of the finest books published in many years and brings home in a very striking and dramatic way the freedoms of the American people. —Most Rev. Mark K. Carroll, S.T.D., Bishop of Wichita.
and to an international community. (Or is the Pope also to be dismissed as a European?) Dean Manion, along with his contempt of everything European, has many eloquent pages justly extolling the virtues of America. These virtues, however, are quite at variance with his own philosophy, which, if adopted, must ultimately destroy liberty itself.
What is perhaps more serious, from the purely Catholic point of Anew, is his mistaken opinion of justice and charity in society. According to him, these merely bind us to succor the needy out of our superfluity; in other words, only after they are impoverished and destitute. The Popes, on the other hand, would reform the present social order at its origins, in the factory and office, on the farm, before poverty and destitution begin. Charity out of superfluity is a duty, of course, if society does not do its duty, but property and labor have both individual and social aspects in Papal teaching. Society itself, therefore has a duty to its members, through the laws if necessary. Dean Manion’s partial version, wholly individualistic, is only too apt to play into the hands of those in and out of the Church, who would whittle away this most fundamental part of Catholic social teaching.
Pro 'Key1
(Continued from page 14) fled, and which the Founding Fathers repudiated, but we have gone in for dubious adventures in economics and politics. The consequence has been, and unless we reverse our course, it will increasingly be, the surrender of the liberty and freedom which we once enjoyed as Americans.
That freedom was ours not only as Americans. It was ours by divine right. It was bestowed upon us not by the government but by God. As we sing in “America,” He is “Author of Liberty.” The Declaration of Independence assures us that man is “endowed by his Creator” with liberty as with life. All the Constitutions of the 48 States (except one, Oregon) as Dean Manion shows in a useful appendix, name God as the source of our liberties.
Now, under the compulsion of a series of world wars, as well as of social and economic experiments, we are in process of losing the gift of God that our government had promised to safeguard for us, and the irony of it is that our own government is now taking away from us what it formerly guaranteed.
I am not at all sure that Dean Manion will accept these remarks of mine as in harmony with his own. I have a way of
16
The Scholastic
branching off from another man’s views. But the key sentence in his wise little book is that we must “maintain and strengthen limitations upon government in the interest of preserving necessary human freedom,” for “where government is unlimited no citizen is free.” “Despotism,” he adds, may call itself “democratic,” “progressive,” “liberal,” “humanitarian,” “fraternal.” “Statism may be brutal or benevolent, cruel or compassionate in turn or in combination.”
So the grave danger that now threatens America and the rest of the world is Statism, and, I repeat, the wisest, most penetrating and most profound treatise on Statism in a small package is Dean Manion’s The Key to Peace.
It Has Happened Here
The danger is not new. It was described (sympathetically) in the sixteenth century by Thomas Hobbes in ■Leviathan. “The only way,” he said, for citizens to defend themselves against foreign powers and from “the injuries of one another,” is to “confer all their power and strength upon one man and upon one assembly that may reduce all their wills into one will,” the will of the State or even of the head of the State. So far does Hobbes carry the principle that he says, “Justice is what the State says it is; right is what the State says it is.” In Russia today they go so far as to say that truth is what the State says it is.
A similar surrender of authority has happened here. The question of the morality of the use of the atom bomb was decided in 1945 by the Commanderin-Chief of the armed forces without recourse to moralists or theologians, and it will likewise be decided again. Such • usurpation seems to be in general resented, not only by the people but by retrain churchmen.
So the danger to America is that in the attempt to defeat any form of Statism we may think it necessary to accept a disguised Statism ourselves. A reading of The Key to Peace will do much to prevent our making that fatal mistake.
Marriage Forum Schedules Talks on Family Influence
At the final session of the Marriage Institute next Thursday Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Crowley, of Chicago, Ill., will discuss “The Influence of the Family on the Individuals in the Family” and “The Influence of the Family on Others Outside the Family.” Students attending may bring their fiancees or wives to the last meeting.
Apr. 6, 1951
Debaters Back to Work Against Day ton Tomorrow
Post-Easter activities of the Notre Dame debate team begin tomorrow against Dayton University at 7:30 p.m. in the Law Auditorium. Dayton will argue affirmatively on the national topic —“Resolved: That the Non-Communist Nations Should Form a New National Organization.” Don Dowden and Bill Kerwin will represent Notre Dame.
On Tuesday the University team will appear at the Mishawaka Kiwanis Club in an exhibition match. Bill Hank, Bill Fagan, and Tom Field have been assigned to this wrangling program. On the following evening at 8:30 in the Law Auditorium, the debaters will meet the University of Pittsburgh in a crossquestion debate. Pittsburgh will argue negatively.
For the fifth straight year Notre Dame has been invited to participate in the national tournament at West Point, N. Y., as the outstanding representative of the fifth area, comprising Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, Michigan, and Ohio. Bill Carey, the defending individual champion, and Al Decrane will debate in the national debate.
Minck Edits 'Tech Review'; Best Article to Get Prize
The third Technical Review of its quarterly publishing season, which appeared last week, was under new editorship. John Minck, a Junior in Electrical Engineering, has taken over for
SORRY, I LIKE chipped beef, but chipped beef doesn't like me.
John Elsbree, a January graduate. Minck who has served as managing • editor for a half year will be replaced by a Sophomore, Kenneth Stead, also in E.E. Other staff heads remain the . same with Lee Brown, business, Tom Loosbrock, layout, John Buckley, advertising, and Joe Chaniga, administrative.
Articles published in the Review during the present year are subject to award under a recently formed annual prize called the Dean’s Award. The prize consists of a $50 check and a scroll of honor. It will be awarded on the basis of reader ballot and presented at the end of the school year. This will provide added incentive for prospective authors. All students in the engineering college may contribute articles.
ND Again to Sponsor Session in Mexico
A little bit of Old Mexico will be tossed in with the regular Notre Dame curriculum again this year at a special summer session to be held at Mexico • City College. '	’
It will be the fifth year for the program, which carries full undergraduate credit for courses of all kinds. The annual summer session is designed to con- . tribute to better inter-American understanding and to give students an opportunity to study the Spanish language, Spanish and Spanish-American literature, and Spanish-American civilization in the atmosphere of Mexican culture.
17
Andre House
Old McNamara Residence Gets New Life
And Saintly Patron as Home for Brothers
Just south of the stadium across from the Phy Ed field stands a solitary hrick house. For the past 22 years it has served as • a residence for people connected in one way or another with the University. Now, however, it has entered a new phase of its existence. On Jan. 27, 1951, it became Andre House, a Postulate for Brothers of the Priests’ Society of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
At present 13 Postulants, one Priest, and one Professed Brother call Andre House their home. Every section of the country except the Far West and Deep South is represented. One of the residents comes from Massachusetts, two from Michigan, four from Indiana, four from Illinois, one from Iowa, and one from Oklahoma. Two of the Indiana boys are from South Bend. Brother Emery Latski, c. s. c., the genial Professed Brother who at one time worked at the University Fire House, comes from the coal fields of Southeastern Pennsylvania, and Rev. George E. Schidel, c. s. c., the tall, graying, soft-spoken Director
Text by Charles Hands, ’52
Photos by Jerry Sheehan, ’54
of the Postulate, comes from the steel producing Mahoning Valley area of Ohio.
Halfway House for Postulants
But regardless of the geographical origin of the Postulants, they’re all here for one reason—to begin their apprenticeship in the religious life of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Andre House also serves as a conditioner to ease the shift from the care-free life at home to the closely regulated life of the Novitiate. The Postulants will spend from six months to a year at Andre House— the present group will leave in August —then go to the Novitiate on Miami Rd., South Bend, for another year of training. At the end of that period they will take temporary vows and become full-fledged Brothers of Holy Cross.
After their departure from the No-
TIME OUT for lunch welcomed by all.
vitiate the Lay Brothers will hold down a great variety of jobs. This can best be illustrated by examining some of the tasks undertaken by the Professed Lay Brothers here on campus. Just to name a few, Brother Alpheus Bodde works at the greenhouse, Brother Boniface Landenberger works in Sacred Heart Church, Brother Conan Moran runs the Bookstore, Brother Kevin Donegan works at the Infirmary, Brother Borromeo Malley is engineer at the Steam House, and Brother Albinus Butler works at the Treasurer’s Office.
ANDRE HOUSE, occupied by future Holy Cross Lay Brothers, was built in 1916.
Trades to Be Taught
Later on, when Andre House has had time to become better established, the Postulants who haven’t had a chance to learn some sort of skill will be given every opportunity to do so, either at Notre Dame or in South Bend. A few of the present Postulants have no need for a skill-acquiring training program. One of the men is a master barber who cut the hair of Admirals during his eight years in the Navy; another is an experienced cook; a third, a bookkeeper; and a fourth, a machinist. For the time being, however, this phase of training will have to wait; the Postulants have their hands full just getting- the house in shape.
Even though Andre House acts as a buffer, the occupants operate on a schedule that would present a challenge to the ordinary Notre Dame student. With the exception of two recreation periods —one after dinner and' another after supper—the Postulants are kept busy from 5:30 in the morning until the lights go out at 9:30 at night. Their day includes, among other things, Mass, housecleaning, Religion classes, work hours, frequent periods of prayer, and
18
The Scholastic
the reading of some spiritual book such as The- Imitation of Christ for a short while at the beginning of meals. The schedule is somewhat flexible and not as severe as life in the Novitiate, but at best it is not easy.
Follow Rigorous Rules
The rules of the house are also of a quality which would present a challenge. The radio, for example, can be used only during “rec” periods, as almost complete silence must be observed from 8:30 at night until 7:20 the next morning, and during the Lenten season, smoking is allowed only during the after-supper recreation period. But again, these rules are easier than those enforced during the Novitiate (no smoking at all is allowed there). The task of devoting a life to God demands many sacrifices. Andre House gives the Postulants a sample of what is to be expected later on.
The house itself has undergone extensive alterations since the Society took it over. It was originally built in the summer of 1916 by Daniel J. McNamara, a retired insurance writer who moved to South Bend for the express purpose of giving his children a Catholic education. The- three sons attended Notre Dame, and his only daughter went to St. Mary’s. He purchased the ten acre plot from the Community through his good friend Rev. Andrew Morrissey, c. s. C., President of the University from 1893 to 1905. Mr. McNamara died before the house was completed, but his family continued to live there for 12 years. Finally the University repurchased the property in 1928 and rented it out to various students and employees of the school. The last occupant was
Elvin “Doc” Handy, former Notre Dame track coach.
House Has Face Lifted
The decision to establish Andre House was made in October, 1950, and the fur has been flying ever since. As it stands now, the house has fourteen rooms including a kitchen, dining room, community room, chapel, four dormitories, quarters for Father Schidel and Brother Emery, a locker room, and a wash room. Every foot of space has been utilized to good advantage. The wash room and locker room, for example, have been fashioned out of what was previously wasted space in the basement, and the hall clothes closet has been transformed into a store room for vestments. .
In addition, many of the rooms have been or are being painted from top to bottom. The furniture, while not all new, has been laboriously cleaned, stained, and varnished until it looks like something out of Robertson’s showroom. Naturally, a good deal of the work has been done by the Postulants themselves.
The pride of Andre House is the chapel. What was once the sun parlor of the house has been uniquely converted into a small but comfortable place of worship. Under the supervision of Father Anthony Lauck, C. S. c., two windows at one end of the parlor were boarded up and an Indiana limestone altar placed there. The side windows have been left unmolested however, and the result is a cheerful, sun-drenched chapel. The chapel has been built and furnished with gifts from the relatives and friends of the late Rev. John M. Ryan, C. s. c., long a teacher and rector-here at Notre Dame, as a memorial to him.
Named for Saintly Brother
Though much has already been accomplished, a great. deal is still to be done. At the present time the water system is in the process of being changed. Prior to the coming of the Postulants all the water was drawn from a well outside the house. Now, however, a pipe line is being laid which will cut into the University’s system and which will supply all but the drinking water. This will still be drawn from the well. When Spring finally ai-rives a garden will also be planted and as much of the food supply as possible will be raised right on the premises.
Andre House is the first house in the United States to be named after Brother Andre Bessette, C. s. C. Brother Andre was born in 1845 in the Province of Quebec, Canada. Ill health prevented him from getting even the rudiments of an education. It also prevented him from doing strenuous farm labor, so he went to work as house boy for a local priest. After spending three years in New England in a futile attempt to regain his health, he returned to Canada. In 1870 he was admitted to the Novitiate of the Congregation of Holy Cross at Saint Laurent.
At the beginning of his second year he was sent to the College of Notre Dame at Montreal where he remained until he died in 1937 at the age of 92. Because of his lack of education, Brother Andre was assigned to the most humble and menial tasks at Notre Dame. For 40 years he served at various times as a dishwasher, handy man, porter, doorkeeper, barber (chargingtheoutrageous price of five cents per haircut), and messenger. But he accepted his lot will-
(Continued on page 30)
FREQUENT PRAYER is a daily necessity, whether it
be at mealtime, or in the pleasant chapel which was once a sun
parlor.
Apr. 6, 1951
19
Attention, Loafers and Travelers: You Are Offered Tours as a Civilian This Summer
With parole just eight weeks away, thoughts are once again turned to vacation. Some students will spend the summer months as students, others as workers; still others will spend the next two years as soldiers. This article concerns none of them; this is for those who plan to loaf.
Loafers: would you like to travel? to visit South Africa, Japan, Rome, or Nome? You need not join the Navy to see the world. Simply drop into the Student Council Office (It’s safe now; the Department of Military Information is moving out), where you will find a whole bulletin board cluttered with travel folders.
As indicated by the vast quantity of such advertising, competition among the travel agencies is strong. An extensive variety of tours is offered, including many specifically for college students.
Some trips are even sponsored by students. For example, the National Federation of Catholic College Students, through its Overseas Service Program, will conduct a month-long tour of Northern Europe, taking in France, England, Ireland, and the Blarney Stone, at $600 a head. For $200, you can enjoy a junket through Canada.
The National Student Association will help you spend 12 weeks and several hundred dollars in Europe in either seminars and summer sessions, work camps, hospitality tours, study tours, or just plain tours.
On the other hand, if you prefer to sip tea with the elite, you can do so on a six-week cruise to Japan aboard the ultra-ultra S. S. President Cleveland — for a mere $1300. Another luxury liner will take you to Europe for $1400.
Perhaps the most enticing of all are the “human interest tours” financed by the Marshall Plan. The ECA sponsors jaunts through all parts of western Europe for those interested in anything from art and archeology to gastronomy. A wine tour offers practice in the testing laboratories of Europe’s finest vineyards.
American Youth Hostels will take you biking and hiking through Hawaii, Nova Scotia, Guatemala, Europe, the Near East, or even New England.
If you have between $150 and $1500 and plenty of time, these and countless other summer tours are available. At the Student Council Office, 122 Main Building, on any afternoon Monday through Thursday till 4:15, Office Manager Tom Reedy will gladly give you information on the tours.
20
You can ride, walk, sail, or fiy to almost any part of the world, whether to work, to study, to play, to look, or to avoid your draft board.
■ ■ Q a ■
Sociologist Is Appointed To Body of Educators
Professor Hugh P. O’Brien, director of the curriculum in Correctional Administration at Notre Dame, has been appointed to the Committee on Personnel Training of the American Prisons Association.
Announcement of Professor O’Brien’s appointment was made by Commissioner Richard McGee, chairman of the training committee, which has been established to draft suggested curricula for colleges and universities offering courses in correctional work.
Mr. O’Brien, who has been a member of the faculty since 1947, formerly served as director of education at Clinton Prison in New York state. He served for ten years as a member of the New York State Division of Parole, serving consecutively as Parole Officer, Senior Parole Officer, and Administrative Assistant to the Chairman of the Parole Board.
Other members of the committee include Dean Chernin, of the School of Social Work at the University of Southern California, and Dr. Paul Tappan of New York University.
Lily Windsor fo Sing In Music Hall Tuesday
Miss Lily Windsor, the American lyric soprano of the Rome Royal Opera, will return to Washington Hall Tuesday night, featuring a concert of classical music. Her appearances here last November and in previous years have made her a perennial Notre Dame favorite.
Miss Windsor will sing selections from Handel, Mozart, Schubert, Strauss, Verdi, and Herbert. The program will begin at 8 p. m.
Tickets for this performance are priced at $1.80, $.75, and.$.50, and may be purchased at Washington Hall from noon to 1 p m. and from 5 to 7 p. m. Monday and Tuesday, and from noon to 1 p. m. tomorrow.
The appearance of Miss Windsor here is being sponsored by the University Concert and Lecture Series.
Reactivated Bookmen Elect Officers, Seek New Members
After a lapse of five years, the Bookmen, an association whose purpose is the discussion of literature and the allied arts, have been reactivated and are conducting a membership drive.
Thus far the club has had two organizational meetings, and last week elected officers for the rest of the semester. Jim Bates, a Senior Political Science major, was chosen president, Frank Haendler, a Junior majoring in History, was named vice-president, and Hugh Schadle, Junior English major, was elected to the post of secretary-librarian.
Deadline for membership is next Monday, and all who are interested in becoming Bookmen should write the Chairman of the Membership Committee, Bookmen, 40 Alumni Hall. Include scholastic average, academic status, and reasons for wishing to join the club in the letter. Seniors are ineligible for membership this semester because of the short space of time before graduation.
U.S. Rubber Co. Establishes Physics Fellowship for 1951
A graduate fellowship in polymer physics has been established at Notre Dame by the United States Rubber Company, it was announced yesterday by Rev. Philip S. Moore, c.s.c., dean of the Graduate School.
. Father Moore said that the new fellowship is to support basic research in the physics of rubber and plastics in the Department of Physics. The fellowship will carry a stipend of $1,200 for the single student and $1,800 for the married student, plus $1,000 for the student’s tuition and for expenses incurred by the University.
The new fellowship will become effective July 1, 1951. Identity of the first fellow will be announced by the University before July 1.
Notre Dame Representative To Attend National Confab
Next .week Glenn Haney will represent Notre Dame as midwest regional delegate to the National Conference of International Relations Clubs. The conference, sponsored by the Carnegie Foundation for Peace, will be held at Oklahoma A. & M. University from April 10 to 14.
Haney, a Junior* in Commerce, at a Milwaukee regional meeting earlier this year was chosen to represent the midwest. He is going as a member of the Economic Round Table with his expenses being paid by the Student Council.
The Scholastic
Campus Press Drive Nets281 Subscriptions
Final tabulations this week show a total of 281 subscriptions netted in the recent NFCCS-sponsored Catholic Press Drive on campus. Over $667 has been sent to the drive headquarters by Notre Dame.
According to a telegram to NFCCS Senior Delegate Jim Garvin from B. Patrick Kelly of the Catholic Publications, Inc., cosponsors of the drive, incomplete returns indicate that Notre Dame’s efforts lead all others.
The telegram read, in part: “Weil done. You top all colleges in NFCCS to date. Thanks a million to the committee. Men of Catholic Action in action.”
The magazine campaign committee was headed by Co-Chairmen John Moran and Hank McCormack. Bill Osborne and John Houck were in charge of subscription sales, while Bob Wallace and Al Zenz of the Ad Club handled promotion.
Over 40 volunteers from the Liturgy Club, K of C’s, Third Order, and YCS, membei' orgainzations of the NFCCS Apostolic Chapter, canvassed Vet-ville and the residence halls during the drive. Subscriptions were also on sale in the Dining Hall.
AROTC Basketball Team Wins State Championship
Twelve veteran ND hoopsters pounded the hardwood for the local Air ROTC unit in the Butler U. Air ROTC basketball tourney last week and emerged victorious over the various Indiana teams represented.
Copping two games and dropping none, the Air Irish blasted the Indiana U. squad 79-24 and out-bucketed Butler by a near 57-56 margin.
The courtsters representing the ND unit were: Dick Rosenthal, who was high man for the crew, B. U. Sullivan, Entee Shine, Joe Bertrand, Jack Reynolds, Leroy Leslie, Floyd Blair, Hughes Wilcox, Jerry Smith, Ed D’Arcy, Don Strasser, and B. W. Delaney.
Military Office Moves
The Office of Military Information has moved to new quarters in Room 115, Main Building. Since its creation in January, the service has been situated in the Student Council office.
Conducted by Rev. R. W. Woodward, C. s. c., and Rev. H. Stegman, c. s. c., the bureau exists to inform the students of the latest Selective Service developments and to help the students with their military problems.
Guidance Dept. Gives Law School Test Dates
Edward R. Quinn, head of the Department of Guidance, has announced that prospective law school applicants who plan to take the Law School Admission Test here at Notre Dame on April 28 must forward their completed applications to Educational Testing Service, P.O. Box 592, Princeton, New Jersey, so as to reach the Princeton office not later than April 18.
Many law schools give first consideration to applicants for entrance in the fall of 1951 who have taken the Law School Admission Test in November, February, oi- April. Since each individual law school has its own preference in these matters, each prospective applicant should first find out from the law schools in which he is interested whether he should take the test.
Applications to take the test on April 28, 1951, and a bulletin of information which describes the procedure for making application and shows sample test questions, may be obtained from Mr. Quinn, Room 4, Administration Building, University of Notre Dame cr di
READ THIS:
There have been two issues of the Juggler for 1950-51. You, the underclassmen, have not been represented. Surely, as we have found in the past, there are some among you who have a talent for writing. Therefore we are resuming a feature of the old Scrip, now the Juggler — a special underclassmen sketch section.
We will also accept poetry, stories, etc., before April 20. If you don’t know where our office is located, come to the basement of Farley Hall and ask for us.
THE JUGGLER NOTRE DAME
rectly from the Law School Admission Test, Educational Testing Service, P.O. Box 592, Princeton, New Jersey.
Bishop O'Hara Commerce Seminar to Study Industry
The Bishop O’Hara Seminar, now in its fourth year of existence, will commence its Spring activities with a lecture to be given on April 17. Sched- -uled for 2:15 p.m. in the auditorium of the Law Building, the forum is open to all seniors in the College of Commerce.
The guest speakers at the forthcoming lectures are Mr. Thomas W. Duffy and Mr. Clarence W. Morton, both of whom are members of the Investment Research Department of the Northern Trust Co. of Chicago. Mr. Duffy will talk on “The Railroad Industry,” while Mr. Morton will speak on “The Electric Utilities Industry.”
The Seminar, which has as its purpose the study of the significant factors influencing modern industry, is named in honor of Bishop John F. O’Hara, former president of the University and the first dean of the College of Com? merce.
21
Student Engineering Advisory Board Presents Plans for Various Events to Follow Friday's Ball
By JOE IMBRIACO, ’54
An Engineering- Open House Day, a lecture series on employment interviews, and the securing of professional engineers to speak on problems facing recent engineering graduates are among rhe proposed activities oi the Notre Dame Student Engineering Advisory Board.
Composed of students from the various engineering associations on campus, the Advisory Board has been in operation since September, 1950. As one of its first projects, it sponsored a lecture by Eugene Knoblock, South Bend patent lawyer, on patent law as it affects engineers. Immediate efforts, under President Joseph G. Lotta, are focused on planning the Engineers Ball.
Next semester, the Advisory Board hopes to institute an Open House Day in the College of Engineering for high school students of the South Bend vicinity. This Engineer’s Day would give prospective Notre Dame students an opportunity to inspect the classes and shops of the College of Engineering and to meet its students and faculty.
Plans have been made by the Board for a lecture series on job interviewing,
to be held in conjunction with Mr. Dooley and the Placement Office next fall. At the Mar. 12 meeting, the Board considered inviting several engineers to the campus, one of whom would discuss and explain the problems of examinations and licenses involved in becoming a professional engineer.
Besides planning activities for the common benefit of all engineering students, the Advisory Board’s function is also to promote cooperation among the various engineering clubs of the University. The Board passes on knowledge to its member groups. It serves as a central organization for student engineering clubs, advises them in their operations, and coordinates the functions of the various organizations. The purpose of the Board, according to President Joe Lotta, is to guide the engineering clubs and to aid them in any way possible.
In recent meetings, the Advisory group has passed on to its members information concerning locations for dances and banquets and for the procurement of movies for meetings. In re
sponse to an invitation to affiliate with the National Federation of Catholic College Students, the Board decided on Mar. 12 to leave the question to the independent clubs to decide themselves.
The Board has no official connection with any professional organizations, but individual member clubs such as the Architects Club and the Aero Club do meet with professional societies in the South Bend and Chicago areas.
The Student Engineering Advisory Board consists of two representatives from each of the local chapters of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Institute of Radio Engineers, American Society of Civil Engineers, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Institute of Aeronautical Sciences, and from the Architects and the Metallurgy Clubs. The Technical Review is represented by its Editor and Business Manager.
Dr. Francis Attends Meeting
Dr. E. K. Francis, Associate professor of Sociology, attended a meeting of the executive council of the American Catholic Sociological Society in Chicago Easter Monday. He also recently presented a paper on “The People as a Social Fact” in a series of inter-departmental seminars under the auspices of the Department of Philosophy.
NOTRE DAME Student Engineering Advisory Board pose—seated, l.-r.: Rolland Kohlbeck, William Markey, Robert Gildner, vice-chairman, Joseph Lotta, chairman, John Nadeau, secretary, and Edward Sullivan, treasurer; standing, l.-r.: John O’Brien, William Walsh, Richard Mahan, Robert Heisler, Lee Brown, John Minck, James Jennings, Patrick Sullivan, David Medwid, and John Young.
The Scholastic
ND Engineering Instructor, Native of Inchon, Says United Korea Is Only Course for UN
United Nations forces must cross the 38th parallel and drive all remnants of the Communist forces from Korea in order to ensure his native land a “free and united government,” according to Dr. Paul Chang, Instructor in Engineering Mechanics at Notre Dame, who is a younger brother of Korean Premier John Nyun Chang.
Dr. Chang joined the faculty in the College of Engineering at Notre Dame in February, after receiving the first Doctor of Science degree (other than honorary) ever awarded by Notre Dame at the University’s January Commencement Exercises.
A native of Inchon, who has spent most of his life in Seoul, Dr. Chang- is firm in his insistence that North and South Korea must be reuunited under a single government “if a lasting peace is to be assured.” He further asserted that the “peoples of both North and South Korea want a united country.”
“In order to achieve such a unity, the Chinese Communists must withdraw all of its forces and emissaries from Korea,” Dr. Chang declared in an interview. “We now know what Communism means. We saw what happened in Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and to other Soviet satellites. There is no reason to believe that Korea would be any exception. The only solution, therefore, is for all Communists bearing arms against Korea, regardless of nationality, to be cleaned out of Korea.”
In answer- to the question of whether a “buffer state ” arrangement would be satisfactory to his people, Dr. Chang-answered a flat “No.” “We already are the victims in this conflict, ” he explained. “Why should the .victims be further penalized.”
The Notre Dame instructor emphasized that the “people of South Korea are ready to take every necessary means to return the country to a United Korea.”
“Our country is not meant to be divided,” Dr. Chang- explained. “Neithei-North or South Korea can exist without the other. How can one nation exist divided by two different ideologies?”
Speaking of the task of reconstruction which faces Korea after the present conflict is terminated, Dr. Chang said that the Koreans already are thinking about the task of rebuilding their land. A Korean Rehabilitation Association has been established, he declared, to plan the reconstruction program.
And Dr. Chang believes that Korea
will be able to “stand on its own feet” financially, even during such a reconstruction period. If the war had not come along, he said, Korea would now be one of the richest nations in the Fai-East. Dr. Chang pointed to the Korean natural resources, fisheries and agriculture as factors which make the country “very economically stable.”
If Soviet Russia is interested in Korea as a nation, Dr. Chang said, it is to provide the Soviet with ice-free ports. Russia has no ice-free ports, he said, and “it long- has been a dream of the Soviet to strengthen their defenses
Dr. Paul Chang
through the attainment of such ports and harbors.” Korea, according to Dr. Chang, has “about a dozen such ice-free ports and harbors.”
Dr. Chang left his native Seoul in 1935 when he was a student at the Imperial University of Seoul. He went to Germany as a student in the Institute of Technology in Berlin, where he was graduated with an aeronautical engineering degree in 1940. He was forced by the Nazis to work in a German aircraft engine plant from 1940 to 1942, when he fled to Switzerland. Dr. Chang came to the United States in 1947, and before entering Notre Dame as a graduate student in 1949, obtained a Master’s degree in Aeronautical Engineering at New York University and a Master of Science degree at Harvard University.
Dr. Chang’s brother, John, was elected Premier of Korea on Jan. 23, 1951. Previously, he had served as first Ko
rean delegate to the United Nations and first Ambassador of Korea to the United States.	’
ND Architect is Finalist
In Scholarship Competition
Robert P. Heisler, a Notre Dame Senior, is one of 12 finalists who will compete for the $5,000 Lloyd Warren Scholarship in Architecture for a prize of 18 months of study and travel both in North America and abroad.
Heisler, of Fargo, N. D., 'has survived the two preliminary eliminations which cut the field down from 92 to 12, and is now awaiting the final weeklong problem which will be judged May 1. The first elimination consisted of a 24-hour problem in which the contestants were asked to submit a complete set of plans for a college art museum. The second was a 48-hour problem calling for a complete set of plans for a furniture showroom.
The winner will spend most of his time abroad in Paris, where he must complete one project at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts. He will also make a survey of important architectural and engineering projects in North America.
One of the two biggest student architectural scholarships in the United States, the Lloyd Warren Scholarship was inaugurated in 1904 by the Society of Beaux-Arts Architects. It is now administered under the trusteeship of the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design, New York City.
Math Teachers Will Gather For Summer Session Here
A Mathematics Teacher Training Institute will be held during the eightweek summer-session which opens June 18 at the University, according to an announcement by Rev. James E. Norton, c.s.c., vice-president in Charge of Academic Affairs.
The Institute is designed to “bring the secondary and college teachers into close contact with the best traditions of mathematics and the teaching of mathe-' matics.” The courses contain an introduction to those ideas of higher mathematics which are of particular value to' teachers of mathematics.
Courses during the Institute will include such subjects as Elementary Number Theory, Fundamentals of Statistical Analysis, Introduction to Analysis, Introduction to Analysis and Topics in Number Theory and Algebra. Individual conferences also will he arranged for* teachers in attendance who desire to discuss their particular teaching problems.
Apr. 6, 1951
23
JW.MRE THEM UI!
Philip Mourns u ■■
b™„d
I HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SMOKERS, who tried this test, report in signed statements that PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!

1 Light up a Philip morris. Just take a puff— DON’T inhale—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn't it?
A


2 Light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON’T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but Philip Morris invites you to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself. Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!
SSTif’W•Sanins
N2®!®^RErre
hangover
"°“ “OHNO AU." t .
‘■PHILIP MOURIS
24
The Scholastic
Irish Nine Opens Season Next Friday
Frosh Gridders Play Big Part in '51 Plans
There’s a rumor floating around the Notre Dame campus that the present freshman football team is one of the greatest to ever get banged around Cartier Field. They’d better' be; an awful lot depends upon them. By just taking a look at last year’s record and the list of varsity players Coach Frank Leahy lost, almost anyone can see that replacements are gravely needed.
Right now there is a major problem. The main strength of last year’s team was up the middle. In fact there were two All-Americans there and they are gone. Both center Jerry Groom and quarterback Bob Williams graduate this June. Last year’s starting fullback, Jack Landry, will be lost by the same process. It’s going to take an awful lot of work to fill these three spots. Last year’s second string signal caller, John Mazur, will move up to assume Williams’ old role.
The line backing spots were also left bare by the graduation of Dick Cotter and John Helwig. Here there is a slight ray of sunshine in the form of a 230-pound frosh center, Art Hunter. In the few days of practice so far he has looked very good.
The ends will probably make up the strongest position on the line. Both of last year’s starting wingmen, captain Jim Mutschellei' and Chet Ostrowski, will be back. Then a 6’9” 255-pound frosh, Joe Katchik, might just be the lad to assume the traditions of big Leon Hart. Katchik is big and hard to stop when he gets the ball.
Leahy should have little worry about his halfbacks. Bill Barrett, right half, looks like he did two years ago when he tied All-American Emil Sitko for scoring honors and scored three touchdowns against North Carolina in Yankee Stadium. In last Saturday’s scrimmage, the 5’8” Chicago speedster moved the ball goalward 35 yards in three tries.
At left half Leahy will rely on John Petitbon who ran up 141 yards in ten tries against Michigan State last year. Not too far behind Petitbon is fresh
man John Lattner who is earning the reputation of a galloping ghost.
While Gander will probably be the starting fullback he is going to find an awful lot of competition from freshman Neil Worden. The stocky Worden is hard running and seems to have the ability to find holes before they actually open.
On the whole, the first team should be good. The backfield will also be veterans. Tackle Bob Toneff and guard Paul Burns will be back to help stabilize the forward wall. The main question now is reserves. In fact, the success of the coming season with its ten games since Detroit was added is largely dependent upon the capability of the freshmen to fill in certain weak spots and to bolster the first squad.
LIFE-SAVING COURSE
A water safety instructor course begins April 10 at 7 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial pool. The course is open to all Notre Dame students who hold a Senior Life Saving badge. Instruction includes how to teach equipment rescue, paddle board, etc.
JIM GILLIS digs in for his turn at the plate, as the Irish nine prepares for the opening of the diamond season Friday at Ohio State. Tom Boland is the catcher.
Ohio State Buckeyes Test ND at Columbus
A hopeful Notre Dame baseball team travels to Columbus, Ohio, next Friday to open the 1951 season against the veteran Ohio State Buckeyes. Coach Jake Kline and his Irish nine will he out to erase a dismal memory when they tangle with the Bucks — a. memory of only eight wins in 22 starts last year.	‘
However, inexperience, and the hostile Indiana weather are causing Coach Kline many sleepless nights. With only six lettermen returning, Kline is faced with the problem of grooming a sophomore-studded cast for the rugged 23-game schedule which the Ohio contests inaugurate. Three, and possibly four, first-year men will be on the starting nine, with one sophomore pitcher also being counted on.
The six veterans who will form the team’s nucleus are pitcher Bob Nemes, catcher Tom Boland, infielders Dick Giedlin and Jim Manning, and outfielders Jack Cunningham and Jim Gillis.
Nemes won five and lost none in 1949, and had a three and five mark last year. He is expected to again pace the mound corps. But behind
Apr. 6, 1951
25
Nemes the staff is woefully inexperienced, although juniors Charlie De-Prekel and Jerry Ledwidge did work a few innings last season. The remaining hurlers will be chosen from upperclassmen Jean Ferryman, a converted outfielder, Frank Ronnenberg and Jack Ruckelshaus; and sophomore Fred Ion-ata, Stan Konopka, Joe Stengle, Joe Durkin and Bob Rust.
Captain Bob Nemes
The catching department is in the same shape — one top performer with not much in reserve. Boland led the team in hitting last year with a .317 average, and his work back of the plate was steady. Supporting him are Tom King, Tom Hanrahan, Pat Dunne and footballer Leo McKillip.
Around the infield, Giedlin, who batted only a point below Boland and fielded brilliantly, is a fixture at first base. Two fine sophomore prospects, Bob Manning and Dave Costigan are fighting for the keystone position, with another first year pair, Len LeRose and cage star Jim Gibbons, alternating at third. The veteran Manning will be at. short with Harry Durkin also in the picture.
Patrolling the outfield Kline has Joe Ridge, Roger Nolan, Lou Basso, Pat O’Neill and Joe Pfaff in addition to Cunningham and Gillis. Both Pfaff and Cunningham were infielders last year, but the wily coach hopes to better utilize their speed in the outer gardens. '
The suicidal schedule includes 18 games with Big Ten opponents, six more than played in the conference itself. The first two-game set, at Columbus, will have the green Irish meeting a team that has eleven games under its belt, for the Buckeyes made
a swing through the Southwest during Easter to play Texas, Texas A. & M., and Rice.
This is another reason why the Indiana spring mixture of snow and rain is giving Coach Kline a few gray hairs. While the future Irish opponents basked in the southern sun, his own squad was forced indoors by the weather.
Optimistically, Kline believes the team has more speed and hustle than the 1950 aggregation, and should be a much sounder defensive club. If the pitching can come through, the Irish nine will have a well balanced team and should complete a successful year.
BASEBALL
Ape 13 Ohio State, away
14 Ohio state, away
18	Iowa, home
19	Iowa, home
20	Indiana, away
21	Indiana, away
25 Michigan State, home
27 Pittsburgh, away
28 Pittsburgh, away
May 1 Purdue, home
2 Northwestern, away
4 Illinois Wesleyan, away
8	Michigan, away
9	Michigan State, away
11	Illinois, away
12	Illinois, away
15	Michigan, home
ACTION in the first scrimmage for the beginning of the biggest rebuilding job
1951 edition of the Fighting Irish—the for a Notre Dame team in recent years.
16	Northwestern, home
22	Purdue, away
25	Wisconsin, home
26	Wisconsin, home
Jun. 1 Western Michigan, away
2 Western Michigan, home
TRACK
Apt 6-7 Texas Relays, Texas
21 Purdue and Northwestern, at Purdue
27-28 Drake Relays, Des Moines
May 5 Pittsburgh, here
12 Missouri, there
19 Central Collegiate Conference, closed meet
Jun. 2 Bradley, there
9 Central Collegiate Conference, open meet
16 National Collegiate meet, Los Angeles
TENNIS
Apt 26 Wisconsin at Madison
28 Northwestern, here
May 3 Western Michigan, here
4	Michigan at Ann Arbor
5	Michigan State, here
6	Marquette, here
9 Purdue at Lafayette
12	(a.m.) Duquesne at Pittsburgh (p.m.) Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh
18	Detroit, here
19	Iowa at Iowa City
Jun. 1-2 Central Collegiates, here
25-26 NCAA Tournament, Evanst’n
26
The Scholastic
GOLF
Ape 16 Iowa, home
21 Kentucky, away
23 Indiana, away
30 Purdue, home
May 3 Detroit, home
5 Northwestern, away
7 Loyola, away
12 Wisconsin, home
14 Minnesota, away
21 Michigan State, home
Jun. 4-5 NCAA Tourn. at Columbus
Irish Harriers Compete
In Texas Relays at Austin
This afternoon and tomorrow the trackmen compete in their first meet of the outdoor season, the Texas Relays which are being held at Austin by the University of Texas. A sprint medley and a one-mile relay team left South Bend yesterday morning to represent Notre Dame in the meet.
Jack Wagner, Jim Bollas, Norm Feltes, and John Hastings will probably form the mile relay squad, as they have been doing through most of the indoor season. Since outdoor tracks are much faster than indooi- ones they should hit their best time and will probably be in contention for the winners medals.
Time trials on Tuesday — after this story was written — decided the composition of the sprint medley squad. This race which consists of a 440, two 220’s and an 880 should be a Notre Dame strong point since either John Mohar or Vai Muscat© can run a strong- half mile anchor leg, and Coach Alex Wilson should have no trouble picking up good men for the shorter legs of the race.
Wilson’s teams at Chicago’s Loyola University always ran very well at this particular relay meet, and so it’s a nice place psychologically for him to be starting his Notre Dame outdoor track coaching career.
Last Saturday just a few men were competing as the squad closed out its indoor season at the Purdue Relays. Most of the squad is being given a rest before the major portion of the outdoor season begins with a triangular meet in two weeks.
At the Purdue Relays the mile relay team took a fourth place just eight yards behind the winner, Illinois. The two-mile relay squad of Con Tetrault, Vai Muscat©, Sam Hoover and John Mohar took fifth in their race. Mohar also ran in the individual 1000-yard race and took a fourth place.

Season’s Preview
Notre Dame’s baseball team starts the long haul on another season next Friday when they travel to Columbus to take on the Buckeyes of Ohio State. Coach Jake Kline’s men are in a posi-'cion to turn in the best record of a Notre Dame major sport team this year. They very well could, too.
In a lot of ways, the diamondmen are in better- shape than they were last year. Defensively they are strong in both the infield and outfield and also behind the plate. As far as hitting goes, the Irish have a lot of potent batsmen so there’s not too much to worry about there. But in one department, ND is undermanned. Like last year, it is pitching.
Not that the Irish don’t have any. They have some, but not enough. Bob Nemes is the only monogram man in the whole mound corps. With so many of the Irish games coming on consecutive days, this weakness in the pitching staff could be the difference between a great or mediocre season.
The game against the Buckeyes should prove one thing at least—the value of a spring training trip. Beating Ohio State would have been tough enough anyway, but their having played a dozen or so games in the sunny south while the Irish were taking batting practice in the Fieldhouse makes it all the more difficult. And Ohio State is a typical Big Ten team, typical in the sense that they went South the last couple of weeks in March. That’s mighty unfortunate for the Irish since it means that in 18 of their 24 games they’ll be playing teams which are in better playing- condition. It will take the Irish a few games to catch up, even if they do turn out to be something like the NCAA District Four champs of ’49.
See You in the Bengal Baliwick
This past week Athletic Director Moose Krause announced that Notre Dame will play the University of Detroit the night of Oct. 5 in Detroit. The night game will be the first in the history of Irish football, and will give Coach Frank Leahy ten worries next fall instead of the usual nine.
Just where the game will be played isn’t known right now and won’t defi
nitely be known until sometime in late September (if the Tigers hang on that long). It will either be in 50,000 seat Briggs Stadium, home of the Detroit Tigers, or in 20,000 seat University of Detroit Stadium. Tiger officials are reluctant at this time to make any plans for the use of their ball park around the beginning of October.
Well, we flatly predict right now that the Notre Dame-Detroit game next Oct. 5 will be played in Briggs Stadium. The World Series will be played in some other city, and if you would, like to know just where check with next week’s Scholastic. The Press Box will faultlessly predict the finish of each of the 16 teams in the major leagues and also the winner of the World Series. We can say faultlessly because after making many predictions daring the past year, we finally have the law of averages on oui- side.
Time Out
Frank Spaniel, first string half back on the 1949 National Champions is now Pvt. Frank Spaniel of the 7th Ordnance Battalion, Ft. Benning, Ga. Spaniel played pro football last season for the Washington Redskins and the now defunct Baltimore Colts. . . . William Veeneman’s Black George really showed his class last Saturday as he ran away from the field to win the §7,500 Fort Lauderdale handicap at Florida’s Gulf stream Park by four* lengths . . . Jack Mayo, ’47, former Irish diamond star, has been temporarily sidetracked in his bid for a major league berth. Mayo was sent down to Baltimore of the International league on 24 hour option by the parent Philadelphia Phils.
SPRING INTERHALL ACTIVITIES
Softball, baseball, and volleyball will make up the interhall sports program the Physical Education Department announced. Leagues will beset up in both baseball and softball. Team entries for baseball should be submitted immediately to Mr. Szekely while softball entries should be made to Mr. Maxwell. The volleyball program will be announced later.
Apr. 6, 1951
27
McDade Leads Alumni Cagers to 50-46 Win Over Dillon for Interhall Basketball Laurels
Alumni Hall swept through the elimination tourney between 11 of Notre Dame’s top Hall and Club basketball clubs to win the 1951 campus cage title. In the final game on the evening of March 16. the Alumni five outlasted a game Dillon Hall quintet to win, 50-46.
In the previous night’s semi-finals, Alumni rolled up a big 28-13 first half margin and held it against a strong last period rally by the West Virginia club to win going away, 52-41. In the other semi-final game Dillon wrecked the pennant hopes of Walsh Hall with a 34-22 victory. The powerful Walsh squad missed the services of their stellar center, Jim Mutscheller. They could not get going until the final quarter and by then it was too late.
The Alumni-Dillon encounter was a real championship game. Both teams played top-notch ball all the way in the close and thrilling contest. It was a night for the guards, Ed McDade of the winners and the losers’ Bill Flynn and Jerry Halligan, as they piled up plenty of points for their respective teams.
’ Alumni, paced by McDade’s spectacular long shots forged to a 15-10 first quarter lead. They held off a spirited Dillon bid for the lead and were still
ALUMNI’S CAGE CHAMPS: front (l-r) R. Cossaboon, J. Cunningham, E. McDade Red Laney. Rear: T. Brady, T. Dunlay, T. Desser, R. Clancy, Coach L. Fetters.
out in front at the half, 27-23.
Undaunted, Dillon came back strong after the intermission. They cut the Alumni lead to 33-35 by the end of the third period and set the stage for their championship try in the final quarter.
Early in the final canto they deadlocked the game at 35-35. Sparked by their two long range sharpshooters, Flynn and Halligan, Dillon tied the score four more times before the contest ended.
With two minutes left in the encounter, Flynn dropped in a field goal to tie the score at 44-44. He added another basket a few seconds later to put Dillon ahead for the first time in the game, 46-44.
But Alumni refused to quit. McDade evened the count up at 46-46 with another long shot. With 15 seconds to play he tried another long set shot. An excited Dillon player leaped high in the air to block the shot and banged into the net around the basket. Alumni was awarded the field goal and they went out in front for good, 48-46. They clinched the title with another basket just before the final whistle blew to make it 50-46.	.
The members of the triumphant Alumni team were awarded gold bas
ketball medals for their championship performance. Dillon, the runnerup, received silver basketball medals.
Walsh Hall won the consolation game in the first contest of the final night’s twin bill. They edged the scrappy West Virginia club five, 39-31, to win the third place gold medals.
Starting lineups for the championship game were:
ALUMNI	DILLON
Terry Brady ....F........ Joe Stasch Dick Clancy..............—.F.„. Paul Bruggeman Tom Desser ..............C. Phil Stack
Ed McDade ......G    Bill Flynn
Dick Geidlin ...G.... Jerry Halligan
—Roger Fernandes, ’54
Linksmen Invade Fairways To Begin 1951 Golf Sessions
The Notre Dame golf team will take to the University fairways this weekend to initiate their outdoor practice sessions prior to their opening match against Iowa on April 16. The practice sessions will consist largely of intra-squad matches to determine the starting team.
Fr. George Holderith, c. s. c., coach, will rely heavily on four returning monogram winners—Captain Tom Veech, Preston Murphy, Frank Marzolf, and Tom Kleet. Other candidates for the team are Warren Higgins, Jim Jacobs, Bill Fischer, John Hendling, Joe Moresco, Larry Eaton, Jack Powers, Jim Britt, John Mahal, Joe McInerney and Tom Matey.
Veech recently received an invitation to participate in the Bobby Jones Invitational Tournament in Augusta, Georgia, April 5-8. He is the second college student ever to be presented with such an invitation.
Seven New Champs Crowned in Bengals
Five thousand throats roared approval as “Nappy’s” boys turned in a slam-bang exhibition to wind up the Bengal Championship Bouts for another year. Proof of the stiff competition was the fact that only one returning champ was able to defend his crown successfully, while two other ring regents were bowing in defeat.
The card got away to a fast start with a close fight in the 127-pound division where Geary Becker of Morrissey split-decisioned last year’s king, Alumni’s Sal Fiorella, for an upset win. Fiorella was hitting often, but Becker was the aggressor throughout and that proved the deciding point on the score cards.
John O’Brien of Sorin Hall annexed
28
The Scholastic
his second straight Bengal title by winning an unanimous decision over his clever fellow Sorinite, George Chopp. Although Chopp battled gamely to the final bell with his face one smear of blood, he was tired and helpless before O’Brien’s skillful boxing.
An unanimous decision gave Bernie Baute of Morrissey Hall a "win over Freshman Bernie McNulty in the 147-pound final.
In the best slugging match on the card, Dick Windishar brawled out a win over another Walsh man, Tom Chisholm. Until the middle of the second round when Windishar suddenly went on the offensive, Chisholm was in command. A furious third had the crowd on its feet as Chisholm rallied strongly, but the battering he had absorbed in the middle round had its effect, tiring him rapidly and leaving him no match for the still-fresh Windishar.
The 167-pound clash went to Walsh’s Joe Brown who decisioned Bob Bickert of Morrissey in a pretty boxing show. Brown rocked lefts and rights into Bickert’s mid-section that took their toll on the Nebraskan’s strength and gave Brown his long-awaited title.
Two final bouts shared the 177-pound spotlight. In the first Lee Getshaw of Cavanaugh Hall carried off the title at the expense of last year’s 167-pound champ, Badin’s Aaron Dyson. The opening round saw Dyson landing a flurry of looping punches that had Getshaw a little groggy. But Getshaw reversed the script in the second, almost snowing the Mississippian beneath a hail of fists. Getshaw won going away as Dyson started throwing wild punches and began to sag with weariness.
Using an unorthodox crouch, Sorin’s Dan Finn bested Kansan Frank Hamilton in the other half of the split 177-pound class.
Big surprise of the night came when Dick Cotter put away Bill Flynn in 1:50 of the first round to cop heavyweight honors. Conceding 21 pounds to his football mate, Cotter fought coolly, wasting little time before T.K.O.-ing Flynn. He calmly weathered the storm of blows hurled by Flynn at the opening bell. When the Gary, Ind., fighter slowed for a moment, Cotter struck with a brace of solid punches, then really staggered him with a wicked right cross and floored him with a left hand. Flynn got up quickly and the two Dillonites slugged it out toe to toe. Then a Cotter right made connections with Flynn’s chin and dropped him to the canvas for the second time. He struggled to his feet at the count of eight, but when he sagged against the ropes, out on his feet, the referee jumped in to halt the fight.
In the intermission ceremonies, John
Vai Muscato Continues Winning Ways at ND; Insults Added to Injury Made Him Track Star
By BILL LONDO, ’53
Though Coach Alex Wilson is pessimistic whenever he is cornered into making a prediction about the 1951 Irish track squad, the half-mile is one event in which the new Notre Dame track mentor has few worries. For leading the 880 yard runners Wilson has a lad who can run with the best in the country, the captain of the Irish thin-clads, Vai Muscato.
VAL MUSCATO
As proof of this the likeable Muscato can boast of a high school background second to none, coupled with an impressive list of collegiate triumphs. As a high school student in Concord, Massachusetts, Vai put on a show of speed which matched the famous British redcoat “run” from that historic New England town in 1775.
Muscato captured both 440 and 600 yard state championships in 1946, but this was just an appetizer to the choice plums he won the next year. Besides repeating this double victory, Vai took the National indoor quarter-mile title in 51.8 and broke the 600 yard national mark by racing the distance at Bow-doin, Maine, in 1:13.8.
J. Contway, Executive Director of Knights of Columbus Boy Life Bureau, was presented with the third Annual Bengal Bout Award. “Nappy” Napolitano awarded the sportsmanship plaque to Frank Tripodi.
Frank Meaney, ’54
Since coming to Notre Dame Muscato has shifted his talents to the half-mile. Vai has added weight since high school days, and the longer run is better suited for him now. When asked what he considers his best effort under the Irish Blue and Gold, Vai replied, “The 1:55 half-mile which won the Central Collegiate championship for me last year.”
It was a case of insult added to injury, which started the Irish captain towards his present position in the front rank of Notre Dame athletics. Without any previous track work Muscato filled in for an injured relay man during the running of a high school track meet. Vai collapsed during the race and it took two hours to revive him. When he did finally came to his senses, he had to face the laughter of his friends and family. Thinking of that experience now Vai grinned, “They made me so mad that I had to run to prove that I could do it.”
With the help of his track coach, Harold “Skip” O’Connor, and his parish priest, Father Joe Sullivan, who followed him wherever he competed, that embarrassed youngster became one of the best middle distance men ever produced in New England.
Finally, a third influence, Bernie Me-gein, turned his now polished talents Indiana way. Megein, who played football here under Elmer Layden in the ’30’s, was Vai’s high school football coach, and he arranged for the enrollment of his pupil at Notre Dame.
Vai runs a race with the help of his fellow half-mile star, John Mohar. The fast-starting Mohar sets the pace for both, and then in the final few yards Muscato tries to out-kick John.- Thus far this season the two have traded victories. '
Although his shorter legs are better suited to the highly hanked and more numerous turns of the indoor track, Vai prefers the outdoor season. “It is just the atmosphere. Indoors it is dead and stifling, but outside you really feel like running,” offered the Concord speedster.
Looking to the future, Muscato, who is a physical education majorj hopes to be able to teach and coach; but after graduation in June Vai’s plans are in the hands of Uncle Sam. But he hopes some day, after his hitch in service, to help others along the sports trail.
Apr. 6, 1951
29
Andre House
(Continued from Page 19) ingly and cheerfully; he was grateful for the chance to serve God in any capacity.
Patron Famed for Miracles
Early in his life Brother Andre had taken Saint Joseph as his patron and spent a good deal of his time praying to him. Now it was noticed that many cures and requests were accomplished after Brother Andre had prayed to St. Joseph for them. The news spread rapidly and soon the sick and needy from all over Canada were coming to see him. He began to be called “The Miracle Man of Mount Royal.” In 1904, Brother Andre, helped by donations from those who had had their prayers answered, received permission to erect a small chapel on Mount Royal across from the College in honor of St. Joseph. The permission was granted despite the opposition of many who felt that he was putting the Catholic Church in a bad light by his actions.
This chapel has grown through the years until it has become the world famous St. Joseph’s Oratory, scene of a countless number of miraculous works and cures. In 1911, Brother Andre was relieved of his regular duties and given permission to devote all his time to meeting and comforting those who came to him for advice and solace. Row upon row of crutches and canes offer ample testimony that Brother Andre was indeed a very remarkable person.
Brother Andre made two visits here at the University, the second one around 1920. At that time one of the priests on campus was suffering from tuberculosis, and asked Brothel- Andre to pray for him. The Brothel- rubbed his chest a little and assured him that he would be all right. He was. At the present time Brother Andre’s cause for sainthood is being rapidly promoted at Rome.
Great Need for Brothers
Andre House was named after him so that he might serve as a model lay Brother for the new candidates, and so that they might enjoy the help of his prayers. It is fitting that the Postulants here at Notre Dame should take pride in naming their new house after him.
The type of vocation undertaken by the Postulants serves a very real need of the Church today. It is a great financial saving to a Community to have lay Brothers holding down important jobs on campuses across the country. In these days of high educational costs when every means of cutting expenditures is attempted, lay Brothers are becoming more and more important. It is the self
sacrificing lives of the Religious which have kept the Church’s educational institutions afloat.
Andre House is just a cog in that well-oiled piece of machinery known as the Congregation of Holy Cross. But it is a very important cog. Although still in its infancy, it gives every indication that it will grow up to healthy manhood. Under the able direction of Father Schidel and Brother Emory the Postulants have made a great deal of progress. They are rapidly becoming an integrated part of life here at Notre Dame.
Firm Opens Summer Jobs To Engineering Students
The Universal Atlas Cement Company of Buffington, Ind., has applied to the Placement Bureau for undergraduate student engineers to work during the summer. The company is interested in engineering students who have completed their freshman or sophomore years for work at the Buffington plant.
The work will be manual at prevailing wage scales and will offer engineers an opportunity for practical experience. Those who are interested should contact Mr. William Dooley, Director of the Placement Bureau, in the Placement Office on the ground floor of the Administration Building.
For next week the Placement Bureau has scheduled the following interviews :
On Monday the U. S. Rubber Co. of Mishawaka and on Tuesday both the North American Aviation Co. of Los Angeles and the Cities’ Service Oil Co.
One whisker A doesn't make
—but Cigars are a ^ani Smoke! /w\
You need not inhale
to enjoy a cigar!
CIGAR INSTITUTE OF AMERICA, INC. ms®
of East Chicago will be represented. A personnel man from the Hartford Accident and Indemnity Co. of Chicago null be here on Wednesday. On Thursday two corporations will be represented — Chance-Vought Aircraft of Dallas and Swift & Co. of Chicago. Then on Friday interviews will be conducted by two other men — one from the Commonwealth Edison Co. of Chicago and one from the Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. of Minneapolis.
Notre Dame-Chicago Bus Service Opens Next Week
Week-end bus service between Chicago and Notre Dame will begin April 7-8 and continue every week thereafter. The Student Council has arranged for this direct route to spare Chicago-area students the necessity of boarding the bus in South Bend.	*
One bus will depart from the circle every Saturday at 12:12 p.m., arriving in Chicago approximately three-and-a-half hours later.
On the return trip Sunday, the bus will leave the Trailways station in Chicago, on Randolph Street between State and Wabash, at 8:15 p.m., stopping at the Burlington American station, Stony Island Avenue at 63rd Street, at 8:40, and reaching Notre Dame by 11:40.
Passengers are to obtain theii' tickets at 208 Alumni before boarding the bus. Fares are $2.30 one way and $4.14 round trip, tax included. Tickets for the return trip only may also be purchased.
There will be no stopover in South Bend.
30
The Scholastic
Just to Save Our Skins
when Christian civilization can give the world no more than a scratch on the arm and a crumb of bread.
April, 1951, finds the Western World feverishly girding itself for what it believes, all hope notwithstanding, will be a mighty and terrible war. We are told that we need more time for preparation if we are to be capable of withstanding the whirlwind of Red aggression and Red greed. Our greatest need is more time to prepare for the battle both materially and otherwise.
America’s trouble, the trouble of the West, is that we are fighting against something and not for something. Oh, yes, we’re fighting for apple pie and the American way of life which means a Sunday afternoon at the movie with your best girl and all sorts of similar trash. It’s a poor civilization, a poor way of life, that can’t offer its men a better reason for dying! And it is because the West still doesn’t know the full reason.
Yet there is a lot of real decency in our fight, a lot of real idealism, but it is too often a vague, even irrational, idealism—an idealism that does not spring from the core of our society for our society has little more to offer than a new Cadillac as an ideal and that is a small ideal, indeed. But it would seem that our idealism springs unbidden from the souls of the human persons in our society and in protest against the golden calf that our civilization bids us worship.
We will have to start paying more than lip service to the principles that are the foundations of our type of government. “We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness. That to secure these rights,. Governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed. That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive to these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it. . . .” And we must rigorously assert the fact that these rights do not flow from the State or from society in general but from the inherent dignity of the human person.
Only if we reexamine our institutions, our entire way of thinking, in that light and with a realization that possession is not an end in itself but a means to an end, can we hope to leave more than a vacuum in the post-war world. Only by realizing that all activity is both personal and social by nature, and by acting in conformity with such a principle, can we hope to institute an acceptable order in the world
after the communist cancer has been removed. The West is not adequately making such an examination of conscience now. We can only work and hope that it will be made.
We need more than a Point Four program, not that this isn’t necessary. The still free peoples of the world need a philosophy of life and the West does not have one to offer while the Reds do, however fiendish may be its result. Sure, we can vaccinate and feed a lot of people in need but they are feeding their spiritual bellies on another’s food, freely given, which promises an end to spiritual hunger. And great will be the holocaust when that spiritual poison, disguised quite cleverly by the Kremlin as food, does its work. It is a sad day
LIFE IS SHORT C O L L E G IA N S ! I!
Why not devote it to God as a
FRANCISCAN TEACHING BROTHER
In the Classroom—On the Ball Field—In Club Activities—At Camp CHRIST and YOUTH need YOU!
Write: BROTHER LOUIS, O.S.F., 41 Butler St., Brooklyn 2, N. Y.
When the qanq drbps in
NESCAFE makes coffee right...this minute!
EscAr
at least 20c less. Make a note
*Nescaf e (pronounced NES-C*F*Y) is the exclusive reyistered trade-mark ot The Nestle Company. Inc. to desitnat* its solwle caffe* predict ubick is composed of equal parts of pure soluble coffee and added pure carbohydrates (destrins. maltose and dextrose) added solely to protect th* ttauor.
Get set to play host___at a moment’s notice, any time of day or night! In the seconds it takes to start a bull session, swell coffee can be ready for the gang.
Nescafe* makes roasterfresh coffee . . . right in the cup. Simply put in a teaspoonful, add piping hot water—
More people drink NESCAFE
than all other Instant Coffees!
The voices proclaiming the impending judgment have been crying in the wilderness for some time. One wonders if we, too, will have the stone ears of the pharisees. A war can be the cathartic through which a rotten civilization can be eliminated in preparation for the building of a new one. Or a war can hurl us into the ultimate defilement as we witness millions of lives sacrificed in the defense of that which is dead, the innards of which have always been rotten. If we fight just to save our skins and to save our sacrosanct property and private interests, we shall be worse in victory than we were before taking up our arms. He that has ears to hear let him hear.
—Edward Goerner ’52.
and stir. Every cup’s good... and fresh! No pot. No grounds. No brewing.
Easy on the allowance, too. Even the 4-oz. size makes
as many cups as a pound
of ordinary coffee, yet costs
to get a jar today . . .forpure
coffee enfoyment!
Apr. 6, 1951
31
New Books in Library
Bellamy. Gladys Carmen. Mark Twain as a literary artist. 1950.
Benchley. Robert C. The “reel5' Benchley: Robert Benchley at his hilarious best in words and pictures. 1950.	‘
Berryman. John Stephen Crane. 1950.
Borden. Mars-. Catspaw. 1950.
Bosselman. Beulah C. Neurosis and psychosis. 1950.
Boswell. James. London journal. 1762-1763. now-first published from the original manuscript. Introd, and notes by Frederick A. Pottle. 1950.
Brookes. Stella (Brewer). Joel Chandler Harris, folklorist. 1950.
Browning, Robert. New letters of Robert Browning, edited with introduction and notes by William Clyde DeVane and Kenneth Leslie Knickerbocker. 1950.
Burnett. Whit. ed. The world’s best stories— humor, drama, biography, historv, essavs. poetrv.
1950.	"	’	’ ’	’
Clapp, Margaret. The Modern University. 1950.
Counts, George Sylvester. The country of the blind: the Soviet system of mind control. 1949.
Cuppy, Will. The decline and fall of practically everybody. 1950.
Faherty. William B.- The destiny of modern woman in the light of papal teaching. 1950.
Ford. Ford Madox. Parade’s end. 1950.
Fry, Christopher. The lady’s not for burning; a comedy. 1950.
Gilby. Rev. Thomas. O.P. Barbara Celarent, a description of scholastic dialectic. 1949.
THE GREAT BOOKS: a Christian appraisal, a symposium on the third year’s program of the Great Books Foundation. Ed. by Harold C. Gardiner. S.J. 1951.
THE IDEA and practice of general education; an account of the College of the University of Chicago by present and former members of the faculty. 1950.
Jefferson. Thomas. The papers of Thomas Jefferson. Julian P. Boyd, editor. 1950. v. 1-3
Keller. James Gregors*. One Moment Pl-as-I Christopher daily guides to better living. 1950.
Koht. Halvdan. The American spirit in Europe, a survey of transatlantic influences. 1949.
Lawrence. David H. Selected essays. 1950.
Leahy. Fleet Admiral 'William D. I was there, the personal story of the Chief of Staff to Presidents Roosevelt and Truman based on his notes and diaries made at the time. 1950.
Macardle, Dorothy. Children of Europe: a study of the children of liberated countries: their wartime experiences, their reactions, and their needs, with a note on Germany. 1951.
MacKay. L. A. The wrath of Homer. 1918.
Mackenzie. Compton. Dr. Benes. 1946.
Manion. Clarence E. The key to peace; a formula for the perpetuation of real Americanism. 1950.
Marchand, Leslie A. The Athenaeum; a mirror of Victorian culture. 1941.
McKeon. Richard, ed. Democracy in a world of tensions, a svmposium prepared bv UNESCO. 1951.	'
Mizener. Arthur. The far side of paradise: a biography of F. Scott Fitzgerald. 1951.
Mosk, Sanford A. Industrial Revolution in Mexico. 1950.
Namier. Lewis B. Europe in decay; a study in disintegration, 1936-1940. 1950.
National press club of Washington, Washington. D. C. Dateline: WASHINGTON, the story of national affairs journalism in the life and times of the National Press club. 1949.
Paul. Henry N. The royal play of Macbeth; when. whv. and how it was written by Shakespeare. 1950.
Richter. Conrad. The town. 1950.
Schulberg. Budd. The disenchanted. 1950.
Shaw. Captain Frank Hubert. White sails and Spindrift. 1947.
Shirer, William Lawrence. The traitor. 1950.
Stettinius. Edward R. Roosevelt and the Russians; the Yalta conference. 1949.	.
Stokes. Anson Phelps. Church and state in the United States. 1950. 3 vols.
Strakhovsky. Leonid I. A handbook of Slavic studies. 1949.
Sullivan, Richard. The fresh and open sky and other stories. 1950.
Tansman, Alexandre. Tgor Stravinsky, the man and his music. 1949.	.
Turgenev, Ivan Sergeevich. A sportsman’s notebook. 1950.
Waugh, Evelyn. Helena, a novel. 1950.
YEARS AGO
------By PAUL ZALECKI, ’53--------
Fifty Years Ago
From the April 6, 1901, Scholastic: The Philopatrians presented “The Prince and the Pauper” at Washington Hall the Monday after Easter. . . . The Notre Dame Reserves defeated the South Bend YMCA track team 66-23 in the new gymnasium. . . . During the week the student body was entertained by a bear dance in front of Corby Hall. Two grizzlies did the latest Rocky Mountain two-step to the tune of “Medemoiselle.”
Twenty-Five Years Ago
From the March 26, 1926, Scholastic: The George Barrere Little Symphony was scheduled to appear at Washington Hall. . . . The University appointed Bert V. Dunne, formerly of the sports department of the South Bend Neivs-Times, as manager of the new Notre Dame Sports Publicity Bureau. . . . Colonel William Hoynes, dean emeritus of the Law School, awarded the University a $100 prize to be given to the outstanding graduating Law student. . . . Professor Kelly’s class in dramatic poetry went on a tour of the Palace Theatre in South Bend to study its mechanics. . . . The freshman public speaking class of St. Mary’s College presented “The Upper Room,” by Robert Hugh Benson, in St. Angela Hall.
Ten Years Ago
From the April 4, 1941, Scholastic: The University presented a student production of Gilbert and Sullivan’s light opera “The Gondoliers” at Wash
yti	fa
Real Italian Pizza
Pizza with home-made Italian sausage 75c
Pizza with scamorza Italian cheese 75c
Pizza with fresh mushrooms 75c (Served from 7:30 till 11)
THURSDAY — STEAK NITE — $1.25
“A favorite with Notre Dame men”
PAPANDREA’s Spaghetti House 415 North Michigan	Phone 3-0903
ington Hall. . . . Dick Jurgens was contracted to play for the Senior Ball May 2. . . . Thomas A. Daly, of Philadelphia, veteran newspaper columnist and humorist, and Charles A. Smith, ace European correspondent, were the principal speakers at a dinner sponsored by the Notre Dame Press Club. . . . Notre Dame’s net athletic revenues, made public for the first time, approximated 211,915.45 for the 1940-41 schoolyear. . . . Dr. H. H. Lester, senior physicist of the Watertown Arsenal, Watertown, Mass., was scheduled to speak before the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals on the use of radiography in inspection.
Socony-Vacuum Co. Extends ND Fellowship in Chemistry
The Socony-Vacuum Oil Company, Inc., has awarded $2,000 to Notre Dame for continuation of a fellowship in chemistry during the period from Sept. 1, 1951 to Aug. 31, 1952.
Recipients for the fellowship are selected by the university from among students with at least one year of graduate work. No restrictions are placed by the company on the recipients as to future employment nor as to publication of the results of their investigations. Similarly the recipients are free to study subjects other than ones connected with the petroleum industry.
--------------------------------Dentist
DR. RALPH BERMAN
408 Platt Bldg., 105 W. Wayne St.
Hours-. Mon. 9-12 Thurs. 9-12 & 1:30-5	PHONE 6-3627
Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12	Res. ph. 7-1409
32
The Scholastic
Beginners1 Specialist at Arthur Murray's
Lola Arnaux is grand with beginners because she inspires them with confidence and enthusiasm right off. “How can people get through life not dancing when it’s so easy to become a good dancer the Arthur Murray Way.”
Phone 2-3339 — 10 a. m. - 10 p. m.
120 E. Wayne South Bend
z
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
“Rosie’s .” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
SMMHl
0
0
5?
is
SPALDWG
SPALDING custom fit golf clubs will help your score. Get fitted with the correct weight and shaft flexibility for YOUR game.
THE LONGEST HOLE
TOURNAMENT GrOLP IS THE 615 YD. 16™ OF THE CANTERBURY
SURE WE HAVE EYERYWG NOW ?
BED ROLL-tfNAPSACK camping equipment...
C4NTSEN--COMPASS-.. distress signals .
IF YCUVE GOT A YEN FOR YARDAGE. PLAY SPALDING CLUBS/
Apr. 1951
33
Wagner were historical high points in their respective arts. Anyone who is at all interested in music and the literat-ture of music cannot go wrong in taking one or both of these courses.
All Good Things . . .
For a long- time we savored the phrase “as a matter of fact.” It was a nice phrase—one not to be over-used, but one to be injected in serious or bantering discussion with discretion and a critical
Deferment Solution
For a long time the Army and its drafting apparatus has been hedging the question of deferring college students from service. As a temporary policy, all college students were deferred, at the discretion of their local draft boards, until June, 1951.
As this period neared its close, it became evident that some more permanent and satisfactory arrangement had to be considered. After much debate, and some politicking, the Army now announces that it will grant to some men a blanket deferment, and to the rest qualification tests will be administered.
All the details have not yet been worked out. At present the qualification test is optional. Students who boast a certain class standing will not be obligated to take it. For those who do take the test, the local draft board still has the final say. How and where the tests will be administered is not yet known.
But at least the start has been made. As it was, the situation was not a healthy one for the college student. He was living on “borrowed time,” which might not have been so bad if he only knew how much time he could borrow.
The ideal of the new Army policy seems to be sound. It will try to keep the colleges from being milked, and at the same time it will try to bypass the danger inherent in blanket deferments for college men.
The problem was evident: How to keep those men in college whose stay there would be to the country’s advantage. Some basis of selection had to be devised. This new policy seems to be the answer.
Social Season
With the return from Easter- vacation, the closest thing to a Notre Dame “social season” gets under way. The traditional Spring dances are moving steadily toward fruition.
And last Saturday night, at the Palais Royal, the first of some half dozen Student Council dances was held. These Spring Council dances were inaugurated with great success last year. Our congratulations to Jim Garvin and the rest of the men who do the work for continuing the popular series this year.
Music Lovers
We’re a little bit early, and we’re moving a little bit out of our sphere with the following, but we can’t let the two new courses being offered for next year by the Music Department pass without recognition.
Under the instructorship of Professor Carl Mathes, the Music Department is offering two accredited elective courses for the 1951-52 school year. The first is a course in Wagnerian music drama. This course proposes three things: first, to give a general artistic appraisal of that field of music literature which is the music drama; secondly, to a biographical knowledge of Richard Wagner; and third, to focus on the music dramas of Wagner for more detailed study.
The second course is in the Symphonies of Beethoven. Both Beethoven and
Makes a Man Love a Pipe and a Wbman Love a Man
Choice white Burley • Smooth and mild
awareness.
Now this phrase has been wrenched violently from our use. Ever since a hatchet-faced detective ran across a criminal who flings “as a matter of facts” around promiscuously, we have been afraid to touch the thing. If, from habit, an occasional “as a matter of fact” slips into a friendly conversation, there is an immediate gasp. There is a knowing snicker suggestive of an accusation of plagiarism.
Perhaps some day the hullaballoo will die out and we can roll off a casual “as a matter of fact” with impunity. For the time being, it looks like a reorientation of phraseology. A pity!
The Last Word
As a matter of fact, that was a tremendous cartoon in Washington Hall last Saturday night.
34
The Scholastic
CANOE TRIPS
into Quetico-Superior wilderness. Only $4.50 a day per man for complete camping equipment, canoes and food supplies. For Booklet, write: Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS — Ely, Minnesota.
shirt most likely to be borrowed... the Von Heusen
Summer Courses
UNIVERSITY of MADRID
Study and Travel
A RARE opportunity to enjoy memorable ■** experiences in learning and living! For students, teachers, others yet to discover fascinating, historical Spain. Courses include Spanish language, art and crltttre. Interesting recreational program included.
For details, write now to
SPANISH STUDENT TOURS, INC.
500 Fifth Ave., New York 18, N. Y.
I I
I
! i
i
We carry a large showing of fine Watches and Jewelry . . .
We maintain a complete Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.

111 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
MIN WOMM AWCMIIMM 209 West Colfax Avenue
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
Give your room-mate a break and have plenty of Van Heusen Oxfords in your bureau drawers. After all, you can’t expect him to borrow any Oxford— it has to be Van Heusen because then he knows it has the college man’s casual air and traditional styling. In many new weaves, colors and collar styles.
0
Van Heusen
REG. T. M.
"the icorhrs smartest''
shirts
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
Aquinas Library and Bookstore
YOUR CATHOLIC SHOPPING CENTER IN SOUTH BEND
110 E. LaSalle
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
GILBERTS
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
Apr. 6, 1951
35
yr you -Proof o/MILDNESS
with no unpleasant after-taste
JOAN FONTAINE is just like you and everybody else, today. She wants the cigarette that gives her the most for the money. She makes the Chesterfield Mildness Test and Always Buys Chesterfields.
az^b^ChE STERFIELD
★ Hollywood's favorite photographer, Paul Hesse, and Joan Fontaine enjoy a Chesterfield while he shows her his new Stereo Realist camera.
I proved Chesterfields are Milder They're MY cigarette"
Starring in "SOMETHING TO LIVE FOR A Paramount Picture
Copyright 1951, Liggett & Miers Tobacco Co