I
the Novre Same Scholastic Advertisements
Dr. Walter A. Hager
EYE, EAR, NOSE AND THROAT
Telephone Bdl 52
N. W. Cor. Lafayette St. '	, , .
and Washington Ave.	South Bena, Ina.
Mike’s Restaurant
and Lunch Room
H. E. GROSS & SON. Props.
105 B. Jefferson Ave.. South Bend	Home Phone 6183
——— - - ,.........................
n,. , f Home Phone, 5789	Res Bell 1162
1 Bell Phone. 68^
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTIST
611-613 j. M. S. Bldg-	_	. T .
Cor. Main St. and Wash. Ave.	South Bend, Ind.
Nobile’s College Inn
HEADQUARTERS FOR CANDIES FRUITS AND ICE CREAM
STUDENTS9 ORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY
108 South Michigan Street
Phones: BeB. 603; Home, 96s
Omcg:	PHONES Rsstnsnc*:
Bell 886. Home. 584a. '	Bell, 3561. Home, 5703
DR. JOHN A. STOECKLEY DENTIST No. 511. Corner Suite	Wash. Ave. and Main St.
J. M. SrBnilding	South Bend, Ind.
DR. F. W. VAUGHN
SURGEON DENTIST and ORTHODONTIST
608 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
“WALK-OVERS"
THE STUDENT’S SHOE WALK-OVER BOOT SHOP 115 S. Michigan St.
Beil Phoce 381	Will call at VuittnUf
Home Phone 3451	_ Iff appointment
Chiropodist
L. L. ROBERTS
Office and Residence, 333 S. Taylor Street. South Bend, Ind.
Klingel & Kuehn
SHOES OF QUALITY
Between Oliver Opera House and J. If. S. Bldg.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
■	- u	■
ns______at Reasonable Prices. Special attention .DfCVClES to students. Branch Repair Shop. Edward Hall. Notre DunmT^
Anderson Brothers & Bultindc.
. 109 West Colfax Avenue	South Bend. Indiana
Baker’s Shoes "FOR MEN WHO CARET kxclukvs in nrui nmcrmm n^W. Washington, Ave. South Bead, Indiana
THE LIGHT OF THE VISION
By CHRISTIAN REID 362 pp.—Price $1.25	..
THE AVE MARIA - - NOTRE DAME, IND.
■i&A.

DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER- VICTVRUS VIVE- QUASI- CRASMORITVRVS
Vol. MH.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, November 15, 1919.
’ No. 8
Rain Dreams.
BY ROBERT E. O’HARA, ’20.
J LOVE to watch the driving rain ' " That beats against my windowpane, . Of see the drifting, sifting snow - -	'
At night time, when iny lamp is low.
My body, sits there; my thoughts fly With ships whose proud wings cleave the sky, And over seven silent seas - •	•
I wander—where my fancies please. ■
Then'wake, and through my windowpane I see the gleaming of the fain;	-
Or, sometimes, start to find the snow
Still falling, while my lamp burns low.
Three Stilled Singers.
For a fejy years prior to 1914 England and the world had been charmed with the simple, altruistic poesy of Rupert Brooke. Simple were his thoughts in that they dealt with the simplest, the sweetest things of life. He had built a shrine to their honor, to which the world had gone to pay homage. As a young man in . his . early twenties he looked upon fife-as a great realm of love and beauty. He was essentially a roamer— sometimes in body, always in spirit. He was . not satisfied with his work. There seemed to be just before him a poetic mirage which he could not reach. It was in.search of the “masterly, touch” that he toured the world. But his return found him no better satisfied? He ■ - continued his verse-writing, however, and was producing his best work at the time he cast Ins lot with the thousands of others and donned the uniform of the Empire. - .	:
This kind of life was entirely new and strange to him and the experience of the conflict made HE price of war is always the lives of upon him a deep impression. Fortune sent him many men. The wars of the past to the; Orient, a land teeming with a poetry
BY J. SINNOTT MEYERS, 20.
awaiting the expression of a sympathetic singer. With the first-of the British troopers he" dared * the storm of Turkish guns and landed , on : more than any former one has exacted its toll Gallipoli with the hum of the bullets tinging his . from all the walks of life. Many great men from -swan-song, for it was there that he fell, on the . every profession as well as the great brawn of banks of the Dardanelles,- fulfilling the prophecy industry and the great intellects . of ..every he had so simply spoken in the words, - . profession have valiantly brayed death and
demanded that payment, and it~ was paid. The recent Great War also laid . claim to the same settlement. And this war
If I should die, think only .this of me, .... That there’s some corner of a foreign field -That is forever England. " . f .
, paid the price. .	;	J..., .
Of those who made the supreme sacrifice none
perhaps are more generally wept than the poetsj Thus died the first-of-the. great war poets, the singers of life, of its joys, its sadness, its1 trials, amid the storm, the grandeur, and the. grew-
.. its triumphs, its loves, its ideals. ..And while the someness of battle; .	’"-1
death of every man saddens the world somewhat;	The war called another' singer to its grimneSs.-
the death of one of the singers of life always TheParisof warwas not theParisof peace.Times;
. ' provokes a flood of tears... The poets, romantic had •changed, and - Alan Seegar. American, philosophers that they are,, have, eyer been dweller in Paris and lover of her delights, Went / ; among the first to respond to the tocsin of battle, into the lists with the characteristic reddessness . Andthis crisis found them prompt to give up .the of the youthftd poet. : The “ Legion L’Etrange” - pleasures of peace forthedrudgeryand horrors opened its ranks to this jbpy, for, tirufy a ymrth < andperils of war .	’.	... '	? j he. was..Vigorous, youthful, reddess, ^

OS 5-::^



H4
Nocre domeSchokwric
lover of the unusual, he joined France’s company of. cosmopolitan fighters. Thus, went Seegar. For years the Foreign Legion had held with “ Roman Virtue” the far-flung battle line of France, and when these troops entrained for the front Alan Seegar. was among them. He went into the trenches with the young poet’s usual philosophy of adventure and there he found his philosophy realized. .More than ever he associated with men .of all races and classes. This naturally broadened him and opened to him spheres hitherto unknown.
The poetry he had written prior to the war,
compiled under the title “Juvenilia,” reflected Tree.” It may seem strange that all poets are a restless soul vainly seeking a haven. His keen philosophers, and yet it should not. With War Poetry is the expression of that same souk Jife as their field, they must of necessity -know
hardened by fighting and association with death. His love of France was second only to his love of Paris, so in his “Paris," his best pre-war verse, he toasted the adventurous night-life of the French capital. But when the war had opened all France to his eyes. he.wrote “Champagne” and entreated for that land universal glory.
His philosophy was endangered by his life in - the trenches, and it was with some of the care' freeness of the Gaul, the grim calmness of the British “Tommy,” and the stoicism of the East t	that he wrote “ Maktoob.” Fate, he now believed,
held his existence in the palm of her hand and with this thought his recklessness was accentuated. After a furlough, spent in Paris the .. grind of the front-line began to “tell” upon . him. And it was with some bitterness, mixed . with the adventurous desire to solve the “great mystery” that he wrote resignedly the famous “Rendezvous with Death.” This is the best piece of his war poetry. In it he again shows ‘	his belief in fate.. In the second stanza he
speaks of the. Paris from which he had just returned and of her pleasures, when he says,
. ' .. God'knows ’twere better to be deep Pillowed in silk and scented down, Where love throbs out in blissful sleep, . Pulse nigh to pulse, and breath to breath 'Where hushed awakenings are dear— Then comes the idea of the fatalist, enters the
-	. premonition of disaster and Hie desire to explore
the unexplored country of . Hamlet in the lines, ( ./ . But I’ve a rendezvous with Death '
■ At midnight in some flaming town, '	:
"	“ "When Spring hups'North again this year,1
'Ahd I.to my. pledged word.am true. .-. , ’	£■ I.shall npt fail that rendezvous.
Hisrendezvouscameafter Springhadtripped z -■	north again ;that y ear i He was killed on July 4,
1916, while. leading the advance of the Foreign Legion on the village of Belloy-en-Santerre. He kept his “pledged word” and met death face to face on the battlefield. He, died as he had wished, on “some scarred slope,’’^defending the France he loved. And he lies today, sleeping forever in the bosom of France.	-
Another American poet, philosopher, thinker, lecturer, an<f soldier made the supreme sacrifice with the ardor of the singers of life. Joyce Kilmer had written much good poetry before the war called to him. The most popular, and perhaps the best of his lines are those to “The
the impelling influences of human activity. And notable among poetic philosophers was Joyce Kilmer. None but a poet could have formulated so pure a philosophy as Kilmer expressed in the last verses of “The Tree.’-’
Poems are made by fools like me, But only God can make a tree.
This was his idea of life, absolute dependence upon the Supreme Being. He had all the recklessness of Seegar but none of Seegar’s fatalism. He had all the ardor of Brooke without the latter’s prophetic strain. Kilmer was a more mature man, ever romantic in a sense but never a devotee of passion. He enjoyed the saving religious influence which Seegar lacked. When he viewed a broken church and saw a shattered Christ, he murmured that sweet poetic prayer, " ■	*	.	.
Lord, Thou didst more for me Than all the hosts of land and sea, So let me render back again This millionth of Thy gift. Amen. .
It was,with such thoughts, intensified, transformed into action, that he sprang foremost against the German hordes who were seeking for the third time to take Paris, the Paris of Seegar, the Paris for which that romantic youth had given his life. Like Brooke and Seegar, Kilmer fell in the van. Oh, the loss to the world that he sleeps today by the bloody Ourcq, .that once crystal.stream, since dedicated so profusely to the .God of War In the crimson life blood of thousands, among- whom was Joyce. Kilmer, the greatest American poet of the last decade. ■ .
The blighting.breath of war took away.with it these_ three youthful singers, yet they went with no; dark- dreaming but rather with the philosophy of which Seegar spoke in.” Maktpob” With ■	J-

- t - yr
■	115
1 The resignation and the calm !
_ And wisdom-of the East. ‘ , . .. -•...■■?/
The deaths of these singers are imperishable examples of the heroism of poets. They do unconsciously the heroic deeds of which they write. It is a sad fact that these three gallant bards of the aesthetic and of the real are no more. Ask, if you will, why these men lie dead with their work as it seems only begun. Why do the hot sands of far-off Gallipoli keep Brooke? Why does Kilmer sleep forever beside the Qurcq? Why is Seegar stilled in the eternal rest of the grave? And there comes back to you ever the answer of the. French, “C’est la Guerre, c’est la Guerre I”	.
“Killed in Action.”
BY PAUL R. CONAGHAN, *20.
The sun was slowly sinking below the horizon as the train whistled ominously before rounding the bend on its way to the small station of a hamlet in eastern Canada. A gentle breeze . stirred the perfumed air and played with the curls of the loving maidens assembled in a small group about the station to bid farewell to the swains of the village who were about to depart that night to join the English forces in the World War. Save for the occasional repressed sigh of a father and the hurriedly banished tear of a mother, every one at the station seemed , happy.	.
' Apart from the crowd stood towering Bob Bouquarth beside his betrothed, Margaret Payne, looking dolefully into her loving eyes. ‘ These precious moments were the saddest he had yet experienced. Margaret, whom he had known from childhood, was equally touched by the occasion. The happiness to which they had so long and fondly looked forward was suddenly shadowed by war. The two hearts which had long beat as one must, now be separated. Reluctantly Margaret broke the silence between them.	'	.	,
“But you will come back some day, and then we will be happy again.” - -
Bob, trying to view the situation less seriously, answered immediately, “Of.course I! will. And I’ll bring a dozen German Helmets with me” . What might have been : said further was arrested by the approach of the train; After a fond farewell, Bob boarded the train with-the others. Each soldier waved his adieu to the
-k V
little: group about the station. = The engine gasped for breath, as if hesitating to leave, and then hastened away, just :as the sun sank behind the lofty pines of the neighboring forest. '
A year had now elapsed since Bob had been , ' captured by the Germans. It had been for him	'
a year of hell on earth. 7Subject to constant y insults and rebuffs from his captors and poorly \ fed, he had barely managed to keep alive. Butat	-
' last he had effected his escape, made his way	*
through the lines, and returned to his regiment -on the battle-front.	F	'
The fact that he had been reported missing for nearly a year and the worry of long imprisonment made him scarcely more, than recognizable to the officers and men of his regiment. The news of his return quickly spread from trench to trench and all his old companions in arms were glad. They did not have time, however, to rejoice very long, as the great attack was im-	-
pending and every one knew it; Many preparations had to be made in haste. Amid the confusion Bob met the chum with whom he had left on the same train from the Canadian home and with whom he had been closely associated from-the time he had entered the service until he was captured. The two of them slipped quietly -	'
into a vacant dugout for a confidential chat. .
“My God, Bob, I can’t believe you are alive! It seems like a miracle. Every one at home thinks that you are dead.”	1 < .	j
Bob had heard many others say this; but had	;
paid little attention. His thoughts were intent .	; F;
on another subject, and now of his intimate he	>
asked the question of supreme interest, “ Have	.: .
you heard anything about Margaret?”
His friend had been trying to avoid this topic. - 2 As much was indicated by the blank expression	v J. j
now on his countenance. For a moment there was a silence which made Bob anxious, and he _ . insisted, “What about her?” =	/	- .
“She has married an English' lord. She : thought that—” The approach of an inspection officer prevented further'conversation on the subject and the two soldiers hqrried away in opposite directions. /	......
Bob dodgedfrom one of the lanes and sloped . subconsciously intp a hidden niche. The signal 7 to go over the. top; was expected at any moment.
Formerly at such a;time be had; delighted in . ; ; permitting his thoughts to roam in sweet fantasy.	/ - <
It seemed to give hint added nerve arid strength.	.; ;
■He would expatiate on Margaret’s charms tb the	- if
' . ■ " ' ■ . ■
Notre dome Scholastic
n6
soldier beside him and then charge like a madman. But-no longer would he take delight in such sweet recollections. Margaret to him now was nothing. The sad light of the pale moon seemed to look upon him with pity. As he was brooding, there came a call for volunteers. A reconnoitering party was to be formed immediately for a dangerous mission. Bob rousing himself from his lethargy, seized this opportunity to serve his country.
Minute preparations were quickly made, detailed information was given out, and as the silent moon slipped behind a thick cloud the little party set out on its perilous mission. Cautiously it advanced toward the German lines. But Bob was impatient and persisted in going in advance of the others. The risk did not enter into his consideration. He was among those sent to find a machine-gun nest that threatened to hold up the local advance, and he was going to find it. His friends, realizing that his rashness must result in failure,-whispered protestations but to no avail. A desert silence now hung over “ No Man’s Land.” The whirl of bullets and the boom of guns were still ringing in the ears of the soldiers,'but actual firing had ceased. All the world seemed to sleep. Then came a flash. The explosion of a star-shell made light as day the immediate surroundings. A rifle report rang out, and Bob, nearest the Boche line, fell.
The next day the captain, at the request of Bob’s friend from home, sent a telegram to Margaret, confirming the repost which had gone .to her, almost a year before, thavTrivate Robert Bouquarth had been killed in action. The date of his death was not given. The closing sentence read, “He died fighting the enemy. He was.a good Christian and a brave soldier.”
. Thrift as a College Student’s Problem.
(Published at the request of the Savings Division of the U. S. Treasury Department.)
The war demanded that every American save money, and students in educational institutions were not excepted. The Liberty-Bond-and War-Savings Cam-. paign showed that even the college student who is self-supporting could set aside a small margin for saving and investment. After-war economic conditions, are demanding a continuance of war economies and. universal saving and safe investment on the part of all oiur'people. Shall the, college student have a part in this after-war .program? , At first thought one would* say that it is. inexpedient for the college student to set aside part of his current money for. savings, but' a closer examination has led thoughtful ad
visers of the Savings Division of the Treasury Department to urge that the present opportunity for regular saving and investment in government securities be put before the college students of the country, as was the need for saving during the war time.
The Treasury Department is offering the 25^ Thrift Stamp, $5 War Savings Stamp and the $100 and $1000 Treasury Savings Certificates as a means of popular saving. It is also urging the continued purchase of Liberty Bonds, now held by banks, as a means of reducing the expanded credit which is partly responsible for the constantly increasing prices.
College students are urged to participate in Government Savings primarily because the country needs a rapid increase in its savings fund and because the practice of regular saving carries personal economic benefits so fundamental that college students as future leaders will wish to share in this movement.
Many a college student has earned and saved money before going to college, but during his four years or more of academic and professional training has got entirely out of his habits of thrift, and so starts his business or professional career heavily handicapped by the weight of unthrifty standards taken on during college life.
The Treasury. Department, therefore, proposes:
That students, as a matter of national service as well as personal advantage, work during term time, when opportunity affords, and during part at least of vacations;
That every college student save a minimum of a , dollar a week during his entire college course;
That these savings be funded as the nucleus for the start-in-life fund for use after graduation;
That these savings be invested safely-in government savings securities';
That the student on receiving an allowance from home set aside, as a first charge on this allowance, his weekly savings;
That the student who is working his way through ^college and paying his own expenses in whole or in part,-set aside regularly a sum for savings, even if it be so little as 25c a week, the cost of a U. S. Thrift Stamp;	-
That students plan their personal expenditures with a personal budget, now recognized as the most, practical instrument for promoting wise expenditure in government, in business, and in personal finance;
. That students discuss in debating dubs, frateniity clubs, and other organizations the rdation of personal thrift to business effidency and success in life, and the relation of individual savings to the country’s capital fund and to present economic problems. - -
That student organizations as a national after-war service organize a public discussion.of the economic problems, related to thrift, savings, and investment, seeking particularly a statement of their practical bearing on the reconstruction problem and of the' personal responsibility which the college student has during college and afterwards for personal thrift and for its promotion in the community, to the end that.-colleges and all higher institutions may promote the ■ wprk-ahd-save program for thebigger and better America.	V - <


Noure domeSchokwck?
Varsity Verse.
The Searcher.
- Show Your “Pep”! J	_
When the team comes on the field, . - Set to fight and never yield, .
_	Show your "Pep”!
As they line up for the fray, Send them out a loud hoo-ray. Just help ’em win the day . By your "Pep”!
If defeat is at our door,	.
Let them.hear the thunder roar, Keep your “Pep”!
Or when there is no doubt, * They deserve a winning shout, For you cannot knock ’em out ” ' While there’s “Pep”!
The team is always true,
So men it’s up to you, With your “Pep”!
If you see it’s pretty tough,
Then watch ’em, “treat ’em .rough,” . If you giv’e that mighty stuff	-
'	", They call “Pep”!—j. a. b?
Autumn.	.
O bronze and amber autumn days, The season I love best, y - When fade the hill tops through the haze
. And nature droops to rest.
The wind is taking from the trees -Their plumage, day by day;
Beyond the clouds the sky has changed Till blue is almost grey.—T. s. M^c.
Plink—Plank—Plink-et y—Plunk !
Its voice is cracked and wheezy, But its warblings always thrill;
There’s something in its scratchy tone - That makes me love it still.
Its coat is torn and ragged,	.
But it’s beautiful to me;
For lack of paint counts nothing— .
' It’s soul-beauty that I see.
, Its ribs are bent and broken, .
But its song still quavers thin;
For there’s naught can kill the spirit Of my plinky mandolin!—v. D. E.
-	Memories. .
As I walked in the garden of flowers That were killed by the frost in the night,
I was thinking of her who was burs That had faded forever from sight.
And my thoughts wandered back to the time When her bloom was as bright as was theirs;
But her soul, too, was chilled in this clime, . And the fate of the flowers she shares.—B. S.
PAUL SCOFIELD, *20.
They call me the Searcher. And why, monsieur? Because I am seeking—but, ah, that is the tale of my life, a much too sordid and drab affair to relate to you, my cheerful friend! You insist? Well, you shall have it, but I shall make it short, and hope to avoid boring you too much.
My early life was spent in seclusion, as I had no aippetency to mix with the neighbor boys, and of the' world I saw little till my twentieth year, when my father died leaving me alone. My father had been a confirmed .bibliophile and with the aid of private tutors had fostered in me the same sedulous appetite for books. My bibliolatry was unconfined; I lived in the realm of books—but that is by the way, monsieur, and the result alone matters. This result of constant and varied reading was to establish in my mind the fact that Truth is the primary quality of all our universal concepts. Beauty, goodness, and love, all are based upon Truth. With this predominating -thought I faced the world in my twentieth year, a searcher after Truth.	.	.
, I spent several years in traveling and then decided to find a wife. But it was not so easy as I had imagined. I sought and courted famous beauties, women of wit and fashion, only to find that they all lacked the primary quality of truth. My searching led me Over many lands till finally I came to the little county of Rien. There I met Mademoiselle Verite, mistress of Chateau D’Eau. My vocabu- . lary is too limited, monsieur, to describe her numberless charms; suffice it to say that I -was completely enamored. Never before had I met such , a perfect woman. She possessed every quality a man could desire and you can imagine my ecstasy when she returned my love in manifold measure. We were married. : in the spring by the smiling pastor of Rien, our only attendants a host of errant sunbeams that crept slyly in among the pews to share our . delight.' My intense joy only made my. grief harder to bear when after three short months ?
•of perfect happiness she died; I am still a recherecher la verite, monsieur.	. * ■, - -
' What religion have I? Why none. J What! : You-say God is Truth? Why I—man Dien, J you are right,	.

ii8	* .
DISCE QUASI SEA\PER VICTURUS VIVE QUASI CRAS MORITVRVS
‘ Entered as Second-Class Mail -Matter.
Published every Saturday'during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
VOL. LIII.	NOVEMBER 15. 1919.	NO. 8.
Board of Editors.
Francis Farrington. ’20
William C. Havey, ’20 Charles A. Grimes, ’20 Cornelius Palmer, ’20 Thomas H. Beacom, ’20 -Alfred N-Slaggert,’21 • Arthur B. Hope, ’20 William Robinson, ’20,
Robert E. O'Hara, ’20 Paul Scofield, ’20 Thomas J. Tobin, ’20 J. Sinnott Meyers, ’20
. Paul R. Gonaghan, ’20 Leo L. Ward, ’20
1 Jennings Vurpillat, ’20”
Every Notre Dame man must now make a decision for or against the Irish Republic. It is an issue that cannot be evaded. If he'is in favor of the Republic The Irish Bond Issue, he must now verify his position by his conduct. He cannot be merely theoretical. Apathy in this instance is antagonism. On another page of the Scholastic is printed President De Valera’s appeal to the American peopled This ' appeal is particularly appropriate when made to Catholic college men, who are enjoying to the full the advantages which Mr. De Valera asks for the youth of Ireland. Repeatedly we have and dKCTTed it Our only desi„ b	we too
denounced the terrible ■ tyranny under which ■ may have the honor of yelling for you oneday, as you ,
Ireland is writhing. Now that we have the opportunity to help counteract the effects of that tyranny shall we be cravens ? Ireland needs money to drain the bogs, to set the looms a-spinning, to harness the rivers, to repopulate the land. She must have financial assistance to save her boys and girls for Ireland, to recover Ireland for the Irish. For this reason the Irish Republic is floating in this country a loan for ten million dollars, not a large amount in these . days, but enough to start the glorious work of Ireland’s regeneration. Bond-certificates will be a issued—in denominations small enough to be within easy reach of every student of Notre Dame. Of course, a subscription to this loan.is at present a virtual gift. When- the - Irish Republic will have received the international recognition which' it is' seeking, the security for the ldhn trill, be imquestionhble. Buthowevet goodorpoor ~we iHay thinkfhe'Sethirityishallwe hesitate to risk a few ddllarsfotthe&h^
liberty.,when millions of our fellow-countrymen have just risked their lives for it?—T. j. tobin.
Notre Dame appreciates thoroughly the compliment in the following editorial, which appeared as leader in the Indiana Daily Student of the University of Indiana, on Tuesday, the 4th of' November,- under the title, “Notre Dame Sportsmanship>
It was a real pleasure to see a loyal bunch of rooters back their team as Notre Dame did at Washington Park. It was also inspiring to witfiess the two teams play in a real sportsmanlike manner as did the two contenders last Saturday.	_
The Sunday Star made the following comment on the contest:
“ The game did not show the true strength of the two teams for the field was such that open football was almost the only thing that could be tried with any safety. Fumbles were frequent but. the penalties
were very few.”	~
Credit should be given the spirit of the students who attended the game. They displayed the spirit of real gentlemen. Indiana students took notice of the yelling the up-state men did when an Indiana varsity man was laid out for a brief time. Word has reached the Student that the yell leaders of Notre Dame ascended the stage at the Murat Saturday night and led in a yell for the Indiana team, Captain Minton and Coach Stiehm. When a winning school is open minded enough to yell for the captain of the defeated team, the team itself , and their coach, it can do only one thing in the eyes of ■ the opposite student body, and that is to stir within them the spirit of admiration, - Men of Notre Dame, your team played the game .as only fighting football men should play it. They won the
did for us, after we have been victorious.
Ju the “Notes and.Remarks” of the Ave Maria for last Saturday the Editor has this paragraph on President De Valera:
• It was characteristically gracious of Dr. Eamon de .Valera, “King of Ireland,” as one youthful admirer calls him. to assure the students of the University of Notre Dame that he would remember as “his happiest day in America” the one when he visited them? The address in which he made this statement evoked such applause aS the eminent Irishman seldom -hears,7 it was so spontaneous, ’ continuous, - and uproarious. He was listened to with breathless attention, every one present seemingly eager to catch 'every word that fell from his lips. But his personality made even a deeper impression—his 'gravity "..when speaking of-serious things, his reverence when referring to holy things; Few failed to observe how., recollectedly he
’ said grace-at table, and.hbw thoroughly absorbed he seemed tobewhileknedingbeforetheBlessedSacra-ment,/A,.gpod as welLas a. great manV a leader who . inspiri» ^e:highest:fespect an4 the fiillest confidence, . isJPreri&nt~lianito






'Sfie Nocre domeSchokwric
119
* Concerning “Replies” to “An Alumnus.”
Chicago, Illinois, November 10th, 1919. The Editor, Notre Dame Scholastic, .	. .
Dear Sir:	.	. .	. .
I noted your request in a recent issue for comment upon the letter of an “Alumnus and,Former Athlete,” and I read with considerable interest'and a great deal of disappointment the replies'published in your next issue. .	.	- '
-These letters of.reply which were all written by under-graduates were unfortunately not of the type which one might expect in a discussion of this kind. It is unfortunate that the writer of the anonymous letter did not see fit to disclose his identity, but I think I am safe in assuming that as an Alumnus he has the best interests of Notre Dame at heart, and certainly does not deserve such a volley of abuse and invective as was directed at him by the members of the student body who answered his letter.	-
" I myself am of the opinion that no athlete who has ever represented Notre Dame objected to be classified with the “Fighting Irish,” even though he were not of Hibernian origin. .
I am of the opinion however, that there is no excuse for publishing such letters as I have referred to, and I am surprised that the Scholastic allowed anything of that nature to appear in its. columns.
'	Very truly yours,
-	T. J. Shaughnessy, ’15.
Far be it from us to deny Jo anyone the fullest ' freedom of opinion in regard to the “Replies to /An Alumnus and Former Athlete’ ” published in the Scholastic on October 25th of this year in answer to the Alumnus’ letter published in the Scholastic on the 18th—which replies were duly signed with the real names of several undergraduates of Notre Dame. As for dur-
selves/ we -are incurably of the opinion that the -original letter richly deserved all the “abuse”	.	..
it received in those replies, which, by the way, main, but we respect it as the mistake of a man, expressed only a fraction of what their authors, made responsibly, in his name.... Such criticism
x thought. First we observe that there is consider- is wdcome always, but . the anonymous .sort to -
able contrast between the opinion expressed in the letter above and that expressed in Mr. Chester Freeze’s letter on the subject, published in these columns last Saturday. To anyone who might perchance still care to form an opinion in the.matter, we o:5er as “excuse” for publishing those replies nothing more than that letter of the “Alumnus and Former Athlete,” which
if there he need.. . ..	:	/
If the “Alumnus, and Former Athlete” might care to dose the case at once and surely, let him give his name to Mr. Starrett, and it will be tli,e last andunpublished word on the subject;.,!! seems that he has seen fit to confide himsdf to ~ some of his fellow alumni,.but thus fardias withheld his identity from the man who above 2.	.	_ _ all cOthere had and. has a light j.ta .ls^
; Iri simple justice to one df" bur/M	whom he is beholden for such, intiuiate.mionyT ;
did not at all purpose- to let .this gallant; critic ’ moiisn^.—The E4itars.
at the , time we interpreted, arid very justly we contend, as a vicious, utterly. gratuitous, and
cowardly attack, of ananonymous “grouch,” addressed to Mr. E. Morris Starrett, one of the writers of the “Athletic Notes” in our paper;
“get away” with that kind of‘‘stunt/without a word.of reply. “ If-he had beeifgood enough'tb! -give his name and - address^ one mild reply ^n . ~ private •' would most likely have served: our purpose satisfactorily. but as he had deigned to ' give us nothing more, definite than the postmark	~
of the General Post-office in Chicago; there was no probable dr possible ; way of reachinghim except through the- Scholastic. JHencethe “Replies,” by .which we. stand;as justified.
One purpose in publishing the “Replies to ‘An Alumnus and Former Athlete’” was to suggest to him effectively, if . possible, that he think twice before mailing a second letter of this sort. Another purpose was to^do our bit in helping kill a certain spirit—^shared by very few Notre Dame men, w;e are proud to say, but ri spirit that is always with us more or- less—a spirit that is narrow^. nasty, noisy, and .on occasion characteristically anonymous. There is since the publication, of the replies some evidence that this is not the habitual spirit, of the “Alumnus and Former Athlete,’/ but at the time we had by fault of said Alumnus been given as evidence nothing.but the letter itself, -which, however muck beside the intention of its anonymous author, dearly bespoke this spirit.
We feel that, however it may jolt our vanity, . we can take in good part reasonable; criticism , offered in a. reasonable way, especially when it comes from an alumnus of Notre Dame, but. we. have no relish for anonymous insult. The tone and at leastone sentence of,the letter from ‘?An
Alumnus and former Athlete’’ were no less than that. The letter printed above is decidedly critical. We bdieve it to be a mistakeinthe
which we replied, never,—whether it. emanate 1 from an alumnus, or whomsoever. . If -it win s come anyhow, then we shall deal with it as i^ deserves,—-in the columns ..of tile Scholastic,




120
Noure &ameSdK)kisuic
Notre Dame Men at the Army Game.
Ireland’s Appeal.
if
The Republic of Ireland -.	OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT	.
- To the liberty loving people of America:
Once again Ireland has sympathetically responded to the world wave of freedom. She has. definitely determined her own future as an independent democratic .republic, ready to consort with other nations in friendly intercourse and on a'basis of equality of right.. - In this fateful hour the people appeal, through me, to the people of America. .
The United States is a great and powerful republic— long confirmed in its own hard won liberties. The sister republic, newborn in Ireland under America’s inspiration, is threatened in its infant life as were the United Colonies by a cruel and over-mastering force. We earnestly plead for the assistance which, if'prompt and energetic, will be decisive.
Our prime appeal is political; the official recognition of our republic by the government of the United States is our final aim. That attained, everything is attained. In the initial stages, however, we need financial help, even as did the colonies here. By the policy of British rulers Ireland has been kept deliberately poor that she might be made subject and subservient. _
On no land has nature so lavished her gifts. Britain’s enervating hand has. brought every one to naught. Our richest lands lie untilled, our mines unworked, our
-- bogs uncut, the harvest of our seas unreaped, our harbours empty; our rivers run idle to the sea. The ' peasant is driven forth'to make place for the steer.
Under kindly native rule all this will be changed. . The People’s Congress, and the People’s Government have plans for the purpose. Dail Eireann has summoned-the people at home to the rebuilding of the nation on a basis of brotherly love and co-operation. .
But England still unloads her financial burdens on Ireland. The tribute exacted by the foreigner prevents us from raising at the moment an adequate tax of our' own. An advance loan from countries more happily -placed is necessary, and has been sanctioned by the ‘ People’s Parliament—determined that the' Republic will live and the debt be repaid. Americans can help in the projected work of restoration and reconstruction -by subscribing.
Americans of Irish blood, you will not refuse to renew . ybur filial ties, and take a further share in the preservation of the race and of.the land from which you sprung! She is your motherland as well as ours. , Do ydu not wish her to take her rightful place among the nations? Can you withhold ybur assistance when it is powerful . enough to place -her there? ■ .	'	'
Notre Dame men from the proverbial “four comers” foregathered at West Point last Saturday to cheer the N. D. team to victory. Approximately seven hundred lusty “rooters” hurled the “U. N. D.” at the Cadets and told the fighters on the field that they were backed up, “win, lose/or draw.” .
. A “census” showed seventy-three old Notre Dame men present on the field, among them Father Cavanaugh, former president of the University. This number does not include the “old-timers” unknown to the census-taker. “Hard” Hoskings, Andy McDonough, “Moke” Kelly, “Rupe” Mills, Frank McDermott, Joe and Tommy Kenny were all on the fence keeping the boys going. Others very much in attendance were Chas. Call, Ed Bailey, Kenneth Fox, John Fox, Tom Gibbon, Joe McGinnis, “Brute^’ Snyder, Tom Bum, “Pete” McDonough, Frank Mulligan, Chas. McDonough, “Bill” Susan, Steve Bums, Joe Farrell, Jim Huxford, Jim Fennessy, Vincent Ech, John Eckley, “Peaches” Granfield, Joe Costello, Tom Curr, Jim Curry, “Slim” Flannigan, Rev. John McNamara, L. E. Wagner, Larry Doyle, Paul Smith, Gerald Hurst, Tommy Lavery; Joe Mangin, Ray McCabe, Jimmy Carroll, “Judge” Harmon, “Red” Gibbons, Don Kennedy, “Tuffy” Ryan, Colton Connolly, “Babe” Dooley, Tom _ and John McAndrews, J. Barbey, Ed Donohue, Joe Stuttner, Karl Pfeiffer, Robert Kremp, J. McElligott, Joe Kelly, Jake Eckley, Hardy Busch, Dick Highland, -Claude Yockey, Ed Griffin, and “Paddy” Davem. It was a joyous N. D. crowd'at the end of the game when the Gold and Blue had for the second time in succession defeated the West Pointers.. Pan-demonium broke loose at the final whistle. M. P.’s, who during the game had been guarding the field most successfully, were brushed aside as the Notre Dame “Rooters” rushed out on the field to personally thank the team.
Oh the' return trip to Notre Dame the team was met at Albany by James Durnau, who is now attending the Albany Law School. At Buffalo two familiar faces appeared at the
Think of your fathers and your mothers—the men. andwomen,\boysandgirls, that in unehding stream . through Castle Garden made their wistful way e	.	..	.	. . -here to win life and honor Jn this great land of liberty .
station—“Alex”Szczepanikand“Doc’’Keatty. and opportunity.	' X- • :	-"X
The .following men from Notie Dame; made the . Boysandgirls.suchas theywere, strbngandnoble trip with the team: Paul Scofield, Tom Beacom, and bright, genfieand pure, are still inIrelandto-day. Jimmy Ryan, “Red ” Granfield, Jolmny Mo-	;
-Rjr XT «x7	you not help to keep them in their own land? :	. ._
hardt, Ed McNamara, Mal Gooley, and	They love Ireland as your f^^
Sinnott Meyers/ j._ s. M, - " . -	' 'Ireland.: /it lweaks;thtir heaits tp\feaye that land asit;J - .
"A*



,5fie Now ftinreSdiciarcicr
121
broke the.hearts of those boys and girls—your parents, eastern cities and was instrumental in having The tears of the mothers and fathers to be left behind nOonday Masses said for their benefit. He inmany a lonely cottage are full as bitter to-day, their	3 . ,	.	4-	. .	’	'
grief as wild, as the tears and the grief of those your	Bishop Curley on his V1SH to the
parents left behind never to see again. You cahnot University.	. •	...
refuse your aid to end so much sorrow, to preserve these boys and girls for the land which needs them, and for the people they love. .	.	..
Will you not aid to bring to them at home under their own flag the blessings of the liberty they might hope for and which you enjoy under the Stars and-
Stripes?	'	-	" ’
Demand for them the right to choose their own way
of life and obedience. Immediate action is necessary. You must organize to be effective. Begin at once in
your own community. Teach your fellow citizens the justice of Ireland’s cause. It is. the causes of world liberty and true democracy. ;	......	.
- Eamon De Valera.
. September/1919 A. D.-
. Personals.	.
- * ’ - ! ' •
—George F. Windoffer (LL. B., ’18), renowned as a varsity debater in former’ years, is now successfully practising law at Anderson, Ind.
—Delmar J. Edmonson (Ph. B., ’18), editorin-chief of the 1918 Dome, has returned to the
University to complete hisr studies in law. - at El Paso, Tex., visited the University recently.. -James was on his way to New York City where
—Ray Murray (LL. B., ’ 18), who was recently dischargedfrom service, is now studying for the priesthood in Niagara Seminary, Rochester, N. Y.
—Robert McGuire, former varsity baseball . and football star, returned to the University for . - a short visit last week. “ Bob ” is now associated . in business with his father in Chicago.
' —Emmett Kelly (LL. B.,’19)* recently passed the Bar examination in the state of Illinois. He _ is now a member of the firm of Kelly; Kelly, and Kelly, of Ottawa, Ill., his father and brother Harry (LL. B. ’16) being the senior members.
—Charles J. McCauley (LL; B., ’19) is at present following a career in vaudeville. “Charlie” always scored a big.hit as “specialty man” on the Notre Dame Glee Club and his . many friends have no doubt as to his. success.
—James H. Ryan, former football and track
star, has returned to the University to complete his senior year in philosophy. “Red”
for the past Austin, Tex., to “Md” Elward, forthreeyears lend oh the Varsity football team, was recently solemnized in St. Mary’s church, Austin.Last
- —Monseigneur L. J. Evers, (A. B., ’79), pastor year “Md” was football coach for St. John’s of St. Andrew’s Church, New York City, was the Preparatory College, Danvers, Mass. Thenewiy-guest of Dr. James A. Burns recently for a few wedded couple will take up their residence-'at-days. Monseigneur Eyers is taking a leading HamptonRoads,Va. The Scholastic extends ; part in the interests of theworkingclasses of the to “them- hearty congratulations. '' . . ; _ . ; .
has been a real “working man
< four months and hence is glad to become a student again.
—“Al” Feeney, former varsity football and basketball star, visited old friends at the University recently. “Al” was a member of the committee of Notre Dame alumni at Indianapolis which made the preparations for the Notre-Dame-Indiana game.
—Charles Call (Jour., *17) is not only making good in the Eastern field- of Trade Journalism,
but is also using his spare hours in furnishing ' occasional Notre Dame news to the New York papers. Charlie will be remembered as one of our best long-distance runners of late years.
—James W. Hosking (Ph. C., ’19) is now located in New Brunswick, N. J., in the chemical laboratories of E- R. Squibb & Sons,, one. of the leading American drug manufacturing concerns. “Jimmy’s” many friends at Notre Dame are glad to know that he is making good.
—Lt. James Huxford, former student, who was recently instructing officer in the Signal. Corps
he is to be discharged. Before going to Texas he was assigned to Columbia University, New York City, as an officer of the.S. A. T. C.
—Rev. Dr. Matthew Schumacher, C. S. C., who is now president of St. Edward’s College, Austin, Texas, was one of the speakers last Sunday at a banquet given by the Fourtli Degree . Knights of Southern Texas. The.Knights could hardly choose a more representative man to addressthem than our former Director of Studies.
—Announcement has been received of the marriage of Miss Elinor Wolf, daughter of Mr.. and Mrs. George E. Wolf,1 New York City, to Francis P. Mulcahy (Ph. B. ’14), of Rochester, - j N. Y. “ Pat ” is a captain in the aviation forces, j .; U. S. marines, and his many Notre Dame j. friends join the Scholastic in extending congratulations.'	.



—The weddingof Miss Lillian McNamara, of



i22	Now^bcnne^dKiarcie
The marriage of Miss Mary Wright Thorri-turgh, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Wright Thornburgh, to Michael J. King was solemnized a few days ago in St.' Anthony’s. Church, Okmulgee, Okla. “Mike”, was a student in Corby Hall 1916-17 and his many friends here join the Scholastic in extending hearty congratulations. ; '	’	’	. .
—Hon. Joseph Scott, .who has been near to the hearts of Notre Dame boy^ in recent years, is taking prominent public action in California as a. member of the League for the Preservation of American Independence. Students of the University are anxiously looking forward to the time when Mr. Scott will make his annual visit to Notre Dame.	-	•
—William A. Fox, supreme director of the Knights of Columbus, called upon the officers of the Notre Dame council and members of the faculty recently. Air.- Fox at present is making final arrangements with the leading Universities throughout the United States for the Knights of Columbus’ scholarships, fourteen of which have been given to Notre Dame.
—The October number of the Homiletic Monthly and Pastoral Review has as a leader an article, entitled “The Pastor and His People,” by the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., D. D., former president of Notre Dame. The , paper, which is the first of a series to be contributed to the periodical by Father Cavanaugh, will be an inspiration to any priest who reads it. We, who know Father Cavanaugh’s ability, hope that this series is. but the beginning of much similar work in the future.
—Brothers of Howard Fisher, student at the Univershy, in, Brownson, Hall, have recently given to St. Paul’s Catholic Church, of Norwalk, Ohio, a fund of $175,000 with which to build a new parochial school. The new structure will include a large gymnasium and auditorium and when completed will be one of the best equipped high schools in the state. The Fisher brothers, Fred,. Charles, William, Alfred, Lawrence, Edward; and Hdward, are the heads of the Fisher Body Corporatidn, Detroit, Midi;, the largest automobile-body manufacturing, concern in the world.-- .. : , - ; .1. ..
rights to something for their money. Stale jokes that failed to get a laugh from anybody and
—Rey. Dr. James Grattan Mythen, Epis- others sadly cheap and free betrayed,-poor copalministerofNorfolk,Va.,andone ofthe judgment’in selecting material for the enter-fofeniost; American Jrad^sifor'.I^	tainment of A: University audience.;	' . \
ence, was , strongly impressed..with.theNptre . The “Company’’inFitzsimmonsandCo. Dame spirit as recently mapifested during the attempted a negro dialect not very?,familiar.
visit of Eamon de Valera, President of the Irish Republic. In a letter to the President of the Notre Dame branch of the Friends of Irish Freedom, Dr. Mythen says: “ We had one of the most pleasant days of our trip. President De Valera so expressed himself, as also did Boland and Nunan. I need not say that I am of the same opinion. The greatest joy that we get in being in a great movement is to find young -men taking it up after us; Therein lies the success, ultimately, of the Irish cause.”
—Louis C. Reed (Litt. B-, ’00), winner of the Breen Oratorical medal in 1900, has been receiving much favorable comment by newspapers throughout the United States on his lectures pertaining to American trade in Australia. The Triad says of him: “His voice is mellifluous as a dream that sings and he believes in God strenuously. In so far as oratory is an art, he has mastered it absolutely. He does nothing that is the tiniest bit wrong. His gestures are restrained and delicately apt. His modulations are exquisite. And his humor is not in the least like the machine stuT we are accustomed to; it ripples out of him,—it is his own.”
—P. R. Conaghan.
Washington Hall Events.
The Vaudeville. -	.
The “Benefit Vaudeville” put on in Washington Hall Wednesday evening did not by any means come up to the expectations of the student audience. It presented some good acts, with several that were bad enough from every point of view. The mediocrity of the program was considerably relieved by the work of the University \ Quartet, the “Club Movements ’ ’ with illuminated semiphores, by Granfield’s company, the Jazz Band of Charlie Davis, the ever-pleasing violin of Harry Denny, and the fat comedian, McCormick—-though the merit of the last was badly marred by one “joke” which could be repaired only by apology. The^greatei part of the performance revealed a lack of preparation and a disregard ofthe patrons’
123

The Minstrels at the end were, almost good byway of anti-climax, being very, badly blacked and otherwise unrecognizable as minstrels by anyone who has ever seen , and heard , a real “nigger.” The dance of Mr. Granfield was the one bright spot in a tedious performance. It is the opinion of everyone that the New England Club should since this second appearance abandon negro minstrelsy forthwith and devote their talent to something more possible of success.	.	’	.	.
' O’Keefe, Slaggertt, Musmaker, and Domke in the O-o-ola-la Quartet showed a professional ease and naturalness in. their work, which would have been still better appreciated if they had appeared in full-dress, instead of the familiar “campus togs.” Butterworth would have been more effective in his act if he had had a better foil. Howard and McCormick, recently of the Kieth Circuit, injured what in the opinion of many was the most meritorious performance of the evening by the introduction of some profanity and other lack of tone in both matter and' manner. Mr. George O’Connell failed to appear, preferring perhaps to delay his first appearance of the year to a more auspicious occasion.	.
We think, with ho disposition to criticise for " the mere sake of being critical and with no disposition to discourage in the least way any real talent, that if the college men of Notre Dame produce here or elsewhere vaudeville or any other kind of entertainment it should be of much higher class than the performance of Wednesday evening. "	—F;S.F. ’20.
♦ % - -
George Benson Hewetson, the noted author and lecturer, spoke to the college men in Washington Hall last Tuesday afternoon on “The Cathedrals of England.” The lecturer interpreted the spirit of the cathedral builders of the Middle Ages .and the maimer in which, they expressed themselves in the most enduring form. Illustrated with stereoptican views and made more interesting- by the specialized knowledge of Mr. Hewetson, the lecture was one of. the most enjoyable given here this .season. Mr. Hewetson,. who is a'frequent contributor to. the Ave Maria and other leading Catholic magazines, /is making a lecture tour of, the colleges. and . universities of this country...;: He is a convert tp Catholicity,. having been twenty-two years in the Episcopalian ministry prior, to his reception into the Church. .	A-"/;;.'7:
Concerning the Chaplain of the 333d Infantry.
. Many of our readers will be interested in the following extract from, a recent book entitled From, a Soldier's Heart by Harold Speakman, First Lieutenant in the 332nd Infantry of the. United States Army, of which regiment Father; Charles L. O’Donnell, C. S. C., was the chaplain:, A new Chaplain has come to our battalion from the French front. He is somewhat under average height and somewhat under thirty, erect though rather slight, with a serious, kindly face behind large, metal-rimmed glasses. It is a face 'of humility and strength and gentleness. Sometimes the Chaplain writes verse,, and I have prevailed upon him to give me a copy of one called “The Poet’s Bread,” which so well expresses the man who wrote it:	-*!
“Mora offers him her flashed light .	-
That he may slake his thirst'of soul, . .
. And for his hungry heart will Night . Her wondercloth of stars outroll.
“ However fortune goes or comes, He has his daily certain bread, . - ■ ' Taking the heaven’s starry crumbs -	■
And with a crust of sunset fed.”.	. -
As I sat in front of my tent last night under the blue dome of the Italian sky, two figures, one of them the Chaplain, paused nearby in the^darkness and I heard the voice of a young soldier rising and falling earnestly. “I have thought it over in my mind a lot of times since the War started,” said the voice, “and I can’t seem to get anywhere. Why should the human race go on and on? Why should men be born and suffef-and have sorrow, and then have children of their own who are bora and suffer and have sorrow? What right has anyone to have children?. Maybe some of. them wouldn’t want to be bora if they knew what they had to' go through.- At Chateau-Thierry, I saw—” The voice trembled and stopped, and then came the quiet voice of the Chaplain. “Yes, my lad,” he said, * I know. I have seen those things too.” .	.
The younger voice continued: “I asked some one about it and he said we must carry the race on because we are -built in God’s image. But that doesn’t help very much. I’ve- seen too many men smashed up. Why shouldn’t the human race stop? Why should we go on and on?”	.	.
Sitting there in the silence I sought to find an answer in my own mind for this lad whose nerves and faith had obviously been shattered at some heavy Now. - I thought of several solid,- material reasons, but even.as I thought of them I knew that they would not do.* It must be something more, something finer than that— but what? How could one appeal to faith when there wasn’t any? I sat* waiting almost breathlessly, for here was such a-problem as would tax the powers of a great teacher. -Fromthe north came the'intermittent thunder of big guns which seemed to challenge, “Why. do you gQ on—and on?” Their sound died away...
.At last the Chaplain’s voice broke the silence. “My.’ boy,” he said,“speaking -very emtstiy and simply, “I think it is meant for us to live into the future, sb that we can go on and op—rpraisint God:" ; ytT
i24	.	'SfieNow&fcomeadiokrecic
Even witbin the sound of the guns, he had refuted war, had denied its power. By ignoring it, he had stood forth and repudiated it in the strongest way! Praising God didn’t mean “praying,” but just living in his image, and carrying it on and on. If the lad had only lived through enough to understand!
Then after a moment of silence came a deep breath of relief and wonder from one of the group beyond the " tent—and I knew that the soldier had caught something of the Chaplain’s vision. They were both looking far above and beyond the battle.
And then I got away through the darkness as best I could, thankful for the war and the trenches and for life and death—and little children. And when I have a question of my own to answer, may the Chaplain be near at hand to answer it!	-
University Bulletin.
The next Scholastic will be done by the Seniors in Journalism.
Jan. 6—Rev. William Bolger, C. S. C., "Industrial Reconstruction.”
Jan. 20—Rev. Dr. James Burns, C. S. C., "Catholic Education.”	;
Feb. 3—Rev. Francis Wenninger, C. S. C., "Present Tendencies in Biology.”
Feb. 17—Rev. Dr. Leonard Carrico, C. S. C., "Knighthood.”	.	.
Mar. 2—Rev.’ William Lennartz, C. S. C., "The . Destruction of Habit.”
Mar. 16—Rev. Dr. Charles Miltner, C. S. C., "Our
Problem in Education.”
Mar. 30—Rev. Dr. George Finnigan, C. S. C., "Travels in Italy.” ,	-
April 13—Rev. Dr. Cornelius Hagerty, C. S. C., “Christian Chivalry.” - _	..
April 27—Mr. Earl Dickens, "Advertising Values.”
May 11—Rev. Dr. Matthew Walsh, C. S. C., "European Impressions.”
May 25—Senator Charles A. Hagerty, “ Law Making vs. Lobbying.” .	.
June 8—I$x-Senator Robert A. Proctor, “ Indiana Legislative Methods.”	.	-
Lost: In the parade Saturday night a beaver fur glove. Finder please return to J. E- Holden, 237 Badin Hall and receive reward. .
The Prefect of Discipline again requests that whistling and any other unnecessary noise be avoided in the Main Building. Students are also asked to avoid all forms of disorder at the entertainments in Washington Hall.
Section Three of the Chamber of Commerce, now meeting Tuesday evenings in the south room of the Library basement, are, after the examinations, to meet instead in the north room of the basement on Thursday evenings.
An illustrated lecture on “The Pearl Button Industry,” intended especially for Commerce students, will be given Sunday evening by Frank Molief and Philip VanXynt, students in the Commerce course.	.
The following excellent program of addresses for the meetings ofx the Knights of Columbus during the year has been arranged by Lecturer Alfred N. Slaggert:	>	. _
Oct. 21—Rev. Dr. Thomas Irving, C. S. C., "The
Prestige of the Educated-Man.” _
Oct. 28-—Rev. Joseph McGuire, C. S. C-, "Prophets and Profits.” •	•
Nov. 11—Prof. James Hines, "The Knights of Columbus as Educators.” '	. .
Nov. 25—Rev. Dr. Charles L. O’Donndl, C. S. C., . “Joyce Kilmer in France.” -	______.
Dec. 9—Prof. John M. Cooney, "Knights of Columbus and tiie Press.”	.
Local News.
—At the meeting of Section Three of the ~ Chamber of Commerce last Tuesday evening Paul H. Grinager spoke on the “Effect of Weather upon Business.” Mr. Grinager showed how many industries are affected by weather conditions. Morgan F. Sheedy delivered a paper on “What makes Pittsburg a Manufacturing City.” This section of the Chamber will meet bn Thursday evening of next week instead of on Tuesday evening as usual.
—At the second meeting of the Freshmen Class, held on Tuesday evening, a committee was appointed to make plans for a. Thanksgiving smoker, to be given on Tuesday, November 23, in Brownson “Rec” Hall. The following resolution was also adopted:	• "
Whereas: It has. pleased God, the Master of all, to call from an exemplary and devoted Ufe, the father of -our friend and classmate, Gerald Le Pine— ,
The members of the class of nineteen hundred and twenty three, of the University of Notre Dame,' in official meeting assembled, do resolve to express to the bereaved family their sentiment of deepest sympathy . ' - and promise their prayers for his repose.
__	Paul Castner, President.
. - _	:	• Arthur Garvey, Secretary. .
—The preliminary trials in the Breen Medal Contest in Oratory will be held within the first, week Qf- December. This contest offers both in the preliminariesandin the. final splendid opportunity fpr practice iii the art . of public speaking. Every student who wishes to become. . an effective speaker should take advantage of /
'	;	‘	"	'	. r -	-	_.*■	-
fcfie Nocre dameSdickwcic
125
this chance. The speeches are limited to fifteen hundred words/ All contestants should present their names to the Director of Studies or to Professor W. E. Farrell on or before November 22nd.
—Notre Dame is soon to be honored by a visit from Mrs. Ellen Ryan Jolly, of Pawtucket, Rhode Island, National Chairman of the Women’s Auxiliary of the Ancient Order of Hibernians. Mrs. Jolly is one of the leading women of the country in public affairs; she more than anyone else was instrumental in securing the Sisters’ Monument in Washington City, and she has been most fittingly chosen to dedicate on November 30th the markers to be erected at St. Mary’s in honor of Civil War nurses. She is the only woman who ever received the doctor’s degree from the University, having been honored with the honorary LL. D. in June, 1918.
—The collection taken up in the various halls at the dose of the mission for the purpose of providing flowers for the altar amounted to $73.87, contributed as follows: Sorin, $23.36;
.	. section of the C. E. A. In the organization of
Badin, $15.50; Corby, $14.56; Walsh, $10.25; the section Dr. Carey was chosen as chairman of Brownson, $10^20. Of this fund $61.25 was
spent for flowers and palms, purchased from two . of the floral shops in South Bend. The remainder, $12.62, was placed in the hands of Father O’Hara, Prefect of Religion, to be expended for artificial flowers. The response to this appeal was most creditable.
—There comes just,as this issue, is going to press a letter from Chester D. Freeze, Secretary
ofthe Notre Dame Club .of Chicago, in which Claude Pernin, of Loyola University, Chicago, -and Brother Benjamin, President of St. Xavier’s College, Louisville, Kentucky. It was resolved ■
he says:	,
I am enclosing herewith an invitation to the Thanksgiving Dancing Party to be given by the St. Mary’s-Notre Dame College Club of Chicago Tuesday evening, November the 25th,Th the Gold Room of the Congress Hotel, Chicago. Both the girls and the boys of the Club' here in Chicago would thoroughly appreciate it if you would put a generous notice in the Scholastic, so that the event may be’generally known.
While I am asking for favors, I wish you would also put a notice in the Scholastic announcing that qh the. 10th of December the Notre Dame Club of Chicago will hold, in the Elizabethan Room of the Congress Hotel, . their annual banquet, in honor of Father - Burns, at which we hope to have a larger attendance than at any , other Alumni banquet.
—A Spirited debate upon the question of government price-fixingand uninteresting talk
on Cardinal Newman composed the program for the weekly meeting of the Brownson Literary	..	..... -
and Debating Sodety last Thursday evening. -Colfax Bridge, a long’single was formed for the
-	X
Joseph Sullivan and Paul Breen, on the negative in the debate, were winners over Frank Gallagher	-
and Vincent Engels. Breen, a freshman speaking for his first time before the society, proved himself of varsity quality. He enjoys the distinction of having given three-minute war talks in the Hippodrome in New York City. The talk on Cardinal Newman, by Leo Ward, was the third of a series being given on standard Catholic authors at the weekly meetings of the society.	.	'
—Rev. Dr. Burns, President of. the University, and Rev. Dr. Carey, Professor of Latin and Greek, represented Notre Dame last week at the Conference on the Classics held in Chicago. This conference had been called by the Rt. Rev. Thomas J. Shahan, D. D., Rector of the Catholic University of America and President. General of the Catholic Educational Association, and ' Rev. Dr. Albert Fox, President of Loyola University, Chicago, and President of the College Conference of the Association, for the purpose of providing for the creation of a new
the Executive Committee, which is to prepare for the general conference of the teachers of classics to be ield in the coming Easter week, and Dr. R. J. Deferrari, of the Catholic University, as secretary. The other members of the committee are Rev. Thomas Plassmann, O. F. M., of St. Bonaventure’s.College, Alleghany, New York, Rev. E. S. Mooney, President of the Cathedral Latin School, Cleveland, Ohio, Rev.
that the organization be . affiliated with the Catholic Educational Association, .with , the privilege of holding separate meetings. . The purpose of the organization is to. promote more -effectively the study of the dassics among, the Catholic students of the' country. -Bishop -Shahan and Dr. Deferrari spent a day at Notre Dame on their way back to Washington.. ?
—Shortly after supper on Saturday evening, November 8th, the.. Notre Dame Students fell into “columns of fours” in front of the post- . office, to. celebrate the most important football triumph ofthe year. The air was charged -with “pep,” as the column moved toward South ’ Bend. When the front of the column reached the .
J
126	'	Notre Game Schokrerk?
snake dance that followed, after which the entire column assembled in front of the Oliver Hotel. Alfred N. Slaggert, head cheer-leader then led cheers from the balcony. After reforming in column the ranks marched to Cartier field. There an immense bonfire, was lighted, more cheers were given, and brief speeches were made by Father Gregory, Father Gallagan, and others. The entire celebration was conducted in a most creditable manner by the Notre Dame Chamber of Commerce. On Sunday evening a representation of students, made up of twenty men from each hall and greatly augmented by day students, to the music of the Corby Subway Band marched down to meet the home-coming victors. The team arrived a few minutes after eleven o’clock, was hustled into automobiles provided by Messrs. Anderson and Hull, and followed to the Four Comers by the Notre Dame enthusiasts. Here a volley of cheers was delivered, and all returned to the University shortly after midnight.
—EDWARD W. GOULD.
Athletic Notes.
Notre Dame, 12: Army, 9.
“East met West, and West proved best” on the “Plains” at West Point last Saturday. Notre Dame, invading the East for the eleventh time, came away with her eighth victory. The Cadet eleven is rated this year, as it has been for a score of years, as one of the really great machines of the East. The long line of victories credited to invading Western teams should cause some comment. It is high time for the group of near-sighted, self-appointed “ fathers of football’ ’ in the East to be taking note of the fact that gridiron men of the West have long-ago equalled, and in numerous instances surpassed in skill the petted “big teams” of the Seaboard. The selections of national honorary elevens should ' in justice take more account of men from the West who are consistently trouncing Eastern teams on Eastern fields. But perhaps that is expecting tod much.	•, ■ /	.
Saturday’s game unmistakably re-branded the Notre Dame warriors as “The, Fighting Irish?’ They fought a long uphill battie against odds in weight and. in field conditions. .They faced the critical game of the season badly crippled by the . absence of Bergman/ who had twice helped mightily to vanquished the Cadets- J - ■ Thousands filled the limited stapd space and . hundreds stood at the fence, cheering, in several
■	■	' '	-	-	_ - V
instances impartially, the most sensational game played on.the “Plains” in years. The Academy Staff and the cohort of Cadets filled the west stand, and on the east side of the gridiron three thousand fans from the four comers of foot-balldom gathered to witness the classic struggle. Seven hundred in the east stand wore the gold and blue and greeted every successful play with . the thunderous “ N. D. U. ” Of these, some were graduates, some had hoped to te, others are going to be, some were just friends, and many just friends of friends of Notre Dame. The solid west bank of the blue-gray Cadets entertained with cheers and song throughout the game, never failing to greet any good play on either side.
The play began promptly at three o’clock. All through the first and second periods the Cadets hammered the Irish line for substantial gains, . as the defensive bucked against breeze and clay to halt the soldier charge. The first quarter was featured by a punting duel, in which Degree, although kicking against the wind, had all the best of it. His kicking throughout the game was easily the best of his career. He punted nine times and despite the onrushing soldiers failed not once to get the ball away for some thirty-fiveor forty-five yards. McQuarrie and his backfield aids are credited as the greatest lineplunging set Rockne has sent his men against in years and as a result of their efforts the'nine- . to-hothing lead was piled up in the first half. The Irish “comeback” came slowly but surely toward the end of the first half, to the complete bewilderment of the Cadets. It was a revival of the “1913 forward-pass shower,” which this time, as in days of yore; turned the trick. Kirk, Bahan and Anderson took Gipp’s offerings with as much grace as sureness for gain after gain, ' and at the end of the first half the tide set westward. Rockne’s chat with his men between halves was sufficient inspiration to his “Irish,” and they returned to the fray for more deadly forward passing. Miller starred in running back kick-offs; Gipp fore ground the wings for long gains, the line had the “ Indian sign ” on the opposing forwards, arid every man put his man out perfectly; . The winning score went over in thethirdperiod. -The effort thenceforth was to -keep the /Army /from scoring again. Brandy n^vigated skillfully until/tile' whistle called the 1 game afidthe“Hodsiers” trotted from the field with.anomer pigskin 'trophy-./ '	' / ..
The Army captdin Won the toss and chose to ■ ।

127
'She Nocre fcimeSchoki&tic
J' -K ■ 7-
defend the. north goal. Captain Bahan’s men, 1' ? " . /	’	*	.
facing, a slight breeze, charged dowh the field Soldiers just as the, half was up. under. Gipp’s kick-off co the Army thirty-yard	.........
mark. Lystadt receiving the ball was downed in his tracks, and the great intersectional battle
. of the year was on. Far into the twelve minutes
of the first period the two elevens fought with little advantage to either side. Degree and McQuarrie, finding both lines impregnable, engaged? in a punting duel. In three exchanges Degree had a slight advantage, though kicking against a light breeze and often in the face of three or four of the Army forwards breaking through. Near the end of the period the Cadet warriors found their strength, and
Notre Dame’s ball, forty yards from the Army’s goal. Bahan ducked clear, received Gipp’s pass, began from their own thirty-five yard mark . and took it for fifteen yards. The tackle was
a phenomenal march. McQuarrie, Wilhide, and vicious and the Army was penalized fifteen Schabacker alternated in carrying the ball and more. There were ten yards to go. Barry
their low drives on “split-buck” formations made a hole at every attempt. They seemed irresistible and the lighter Notre Dame forwards, fighting every., inch of the way, looked helpless. Then of a sudden they held. < From the seven-yard marker the Soldiers-took four downs and the advantage of a penalty on the one-yard line. Three times they hit the N. D. line to be thrown back; the fourth effort was \ » I	-	-	'	. -
declared “over” by the referee, in spite of protest. The Cadets failed to kick the goal. They then kicked to the Irish, opening the second period. Failing to gain, the punting duel continued with two exchanges. Notre Dame made its first down on the Army forty-yard line, and then opened the aerial attack with two . passes that grounded. Gipp tried a drop-kick from the fifty-yard line, which fell short, and the Army took the ball on their own twenty-yard line. The “Irish” stopped them again, and Brandy caught the kick thirty-five yards from his goal. Passes went wild and Gipp punted again; Wilhide receiving, carried the ball to mid-field. The Army line, crushers earned it to our twenty-six , yard .mark where- they were halted. McQuarrie sent the ball squarely between the bars from placement at. a bad ? angle, totaling nine points for the day. “The
fighting Irish” talked it over, and the opening of play saw the end of the Cadet supremacy. '
. Running the kick-off to our thirty-three yard line, Brandy opened his three-star aerial act, in which Bahan, Kirk, and Anderson featured^ with Gipp directing. Five forwards, mixed with two end skirmishes. brought the ball to the. end of the enemy’s one-yard line. Gipp tucked
the ball under his arm and waded, through the ,	.	... J* The go al
failed leaving the score, Notre Dame, 6; Army 9. Miller,'wlio replaced Slackfdrd at full at the beginning of the second half, reopened the Irish attack with his spectacular thirty-five yard run when he received the kick-off on his five-yard line. Notre Damesmashed through the weakening Army line for two first downs, Miller leading
the attack. Slippery underfooting spoiled the attempts at the forward pass, and Degree punted from mid-field to Dodd, who fumbled the ball after a twenty-yard, return. It was
replaced Captain Bahan for the remainder of the period. The desperate Cadets blocked the passes and held against line plunges. Taking the ball on downs, the Army kicked out of danger, but the Gold and Blue, not to be denied, began another forty-yard march. Passes by Gipp to Kirk and Anderson took the ball within inches of the goal line again. Miller crashed through the Cadet center for a touchdown that settled the game. Notre Dame 12, Army 9.	.	-
Miller again received the kick-off and carried it twenty yards before he was stopped. Line attacks resulted in a first down, and Degree kicked deep into Army territory. Notre Dame’s, line w-s beginning, to fight very effectively and stopped easily everything: that came its way. The Army was forced to kick just as the quarter ended, with Notre Dame, 12, and the Army, 9.
Captain Bahan and acting-Captain McQuarrie returned to the-fray at the beginning of 'the last quarter. The Cadet line held stubbornly, and Degree kicked forty yards' to Wilhide, who fumbled as he was tackled. Hartley Anderson claimed the ball, and Notre Dame starfedfor another touchdown. 1 The ball was carried to the Army’s ten-yard line and there lost on downs. The Soldiers fried’ to, carry tfieTiafl,; hut failed; McQuarrie kicked, and Degree? punted in tum. With only a, few minutes left, the Irish 1 were playing safe, and keeping the ball but of drop-kick territory. McQuarrie frit; the line . time and again in futile attempts to get the ball into the scoringdistrirt^ buttlie IrishTine knew itself to he as good, as itsoppdnents’and held against, ey^	wenttoNotre
Dame on a punt, whereuppn Degree, for >the /

128
Moure dome Scholastic
ninth time, safely booted the oval into the Army lines. The Cadets tried and tried the Notre Dame line for gains with nothing but failure. Another exchange of kicks gained them nothing. The last resort was a forward pass, but as the Army opened up, time was called. In the meantime Brandy had intercepted the attempt. The final score stood, Notre Dame, 12, Army, 9.
Army		Notre Dame
Kieffer	-	‘	L E	Kirk
Daniel	L T	Coughlin
Vogel	L G	H. Anderson
Greene	C	' Madigan
Herrick	R G	■ Smith
Travis	R T	,	Degree
White	R E	E. Anderson
Wilhide	Q B	Brandy
Schabacker	L H B	Gipp
McQuarrie	RHB	Bahan
Lystad	F B	Slackford
Score by periods:—		
Army 				1 Ox I 0
Notre Dame___
6
-O
Substitutions: Anny: (Capt.) George for Kieffer; Byers for White; Breidster for Herrick; Dodd for McQuarrie; Gregory for Lystad; Notre Dame— Barry for Bahan; Bahan for Barry; Miller for Slackford. Touchdowns: McQuarrie, Gipp and Miller. Time of periods 12 minutes. Referee—Andrews, Yale. Umpire—Tyler, Princeton. Head, Linesman—Cochems, Wisconsin.
—E- M. STARRETT.
field goal was kicked from the 35-yaM line by Castner, who has accomplished a similar feat in every game so far this season. Coughlin in the backfield, and Parker, Degree, and Capt. Larsen of the line played a wonderful game. Voss, Kane, and Conley did good work as substitutes. So far this season, the Freshman team has “ done itself proud,” having amassed a' total of 103 points against 6 by opponents. With two more dates open, the football teams of the Elgin Athletic Club and the Fort Wayne Tops are being considered as possible opponents. _
■ *** • ' •
■ Carroll-Elkkart Game.
' The undefeated eleven of Carroll Hall defeated Elkhart High at Elkhart last Sunday by a score of 12 to 6. The game, a dose one, was won by Foran, who intercepted a forward pass in the last few minutes of play. -	'
Brownson-Mishawaka.
To make last Saturday an all-Notre Dame day, the Brownson Hallers trimmed the football team of the Mishawaka High School by a score of 35 to o. Five touchdowns, two kicked goals, and a field-goal gave the local boys their points. The game was featured by the work of Thatcher, Smith, and Hamilton. ..
. Cross Country Race Today.
After the second quarter of today’s Varsity game with M. A. C^ the cross-country men will
pluck and luck, held Corby’s future champions - start their handicap race. The five runners who “to a scoreless tie last Sunday afternoon in the
finish -first are to receive prizes donated by South Bend merchants. If a sufficient number of men make a good showing, a team of seven will represent Notre Dame either in the Indiana meet at Crawfordsville bn Dec. 6th, or in the Conference meet at Columbus, Ohio, on Nov. 22nd, and possibly in both. The race this afternoon is over a distance of five miles, beginning and ending on Cartier Field.
_ Freshman, 23; M. A. C. Freshmen, o.
Coach Miller’s peerless Freshman team triumphed over the Michigan Aggie yearlings last Saturday aftemoon by a score of 23-0. Had not the interest of the spectators been diverted by the West Point contest, the game would have been appreciated as the scrappy, interesting .contest it really, was. - -	_
“ s^Three touchdowns, two kicked goals, and a - field goal gave the men of ’23 their score. The
Sorin-Corby.
The peppery Sorinites, by a combination of
most hard-fought contest of the. interhall season. Sharpe was injured in the first quarter, Fiske in the second, and minus these two stars Corby was unable to score. On one occasion . when the Corby .team had the ball on Sorin’s five-yard line, they made an illegal substitution which cost them a “forty-yard penalty and a probable touchdown^ The game was featured by the dever defensive work of Miles for Sorin, -and all-around stellar playing on the part of Kaub, Bliebemecht, Desch, and Atchinson..
This game leaves Corby still, with a percentage of 1000, and as every other, hall team has lost at least one game, it practically clinches the championship for Father Haggerty’s " Flying Dutchmen.” Corby’s game with Walsh, which was indefinitely- postponed at the beginning of ■ the season, may be played off on Sunday, the 23rd of November.. . ~	c	<
—m. j. Tierney.
the Moure Same Scholastic Advertisements
Yellow Taxi Cab and Transfer Co. Main Office, Cor. Mich, and Colfax Ave. BELL 514 HOME 55>5
CAB AND BAGGAGE SERVICE
One or two passengers, - - - $1.00 Each additional passenger, - - -	.50
Special trip for Baggage, - - - - $1.00 Each additional Trunk, - - - - .50 Suit Case, - -.................... .25
The Oliver Hotel
European Ran
BEST IN THE WEST
300 Rooms	Fireproof
THIS HOTEL OPERATES PERFECTLY APPOINTED ' CAFES
CIGAR AND NEWS STAND BILLARD HALL BAKE SHOP BARBER SHOP
HAIR DRESSING AND MANICURING PARLORS
CARS FOR ALL OCCASIONS , 7-passenger cars for parties, touring, etc.
RATES REASONABLE
SELF SERVICE DINING ROOM OPEN DAY AND NIGHT Waiter service after 9 o’clock P. M. if desired.
- mi* ar____ ___w
MAX ADUR CO. SOUTH UHD. DD.
A uditorium Hotel
CHICAGO
On the comer d Michigan Boulevard and Congress Street, in the theatre and business center.
' Special attention, shown students and alumni of Notre Dame.
JOHN J. CALVEY, Manager
Che Hotpe e>ame Scholastic AWerGisemenCs
No. 126	c
. t <	• '	. 4	:
The First National Bank
South Bend,Indiana
.	: (Oliver Hotel Building)
Capital, $ 105,000 Surplus and Profit, $ 145 ;000
A. L. HUBBARD, President.
J. M. STUDEBAKER, JR., Vice-Prest.
C. L. ZIGLER, Cashier. -	-
C. J. WHITMER, Ass’t Cashier.
- ; SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES FOR :	RENT AT REASONABLE
PRICES
Wb Issub FOREIGN EXCHANGE at Lowest
Market Rates and Letters of CREDrT Payable Throughout the World .
Try Our Traveler’s Cheques
। K"'~» TOitTllt* ■	~	>
1 Mechanics Tools - t - Draughtmap’s Tools . ; 'kJ JZE i V/niM ;
’ G. E. Meyer & Spn...
-	Hardware Merchants
,	.	_	•	•	-	\ A• I*	»»	s
’	'	F
i 115 - 117. West Jefferson Boulevard j s	(Opposite Poetoffice)	1
■ Fine Cutlery	South Bend, Ind. j
4—- - - -—■ ■	- ■ .ri. - ————-;
4 , . • - . * • . - •
The Dome
Official Portrait. Photographer
McDonald
z	-
211 South Main St , - « a „ i 4 on.PMtoMc«	South Band, Ind.
§
I
a

Foot Ball "Goods
BALLS, GOALS, GUARDS, PADS, SHOES, ETC.
In addition cf course—;
• ’ Spalding EqmpmenCfdr eoerii
:.	qther Athl?tic-$^
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
A.Q SPALDING & BROS.
y.	<■.	'i-.:
211 STATE STREET, CHICAGO
Schuler, Kllngel & Co
'Wholeaale Fruit* and Produce
Ideal
Three Wnections^.a weeldl

i
i'
I
I f j
I i
;; 1 i
Si « a ,-g if 2 a 5
r Silk Faculty Gowns and Hoods. ; ' Lowest Prices. Best Workmanship. ; Gowns for Judiciary, Pulpit and Choir
—... , -a Cox -S|ns & Vining
7, Madpoo Arc. New York - ■
CAPSH4ND GO\WtiS
112-14 W. Jefferson Blvd. . South Bend, Ind. '