Vol. XX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA,* OCTOBER 2, 1886.	. No. 5.
A Builder’s Lesson.*
“ How shall I a habit break?”
As you did that habit make.
As you gathered, you must lose;
As you yielded, now refuse.
Thread by thread, the strands we twist Till they bind us neck and wrist: Thread by thread, the patient hand Must untwine ere free we stand.
As we builded, stone by stone, ’ We must toil unhelped, alone, Till the wall is overthrown.
But remember, as we try, Lighter every test goes by; Wading in, the stream grows deep Toward the centre’s downward sweep; Backward turn, each step ashore Shallower is than that before.
Ah, the precious years we waste Levelling what we raised in haste; Doing what must be undone Ere content or love be won!
First across the gulf we cast Kite-borne threads, till lines are passed, And habit builds the bridge at last!
The Nebular Hypothesis.
One of the most ingenious and interesting theories —and, withal, the most probable—accounting for the peculiar motions and various properties of the heavenly bodies, as known to us, is the Nebular Hypothesis. This theory is one which has encountered every test devised by the most skilled scientists, and stands to-day unshaken; strengthened by opposition and confirmed by every new discovery in Astronomical science. \	-
.In explaining this theory, let us take merely bur solar system, consisting of the sun, planets and
* From In Bohemia : A Collection of Poems by John Boyle. O’Reilly'. . Boston: -The Pilot Publishing Co., 597 Washington St ;	. .	.	;
comets. The hypothesis holds, first, that the system was once in a gaseous state, widely diffused through space; second, that this gaseous, or nebular matter,-condensing, collected together into a slowly rotating body, more dense than before, but still volatile; rotation and attraction necessarily giving the mass the shape of a very oblate or flattened spheroid; third, that as this mass condensed, the rate of rotation was- accelerated, until centrifugal force overcame attraction, when an immense ring was detached, which continued to revolve at the same speed as when thrown off. Other zones were similarly detached, until the mass consisted .'of a series of concentric rings revolving about a more dense central body. These zones would naturally break up, and if the velocities of the parts were slightly unequal, they would ultimately collect into a single planetary, but still gaseous mass, having a rotation upon its axis. The satellites of the. several planets would be formed by a further condensation of the planetary masses in a manner the same as the planet itself. The axial rotation, however, of the planets might be in either direction, but the revolution of satellites in their orbits would necessarily be in the same direction as the rotation of their primary.
It was proposed to test the hypothesis in the following manner: according to the theory^ the time of revolution of a planet in its orbit should be equal to the time of rotation of the entire nebular mass at the time when the planet was detached; • and the periodic time of a satellite should similarly be equal to the time of revolution of its primary when the former was thrown off. It has been computed .that if the solar mass be increased until its surface touches each of the planets, its time of ..revolution ■ would equal very nearly their periodic time;? and the same has been found true in the case of the satellites. .	.	! ,
This fact is one which, perhaps, of all. others, leads us to conclude that the Nebular Hypothesis is a correct one; for difficult, indeed, would it be to ‘ otherwise account for • these strange movements^, which, it seems, could be caused in no other manner. ’	~	’ .7 -'	/-
The plaiisibility of the.-theory is evident from
74
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the following facts: (i) all planets revolve in the same direction, and nearly in the same plane—from West to East; (2) the sun rotates on its axis in the same direction; (3) all the major planets (so far as known) rotate on their axes in the same direction as they revolve around the sun, though Uranus and Neptune may have a retrograde motion; (4) the satellites revolve in their orbits (as far as known) in the same direction as their primaries rotate upon their axes; (5) the orbits of the planets have small eccentricity; (6) the planets increase in density as they are found nearer the sun; and (7) the spectroscope shows a similarity of composition between the sun and planets.
Can all this be produced by chance? Do not the facts stated serve as sufficient proof of the correctness of the theory?
The planet Saturn affords an example of the rings not collecting into a single mass or satellite, and the zone of asteroids between Mars and Jupiter affords an instance of the ring breaking into small fragments continuing independent of each other.
Comets may be accounted for either as detached portions of the original nebula, or objects encountered by the sun in his journey through space, and so acted upon by the attraction of the sun and planets as to become permanent members of our system. Their orbits are characterized by great eccentricity and every imaginable inclination to the ecliptic.
In treating the present subject, it seems unnecessary to speak of the motion of our sun through space. It would lead to an uncalled-for complication, which it is my object to avoid, though the subject is an interesting one when considered in applying the Nebular Hypothesis to the Milky-Way.
What I have already said is sufficient to explain the hypothesis as applied to our solar system. But why not go further? We conclude that the stars we see around us are suns; suns similar to our own, and having, probably, their own planets as has ours; suns in which, by the aid of the spectroscope, we discover elements well known to us on the earth; and amid the glorious suns and systems around us can we conceive our little system—a mere atom of the magnificent whole—an exception? We are governed by the same power as they; nor can we consistently consider each star a separate and independent creation for- a different purpose; neither is it reasonable to conclude that worlds so superior to ours were made to please the eye of man.
What, I ask, is more reasonable than to suppose our system is a mere infinitesimal element of a grand and connected whole?
Here we come to the beautiful and plausible theory which supposes the dense band of stars encircling the heavens, and known to us by the name of the “ Galaxy,” or “ Milky-Way,” to be composed of concentric rings of stars. .
Science, however, enlightens us but little on this subject. Sir Wm. Herschel attempted to penetrate the starry Galaxy with his powerful telescope, and failed; the greater the magnifying power he used,
the greater the number of stars revealed, until the theory he had himself put forward lost all foundation, and he gave up the hopeless task in despair.
The Milky-Way, according to the theory we propose to discuss, is composed of a series of rings, concentric, and all in nearly the same plane. This is a very plausible theory; the separation or division of the belt is explained by the rings not being exactly in the same plane; it also supposes that our solar system is in the southern part of the series. Of course, as we cannot ascertain the extent of the Galaxy, it is impossible to estimate the number of rings composing it; it is, however, sufficient for the present purpose to state that nearly all the stars we see are members of the Milky-Way.
The application of the Nebular Hypothesis to the Galaxy is very simple: we merely suppose that not only our comparatively insignificant system once existed in the form of vapor or nebula, but that all matter composing this gigantic zone, of which our solar system is a part, at one time existed, connected in the same state.
Further than this would fancy lead us. Even to the minute so-called “Ring Nebula” of Lyra, which the most powerful glass shows only as two rings, with a maximum diameter of about an inch, might we compare our galaxy and show our comparison to be not unreasonable. But it is not my intention to proceed farther. We have reached the boundary of the infinite, and farther ’twere presumption to go. But a strange and striking similarity appears to exist between the universe and the smallest particle of matter; both seem composed of comparatively infinitesimal particles created by the same all-powerful Hand,governed by the same inflexible laws; beginning in God, existing through God, and ending in God. The beginning, existence, and end shrouded each in the most profound and solemn mystery.	J.
Commerce.
Commerce is defined as the exchange of commodifies between individuals or nations. It owes its rise to the necessity of exchanging the surplus of our commodities for those we stand in need of. The desire of wealth has always been the most constant and the most influential incentive to human exertion; and the possession of it, both with nations and individuals, has proved to be the synonym of power in all achievements, whether of peace or war. Gold and silver, being the most palpable evidences of wealth, and its most convenient forms, to possess them in abundance has been an object of universal ambition in all ages. Hence the various methods by which their acquisition might be assured, have been subjects of close investigation by economists, statesmen, and business men.
There was a time, perhaps, when every man ministered to his own wants; and there are yet parts of the world where the inhabitants have little or-no social intercourse. Under such circumstances, commerce could scarcely exist. Before the rise of

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
75
commerce the only kind of intercourse that nations held with each other was aggressive. There were but two sources of national wealth: one was the cultivation of the land, the other invasion or pillage. Military expeditions were organized on a vast scale for no other purpose than that of despoiling rich states, which were either weaker than the aggressors or not prepared for self-defence. We read in history that Cyrus led the Persians to the conquest of the rich provinces of Asia for the express purpose of plunder, and distributed his treasures and spoils among his generals and most daring soldiers. The ancient Romans had no commerce. They were continually at war to procure wealth, slaves, and territory.
An end was put to this state of the world by the influences which commerce exercised. It converted jealous and hostile nations into civilized and amicable communities, and displaced the atrocities of war, by the industries and the arts of peace.
The earliest authentic date assigned to the rise of commerce is about 1000 B. C. At this time the Phoenicians occupied a narrow strip of land on the Mediterranean Sea. They were an ingenious race, remarkable for intellectual activity and industry in the arts and sciences, whereby they acquired great wealth. Their proximity to the sea disposed them to maritime adventure, and they became skilful sailors. Their commercial expeditions extended to the British Isles, India, and other distant countries. In that age of the world there was no real safety for accumulated wealth and treasures; their owners were compelled to protect them by the powei' of arms. But for more than 800 years the Phoenicians defended themselves against the surrounding barbarians, whose chief delight was in invasion and pillage. At last they fell under the repeated attacks of their enemies, and they carried their wealth, their arts and industries to other nations. But all these nations met a common fate—that of becoming a prey to Rome, which at that period ’ ruled the world. Butthe treasures which Rome had gathered by the plunder of all countries, did not prove to them, or any other nation, a source of wealth, as they were consumed in protecting herself against the barbarians, and in appeasing the supposed wants of bad and incompetent rulers.
With the superiority of Rome over all nations the career of ancient commerce terminated. Then for more than a century commerce was at a standr still throughout the Roman empire, which at that time embraced the whole of the known world. It was again revived by the crusades, a time when Europe was again indebted to foreign commerce for her prosperity and wealth. The invention of the mariner’s compass, in 1302, gave a fresh impetus to maritime adventure. The Portuguese were the first to avail themselves of this great aid to navigation and to push out from the shores of the great and then unknown ocean. They made numerous discoveries, and in a short time became skilled and trustworthy sailors. But the most important maritime adventure that had ever yet been conceived, and which was destined to exert a greater influence over the world than any other of ancient or
modern times, was the discovery of America by Columbus, in 1492. After this great event, numerous other discoveries in the New World were made by the different European powers. One of the great consequences resulting from these events was an immense addition to the amount of gold and silver taken from the rich mines of this country, whereby the value of commerce underwent a material change. The trade of the world was led into new currents, and the different countries of the Old World became centres of wealth and commerce. Of modern commercial nations England occupies the first place. Her proud title of “Mistress of the Seas ” has been well earned by the energy with which she has carried her arms and arts into almost all the regions of the globe. But she has, at various times, used great violence in extorting commercial treaties, when she has failed to obtain them by fair and amicable means. The commerce of the United States began with the separation of the colonies from England, and has since then rapidly developed.
Commerce gives life and value to both production and consumption. But for it, production would be limited to the extent required for the bare subsistence of the people. Consumption would likewise be limited, since each country would have nothing to consume beyond the supply for immediate wants. It stimulates every branch of enterprise, learning, and usefulness; encourages individual efforts of ingenuity, industry and skill, and affects the entire community in its prosperity or downfall. Without commerce we would become isolated from foreign countries, lose the benefits of their manufactures, arts and sciences; we would be burdened with the surplus of our own produce and manufactured goods, and finally become impoverished, both as a nation and as individuals, and soon sink and die. History furnishes a sad picture of those nations and races of men who have restricted themselves to a single occupation—as of hunting or fishing, or even of agriculture. In our own times, commerce has set in motion those immense tides of emigration, which have transplanted the excess of population in the countries of Europe to the boundless and fertile fields of America, brightening the destiny of millions of our race, and essentially banishing want and famine from our own beautiful country. With one hand it has joined the navigation of European waters with that of the Indian Ocean, by way of the Suez Canal, while with the other it has brought the countless populations of Asia into contact with the influence of modern thought and the improvements of modern science. There are, in reality, few great achievements of modern enterprise that do not owe their conception to the incitements of commerce.
Among those who are engaged in the engrossing cares of commercial life may be numbered some of our wisest, best and most wealthy citizens; but it is a sad fact that in no other calling is the proportion of failures to successes so great as in that of trade—the mercantile profession. Statistics show us that only three out of every hundred mer
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
chants are successful, all the others becoming bankrupt or retiring in disgust. Why is this? Is it in every case because they are overwhelmed by sudden disaster, which no sagacity or foresight could have warded off? Is it because they are dishonest, and after long; over-reaching- others are finally over-reached themselves? Is it because they become slaves to the pernicious habits of gambling or drinking and, of course, finally lose all? Is it because after meeting with partial success they expect greater, and with this hope of future gain live above their means? No; these causes are only the result of something more radical, namely, that they have gone into business without business brains.
The young man who contemplates entering upon the broad field of commercial life should not be discouraged at these failures. If he has a natural talent for business and a good stock of business brains, he should not hesitate to engage in any legitimate trade, for there is no business in America to-day which will not yield a fair profit if the young man possesses these requisites, and gives to that business his unremitting and exclusive attention. Every business will have its season of depression; years when mills and stores must be run, not for profit, but sometimes at a loss, that the organization and men maybe kept together and employed; and if it be a manufacturing firm, that it may keep its products on. the market. But, on the other hand, every legitimate business producing or dealing in any article which man requires, is bound in time to be fairly profitable, if properly conducted.
Never before in the world’s history was competition in every business pursuit so active as now; never did success in more than a moderate degree demand for its attainments such a union of physical and intellectual abilities as in the latter part of the 19th century. The days when a man could get rich by plodding on without enterprise and without taxing his brains have gone by. Mere industry and economy are not enough; there must be intelligence and original thought; originality in every aim and.method. All branches of business . are filled with keen and sharp-witted men whose fertile minds are always discovering new ways of buying cheaply, underselling, or attracting custom; and the man who. persists in sticking to the old-fashioned methods, who runs along in' the same old perpetual rut, will soon find himself outstripped in the race.
E. Dwyer.
Cola di Rienzi.
The removal of the Papal See to Avignon,in the early part of the fourteenth century, left Rome a prey to contending factions of nobles whose houses were fortified castles and whose armed, dependants kept the city in constant turmoil. The people, without a leader, found ho redress from violence and license; as a consequence, they became a demoralized rabble. The sight, of these , public woes, however, stirred up the indignation-ofone man; Nicolas, or,
as he is commonly called, Cola di Rienzi. He had been well educated, was well acquainted with the history of ancient Rome, and was filled with an ardent admiration of the glories of that city. To such a degree did his enthusiastic admiration of the ancient institutions of the city and bis patriotism carry him that he conceived the idea of raising the city to its former greatness and splendor. In order to do this he made it his study to conciliate both the nobles and the people, which he found to be the work of years.
When Clement VI was raised to the See of St. Peter, Rienzi was one of the deputation sent to Avignon to request the return of the Pope to Rome. While on this mission, he displayed such eloquence as to charm all who heard him, and though the Pope did not accede to the desire of the deputation, he was so delighted with the young orator as to desire to hear him daily. Rienzi, finding that the Pope would not return to Rome, now began in earnest his work. He made it his study to keep the nobles in ignorance of his real plans, while, at the same time, he organized the.people. In order, however, to allay the suspicions of the Colonnas and other great families, he had to submit to many and great indignities. To use his own words, he “ made himself a simpleton and a stage player, and was by turns serious or silljq cunning, earnest, and timid, as the occasion required.” During the day he occupied himself with his duties as a notary, and was as the rest of the Romans; the night was spent in fiery harangue, or other works on the Aventine, with his audience of Roman citizens. The day for striking the blow for freedom advanced. On the day succeeding Ash-Wednesday, 1347, he gave notice of his intentions by posting on the doors of San Giorgio in Velabro the scroll: “Ere long Rome will return to her good estate.” On the feast of the following Pentecost, after having attended thirty Masses of the Holy Ghost, Rienzi issued forth at ten o’clock, in complete armor, surrounded by twenty-five sworn associates and one hundred men-at-arms. He was accompanied by the Bishop of Orvieto, the Pope’s vicar in the city. Amid the shouting multitude of citizens he ascended the capitol and there proclaimed the good estate and read the laws to govern the city. These decreed that a guard should be established for the protection of the citizens and of the shipping and commerce of the city; that the rights of the nobles to keep strongholds within the walls should be abolished; that all places of defence should be delivered up to the delegates of the people;, that the poor should be assured of alms; and that the magistrates should administer justice according to law. Amid the acclamations of the people the laws were adopted, and Rienzi was declared the “ Tribune and Liberator of Rome.”
The nobles, though at first inclined to oppose Rienzi, were, by this sudden revolution, awed into submission, and all, even the haughty Stephen Col-..-orina, who had threatened to throw the tribune 1 from the window, were compelled to take the oath’ to;pbey the laws of the good'estate. The change' for the better in;the city was marked and great.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
n
The last of the tribunes realized all the hopes centred in him by the people. He brought peace to a city long distracted by petty broils; he compelled the nobles to remain in their castles and not to molest, the honest workman at his trade. By his efforts many other cities were induced to join Rome in forming the Republic of Italy. Embassies from several Christian sovereigns paid him deference, and Petrarch addressed him the ode, commencing “ Spirito gentile” in which he proclaimed the tribune as greater than Camillus or the Scipios.
But Rienzi, after having done a work worthy the praise of all men, allowed himself to be carried away by ambition, and thus he fell. His vanity was extreme. Instead of continuing the good work he had begun, and, by austerity of life, leading his people on in the way of happiness, he gave himself up to idle displays that caused his ruin. Though he had declared himself the tribune of the people, he aped the airs of royalty. He caused himself and his wife to be waited upon by lords and ladies of the court; he had himself dubbed a knight in St. John Lateran; he encircled his brow with seven crowns, and summoned the Emperor to appear before his tribunal. Not only this, hut, as if crazed by his vanity, he summoned all potentates, civil of ecclesiastical, who dared to contest the prerogative of Rome to elect the Emperor, to appear-in Rome the following Pentecost. In vain the Papal vicar attempted to interpose; his voice was silenced by the noise of trumpets and the shouts of the populace. .Cleaving the air with his sword in three different directions before the assembled multitude, Rienzi cried out at every stroke: “ This is mine! ”
But his splendid processions gradually palled upon the public taste; his arrogance and vanity brought upon him the hatred of the nobles, and the large expenditures from the public treasury to support his extravagance caused the populace to murmur. He had not so demeaned himself as to make his power ladling. The nobles joined together to accomplish his downfall, and with a large army appeared before the walls of the city. Rienzi attacked them, and, what was surprising, overcame them, and many of the noble families of the Colonna, Orsini, Savelli and others, perished in the fight. But this victory of Rienzi only delayed for awhile his downfall. His pride became more arrogant; in his conceit he imagined himself to be the greatest of monarchs, and in his fondness for display passed his time in idle pageantries. His enemies in the meantime were not idle; he was excommunicated by the Pope; the people openly broke forth in murmurs at his extravagance and their increasing taxes. The people he endeavored to conciliate by restricting his extravagance and dropping his most ostentatious titles, but without success; for the freebooting Count of Minorbino, having entered the citv and fortified one of the palaces of the Colonnas in defiance of Rienzi, the tribune called the armed citizens to his assistance, but met with.no response. Finding himself deserted by all, he sorrowfully resigned the power he had held,'and left Rome in a worse condition
than it was before his attempt to better it. In the • disguise of a monk he fled from Rome, and among the devout Franciscans in the fastnesses of the Apennines he spent two and a half years as a tertiary of the Order. Sent back afterwards to'Rome by the Pope, he entered as a Senator. But reverses had not changed his character. His vanity was still extreme, and his extortions caused the people to revolt against him. In vain did he attempt to soothe them, appearing before them with their banner in his hand. He was taken and led to the capitol stairs. There he attempted to address the people; but one. of his enemies, fearing the effects of his eloquence, ran his rapier through Rienzi’s body. His head was cut off, and his body subjected to many indignities. Thus perished one who, but for vanity, might have been one of earth’s greatest men. He did a work worthy the admiration of all ages, but by his vain pretentions and arrogant assumption of power he more than spoiled the good he had done, and has left a name unworthy of honor.
A Noble Three.
On a damp, foggy evening in the month of December, 1841, a man above the medium height, leaning on a staff, was wending his way along the principal street of one of the chief Continental cities. His steps were slow and tottering, his face almost hidden by the drooping rim of an old hat, and his hoary hair and beard hung down his bended shoulders and breast. Under his arm he carried an oblong package, wrapped in a handkerchief. The streams of light, the peals of laughter issuing from the crowded hotels and restaurants seemed to confuse him, and he hurried on, like one under the influence of some powerful stimulus, directing his course towards the Court of the Fountains.
Arrived there, the weary wanderer raised his head, and; seeing lights shining from every window in the neighborhood, took refuge under a shelter at the corner of the main street and a much frequented alley. Laying aside his staff, he opened his package, and drew out an old violin. His nervous fingers pinched the strings, and, having reduced them to harmonize, he placed the instrument on his left shoulder and began to play.
Half a dozen street Arabs arrested their steps to watch the performance; but the old man’s trembling fingers fell confusedly upon the strings^ro-ducingsuch discordant sounds that his little audience ran off, with their hands to their ears. A dog in the neighborhood began to howl most dismally, and the passers-by quickened their paces. Discouraged and sad, the man sat down on the sidewalk,- laid his instrument across his knees, and groaned but: “ O God! I can no longer play!” .
Just at this moment three young men were coming up the alley, humming a popular air, to which they had improvised the following absurd words:
“ When two students of the Conservatory Meet a student of the Conservatory, '	There are then three of the Conservatory; .
78	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
And all are charmed, ravished, well content to see Themselves away from the Conservatory.”
In their glee they did not at first notice the violinist. One struck against him; the second fell over him, knocking off his hat; while the third stood back in surprise on seeing a tall figure rise and step out into the light.
“ Beg your pardon, sir! I fear we have hurt you.” “No,” answered the old man, stooping down with difficulty to pick up his hat; but one of the young men anticipated him, and reached him the hat; while another, perceiving the violin, inquired: “Are you a musician, sir?”
“Formerly I was,” sighed the poor man, and two big tears slowly coursed down his furrowed cheeks. •
“ What is the matter, pray?—are you suffering? —can we aid vou?”
The old man looked at them a moment, and then, holding out his hat, said: “ Give me an alms,please. I can no longer earn my bread by playing; my fingers have become anchylotic. . . . My daughter is dying of consumption and want.”
The tone of grief with which this was said went to the hearts of the young men; they plunged their hands into their pockets, and drew out—alas! the first, ten cents; the second, twenty-five; and the third, a piece of—resin! Grand total, thirty-five cents! It was very little. They looked at one another, sadly.
“ Friends,” said Charles (the one who had addressed the old man), “he is a confrere; an attempt must be made to relieve him; brace up. Adolphe, take the violin and accompany Gustave, while I make the collection.”
No sooner said than done. Up went the coatcollars, and down came the hats over forehead and eyes.
“ Now do your best, boys,” continued Charles. “ Begin, Adolphe; first play a popular piece, to attract the people.”
Under the magnetic touch of the young virtuoso’s fingers the old violin sighed, wept, laughed, whispered, sang, prayed; it poured forth streams of enchanting notes, which gradually died away in the well-known “ Carnival of Venice.” Every window in the neighborhood was open and filled with heads; pedestrians forgot their errands; cars and vehicles were impeded by the crowd; shouts of enthusiastic applause were heard on all sides, and many a coin fell into the old man’s hat, which had been conspicuously placed in order to receive them.
After a brief cessation the young violinist executed a Point d' Orgue on the dominant, as a prelude.
“Now, Gustave!” said.Charles.
The young man addressed sang “ Come, Gentle Lady!” His fine tenor voice rang out with unwonted warmth, tone, and brilliancy. “Encore! encore!'1' cried the multitude, in an ecstasy of enthusiasm. And the collection increased as the crowd grew larger.
Elated with the success of his undertaking, Charles exclaimed; “ Now, boys, the trio of ‘ Wil
liam Tell,’ to conclude. Adolphe, old fellow, while accompanying us, don’t be suprised if ray barytone stumbles; help it on the best you can; you know it is only‘cheek’ that makes me attempt it at all. And you, Gustave, a few more such bursts of melody and the goal is won.”
The trio began. The old man, who up to this time had been motionless, as if the whole performance were only a dream to him, now arose, gazed around with flashing eyes, seized his staff, and beat the measure with the air of a master. The young men, fired with his enthusiasm, surpassed themselves. The people were electrified, and spared neither money nor praise. Silver fell in showers from the windows, leaped from every pocket, and Charles had all he could do to gather up what fell around the hat.
The concert being finished, the crowd dispersed, commenting on the very unusual event.
The youths now approached the old man, who was almost speechless with emotion.
“Your names,” he murmured, “in order that my daughter may mingle them with her prayers.”
“My name,” said the first, “is Faith.”
“ And mine,” added the second, “ is Hope.”
“ Mine,” said the third, at the same time laying the hat filled to the brim with money before the old man, “ is Charity.”
“Ah! gentlemen! gentlemen! permit me, at least, to tell you who it is that you have so generously assisted. My name is Chappner. I am an Alsa-cian. For ten years I was leader of the orchestra at Strasburg. There I had the honor of first presenting ‘William Tell.’ Alas! since I left my country misfortune and sickness have overtaken me. You have saved my life. With this money I can now return to Strasburg, where I am known, and where my daughter will be cared for. Her native air will restore her to health. Your rare talents, which you have so nobly employed in relieving a stranger’s distress, shall be blessed. You shall be great among the great.”
“Amen!” responded the three young men, and then, taking one another’s arm, they continued their walk.
Reader, if you are curious to know whether the prediction of the old man was verified, I can (at the cost of committing a grave indiscretion, however) reveal the world-renowned names of those three students of the Conservatory. The tenor was Gustave Roger; the violinist, Adolphe Hermann; the collector, Charles Gounod.—M. R., in the “Ave Maria!'
Scientific Notes.
—The first case of the admission of a woman to the French Academy of Sciences occurred on the 28th of June, when Sophie Kowlewska, Professor of Mathematics at the University of Stockholm, and daughter of the eminent paleontologist, was received as a member; . Admiral Jurien de la Graviere, President of the Academy, made her a graceful address of welcome, and she took her seat between General Fave and M. Chevreul.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	79
—At Savannah, Ga., the Catholic schools have become part of the public school system. They have the benefit of the public funds; their teachers are elected by the County Board of Education, but must be practical Catholics; Catholic text-books are used, and Catechism is taught without trenching upon the hours devoted lo study by regulations of the Board.	'	•
—The well-known oculist, Dr. Herman Cohn, of Breslau, objects strongly to the slate ordinarily used by school children, and proposes the use of white stone slabs. Dr. Steffan, in a recent number of the Monatsschriftfur Augenheilkwidc, shares Dr. Cohn’s objections to the slate, but recommends white-enameled tinned iron as the best material for writing tablets.
—A telegram of seventy-nine words, from Melbourne, Australia, arrived at London nine hours and seventeen minutes before it zvas sent, the message having been despatched at one o’clock in the afternoon and. reaching its destination at 17 minutes before three on the morning of the same day. If we calculate the difference of meridians, however, we will find that the message took twenty-three minutes in travelling the 13,398 miles between the two cities.	.
—Since his recent centenary celebration M. Chevreul has received hundreds of letters from all parts of the continent asking him for the secret of his strength, with minute inquiries as to what he eats and drinks, when he goes to bed and rises, how he exercises, and so on. To all these inquiries the old scientist replies, through the Paris press, that the secret of his long life consists of two words —“good health.” As to his sleeping hours he follows no rules, but goes to bed when tired and rises when refreshed; in the matter of diet his only peculiarity is that he never tasted wine and never ate fish; and as to recreation, the only kind he knows consists in a change of work.
—Considerable interest has been aroused in the scientific world in Rome by a gentleman named Giovanni Succi, who professes to have discovered a liquor, a small quantity of which will enable a man to fast for thirty days, or even two months at a time. He voluntarily submitted himself to the surveillance of a committee of vigilance at Milan, some members of which never left him during the thirty days and nights of his fast. He lately fasted fourteen days under watch of Forli; and one of the most singular* points to be observed is, that though he loses weight—the flesh taking a sort of mummified appearance, and the skin a reddish yellow tinge, while the pupils of the eyes are dilated— yet his muscular force does not seem to be diminished.
‘ College Gossip.
—The Chicago University, the free gift of Stephen A. Douglas, has closed its doors for want of an adequate pecuniary support.
—Mr. Robt. L. Crawford, of New York, a brother of the late Mrs. Cornelius Vanderbilt, has
founded a scholarship at Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn.	.
—An exchange says that every morning the aged president of William and Mary College, in Virginia, rings the college bell, and though no one responds, the college is open and still retains its charter.
—Senator Stanford has begun the preliminary preparations for his great university at Palo Alto, a landscape artist having been on the grounds for some time arranging the artistic features of the surroundings.
—The Pope is actively pursuing his project to found an important university at the Lateran Palace for advanced, scientific and literary studies on the part of the clergy. It will be called the University Leonine, and its director will be the Jesuit Cardinal Mazzella.
—The Union des Ecoles Catholiques of Paris maintains 193 schools, with 70,000 scholars; and last year spent 2,370,000 francs—or nearly $500,000—in their support. Since 1879, nearly sixteen millions of francs have been expended voluntarily by the Catholics in maintaining schools conducted by religious.
—The University of Heidelberg, established in 1386 by Pope Urban VI, celebrated recently the fifth centenary of its foundation. On that occasion his Holiness Pope Leo XIII presented*to the Grand Duke of Baden-Baden four magnificent volumes, containing the catalogues of the books and manuscripts which had been removed from Heidelberg to the Vatican Library under the pontificate of Gregory XV. The Holy Father, with that zeal for the progress of science and art which has been a distinguishing feature of his pontificate, and at the same time manifesting a truly royal courtesy, had given orders to push forward the work already begun of publishing these catalogues, with a view to add to the grandeur of the centenary celebration.—Ave Maria.
Floored ox Russian.
He had studied every lexicon from ancient Mede to Mexican,
Knew Assyrian, Sanscrit, Greek;
Knew the shape of sword and sandal of the Visigoth and V andal
And the old Etruscan features and physique.
He could write a song or sermon in old Celt or ancient German,	*	.
And sing Italian songs and roundelays,
Describe Tiglath-Pilezer, the herbivorous Neb’chad-nezzer,
And all. the Kings and Queens of olden days.
He knew Nimrod, Noah, Cyrus, and the monarchs of Epirus,
And gave scholarly descriptions of their deeds;
He could end an added splendor to the ancient witch of Endor,
And describe the early monarchs of the Swedes.
But when he turned to Russian, he reeled with the concussion	_	- ‘
Of a word that parched and paralyzed and stung, For Ivan-Adamowski-Shanki-Ranoff-Peter-Squoshkie -
Completely tied and tangled up his tongue.
.	—Tid-Bits., -
8o
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
wwrawiwc.
Notre Dame, October 2. 1886.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twentieth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All tire weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,	-
Old Students should take it.
Terms., Si.50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana. .
Our Staff
B. T. Becker,	D. G. Latshaw,
P. VD. Brownson.
—In our issue of last week we referred, in a genera! way, to the aim and scope of the Scholastic publication and the qualities which commend it to a large and varied class of readers. Now, we may be permitted to add a short word to one of the points mentioned. Though the Scholastic is essentially the paper of the students, for upon them it, to a great extent, depends for the instructive literary material and the interesting chronicle of events which enter into its composition each week, yet we expect and are always thankful to receive contributions from the honored members of the Faculty and from old students. All our writers will, therefore, understand that the columns of our paper are open to them to immortalize their essays, and record indelibly items concerning personal friends and local happenings; and as all have at heart the interests of Alma Mater, not the least of whose representatives before the public is the college paper, we feel assured that the Scholastic for ’86—’87 will not only maintain, but even surpass, the literary excellence which has thus far commended it to general favor.
—Until last year- it was comparatively unknown that among the unfortunate lepers of the Hawaiian Kingdom, segregated, at Molokai, dwelt a selfexiled priest whose life was devoted to the temporal' -and spiritual welfare of- those pitiable outcasts.. Now his fame is world-wide, and thousands of sympathizers in al most every civilized, country—people of all shades of religious belief and bf .no belief—are eager to have news of the apostle of the lepers;
the interest in him having been, intensified by the announcement made last November that he had fallen a victim to his admirable charity—had'himself become a leper.
It was the happy privilege of The Ave Maria to reveal to the world this shining example of saintlike devotion to suffering humanity—of charity stronger than death. The sketch published in its pages last year, and afterwards reprinted in bookform under the title “ The Lepers of Molokai,” has been read far and wide, translated into Polish and, we doubt not, other European languages; and there are few newspapers anywhere that have not made some reference to the self-sacrificing career of Father Damien. The writer of that beautiful sketch and the Editor of The Ave Maria must account it a blessing to be numbered among the friends of this saintly priest whose gratitude is touchingly expressed in a recent letter: “ We think of you and pray for you often,” he writes; “ and since the arrival of---our conversation has frequently been about Notre Dame, and its noble University. I now receive many letters of sympathy; my answer is to send a copy of the little book.”
We take pleasure in again calling the attention of the readers of the Scholastic to Mr. Stoddard’s charmingly written sketch. It is a tale of woe, but with it goes the record of a life that is an honor to Humanity and a new glory to Religion.
—The Department of Practical Mechanics is again alive with the hum of machinery and the sound of tools. The students of last year are encouraged by the improvements of the vacation .and their previous success. The old rotary engine which formerly supplied the motive power is replaced by the splendid new engine built by the Class of ’86; the lines of shafting have been extended, some emery wheels and polishers added; tools and materials collected from all quarters.
The programme for the coming year is an extensive one. Castings for engines of from two to ten horse-power have been ordered, some for the general class, some for individual members. Dynamos, also, of several kinds and of good dimensions will be constructed by the students, who will thus have a desirable variety of work.
Their occupation during the year will be such as to embrace every tool and machine met with in general shops. The intention of the instructors is to give neither exclusive job work nor exclusive class exercises, but such a combination as will prove both fascinating and instructive. Besides the more complicated mechanisms, which require great care and skill, there will be abundant piece work for beginners. They will be taught to forge many of their own tools—such as cold chisels, centre punches, hammers, callipers, etc., which maybe retained for private use during the year; they will make also as many of the lathe tools, drills, taps, dies, reamers, etc., as may be thought necessary for purposes, of instruction.
To1 the uninitiated it is incredible what a range of custom work is furnished.- The last year scores
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
81
an unmentionable list of articles to be made or repaired—bread-knives, buck-saws, meat axes, mowing machines, carpenters’, masons’ and shoemakers’ deranged traps, leaking pumps and engines, dilapidated printing presses and radical improvements; yankee inventions of infinite variety and complication. And so satisfactorily has the work been executed that the place is without competition and swarms continually with patrons. There is a perpetual procession from all directions. Little boys with knives to sharpen orbacksprings out of order; lock breakers with bunches of keys; others with clocks and watches to be all made over; another with a bedstead upon his shoulders; others to see what others do and to watch the wheels go round.
The man who can bear successfully a test of this kind is prepared for any undertaking. He is familiar with the working of every machine and tool in the shop, and can take care of them. He is accustomed to the several lathes and their appurtenances, likewise the drill press, planer, milling machine, the forge and bench, grinders and polishers, instruments for measuring and testing— everything necessary to make of him a complete, practical machinist.
He" has besides the opportunity of witnessing experiments in the dynamo room just adjacent, in the boiler room, and in the physical laboratory. Those who wish to pursue the subject farther have for study half a dozen boilers of different types and as many engines and pumps; they may also, if thought advisable, visit a number of manufacturing establishments for the same purpose.
No praise need be given of the quality of appliances in any of these departments; they are simply the latest improved and best in the market, and are as large as those of any institute of technology in the country. The workshops are open nearly the entire day, where students may spend all of their spare time. They have therefore every facility for acquiring both theoretical and practical knowledge—a kind of education which is at present • in great demand. There are plenty of good mechanics and plenty of good scholars, but the combination of the qualities of each is a rare and valuable accomplishment. '
Timely Topics.
It is now well-nigh a month since we have pad-died our canoe, or, mayhap, have, had it paddled for us by some anxious papa, off the tossing, dangerous billows of the outside world into the placid bay of college life. And most of us are, probably, satisfied to be there again. After ten months of more or less stern work at school, a rest at home is the proper thing; but you tire of the loafing and vagabondizing. After you have bowled the first few weeks down Time’s reverberating alley, the days begin to hang heavy on your hands, bud you realize what a,wretched mockery an idle, purposeless existence is. College life, with its pat hetic details of bold books and implacable discipline, may have been
a rather marked and. sudden contrast; but by this time we are broken in, and the interval between Commencement, when the breaking up of the scholastic year, like the felling of a forest, scattered us in all directions, and now, that we have settled again among the familiar old haunts, is appearing more and more like a dream. *
Some of the new arrivals have found out by this time that college life is not what their fancy painted it. Especially he of tender years and mildly “ tough ” proclivities, whose mind before “ goin’ to college ” had been haunted hv visions of hazino-, class-tights, surreptitious exits down water-spouts, poetic rendezvous, and desperate deeds of all dyes and hues, and who is now prosaically diggingaway at a tough grammar and tougher’rithmetic, has had time enough to make absolute his conclusions that he has been woefully mistaken. It is amusing to watch the genesis of one of that species of new arrivals. He comes in swaggering with his hat on one side, smokes and chews more than he can stand; talks knowingly of cock-fights and dogfights; in a word, is very anxious to let all concerned know what a blooded and high-spirited fellow he is. On the second day, after he has spent a dismal night in the dormitory, thinking of his mamma, he forgets to masquerade as a “blood”; and after that it is only a question of a few days till he has become thoroughly limp and lowly in spirit.	.
- * '
I am pleased to be able to chronicle the fact that our friend John is back. I did not recognize him till he accosted me, and then I was dumb under the transformation he hail undergone. Instead of the plain and demure Prince Albert of former years, he had donned an ultra-fashionable cut-away, . wore a high collar, a four-in-hand tie, yea!. had that superlative absurdity of dudism, the wrinkle, running down the front of his pantaloons. But I was still further astounded when he addressed .me with “ me chappie,” and interlarded a “don’t yer knaw ” three times in two sentences. Suspicions rose within me that he had had softening- of the brain and had blossomed, or rather degenerated, into a dude; and I asked him what, in the name of all that was mysterious, was the matter with him. He smiled very sweetly,and answered: “Nothing, my child. Don’t be alarmed. I’ve been out, that’s all.” “ What do you mean?” “Why, been out, ventured out in society. Been to the sea-side, don’t yer-knaw ? ” “ OI see—sided with the dudes,” I promptly punned. Quick as quicksilver John’s hand was under his coat, and “ clingr-’ling! ” it came from under it. That settled it. He was full-fledged, indeed. I wanted to interview him about different matters, but when I began, he blandly told me that he was not in a communicative mood, and, bowing urbanely, tripped away. I mention this trifling occurrence to prepare, the readers of? the Scholastic, for any change that may have taken place-in John’s way of looking at .things. Circumstances change men; John has been disporting himself among human butterflies for a season.
S2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The different societies are in full blast. The meetings for organizing purposes were very quiet and peaceful affairs. Everything was cut and dried for the occasion. No manipulation of wires, no scheming-. Dcooratias! Scheming and “offensive partizanship” were the great social crimes last year, and did great harm. We devoutly hope and pray that they will remain buried in the “innocuous desuetude” into which they have fallen.
It is a little too soon to venture an opinion on the relative merits of the two crews; but the indications are that they will give an exciting race. The boys have gone in for it with heart and soul, and are tugging and pulling and puffing away at a rate of speed to make old Time’s dry joints creak. At all events, the race is going to be in earnest. A generous rivalry is, for once, existing between the two crews, and there are no signs and portents in the air of any sordid desire on the part of anyone of the crews to “ jonah” the race, because they deem themselves hopelessly inferior. It is even rumored that the captains condescend to talk to each other when no one is looking. In public, however, as a matter of course, they ignore each other, or, at best smile disdainfully when they meet. It would be a too flagrant violation of a time-honored custom to do otherwise, you understand.
The “Duplex ” has reorganized, with the following staff of officers: President, B. T. Becker; VicePresident, NV. D. Lally; Secretary, C. A. Rhein-berger; Treasurer, G. O. Sullivan; Sergeant-at-Arms, P. E. Bui kc. The “ Duplex ” was organized two years ago by a number of Law students, and has been in a flourishing condition, ever since. Its membership is restricted to the Law Department. The “ Duplex” is a debating society, and convenes ever}- Thursday afternoon. The members are assigned, hit or miss, by the president to the defense and advocacy of any debatable question, without having had an opportunity to prepare for its discussion. The main benefit derived from controversies thus conducted is readiness in extempore speaking.
The newest disciplinary wrinkle, the smokingroom, or, as the sarcastically inclined call it, the “ smoke-house,” has evoked many a deep-mouthed growl from the lovers of the weed. Our friend John,- especially, wants somebody to understand, by the Great Horned Spoon, that he is mad through and through. He spoke to me about it, the day after my first interview with him. He said he had invested seven dollars in a hundred cigars, but that he could not extract seven cents’ worth of bliss out of the entire lot in the indiscriminate jumble of odors, conceivable or otherwise, that crowd in upon his high-bred nostrils, when half a hundred boys with clay and corn-cob pipes, cheroots, cigarettes, stogies, good, bad, very bad, and* indifferent cigars
respectively are puffing away like so many smokestacks.
So long for this time, boys! I intend to go on little tours of inspection every now and then, jot down, in as entertaining a way as possible, the happenings of various sorts worth making mention of, and I earnestly hope that the events of ’86-’87 will yield an abundant crop of favorable comment.
Bec.
Books and Pei-iodicals.
Pizarro.—A Drama in Five Acts. By Richard Brinsley Sheridan. Modified and Arranged for Male Characters only By Joseph A. Lyons, A. M., Notre Dame, Indiana: Joseph A. Lyons, Publisher. Special Limited Edition. Price, 50 cents.
This well-known play has received at the hands of the skilful adapter a new dress and has been made suitable for presentation in schools and colleges. Based upon stirring incidents connected with the invasion of Peru by the Spaniards, it presents a number of prominent characters, all of whom find splendid opportunities for elocutionary display and the exhibition of the results of careful training in voice and action. At the same time, the movement of the plot is such as to retain the interest of the audience to the end.
—The St. Nicholas for October is the last number oE the present volume, and contains the concluding chapters of “ Little Lord Fauntleroy,” Mrs. Burnett’s delightful and most successful story; of “George Washington,” Horace E. Scudder’s entertaining story of the life of our country’s greatest hero; of “The Kelp-gatherers,” J. T. T rowbridge’s popuh.r and realistic account of boy-life on the Maine coast; of “Nan’s Revolt,” Rose Lattimore Alling’s clever description of how four bright girls broke away from the slavery of fashion; and of “ Wonders of the Alphabet,” the interesting papers, by Henry Eckford, on a subject most of us know too well to know much about. A glance at the prospectus, however, will make it clear that it is not proposed to allow the magazine to fall oft' a whit in interest the coming year.- And the continued stories and articles just completed will be closely followed by the attractive features promised for the succeeding volume.
—We have received from Mr. Philip A. Nolan, 3828 Haverford St., Philadelphia, a valuable little book published by the C. T. A. Union. It is written by a German priest, Father Loison of Cologne, Germany, and translated by Father Maus, of Philadelphia Diocese. The book has received special commendation in Germany where it has done so much good that the Government has recommended its introduction into several of the schools. It is entitled “ A Meditation upon Whiskey,” and is addressed particularly to workingmen. Its arguments are so homely and so forcible, that the reader can hardly fail to become convinced of the terrible evils of intemperance, not only in Ger-.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
many, but also in his own country. The common errors concerning whiskey—such as its claim to sustain men working at very hard labor; its claim to act as a food for weak.persons; its claim to serve as a beneficial tonic for the stomach; its claim to aid digestion, etc., etc.—are shown to be false. The book should be circulated in every direction, and to effect that purpose, it will be sold at a price low enough to put it within the reach of everybody. Price, io cents a copy.
—In the ope ning article in The Popular Science Monthly for October, on “The Distribution of Wealth,” Mr. Charles S. Ashley discusses the conditions which favor the acquirement of great fortunes, and the effect of such accumulations on the public welfare. A valuable article on a topic that is of the day and relates to the economic interest of all readers, is given in Mr. E. L. Troues-sart’s “Microbes of Animal Diseases.” It is well illustrated. Mr. Charles Richet furnishes a curious “ Psychological Study of Fear.” Of another kind of interest are Mr. Holder’s observations on “ Some Peculiar Habits of the Cray-Fish.” In “ Le Play’s Studies in Social Phenomena,” Mr. A. G. Warner gives an account of the life and works of the French philosopher, who began the systematic collection and study of social facts, and of the movements for the study of social science which he provoked. In a paper on “ Universal Time,” Astronomer-Royal W. H. M. Christie, after reviewing what has been done in the adoption of uniform standards of time for the territories of different nations, presents the arguments in favor of fixing upon a single standard for the whole world. In the next article, Mr. Virgil G. Eaton sets before us the unhappy prospect of “A Bald and Toothless Future.” In “ Life on a Coral Island,” Professor W. K. Brooks gives a most entertaining account of his sojourn, on an errand of zoological observation, on the Bahama island Abaco. Mr. Harry Austin Doty tries to answer the question, “Are Black and White Colors?” Another article treats of “The Philosophy of Diet.” M. Albert Gaudry describes some of the “ German Paleontological Museums.” A biographical sketch and portrait are given of Gen. John Newton, engineer of the Hell-Gate excavations, and now Commissioner of Public Works for the city of New York. The subject of “ Fraud and its Victims,” and “The Recent Buffalo Meeting of the American Association” are treated in the “Editor’s Table.”
—Received:—In Bohemia. By John Boyle O’Reilly. We hope to present in our next issue an extended notice of these recent productions of this gifted poet.
Personal.
—Frank Clarke, of ’82, is practising Law at Columbus, Ohio.
—Alfred Brewster (Prep.), ’S3, i" conducting a hotel in Douglass, Wyoming.
—Charles Conner (Com’l), ’82, is travelling Agent for the Detroit Stove Works.
—William McEnery, of ’76, is Attorney and Counsellor at Law at Rock Island, Ill.
—Joseph V. Mukautz, of ’65, is conducting an extensive lumber trade at Manistee, Mich.
—Mr. and Mrs. Mayor Bates, of Denver, Col., paid a flying visit to the University during the week.
—Harry P. Dunne (Com’l), ’Si, is in the drug and chemical business with his father, Dr. Dunne, in New Orleans, La.
—F.W. Smiley, of ’77, is a prominent physician and surgeon of Chicago, and enjoys an extensive and successful practice.
—Henry Paschel (Com’l), ’85, has a responsible position in the office of the Iowa and Nebraska Insurance Co., at Omaha.
—Mr. Lew Parker, of Dubuque, Iowa, paid a visit to his friend, George Myers, of the Junior department, during the week.
—Air. and Mrs. D. J. Wile, of Laporte^ Ind., and Miss M. Blum, of New York, were welcome visitors to the College last week.
' —Hugh J. McConn (Com’l), ’86, and a member of last year’s Shorthand Class, is now stenographer for the large boot & shoe house of A. C. Adams, Burlington, Iowa, and is making himself useful as well as ornamental with his shorthand work.
—Mrs. T. Hutchinson, of Chicago, accompanied by her daughters Lizzie and Maggie, made a brief visit to the University on Tuesday. The Misses Hutchinson, who are bright and talented young ladies, are to be pupils at St. Alary’s Academy for the coming year.
—John W. Guthrie, ’84, of Carroll, Iowa, is connected with the Engineering Corps of the Wyoming Central R.R. 2111 his friends at-Notre Dame are pleased to hear that he is doing well. He has our thanks for a number of “ Personals,” and we commend his example to other “old boys.”
—Frank R. Johnson, whose fine soprano voice was well known and appreciated here in the musical entertainments of ’81, ’82 and ’83, is engaged in the.wholesale department of the large dry-goods house of Wm. R. Moore & Co., Memphis, Tenn. Frank says he intends to be here in June at the Commencement exercises.
—Mr. W. H. Johnston, ’85, teacher in the Scientific Department last year, has taken charge of the Microscopical Department of the Cleveland Medical College. Mr. Johnston is specially well fitted for the charge which he has assumed, and we are sure that he will give perfect satisfaction to those placed under his instruction.
—Among the visitors during the week were: Mr. and Airs. J. B. Fuller, Marysville, Cal.: Mrs. James O’Neill, [. D. Simms, New York; Mrs. E. and Miss Lillie Johnson, Memphis, Tenn.; Miss Eva Tibbetts .Plymouth, Ind.: Miss Nettie Capron, Evanston, III.; Mr. John Julian, El Paso, Texas; Mr. and Mrs. 2\.E. Carlier, and Miss Ida Cartier, Ludington, Mich.; the Misses L. and M. Hn*-' chinson, and Mr. S. D. Witkowsky, Chicago, Ill.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
— A little cool!
— Send in your “ Locals.”
—Overcoats are in demand.
—Now beginneth the apple season.-
— On dit there will be a bicycle race on the 13th.
—“ Class Honors ” will be published next week.
—The Juniors are all back with tail coats this year.	'	'	.
—“ Our box ” is in Father Maher’s office. You can’t miss it.
—Double roofs have been placed on the maison de boucherie.
—A reign of tear-er—the hail storm of last week. “ Cling-ling!” o o
—The Bulletins for September were made out during the week.	’
—The Scientific classes have a larger attendance than ever before.
—Mortar-boards will be the proper capers for the laws in a short time.
—Our friend John says the musical world is now in a list-X^ss condition.
—The barouche passed through the storm unscathed. More power to it!
—The genial secretaries of our reorganized societies need a little stirring up.
—A large number of Senior students attend the daily Mass in the College chapel.
• —It is in order, just at present, to attend to the ventilation of the Printing Office.
—The electric light has been introduced into the “gvmSf the “smoke house” and the bath rooms.
—A new composing stone was placed in the Printing Office last Monday. The typos are pleased.
•—New lamps have been placed in the crown and crescent of the statue, and the illumination is as brilliant as ever. •
—The devotions for the month of October, as prescribed by the Holy Father, were opened with great solemnity on Friday evening.
—“Our Staff” has been organized. It is few in numbers, but select. There is room, however, for.more when the conditions are fulfilled.
.—That short exhibition pull of the “Evangeline” was a beauty. Too bad there was no instantaneous camera ready to catch the “ crabs ” the two doughty oarsmen, caught;
.—Cement'walks have been laid in front of the steam-house and:around the artesian well. They’ are things of beauty, and, especiallv as regards the well, calculated to attract patrons. :
—Several good games of baseball and football were played recently, but our reporter was not “around,” and no kind correspondent.was at band; thus we liave failed to chronicle them. : .
,—Our active little gardener accomplished a
wonderful feat of surgery in repairing the aloes which had been wounded in the hail-storm. The stitches were skilfully and artistically applied.
—Preliminary meetings of the Temperance societies have been held during the week. New life and vigor seem to have been infused into these organizations, and they have every prospect of a brilliant future.
—It is stated that among the new improvements contemplated for the near future is the erection of a Natatorium. We doubt not that there are few who would not think it jolly to be able to take a swim “all the year round.”
—Judge Scully, of Chicago, has very kindly presented to the Law Department two interesting volumes, entitled “Remarkable Criminal Trials.” The Judge has the sincere thanks of the members of the department for his valued and timely gift.
—Our pressman did a good piece of work, a few days ago, by the aid of the new appliances in the Mechanical Department. Thanks to his skill, the proof-press in our composing room, which had been long out of order, is now in better condition than ever before.
—The man who is everlastingly playing “ Home, Sweet Home” on a cornet that has caught a bad cold ought to be arrested. There’s a time for all things, but at college the interval between September 6 and June 24 is not the time to play “Home, Sweet Home! ”
—Measurements were taken during the week in the various departments of the Printing Office preparatory to the introduction of the electric light. We hope to be able to chronicle in our next issue still further progress made by our skilful electricians. Speed the work!
—The officers of the Moot-court for the current year are as follows: Prof. William Hoynes, Judge; C. A. Rheinherger, Clerk; E. Burke, Deputy Clerk; B. T. Becker, Prosecuting Attorney; D. H. Sullivan, Assistant Prosecuting Attorney; A. Judie, Sheriff; A. S. Triplett, Deputy Sheriff.
—The Sorin Cadets rejoice to.be under the direction of the esteemed chaplain, the Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., and his gentlemanly assistant officers, Captains Cusack and Craig, and they manifest their pleasure by the interest which they take in the drills. Monday and Tuesday evenings are set apart for drill and practice in the manual-at-arms.
—We learn from our South Bend exchanges that the Superintendent of the Farm at Notre Dame carried off a prize, unique in its way, offered at the late St. Joseph County Fair. The prize was a splendid suit of -clothes—of more than ordinary proportions—“to anyone who could wear them.” They fitted our genial Farm Director “like de paper on de wall,” and he bore them off in triumph.
—The walls and vaulted ceilings of the extension to the new church have already begun to assume an attractive appearance, by reason of the artistic stucco-work which is now rapidly approaching completion. 'An elegant frame work is thus
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
assured for the magnificent series of paintings which our gifted maestro, Signor Gregori, contemplates beginning early next Spring.
—The music for St. Edward’s Day promises to be of a superior order of excellence. The vocal classes, Orchestra and Band are busy at work under the direction of Prof. Kindig. It is hoped, however, that the excellence of the musical portion will not overshadow the dramatic part. But our Elocutionists will have to work hard to make as good a showing as our musicians.
—The crews of the Boat Club, as organized for the race on St. Edward’s Day, are as follows:
Minnehaha: G. Craig, Captain and Stroke; H. Werst 5; F. McErlaine, 4; Don Latshaw, 3; J. Wagoner, 2; L. Bolton, 1; C. Stubbs, 1st Sub.; G. Crilly, 2d Sub Evangeline: C. Voorhees, Stroke; B. T. Becker, Captain and 5; A. Sproehnle, 4; C. Bowles, 3; A. Gordon, 2; Geo. Sullivan, 1; W. M. Bingham, 1st Sub.; A. S. Williams, 2d Sub.
—The Minims had the pleasure of a visit from Very Rev. Father General on Monday. Finding the first class busy at their Arithmetic, he gave them some of his own puzzling problems which would be too difficult for the new pupils if the Very Rev. examiner had not assisted them. The amiable visits and words of encouragement that the Minims so frequently receive from Very Rev. Father General have always the best effects. '
—The first championship game of baseball was played on the Seniors’ campus last Thursday. Owing to the coldness of the weather, the game was marked by rather loose fielding. The “ Blues ” won by bunching their hits in the third and fourth innings. Combe’s timely batting and his work behind the bat were very fine; while Cooper’s pitching and Cusack’s base running were features of o	__ **
the game. Following is the score by
Innings:—1 234567 Blues:—o 02512 *=10 Reds:—1 o o 0 0 o 0=1
—The Director of the Historical Department returns thanks to Mr. Wm. Hake, of Grand Rapids, Mich., for a History of Grand Rapids, and for a curious German work; to Rev. A. A. Lambing, LL. D., for photographs of the.Lambing family, copy of Pittsburgh Centennial Paper; to Sister Ambrose, of the Sisters of Providence, for the photograph of Sister M. Francis Xavier presented by her mother, Mme. Irma Fer de la Motte, to Rev. Father Corbe, an early missionary of the diocese of Vincennes; to a Friend fora portrait of General John Newton; to Mrs. P. Call, of Philadelphia, for a History of Scotland.
—At a meeting of the Senior Company of the Hoynes’ Light Guards held the evening of Sept. 21, the following officers were appointed: Captain, J. Cusack*; 1st Lieut., Geo. Crilly; 2d Lieut., A. S. Williams; Sergeant-Major, Geo. Craig; 1st Sergeant,W. A. Cartier. The remaining non-commissioned offices will be filled in a few weeks. L. Bolton was. elected Secretary, and Geo. Craig Treasurer of the Military Association. Prof. William Hoynes still continues to act as Colonel of the Light Guards, and Rev. M. J. Regan as Chaplain.
There are prospects of an excellent military organization in the University this year.
—The 1st regular meeting of the Minim Baseball Association was held Wednesday, Sept.' 28.	.
The following are the officers for the coming . session: Bro. Marcellinus, C. S. C., President;. Bro. Cajetan, C. S. C., Director; Jas. McIntosh, Treasurer; W. Martin, Secretary; A. Nester and J. Conners, Captains. The following were elected to membership: J. Dungan, A. Williamson, G. - -Franche, S. Backrack, L. Black, R. Clendenen, Jas. L Connors, E. Conners, L. Doss, W. Rowsey, J; Dempsey, L. Dempsey, R. Boyd, Aug. Morgenweek, J. O’Meara, J. O’Neill, C. McPhee, G. Sweet, W. Williamson, E. Foot, C. Boettcher, E. Cook, C. Koester, W. McDonnell, C. Dahler, Geo. Mayer, R. Munro.
—At a special meeting of the members of the , Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association, held September 29, in St. Edward’s Hall, theelection of offi-	.
cers took place with the following result: Rt. Rev. Joseph Dwenger, Bishop of Ft. Wayne, and Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior-General, Honorary Directors; Rev. President Walsh, Director; Rev. - , J. A. O’Connell, C. S. C., Promoter; Bro. Cajetan, C. S. C., General-Critic; James McIntosh, 1st VicePresident; Frederick Crotty, 2d Vice-President;. Robert Graham, Recording Secretary; Arthur Nester, Corresponding Secretary; Edward Jewett, Treasurer; Christopher Mooney, Librarian; Leo Riordan, Marshall; Albert Williamson, 1st Moui- . tor; Algernon Sullivan, 2d Monitor; James Con- , ners, 3d Monitor; Roy Boyd, 4th Monitor; Thos. . ■ Falvey, 1st Censor; Roderick Munro, 2d. Censor; William Martin, 3d Censor; Charles Koester, 4th Censor; William McDonnell, Sergeant-at-Arms; . Claud Boettcher, Charge d'affaires.	.
—Visit of Archbishop Riordan.—The great event of the week, and one which has been the source of much joy and pleasure to all at Notre Dame, has been the presence amongst us of the . Most Rev. Patrick W. Riordan, Archbishop, of . San Francisco, who arrived on Thursday evening, accompanied by his brother, the Rev. Daniel Rior- . dan, of Chicago, and the Rev. W. B. O’Connor, of	•
Stockton, Cal. The distinguished prelate is about . . to leave for Rome to pay his first visit adlimina . ', since his elevation to the Afchiepiscopal dignity, and he has kindljcprofited by the opportunity which his journey eastward afforded him of paying-a visit J. to his Alma Mater, under whose care three years ;	.
of his student life were passed away back in the fifties. Many changes have taken place since those ' early days, but that love which Notre Dame enter- -	~
tains for her sons-ever remains unchanged;land -especially is she proud and honored to receive the . -visit and proof of affection from one—like the be- ' W loved Archbishop, whose career has been-marked ; i ' with such distinction and crowned with such .honor. : ,; ' A formal reception on the part, of the students will : . be extended to .His Grace .this (Saturday) evening, 'h. . of which a report will appear in our next issue, when' ..	1
we shall take occasion to speak! more at length of A ; ; his most welcome visit..	. ;	,
86
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
L. Arado, G. Archambault, W. Akin, M. Akin, F. Ashton, T. Becerra, E. Britt, W. M. Bingham, Jno. Brown, P. E. Burke, C. W. Bowles^ F. Baca, H A. Barnes, E. Benner, C. Bush, E. Byrnes, ML Colina, S. Chaves, M. Crane, W. S.
' Castleman, G. Craig, J. Crowley, J. Cusack, G. Cartier, C. Combe, W. Cartier, G. Criliy, S. Craft, J. Cullen, W. H. Dorsey, S. W. Dorsey, J J. Dougherty, M. Dore, G. F. Deary, G. F. Dreever, D. E Dwyer, C. J. Eyanson, A. J. Eisenhauer, E. Egan, A. Finck, J. Ford, F. Fehr, J. S. Gallardo, C. Gallarneau, A. Gordon, J. Geisler, A. P. Gibbs, V. E. Green, G. A. Houck, F. B. Hinchman, E. Hiner, S. Hummer, C. A. T. Hagerty, E. A. Howard, J. A. Judie, F. Jewett, W. B. Jeffs, E. Jeffs, J. Kleiber, F. Kreutzer, J. M. Kelly, J- Ley, J. C. Langan, J. Lyons, H. B. Langan, G. Lais, A. Leonard, A. Larkin, W. Lally, D. Latshaw, H. Long, A. McGinley, L. A. Mohan, T. G. McDermott, G. D. Morrison, A. Major, F. E. McDonald, F. McErlain, P. A. Martineau, B. McAllister, J. McDermott, H. B. McKlveen, J. Murphy, R. McGinnis, G. W. Moffatt, M. Mulkern, J. O. Malley, V. E. Morrison, S. McSweeney, W. McNamara, J. Maher, L. E. Maher, G. Meyers, P. Newell, C. P. Neill, F. A. Neff, R. C. Newton, P. J. Nelson, C. Nancolas, D. F. . O’Connor, W. F. O’Rourke, T. Regan, J. V. O’Donnell.* Wm. O’Connell, V. Padilla, P. P Prudhomme, J. L. Prudhomme, E. C. Prudhomme, P. Paschel, T. M. P. Poole, F. Prichard, T. H. Pender, D. Quill, H. Rothert, R. Ramirez, F. Rodriguez, W. J. Rochford, F. Rielly, F. Suing. W. E. Sullivan, O- W. Sullivan, A. Sproehnle, G. H. Sullivan, C. J. Shields, C. Stubbs, F. Shannon, F. Smith, H. Smith, F. Soden, A. S. Triplett, B Taylor, Cl Voorhees, R. Val-asco, H. B. Vandercar, F. Weber, A. S. Williams, J. Wagoner, W. Williams, E. A. Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Adelsperger, W. Austin, A. Adams, Black, R. Bronson, H. Bronson, E. Blessington, E. Bodley, C. Badger, G. Brabrook, W. Boland, F. Baca, F. Benner, H. Boland, J. Burns, Bacigalupo, S. Campbell, E. Campbell, J. Clarke, B. Clarke, Cleveland, F. Carney, C Cavanaugh, W. Clifford, F. Cobbs, J. Cooney, F. Coad, L. Chute, F. Chute, W. Curtis, D. Cartier, G. Cooke, J; Cooke, A. Duffield, F. Duffield, L. Dunning, Decker, W. Devine, E. Ewing, S. Fitzharris, M. Falter, J. Flynn, F. Flynn, Flood, Fisher, T. Goebel, L. Hoffman, J. Henry, W. Henry, P. Houlihan, J. Hart, C. Hurd, T. Hake, A. Hake, E. Hannin, J. Hayes, J. Hampton, B. Inks, C. V. Inderrieden, R. Indtrrieden, H. Jewett, A. Joyce, N. Jacobs, Julien, E. Kerlin, F. Konzen, W. Konzen, F. Kellner, Kuin, A. Kutsche, J. Keating, Landenwich, M. Luther, F. Long, T. Mahon, D. McKen-dry, W; McKenzie, M. McCart, E. Mathewson, J. McMahon, W. McCormick, J. McGurk, J. McIntosh, L. Macatee, W. McPhee, McNulty, Moncada, Morrison, T. Noud, R. Nations, S. Nussbaum, M. O’Kane, B.O’Kane, J. O’Connor, J. Ormond, W. O’Brien, Oxnard, J. Pfau, L. Paquette, C. Paquette, L. Preston, Power, J. W. Quealy, H. Roper, C. Ramsey, A. Rudd, M. Reynolds, B. Stephens, P. Sweet, D. Stephens, N. Smith, F. Smith, C Senn, E. .Steele, C. Spencer, L. Smith, M. Smith. F. Taliaferro, D. Tewksbury, H. Vhay, W. Vandercar, J. Warner, F. Wilbanks, L. West, L. White, Wagoner, Weadly, Walker, C.West, Welch, Walsh.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	’
- W. Ackerman, F. Bloomhuff, C. Boettcher, R. Boyd, M. Blumenthal, A. Backrack, H. Backrack, S. Backrack, L. Black, R. Clendenin, A. Cohn, F. Crotty, W. Connor, C. Connor, E. Cook, J. Conners, E. Conners, L. Doss. Jas. -Dungan, J. Dungan, G. Dunford, J. Dempsey L. Dempsey, C. Dahler, E. Foote, T. Falvey, E. Falvey. G. Franche, C. Franche, C. Grant, E. Garber, O. Griffin,-R. Graham, O. Haney, E. Hillas, E. Jewett W. Kutsche, C.: Koester, P Keefe, J. Kain, T. Kerwin, M. Lowenstein, R. Lane, M. M. Lewin, J; McIntosh, S. McGuire, W. McDonnell, C. Mooney, H. Mooney, R. Munro, A. Mayer, G. Mayer, C. McPhee. A , Morgenweck, F. Mainzer, A. Nester, J. D. O’Mara, Jas. O’Neill, W. Prior, L. Paul, D: Quill, L. Riordan, W.Rowsey, F. Rogers, G.Sweet, F.'Smith, L. Stone, S.
. Steele, A. Sullivan, Fred Toolen, F Toolen, T. Tomkins, H. Tillenburg, B. Triplett, C. Taft, A. Williamson, W. Williamson, S.Witkowsky.	. .. .	.	..	.
* Omitted last week by mistake. ’
The Mother of Schools.
To hear some talk and boast, one would think that there were no schools for the free education of the people before the so-called Reformation.
Repeated slanders against the Catholic Church are often accepted as truth. Let us take a bird’s-eye view of the formation of schools and their progress. Before the establishment of the Catholic Church by her Divine Founder, Jesus Christ . . . . the education of the masses was contrary to the genius of- Paganism. The Church had this corrupt people to deal with. Her work was the instruction of the ignorant. It is the same now, and ever will be; yet she never tires. She taught, as she will ever teach, one God, one Faith, one Baptism. She astonished the world, and gave God His place in it as its Creator.
The secrets of ages, from which learning may lift the veil in the far distant future, will only add new proofs of the infallibility of her teaching, for her Spouse is the Creator and Lord of all things present, past and to come. God cannot contradict Himself, neither can she. In the very beginning of her reign on earth her children numbered among them some of the brightest lights the world has ever produced. They had, perhaps, among the pagans of their age, their equals in mental ability, but history gives prominence, for the good done the advancement of civilization, to the children of the Church. St. Justin, Clement, Alexandrinus, Tertullian, Origin, St. Jerome, St. Augustine and others, likewise, most illustrious and honored by the pagan world, attached more honor to themselves for being children of the Church than for the praise of the world. These are some of the children of the Church who lived and taught in the ages united to Apostolic times. The light which they shed upon the world in their times is sought after by the searcher for truth in our day, and what the Church did not condemn then it does not now, though the remains of these teachers have returned unto dust long over a thousand years ago. From about the beginning of the sixth century to the sixteenth, our non-Catholic brethren are accustomed to view as the age of the dominant reign of the Catholic Church in the world that has been. These so-called Dark Ages were filled with lamps whose well-trimmed wicks ever burned brightly and cast a continual flood of light wherever the ignorance of superstition did not build a rampart against it. At the beginning of these times, the schools which flourished during the Roman empire were almost all destroyed, and the only connecting link between the culture of the preceding ages and this epoch was the bishops and priests of the Catholic Church.
Surely, if the Catholic Church had desired the ignorance of the people she had the power in her own hands to keep them so. But this state of things was brought about against her will. What she had;been doing while this relapse into comparative barbarism was going on is evidence of the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
fact. The works of her children, mentioned above, previous to the sixth century tell us of her labor to prevent ignorance by the diffusion of knowledge. She saved what she could from the hands of the despoiler; and her cloisters of monks in the deserts, and where biding places could shield them from the fury of hell, were kept busy multiplying copies of the works in her keeping, so that, when permitted, she might bring back into the world the light of knowledge. The time came, and she established great schools in her monasteries: cathedral schools, where children were educated under the supervision and roof of their bishops for the ministry, and also parochial schools for the education of children, and these, too, were free. The increase of all these schools in proficiency and number was exceedingly rapid. In a short time fierce barbarians began to submit to the guidance of these teachers.
During the sixth century the Benedictine schools were established and they spread themselves over the Western Church to the number of thousands. There were no printing presses, bear in mind. Copies of all the works had to be made by hand, yet thousands were thus produced. Now hear Thomas a Kempis addressing those engagedin this work. He is directing those preparing to labor for the salvation of souls and the diffusion of knowledge: “When you are dead, those persons who read the volumes which were formerly written beautifully by you will then pray for you; and if he who giveth a cup of cold water shall not lose his reward, much more he who gives the living waters of wisdom shall not lose his recompense in heaven.” In every age during the thousand years before the revolt of the disobedient children of the sixteenth century, societies within the bosom of the Catholic Church were formed for the education of the people. The Catholic Church gave birth to the grand universities which sprang up and have reached to our times; but their efforts were paralyzed by the reformers. Oxford, in Catholic times, educated a thousand scholars annually free of charge. In the year 1300 this university had thirty thousand students.
Italy, France, Germany, Spain, England and Ireland were overspread with colleges and schools, and from these went forth men whose names will ever shine upon the pages of history for the benefit ever to be derived by the world from their labors in every branch of science and art. We have no space to mention these religious societies and orders. They still exist, and their work goes on, though the world, ungrateful, persecutes them with the shafts of lying ridicule. There are no men in the Catholic Church who teach disloyalty to governments, anarchy and confusion of society. But today amongst the children of the Catholic Church are found the grandest minds and the most profound scholars which grace our age; and towering among these is the mild Pontiff Leo XIII, the Vicar of Jesus Christ on earth, to whom the , mightiest of even Protestant powers bend in reconciliation and-stays- the hand raised against the Church.—51. 61. M.,	Catholic Columbian?
Saint TFlary’s Acabemy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Thanks are offered to Mr. Bubb, of Milwaukee, for a large and handsome velvet upholstered easy chair sent to the infirmary.
—In the parlor receptions of the week several young ladies merited mention for their graceful deportment, the members of the Graduating Class in particular.
—By a grave oversight, the name of Elizabeth Nester, of the Junior department, was omitted in the Catalogue in the list of honorable mentions. She would have been entitled to a crown -par excellence. had she been in the Institution for the requisite time.
—Visitors of the week are as follows: Rev. J. Queret, Galveston, Texas; Rev. Father Campion,. Logansport, Ind.; Mrs. Steele, of. Lancaster, and Mrs. J. Blaine, of Helena, Montana; Mrs. J.Nester, Marquette, Mich.; Mrs. Rose Devoto, Kauffman, Mrs. E. E. Balch, Omaha, Neb.; Mrs. H. A. Anderson, Boston, Mass.; Mrs. J. T. English, Miss FrancesPurcel, Columbus, Ohio; Mrs.M.E. Weimar, Mr. T. E. Healey, Mr. D. M. Katz, Mr. FI. W. Shephard, Mr. J. H. Shaw, Mrs. G. Koester, Mr. F. D. Kinsella, Mrs. Ritchie, Chicago; Mrs. Julius Groll, Miss Mary Groll, Battle Creek, Mich.; Mrs. Carmien, Goshen, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. J. G. Bates, Denver, Colorado; Mr. Joseph Ganser, Miss Cecilia Ganser, Mishawaka, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. T. M. Morrison, Westville, Ind.; Mrs. E. Johnson, Memphis, Tenn.	-
The Pearl of Great Price.
Affability of manner, though a charming trait, if it be not united with firmness of principle, is sure to mislead; for, by its very gracefulness,it is armed with a winning power to which even rare intellect and accomplishments cannot pretend. The gracious inclination, not to disturb the harmony of the hour, has, more than once, betrayed the kindly heart into the misfortune of being “ so civil, as to prove unjust”—the timid apprehension of giving displeasure to others involving concessions to grave errors, and making even those who’are regarded as upright accessory, by their silence, to evils of no small proportions.	•
Ardor of will, courage, generosity, a delicate consideration for the rights and the-happiness of others, are truly praiseworthy qualifications; yes, invaluable under certain.circumstances; but if an invincible purpose to uphold the right be wanting, they amount to very little. Without this priceless sense of justice, lively sensibility, readiness to plan and energy to execute, aye, even -the beautiful condescensions of heart-felt politeness may prove mischievous. They may be as unreliable, as the wayward course of the Autumn winds, or as the ebb and flow of the restless waters that chafe the
88
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
treacherous rocks and reefs around the Scilly Isles. Without sound judgment, bravery may serve us to-day, but to-morrow it may prove rash and foolhardy. .
Learning, compared with which pearls and diamonds are but worthless, shining dust; learning, that treasure for which earth’s noblest intellects have toiled, and to attain which they have spurned all sacrifices as trifling and insignificant; learning is hut the transient glitter of corroding tinsel, if healthful vigor of mind supplies not something more trustworthy, and infinitely above simple erudition.
Devoid of this steadfast devotion to truth—the foundation of all heroism, of all sanctity as well— piety itself, and even faith, are shorn of their beneficence; they are reduced to the level of superficial pretense; mawkish of sentimentality and hypocrisy.
In the very nature of things, society is composed of so many discordant elements that strength of character—that deep sincerity which beareth all things, hopeth all things and endureth all things —is now more than ever necessary. To the soul, it is what the ballast is to the ship; the weight to keep it.steady and secure against the impetuous gales 'of wayward enthusiasm, false appearances, perilous enticements, and worldly success.
Firm Christian principles are to the soul like the heart to the circulation, the first to suffer from a deleterious atmosphere; the first to respond to the invigorating influence of salutary surroundings. No careful warning can exclude the subtle miasma of error. Integrity of purpose, which avoids danger when to face it is not a duty, is the only safety. This purpose is the outgrowth of sound Christian principles. On the other hand, no faithful assiduity can be counted as excessive which has for its object the furnishing of an invigorating moral atmosphere.
That they give scope to the influence of virtue till the character be formed, till the. mind be strong, and the heart brave to resist temptation, is the glory of our beautiful Christian homes; the grandeur of our beloved convent schools. That early impressions are the most ineffaceable of our lives, no one will pretend to deny. Who, then, can lightly value, or regard with indifference, the surroundings of the youthful mind at the momentous period which is to make or mar the character for life?
Had we gained no other benefit in our academic course than the holy appreciation of the high rank that by right belongs to religion in the education of the immortal and superior part of our being, our struggles, our anxieties, our toils would be a thousand times repaid.
May time ratify our present confidence and prove that the corner-stone of our life’s career has been laid on a firm foundation! When the superstructure is finished, and a happy death—if that sovereign grace be granted us—has placed the radiant keystone of salvation in the solid arch of life, may the glory of. the work redound with tenfold benediction to our Alma Mater.which has so lovingly cherished us as her own!	.
.	. Elizabeth Carney (Class "‘86').
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Allnoch, E. Brady, L. Blaine, M. Blair, M. Barry, I. Bub, M. Bates, K. Brophy, R. Burke, A. Blacklock, A. Beschemang, W. Blakeslee, H. Clendenen, M. Clifford, F. Curtis, M. Curtis, M. Dillon,- A. Donnelly, A. Duffield, M. Duffield, E. Dart. H. Dempsey, C. Dempsey, B. Desenberg, E. Dunkin, M. Dunkin, P. Ewing, A. Egan, M. Fuller, E. Foin, G. Faxon, E. Flannery, C. Griffith, H. Guise, A. Gordon, K. Gavan, C. Griffin, E. Horn, M. Hummer, B. Heckard, F. Hertzog, L. Henke, E. Harlem, R. Henrichs, V. Henrichs, C Hodges, M. Kearsey, B. Kearney, E. Kearns, F. Kingsbury, A. Kennedy, E. Larkin, B. Lomax, J. Lingle, M. F. Murphy, J. McHale, H. Miner, A. Miner, L. Meehan, N. Meehan, M. Morse, M. Murphy, M. McNamara, C. McNamara, N. Marsh, G. McDonald, M. McCormick, F. Moore, H. Nester, M. Patrick, L. Pierson, C: Proby. G. Regan, A. Riedinger, M. Rend, H. Rose, E. Regan, C. Sculley, L. St. Clair, A. Shephard, B. Snowhook, G. Stadtler, C. .Shields, R. Sterns, R. Smith, M. Sherman, L. Simpson, L. Trask, C. Triplett, M. Thompson, L. Van Horn, L. Williams, G. Wolvin, G. Wynn, F. Wynn, G. Wehr, M. Wimmer, E. Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses J. Beaulien, E. Blaine, O. Boyer, L. Bragdon, L. Bruns, M. Campbell, C. Cook, A. Crane, E. Dempsey, E. Fritz, L. Griffith, H. Hake, F. Hinz, G. Hurd, M. Hunting, M. Kennedy, E. Kendall, O. Knauer, L. Koester, L. Leonard, M. Lindsey, M. Mason, A McDonnell, N. Morse, C. Prudhomn e, M. Paul, N. Quill, H. Rhodes, A. Schmauss, F. Steele, H. Stumer. 2d Tablet— Misses E. Balch, T. Balch, M. Coll, T. Haney, E. Nester.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses M. Becker, I. Becker, L. Cad-digan, B. McCormick, E. Qualey, A. O’Mara, J. Wallace.
Class Honors.
Graduating Class—Misses Horn, M. F. Murphy, G. Wolvin, Dillon, Kearney, Griffith, Kearsey, McHale, Sculley, L. St. Clair, A. Shephard, L. Williams, L. Clendenen, A. Donnelly, M. Fuller.
ist Senior Class—Misses Kearns, Hummer, H. Miner, Regan, Snowhook, Heckard, Trask, Brady.
2D Senior Class—Misses M. Dunkin, H. Dempsey, Blaine, Hertzog, Rend, Dart, Clifford, Gavan, Patrick, Rose, Stadtler, Ewing, Barry, Bub, Larkin, Van Horn, Blair, Henke, Riedinger, Coll, M. Smith.
3d Senior Class—Misses C. Dempsey, Egan, McDonald, McEwen, M. Duffield, Marsh, R. Smith, M. McCormick, Hodges, Thompson, Wynn, Proby, Desenberg, Kennedy, Murphy, Triplett, E. Dunkin, A. Miner, Lingle, Pierson, Sterns, Hinz, Hunting, Quill, Campeau, McDonnell, Stumer, L. Griffith, Schmauss. -
ist Preparatory Class—Misses T. Balch, Allnoch, Bruns, Lindsey, Blacklock, Curtis, C. McNamara, Sherman.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Beschemang, E. Zahm, Boyer, Kennedy, Mason, Paul, Steele, M. Coll, R. Henrichs.
J unior Prep.—Misses Simpson, Kendall.
ist Junior Class—Miss Campbell.
book-keeping.
ist Class—Misses E. Kearns, B. Snowhook, L. Blaine, G. Faxon, M. Morse, H. Guise.
2D Class—Misses I Bub, -R. Sterns, A. Kennedy, B. Desenberg, E. Coll.	■
3D Class—Misses N. Dempsey, C. Dempsey, J. Lingle, N. Larkin, M. Patrick, M. Murphy, L. Griffith, K. Shields, A. McDonnell, A. Blacklock, L. Henke, E. Regan, M. Thompson.
' type-writing and caligrapii.
Misses C. Griffith, A. Blacklock, M. Morse, M. Coll.
phonography.	.
ist Class—Miss Shields.	‘
2D Class—Misses E. Kearns, M. Rend.
3d Class—Misses K. Brophy, M. Patrick, C. Griffith, , G. Wolvin, Etta Flannery, M. Duffield, A. Kennedy, A. Riedinger, J. Lingle, R. Sterns. .