You Haven’t Bought Any Christmas Presents For Your Parents.
You Have No Time To Shop.
Your Parents Love Notre Dame.
You Never Write Home.
Your Prayers Have Been Answered.
Give Them:
Scholastic
Notre Dame's Weekly Student Magazine
Don’t have time to write home every week with Notre Dame news? Let us write home for you.
A year-long subscription is the perfect gift for any Irish fanatic.
Your subscription includes our annual football review issue, published in February 1992.
Please send years of Scholastic to:
Name:___________________________
A d d r ess:____________________
City:State:ZIP code:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager
Scholastic Magazine
303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
CONTENTS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
o m O
ro
Cb^ga||^^

ENTERTAINMENT 5 Master Thespians NEWS .
7	On My Honor...
9	Outspoken Student Departs CAMPUS LIFE
12	“Gimme a Break!”
14	You Don’t Need a Weatherman to Know Which Way the Wind is Blowin’
SPORTS
16	Keeping Athletes on the Ball
18	Cajun Spice and Everything Nice 20 National Champions : 1973
DEPARTMENTS
2
4
23
24
25
26
28
Editor’s Notes Opinion CampusWatch On Other Campuses Behavior Modification Week In Distortion Glancing Back Final Word
DECEMBER 12, 1991
1
EDITOR'S NOTES
On The Cover
Although a university is supposed to be a place of learning, the sports teams at Notre Dame usually get more attention than the classes. This week Scholastic tries to balance the scales by taking a look at academic issues at Notre Dame. Each section of the magazine examines a different aspect of education. (Out of legal considerations, I should mention here that our cover this week is a parody of the covers of “Cliffs Notes” study guides published by Cliffs Notes Inc., which retains ownership of its registered trademarks.)
This week’s Entertainment article goes backstage to take a look at the training that ND’s actors and actresses receive in the communications and theatre department News examines the honor code going up for review before the Academic Council. Campus Life surveys students for their best (and worst) study tips, and Sports presents die tutors who help Irish athletes with their studies. Finally, this week’s “Glancing Back” looks at the history of the study-holic’s second home, the library.
Missing Distractions
“Coming Distractions,” Scholastic’s weekly calendar of events, is absent from this issue, courtesy finals study weekend. It will return following Christmas break.
Coming Attractions
We’re already making plans for next year’s issues. Between Football review, campus elections and our 125th anniversary cel-ebradon, Scholastic’s second semester will be even busier than the first. As always, we invite you to contribute to the magazine by writing or phoning with story ideas, sending letters to die editor or joining the staff. To reach Scholastic, call 239-7569 or write 303 LaFortune.
Scholastic ispublished weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods al the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Mitford, IN 46542. The subscription rale is $25.00/yearand back issues are available al $1251 copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials sifted Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1991 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole ar in part without written permission is prohibited.
Attention Saint Mary’s Students
How can Scholastic better serve our readers across the road? Have we solved our distribution problems? Let us know what you think and what stories you’d like to see us cover. Don’tjust bother our Entertainment Editor, Saint Mary’s senior Liz Graner; Send us a letter or give the office a call.
Also in This Issue
While many articles in this issue have an academic focus, we’ve also got a few more stories to report:
In News, Assistant Editor Denisse Marion-Landais presents an exclusive look at Paul Peralez’s departure from Notre Dame. The controversial student left campus two weeks ago, but his story has yet to appear in any campus publication.
And if you’ve ever wondered about that funny smell in the air, you might want to flip over to the Campus Life section as writer Don Modica visits the local ethanol plant to find out the hows and whys behind South Bend’s fragrantatmospheric hangover. And in Sports, editor Jon Paul Potts previews the upcoming Sugar Bowl matchup. All this, plus the usual comics and columns.
On behalf of everyone at Scholastic, good luck with finals and merry Christmas! The magazine will return at the end of January with our annual football review issue. Until then, have a great break!

Ian Mitchell
Editor in Chief
Letters to Scholaslicmust be typed and include the writer's name,address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should in elude their department. All letters must be signed. Names trill be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves theright to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United Stales. Scholastic also will edit for copy fitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all Idlers received.
Kaul Perak .....using inst ments hurt and < without Paul Pe place. 1.:'^ (Buthisforcet sity;
'.. In a Scholast ; proposed disen TessorJackPral :be a place whei Tree and opei i Paul Peralez Dame and says -gives: Tear dfh:
, ^Students' inte Peralez asked .
• -,The reason thej We don’t agj •Butwedobelie arid djssemina’tt When studen .their minds bee; (Open debate”h;
• Intimidation: ofphysicalyiol humiliations-
g The Notre Dt (Ailthreeofthe ■ employedto dr (whichcalls itse > Students whe number of acti< derstandablysa
said,were frigi /.friends were afr;
administrators1 : harassment. />
ANotreDan •universitybecai : j We should al
The Editor Scholastic LaFortune Center Noire Dame, IN 46556
SCHOLASTIC
DECEMBER 12
OPINION
'clitUial
ez spouts radical'! extremist dpinions iltingandhostile language.Hisstate-jffendedmanystudents.NotreDame ralez will be a quieter, more peaceful
1 departure is a tragedy for the univer-
ic story last year covering the dwn-minatoryharassmentpolicy,lawpro-tsaid “A university above all should e there isfree and open debate.” : s t idebatedoesnotexist at Notre Dame, took a leave of absence from Notre that he will nofidumi. Thereason he arassment. T:: S Tybgiw !rviewedforthisweek’sarticleon Scholastic: to withhold their names. r gave: fear of hm
ree with most of-Peralez’s opinions,:, ye that he has a right to hold, discuss
tsatauniversityare afraidtospeak ause they fear reprisal, then “freeand
is W ugly thing; Jt can.involve threats ence.harassingphone callsorpublic
line “community” lias outdone itself: Wove tactics,a few more.Were iWl%ui:PeiW&
i disagrccd wi th Peralez engaged in a 3ns which, totailed together, he un-wasa vendetta againsthim. Students: hiPeralez,orati^ itbhed intos^
aidtobeseen with him. Through it all, feiled t&take-anyaction; tostop the
Dear Editor:
I was recently paging through your Dec. 5 issue when I stumbled upon something that really irritated me. It had to do with the cartoon section, specifically the top cartoon with the student in line at the dining hall.
I am infuriated that someone would have the nerve to poke fun at someone else who has acne. Do you the editor, by printing the cartoon, and the author of the cartoon feel you are physically perfect and therefore have the right to make fun of someone else’s physcial problems?
In case you did not know, bad acne like the kind depicted in Ihe cartoon, cannot be prevented. When I say bad acne, I don’t just mean a few pimples. You either have it or you don’t. It is just like any other physcial deformity, such as a big nose or diseases like retardation or Multiple Sclerosis, yet you would never think of making fun of those people. So why would you think of making fun of someone with acne? Just like handicapped people, those with acne do not choose to be that way.
Those with acne feel self-conscious as it is without “perfect” people as yourself and the author of the cartoon making fun of them. I should know. I had terrible acne and was on serious medication all through high school. It was one of the most terrible things any teenager should have to go through. ’ You don’t know how it hurts when people make fun of your physical appearance. Therefore I, and I am sure others, take personal offense at the cartoon.	.
It upsets me that Scholastic would have such poor taste in comics. Maybe you and the cartoonist should think how you would feel if you were the one with acne and others were making fun of you. You really should think about other people’s feelings before you ridicule them.
Chris Riley
Freshman Year of Studies
ip student has: been driven from asepfhispersonalbeliefs. ww i;bed&piyW^

!, 1991
3
__NEWS COMMENTARY___
CampusWatch
" BY THE GIPPER
Information, opinion, attitude and outright innuendo
Finals Finale
The Gipper knows the signs: the bookstore begins hawking No-Doz, students stake out choice seats on the library’s second floor to get the best view of the streakers, a midnight pancake breakfast feeds hungry studying students, every candle is lit at the Grotto and the wait to use a Mac at the computer labs approaches a decade in length. Yep, finals are upon us, so before you buckle down and break open the books, put on your official junior CampusWatcher cap and join the fun.
NCR on
Father Burtchaell
That other publication on campus reprinted the complete text of the National Catholic Reporter's Dec. 6 story on the sexual harassment accusations against Father James Burtchaell. But the Gipp would like to quote briefly from an “Inside NCR” column in the same issue written by editor Tom Fox: “Over the years we have seen an all too consistent pattern within the church in priest-sexual abuse cases. The tendency by church officials to rally around the offender, dismiss victims and, in some cases, hide information that leaves potential victims in the dark.
“Only when Notre Dame and the Holy Cross fathers go public about the Burtchaell case can a fuller assessment be made as to how
4
they have handled it.” The Gipper agrees, but as of Tuesday, anyway, he’d yet to see or hear one word from the administration concerning the case.
Sundae Surprise
According to the sign posted on the door, “Fudge ‘n’ Things,” the ice cream shop in the basement of LaFortune, will re-open as the “Gourmet Coffee Shop” in January. No word yet on where ND’s ice cream lovers will be able go to satisfy their munchies.
Richard Marx
Snubs the Gipper
The Gipp figures he’s just about the only soul on campus who didn’t get a touching personal note and a free cassette from Mr. Marx a few weeks back. Frankly, he’s a little hurt. But the Gipper also sincerely hopes that Richard Marx’s (Dick, to his friends) latest single “Keep Coming Back” will Just Stay Away.
Du Lac
Clause of the Week
The Academic Code: “14.1 A two-hour final examination must be given at the time and place stipulated in the official examination schedule. Any exceptions to this policy must be approved by the chairperson and
reviewed by the dean.” Yeah, right Don’t get him wrong; the Gipp isn’t complaining that some professors exempt from finals or assign papers instead of in-class tests, it’s just that this is yet another one of those convenient rules the university publishes, and then enforces only when it needs to.
S Note ■
football team:
Win another one for the Gipper!
Beat the Gators!
to the Gipper
All right, so it’s time for finals; That doesn’t change the fact that there’s a lot going on at Notre Dame that never makes it into print The Gipper can’t print unsubstantiated rumor, but he likes to hear it and send out Campus Watchers to investigate. Join the Campus Watch team by reporting on what you know about student/hall government, faculty , or administration happenings and decisions. To contact the Gipp, write 303 LaFortune, call 239-7569 or drop off a note at the Scholastic office. The Gipper knows all and reports much, but only with your continued help.	□
SCHOLASTIC
Behind the scenes with Communications and Theatre
_________ by Jason Winslade___________ Whether it is a mainstageproduction put on by the theatre department, a student-directed departmental production, a touring company or a dorm production, most students have been exposed to some form of theatre at Notre Dame, either voluntarily or as a class assignment Many students participate in these productions; on stage, backstage, with publicity or even as an usher. Although some students concentrate on aspects of theatre from a hobby perspective, some actually decide to take the plunge and become full-fledged theatre majors.
The required curriculum for the theatre major includes a general introductory course in theatre, a basic acting class, a
stagecraft class in most aspects of technical theatre, a seminar for majors involving the direction they plan to take after graduation and two history survey courses. Previously, majors were required to takeasimilar survey in drama, which dealt with the plays themselves. However, the teacher of that course, Frederic Syburg, has since retired, and the department is in the process of looking for a replacement.
Majors are also required to put in a certain	here, since acting and technical work on
amount of time backstage in departmental productions. This requirement, along with the stagecraft class, is what separates the theatre participator from the major. Working on the technical aspects creates a well-rounded theatre student, not only by exposing one to all the aspects of theatre, but by teaching technical skills essential for all who plan to work in professional theatre.
Senior theatre major Rachel Zutell feels that this process has enabled her to decide what she wanted to do in theatre. Although she looked at other schools with more pro-
fessional programs, Zutell was not ready to where the emphasis is on product.
devote herself entirely to acting, as the rigor
ousness of those types of programs usually require. Uncertain of what she wanted to do with theatre, she pursued her interests at Notre Dame. “I’ve since discovered that theatre was what I wanted to do,” she
The Department of Communications and Theatre consists of dedicated individuals such as these students, who performed “The Good Woman of Setzuan” last Spring
says. “I’m not sure where it’s going to go, but I know that whatever I do for the rest of my life,
it’s going to be in theatre.”
This unpressured atmosphere is usually what students find appealing about the the-. atre program at Notre Dame.. According to newly hired professional specialist, designer and technical director, Bruce Auerbach, community spirit plays a major role at Notre Dame, as opposed to other schools where the atmosphere is much more cutthroat He attributes this to the accessibility of theatre
shows is not limited to majors, and the emphasis on the learning process rather than the polished product. Although heputs pressure on his students to give them a taste of the professional world, he feels that learning is most important. “The theatre is our laboratory, and that’s where we do our experiments,” he says. “We do have the complete freedom to fail in our experiments, learn from them and go on to the next thing.” Auerbach feels that this freedom to fail is the main difference that sets apart academic theatre from professional theatre, and what separates Notre Dame from other programs,
“No one claims this is a professional conservatory,” says department chair and theatre historian Mark Pilkinton. He feels that the program can be | evaluated by | the work of its
graduates. Besides being placed in prestigious graduate schools for
masters and doctoral degrees in theatre, as well as MFA programs, majors who have decided not to enter the risky world of theatre have gone on to law schools, medical schools, business schools, and film schools. Besides theatre, Pilkinton oversees the film and media studies concentrations, the other departments that make up Communication and Theatre. Unlike many other department chairs, Pilkinton also has a larger responsibility to the Notre Dame Community and the
community at large in South Bend. The departmental mainstage season of productions usually draw good size crowds at the current Washington Hall facility, among students, faculty, family and other theatregoers in the South Bend community.
However, according to Pilkinton, the department’s first responsibility is to the students, rather than how, much money a certain production will raise. This emphasis is what usually decides which shows will be included in the mainstage season. In any four-year period, the department offers the student a wide range of experience, usually
DECEMBER 12, 1991
5
including a Shakespeare production, Greek tragedy and other earlier period plays, as well as traditional and non-traditional modem plays.
Washington Hall is the current facility for departmental productions. Built in 1881, Washington Hall was intended as a music performace facility. The first production, in 1882, was Oedipus Rex, which will incidentally be the first production in the fall of 1992, celebrating the sesquicentennial year. Its relatively intimate space makes the hall a very attractive venue. However, many problems abound with the theatre, such as lack of
s
Dr. Pilkinton is chair of Communications and Theatre
space and an inadequately located scene shop. Sets cannot be built in the shop and moved to the stage because of the lack of adequate space, slowing down production and stage rehearsal time considerably. Other problems, such as lack of parking, restrictions on working time because of the hall’s other use as a classroom and an inconsistent heating system make the advent of the new performing arts facility on the DeBartolo Quad even more eagerly awaited.
Tentatively scheduled for completion in 1995, the new facility will house both the Communication and Theatre department and the music department, currently residing in Crowley Hall. Manager of Washington Hall and dance instructer Tom Barkes believes the new facility will change the complexion of the performing arts on campus by focussing performances in one space.
6
Although the performance spaces, including one with a moveable thrust, will greatly improve upon the existing ones, providing much higher technical efficience, much more space is allocated for rehearsal and practice rooms. In addition, a television studio will be a part of the building, replacing the less than adequate space in the Loft at O’Shaugnessy. The location of the new facility, south of the new Hesburgh building, is also a key element “It will effectively become the front door to campus,” says Barkes. “The ability to draw an off-campus crowd will be greatly enhanced.” Not only will the building be an attraction for students interested in theatre, but its visibility and accessibility will be a much a greater draw for South Bend audiences.
The new facility will greatly improve on a growing program still in its infancy, according to Dr. Pilkinton, since in years past most of the program was concentrated over at O’Laughlin Theatre at Saint Mary’s, from which the Notre Dame Department recently separated itself. Re
g> cent improvements, such as the hiring of a
new design staff, including designer/tech-nical director Bruce Auerbach, costume and makeup designer Richard Donnelly and designer/ technical director Kevin Dreyer in his third year with the department. These professional specialists not only aid in creating more proficient productions, but also help the students by exposing them to the outside professional world of theatre. Dreyer and Auerbach often help students with internships and jobs related to their own professional careers. In addition, senior students taught by Dr. Reginald Bain, professor in acting and
^Budgeteer motorinn '
SINGLE
directing, are prepared to audition profession
ally and for graduate schools, particularly for URTA auditions, a national organization representing many high quality graduate schools and summer theatre festivals.
Despite having some of the disadvantages of a smaller, less pressured program, such as a limited casting pool, theatre students, on the whole, appreciate and enjoy the professional aid and the many opportunities afforded by Notre Dame, particularly through specific attention paid to the student. Senior Chris Murphy, although not a major, is highly involved with the department and hopes to pursue acting professionally. “I think there is much more talent here than people give credit, and the professors are always willing to assist the student,” says Chris. “I hope in the future people will becomemoreawareofthedepartment. They can put on some powerful productions.”Q
Jason Winslade is an off-campus senior Communications and Theatre major and a regular contributor to Scholastic.
1-80 at Exit 77 52825 US 33 N. South Bend, IN 272-9000
♦FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)
♦FREE LOCAL CALLS
♦LAUNDRY
PRIVATE IN ROOM SPAS
SCHOLASTIC
NEWS
fDome?
The purpose of the honor code is to let students know what behavior is expected of them and to prepare them for the “rear world—or is it?
by Caroline Clarke
rji he mention of the honor code at Notre A Dame elicits a myriad of responses.
Some students object to the idea of an honor code, claiming that it encourages “snitching” on others. Students believe that such informant behavior undermines the feeling of community on which Notre Dame prides itself. Other students claim it is useless as there is no official honor code in the real world. However, a large number of students remain unfamiliar with exactly what the honor code entails.
According to Father Oliver F. Williams, C.S.C., the honor code was instituted by the Academic Council four years ago. As associate provost for the past 15 years, he sees the code as an indispensible tool for education. “The code is not used to curtail a perceived dishonesty,” Williams stated. “It is an effective way to mirror the way the real world works. Students in the undergraduate program must learn how to make the right choices while they’re in college.”
Williams feels that the main problem with how students perceive the honor code is that it has the stigma of being an antagonistic “police” force. “People are on their own to complete tests and papers. Ultimately, it is up to them to choose to do the right thing,”
Williams added. He noted that the purpose of the code is not to expel students in violation from the university. Rather, it serves as a guidance for students. The code merely lets the students know what behavior is expected of them. Williams said penalties are not serious enough to mandate expulsion but function as a “wake-up call” to reality.
it is up to them to make the right
choices.”
The honor code was revised in 1991 to promote more fair and realisitic guidelines, and it will be reevaluated early in 1992.
To further promote impartial representation, there is a University Academic Code of Honor Committee with students, faculty and administrators. Jennifer Switzer, a student representative from Breen Phillips Hall and president of the senior class, stated that penalties range from serious to minor offenses. “If theoffenseis minor, you receivea failing grade on the project. If the committee feels that the student has committed a major offense, however, the student fails the course,”
5
a * 5sr-. w-
Switzer added.
It is only after a repeated offense that the dean determines to dismiss or suspend the student. According to the new code, readmission after an honor violation is at the discretion of the academic dean. The committee is comprised of faculty, administration and students in order to be as fair as possible.
The administration hopes to fully integrate moral education with the intellectual education students receive in the classroom. The code is used as a threat against students, and it is not intended to punish them. Students found guilty of a violation have a file kept in the dean’s office. Upon graduation, the file is destroyed.
Dr. Raymond Sepeta serves on the Honor Committee representing the Office of the Freshman Year of Studies. He asserted that the emphasis on the honor code is on community and is not divisive as most students believe. Once a student decides to cheat, a negative chain reaction can result. Many professors grade on a curve, and even one or two dishonest students can affect the grades of their classmates.
The honor code at Notre Dame is not entirely well-received. “The non-tolerance clause is the most sensitive issue,” Sepeta added, “People resent being put in a situation where they might have to turn a friend
DECEMBER 12,1991
in.” The honor code does not condone “snitching,” but rather confronting the individual in question. The purpose of having a committee is said to be so the student(s) witnessing the dishonest act will not be forced to deal with the mixed feelings that accompany reporting a violation.
Another common complaint students have with the code is the way in which it is presented. The honesty pledge students must sign offends many. The pledge is even a subject of mockery. According to one freshman who wished to remain anonymous, “No one took it seriously. During orientation we had a presentation, and it was ridiculous. Who would actually sign their paper and say, ‘Sorry, I cheated on this paper.’ People walked out laughing.” Chrissy Hall, a junior, had a different viewpoint. “It’s either really important to you or it’s not. Most students don’t seem to get involved if they suspect something.”
All of this leads to an important question: Is the presentation and education of students in regard to the honor code adequate? Perhaps the disenchanted freshman was offended by the patronizing tone of the orientation speech. Some say the pledge is not realistic in that someone would admit their own dishonesty. Sepeta upholds a liberal view of the pledge. “If you’re in a community, you believe in a system. All you do is profess your belief in it.” He prefers to begin each semester with a simple statement of his expectation for his students, including honesty. “After telling students what is
Paul Webb
Students diligently work under the honor code on a test in Stepan Center.
expected from them, signing the pledge is redundant,” Sepeta said.
Education of what is expected of the students must be more consistent. In military academies such as West Point, the students participate in an ongoing education for the honor code. They attend a weekly lecture on the code and learn how to handle violations. Sepeta, a West Point graduate, is in favor of their testing methods. The professors give several tests in each class, so if a student performed poorly on one, he or she will not feel pressured to cheat on the next exam. West Point also mandates that all faculty attend a meeting discussing the code two to three times a year. Notre Dame, however, does not reinforce faculty attendence at such meetings. “Notre Dame professors attend a meeting when they begin at the university, and that’s all,” Sepeta added.
In comparison to honor codes at other academic institutions, Notre Dame’s code seems realistic. At military academies such as West Point, the administration has no reservations about expelling violators. “The government is essentially paying for your education at West Point; they are at liberty to do as they please,” Sepeta stated, “Whereas atNotre Dame, parents are paying for the education, so it is slightly differrent.” West Point professors also take it upon themselves to remove the temptation to cheat. Sepeta noted that the professors use spaced seating, coded test forms and proctor exams. This behavior can be interpreted as a lack of trust in the students, yet the purpose
is to prevent students from encountering future problems.
There are several ways to make the honor code work at Notre Dame. S epeta suggested that professors give more tests to alleviate the academic pressures felt by many students. Another possibility is to have smaller class sections. “There are classes that have 500-1000 people taking tests together on designated days. In many cases, the students do notknow the professor. If the students are able to interact with the professor on a more personal basis, they are less apt to cheat.” Sepeta said. David Powell, a junior, asserted, “The teachers should show an active interest in the code and take it seriously before the students are expected to.” Perhaps Notre Dame professors should adopt West Point’s requirements of mandatory meetings educating them of code requirements. Few people in the community are aware of the recent revisions made in the honor code.
The honor code is not a formidable, mysterious creedo set etched in stone, The recent revisions prove that it is subject to change when it is deemed necessary. Despite some complaints made against the code, there are some positive elements. Notre Dame does publish the names of the student Honesty Committee representatives to aid in the reporting of violations. If a student is aware of a code infraction, he or she can report it to the representative. Notre Dame feels that students are more likely to approach a peer, who is less intimidating than a dean or professor. This removes the pressure of tackling the dilemma alone.
Also, all students are encouraged to become involved by volunteering to serve on their academic department’s honesty committee. The students thus have an active role in the investigative and hearing process. This invitation is made in order to promote greater awareness of the policies involved, “demystifying” the code.
Ultimately, the decision to live by the honor code is up to the individual. The honor code is currently slated to undergo review in February, 1992 at the first meeting of the Academic Council. At that time, the honor code's four-year trial period will have come to its end.	□
SCHOLASTIC
NEWS
Outspoken Student Departs
After causing much controversy within the university, Paul Peralez takes a leave of absence with no plans to return
by Denisse Marion-Landais
UXT otre Dame lost a great intellect,” i 5 said Dillon resident Eric Ivanovich. He speaks of Paul Peralez, the same person who, according to professor of anthropology Irwin Press, made “obviously inflammatory statements... driven by a selfdestructive motive.” Fueled by articles in The Observer and parodies at public performances, the controversy surrounding Peralez continues even after his departure from the university.
“The University of Notre Dame believes in the intrinsic value of all human beings. It is, moreover, committed to the full peaceable endeavor it fosters... The university is also committed to the free expression and advocacy of ideas; it wishes to maintain the integrity of this commitment as well,” so states a section of the Discriminatory Harassment Policy as printed in Du Lac .
Junior Paul Peralez left Notre Dame on November 26th at eight o’clock in the morning, disillusioned because, he says, “Notre Dame does not live up to what it stands for.” He said that he leaves behind a story of two and a half years of harassment, including being called a Nazi, receiving threats of bodily harm and becoming a source of parody at a public performance on campus.
Peralez, a history major, has a been the center of controversy due to his vocal stances on current minority issues. Tension between Peralez and various campus organizations and individuals has been long
DECEMBER 12, 1991
standing. Stress between Peralez and minority groups has received the most media attention.
Several students commented on Peralez’s situation, but because of their fear of the possible consequences of being associated with such a sensitive issue, they asked that Scholastic withhold their names. For the sake of clarity, some of them have been given pseudonyms.
Joe, a student from Dillon, commented, “peoplecame to judge him by The Observer, and didn’t get to know him for himself... he did have a good heart.”
Professor Press, who has taught Peralez, said, “I was surprised and proud of the black and other minority students who have responded to Peralez’s statements with a high degree of patience.”
This year’s “Black Images Variety Show” was the site of the last in a series of events that led to Peralez’s departure. The show took place November 22 in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. ‘“Black Images’ gives the black students opportunity to express their feelings and themselves,” said junior Joe Wilson, who attended the performance.
Bill, another student from Dillon Hall, said the show began with a student reciting poetry and was “a mixture of different acts” but that the main theme was “Black Images.”
One skit has been particularly controversial. The response has not been as great as Peralez said he wished there would be. He has found that, despite the fact that the performance was attended by university au
thorities, “no one attempted to stop it.”
The skit in question was a take-off of the television program, “In Living Color.” According to Joe, Homey the Clown was present with two boys and two girls and a person dressed up as Paul Peralez. He was wearing glasses and a Dillon sweatshirt, and he parodied Paul’s mannerisms.
Peralez himself recalls the incident vividly. He said the character identified as “Little Paul” asked questions, to which Homey would respond by hitting him over the head with what was supposed to be a fish in a stocking. Meanwhile, Peralez said, ’’everyone in the audience is goading them on. I was very scared.”
The skit was followed by an imitation of a current song. According to Peralez it included lyrics such as “we are here at N.D. ... not for O.P.P.” At this point, the words “Obnoxious Paul Peralez” flashed onto a screen. A Flanner resident who attended the performance said the cast of the skit were chanted off stage by the audience singing the song.
Joe said the audience cheered and joined in the song, “I felt uncomfortable at that point ... they’re all cheering against him... it was all a joke to them.”
After a man continued the performance by saying “Paul, this is what you get, stay off his d—k,” Peralez left the performance. A student from Siegfried said, “I don’t know Paul ... and I don’t sympathize.” However, regarding the skit, she said, “they really stooped low with it.”
A Flanner resident said, “I do not support
9

Paul Peralez in anything he says. Personally I have no feelings towards him,” but that the skit “was poorly done, it was nothing short of an emotional lynching.”
Tom Steele, Black Images Commis-
ESI iW?	® K I
f-’-'	S'v -Sv”-	■? -S fi/S--."- j
sioner, spoke on behalf of “Black Images” when he said that the skit only called Peralez obnoxious; it did notrefer to him as a homosexual or include anything about oral sex, as was reported in the South Bend Tribune. Steele felt that after all that Peralez has said, he shouldn’t have been surprised when there was retaliation. “If he can’t stand to be ridiculed, he shouldn’t have started ridiculing others,” he said.
Steele also denied that any violence ensued when Peralez left the show; there were cries of, “Goodbye, Paul,” though. Peralez’s withdrawl, he stated, is “not a concern of ours [Black Images].” Black Images does not feel the skits had anything to do with Peralez’s decision to leave.
“My First Amendment was violated,” Peralez said. “A person must feel free to state his views.” He said that he strongly believes in freedom of expression but felt the skit was a violation of his civil liberties.
Peralez spoke with his resident assistant and his rector, Fr. Carey, at Dillon about the situation. Through them he was referred to Patricia O’Hara. When contacted by Scholastic, Carey and O’Hara refused to comment on the situation.
Peralez said he spoke first to William Kirk, assistant vice president for residence life and Sr. Jean Lenz, assistant vice president for student affairs, and then to O’Hara about withdrawing from the university. Neither Lenz and Kirk would comment on the situation to Scholastic.
Peralez recalled that the meeting was “awkward yet cordial.” Administrators suggested counseling and called his parents, he said. Peralez said the end result was that the administration refused a withdrawal but granted an official leave of absence.
Du Lac states that “A leave differs from withdrawal... in several ways:
1)	A leave is an integral part of a plan for the student’s development
2)	The leave is planned in advance of the semester in which it is granted
3)	It is for an agreed-upon period of time, with a limit of two semesters.”
Additionally, under a leave of absence, Peralez’s loans will not yet come due, giving him a chance to make other plans for the future. Although Peralez officially took a leave of absence, “under the present circum-
Peralez's roommate from freshman year believes that the university “lost a great intellect.”
stances, I have no intention to return to Notre Dame as a student,” he said. However, Peralez continued, “I will definitely attend school somewhere else.”
Such a difficult decision was not easily made. “I had to leave,” he said, adding that the stress was simply too much. Peralez said he felt threatened, harassed, even subject to parody and yet received no support from the administration.
Peralez said his story of harassment began long before the “Homey” skit. He said he has “always been a vocal student” and felt an obligation to his principles to state his views. He realizes that people have conflicting ideas, but he wants to let people know where he stands. Paul said he would “rather be ridiculous than common.”
Eric Ivanovich, Peralez’s freshman year roommate, said, “Paul loves when someone challenges his ideas. He enjoys engaging in
intellectual debate. It’s a shame that some individuals had to resort to personal attacks to express disapproval of his ideas ... Paul didn’t deserve the treatment he received. No human being would deserve that.”
Bill said that Peralez would often say something controversial, but that he would try to back up what he said. He “liked to stir people up and get people to think,” he added.
Peralez’s dedication to principle has generated a great deal of conflict in the past. His Letters To The Editor in The Observer voiced his opinions on such topics as the gay and lesbian organization on campus, international trade and, most frequently, on Students United For Respect (SUFR).
As a freshman, Peralez was asked by Professor Walsh to write for Common Sense, a liberal, independent monthly newspaper distributed on campus. Peralez said that this invitation indicated to him that the faculty knew and discussed his views. At this time, Peralez said, he was a “flaming liberal.”	.
His involvement spread to other areas as well. Peralez founded an Hispanic group known as the League of United Latin American Citizens. He was also part of the initial stages of a group that eventually became SUFR. For a time Peralez said he even .championed the homosexual cause on campus.
“I am not a homosexual,” he said, adding, that he believes that that the “oppression of people on the basis of sexuality is wrong.”
However, his sophomore year he said he became “disillusioned,” and his views
changed. He said that he found problems with a race-based financing program in the university system and began finding other disagreements between his beliefs and those of the groups he supported. After learning more about the gay and lesbian organization, he came to the conclusion that “the group was just about sex.” It was “all about meeting other people they can have sex with,” Peralez said.
His response to those who say that he is unstable or that his views change too quickly
10
SCHOLASTIC
Paul Peralez earlier this semester In his dorm room.
is, “I’m 20 years old. God is not finished with me yet.”
Peralez said that in the past he has been “physically threatened” and “routinely harassed.” He also said that as he left the “Black Images” performance he had “black students follow” him using racial slurs.
Others do not believe Peralez’s fears of physical harm to be substantiated. Said Joe Wilson, “Students have far more important things to do than become involved in an individual who preaches of a divisive, ignorant and uneducated man in nature.” He added that if students , felt they should use violence towards Peralez, it would have happened long ago and that the idea was “ridiculous.”
He has found that the harassment came “mainly from black students, liberals on the faculty and people who just don’t like me,” Peralez said. Many of the responses he received to his articles were attempts to discredit his ideas by attempting to discredit him as an individual.
Professor Press said that many of Peralez’s “statements were patently false,” and that all he was looking for was confrontation.
Joe Wilson said that Peralez has a right to his opinion, but. one must “shift through negative rhetoric that is counterproductive” in order to work toward common goals within the university.
The more visible he became, the more difficult the situation became..‘There were a number of incidences where professors singled me out because of my views,” said Peralez. He said that he discussed these problems with the administration. He said
that he found that if you are conservative, you just have to leam to live with it. Additionally, during his well-publicized candidacy for District 1 StudentSenator, there was public mention of harassment he received in The Observer. Peralez said he received no word from the administration.
Ironically enough, Paul said that he spoke to O’Hara ten minutes before the “Black Images” show. He spoke of wanting to file a complaint under the Discriminatory Harassment Policy. She told him to meet her the following day, according to Peralez.
The main problem, Peralez said, was “because I’m so well known on campus, I can’t function as a student... I’m noticed all the time ... it prevents me from learning.” He stresses that all that has occurred has been in public, but that there has been “no official response to me.”
Bill, who lives in Dillon, said that Peralez was really surprised by the number of people who were sad to see him go.
“It’s awful to think that a person of such integrity was driven from Notre Dame by such hatred manifested through utterly malicious attacks against his person,” said Eric Ivanovich.
Peralez asks that the videotapes of the performance be forwarded to the administration so they can then decide for themselves if he has been wronged. Tom Steele of "Black Images" said that such actions had already been taken.
T made a lot of friends because of my notoriety on campus,” and “I’m grateful for my education,” Peralez said. “I believe I’m a Domer... I have no regrets,” Peralez added, “My goal is to move on from here.” □
■ Statement byPaulPerdlez
''; The purpose of this;: the las t public state- ~ ment I will make to the Notre Dame corib munity, is not to explain or defend myy public, statements and conduct while en-Z rolled at the university. ' •// V" ; :'P, I have been asked by Scholastic toad-
, dress the skit performed inthe Library; .Auditorium on November 22. The slcit was// part of the -program sponsored by the NAACP and the Black Cultural Arts Cquh- • cil, organizations which every year receive thousands of dollars from student government. Theskitwasobscene;slandcrousand by; almost any measure would have' been denied approvalby theadministration.-The '/ skit made .obscene references to vice president Patricia O’Hara. Father Malloy and to the Catholic Church. The Keenan/' Review and the Morrissey Film Fest arq, subject to administrative review before their public performance./,The black proA gram, however, is not reviewed. This is because-university officials justifiably fear being charged with racism if they dare to treat blacks equally. While /the program alone did not occasion, my departure; from Notre Dame, related circumstances make it impossible for me to continue as a studentat NotreDame. I call upon the student body to elect candidates in this spring’s student government elections: that are pleaded to opposing any race-based allocation of stur dent government money; I call upon the student government to end its advertising in / / Cpmmpn Sense, die organ ofSUER and then Gays and Lesbians. Finaliyi I cdd on the administrnddn to eliminatddie Office of Minority • Student Affairs arid.:: to/ rescind financial allocationstotheNAACPandthe. BlackCultural Arts Council, For my partf T will work here : in SahAntonio for thc / Republicancandidateforftesideht/beforeD proceed with myformaleducation./?////

A/A A//A/A///ri/ri-/.yy/ / -PaulPeraleA- y those of Scholastic: ■/ Aw / ///bn/-< /-A ASa/w
DECEMBER 12,1991
11
{Dome.^
WB
“Gimme a Break!”
a study break,
Melissa Pumphrey chooses a comfort-. •__________'	able niche in the
Compiled by Elizabeth Baytion uneom^namrams1^ ____1________________________ upcoming exams.
iii
CD
§
T f you’re sick of cramming for finals, J. procrastinate by reading Scholastic's informal poll on study habits under the dome. Some of the answers may be predictable, while some just might surprise you...
What are the top 3 things to do on a study break?
Number 3: talking on the phone. Number2: wandering aimlessly through the halls. Number 1: can’tbeprinted—Tony Nowak
Talking with friends, going to the bathroom and sleeping —Heidi Piper
Talking, talking and talking.—Kristin Greeley
What kinds of food do you munch on during study breaks?
Junk food, because it’s there —Barb Praus
Pizza and fizzy drink [a term bom from the soda/pop debate] —John Doppke et al.
Ginger ale and microwave popcorn —Tim P.Sullivan
. A bag of chips and a diet Coke —Juli Gilland
Chocolate and a Coke —Meg Hobday
What’s the best music to listen to while you’re studying?
George Winston —Cara Schaffer
Sonic Youth —John Doppke
Classical —Chris Wallace
R & B —Dave Bankoske
Sinead O’Connor and George Michael. — Tim P. Sullivan
Little River Band’s Greatest Hits —-Kristin Greeley
Yanni [new age piano],—Michael Bossone
Where do you like to study?
I for sure can’t study in the room. I like the Saint Mary’s library... ’cause you go there and when you really need to study you know no one... It’s really small and it’s really cozy —Barb Praus
Some comfy place... unfortunately —John Doppke
The basement of LaFortune —Tim P. Sullivan
Have your study habits changed from
freshman year?
Oh, definitely ... This year I realize what I have to do and I try to get as much of it done as much as possible, and try to get a lot of it done beforehand—Amanda Dwyer
Yes. I actually study more now because I just have a lot more sh- now—Juli Gilland
Yes. They are much worse. I used to think homework was important Now I know it’s	’
just required—Tony Nowak
What’s the most creative way you’ve avoided doing homework?
Answering questions for Scholastic —Tony Nowak
Eucher, eucher and eucher —Sarah Long	i
Electronic mail or Tetris.—John Doppke
Playing in the snow —Chris Wallace
I’ll go to the ’brare and get out books I don’t have to read —Nate Fitzgerald
Going to Taco Bell, then bowling, then to a movie —Tim P. Sullivan
How do you stretch out a 4-page paper to 6 pages?
12
SCHOLASTIC
Add adjectives—Meg Hobday
Triple space it —Steve Kumenacker
If you had an exam the next day that was worth over 50 percent of your grade, what would it take to make you not study for it?
Brain overload —John Doppke
Crisis at home —Cara Schaffer
Two tickets to a reunion concert of Led Zeppelin —Jon Peppetti
Lack of pulse —ChrisWallace
‘Do you want to go to the Commons?’— Kristin Greeley
Money. Lots of it —Dave Bankoske
Another test worth more —Esteban Rodriguez
What is your most effective strategy for killing time while waiting in line at the computer lab?
I just go home; It’s a sign from God.—Nate Fitzgerald
I DON’T. I go to all the labs until I find one open —Tim P. Sullivan
Leaving. I never wait Kristin Greeley	Joe Rogers catches up on a few zzzz in the Alumni room in LaFortune.
Who goes to the computer lab? What is the computer lab?—Tony Nowak
Where is the strangest place you have ever studied?
The stairwells in Lewis —Cara Schaffer
I did my Spanish homework in a bar in Spain. Actually, I did that all the time — Tony Nowak
The Saint Mary’s parking lot —Michael Bossone
In a park by the Tagus River in Toledo, Spain, and stopping to play basketball with los chicos espanoles every once in a while —Meg Hobday
Have you honestly ever gone to the ’brare to scope instead of study? Or maybe spent more time scoping, rather than studying?
I’m going to go to the ’brare to see Alumni do their thing... but that’s not really scoping —Chris Wallace
No, I go to the dining hall to scope. What’s the library? —Tony Nowak
If you are an upperclassman, what would your advice be to a freshman about studying?
Just say no—Dave Bankoske
Set your own standards for yourself, and do what you have to live up to those standards. Just don’t look up to me as a model —Heidi Piper
Do as little as you can, but do it well —Juli Gilland
Where’s the worst place to study?
N.D —Dave Bankoske
2nd floor ’brare —Steve Krumenacker
In front of the TV —Juli Gilland
The place where I do study: the couch —
Heidi Piper
What’s the biggest infringement on your study time?
Wearing an ugly hefty bag and making sure everyone has enough napkins and trays — Veronica Chang
Meetings at night —Juli Gilland
My own procrastination —Danielle Debow
My athletics —Dave Bankoske
What’s the best way to stay up all night?
Drink Dr. Pepper and stress yourself until your eyes are wired open —Tim P. Sullivan
To have something due the next morning, and not have it done —Heidi Piper
Have monstrous amounts of work due the next day and be under extreme stress — Kristin Greeley
There’s no good way, but drink some coffee and get into a goofy, hyper mood —Juli Gilland
I haven’t figured it out yet —Meg Hobday
□
DECEMBER 12,1991
CAMPUS LIFE
II
YOU DON'T
NEED A:by Don Modica
WEATHERMAN”
TO KNOW
WHICH WAY-35 m y
THE WIN DIS pF like,
D I Zr~X\ A /I M ,three weeks of D V V I I N playing basket‘
ball.”
“It’s overwhelming. It just hits you like a brick wall.”
“Warm beer.”
t “Like bread because it’s kind
A QUEST TO DISCOVER THE SOURCE OF “EAU DU LAC”
of yeasty.
But
SCHOLASTIC
Some mornings the smell hits you in the face like a wet glove
bread doesn’t get obnoxious as quickly.”
The New Energy of Indiana ethanol plant occupies 55 squ. acres on the south side of South Bend
— ETHANOL, a colorless, volatile, flammable liquid produced by fermentation. The smell is becoming as much a part of the Notre Dame experience as
Knute Rockne and the meatless man from Notre Dame with
cheeseburger.
Everyone on campus knows the smell well. However, what a lot of people don’t know is what’s actually causing the smell and how it reaches us lucky ones under the dome.
It was a cold morning when I set out for the New Energy of Indiana’s ethanol plant on the south side of South Bend. On the frontier between urban and agrarian, flanked by the city on • one side and cornfields on the other, the plant fumed like a fire breathing dragon, spewing huge columns of steam into the air.
After Ending a parking spot I went into the only building I could see that didn’t seem to require a hardhat. I told the receptionist that I was the nice young
whom she had scheduled an in
terview over the phone.
She asked me to sign in and have a seat (real life isn’t much different from dorm life after all!) and within minutes I was greeted by Nate Kimpel, the general manager. In his office we were joined by the company’s marketing representative Jeanne Kovatch. These two gave me the rundown of the place.
The plant began operation in 1985. It’s conception took place in the late ’70s following the energy crunch as a way to produce fuel additives that would decrease our dependency on foreign oil. Today over 50 percent of the oil used in the U.S. is bought from foreign countries.
For the past six years it has been producing 70 million gal-
14
| Ions of ethanol a year, consum-ing 26 million bushels of com as f. its main raw material. The com " is ground into a mash and the dextrose is removed, which is then fermented.
This is the process that produces the ethanol, along with 150,000 tons of carbon dioxide a year. The ethanol is sold to fuel companies and added to gasoline. The carbon dioxide is sold to soft drink manufacturers and shot through their drinks to give them that little fizz, while the leftovers of the mash are sold as animal feed.
Ethanol is a clean burning,
New Energy Company is the largest grass roots ethanol facility In the world.
| plant provides 160 jobs for the community and a market for the com that’s grown in this 'g- area. It produces fuel, which, as we all " know, is needed a lot in this country. They sell their by-products to industries that put them to good use, instead of simply dumping the chemicals into the environment Let’s face it — with the exception of the obnoxious smell, the plant appears to be one great idea.
Finally, the mystery of the ethanol smell is solved. It may not be a magnolia grove but
oxygenated alternative fuel. The Environmental Protection Agency has noted that adding ethanol to gasoline decreases emissions of carbon monoxide and hydrocarbons by 25 to 30 percent With this characteristic, Ethanol blends help fight the “greenhouse effect” caused by pollution. It is the only commercially available fuel source for automobiles that can reduce carbon monoxide emissions, and ultimately lessen global wanning.
Because ethanol contains oxygen, it helps provide more complete cumbustion in the engine of a car and reduces the amount of pollutants that comes out of the tailpipe.
With health concerns and the declining use of lead in gasoline, ethanol has been used to increase the octane level. These days, gasoline with the ethanol blend can be found just about anywhere.
Since the conception of the plant the U.S. has actually increased its import of foreign oil. Still, out here in cornfield country, the production of ethanol continues, and it keeps on selling.
Hie place was pretty impressive, even though the people I talked to knew I was from a magazine and tried hard to give the place the best image possible.
But, hey, you gotta give ’em a break: the
at least you know what’s going on.
Of course, when the “perfume” of ethanol mingles with fall leaves, another freshman class arrives on campus. When they take that first step out of daddy’s air-conditioned car, take in a 90 degree whiff of Eau du Lac and say “Good God, what is that smell?” you’ll be able to say, “Geez, what a freshman. Everyone knows that! ”	□
CELEBRATE NEW YEAR’S EVE with a touch of class
^aridi O
"The Italian Ristorante"
Put together an exciting way for you and yours to ring in the New Year--1992
$30 per person	Dinner: Service
begins at 5:30
**MENU**
Champagne
BUFFET DINNER with WINE INCLUDES: Prime Rib with Mixed Italian Vegetables Chicken Vesuvio
Breast of Chicken Stuffed with Asparagus and Cheese Scrod Stuffed with Schrimp and Fresh Garlic
PASTAS:
Fettuccine Al Fredo Shells Florentine Tortellini Stuffed with Meat Baked Mostaccioli
DESSERTS:
Fresh Fruit - Mix Cheese Cake Italian Rum Cake
*
Coffee; Tea and Brewed Decaffeinated Coffee ■ *
ENTERTAINMENT:
Music by Fred Korinski
DECEMBER 12,1991
Paul Webb
Senior engineering major Bill Blanford runs a Tuesday morning tutoring session.
Academic tutors serve as a vital support system for Notre Dame studentathletes '
By Mark McGrath
As Christmas Break approaches, students all over the University of Notre Dame campus, in every major from chemical engineering to American Studies, gear up for the end of the semester push into final exams. Students’ duties become more and more heated, and time management and organization become very important skills.
But there is another group of students who pull double duty during finals — academic tutors. For as Notre Dame’s student-athletes prepare for the fall semester’s final exams, after a whole time-consuming semester spent on the gridiron or on the hardcourt outside the Eck, they come to lean on their peers who have volunteered to tutor Notre Dame athletes through the grueling concluding week of finals.
In addition to their own studies, these students must monitor and assist the academic progress of many Fighting Irish stu
16
dent-athletes. As tutors for Academic Services for Student-Athletes, these students help student-athletes with their studies.
Kelly Rush, a senior in the college of science, tutors between 50-60 athletes per semester. Each week, she spends 10-12 hours tutoring. Rush uses the money she earns to pay for her education.
Though Rush and other tutors devote considerable amounts of time to tutoring, their commitment is little when compared to that of the athletes. When football is in season, varsity players spend 20 hours in organized practice. This time commitment causes many problems for athletes. Their full schedules present problems in both scheduling tutoring sessions and in class attendance.
“With traveling, we miss a lot of class,” said junior lacrosse player Ed Lamb. “We need to know what is missed.”
Even though Lamb does not have a tutor, he understands why some athletes would want tutors.
“Tutors are able to provide one-on-one attention,” continued Lamb. “They [the tutors] may be able to answer questions that do not arise during a large class.”
Athletes playing football at Notre Dame ] have added responsibility as freshmen. Freshman Irish football players are required 1 to attend study hall five days per week, while	'
keeping relations with an academic counselor at Academic Services for Student Athletes.
The added attention that the football program puts on academics is understandable. Notre Dame has long maintained a reputation as a school which educates and graduates its athletes, and Irish football players are among the most visible collegiate athletes in the nation.
SCHOLASTIC
Standout Irish fullback Jerome Bettis says tutors enable student-athletes,"... to learn more, and our grades look better for the university."
“Tutoring is better for both us [athletes] and the university,” said Football News second-team All-American Jerome Bettis. “We are able to leant more, and our grades
look better for the university.”
The image the university projects, as an institution devoted first to education and second to athletic success, is often derided by media around the nation. However, Notre Dame’s academic reputation is highly regarded by recruits.
“I didn’t consider many other schools because I wanted to think about what would happen after college,” said freshman soccer player Kevin Adkisson. “The academic program here gives Notre Dame a big advantage.”
Though the academic reputation of the school is a lure for potential Irish athletes, the time commitments of athletics and academics can be overbearing for many students. In this way, tutoring can be beneficial.
“We give up a lot of time for sports,” sophomore lacrosse player Bill Ahmuty said. “It [tutoring] is a good way for the university to pay us back for that time.” ■
Despite the benefits of tutoring, some Irish athletes choose not to take advantage of the service. Take junior eagle linebacker Demetrius DuBose; as a government major,
DuBose carries approximately a 3.0 grade point average.
“I chose not to have a tutor because I wanted to be treated like a regular Notre Dame student,” said DuBose. “I wanted to prove to everyone that I could be academically successful without any special treatment.”
However, ail freshman athletes must maintain a relationship with a counselor with Academic Services for Student-Athletes. Freshman athletes have weekly meetings with academic counselors. These counselors also serve as liaisons between student-athletes and
faculty.
The primary job of the academic counselor is to monitor the academic progress of student-athletes. The counselor
achieves this by looking at the apply, though little experience is necessary, student-athlete’s grades and All that is required is a relatively good speaking with his or her pro- G.P.A. and a desire to help others.
fessors. If the counselor senses that a student may be having trouble, it is the responsibility of the counselor to rectify the situation.
Because of the limited time with student-
Demetrius DuBose opted to go it alone and prove he could suceed on his own.
Courtesy of Sports Information
athletes, the academic counselor usually has only two suggestable options when a student-athlete is having academic trouble. If j the student is truly struggling with the class, the counselor may recommend that the student drop the class. If this is the case, the j student-athlete will be responsible for J making up the lost credit hours, either at : j summer school or by picking up another ? class. In the end, the student-athlete is responsible for the decision.	‘
The second option is to recommend that:; ■ the student-athlete get a tutor. If the student- > ' athlete believes that a tutor would be ben- -eficial, then the student must simply tell the academic counselor. It is then the responsi- ; bility of the counselor to set up a tutor for the . 4 student-athlete.	'
Usually, tutors meet with students at least once a week. Though some student-athlete tutors meet in large groups, most are one-on-one sessions.
In order to become a tutor, a student must
Many tutors truly enjoy their job.
“I enjoy tutoring because I want to help other people out,” said Erica Jordan, who also participates in the Neighborhood Study Program. “The athlete’s time is so limited
that I feel pressure to help them; manage that time.”
With the amount of time required of athletes at a school like Notre Dame, which is a -powerhouse both academically ■ and athletically, problems of- ■ : l ten arise on one side of of the sidelines. When the studentathletes’ problems arise on the . : . court or the field, coaches like / Lou Holtz, Muffet McGraw or' Bob Bayliss work with the ; student.	’
But when Notre Dame’s student-athletes begin to have problems inside the classroom, the counselors and tutors at	r
Academic Services for Stu-	"
dent-Athletes intervene. These experts are able to keep student-athletes, with their multiple responsibilities, both on the court and in the classroom. ,
And that's what being a J "student-athlete" is all about. □	■
DECEMBER 12, 1991
17
SB

Cajun Spice and
Everything Nice
The Notre Dame Fighting Irish head down to Cajun country to take on the University of Florida Gators
By Jon Paul Potts
i II ow the tides of fortune rise and fall.
i Three years ago, the University of Notre 1 Dame football team was ripping through I their schedule to the tune of an 11-1 record i anid a 21-6 Orange Bowl victory over the ; University of Colorado Buffaloes.
» Meanwhile, down in Gainesville, Florida, ; the Gators troubles were mounting. The • University of Florida’s football team was ■ muddling through a mediocre 7-4 season ' which concluded with a thorough 34-7 beating at the hands of the University of Washington Huskies in the Freedom Bowl. But worse than their record was the ignominious demise of Galen Hall’s tenure as Florida’s coach. The Gator’s compiled a41-18-1 mark under Hall, but he was forced to step down five games into the 1989 season ! under a hail of allegations of wrongdoing I within the football program. Current Notre ; Dame defensive coordinator Gary Darnell stepped in as interim coach and Florida was put on two year’s probation that concluded last year for Hall’s indiscretions.
Now, the Gators and Irish are teams on
vative second-year coach Steve Spurrier, the Gators’ program, which seemed destined to sink into the ranks of NCAA football has-beens and probates, has been rejuvenated.
The Irish, meanwhile, concluded their season by barely edging the Rainbow Warriors of the University of Hawaii, not exactly a football power, by the worrisome score of 48-42. In fact, since halftime of the Tennessee game, Notre Dame has looked nothing at all like the team that was ranked fifth in the AP Top Twenty poll as late as November 8. The well-documented 35-34 defeat at the hands of the Tennessee Volunteers and the subsequent35-13 beating the Irish received in University
Park, Penn., by Penn State have dashed all Irish hopes for a national title — which lately seems to be the
expected under the Golden Dome.
Now that Notre Dame and Florida have
Courtesy of Florida Sports Information
Steve Spurrier has turned the Gators' program
around In two short years.
Spurrier.
Spurrier won a Heisman Trophy for the
Gators in 1966 and is still considered the
different tracks going in opposite directions. Florida finished the 1991 regular season ranked third in the nation thanks to a huge victory over their in-state archrival Florida State, defeating the Seminoles 14-9 on November 30th. Under their upbeat and inno-
been matched (mismatched?) in the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans by the men in the ugly jackets, Irish fans everywhere must be wondering, how did this team enjoy such a tremendous turnaround in only two years?
The answer lies in one man—coach S teve
greatest athlete in University of Florida history. As a quarterback, Spurrier set many Gator records that have only recently been broken. After a relatively successful professional football career, Spurrier coached his way through the ranks, proving himself
18
SCHOLASTIC
s
at every level culminating with the job he did at Duke University. He single-handedly revived a program that had been floundering for over three decades. The job he did with the Blue Devils so impressed the University of Florida brass that when they sought a coach to turn their struggling program around, they snagged every Gator fan’s favorite alumni, Spurrier.
The results speak for themselves. In 1990, Spurrier guided the Gators to a 9-2 mark and a national ranking of 11th — remarkable considering the Gators were banned from television and bowl appearances. They would have won the Southeastern Conference title had they not been on probation. Now in 1991, they are 10-1, they won their
conference, they are ranked third in the nation, and many oddsmakers are predicting the Gators to trounce the Irish in the Sugar Bowl. Some even say the struggling Irishare not even a worthy opponent for Florida.
The reason may be that the Gators throw the ball very well and very often, and pass defense has been an Achilles heel for the Notre Dame defense all season. The Irish allowed 177.5 yards through the air per game, including the sharp 14-20,151 yard and two touchdown effort turned in by Penn State’s Tony Sacca in Notre Dame’s last game.
Florida’s offense, meanwhile, runs on some serious high-octane gas led by junior quarterback Shane Matthews who should finish second to Michigan’s Desmond Howard in the Heisman Trophy voting. Matthews is a product of Spurrier’s “Fun-and-Gun” offense, passing for 284.6 yards/ game and 28 touchdowns to a host of bigplay receivers. Willie Jackson, a sophomore wideout, caught 51 passes and scored ten touchdowns, averaging 14.2 yards/catch. Freshman Harrison Houston is a home runtype receiver who went for 18.7 yards whenever Matthews threw to him and
scored eight TD’s. And finally, Tre Everett, who played in only seven games, averaged
21.4 yards/catch and scored six touchdowns. As a team, the Gators averaged 14.4 yards per pass play.
And, to compound the Notre Dame defense’s problems, the Gators also run the ball fairly well. Errict Rhett, a sophomore running back, racked up 1157 yards on the ground on 224 carries, good for 100.8 yards per game. He is a big bruising back at 6’0” and 215 pounds and he could cause prob
lems for Notre Dame’s depleted defensive line.
In fact, the defensive line, which lost stalwarts Bryant Young and Eric Jones to injuries during the season, will be tested all day. A pass-rush will be vital or Matthews will have a field-day. Pressure on opposition quarterbacks is one of, if not the most important ingredient, in a good pass defense and this is probably the area where the Irish struggled the most. The young Notre Dame secondary, itself smarting from the loss of Greg Davis to ligament damage in his knee, cannot cover the speedy Gator wideouts all day.
On defense, the Gators passed a huge test when the held the high-powered Florida
State Seminole offense
to only nine points. Florida held the Semi-noles, whohadrun Amp Lee wild all season, to a paltry 37 yards rushing in their big victory. The Gator defensive line also sacked one-time Heisman trophy hopeful Casey Weldon three times and was in Weldon’s face all day. Weldon had to leave the game momentarily in the fourth quarter because he got hit so hard on one play.
This fast, hard-hitting Florida defensive line is led by senior tackle Brad Culpepper. He is a
big (6’2”, 263) and tough and will give the Irish offensive lineman trouble all night.
The Gator secondary is led by junior free
safety Will White, who intercepted four passes and was in on the big play against the
Seminoles when Florida broke up Weldon’s
last-ditch toss into the endzone to win the game. Junior college transfer cornerback
Lawrence Hatch also intercepted four passes.
Many critics of Notre Dame have come out and said that the Irish should not have accepted the bid to play in the Sugar Bowl. The Sugar Bowl executives selected the Irish as much for their television ratings power as for their 8-3 record (the Irish were invited prior to the Hawaii victory).
The Gators’ quarterback Matthews was I even disappointed.	|
“It’s somewhat of a disappointment to J play Notre Dame because playing Miami j would have meant we’d have a shot at the national title,” he told the Irish Sports Report.
Irish coach Lou Holtz bristled when asked i about this seeming incongruity at a press ; conference following the Penn State game. ;
“You got six weeks between now and । when we play,” he said. “We plan on- , ' bringing a good football team. I make no-: k apologies for our football team. Absolutely none. We have something to prove.”
The Irish do have something to prove, and	’
depending on the injury status of players like	i
Courtesy of Florida Sports Information
Shane Matthews led the SEC in passing at over 280 yards/game.
Young and Jones, they very well may prove it. But Florida has a possible, albeit thin, national title hope and will be rolling in on a
team high after their season-ending victory. If some wild upsets, like Nebraska over
Miami in the Orange Bowl and a Michigan-
Washington tie in the Rose Bowl, occurs, Florida could claim the title.
However, no matter what happens; it should be an entertaining week for Irish -fans. New Orleans on New Year’s Eve, the • Sugar Bowl in the Louisiana Superdome, ; experiencing the ’Cajun culture—all these will add to the excitement of the game.
Whether Notre Dame can pull out the I upset over the Gators is questionable, but one thing is for sure — it will be worth the [ trip for all faithful Irish fans.	□ ■
DECEMBER 12,1991

i
i '
S
SPORTS
A Tradition of Excellence:
1973 National Champions
Coach: Ara Parseghian.
Captains: Dave Casper, Frank Pomaric, Mike Townsend.
Notes: With a regular season record of 10-0-0 and a 24-23 win against Alabama in the Sugar Bowl, the 1973 Notre Dame Fighting Irish football team was the second to win a consensus national championship for legendary coach Ara Parseghian ... This Irish team boasted of only two stars, All-American TE Dave Casper and All-American DB Mike Townsend... This squad scored 358 points on the season and held the oppostion to 66 points... The highlight of the season was a 24-23 bam-bumer of a win in the 1973 Sugar Bowl against an Alabama team that was top-ranked and coached by the legendary Paul "Bear" Bryant... Also, 1973 was the first football season in which women watched the Irish play as part of the student body.
1973 National Championship Team
• Front Row: Avwwju,- Crws»ey. I Uywjfc. Thoma-vIWawty; Mi&uwiu. Cespvn' I nwnsend, Putiu:rise. Morrie. Townsend. Ru.t»uT, Pctcmps,	bvsAnd Row:	Sh&o. W3.:ik*’!r.h.Bufen; M<ftri;K ZJ<x-k. l.uuc. Kin^tly.	Bn, «s>,
. Wfewiagic:'.. linker. I I:!). Bwor,:"";:;:. HeUnxin. :.ozzi. Web!;. Sc,;i«. 4t/xHk«. Third Row: Su>id;, Q; •■:?>!. Sweeney, Mahalw, Alkxw. NtafeiMnyGawiCds/JMiilcr, Baks: oiy«wrtr. Itohaw,	Dcmnw&t. Arriwnt. I i oxw». Aad is*. Nsect;. O' Dr-ned ■.Oi NawK- Fourth
Row: Md	I fc;r;,.Sawisz.	McGreevey. Penick. l>»H<x'k, Sm!; Gwdrsae. I;a; net!. Bar. fanre >re. <-<’“res. Parisr.
fjraniley. S;;?K	h&kKk Pszurask:. HI th Row; Bimwm. &nct. Payne. Wails, Thwto. fJ(4;ariy. lies:., .
A'.blarh'df.	l.<;pier:Av	Baiiiel.- Awdlar, I x? Stock; N<W">kov. .$b^f.'NKl%::s;-Ma$vhKX»er.' Kwtuuan;
kfcGoadd. WoWif. Sixth Ro«; Br«;»«y...Mcrisny< Ewas. Ostrereh-;. Sharks*. Zypp:;i. Rufo. Faftyu. Bonder. GHirttkxwtd'dwkte' S	.Ruft$<Hj.Likuvich. Moen:. Lioyik ;Malh. Redeofehk, M^hfek.Nrrenib Raw: Bro*n«;
JlaixBw. Kfirenk3;;;p.;^^	Huwsr.Henry.-.Unis; Smith, fry. fsaiim. Wdk-r, Altocx-a-ixwy; Ewbrswrck*, SiKdfo&tr.
Kires; Back. Bstdc Row:. Sweeney. f gau, Creaswy, Bkrelw, Murp:;yt y»snw. rkhy, S'wtrits. Pte¥s»b»;:n. Pag};.':. Bwl^.SreCk. Murphy. Ilickev.DinR^
Courtesy of Sports Information
September	22	W	Northwestern	44-0	H	59,075
September 29		w	Purdue	20-7	A	; 69,391
October	6	w	Michigan State	14-10	H	59,075
October,	13	w	Rice	28-0	A	50,321
October	20	w	Army	62-3	A	42,503
October	27	w	use	23-14	H	59,075
November	3	w	Navy	44-7	H	59,075
November 10		w	Pittsburgh	31-10	A	56,593
November 22		w	Air Force	48-15	H	57,236
December	1	w	Miami	44-0	A	42,968
			(10-0-0)			
		Sugar Bowl at New Orleans				
December 31		,w	Alabama	24-23	N	85,161
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
|	Michelle Marciniak: Marciniak, a freshman from Macungie, PA,
‘ I	setaNotre Dame women's basketball school recordwith33 points
:	last Sunday in a 90-86 overtime loss to 24th-ranked Georgia in
■' ’ Athens, Ga. Marciniak hit 15 of21ofher shots from the field. The H	15 baskets are another Irish record. Marcinaik was the high school
j player of the year last year and was also among the most coveted ! recruits in the country.
H	■ ■ .	'	' ■
20
John Rushin: Rushin, a freshman from Bloomington, MN, scored a hattrick for the Notre Dame men's ice hockey team last Saturday in a game against arch-rival Lake Forest. Rushin scored a goal in all three periods ofplay, with his last coming on a power play with 11:19 left in the contest. "He was right where he was supposed to be and pulled the trigger at the right time,” said his coach Richard Schaefer.
SCHOLASTIC
GREAT SUBS FOR GREAT STUDENTS
Your Blue & Gold card is good for a $1.00 discount off any footlong Subway sandwich.
Subway opens at 8:00 a.m. on days of home football games.
For the next football game or your next party, call Subway for a delicious Party Sub or Party Platterl
CALL 277-7744
WWW
State Road 23 and Ironwood

ris3“ $E99i SIQ95i .J'S® $1Q95i i HK	10 | «
I Additional Topping 95tea.	■ Additional Toppings 95tea.	Additional Toppmps 95< ca.	BA1V\
Not Valid With Any Other Coupon. Open for Lunchl ^L, Not Valid With Any Other Coupon. Open for Lunch!	Not Valid With Any Other Coupon. Open for Lunch. ।
HOURS: Monday thru Thursday 11AM - 1AM Friday & Saturday	11AM-3AM
Sunday NOON-12AM
DECEMBER 12,1991
GO IRISH!
271-1177
ON OTHER CAMPUSES
Surprise Artwork at
UJllinois at Chicago: Severed Head with Garnishes
Football Pranks End the Season
Pranks caused by college football rivalries are not showing any sign of decline, according to the College Press Service. Old Notre Dame has not been left out in these rivalries. After the 35-13 loss to Penn State in November, several students attempted to dismantle the goalposts in Beaver Stadium. The situation has been just as bad in the state of North Carolina. The rivalry between Duke University and North Carolina State is especially intense. Before the two football teams met, someone broke into Duke’s Cameron Indoor Stadium and stole the NCAA basketball trophy and Coach Mike Kryzewski ’s coach of the year award. The Duke-N.C. State rivalry is also the South’s oldest intercollegiate rivalry. The two teams first met in 1888 at the Raleigh state fairgrounds where they proceeded to beat each other with horseshoes.
Gross Out of the Semester
College students have sunk to a new disgusting low if a story in the Chicago Flame is true. Students at the University of Illinois at Chicago are questioning a display called“King of Vermin” (no relation to the Carroll Vermin) at an undergraduate art gallery. The King of Vermin might possibly have been the severed head of a cadaver. Police are currently investigating to find out if the student stole the head from a medical school cadaver. No body parts were missing from the medical school, but it might have come from the biology department One student described the display by stating, “It was something that looked like the head of a balding male. It was wrapped in several layers of Saran Wrap. It was leaning to the side like it was plopped down, on a plate of lettuce with grapes as a garnish.” It was unclear at the time what the student’s grade was and whether the exhibit was travelling (perhaps to a dining hall near you).
Golly, It's Ollie
Have no fear, the conservatives are alive and well at major college campuses outside of 46556. It seems Iran-Contra hero Oliver North . -attracted a bit of a crowd at an autograph session, according to the, Daily	■ i
Kansan. Over 700 people showed up to wait three hours in line at the i Kansas University Bookstore to receive an autograph on his new book : “Under Fire: An American Story.” Several of the eager participants • offeredcommentsiangingfrom“You’rethegieatestAmericanpatriot J of our time” to “Your picture is in my family room.” One completely - J deranged fan went so far as to give old Ollie a $50 bottle of champagne. Oliver North is currently on a 22-city promotion tour for the book. Rumors persisted that the infamous Lieutenant Colonel was going to be the Commencement speaker at a certain school in South Bend, Ind. j Ah, just a dream, I suppose.	■
Weekly Collegian
A for Annoying
What happens if you don't get an “A” in that course you’ve worked -so hard in? Why, you sue the professor, of course. That’s exactly what's happening at Montclair State College in New Jersery, according to the National On-Campus Report. A Marine reservist called into active duty in the Persian Gulf war plans to take his sociology professor into court if he does not receive the “A”he had before he left At least
he didn't use force.
Edited by Mike Owen
23
DECEMBER 12, 1991
B
BEHAVIOR MODIFICATION
Women on the Warpath.: Mr. Manners and ND Guys Get a Verbal Beating
Dear Readers: AttentionDomerguys: Hold on to your baseball lid, the chicks are firing back. Beware, their numbers increaseth.
Exhibit A — ON THIS CAMPUS
Dear Mr. Manners:
I have a gripe. Notre Dame guys do not date. That’s a fact, Jack. I believe it’s the biggest problem facing our campus. Don’t tell me that it’s because there are no pretty girls. That’s a cop-out and it’s totally blown out of proportion. Guys also complain that they have no money to date because Notre Dame is so expensive. Why is it that schools that are just as expensive have a normal dating scene? Let’s face it, Notre Dame’s social scene sucks. ;
Maybe guys don’t date because they’ve been secluded from females all their lives due to all-male Catholic schools. As a result, they do not know how to interact with women. I don’t see the point in male-bonding. Guys complain about not getting any action, yet they sit in their rooms drinking beer with ALL MEN! Get a clue and get a date. Seriously, Mr. Manners, when’s the last time you had a date? Think about it.
Sincerely,
Lookin’ for lovin’
nights at ND are taken, but you never know. I’ll pencil you in.
Anyway, you’ve made some pretty harsh criticisms here. Some of them are true, but you make sweeping generalizations. They include me, another reason you’ll never date me. Not everyone is a guy-bonding introverted freak. Catholic school is definitely a big factor. It’s hard to find a more desocializing influence in the world. Who are you supposed to build a relationship with, the nuns? But that’s only half of us here. But I don’t think you’re trying to date the whole campus. The Notre Dame dating experience is something to get through as quickly as possible. If you find a few cool people to date, you are stastistically successful. Don’t waste your time complaining, get to St. Joe High School and make a difference.
Exhibit B: FROM THE BELLES
Dear Mr. Manners:
My friends and I have several questions about Notre Dame men. 1) Is is true that they are simply life-size hormones on legs? 2) Can they indeed exist for an undetermined amount of time on Doritos, Mountain Dew, and beer? 3) Do they regard all Saint Mary’s women as simple-minded fluff chicks? 4) Are they all Neanderthals or can some actually converse with women intelligently?
We hope you, a font of true wisdom, can answer these inquiries.
Sincerely,
Curious at SMC
P.S. Mind you, we’re open-minded about 'em, but enuffs enuff! We want to know the truth.
Dear Curious:
Yes, enough (correctly spelled) is enough. Insults get you nowhere. In answer to your questions: 1) Yes 2) Obviously 3) Never 4) Duh, what you mean?
Dear Lookin’,
First of all, never, never attempt to insult me in any way or you'll Nice week of mail. If you have a question that does not deal with the never get a date with me. In response to that question, you’ll have pitiful state ofromantic relations at Notre Dame, sendit along to Mr. to check with my secretary. I’d have to assume that the rest of my Manners, do Scholastic, 303 Lafortune. Ann Landers, I'm not.
24
SCHOLASTIC
WEEK IN DISTORTION
How Star Wars & Snuffleupagus
Ruined My Life
Junior Bill Rosemann examines a childhood ruined by Hollywood
by Bill Rosemann
BANG BANG. Two shots, that’s all it took. Twenty-eight years ago two bullets claimed not only a young president’s life, but a nation’s innocence. The conspiracy buffs are still trying to find a sinister scapegoat, and it seems even director Oliver Stone is joining the bandwagon with this years’ Christmas stocking stuffer “JFK.” I can’t blame the finger-pointers, however. You see, I’m investigating another conspiracy of a devious nature. The search continues for those who assassinated my faith. After extensive detective work, I’ve narrowed the suspects down to two possibilities:
1.	George Lucas: Mr. Lucas not only crafted undoubtedly the finest modem fairy tale with “The Star Wars Saga,” but he also claimed a piece of my soul. Imagine a wide-eyed youth, with a strawberry flavored Twizzler hanging forgotten from his jaw, listen to the dreaded Darth Vader tell the young Jedi, Luke Sky walker, “No Luke, I amyour father.” The Dark Lord of the Sith: Luke’s father?! Would the earth not implode? Blaspheme! Sacrilege! Say it ain’t so, George. Every fiber of my being screamed “No, nq, surely this could not be,” but deep in my soul, I knew it to be true. To save my sanity, I (like Luke) leapt into the chasm of denial.
For the next three years I existed within a pitiful facade of denial. I refused to accept that Mr. Lucas was building upon classic myths: the awkward farmboy (Luke), transformed into a brave (Jedi) knight, returns from exile to usurp his father the evil king (Vader). This was why Uncle Owen and Ben Kenobi spoke hesitantly about the death of Luke’s father. Anakin Sky walker never died, he walked among us in a shiny black
DECEMBER 12, 1991
helmet! My fragile psyche, faced with this hideous twist, rejected the troth. After all, Obi Wan told Luke that Vader had killed his father, and he would never lie... would you Ben?
Yoda, in “Return of the Jedi,” confirmed my greatest fear: Luke indeed sprang from the loins of Vader. At that moment my foundation of trust and belief crumbled into a pile of dust. After all, if Ben and Yoda could not be trusted, who could? I now regarded all figures of authority with dark suspicion: Are the nuns feeding me a bunch
cooler ' than any other whined and worried,
of malarky with this whole “God” thing? Are these my real parents, or are they Nazi spies? Lucas, when confronted with my questions, sneered “Kid, it’s just a movie. Geez, get a life.”
2.	JIMHENSON: Iknowit’snot polite to implicate those recently deceased, but I’m quite certain that Mr. Henson had a hand in this travesty. Remember Snuffleupagus, the huge woolly something-a-saurus that was Big Bird’s best buddy on Sesame Street? Recent developments concerning him have vanquished my faith in the goodness of humanity.
The coolest thing about Snuffleupagus was that no adult ever saw him. Even when the twelve ton beast lumbered behind a lamp post, Gordon and Mr. Hooper never seemed
to see him. Everyone thought that Big Bird was a raving lunatic when he (she? it?) tried to tell them aboutSnuffie. Butnotme.nosir, I saw Snuffle, I knew he existed. Snuffle was infinitely cooler than any other Muppet Sure he whined and worried, but he was all mine.
My heart glowed with pride, knowing only I could see Snuffle. He was all imaginary, friends come to life. No adult could see Snuffle and no adult ever would. Snuffle was proof that the magic of childhood was a living force as tangible as my Chuck Taylor high tops or my Big Wheel. Somewhere in the past decade, however, this beacon of hope was snuffed out (pun intended).
I recently turned on the television and witnessed the unthinkable: a group of adults were talking to Snuffle! Not only that, but standing next to Snuffie was some sort of miniature female Snuffleupagus! Snuffie is now seen by everyone and he has some snotty niece! Armageddon has arrived!
Do you know why the adults can now see him? So kids won’t be afraid to tell adults they’re being molested. The writers feel kids think they won’t be believed by adults if they tell them a secret Are these writers truly this dense? Get a clue: WE DIDN’T WANT HIMTO BE FOUND!!! Don’tthey realize they’re stripping Snuffie of his power, his aura, his very being? Do they not know they’re tinkering with cosmic order?
The evidence has been given. My childhood lies cold upon the examination table, the autopsy citing “betrayal of faith” as cause of death. If two bullets could rip apart a country, I guess two creative geniuses could shred my faith. Trusting no one except my dog, I have since retreated to my tree house with a box of Fig Newtons, a stack of comic books, and a loaded squirt gun. □
25
saossasa
842-:^
University of Notre Dome
SESQUICENT ENNI AL ANNIVERSARY
Glancing Back
The history of the brare
By Cricky Kavanaugh
A t the dedication ceremony of the ZjL Theodore M. Hesburgh Library in 1964, Dr. Grayson Kirk, president of Columbia University, spoke of the library as “the intellectual core of the institution. Here, if anywhere, is the yardstick by which the true dedication to the highest ideals of teaching and research is to be measured.” However, the construction of the main library was by no means Notre Dame’s first endeavor to create an “intellectual core” for the university. The history of the library network on campus is long and richly interwoven with tradition, hard work and many names of Notre Dame lore.
Although today, Notre Dame students have at their leisure 1,845,801 books to peruse and read within the main library and its eight branches, in the earlier days of the university students were not so fortunate. Not until 1874 did Notre Dame open a circulating library open to both faculty and students. However, forever dedicated to intellectual pursuit and to the expansion of studies outside of the classroom, Notre Dame students took initiative and established their own literary societies. These clubs served as sources of literature and discussion of scholarly topics. In 1850 The St. Aloysius Literary Society was founded for these purposes, and six years later, they founded the first student library.
At the time of the start of the first student library in 1856, the library on campus was only open to faculty. Soon thereafter, many other literary societies sprung up to accommodate the academic needs and cerebral wonderings of the student body. The St.
Aloysius Philodemics, thePhilopatrians and the St Edwards Library Society were the first to follow theexamplebf their predecessor. In keeping with the great tradition of sports atNotreDame, at their firstmeeting in the early 1870’s the Philodemics hosted a formal debate for students on whether baseball was better than boating.
File Photo
The Architecture Building as the library.
Although these literary clubs flourished, in 1873 Notre Dame appropriated the society libraries over the objection of the clubs and a year later opened to students the first university-sponsored circulating library. According to a December, 1874 report in Scholastic magazine, ‘The authorities, recognizing the fact that the students will read books not used in class, in spite of all that can be done, established the Lemmonier Circulating Library for the use of the students in order that the books which they read may be
of such nature as will be useful to the reader.” The library was. named after Auguste Lemonnier, CSC; Notre Dame’s fourth president and founder of the university’s first circulating library. When the library first opened in 1874, fees were charged for its use. The cost was $1 for nonstudents and students not members of a literary or religious society, and 50 cents for members of literary and religious societies. Today, the $6,509,670 of library expenditures are totally financed by endowments, gifts and grants and university allocations.
In 1879 a fire destroyed the university’s main building and most of its library collection, but by 1890 the library was restored in the new main building.' For the majority of its existence, this library was run by Fr. James Edwards, CSC. Compared to the 430,000 square feet of the main library today, this library, located in the front projection of the main building’s third floor, only occupied 650 square feet This room also served as home for the Bishop’s Memorial Hall and Catholic Archives of America. These foundations were part of a museum founded by Edwards containing artifacts commemorative of the American hierarchy, missionaries and lay men and women who helped play a role in American religious history.	.
As Notre Dame grew in enrollment and stature, Edwards played ah instrumental role in keeping the university in sync with the latest developments in library technology and organization. During.his years as curator and head librarian from 1876 until his death in 1911, he worked toward the goal of increasing the number and variety of books in the library and revamped the organiza-
26
SCHOLASTIC

Nick Spangler
tional system. After the death of Edwards, Paul Foik, CSC, came to Notre Dame in 1912 with no formal librarian trainingd to take over Edwards’ position. What Foik is best remembered for in Notre Dame library lore is his successful attempt at the promoting the construction of a new building solely dedicated to the function of a campus library. The result of his endeavors was the Lemonnier Library.
On the day of the dedication of the Lemonnier Library in 1917, during the seventy-fifth anniversary of Notre Dame, even President William Taft attended the ceremony. This building, first named the Lemonnier Library Building, is the Architecture Library today and is commonly known as the “original” library in the minds of most Notre Daime students and alumnae who can not remember back to the days before its construction 1917. The Lemonnier Library contained 150,000 volumesand also housed the Catholic Archives of America. Unfortunately, the Bishop’s Memorial Hall did not continue to exist in the new library but rather came to an end in
1917, and the artifacts were put in storage. Unlike the old library in the main building, this library had places for students to sit and study—in silence, of course. This building remained the main library until 1963.
In 1961, the massive construction began on the Theodore M. Hesburgh Library, and on September 18th, 1963, the doors opened for business. The cost of immense 14-story structure exceeded $1.2 million. It has a two million volume capacity, and reading room for over 3,300 people. In addition, the main branch presently contains over 14,000 serials and over900,000 microcards, microfiches and microfilms combined. This library’s collections are primarily of interest to students in the College of Arts & Letters and the College of Business, although students of every college can be found studying at the main library, and using its online computer services. In addition, The Rare Books Room and the Special Collections Department are located in the main library.
The eight smaller libraries on campus are specialized, and designed to meet the re
search needs of the Law School, and the Colleges of Engineering and Science. The Engineering Library is located on the first floor of the Cushing Hall of Engineering and provides materials and information in the fields of aerospace, electrical, civil, chemical and matallurgical engineering and materials science. Reference works on architecture, design and architectural history, along with monographs and research journals and an extensive slide collection can all be found in the Architecture Library, formerly the Lemonnier Library. The Mathematics Library is on the second floor of the ComputerMathematics Building and includes information relating to mathematical sciences. The Kirsch-Wenninger Life Sciences Research Library in
Galvin and, the Chemistry/Physics Research Library on the second floor of Nieuwland and the Earth Sciences Library in Brownson Hall hold research journals, monographs, reference works and indexing and abstracting services for students and faculty in all areas of the sciences. In addition to these six main branches of the Hesburgh Library are the the Law Library, located directly west of Cushing Hall, and the Radiation Research Library, located between Decio Faculty Hall and the main library.
From the days of the student-run St. Aloysius Literary Society Library in 1850 to the university’s present library system, internationally networked with over 165 other academic and research institutions, Notre Dame has increased student and faculty access to research material from only a few hundred-from to over three million volumes. The libraries, as the “yardstick by which true dedication... to the ideals of teaching and research” are measured have helped make Notre Dame the intellectual and academic institution of higher education it is today.□
DECEMBER 12,1991
27
i
Political Correctness:
Why the Concern Now? I by Manuel Antonio Espino-Michel
Political correctness. It has been likened to
McCarthyism, the Salem Witch Hunt, and other abominable acts of injustice. But I ask myself, is this
Manuel Antonio
Espino-Michel is a senior English and Spanish double major.
really the case? When thinking of political correctness, which is now being defined as suggesting that there is only one correct view to hold, or else suffer the consequences, I think of history.
Conservatives, in my estimation, have created the term “political correctness” to fend off such “threatening” schools of thought such as feminism, affirmative action, multiculturalism, speech and racial harassment codes, decanonization of most European writers and the inclusion of more women and other “minority” groups in the literary canon, the disarmament of weapons for peace, and gay rights.
In doing so, I must admit they have done a good job. Conservatives have managed to proselytize liberals into subscribing to this new epidemic of political correctness, and with George Bush at the helm others are following. Their main arguments consist of freedom of expression and free speech.
The same people who for years have been suppressing freedom of expression and free speech from others through their opposition to civil rights, the same people who have been for censorship and the promoting of “traditional family values” at the expense of free expression and free speech are the same ones who are now holding the First Amendment so dear to their hearts.
The same people who have been shoving (to borrow their term) “political correctness” down other peoples’ throats for centuries are now the people who are crying wolf. Ironically, the conservatives have managed to get the American Civil Liberties Union on their side, and more moderate liberals have joined the fight against this new “political correctness.”
If the conservatives are now too afraid to speak out against affirmative action, gender studies, multicultural and cross-cultural studies, and gay rights for fear of being labeled racist, sexist, homophobic, and close-minded, that is just too bad! For centuries, African-Americans, Latin-Americans, Asian-Americans, and Native-Americans have been denied of their voice, and their views were quickly suppressed, but for these groups more than their speech was being suppressed, their human existence was being suppressed. Slavery, Jim Crow laws, racism, relocation camps, obliteration and theft of lands, and overall disenfranchisement were what these groups suffered, and to a certain extent, still are suffering.
Conservatives who do not hold a “political correct” ideal suffer. Their egos suffer a lot because though they think they are right, more and more people are showing
them they are wrong, and being wrong is not exactly what egos like to here, especially male egos. Though I do
admit that some suffering to other than egos exists, the reported number of abuses of this so-called “political correctness epidemic” are the exception rather than the rule. Some centers of higher learning may have gone a bit too far in trying to deal with the sensitivities of the “underdog group,” and some students have suffered needlessly for it, but the problem stems from determining what is too far.
For some, the re-writing of the Bible is too far. Gender-inclusive language is frowned upon, as is the spelling of “woman” as “womyn.” However, ifpeople truly think about it, language is a very powerful tool, and in excluding women and other groups from history, a historical lie has been perpetuated. “Lighten up!” people say, but for too long we have lightened up. The time has come to radically reconstruct our society, and to borrow the expressions from Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. through “peaceful means,” for in the end, the goal is “peaceful ends.” Though it is difficult to be sensitive to the needs of others, particularly others of whom many have no knowledge, it does not mean that we should stop trying, but rather to stop using ignorance as an excuse.
I fully support affirmative action, gender studies, multiculturalism, the decanonization of most European writers and the canonization of writers more relevant to our times (such as Alice Walker, Kate Chopin, Charlotte Perkins Gilman, Ralph Ellison, Gabriel Garcia Marquez, etc.) peaceful, not military, resolutions to international disputes, gay rights, and free speech to the point where it does not harass others.
I feel, too, that for too long I as a Chicano have been spoon-fed a historical fiction (though it is called history), great literature that is not as relevant to my life today, racist intolerance and harassment, arid the arguments that the aforementioned “minority” groups have had nothing significant to offer the rest of the world. The time has come for change, and I laud the more liberal institutions of higher learning in this country for taking the initiative to dispel the “true political correctness” that has existed — that of the conservatives.
Despite this new support bf the underdogs in the attempt to right the wrongs of the past, nothing will ever be able to give “us” (the “minority groups) back what was taken from us, but throughout it all, we have had our dignity; and in pursuing this new school of thought, I hope we can regain the power to rise above where we have been placed and believed for too long we should be placed.	□
SCHOLASTIC

harp opM St hap
TW	Wife)
PUMP^T^ 1MY ML-
WH£ HOPP'fW-W
ONE W, /MP A WRAL 5UP UP Hl$ PW W WENT to PKB AS w WW OF fWMb HM MT //iM AN iiWMlbAlM Pps/iioM.
Lfcfc^l
SECESSION for FUN * PROFIT

5
o
E © V)
ATTENTION! YoV ARE NOW ENTERING THE INOEPENoENT REPUBLIC op o^R Table! our nation rejects Your BlLU WE DEWW PEACEFUL coexistence, RESPECT ANO FREE REER.
Scholastic is still accepting cartoonist applications. Please submit three samples of your work to 303 LaFortune or call 239-7569 for more information.
