The- Scholastic
Notre Dame Men “On Location"
.1 group of the planers in “The Spirit of Notre Dawe,” featuring Lciv Agers and a number of foriher Notre Dame athletes. The above picture was filmed in Hollywood and is a replica of the Dining Halls on the campus.
Those in the picture arc: (left to right) Don Miller, Frank Carideo, William Bakewell, Andy Devine, Father Broughal, who acted as technical advisor, Elmer Layden, Ley Ayers, Harry Stuhldrchcr, Jim Crowley, and Vernon Rickard.
(Story on Page Six)
A
September 25, 1931
THE SCHOLASTIC is published -weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts man be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 110-3, October .3,1317, authorized .June 2.7, 1318.
NEIL C. HURLEY
HENRY B. ASWAN.
Editor-in-Chief
Managing
Editor
Associate
WILLIAM CORR MYRON CRAWFORD
News
EDMUND STEPHAN.. F. GRANGER WEIL.. RICHARD MOLIQUE WALTER KENNEDY JAMES COLVIN
Editors
JAMES CARMODY
LESLIE RADDATZ
Staff
.........News	Editor
Assistant News Editor
JOSEPH DEGNAN LARRY DUNDA
Department Editors PAUL J. HALLINAN.............The	Week
JOHN PICK.;.............College Parade
LOUIS F. BRENNAN.........Book Reviews
JOHN CONLEY..............Campus Clubs
WALTER JOHNSON..........Features Editor
JOHN RYAN.............Music	and Drama
Sports Staff
EDMUND MORIARTY..........Sports	Editor
JAMES McFEELEY, Jr. JOSEPH KURTH
CLEVE CAREY GEORGE BELTING T. EDWARD CAREY JAMES KEARNS	IRVING B. HALPER
Desk Editors
WILLIAM BLIND	LLOYD TESKE
J. DON SULLIVAN JOHN RUSNAK
Busins.,s Staff
ANDREW McGUAN.............Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER, .tss't. Circulation Mgr. JOHN P. HESS ROBERT FITZSIMMONS DANIEL E. BRENNAN JOSEPH SIMON J. ALBERT SMITH	HARRY McGOWAN
FRED BAUER. Jr Advertising Manager JOHN F. STOECKLEY... .Graduate Manager
Volume LXVIf Ct? 5
SEPTEMBER 25, 1931
Number 1.
COMMUNICA TIONS
Ticket Prices
To the Editor of the Scholastic:
Sir: The thought struck me while I was looking over the prices of football tickets for this fall that we might advantageously reduce the admission premium for some of the home games. It appears to me that the high rates demanded at present will do much to keep many parents and alumni away from the campus during the ensuing seven or eight weeks,— people who have undoubtedly been looking forward ot a trip to Notre Dame.
Several universities have taken into consideration the status of the fan’s pocketbook these days and as a result have arranged a system of prices that enable the average individual to attend the less important contests for an admission fee as low as a dollar.
Such’ a move might well be taken at Notre Dame, with seats behind the goal posts selling for lower prices than those along the gridiron. The - University naturally would not be expected to effect such an arrangement for games that are natural sell-outs, but a few of tlie home contests this year will not draw capacity crowds.
The farmer, after selling as much of his wheat as he can at the home price, often, transports the remainder abroad to get what he can for it, rather than let it rot. Similarly some
No anonymous communications will be accepted. Names and addresses will be withheld on lequest.
of the poorer seats in the stadium might be sold at reduced prices rather than let them lie vacant.
Badinite.
“Juggler” on Bill
To the Editor of the Scholastic :
SIR: The high school I attended received the Juggler. Reading the Jitggler gave me my first contact with Notre Dame publications—and, incidentally, my first contact with Notre Dame. I was much surprised, therefore, when I arrived on the campus and found out that the Juggler isn’t included in the plan by which the student receives the Dome and the Scholastic.
I should think that from the point of view of both the Juggler and the student it would be advisable to have the humor magazine on the bill as well as the yearbook and the paper. This would save trouble for the student and assure the Juggler of a steady circulation. If there are any obstacles which would hinder the execution of this plan they don’t occur to me.
Perhaps this query is being addressed to the wrong party, but I understand that the columns of the Scholastic are open to questions of general campus interest.
John Hedges.
Praises S. A. C.
To the-Editor of the Scholastic:
Sir: The Student Activities Council certainly did a fine thing for the freshmen in putting up their, information booths. Instead of not knowing where things were and even not knowing whom to ask I found a bunch of fellows ready to tell me anything that I wanted to know. I know that this courteous action was appreciated by the Freshmen. I, for one, am grateful.
. A Grateful Frosh.
Selling Last Year’s Papers
To the Editor of the Scholastic :
SIR: May I suggest that students desiring to sell articles in the campus halls be equipped with a letter from the faculty member in charge of concessions. It makes it difficult for us freshmen to tell whether we are purchasing articles that are really necessary or not.
The halls on the campus, especially among the freshmen, have been peopled with solicitors during the past week, selling everything from last year’s Scholastics to subscriptions for the present Juggler.
How are we to tell which is authentic?
James Murphy.
4
The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
SEPTEMBER SCORN
OME freshman should write this initial Week. He, confident after that first quaver, could write with enthusiasm of his room, his classes, the natives of South Bend. He, unexposed as yet to the rigors of theme-writing, could express those incomplete emotions of the first week. Untired by the repetitious “Java good summer?” he could assure you that it’s a great world and a great university.
Thousands have said it, but Henry Ford’s statement is handy. “People are doing a lot of thinking today. They’ve got to get used to a new era.” No group knows this better than the class of ’35. In the new era which its members are starting, they’ll find that the class-room is 1,200 acres in -size, with a strip of Michigan avenue added to it. It’s a large order.
Meanwhile, it’s a pleasure to see a decrease in the campus contempt for the new-comers. The Mission, as Father O’Hara pointed out, checks to a certain degree the exploitation of the frosh. The S. A. C., for the first time in years, were on time with their “howdies.” The Juggler will not have a Fresh man issue to call attention to the pseudo-inanities of the class. Gentlemen of 1935, you really are welcome!
PLATINUM COAST?
AJAMA-CLAD, sockless, shoeless, Albert Einstein appeared recently on vacation. Sartorially, the eminent physicist is a distinct failure. Scientifically, some are inclined to think, he is not a complete success either.
In the matter of Notre Dame’s housing history, his theory of relativity is well established. Years ago, Brownson was called derisively “Gold Coast.” Later Sorin was tagged the same by Brownson. When Corby was built, it became the home of the aristocracy, sneered at by the onetime nobility of Sorin. Walsh in 1917 replaced Corby. Lyons, Morrissey and Howard edged out Walsh.
As soon as the freshmen of Dillon-to-be and the resi-dents-elect of Alumni hall can be collected from the outposts of northern Indiana where they are temporarily staying, the order will change again. To the new, splendid halls will go the title of “Gold Coast of 1931.”
Applied economics
T TEXAS TECH, a truck-load of beans went to the Registrar. A receipt for three months’ room and board went to one Herbert Bell. A Virginia college, going further, announced that any student who had plenty of farm stuffs but little cash could make arrangements for a barter-education.
Although Registrar Riordan has not been approached in a similar vein yet, the situation is not as different as it appears at first. Some have bartered two or three years of their youth to bank enough to “go through” Notre Dame. Over 400 right now are bartering time and talent on part-time jobs.
The days when college was a country-club are giving way to days when the belt is tightened and work actually begins. There is a gradual tightening all along the line.
The theater situation
HIS term, perhaps, needs an explanation. By theater, in these parts, one of three things is meant: (1) the university catalog means the University Theater which, in an average year, presents three plays: (2) the Juggler means the Chicago playhouses, basing its usage on the assumption that all Notre Dame men spend at least one week-end a month in the city; (3) the Week, however, means the down-town palaces of screendom along with the Saturday night jaunt over to Washington Hall.
Playhouse Square (by which is meant Michigan avenue from the Palace to the Strand, with the Colfax and Oliver thrown in) had its most inauspicious September in years. The cinemenu was uniformly weak with one of the houses closed. By the time Lunt and Fontaine in “The Guardsmen,” “Street Scene,” Greta Garbo in “Susan Lennox,” “Farewell to Arms,” Fredric March in “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,” Cantor’s “Palmy Days” and Bennett’s “Imperial Palace” are released, the South Bend theaters will, it is sincerely hoped, have awakened. If not, they will be scooped by the campus’ silver screen.
“Young As You Feel” was a significant, if unannounced, triumph for Washington Hall last Saturday evening. The villain was hissed and the comedy applauded according to the best traditions of that venerable showhouse. One thing was missing.
No one cried, “Close that door,” when the lights went out.
♦
ONE HUNDRED SENIORS
VER in England, a prisoner recently ate his breakfast, his spoon, the chain of his cell and the staple on the door. No goat, he illustrates well what man will do to satisfy hunger.
Father Murch must have been impressed by an example of this insistent law of nature, when hundreds of seniors scurried to his office last Tuesday and Wednesday. An announcement had been made that the first 100 fourth-year men who presented themselves to him could eat in the cafeteria instead of the refectory.
To the unfavored, it’s some consolation to see the extended queue in the cafeteria.
ONE HUNDRED BOOKS
UT of the millions of published books, only a small percentage are worth a college student’s time. Out of the scores of “Best Reading” lists, only a few are followed by college men.
In Cardinal Hayes’ selection of “One Hundred Worthwhile Books” there is agreeably lacking that cock-sure attitude of most literary prescriptions. One may read other books and be well-read. The committee merely says that these are worth-while, some as reading, some as reference.
“The Philosophy of Value” by Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., and “Introduction to Metaphysics” by Rev. C. C. Miltner, C.S.C., and Professor O’Grady are Notre Dame’s contributions ta the list.
i
September' 25, 1931
FINISHING TOUCHES ARE APPLIED TO NEW
RESIDENCE BUILDINGS
ALUMNI TO OPEN SHORTLY
Dillon Ready Within a Month; Speed Work on Engineering and Commerce Buildings.
Work on the four new buildings on the south side of the campus is now concentrated on the finishing touches, according to the general contractors and in two weeks the juniors who have been forced to make their residence in South Bend will be lodged within the walls of Alumni hall.
Concurrently comes the word that Dillon hall, the future abode for nearly three hundred freshmen, will be habitable about ten days after the opening of Alumni. Neither of these buildings will be completely finished on the above dates because some rather delicate work is yet to be done in the two chapels.
The two halls have wide spacious hallways, bright airy rooms, striking woodwork finishes, capacious showers —every convenience down to slots for old razor* blades. Fireplaces adorn the rooms of the rectors, who this year will be the Reverend Raymond Clancy, C.S.C., in Alumni, and the Reverend Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C., in Dillon.
Following the completion of the two residence halls over eighty-five percent of the student body will be housed on the campus, making it necessary for only about 400 to live in South Bend.
Classes are already being held in the new Commerce building, but special work on the interior and about the main entrance is being delayed. Workmen are awaiting the arrival of a huge aluminum globe to be placed in the lobby. Design work on the floors and walls has almost reached completion.
The engineering building will probably be completed by December and ready for occupancy after the Christmas vacation. Machine shops will be in use, however, long before the rest of the structure has been finished. The old engineering building, now very drab alongside the bright walls of Dillon hall, will be torn down con-
Scholastic Candidates
There will be a meeting of all candidates for places on the news, sports, and feature staffs of the Scholastic for the coming year at 7 p. m. in Room 222 of the Main Building. It is imperative that all men wishing to try out for the staff be present at this initial meeting. Members of last year’s staffs must also attend.
The usual meeting of the editorial board will be held at 6:30 p. m. in the offices of the Board of Publications.
NORTHWESTERN GAME IS CHOSEN BY S. A. C. AS STUDENT TRIP
The Northwestern football game to be held at Soldier’s Field, Chicago, October 10, was chosen by the Student Activities Council, at their meeting last Sunday, as the official student trip of the season. It was also announced that 100 tickets for the game with the Army to be played on Thanksgiving day in the Yankee stadium, New York, will be held for students of Notre Dame deciding to make the trip.
Special railroad rates for the trip to New York will be made by the railroad companies.
In preparation for the Rockne Memorial football game to be held Saturday, the S.A.C. will reserve the sections of the stadium occupied by the students at the games last year, as student sections for this game. These sections are on the west side of the stadium.
The purpose of keeping a part of the stadium for the students is to allow the cheer leaders to practice for the games to come later, and all are urged by Herbert P. Giorgio, president of the S.A.C., to be in these sections.
comitantly with the opening of the new.
The striking Gothic architecture of the four edifices has added enormously to the general appearance of the campus as a whole. The two residence halls, it is said, are built very much along the same lines as are the student houses on the Yale campus in New Haven.
ROCKNE GAME TO DRAW 20,000 FANS SATURDAY FOR FIELDHOUSE FUND
PLAYERS SEEK POSITIONS
Newcomers on Squad Striving To Displace Veterans of Former Campaigns.
By T. Edward Carey
Members of the Notre Dame football squad, divided into two teams, will clash in a regulation game tomorrow in the Notre Dame Stadium to decide who will be on the travelling squad which journeys to Bloomington next week to open the season against Indiana. The public will be admitted to the game, and the proceeds will go toward the erection of the Rockne Memorial Field House. A group of one hundred downtown business men have been organized into teams to dispose of the tickets, and every effort is being made to fill the stadium.
The various team captains meet at noon daily to report the progress of the sales, and early reports indicate that a crowd of approximately 20,000 will be present. Railroads are offering half rate tickets from Indianapolis, Chicago, and all intermediate points.
This game is a part of a nationwide drive to raise $1,000,000 for the erection of the Rockne Memorial Field House. The drive proper will not be held until the middle of November, but the proceeds of the game, including gate receipts, parking, programs, and concessions will be applied against the South Bend quota in the drive.	.
Some real football should be displayed tomorrow since it is virtually the last chance that the boys will have to battle for positions in the opening lineup. With such an abundance of material that the coaches have to choose from this year it will be a real job to pick a first team, and everyone will be out there tomorrow to simplify matters by outshining their mates. The game will take the place of the annual Freshman-Varsity struggle for varsity squad eliminations.
The Scholastic
PRELIMINARY PUNS FOR COTILLION ANNOUNCED BY SOPHOMORE PRESIDENT
Laurence A. Licalzi Is Named Chairman of Year’s First Social Event
John P. Ffrench of New York City, president of the class of 1934 announced some preliminary information regarding the Sophomore Cotillion. Although the actual date has not as yet been chosen it will probably be held in November, either the week-end of the Pennsylvania game November 7, or the week-end of the Southern California game, November 21.
Laurence A. Licalzi of Chicago has been appointed to the position of general chairman. As the Scholastic goes to press the chairman had not appointed his sub-committees and their respective chairmen, but this information will be forthcoming next week.
As has been customary in past years the scene of the dance will probably be in the Palais Royale ballroom in South Bend. Attempts will be made to secure one of the leading orchestras in the Middle West to supply the music for the sophomores and their guests.
The chairman of the decoration committee is being given grave con-
Physics Book Written by Prof. O’Connell
The “Physics Laboratory Manual,” by Eugene D. O’Connell, of the Notre Dame University teaching staff, made its appearance on the campus last week for the first time. It has been intended for use by both scientific and engineering undergraduates.
Only the most important points of theory are brought out, these points to be studied and the results to be determined experimentally according to only one method instead of several, because so many of the different possible methods result in the obtaining of only slightly variant answers. Stress is laid on principle. The manual aims further to show by its experiments that physics is a science dealing with exact measurements.
Physics text books in the past have contained laboratory instructions in much detail, diagrams and also a complete background in theory. Those
'sideration by the men in charge of the danced The officers of this year’s class are doing everything in their power to provide an unique motif for the Cotillion of 1931.
Ffrench, president of the class, states that “all will be done by the officers and men in charge of the dance to make the sophomores and their guests look upon the Cotillion of ’31 as a memorable, occasion.”
When asked about plans, Licalzi, general chainnan, declined to make any comment but he said: “Sincere efforts will be made to secure everything possible in the way of a suitable orchestra and decorations to make the dance successful.”
Although the dance will probably be held in the Palais Royale several influential factions of the class are clamoring to hold the dance in the University dining hall. Another unique suggestion from one of the members of the class was that the “Jugglers,” University orchestra, should be selected to provide the music for the dance.
of more recent times, however, because of the great strides in physical discovery that have been made in the past thirty years, have given more attention to these' modem discoveries and less consideration to the detailed laboratory procedure. Such is the manner in which this manual has been written.
A reasonably sufficient amount of the basic theory for the experiments and all of the necessary instructions for the working of the experiments have been incorporated in its pages. The necessity of making accurate notations of results obtained so that full value may be obtained from the experiments is likewise emphasized. Tables of logarithms and of natural functions of angles are presented in the back of the book for the convenience of the student.
IMPRESSIVE CEREMONY MARKS OPENING OF SCHOLASTIC YEAR
The scholastic year of 1931-1932 began officially last Sunday morning in Sacred Heart church with the celebration of a solemn High Mass at 9:00 o’clock. Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, was the celebrant. Reverend Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C., was deacon, Reverend Leo Ward, C.S.C., the sub-deacon, and Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, assisted at the ceremony. The Moreau seminary choir sang the accompanying music for the Mass.
The sermon was delivered by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. It concerned itself with the means by which the development of manhood, in Catholic education was made strong and lasting, means which are of so much benefit to youth in our Catholic schools today. '
FACULTY MEMBERS HOME FROM SUMMER TRAVEL
Professor Charles Phillips of the English department of the University recently returned to Notre Dame after spending most of his vacation in England where he was in attendance at the summer school session of Oxford university. Other members of the faculty who continued their studies during the vacation period included Professor Frank Moran of the English department and Professor Philip Riley of the Modern Language department who were enrolled at the University of Chicago.
It Could Happen to You!
The Scholastic looks with mingled compassion and despair on the plights of some of the incoming members of the class of ’35. We have it from an authentic source that the equipment of one freshman on his arrival here included nothing other than an electric clock which he immediately attached to the plug in his room. For the life of him he couldn’t understand why he was unable to get up in the morning before the bloomin’ thing reached 10:00 o’clock.
7
September 25, 1931
‘SPIRIT OF NOTRE DAME” WILL BE RELEASED FOR WORLD PREMIER HERE
ROCKNE AUTOBIOGRAPHY IN DELUXE EDITION TO APPEAR SOON
Lew Ayres And Wm. Bakewell Play Leading Roles In Universal Picture
“The Spirit of Notre Dame,” a Universal sound-movie dedicated to Knute Rockne which was begun last spring with the filming of several scenes on the campus, is now nearing completion. According to the Reverend Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., who represented the University in the capacity of technical advisor, the picture will be shown here in the near future.
The story written by Richard Schayer and Dale Van Every revolves around two freshmen, Bucky O’Brien played by Lew Ayres and Jim Stewart played by William Bakewell, who,-rooming together, become fast friends. O’Brien comes as a high school flash laden with pictures, clipping's, and letter sweater. Stewart is out for track, but is caught by the glamor of football. He becomes a great ball carrier. Before the Northwestern game the coach finds it necessary to shift the positions of O’Brien and Stewart. This becomes a rankling sore, the result of which are told in the sequel.
Besides Lew Ayres and William Bakewell the cast includes such stars as Andy Devine, Harry Barris, J. Farrel McDonald, Nat Pendleton, and
Sally Blane. Notre Dame talent is conspicuous in the list of players. Such nationally known heroes of the gridiron as Frank Carideo, Don Miller, Elmer Layden, Jim Crowley, Harry Stuhldreher, Adam Walsh, Bucky O’Connor, John Law, Lawrence Mullins, Art McMahmon, Al Howard, and John O’Brien take part. Vernon Rickard, a graduate of the class of 1925 plays the part of the Rector of Freshman hall. In addition all the incidental music including the music for the Junior Prom scene, is by Notre Dame composers.
The Hollywood Reporter says the following about “The Spirit of Notre Dame”: “It is the best college picture since the coming of the talkies; We’ll say it’s the best college picture since ‘Brown of Harvard.’ It is good because it is real . . . the spirit is there . . . It is Notre Dame.”
The Hollywood Herald also recommends the picture. “There is sound philosophy in ‘The Spirit of Notre.'" Dame,’ it says. “It is the philosophy of keeping your eye on your goal and your mind on your work. It is the philosophy of fair play and more, the cornerstone of success, team play.”
Announcement of the publication October 1 of the Autobiography of Knute Kenneth Rockne in a limited deluxe edition of 2,400 copies, has been made by a South Bend book store. Before his untimely death Rockne himself had completed the intimate story of his career to the year 1930 in a narrative of 49,000 words, and, in addition, this volume contains a chapter by Mrs. Rockne, a forward and concluding chapter by the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., intimate friend of the coach, who was president of Notre Dame when Rockne began his university football career.
Each one of these special copies is numbered and bears a facsimile signature of the author, with the autographs of Mrs. Rockne and Father Cavanaugh.
Among the interesting features of the book is a chart of the Rockne family tree which traces the author's ancestry to Norse nobility of the fourteenth century.
The format of the book is an octavo size, printed on special paper, the end papers carrying an airplane view of the campus of Notre Dame. The book is bound in blue cloth with gold, with the jacket carrying an illustration of the Rockne bust by Christian Petersen.
A stitched copy of the book is now in the hands of Father Cavanaugh.
NEW BOOK STORE BUILT IN BADIN BASEMENT
Library Announces Additional Books
The University library announces that the following books are now available to students in the University. Another list of books in other classifications will be found elsewhere in the Scholastic this week.
Journalism: Magazine Making, by John E. Bakeless.
Literature: Poetic Diction, by Owen Barfield; American Literature as an Expression of the National Mind, by Russell Blankenship; The Queen of Seven Swords, by Gilbert Keith Chesterton; Catullus and Horace, by Tenney Frank; English Literary Periodicals, by Walter J. Graham; Wet Wit and Dry Humor, by Stephen B. Leacock; The Shorn Lamb, by William J. Locke; The Apple Cart, by George Bernard Shaw; A Literary Man’s London, by Charles G. Harper.
Literary Biography: James Feni-more Cooper, by Henry W. Boynton; Milton, by Eustace M. W. Tillyard; The Polish Heritage of Joseph Conrad, by Gustav Morf.
Philosophy and Psychology: The Dissatisfied Worker, by Vivian E. Fisher; Man and His Universe, by John Langdon-Davies; Old Errors and New Labels, by Rev. Fulton J. Sheen, S. J.
Poetry: Fatal Interview, by Edna St. Vincent Millay.
Religion: The Divine Romance, by Rev. Fulton J. Sheen, S. J.
Religion Biography: Mere Marie of the Ursulines, by Agnes Repplier; The Angelic Doctor, by Jacques Mari-tain.	.
The book store, long located in the Main building, has this year taken possession of the south half ‘of the lower floor of Badin hall. The lost and found department is now located on the site of the old book store.
The lower floor of Badin, during the many years since the construction of the hall, has served varied purposes. Originally it was the student’s refectory. But when the new dining halls were erected it was changed into classrooms. Later a recreation room for the members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and quarters for the cleaning and pressing department were made out of the north half. The change of the south half into the book store took place this summer, with the result that service has been speeded up considerably for student purchasers.
The Scholastic
MUSIC AND DRAMA
RADDATZ ANNOUNCES DOME APPOINTMENTS
BY JOHN E. RYAN.
Possibly there was a reason for the scarcity of plays in Chicago this summer ; at any rate, the season was dull, with no more than five middling things open at any time. The situation was relieved, of course, by the presence at Ravinia of several renowned artists, whose chief occupation seemed to be the rendering of “Peter Ibbetson.” Not that the repetition was offensive to the audience, for it was not if we may judge by the crowds which attended each performance.
New York, on the other hand, did fairly well, what with “The Barretts of Wimpole Street,” “Grand Hotel,” “The Third Little Show,” and “The Band Wagon.” Others, too, of course, but not of that calibre. Others, in fact, so bad that the season was saved only by the extremely good quality of the minority.
The opening for Chicago (unless the producers are kidding us all again) will get under way only a month after the traditional time. Labor Day passed with nothing startling the critics. They have sharpened up their satiric tongues and pens by this time, however, and await with their customary complacence the first week of October, when they are promised some material for a column or two. “Girl Crazy,” “Private Lives,” and “The Venetian” are due at that time, soon to be followed by the opening of the Civic Shakespeare Company, for what is expected to be the greatest year that organization will have achieved.
Students at the University of Illi-
Reception Committee Made Annual Feature
Due to the success of the freshman reception committee organized this year by the Student Activities council, the S.A.C. decided at their meeting Sunday to make it one of their annual functions. The committee met incoming freshmen at the trains during the days of registration and directed them to the school and halls, and also conducted an information booth on the campus.
nois are offered an enviable opportunity in the way of cultural development each year by the presentation of “The Star Course,” a series of concerts and recitals by such artists as Rosa Raisa, Beniamino Gigli, and Lawrence Tibbett. Season tickets may be had as low as four dollars, yet we understand that little interest is shown, as evidenced by the discouragingly small attendance in past years.
We had realized some of the pleasure of being back at school previous to last Sunday, but listening to Moreau choir at the nine o’clock Mass gave us a sense of security and ease. Notre Dame is accustomed to publicity to the extent that we sometimes pass unnoticed those features of the University and its surroundings which are not favored (or should we say favored?) with headlines. This point might be enlarged, but under the circumstances may we point out to the incoming Freshman that he may well give a moment of his time to the consideration of this worthy group of artists?
“The Green Pastures,” lately moved to Chicago, and already well entrenched in the esteem of playgoers of that city, needs no introduction to those who, now and then, glance through the theatre columns. If tes-' timony to its value were needed, we should but need to consider that the last night the play was presented in New York, it was witnessed by a house of veteran first-nighters, many of whom shed proud tears as the chorus closed the performance.
Herbert P. Giorgio, president of the S.A.C., was the chairman of the committee composed of Eugene T. Connelly, Paul O’Toole, John Finneran, Victor Schafner, John Kramer, William Harrington, Fran Oelrich, Florence McCarthy, Benjamin Mikes, Joseph Grogan, Frank Donalty, Charles Hitelberger, Casimir Dynie-wicz, and John Perone.
First Candidates Meeting Next Monday.
Leslie Raddatz, editor of the 1931 Dome, the annual publication of the University, made two important announcements this week, relating to the staff personnel, and the year’s first meeting.
Appointments were Edmund Stephan, Sports Editor; Cleve Carey, Campus Editor; Lloyd Teske, University Editor; James Clarke, Managing Editor; John Conley, Organization Editor; John Pick, Dramatics Editor, and Paul Halilnan, Satire Editor. Arthur Becvar was appointed Art Editor last May.
The first meeting of the year’s staff and prospective members of this year’s group will be held on Monday, September 28, at eight o’clock in the Publications office. Underclassmen are urged to be present at this meeting.
Enrollment Shows Gain
Despite efforts of University officials to limit enrollment for the 193132 scholastic year to 3,000 students, unofficial figures released from the Registrar’s office this week, indicate the present enrollment to be more than 3,100.
With an increase of thirty, the College of Science leads all departments in increased enrollment. The remaining five schools either increased their enrollment from two to ten students or decreased by only one or two.
The College of Arts and Letters again has the largest enrollment, more than twelve hundred being registered. The College of Commerce is listed second by the Registrar’s report with 911.
Following are figures for the other colleges of the University: Engineering, 479; Science, 300; Law, 140; and the Graduate department, 49.
Wranglers to Meet
The Wranglers, honorary forensic society at the University, will hold their first meeting of the year on Tqesday evening in the seminar room of the Law building, according to an announcement by Neil C. Hurley, president of the organization.
September 25, 1931
REGISTRATION IN LAW COLLEGE SHOWS GAIN
A Man About the Campus
Dean Konop Outlines Plans For Year.
An increase of ten stuednts over last year’s registration has been realized in the number of men in the Notre Dame Law School this year. There are eighty-six first year students, thirty-four second year men. and twenty-seven seniors, and two special students, making a total of 150.
The faculty remains the same, including Thomas F. Konop, Dean; Clarence E. Manion, Elton E. Richter, Homer A. Earl, William D. Rollison, William M. Cain, Orlo R. Deahl, Marcellus M. Ashe, and John H. A. Whitman.
The President of the State Bar Association recently appointed Dean Konop a member of the Committee on Legal Education of the State Bar Association.
A new course in Credit Transactions, embracing surityship, guaranty, mortgages, and bankruptcy, is being offered by Professor Rollison this year.
The first year class is being subdivided into eleven clubs for the purpose of training in impromptu discussions of extra-curricular subjects. The seminars of the senior and second year classes will be conducted as in previous years.
Registration Line Thins
The Reverend Charles Doremus, C.S.C., is in danger of losing his position as guardian of the registration lines at the opening of each school year. He states that each year more students are paying their bills two weeks in advance and having their slips forwarded to them, thus avoiding the long and tiresome standing in line.
450 Students Find Jobs
Four hundred and fity Notre Dame students have been given work as secretaries, waiters in the dining hall, mailmen, watchmen, etc., totaling in salaries approximately $200,000. Applications are on file from eight hundred additional students seeking positions on the campus.
It was with becoming modesty that Gene Connelly (yes, Rollo, no less than the new Senior* Class President) received the distinction thus presented him. “Why, thanks a lot,” he said when we first approached, “however I don’t think there’ll be anything interesting enough to write.” We tactfully edged toward the door. “But—since you insist, drop around Sunday morning and let’s see what can be done.” Sunday came, we with it, to Corby’s third floor and the inquisition which followed proved mutually enjoyable.
A feature of.this sort simply must contain certain stereotyped information, whether’ anyone reads it or no; hence the following (which will be in outline form, thus minimizing its sedative qualities) : a) home, Elmira, New York) ; b) high school, De La Salle, New York City, featured by a daily train ride of forty miles and the captaincy of baseball; c) orthodox Notre Dame career through Freshman, Sophomore and Corby Halls, topped off with annual participation in interhall football; d) course, electrical engineering; e) clubs, Metropolitan, Engineers’ and A. I. E. E.; last, and undoubtedly most important, f) presidency of the Senior class. This ascertained, we began to learn something of Gene himself.
Three impressions are outstanding as I recall our interview. First there is Dorothy, whose eight letters during . the first four days of school seemed to have kept her in the front of Gene’s mind. He “could talk about her for hours without tiring”—and tried it! Dot has been in South Bend for both the Cotillion and Prom; now the
Bands to Play at Memorial Game
Music at the Rockne memorial football game next Saturday between the Notre Dame varsity and the Notre Dame reserves will be provided by three bands, according to plans announced by George L. O’Brien, chairman of the committee which is sponsoring the game for the benefit of the Rockne Memorial field house fund-
In addition to the University band, which will be making its first public appearance of the season, arrangements also have been made to have
“greatest of all Balls,” is to be his final offering.
Second only to Dorothy come Frank Donalty, roommate since Sophomore hall days, and Herb Georgio of S. A. C. fame and his campaign manager in last spring’s election. All New Yorkers, their Tammany training is evidenced by the fact that all three class presidents are members of the Metropolitan club. Gene and Herb, too, were jointly responsible for the information booths which so ably assisted the new arrivals during registration; this service will be maintained through the football season. Discussions and arguments run rampant in 328 Corby, consuming hours and hours, and helping to put in what spare time remains between Dr. Caparo’s engineering assignments.
Finally, Gene enjoyed an operation last summer—just ask anyone in Corby. He’ll show you the scar on the slightest provocation, and actually dotes on relating the history of the last days of his appendix. Recitation of a poem, “The Sinking of the S. S. Van Dyne,” written during his week’s convalescence, accompanies the narrative, and its quality is sufficient evidence of the depths to which inactivity can drag one.
Add to these, without regard for order, onion sandwiches, which must be interspersed judiciously with Dorothy’s dates, a passion for going’ barefoot, Dot, a trend toward poetry (see above), With Lawrence In A rabia, a canoe ride replacing the tea dance next spring, not to mention Dorothy—and you may get some idea of Gene Connelly.
the Culver Academy Military band and the employes’ band of the Studebaker corporation present to help entertain the crowd.
Special permission for the Culver Military Academy band and a delegation of Culver cadets to attend the game was secured through the cooperation of Brigadier General L. R. Gignilliat, commandant at the academy. The Culver cadets will march on the playing field between the halves.

10
The Scholastic
JUGGLERS RETURN FROM SUMMER ORIENTAL TOUR
Campus Orchestra Making New Plans For Year.
Having only recently returned from a nine week’s cruise in the Orient aboard the S. S. President Taft, the Notre Dame “Jugglers,” University dance band, have already begun practice for the season. Several bookings
Al Stewart
Orchestra Leader This Year have been made by Al Stewart, manager of the “Jugglers,” and, although the personnel of the ten piece orchestra has not been definitely de-|	cided upon, a definite program for
i	practice sessions has been arranged.
During the course of the cruise to eastern waters, the “Jugglers” furnished the dance music aboard ship in a highly commendable manner, according to officials in charge of the cruise. The ship touched in numerous ports in China, Japan, and the Hawaiian islands, making the summer tour for the musicians exceedingly interesting as well as profitable in a financial way. Arrangements for the trip were made by Al Stewart, who, in addition to acting as amnager of the orchestra, plays the trombone.
Lost and Found Notice
Articles bearing the names of the following men have been turned in to the lost and found office, and the owners may obtain their property by appearing at the office:
Harry Gaffney, Walter Layden, Alfred Taritoch, M. P. Luther, Philip Luther, Lowell Hagan, John Venables.
Campus Opinions
Question : “What were your first impressions on arriving at Notre Dame?”
John Boden, Brownson hall, freshman: “The thing that impressed me was the stadium. Such a stadium alone characterizes the greatness of Notre Dame football teams. The many new buildings being erected on the campus show that Notre Dame is growing. All of this makes me feel proud to be a student at such a great university.”
Dale Pillers, Brownson hall, freshman: “The progress of the school as shown in the many new buildings made a strong impression on me. The natural beauty and appearance of the campus also caught my attention.”
Clifford Welsh, Brownson hall, freshman: “Notre Dame has a wonderful setting for a college. It possesses almost medieval effects for the buildings on the campus. Sacred Heart Church is a place of beauty.”
Edward Simpson, Brownson hall, freshman: “The size of the campus is what impressed me. I like the buildings and grounds. I felt a bit lost when I first arrived, but I will get over that soon, I think. I met a group of fine fellows, too.”
Frank Weldon, Brownson hall, freshman: “The Dome on the Main building, as I came up Notre Dame avenue, impressed me most. The friendly attitude of the students meeting each other again and the spirit of welcome makes me believe that I will enjoy my four years here at Notre Dame.”
James Ferguson, Off-Campus, freshman : “I was impressed with the efficiency with which the Student Activities Council handled the incoming crowd of freshmen. We were made to feel at home as soon as we stepped from the train. The friendly spirit among the students is also worthy of comment.”
S.A.C. APPOINTMENTS
Kennedy Is New Cheer Leader
—Freshmen Learn Yells.
Joseph Kennedy, a senior in the College of Commerce, was chosen cheer leader of the University by Herbert P. Giorgio, president of the Student Activities Council, following the assembly of freshmen held in the gymnasium Thursday. The freshmen were gathered in the gym to give them a chance to get acquainted with the Notre Dame yells and to give the prospective leaders a chance to show their skill in drawing these yells from the crowd.
Kennedy will have two assistants, David Powers, and a freshman leader to be chosen at a later date.
*
GOLF COURSE APPEARS IN FINE CONDITION
The University golf course has attracted on an average of a hundred and fifty to two hundred students a day for the past week. The condition of the course has considerably improved during the summer months. Large, elevated grass tees, under the greenkeeper’s care for some time, will soon be ready for use. The daily fee is now ten cents.
FORMER FACULTY MEN AT ST. EDWARDS, TEXAS
The Reverend Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., and the Reverend Francis Boland, C.S.C., former members of the Notre Dame faculty, have become president and vice-president respectively of St. Edward’s University, Texas.
Rockne Drive on at U. S. C.
The University of Southern California will make it a policy at all its home games this Fall to hand out to each spectator an envelope marked “Rockne Memorial Fund,” with the request that the fan contribute as much as possible. The contributors will all be anonymous.
Washington Hall Movies
The schedule of campus movies for the first quarter has not yet been announced, but according to the Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., who had charge of this entertainment in Washington hall last year, plans are being made for a varied series of programs.
j
September 25, 1931
K. OF C. SCHOLARSHIPS
Eleven Men Chosen From Fifty For Boy Guidance Work.
Eleven college graduates, winners of the Knights of Columbus scholarships in the University’s boy guidance school, and Clarence Kaplan, freshman football coach at Notre Dame, comprise the boy guidance class now beginning its year’s work under the direction of Raymond A. Hoyer, head of the boy guidance department.
The scholastic program consists of j a year’s work at Notre Dame, an । _ eight week summer camping super-। . vision course, and a four month fall term of boys’ leadership.
This year’s winners were chosen from over 50 applicants from all parts of the United States.
I Winners of the scholarships this ! year* are: Edward Robert Cannon, J Coaldale, Pa.; Raymond Samuel Disco, Dannemora, N. Y.; Paul F. Koprow-' ski, Two Rivers, Wis.; John Vincent | j McCarthy, Dubuque, la.; Wilbert G. ( Wyne, Hibbing, Minn.; Robert Mooney, West Warwick, R. I.; Paul J. Maholivic, Childs, Pa.; Graham James Norton, Pawtucket, R. I.; Andrew J. Leach, jr., Brookfield, Mass.; Philip -Edward Ryan, Waterville, Conn.; and Edward Joseph Ott, Milwaukee, Wis.
FRENCH CLUB LOSES FR. HOFFMAN, FOUNDER
William B. Dreux, president of the French club announces that in view of the fact that the Reverend Conrad Hoffman, founder of the club and last year’s moderator has been shifted to Duquesne university in Pittsburgh, it is very likely that the organization will temporarily cease functioning.
Scholarship Dance
The first of the annual Scholarship > dances will take place on Friday, October 16, at the Palais Royale. Tickets are on sale on the campus which entitles the bearer to a chance for a season box for all the football games this year. A number of other prizes are also to be raffled off. The 1 money paid for these chances also serves as a down payment on a subscription to the dance.
Chances may be secured from all members of the Blue Circle.
Coming Events
Dates subject to change icithout notice.
FRIDAY, Sept. 25—Scholastic staff meetings, editorial board, 6:30 p. m., Publications office; news and sports, 7:00 p. m., Room 222, Main building. — Freshmen mission services, 7:30 p. m., Sacred Heart church.—Chicago club meeting, 8:30 p. m., Lay Faculty dining hall.
SATURDAY, Sept. 26—Rockne Memorial football game, Notre Dame Stadium, 2:00 p. m.
SUNDAY, Sept. 27—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart church.—Upperclassmen mission services begin at 7:30 p. m.— President’s Club meeting in Basement of Library at 10 a. m.
MONDAY, Sept. 28—Mission Mass, 6:30 a. m., Sacred Heart church.— Breakfast, 7:20 a. m.—Evening mission services, - 7:30 p. m.— Meeting of Dome candidates, Publications’ office, 8:30 p. m. ••
TUESDAY, Sept. 29—Mission Mass, 6:30 a. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, Seminar room, Law building, 6:30 p. m. — Evening mission services, 7:30 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, Sept. 30 — Mission Mass, 6:30 a. m.—Evening services, 7:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, Oct. 31—Mission Mass, 6:30 a. m.—Pep meeting, gymnasium, 6:30 p. m.—Evening mission services, 7:30 p. m.—Spectators’ meeting-, Journalism room, library, 8:30 p. m.
Requiescant in Pace
Jerome McCartney John Walther.
Robert Noll , ‘
The Scholastic expresses the sympathy of the faculty and student body in offering its condolences to the parents of these men of Notre Dame who died during the summer months. .
11
JOHN KIENER NAMED PUBLICITY DIRECTOR
&
Henry Asman Promoted to Managing Editor.
John A. Kiener, a senior in the College of Commerce, has been appointed director of the University’s department of public relations and general news publicity. He succeeds
Henry B. Asman
Scholastic’s Neu; Managing Editor
Mr. Louis Heitgei- who was graduated, last spring.
Henry B. Asman, a senior in the College of Science who last spring was appointed assistant managing editor of the Scholastic, has succeeded Kiener as managing editor. He served as sports editor last year, following a career of sports writing on the Scholastic staff.
In his freshman year Kiener served as a reporter on the news staff of the Scholastic. He received the editorship of the sports department in his sophomore year, serving in this capacity until December of last year when he was made assistant managing editor of the magazine. Kiener thus had the unique distinction of being editor of the sports staff during two consecutive years when Notre Dame produced national championship football teams.
Besides his experience on the Scholastic Kiener has had professional experience in journalism. He has served as reporter for the Cleveland Press, and has written for the Newspaper Enterprise association.
Last spring Kiener was appointed managing editor of the Scholastic which he resigned in order to take up his duties as the University’s director of publicity.
12
. The. Scholastic
KNIGHTS OF COLOMBOS INSTALL NEW OFFICERS OF NOTRE DAME COUNCIL
ATHLETIC MANAGERS PREPARE FOR SEASON
John S. Wittliff Named as Lecturer by Grand Knight James K. Collins
Impressive ceremonies accompanied the installation of Grand Knight James Collins of Notre Dame council No. 1477, Knights of Columbus, and his staff of officers who were elected at the final meeting of the council last spring. Past Grand nKight Louis Buckley, instructor in economics at the University, newly appointed district deputy of the K. of C., conducted the installation rites, assisted by Grand Knight Ernest Ribordy, of the LaPorte council.
Deputy Grand Knight Vincent Ponic, Trustee Lilliam Hoyer, Treasurer Leo Clark, Warden John Carry, Chancellor Robert Streb, Outside Guard Vincent Donahue, Outside Guard Cyril Collins, and Inside Guard James Simmons elected officers and Lecturer John S. Wittliff and Financial Secretary Eli Abraham, appointed to their positions by Grand Knight Collins, made up the staff which was installed.
Wittliff, whose appointment was made known to the council at this meeting, was chosen, according to Grand Knight Collins, because of the active part he has taken in the council during the three years of his membership, and because of his excellent work on the membership, and dance committees, and the group in charge of the collection of old clothes undertaken last year.
Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., for many years chaplain of the council, was again reappointed to this posi-
Kramer Appointed Blue Circle Leader
John F. Kramer, a senior in the • College of Commerce and newly appointed chairman of the Blue Circle, conducted the first meeting of the Circle last Tuesday. Kramer’s appointment was made by Herbert P. Giorgio, president of the* Student Activities council, at a meeting of the council Sunday.
Consideration of the sale of tickets for the Rockne memorial football game tomorrow, was the main feature of discussion at the Blue Circle meeting. The members were urged to do
tion by Collins. He expressed his appreciation of the appointment in a short talk before the council. Lecturer Wittliff and Financial Secretary Abraham also gave a brief outline of their plans for the coming year.
Because Malcolm McVane and Austin Boyle, chosen Warden and Treasurer of the council respectively, in the spring elections, will be unable to fill these positions this year, an election was held to fill their places. Present officers Treasurer Leo Clark and Warden Carry were selected by the council.
As guests of the Notre Dame council at their installation meeting Otto Dorsey, state secretary of the knights, and twenty members of the LaPorte council attended. The LaPorte council, through their Grand Knight, Ernest Ribordy, issued an invitation to the Notre Dame council to conduct a meeting in the LaPorte chambers on October 8. Collins accepted the invitation on behalf of his council.
The appointment of Past Grand Knight Buckley as the district deputy of the K. of C. came to a member of the Notre Dame council for the first time since the appointment of Professor John Hines, professor of history at the University, to the position in 1912.
The first regular meeting of the Notre Dame council will be held on Monday.
all that was possible to stimulate the sale put on for such a worthy cause, and each member was given a quota of tickets to sell.
It was announced that the Blue Circle would have charge of the pep meeting before the Indiana game, and that all members would have dinner at 5:30 in the dining hall that evening. Further plans for the pep meeting have not yet been made.
Chairman Kramer, at this meeting, appointed Charles Quigley to the position of secretary of the Circle.
Grams, McKean, and Weiss In Charge of Fall Sports.
With the eyes of the nation turned to Notre Dame football, the managers of that organization are preparing for their biggest season. Six seniormanagers, eight juniors, and eleven members of last year’s freshman class will handle the team at home and on the road this year.
John Grams and Joe McKean, Senior managers of football, along with Charles Weiss, will make arrangements for all trips this season. Weiss, who is in charge of stadium personnell, has nearly completed his plans for the 1,500 ushers, gaetmen, and inspectors.
John Ross, manager of track, has begun his program with Coach Nicholson for the cross country season. John Colville and Charles Spangenberg, baseball and basketball managers, are assisting the, football men;
Active in work on the field and in the stadium will be junior managers Anthony Wirry, John Kenny, John Sherman, Burton Shinners, Don Martin, James Baker, Frank Buhl, and Andrew O’Keefe.
Former freshman managers, who have survived the series of cuts and competition from last year include Hanley, Mulvihill, Quinn, Kelley, Sullivan, Venables, Lewis, Kotte, Miller, and Fisher.
Each fall freshmen are invited to become candidates for managerships. The number reporting averages about seventy men. Their number is steadily cut until only those outstanding in attendance, quality of work, and initiative remain. Their assignments cover the whole field of sports in the athletic program, each man being given an opportunity to understand the individual details of football, baseball, basketball, and track.
Those freshmen candidates surviving the year of continual tryouts are awarded class numerals for then-efforts during the year. Fifteen members of the Sophomore class continue the second year. At the beginning of their third year, seven Juniormanagers are selected, who later become the seniors in major and minor sports.
Jesse Harper, director of athletics, plans to continue the managerial system inaugurated by the late Knute Rockne.
September 25, 1931
13
JUGGLER TO FEATURE FOOTBALL AND FROSH
ROCKNE MEMORIAL FUND ASSOCIATION ANNOUNCES INTENSIVE CAMPAIGN
First Issue to Appear on October 15.
For the first time in over eight years there will be no “Freshman” number of the Juggler. Neither will there be a “Football” number. In an effort to introduce every novel scheme of presentation possible, the editors will present several new titles for the issues to be published this year.
Catching the general spirit of both the old “Freshman” and “Football” numbers will be the “Autumn” Juggler, which will be released on Oct. 15, the Thursday before the first home football game. That peculiar atmosphere of the campus in fall-time will dominate the book. Honor to the freshmen, the largest class, and to football, the largest sport, will be added to the magazine.
The other seven issues, to appear monthly in the halls and on campus news-satnds, will be announced soon, according to Robert J. Gorman, who is editor-in-chief of the Juggler this year.
A meeting was held Wednesday night, which was attended by all those who want to contribute to the Juggler this year. A good crowd was present, with artists and gag-men about equally divided. The meeting was addressed first by Editor Gorman ; following which the two groups were informally instructed by the other staff members as to the requirements of Juggler contributions.
Deadline for the first issue will be Oct. 1. All written material, which preferably should be short, all gags for cartoons, and all art work must be in the hands of the editor by that time.
Staff members returning to help Gorman in the publication of the Juggler this year include: Paul J. Hallinan, managing editor; Joseph Dempsey, J. Don Sullivan, Robert Sullivan and John Murphy. Joseph Lopker is art editqr, with Frank Con-boy and Arthur Becvar as assistants.
S. A. C. Selects Jugglers
The “Jugglers,” campus jazz orchestra, will be hired to play for all the dances after football games this season, it was decided by the Student Activites council at their meeting Sunday. This is the first time such action has been taken by the S. A. C.
Country Divided Into Sixteen Sections; Football Teams Are to Contribute
The active campaign of the Rockne Memorial Association got under way last week, when the sixteen divisional chairmen, representing the entire United States, gathered at a dinner held in South Bend to complete plans for an extensive drive to raise funds for the building of the structure to the memory of the late Knute K. Rockne.
Present plans, as outlined by Ralph S. Clark, publicity director of the Association, call for an intensive campaign, of three week’s duration, which will start on the fifth of November and will continue until the Army game on the twenty-eighth of that month. During this time it is planned that all the football teams of the country will co-operate with the committee in holding nation wide Rockne Day, with the proceeds of the game turned over to the Fund. This objective will get its first test this coming week, when the partial receipts of the Southern California versus St. Mary’s game will be added to the Fund’s chest.
The country has been divided into sixteen divisions, with a chairman over each section, who will keep in constant touch with the alumni of the section. The various sectional committees are made up, in the main, of Notre Dame alumni, who are doing all in their power to make this cam-
Librarian Announces Many New Books
The following books are now available in the University Library:
Arthropology: New Discoveries Relating to the Antiquity of Man, by Sir Arthur Keith.
Astronomy: The Stars in Their Courses, by Sir James H. Jeans.
Biography: The Caliph of Bagdad, by Robert H. Davis; Rockne of Notre Dame, by Delos W. Lovelace; Schliemann, by Emil Ludwig; Chaucer, by John Masefield; The Puppet Show of Memory, by Hon. Maurice Baring.
Commerce: Sick in Bed with Common Stocks, by Reed W. McNeel; Business Adrift, by Wallace B. Don-ham.
paign a success. The individual chairmen will hold conferences with their committees to speed up the work to the utmost.
Under the direction of Ralph S. Clark, publicity director of the campaign, and H. B. Dickenson, general manager of the Association, offices are being established in the principal cities of the country, where alumni may make their headquarters and report on the work. Leading civic and social organizations are giving their help to the cause, and city officials throughout the country are giving their aid.
Mrs. G. C. McGrath, office manager, made known that hundreds of requests are pouring into the office daily for subscription blanks and information of the Fund. An extensive advertising plan is being formulated, to distribute information concerning the proposed memorial. John M. K. Abbott has written a book “Rockne of Notre Dame” which will be used for campaign purposes.
The site which Notre Dame has set aside for the Memorial is a fitting one. The structure will stand on Car-tier Field, adjoining the Stadium, and will face a wide plaza which will run across the whole width of the campus. It is expected that the construction of the memorial will get under way in the immediate future.
Criminology: Gray Shadows, by Joseph L. French; You Can't Win, by Jack Black.
Drama: Holiday, by Philip Barry; Hotel Universe, by Philip Barry.
Economic History: Latin America —Men and Markets, by Clayton S. Cooper; The Last Stand, by Edmund A. Walsh.
Fiction: Shadows on the Rock, by Willa Cather; Years of Grace, by Mrs. Margaret Ayer Barnes; Three Ships Come Sailing, by Monica Selwin-Tait.
History: My Experiences in the World War, by John J. Pershing; Edward Martyn and the Irish Revival, by Denis R. Gwynn.
14
The Scholastic
FRESHMAN CLASS HAS FIRST GROUP MEETING
Giorgio Welcomes Class of *35; Fr. Murch Speaks to Men.
The annual convocation of all freshmen at the University was held Thursday noon in the gymnasium. It was estimated that over eight hun-
Rev. Raymond Murch, C.S.C.
Who Addressed Incoming Class
dred freshmen of all colleges attended the meeting.
The first speaker was Herbert Georgio, S.A.C. chairman, who welcomed the freshmen in the name of the student body, and who acted as the toastmaster in introducing the other speakers present. Gene Connelly, president of the senior class, also welcomed the freshmen, and exhorted them that when in doubt, not to punt, but to ask a senior.
Reverend Raymond Murch, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, welcomed the freshmen and saluted them as Notre Dame men. In the course of his speech on “Education,” Father Murch mentioned the fact that there were three kinds of education, that of the mind, of the body, and of the heart, and that Notre Dame existed mainly for the purpose of education of the heart. He also said that although it might have seemed to some freshmen that the disciplinary regulations were too stringent, they really weren’t since they exist for the common good. Tom Yarr, football captain, spoke on the help that the freshmen can give the team by receiving the Sacraments for the team’s benefit.
BOOK REVIEWS
BY LOUIS E. BRENNAN
I AM JONATHAN SCRIVENER— Claude Houghton, Simon and Schuster. $1.00. Inner Sanctum Novels.
Anyone who reads “I am Jonathan Scrivener” will wipe his spectacles on the last page without caring a hoot who Jonathan is; yet wishing at the same time that gentleman might have come timely on the stage instead of wandering behind the scenes letting out misleading whoops and yells. For Mr. Jonathon Scrivener in the flesh does not appeal* in his book until the last sentence, when he announces himself by title; yet he has at least seven people wondering and worrying about him and living on his return and off his support. And during this time he is off somewhere, Paris or Tahiti or Mozambique, sending queer notes and messages to the secretary who has never seen him and desires most heartily to uo so.
The story sounds detective and Wallacean; indeed it is advertised so; but it no more like a thriller than the mystery of violets. James Wrexheim an ingrown intellectual answers an advertisement for a secretary by letter; he is accepted and is registered for his duties without the acquaintance or even sight of his employer, evidently an extraordinary man of many parts and all accomplishments. And although this fairly begins the book, it nearly finishes the story. For from thence Wrexheim in that advantageous position of Mr. Scrivener’s house, living in it, with the run of it, begins to make his own simulacrum of Jonathan.
Motive Simple
His motive is simple: Jonathan made extraordinary and most diverse friendships; he did this in an uncommon, grand, satanic sort of manner, and left most of ineradicable yet ab-stact impressions. To several men he meant aS many persons, and these persons James Wrexheim tried to reconcile in a composite that was no more than humanly contradictory. Judge for yourself whether there is not more likelihood a philosophy and speculation in the life of Mr. Wrexheim, than for the night alarms and bloody clues and Scotland Yard. Then allow is the assurance that speculation has a good place, a first place in
the total solidity, and the total worth of the book.
Of course the story is spoiled. You read to the end of the book waiting for Mr. Scrivener to appear and perform not quite convinced that the author will allow him to be only a man of voice and past deeds; like the little boy who read Upton Sinclair’s “Samuel the Seeker” to the very end waiting patiently for the Horatio Alger title to take effect and bring the hero to his million and his elected bride. But, therefore, if you read it the second time, ignoring the suspense, you will find much enjoyment (if you like the essay) and meal for your brain mill. For this reason I’d recommend that the first perusal be dispensed with, or confined to the jacket blurb and the last chapter; and the second reading begin immediately.
Suggest Current Problems
This book does suggest some contemporary problems; the intellectual bewildered in the teaming of this mechanistic age and unable to keep himself a respectable man in it, the super-civilized person with nothing to look forward bereft of stimulating sensation, yet like the restless wheels about him, continually moving; and the whole problem of making the thinker the doer so that both may live. But such problems are not settled or even argued much, because the book is not an essay and the story has another problem of its own to write Q. E. D. to.
Since Q. E D. suggests an “example” a problem in the mathematic sense, we might examine Mr. Houghton handling of his synthesis to which “I Am Jonathon Scrivener” is the answer. He does handle it well mathematically; but that almost condemns it as writing. For if Mr. Scrivener is to. live, he must live in his whole self not even as the greatest surgeon can put a man together, piece by piece, and then lift him by the hand, breathing from the table at the end; neither can a novelist. So, when Wrexheim clasps Jonathan’s hand at the last paragraph, it should be a cold hand; and the reader, conscious that a man was being made before his eyes (and mistakes being made on the man) will be surprised.
. (Continued on Next Page)

September 25, 1931
15
PETRITZ WILL EDIT 1931 FOOTBALL REVIEW
Britz Is Advertising Manager; Host and Kurth on Staff.
The editing of the annual Notre Dame Football Review was given impetus recently with the announcement that Joseph Petritz, sports publicity director of the University, has been appointed editor-in-chief. Edmund Britz, will be advertising manager. This year’s edition will be known as the Rockne Memorial Number.
Petritz’s ability as a journalist has long been a matter beyond question, while Britz is well versed in the advertising phases of publications, having served as advertising manager on last year’s Dome.
The Rockne number will boast of such contributors as Warren Brown, Grantland Rice, and Archie Ward. A good deal of the material will be presented by Joe Kurth and Paul Host, veteran tackle and end respectively, of last year’s championship team, with special emphasis placed on the players point of view of the way the team fared without “Rock.”
The Review will be on sale immediately after the season ends. The regular price of the publication will be two dollars, but a special price of one dollar will be offered to students.
ECONOMIC SEMINAR HOLDS FIRST MEETING
The economic seminar, formed last semester by William Downey, instructor in economics at the University, held its first meeting at Prof. Downey’s residence in Niles, Michigan, Wednesday. John Wilson, chairman of the seminar conducted the meeting.
The business undertaken concerned plans of the class for the month of October. Four papers will be delivered: Proposedl5% Railroad Rate Increase, to be given October 6, by Chairman Wilson; The Cotton Surplus, to be delivered on October 14 by .Frank Denny; the English Situation, October 20, by Joseph L. Apodaca, instructor in economics; and Governor Murray and the Oil Fields, October 27, by Edward Hart.
Approximately $388,000 is spent in South Bend yearly by the students of Notre Dame.
NOTICE!
The Lost and Found Department wishes to remind you to mark purchased goods immediately so that if an article is lost is can be easily identified.
Bring material found to old Book Store (room 124), Brownson or Carroll Halls. Unclaimed goods will be returned to finder after thirty days.
Office hours are from 8:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m., and 4:30 p. m. to 5:00 p. m. Closed on Sundays.
BOOK REVIEW
(Continued)
if “I Am Jonathan Scrivener” is not spoken in sepulchral lines.
But there is some excellent writing in the book, and the instincts that make a novelist, though smothered somewhat by false leads and the method we have already referred to, are bright enough to be seen. The feeling for scenes, which includes not only the inanimate details that make them picturesque, but most importantly, the living people that make them recognizable as life has its very successful innings in at least three passages memorable in any book, and as well, the persons who poke their heads into Jonathan’s room and Wrex-heim’s privacy can claim to have lived, and can demand epitaphs.
The Inner Sanctum Novels (curious name) purport to be new fiction at easily available prices. As a series they have made an excellent beginning. “Casanova’s Homecoming” by Arthur Schnitzler is, hower, a translation and reprint, not a classic yet, but with all the sure promises that a contemporary prodigy can give. We do not exactly recommend it since it contains Casanova’s last and ugliest escapade. “Red Snow” by F. Wright Moxley is going to be called some day Defoeske; which is inaccurate, for it is not like Defoe; it is Defoe reincarnate, with all the realistic brutal detail of a strange plague that will strike this human race more deeply than a physical disease can. The writing is master journalism put to the uses of literature.
Off-Campus students spend $18,000 per year carfare while campus students spend $45,000 per year.
CASASANTA PICKS BAND; THOLEN IS DRUM MAJOR
Trip Being Planned For Band Inspires Large Turnout.
Overcome by the great number of musicians who reported for the first band practice, Professor Joseph S. Casasanta has found it necessary to select approximately 85 players for his regular band from the list of 125
Henry Tholen
Drum Major of Band
who aspire to positions in that organization. Tomorrow’s game for the benefit of the Rockne Memorial fund will mark the first appearance of the group.
Henry Tholen, drum major for the past two years, is aiding Casasanta in organizing the band into a marching unit. Nightly practices with a march about the quadrangle as an appetizer are in order to prepare the organization for their appearance at the football games this season.
Equipment will be issued Friday to those men who survive the cut which must of necessity be made; the remainder will serve on the reserve list, available to call when needed. President of the band last year until he withdrew from school due to illness, Virgillus Phillips is outfitting the bandsmen for their initial bow.
Where will the band go this year? The question is always with us. Noncommittal is Casasanta, allowing the question to stand, although it is rumored in some circles that the band will play for the Northwestern game at Soldier’s field on October 10.
The Scholastic
Brother Cyprian Retires
After 52 Teaching Years
After fifty-two years of teaching, thirty-six of which were spent at the University of Notre Dame, Brother Cyprian, C.S.C., has finally retired to his room in Washington hall. Three heart attacks in the past two years and consequent paralyzation of his right arm made the venerable Brother take a recess, ending a most distinguished teaching career.
In 1895 Brother Cyprian came to Notre Dame to become an associate professor of accounting. Since then he had had occasion to instruct thousands of students in the art of bookkeeping and accounting, two generations of one family in several instances. Brother Cyprian was graduated by the Hollingsworth Business College in Covington, Kentucky, in 1S76. After joining the Congregation of Holy Cross he spent sixteen years teaching accounting in various schools throughout the country before coming to Notre Dame.
“Notre Dame certainly has changed greatly in size since I came to the campus,” Brother Cyprian remarked as the long line waiting to register stretched around the Adminisrtation building, past the window by which he was sitting in his room in Washington hall.
“Sorin was the only residence hall on the campus in those days,” he continued; “Corby was used as the Community House, later housing a few of the students who overflowed Sorin hall.
Ticket Sale Brisk
The advance ticket sales for the games on the 1931 Notre Dame football schedule is brisk, according to J. Arthur Haley, business manager of athletics. The sale of season tickets, which is now closed, points to well attended games. Mr. Haley said that the Army game in New York will be sold out in ten days, despite the limit of four tickets to each applicant.
The Northwestern, Southern California and Navy games are probable sell-outs. The figures on the sale of tickets for the Carnegie Tech and Pittsburgh games are not known definitely.
“Father Morrissey was President when I came to Notre Dame, beginning my long teaching career of thirty-six years,” Brother Cyprian relates. “The Reverend Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C., made president in 1881 had died in 1883 and was succeeded by the Very Reverend Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C., which choice was Father Walsh’s death-bed requset.
“Just look at the campus now . . . ten residence halls, two dormitories, and the new Alumni and Dillon halls nearing completion this month,” Brother Cyprian continued, comparing the growth of the former Notre Dame 'with the present University. “In the last three years Notre Dame has made greater strides than ever before in the erection of biuldings.”
“Years ago,” Brother Cyprian said, “our students did not have all the modern conveniences. Our enrollment in 1895 was a little more than a hundred, whereas this fall we have registered 3,100, being forced to turn hundreds away from the registration line.
“I hope my boys will come to see me often,” said Brother Cyprian with a sigh of regret at the thought of giving up his classes. “I love them all, every one of them. They are all good boys.” And the writer knew “all the boys” would come back to see Brother Cyprian — for the writer was in a class taught by this gray-haired but extremely energetic seventy-five year old Brother.
Spectators Meet Thursday *
The Spectators ■will hold their first meeting of the year in the Journalism room of the library on Thursday evening, October 1, immediately after the mission sendees, according to an announcement made this week by Edmund A. Stephan, president.
The purpose of the meeting will be to familiarize the new members with the routine of the club and to appoint speakers for the coming year. A vacancy of two members now exists in the organization and it is possible that the club may consider the advisability of filling these places in the near future.
PERONE IS APPOINTED S. A, C PEP LEADER; GRIDGRAPH FREE
In preparation for the coming football season John A. Perone was appointed by Herbert P. Giorgio, president of the Student Activities Council to take charge of the pep meetings, the first of which will be held October 1. A committee to assist Perone, and arrangements for the meeting are to be announced later.
Robert J. Law was appointed by Giorgio as chairman of the committee on football dances. His committee will be composed of Eugent T. Connelly, president of the senior class, and John P. French, president of the freshman class.
The S.A.C. has also decided that the admission to the grid-graph board used in the gymnasium during the games played away from the University, shall be free to students, on the presentation of their Athletic tickets at the door.
MUSIC ORGANIZATIONS TAKE FIRST WORK-OUT
Campus musical organizations begin their activities this week with their first rehearsals, meetings and try-outs. The band met for the first time Monday and will continue to hold regular rehearsals every day at 4:15. Professor Joseph Casasanta states that candidates without instruments should report immediately.
The concert orchestra members met Tuesday at 6:30 and will hold he-hearsal at that time throughout the year. Try-outs for the glee club were held Monday at 12:30 and will continue for a month. The Jugglers, the campus popular orchestra, will meet • on Monday and Thursday of each week at 6:30. The banjo-mandolin club met Wednesday at 6:30 and will continue to do so each Wednesday thereafter.
S. A. C. Offers Frosh Medal
As an incentive to higher grades-among the lower classmen, the Student Activities Council will this year , present medals to the freshmen in each of the Colleges of the University having the highest scholastic standing at the close of the scholas- < tic year 1931-32, it was decided at a meeting of the council held Sunday.
This is a new feature of the S.A.C. ( program and was initiated by its. president, Herbert P. Giorgio.	t
September 25, 1931
17
FROSH MISSION IS HELD; UPPERCLASSMEN TO HEAR FR FLOOD
Thirteen New Members of Faculty Named This Year
The Mission for freshmen and for students living in St. Edward’s hall began in Sacred Heart church last Sunday evening, continuing during the week of September 20-26. The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion, is in charge. The exercises of the Mission are as follows: Opening sermon, last Sunday at 7:30 p. m.; Mass and instruction daily, 6:30 a. m.; evening sermon and Benediction daily, 7:30 p. m.; closing exercises with Papal Benediction, Saturday, 6:30 a. m.
The Mission for upperclassmen will be held the week of September 27-October 3. Reverend Flood, C.S.C., will be in charge and the same program of exercises will be followed during this period.
N. U. TICKETS MAY BE INCLUDED IN BOOKS
No definite announcement as to whether tickets for the Northwestern game will be included in the A. A. books has been issued by the Athletic office as yet, but the general impression gathered from an unofficial statement is that students will receive theii’ usual allotment of one.
Livingston “News” Success
The Livingston News, depicting-phases of campus life at Notre Dame, met with much success when it appeared this summer. The stories were written entirely by students at the University who are serving on the Scholastic staff.
Livingston’s announce that a twenty-five dollar prize in merchandise will be given, as usual, to the person who guesses correctly the score of each Notre Dame game.
Express Office Notice
The express office announces that packages addressed to the following students are being held at the office and should be called for in the near future. The express room is open from 12:30 until 1:05 p. m.
Rodger Johnson
George Rohrs William Baran Edward McKeever
Two priests and 11 laymen have been appointed to the faculty of the University of Notre Dame for the scholastic year which opened Thursday morning, according to the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies at the University.
A further change in the faculty is the promotion of John A Scannell as head of physical education department succeeding James A. Masterson, who last year resigned to accept a similar position at St. Thomas college in Minnesota.
The Reverend Julian Sigmar, new instructor at Notre Dame in the department of philosophy, received his degree of doctor of philosophy from the University of Munich in 1921 and his doctor of divinity degree from the University of Tubingen in 1931. He studied at the University of Berlin from 1922 to 1925 and the University of Hamburg in 1931. Coming to America he taught foreign languages at Pontifical College Josephinum, Columbus, O.
The Reverend John F. Lohan, who received his A.B. degree from the National University of Ireland, will reach religion.
The department of history is augmented by the appointment of Thomas Bowyer Campbell, who previous to his conversion to the Roman Catholic church, was a minister in the Protestant Episcopal church. He is an alumnus of William and Mary college in Virginia and received a degree of bachelor of divinity from the Virginia seminary.
J. Donald Watson has been added to the commerce school faculty as
Doan Addresses Journalism Classes
Franklin Doan, who was graduated from Notre Dame in 1929 delivered the first special lecture heard at the University this year, to the Journalism classes, Tuesday, September 22. Since his graduation Doan has been in the service of the Croswell Publishing Company of New York and has had several articles and stories published in the American Magazine.
Working principally with the circulation department of the Crowell publishing house which publishes Good
instructor in finance. He received his A.B. degree from Reed college in 1926 and his M.BA.. from the University of Michigan in 1931.
Two of the men added are to instruct classes in economic history. The first, Richard Bohan, received both his B.A. and his M.B.A. from the University of Washington. The second, Wesley C. Bender, completed his undergraduate work at Cornell university and received his M.B.A. from the University of Pittsburgh.
John P. Turley, who received his M.A. degree from the University of Minnesota, will teach Latin.
Foreign language instructors include Dr. Paul Menge, who will conduct classes in French and German, and Walter Langford, instructor in Spanish, Menge, a doctor of philosophy, was a member of the summer-session faculty at Notre Dame. Langford received his A.B. degree from the University of Notre Dame in 1930.
The other new instructors are Louis L. Hasley, who will teach English and who received his A. B. and M.A. degrees from Notre Dame; Elvin R. Handy, physical education instructor who completed work for both his A.B. and M.A. degrees at the University of_Iow^ George Rohrbach, instructor in mechanical engineering and graduate of the University of Notre Dame with a B.S. degree in 1931, and BSSaliiaGsx, in the department of elocution, an alumnus of Boston university with a A.B. degree, and holder of a professional degree from the Leland Powers School of Speech in Boston.
Housekeeping, Collier’s, and The-' American Magazine, Doan has also done work in the editorial and publication departments.
Details of the magazine manufacture were explained to the members of Dr. J. M. Cooney’s junior class in Journalism. He explained the process of manufacture from the time the editor selected his manuscripts and the advertising department had received their copy until the magazines were placed on news dealers’ stands throughout the country.
18
The Scholastic
CAMPUJ <lllf
FROM NEW YORK
The METROPOLITAN Club claims the honor of being the most active campus organization during the summer months. In addition to holding a dance at the Hotel Astor which featured Johnny Berger’s orchestra, they ran a swim and dinner at the New York Athletic club.
AND CLEVELAND
President Myron Crawford plans a big year for the CLEVELAND club. Observers say he’ll carry things on as well as he managed the farewell dinner at the Oliver hotel last year.	•
PICKING UP IN DETROIT
The DETROIT club is in the capable hands of Ken McLeod and Jack Wittliff. Both are experienced and should have a record year.
HEY’. HEY’
The spring dance of the CHICAGO club was a success socially. Bud Groves, rangey ex-Loyolian, is in charge this year due to the withdrawal from school of Eddie Ryan. Bud predicts a full treasury this year.
OSCEOLA CLUB—PARDON—PEORIA ’
The charterless PEORIA club intends to do things in a big way. Ernie Hechinger and Frank Oberkoetter are saying that the boys from the-big city will be wishing that they hailed from downstate.
SCRIBES
The PRESS club intends to hold its meetings on the the evenings of the football games and thereby have some of the noted newspaper men appear. Present indications show a great year ahead. In addition to the meetings with speakers, the club will hold several smokers.
PRESIDENTS
Charley Hitzelberger has lined up the clubs and intends to hold the reins tightly. The PRESIDENTS’ club may actually be an active organization this year.
FROSH FROM GRAND RAPIDS
Johnny Donnelly, secretary of the GRAND RAPIDS club, is out hunting for freshman prospects from Grand Rapids, Battle Creek, Lansing, and Muskegon. Notice of the next meeting will appear on this page.
LITTLE ITALY
The ITALIAN club has plans for another big year. A big banquet is planned and if it comes up to the one last year it will certainly be a zulu. Leo Schiavone is in charge this year.	.
SCHIAVONE AGAIN
The BOSTON club, also under the hands of Leo Schiavone, intends to do things in a big way.
ROUND-UPS
The Texas club is starting the year off right; they’re holding the first meeting tonight in the Law building. According to “Tex” Simmons the club should be one of the leading groups on the campus.
OBSERVERS
The SPECTATORS’ club intends to start things early this year. President Eddie Stephan is. expecting a lot from the new members who were admitted at the close of the last school year.
ACTIVITY?
The CONNECTICUT VALLEY club, lately formed, was quite active this summer. Frank Murnane is president. From its early start it looks as if this new club will be in the running with active clubs.
DANCE
The ROCKY MOUNTAIN club held a dance in Denver this summer. John Humphrey is president and Johnny Kramer is treasurer.
COMPETITION
Last year the CHICAGO club received the prize for being the most active club on the campus. Present indications point out that the METROPOLITAN club is out for the honor this year. With their two affairs this summer they have a jump on the windy city boys.
SUCCESSOR
The WHEELING club, successor of the defunct WEST VIRGINIA club, has made connections with the alumni organization of their city and expects to do things up right. There are no seniors in the organization.
VIEWS
If club secretaries would send in reports of just what their clubs are doing this job would be a lot easier than it is at present.
If club officers would remember that it is practically impossible to put their names in print every issue.
The fellow who thinks that this page is making a joke out of his club is probably doing it better than we could in twenty years.
There’s one in every club—a fellow who-thinks that we’re riding his club.
September 25, 1931
19
IIITGIT PAGE
THE VIGILANCE COMMITTEE
For some years there has been in existence in the Blue Circle a select division known as the Vigilance Committee, whose duty it was to supervise lake-duckings and other undignified forms of punishment for offenders of unwritten ’ laws.
This year there is to be no ducking committee', for the Blue Circle last week decided wisely to discontinue the practice of authorizing acts which might be truthfully called hazing. The decision was contested hotly, naturally— the duckings have been fun for many, and too, the committee was profitable for its members.
The Scholastic has always maintained that school spirit cannot be built upon force, and cannot be aroused by applications of cold water; consequently, we look with favor on the action of the Blue Circle in ending this unbecoming hazing.
There is but one other activity remaining for the members of the Vigilance Committee, that of guarding the doors of the South Bend theaters against other gate-crashers taking advantage of the license of game nights. Devotion to this duty in the past may have been kept at high pitch by the fact that each member was the recipient of a year’s- pass to the theaters.
The Scholastic suggests, now that the Vigilance Committee is a practically useless organ in campus life, that Mr. John Kramer, capable head of the Blue Circle this year, abolish the committee from the Circle roster, even at the expense of forcing the members to buy seats at the talkie houses. Only in this way can the Blue Circle, and, indirectly, the S. A. C., escape being labelled with the odious name “racket”.
❖ ❖ ❖
COAST SPORTSMANSHIP
Tomorrow afternoon the University of Southern California will begin its share in the work of erecting the Rockne Memorial fieldhouse. The Scholastic would like to express the thanks of the student body for the laudable x sportsmanship of our rivals of the Pacific coast who are soliciting contributions to the fund at all their home games.
PEP SESSIONS
In less than a week the band will lead a parade of three thousand students about the campus for the first of the annual pep meetings. For many seasons the inadequate gymnasium has been an inconvenience to the cheering undergraduates who have been forced to crowd through its portals. Yet, each autumn the torchlight parade swings into the confines of those aged walls where each individual must stand on one leg and twist his neck in order to see what is taking place.
With the advent of the annual affairs at hand, the Scholastic suggests that the football stadium be selected for the scene of these nocturnal celebrations, rather than the inadequate and certainly unpopular gymnasium. On the eve of the Navy game last year there was a departure from the usual custom, and the pep session was held in the stadium where dedicatory ceremonies were in progress. The permanent use of the stadium for pep meetings, when the weather permits, will add to the popularity and comfort of the exercises and should tend to increase the attendance.
FRESHMEN NUMERALS
A new crop of numeral sweaters is one of the external signs of the passing year. A freshman wears his sweater proudly about the campus—and well he may—but we wonder how many Notre Dame men have the same pride in wearing a sweater away from the University ?
That the sweaters given to numeral men at Notre Dame are not a fitting reflection of the achievement that they are supposed to stand for is not a new idea; it is worthy, however, of some comment. The felt numeral which has been the reward of toiling athletes in the past could well be changed to the more modern chenile material, which is now in vogue at major universities throughout the country.
The men who refuse to wear the emblem can scarcely be blamed. The chenile numeral on a more respectable sweater would be more presentable as the symbol of a year’s labor in the field of competition—and at Notre Dame.
20
The Scholastic
COLLEGE OAKALE
SUPER SOPHISTICATION
According to the standards at Columbia the typical Columbia freshman does not smoke, drinks two glasses of milk a day, eats his spinach regularly, and prefers swimming as a sport.
❖ ❖ ❖
HERE’S AN IDEA
Speaking of freshmen, we hear that at the University of Hawaii first year men are required to carry at least two brands of cigarettes around the campus in one clean sock—with no holes— and give a smoke to whoever desires it, while the coeds must wear grass skirts and goggles and pass out candy to the sugar fiends.
4* ❖ ❖
PAY AS YOU LEAVE
Absence from class at the University of North • Carolina is apt to not only leave the notebooks empty but to empty the pockets of the absentee; for a regulation has been passed whereby all those absent are fined—the fee according to the course. If this plan is to be enforced we see where the student is stuck in two ways—he pays for his education and he pays for not having it.
❖ ❖
MEAT, POTATOES, AND PONIES
The lines in front of the credit application desk at registration last week were long and tiresome. But for those who were tired by the wait there is hope in this United Press dispatch:
Beloit, Wis., Sept. 18.—(UP)—Beloit College trustees announced today that meat, potatoes, eggs, fruit, chickens, and vegetables would he accepted for tuition.
The Daily Texan reports that a young woman came riding out of the West astride a faithful cow pony leading a string of nine horses, which she wished to aid her in learning the finer points of the “three R’s” and affiliated letters of the alphabet.
Likewise a small mid-western university is taking wheat and oats in payment for student fees this semester. It should at least have ' plenty of cereal to supply the dining halls during the winter!
SMART SENIORS
Seniors, you may be sure that you are wiser than the freshmen about the campus, but according to the Carnegie report you are wrong. The freshmen are just about as intelligent as you are. The “ravages of forgetting” cause the senior to lose, even before receiving his diploma, much of the knowledge he had acquired, says the report which declares the average college graduate reaches the peak of his knowledge in many subjects during his freshman year.
“The school and college curriculum consists of little else than isolated packages of specific ideas, segregated for the time being in self-contained courses, elected semester-wise and cut off by examinations and credits from any other living conditions. The sacredness of such systems of credit coinage dominates both teacher and pupil,” it was declared.
Without taking cognizance of the value of the Carnegie report, it must be admitted that such accusations are interesting. The criticism of the “credit coinage” system particularly is pertinent, coming at a time when there is a wide-spread tendency in universities and colleges to substitute “achievement” arrangements for the old credit-point system. Many persons are watching for the new systems whereby a student may be excused from further study in required courses when he successfully passes an examination in the work, regardless of the number of hours spent in recitation.
The report went further to say that the average college senior recognizes only 61 out of 100 words in familiar use by educated persons. Here are some of the words whose meanings were not known by one student whose answers were examined: “inert,” “lenient,” “immerse,” “culpable,” declivity,” “demure,” “benighted,” “spurious.” Seniors, do you know the meanings of all these? If so, there is something wrong with either you or the Carnegie report!
♦ ♦ ♦
WHOOPS!
The Daily Texan, official organ of the University of Texas, appeared on the campus with an issue of thirty-six pages on the opening day. of the fall term.
September 25, 1931
21
THE WINE ♦
Off with the clothes, Into the tub;
Hace mucho calor
In Sorin Sub.
In course, they haven’t any tub down there, but it rhymes.
QUICK WINKS
The new name for the green plot in front of Badin . . . the frosh who couldn’t swim, and who was pushed off the dock Sunday—when they dragged him out and he showed a handful of weeds to prove that he went all the way down . . . snooty Badinites on the school’s only balcony . . . did you hear about Walsh’s storeroom? . . . Krause and Kozak sliding through a puddle for Alma Mater and the movies ... a certain professor’s white suit . . .
Right now I’m going to remind you gents that we wrote this all by ourselves, and it’s the first and last— if things go right—time. This is a column, and our office is supposed to be flooded with witty sallies, funny stuff, you know. All we’re supposed to do is pick out the best of the tableful of letters. And if you must write poetry, don’t make it ethereal, and live up to the WINK standard of clearness, cleverness, and cleanness in the quips.
Dear Sour:
Went to class the other day and the prof said nevei-to sell your old books but to treasure them. And now the bookstore gets bigger and bigger. Why?
—Smalljaw.
See? Already we received one contrib. Something tells me he must be one of these earnest guys who tried to make the WINK for three years. See how easy it is now? Even a crack like that gets printed.
“BIRDIE WHISPERS”
It was the Walsh hall store room that took the attention of those football players last week . . . Lyons and Morrissey also reported heavy losses . . . Then there was the disgruntled upperclassman who wailed “if the gent that took my new suit will bring back the senior pin on the vest, he can have the extra pair of pants” . . . Well, I’ll give the guy the other half of the curtains, if he brings back my smoking stand.
The official reception committee was on hand promptly at nine last Saturday night . . . General Chairman, G. Bentley Ryan . . . Official Greeter, Jack (Junior Prom) Collins . . . Others on the receiving line were, Messrs. Cullinan, Rhatigan, Shiebler, Ward, Cahill, Kelly, Van Etten, Willigan, Weir, Condon, Law, Kennedy, La Forge, Woods, Duffy, Burke, O’Connor, Hilger, Cashir, and the Class of ’35.
The Notre Dame football team crashed many a line last fall, but during registration it took the student managers to assist them through the lines in the office.
Tom Mahaffey tells the story of Tommy McLoughlin taking his across-the-road gal and her friend to dinner and then watching them stroll off to meet their evening dates . . . However, that wasn’t original of Mac . . . Last year “Philanthropist” (high hat for fish) Condon got the same treatment from five of them after a dinner at the Oliver.
Who can say that effort is wasted . . . Paul O’Toole learned the art of hand-shaking last year while seeking election as president of the Chicago Club . . . One of the big Chicago stores considered him so adept at it that they gave him the job of official reception committee and adviser for all N. D. students trading at the shop . . .
Might as well use the first issue to get things straightened up. First of all we want to change the name of this organ, and thinking up a new one is your job, not ours. If you don’t come through with a good one, you’ll have to stand for a putrid one from our steely mind. Get in your letters—the best one will earn for its writer a trip to the observatory and return, with all expenses paid. There’s an inducement!
Speaking of the Chicago Club, permit us to introduce Mr. John Groves, their new president . . . Congratulations to Grand Knight Jim Collins on his choice of Jack Witliffe as lecturer . . . Thank goodness, there’ll be no Hello Week, or silent cheering this year . . . the old school’s improving . . . our heart gpes out to the freshmen who contemplated residing in the luxurious Dillon Hall, and must, instead, spend their first few weeks at Notre Dame for the most part in, well, unpromising dwellings . . . Cheer up, frosh, that isn’t the true Notre Dame.
Next week, more rollicking fun (if youse get to work) and maybe a new name.
Tobutzkey Say: Chee, I didn’t t’ink youse guys was cornin’!
—Armbo.
Dick Roney is taking quite a razzing about his unimpressive passage to school via the South Shore after that big write-up in the papers concerning his intended airplane ride . . . Explains Dick “It was too foggy”.
—The Stool Pigeon.
22
The Scholastic
♦ SRCRTS ♦
Football Prospects Are Bright
Hunk Anderson and Jesse Harper Are Optimistic Regarding Season
Senior Coach, Recovered From Illness, Admits Good Team But Expects To Need It.
every post. Captain Yarr at center was battling with three underlings for his job. The shoes of Metzger and
ALL-AMERICAN
JOHN FREDERICK JOINS GRID COACHING STAFF
Klein and Carberry To Assist With Freshman Squad.
BY JAMES S. KEARNS
There's a share of easy optimism in the Notre Dame sports camp these days. To Jesse Harper and Heartley Anderson, the head men of the Fighting Irish athletes, the prospects for the coming year in sports generally afford a pleasant outlook. Regarding the football chances the. opinion ranges from a “killing schedule” to a “pretty good” ball club.
Athletic Director Harper struck the optimistic note first. “I am enjoying my return to Notre Dame and my work here very much,” he stated. “We are having the finest possible cooperation between all the members of the department and the University in general.”
He also voiced assurance that no change was being contemplated in the athletic policy. “We expect,” he said, “to follow as closely as we can along the lines established by Mr. Rockne.” He gave every indication of being pleased with the condition of Notre Dame athletics.
- Senior Coach “Hunk” Anderson spoke in somewhat the same spirit. Stating that he felt “very well” and quite recovered from a summer of illness, he turned to a discussion of his present football squad.
“We’ll have a pretty good ball club,” he said, -“but then we’ll need it.” Pointing to the fact that he had but little over a week before his opening game he seemed concerned over the potential strength of the Indiana team. Using a new system and with renewed enthusiasm for the team, the Hoosiers loom as a formidable opener.
In answer to a question about the supposed strength of his line “Hunk” admitted that it would be pretty fair. Competition of the keenest sort was producing rapid development at
“Marchy” Schwartz
Kassis will find wearers out of a group of four, Hoffman, Pierce, Greeney, and Harris.
Coach Anderson smiled about his tackles. “They’re pretty good,” he said, naming Culver and Kurth, Kozak and Krause. Kosky and Mahoney seem to be leading the race for end (Continued on Page -30)
Three additions to the Notre Dame football coaching staff were announced this week by Jesse B. Harper, Director of Athletics. Johnny Frederick, ’28, has returned to aid Senior Coach “Hunk” Anderson with the varsity squad. Jake Klein, ’16, and Jack Carberry, ’31, are assisting coaches Kaplan and Parisien with the mammoth frosh squad.
Frederick will be remembered by most Notre Dame followers as the man who filled the shoes of the All-American Bud Boeringer in the fall of 1927. Frederick was a mainstay in the line for the three years he played under Rockne, and was one of the outstanding members of the team his senior year. Since graduation he has assisted Charlie, Dorais at Detroit U. in the capacity of line coach. His success at the Michigan institution prompted the Notre Dame authorities to bring him back to his Alma Mater when Tim Moynihan departed last May to accept a position at Xavier university in Cincinnati. Frederick’s new assignment at Notre Dame is that of drilling the linemen with special attention to the centers.
Carberry completed three years on the varsity squad last fall as an end and will spend his time drilling the fundamentals of Notre Dame end play into the green-shirted aspirants.
The third new coach is Jake Klein, ’16. Captain of the varsity baseball team of that year and a member of the football squad under Coach Harper, he is not new to Notre Dame athletics. Following grduation he spent several years coaching in the west. He has returned to Notre Dame as an instructor of Mathematics.
September 25, 1931
23
CAPTAINS ELECTED FOR THREE SPRING SPORTS
Palt, Redmond, Borda, to Lead Baseball, Golf, Tennis.
Amid the fond farewells being passed out at the termination of classes in June, election of three captains to lead Notre Dame teams during the coming year passed almost unnoticed. Charles Palt, William Redmond, and Joe Borda were the three named to lead the baseball, golf, and tennis squads respectively.
Palt, the dimunitive but stocky chap who flings the old apple from the offside, showed as the best pitcher on the Notre Dame roster last spring. When the going got tough, Palt was often sent into the game, and many times was successful in saving the day for the “Fighting Irish.” However, he was not used as a relief hurler only, but won games regularly against the stiffest competition.
Since his election to the captaincy of the golf team, Redmond has participated in the National Intercollegiate Golf tourney at Olympia field in Chicago, going to the quarter finals before being defeated by George T. Dunlop, Jr., the Princeton student who went on to win his second consecutive championship in this tourney. In addition to the splendid record he has made as a member of the Notre Dame team, Redmond won the Indiana State Intercollegiate tourney in 1930 and was a finalist in the Western Junior championship tourney in 1929.
With the new tennis courts in shape a call for candidates to participate in a tennis tourney to smoke out promising material has been made. Joe Borda, who played in both the singles and doubles for Notre Dame last season, succeeds Matt O’Brien as captain of the net men. At the termination of the tennis schedule for last spring the book found Notre Dame just about even with the game, the wins balancing the losses. Borda is very enthusiastic about his new job and is all set to see what can be done about lifting the average for the 1931 season. It is significant to note that Borda, who has seen but one year of competition at Notre Dame and is a Junior,' holds the captaincy, which post usually, though not always, falls to a fourth year man.
NET LEADER
GRID PROSPECTS BRIGHT
(Continued from Page 22)
positions but Host, DeVore, Bice, and Canale are contributing a lot of competition.
The first scrimmage of the year cost the services of Nick Lukats, leading fullback candidate, for a short period, but' it is believed that he will be in shape for the Indiana tilt. Following Lukats in line at fullback are Steve Banas, Grunderman, Leonard, and Capter. During the early part of the week, attempts were started to convert Melinkovitch, last year’s freshman half-back into a fullback. Lukats and Banas are both made over half-backs.
The quarterback and right halfback positions are the largest problems. Schwartz was All-American at left half last year and should hold his job. So far this fall he has shown all his old time offensive flash. Mike Koken looks like a sure understudy for Schwartz.
Jackswich and Murphy are still staging their much heralded duel for first honors as pilot. In the race for the right halfback job Joe Sheeketski is a step in the lead. Brancheau moved into second place on the strength of his showing early this week. “Stumpy” Cronin is next with
Tobin and Leahy giving him a stiff fight.
“The schedule is a killer,” finished “Hunk,” “but with decent breaks our ball club will be pretty good; just that.”
Six of the outstanding teams in the southern conference will be schooled in the Rockne system this year. North Carolina State, Auburn, Georgia, Florida, Alabama and North Carolina are all coached by men who played under Rockne, and will use the “great master’s” system almost exclusively.
Students
Radio Service
Headquarters
We specialize in
Radio Service
exclusively.
All Makes
All Types
Bring- in your Tubes for free testing.
RCA and Arcturus Tubes.
RADIO CLINIC
116 W, Colfax Ave. Phone 4-2343
24
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING—
Captain Tommy Yarr
Can you picture the chubby barefoot lad, trudging slowly through the fields of the state of Washington, ushering a willing dairy, herd toward the corral at milking times? Then do you see him shut the gate and begin the milking after successfully
getting the herd into the enclosure? Can the reader allow’ himself to flit hurriedly from those images to picture the tanned and husky Captain Tom Yarr who was chosen last year to lead the 1931 edition of Notre Dame’s “Fighting Irish?” To connect
GEORGE L. MILLER
103 North Main Street South Bend, Indiana
Adler-Rochester Suits $48 Vallies $24.00
—o—	.
Scheyer Suits S55-$60, $65 Values $27.50—$30—$32.50
—o—
Burberry Overcoats $85 and $90 Values $42.50 and $45
—o—
Langrock Suits $55 and $60 Values $27.50 and $30
—o—
Columbus Shirts $2.50 to $6.00 Values $1.25 to $3.00
—o—
Peterson Pipes, Imported from Ireland
$5 and $10 Values $2.50 and $5
—o—
Atkinson Pojjlin Ties, Imported from Ireland $1.25
Everything in the Store Half-Price
IMPORTED AND DOMESTIC MENS WEAR
those two gentlemen, the farm lad in the fields and the heady and hard playing center, will be our task — in which w’e will attempt to shed light on the works and amours of Mr. Yarr.
Reticent is Tom Yarr—so reticent in fact that w’e had almost to fall back upon “what we read in the newspapers” for enough material for a yarn about the player. Yet after frantically searching Sorin sub — in w’hich hallowed section Yarr lives— w7e ran across the very necessary man, none other than Boswell. And Bosw’ell came through in fine style, furnishing all the information necessary to present the life of the Notre Dame center almost in detail.
Shines On Defense
The young chap in our picture is one of Irish-Indian ancestry. Yarr’s mother was of Indian blood, a member of the Squosomish, a small tribe in the state of Washington. When he is at home, Tom collects all of his mail from ■ the postoffice in Dabob, Washington. After graduating from Chimacum high school in Chimacum, Washington, Yarr made his way eastward and enrolled at Notre Dame. All this from the dependable Bosw’ell.
In his first year w’ith the varsity Tom saw’ service in the Georgia Tech, Drake, and Northwestern games. He entered the Northw’estern game after Tim Moynihan had received a painful leg injury. After viewing the games of the 1929 season the average lay mind wondered w’hether this Yarr man could fill the position which Moynihan had handled so capably. All doubt was swept away with the Irish-Indian’s performance in the contest w’ith Southern Methodist in the first game of the last season. Yarr was here, there, and everywhere, snaring passes w’hich seemed set for certain touchdowms. The activities of the roving center were at their peak when the score w’ould have gone against Notre Dame had the Mustangs completed one of their numerous passes.
To Graduate In June
After such a baptism as first string center, Yarr began to do a bit of tearing throughout the remainder of the season. His work at center aided in clearing the way for many long ' gains. And now, as captain, Yarr is all set for his last and, perhaps, greatest year of competition w’ith the Notre Dame squad.
Tomwill be graduated next June from the physical education department. Last summer he varied his work when
September 25, 1931
he acted as a supervisor in Camp St. George at Clearwater Lake, Wis. After graduation, Notre Dame’s fastmoving center expects to coach. Almost every branch of sport is indulged in by Yarr for he keeps in trim by workouts at handball, boxing-, wrestling, tennis, and golf. Boswell wasn’t so sure about the golf — but golf it will stand. That worthy gentleman who knows more about Tom than Tom does, covertly whispered that he had often heard the center openly assert that he had never enjoyed a course as much as he did Dr. Kuntz’s Philosophy of Education. Philosophy is Yarr’s favorite study, but sleeping is his hobby, his pastime, and his favorite sport—after football.
When queried concerning the squad for the season, Yarr said, “We will be ready when the time comes.” So you’ll have to take that terse sentence as Yarr’s prediction for the season.
HARRIERS BEGIN WORK UNDER COACH NICHOLSON
“It Looks Like a Bad Season,” Says Track Coach.
Coach John P. Nicholson, in discussing prospects for cross country and track this year, was anything but optimistic and expressed his views in a discouraging tone. According to Nicholson, cross country will suffer more than will track, since material is scarce and mediocre. Despite the pessimism, however, there were good prospects on the green squad last year, which Coach Nicholson should develop into capable varsity performers.
“Nick” explained that the failure of the cross country teams to make good showings in the past has been due to lack of support by the student body. “There are plenty of men capable of making a creditable showing, but who do not turn out simply because cross country is not important enough to warrant their serious efforts.”
Three meets have been officially announced and a fourth one, still pending, will probably complete the schedule. The Blue and Gold harriers will engage in a quadrangular- meet at Evanston on October 17, against Northwestern, Illinois and Wisconsin. Iowa will furnish the opposition for
October 31, while Michigan State will follow on November 14. The fourth meet, if held, will be run off in the early part of November.
Track prospects are slightly better this year, even though the loss of seven letter men from last year’s team will be keenly felt. Graduation exacted its toll in the persons of Captain Johnnie O’Brien and Roy Bailie, hurdlers, Marty Brill and Nordy Hoffman, two good weight men, Joe Quigley, stellar middle-distance man, and Ken Fishleigh and Ralph Johnson, pole vaulters.
You Have Never
You Blithe Conklin Nozac by simply taming the kmmcd end of die banal—like you wind a watch. Leak-proof, smooth, easy action.
Seen A Pen
hike This
Before
YOU won’t find this in the reference library—it’s too new. You’ve $ot to go down the street to the most up-to-date supply stores to see the Conklin Nozac > "the pen that winds tike a watch.'* Visible ink section or allopaque barrel as desired. The visible ink section enables you to look right into the ink compartment at any time and watch the birth of a sentence. The Nozac holds 35% more ink than other pens of the same size because there is no rubber sac in the barrel. Examine the Nozac. Try it And see if you can get along without one. Depression-proof prices. The pens $6 and $10; pencils to match $3.50 and $5.00.
Yes, thera are other Conklins— brand new coion—new shapes. The pens $2.754o $8; pencils to match $1.00 to $<50o
THE CONKLIN PEN COMPANY
TOLEDO, OHIO
Chicago	San Francisco
DEALERS, stock and show the pens that sell.
Write for Catalog.
UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED
Captain McCormick and his forces will be aided this year by many promising freshmen candidates who served notice of their abilities last year with Coach England’s yearlings. Those who turned in outstanding performances were Rudy Obergfall in the sprints, Bill Dupuy in the hurdles, Joe Young, middle distances, Ed King in the mile, and Chuck Finkel in the weights.
The official track schedule has not been completed as yet, but will be announced in a later .edition of the Scholastic.
26
The Scholastic
Be Traditional!
. ADOPT THE HABIT NOW OF BUYING AT LIVINGSTON’S
South Bend’s oldest ' and most reliable . store for NOTRE DAME MEN established 75 yrs.
Shake with Laughter!
TWO STORES
for your CONVENIENCE
Downtown and on the Campus.
Ask to see our
New Suits and Top Coats
exclusive styles for
University men.
$25.00 FREE
in Merchandise
to the right guesser of the score of the Notre Dame football games—
Contest starts Sept. 28th
The 1931 Nut Crop is Ready
Shindigs aboard ship! Panics at petting parties!
Brainstorms in barns! Lunatics in love!
FOUR
MARX
BROTHERS
In
‘Monkey Business’
Clowning rings around “Cocoanuts” and “Animal Crackers” and setting a side-splitting pace of wise cracks.
-------Added, —-------
SCENIC CARTOON Paramount Sound News
Starts Saturday
Kuppenheimer
Good Clothes
COLFAX

September 25, 1931
27
VETERANS THREATENED
New Varsity Men In Keen Competition For Squad Posts,
Notre Dame always has had keen competition on the football practice field between players competing for the same positions, and in the opinion of many grid leaders it is this same keen competition that is the builder of her great teams. Competition is the heart beat behind a successful season. It makes each man on the team fight to “stay up there.” The player toils at length, for he knows that if he releases the pressure for one single instant, there is some one ready to step into his place. It keeps the men mentally alert and without alertness of mind the individual player cannot hope to compete with men who are fighting to get to the top.
This is brought out on the eleven at Notre Dame. At ends we find a competitive fight between Kosky and Host. A slip of either one at any time would find the other at his post. At right end Mahoney has a fight on his hands to hold his position against
DeVore. At the tackle posts we see Culver and Kurth, both members of last year’s team. Pressing them for their positions are Krause and Kozak. A let-up on either’s part would find them hugging the bench.
The guard posts have their share of competition. Hoffman is competing with Pierce at the right guard post, while Greeney is pressing Harris at the left guard position. Alexander, Gorman, and Rogers are struggling for Captain Tommy Yarr’s post. Even a let-up on the part of the captain would prove disastrous to him.
The quarterback post finds Murphy, Vejar, and Foley fighting for the same job. Right halfbacks—Sheeket-ski, Cronin, Brancheau, and Tobin, are putting up the battle of their lives to earn Marty Brill’s old post. Koken, Melinkovitch, and LaBome are pressing Marchy Schwartz at the left halfback berth. Fullbacking finds a struggle between Lukats, Banas, Grunde-man, and Leonard.
Competition makes men strive harder. It makes the team a unit of men that work in absolute rhythm, and the men know that they have to work to hold their positions.
That’s why Notre Dame usually finishes victoriously.
FALL TOURNAMENT FOR BURKE GOLF TROPHY BEGINS THIS WEEK
Qualification rounds for the annual fall tournament for the William J. Burke memorial golf trophy will be played this week. This contest is open to any student of the University and scores of 90 or under should be turned in at the club house before October 2. Seventy-two holes of medal play, 36 holes to be played on October 4, and the second 36 on Founder’s day, Octo-bei- 13, will determine the winner.
This is one of the important golf events of the year, as the spring ratings of the golf team are determined by it. The winner will also have his name engraved on the permanent William J. Burke trophy and will share a set of golf clubs with the runner-up.
Larry Moller, captain of the 1930 varsity golf team, won the event last yeai' with a low medal of 297.
Carideo Visits Campus
Frank Carideo, assistant football coach at Purdue university and quarterback of Notre Dame’s 1929 and 1930 championship squads, paid a short visit to the campus Sunday.
4»
rkhardbabTHELMEH
in
“The Spirit of Notre Dame”
I AST FLIGHT I w/fA.	I I
JOHN MACK BROWN 11 . ELLIOTT NUGENT I I \ WALTER BYRON I THELEN CHANDLER |||||||
Five daredevils in search of a \ i & thrill — where “Dawn Patrol” X1 left off!
1 SUN.-MON.-TUES.-WED.
W R. K. O. PALACE
28
The Scholastic
Splinters From The Press Box
Rockne, will flounder hopelessly before the attacks of the great teams that have to be faced during the course of the season. We are of the
By Edmund L. Mokiabty
ESPRIT DE CORPS
The march is on! The curtains are rapidly descending upon a more or less one-sided pennant race in the two major leagues, and public attention is once more focussed upon old King Football.
//’home—
Men of Notre Dame
Once again Max Adler, Inc. extends cordial greetings to the upperclassmen and the freshmen of Notre Dame— we want you to feel that this is “your” store — make it your South Bend headquarters—feel free at any time to come in and inspect our varied assortment of new clothes and furnishings that bespeak the ideals of college men.
Max Adler ZAC.
On the Corner . -Michigan and Washington
Nationally Known Clothing
—that you will find at Max Adler’s
CLOTHES
Fashion Park Charter House Braeburn
HATS
Dobbs Stetson Borsalino Fashion Felts Knapp Felts
SHOES
Florsheim
SHIRTS
Manhattan Kingsley Observer
UNDERWEAR
Manhattan Vassar Cooper
BELTS
Hickok
Pioneer
Notre Dame Jewelry, Memory Books, Pennants, etc.
Probably no one subject has provided more material for controversy than the outlook for the Rockneless Notre Dame team this fall. The “barber shop sages” have it that the Fighting Irish will be as a ship without a pilot, and without the late
opinion that this will not come to pass, and that this year’s eleven will be just as outstanding in many respects as Rockne’s famous championship teams of the past. True, the “Rock” is gone, but his spirit still exists and will continue to be an everlasting inspiration to this year’s team and to Notre Dame teams for many years to come. The spirit shown in the early workouts is a fine example of this and seems to have imbedded itself permanently in the hearts of the players.
Spirit is a most important factor to the success of a team. Notre Dame is overflowing with it. Great football teams lacking this invaluable quality have been known to “crack” under the strain of a hard season, while teams not so great, on paper at least, have been known to rise to great heights, just because they were possessed with an undying courage and “never say die” spirit. This year’s Notre Dame team will probably fall into the latter category. It may not be a team of stars as in former years, but it will be a band of individuals t fighting together every minute for a common cause—and a team like this is always hard to beat.
❖
THE QUARTERBACK PROBLEM
Frank Carideo, considered by unanimous choice to be without a peer among the quarterbacks of the country for the past two years, has graduated leaving behind him a great gap, and the filling of which is liable to furnish Coach Anderson with one of his greatest worries for the coming season. The quarterback is, perhaps, the most vital cog in a smooth working football machine, especially at Notre Dame, where brains mean so much in the effectiveness of the attack. Carideo left nothing to be desired, and inspired a confidence that no other signal caller in the country commanded. He was gifted with a sixth sense, so to speak, and at times he displayed almost superhuman strategy in the calling of plays. He was always the coolheaded master, and was flurried by nothing. Carideo will be missed this year and much of the embryo team’s , success in 1931 depends upon the showing of the candidates now battling for his position.
Anderson has Charlie Jaskwich,
!
September 25,1931
29
Carideo’s understudy the greater part of last season, but who didn’t seem to have the confidence in himself that his ability warranted. Jaskwich is smart and has football brains. He is a better than average punter and passer, and handles himself well on defense. He leaves little to be desired in a quarterback, but unless he has acquired complete confidence in himself, he will always be just a fair quarterback.
Pressing Jaskwich closely for the call will be Emmett Murphy and just a step behind is Laurie Vejar. Both are small, but are gifted with ability and strong hearts, factors which when combined, always make for a good football player. Joe Foley, Al Mc-Guff and Ray Boland are others, about whom more will be heard before the season grows very old. Foley has had valuable experience with the “B” team, while both McGuff and Boland are graduates of last year’s freshman squad.
Graduation exacted a most heavy toll last year, and such men as Cap" tain Conley, Brill, Mullins, O’Connor, O’Brien, Metzger, and Kaplan went by the diploma route. It is doubtful though if the passing of any one of these meant as much as the graduation of Carideo. If his shoes are filled creditably this year, one of . Coach Anderson’s greatest worries will be erased, because as the quarterback goes, so goes the rest of the - team, and this is bound to be true this season.
❖
, THAT FULLBACK JINX
It seems that to play fullback for Notre Dame either carries with it a " hospital ticket or a run of bad luck, for such seems to be exactly the case. A few years back, one of the late Mr. Rockne’s greatest worries was in his ’ fullbacks as they just couldn’t seem to keep off the hospital list. At one time three of his best were seriously injured and Freddie Collins, gifted with indomitable courage, was forced to face the Army with his arm in a cast.
। Last year Mullins was injured early ■ in the season and saw little service after that. Then Joe Savoldi was forced to leave school and left another great gap in the backfield. Now the jinx seems to be back again. Dan Hanley, after much consultation »	among the deans, decided that it
’	would be best to postpone his re-
' entering school for a while. Fred Staab did not return to school and
• then to complete the tragedy, Lukats,
the most promising fullback on the field this year, suffered an injury in scrimmage last Saturday. It is not thought to be serious though, and he is expected to be in shape for the opening tilt with Indiana at Bloomington. If this keeps up though, Anderson will have to draft a few fullbacks from the interhall teams, or pull the speedy Al Culver out of the line to fill the position.
N. D. Games on the Air
Among the features of the National Broadcasting company’s tentative schedule for the next three months is the broadcasting of four Notre Dame football games. The tilts with Indiana, Northwestern, Southern California and the Army are those which NBC will put on the air.
"Hail, Hail,
the Gang’s All Here”
The school "season” is on... busy hours crowded with the business of arranging rooms, and schedules, and meeting old friends. But no matter what the demands on one’s time may be, there’s always time to talk to the . folks at home . . . by telephone.
The Economical jt>s convenient, and the Noice of millions charges may be reversed to the home telephone if you desire.
INDIANA BELL TELEPHONE
COMPANY
30
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
GOLFERS PLACE THIRD IN NATIONAL TOURNEY
514 J. M. S. Building
South Bend, Ind.
Stop at MACK’S Music Shop 102 Western Ave.
For
BUESCHER BAND WEYMANN STRING INSTRUMENTS
Accessories Orchestrations Instruction Books „	Etc.
To serve^yo^well is a privilege tor which we are \ most grateful. \
Redmond Is Quarter-Finalist; Moller Is Beaten Early.
The final effort of the 1931 Notre Dame golf team was the capturing of third place in the National Intercollegiate tournament late in June. Playing on the Olympia fields course in Chicago, the Blue and Gold swingers totalled a 627 for their four best thirty-six hole cards. Yale led with 610 and Princeton finished second with 614. Dunlap of Princeton repeated his triumph for the individual trophy.
Redmond in Fine Form
Some of the sting was taken out of the failure of the highly touted Notre Dame squad by the fine match play of Bill Redmond, captain-elect. Qualifying with 79-74—153 for the best total of his team, he blasted his way to the quarter-finals before losing to the defending champion. In the first round Redmond polished off Winston Fuller of Southern California 6 to 5. The same afternoon he took the measure of Joe Royston of Michigan by 4 and 2. George T. Dunlap, Jr. of Princeton, defending his title and on his way to another one, eliminated Redmond 7 and 6 in a thirty-six hole round match.
Larry Moller, the only other Notre Dame player to qualify in the low thirty-two, lost to Sydney Noyes, Jr. of Yale in the first round, 3 and 2.
E. P. McCormick
Proprietor
Formerly at 228 No. Michigan Street
First Time at School Opening
The New Burgundy Red
and Black 1%irLer S^uqfold
They’re ready—Parker’s latest creations —first time shown at a. school opening— the new Burgundy Red and Black Matched Pen and Pencil sets. Rare beauties, as radiantly colorful as wine-colored crystal. See them now at your nearest Parker dealers. Take a pair to class and you’ll have the newest in the Guaranteed for Life Duofold Pen. Not $10 as you would expect—but only $5 or $7—due to largest sale in the world. The set—Junior size Pen and Pencil, $8.75; Lady Duofold Set, $8.25.
The Scholastic ft _____________________________________g
In the first day’s play Yale went into the lead with 309. In fifth place, back of Princeton, Harvard and	g
Georgetown, Notre Dame posted a 315 score. Moller, Redmond, Louis O’Shea and Captain Fran Beaupre	fe-
ted the Blue and Gold squad. At this point Reese of Yale, and Ahern of Detroit City College were tied for | the lead with 73’s.	1
During the second day Reese added another 73 to capture the medal as the Notre Dame team turned in 312 to take third place in the team standing. Five of the Notre Dame squad failed to qualify, but Moller with 155 and Redmond with 153 entered the match play.
Dunlap Wins Again
Dunlap’s stand in defense of his title was probably the feature of the tourney. Brushing Watts of Southern Methodist and Sam Parks of Pittsburgh aside in the first two rounds, he was the favorite all the way. Redmond fell in the quarterfinals and ex-champion Tommy Aycock of Yale was the fourth victim. In the finals Bob Keppler of Ohio State carried the title holder to the 35th green but fell 2 and 1.
The Notre Dame scores in the two qualifying rounds:
Bill Redmond ........... 79-74-153
Larry Moller............ 80-75-155
Fran Beaupre ........... 77-82—159
Louie O’Shea.............79-81—160
Russ Beaupre ........... 82-80—162
Billy Burke .........   83-88-171'
Art Bradley ............. 92-83—175
41
September 25, 1931
31
SCHOLASTIC TO SPONSOR FALL .NET TOURNAMENT
Winners To Receive Medals; Entries Close Wednesday.
The Scholastic, in keeping with its progressive policy, will sponsor a fall tennis tournament this year. Tennis, as a sport, is on the decline at Notre Dame, and it is hoped that this earnest endeavor on the part of the Scholastic will bear fruit in the form of a strong varsity team next spring.
In the past, the policy has been to select the team on the basis of showings made in the spring elimination tournament. That this is unfair can readily be seen, and to avoid a recurrence of this, a tournament will be staged in the fall and again in the spring. In this way no talent will pass by unnoticed and every candidate will stand' an equal chance of making the varsity team.
The tournament will be in full charge of the sports department of the Scholastic, in conjunction with the captain-elect Joe Borda. Entries will be received not later than Wed
nesday, September 30th. An entry fee of twenty-five cents will be assessed for each entrant in.the singles, and twenty-five cents for each doubles combination. Medals will be awarded to the winner in both singles and doubles.
Entries will be received in person by any member of the sports staff or Captain Borda, or by mail. Address entries to the Sports Editor, Notre Dame Scholastic, Publications Office, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Nicholson Issues Call
Coach John P. Nicholson of the Notre Dame track team is looking for runners. During the past week he has issued calls for candidates for the varsity and freshman cross country squads as well as for men to take part in the fall track workouts.
The calls should meet with a ready response. Aside from the incentive of getting in shape for the coming indoor track season, a fall handicap meet is being planned.
This meet, an annual affair for the autumn runners, will offer medals and other suitable awards to the winners. Full details are now being formulated by the athletic department and will be announced at an early date.
Here’s a new painless way of getting a JUGGLER each month . . .
Just sign up for a year’s subscription when the Juggler man goes through your hall — you need not pay cash — the two dollars will be charged to your school account.
Hello Men!
Smith s Cafeteria
111 E. Jefferson Blvd. Shetland Bldg.
*
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
High Quality Corduroys $2.85
Cinder Path
Field Shoes
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly U. S. Army Store 330 South Michigan Street
32
The Scholastic
Optometrists	Opticians
ROGERS
Dr. E. S. Cain Dr. H. H. Rogers
212 South Michigan Street
Kewpee Hotel Hamburg 328 N. Michigan
We are always open and ready to serve our specialties—
Excellent Hamburgers and Rich Creamy Malted Milks
□
Drop in after the games or shows.
. □
PHONE 3-0405
Yard Service
Tell them you saw it in the SCHOLASTIC.
On Down the Line
. . . TWENTY GRAND has a tape worm ... he eats 11 quarts of oats daily . . . PONY McATEE makes S25,000 in contract fees and gets ten per cent commission on purses . . . Looks like HACK WILSON got the bum’s rush to save §35,000 per annum . . . JACK PFEFER, whose business it is to sign up wrestlers, speaks 11 languages and goes from country to country signing up ferocious looking mat boys . . . he. formerly managed a Russian Grand Opera so it appears as if there is something in this grappling game . . . ROBERT “LEFTY” GROVE, ace of the Athletics pitching staff, is the first major league hurler to win thirty games in a single season in more than twenty years.	•
. . . LUIS LACEY, the Argentine polo star, was born in Montreal . . . TOD MORGAN, the fighter, shoots his golf right-handed off the tee and left-handed from the fairway . . . EARL “SPARKY” ADAMS is the smallset player in the big leagues and he covers ground like a rabbit besides being a timely hitter . . . BILLY SULLIVAN, guardian of the initial sack for the Blue and Gold baseballers last fall, started two triple plays for the White Sox this year while guarding the hot corner.
. . . There are four Browns at Alabama this year, brothers of JOHNNY MACK BROWN, the movie star, and they are all on the football squad . . . TOLBERT, FRED, HARRY and BILL are their names . . . With a Saturday and Sunday off between the second and third games of the world series, maybe GROVE will pitch the whole series . . . LEFTY ought to like that National League ball . . .
❖
. . . TULANE is building a tennis stadium with a seating capacity of 4,000 ... At least 31 former NOTRE DAME players are head coaches' here and there throughout the country . . . and there are almost as many again serving as assistants ... With HANK BRUDER still in mind, Coach DICK HANLEY of Northwestern has od-dered every man on his squad to be vaccinated, rather than take a chance on some one else upsetting his training plans . . . JIMMY DYKES, one of the most versatile players in baseball, is at home in every position in the infield ...	.
Here, MEN, smoke a man’s smoke
A PIPEFUL of good tobacco is dis, tinctly a man’s smoke. The women (long may they wave!) have
The pipe is not for pretty girls.
taken over most of our masculine privileges. But pipe smoking still belongs to us.
In every walk of life you’ll find that the men at the top are pipe
smokers. And most college men agree that the pipe offers the rarest pleasures a man could ask of his smoking.
When you smoke a pipe, be sure you choose the tobacco that will give you the greatest enjoyment. In 42 out of 54 colleges Edgeworth is the favorite. You can buy Edgeworth wherever good tobacco is sold. Or for a special sample packet,
write to Larus SC Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va. Sample is free.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edge-
worth’s distinctive and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —Edgeworth ReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes, rj^podeet package to #1.50 pound humidor tin.
/
1
SAFETY SKRIP,' SKRIP FILLED, 50c to $10. Cany non-leakable Safety Skrip in your packet or bag to class — protects clothes, linens, furniture— keeps fluid fresh, making all pens write better.
1.	Balance' ends.
2.	I n n e r cap a ir-sealspoint.
3.	Gold-Filled ball clip.
4.	G o I d -Filled reinforcing band.
5.	Doubleaction self Filler.
6.	Rubber reservoir.
7-Dead-air chamber around sac.
8.	Special feed regulates flow.
9.	S o I i d 14-karat heavy gold nib.
10.	Center-sawed iridium point.
It’s All
a Lifetime
This white dot identifies Sheaffer's,the ONLY genuine Lifetime0 pen.
Sheaffer First in American Colleges
A survey made by a disinterested organization shows Sheaffer first in fountain pen sales in 73 of the 119 leading American colleges having a registration of 1700 or more. Documents on this investigation available to anyone.

OU don’t have to take anybody’s word for the difference in a Sheaffer Lifetime0. Jnst pick it up and you know! Smooth as your best ^irl alibi-in^ herself out of tomorrow night’s date. Free as the holiday after exams. Decisive as “No!” from the dean. Man . . . it’s a pen! If you want a writing companion that’ll take you through college . . . and your son, too, when he comes along, . . . remember these inside facts that made Sheaffer first choice in 73 out of 119 leading colleges in America.
The ONLY genuine Lifetime0 guarantee is Sheaffer’s; do not be deceived! Other pens maybe guaranteed against defect, but Sheaffer's Lifetime0 is guaranteed against everything excepting loss for your lifetime. Sheaffer’s Lifetime0 pens from $7; Sheaffer’s Lifetime014-karat solid gold-band Autograph pens suitable for duplicate of your actual signature (serving for identification) from $12.75. Autograph pencils from $9. Other Sheaffer pens from $3.
SHEAFFER
PENSPENCILSDESK SETSSKRIP
W. A.SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY, FORT MADISON,IOWA.U.S. A.
°Reg. U. S. Pat. Off. © W. A. S. P. Co., 1931
NOTRE DAME. IND