Notne.

eO
SCHOLASTIC
S
i
I


Vol. 81, No. 13
June 16, 1944
I 2 a p I fi £ 4 i 5 s
• V-12 in Chicago Trib's "Youth on Campus" Feature
APPOINTED BY THE U. S. NAVY
Get More Quality for Tess in These
NAVY OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS
created by the U. S. Navy
40
RAINCOATS
with removable All Wool finings
’3750
Indiana's LARGEST Naval Officers' Uniform House is NOT DOWN TOWN in South Bend.
It is EIGHT BLOCKS South on Michigan Street! .
J}RODUCED under the supervision of the Navy Department, these uniforms fit flawlessly, are fashioned to perfection. And the low prices established by the Navy provide you with the best of all possible value.
REMEMBER! — It is not only the uniform but the Fit that Counts. You can depend on Gilbert's tailors for this expert service.
TAXI FREE!
—in South Bend Hail any cab— we pay on arrival.
THE MODERN
GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
OPEN HOUSE
Saturday afternoon and Evening — and Sunday, 9 to 4
Home of HICKEY-FREEMAN Navy Officers' Uniforms
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 81
JUNE 16. 1944
NO. 13
One Hundred-Forty to Receive Degrees
Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C. to Give Convocation Address
K.C.'s Send "Scholastic”
One hundred and forty members of
the senior class of the University
Rev. T. Brennan
and graduate students will receive degrees at the convocation ceremonies to be held in Washington hall on the campus, Friday evening, June 23, at 8 p.m.
Included in the roll o f graduates are names of 22 ensigns who left Notre Dame last February for active duty in the navy. They will receive degrees of Bachelor of
Naval Science.
Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., professor of philosophy and noted authority on Dante, will present the convocation address.
Also addressing the students will be Joseph H. Murnane, of Chicago, Ill., who is the valedictorian of the senior class. Mr. Murnane will receive the degree of Bachelor of Science in Commerce.
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., pres
. .. . Out to Find Their Places in the Fight
ident of the University, will celebrate a low Mass at 6:45 a.m. in Sacred Heart church on the morning of June 23, for the graduates. Following this will be the traditional farewell visit to the church, by the seniors. Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C., will conduct this ceremony.
Parchem Wins Aero Post
Monday evening the Aero club held its last meeting of this semester with the prime purpose of electing new officers.
After a minor club law was changed to enable anyone above a first semester junior to run for office, the voting got under way, in full parliamentary procedure.
John Parchem, senior, was voted chairman of the club, while Jim Dugan received the vice-chairman position, and Dan O’Donnell the duties of secretarytreasurer.
After the usual smokes, soft- drinks, cakes, and aero jokes had been consumed, the meeting was closed. -
to Members in Service
Four- hundred copies of this week’s issue of Scholastic are being sent to members of Notre Dame Council No. 1477, Knights of Columbus, in the armed forces.
The move was undertaken at a meeting of local Knights, held Monday evening in the auditorium of the Law Building, in an effort to keep absent members informed on local developments. The decision in favor of the Scholastic rather than a special issue of the Santa Maria was considered to be more economical and possibly more thorough.
Other topics which came up for discussion at the meeting were the coming picnic set for the latter part of July, the possibility of new offices for the financial secretary, and joint activities with other neighboring councils. Mr. Ernest Howard explained the new policy of the Order which makes it optional for servicemen to take out insurance. Reports on committees were given by Mr. Bernard Teah and Father Charles Carey. A committee on investigation of newly proposed members was appointed by Grand Knight Cotter.
The next meeting was set for the first week in July.	'
**• •»**♦’*♦••••**• *2* **• *5* *5*	’J*
❖	. ❖ ❖	EXTRA COPIES	❖
❖		 ❖
Due to the fact that many seniors ♦ ❖ will want extra copies of this issue of ❖ SCHOLASTIC, as will the V-12 train- ❖ ❖ ees because of the "Weekend Man- & euvers" pictures in the middle-spread, ♦ ❖ copies of this issue will be put on ♦ ❖ sale at the Bookstore at 10 cents ❖ ❖ each.	♦
❖	♦
^he SVotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 186"
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ, Editor-in-Chief
RALPH ABELL
Associate Editor, Marines
EDWARD MADDEN
Associate Editor, Navy
EDITORIAL STAFF
HAROLD BERLINER -	-	- Managing Editor
BILL WADDINGTON -	-	- Sports Editor
DICK MURPHY -	-	-	- Circulation
BOB O'TOOLE -	-	-	Promotion
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -LIEUT. (J.G.) J. J. COLLINS JIM CASEY -	-
JIM REGAN -BILL CARNAHAN	-
ROBERT RIORDAN LEO OUILLETTE -HARRY LEBIEN -
- Observations Know Your Navy The Green Banner - Introducing The College Parade Man About the Campus ■ Pressbox Splinters - . The Periscope
THOMAS PAYNE
ARTHUR WAGNER CHUCK RUSS
NEWS STAFF
STEVE LOYACANO BILL THOMPSON JOHN O'HARA
JOHN KNUDSON BOB STEVENSON DON FORGAYS
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD JOE HALLER
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
. Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of'Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
4
EDITORIAL
"Men About the Campus"
A university belongs to many people, and many people belong to her. It is so with Notre Dame. Across the land of America, and in every corner of the globe outside our country and on the battlefields across the seas, there are Notre Dame men. It was many years ago for some and only one, or a few short years ago for others. But each of them went out one day from the campus. With them they took memories of when they used to: sit on classroom building steps for that last minute of study; have bull-sessions in the Caf; play touchball and softball in Biology Field and Badin Bog; sit on the lawns; find their way down to the Grotto; to the bus stop;
-the Memorial; spend much time in solitary study in their rooms. With them they took a way of living.... the doing of it, consequent to the thinking of it. This is the Notre Dame way of life.
Several obvious difficulties resulting from the war forced the discontinuance of the University’s yearbook, the Dome. Another class of seniors is graduating and leaving Notre Dame without an annual as a record of their life on campus, especially of their senior year.
Without attempting the impossible task of issuing a miniature yearbook, Scholastic has endeavored to provide in these pages some small clue of remembrance to all those graduating. It is proud to present here this week’s “men about the campus”.'.. the seniors of June, 1944.
We are indebted to the following men for their work in compiling, assorting, and writing the material which appears on the graduates:
To Matt Bajorek for doing an excellent job of chairman; to Robert Dunn for writing the “aeros”; to Jack McAndrews and Ray Smith for collaborating on the “chems,” to George Charters for the “juice” on the electricals; to Frank Paulson and Hal Hunter for their write-ups of the lawyers; to Frank McManus for the “Yacht Club” men, to John Christman for doing a good job on the men of science; and to Tom Dougherty and Bob O’Toole for their ger-together on the Arts and Letters majors. To all, a hearty thanks from this department.
With the best -washes of the staff, this issue is dedicated - to the graduating seniors, and to the countless other students who are leaving the Notre Dame campus next week to enter the armed forces of our country. In this respect it is dedicated to the memory of those already dead, to the courage of those yet preparing for their places in the fight, and to the honor of all Notre Dame men in the armed forces of their nation, who Sacrifice with the same high purpose which is their Alma Mater’s.—Al Lesmez.
Notre Dame, our Mother, Tender, strong and true.
Proudly in the heavens,
Gleams the gold and blue, Glory’s mantle cloaks thee, - Golden is thy fame, And our hearts forever,
Praise thee, Notre Dame. And our hearts forever,
Love thee; Notre Dame
Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C.
Men tne CgmumiA'
AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERS
ROBERT WILLIAM DUNN — Kenmore, N. Y. — Bachelor of Science in Aeronautical Engineering — Cum Lande. Usually refers to Buffalo when speaking of his home town. A coast to coast flight is his ambition. In his senior year, Bob was elected chairman of the Notre Dame branch of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences. Also during his senior year he served as secretary of the Student Activity Council. He plans to work at the N.A.C.A. Lab., in Cleveland, after graduation.
MIGUEL FACUSSE — Tegucigalpa. Honduras, C. A. — Bachelor of Science in Aeronautical Engineering. Representing South America in the aeronautical field here on campus, “Mike” has always been known for his loyalty to his native land, although he has spent the majority of the past ten years in the United States. Aerodynamics is his major interest, while basketball attracts him. Mike says you can't beat a week-end in Chicago. He intends to lend his talent to the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation in Burbank, California.
FREDERICK JOHN FAHRENDORF — Scarsdale, N. Y. — Bachelor of Science in Aeronautical Engineering. He is often heard describing others as "What a character.” Having taken flying instructions and soloed in his senior year Fritz possesses a great love for flying and still has hopes of flying in a .modern fighter plane. Held the office of Secretary-treasurer in the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences. He has hopes of being commissioned into the U.S. Navy after graduation.
WILLIAM PATRICK HANNAN — Mechanicville, N. Y. Bachelor of Science in Aeronautical Engineering. During the past two semesters Bill has been rooming in the Heat-F’ower Building. In his senior year he became acquainted with some journalism when he was appointed editor of "the Burble,” local aeronautical publication. Will be working for the N-A.C.A., in Cleveland, after graduation.
JOHN BAXTER KANE — Woonsocket. Rhode Island — Bachelor of Science in Aeronautical Engineering. Having joined the V-12 program in November, 1943, he is the only graduating aeronautical engineer in uniform. While on week-end leaves he is often seen with Mike Facusse and company. Bax has always played an active part in the various Aero Club activities. His near future remains a military secret.
PHILIP FRANCIS MYERS — South Bend, Ind. Bachelor of Arts in Aeronautical Engineering — Cum Laude. Phil is one of the few graduates who has his home in nearby South Bend. He has joined many of the campus organizations, among them: I. A. S. student Branch, Knights of -Columbus, and the Glee club. In the latter society he served as secretary during his senior year. Photography is his favorite hobby. He likes: Crosby, Fred Waring, and “a girl in Akron.” After graduation he will join the Lockheed Corporation.
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING -
HENRY LIVINGSTON ADAM — Bachelor of Science in Ch.E. . . . From Terre Haute ... is president of the Wranglers and a member of the A.I. Ch.E. and Debating team . .’ . has secret ambition to be a writer ... is witty, likable, and a true N.D. griper . . . if his draft board approves, he hopes to attend graduate school at the University of Louisville.
ROBERTO ENRIQUE dcROMANA — Bachelor of Science in Ch.E. . . . From far away Arequipa. Peru . . . answers to "Puma” . . . has been president, secretary, and treasurer of La Raza club . . . member of A-I.Ch.E-and Panel of Discussions on InterAmericari Relations . . . Glee club . . .
plays a fast game of soccer . . . twice campus chess champion ... is looking forward to a short vacation before undertaking graduate work. .	'
RICHARD ANDREW DRATZ — Bachelor of Science in Ch.E. . . . Dick makes his home in Muskegon. Mich. . . . is. quite a sports enthusiast . . . is proud of the fact that he is graduating Cum Laude ... member of A.I.Ch.E. . . . wishes week-ends were longer and more frequent . . . plans to enter the Navy after graduation.
FRANKLIN EDWARD ECK — Bachelor of Science in Ch.E. claims Red Bank, N. J., is the best home town in America. . . . Frank was a varsity track man . . . holds Cum ' Laude average ... can’t sympathize with transfer students who gripe constantly about N.D. . . . likes tennis . . . keeps a scrapbook ... a V-12 trainee, he will. attend midshipman school, and during or after the war hopes to see a good part of the world.
WILLIAM HENRY GRAFE'.— Bachelor of Science in Ch.E. . . . this V-12 trainee from Columbus. O., wears two stripes as a student officer . . . his six foot. 185: pound frame produces a healthy, swat . . -. rates swimming top sport ... member of A.I.Ch.E. and Chem. club . . . hates morning calisthenics and likes Chicago week-ends . . . will attend midshipman school in New York City as a i step toward those officer’s whites.
WILLIAM LARKIN GRAHAM — Bachelor of Science in Ch.E. . . . from Tulsa, Okla. ... soft-spoken and loose-hipped . . . has Cum Laude average . . 1 found time to sing with the • Savoyards, campus Gilbert and Sullivan proponents . . . member of A.I.Ch.E. and Engineers club . . . plays cornet and tennis . . . claims to have held every dining hall job in existence . . . will work for Shell Oil company at Houston, Texas.
❖
JOHN PATRICK McANDREWS — Bachelor of Science in Ch.E. . . . "Mac” hails from Clinton. Iowa ... is the youngest member of the graduating class, barely nineteen ... vice-
5
president of the A.I.Ch.E. . . . active in the Knights of Columbus and Chem. club . . . member of three interhall championship teams . . . likes to play bridge, at which he is no beginner . . . preferences run to stage plays like “Oklahoma,” good music, and Bill Nicholson of the Cubs . . . hopes for a direct commission in the Naval Reserve.
JOHN WILLIAM McKENNA — Bachelor of Science in Ch.E. . . . Jack is from Louisville, Ky. . . . his degree will have that Cum Lauds look, member of A.I.Ch.E. and Chem. club . . . president of Kentucky club . . . sax man in University Band . . . claims if he were Prefect of Discipline for one year, there would be all night lights and all night permissions . . . collects matchbooks . . . has applied for a commission in the Naval Reserve.
OTTO JOSEPH MILETI — Bachelor of Science in Ch.E. . . . from derby-famous Louisville, Ky. ... is a rabid racing fan . '. secret passion is one day owning a gambling casino . . . secretary-treasurer of A.I.Ch.E. . . . vice-president of Kentucky club . . . Chem. Club member . . . rates football as tops . . . plans to attend graduate school at the University of Louisville, with a Master’s degree in Chemical Engineering his aim.
EDUARDO CASTIELLO OCHOA — Bachelor of Science in Ch.E. . . . came from Guadalajara, Mexico, to do his- studying under the Golden Dome. . . . “Ed” found the going difficult at first, but learned American ways - and customs fast . . . treasurer of La Raza club and a member of the A-I.Ch.E. . . . a natural athlete . . . spends his time with the camera . . . graduate school and a Master’s degree are his immediate aims.
EUGENE JOHN O’NEIL;— Bachelor of Science in Ch.E. ... a V-12 student two-striper from Detroit, Mich. . .r .. has acquired more nicknames than there.is space to print . . - member of A.LCh.E. and Chem. club . . . loves to relax while swimming . . . wishes he were a freshman again ... hates to leave . . . will stop at midshipman school in New York on his way to Japan.
❖
RAYMOND ■ VINCENT SMITH — Bachelor of Science in Ch.E. . . .
Ray calls Lorain, O., home . . . chocolate chip cookies make weekly trip from a Lorain miss to this Cum Laude engineer . . . president of A.I.Ch.E. . . . active member of Knights of Columbus and Chem. club . . . favors stage plays, good music and good food . . . was ticket chairman of the ’43 Engineers Ball and General Chairman of the '44 affair . . . will work for Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Corporation and follow further the paths of learning at the University of Louisville.
ROBERT WILLIAM SCHRAMM — Bachelor of Science in Ch.E. . . . this long, lean engineer hails from Ponca City, Okla. . . . senior football manager in ’43 and rates football his favorite sport . . . will probably end up with one of the big oil companies “back home” . . . was publicity chairman of A.I.Ch.E. and member of Chem. club . . . was publicity chairman of A.I.Ch.E. and member of Chem. club . . . dabbles in photography, but prefers wasting his time on those “curvaceous” creatures.
GERALD JACK WELCH — Bachelor of Science . . . “The Prophet” ’ from Toledo, Ohio, . . . Cum Laude graduate . . . complains incessantly1 of “no cooperation” . . . glad he has good position with Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Corporation . . . tennis and softball enthusiast . . . A.I.Ch.E. representative in Student Council . . . member of Chem. club and Savoyards . . . approves of student honor system . . . hopes some day to get into politics.
CIVIL ENGINEERING
MICHAEL THOMAS McGLEW — Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering. Comes from Youngstown, • O. Being the only Civilrtp graduate, he has the unique distinction of, being at the head and foot of. his class. Was a member of the A.S.C.E. It-has been said that he had the neatest room. on campus, usually with six or seven fel- ■ lows draped around the furnishings. He is now waiting for his commission in the Naval Reserve to come through.
❖
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS
GEORGE ALFRED CHARTERS — Bachelor of Science in Electrical'Engineering, from . Camas,- -Wash. Chairman and former treasurer of the A.I.-
E.E. A good athlete, prefers sports as his favorite recreation. Waiting for commission in the Navy to come through. Transferred from the University of Portland in 1941.
JOSEPH FRANCIS KEARNEY — Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, from Brooklyn, N. Y., member of the A.I.E E,. Throws a wicked Bowling Ball, admits -that his secret ambition is to bowl a “300” game. This amiable boy is aptly described with his nickname, “The Culler.”
JAMES PATRICK MAGUIRE — Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, hails from New York City. Hard-hitting third baseman fcr, the Electrical’s softball team, he is quiet, unassuming, and has that “Noo Yark” accent. Future will be decided for him by his draft board.
ROBERT JOHN MARTINA — Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, comes from Denver, Colo. Acquired nickname, “Scrooge,” from a consistent penniless buddy. Secretary of the A.I.E.E. for two years, insists his last appointment as secretary was a put-up job. Has application in for commission in the Navy. Would like to go through college — again.
ROBERT MEULEMAN — Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, a South Bend Hoosier, only Navy V-12 boy to graduate from Electrical - Engineering department. Thinks the extra sleep is more important than morning calisthenics. Likes especially Saturday from 1300 to Sunday 1930. Bound for Midshipmen’s school after graduation.
CESAR ALBERTO MUNECAS — Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering. Hometown is in Havana, Cuba. Member of the A.I.E.E. and was former treasurer of La Raza club but resigned. This hard-working, well-liked engineer spent his summers on the'beach at Havana. A genuine artist on the slide-rule, he likes to work.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
MATTHEW JOSEPH BAJOREK — Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering, Magna cum Laude. From Titusville, Pa. Was president and vice-president of A.S.M.E.; member of Band and Student Council. Likes to argue about labor unions, has quite a bug on flying. Intends to work at N.A.C.A. Engine Research Laboratory in Cleveland, Ohio.
6
EDWARD JOHN BURKE — Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineers' ing. Lives in South Bend, Ind. Was a member of the A.S.M.E. and starred on the A.S.M.E. bowling team. Doesn’t like to hear cracks about his favorite Indiana weather. He’s one of the finest men you’d ever care to know — a Notre Dame man through and through. Thinks he’ll do what the Navy tells him to do for the duration.
JAMES FITZGERALD — Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering. Jim, better known as “Fitz,” comes from Indianapolis. Ind. Don’t let that quiet, unassuming attitude of his fool you — he’s an “operator.” Was a member of the A.S.M.E. For “Fitz.” it’s either the Army or the Navy after graduation.
FRANK PROSPER GOODMAN — Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering. Comes from Lake Alfred. Fla. Was vice-president of the A.S— M.E., president of the Glee club, and a member of the Engineers club. Even though it was a tough school to get through, he thinks there is no finer university in the country than Notre Dame. After graduation he will take a commission in the Naval Reserve or go into the Navy as a "gob.”
JAMES FRANCIS GORMELEY — Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering. Comes from Jersey City, N. J. Was secretary of the A.S.M.E. and a member of the Engineers club. Lived in the Heat-Power building. One of his favorite expressions: “Cesar, did you get the Hydraulics?” Hopes to get a commission in the Naval Reserve after graduation.
METALLURGY
JOHN FRANCIS COLLINS — Bachelor of Science in Metallurgy, Cum Laude. From Midland, Pa. Was a member of the A.S.M. .and. was Petty Officer in Co. H of his V-12 unit. Was awarded the Thomas E. Walsh, Daniel E. Hudson, and John W. Cavanaugh’s Laymen Scholarship. He is a riot of fun. According to Jack, after graduation “the Navy takes over.”
WILKES STUART LYMAN — Bachelor of Science in Metallurgy, Magna cum Laude. From Mount Vernon, S. D., “Stu” is the outstanding man of the Engineers having, the highest scholastic average. Received a scholarship award from the Auxiliary Institute of Mining and Metallurgical
Engineers. Member of the A.S.M. and lists photography as his hobby. Intends to work for the N.A.C.A. at the Aircraft Engines Laboratory in Cleveland. O.	.
ARCHITECTURE
EDWIN STANLEY SOCHALSKI — Bachelor of Architecture. — Edwin, better known as “Sock” hails from Detroit, Mich. He majored in design and received honorary mentions on problems submitted to contests for architects in New York City. Was a member of the Architect’s club and the Detroit club. His hobby is modelairplane building. He intends to get into architectural work, settle down on a tract of land in northern Michigan and live a peaceful married life.
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
JOHN EDWARD BYRNE — Bachelor of Science. . . . “Doc” hails from Greenville, O. . . . Big man on the
campus “literally” . . . going to be a doctor some day . . . been in the Army . . . got a free ride from coast to coast . . . they finally let him out . . . football is his favorite . . . going to med. school when he gets his degree-
❖
JOHN FRANCIS CHRISTMAN —
Bachelor of Science in Chemistry. . . .
The Men of Science at Work
John comes from Terre Haute, Ind. . . . often called upon to compare the . “Rock” with St Mary-of-the-Woods . . . wants to get a Ph.D. in Chemistry some day . . . was a member of ' the now famous E.R.C. . . . Had a perfect record with St. Mary’s for seven semesters, then a friend talked him into going over . . . some day he wants to teach Chemistry. ....
❖
RAYMOND JOSEPH DEMPSEY — Bachelor of Science in Physical Sd-ences. ... Ray comes from Joliet. Ill. . . . deals a wicked deck of cards . . .. collects coins too ... wants to be a successful doctor . . . going to the University of Maryland for medical school ... a member of the Academy of Science ... favors dance bands . . . likes to take it easy.
❖
JOHN EPHRAIM DOHERTY — Bachelor of Science . . - comes from Grosse Pointe, Mich. ... started a thesis long ago . . . just found out that he didn’t need one . . - finished it anyway . . . lives off-campus . . . “K. of C.” man . . . going on for a master degree in science if he doesn’t get personal word from the President . . -likes to swim ... says he -likes everybody . . . going to be a doctor some day.
❖ '
EDWARD RAYMOND MORGAN — Bachelor of Science . . . comes from Harlan, Ky. . . . the “Colonel” is a true southerner ... likes hill-billy music with a passion ... has a John Adams senior under tow ... quite a dealer . . . keeps his marks in the upper brackets ... member of the Academy of Science . ■ . plans to take a course in physical education from the Army ... going to be a doctor some day.
NROTC GRADUATES:
Walter Barber LaBerge Thomas John McCarty John Diedrick Naber William Paul Webb Robert Martin Witucki
COLLEGE OF LAW
THOMAS FRANCIS HALLIGAN — biggest politician on campus . . . business manager of the Notre Dame Lawyer . . . president of Law’ club . . . ex-deputy Grand Knight of the K. of C. . - - expects to set up a law’ practice in Michigan . . . takes the Michigan bar in July.
HAL EDWARD HUNTER
bril-
liant student . . . holder of an A.B. . . . winner of the Hoynes Award as outstanding legal student . . . graduating magna cum laude . . . proud husband . . . and father of three-month-old son . . . former president of Lawclub and wearer of a Lawyer Key . . . plans to practice law in Missouri. With his winning personality and his ability, he looks like a sure bet to succeed.
PETER FRANCIS NEMETH
genial, jovial “P'ete” . • and three-year-old son. . as Funeral Director and Indiana . - . owns and
. has a wife . . Licensed Embalmer in operates his
own funeral home in South Bend . . • ambition has always been to be a lawyer . . . associate-editor of Notre Dame Lawyer . . . has political ambitions . . . claims he won’t have to follow the ambulances.
VAIL WALTER PISCHKE — great class-room politician . - . has a radio show’ over WSBT every Saturday . . . president of the Radio club . . . home is in South Bend . . . member of Notre Dame Glee club . . . graduating Cum Laude ... a combination student, he received a degree of Bachelor of Arts in October of 1943 . . . Major in A.B. was Economics.
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS
THOMAS EDWARD DOUGHERTY — Fairmont, Minn., A.B. in Economics. Self-titled “Supervisor of Student Personnel” in the Dining halls. Tom missed honors by 0-8 per cent, remarkable in view of his absence from the class room for a while in Army service. The Ploughboy intends to broaden his intellectual horizons at Harvard’s Law school next autumn.
and Mrs. Hal Hunter, and
Mr.
plant. . . . He is hatching a plot for the Great American Novel . . . Personnel work and a blow in the Chi. Trib’s “Wake of the News” are his graduate interests.	'	•
EDWARD LEROY KAVANAUGH
Gloversville, N. Y., A.B. in Economics. Corrector for Professor Downey, his popularity was assured, though he does admit paying his own bill down at George’s (once) . . . He “swingshifted" at a South Bend war

Two Months Old Hal the third.
. JAMES JOSEPH KANE handsome “Jim” . . . one most sociable of all the. men
pus
can sing from
twenty-five ditties appropriate occasion . . . expects to take
— big. of the
on cammemory for any the Illi-
nois Bar in July . . . hopes to set up practice in Chicago . . . never seems to study but always makes. excellent grades.	.
JOHN FRANCIS SULLIVAN. — New York City, A.B. in Sociology. As soon as he was handed his army discharge papers, “Rocky” raced back to the campus for a seat on Sorin’s porch. . . . Since the activities of the Met. club and the Dome were stopped by the war. Sully has spent his' free time speculating on the future, in
which looms Georgetown’s School of Foreign Service.
CREIGHTON EUGENE MILLER — Wilmington, Dei — A.B. in Philosophy. “Creight” combines the rare attributes of a really great football player and a good student. . . . His one failure is his inability to beat Father Brennan at anything, no impediment to anyone’s success. ... He still has trouble separating Casey from his four-poster. . . . The immediate future is a bit uncertain, with law school a distinct possibility.
WALTER BRONNER SEARCY — Boston, Mass. — A.B. in History. Walt, who confined his political activities to the Boston club, has as his life ambition the desire to become financially free ... he carted many a chicken and goose around the countryside for a local trucking concern. . . . This embryonic legal genius intends to cavort about Harvard’s campus come autumn, and “that’s fer dern sure.”
VICTOR ROBERT GRAYSON
South Bend
A.B. in Eccncmics.
One of the Villagers, Vic has divided his time between Notre Dame and Bendix. A sharp dresser, he keeps his fellow economics majors well informed on Esquire’s dictates. Vic intends to teach after graduation.
HYDINUS ALPHONSUS PECIULI-US — Baltimore. Md. — A.B. in Sociology. Having wowed all the local music lovers with his dramatic qualities as baritone solcist for the Glee club, this lad moves on to new pastures next week. . . . An occasional set of tennis and the bi-weekly Bookmen meeting are among the few’ attractions that will tear him away from his musical pursuits. . . . His greatest success here was his performance in “Ruddi-gore.” ... In the fall he intends to enter the Eastman School of Music at Rochester, N. Y.
NORBERT
SKI — East
Economics, from “way even more of records gency. . ;
STANLEY WLEKLIN-
Chicago, Ind. — A.B. in
A Duke Ellington devotee back,” this lad has become so because of the shortage during the present emer. . “Beezy” puts all his
stock in Chicago’s Cubs. . plans to wrack his brains,
fulfill
his secret ambition of
Jerry , Geisler as Icing of eagles.
. Norbert hoping to displacing the legal
MICHAEL MATTHEW KIELY — San Francisco, Calif. — A.B. in History. — Rumor has it too . that this amiable lad trained for the monogram he won this spring in track by moving over to the Biology Building and mak-
e
ing the trek from there to the civilized parts of the campus, will go on active duty with the after graduation.
more Mike navy
DUJARIE HALL
Brother Alfonse Comeau Brother Ellis Greene Brother Evan Schmid Brother-Wilbert Leveling
Brother Brother Brother Brother
John Hanon Francis Regis Crowley Armel Latterell Leonard Leary
MOREAU SEMINARY
Donald Leo Siebert
Edward William Thomas William
Dennis O’Connor John Beston Lawrence Campbell Richard Lyons
James Leo Martin Cornelius Jeremiah Kingston Robert James Askins Roger Paul Quilty Joseph Mark Hayden Joseph Edward O’Neil William John Boland
N R O T C GRADUATES
William Withington Wicks, Chicago, Ill.
William Anthony Madden, Wyoming, Ohio
John Evans Barnett, Boscobel, Wis.
Joseph Aloysius Conerty, Crystal
Lake, UI.
James Manly Gower, Maine
Roy James Grumbine,
Bar Harbor,
Cincinnati,
Ohio William Edward
Island, N. Anthony
Thomas Raese, Berwyn, III.
Eugene Ghigliotti, Staten
Francis Earley, Forest
Hills, N. Y.
Charles Pa.
Edward Mich.
Robert Wis.
Graham Lyden, Carbondale,
James Singelyn. Romeo,
Louis Rohde, Sheboygan.
John Francis Coleman, Cleveland,
Ohio Receiving Thomas
Lake, Ill. Francis
UI.
degrees in absentee: Anthony Costello, ’Crystal
John Vignola, River Forest,
COLLEGE OF COMMERCE
ORVILLE O. COLIANNI — Bachelor of Science in Business Adminis-
tration. Oak Park, Quiet, well-dressed .
Ill.
Amiable,
. plans on run-
ning a grepe fruit ranch in the Rio Grande Valley after graduation . . . was member of old Commerce Forum . . . hobbies are weekends and George’s
. . . dislikes are loud radios and slamming doors early in the morning . . . likes people who can take a ribbing.
WILLIAM L. KRAPE
Bachelor
of Science in Business Administration, Freeport, Long Island, N. Y. — Tall, lanky, well-liked member of Knights
ministration, Chicago, Ill. — Amiable, boisterous . . . member of Commerce -Forum . . . favorite sport is baseball . . . likes sleeping, and. winning arguments . . - plans to do some extensive job-hunting after graduation.
of Columbus . . . was
in old Com-
merce Forum, Met club . . . hobbies are flying and golf . . . plans to join sales staff of a New York wocd. pulp concern.
BENJAMIN
J.
Bachelor of Science ministration, Benton
MAMMINA — in Business Ad-Harbor. Mich. —
Popular redhead ... is Deputy Grand Knight of Columbus . . . was member of old Commerce Forum. Italian
club, Detroit club, and Glee club . . . hobbies phy and George’s . . . to Notre Dame Law graduation.
first tenor on are photogra-intends to go school upon
FRANK L. McMANUS — Bachelor of Science in Business Administration. Binghamton, N. Y. — Neat, conscien-
tious, well-liked . laude graduate . Commerce Forum
a
is
member of Spanish club, and Propellor club . .
magna cum member of formerly a Radio club. . captained
Commerce Forum’s softball team this semester . . . would like to enter sales school of International Business Machines.	.
JOSEPH J. MURNANE — Bachelor of Science in Business Administra-. tion. Oak Park. Ill. — Friendly, conscientious. politically inclined. . . magna cum laude graduate and valedictorian of class. . ..president of Commerce Forum and Student Council, member of Wranglers, Bookmen, and Scholas-
tic . team
captained Sorin hall tennis . likes good novels . . . in-
tends to work for his father’s paper mill company.
LAWRENCE W. REYNOLDS —
Bachelor of Science in Business Ad-
JAMES A. SCHMID — Bachelor'of Science in Business Administration. Dubuque, Iowa. Cum Lauds graduate . . . popular, easy-going ... nickname “Phonse.” was varsity football manager, member of old Commerce Forum . . . sport on top of his list is golf, with baseball and football next . . . would like to retire upon graduating. .
GEORGE A. STRONG —. Bachelor of Science in Foreign Commerce, Long
Beach, dresser uate .
Calif.
Amiable. neat-
. a magna cum laude gradmember of old Commerce
Forum and Spanish club, was Spanish corrector ... hopes to work for some shipping concern . . . attended University of California for a year before coming here ... has been student prefect of Sorin hall for last three semesters.
JAMES L. TORRENCE — Bachelor of Science in Business Administration,
Mexico, Mo.
Well-liked, practical
joker . - . played intramural Softball
. . . likes swimming . her of St. Louis club
old
Commerce Forum .
his hobby . . . hopes to Mexico, Mo., some day.
was a mem. member of . George’s is be mayor of.
N R O T C GRADUATES
Degree in Naval Science: Peter M. Belmont ■ Vincent C. Bitter John H. Conway Francis P. Crowley James T. Crowley-John G. Dewey-Edward R- Eckenrode Gordon L. Forester Richard E. Gallagher. Alan H. Guard Daniel J. Hecht John E. Herlihy William J. Howe Paul W. Hurd James R. Kelly-John F. Mann Charles J. Montrie Francis E. Moore Louis C. O’Brien-. -Edward P. O’Connor John R. Pedrotty Thomas T. Reyburn Joseph A. Sansone Charles E. Seghers Albert P. Stello Thomas J. Walsh John H. Zwicker
s
Student Council Accomplishes Its Aims;
Mokes Plans for Summer Semester
At the beginning of the Spring semester the Student Activities Council was organized to do something for civilian campus life. Members were elected from the residence halls, and chosen from all the campus clubs. The council named four officers, Joseph Murnane, president; Mike Garry, rice-president; Robert Dunn, secretary; and Harold Berliner, treasurer.
Looking back at their record it is seen that the Council has done many things which it set out to do.
A softball league was started, in which nearly all the clubs participated; it had a successful season, and prizes were awarded the winners. In Sorin hall the signing-out board is now placed out before dinner, which has been of
The Student Activities Council. Back Row, left to right: Robert Riordan, Henry Adams, Jose Cardenas, Thomas Halligan, Gerald Welch. Middle Row: Matt Bajorek, Edward O'Connor, Harold Berliner, Charles Russ. Front Row: Robert Dunn, Joseph Murnane, Robert Morrissey.	—Photo hy Renaud.
Grand Piano Added to
Breen-Phillips "Rec"
Thanks to the persistence of Stephen . J. Loyacano and the generosity of Mr.
D. C. Ford, manager of the dining hall, a piano was installed in the basement recreation room of Breen-Phillips Hall this week.
Steve, an ivory beater from New Orleans unable to live without his daily workout on the 88 keys, asked Mr. Ford , some time ago if he could have a piano
great help to the residents. The night watchman difficulties of Breen-Phillips hall were straightened out. Graduation was made more interesting, and completely planned by the Council. The Bishops Clothing Drive was carried on, and supported very well. The Student Council will take over the orientation program, and at the beginning of next semester will have things in full swing for the welcome of the new freshmen.
Matters still pending are the 1:00 a.m. Saturday permissions for Sorin hall, and the making of Notre Dame rings strictly for Notre Dame men. These were carefully worked on during the semester, but more remains to be done with them to bring them to successful completion.—Harry Berliner
that stood upstairs in the cafeteria. Permission was given and the musicians from B-P were all set to move the instrument over to their hall, but a last minute mishap prevented the plan from materializing.	‘
Mr. Ford, however, secured a Schaaf Cabinet Grand from Chicago, and after it was installed in the B-P “rec” the University paid for its tuning. The piano, now in" excellent condition, is being enjoyed by many of the hall residents.—James McCarthy
Wranglers Hold Banquet
The Wranglers, an honorary Notre Dame forensic club, will conclude its semester’s activities with a banquet at the Oliver Hotel on June 17. At this time “Tex” Pequigney and Dick Ames will replace Henry Adam and David Armstrong as president and secretary of the club. The meeting will be concluded by Joe Murnane’s paper on “Capitalism’s Future.”
This semester The Wranglers accepted four applicants into the club. A further increase in membership is contemplated for next semester along with a resumption of the Wranglers’ pre-war program of interhall debating.
Student Council in Drive To Collect Old Clothing
Under the direction of Joseph H. Murnane, the Student Council inaugurated a drive, this week, to collect old clothes which are ultimately to be sent to Italy. The clothes will be distributed in the war-ridden areas to the poverty-stricken inhabitants of villages which were destroyed during the American invasion.
The drive is being sponsored by Italian societies throughout the United States, and has the sanction of authorized officials.
On the campus, a door-to-door drive in every hall occupied by civilians was undertaken by members of the Student Council.
Band Concert Meets With
Great Success — Again
By STEPHEN LOYACANO
Gathered on the grass in front of the Main building last Wednesday, a crowd composed of students, professors and visitors, relaxed in the cool spring breeze, took their minds off the Invasion and enjoyed the music presented by the University band.
The program was the first of its kind to be given this spring. The concert opened with “The Star Spangled Banner” followed by the all time hit “Make Way For Tomorrow” by George Gershwin and Jerome Kern and currently featured in the musical comedy “Cover Girl.”
The most novel arrangement of the evening was the “Victory Garden Suite.” The “Broccolli” was indeed “relished” by all as proved by the “jitterbugs” yelling “More! More.” The program closed with the Notre Dame “Victory March.”
The University band is under the direction of the genial . H. Lee Hope.
!•
► Know Your Navy <
NAVAL PHRASEOLOGY —6
Make fast—To secure, such as to make fast a ship’s line to a bollard.
Man the boat—An order to embark.
Marlinespike—A pointed, iron instrument used in splicing line and wire.
Martinet—A stickler for discipline. (See Sundowner).
Mast—A vertical spar on a ship supporting the booms, gaffs, etc.; mast is the term for the hearing of cases of breach of discipline.
Meal-pennant—The red pennant flown at the yardarm of men-of-war at anchor during meal hours. ’
Mess gear — Equipment for serving meals.
Midshipman—A naval cadet.
Monkey fist—A knot worked into the end of a heaving-line.
Mooring—Securing to a dock or buoy; anchoring with two anchors. •
Morning order book—The book in which the Executive Officer writes his instructions for the ship’s morning work.
Muster—To assemble the crew and call roll.
Nun-buoy—A red buoy with a conical top found on the starboard hand on entering a channel.
Old Man—The captain of the ship. (Slang)
On Soundings—Said of a vessel when the depth of the water can be measured by the lead—within the 100-fath-om curve.
Order—Direction by a superior to perform a certain act leaving the method of execution to the individual.
Outboard—Towards the sides of the vessel.
Out of trim—Not properly trimmed or ballasted.
'	’ (Continued on page 19)
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ -B-X-	❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
❖ B-X OPEN NEXT WEEK ❖ ♦j.	____
❖ Bring your used books into the B-X *> ❖ Early! It will be open from Monday & ❖ June 19 to Friday, 12:30 to 3, in Room ❖ ❖ 10 of the Main Building.	❖
♦J.	❖
_b~X~ *♦* *♦* *♦*
N. D. Trustees from Chicago Give Dinner Honoring Admiral Carpender, Fr. O'Donnell
Last week, the members of the Board of Trustees of Notre Dame who reside in Chicago, namely Mr. Byron V. Kanaley, chairman of the board of trustees, Mr. Edward J. Doyle, Mr. William J. Corbett, and Mr. John C. Tully, held a dinner in honor of Rear Admiral Arthur S. Carpender, commandant of the Ninth Naval District, and Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. The dinner was held in the Chicago club on June 7.
Before the short and informal talks by Fr. O’Donnell and by Rear Admiral Carpender, Mr. Kanaley of Chicago, toastmaster, had the following to say:
“Ties founded in tradition and history have bound Navy and the University of Notre Dame for nearly a century. Annapolis and Notre Dame were founded at about the same time—Notre Dame in 1842, and Annapolis in 1845, so their years have been parallel. Especially have the relations and contacts between Navy and Notre Dame been very close and treasured since the days of World War I and Admiral Benson, commander of Naval Operations in that war. Admiral Benson and Mrs. Benson kept in close touch for many years of their lives with the University and evidenced in many ways their interest.
“This tradition of mutual affection and respect between Navy and Notre Dame has been carried on and intensified by
Seated at the head tabfe. left to right: Rear Admiral Arthur S. Carpender. USN. Mr. Byron V. Kanaley. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell. C.S.C.. Rear Admiral E. G. MorseU. USN. and Hon. Edward J. Kelly. Mayor of Chicago. Standing, left to right: Mr. John C. Tully. Mr. William J. Corbett, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, and Mr. Edward J. Doyle.
their close cooperation in this war. This cooperation has been made manifest m many directions, and so in this modest way tonight, by this informal dinner, the Trustees of the University have asked in a few friends of Notre Dame, so that we may express, in a necessarily inadequate way, our deep regard for Navy, represented tonight by Rear Admiral Arthur S. Carpender.”
Among the navy officers attending the dinner were: Rear Admiral E. G. Mor-sell, district supply officer of the Ninth Naval District, Great Lakes; Captain J. Richard Barry, commanding officer of the United States Naval Reserve Midshipmen’s School at Notre Dame; Captain Joseph T. Casey, chaplain at the U. S. Naval Training Station, Great Lakes.
Captain Robert' R. M. Emmet, commanding U. S. Naval Station, Great Lakes; Captain'Ola F. Heslar, director of training, Ninth Naval District, Great Lakes; Captain Emanuel A. Lofquist, chief of staff to commandant, Ninth Naval District, Great Lakes; Captain Alfred J. Toulon, commanding officer, U.S. Naval Hospital, Great Lakes; Captain Edwin A. Wolleson, commanding officer, Navy Pier, Chicago; Captain B. B. Wygant, commanding officer, U.S. Naval Reserve Midshipmen’s School, Abbott Hall, Northwestern University, Chicago; and Lieutenant Commander Henry E. Russell, aide to commandant, Ninth Naval District, Great Lakes.
II
Chicago Sunday Tribune's Famous Pair Cover Nofre Dame V-12 "Maneuvers" in Next Feature
“YOUTH ON THE CAMPUS,” the Chicago Sunday Tribune’s weekly photographic report on student life at American colleges and universities first appeared in its picture section, Oct. 6, 1940. Since then, this feature has caused a reportorial team to travel nearly 100,000 miles in visiting more than 150 colleges and universities from coast to coast.
Based on the journalistic premises that college students are photogenic and that youth adds zest to picture-pages,
War’s outset added to this popularity. The weekly picture chronicles became a link between men in the service and their contemporaries of more peaceful times. Thousands of the Tribune’s picture sections now find their way each week to former college men stationed at posts all over rhe world.
Andy Pavlin
Pavlin is a veteran of World War I, twice decorated, once by the French. In a careless moment he lost the French medal and now cannot even remember the name of it. He has been “pledged” to sororities at Michigan State and the University of Wisconsin — and wears the pins on his suspenders to prove it. Once when he and Miss Nangle arrived at crowded Madison, Wis., on the eve of a football game he used his sorority connections to find the feminine half of the team a place to sleep.
Andy Pavlin once earned the lasting gratitude of co-eds at Western college, Oxford, 0., by deceiving the navy. The
The dance continued merrily till 1—{ o’clock.
“I flashed a few bulbs to make it loo^ good,” Pavlin explained later.	•
“Youth on the Campus” pictures havt I inspired or abetted many romances Movie talent scouts are among the mos1 attentive followers of the feature. Se*; . eral girls, as a result, have receive* screen tests. At least two are know! I to have received contracts.	'
Miss Nangle entered journalism i:i 1926 as a reader for Liberty magazine After leaving this job she spent a sum mer in Europe and came to The Tribute in 1927. As beauty editor she has han. t
(Continued on page 19)
Who's Who in the Pit res
Row 1: (A) THE BALL—tn d March. In the front line—Chcen:
Haller, Nesbit, Young, and I (B) THE REVIEW—A well de
ch.
!
'ed
rest after the review. Bill C ey and his Chicago friend Jean -c
(C) PICNIC AFTERNOON—O
do!
what good looking uniforms^se Marines have. Privates Nelligc nd
this continuous series of camera reports has a fascinating background story of its own. It is the joint product of Elenor Nangle, a trim and friendly little writer who has been Tribune’s beauty-editor since 1934, and Andrew Pavlin a skilful photographer who enjoys the freshness of collegiate subjects.
Eleanor Nangle
Opela with the Johanson siste Choice seats for the Musical
D) ne.
Collette, Coleman, Jeske, C ns and Coakley with Misses 7<e, Lane, Washburn, Sundstrc'c; tfd
Row 2: (A) PICNIC RACE, ,ue crowd gathered for those exc r— crazy races. (B) Enthusiastic delators—Aren't those pigtails c tty Jo Christian something? Fo ire Gareth Bibbins thinks so. (C C-
NIC REFRESHMENTS—Watcl Lynch — “Gunny." He's afte^ weiners.
hn ;re
Row 3: (A) Looks like jusj ;ut
everybody is around that fii
,ce
except the Captain. (B) W let that Marine at this table? S; m:
Yocum. (C) PICNIC SHOW— of the hundreds that saw the st id-
ous, colossal Musical Revue.
❖ This well known team was on our ❖ own campus the week-end of the V-12 "Maneuver's." They were kept ❖ busy taking pictures at the Ball, Re- ❖ ❖ view, and Picnic. Their photographic ❖ ❖ study will be produced in the June 18 ❖ ❖ Sunday “Tribune."	❖
“Youth on the Campus” captured reader fancy from the beginning. Appreciative letters and comments showed a feature had been born that had real reader-interest.
12
girls that night were hostesses at a dance for navy students of nearby Miami university. While Andy was taking his pictures, a co-ed complained, “Gee, we want to dance, but these boys have to be back at 10 o’clock!”
When 10 o’clock neared the photographer informed the ensign in charge that he hadn’t finished shooting his pictures. “It’ll probably take till midnight,” he added. The ensign grinned and telephoned his commanding officer. Permission was granted for the men to remain.
Row 4: (A) The Producer ai ro-ducerette of the show, K. C. ’ fer
and his girl Shirley Sims. (1 art
of that solid Finn Band. Me:
er.
Carr, Ballinger, Lang; on troiM'S. Wallace, Kapituk and Finn oitn-pets. (C) Marine Private las Young. Emcee of show and fSuperb announcer of races! (iJlN-DAY MILITARY MASS — ar^a Dance. The close of a Perfect jk-
End.	'V
IS
SPORTS V?
Handymen Close Outdoor Card at NCAA's;
Place Second as Marfin Wins Two-Mile
BY JACK McGRANE "Scholastic" Track Writer
the added advantage of learning the tricks of the trade. Winding up the semester, there is a possibility of an allcampus tournament, as hoped for by Coach Walter- Langford, that will find all students and trainees in the University program battling for survival of net superiority.
The probability of an informal schedule for a team representing Notre Dame also looms potentially strong at this time but approval of both plans and a billing of contests is yet to be forthcoming from the board in control of athletics.	■
Frank Martin paced his teammates to a second place in the National Collegiate AA championships on Saturday, June 10, in Milwaukee as the Notre Dame track team closed a successful season.
Joe Kelly and George Sullivan, Irish weightmen, added 15 counters to the team’s total as Kelly placed second in the discus throw and sixth in the shot put while Sullivan was snagging show money in tossing the 16 pound pellet.

BY LEO OUHLETTE
Scoring 43 points, they finished behind the highly favored Illini, who won the team title with an aggregate total of 79. Michigan, recent winner of the Big Ten meet, was third with 40 points. Only six of the 19 Irish entrants placed in the meet but Martin’s contribution of 16 points made up for the lack of support. Buddy Young, Illinois speedster, copped top individual honors with 38 tallies.
All Alone
Martin’s victory in the' two-mile was virtually uncontested as he won the event in the fast time of 9:38.4 with no one even close. Mike Kiely finished sixth in the long route to add an important point to the Notre Dame score. Prior to his double-mile success, Frank had run in the mile. He stayed well off the pace set by the amazing Hume twins of the Wolverine contingent, who won the race, to save his energy for his title bid. Finishing almost 100 yards behind the victors in third place, he seemed almost too conservative since he wasn’t even pressed in the race for the wire for the number three spot.
This Semester's Track Squad Pictured with Coach “Doc" Handy at extreme right.
In compiling the statistics for the ’44 record books, the Handymen have - dual meet credits over Iowa Pre-Flight, West- ' ern Michigan twice, and DePauw in the out-door season with a lone bow to Great Lakes. The bulwark of opposition was ■ encountered in the Drake Relays, Central Collegiates, and National Intercol-legiates, finishing well up in front in all, especially with an impressive second in last week’s finale.
Interhall Tennis Set
For Coming Semester
. Now that the local tennis scene is_-tucked away and the resounding notes of flicking pages usher in the close of a semester, there remains but a single thought concerning the term to come.
A large-scale inter-hall program is in its infant stages and yet must materialize from the state of papyrus inscription. The summer session will give those interested in tennis a chance to sport their skill and for the newcomers and would-be addicts of the game, there is
The greatest team in current baseball will make its appearance on the diamond of Cartier Field this Sunday afternoon so we’ll devote most of this column to the players comprising Mickey Cochrane’s Great Lakes outfit... Their dream pitching staff includes Virgil “Fire” Trucks, Lynwood “Schoolboy” Rowe, Junior- Thompson, Bill Brandt, Si Johnson, and Bob Klinger.... catching are Clyde McCullough and Joe Glenn.... in the infield cavort such stars as Johnny McCarthy, Billy Herman, Al Glossop and Merrill May.... and their power-laden . - outfield, consists of Gene Woodling, Dick West and Whitey Platt... boy o’ boy what some of our major league managers wouldn’t give for a roster like that!
And here are some pertinent facts con’ cerning the individual players that make up this truly great team... “Schoolboy” Rowe was signed by the Detroit Tigers while he was still in the eighth grade. He was a whiz at Detroit under Cochrane, helping to pitch the Tigers to two pennants and a world’s championship. At one time he won 16 straight games before finally going down to defeat, a modern American League record! Billy Herman, keystone guardian, has long been considered the best second sacker in the National League and was a member of the All Star team for ten straight years before joining the navy.
Merrill May, standout at the hot corner, was the 1940 All Star third baseman for the National League. He was originally signed by the Yankees but played all his big league ball with the Phillies... Virgil “Fire” Trucks, whom Clyde McCullough considers the greatest pitcher in baseball, holds the world’s strikeout record and is one of the finest fielding
14
pitchers in baseball. Trucks considered his greatest thrill to be the 1 to 0 no-hit masterpiece he once pitched. '
Junior Thompson, six feet two and 215 pounds of newer has played major league ball with only one club, the Cincinnati Reds, and he was with them for nine years before Uncle Sam called.... Clyde McCullough has been with the Cubs since 1940 and holds the distinction of flitting home runs in every park in the National League. Originally an infielder, he once bought a 98 cents catcher’s mitt and caught 30 games with it before he decided to get a better one. Since that time he has remained behind the bat.... And managing this powerhouse is one of the greatest players of all time Lt. Comdr. Gordon S. “Mickey” Cochrane.... chosen as baseball officer to build a team of Bluejackets at Great Lakes he has done an admirable job. In his first two years at the Lakes Cochrane built two great teams, both acclaimed the champions of the armed forces. This year he has a team that is considered even greater than the previous two.
Back in the days when the A’s were a team to be reckoned with in the American League, Mickey was their shining star. From the Athletics he went to Detroit as manager and gave that town two pennants and the only world’s championship it has ever enjoyed. Then a tragic accident put Cochrane out of baseball for what seemed forever—then came the war, and Mickey Cochrane was one of the first to heed the call. He was commissioned in the navy and assigned to Great Lakes as baseball officer. The rest of the story is daily news... Mickey' Cochrane loves the game of baseball and inspires those who play under him to adhere to his code of sportsmanship. As a regimental commander he carries out the same policy in training recruits for the hardships of war. Let’s all give a rousing cheer for “Iron Mike” Cochrane, a great athlete and a credit to the Navy he represents.
Lt. Walker Wins First
Faculty Golf Tourney
The Notre Dame Faculty Golf Club held its first handicap tournament of the season last week and plans to hold others at regular intervals for the rest of the summer. The winners and their scores for the first match were: Lt. Howard Walker, 70; Father James Leahy, 71; Father Charles McCarragher, 72; Professor Thomas Konop and Professor Ed Kavanaugh, 73.
The club is comprised of faculty members and naval officers stationed at the University.
Great Lakes Parade of Stars Plays Here Sunday; Boilermakers on Tap Tomorrow
BY HANK SLAMIN “Scholastic" Baseball Writer
Leading a bunch of battling sailors onto the Cartier Field turf at 2:00 pan. Sunday afternoon will be Lieut. Comdr. Gordon “Mickey” Cochrane, one of the greatest catchers of all time, as his Great Lakes Naval Training Center aggregation heed the call of the diamond to seal up Coach Jake Kline’s spring version of baseball extravaganza on the Golden Dome campus.
Publicized like a three-ring circus and playing like a prairie wildfire that is even hotter than the meaning portrays, the Blue jacket contingent will be reciprocating after Notre Dame nicely accommodated them by being their guests on Lake Michigan’s shores last Sunday afternoon, being the perfect visitors in absorbing an 8-2 defeat. It was the tars tenth straight triumph while the Blue and Gold came away writh an even .500 record, having split the number of favorable decisions in a score of games.
.	Names Galore
And simulating the usual “Big Top” ballyhoo that proverbially boasts a parade of stars, “the Lakes” comes well equipped for the kill. Last year they put on an amazing show for fans of the local metropolis and surrounding vicinity as they fielded such name players as Johnny Mize, Barney McCoskey, Tom Fer-rick, and other big-stick stalwarts. Other theaters of war have called the services of the above mentioned and this year’s roster has been a “get-up” merely from scratch, nothing remained on which to build.
A plea for player talent was answered by an onslaught of major and minor league experience that has never seen the like in service team history. A deluge of batting prowess added to an influx of pitching supremacy has given Great Lakes one of the greatest combinations in operation today, be it major, minor, or service league ball.
The motor city contributed the speedy thrusts of Virgil “Fire” Trucks whom Coach Cochrane believes is one of the fastest pitchers in baseball history. Another ex-Detroiter but a more recent Blue Jay acquisition is Lynwood “Schoolboy” Rowe, always highly touted where pitching prestige is to be considered. Other hurlers to make appearances were Gene “Junior” Thompson, a stellar performer for the Reds; Bill Brandt of Pittsburgh, Si Johnson of the Phillies,
Bob Klinger of the Pirates, Ed Weiland of the White Sox, and an American Association boy, Jim Trexler from Indianapolis.
No Need to Worry
Now that it became a mere matter of deciding who would be the winning pitcher and where, there came the more serious task of eliminating infield and outfield prospects. The initial sack was copped by John McCarthy of the Boston Braves. Second base went to one of the
It Takes A Lot Of Practice
best performers ever to hold down the spot, Billy Herman, formerly of the Dodgers and the Cubs. Shortstop was cinched by Alby Glossop of Brooklyn while Merrill May put a reserved tag on the hot corner after meeting with success at Shibe Park with the Phillies. Roy Hartsfield from Atlanta and Ed Skladany from Minneapolis rounded out list of graduates that play the dirt-line.
Out in the garden, there were three grand specimens, Mizell “Whitey” Platt who had been with the Cubs, Dick West who had just terminated his playing days with Bill McKechnie’s Cincy club, and Eugene Woodling from the Cleveland Indians. The receivership was more than aptly manned by a trio of bigleaguers with Clyde McCullough of the Cubs getting the starting berth but more than ably supported by Bill Baker of the Pirates and Walter Millies who had done a stretch with the Senators.
Put them altogether and you have a star-studded show that would sell plenty of war bonds if they were making personal appearances in behalf of government finance. The trueness of this conglomeration of diamond stalwarts can only be measured in the services they have performed while under the guise of organized play in the big time. Their
(Continued on page 23)
15
Tennis Team Whips DePauw for Number Nine; First to Earn Claim of Western Supremacy
BY BILL WADDINGTON
"Scholastic" Sports Editor
The turn into the home stretch and the run for the wire has become tennis history and the staunch claim to a Western championship now becomes the sole privilege of a bunch of Notre Dame racketeers that defeated DePauw last Saturday, 7-2, to win their ninth and final contest of the season.
Nine wins in as many tries is an enviable record for any club to possess and in the time of question mark statuses plus vigorous naval training, it is more of an honor to emerge triumphant. Beating five Big Ten aggregates and two strong independent squads of the MidWest was a fitting task of accomplishment. Northwestern, Wisconsin, Indiana, and Chicago were Western conference foes that offered very little resistance but Michigan’s Wolverines put the Blue and Gold to the test that proved a final bit of superiority on the Fighting Irish side.
The free-lancers, DePauw and Western Michigan, always regarded as the small fry potentates of this sector, brought on some stiff competition but the
locals managed to annex four encounters from this pair of contending opponents.
At an informal session at Coach Langford’s home last Saturday evening, the tennis team elected number one man Chuck Samson as team captain. In the past, captains had been chosen prior to the season’s opening but with the advent of the Navy program, too much foresight could not be employed in the premature stages. Samson, a transfer student from Ohio State where he was number two man last year, added much to the Irish prestige. Accompanying him in his weekend chores were Jerry Evert, a youngster, but well versed in the game and having been preceded by a brother Jim who could wield a trusty racket.
Other stand-bys, Bill Tully, who doubled for Doc Handy’s cinderpath boys, and Jim Griffin made up the “Big Four.” Griffin lost his single’s match to Michigan, otherwise the top quartet were undefeated at singles play all season long. Joe Wood, a veteran of South Pacific action who came to the University in the V-12 program, Stanley Warshaw-sky, Darrell Black, and Bart O’Brien
filled in five and six spots when their services were called upon. All of the eight aforementioned men are being recommended for monograms by Coach Langford.
The head tutor, Coach Walter Langford, could always depend on the top four to garner their singles win and then it was a matter of pairing the two in-vincibles, Samson and Evert, for the necessary margin to victory. When the squad took more than four points in the singles, there was less consternation and the big guns were separated, Samson teaming up with Griffin and Evert poking along with Tully.
“It was a fine team under present standards. For team spirit, individually and collectively, they couldn’t be beat. They were always interested in the team’s welfare. They were pressed once by Michigan but stood the test well and came out on top.”
. The intercollegiate meet at Evanston which commences June 26 and continues on through July 1 will find Samson, Evert, Tully, and Griffin in the list of Blue and Gold entrants. Competition will naturally be keener but if the season just completed is any indication of superior play, then there’ll be a loud report echoing from the Northwestern campus eastward to the Golden Dome campus, proclaiming another step in Irish tradition, the production of true sportsmen and winners.
1944 WESTERN TENNIS CHAMPIONS
Left to right: (back row) Coach Walter Langford, Leonard Buchstaber, Bill Tully, Jim Griffin, Darrell Black and Bart O'Brien. (Bottom row) Charles Samson, Jerry Evert, Sanford Warshawsky, and Joe Wood.	■
They're Oft
One of the best introductions to a play-by-play account of a football game that this writer has seen in a long time ' was written by Damon Runyon, covering the Notre Dame-Navy game in 1935. . . . Here, in part, is Runyon’s write-up, not of a horse race but of a football game. . . . “Elmer Layden, one of the old ‘Horsemen’ of Notre Dame, now running the football stock farm at South Bend, opens his barn doors here this afternoon, and out pops the liveliest let of gridiron colts you could hope to find in .a month o’ Sundays. . . . Elmer let’s ’em run loose in the Baltimore pasture ’ against ‘ all of Lieutenant Tom Hamilton’s Navys from down Annapolis way, and the result is 14-0 in favor of the old ‘Hossman’s’ herd. He convinces 65,000 spectators that he has-the making of a great football stable after two years of experimenting in Indiana.
"He displays some rare yearlings, and some corking two-year-olds. As the cowboys used to sing: ‘They’re wild, ’ and wooly, and full of fleas and never been curried below the knees.’ Well, probably not fleas. A flea would have a tough time catching up with one of the old ‘horseman’s’ colts long enough to light on him. The colts are that fast.”—Leo Ouillette
16
Marine Company B Defeats Breen-Phillips Blues in Campus Softball Playoff Series
BY JIM REGAN
Battling it out on even terms in the first two games of the playoff series with the civilian league softball champions, Co. B of the Marines service league winners, with one big inning captured the campus championship two games to one from the Breen-Phillips Blues. The Marines will receive gold medals while the runner-up Breen-Phillips Blues will be awarded silver prizes.
First Game
After trailing for almost the entire game, Company B rallied in late innings to defeat Breen-Phillips 6 to 5. Gene Long of B-P and Nelligan of the Marines hooked up in a tight pitching duel with Nelligan gaining slightly the upper hand. The Breen-Phillips team looked well on their way to winning the first game but. four runs in the sixth inning spelled defeat for the civilians. In their half of the seventh they did come back with one run but left two men stranded on base. The score:
RHE Breen-Phillips Blues ......3 0 0 0 1 0 1—5 7 3 Company B .......... 1	00 014 x—6 7 2
Batteries: Long and Marshall: Nelligan and Nedwidek.
'Second Game
The second game was almost a repetition of the first game but this time it was the Breen-Phillips team that came from behind to even the series at one game apiece. The Marines scored two runs in the second inning and added another tally in the fifth and seemed well assured of victory. However, in the last half of the seventh things began to hap
Interhall softball thrived under the hot sun
pen. Two walks, two hits and two errors enabled the Breen-Phillips club to score four runs to capture the game. It was pitcher Gene Long who broke up the tight game with a smashing hit to right field. The score:
RHE Company B ____________0 2 0 010 0—3 6 2
Breen-Phillips Blues 0 0 0 0 0 0 4—4 9 1 Batteries: Nelligan and Nedwidek; Long and Marshall.
Third Game
The service champions and the civilian winners entered the final game all tied in victories, one each, and.also tied in the number of runs scored, nine. The final game was expected to be another repetition of the first two keenly contested games. Gene Long was named by the B-P Blues to pitch his third game in as many nights while the Marines countered with “Lefty” Peterson.
The Marines opened the scoring immediately in the first inning with two runs but the civilians came back with a run in their half. In the last of the third the Blues took a 3 to 2 short-lived lead. In the top of the fourth, however, the Marines really went to town. When the third out was made nine runners had crossed the plate. In this inning they hit Long hard for the first time in three games but it was not the pitcher’s fault that they scored as they did, for his teammates committed four errors in this inning—all with two out. Try as they would the B-P team could not score again and Long succeeded in retiring the Marines without further scoring.
The series is said by the heads of the
By ROBERT RIORDAN
Frank McManus.... business administration major.... from Binghamton, N. Y.,... graduating at the end of this semester___magna cum laude._________has been offered jobs with G. E. and Outdoor Advertising.... wants to go into I.B.M.*s sales.school_______________would like to be a big shot for I.B.M.... has his eye on T. J. Watson’s §425,000 a year salary.
Commerce Forum member four years .... managed their ball team this year .... chairmaned the Forum elections. — succeeded in preventing bloodshed. . . . talked on “World Union” at last social meeting.... is alternate Forum student council representative.____secretary of outdoor advertising foundation.
Pet gripes: St. Mary’s and Guy Lombardo’s orchestra____ doesn’t have any special girl at the moment—too near graduation... enjoys occasional trips to Indianapolis... doesn’t write to any girls ... once knew a South Bend belle— likes to dance to slow music_____Glenn Miller fan... likes Yankees and Giants... favorite sports: football, boxing, and baseball_______________________runs around with Tony Bristol and Larry Carr... represented civilians at Memorial Day services... has no particular hobbies. *
Attended St. Patrick’s academy._________ honor graduate from Binghamton Central Hi_________________________________took P. G. work at Binghamton Central_____________________________was vice-president of Bon-ams fraternity.
First Sorinite to get baseball scores every day.... enjoys Co-Hops._______has neatest room on the floor. — enjoys his lay-overs in Buffalo going home.
physical education department to have been one of the most hotly contested series in history. The Marines and the civilians had many rooters out at both games to help boost their morale. The games were all played hard and dean. The Marines made a very fine sportsmanlike gesture in the final game when they allowed the game to go past the 6:30 p,m. deadline in order to give the Blues a chance to "bat in the last two innings and an oportunity to tie or possibly win the game. Score of game number three:
RHE
Company B -------:—2 0 0 9 0 0 0—11 13	1
Breen-Phillips Blues  1 0 2 0 0 0 0-^- 3 4	5
Batteries: Peterson and Nedwidek; Long and Marshall.
17
4
PeruAc/Mte
By HARRY LE BIEN
EXIT LAUGHING?
We see where the Scholastic’s ace space filler, the unknown gyrene of Ma-rine Murmurs, has gone hog wild with his typewriter. Up to this issue, we have, in order to keep these pages readable and uncontaminated, kept this strictly Navy."
The time has come for a little retribution, however.
The Marine columnist has literally been knocking himself out thinking up quaint little remarks and sayings concerning the Navy, which we have naturally read with a paternal and understanding manner. To you who are passengers when on a ship and just plain soldiers when on land we extend our heartfelt sympathies. We felt the same way before we joined the Navy.
THINGS TO COME
Clean up day, Monday, June 26, is going to make the Saturday of the inspection look like a quick dusting. If the rooms don’t pass inspection this time, occupants will not be allowed to leave on scheduled time.
THEY ALSO SERVE
This semester sees Notre Dame send its largest group of V-12 men to midshipmen’s schools. We interviewed a few of them last week, with the following results:
Jim Maguire, Asbury Park—“After five semesters here at Notre Dame, it will seem rather strange at Asbury; but Asbury is only an hour from Brook-
PVT G1 SILVESTER USMCP
TH ATS WHAT I SAY, PROFE5SOR-WHAT5 THE DIFFERENCE?*'
lyn and ‘dem lovely bums’.”
Jim McCutcheon, Asbury Park—“After being here five semesters it is like leaving home for the first time.”
Tom Leahy, Notre Dame—“The trip will do me good.”
Bob Lee, Asbury Park—“Metaphysically and ontologically speaking, I think
the change of scenery will be good for me, and I hope I get a chance for a mental rest.”
Bill Archibald, Asbury Park—“I enjoyed my stay at Notre Dame but am glad to be on my way at last to a commission; hope to be back after the war.”
Stanley Mudge, Asbury Park—“My days at Notre Dame will be remembered as ones of happiness, mainly because of the attention given me as an individual, instead of as a trainee, by the kind priests and instructors.”
Gene Molter, Columbia—“Give my regards to Broadway . . . they’ll never get me back on the farm.”
George Nesbit, Cornell—“With Japan as the ultimate, it seems that this is but the first in a series of moves east. I hope wherever I go that I’ll never lose the fond memories of Notre Dame with which I am leaving.”
Bill Crotty, Northwestern — “Northwestern is a little too close to Great Lakes to suit me.”
Dick Noll, Cornell — “Although N.D. has been my second home for the past two years, I am looking forward to my further training in Ithaca with the hope of returning here after the war.”
Art O’Brien, Asbury Park — “Will miss Dixie Grove, also Notre Dame; but Asbury has possibilities.”
South Bend's Oldest Custom Tailors
We cordially invite all SPECIALISTS to inspect our wide variety of materials, from which you may fill your future requirements for Officers' Uniforms. All garments are tailored to your measure, whites and greys included.
THE COMMODORE CAP, expressly styled by Parker-Winterrowd, with genuine Beaver crown and 4% gold chin strap, 10 carat gold and Sterling silver device, with two Van Husen .white crowns, at $18.50
P ARKER-W1NTERROWD
115^ N. Main Street (Upstairs)	North of Oliver Hotel
18
"YOUTH ON CAMPUS"
(Continued from page 12) died all The Tribune’s beauty contests since that time.
Her friendliness and charm have made her a welcomed guest at colleges everywhere. House-mothers dote on the two. Miss Nangle and Pavlin have played bridge with co-eds in countless school social rooms, skiied with Rockford college students during winter sports week, slid down Carleton college’s snow-covered hills on trays filched from the dining hall, and drunk from Holins college’s sulphur well in Virginia.
The V-12 navy and marines were indeed honored to have this famous pair cover their “Week-end Maneuvers.”
ftliiiiiiiiuiiuiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiuiinHitiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHT)
Campus Centenary
I Publications I
= Notre Dame—100 Years$4.00 ;
5 Collected Poems of	5
= Charles L. O'Donnell_______________$2.50 =
... at the Bookstore
£•■
LOST!
(May 31 st) CANDID CAMERA on Campus REWARD
PUBLICATIONS OFFICE 127 Main Building
LOST!
SCHAEFFER PEN (Green Striped) on Campus REWARD
PUBLICATIONS OFFICE 127 Main Building
KNOW YOUR NAVY
(Continued from page 11)
Painter—The line by which the bow of a. ' small boat is made fast.
Paravanes — Torpedo - shaped devices towed underway from the bows of men-of-war for a protection against mines.
Part—To break, as of a rope.
Pass the tvord—To repeat an order of information to the ship’s company.
Pay out—To let out chain or ease off on a line.
Pelorus—An instrument for taking bearings.
Pennant—A three-sided flag. (See burgee and flag).
Pilot Rules—Rules established and published by the Board of Supervising Inspectors of steam vessels, supplementing the Inland Rules.
Pipe down—Slang for “be quiet”; an order dismissing the crew from a drill.
Pipe the side—The ceremony at the gangway when an official comes aboard or leaves a man-of-war.
Position Buoy—The spar towed by men-of-war in a fog as an aid to the next astern in column. Also called a towing spar or seapig (slang).
Prayer book—A small holystone.
Prolonged blast—A blast from 4 to 6 seconds’ duration.
Quarter-deck—The deck area set aside by the commanding officer for the conduct of official and ceremonial functions.
Quarters—Living compartments. Assembly of the crew on a man-of-war.
Rank—The grade of a commissioned officer.
Rate—The grade of an enlisted man, a petty officer.
Ride—To lie at anchor. To ride out—to weather safely a storm whether at anchor or underway.
Rise and shine—A call to turn out of bunks and hammocks.
Rocks and Shoals—The Articles for the Government of the Navy.
Rough log—The ship’s log as written up in pencil, by the quartermaster and the officer of the deck.
Round turn—To take a turn around a bitt or bollard, to check a strain or weight. “To bring up with a round turn” is nautical phraseology for a “call-down” or reprimand.
Run atvay—To seize a line and haul on the run. To desert.
. • Run down—To collide with a vessel head on.
Running lights—The lights required by law to be carried by a vessel when underway.
Sail ho!—The hail from a lookout to notify that a vessel has been sighted.

„/>. f" NIX
Tn I VITAMINS
HIGH-POTENCY TABLETS
VITAMINS A-D-B-B, (G)-C-B„ E-Ntacin-Calcium Pantothenate
As Dietary Supplement ONE TABLET A DAY Will Supply the Full Daily Minimum Adult Requirement of the Vitamin* of Which the Requirements Are Established.
Each small Nine-Vitamin Tablet Contains
AS MUCH A as 4 Pints Whole Milk
AS MUCH “D” as 1 lb. of Butter
AS MUCH “C”
as 2 ozs. Orange Juice
AS MUCH "Bi” as 35 ozs. Raw Cabbage
AS MUCH “B-”
FM
ADULTS M
CHILDKI.
as 40 ozs. Raw Green Beans
AS MUCH “Be” as 30 Grs. Brewer’s Yeast
AS MUCH NIACIN as lb. Lean Meat
AS MUCH CALCIUM PANTOTHENATE as 150 Gms. Carrots
AS MUCH “E” as in 5 mgm. wheat germ oil 90 TABLETS ££$150
19
>
THE GREEN BANNER
BY JIM CASEY
IN RETROSPECT
We never put the books away after a strenuous semester without looking about us and noting those who are finishing and, therefore, have little or no need to take up again the miserable existence of the scholarly routine. This week, the list of those finishing is even more amazing, yes, startling, even somewhat of a shock. In some instances, the facts have been a trifle confusing, too. For example, we were never quite sure whether Tom Halligan or Hal Hunter were faculty members or students; they
stand this business of a tie and coat for long.
The crowd, this year, is an odd one in many respects. Just to give you an example of what we mean — the other evening when they went up to get measured for their caps and gowns, no fewer than fourteen demanded padding in the shoulders and a three-inch hem on the skirt of the robe. Honestly, and we couldn’t talk them out of the idea. But you understand, and null probably pardon theii- attitude; it was their first venture in the realms of intellectual achievement. They were also measured, later, for caps (here is a very good chance for us to say something about their heads, but we haven’t the heart
*
M M
M M
M M M
Father's Day Cards Souvenirs
"Hello. Myrtle. Yes, I made it at Ion? last. What? Oh, pardon me; you say this is the draft board? Oh! Oh!"
have been here so long. Indeed, there are rumors that they are on a pension. The local radio mart is going to miss the intrepid Vail Pischke, while Jim Kane will probably have to go to work. Colianni has always been somewhat of a mystery. Joseph Hoban Humane and Larry Reynolds have assumed a dignity altogether over and above their accustomed aplomb, in view of the coming week-end festivities of graduation. Mur-nane is weakening, however — he can’t
N
M M
M M
M M
M M
M M M M
M M M
to disrupt the records in the Director of Studies’ office. Anyone who survives up to this point at Notre Dame deserves a break.)
And it isn’t only that these men are to be missed at the University. What about the surrounding territory that has come to know and to love them. Ah, there’s where the damage is going to be drastic. Michigan City, neighboring exciting lakeport, is going to be lonesome without them. (For particulars, see Torrence and Jim Schmid; they’re not the two quiet little mice that Father Forrestal has been led to believe). We hesitate to bring up the subject of St. Mary’s, and the chorus of wailing that will prevail there, next term, when it becomes known-that Bob Schramm, Johnny McAndrews, Fred Fahrendorf, and Miguel Facusse are not on the local scene. (Oh, is this music to Herb Coleman and Creighton (Call me Lochinvar) Miller! There will be absolutely no serious competition for the two of them).
And sometimes, we think that the
Nolte Book&iote
BADIN HALL
JOSIE and JIM'S
TUNNY ITALY
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS
SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
A TRADITION AT NOTRE

CAFE
PLACE
DAME
SERVICE MEN: Make This Your First Stop on That Night Off!
5
4 H H M M M
M M M M M M M M
M

Latin Quarter will not be the same, either, when Cesar Munecas, Bob de Romano, and Ed Guadalajara turn their educated eyes once more to the South (of the border). Certainly, the din in Sorin Sub will subside somewhat when they depart.
Pre-meds have always been odd characters to us. They go around thumping people on the back. Dempsey has already had his shingle designed. Ray Morgan will need nothing more than pills down in Harlan, Ky. In fact, he will need little if any — he’s about the •only resident left in town. Johnny Byrne, we understand, is in the market for a good second-hand stethescope. If you can help him at all, do so. He needs it. But once they start in business, we expect to hear more of this crowd. We just have to admit that they are ambitious. Even in the caf, their eyes light up when they watch the meat clerk carve a roast. Honestly, that’s the sort of crowd they are — all business.
It is easy to understand why John Collins, hailing from Midland, Pa., and the heart of the steel district, decided on metallurgical engineering. But what in the world is Wilkes Stuart Lyman, from Mt. Vernon, S. Dak., doing in that field? Perhaps he intends to test branding irons for the Bar-4-Me outfit!
Just the same, it is going to be nice, as the years roll by, to recall that we were associates, at one time, with all these men Avho obviously will become famous — such as Bob Dunn, Bill Hannan, and a host of others in the aeronautical engineering department. They will, we feel sure, remember us, should we ever be forced to touch them ever so lightly in a financial way, or seek their marvellous influence with government heads or corporation leaders.
And it has been fun taking digs at local characters (the ones who wouldn’t pay us off to keep their private lives quiet and private). It has been fun observing St. Mary’s — at a distance, a safe distance, you understand, too. We’ve come to meet a lot of people, hear a lot of conversation, and laugh a great deal in this Scholastic outlet for inane ' chatter and our own strange form of humorous commenting. Fortunately for us, we’ll be back in July again, to observe and comment on the local scene, if that fact should be of any interest to you.
Officially appointed Ship*s Tailor for U.S.N.R.
Midshipmen School, Notre Dame.
Sk&p.
Custom Tailored Officers" Uniforms
There is no substitute for fine custom tailored uniforms—they fit and look better.
Custom tailored uniforms are a tradition which has held through the decades with Naval Officers.
The Service knows the importance of impeccable appearance. All uniforms — blue, white and greys — are measured, cut and tailored
to your individ- Ye Jolly Little .	Tailor
ual proportions by expert craftsmen in our own work rooms.
Despite two defeats at the hands of Tunney, Jack Dempsey rates Firpo as the toughest fighter he has ever met . . . and gives Bill Brennan a close second.
George Hilderbrand was considered to be the best umpire in baseball. He called everything wrong, and thus made it fair for both sides.
Room 148
Morrissey Hall
117 West LaSalle Ave.
Phone 4-0220
Across from Hoffman and LaSalle Hotels
tlllttlMMIiltttllilllllltitlHIIHIfHIIIIHIItlllllHtlttlf IltllllHHIItlQ
| Marine Murmurs
fmimmfmimimimtmimimiimmmiHiiiHiiiiimmimHitij
SEMESTER REVIEW
From the first “awn-up-reep” resounding across the campus, to the last “rye-lau” fading away over the lakes, the campus knew that the marines were not only once again aboard, but that they had all situations only too well in hand.
Transfers from other schools, along with new fleet men, gave the campus a sample of the proverbial “Marine Drill,” as they drilled for five days before “the boys” joyously returned from the be-tween-semesters furlough.
In reply to the surprised exclamations of new fleetmen on the drilling ability of V-12’s came the crack—“It’s surprising what one can learn to do with a slide rule.”
At about this time the navy and civilian contenders for Bengal Bout crowns went into training. Marines started training for a rather different type of bout.
Announcement of thepresentation of the coveted Heisman Trophy to Marine Pvt. Angelo Bertelli, standout of a marine studded team of standouts, was taken in stride by a detachment where champions were the rule and not the exception.
. The Navy is still training. Still no marines are even entered as the Bengal bouts draw near. ,
Brash gyrenes sweep through the preliminaries of the Bengal Bouts as Sgt. Santos starts his own personal recruiting drive. In the semi-finals, the boys in green crash through for five out of a possible six decisions as Blair, Amato, Engberson, Kinney and Venning go roaring into the finals.
The terrific backing the leatherneck battlers get from their buddies from Cavanaugh makes a feature of the Ben-gals.
The V-12 Ball and the glorified weekend goes over big with gyrenes and their “chicks."	'
B-Company, of Sgt. Santos, crushes a navy ten and sweeps two out of three from the Breen-Phillips civilians to clinch the campus softball championship. ’
Pvt. John Lynch, not to be confused with a Larry of the same surname, wins the Cavanaugh - Goodrich Oratorical prize of $100, proving marine superiority in still another field.
Four-leafed shamrocks and everything that goes with them to the boys going east or west at the end of this session and the proverbial — “We’ll be seeing you.”
A laconic leatherneck summarized the past semester this way — “We out-drilled, out-played, out-yelled, out-talked, out-dressed, and out-fought everything in sight.”	■
Need we say more?
IT'S OFFICIAL
All marines going to the east coast at the end of this semester probably know by now that they will have a furlough. But to make sure that no one is still under the misunderstanding that he will not get home, here is the word:
All marines being transferred to Parris Island at the end of the semester will have a furlough from 1300 Tuesday, 27 June 1944 until 0900 Saturday, 1 July 1944. They will leave for their
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train* every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
new camp on the afternoon of 1 July 1944. Men going west will not get furloughs but may get liberty.
Next semester will find the marine detachment considerably smaller. The quota set for this detachment is 189 men. But there probably will not be more than 175 men. This will be a comparatively small detachment when one considers the first semester when it was 700 strong. However, Notre Dame will still have one of the largest V-12 marine detachments due to the Navy’s policy not to close any more schools.
Next semester the marines will be quartered on the first two decks of Cavanaugh hall. Seamen will be put on the two upper decks and separate ladders will be assigned to the two groups.
Swab: “How did you get that black eye?”
Marine: “For kissing the bride after the ceremony.”
Swab: “But isn’t that the usual custom?”
Marine: “Yes, but this was three years after the ceremony.”
DAFFY-NITIONS
second sight—The cure for love at first sight.
blonde — The outstanding contribution of chemistry to the world.
candidate—A man who stands for what he thinks the people will fall for.
SCUTTLEBUTT OF THE WEEK
Captain Finney is going to take the seniors to P.I. this time.
SOUTh^hore
**«**« «^
t MEET THE CHIEF *
*3*
By SEAMAN TOM PAYNE
Introducing Chief Specialists (A), (P.A.), Clarence Louis Scharff, whose life story reads like one’of the Horatio Alger stories. Chief Scharff started his career in 1903 in Des Moines, Iowa. He attended Farnhamville High School in Farnhamville, Iowa. He was particularly active in basketball and baseball while in high school, having played basketball for three years. In 1922 the Chief graduated from high school and started at Des Moines University, which is now extinct. Finding school life too tame, the Chief enlisted in the Navy in January, 1923, serving a four-year hitch until December, 1927. He spent three of his four years in the navy on the battleship, U.S.S. Texas. His cruise took him over half the earth’s globe, in-

BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of
Desirable Gifts
on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
eluding England, France, Holland, Gibraltar, Spain, Morocco, the Panama Canal, Trinidad and Gaudalcanal. His last year in the navy was spent at the Sesquicentennial Exposition at Philadelphia as a musician second class, playing in the navy band. The Chief says that it was at Philadelphia where he experienced his greatest disappointment. He and three other members of the .-band'hought tickets to the Gene Tunney-Jack Dempsey fight which cost them §28.75 apiece; and just as the band was about to leave for the fights, the Commandant ordered them to play for some old ladies club.
After leaving the navy in 1927, the Chief went back to school at Iowa State Teachers College, from 1928 through 1929. He had to quit and go to work; so he took a job with the John Deere Tractor Co. as an inspector until 1931 when he moved to Oshkosh, Wis., as a car dealer. The depression found ths Chief working in the lumber mills as a lumber jack. But he managed to borrow §40 with which he started a service station. In a few years he had become the sole owner of the station. He sold his service station, however, and bought a .billiard hall. He made enough profit on the billiard hall, so that he sold it in a few years and bought a tavern, which he still owns.
After the war started the Chief felt the urge to be back in the game with the navy, so he enlisted again on Oct. 12, 1942, and was sent to the Physical Instructors Training at Norfolk, Va., for. ten weeks. From Norfolk he was transferred to the Naval Air Station at San Diego, Calif., and was detailed there to the Welfare and Recreation Office. In February, 1943, he was again transferred to another naval unit, Cassu 5. On August 18, 1943, he was transferred to the V-12 Unit at the University of Notre Dame. His duty here has been as the Duty Chief in Charge of Dillon Hall.
GREAT LAKES PARADES STARS HERE (Continued from page 15)
bats still crack with all the fervor of a new-born colt and their arms still throw with the accuracy of a swinging pendulum. Purdue will be the guests on Saturday before strain is applied on Sunday.
Totter Last Week
Last week-end, Notre Dame absorbed two defeats. Saturday, the Irish fell in the eleventh inning, 7-6, at the hands of Northwestern, and Sunday the polished Great Lakes Bluejackets dusted off the South Benders, 8-2.
Saturday’s overtime affair with the Wildcats was concluded with Bob Lind
berg’s single -with a mate on second after the Irish had held an early 4-1 lead.
Sunday’s host, the Great Lakes brigade, proved they are one of the nation's best as they blasted the locals from the • lot with a salvo of eight runs as chalked up against Notre Dame’s lone pair. The fireballing of Virgil Trucks completely bewildered the Irish as Mr. Trucks was deceptive enough to allow only one hit in six innings while toeing the mound as against 11 strikeouts, seven of them in succession.
Bill Martin started for Notre Dame but pulled an arm muscle after facing one man. Jack Barrett hurled the remainder of the route allotting the sailors ten hits. Great Lakes opened the scoring in the first with four runs on a walk, two errors, and a triple. The contest settled down to more even proportions for six frames until the eighth when the sailors drove four more runs across on a pair of miscues and three-baggers by Billy Herman and Al Glossop. The Irish got a token of two runs in the ninth at the expense of Schoolboy Rowe who relieved Trucks in the sixth.
Baseball clubs furnish players with two suits . . . but make them leave a deposit of §30.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER, M.D.	M. J, THORNTON, M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269	.
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S. . CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND, IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
‘ REGISTERED PODIATRIST ‘
■ FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2574
23 .
"g
Copyright 1944. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
RIGHT COMBINATION
WORLD’S BEST TOBACCOS


■MMMP
'■it*.
Help them "Get there first
J with the most." Buy more i Bonds for Victory ★ ★ * i sf®



It’s always first with Chesterfields - first for
Milder Better Taste-with the most in smoking pleasure
for you and all your friends
Yes. these are the winning qualities you
want and expect in a cigarette. Chesterfield
does it and says it in 5 Key-words
HESTERFIEL