

NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 
Entertainment reviews and previews, Out of Bounds .and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events.· In-depth news and sports coverage. 
Read one for the Gipper! Campus Watch plus Week in Distortion and On Ot~er Campuses. 
· . Campus Life stories to keep you informed of what's happening on campus . . Remember: If you see news happening .~. you're probably reading Scholastic! 
If you don't have time to write home every week, 
' .. 
let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription! 

X ------------------------------------.-­
Please send.__ years of Scholastic to: 
Name: 
Address: 

City: __~---State: ___ Zip Code: __ 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x _-years = $ ___ 
Please send form with payment to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 La.Fortune Student Center Notre Dame, In 46556 

NOTRE DAME'S STU'DENT MAGAZINE 

2 Editor's Notes 
3 Editorial 
4 Campus Watch 26 On Other Campuses 27 Week in Distortion 27 Final Word 

5  Who's Who  
6  Book Burning  
8  Yellow Journalism  
14  Summer Underwater  
16  How Catholic Are You?  
18  A Test for the Irish?  
20  Watch Your Step!  
22  The Entertainment Blitz  
23  A Gala Premiere ...  
24  The Secret is Out  


Cover photo by Kenneth A. Osgood 




From the Editor ••• 
Despite the many retractions from its sources and criticism from all sides. the recent publication ofUnder the Tarnished Dome has brought the Notre Dame football program and head coach Lou Holtz under close scrutiny across the nation. 
Holtz's victory over the University of Michigan last Saturday can be interpreted as crucial in this light. For even though much of the book's content is disputable, the bad press could sorely affect Notre Dame, especially in its recruiting efforts. · 
However, the victory against Michigan in addition to the affection shown toward Holtz by the administration, athletes and students should stay any negative repercussions. 
This week's cover story, written by Managing Editor Ken Osgood, goes to show that it talces more than a book to tarnish the golde11 dome. The article offers a critical analysis of Don Yaeger and Douglas Looney's work, pointing out both its strengths and itsweaknesses, and shows just what sort of response was generated by its message. 

Also in This Issue. 
In our first regular issue, the Campus Lifedepartment looks back on how the "Great Flood of '93" affected the Notre Dame community. Editor Michelle Crouch and writer Amy· Amoni also let us all know whether Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students agree with the doctrines of the Catholic Church in the wake of Pope John Paul II's visit to the United States. 
In News, Editor Mark Mitchell evaluates the Colloquy for the Year 2000's assessment of the university's library system and profiles an important figure at Notre Dame, but a man who is often overshadowed by the departments he oversees -Father E. Will1ani Beauchamp. 
In Entertainment, staff writer Anne Heaton reviews Peter Gabriel's "Secret" tour, and Editor Tony Leonardo takes a look at today's enter­tainment scene in his column, The Entertainment Blitz. Also, look for our regular features. including Campus Watch, On Other Campuses, Week in Distortion, Final Word and Coming Distractions! 

Scholasticispublishtdwe,Jc/y throughout tllt school year except durbtg examination and f/acation periods at tllt University of Notre Dam,, Notre Damt, IN, 46556 and printed at TIit Paptrs, Inc, Milfotrl, IN46542, Tiu subscription ,att is $25,00/yea, and l,adcfnwsare11t1ailal,l1at$l.2Slcopy, Tluopllllonsapnss,d 6i Sdiolastlt: ,.,, those of1M authors and editon and do 11ot 111assarilyr,pttse11t 1M oplllions oftlu ,11tire editorial board of Sdu,lastic or of the lbdvtnity ofNotre Da1111, its ad111i11istr11­tlon, faculty or students, Editorials sign,d Schola$11t: represent tllt opinion of tht majority of the ,xecutir,e editorial board, Manustrlpts are wtlcamt, AII unsolicitied materials become tht property ofScholastic, 
Copyrlght'l993SchowtieMagazine. All rig/lb res,,r,ed. Rtpro­d11dlo116iwholt oriiipartwftlumtwrittt11 permission isprohib­
ibld. . 
-Margaret S. Kenny 

Lttttrs to Scholastic mustbe typed andinclude tht writtr's name, 
· addrtss and phone 1111mbtr, Unir,ersity students should include tllti,ye11, in school and collrge. Faculty members should Include tlltir department, All letters must be signed, Names will be withheld upo11 rtqutst irt certain instances. SduJlastit: ,rs,rr,,s the right to reject letters tll11t 11re libelaus or obsc111t by tlu IIIWS oftht UrtittdStates. Sthollistlt: 11/sowill tdit for copyfitting, gr1111111111tical o, spelling errors and S<:hol11stic styIt. Becauseofspace, Scholastic cannotprinl allletttrs rtceir,ed, , 
Address 11/1 corrrspondence to : . 

~ 


Welcome to Scholas#c's 127th year of public;ation. Not only is Scholastic the university's oldest publication, but our magazine is also the oldest continuously publishing periodical in the United States. Our editorial boarct' recognizes both the honor and the responsibility associated with this tradition, and we hope to serve you, the student body, well. 
We originally planned to run an issue last Thursday but decided we could produce a more quality issue if we held back a week. We have a talented aild multi-faceted staff that has the ability to produce a quality publication and that is what we wanted our first issue to show. 
One of the main purposes of Scholastic is to take an issue and · present it in a different light than a daily publication would. We want· to open the minds of theNotre Dame and Saint Mary's comm unities. The articles we publish each week are aimed at inspiring thought, conversation and even debate; Scholastic hopes to offer different angles on contemporary issues. Our aim is to make each reader's educational experience more well-rounded through the issues we address each week. 
In past years, there has been somewhat of a competition between Scholastic and The Observer, the university's daily newspaper. Before comparing the two, please recognize one basic fact: The Observer is a daily publication while Scholastic is a weekly publi­
. cation. Scholastic and The Observer have completely different formats. One publication is not "better" than the other as they truiy are not comparable. Each fulfills a different need in the community, and there should be a degree of healthy competition. Scholastic editors would never run over to The Observer office with a hot story tip, and we do not expect The Observer to share its information with us. The Observer's main function runs along the lines of informing the student body of the news that affects not only Notre Dame and Saint Mary's.but also the national and international community. 
Scholastic, on the other hand, has a different mission: We aim to explore, rather than simply report, the issues relevant to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's; Scholastic takes some of the articles that would appear in The Observer-or any other daily publication-and we look at them with a more in-depth and investigative angle. 
· We don't hate The Observer; we don't plan on devoting a section of the magazine to Observer-bashing, and we won't take petty pot­. shots atthe "other"publication on the third floorofLaFortune. Such 
tactics are unnecessary and unprofessional. 
· Scholastic wants feedback as well. We want to hear your ideas about our world;here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, and how we represent that world to the community itself. So, please, let us know 
. what you think-of what we print, of what we don't print, of what you think we should print. Youropinions matter, and Scholastic can provide the forum for them. 
Enjoy the issue, and best of luck throughout the year. 



-Scholastic 

.. ··:··::e-mem•:eat; · 

CatnRuB~ tyqfp~ft 
INFORMATION, ATTITUDE & INNUENDO 
big time Campus Watch fans who The Arizona Republic, informed the Gipp that N.D. shot songwriter Bill Gildenstem de­glasses cost $1.39 each but$8.39 for scribed one of the songs as sound­a six pack: an extra five cents! ing like Led Zeppelin, another Whatever happened to bulk rate dis­like Bob Seger. What happens 
counts? when you play these tapes back­The Gipp's Observer-reading wards? sources told him that last week's The Phoenix Gazette reported Spelunker cartoon made fun of his favorite Notre Dame was the sight of a world-class 
Now that the Gipper has finished system­atically dropping all his classes in O'Shag, he is ready to welcome both his friends back to another school year of bookstore mad­ness. This week's hotBookstore Fight Back Without David Horowitz tip is leftover from last year, and is brought to you care of two 
magazine, Scholastic. What could Jay Hosler possibly find to make fun of? The Gipp only knows this: his friend Jay has been listed in the phone directory as a ninth­year grad student since the Gipp was a fresh­man. The Gipp thinks Jay can make fun of us when he has a degree. 
WHY DO THEY DO THIS? 

The Gipp would like to thank everyone who wore their CTI T-shirts on the first day. The Gipp, like his friends from South Bend, likes to leave his comb in his hair, and now he looks even more stunning in his bright yellow CTI T-shirt. 
The Gipp is not only taking fashion notes from the local community, but he also has been reading. 
For example, the Gipper read The Plain Dealer, a paper from the middle ofnowhere, from which he discovered that Thomas Neff, a Notre Dame alum who is running for Chief Engineer in Cuyahoga County, Ohio, "spent campaign funds on meals and gifts in locales ranging from Cork, Tipperary and Dublin to the University of Notre_ Dame." 
Eileen Kolman's address, which is rumored to have included a discourse on her distaste for homosexuality. But, according to Du Lac, "The University ... does not discrimi­nate on the basis of race, color, national or ethnic origin." In other words, homosexuals 
BE THE GIPP'S DEEP THROAT!!! 
Send your hot tips three ways: 
email: gipper@nd.edu mail: 303 La Fortune phone: 631-7569 fax: 631-9648 

SEMINOLES NO DRINK LIKE IRISH 
Also exciting was the August 30 issue of Sports1llustrated, which featured an article on Florida State kicker Scott Bentley, who decided to play for the Seminoles instead of the Irish. The article claims that Bentley . does not drink and was ridiculed by Irish players for his refusal to imbibe. The Gipp 
has a few bones to pick with this story. 
First, even though kicker Bentley (then a 
high school senior visiting Norte Dame) 
does not drink, he "wentto a bar." How did 
he get into this bar? Either he was a really old 
high schooler, or the Gipp smells fish. 
Second, the Gipp's many ears have heard 
unconfirmed rumours that Irish players 
"couldn't keep rum &Cokes out ofhis hand" 
and that laterthat night Bentley spent a little 
If you can't go to college, go to State. 
STAIRWAY TO HEAVEN II 
Even George Gipp·knows that football is not the only thing Notre Dame is known for. Notre Dame's Ave Maria Press is distribut­ing Rock 'n Roll Rosary tapes to religious 
According to the 
"twirling championship" this past summer but didn't specify what exactly was twirled. That doesn't bother the Gipp, he can't wait to see the Irish Guard cheer on the Twirling Irish while rockin' round the rosary. 

NOW THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT! 
The vibrant Monk Malloy was quoted in the New York Times, "If the Pope issued IO encyclicals in arow, the number of people who read them would be minuscule because their form is boring." Maybe Monk should put his exciting flare together with the zip of our new Leprechaun to help the Pope make these encyclicals more interesting ... 
MISSING DOORS DONATED 

Also in the New York Times, Senator Daniel P. Moynihan, D-N.Y ., while arguing for allowing tax deuctions for charitable gifts without imposing penalties; pointed to "the gift to the University ofNotre Dame of a pairof elevator doors designed by Louis Sullivan for one of his Chicago skyscrap0 ers." The Gipp doesn't understand. Ifthese , doors were a gift to Notre Dame why are 
The total spent on Notre Dame: $61. The time worshipping the porcelain god under ···they for one of his skyscrapers? Where are Gipp thinks he should go into business with the shadow of our very own golden dome. these doors? Are they ours and we just don't Edward J. DeBartolo. Third, in two games this kicker missed have use of them? Enquiring minds want to 
Freshman students are talking about five extra~points and a field goal. know. The Gipp wants to know!!! 
. . . ·­


LL:ti:t<.:::. <::::'.·.,~·-::.::::f.:~...:::·:::.····;··>-·.'····.:: ..:....:~:..•:..·, ..•.•___ .:_:_;i:.:.:••.::....·..·...·...·.. •..·.ts1·.·1.ws.:.:.•.·.~.·.:.-.....·.·.:·.·.·.·:::·:·.~:·:::·-·:·::···.·····.·~···::··::l·:::·::::::::f·::::·:·:::'::::·1:::::1::::::::::::::::::r·,:--·:·:·:·-·.·:·:·:·:·:·-·:···.····--------·h(·;_--·1 




Father Bill
Who's Who: 
Beauchamp 
A closer look at Notre Dame's executive vice-president, the 
by Mark J. Mitchell IV 

Throughout all of the recent tumult sur­rounding the publication of Under the Tarnished Dome, the national spokesman for the university has beenFatherE. William Beauchamp, ·c.s.c. .He has appeared on every major network, and he has com­mented for reporters from dozens of news­papers.. (see pg. 10) The present furor has .given · Father Beauchamp a visibility to ·which he· is not accustomed in his regular roleofNotreDame's man behindthe scenes. Father Beauchamp holds the office of executive vice-pr~ident; that is,. he is in charge of everything beyond academics. "My major re~ponsibilities include oversee­ing all the athletic programs, overseeing the university's budget. and finances-espe­cially the endowment-and overseeing matters ofcampus facilities. I don't mean I directiy manage each of these fields, but each is ultimately my responsibility." In essence, Father Beauchamp is in charge of every sport played, every dollar invested or spent, and every building, tree and quad­
rangle.. · "Yes, ids a lotto do, but I enjoy being able to serve Notre Dame in so many capacities. Itis a place thatI love very much, and if!can ·have an important role in the life of the 
. university, then I am happy." As if these duties were . not already enough, Father i3eauchamp teaches ~ii the College of Busi­ness Administration, participates in resi­dence life at Alumni Hall and sits on several boards and commissions locally. "Iam very busy with ali ofmy official.business, butitis· 
• important for me as a person and as a Holy Cross priest to stay in touch with the stu­
.·dents. Finances, building, expanding, these are all major concerns, but the students are 
man behind the action 
the single most important part ofthe univer­sity; and if by working with them in the classroom and living with them in the hall, I can be more in touch with them and their needs, then I can do a better job as vice­president and as a priest." 
Father Beauchamp has never been a stranger to living and working with students. A graduate of the University of Detroit, Father Beauchamp came to Notre Dame for 

Father Bill Beauchamp takes the . field before the Northwestern game. 
law school and took his first job for the university as an R.A. in Grace Hall. "Grow­ing up in Michigan, I was ofcourse aware of Notre Dame, but I had no experience of it until Icame here as alaw student. Ihad been working in the business world and would go back for a.brief period. But it. was through living and working with the hall community in Grace that I came to find that I had a calling to the priesthood and an attraction to the Holy Cross way of life." . 
Father Beauchamp graduat~d from the law school and returned to the business law profession. However, he decided to "atleast try" the seminary life at Moreau Seminary. Even before he was ordained apriest, Father Beauchamp was appointed assistant to the executive vice-president. "It seems to me, and maybe it's just that I'm getting older, but it feels like I've got more work to do now than I did when I started. Very often I will stay in the office until 9:00 or 10:00 at night if I have the chance." 
During the football season, Father Beauchamp can be seen on the field before and after the games, and he is·always found traveling with the team to their games at other locations. His duties go on well b.ehind the scenes, in maintaining Notre Dame's academic and.athletic standards and advanc­ing new programs. "I suppose the sports can be some of the most fun parts of my job, but they also provide some of the worst parts. There is nothing that I can't stand more than when someone prints·something about our athletic programs, which is simply false. I know that that sort of thing comes with the. 
gterritory, but I really cannot tolerate inaccu­
grate reporting about athletics or about any
l part of the university." Father Beauchamp has been at the post of executive vice-president for seven years. "Father Malloy and I are in our second five­year terms. Butbeyond thatI will have to see what the needs of the university community and the Holy Cross community are and how I can best serve those needs." · 
"It's a greatjob to have. I enjoy having a job in which the. results are very tangible, whether that's increased endowmentfigures or a new construction site, or an improved athletic program or even just watching all the flowers bloom on cue in the spring. There's so much positive feedback that comes with this job that it makes it very easy to weather the more hectic times." . D 


While the H esburgh Library celebrates 30 years, "Colloquy for the Year 2000" slams the library system's performance 
by Mark .J. Mitchell IV 

With the final stroke of Father Theodore Hesburgh' s pen, the mas­sive I-Beam was hoisted into place atop the . skeletal superstructure of what would be­,come the largest collegiate library facility of the time. Thirty years ago, the University of Notre Dame raised the Memorial Library at a cost of $12 million. It was the cutting edge of collegiate libraries at the time. Its 2,000,000-volume capacity was enormous for one building. Its open stacks were un­heard offor a library so large. It was built to be a trib.u.te to Notre Dame's commitment to . teaching, learning and knowledge, accord­ing to then president Father Hesburgh. Thirty years later, the Memorial Library has become the Hesburgh Library. It is filled to capacity with over 2,000,000 volumes, and it remains the largest open stack colle­giate library in the country. But at a time when the university has reason to celebrate its ceritrallibrary, the administration is tak­ing aim at the library system as a weak point in the education program at Notre Dame. The adiniriistration's strategic planning report, "Colloquy for the Year 2000," pre­pared for the board of trustees by university president Father Edward Malloy, C.S.C., in association with members ofthe administra­tiori and faculty, contains strong statements about the university libraries and bold rec­
ommendations for improvement. Recom­mendation 21 of the Colloquy report states, "The university must dramatically improve library resources and services to ensure that the faculty and students have readily avail­
"[Father Malloy]. has a strong sense of the.library's importance, and when he hears the faculty's complaints and sees the electronic needs lacking, he finds . that it is imperative to move quickly ... " 
: -Robert Miller 
able the resources required for their work. An ad hoc Committee on University Librar­ies should be established which will he en­trusted with responsibility to review the present reality of the Notre Dame libraries; initiate a study of trends and developments in peer research libraries; and issue a report with recommendations to the provost and Academic Council. This report should be as exhaustive as possible and presented in a timely fashion." 
Father Malloy has appointed Dr. Roger Schmitz, vice-president and associate pro­vost, chairman ofthe committeeon libraries. In addition, Father Malloy has required that the committee make its final report to the provost and Academic Council before the end of the present academic year, according to Schmitz. 
Among the members of this committee is that man who will be most affected by the recommendations of the body, Robert Miller, director of the university libraries. For Miller and the rest of the library faculty and staff, this is set to be a full year, as it includes both the Hesburgh Library's thirti­eth anniversary celebration and the work of renewing the library system as a university resource. 
"As a facili~y. th~ Hesburgh Library has held up very well in its 30 years. It has been very flexible for configuration changes. The only problems with the facility itself have had to do with the changing public safety codes and the Americans with Disabilities Act," said Miller. 
,_ While the building is in suitable condi­tion; it is not the physical structure of the library that has concerned the administra­tion. Rather, it is the library system's failure to keep up with student and faculty needs that has required the present actions. 


"We are not on the cutting edge of elec­tronic information delivery," said Miller. "Students should not have to come to the Hesburgh Library to use our data 
bases," he contin­ued. Nor is the present electronic cataloging system entirely suitable for student and faculty needs, ac­cording to Miller. "We need to aug­ment our staffing levels in order to meet the increas­ing service de­
mands and at the 
same time learn new skills," Miller said. 
"And the libraries all are faced with the 
growing problem ofbook preservation-the 
books we have are disintegrating, and with­
out adequate staff resources, we won't be 
able to save all of them," he added. 
But these are not the greatest of the librar­

ies' deficiencies, according to Miller. "There must be better articulation with the different colleges and even with the different departments so that the libraries can meet the faculty's needs, and so that the library ele­. ment can become an integral part of each 
student's education," Miller _stated. 
According to Miller, the colleges and de­

partments must better articulate their needs 
to the library's faculty and staff in order that 
the library system might function effectively 
in the education process. "For example, the 
department of classical and oriental lan­
guages in the College of Arts and Letters 
recently acquired a new Chinese professor; 
in this particular instance we were given 
enough warning that we were able to have 
adequate materials on hand to meet the 
professor's needs, and we were able to pre­
pare for the needs of his students. All too 
often though, the library is the last to know 
about such changes in curriculum, and we 
aren't informed of the riew needs until a 
professor is looking for books we don't 
have," explained Miller. 
Miller's goal of fuller integration of the 

library into the workings of the colleges is shared by Schmitz. "The library must work more closely with the faculty on matters of curriculum development so that the students especially have available to the the learning 

The ceremonial first steef beam of the llbrary Is prepared to be raised to the top of t,he building's skeleton. Autographed by Father Hesburgh, the b.eam reads in Latin, 
"We consecrate this work to the 
· Virgin Mary." 
The face of 'Touchdown Jes.us' is 
hoisted off the stone mason's floor as It Is prepared for shipment from . Minnesota to Notre Dame. "The Word of Life" mosaic is the largest mosaic image in the country. 
-

maintain adequate collections. The result has been some short-comings in the collec­tions, and those which have fallen behind do not support the colleges." Schmitz cited the rapid rate oflibrary inflation and the cost of maintaining subscriptions to foreign jour­nals as contributing to the funding shortfall. 
Miller is also aware of the need for addi­tional funding for such improvements in technology, faculty and staff levels and training, and book preservation. ''The aca­demic life report of the Colloquy report calls for significant dollar increases for the li­brary. If I get as much as I reported as necessary for the improvements, then our goals are attainable. But I did not fudge on the amount of funding necessary -I need every dollar," stated Miller. 
Schmitz is optimistic that the library will receive adequate funding for the improve­ments which the committee report will indi­cate are necessary; he said, "The capital drive will take time, but you will see a gradual change process over the next six or seven years as the money for improvement becomes available." 
According to Miller, the changes are on their way as a result of the emphasis placed on the library in the Colloquy report. Re­garding the strong language of the colloquy recommendation, Miller said, "That's [Fa­ther Malloy's] language-he has a strong sense of the library's importance, and when 
· · he hears the faculty's complaints and sees the electronic needs lacking, he finds that it is imperative to move quickly to shore up such an important part of the educational system at the univer­sity." 
In 1963, the univer­sity abandoned its an­tiquated and inad­equate library facility for the new and greatly improved 

building, which is now a campus landmark. In 1993, the university is moving to renew its library system with new technology and strategic planning so that the libraries may soon become an academic landmark. 



GOLDEN DOME 


YELLOW 
JouRNALISM 
Another book tries to tackle the Fighting Irish football image 
by Kenneth A. Osgood 

When silver (Ag) reacts with a sulpher compund (H2S), a sulfide (AgS) forms on the surface of the metal. When copper (Cu) reacts with H2S, a sulfide (CuS) forms on the surface of the metal. However, when gold (Au) is placed in the presence of H2S no reaction occurs. In other words, copper and silver tarnish, gold does not. 
But that is not the way Sports Illustrated writer Douglas S. Looney and free-lance journalist Don Yaeger sec it. In their book 
Under the Tarnished Dome: How Notre Dame Betrayed Its Ideals For Football Glory, the co-au­thors attempt to shock their readers into believing that the golden im­age of Irish fo9tball is tarnishing. The methodology? Ream Irish head coach Lou Holtz. 
Yaeger and Looney charge Holtz with "blatant disregard for his players feelings" and accuse 
. him of being "coldhearted" and "insensitive," of using too much profanity, of exhibiting "too much self promotion," of being greedy and of being a "hypocrite." The book charges the Irish football team with abuse of steroids and other illegal narcotics, starting fights and racism. Tarnished Dome accuses the NCAA of being lenient in cases of Irish regulation breaking. A Newport beach law firm, McDermott &Trayner, is ac­cused of offering football players high-paying summer jobs for minimal work. The co-authors ac­cuse the university of promoting a false· 'fmagc, having a pattern of questionable health care for ath­letes, red-shirting, lowering aca­demic standards for players, and of betraying "its ideals for football glory." 
Football players accuse other players. Coaches accuse coaches. Doctors accuse Holtz. In Under the Tarnished Dome, someone is accused by everyone for anything at some Lime. The book does not lose its focus in the mess ofaccusa­tions and name-calling, however. It begins, and ends, with a scathing attack on Holtz. The authors ask the question, "Did the Irish get a great coach and a lousy human being?" 
It seems anyone who could tes­tify negatively on Holtz' character was interviewed. If it was bad, it was in there. The first chapter is dedicated to what the authors call the "Holtz vs Rice incident," in which· Holtz allegedly tackled quarterback Tony Rice and screamed in his face after Rice incorrectly executed a play during practice. 
Following an ad nauseam ex­ploration of the Rice incident is a section on Holtz' attitude toward injured players. The authors con­tend that when "a player gets hurt ... he is hammered by Holtz with the final insult of silence." The authors attempt to prove that Notre Dame is plagued with a history of poor health care for the athletes, but the arguments do not hold up. 
The health care issue provides an excellent example of the way in which the authors inject their own untrustworthy speculation into their book. In reference to defen­sive tackle Mark Nigro, they write, "Nigro, who doesn't want to talk about it, is quietly furious about the medical attention he received at Notre Dame. The original sur­gery was not done properly, he says." What the authors do not explain is how they know Nigro is furious if he does not want to talk about it, nor how the university can be held responsible for surgi­cal complications. Notre Dame does not, after all, have an operat­ing room on its campus. 
Where the authors go most over­board is in the third chapter, "Bod­ies by Steroids." While the au­thors demonstrate convincingly that steroid use takes place at Notre Dame, their attempt to con­nect that use with Holtz fails mis­erably. The chapter begins with . the near-libelous statement, "First Lou Holtz arrived at Notre Dame. Then a lot of steroids did.", The authors suggest that because Holtz put such an emphasis on weight and strength, he indirectly encour­aged players to use steroids. The authors also suggest that. Holtz 



must have known about steroid and other drug abuse because he was such a "control freak." 
Bill Clinton fans will find John Askin's testimony on steroid use en­tertaining. Askin, perhaps the most frequently quoted of all Holtz's former players, "denies that he took steroids ... but ad­mits having them in [his] possession." He, too, did not in­hale. 
Also entertain­ing is former offen­sive tackle Tom Riley's testimony on steroids. Riley came close to using them but was scared off. He said, "All I knew about steroids was shrinking testicles." 
Following the chapter on steroids, the book makes a dramatic change in tone and substance. The co-authors break from their Holtz-bashing for the next three chapters to offer a rather well done and inspiring his­tory of Fighting Irish football, beginning with Knute Rockne. In this section the authors introduce the second part of their theory on Irish football: If Lou Holtz is what a Notre Dame football coach should not be, Gerry Faust is. 
The section on Faust is as annoying to read as the endless pages of anti-Holtz tirades. Yaeger and Looney glorify the former Notre Dame coach as if he were the Mahatma Ghandi of college football: "Ev­ery mother in America would want her son to play for Gerry Faust. ... Faust overflows with decency. Itruns out ofhis pores. You can damn near see it, like sweat." The commentary continues, and one wonders if the authors helped contribute to the first draft of The Last Boy Scout. 
The 40 page detour from Holtz bashing is followed by an 80 page history of Holtz's football career, beginning at Arkansas. It is tiring, sensationalized and unrecommended reading. Even readers 

who lack a single endearing feeling for the man would have cause to think twice about the integrity of the authors after the endless 
examples of character assassination by Yaeger, Looney and by those they quoted. It gets redundant. It gets repetitious. It gets incessant. In short, it gets annoying. 
The stories-appear amply supported by quotes from numerous players and wit­nesses. The reader should not be misled, however. The authors rely disproportion­ately on a small group of witnesses, includ­ing: Dr. Rob Hunter, John Askin, Tom Byrne, Marty Lippincott, Scott Raridon and Chet Lacheta. 
Furthermore, the credibility of these wit­nesses is clouded by personal grudges; and how many witnesses will complain ofhaving been mis-quoted is still uncertain (see pgs. 10-11). 
Even if all the quotations were taken ver­batim, the book forfeits any hope of gaining the reader's trust due to the poor decision­making and sensationalism ofthe editors and co-authors. In particular, the use ofprofanity in the book does not help the authors' cause. Instead it exemplifies the unprofessional and sensational nature of Tarnished Dome. For example, Joan Quinn, mother offormer Irish linebacker Dan Quinn, is quoted as saying, "He's a hypocritical asshole ... He's a self­serving son of a bitch." When Tom Riley, former offensive tackle for the Irish, was interviewed by the authors, he probably did not realize that his simple statement would end up as the thesis for the entire book, "Lou 
Holtz is an asshole." 
This is not to 
say that Tarnished 
Dome does not men­
tion a positive side of 
the Irish coach. There 
are several quotations 
made by supporters of 
Holtz. However, they 
are completely over­
shadowed by the ob­
scene amount of 
negative material. 
Even if every 
quote were printed 
verbatim and every 
trivial fact were unde­
niably certain, Under 
the Tarnished Dome 

would make for horri­bly tedious reading. Selling for twenty­five dollars and boasting 300 exhausting pages, the book is packed with old sports cliches, cheap pot shots and bad metaphors. 
It reads like a cheesy USA Network "Up All Night" movie. Take, for example, the words ofDr. Rob Hunter, who said ofHoltz, "When are these people going to realize he's like the emperor? When are they going to realize he has no clothes." Or worse, the testimony of former player Tom Byrne, "When I was hurt, I wasn't included. I was nonexistent. It's kind of like Rudolph. I wasn't included in any ofthe reindeer games anymore." 
Ifsomething positive must be found in the work, it can be done. The remarkable side of the book is what it says about college foot­ball in general. Drug use, cheating, aca­demic favoritism and bribery are the reality. The pressures put on coaches to make their teams win is phenomenal, and the pressures placed on athletes to succeed is frightening. 
Ifthe authors had set aside their personal agendas against Holtz and the Irish and had written the book as a commentary on the sorry state of college football today, they might have compiled a worthwhile volume. Instead they capitalized on Holtz's and Notre Dame's name to make a fast buck.. 


Under the Tarnished Dome 
in the national news 
On Lou Holtz 

-USA Today-Lou Holtz: "I have not read the book. I do not plan on reading the book, and I'm not 
;: 
' 
l 
i 
ll 
l' '-"IfI were Lou Holtz, I'd be checking into availability at the Club Med resort in Cancun this week. The ruckus continues over the book that bums Holtz to a crisp." 
i' 
-4VNDU 7VNews-­

Douglas Looney: "Why would· Lou Holtz need to read the book? Lou Holtz has lived it. Heknowswhat'sinit. Therearen'tany surprises. They're all true." 
--USA Today-

Skip Holtz, asked about the book and how it 
going to answer questions about the book." 
-Orlando Sentinel Tribune-

will affect his father: "We haven't gone to dinner and sat around and talked about [the book.]" 
-CNN Larry King Live-Holtz: "I just say this. If there's racism, I'm anxious. to find out which way. I have absolutely no idea. I've never had a racial problem on our football team in our entire­my entire coaching career." 
-CNN Larry King Live-Holtz: "All you have to do is look at the classes the people take, or our athletes take. Look at the number of athletes that aren't allowed to play that were eligible for any­body else.... Notre Dame's standards are higher than the NCAA." 
On Notre Dame 

· · -VSA Today-Dick Rosenthal, Notre Dame's athletic di­rector: "Notre Dame does things right, and we have great comfort in the fact we operate our programs with complete. integrity and the desire to have excellence. ... I think people across the country are overwhelm­ingly uninterested in the book and offended by it." 
_-USA Today-­

Irish linebacker Pete Bercich: "When some­one releases a book at this time of the.year, it's meant to ruin a season, not to help us out." 
-USA Today-­

Rev. E. William Beauchamp: "[The book] doesn't jibe with facts that we know to be true." He "emphatically denies the premise of the book." 
-ABCNews--

Beauchamp: "The quotations in that book do not really represent the facts as they are at 
. NotreDame. Wewouldnotcompromiseour integrity for athletes for anything at the uni­versity.' 
On Quoted Sources 

· -Newsday-Notre Dame has received letters from 84 players interviewed for the book who claim 
DOES FOOTBALL AFFECT ADMISSIONS-? #l ** 
10000 
9000 
Q 
~
-
~ 8000 u 
~ 
~ 
l',IJ 7000 
z 
0 

'E-<­
6000
< 
u 
,.J 
-
c.. 

c.. 5000
< 
+ Increase or941 applications 
14 
++ Increase or 1,310 applicatioos
4000 

• Ranked for the fust time in five years, the nmnbcr orapplicatioos increased by I /,59. . •• Aller the 1988 National Ciamionship, Notre Dame received 9,931 applications, the most.iii its history. 
A. Parse ian Dan Devine Gerr Faust Lou Holtz 
3000 

0 -N t"") "St ll'l 
i-. r-r-r-r-r­
0\ 0\ 0\ 0\ 0\ 0\
---·--­
The authors of Tarnished Dome contend, ''Notre Dame is football. ·without it, Notre Dame is simply a small 
Catholic insitution with. a great chemistry department in a s_mall northern Indiana. town with lousy 
weather." Does the success of the Fighting Irish on the football field affect admissions at the university? 



Notre Dame ranks first in the graduation rate of football players at' Division 1­A collees and uni-versities, according to the National Collegiate Athletic Association. 
to have been misquoted orlied to. 
-Orlando Sentinel Tribune-

Yaeger and Looney and many of their sources in the book have been bombarded by letters and faxes from Notre Dame sup­porters threatening legal action, 
-The Arizona Republic-Former Irish quarterback Steve Beuerlein, who played forHoltz in 1988: "It's a joke. ... The authors only talked to people who had problems at the school." 
-USA Today-­Extensively quoted John Askin, in a letter to Rosenthal: "I feel betrayed by Don Yaeger and the publishing company because he misrepresented my quotes." 
-The Dallas Morning News-John Askin, that Yaeger failed to honor a promise "to read and edit the final tran­script." 
.-The Los Angeles Times--­Extensively quoted Dan Quinn, in 1986: "[Holtz] isn't an overbearing coach, but when he does something forceful, by God, you better do it. I'd follow him anywhere. He's the best. I know ifl learn to do things Lou's way, I'll be fine." 
-The Los Angeles Times-­Dan Quinn, when he was at Notre Dame, was disciplined for breaking parietals, was caught with an open beer on campus, and was also put on academic probation. He has "been a lifelong skirmish with coaches, principals, teachers, recruiters, anybody who wanted to challenge him." In 1986 Quinn reported a list of 30 recruiting in­fractions made by USC to authorities from the NCAA and the Pacific 10 Conference. 
-The Arizona Republic­St~ve Beuerlein: "From the time Quinn set footatNotreDame,hewasin trouble .... They [the authors] offered him some money to make some comments. He always twisted things anyway." 
-The Sacramento Bee-

Former Notre Dame coach Gerry Faust said the authors have "misrepresented my views and in the process have unjustly degraded a university that I love and admire." 
-Sports ll/ustrated, 1988­

0n extensively quoted Marty Lippincott: "Lippincott has been kicked off the team three times. The first was after a team meeting in which the importance of discipline and 
decorum was discussed. Lippincott cel­ebrated the end of the session by mooning his teammates." 
-Orlando Sentinel Tribune-

Bill Clinton: "Yes, then Arkansas Attorney General Bill Clinton did represent then Uni­versity of Arkansas football coach Lou Holtz in a lawsuit. ... Clinton disputes an interpreta­tion by Don Yaeger about a conversation the two had about Holtz last December. In fact, the President said he has nothing but good things to say about the spirited and emotional coach....•'I was proud to defend him because I thought he was right. The team, black and white alike, rallied behind him. ... The law­suit failed. Holtz went on to a great career."' 
On the Authors 
-Chicago Tribune­

"During the 1989 season, Looney angered Holtz with his portayal of Notre Dame play­ers as tJmgs in a brawl that broke out near the Notre Dame tunnel before the USC game. Looney said that Holtz had lost control of his players and that the fight was instigated by Notre Dame. ... Holtz believed Looney blurred the facts of the incident, partly be­cause Holtz had refused an earlier request by Looney to co-author a book with him." 
-WNDU 1YNews-· 

Sports Announcer Jack Nolan asked Looney to respond to a report on his co-author saying: "Yaeger was once arrested for shoplifting and has been fired from two of his last newspaper jobs, for lying at one and misappropriating funds atanother. Almost everyone that he has ever worked for, including twelve editors [sic.], say that he has no business writing about anybody else getting rid oftheir ideals because he is basically a liar. And that is a published report by a reporter in Texas." Replied Looney: "What his resume is? Gosh you'll need to take that up with Don." Jack Nolan: "We've been trying." 
Commentary 
-Gannet News Service-

The book makes "for compelling skim­ming." 
-Chicago Tribune­

"Here's the book's promise of Notre Dame's great disgrace. They hired a profes­sional-anon-Notre Darner at that-to run their football program .... Whereas this idea would not be worth 299 publishable pages if it were about, oh, Florida State, ... because it is about Notre Dame it sells for $23." 
-Chicago Tribune-­Murray Spencer, author of College Sports Inc., a critical analysis of the problems fac­ing inercollegiate sports and Shake Down the Thunder, "Likeitornot, Notre Dame has been there from the beginning. They were the first national team. They invented the formula." 
-Dallas Morning News-

Dick Enberg, sportscaster for NBC, said, "When you're on top, they go after you.". 
With an overall student graduation rate of 93 percent, Notre Dame was fourth after Harvard, Yale and Princeton Universities. The national average graduation rate for all students at NCAA Division I colleges and universities is 54 percent. 

/ 


want one kid, are you supposed to have sex only once?" asked sophomore Gina 

How Catholic Are You? 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students react to Catholic mandates on controversial 
.

issues. 
By Amy Amoni and Michelle Crouch 
Enormous cheering, grand banners and throngs of people accompanied Pope John Paul !I's visit to Denver in August. In addition to the fun and games, however, came a more serious issue: the papal beliefs and teachings. Currently, Pope John Paul speaksoutagainstsuchpracticesaspremari­tal sex, the use of contraception, abortion 
However, some students, like sophomore Mike S haf, disagree, arguing that the church has to "set a standard." "People just can't go around having premarital sex," he said. "That's immoral." 
Upon returning to Rome, the Pontiff is expected to finalize a new encyclical on moral issues. In this document, he will incorporate conflicting views on human na­tureintothedomainofpapalcontrol. Atthe heart of his argument lies the church ban on 


and homosexuality.,......;.---------------------;...._--------'------, tions are 
Healsoprohibitsthe marriage of priests and women as active ministers. As students of a Catholic university, Notre Dame students have varying opin­ions on these issues. According to a Scho­lastic poll, Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's students are most in disaccord with the pope on the 
issues of premarital sex and birth control. 

Amante. 
Amy Sromek, a Notre Dame sophomore, feels a little bit differently: "The church teaches us that we should not sin, yet it encourages people to reject birth control. That's just not safe, especially with all of the diseases people can catch nowadays." 
"The fact ofthe matter is, people are going to be having sex, and some of these people are not going to be ready to raise children. Using birth control limits the number of abortions and homes of unwanted children and child abuse," stated sophomore Shan­non Griesmer. 
"I don't understand how the church can be against birth control with overpopulation as it is. Ifa married couple doesn't want to have children, why should they have to play Rus­sian roulette?" questioned junior Donato Capobianco. 
The possibility for ordaining women into the Church also remains a controversial topic on which people are equally divided. 
Sophomore Stephanie Klatt views the priesthoodinatraditiona:Iway, "Thepriest­hood is a spiritual fatherhood. If God had wanted women to be priests, Mary would have been a priest. Women are called to fulfill other roles in the church. Their posi­


Schola·st1·c 
Is the CatholicPoll Church's position on 
Premarital Sex Abortion Birth Control Homosexuality 
Too Conservative 
54% 
27% 86% 31% 

the foHowing... 
women


Too About Don't 
only."


Liberal Right Know 
Fresh­

0% 43% 3% 
man Michael An de rs o n 

1% 67% 5% 
agrees: "I don't think 

0% 12% 2% 
you can throw out2000years

9% 53% 7% 
of church equally im­portant to those of men and are indi­vidualized to fit 

The results of this poll came from a campus wide survey of 70 students. 
teaching and 
On the subject of premarital sex, sopho­more John Giovacco voiced the opinion of many of the students interviewed when he asserted that "the church has to realize that times have changed, so it has to_adjustits views accordingly." 
birth control, which would be reinforced in the new encyclical. 
Many of the students polled seemed to have a problem with this ban. Some students disagree because they do not think-the sole purpose of sex is procreation. "If you only 

Catholic his­tory to suit changing modem fads. Church values and ideals should not be sacrificed due to modem-day sex equality." The opposition argues that the place of women in the church needs to be updated. · "In the Letter of Paul to the Galatians, God 


created us as equals, made to serve Him. The room in your heart to love more than just Overall, the Scholastic poll revealed two particular sex of an individual doesn't mat­God." basic views of the Catholic church, that it ter. It's really hypocritical of us today to "I know a few people who would be really should change with modem society and that accept that piece of scripture as the Word of great fathers and really great priests too, and it should remain as it is. 

fill that void. Other faiths have ordained women as ministers and have created a very loving enyironment. If everyone is equal in the eyes ofGod, then why are we, as Roman Catholics, discriminating against women entering the priesthood?"said Sramek. 
Some people claim that before the Church ordains women, papal law should allow priests to marry. 
"Loving a woman and being married is the greatest form oflov_e, and priests really can't be marriage counselors unless they've expe­rienced that love," said Amante. "The church says that priests are married to God, but that is not earthly love. There is enough I do not understand why they should have to choose," said Capobianco. 
However, some students, like sophomore Christine Willard, think the marriage of priests is wrong because "then they can't make a total commitment to their calling." 
A large number of students supported the marriage ofpriests and ordaining women not on the principle, but for a logical reason­the decline in the number of priests. 
"The problem with the vocation is that it is too restrictive. If you let priests get married and women get ordained, you'd let more priests into the system," said freshman Cleopatra DeLeon. 
agreed: "I think if the church is going to have a position, it shouldn't be a popularity contest. Ifthe members ofthe church do not agree with its positions on these issues, they should find a new church." 
Despite all of the controversy on these issues, sophomore Bridget Casey com-, mented that "issues like sexuality, contra­ception, and abortion cloud the picture. We can'tforget that the main issue of the Catho­lic church should be faith and the practice of ~s~th~ 0 


Irish Gathering in Denver 
By Amy Amoni 

Among the half-million -people who shared in the pope's visit to the United States were some devoted Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
Traveling to Denver as a youth minister for her local parish, senior Siobhan McCarthy. guided teenagers through what she considered "the experience of a life­time." 
"It gave me the opportunity to be part ofan atmosphere of love," she said. "It was an example of how the world can be if people follow· God, live by his message and love one another." 
Pope John Paul II commanded people to be proud of the Gospel message instead of reacting in fear. "He encouraged people to affirm their Catholic faith," noted sopho­more Tim Seymour, of Stanford Hall, who traveled to Denver with the folk choir, which sang as a part of the papal choir. "He focused on the young people of today, en­couraging them to find joy in a common faith, even speaking the gospel in about six­teen different languages." 
The students who went to see the Pope were amazed by the largenumber of people in attendance. "For one and a half miles, all you could see were people, standing shoul­der-to-shoulder," said senior Jen Mason. "It was amazing to see how people ouragecould come together to celebrate peace and joy, leaving their differences at the door." 
Even a holy festival was not complete without commercialization: T-shirts, bumper stickers, posters and coffee mugs that featured a profile of the Pope blessing Denver. Seymour saw this commercializa­tion as ''a bit tacky," but he looked beyond the vendors to focus upon more important issues, the Pope and his message. 
McCarthy, on the other hand, enjoyed the merchandising: "Some of the stuff was silly, but it all acts as a reminder of ajoyful event. 
Besides, half of the proceeds went to the World Youth Day Fund. Ifyou were to go to a Notre Dame football game, you would buy a Notre Dame sweatshirt to support your team. Buying a T-shirt or something for World Youth Day is my way of show­ing support for the Pope and the Catholic church." 
The sole disappointment of the entire experience was the poor media coverage, according to Mason. "The media focused on the downside of everything: what di­vided Catholicism, protestors and the in­tense heat," she said. "They completely missed the message that a half million people from all over the world came to celebrate peace, joy and unity." 
Seymour agreed: "The media had its priorities confused. They stressed the number of people fainting instead of the hundreds of thousands of people unified under one belief-celebrating peace through prayer and song." 

I 
I 
I 


LA""~~-~--~'"--"'"---~:li\?llill.ll~ bniIE : ::::: .: ~: : : /2 
Ii 
,·
i j 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students from the Midwest describe the effects the flood of'93 had on their summers. 
By Chris Lenko 
"All the fountains of the great deep burst forth, and the windows of the heavens were opened. The rain fell on the earth forty days and forty nights ... The waters swelled so mightily on the earth that all the high moun­tains under the whole heaven were covered ... and the waters swelled on the earth for one hundred fifty days." 
Genesis 7:11-24 
The Great Flood of '93 might not have 
.I. lasted one hundred and fifty days, but as residents of Midwestern states will tell you, the heavy rainfall and flooding they experi­enced this summer was almost as devastat­ing as the Biblical account. And, like Noah, many will have to rebuild their communi­ties, having lost homes, farms and busi­nesses to heavy rains and the swollen Mis­sissippi River. 
Forty-five people lost their lives to the flood~ 31,000 people in eight states were uprooted-f1nd the governors of Georgia and South Carolina requested that their states be classified as emergency disaster areas. 

Damage estimates were set at ten billion dollars in income, property and agdcultural losses, and in North St. Louis, President Clinton signed a 5.8 million dollar relief bill to help absorb some of the community's losses. 
For many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, the summer of 1993 will be long remembered. Jennifer Zurek, a Saint Mary's freshman from Des Moines, Iowa, spent part of her summer sandbagging after she lost her job as a result of building dam­age and blackouts caused by the flood. 
"After I lost my job, I went sandbagging during the day," she said. "My friends and I had a lot of fun filling the bags with sand and throwing them onto the pile. We built a wall that was half a mile long and nine feet high." In another relief effort, she helped to fill helicopters with sandbags to be trans­ported to another area. 
Looking back, she was impressed by the way everyone pulled together during the difficult time, donating food and the the other materials necessary in rebuilding the community. 
WhileZurek's home was not affecteQ by the flood the first time the river crested;·her family lost electricity and water for two weeks when the river crested again later in the summer. 
Jim Stessman, a sophomore also from Des Moines, lost water as a result of the flood as well. Jim's family managed to survive with­out clean water for ten days by collecting rain water and relying on friends from the outlying areas. 
"I visited my friends in the suburbs when­ever I wanted to take a shower," Slessman said. "I guess I was lucky because showers were hard to come by. The hotels in the area were completely filled by farmers and ex­ecutives whose companies rented rooms so their employees could take showers." 
Stessman worked in a grocery store dur­ing the summer, and he observed that people's buying habits changed drastically as a result of theflooding. "The day after the levees broke there was a rush on the stores," hesaid. "Bytheendoftheday, wewereout of bottled water, fruit juice, milk and batter­ies. We also ran out of baby wipes. People knew that the water would be off for a long time, and they stocked up on baby wipes, which are great for cleaning your hands and face without water." 
Angee Kerrigan, a Notre Dame junior from Afton, Iowa, also was affected by the 

, 


flood. While her house remained standing and her water supply system was functional, her family's crops were devastated after the flooding of the Des Moines River. 
"I live in Southwest Iowa, and although we aren't near the river, our farm was ruined by the water," she said. "My dad farms com and soybeans. And while he replanted in May and then again when the rain washed the seeds away, he couldn't afford to keep replanting what was lost." Kerrigan esti­mated that almost half of her family's two thousand acres of land was lost to the flood. 
Comparing the Indiana crops to her own, 

· Kerrigan said Indiana farmers have a lot for which to be thankful. "I think I have 'crop envy,"' she explained, "lcall my dad up and tell him• how wonderful the com is here. It drives him crazy because farming is his life, and he has basically been out of work the past few months, not being able to do what he loves most." 
"I guess I really shouldn't complain," she said. "We were among the luckier ones. In addition to agricultural crops, my dad also farms livestock, so we didn't lose every­thing." 
But Kerrigan is concerned that her family will not receive ofenough of the aid prom­ised by the federal government: "Compared toa lotoffarmers, wedidn'tgethittoo badly, so we probably won't receive too much compensation," she said. 
'Kerrigan finds it strange to drive through Iowa and see all the fields that are still submerged. "People always make fun of 
"When the river comes through, it leaves in its path filth, snakes, rats and garbage." 
-Michelle Ryan 

how flat Iowa is," she joked. "Now, it really is flat. There's nothing growing there!" 
Even students who. were not dir~tly af­fected by the flood can appreciate the mag­nitude of the damage the Great Flood of '93 unleashed in the American Midwest. 
Michelle Ryan, assistant rectress of Pasquerilla West, is one ofmany people who are attempting to organize assistance to vic­tims of the flood through the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. 

This summer, Ryan volunteered her time working as a sandbagger for ten days in the 750-person community of Keithsburg, Illi­nois. The flood left half of the town under­water, and the citizens have little money and resources to use for the restoration of their devastated town. 
Ryan said she chose to help this particular community because she felt that the citizens had done everything they could to help themselves. 
"They didn't passively let themselves be­come victims," she said. "At one time, the town had a beautiful river front, which they sacrificed to build a ten-foot flood wall." Unfortunately, the river crested at well above thirteen feet, and the town was at the mercy of the swollen river. 
Ryan said the town's residents need and deserve assistance, and she said she hopes that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be able to lend a hand to the devastated community. 
Although the planning is only in its initial stages, Ryan said she hopes to take a group of students into the damaged areas once she determines students' interest level in the project and the resources available to the community. She is presently trying to orga­nize supervision, accommodation and fund­ing for the trip,. and she invites interested students to contact her for more information. 
"There is a lot of construction, cleaning, scrubbing and scouring to be done out there," she explained. "When the river comes through, it leaves in its path filth, snakes, rats and garbage that must be cleaned up." 
Most of the students affected by the flood said they were surprised and thankful for the outpouring ofconcern and assistance shown to them by members oftheir local communi­ties and relief organizations. Hopefully, members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community will also be able to extend a hand to the victims of the Great Flood of '93. This would be possible through involvement in events such as the flood relief walk planned by Saint Mary's College or trips and projects planned by various organizations on both campuses. 





' 
0118 


Send information for your event to: Jenny Tate, Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 631-7569. 

For More Information Call: 
Thursday 16 
Dirty Book Sale: 9:00 a.m., Hesburgh Library Concourse. Lecture: ''Collecting Andean Textiles: Adventures in Exploring Native American Cultural Identity and Grassroots Develop­ment," Kevin John Healy, 7:00 p.m., Snite. Acoustic Cafe: 9:00-12:00 p.m., LaFortune. 
Arts and Letters Placement Night: 
7:00-8:30 p.m., Library Auditorium. Volleyball: SMC vs. North Park College, 
7:00 p.m., Angela Athletic FaciHty. Film: "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid," 8:00 p.m., Montgomery Theatre, $2. 
Lafortune Information Desk: 631-8128 
. Senior Class: 631-5136 Student Union Board: 631-77 57 Junior Class: 631-5117 Snite Film Series Hot Line: 631-7361 

Friday 17 
VoUeyball: Notre Dame vs. Northridge, 4:00 p.m., JACC. Soccer: Notre Dame women vs. Michigan State, 5:00 p.m., Alumni Field. Soccer: Notre Dame men vs. Michigan State, 7:30 p.m., Alumni Field. Film: "Like Water for Chocolate," 
7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "Dave," 7:00 & 9:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Movie: "Scent of a Woman," 7:00 & 
9:30 p.m., Carroll Hall, SMC, $. Hypnotist: Tom DeLuca, 7:00 p.m., Washington Hall. 
Sophomore Class: 631-5225 ND News Line: 631-5110 JACC Ticket Information: 631-7354 Notre Dame MenuLine: 631-0111 Weekend Wheels Schedule: 631-FRED 
Saturday  18  5  
Volleyball: Notre Dame vs. William and  S  
Mary, 11:00 a.m., JACC.  v  
Football: Notre Dame vs. Michigan  S  
State, 12:35 p.rri., Notre Dame Stadium.  · V  
Concert: Shenanigans pre-game concert,  F  
11:00 a.m., JACC.  
Movie: "Scent of a Woman" 7:00 & 9:30  
p.m., Carroll Hall, SMC, $.  
Volleyball: Notre Dame vs. New  
Mexico, 7:30 p.m., JACC.  
Film: "Like Water for Chocolate," 7:30  
& 9:45, Snite, $2.  .  
Movie: "Dave," 8:00 & 10:30, Cushing  
Auditorium, $2.  


· 



A TEST FOR THE 
ii 
IRISH?
II 
J! 
With three All-American candidates,. the Michigan State football team hopes to fight off a more 
experienced Notre Dame squad Spartan senior.quarterback Jim. Mi°ller finished third In the Big Ten for compll:!.tions with 63.9% and passed for 1,400 yards last season. 
by Jason Conte the Irish with the most prepared Spartan ers that could make this contest very inter­football team in recent history. Though. esting.The Michigan State Spartans come to decisive underdogs to Notre Dame, Michi­The Spartans have three All-American 
South Bend on Saturday to challenge gan State University (MSU) has some play-candidates on their roster. Their best player is on the defensive side of the ball. Steve Wasylk, a senior free safety, set.a MSU seasonal record for tackles by a defensive back last season.with 1,14 (10.4 tackles per 
.game). He was an honorable mention All­Big Ten player and a first team GTE/ CoSIDA Academic All-American last year. Wasylk was also picked as the 1993 Playboy MagazinePre~season Football Scholar-Ath­lete of the Year. 

Another one of.the Spartan;s All-Ameri­can candidates is senior quarterback Jim Miller. He is the bestreturning passer in the Big Ten with a 63;9 percent career completition rate and passed for 1,400 yards despite missing two games because ofinju­·. ries. Miller is the second bestquarterback in tM-Big Ten for passing efficiency. He has been an-Academic All-Big Ten player the last three seasons. Against Kansas last . weekend, Miller completed 18 of 30 passes



for 191 yards and two tbuchdowns. 
The final All-American candidate the Spartans claim is junior flanker Mill Coleman. Hew.as MSU' s MVP last season as he led their team in pass receptions, recep­tion yardage, punt returns and punt return yardage. An honorable mention All-Big Ten player last season, he even started two games at quarterback when Jim Miller was injured. Coleman gained 182 all-purpose yards against Notre Dame last season and was named the second best All-Purpose player in the country by the 1993 NCAA Preview. 

One other key player on the Spartan' s roster is senior tailback Craig Thomas. Last season, Thomas -led the Big Ten conference with fifteen rushing touchdowns and • finished fourth in yardage with 
887. Rated the number ten tailback in the na­tion by the 1993 
NCAA Preview, 
he is an All-Big 
Ten candidate 
this year. 
In addition to these stars, the Spartans have an impressive sup­porting cast. On offense they re­turn eight starters and 19 lettermen from last season. 
The offensive line boasts four returning starters led by sophomore right guard Bob Denton and a trio of juniors: left tackle Shane Hannah, right tackl(: Brian DeMarco and center Mark Birchmeier. 

Coleman and sophomore Napolean Out­law lead the Spartan receiving corps. Out­law played split end last season, where he averaged 15.3 yards per reception. Brian Howard should provide some capable backup to Coleman and Outlaw, but other . than Howard, the Spartans have no real threatening receivers on the bench. 
Tailback is probably the deepest position in the Spartan offense. Craig Thomas aver­aged 5.7 yards per carry last seas~m and will be dangerous, but three-year starter Brice Adams is noted for his strong blocking, not his offensive ability. Sophomore backup Steve Holman was arguably the strongest freshman runnerin MSU history last season. Two other players who might see some action at tailback this Saturday are sopho­mores Hickey Thompson and Duane Goulbourne. 
The Spartan defense, although returning eight starters and 24 lettermen, raises nu­merous questions. MSU finished seventh in 
the Big Ten for total defense last season, giving up an average of 355.3 yards per game. The Spartans play a stunt4-3 defense utilizing their deepest area on the unit, the defensive line. Junior left end Juan Hammonds, an honorable mention All-Big Ten player last season, leads this talented corp. The three other starters are junior left tackle Aaron Jackson, sophomore right tackle Yakini Allen and senior right end Rich Glover. Amd senioroutside linebacker Rob Fredrickson tallied 102 tackles in the 1992 season. 
The Spartan secondary was weak last year, but this season it should be a strength. All four starters return more experienced. Wasylk, the top returning Spartan player, and 1992 honorable mention All-Big_Ten senior corner Myron Bell led the MSU sec­ondary last season. Junior strong safety Damian Manson and junior comer Stan Callender round out the starting four. 
The linebacker corps is relatively )Veak for the Spartans this year. With no proven starter, the middle linebacker position is a major concern. And the two outside line­backers, 1992 honorable mention All-Big Ten senior Rob Fredrickson and junior Matt 
Christensen, are talented but have no capable back­ups. 
MSU's kick­ing game gett mixed reviews. W h i I e placekicker Bill Stoyanovich is the Big Ten's leading returner in field goal ac-· curacy, with 11 of 14 attempts for 
78.6 percent, the punting game an­chored by Chris Salani is not nearly as solid. 
Despite last weekend's vic­tory against Michigan, Notre Dame Head Coach Lou Holtz is concerned 

about Saturday's game against Michigan State. · 
"This game scares me because Michigan Stated moved the ball on us so well last year and we're not consistent enough on offense right now to get into a high-scoring game with them. They had almost 500 yards against us last year, and it seemed like 700," said Holtz. "We ended up having to fightfor our lives before it was over. Michigan State has had a couple of losing seasons, but I think George has them back. I think this is one ofhis better teams." . 



WATCH YOUR· STEP! 
Ii 
With a rulebook close to 500 pages, athletes find it difficult to follow all the complicated NCAA regulations 

by Amanda Clinton 

Camille Clinton, a Notre Dame women's soccer player, was surprised when she came to South Bend in August as a freshman. Traveling alone from the West Coast, she met another Irish soccer player, sophomore Ashley Scharff, in O'Hare Air­port. The two travelled together to South Bend. On their arrival, the women's soccer manager was waiting to pick up Clinton. But to the freshman's surprise, Scharff was un­able to join them in the car. NCAA regulations state that varsity play­ers can only be picked up at the airport by team officials one time in their collegiate careers. Scharff had already taken her single sanctioned ride the previous year. So Clinton rode to campus in the manager's car, and Scharff had to follow in a taxi. "I think that's stupid," Clinton said. Welcome to the world of NCAA com­petition and the rules and reguiations that accompany it. "It used to be that when athletes arrived here for the first time, they had to make it to campus on theirown," explained Missy Conboy, Notre Dame Associate Athletic Director. Many NCAA rules are designed to pro­tect the well-being of the student-athlete. For example, student-athletes may only practice 20 hours a week, for no more than four hours a day, with at least one day off. But each year the NCAA rules and regulations handbook grows in size as tedious and seemingly unexplainable rules are created. For instance, when a Notre Dame team, with the exception.of football, charges admission to games, ev­ery player is given four complimentary tickets. Three tickets are designated for family or Notre Dame friends, and one ticket is a "wild card": it can be given to out-of­town spectators, like a boyfriend or girl­friend. If athletes on a team want to ex­change tickets among themselves, the three friends and family tickets can be traded but not the wild card. 
"For some reason you can't trade the wild card," Conboy said. "And it would be hard to prove if someone did." 
A primary concern of the NCAA is insur­ing that athletes do not receive benefits from their athletic status. Marco Magnano, a sophomore tennis player, was surprised to learn at the end of his freshman year that he could not give private tennis lessons that summer as he had in high school. He could only coach tennis at a camp, club or commu­nity center. 
"It's practically impossible not to break a rule," said Magnano. 
Demitrius DuBose, a' former Notre Daine football player, was penalized with a two­game suspension last season when an inves­tigation revealed he had accepted a loan from a Notre Dame alumnus. Though this may sound like an obvious violation, some­times even these situations are not clear-cut. 
DuBose had struck up a friendship with the president of the Notre Dame Alumni Club in the state of Washington, Grant Courtney, prior to his recruitment by Notre Dame. In fact, they became so close that DuBose is the godfather of Courtney's daughter. 
For accepting the loan and gifts like care packages and Christmas presents, DuBose was found in violation of NCAA rules and had to repay the Courtney's money and donate the value of the gifts he received to charity. 
"Some rules are so prohibitive that stu-

Charlie Kranz 



dent-athletes are treated more harshly than other students," Conboy explained. "... He should have called us about it." 
Along with DuBose's penalty, Notre Dame was found at fault for the situation as well; over the summer, the NCAA ruled that Irish football would be able to recruit only 23 freshman instead of the usual 25. 
"The NCAA found that there should have been greater institutional responsibility since it was a situation with the president of the Washington Club," Conboy said. 
The penalty sounds greater than it actually is because Notre Dame usually does not recruit 25 players. 
"We had the opportunity to appeal it," explained Conboy. "It was frustrating be­cause we felt like we were doing a good job." 
Confusing things further, while the NCAA says athletes are not allowed to re­ceive extra benefits because of their athletic status, student-athlet~s are allowed some services not available to other students, like a training room and academic tutoring. 
"The NCAA rules state that the athlete is entitled to special benefits because of ath­letic status," said Conboy. "Some schools offer career counseling and computer labs just for athletes." 
\Vith the numerous complicated and con­tradictory rules that must be followed by everyone affiliated with a university, Notre Dame spends extensive time and money educating athletes, parents, coaches and alumni about the dos and don 'ts of NCAA competition. 
Athletes who sign a letter of intent are immediately sent a notice from Athletic Di­rector Dick Rosenthal explaining the restric­tions they must follow. And once athletes arrive on campus, part of their orientation is watching an NCAA rules and regulations video designed by the athletic department. 
Coaches are required to tum in weekly telephone and practice logs. If a question arises about the application of a rule in a specific situation, rather than make ajudge­mentcall, coaches turn to the athletic depart­ment for interpretation, and at times the athletic department consults the NCAA. 
For example, the football· team was plan­ning on watching the movie Rudy before the Michigan game. But when the Notre Dame athletic department asked the NCAA for an interpretation of the rules when considering this specific circumstance, the NCAA ruled that watching the movie would be a viola­tion. 
A front page article in a newsletter sent to 95,000 alumni this summer discussed the importance of not recruiting student-ath­letes. And in the president's newsletter sent to the top 10,000 donors earlier this year, Rev. E. William Beauchamp specifically instructed alumni to leave the recruiting to the athletic department. Notre Dame also sends out informational brochures with football ticket applications, places an ad in all Notre Dame football programs outlining important NCAA rules and has sent every alumni club a video on the subject. 
Ambiguous. Contradictory. Confusing. While these words may describe what ath­letes think of NCAA rules, changes are un­likely. The 1993-94 NCAA rulf's handbook is close to 500 pages and 160 n ~ proposals are being considered this ye :. Until an extensive study is conducted Jf the effec­tiveness of NCAA rules; coa hes, athletes and alumnj need to keep th :ir rulebooks handy. .­
BRUNO'S. 
PIZZA 
1,1J 111,I 
Bruno's North Now open for carry out and delivery. 115 N. 31 (just North of campus) 273-3890 
Bruno's South Available forprivate parties and banquets. Open at 10:00 a.m. on football Saturdays. 2610 Prairie Avenue 288-3320 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We now deliver our pizza rig~t to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 



by Tony Leonardo 
A Forum on Postmodern Infoculture and Multimedia Events 
Television, movies and music all refer to and reflect television, movies and music. For instance, The Simpsons constantly .makes fun of other shows (Itchy and Scratchy, Krunchy the Klown) that have a base in real life television (Tom and Jerry, Bozo the Clown.) 
Steven Spielberg knows this and capital­ized on it in Jurassic Park. Much of the film's humor is derived from the audience's knowledge of other movies, as well as the actual marketing of the movie itself. I recall_ the audience mildly chuckling after one of the velicoraptors made a head movement similar to that of the Terminator. There was also a scene in which the characters made a quip about all oftheJurassic Park merchan­dise that was around. Everyone laughed be­cause the movie was making fun ofitself by shamelessly promoting its toys, lunch boxes and backpacks. 
U2's album and song Zooropa also em­ploy reflexivity. The lines from "Zooropa" are American commercial slogans such as "Eat to get slimmer" and "Fly the friendly skies." The song would not make sense unless its intended audience knew the jingles.But, ofcourse, we do, and that is one feason why U2 is selling albums: 
We are endlessly being fed information through television, books, movies and mu­sic that we will never need as functioning human beings. You shouldn't have to know the Brady Bunch theme song in order to live out one's life; but our generation has seem­ingly placed priority on knowledge ofenter­tainment events rather than anything else. We are becoming a society ofpure entertain­ment and information, and the distinction between the two is becoming more and more blurred. 
The Late-Night Bashing Begins 
Dave, Jay, Chevy and Conan. Arsenio is still floating around somewhere I think, but there is no doubt that television land is now hooked on these four players. The season officially kicked off two weeks ago, and the excitement and tension in the air is compa­rable to when Johnny left his throne, and Jay and Arsenio were left to duke it out. 
In case you missed out on the details, let me fill you in. Dave picked up a cool 14 million a year to jump the NBC ship and set up base camp at CBS. He also moved down an hour to the prime 10:30 p.m. slot, placing him in direct competition with Jay. 
Fox jumped in on the media fray and signed up Chevy Chase to be the third player in the crowded field. 
NBC replaced Dave with Conan O'Brien, a former Simpsons writer, who comes into the playing field with no experience whatso­ever and at a very young age. Now that the stage is set, we can sit back and watch the melee that is sure to ensue. 
Round 1: Dave starts Late Night at CBS. Headlining the riew show are Billy Joel and Bill Murray. Near the beginning of the show, CBS somehow manages to snag NBC anchor Tom Brokaw to come onto the show. He walks on after a flurry of Dave jokes about his former network and says, "I'm sorry, Dave, but those last two jokes are the property of NBC." He promptly walks over to the cue cards, removes two of them and heads off. Score: CBS 1, NBC 0. 
Round 2: While watching the vaunted opening show, I decided to flip over to NBC during a commercial. To my surprise, I dis­cover that Dave's smiling face is there also. NBC aired Dave's first show from 1982 in the time slot previously vacated by Davf himself. 
The local CBS affiliate in South Bend, however, has a previous contract with Fox's Married with Children and c~nnot air Dave's new show until 11:00. This means that half of the show was directly competing with Dave's first show on NBC. Now that was funny. As it turned out, Bill Murray was the first guest on the old show as well. So there I sat flipping back and forth between old and new Dave and old and new Bill. I ended up watching the old Dave more than the new Dave, so NBC gets2 points. Score: CBS 1, NBC 2. 

Tune in the following weeks for Fox's tally! 
Sellapalooza 

Lollapalooza III toured the country this summer, once again bringing together seven ofalternative rock's bigger bands under one collective big top. This year's smattering, as I'm sure you all know, was Rage Against the Machine, Babes in Toyland and Tool (de­pending on when you saw the show,) Front 242, Arrested Development, Fishbone, Di­nosaur Jr.,.Alice in Chains and headlined by Primus. 
As usual, this year's festival was a smor­gasbord ofalternative fare. Piercing booths, second stages, bungee jumping and spin­ning cyclotrons that you could get strapped into were all made available to the youths in search of Woodstock '93. Just like Woodstock (l was there after all), there was also plenty of stuff to buy and sell. And lots of people buying. 
Lollapalooza III crossed into the ranks of the "mainstream" this year. The original Lollapalooza wasn't as trendy and fashion­able. In fact, it seems like "alternative" mu­sic in general has garnered more fans than it is used to, but I won't get into that now. LoJlapalooza III has sufficiently heralded theend ofalternative and finally introduced the style to all-encompassing capitalism. Ashes to ashes, dust to dust. + 


A.Gala Premiere ••• 
Tri-Star's Rudy is "quintessentially Notre Dame." 
by Margaret S. Kenny 

On October 6, 1993, South Bend will host the world premiere of Rudy, the movie filmed last year on the Notre Dame campus chronicling the trials and tribula­tions of Daniel E. "Rudy" Reuttiger, a stu­dent whose ultimate dream was to play for the Notre Dame football.team. The movie, starring Sean Astin in the title role, Ned Beatty and Charles Dutton, re­unites Hoosiers director David Anspaugh and writer Angelo Pizzo. This marks only the second time a world premiere has been held in South Bend, the first being that of Knute Rockne All American, starring fonner presidentRonald Reagan. The film's preview says, "Sometimes a winner is a dreamer who just won't quit." Rudy Reuttiger was just that. Rejected ad­mission twice to Notre Dame, he was ac­cepted on a third try and became, through great persistence, a walk-on member of the football time. After two years on the team's scout squad, Reuttiger became a campus legend when he earned the opportunity to suit up for the last game of his senior season against Georgia Tech. After rousing cheers of "Rudy, Rudy/' from the crowd during the final moments of the 1975 season, then Coach Dan Devine put Reuttiger in the game, in which he was able to make a final-second sack of the Georgia Tech quarterback. Reuttiger's moment of glory was re-en­acted for Tri-Star's cameras at halftime of Notre Dame's victory over Boston College ·last November 7, with the Notre Dame stu­dent body and the rest ofthe sold-out crowd 
serving as extras. . 
Reuttiger's quest for fame did not end 

with his memorable play. Years later, he called Tri-Star to convince the movie com­pany that· his story was worthy of a major motion picture. After that success, he had the larger task of convincing the university to permit the movie cameras to film the cam­pus. The last film made on the Notre Dame campus was Knute Rockne's story in 1940. Richard W. Conklin,of University Rela­
tions, gave Reuttiger and Tri-Star the · needed permission. The movie, he said, is · "quintessentially Notre Darrie." 
Rudy is a "story about the last guy on the bench," said Anspaugh. The movie's pre­. view plays heavily on· the mystique sur­rounding the Notre Dame experience, that · same mystique that drew Rudy Reuttiger to 
his dream. "Notre Dame is about faith," said Reuttiger. 
· A limited number of half-price tickets for the gala premiere are on sale through tomor­row at the Lafortune Information Desk, ac­cording to Joe Cassidy, director ofStudent Ac­tivities. This ticket en­ables students to attend the premiere at 7:30 
p.m. at the Morris Civic Auditorium, which will include ap­pearances by the movie's stars. The gala also includes a post­premiere party at the Century Center and a performance of the film's original theme 
by the Notre Dame marching band. Those attending the premiere will receive a souve­nir ticket and commemorative program as well. 
"This is like nothing we've ever done before," said Cassidy. After the movie, the marching band and cheerleaders will lead a parade to the Century Center. 
The premiere is sponsored by Notre Dame and the city ofSouth Bend, and the proceeds will benefit the Center for the Homeless and the scholarship fund oftheNotreDameClub of St. Joseph Valley. 
Cassidy said there will be shuttles from the campus to downtown from 5:45 p.m. until the gala's end. The shuttle service is free. 
Rudy will open nationwide on October 22, 1993. 



by Anne Heaton 

Peter Gabriel's "Secret" World Tour this summer delved into his new album's psy­chological search for truth, exemplifying Gabriel's passion for creativity. Precisely because Gabriel's lyrical reflections are so personal, he eludes a stereotype of his char­acter and a "genrefying" ofhis music, allow­ing him to focus on the complexity of self­discovery. On tour, Gabriel's theatrical tac­tics -including props, massive video im­ages and role playing -served to explore his intellectual music, never to· typify it. Gabriel also avoided the egotistical pitfalls ofperformance and displayed his dedication to musical and cultural synthesis by high­lighting foreign performers . 
. Gabriel examined the origins oflove with a romantic rendition of"Blood ofEden" and "Shaking the Tree," in a Garden-of-Eden­like setting while at the same time exploiting traditional male/female stereotypes by switching vocal duties with Joy Askew.She sang his bass part while he sang her soprano lines. 
Gabriel's personal belief that there is both "something in me dark and sticky" (from "Digging in the Dirt"), yet at the same time something lovable from "Love to be Loved" was dramatically represented by the use ofa mini-camera attached to Gabriel's head. It grossly distorted parts of his face as he moved it around his head; · a bulging eye, swollen sweaty cheek and cave-like nostrils -all shown on a huge screen. 
While these images were being displayed, Gabriel was also removing several tarps from an enormous white face to reveal a sculpture of perfect proportion and serene beauty. Gabriel's questions-What is ugly in us? What is beautiful? What do we find when we dig? -provoked s·ome disconcertion yet primarily instilled the au­dience with a profound curiosity. ­
"Come Talk to Me" brought a smoking red and white phone booth through the floor, outofwhich Gabriel burst puiling a reluctant cord and begging for someone to talk to him. 

"In Your Eyes" was introduced with a huge half-globe that was lit with laser­beamed continents. The band's farewellin­volved a disappearence into a bottomless suitcase, which Gabriel then closed and dragged from one end of the T-shaped stage to the other. The series of theatrics, coordi­nated with the help of Canadian theater and 

opera director, Robert Lepage, meshed per­fectly with Gabriel's exaggerated play-act­
~~ . 
The drama climaxed when Gabriel feigned frustration in "Steam" and depen­dence in "Washing of the Water." His great looks, phenomenal vocal range and dra­matic stage presence did not distract atten­tion from his musical messages but instead contributed unceasingly to them. Specifi­cally, Gabriel did not overperform with ex­cessive body movement or moments ofself­indulgent solos or speeches. Through his dancing, singing and acting, he bowed down 
· to the creation ofhis art and avoided promot­ing a personal image. Gabriel's purity of musical spirit mani­fested the principal behind the WOMAD 
(World ofMusic, Arts and Dance) organiza­tion which presented shows just last week­end in Chicagq and Indianapolis. WOMAD likes to highlight Peter Gabriel, who is an active and influential member, but Gabriel himself does not run it. 
The organization wants to "inform and excite and to make a wide audience aware of the worth and potential of a multicultural society by pr9moting the music, arts and dance ofmany different cultures, both tradi­tional and contemporary." Gabriel's own continuous emphasis of foreign musicians in his tour included the slow long resonations ofShankar' s electric violin solo, as well as the highlighted rapid drum jams of Manu Katche. 
Both Peter Gabriel and WOMAD have shown a selflessness and willingness to share the spotlight, as artists from all over the globe gather to express a devotion to the integration of higher artistic and musical forms. Both Peter Gabriel and WOMAD have also shown that this venture can !Ee successful and thoroughly entertaining. 
Up &Coming 

Interesting new films to check out: True Romance, written by Quentin Tarantino of Reservoir Dogs fame and starring Christian Slater and Patricia Arquette; Kalifornia starring Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis and Boxing Helena, DavidLynch's daughter's directing debut that successfully sued Kim Basinger for $6 million dollars. Lots ofgood . new stuff in the record stores on Tuesday: Abba, Blur, Buffalo Tom, Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds live, Connells, the Cure, Curve, En Vogue, Martin Lawrence live, Stevie Nicks, Nirvana's In Utero a Police box set?, Ronnie Wood's Live ~d a Yes compilation. 


MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL WE BRING YOU THE WORLD FOR FREE 
SEPTEMBER 26 -OCTOBER 2 A MARATHON OF ACTIVITIES ALL l,N ONE WEEK!!! 
CAMPUS BANDS 
Sunday, Sept. 26 12:00-2:00 p.m. Fieldhouse Mall 
"MULTICULTURAL REFLECTIONS'' 
A Celebration of Diversity Sunday, Sept. 26 2:00-3:00 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
ENTERTAINMENT ON THE QUAD 

Monday-Friday, Sept. 27-Oct. 1 5:00-6:00 p.m. Fieldhouse Mall 
"WHERE THE WEST WAS ONE!" 
A Night of Western Dancing Tuesday, Sept. 28 8:00-11:00 p.m. Lafortune Ballroom 
"TALES OF THREE COUNTRIES" 
A Night of Storytelling from Mexico, India and Italy Thursday, Sept. 30 7:00-9:00 p.m. Snite Museum Reception 
CULTURE ON THE QUAD 

Monday-Friday, Sept. 27-Oct. 1 12:00-1 :00 p.m. Fieldhouse Mall 
FIRESID.E CHATS 

Monday-Friday, Sept. 27-Oct.1 12:15-1:00 p.m. Notre Dame Room 202 Lafortune Student Center 
FREE LUNCH INCLUDED 
"TASTE OF NATIONS" 
Saturday, Oct. 2 
8:00-Midnight Location to be announced $1 ;00 admission 


News of the Bizarre from the Nation's Universities 

Luxury Living at Miami 
For University of Miami students, dormitory living has become a thing ofthe past. Dormitories have been replaced by residential colleges. · UM's new system, similar to those at Rice and Yale Universities, attempts to substitute home-like community living for the traditional dorm lifestyle. The new residential colleges offer students access to lectures in their communities, theater excursions and trips to professional sporting events as well as being furnished with classrooms, conference rooms, study lounges, full-service computer labs and a guest suite for visiting speakers·. Students also form more intimate relationships with faculty as each college has three faculty families ( children, pets and all) who live in the facility. Students living in the new colleges can look forward to occasional home-cooked meals and community snack breaks. All of the colleges house from 400 to 750 students and are equipped with a residential staff comprised of residenti~l assistants, a residence coordinator and a master, all of whom serve as support persons for the students. The general theme underlying the colleges is to provide students with an enhanced living environment. Who says Miami can't make headlines without involving allegations and impropri­eties? 
U of Satan 
·Ifyou_ happen to be a believer in bad omens or have a paranoia about reputed satanic symbols, you might not want to attend the University of Sari Francisco. The phone prefix at this university is 
666. Not, of course, that this reflects in any way upon the school. We aU know that the assignment of phone prefixes is completely random, right? 
Students Pose Credit Risk 
As if the dismal job prospects facing most college graduates are not enough, more bad news lies on the horizon. Last month the government identified more than 900 colleges and trade schools whose participation in the federal student loan program may be revoked due to their students too frequently defaulting. Alaska, in which more than 40 percent of student loans on which payments came due in 1991 were in default, has the worst repayment rate. Vermont, with a 5.1 percent default rate, had the best record in the country. The national averagedefaultrateis 17.5percent. In 1991 aione, taxpayers lost an estimated $3 .6 billion on bad student loans. Those damn kids! 
Everyone is Under Fire 
With all of the uproar surrounding the release of the new book Under the Tarnished Dome, it is easy to forget that things could, indeed, be worse. Just ask the Washington Huskies. Head coach Don James resigned last month just hours after his team; which has 
· appeared in three consecutive Rose Bowls, was placed on probation by the Pacific-IO Conference for violating NCAA rules. The Huskies are banned from postseason play for two years and are forced to give up scholarships and $1.4million in television revenue. Washington,rnnked 12 in AP pre-season polls, will still have the opportunity to go to Pasadena this year but will be ineligible for the conference title following the 1993 and 1994 seasons. Washington is not alone. Earlier, Auburn received a one-year television ban and a two-year probation by the NCAA. So buck up, Irish, things are not all bad. 
Edited by Jenny Ta!e 

I: 


Infiltrating the· Graffiti 
Dance 
By Two Upperclassmen 

Freshman Orientation weekend is, for most University of Notre Dame stu­dents, a memorable experience and will be cherished and fondly spoken of for years to come. After all, aside from Junior Parents' Weekend or graduation, when do students .have the opportunity to enjoy free-run of the campus, admire millions of ornamental cab­bages so beautifully planted by our hard­working grounds-keepers and partake of the lovely dining hall fare (soon to be replaced with the usual Meatless Baked Ziti and Cali­fornia Eldorado Casserole upori our parents' departure)? For those of us whowant to move back into our dorms before the huge rush of up­perclassmen returning Sunday afternoon, the Freshman Orientation staff is always an inviting option. Besides offering the luxury of moving into the dorms before the Sunday ·crowds and the free staff T-shirts, the Orien­tation staff provides the added fun of helping new members of our Notre Dame family move in and become accustomed to their new surroundings. We really did enjoy carrying first-year students' 50-pound suitcases up to their fourth-floor rooms and explaining to count­less mothers that the $50 hall tax would be put to good use: dorm cattilion classes, pre-· game socials and healthy snacks (SYRs, tail-gaters and Papa John's parties). Our big problem was deciding how to spend the little .free time we found between cleaning-up after the 300-person spaghetti dinner and 
suitable bar-hopping hours. 
We know it sounds immature-and 

looking back we can'tbelieve we did it-but for one night we decided to "become" fresh­men and relive Freshman Orientation. A vast array of options presented themselves, and after pondering a bit, we finally decided to attend the classic freshman meat-market the Graffiti Dance. 
Before we go any further, we should explain to you that we are a senior math major who enjoys bar life on a regular basis and a junior psychology major who is al­ways up for a good laugh; if you saw us walking around campus you would observe two everyday Notre Dame gals. But that night we transformed ourselves into a couple of the most "unique" freshmen ever to set foot on Fieldhouse Mall. "Ginny Tucker" hailed from Jackson Hole, Wyo­ming, and looked as if she might have been more in her element at a good state school. Possessing a fair-sized wind-tunnel be­tween the ears and sky-high blond hair (thanks to an 8-ounce can of Aqua Net), she was the perfect budding socialite. "Summer Day" preferred the more "natural" approach and just couldn't bear to leave those tattered Birkehstocks back in Napa, California. Ginny was the savvy but sweet scammer of the pair whose highest priority was getting the scoop on the local "underage" bars. Summer tended to feel a little overwhelmed by all the "preppies" and would have rather jammed to her Peter, Paul and Mary albums. 
As we began to mingle through· the masses, we were once again introduced to the Notre Dame freshman male at his finest. Most of them believed they were paving the road to their first Notre Dame "hook-up." If they only had known! Almost everyone we talked to couldn't wait for their parents to leave so they could "get down to business!" 
We moved on to other topics of interest. Some of the first impressions of dorm life were quite entertaining, to say the least. Many of Sorin College's new residents felt honored to walk the same hallowed halls as President "Monk" Malloy .. However, when commenting on the building itself, the typi­cal response was, "It's just old-lots of tradi­tion but no air conditioning." It became obvious that as the mercury climbed higher and higher, 150 years of tradition would have been gladly relinquished for a night of restful sleep! As the evening progressed, Ginny attempted to learn the names of those "two tall boys' dorms" next to herPW home. Most could inform us that these halls were called Flanner and Grace, but the number of floors was debatable. Ironic as it may seem now, when asked about some big initiation thing called "Oden," Zahm Hall freshmen had no knowledge of their pending doom. 
All of this was indeed quality Graffiti Dance conversation, but soon we thought it time to cut to the chase. The local bar scene had to be discussed. Numerous freshmen guys informed us that we would never see the inside of The Linebacker, Coach's or Senior Bar. As Ginny began discussing the bars with another unsuspecting freshman she brought up the obvious complication of a lack of transportation. But she was assured by "Joe Domer" that he "had some connec­tions" since he was trying out for band . Ginny was so entertained by this little tidbit that she gave the naive boy a great tip: "Coach's is the place to go if you get turned down at Bridget's or if your fake has been through the laundry a few times." 
Despite the meaningful relationships we were forming and the excellent conversa­tion, we did find the time to sign a few shirts. Ginny invited all the newest additions to our Notre Dame clan to "call her when they partied, and she'd dance on their window­sill." 
Summer signed "Here's to free love!" She received phone calls that very evening from Flanner men who wanted to have her over for the night. When asked how they intended to sneak her up to their floor after parietals, they explained that "they have their ways." We are sure that Father Bill would love to be enlightened as to just what these "ways'' entail! 
All in all, the two hours we spent milling arou.nd in the midst of our new Domers were fun-filled and brought back great memories of the trials and tribulations of being an Notre Dame freshman. The class of 1997 is a vibrant addition to this place and will undoubtably keep the "Fighting Irish" spirit alive just as so many. others have before them. . 


Between Apathy and Activism 

Scholastic is now accepting submissions '. for the Final Word. Articles should be opinion pieces dealing w.ith lqcal, national or international issues as they relate to Notre Dame! Si. Mary's. They can include narratives on personal experi­ences, strict news · commentary, or documented informa­tion. Submissions should be typed in Microsoft Word and should be 4-5000 characters in length. For more information call 631-7569/ 5029. 

Political Correctness and the search for a middle ground 
College campuses in some parts of the country are in the midst of a thunderstorm of political correctness. At Notre Dame, however, it does not appear not to be even sprinkling. We should search fora middle ground-a mild rain shower ofchange. Political correctness is founded on the principles that transformed speech should be to a state of complete neutrality and multiculturalism should be integrated into every-day life. To those not ac­quainted with this wide-reaching campaign for so­cial conduct reform, the particulars ofthe movement could seem surprising or perhaps even outrageous. Comments deemed perfectly acceptable here could cause a fierce confrontation in other, more progressive parts of the country. For example, stu­dents at Notre Dame quite frequently use the word "gay" when· referring to something silly or stupid. This terminology is understood here. At some high schools in Massachusetts it could be grounds for suspension. Many students here use the word "chick" when referri_ng to females. Elsewhere, it could provoke a slap to the face or even a more unfriendly kick. In the political correctness movement, words and idioms are fashioned into forms unoffensive to any particular gender, sexual preference, religion or ethnicity. In the Northeast, many college adminis­trators have chosento replace the term "freshman" with "first year," and many companies have dis­carded "chairman" for "chairperson." Also "Asian" replaces "Oriental," as not all Asian people are from the Orient. These are just a few examples of how every portion of the English language is under · scrutiny. · The political correctness movement, however, is not limited to a review of the words we use. It promotes a broad expansion of multiculturalism in society and education. Many reformers argue that history .classes across the country focus too much on European influence and that Africa and Asia should 
by J.P. Jaillet 

be stressed more. It is quite common in certain areas to find schools completely re-evaluati11g their cufriculums. Their aim is to incorporate new and diverse cultures. For example, in my home­town there a controversy that exists over whether homosexual conduct should be included in the school system's sexual education program. 
Perhaps the only non-debatable point in the entire political correctness movement is that ev­erything about it is highly debatable. Coming from an environment where people are very sensitive about an abundance ofissues to an environment of apparent apathy, I underwent a bit ofcuhureshock. 
The atmosphere at Notre Dame, however, has both its advantages and disadvantages. Political correctness has a way of establishing self-censor­shi p; people are forced to review systematically everything they're about to say to search for poten­tially offensive remarks. The.lack of self-censor­ship is partially liberating, as people automatically say what they think. The obvious downsi.de is that it's more frequent and acceptable to make an offen­sive remark. 
We should find a compromise between over­zealousness and apathy. This type ofenvironment would provide people the opportunity to express themselves freely but would also lack statements of complete and utter ignorance. For example, someone's reference to a fiscally-thrifty friend as a "big-time Jew" is simply stupid. Equally ludicrnus arc the feminist groups that spell woman­"womyn"-just so they can. exclude the word ".man." As for multiculturalism, it should be pro~ mated but not a graduation requirement. Between the extremes of the political correctness spectrum is an environment that is both acceptable and practical. Finding that middle-ground may prove to be an arduous and voiatile mission but a neces­saty one nonetheless. 
The views expressed in this column do not necessarily reflect the views of Scholastic. 


Hey, Iook ti-I-.tki:J 

teak, -fii"h reqll1
~ty \}p fute. ( 
olis3us ... 
J Yeeth, w.1s vY1z.ipp.1fl_:) his P~nt-s \ 

OH WOW·•·· 
/ \ 
HEY YOU, Nake~ boy i 
fvrl vf jO()'r. ·· 
\ 
Ol-l WOW-• 

TO ALL ARTISTS, CARTOONISTS, ILLUSTRATORS, CREATIVE PEOPLE: 
S,CHOLASTIC WANTS YOU! 
Bring in samples of your work (any kind of samples) any weekday between 2 and 5 p.m. Affixed them to a paper with your name, phone number and year in school. Samples will be returned within a week, and hopefully you can join our creative staff. 
GET INVOLVED TODAY! 

Exciting events are happening courtesy ofS. U.B .! 
Ac-oustic ca.fe ­
Thursday nights 9PM in the Huddle 
•: h'' ~:• s,,... ; it--·s,yl ~
C-......·· ..rJ.l.C.::a.1:101 .......,,:.e:.c::.r·e.:: ,[ -.. ....) e:rv·ice. ~
, 

September 21 7 PM in Washington Hall $3 Students $5 Non-Students 
Tickets available at LaFortune Info 
Desk 





. ; ...:.. 
.'-iTUDENT UNION BOARD 








