The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing*! at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXVIII
March 8, 1935
No. 19
GEORGE WIRRY NAMED 1935 GRID MANAGER
NINTH C.LC. INDOOR TRACK GAMES TO START TONIGHT IN FIELDHOUSE
George J. Wirry was named senior football manager by Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics, at a banquet tendered the managerial force in the Faculty Dining Hall last night. He succeeds George T. Demetrio.
Wirry, a resident of Racine, Wisconsin, and junior in the College of Commerce, becomes head ofx the managers’ organization by virtue of his recent appointment. Appointed as associate football managers were James R. Burke, of Lemoore, California, and Raymond J. Kenny, of
George J. Wirry
His brother had the same job.
Yonkers, New York. Burke succeeds Thomas Thompson as manager of stadium personnel. Kenny has been placed in charge of equipment as successor to Ray Oakes. Both Kenny and Burke are juniors in the College of Commerce.
The basketball managership for 1934-35 was awarded to William J. Gillespie, Arts and Letters junior from Long Beach, New York. John A. Torribio, also an Arts and Letters junior and a resident of Trinidad, Colorado, was named track manager. Phil Kirley and Raymond B. Keating have been in charge of basketball and track, respectively, this year.
The remaining major sport managership fell to Woodrow A. Stillwagon of Mt. Vernon, Ohio. Stillwagon, who replaces Carl Weber as baseball manager next year, is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters.
In previous years one manager was obliged to handle all minor sports.
(Continued on Page 8)
Villagers to Honor Basketball Team At Banquet March 19
Arrangements for the annual testimonial banquet honoring Coach George Keogan’s basketball team were completed this week, according to a statement made this week by Kurt G. Simon, general chairman of the affair. The banquet, sponsored this year by the Notre Dame Villagers’ Club, is to be held on Tuesday evening, March 19, in the University dining halls.
The list of prominent guests and speakers now being arranged by the speakers committee will include a number of the outstanding figures in Mid West athletic circles. Banquet tickets, now on sale, can be obtained on campus from members of the Villagers’ Club or at the cafeteria newsstand.
The chairmen of the various committees for the affair are: Executive, Kurt Simon; tickets, John Fara-baugh; speakers, George Leyes; dinner, Thomas Owen; programs, John Foy; publicity, Abe Zoss; reception Harry Poulin.
Kilmurry Addresses Bookmen
President Kilmurry addressed his club at their meeting last Thursday night held in the Commerce Library.
The subject of his discussion was Francis Thompson, the English Catholic poet. President Kilmurray limited his paper to the poetical works of Thompson after a brief evaluation of the poet as a critic and an essayist.
Bookman Kilmurry finds in Thompson’s poetry a true reflection of the deep sorrow and misery of the poet’s personal life. He pointed out the kinship of Thompson ■with other famous writers who have sought the joys of life through its sorrows. Pres. Kilmurry read concrete proofs of this parallelism as found in the poetry of Shelley, Shakespeare, and Donne.
JESUITS AND N.D. FAVORED
By James McMullen
Notre Dame’s greatest track carnival, the 1935 Central Intercollegiate Conference meet, is at hand. Defending champions, and brilliant yearlings, representing the cream of 14 schools are here to test the suprem-
Captain Vince Murphy .
The sky is his limit.
acy of past records, and the right of the present title holders, Michigan State, to rule. Competition will get under way tonight, and continue through tomorrow afternoon, and evening. •	•
The Irish of Notre Dame, and the Hilltoppers of Marquette, are favorites in the battle for the kingship of the Conference. Michigan State and Pittsburgh rule as the strong contenders, with dangerous Michigan Normal, and Washington University as the meet’s dark horses. Star performers from the other schools are expected to figure prominently in the list of victors, and the squad that can offset these losses the most, will undoubtedly return the team winner.
The meet promises to be the most thrilling in C. I. C. history. Seven of (Continued on Page 12)
March 8, 1935
One
Debaters Win Four at Iowa City;
Defeat William and Mary Here
JOHN F. CUSHING TO SPEAK THIS EVENING
MANY SCHOOLS PRESENT
By Franklyn C. Hochreiter
Notre Dame returned from the Delta Sigma Rho tournament at U. of Iowa in Iowa City with four wins out of eight debates. Though the N. D. team took third place in the tournament on the negative case with
Eugene F. Malloy
He upheld the negative.
three victories out of four, the affirmative won only one of its four debates.
The Notre Dame negative beat Western Reserve, (this debate was broadcast), Coe, and University of Iowa, and was defeated by Carlton. The affirmative team beat Gustavus Adolphus and lost to Nebraska Wesleyan, Iowa State Teachers and Maryville Teachers. The following schools finished in the upper 25% of the tournament: (Affirmative) four wins — Carlton and Westminster; three ■wins — Iowa State Teachers, Nebraska Wesleyan, Hastings, Parsons, and Universtiy of Iowa; (Negative) four wins — Drake and Iowa State Teachers; three wins — Notre Dame, Westminster, Chicago, Capital, University of Iowa, Maryville Teachers, Parsons, Macalester, and Yankton.
Debating on the affirmative at Iowa City were Robert Schmelzle and Richard Meier, -while on the negative were Jolin Locher and Joseph Becek.
On last Tuesday afternoon a Notre Dame negative, composed of John Locher and Eugene Malloy, received an audience decision over an affirmative team from William and Mary in Virginia. It was a rather easy contest for the Notre Dame men as the opposition proposed “World Peace” which was afield from the (Continued on Page 6)
Editors Carbine and Lawton Attend Press Convention in Chi.
John D. Carbine, Editor of The Scholastic and G. Albert Lawton, Editor of Scrip, attended the Regional Conference of the Catholic School Press Association for the Greater Chicago Area on Saturday, March 2. The Conference, sponsored by Loyola University, was held at the Loyola Community Theatre on the Lake Shore Campus.
“Promote Catholic Action through editorials and news stories” was the central theme of the conference. The Rev. Daniel A. Lord, S. J., Editor of the Queen’s Work first brought out this point in his lecture on “Catholic Editorials.” Father Lord deplored the reluctance of Catholic student editors to editorialize on subjects pertaining to religion and almost as striking a reluctance to give space in news columns to religious material. Father Lord said that student editors in Catholic schools, colleges and universities would be largely responsible for the success or failure of the Catholic Action movement in America.
Dean J. L. Sullivan of Marquette University, Director of the Catholic School Press Association said that the ultimate objectives of publications in the Catholic Schools should be the promotion of Catholic Action, the dissemination of Catholic truth and the training of Catholic writers. Dean O’Sullivan said that there was a distinct scarcity of Catholic leaders today because the laity would not or could not, with any degree of accuracy, explain Catholic dogma or the social and economic theories of the Church. Catholic student newspapers should train men who will be able to do this, the speaker asserted, but only under the strict guidance of faculty supervision lest ambiguities, errors or heresy creep into student writing.
Sister M. Gabrielle, 0. S. B., of St. Scholastica High School told of a study she had made of the news and-editorial contest of a number of Catholic High School and College Papers. A very high percentage of space was given, she said, to sports and gossip columns while matter pertaining to religious subjects was reduced to a bare minimum.
Mr. Edward Reticker, City Editor of the Chicago Evening American told the convention that the field of journalism was. overcrowded today and that a college training, which de-
(Continued on Page 6)
John F. Cushing, C.E. ’06, donor of the Engineering Building, will address the Engineering class on Friday evening, March 8, at eight o’clock in the auditorium of the Engineering Building. His topic, ‘‘Marine Con-
John F. Cushing Will speak tonight.
struction,” will probably include the relative work of all branches of engineering, pertinent to such improvements as bridges, foundations, piers, breakwaters, dredging, blastings, tunnels, and pneumatic and sub-marine work.
As president of the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Company, he is, undoubtedly, the best authority on such construction, and as a distinguished alumnus he is ample “proof of the pudding” as to the soundness of the fundamental training offered at Notre Dame.
The Engineer’s Club, under whose auspices the meeting will be held, cordially invites all members of the faculty. Since this is to be an “open” meeting, the Engineers’ Club welcomes all students, and especially those interested in the practical field of engineering.
After the meeting, light refreshments will be served.
Professor Seidel asks especially that all symphony members report promptly at 6:30 on Tuesday and 7:00 on Friday during this month to prepare for the concert to be held on March 21.
Tv O
The Scholastic
MONSIGNOR GDILDAY WILL SPEAK FRIDAY
“Packy” McFarland Accepts Post As Referee of Bengal Boxing Bouts
To commemorate the birth of the first Catholic bishop of this country, the Most Rev. John Carroll, of Baltimore, the bicentennial celebration of which is now in progress, the Univer-
Rigiit Rev. Peter Guilday
Speaks next Friday.
sity has arranged for the Right Rev. Peter Guilday, of the Catholic University of America, to deliver an address on the life of this eminent American churchman, the evening of March 15 th.
Monsignor Guilday was recently elevated to the ranks of Domestic Prelate by His Holiness Pius XI in recognition of his outstanding’ work in the field of Church History. Ever since his student days in the European universities of Louvain and Bonn, where he followed the lectures of the Canon Cauchie, Brants, Moeller, and Van Der Espen in History, and those of DeWulf, Nys, and De-plorge in Philosophy, Monsignor Guilday has been most active in the field of historical research.
Upon his return from Europe, he was appointed to the Faculty of the Catholic University, where he began to devote himself exclusively to the study of American Catholic Church History. He founded the Catholic Historical Review in 1915 for the purpose of stimulating interest in the study of the part played in American (Continued on Pane 7)
Badin Hall Aroused As Tancredi-Conner
Match Draws Near
By John J. Moran
With the Bengal Bouts just two weeks off, Badin Hall is in an uproar. While “Cy” Conner, strong man from West Springfield, Mass., and “Nick” Tancredi, future mayor of Mechanicsville, N. Y., enter the final stretch of their gruelling training period, Badin is a hall divided, with the north wing clamoring for Connor's toupee, and the south wingers sticking out their tongues at Tancredi.
When interviewed early this week, strong man Conner stated with superb nonchalance, “It will be a lot of fun to turn this Tancredi person inside out. I’ll show him who’s champion of Badin.”
“What are your plans for the bout?” we asked.
“Well,” the strong one announced, as he practiced a half-nelson on the radiator, “I’ll beat this fellow,—his name’s Tancredi I believe, — with a little foot work. I will fight as “The Barefoot Wonder,” and my principal hold will be the Irish Whip, a pretty little grip which ends with me doing a clog dance on this fellow’s head. That will be more fun than throwing seniors in the lake after the Army game.” He grinned boyishly as he picked up the crumpled radiator and threw it through the window.
The door banged open and in strode Wrestler Tancredi and six north wing supporters. The newcomer waved a paper under the “Wonder’s” nose. “What’s this you said in the Chicago Tribune about being willing to pay half my hospital bill after the match?” he screamed. “The Barefoot Wonder” laughed sneeringly and stuck a toe in his opponent’s eye, whereupon the latter kicked him in the shins.
As the two grappled in the centei-of the room, Tancredi applied the flying mare, dumped the “Wonder” in the corner, and quickly dropped the locker on top of him. “I’ve taken out a $100,000 insurance policy on his life” he chuckled, nodding toward the corner, “and I expect to be a rich man the morning after the bout.”
“By the way,” we asked, “are you going to use the Culbertson or the forced bid system to make your grand slam in the ring?”
“Oh,” he answered confidently, chinning himself on the transom, “I’ll use a series of reverse headlocks to give him a stiff neck, then I’ll throw (Continued on Paste S)
KEOGAN PRAISES SHOW
Patrick F. (Packy) McFarland, popular Illinois ring figure, has been secured by The Scholastic to act as referee in the Bengal Bouts scheduled for the Notre Dame gymnasium on March 22. McFarland yesterday-wired his acceptance of The Scholastic’s invitation to officiate at the bouts.
The choice of McFarland as the
George Keogan'
. . outstanding performers.
third man in the ring during the bouts for the campus titles should insure high class handling of all the contests. McFarland is the Illinois Athletic Commissioner in charge of boxing and is a leader in the C. Y. O. movement.
McFarland, although he was never a champion, is considered by many experts to rank among the greatest boxers of all time. He never lost a fight during several years of intense campaigning. McFarland got his start to fame in the ring when he knocked out Joe Gans, the world’s champion, who was touring the country offering $50 to anyone who could stay three rounds with him. After that victory McFarland ranked, for several years, among the best lightweights of the world. The Chicago Daily News Almanac lists his battle with Jack Britton on March 7, 1913 as one of the outstanding bouts of ring history.
George Keogan, basketball coach, yesterday voiced enthusiastic approval of the Bengal Bouts. “Boxing is one of our finest competitive sports,” he said. “This year’s show, with its program of outstanding performers, should set an attendance record for the event.”
March 8, 1935
Three
VARIED PROGRAMS ARE OFFERED FROM CAMPUS
Lectures on the Malthusian theory and sterilization consumed the major part of this week’s broadcasting from the campus studio. The Reverend Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C., was the speaker on the quarter hour broadcast at 4:30 Friday afternoon, March 1. Jim Boyle, student announcer, interviewed Father Cavanaugh on “The Present Day Attitude Toward the Malthusian Theory of Population.”
Regarding the present day attitude, Father Cavanaugh roughly distinguished between two schools of thought. One group he called the Non-Sectarian, or the upholders of the mathematical interpretation. This school, which includes Dr. Pearl of Johns Hopkins University, .claims that population will outstrip the world food supply in slightly over a century.
The other group was labeled the Sectarian school of thought. This group, to which most Catholic sociologists belong, claims that Malthus did not foresee the increased efficiency in agricultural and commerical methods, and hence that his theory is not applicable today.
In concluding, Father Cavanaugh revealed that the difference between the two school of thought was first brought to his notice after he had attended the graduate school of a Catholic university, and later enrolled in the graduate division of a large state university.
Wednesday evening, March 6, from 8:30 until 9:00 Station WSBT presented another delightful program from its studio on the third floor of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering.
The program consisted of a pleasant mixture of the classical music of the trio and of the popular contributed by John Ryan. Opening program was the ever-popular Mendelssohn’s “On Wings of Song,” played by the trio consisting of Professor Richard Seidel, violin; Professor Frederick Ingersoll, of the South Bend Conservatory of Music, cello, and Arthur Davidson, freshman in the College of Science, piano.
Prof. Frank T. Flynn, of the Department of Sociology, spoke on “Human Sterilization” in the fifth of the WSBT broadcasts from the studio in the Cushing Hall of Engineering last Monday afternoon. At the conclusion of his talk, he answered questions on sterilization asked by Joseph Mansfield.	'
Calling human sterilization but another of the present day fads, Mr.
(Continued on Page 19)
PROF. JOSEPH CASASANTA WILL BE HONORED BY BANDMASTERS
Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the Department of Music, has been asked to attend the sixth annual convention of the American Bandmasters’ Association, where he will be proposed as an active member. This convention is meeting at Hotel
Prof. Joseph Casasanta Dr. Simon invited him.
Netherlands Plaza, Cincinnati, from March 7-10
Prof. Casasanta received the invitation from Dr. Frank Simon, general chairman of this year’s convention, who will act as sponsor of Notre Dame’s genial maestro, when the association selects those to be honored with membership. Dr. Simon, a member of the association’s board of directors, has gained fame as the director of the Armco Band which broadcasts each Sunday evening over an NBC hook-up.
Since receiving his degree as Bachelor of Music from the University in 1923, Prof. Casasanta has headed the Department of Music. His talents and versatility have been demonstrated by the extraordinary success and popularity which the Band, and Glee Club have attained under his direction. He is the composer of many songs and marches. Such famous tunes as “On Down the Line,” “The Hike Song,” “Irish Backs,” and “Notre Dame, Our Mother,” have come from his pen.
The American Bandmasters Asso-ication numbers an active membership of 150 outstanding musicians from the United States and Canada. John Philip Sousa, late “March King,” was at one time its honorary president. This position is now held by the famous Edwin Franko Goldman.	.
Guests at the convention this year will be such well known musicians and composers as Eugene Goosens, conductor of the Cincinnati Symphony; Major H. E. Adkins, director of music, Kneller Hall, England; and Ferde Grofe, composer of the beautiful “Rockne Suite.”
Active president of the association, Herbert L. Clarke, was at one time cornet soloist in Sousa’s great band. Lieutenants Charles Bentner and
“GHOSTS” IS TOPIC OF LESLIE LECTURE
Mr. Leslie’s Lectures
Mr. Leslie will lecture on St. Patrick next Tuesday, March 12. The Irish author will leave the University following this lecture but will return on March 25 to resume his series of weekly talks on Tuesday, March 26.	'
Despite the fact that the date for the Leslie lecture was changed, the largest audience since the series began filled Washington Hall last Wednesday night, March 5.
“Ghosts in Legend and in Reality” was the interesting and intriguing lecture delivered by Mr. Leslie in his inimitabe yet stylish manner. As most of the lights on the hall were extinguished, the atmosphere was perfect. He chose a subject that did not come in any university course. Mr. Leslie said: “I shall talk about legendary ghosts because they are much more easy to dispose of.” He added, “In Ireland we certainly believe that there is a half-way house between the living and the dead. But this is not a logical belief.”
Dr. Leslie explained that the ghost in Ireland was known as the Banshee —a female fairy of Irish legends whose visit foretells deaths. No family that counts itself as old lacks one. This legendary figure remains even though the family go to extreme poverty. So you see that the “Banshee has its social value.”
Leslie related many rich and grotesquely humorous experiences and gave some sound advice: “Don’t go hunting for ghosts. Let them come to you.”
The subject of skulls—screaming skulls—was appropriately introduced. In the past those Irish people who leased houses had to sign a paper that these unknown skulls would never be removed. Tradition demanded it. If the skulls—supposed to be those of priests—were moved they would scream. Thus generation after generation has preserved them.
Mr. Leslie very dramatically concluded his lecture with the words of Hamlet: “There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy.”
Philip Egner with Captain Taylor Branson represent the government bands.
Sir Carl Busch, guest teacher of music theory at Notre Dame summer school, is a charter. member of this unique organization.
Four
The Scholastic
BOXING AT UNIVERSITY INAUGURATED IN 1923
DON BESTOR’S ORCHESTRA PLEASES MORE THAN 300 PROM GUESTS
JOHN DEANE READS PAPER ON MARTIAL
Knute Rockne was responsible for Notre Dame’s first organized boxing team. At his instigation a four man squad of leather pushers was sent to Gary in March of 1923 to compete in the Central States A.A.U. tournament. The Irish pugilists were a great success, with Dan McGowan winning the Central States flyweight • championship from sixteen other contestants. Rip Miller, a member of the varsity football team, took second place in the heavyweight division, and Charles Springer captured honors for third place in the lightheavyweight class. This team also entered the Chicago tournament of that year.
Boxing, as a Notre Dame sport, received yet greater emphasis in 1924. Led by Danny McGowan, the team entered the Indianapolis boxing tour-B ney where, with only seven men, it won third place. In that year Notre Dame also took part in its first intercollegiate match. Handicapped by the lack of a coach, the team dropped a dual meet to Iowa State. Only one Notre Dame man was able to win his bout.
The 1925 boxing season was just as short as the previous one, but all competition was with other college teams. First the squad went to Annapolis to engage the pugilists representing the United States Naval Academy. The Navy team, however, was much superior, and the Irish were sunk by a barrage of well-aimed, leather-covered fists.
Iowa State was the second and last • ' team to be met by Notre Dame in 1925. The fighters from Ames came here to capture a dual meet by winning four out of seven bouts.
The most ambitious schedule that a Notre Dame boxing team has ever had to cope with was planned for the 1926 season. Six opponents were engaged, including Iowa State, Kansas State, Navy, Penn State, Virginia, and St. Xavier.
Untrained and uncoached, the Notre Dame scrappers lost their first N meet to Kansas State. The score was close, the Irish winning three out of seven fights. For the third consecutive time Iowa State trounced the Irish boxers, who could win only two ' out of seven engagements.
The next team on the schedule was the Navy. Its team visited Notre Dame and proved to be a most un- ’ welcome guest when it demonstrated its superiority over our fighters for the second year straight. Interest in this meet was so great that 2,500 B fans attended.
March 8, 1935	-
Another brilliant page in the Notre Dame annals has been turned and the junior prom of 1935 is history. The events that took place over last weekend, comprising the annual festivities of the junior class, were very successful in all their aspects. The dance Friday night was attended by more than three hundred couples and the dinner Saturday by more than two hundred others.
Through the combined efforts of Class President Thomas J. Murphy and General Chairman Thomas M. Reardon, the 1935 prom boasted an orchestra that ranks top high and set a new precedent for Notre Dame dances.
The ballroom was attractively decorated with large Notre Dame blankets. Over the orchestra platform, a brilliantly colored tapestry backing was hung. The insignia of the University was painted on the cloth in striking colors, while about the ballroom were paintings of various campus scenes. From the awning covered entrance of /the Palais, to the extraordinarily elaborate programs, the prom was an affair well managed.
A highlight of the evening was the presentation of the prom song, “Hours of Happiness,” written by Tom Bott. Don Bestor, leader of the orchestra, acclaimed the tune as a probable hit and promised the composer to give it a try over the air.
With the statement that “Martial was not only an egotist given to writing magnified opinions of himself, but was also indecent” John Deane, ’38, introduced his paper on the great Roman epigrammatist to the Patricians last Wednesday night.
In a professedly sketchy biography of Martial, the speaker gave him his proper historical setting—in the reigns of Nero, Galba, Otho, Vitellius, Vespasian, Titus, Domitian and Ner-va. He was truly a poor man, but as did many writers of Rome, he lived comfortably on the assistance given him by rich patrons.
“He was moralist and voluptuary, delicate and brutal, genial and truculent. He. had an infinite capacity for insignificant things, which after all is a greatness of its own.” This was Deane’s penetrating characterization of his subject.
Then, in turning to the writings of Martial, he revealed the importance of this lesser known writer as a worthy chronicler of social customs in the Rome of his day. He is principally known for his keen epigrams—1500 of them having been written by him. But in the realm of poetry he may also hold a rightful place. Many of his verses were dedicated to his patrons, among which were the aristocrats of Rome. But an interesting sidelight of the man is his “nonchalant ridicule of the very class of men and of the system that gave him a living.”
WHEN TWO IRISHMEN MEET - - -
A mild sample of what’s to be expected ivhen Mike Sheedy (right) and Gunner McGrath (left) meet in the ring on March 22, . in the battle to death (for' one).
UNIVERSITY THEATRE
REHEARSES COMEDY
NOTRE DANE DEBATERS MEET ALABAMA TONIGHT
“Turn to the Right,” and spring is just around the cornel' with the three act comely slightly in the lead as it will be produced on March 17, 18, in Washington Hall.
Such obstacles as mcasels, colds and exams, if they can be classed together, have held up production to a considerable extent but the members of the University Theatre have finally been able to make that right turn without any interference.
The play which is by Winchell Smith and John E. Hazzard was first produced in the Gaiety Theatre in New York in 1.916. It is a humorous story concerning three buddies who after serving a prison sentence reenter the normal walks of life with one resolved to 'go straight’ but the other two still somewhat undecided.
The three buddies Joe Bascom, Muggs, and Gilly are played by Thomas Proctor, Abe Zoss, and Joseph Mansfield respectively.
Two other members of the Bascom family are Betty played by Charlotte Maurer and Mrs. Bascom portrayed by Mrs. Carl Basler. Irene Pyle, an experienced participant in University plays takes the part as Elsie Tillinger with her father Beacon Tillinger, played by Dick Baker a newcomer to the University Theatre.
The remaining roles are capably depicted by Jack Sweeney, Robert Henneberger, Helen Peterson and Mitchell Tackley.
The actual play is prefaced by a prologue which acts as a stepping stone to the complication which follows in the three acts. The action herein takes place in the “Ossining Loan Company” owned by a Polish Jew played by Irwin Goldman. His only three customers are the ‘three buddies.’	‘
Professor Albert Doyle of the speech department has been directing rehearsals which have been going on in the Law Auditorium.
DEBATERS WIN
(Continued from Page 2)
question of the debate—“Controlling of Arms Shipment.”
On Tuesday evening a negative team of Robert Schmelzle and John Heywood participated in a non-decision debate with Iowa State at Ames, Iowa. Though no decision was given in this debate the meeting was thrown open to the audience at the end of the formal discussion.
Last Wednesday night Notre Dame defeated Michigan State at East Lansing. Notre Dame debated negative with John Locher and Joseph Becek.
Six
^~*about the camPys
Joe Argus will be the first Commerce man to receive his diploma . June 3, not because he’s treasurer of the class—as many of the visitors may think—but because his name is Argus and begins with an “A."
Joe’s high school and college career, might be aptly summarized by writ-
ing “he beats a mean drum” under his visage, but the numerous subdivisions coming under such a simple heading require a bit more “guff” to complete the picture.
Joe’s vigorous “rat-a-tat-tatting” began with his freshman year in Indianapolis Cathedral High, and so completely exhausted his energy that nothing was left for such brutal stuff as football or basketball. He came to Notre Dame in 1931, pounded his way into the university band, and then succeeded in beating out competitors and hot rhythm to pummel the “snares” with the Jugglers, university orchestra. Joe and the Jugglers went to Europe the summer after his Freshman year and whirled around the Continent in great shape, so he says. His prowess and stamina in beating out noises on the base drum made him business manager of the band last year and president of that organization this year.
He likes Casa Loma’s dance band best “cause they can beat it out.” Plays tennis and speaks with a Hoosier nasal twang. His generosity supplies half of first-floor Corby with tooth-paste, soap, and Listerine, and after listening to Charlie O’Connor, his roommate with the “Fats” Wal-
This evening Notre Dame will have its first affirmative debate at home when it meets a negative from the University of Alabama. There will be no critic decision but the audience will be asked to ballot. Notre Dame will be represented by George Krug and Richard Meier, while Alabama’s case will be defended by William Maloney, a former Notre Dame man, and Walter Gewin. -
Michigan State will bring a negative team to Notre Dame on the 13th and will meet our affirmative in a decision debate.
The two above contests will be the only debates in which the Notre Dame affirmative will participate, outside of tournaments, this year.
On March 28th New York University will send an affirmative team to Notre Dame. The debate will be held at 7:30 in the evening at St. Mary’s College. There will be a critic decision.
Western Reserve and Pittsburgh will be visited by our negative team on its tour of the East the 11th and 12th of April, respectively.
PRESS CONVENTION
(Continued from Page 2)
manded exactness in detail,' is now considered a requisite for a successful newspaper man.
Other speakers included Mary Sy-non, Chicago Novelist; Frank L. Vander Heiden, Production Manager of the Loyola University Press; Clem Lane, of the Chicago Daily News; Kathleen McLaughlin of the Chicago Tribune; Dr. Morton D. Zabel, Head of the English Department, Loyola University; and Brother Luke, F.S.C.
The presiding chairmen were the Rev. Samuel Knox Wilson, S. J., President of Loyola University, who delivered the address of welcome; the Rev. Dennis Burns, S. J., Regent, Loyola University School of Law; the Rev. Ralph M. McCaffrey, 0. P., and the Rev. Maurice A. Wolfe, 0. S. M.
Round table discussions for advisors, business staffs, newspaper staffs, magazine staffs and year book staffs were carried on throughout the morning and afternoon sessions. Each of these discussions was led by a leader in that particular phase of publication work.
- ler and Cab Calloway complex, “Hey, hey!” and “Yow, Mam!” around for three years, the added virtues of patience, tolerance, and forbearance have been developed in Joe to a re-
- markable degree.
The Scholastic
PLANS COMPLETED FOR COMMUNION BREAKFAST
College Parade
With Vincent Gorman
COMM. FORUM SURVEY REVEALS STUDENT TASTE
The Knights of Columbus will hold their Communion Breakfast Sunday, March 10. They will receive Communion in a body at the 8 o’clock Mass and will then take breakfast in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall. The speaker has not yet been selected for
Grand Knight Sexton
His breakfast lacks a speaker.
the occasion. John Buschio, general chairman of the affair, is endeavoring to obtain an outstanding lecturer for the occasion.
The next regular meeting will be held in the council chambers the following evening. At that time a revision of the bowling plan will be made. Progress of the Membership Drive will be discussed, and plans laid for future activity in this campaign. Robert Grogan is chairman of the committee in charge of the membership drive.
Ray Martin, editor of the Santa Mana, has announced that the next issue of the official Knights of Columbus organization, would be published within the next two weeks.
MONSIGNOR GUILDAY
(Continued from Page 3)
History by Catholics. A few years later, he established the American Catholic Historical Association to promote study and investigation of Catholic history in general, and organized one of the first seminars of this department to further his work.
This distinguished historian is an honorary alumnus of Notre Dame, having received his degree of Doctor of Laws in 1925.
March 8, 1935
CAMPAIGNS
Seventy per cent of Missouri U’s students will support a theatre boycott intended to bring top prices down from 35 to 25 cents. . . Seniors at Northwestern are battling to have the 820 graduation fee reduced to $5. . . last year the school took in $26,000 and put out only $3,000 for bunting, canvas, camp chairs and whatever else they have at those affairs—beside heat. . . Alabama takes up the sword against exorbitant club and organization fees and dues. . . A small but determined group at Wisconsin is struggling to establish a chapter of the S. V. D. P. (St. Vincent de Paul to you) on the campus. . . stoney ground, but lots of luck!. . .
ooOoo
Then there’s the freshman at one of the “Aggies” who couldn’t understand why he should take a course in ‘husbandry’ to get his bachelor’s degree.
ooOoo
MAKING THINGS EVEN
At Indiana, rating sheets will be distributed to each member of an instructor’s class. The student is asked to grade the quality of the prof’s teaching on the basis of listed characteristics. Anything, from 0 — very - poor to 100—very good, including explanatory remarks is expected.
Interest in Subject, Attitude Toward Students, Fairness in Grading, Liberality and Progressiveness, Personal Peculiarities, Personal Appearance, Stimulation of Intellectual Curiosity, Preparation for Class, Presentation of Subject Matter and Organization of the Course.—A great outlet for steam eh what?
ooOoo
Add wastes of times-----the debate planned by the boys at M.I.T. with the girls from Radcliffe on the advisability of “dutch treats” on dates. You can’t convince a woman.
ooOoo
NAIL ON THE HEAD
A Cornell College (la) prof did some sleuthing and brought forth this information:
1.	Senior men sleep 55 hours each week.
2.	Co-eds there spend four hours a week more than the men on P.A. (Yes, personal appearance.)
3.	Senior men are the most studious of the students; though they devote nine and one-half hours a week to feeding.
4.	Freshmen write home on the average of two and one-half hours a week. (And receive how many letters per diem, professor!)
5.	Junior women consume nine and a half hours each week for entertainment.
Notre Dame men prefer Dr. Lyons tooth powder.
This choice of the present undergraduate body together with their preferences for numerous other articles used by every college man was determined by questionnaires recently
Dean James McCarthy
His men conducted a survey.
distributed through the various halls on the campus by members of the Commerce Forum.
Approximately 350 of these questionnaires were dispensed in order to . discover the students’ reaction to the voluminous advertising of the present day. The results are indicative of the opinions of the entire student body as, according to Frank Shay, president of the Commerce Forum, “The questionnaires were, as nearly as possible, distributed equally among students in the various schools with the majority given to members of the senior class.”
Between 50 and 75% of those answering the questionnaire read the advertisements far enough to acquire the general message of them. The picture of a pretty girl and the color of the advertisement are listed as the most likely to attract the students’ eye with the arrangements, illustration, and action of the “ad” following in that order.
Humor, descriptive copy, and emotional appeal are registered as best holding the reader’s interest in the advertisement. The appeal of the ordinary advertisement to the Notre Dame student, according to the results of the questionnaire, lies in the price and quality of the article.
The advertising found in the news-(Continued on Pane 9)
Seven
GLEE CLUB PRACTICES FOR COMING CONCERT
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
PROF. DANIEL HULL ADDRESSES ENGINEERS
The travelling personnel of the University Glee Club was given out this week by Prof. Joseph J. Casa-santa, conductor of the organization. A well-balanced singing unit of 48 voices has been selected this year to carry on the high traditions of clubs in the past.
A survey of the membership reveals its cosmopolitan aspect. Nineteen states in the Union and one province of Canada are represented. Indiana nosed out New York for high honors, 8 to 7. Trailing these are Illinois with five and Pennsylvania with four.
Besides the O’Briens, the Cassidys, the Rooneys, the Flynns and the McLaughlins, there are the Cassazzas, Finocchiaros, and Cordaros. The Scholzes and Schlueters are there too, representing their particular European heritage.
On March 17 the choristers will launch their formal concert season with an appearance at St. Joseph’s parish hall, South Bend.
Daily Prof. Casasanta has been adding the finishing touches to an excellent repertoire, in preparation for the annual Easter tour to be made by the club.
Following is the list of members:
First tenori—Thomas Adamson, William J. Cassazza, Thomas E. Cassidy, James B. Corrigan, James M. Fooey, John B. McGlynn. Edward J. Rowan, Francis E. Schlueter. Robert MacDonald, William V. O’Brien. John J. McCann, James D. McLaughlin.
Second tenori—Robert B. Devine, T. Robert Ducey, Vincent A. Gorman. Irwin L. Goldman, Norbert Hart, Thomas A. Halley, Thomas V. Hines, John E. Lynch. John F. McNeill, Eugene L. O’Brien. Lindsay B. Phoebus. John F. Ryan.
First bassi—Frank Barbush, Leo R. Boyle. Raymond C. Brett, Albert A. Butler. Mark A. Finocchiaro. John C. Flanigan. Robert J. Mazanec, John Murrin. Francis X. Schaefer. Francis J. Reidy. Ralph M. Cardinal. James M. Murphy.
Second bassi—Joseph T. Cordaro, Arthur C. Davidson, Thomas W. Flynn. Robert F. Holtz, John W. Kirsch, William P. Mahoney. James A. Marohn, Daniel G. Monoghan, George A. Miller, Chauncey M. Rooney. Roy O. Scholz. Leonard W. Siekemeyer.
CONNER-TANCREDI
(Continued from Page 3)
in an airplane spill, apply a body slam and finish up with the Carioca. I’m billed as ‘The Son. of Kong,’ you know,” he continued, “so just for good measure I’m prepared to render a few choice grunts — like this for instance.” Filling his lungs, he assumed a look of terrible agony and was prepared to demonstrate his vocal powers when “The Barefoot Wonder” emerged from under the locker and heaved a desk across the room at him.
Eight
Reaction ’38
Freshman Hall
Feb. 25, 1935 Editor, The' Scholastic:
I notice that a member of youi’ staff, William Tourney, who conducts the column headed Dome Dust, is very evidently running out of material and consequently had found it necessary to resort to faked letters, presumably from various people.
This, I realize, is not an unusual procedure with many of the lesser professional columnists, and might pass unnoticed were it not for a very palpable error which he committed.
In the letter purporting to come from The Week, Mr. Tourney gives the return address as Walsh Hall. I happen to know that the student who writes this column is from Howard Hall.
Of course this is a small point, but it indicates carelessness. If Mr. Tourney must fake his material, and we are supposed to read it, let him at least get the facts correctly. The poorest cub reporter knows the value of this.
Respectfully yours,
N. J. V., Freshman Hall.
(We don’t know you, N. J. V. from Freshman Hall, but don’t you think you missed the whole point of the column in question?
Also, we would gladly turn this column over to you if you get us a job as a cub reporter.)
The most feared of Notre Dame nemesis, the weather man, stuck with the juniors over their prom weekend, when about every other party concerned seemed to be agin them.
A big blow to Joe Shields down in Georgetown for carrying on what we began in the questioned column. He’ll understand.
The oft mentioned third floor of Sorin came across with another new one over the weekend. Two of the sub’s enemies wanted to participate in the Prom’s festivities, but on a moderate scale. So the ingenious plan of one taking the shared date to the Prom and the other to the dinnei* dance was concocted and successfully carried on. The date, incidentally, received oodles of peans and scores of compliments on her appearance. (Minnesota papers please copy.)
The regular semi-monthly meeting of the Engineers club was held in the Engineering building auditorium on February 27 and was conducted by President Cushing. The principal speaker of the evening was Professor Daniel Hull, head of the department of Physics, who spoke on the subject “Flying Weather And The Causes of Rain, Snow, and other Atmospheric Phenomena.”
Professor Hull stated that there were only two principal types of. clouds, cumulus and cirrus, and that these constituted the only requirements for precipitation. Cumulus clouds, Mr. Hull explained, are formed by an uprising current of warm air ascending into the region above the dew* line and there depositing its moisture as water bubbles on terrestial or colloidal dust. If the warm air rises with sufficient velocity, the globules of condensed vapor are forced upward until they cross the snow line and are there turned into ice.
€
MANAGERS
(Continued from Page 1)
Because of the increasing number of minor forms of athletics, the managers adopted a new policy whereby the load is divided between two men. James H. Payton, of South Bend, a Commerce junior, has been placed in charge of cross country and golf. The remaining assignment was given to Robert A. Manning, Sioux City, Iowa, Arts and Letters junior. Manning will work under Coach Pedro de Lan-dero in connection with the fencing and tennis teams. The present minor sports manager is Thomas Walsh.
Sophomores who will continue their managerial work as juniors next year are Paul Baker, William Fallon, John Manning, James McHugh, James Quinn, Al Schwartz, Robert Waldeck, and Robert Weaver.
The present crop of freshmen managers will remain intact next year when they return as sophomores. The list includes Arthur Anderson, Thomas Bond, John Briercheck, Pat Carey, William Condon, James Connell, Henry Curtin, John Donnelly, Donald Fisher, John Fox, Herbert Gardner, George Griggs.
Charles Hodierne, John Henry, Thomas Kelly, Thomas Lacey, Robert Laughlin, John Lungren, William Mahoney, Ernest Maurin, James McCarthy, James Mulhern, Joseph Nigro. John O’Connell, Arthur Philson, and Edward Troskbsky complete the list.
The Scholastic

Calendar
Friday, March 8
Scholastic staff meeting, editorial rooms at 6:30 p.m. for editorial board, at 7:00 p.m. for general staff. Symphony orchestra practice, Washington Hall 6:30 p.m. Trials for the C. I. C. Indoor track meet, fieldhouse 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, March 9
Finals of the C. I. C. track meet, fieldhouse 2:00 p.m. Movie, Washington Hall 6:45 and 8:15. “Count of Monte Cristo.”
Sunday, March 10
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m. Interhall basketball gymnasium 9:00 a.m. Benediction, Sacred Heart Church at 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Tuesday, March 12
Lecture by Shane Leslie in Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m. Symphony orchestra practice, Washington Hall 6:30 p.m. Meeting, St. Vincent de Paul society, K.C. rooms, Walsh Hall, 6:45 p.m.
Wednesday, March 13
Sermon and Benediction, Sacred Heart Church at 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
COMMERCE FORUM
(Continued from Page 7)
papers and magazines exerts a much greater influence on those students answering the questionnaire than does that on the radio. Window displays are also rated as one of the best mediums through which to sway the students’ minds.
In reply to the question, “Do you trade regularly at any stores?” 232 answered affirmatively. The majority of those questioned also stated that in buying they always asked for a particular brand which, unless the dealer did not have what they demanded, they would insist upon obtaining.
The favorite fountain pen was found to be Parkers, while the Underwood typewriter was discovered to be preferred to the Remington by a small margin. Williams was ranked as the favorite shaving cream, closely followed by Palmolive. Gillette razors were far in demand of all other brands.
As regards magazines Colliers was preferred by 175 while the Saturday Evening Post was second with 111 votes cast for it. However, if the students were restricted to one magazine the greatest demand would be' for Time.
- The Chicago Tribune is the most popular daily among those answering the questionnaire. Morning newspapers were found to be slightly more in demand than the evening papers.
March 8, 1935
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
Sweet and Poor
The ancient art .of whistling has taken some pretty stiff punches on the chin lately, what with both ecclesiastical and civil authorities having ragged nerves, because of one reason or another. But while indiscriminate whistling has a sound peculiarly like that of a dying sheep breathing his last through a broken front tooth, there is something to be said for it. It is vastly preferable to the indiscriminate singing that infests the campus.
Of course, there is nothing to be done about it, and there never will be anything done about it, and therein lies its special fascination for us. We are extremely partial to insignificant subjects which invariably have negligible results. You, kind readers, have contributed an invaluable part of this cataleptic attitude. Nowhere, we are certain, is there a better group more willing to do nothing about anything.
Listen to what they’re singing around you. On the good ship Lollypop—Look at the size and bulk of the singer. Szveetie Pie, a little bit this, a little bit that—Listen to what you are singing as you walk the corridors. Lookee, lookee, lookee, here comes Cookie. . . stveet as punkin pie—
When you get that way, try to lookee, lookee in a mirror and continue to sing. We are rather positive that few of you would continue singing cream puffs at yourselves.
• O
Answer
In a Philosophy class the other day the professor was reading from a text when he came to the word “Sensation.” He glanced up with a puzzled expression.
“What,” he asked a student,, “is Sensation?”
The student pondered for awhile, and then looked at the prof, who still seemed puzzled.
Said the student: “I’m afraid I don’t know either, sir.’.’
It sounded funny at the time.
Prom Highlight
Shane Leslie, laying Swift aside for the evening, gave the. .Juniors a glimpse of Old World chivalry that left their mouths somewhat ajar. And the way that the feminine contingent was decidedly not able to uphold its pretended savoir faire did one good.
Much obliged, Mr. Leslie, for showing several American girls that they are not the hand-clapping, servant-come-running type. Frankly, we couldn't have done better ourself.
But upon his return to the campus Mr. Leslie found himself in a bit of a quandary. Not only that, but he was in a devil of a fix. He had no key!
He stood before the building and looked at it. He glanced about for the watchman, who, as is the habit with watchmen, was off somewhere in the grass, investigating a cricket. Without further ado, we understand, Mr. Leslie strolled to a window and climbed in. He was not caught. If it were us, there’d surely be several of the faculty waiting on the windowsill.
Songs	..
It was several weeks ago that the campus orchestra went to New Carlisle, Indiana, to play at the annual Notre Dame festival there. Why New Carlisle must hold annual Notre Dame festivals is another thing. Nobody seems to know who started it, and why it continues year after year, but, on the other hand, nobody can say why it shouldn’t continue. So there it is, every year about this time, and the whole hamlet turns out, too. They might tas well—they haven’t got far to turn.
At one part of the evening, the boys were engaged in playing a medley of college songs. Eventually they came to “On Wisconsin,” and the audience promptly stood up. From several hundred throats came the words, “New Carlyull, New Car-lyull, da da da da da,” and so on. If questioned on the subject, the residents would probably admit that Wisconsin borrowed the song from them.
Such an occurrence reminds us of our freshman year, when we arrived home for our first vacation, full of Notre Dame and football news. By some inducement, and through some forgotten medium, the Victory March came out. A girl who was present jumped up.
“Why, that’s our school song,” she said excitedly.
We questioned her. The name of her school, gentleman, was Bishop McDonnell Memorial High school. And don’t think for a moment that every last syllable wasn’t included in the first line of the lyrics. “Cheer, cheer, for Bishop McDonnell Memorial—” You try it.
1 he Notre Dame Scholastic
Disee Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 186 5
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
JOHN D. CARBINE.......................... Editor-in-Chief
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING______________...Managing-Editor
Associate Editors
JOSEPH A. BUCCI Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN._________________________LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY 0. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY............................The	Wee):
WILLIAM H. TOUMEY___________________________Dome Dust
VINCENT A. GORMAN, Jr—____________________College Parade
MITCHELL C. TACKLEY____________________Graduate Assistant
News Staff
JOHN J. MORAN________________________Nezes Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN--------------Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL_____________Assistant Nezes Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN JOSEPH RATIGAN
PAUL FOLEY_____________________IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONI_______________FREDERICK SHANLEY
PHILIP F. WELSH.JOHN A. GILLESPIE ANTHONY F. O’BOYLE__________FRANKLYN HOCHREITER
BERTRAM SMITH.____________________LOUIS DA PRA
LINDSAY PHOEBUS________________HARRY A. BALDWIN
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST.______________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER---------------Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER____________ROBERT J. DONAHUE
JOHN L FLANAGAN_____________JAMES A. WALDRON
EUGENE VASLETT.___________________JOHN CAGKLEY
james McMullen
Business Management JOHN F. STOECKLEY..........................Graduate Manager
MEMBER
Associated ©oUegiate $ress nj*usMuts at	r -
^>934 (tMkgutfeDigest l92s^
nttXSOH	WISCONSIN
March 8, 1935
CATHOLIC ACTION
At the Regional Conference of the Catholic School Press Association, several speakers made the point that the Catholic Action movement in America would prosper or fail in direct proportion to the interest taken in the movement by American college students. The point was well made. Dean O’Sullivan of Marquette University said that neither he, nor anyone else, knew exactly how many Catholics there were in the United States, but that he, and everybody else, did know that regardless of the exact figure, the Catholics were not that number strong, but that number weak. Catholics are not leaders simply because they will not express the religious, ethical, social and economic doctrines of their own Church. American Catholics are practically the only group in the world
T tn
who failed, and are still failing, to appreciate Leo XIII’s great encyclical on the living wage.
American college students and graduates should be able and willing to discuss the Church’s doctrines and teaching. They are especially equipped and especially trained to be leaders in the Catholic Action movement. If the graduates of Catholic colleges will not assume the leadership of this movement, it is scarcely conceivable that the rank and file of Catholic men and women will support it. Dean O’Sullivan’s contention that Catholic Action will rise or fall in direct proportion to the interest taken in it by Catholic students is, therefore, well founded. These conditions place a direct obligation upon Catholic college students and alumni and impel them, in fairness to the Church, their neighbors and themselves, to take an active and prominent part in the Catholic Action movement.
Notre Dame students are well trained to assume leadership in this all important work. Classes in religion, philosophy, economics, sociology and politics expound the Catholic viewpoint. Three organizations, the St. Vincent de Paul Society, the Knights of Columbus and the Servers club foster Catholic Action in extra-curricular activities. Notre Dame men should remember that since they have the training, they also have the obligation.
THE YEAR’S ENTERTAINMENT BARGAIN
The early ticket sale for the Bengal Bouts has been most gratifying. The Scholastic asks that those who have not yet purchased tickets do so at their earliest possible convenience for two reasons: First, in order that future individual insolvency may keep no one away from the bouts and second in order that those in charge of the show be spared the mental anguish of worrying over bills.
Viewed on a comparative basis, the Bengal Bouts look to be the year’s entertainment bargain. A quarter, the price of the tickets, is less than the price of a movie, two packages of cigarettes or two milk shakes. The program of the show, made up of eight championship bouts and two special attractions, promises an exciting and entertaining evening for all who are wise enough to buy tickets.
•
FOR THE NINTH TIME
Tomorrow evening and Saturday afternoon a number of college track squads will gather at Notre Dame for the annual Central Intercollegiate Conference indoor track meet. This is the ninth time in as many years that this meet has been held on the Irish campus.
The Scholastic welcomes these visiting athletes. A fine tradition has grown up around these C. I. C. track carnivals. The conduct is always sportsmanlike; the competition is always keen, and a spirit of friendliness envelops the whole affair. It is events such as these which lift intercollegiate athletics up to a plane far above professional sport. Notre Dame is glad to have visitors of such a consistently fine type as the C. I. C. meet brings and anxious to have them know that they are welcome.
TheScholattic
♦ SPOUTS ♦
NTEPS
FROM THE
PRESS BOX 3
ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY TRACK COMBINE
IS DECISIVELY SUBMERGED BY IRISH
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
GOING UP?
We’ve known Captain Vince Murphy as a steady and skillful high jumper through more than two years of varsity competition. And merely because of his consistency and skill we have taken him for granted. But Coach John Nicholson hasn’t, and therein lies the story. Because Nick hasn’t taken the clowning Irish captain on his face value and has registered complaints on his work, Murph has negotiated the cross bai’ at six feet, eight inches in practice, and six feet, seven inches in competition during the past two weeks.
It’s a long story that had its beginning in the fall of 1931. As a freshman, Vince cleared six feet, five inches, and showed his future was to be a great one. During that year Nick perfected the jumper’s classy style. In his first year of competition Murphy whirlwinded his way through a successful indoor and outdoor season despite a knee injury suffered some place along the route.
In Nick’s own words, “He had a terrible junior year.” This was caused by his habit of paying too much attention to the knee and not enough to the cross bar. Vince won every dual meet jump that year, but he showed no great improvement. Nick pampered the tall Irisher and permitted him to alter his style so that he might forget about his knee, but even then the improvement was not forthcoming.
After clearing five feet on the first day of practice last fall Murphy complained about his knee. Nick became desperate. Preparations were made for a superficial operation on the joint, but Captain Murphy didn’t show for the cutting ceremonies. Nick was doubtful whether Murph’s knee was injured or whether his captain’s case was purely mental. When Vince failed to show on the operation table Nick became convinced that the latter was the case, for Murphy loves to jump and would
(Continued on Page 15)
Ten Matches Listed On Notre Dame Golf
Card; State Meet Here
Notre Dame is scheduled to open its golf season on April 20 with either Purdue or Michigan State furnishing the opposition. There are a total of 10 matches on the schedule, including the Indiana State Meet which will be held on the Wm. J. Burke Memorial golf course here at Notre Dame on May 31 and June 1. Three of the remaining nine matches are at home with Detroit, Wisconsin, and Pittsburgh listed to show here in that order.
Purdue University wall be one of the strongest teams that Notre Dame will run up against all season. It was this same Purdue bunch that put an abrupt halt to Irish golfers’ win streak in 1932 when they had 20 consecutive victories in their bags and were out after 21. Wayne University of Detroit, Michigan is the only newcomer to grace the Irish schedule. They will be encountered in Detroit on April 22.
Nothing short of sensational can be ascribed to Notre Dame’s performance on the greens and fairways, since the inauguration of golf here five years ago.
With the completion of the Wm. J. Burke Memorial course in 1930, the University undertook to sponsor a golf aggregation that has proved to be unparalleled in college circles—annexing an enviable record of 20 consecutive conquests. Starting the ‘victory march’ by smothering Valparaiso, the Irish climaxed the season with a sterling 22% -4% triumph over Detroit, breaking the latters’ winning streak of three years. Later in the season at Greencastle, the Gold and Blue captured team honors in the Indiana Intercollegiate tourney.
Captained by Larry Moller, in 1931, runner-up to Dunlap of Princeton in the National Intercollegiates, Notre Dame further extended the quest for laurels by registering to its credit an additional eight matches. They took the state meet in a walk with a (Continued on Pasts 19)
FIRST WIN AT URBANA
By John I. Flanagan
Paced by Captain Vince Murphy, who set a new Armory record for the high jump by clearing the bar at six feet, seven inches, the Notre Dame track team scored their fourth victory in as many starts. Murphy’s
Mike Layden He tied a record.
jump was the outstanding feature in the 71% to 32% triumph, which marks the first time in history that Notre Dame has defeated Illinois at the latter’s home grounds. The former record for the high jump was held by Willis Ward of the University of Michigan at six feet, six inches.
Mike Layden was the high point scorer of the meet with firsts in both the high and low hurdles, tying the Armory record of :08.8 in the former event. Don Elser, after much discussion on the matter, accompanied the Spikemen and won the shot put with a heave of 47 feet, 11 inches. Illinois garnered several seconds and thirds but was able to win only one event when Jack Dufresne bested Gott in the two mile run.
Coach Nicholson seems to have developed another winning relay team in Frawley, Parsons, Bowdren and Bernard. They negotiated the mile in three minutes 31.2 seconds last Friday evening. Other good performances were those of Edwards who tied Ray Seeley, a vaulter of prominence, at 12 feet six inches, and Meagher, who besides winning his usual five points in his specialty, the broad
(Continued on Paste IK)
March 8, 1935
Eleven
Lou Purcell, Welterweight
Champion, Ready For Bouts
FOURTEEN TEAMS ENTER C.I.C. TRACK CARNIVAL
HOLD TRIALS MARCH 18
By James A. Waldron
Preliminary bouts for the Bengal Boxing tourney to be conducted by The Scholastic on Friday, March 22, will be held on Monday evening, March 18, at 8 o’clock. All contestants must weigh in during the afternoon of this same day at 4 o’clock, in the varsity locker room. Abiding by the amateur ruling, there will be only a one pound leeway in each division. Any candidate who fails to come within one pound of his divisional limit will be required to fi,ght in a heavier class.
Eight Championships
The card will feature eight championship battles in the regular classes from the bantamweight class to the heavy-weight division. Sweater awards will he given to the title-holders of the bantamweight—118 lbs., featherweight—126 lbs., lightweight—135 lbs., junior welterweight—142 lbs., welterweight—147 lbs., middleweight —160 lbs., light heavyweight—175 lbs., and heavyweight—over 175 lbs., classes. Each bout consists of three two-minute rounds and there are no draw decisions. All candidates must undergo a physical examination before they can enter the competition officially. Either Dr. Powers or Dr. McMeel, University physicians, will examine all those who are entering, at 7:30 on the Monday evening of the preliminaries.
Another “larruping Lou”
From out west in the region which Brigham Young developed, comes Lou Purcell, on whose brow rests the welterweight crown of the Bengal championships. With a father who was most anxious that his boys be able to handle themselves, it is easy to understand the deep interest that Lou has in boxing. Ever since he was eight years old, this University champion has been taking lessons in the fighting game. To him it was merely good exercise and a lot of fun, consequently, he entered only a few tournaments. In his first competitive endeavor, Lou won the C.Y.O. welterweight championship of Salt Lake City. Entering Notre Dame last year, he won the welterweight title of the Bengal Bouts by knocking out Kevin Kehoe in the third round. When Lou Purcell steps into the ring again this year, the audience will see a fast shifty boxer with the kick of a mule in either hand—another ‘larruping Lou 1”
Hilltoppers Subdue Notre Dame Quintet In Milwaukee Scrap
Marquette whipped Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish Friday night 36-21 in the Marquette Auditorium. Remembering an early season defeat suffered at the hands of the Irish, the Hilltopper’s played an inspired game and held the lead, except for a few moments in the third period, from start to finish of a rough and tumble joust.
Captain Ray Morstadt, ending a brilliant playing career for Marquette, was connecting on one handed hook shots with great regularity. He contributed nine double deckers and two charity tosses to the Marquette attack. When the Marquette ace left the game in the closing minutes, he was accorded one of the greatest ovations ever given a Marquette athlete.
Morstadt Is Whole Show
Forty-five hundred fans packed the Auditorium to see the two rivals battle. They anticipated a nip and tuck struggle, basing their predictions on past games played between the two teams. However, they were treated to the opposite kind of a contest. The closest Notre Dame came to Marquette in the first half was 13-10 at the intermission. This gap was widened rapidly soon after the second period began and after Notre Dame’s one point lead was shortlived. With about eight minutes remaining to be played, both coaches inserted numerous substitutes who played the balance of the game on even terms.
It was the eleventh win of the current season for Marquette. Notre Dame was trying for her twelfth triumph but had her hopes blasted by . the sensational play of Captain Morstadt and his mates.
Peters Leads Irish
For the Irish, Marty Peters was high point man with nine points accumulated on four field goals and a free throw.
Notre Dame (21)	Marquette (36)
B F P I	B F P
Ford, f _______2	1	1	1	Morstadt, f .....9	2	0
Hopkins, f ___.1	1	1	I	Eirich, f __0	0	0
O'Kane, f _____1	2	0	|	Casterton. f ..1	0	0
Cunha, f ______0	0	0	)	McMahon, f ..0	0	0
Peters, c _____4	1	0	|	Ehrig. c ___2	1	0
DeMots. c _____0	0	0	|	Wolfe, g ...1	0	0
Ireland, g ____0	0	2	|	Rubado, g ....1	0	3
Bonner, g-----—0	0	0	|	Seeger, g —0	1	0
Jordan, g ____.0	0	1	|	Rasmussen, g 1	0	3
Wade, g ______....0	0	2	I	O'Keefe, g ....1	0	0
---------| Muth, g ....0	0 0
Totals ________8 5 7 |	.---------
| Totals .....16 4 6
(Continued from Page 1)
the eleven conference records are in jeopardy, and the chances of the champion repeating are slight. Three schools, new to the annual get-together, have answered the call for the best talent in the Midwest, and swol-
George Meagher
This George jumps the Delaware.
len the entries to the high mark of 181.
The largest visiting delegation is the 26 members of the strong Pittsburgh Panther. Michigan State in its effort to repeat is sending 25, and Marquette 20. Schools with fewer entries, but perhaps stronger individual talent include; Iowa State Teachers, Grinnell, Butler, Michigan Normal, North Central of Naperville, Ill., Hillsdale, Detroit, Wayne University, Western State Normal, and Washington U. of St. Louis.
Zepp and Ottey Are Back
On the track, the longer distance routes hold great promises for record breaking efforts. Billy Zepp of Michigan Normal and Tom Ottey of Michigan State will resume their rivalry in the two mile run. Last week Zepp beat Ottey with the fast time of nine minutes, 21 seconds, which is 3.4 seconds faster than the C. I. C. record. Ray Sears of Butler may pass the mile run, for which he holds the record, to enter the stiff competition in the longer event. Should he decide to remain in the mile grind, he will face Hammer of Michigan State, and Wagenhauser of Pittsburgh, both men being outstanding four lappers.
■ Notre Dame’s Vince Murphy, and Don Elser may enter the record books for the meet. Captain Louis Mallard of Western State promises to extend the Irish leader to a mark clearly surpassing the best previous effort of 6 feet, 4% inches. Elser throws the 16 pound weight against Champion Davis of Hillsdale, Bonavita and Gongloff of Pitt, Ward Cuff of Mar-(Continued on Page 13)
Twelve
The Scholastic
ST. EDWARDS NEARS
HALL COURT TITLE
Irish Five Triumphs In Last
Home Appearance This Season
By John L. Glanzner
Heavyweights
Group 1 W L Group 2 W L
(Incomplete) Brownson .......6	0
Alumni ..........5	1
Carroll .........4	2
Walsh ...........2	4
Howard ..........2	4
Freshman ........2	4
Off-Campus	......0	6
Lightweights
Group 2 W L Group 2	W	L
Badin ___________6	0	Carroll .....6	0
Lyons ___________4	2	Howard ......4	2
Dillon __________4	2	Brownson ____4	2
Morrissey ...____3	3	Alumni ......3	3
Sorin ...........2	4	Walsh -------2	4
Corby .......... 0	6	Off-Campus	—.1	5
St. Ed’s ........2	4	Freshmen ....1	5
Both Interhall basketball leagues came to an unofficial close last Sunday, although a few games remain to be played in Group II of the heavyweight division. St. Edward’s, undefeated and at the head of that division, must overcome the sharpshooting Phil Arnheiter and Corby to clinch her right to the division title.
The two undefeated lightweight quintets, Badin and Carroll, will meet Sunday afternoon for championship honors. It will be the test of a strong defense overcoming a strong offense. Brownson, winner in her heavyweight division, will clash with St. Ed’s if the sophomores are successful in stopping Corby. Should St. Ed’s win, history will repeat itself, for Brownson and St. Ed’s battled for honors last year when the freshmen w’ere victorious.
The final day’s play was marred by many forfeits by teams whose standing’s were already determined and who had no chance to share in the title. In the lightweight division, Off-Campus forfeited to Freshman, Alumni to Walsh, and Corby to St. Ed’s.
Badin, with Tobin scoring five goals from the field, annexed first place in Group I of the lightweight league by defeating Dillon 19-14. After starting out fast Dillon faded and Badin went ahead to win easily. Browyer starred for Dillon.
The Morrissey lightweights were held to ten points by the tight Lyons defense but won 10-7 to tie for second place with the losers. Miles scored six points for Morrissey, and Frank Fox again stood out for Lyons. Brownson lost a heartbreaker to Howard, 17-15, when a strong second half rally fell short. Saffa, of Howard, and the versatile Henry Anderson, of Brownson, were high scorers.
Brownson won her division of the heavyweights by trouncing Howard by the count of 36-20. The high-scoring Brownsonites ran up a big lead in the first few minutes and disheartened the Howardites.
March 8, 1935
Notre Dame Fencers Keep Slate Clean By Winning From Purdue
The Notre Dame fencing team completed an undefeated season at Lafayette Thursday night, Feb. 28, when they trounced the Purdue University fencers 11 to 4. It was the seventh victory in as many starts for Coach de Landero’s men.
Acting Captain Caresio of Notre Dame led both teams in point getting. He took two foil bouts and lost one to Silverman, Purdue’s ace. In the epee he defeated Rogers and Lewis of Purdue, the score being 3-2 in both matches.
In the sabre matches, Kehoe proved his worth by winning both of his bouts. He defeated Green in an easy match, 5 to 0 but his final bout proved more interesting. In this bout he had as his opponent Huffman, Purdue’s agile captain. It was a nip and tuck battle all the way, but Kehoe finally gained a 6 to 4 verdict.
Purdue’s victories were credited to Silverman, Rogers and Lewis. Silverman starred for the losers, taking two foil bouts while Rogers and Lewis. Silverman starred for the losers, taking two foil bouts while Rogers and Lewis each won a bout in the epee.
The table of scoring is as follows: w L
Foil—Notre Dame ..........  7	2
Foil—Purdue --------------- 2	7
Sabre—Notre Dame ---------- 2	0
Sabre—Purdue ______________ 0	2
Duelling Sword—Notre Dame 2	2
Duelling Sword—Purdue _____ 2	2
C. I. C. MEET
(Continued from Page 12)
quette and others, all capable of a new fieldhouse and meet record.
The 880 should feature the downfall of Alex Wilson’s 1932 record of 1:57. Abe Rosencrantz of Michigan Normal, Calvin Beckett and Kubash of Marquette meet in a toss-up run. Rosencrantz in current season competition has bettered the mark of the great Alex by nearly two seconds, while Beckett showed local track enthusiasts, an unextended effort of 1:57.3 when the Hilltoppers were here for their dual meet.
Pitt has sent practically the same set of baton passers to represent them in the mile relay, as last year established the conference record. Notre Dame’s team has been undefeated so far this year, and Marquette is also (Continued on Page 16)
ELEVEN POINTS FOR FORD
By Cy Stroker
Notre Dame’s basketball team finished its home season Monday night in whirlwind fashion by defeating Minnesota 38-27. The Irish took an early lead which was never seriously threatened during any part of the game. The victory evened up the de-
Johnny Ford
He led the scorers.
feat suffered from Minnesota earlier in the season.
Notre Dame took possession of the ball at the initial tip-off but was unable to find the basket for some time. A series of fouls by Minnesota soon brought the Irish into the lead and Ireland made a spectacular long shot for Notre Dame’s first field goal. Minnesota came into action with two field goals which were offset by the tallying of Ford and O’Kane. Scoring for both teams was about equal for the rest of the period and the half ended with Notre Dame in the lead 18-15.
The second half began with a flurry of activity. Both teams fought desperately, Notre Dame to keep its lead, Minnesota to even up the score. Fouls were committed in abundance and Norman, rangy Minnesota center, was taken from the game on four personals. The Irish margin widened to ten points. Elser had replaced his roommate, Peters, at center and Wade filled Jordan’s post at guard admirably.
The Irish playing during this, their last home game of the season, was almost faultless. From start to finish (Continued on Page 15)
Thirteen
INTRODUCING
By Joe Prendergast
FRESHMAN TRACK TEAM BEATEN IN WIRE MEET
An old broomstick, two old boxes and the desire to outjump his brother —there lie the reasons for Jack Edwards’ pole vaulting ability.
John Richard Edwards began his vaulting career in his own back yard. One afternoon he saw his brother and a friend jumping over some boxes with an old broomstick so he decided to give it a try. He was 15 years old at the time. His efforts proved very successful for he outdid all his
competitors in this box-vaulting episode. He then graduated to another yard where real standards were in use and where the vaulting pole was a far cry from the old broomstick. This was the place that Jack spent his afternoons while a freshman at Gorton High School, Yonkers, New York. In his sophomore year at Gorton High he reported for the track team and by the end of the school year he had improved to such an extent that he was chosen a member of the sectional team from that district and sent to the state interscholastic meet at Cornell university. Jack placed second in the state meet that year. In his senior year at Gorton High school he. again went to the state meet and once again won second place. Three years of football in high school at both quarterback and halfback are also listed among Jack’s accomplishments.
Jack attended Mercersburg Academy after his days at Gorton High were over and carried on his fine pole
vaulting progress. He participated in the Princeton Interscholastics while at the academy and was nosed out for first place by his roommate, Al Whitworth, who is now captain of the University of Pennsylvania track team.
Jack has his mind settled upon the school he would attend after he was through at the Academy. Yale University, long famous for its pole vaulting champions, was to be the
favored one. While at the aforementioned meet, Jack Edwards met his namesake who was then smashing records into bits as Penn’s greatest quarter-miler and Jack Edwards of Penn came near talking our own Jack into matriculating at Pennsylvania. When Jack returned to Mercersburg he chanced to look over a Notre Dame catalogue and now7 he is a senior residing in Walsh.
He won his first five points for Notre Dame as a sophomore against Purdue and this, incidentally, is the most striking event to him during his athletic endeavors here at Notre Dame. Last year at the Indiana State meet, Jack vaulted 12 feet, 10 inches — the highest he has ever reached. Before the season is over Jack says, “I ought to reach 13 feet.” He holds the Westchester County— “the most beautiful county in the world as Rotarians say” — pole vault record at 12 feet 6 inches.
Jack is the only real Irish member of the Irish track team. He was born
The Illinois freshman track team competing against the yearlings of Notre Dame in a wire track meet, held last Saturday afternoon, succeeded in defeating the Irish runners by a score of 64 5/6 to 34 1/6. The events were run off in the respective schools’ gymnasiums and the results were exchanged between the two schools. The best times in the track events and best distances in the field contests were awarded first place.
Illinois gained seven out of eleven first places, Notre Dame garnered two winning positions, and two were tied. Mahoney, in the low hurdles, and Langton, in the pole vault, were the only Irish competitors to gain an undisputed first place.
The 60 yard high hurdle event ended in a four way tie for first place, which is, except on rare occasions, only possible in a wire track meet. Four men, two from Illinois and two from Notre Dame, cleared the hurdles in the same time, -.07.9.
The Urbana-men turning in exceptional performances for the events, made clean sweeps of the two mile run, the high jump, and the half mile run. Springer, of Illinois, gave warning of future greatness when he toped the high bar at 6' 2", as did his teammate, Stocker, who leaped 22' 2" in the broad jump. Gibbs, of Notre Dame, placed second to him with a commendable jump of 21' 2".
in Dublin, Ireland 22 years ago and moved to Yonkers when two years of age. His roommate is George Melin-kovich. Jack is president of the Exporters Club of the Foreign Commerce school and is secretary of the monogram initiation.
His one outstanding ambition is to compete in a track meet in Madison Square Garden, New York. At present his hobby is in carving small figures out of soap cakes. Jack says his roommate, Mink, objects strenuously because of the great amount of his soap wasted. Sabin Carr, according to Jack, was the greatest vaulter ever, “He really opened up the 14 foot class. It was easy for the others after he showed them how.”
After school Jack is not too sure about further competition. As far as feminine admirers go Jack Edwards states, “You won’t have to take care of that; my senior friends do that nicely.” Tonight and tomorrow in the gymnasium with the C.I.C. meet in progress, will be Jack’s last indoor appearance in the local fieldhouse and he’s out to smash the existing record.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
NOTRE DANE WINDS UP COURT SEASON IN EAST
SPLINTERS
BATTERY MEN CONTINUE DAILY INDOOR DRILLS
By Cy Stroker
The Notre Dame basketball team will round out its fairly successful season with an Eastern tour which will start to-morrow and end Monday. The first stop will be at Cincinnati where the hoopsters will meet the St. Xavier College team. Monday night the Irish face Temple in Philadelphia. Both of these teams were met by Notre Dame for the first time last year.
The Xavier team, coached by Clem Crowe, is the best aggregation which that college has produced in many years and its record for this season is an imposing one. Among the teams which have bowed before their attack are Georgia Tech, Marshall, Ohio Wesleyan, Centenary, and Miami. The Xavier team also fought a losing but close contest with the expert U. of Kentucky five.
Notre Dame easily defeated Xavier last year 25-15. Marty Peters, who will again occupy the tip-off position, was the outstanding player and leading scorer of the contest. Two Xavierites who figured prominently in that game will again face the Irish to-morrow night. They are Sack and Sweeney, both forwards. The Xavier line-up also include? Maher and Kruse, guards, and Bucklew, center.
If the Xavier record is an imposing one, that of Temple University is a formidable one. The Owls conquered Notre Dame’s greatest rival. .Pittsburgh, by a nine point margin, and smothered Indiana university with a twenty point lead. Ohio State also fell before the onslaught. Purdue succeeded in conquering Temple in the last second of play when a midfloor basket gave them a one point advantage. The Owls were beaten by N. Y. U. in a close game that had the New Yorkers worried.
The Irish also beat Temple last year by the score of 42-33 but that team is a much more dangerous rival this season. The Templer outfit is made up entirely of veterans of at least one year’s play. Heading the list is the right forward, Rosan, who has been All-Intercollegiate choice for the last two years. Fox holds down the other forward berth, Brown and Freiberg the guard positions, and Messikomer, center.
To win both of these games would be a fitting climax to the season for Notre Dame. The team started out with very dubious prospects and it seemed as though a long string of defeats awaited it. Three of last year’s stellar players, Krause, Crowe, and Voegele, had been lost by graduation and the replacements were men of small stature who had tasted little competition in collegiate circles.
March 8, 1935
(Continued from Page 11)
have undergone the cutting to improve himself had there been reason for an operation. Now was Nick’s chance and he took it.
Since that day the Irish mentor has been pounding into Vince’s head the fact that there is nothing wrong with him. After his two recent jumps the world is beginning to think along those lines too. The upshot of the whole thing is that Nick predicts things are going to happen to high jump records during the next two weeks. Vince is due for either a new C.I.C. record tomorrow or a victory and possible new world’s record in the K. of C. games in New York next week, or both. It is not known to date whether any Irish trackmen will make the New York trip, but if they should, Murphy will bum up the place for the simple reason that he does his best jumping from boards, which provide the takeoff surface at the Kaycee event.
There is a question yet to be solved. Murphy has made two remarkable jumps in two successive weeks. If he hits a new high in the C.I.C. affair chances are he will not be at his best for the New York meet. The basis for such prediction is Nick’s experience, which has taught him that a man seldom has more than two or three good performances in succession without cracking.
But to counteract this is the fact that at New York Vince will be jumping from boards, his favorite, and boards provide more spring than does mother earth. What Nick’s problem-child will do in the next two weeks is doubtful but the results will be interesting to watch. Now that Murph is in the right frame of mind most anything might happen. And for placing him in that mental condition Nick can cut another niche in his belt.
As the season progressed, however, it became increasingly apparent that the Irish could hold their own with all their opponents. Victories piled up in rapid succession and only the highest rated teams on the schedule were able to conquer the quintet with decisive margins. Bad luck accounted for several defeats, most noteworthy of which was the return game with Pittsburgh.
Coach Keogan believes that Notre Dame stands a fair chance of winning to-morrow night’s game with Xavier. But in regard to the Temple contest he is frankly pessimistic. Says George, “They’re tough.”
The warm breezes of last week failed to excite baseball Coach “Jake” Kline’s hopes for early outdoor practice. “We might get our cleats in Cartier field next Monday,” Kline said dryly, “if the warm weather continues.” But he didn’t place much faith in the sudden spring. He expects a blizzard or a cloudburst to come along and hold his squad indoors a few weeks longer.
Coach Kline should be ready for anything in weather after last year’s frigid opener against Ohio State. The game was played in snow and mud on Friday the 13th, and the ‘jinx’ held against the Irish. The combination of slush and the Buckeyes proved too much, and Notre Dame was defeated, 7-5, after five cold hours of Play.
Kline refuses to take his men outdoors until the diamond is perfectly dry. He said that unlike football fields, the ground must be bone dry before the players can work 'out safely.
Meanwhile an assorted crop of pitchers and catchers continue to try their wares under Kline’s watchful eyes in the field house. Entering the second week of workouts, it is still too early to predict who will fill the places left vacant by Pitchers Leonard, Saggartz, and Huisking of last year’s staff.
A few infielders have turned out to get in shape, but aside from bunting and slow fielding practice, little can be done in the ill-lighted fieldhouse.
The battery men are getting a fine start on the other members of the nine and will have a decided advantage until the batters sharpen their optics. Coach Kline hopes to get everybody outdoors very soon if “Old Man Weather” will give him any kind of a break.
MINNESOTA GAME
(Continued on Page 13)
they outplayed a fast, deceptive, huge team. Even Peters was eclipsed in size by the towering Minnesota center, but he was able to break through him many times to feed the ball to a running mate for a basket.
The line-up:
Notre Dame (38) B F P
Ford, f_________4	3	2
O’Kane, f_______3	1	3
Peters, c-f----2	1	3
Ireland, g------2	1	4
Jordan, g (c) 111
Elser, c _______1	5	2
Wade, g---------0	1	2
Hopkins, f-----0	0	0
Totals _______13	12	15
Minnesota (27) B F P
Stelzer, f___0 1 3
Baker, f_____3 3 2
Norman.c(c) 2 14
Roscoe, g ___3	1 2
Seebach, g___0 1 3
Kupperberg.f 10 0
Swendson, g _1 0 0
Fremuth, c.__0 0 1
Total________11 7 15
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By Jim McMullen
SIR MALCOLM CAMPBELL’S Bluebird is quite an investment . . . the motor alone is valued at $27,000, and the famous Englishman carries 60 tires, each costing $500 . . . Knox College, famous for its 27 consecutive football losses, produced a basketball squad this season that won all its conference games to gain the undisputed championship - . . REFEREE FRANK DUFFY called 30 fouls against the basketball team of John Marshall College . . . they were opposing St. Thomas, of Scranton, Pa. . . . Four games in one day and a total of 39 points, was once the feat of JOHNNY BECKMAN, pro basketeer . . . The old argument of Wrestler vs. Boxer was put to a test when a decade or so back, FARMER BURNS met BILLY PAPKE, middleweight boxing champion . . . Papke was on Ins way back looking up, in exactly three seconds . . . Between $500,000,000 and $600,000,000 are wagered on the stall walkers by gamblers each year . . . and it is estimated that $15,000 a day is spent by the wise boys just to telephone their bets . . . the latter applies to the metropolitan district only. . . .
•
Only six big league baseball players have passed the $30,000 a year salary mark — BABE RUTH, TY COBB, TRIS SPEAKER, ROGERS HORNSBY, AL SIMMONS, and HACK WILSON . . . Dundee is a great fighting name . . . JONNY DUNDEE was once junior lightweight, and featherweight king, JOE DUNDEE annexed the welterweight crown, and another DUNDEE, VINCENT won middleweight honors . . . 90,000 spectators were on hand to watch WINSTON GUEST & Co. win the open polo championship way over thar in India ... During 1933-34, there were 12 National League Hockey players that received penalties of over 50 minutes each . . . this season only five are likely to win the booby prize for politeness . . . Last fall, LESTER PATRICK started his hockey training school . . . seven prospective stars have been uncovered and developed . . . five are now with the Crescent A.C. . . . ERNEST K. FOWNES, a well known gentleman in horse discussions, has driven a coach and four, more than 100,000 miles . . . JACK MAKLEY has been track coach at Cornell University since 1899 . . . the successful mentor is now 72 years old and still going strong . . . Out in Nevada, some thoughtful legislature introduced a bill prohibiting the catch of catfish that possess less than six whiskers on each side of their face . . . the bill failed. ...
A high school basketball coach in Ohio suffered the enigma of a shaved head when his ball club defeated two designated opponents ... all the result of a promise . . . MAX CAREY’S baseball school at Miami drew students from 23 states . . . tuition was $75 . . . CYRIL WALKER, open champion of 1924, has the reputation of being the slowest golfer ever to tread the fairways . . . GODFREY PREECE, veteran trainer of polo ponies, is the only polo player in the history of the game to have his rating raised after passing the age of 60 . . . Included on Cornell’s winter sport team were a German, a Swede, two Canadians, and two Americans.
C. I. C. MEET
(Continued from Page 13)
strong in the event. The relay will be the concluding act, and promises to leave the crowd in a near frenzy.
In the 65 yard low hurdles, Mike Layden is faced with a difficult task. Capt. John Mullins of Western State Normal comes as his strongest rival with a recent :07.1 performance. Roy Bailie of Notre Dame, in 1930 set :07.2 as the conference high standard, but there is great probability that either Mike, or the Western State speedster may excell it.
The well balanced meet of strong teams, glittering stars, and capable marks for the boys to shoot at, has received great pre-meet support. The eyes of all midwest track followers will be turned toward the competitors tonight as they begin to thrash it all out.
ANOTHER CHAMPION RETURNS
Bill Whitman, a junior welterweight who won his title as a freshman last year, will defend his honors in the annual Bengal Boxing Shotv.
ILLINOIS MEET
(Continued from Page 11)
jump, finished third in the low-hurdles.
Summaries:
MILE RUN—Won by McKenna. (ND) ; Dufresne, (DI.) second: Galland. (Hl.) third. Time, 4:30.1.
60-YARD DASH—Won by Moore, (ND) ; Jordan, (ND) second; Wieth. (Ill.) third. Time, :06.4.
440-YARD RUN—Won by Bernard. (ND) ; Parsons, (ND), second; Frey. (Hl.) third. Time, :51.4.
70-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Layden, (ND) ; Cullinan. (Hl.) second; Wright. (Hl.) third. Time. :08.8 (tied the armory iecord).
880-YARD RUN—Won b.v McGrath. (ND) ; Sheils. (ND) second; Baughman. (Ill.) third. Time, 2:00.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Murphy. (ND) ; Avery and Boroff, (Ill.) tied for second. Height, 6 feet, 7 inches (new armory record).
POLE VAULT—Seeley, (Ill.), and Edwards (ND) tied for first; Thomas. (ND) third. Height, 12 feet, 6 inches.
75-YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Layden, (ND) ; Cullinan, Ill.) second; Meagher, (ND) third. Time, :08.3.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by Dufresne. (Hl.) Gott, (ND) second; Talbot, (Ill.) third. Time, 9:42.3.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Meagher, (ND) : Wheling, (ND), second; Jordan. (ND) third. Distance, 23 feet. 7 VS inches.
SHOT PUT—Won by Elser, (ND) : Michu-ta, (ND), second; Ringquist, (Hl.), and Le-vicki, (ND) tied for third. Distance, 47 feet, 11 inches.
MILE RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (Frawley. Parsons. Bowdren. Bernard). Time. 3:31.2.
Sixteen
The S cholastic
For More Information About Study And Travel Abroad See 3. Hhttermaper
904 W. INDIANA AVE.
Representing all trans-Atlantic and trans-Pacific Steamship Lines. ,
Free Assistance in Free Service on all | Securing Passports Travel Planning |
*
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight
212 So. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
GLASSES Properly FITTED
E.t
1900
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrist* and Mfg. Opticians
228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
Established 30 Yean
OPTOMETRISTS
222 % South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
• REASONABLE
• DEPENDABLE .
• PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
Vwtty MVM
PUT THE SHOT
but rushing around to classes and working in the lab burns up energy too. You need nourishing, easy-to-digest food.
Try a bowl of Kellogg’s Corn Flakes for breakfast tomorrow. You’ll like these crunchy, golden flakes. And you’ll feel better during the day.
They’re right, too, for that snack before . you retire. After a dance, or a long session with the books. They help you sleep, because they digest so easily.
Always fresh and crisp, in the inner WAX-TITE bag. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
CORN FLAKES
March 8, 1935
OVEN-FRESH FLAVOR-PERFECT

I
!
। t companion. I don’t 1 ss, the acrid sting of un-es. Why should you? e harshness of gritty, ives. Neither should dusively the fragrant, 'leaves—the mildest,
. J I
all. They permit me ‘=|Y®>ur Best Friend.”
GOLF SCHEDULE
Continued from Page 11)
total of 616—beating Purdue by 26 strokes and forging out Indiana with a margin of 48.
Boasting a green and inexperienced squad in 1932, the Irish while gunning for their 21st straight, were defeated 10-8 by Purdue—their initial loss in three years of dual play. An unusual incident cropped out in the encounter with Pitt, staged at the Highland Country Club in the ‘Smoky City’ — something similar to the recent ‘long count’ that Keogan’s men were subjected to in basketball. Using a new method of tallying—one point being awarded for each match instead of the customary three, as used in the Nassau system — Pittsburgh unofficially garnered a 4-2 decision, which should have been handed to Notre Dame on a 10-8 basis.
In ’33, coached by the Rev. Francis C. Ott, C.S.C., the Gold and Blue commenced the start of a new era by winning six continuous issues. Opening with a 15%-2% victory over Loyola, and swamping the Boilermakers 15-3, the Irish gained ample revenge for the previous shellacking adminis--tered the season before by Purdue. Paced by Johnny Banks, they finished the schedule by subduing Chicago 17% to %. Vince Fehlig participated in the National Intercollegiate tournament reaching the quarter final round.
The schedule:
April 20—Purdue there or Mich. State, theie. April 22—Wayne University (Detroit). there. April 23—University of Detroit, there.
April 27—Detroit,- here.
April 29—Chicago, there.
May 4—Wisconsin, here.
May 11—Northwestern, there,
M a y 17—Mich. State, there or Purdue there. May 25—Pittsburgh, here.
May 31-June 1—Indiana State meet. here.
REVOLUTIONIZES
SMOKING
PIPJ
PATENTED —NOS.
LATEST SHAPES
FINEST BRIAR MONEY CAN BUY yet 9*1 only &
This simplte appearing yet amazing absorbent filter invention with Cellophane exterior and coolingmesh screen interior keeps juices and flakes in Filter and out of mouth.
Prevents tonguebite, rawmouth, wet heel, bad odor, frequent
1 expectoration. No breaking in. Improves Caste and aroma of any tobacco.
1,919.959 ■ 1,967,585
RADIO BROADCASTS
(Continued from Page 4)
Flynn indicted sterilization as a practice which had far too little scientific justification to warrant its use. He maintained in answer to the questions “Why is the Catholic Church opposed to sterilization?” and “Do other than Catholics oppose sterilization?” that the Catholic Church opposes sterilization when there is no need for it, because it infringes upon the rights of a human being; and that so little is definitely known on the question of sterilization that its use is rarely needed as a concrete step toward improving society.
He said, in part: “It was decided to sterilize those who are below normal, with the purpose of preventing the possibility of new subnormals being introduced into the population. ‘Like produces like’ is an old rule, but one which science has disproved many times. Human sterilization is incorrectly believed effective as a method of preventing the births of many kinds of defectives.”
ALL-AMERICA BASKETBALL TEAM
Kellogg's All-America Basketball Team and four sectional teams receiving honorable mention will be announced for the first time next Thursday night.
Selections were made from a poll of 60 famous college coaches, all over the country.
Announced by
WARD LAMBERT
Famous Purdue Coach
Tune in
COLLEGE PROM with Ruth Etting and Red Nichols Thursday Night—March 14th 7:45 Eastern Standard Time
WJZ Network—N.B.C.
Nineteen
March 6 to 12
▼
ANNUAL PRODUCTION
"THE LIGHT"
SCOTTISH RITE CATHEDRAL South Bend
▼
A vivid, soul stirring religious drama and spectacle with music.
▼
Seats now on sale at Elbel Brothers3 Music Store Prices: $1.00; 75c and 50c, plus Federal ticket tax.
A CAST OF 150
A CHORUS OF 80
MARVELOUS COSTUMES
Thousands of dollar s worth of scenery.
LIU DAMITA. •tarring in »BBEVSTEB’S MILLIONS"—A United ArtuU Picture Twenty	The Scholastic