HALF A HALF MAKES
ONE SWELL SMOKE!
I
FOR PIPE OR CIGARETTE
Iw
w«*‘
For “loads” of pleasure, load-up with Half & Half, Cool as the summons: “The dean wants to see you.” Sweet as his greeting: “My boy, you’ve made good.” Fragrant, full-bodied tobacco that won’t bite the tongue—in a tin that won’t bite the fingers. Made by our exclusive modern process including patent No. 1,770,920. Smells good. Makes your pipe welcome anywhere. Tastes good. Your password to pleasure!
Not a bit of bite in the tobacco or the Telescope Tin, which gets smaller and smaller as you use-up the tobacco. No bitten fingers as you reach for a load, even the last one. Copyright 1U3G, The American Tobacco Company
CLUB NOTES
BUFFALO CLUB
The annual Easter Dance sponsored by the Alumni Association of Buffalo has been scheduled for Monday, April 13th, with Robert S. Measer as chairman, it was announced this week by John G. Byrne, president. The dance will be held in the Crystal Ballroom of the Hotel Lafayette.
The dance is being held in honor of the Campus club, in recognition of the splendid work accomplished by the club during the Christmas holidays. The local organization was host to several Notre Dame footballers, in Buffalo the 19th of December. Both this luncheon and the annual dance were considered, according to the Buffalo papers, the finest affairs to be presented in the Queen City.
BOOKMEN
The personality and philosophy of Eric Gill were discussed with the members of the Bookmen club by Mr. Christopher Hollis, at the last meeting in the Commerce Building.
The books bought by the club this semester were reviewed and commented upon. Plans were made for the next meeting on April 8, when Professor Emmanuel Chapman will speak before the club.
The Bookmen are continuing with a weekly broadcast over the campus station throughout the semester.
When yon step out of an evening, we recommend Aroset—the new non-wilt collar attached to Arrow shirts. It lies smooth and flat without a wrinkle or bulge. Comes in white, stripes and colored fabrics, exclusive Arrow patterns. Sanforized Shrunk. g2 up
ARROW and TIES
PATRICIANS
Codification of the Roman Laws during the time of Justinian was discussed by Robert Egan at the last meeting of the Patricians. He then showed the importance of the laws by the fact that they were put into later English law.
During the time of the Romans there were no lawyers. As a result of this the people were forced to plead their own cases before the tribunal, Egan pointed out.
PRESS CLUB
Newspaper ethics and the everyday problems that face a news gatherer were explained to students of journalism by Mr. John Gibbons, alumnus of the University Journalism school, now writing for a local newspaper.
The speaker was introduced by Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the Department of Journalism.
NOTICE
For the convenience of those leaving for Easter vacation the Barber shop will be open Monday and Tuesday nights until 8:00 o’clock. We will be open all through the vacation except on Easter Monday.
April 3, 1936
MAX AD1ER
“The Big Store on the Corner”
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors.
Three
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"] at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXIX
April 3, 1936
No. 21
RICHARD REID AWARDED 1936 LAETARE MEDAL
Trustee, Senior Manager Die Within Past Fortnight
FIFTY-FOURTH RECIPIENT HONORED FOR WORK IN THE FIELD OF CATHOLIC JOURNALISM
Death touched the campus twice in the past two weeks with the passing of Miles W. O’Brien, of South Bend, member of the board of lay trustees, and George J. Wirry, senior football manager, from Racine, Wisconsin.
Mr. O’Brien, who was serving his second term as a non-alumni member
Miles W. O’Brien R. I. P.
of the board, died of a heart attack after a brief illness, in West Palm Beach, Florida on March 20. He was 64 years old.
He was born in County Cork, Ireland, May 10, 1871, and came to this country with his parents two years later. His early life was spent in New England, coming to Indiana to attend Purdue University. Miles and his brother finished their engineering courses in two and a half years and went to work for mid western firms. On Nov. 1, 1906 the two brothers founded the South Bend Lathe works with which firm they have been constantly associated.
Death came to George Wirry as the result of complications following an appendectomy. George’s stubborn fight for life was aided by four blood transfusions, donors being his own brother, a student at the University, and three managers, Paul Barker, James Burke, and James Quinn.
The funeral was held in Racine, Wisconsin last Monday morning. The Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., preaching the sermon.
Hundreds of students visited the
' (Continued on Page S)
“ROCK”
Five years ago last Tuesday the crash of a transport plane neai" Bazaar, Kansas, snuffed out the lives of Knute Rockne and seven others. Extras with screaming headlines carried the news — the immortal Rock was dead!!! At first, people refused to believe it. Later, when the message was confirmed, a shocked nation mourned the passing of a truly great leader.
That the years have not dimmed, but rather strengthened his influence on the campus was proven by the many remembrances of his anniversary. Special Masses were offered, and memorial services held in his honor.
The Kansas - Oklahoma club sponsored a Rockne program in Washington hall, Sunday noon, March 29. Joe Boland, assistant football coach, and one of Rock’s pupils during the reign of the Four Horsemen, gave an inspiring talk on the many-sided character of the great leader. The major part of the program was composed of news-reel shots depicting some of Rockne’s thrilling games and his wonder teams of the past. Particularly effective was the playing of a sound disc which recorded one of his famous pre-game pep talks.
Other* remembrances of Rock took the form of a Mass and Communion breakfast Sunday morning, and the visit of the Monogram club and the local alumni group to his grave in Highland cemetery on the western outskirts of the city.
ATTENTION SENIORS
The class “Social Psychology” in the Department of Sociology taught by Dr. Leroy Wilkins was erroneously omitted from the preregistration list.
Seniors who wish to revise their preregistration schedules to include this course must do so at once.
The conferring of the fifty-fourth Laetare Medal upon Richard Reid, Georgia lawyer, editor and educator “in recognition of his distinction as a
Medalist Richard Reid Honored by Notre Dame.
Catholic layman, and his achievements in the field of Journalism as editor of the Bulletin of the Catholic Layman’s Association of Georgia,” was announced Laetare Sunday, March 22, by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University and chairman of the award committee.
Mr. Reid has been active in the public life of Georgia since 1919. Besides seiwing as editor of the Bulletin, he has attracted national recognition as a contributor to America, the Commonweal, the Catholic World, and the Ecclesiastical Review. He has also served as editorial writer for the Augusta Chronicle, and news editor and columnist of the Augusta Herald. At present he is a member of the law firm of Mulherin, Reid and Mulherin, of Augusta.
Mr. Reid, who was born in Winchester, Mass., Jan. 21, 1896, is married, and is the father of four child-
(Continued on Page 6)
April 3, 1936
Five
SENIOR BALL SCHEDULED FOR MAY 8;
WILLIAM J. SCHMUHL IS CHAIRMAN
Monogram Club To Hold Annual Formal April 16
Orchestra Is Not Selected
First steps in plans for this year’s Senior Ball were taken this week
when class president, Howard Cusack announced that William J. Schmuhl,
a senior in the
William Schmuhl
College of Commerce, from Michigan City, Indiana has been appointed general chairman of the affair.
The date has been set for Friday, May 8 and the dance will be held in the Palais Roy a 1 e, traditional locale of Notre Dame functions.
Chairman Schmuhl
announced that plans for an orchestra to appear at the year’s final social function are going forward, with most of the leading musical names of the country being considered.
Last year’s graduates departed from the custom of a general chairman for the dance "when an executive committee was appointed to handle arrangements.
Traditional week-end activities will
be arranged for this year with the scheduling of a Tea Dance for Saturday, May 9. Definite plans for the entire program of activities will be announced shortly after the Easter holidays.
No definite price for the dance has been set but President Cusack and Chairman Schmuhl said this week that every effort is being made to keep the cost within the range of the students.
LAETARE MEDAL
(Continued from Page 5)
ren. He holds bachelor and master of arts degrees from Holy Cross College and a law degree from Fordham University.
The idea of giving a medal in recognition of merit to some leader of the Catholic laity in the United States was suggested in 1882 by Professor James F. Edwards, and was sponsored by the Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., founder of Notre Dame, and the Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C., at that time president of the University.
The Laetare medalist is chosen each year by a special committee from a list of persons proposed from year to year and kept standing. The medal is publicly awarded at a time and place convenient for the recipient, with a short address explaining the custom of the bestowal and expressing the merits of the medalist that have prompted the particular award.
I. C. O. Program
Six Catholic high schools will send representatives to Notre Dame to compete in the second annual Indiana Catholic Oratorical tournament to be held Sunday, April 5, at 2 o’clock in Washington Hall. The contest is sponsored as an annual event by the Wranglers, honorary forensic society of the University. Charles Meyers, chairman, has been assisted in arranging the tournament by Robert Weaver and Robert Heywood.
Banquet Tomorrow
The contestants will arrive on the campus tomorrow, April 4. The first event on the list of week-end activities, arranged and planned by the Wranglers, is a banquet in honor of high school participants, which ■will witness Robert Schmelzle in the dual role of chairman and toastmaster. The banquet will be held at 7:00 o’clock, Saturday evening in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall with the Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C., who has been instrumental in arranging the contest, attending.
Sunday morning’s program will consist of Mass in Sacred Heart Church, a visit to the Art Gallery and a leisurely tour of the campus. At two o’clock in the afternoon the speakers wil gather in Washington hall to deliver their orations. An invitation to attend is extended to all interested in public speaking.
Mr. Joseph McNamara, deputy attorney general of Indiana and a Notre Dame alumnus, has generously donated the trophy, which will be presented to the winner, and the five medals that will be awarded to the other contestants. The judges for the contest will be a speech professor, a member of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and the president of the Wranglers, Eugene Malloy.
PETTIT APPOINTMENT
Professor Maurice L. Pettit, of the Department of Political Science, has been appointed Director of Welfare for St. Joseph County, it was announced at the meeting of the county welfare board on March 26th. Mr. Pettit has been county probation officer for the past ten years and a member of the Notre Dame faculty for the past nine years.
He will resign as probation officer and assume his new position immediately. He will continue to lecture as usual for the remainder of this term. Next year he will continue to teach but on a curtailed schedule.
With Fred Carideo as general chairman the annual Monogram Club formal dance has been scheduled for Thursday, April 16, at the Palais Royale.
Price for the affair has been set at $2.00 with tickets available from either Fred Carideo or the club .president, “Mike” Layden, both in Sorin
Hall.
Chairman Fred Carideo Trades helmet for a top hat.
First prize in the skit contest conducted by the Monogram club in connection with the production of its annual Absurdities went to Robert Stapp of Howard Hall. Tom Dunn also of Howard took second place, while the third prize was divided among Joe McNally of Alumni, Bert Schloemer of Alumni, and Edwin O’Connor of Dillon.
The show, which will be presented May 3 and 4, is well along in its rehearsals. This year’s production will offer skits, specialty dances, and a chorus of husky but nimble-footed football men. Professor Joseph Casa-santa has promised fo have an orchestra in the pit when the curtain goes up the opening night.
Matt Themes, assisted by Arch Gott is supervising the presentation of the show.
N. D. DISCUSSED
“What Else Do They Do at Notre Dame?” is the title of an article written by Paul F. McManus, editor of Scrip during the schoolyear 1933-34, appearing in the April issue.of Columbia magazine. In this article, Mr. McManus gives an intimate picture of the great diversity of occupation among Notre Dame men showing that footbal is far from the most important of their interests.
McManus was graduated from Notre Dame in 1934 with an A.B. degree. Columbia is the literary publication of the Supreme Council of the Knights of Columbus.
The Scholastic
S i x
National Broadcast Set For Universal N. D. Night
FIFTH ANNUAL BENGAL BOUTS SET NEW ATTENDANCE AND RECEIPT MARKS
Universal Notre Dame Night will be observed for the thirteeenth year on Monday, April 20, with 200 local radio stations and a national hook-up broadcasting the various programs. Arrangements are in charge of James E. Armstrong, secretary - treasurer, and Bernard J. Voll, president of Notre Dame’s Alumni Association.
The coast-to-coast broadcast will be carried over the National Broadcasting Company’s net-work at 10:30 p.m. (E.S.T.) from an alumni banquet in Washington, D.C. Principal speaker over this national hook-up will be the Most Rev. John McNamara, auxiliary bishop of Baltimore and holder of an LL.D, from Notre Dame. He will be introduced by Frank C. Walker,’09. The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, will also speak.
Universal Notre Dame Night will be conducted locally by the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley. A broadcast will be made from,. South Bend’s radio station, WSBT, featuring the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice president, and Elmer Layden, director of athletics. The Notre Dame Glee club will also participate in this broadcast by singing the “Victory March,” “Hike, Notre Dame,” and “Down the Line!”
Alumni To Speak
Programs planned for the 200 local stations will include prominent alumni of the vicinity as speakers, and several skits and university songs to present interesting information about the spiritual, academic, and physical phases of Notre Dame.
Although the list of speakers for the various club banquets is not yet complete, those already scheduled are Robert B. Riordan, registrar, at Cleveland; Clarence E. Manion, professor of law, at Chicago; and William R. Dooley, graduate manager of publications, at Cincinnati.
LAWYERS HONOR HOYNES
Traditional Hoynes’ night was observed last Thursday when sixty students of the College of Law dined at the Columbia Club in South Bend in memory of the late Col. William Hoynes, dean emeritus of the law school. Each year the college dedicates an evening to the Colonel whose life was the life of the law school at Notre Dame.
Justice Michael Fansler, of the Indiana Supreme Court, a graduate of the law school and a student under Col. Hoynes, was the guest of honor at the banquet. Judge Fansler addressed the students, telling many of the accomplishments of the late dean emeritus.
Alumni President
Bernard J. Voll
In charge of arrangements.
WASHINGTON TOUR
Preparations are now complete for the fourth Notre Dame Washington tour it was announced this week by Professor Paul C. Bartholomew, of the Department of Politics, under whose personal supervision the trip will be made. Some thirty-five students have signified their intention of spending part of the Easter vacation seeing the nation’s capital under competent direction.
Mr. Bartholomew requests that every one who has signed up for the trip be on hand in Room 107 of the Commerce Building this afternoon from four to five o’clock to purchase railroad tickets. Anyone who intends to make the trip and has not yet signed up should do so at this time.
The group will leave the campus Easter Saturday, April 11th and return in time for classes on Wednesday, April 15th. One of the most interesting features of the itinerary is the reception and tea that the group will attend at the Japanese Embassy where they will meet Ambassador Saito of Japan.
SHEED LECTURE
Francis Sheed, distinguished Catholic author and layman, gave a lecture in Washington Hall, Tuesday evening, March 31. The subject of Mr. Sheed’s talk was, “Piers Plowman, and the Modern Dilemma.”
3,000 Attend Boxing Show
Smashing all previous attendance and receipt records, the fifth annual Bengal Bouts, sponsored by The Scholastic Friday evening, March 20, witnessed the crowning of eight boxing champions in the most colorful event of the winter sports season. Approximately 3,000 enthusia-astic fight fans jammed their way into the fieldhouse to see the finest boxing card ever presented in the local ring. Gross receipts from the Bouts were slightly more than $550, which topped all returns from previous boxing shows.
Highlights of an evening crowded with thrilling bouts were the appearance of Danno O’Mahoney, former world’s wrestling champion, as honorary referee, and the Conner-Tan-credi wrestling circus which threw the crowd into spasms of hysterical laughter. Cy and Nick slammed each other for three hectic falls, with the former out of the ring most of the time. Conner was all over the fieldhouse, on one occasion crawling underneath the ring to come up in back of his opponent, and on another upsetting the water buckets in his wandering outside the ropes.
Jim Hack, billed as “The Pride of Alumni Hall,” drew the applause of the audience as he staggered through the shadow boxing technique of a punch-drunk fighter. A complete account of the eight championship battles will be found in page 13.
Several innovations were included in this year’s show. For the first time a printed program containing the evening’s card was published. Mechanically the system of introducing the contestants, by dimming the flood lights and flashing a single spotlight on each comer, added much to the color of the show. Also new this year was the introduction of patron tickets which admitted holders to ring-side seats.
SUMMER JOBS
Summer employment for students has been offered Notre Dame men by the Wayne Works, of Richmond, Indiana, makers of commercial auto bodies, in a letter received this week by Mr. Frank Lloyd, comptroller of the University.
Employment is made by application, giving opportunity of advising the division in which the student employee would like to work.
Anyone interested should write immediately to Mr. H. V. Goodenough, factory superintendent, The Wayne Works, Richmond, Indiana, for appli-tion.
Seven
April 3, 1936
Paulist Choir Will Perform In Washington Hall April 24
The famed Paulist Choir of Chicago, under the direction of the Rev. Eugene O’Malley, C.S.P., will present its annual concert of ecclesiastical and secular music in Washington hall, Friday evening, April 24, according to an announcement by the Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C.
Choir Here Last Year
This renowned group is composed of 75 men and boys ranging from 6 to 60 years of age, and has always been a favorite, with music lovers of Notre Dame and South Bend as well as throughout the country.
The Paulist Choir has attained an enviable reputation in performances in the Chicagoland Festival, in the larger churches of the nation, as well as over the coast-to-coast radio chains.
Last year, the Choristers appeared here on April 8 and were given an enthusiastic reception. Their program included “Crucifixus” by Lotti which was dedicated to the late Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and “Alleluia,” written especially for the University’s Diamond Jubilee in 1917.
Harpist Well Received
On Wednesday, April 1, the Salvi Instrumental Quartette, under the direction of Albert Salvi, the modernist of the harp, presented a representative string concert which was appreciably received.
The ensemble composed of Albert Salvi, harp; Ernest Guntermann, flute; Erich Sorantin, violin; Robert Alexa, viola; and Goffredo Mazzari, cello, presented a program which included: ‘‘Sonata a Quatre” by J. B. Loeillet, and “Quartette in D Major, No. 28” by Mozart.
Considered the world’s greatest harpist, Alberto Salvi demonstrated his artistry in four beautiful solos: “Etude in A Flat” by Chopin, “The Fountain,” an original composition by the harpist, “Oriental Dance” by H. Cady, and “Danse Espagnole” by de Falla.
WIRRY, O'BRIEN DEATHS (Continued from Page 5)
McGann mortuary in South Bend to pay their last respects to George, with the Monogram Club attending in a group on Friday evening.
A solemn requiem Mass for the repose of the soul of George Wirry was celebrated in Sacred Heart Church last Monday morning by Rev. John F. O’Hara, president of the University, with the entire student body attending in tribute.
One of the best known figures on the campus, George will be mourned not only by his many close friends but by the entire University.
Eight
John Vincent Coyne, Grand Knight of the K.C. ... A man of varied experiences. . . Worked for a Truck Co. one summer . . . Gave riding lessons to hopefuls in a Colorado camp . . . His military bearing on horseback made him. . . .
Has the promise of a job with a Detective Agency this summer. . . is an economics major graduating with
a cum laude. . . Hopes to go to the Harvard Grad school. . . Reads all the love serials in the News-Times...
Writes once a day to the ‘Indian Princess’ at Mundelein. ... Will fix anybody up when in Chicago. . . The Coyne’s have continuous open house. . . . Plays at golf and once tried out for the hurdles but didn’t get any place. . . Devotes all his time to the K.C. ... ‘Mild-Mannered’ Coyne gave a blistering denunciation of Roosevelt at a meeting prior to his visit here . . . But when the president arrived John willingly held the curtain for him. . . .
Worked one Xmas at Mandel’s in Chi. packing Shirley Temple dolls... Received a crate of grape-fruit from the south recently and supplied the table with this delicacy. . . Filibusters in Speech class. . . His intimate ‘Fran’ visits the campus at regular interval. . . Has drawers full of ties -and looks frightened every time the St. Vincent collector drops around... Is still thrashing out the Mexican Question and formulating a Peace Plan. . . The latter usually ends in a war. . .
Yale, Princeton, Harvard, Dartmouth, McGill, Toronto, Queens University and the University of Montreal have formed an international hockey league.
University Theater Scores With Shakespeare Comedy
The Globe Theatre version of Shakespeare’s “Comedy of Errors,” as presented in Washington Hall, Saturday evening, by the University Theater players, was without doubt the best handled and most amusing production seen on the local stage within the last two years. The “streamlined” edition of this well-known play was presented twice, at 7:00 and 8:30 before large and appreciative audiences.
' Males Play Feminine Roles
The excellent acting of the cast was overshadowed somewhat by the fact that students were selected to fill the feminine roles. This innovation, while it added greatly to the enjoyment of the student audiences, attracted undue attention to these roles. The appearance of each female character was greeted with rounds of laughter, so that the action was held up several times. John Brassel, as Luciana, lent more comedy to his lines than Shakespeare ever intended to write into them. William Waters who filled the other female role gave the best impersonation of the evening.
Minor feminine roles were handled by John McAlpine who made a rather too husky innkeeper, and Bob Siegfried.
New Type of Play
Marking the beginning of a new type of drama on the campus, the * presentations were highly successful. The smoothness and rapidity with which the play moved along to its culmination was obviously appreciated by the audiences. The actors were real and convincing in their performances as they became more and more involved in the intricate meshwork of mistaken identity. .
Dick Baker, as Antipholus of Syracuse, was particularly impressive in his characterization. In spite of an injured foot, he gave his role life and vitality. John Scott also interpreted his part of Antipholus of Ephesus with unusual dexterity and accuracy.
McGrath, Ellis Applauded
Joe McGrath, as Dromio of Ephesus, and Bill Ellis, as Dromio of Syracuse added greatly to the mirth of the play with their fine performances. The two Dromios again and again sent the audience into bursts of laughter as they put real humor into parts.
John LaDuca gave a fine interpretation of Solinus, Duke of Ephesus as did George McDermott who played the part of Aegeon, a merchant of Syracuse. Frank Carrol and Maurice Quinn were excellent as the two merchants.
.	The Scholastic
First Annual Music Week Well Received on Campus
i	'
; The first annual Music Week, observed on the campus March 22-29, presented an excellent series of con-/certs featuring the Glee Club, the / Moreau Choir, and the Little Philharmonic orchestra.
The University Glee Club opened the week specially devoted to musical entertainment on Sunday evening. Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the organization, conducted his vocalists through motets, part songs, a humoresque, and songs of the campus.
Soloists Joseph T. Pawlowski, George A. Miller, Francis Schaefer, and John F. Ryan were well received.
Following the Glee Club concert, came the unified story of the Passion and Death of Our Lord, portrayed in music by the Moreau Seminary Choir on Tuesday evening, March 24. The program was arranged and explained, by the Rev.' James W. Connerton, C.S.C., director of the choir.
Sixteenth Century Music
Music of early sixteenth century origin was chanted all during the course of the program, beginning with the Ingrecliente of Palm Sunday which is sung annually in the Church in commemoration of the beginning of Christ’s Passion. This was followed by Unus ex Discipulis Meis, recalling the Last Supper. In concluding this first part of its program, the choir sang Vittoria’s In Monte Oliveti.
The second part of the program was devoted entirely to commemorating the Crucifixion. This entire musical painting, from the Stabat Mater to O Vos Omnes, the concluding selection of the program, was concerned with making vivid by vocal tones, the agonies of Christ crucified and the outbreaks of nature which happened then. The choir’s interpretation of Velum Templi, describing the rending of the veil of the temple, was quite striking.
Philharmonic Plays
On Thursday evening, the Little Philharmonic orchestra with George H. Shapiro conducting, appeared in Washington Hall. This talented group of musicians whose orchestra is an innovation in musical circles played a varied program to an appreciative audience.
The program comprised- selections from the works of Debussy, Mozart, Wagner, Shubert, Mendelssohn, and Jarnafelt. The appearance of the Little Philharmonic Orchestra on the campus was sponsored by the Notre Dame Music Arts Club.
Debaters End Season
With St. Viator Contest
By Louis Da Pra
Last Saturday’s radio debate against St. Viator College, which was aired over Station WCFL, Chicago, with Robert Proctor and John Locher representing the University, brought an end to a hectic two-weeks of forensic activity and the conclusion to the regularly scheduled debate season. The question under discussion
Debate Coach Coyne His worries are over.
and the adoption of the unicameral system of legislature.
Professor William J. Coyne, coach of the debaters, guided the squad through a representative schedule, including two sectional tournaments and two intersectional contests.
On Wednesday night, March 25, in Washington hall, the negative, upheld by Richard Meier and Robert Scheml-zle, defeated the University of Alabama affii-mative upheld by John Ainsley and Lee Baines. The critic judge was A. S. Knoublauch, a superintendent of schools in the Michigan educational system.
A dual debate conducted with Michigan State College there on March 17 and here on March 19 resulted in a split verdict. The Michigan State negative defeated Robert Burke and John Heywood at Lansing, while Meier and Schmelzle won over the Michigan State affirmative here. The critic judge for the local debate was Professor Scott, head of the Speech department at Wayne College, Detroit.
Coach Coyne entertained an audience of 200 members of the Elkhart League of Women Voters and 60 high school students, Monday, March 23, at Elkhart, with an intra-squad debate between an affirmative squad composed of Marbach and Burke versus Schmelzle and Meier.
During the past two weeks, the affirmative engaged in two non-decision debates. Marbach and Burke confronted Wayne College here on March 24, and on March 26 Burke and Heywood met Creighton University of Omaha.
On March 24, Station WSBT, aired an intra-souad debate between Marbach and Heywood representing the
Sterilization Dangerous
And Absurd, Says Flynn
“It is typical of human beings to be enthusiastic about fads which are here today, and gone tomorrow,” observed Professor Frank Flynn, of the Graduate Program in Social Work of the University, in opening his campus radio address entitled “Human Sterilization,” Monday evening.
Human sterilization, one of the present day fads, was termed by the speaker as “amusing in its absurdity, but most dangerous in its very ignorance.”
Sterilization Defined
Human sterilization is defined as any surgical procedure which will prevent a man or woman from propagating. It is erroneously believed to be effective as a method of preventing births of the so-called feeble-minded.
The speaker pointed out that in the first place no one really knows what feeble-mindedness is, since authorities have never agreed on a definition or classification.
Another question which should be brought up is, “Are the feeblemindedness of highest mental development a menace to society?” Tn answering this question the speaker said,
“To be sure, some of the feebleminded do not fit easily into society, but there is not one study which shows conclusively that sterilizations definitely assist in the adjustment of these. They need careful supervision, proper training, and sympathetic treatment.”
Even if we were to know just what type of individual is unwanted in our scheme of society, we would still be confronted with the problem of discovering who will produce feebleminded offspring.
“Faulty heredity may cause many cases of feeble - mindedness,” the speaker continued, “but we definitely do not know enough about this to tell who will produce defective children.”
Professor Flynn closed by citing the recent statements of a few nonCatholic authorities on this question. Among these was the editorial statement of the American Medical Association in a recent issue of its magazine, Hygeia.
“Evidence as to sterilization’s practicality is far too slight at this time to command anything in the way of an endorsement.”
affirmative and Schmelzle and Meier the negative.
Coach Coyne revealed tentative arrangements for an eastern tour for Richard Meier and Robert Schmelzle which calls for a debate with Wayne College at Detroit on April 15, followed by a contest with Buffalo University on April 17.
April 3, 1936
Nine
ROCKNE ANNIVERSARY RECALLS COLORFUL LIFE
Fifth Anniversary of Rockne's Tragic Death Last Tuesday; Events of Phenomenal Coaching Career Retold On Campus
By John A. Gillespie
There weren’t many people in the little town of Voss, Norway, in 1892, but on a certain -winter day almost every resident lined the shores of the small village lake to watch a rescue. A four year old boy could be heard calling for help from an ice floe in the middle of the lake. He had been fishing; the ice on which he had been standing broke away. It was no trick for* a villager’s boat to carry him back to land and his anxious parents.
That little adventurer was Knute Kenneth ’ Rockne, later to become football’s greatest coach and one of the most famous figures in world athletics. He was born in Voss, March 4, 1888, of a long line of rugged mountaineers and villagers.
Knute Rockne
The Old Master on the field.
As a child, his vitality involved him in unending scrapes from which his quickness and strength usually extricated him.	.
Knute’s father, Lars Knutson Rockne, occasionally built a model carriage or buggy for expositions. He came to Chicago and took first prize at the 1891 World’s Fair for his ornate carriage. His family joined him in America the same year.
Notre Dame’s future coach dazzled the teachers of Chicago with his excellent marks in grammar school. But
Ten	’
that was before he took athletics seriously. In high school passing marks were all he could manage, what with track practice and neighborhood baseball games.
After a total of five years spent in earning his tuition, Knute entered Notre Dame. He didn’t make up his mind about matriculating until the day before the scholastic year began.
Roomed With Gus Dorais '
Equipped with his' working clothes and §1,000, he passed a severe examination and was quartered in Sorin Sub. - His roommate was Gus Dorais, with whom he was to form a renowned forward pass combination a few years later.
Rock was much older than the average college freshman because of his working interlude. Consequently he took his studies more seriously.
Knute didn’t thrill the football coach until his sophomore year. Although freshmen were allowed to play varsity ball, Rock wasn’t one of them. On his second try, however, he evoked All-American mention at end.
Notre Dame crashed big time football when Army agreed to teach her the preferred methods of scoring touchdowns. The Indiana school was excited and determined; the entire student body saw the team off, long before breakfast.
Dorais to Rockne, Dorais to Rockne, once, twice, three times — the passes filled the sky and beat the Army. There may have been better games, but not to Knute Kenneth Rockne, the pass-catcher.
When the football season was over, Rock settled, down to maintain his high scholastic average. His diploma bore Magna cum laude, and Knute was invited to return for the next semester as a teacher of chemistry. He accepted, with commercial chemistry his ultimate aim.
Knute didn’t return to Notre Dame alone. He brought a comely wife, Bonnie Skiles, of Kenton, Ohio. So he was’ glad when Jesse Harper offered him a job as assistant coach. For four years he kept his two positions, as coach and professor, but in 1918, when- Harper retired, Rock succeeded Mm.
The. Rockne system brought Notre Dame ■ to a place - of distinction in football. Rock presented his perfect plays, all potential touchdowns if every man did his work. He gave the
lighter, speedier men their chance. Speed and deception; timing, not tonnage. He popularized the shift and the pass; other coaches had to adopt the innovations in self-defense. Teamwork, not individual brilliance. He put his players into silk pants, worked always for rhythm.
There have been millions of words written and spoken about the Irish football teams. To recapitulate, under Rockne, the elevens won 105, lost 12, . and tied 5. The best teams of every section in the country were played and beaten. Big names appeared in the line-ups—Gipp, Mohardt, the Four Horsemen, Chevigny; Frank Carideo, Schwartz, Brill, Tom Conley.
Like all true champions, Rock walked off the field a conqueror. His 1929 and 1930 teams were national champions. On March 31, 1931, he bought a ticket to travel by plane from Kansas City to Los Angeles to take part in a motion picture. He never’ made that picture. The plane crashed, and all were killed.
A black band encircled the globe. Unbelieving students stared at one another when they heard. Then, as confirmation was made, telegrams flooded South Bend. President Hoover, former President Coolidge, sports authorities and writers — Rock was loved and honored by all.
Every boy who had been coached by him, and who found it possible, attended the funeral. Fifty newspapermen were there. The services were broadcast to millions of heartbroken listeners. It was as though the nation paused in grief.
It had been raining while the crowds were paying homage. But from the time the cortege left the Rockne home until it reached Council Oak, the skies were fresh and the sun was warm.
The influence for good he left behind him lives on. And people hope against hope for another Rockne.
Rock shows a pupil how it’s done.
The Scholastic
Monarchical Governments Most Stable, Says Hollis
THE WEEK
“ ‘You must either govern by tra-, dition,’ said Disraeli, ‘or else govern by force.’ ” quoted Professor Christo> pher Hollis in his regular bi-weekly * lecture in the Engineering auditorium s last night. “And certainly, if one । looks at Europe today, the countries ! that have preserved their traditional • monarchical systems have little reasi on to regret that they have done so.”
i	Switzerland Exceptional
“There is one great exception— the exception of perhaps the most remarkable and most truly civilized ! nation in the world, republican Switzerland. Apart from that, the republican countries have been less stable and the monarchical more stable. It! aly is nominally monarchical, but the :	very cause of the rise of Fascism
there was the fact that the monarchy had never established itself in any t way as a national institution, and ! therefore a dictator had to be called ' in to, do by force what in a happier country a king would have been able to do by prestige.
“Have Germany, Spain, Portugal, or Russia really gained from the abolition of their monarchies? Has life in the last 20 years not been certainly far happier in the countries that remain monarchical — in the Scandinavian countries, England, Belgium, or Holland?”
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
K. OF C. FORMAL
Plans for the annual Knights of Columbus Formal were made at the regular meeting of the council last Monday night. The dance will be held May 1 in the Palais Royale, according to Henry Dendler, chairman of this year’s affair. It will be open • to all Knights of Columbus of this council and to all juniors and seniors. Only freshmen and sophomores who are Knights of Columbus will be permitted to attend. The selection of an orchestra has not yet been announced. Tickets will be two dollars.
Professor Frank Flynn, speaker on the lecturer’s program, discussed the need for more adequate social legislation. Mr. Flynn spoke of the need on the part of the Catholic laity to equip themselves with a more complete knowledge of the questions that arise in connection with social problems.
Editor Robert L. Grogan, of the Santa Maria, announced that he has not yet received any articles submitted in competition for the five-dollar prize which is to be awarded for the best article written by a council member.
The fact as related here sometime
back, that one of Mr. Wilkins’ classes rated only an average age of fourteen years in a Binet intelligence test
doesn’t mean much,
if anything. We have been informed that only a few years ago it was discovered through some test or other, that Notre Dame students i n rela
tion to all the other university and college groups in the country, rated fifth as far as intelligence is concerned.
Late news dispatches report that in South Bend recently Jack Britton and a representative of Doctor Townsend’s organization almost visited physical violence upon each other ■ when they arrived at a difference of opinions. Careful, Jack! You may yet spend your declining years in sorrow and remorse for so rashly ruining youi' chances to collect an easy two hundred dollars every month.
Music Week must have had a greater influence upon us than we thought possible. First of all, we found ourselves, much to the discomfort of neighbors and recors, using that Crosby-like voice of ours during almost every waking hour of the day. Neighbors and rectors rudely, but effectively, shut us up in short order. But our repressed desire to vent our feelings in song had to have some means of expression. First thing we knew, we found ourselves whistling in church. Now the hymn seems to be done with less discord.
©
Woman haters, disillusioned lovers, and such like have found at last a campus leader in Julie Rocca. They have elected him head of a recently formed and very active organization called the Schopenhauer Society for the Suppression of the Selfish Sex.
In accordance with the strictest Shakespearean tradition, the University Theater presented “A Comedy of Errors” Saturday night. What we mean is that, besides producing one of Shakespeare’s old plays, the Theater group revived the anicent Shakespearean custom of having men act
the female parts. That practice might have been perfectly appropriate in Elizabethan times, and may still be fitting nowadays whenever farce is the sole aim of a drama, but what failure and disappointment is going to be experienced when the University thespians employ the usage in even a fairly serious play is easy of conjecture.
9
The brightly colored covers of the magazines on the racks in the caf have a remarkable attraction for Art Gregory. So powerful has their fascination become for him lately that whenever he stares at them, he finds it necessary in his ecstasy to lean unconsciously upon any individual who happens to be standing in front of him. Strangely, Art never got into any embarrassing situations until recently when a young lady chanced to stand in between him and the magazine rack. Gregory hasn’t been seen in the caf since.
9
No prediction was ever made with greater accuracy than the one by Yogi Hufnagel concerning the success of the Bengal Bouts. In fact, though Promoter John Moran—he has something to do with The Scholastic— may be reticent about admitting it, his show was the finest of its kind
Notre Dame has seen in years. The boys fought so furiously that they spattered us in our ringside seat with generous drops of red blood corpuscles. Talk about good fights!
®
Some institutions of higher education pride themselves on the antiquity of their buildings, furniture, and professors. Few of Notre Dame’s professors can be called ancient, but most of her desks can be so qualified. If we’ve ever failed a quiz or an examination, it’s been because the carved and grooved tops of the desks practically made writing on them an impossibility. And we’re not the only martyr. Thing of the numerous lefthanded Notre Dame students who are compelled to work at desks all of which have been designed for the convenience of right-handed men.
April 3, 1936
Eleven
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts tn editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C_________________Faculty Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN______________________________Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST.__________________Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei_______________________________The Weefe
Irwin L. Goldman___________________________In the Juggler Vein
News Staff
Paul Foley_______________________________________News Editor
Robert L. Grogan________________________Assistant News Editor
John A. Gillespie_____________________________Feature Editor
Clifford F. Brown__________________________________Anthony	O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus Gregory Byrnes
Harold A. Williams____________________________________John	Hurley
Louis Da Pra________________________________________Albert	Torribio
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker___________________________Co-Sports Editor
James A. Waldron___________________________Co-Sports Editor
Eugene Vaslett________________________Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley__________________________James M. McMullen
Allan Bride______________________________________Arch Gott
Michael Crowe Art Staff William V. Ellis_________________________________Art Editor
Francis Kroeger____________________________Daniel Sherrod
William R. Dooley, '26_______________________________-Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
April 3, 1936
NOTRE DAME'S LOSS
THE sudden deaths, within the last few days, of two prominent Notre Dame men, Miles W. O’Brien, lay trustee, and George Wirry, senior football manager, have deprived the University of two outstanding sons.
Mr. O’Brien was not only one of South Bend’s most distinguished citizens, but was also closely connected with Notre Dame for a good many years. He served as a member of the board of lay trustees from its inception during the presidency of the late Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., till his death, and his contribution to Notre Dame in this capacity cannot be lightly passed by.
George Wirry’s passing was more keenly felt on the campus. Nearly everyone knew George—his duties as senior football manager brought him into contact with all classes, and enabled him to make a great many friends.
In Saturday’s Religious Bulletin we read that as he was dying he said to those around him: “You know, as I lie here it sometimes seems pretty tough. But when I look up at that crucifix it doesn’t seem so tough after all.” Courage and faith were natural with him. We remember other traits of his character, for-our recollections of him go back several years. Particularly do we recall the friendly chap who roomed just a few doors down from us in Badin Hall. His room was always open for anyone who wanted to drop in for a friendly chat or a cigarette.
This year his duties as football manager did not keep him too busy to help others. Shortly before he was taken ill, he generously offered to direct the ticket sale for the forthcoming Bengal Bouts. The day he fell sick we remember meeting him
Twelve
on the campus, and being told that the tickets were going rapidly. That night he was stricken and an emergency operation performed in an effort to save his life. To the end he was willing to help when he could.
Notre Dame will miss these two fine characters who lived, in their everyday life, the principles which all of Our Lady’s sons are taught on this campus. May their souls rest in peace —the peace they merited by their exemplary lives.
e
WITH MANY THANKS
^1'HE fifth annual Bengal Bouts sponsored by The Scholastic, March 20, proved to be the most successful in the history of the boxing show, not only from a financial standpoint, but also from the number of spectators in attendance. The cooperation received by those in charge of the boxing show was greatly responsible for the excellence of the program.
The Scholastic wishes to express its thanks to those instrumental in making this year’s Bouts the best to date. First, to Jim Waldron, Frank Schiavone, and Joe Prendergast who were the directing forces behind the show. Theirs was the responsibility of seeing that a thousand details were taken care of before the first boxer donned a glove in the preliminaries. How well they did their work may be seen from the excellence of the card, and the increased attendance and gate receipts. Without them the show would have been impossible.
To Mr. Frank Lloyd, University comptroller, who not only gave the Bouts his personal financial support, but willingly contributed his advice and cooperation on numerous occasions.
To Mr. Dominick Napolitano who refereed the preliminaries, as well as the finals, and did an excellent job in both instances. To Equipment Manager John McAllister, the gymnasium crew, and the full-time employees who erected and dismantled the bleachers, in addition to getting the fieldhouse ready for the Bouts. To Ed Kenefake and A. Heigel who supervised the installation of the public address system.
To Gene Ling who drove to Chicago to secure the honorary referee, and to Mr. Joseph Donahue who donated the use of his car. To the Studebaker Athletic Association which furnished the ring without cost. To Joe Waldron and to Bill Dooley, graduate manager of publications, for invaluable services. To James Burke and the Managers’ Organization for aiding in the ticket sale and in other details of the bouts. To the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., prefect of religion, for aid and advice.
To Mr. William Cemey for doing a splendid job as announcer and for special help on the night of the fights. To the Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C., and the Rev. George Marr, C.S.C., for extra consideration and privileges extended.
To the sixteen boxers who put on the finest exhibition seen in the local ring; to Cy Conner and Nick Tancredi who “gave their all” for Bengal; to Jim Hack who obliged with a special exhibition. To Doctor McMeel who was on hand to check the physical condition of the fighters.
To the officials on the night of the bouts: Danno O’Mahoney, Elmer Layden, Robert Proctor, William Sheehan, Eugene Young, Tom Conley, Chet Grant. To the official seconds: Joe Sheil, Phil Walker, John Michuta, Wayne Millner. To George Nate, the Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., and the rest of the officials at the preliminaries.
To The Ave Maria press which generously donated the tickets and posters used. To the advertisers who made possible the printed program. To Brother Engelbert, C.S.C., University treasurer, who aided in financial matters.
And finally to the members of The Scholastic staff who cheerfully performed a hundred tasks in order that the Bouts might be a success.
The Scholastic
EIGHT BENGAL BOXING CHAMPIONS CROWNED
Eleven Matches Face
Notre Dame Tennis Team
"TEX" DURKIN RETAINS LIGHTWEIGHT TITLE ALL FO'UR C.y.O. FIGHTERS WIN DECISIONS
April April April April May-May May May May May May
1936 SCHEDULE
18 — Illinois, here
24 — Detroit, here
25 — Bradley, there
29 — Western State, there
1		Indiana, here
2	— Northwestern, here
6 — Purdue, there
13 — Kentucky, here
15	— Chicago, here
16	— Ohio State, here
29 — Michigan State, there
Notre Dame’s tennis squad is practicing daily, in the fieldhouse, for their opening match with Illinois on April 18. Coach Pedro de Landero
has a nucleus
George Cannon
of veterans to work with, as Capt. Joe Waldron, Joe Prendergast, Joe McNulty, Bill Fallon, and George Cannon form a returning combine of monogram men. Other promising leftovers from last year’s v a r s i t y include George Feeley, Jim Waldron and
Bud Verveat.
The two netters lost by graduation were Captain Frank Weldon and Ed Buchard, state doubles champs. The schedule, this spring, will be unusually tough, with the Irish meeting various Big Ten teams. The racketeers are merely ‘marking time’ until they can shift their practice sessions to the outdoor courts. Because of inclement weather this probably will not be accomplished until after the Easter vacation.
Coach de Landero is planning to use the newcomers on the squad, as often as possible in the future encounters. Those in this list are Jack DeGarmo, winner of the summer tourney; Russ Longon; Ed Kilrain; and Selna. Eleven matches have been arranged on the card, with the feature attractions being against Northwestern, Chicago, Illinois, and Kentucky.
The program calls for a total of seven meets to be played at home. Kentucky, one of the crack teams in the southeastern conference, and Purdue provide the new competition.
LARGE CROWD WATCHES EIGHT BATTLES AND CONNER-TAN-CREDI WRESTLING BOUT
By James A. Waldron
It was a great night of boxing on Friday, March 21, when eight young men were crowned University Champions of the Bengal Boxing Show. A crowd of some 3,000 shouted its approval of the action and ability displayed by the battling finalists from whose midst emerged seven new champions and one defending titleholder to claim the honors of their respective divisions.
Danno O’Mahoney, World’s Wrestling Champion up until a short time ago, was on hand as honorary judge of the Bengal Bouts. The officiating of the eight championships was capably handled by Mr. William Sheehan and Mr. Eugene “Scrapiron” Young, A.A.U. judges who seiwed in that capacity for the show, and D. J. Napolitano as referee. Tom Conley and Chet Grant, assistant varsity football coaches, acted as time-keepers, while Bill Cerney, “B” team mentor, was the “Joe Humphries” of the Show.
Extending his St. Patrick’s day celebration longer than usual, a scrappy little Irishman, Hugh Riley, peppered rights and lefts at his taller opponent, Phil North, to win the decision in the Bantamweight division. From the opening bell, Riley kept on top
James A. Waldron
Beat his brother Howard’s record.
of North never giving him a chance to get set. In one of the best fights ever put on at Notre Dame, Johnny Noto, Golden Glove finalist last year,
Champions All!
Richter, Gora, Kenneally and Noto.
won the Featherweight crown on a technical knockout in the third round from Tom O’Malley. Outweighed by his opponent the likeable Johnny kept on O’Malley always carrying the fight to him. In the first and second rounds the two gamesters stood in the center of the ring and threw punches as fast as they could move their arms, keeping the crowd on its feet cheering the fine little boxers. Tommy tired in the third and the more experienced Noto began to count with such telling effect that the fight was stopped to save O’Malley from further punishment.
Tommy “Tex” Durkin successfully defended his lightweight crown despite the strong rally of Gabriel Valez in the last round. Tex built up a lead in the early rounds with his quick counter-punches but Valez came back strongly in the third to barely lose the decision. There was a great scrap in the junior welterweight class when Oliver Halland defeated Tom Mulligan. Both boys displayed plenty of class and gave a fine exhibition of boxing which left the audience split as to the winner, but Halland won the judges’ verdict.
Phil Kenneally demonstrated the. reason why he was an international amateur boxing champion with a masterful exhibition of defensive and of-(Continued on Page 15)
April 3, 1936
Thirteen
IRISH FENCERS DEFEAT WASHINGTON U.
TO END SECOND UNBEATEN SEASON
Infielders Show Strength As Irish-Tossers Practice
Record of 17 Straight Wins
By Mike Crowe
Last Saturday the Irish fencers journeyed to St. Louis to meet the Washington University Bears in their last scheduled meet of the season. It was the last intercollegiate meet for the three seniors on the team, and all three of them made a clean sweep of
Coach Pedro de Landero “The boys were all—superb.” their bouts. Dick Snooks gave a brilliant exhibition of foil fencing when he won easily his three-foil bouts by the same score 5 to 1.
Co-captain Kehoe as usual was the high point winner, scoring 3 points in foil and 2 in sabre. His speed and aggressiveness being too much for the Washington boys. The other Irish Co-captain, Carlos de Landero, fighting his last two intercollegiate bouts displayed the finest exhibition of sportsmanship and classy fencing of his career' which earned for him the highest praise from the large audience of experts that attended the meet, all of them expressing themselves most highly about the splendid form and the great sportsmanship of the Irish Co-captain.
The meet started with the foils and the Irish came close to making a clean sweep of the event by taking eight of the nine bouts, Telmo de Landero being off form and dropping one of his two bouts. In sabre Co-captain Carlos de Landero clinched the meet when he won his first bout against Brooking and then scored Notre Dame’s tenth point in defeating Merrill. Co-captain Kehoe won the other
• (Continued on Page 21)
INTERHALL .. .
Seniors, big ones and little ones, can hold their heads high as they walk around the campus during the remaining two months. For four years they have labored diligently while others made the headlines. For four years they have been but mere cogs in the machinery that makes up a university the size of Notre Dame, breaking into the news only on Washington’s birthday when they celebrated the annual senior day by presenting a flag to the University. The Sorin Tigers captured the heavyweight title while their brethren from Walsh took the lightweight honors.
In earning the title of interhall champions the Sorin delegates defeated the second year men from Badin who had earned the right to participate in the finals by downing Brownson in a play-off earlier in the week. Sorin jumped into an early lead and were never headed. Don Elser’s size and ability to handle the ball was instrumental in setting back the Badinites. George Wentworth, who paced the Sorin representatives all season, saw little service because of an injury received during baseball
James Sherry
Walsh’s Tower of Strength.
practice. The Badin aggregation, paced by Kuharich, Schwartz, and O’Reilly, put on a second half spurt, but they were unable to overcome the early lead of Wentworth and company.
In the lightweight division the Walsh small men retained their title by defeating the Carroll representatives in a rough, fast contest that ended 29-19. Walsh took the lead in the opening minutes, and although never out of danger held on to the lead throughout the contest. Sherry’s height was a decided factor in controlling the tip-off and in regaining the ball under the basket. Reagan and Casper were outstanding for the victors.. For the dorm lads Clancy garnered more than half the total of his team’s. points' and was easily the high scorer.
By Cy Stroker
These are busy days for Jake Kline and his merry men. Every afternoon finds them out on the baseball field practicing for what promises to be the most successful as well as the most strenuous season the Irish nine has weathered since Kline became their mentor.
The most noticeable tiling about this year’s squad is the large number , of contestants for every position on the team. The flock of candidates is the biggest that has reported for about ten years and is indicative of the enthusiasm over the sport which should help the team in its percentage. Although most of the positions are at present filled by third year men, their two. previous years of competition keep them but one jump ahead of the juniors and sophomores who are applying in swarms for every post.
Two years ago, toward the close of the season, the baseball team was in the doldrums. The number, of defeats had mounted steadily while the victories remained discouraging low. The ball playing of the team was good as was the hitting, but somehow the opponents always seemed to be able to hit the Irish pitcher. Then suddenly, an unheard of sophomore pitcher came on the scene, and by a series of near shutouts, turned what promised to be a blackout finish for the team into a whirlwind wind-up for the season, with as many wins for the season as losses. That sophomore was Matt Thernes, and this year he is pitching his last season for Notre Dame. By all calculations, Thernes should be at his prime this year, but he has ample backing in Riedel, another senior, and Arboit and Goncher, two sophomores.
On the . receiving end, Captain Frankie Gaul seems to have the berth fairly sewed up, although The Scholastic’s own Jim Waldron and Kor-zelove, a sophomore are providing (Continued on Page 20)
Matt Thernes He’ll toss the first ball.
The Scholastic
Fourteen
Ray Meyer, New Captain Of Keogan's Net Forces
The election of Ray Meyer, sophomore forward from Chicago, as cap-tain-elect of the 1936-37 varsity basketball team was the high light of the
Captain-elect Ray J. Meyer Basketball leader for 1936-37.
annual banquet tendered the Notre Dame team by the Villagers at the Oliver Hotel, Monday night.
A capacity crowd of true followers of Notre Dame basketball was on hand to listen to a splendid group of experts lavish praise on individual Irish stars and upon the entire team as a playing unit.
Golfers Beseige Course For Practice Rounds
Last Friday the William J. Burke campus golf course was opened, and an eager group of students started to pound then* ways around the fairways'. Although the weather was still quite cool the course was in good shape, and it was thought by the authorities that an early opening would not injure the course. Saturday turned out to be very mild so a record early season crowd was out from
dawn till dusk. The recent improvements met with approval except for a few unfortunates who happened to drop their balls in some of the new traps scattered over the course.
Although the course had not been officially opened until last Friday, the members of the golf team have been practising whenever possible during the past three weeks attempting to recapture some of the form they have lost from a winter of golfing inactivity. The Rev. George Holderith,
INTRODUCING
J
By Cy Stroker
Meet Notre Dame’s track represen-tative-at-large, Joe McGrath. You know him as a half-miler and relay man, but don’t think for a minute that those are the only two events that he is qualified to enter. Under the skillful juggling of Coach Nicholson, Joe has run the sprints, the two mile, and everything in between; and this year* is the first time that he has stayed at any one distance for more than two weeks. This is no reflection on his ability, though, because he has - done well by himself in all the events, especially the distance runs.
McGrath was born in Chicago in 1913 but moved to Pennsylvania as quickly as possible. After trying out several small towns there he finally settled down in Drexel Hill. In the
BENGAL BOUTS
(Continued from Page 13)
fensive fighting. It was not that Bill Gallin, his opponent, was not a good boxer, because the contrary is true, but Phil has improved on his Golden Glove days and is one of the finest amateurs in the country today. Despite an injured hand which he had hurt in an early round, Phil Datillo gave Joe Gora, C.Y.O. champion, a real battle before losing to him on the decision for the middleweight title. Both boys gave as much as they took and put on a fine exhibition with the nod going to Gora by a shade.
Another C.Y.O. boy, Walt Richter, deefated Harry Marr for the lightheavyweight crown. Both boys showed plenty of class with fast foot-work and sharp punching with the fight about even in the first two rounds, but a recent illness, coupled with the speed with which the bout was fought, sapped Harry’s strength and Walt came on to capture the decision. In the heavyweight division, Phil Dahar knocked out Red Darcy in the third round. After losing the first round, Darcy came back with some fine counter-punches to take the second canto, but some deadly rights and . lefts fiished the fight in the third.
C.S.C., coach of the team, has been sizing up the situation, and it is felt that he will have his team prepared for the first meet of the season which will take place here on April 25 against Chicago University. With five lettermen back, Captain Day, Cole, Malloy, Green, and Baldwin, the team has a strong nucleus from which to form a well-balanced outfit. Others who are in line for a possible berth are Marbach, Taylor, Castleman, McCabe, Fehlig, and Leonard.
Upper Darby high school, Joe began his varied track career by running on the cross country team and in numerous events on the track team. Here, as well as later at Notre Dame, Joe ran the sprint events and longer distances with apparently the same ability. He competed in high school meets for four years.
Naturally a man who is so well rounded should find a place for himself on Nick’s track team. So when Joe came to Notre Dame in 1932 he started to prepare himself for that place. In the spring of his Sophomore year, Joe found himself in the 60 yard dash in the meet with Marquette, running against Ralph Metcalfe. Of course he didn’t win the
race, but he performed so well in the 60 yard dash that Nick immediately transferred him to the quarter mile. Then, for two years, McGrath continued to shift—from quarter to 880, to the sprints, to the mile, to the relay team. But always he managed to garner a few points tor the Irish. Now after seven years of track competition, Joe is enjoying the feeling of having a stable berth on the team ,in the relay and half mile events.
His record to date this season shows how well he appreciates it.
To McGrath, the most thrilling race he ever participated in was the mile relay of the C.I.C. meet two years ago which was won by Pitt. In this race the lead changed between the Irish and Pitt six times during the mile. Off the track, Joe is a senior in the Arts school where he is majoring in Economics. Upon graduation he intends to work for the Goodyear Company. He lives in Sorin sub between Woodrow (Whataman) Still-wagon and Nick Tancredi. His piano playing ability is sometimes called into use to soothe the nerves of the Son of Kong.
April 3, 1936
Fifteen
CONLEY HAS NEW POST
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
Tom Conley, present end coach at the University, has accepted a position as director of athletics, head football and basketball coach at John Carroll University, Cleveland, Ohio. Conley was captain of Rockne’s last football eleven which won the mythical national championship of the nation.	.
By Joe Prendergast THE RESIN LINGERS ON
The recent Bengal Boxing Bouts held on the campus were the most successful set of bouts that have ever been staged at Notre Dame from all viewpoints. There were close to three thousand people present, the gate receipts totaled more than the best previous mark, and the quality of the bouts left nothing to be asked. John Moran and Jim Waldron, the major-domos, behind the scenes must be congratulated.	_
Danno O’Mahoney, the honorary referee at the Bengal show, lived up to all the flowery tributes written about his magnificent build and pleasing per-
Established 30 Years
LEMONTREES
OPTOMETRISTS
222% South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
It is our aim to give you everything that is expected in a good pair of glasses.
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
sonality. Your writer had a long interesting talk with the true-blooded Irisher before he hopped the South Shore for Chicago that same evening of the bouts and the knowledge of Notre Dame which Danno possessed bewildered this scrivener.
He said that Notre Dame was as famous in Ireland as it is in this country. He would have been happy to ramble around here in the daytime more especially go to school here. One of the questions he popped at me was, “What is Frank Carideo doing now?” He asked about Don Elser’s chances in the next Olympics. He wanted to know why we didn’t have a boxing team with so many high caliber boxers attending the University. For a boy who is just past his twenty-third birthday and has been in this country only about nineteen months his knowledge of the history and activities of this school was amazing.
Jack McGrath, O’Mahoney’s manager, said that the lowdown on Danno losing his title to Shikat was because of a doublecross. The Irish champ when asked by the referee if he gave in to Shikat who had him tied up with a punishing wristlock decisively said no, but the misunderstanding official decided that no meant yes and the bout was given to Shikat. The map of Ireland possessed by O’Mahoney was amazed as was the map across the Atlantic. McGrath also wanted to know how much we charged for the bouts, and when told a quar-
(Continued on Page 20)
GRANADA
Sunday, April 5th
Matinee and Evening
Irish Fencers Win 16th
At Michigan's Expense
THE MIDWEST CATHOLIC THEATRE MOVEMENT presents
THE JOYCE KILMER PLAYERS in William Roeder’s startling stage success “DRIFTWOOD”
The Critics say:
“As tough as the worst of the underworld thrillers hut rises to sublime heights.”—Tribune, LaCrosse, Wis.	*
“An unusual play with an ending very different from the average ‘Crook’ plays.”— Journal-Courier, Lafayette, Ind.
“Driftwood is impelling to say the least.”— New World, Chicago, Ill.
Undoubtedly the Notre Dame fencers were inspired when they chalked up their 16th consecutive victory Saturday, March 22, defeating the strong Michigan State team 12% to 4%.
After losing the epee event 1% to 2 %, the Irish rallied to win the sabre 3 to 1, and the foils 8 to- 1, to run the highest score of the season.
The meet against Michigan State marked the last appearance of three Irish fencers that graduate in June, Dick Snooks, Co-captain Kevin Kehoe and Co-captain Carlos de Landero closed their intercollegiate competition at home by winning 6% scored by the Irish.
For the Spartans the one-arm captain, Szymke, accounted for three of the points made by his team, winning his two epee bouts and one in foil while losing none.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Six N. D. Trackmen ' Place in Butler Relays
A small group of Notre Dame track stars competed in the Butler Relays on the night of March 21 in Indianapolis. Only 14 men made the trip, but from these 14, six men succeeded in placing in their respective events.
An exceptionally strong field was entered in the Relays and many Big-Ten teams entered their full groups. Glenn Cunningham competed in a
special mile race, and Jesse Owens was on hand to aid Ohio State in garnering second place in the team scoring.
Michigan’s Big Ten championship team took the team honors closely trailed by Ohio State. Notre Dame was far down the list with but 11 points.
Captain George Meagher turned in one of his best performances of the current season when he placed second to Jesse Owens in the running broad
jump. Owens’ winning j'ump was 24 feet 11 inches. In taking second place Meagher defeated Stoller of Michigan one of the most outstanding broadj'umpers in the Big Ten.
In the pole vault Dan Gibbs, new sophomore sui-prise, vaulted to 13 feet and took second place in that event. This was the first time Gibbs ever scaled 13 feet in competition and is the first Notre Dame pole vaulter to reach that height in several seasons.
PROCRASTINATION you on our waiting list.
Why sit you here idle, when the XIth OLYMPICS are being held August I to 16 at Berlin? While this event is garlanded with Festivals of Munich and Bayreuth, with shows innumerable, and wreathed in the most hospitable smiles and low fares throughout Germany.......While in England a new King reigns and the Henley Royal Regatta and the Cowes Royal Regatta draw people from the far ends of the world?
Your brothers and sisters are already booked, many with their cars, on the special student sailings—college orchestras aboard:
June 14 and July 1	June 21 and July 8
Bremen-Europa
These are the Lloyd Fliers of 4% Days across the ocean F
STUDENT SPECIAL JUNE 27, 5 P. M.
111	k 11 £ COBH'PLYMOUTH
LUlUlllUU'f CHERBOURG< BREMEN
JUNE 20, JULY 18
to GALWAY, COBH, ttfl |l| fl* SOUTHAMPTON, BREMEN |J^d|||
Hapag “famous four” to franco, England, Germany
JUNE 18	JUNE 25	JULY 2 JULY 9
DeutschlanD • now yorh • Hamburg • Hansa
JUNE 5, JULY 4 and AUG. 29
m. s. St. Louis to IRELAND, ENGLAND, GERMANY
Last Sailings to XIth Olympics
JULY 23
now yorh	• *
JULY 24
♦ Europa
-----------------------EDUCATIONAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT-------------------------------
Whether you want to Travel to Study or merely Study to Travel this department is at your beck and call—ready to tell you all about Summer Courses, Junior Year at leading Universities, Post Graduate work and pleasure, even hiking, canoeing or using the "old bus" throughout Europe.
b Hambura-Rmorlton Cine: north Gorman floyb x
Educational Service Department, 57 Broadway, New York, N.Y. tisry
130 West Randolph Street, Chicago, III.
Your Local'Travel Agent, our authorized representative, will also serve you at no additional cost.
April 3, 193 6
Seventeen
Point your toes for Easter/
THREE HUISKING BROTHERS DOMINATE
ANNUAL S. A. C. SWIMMING MEET
Fashion note from places where fashionable men congregate: In shoes, there’s a distinct trend toward a slightly more tapering toe this Spring. Wing-tips are going great guns. The spade-last is coming with a rush. The new shades of London Tan and Saddle Calf are receiving a warm welcome.
Green, McGurl Win Events
The annual S.A.C. swimming meet was held last Monday evening in the South Bend Natatorium with a large crowd of spectators watching the forty-odd participants battle away for the titles.
You’ll see all these new style notes in our -windows right now. Douglas gives you every fashionable detail—to the last spacing of a stitch—in the famous Douglas All-Leather Construction — at $3.95, $4.95, $5.50. Step into Douglas and you step into a saving that carries you not a fraction of an inch away from style. Step in and see!
The Huisking brothers from Long Island dominated the meet just as ■ they have in the past five years. The only difference between one year’s meet and the next is that one gets a glimpse of a new Huisking brother who is attending Notre Dame. This year it was Dick Huisking, of Dillon Hall, who made his debut to Irish swimming enthusiasts. He, along -with his elder brothers, Frank and Ed won the relay. Frank was first in the 220 yard free style, and Ed was first in the underwater' swim.
Anderson, Hughes, Casey and Lawyer were other winners of events. Anderson, Hughes and Benedict won the medley relay while McGurl won the low dive, and Green copped the high dive.
Summaries: 60 yard free style— Anderson, 1st; Lawler, 2nd; time 33.2. 60 yard breast stroke—Hughes, 1st, Lahey, 2nd; time 45. 60 yard back stroke—Casey, 1st; Verhoeven, 2nd; time 42. 20 yard underwater— E. Huisking, 1st; Hughes, 2nd; time 12.3. 100 yard free style—Lawler, 1st, Kelley, 2nd; time 1:03.8. 220 yard free style—F. Huisking, 1st, Anderson, 2nd; time 2.47. 240 yard free style relay won by F. Huisking, E. Huisking, and R. Huisking; 180 yard medley relay won by Anderson, •Hughes, and Benedict, time 2:2.2. McGurl -won the low dive with 88.28 points; Green won the high dive with 107.35 points.
THE ONE AND ONIY
GLASSES Properly FITTED
$3-95 $4-95 $5-50
W. L. DOUGLAS STORE IN SOUTH BEND
210 South Michigan Street (Open Saturday Evenings) Victor C. Astone, N.D. Representative
Starts Sweet Smokes Sweet Stays Sweet
NOTHING ELSE HAS ITS FLAVOR
Alto Imperial Yello Bole S1.50
SWEET AS HONEY
YELLO BOLE

with REAL HONEY .
To Exhibit Here, April 17

Est.
1900
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
1W6—Sixty Years of Progress—1936
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
On Friday night, April 17, the nationally famous Tilden Tennis Troupe will make an appearance in the Notre Dame gymnasium. The group at present consists of Bill Til-dent, one of the greatest tennis players of all time, Bruce Barnes, an outstanding professional tennis star, Miss Jane Sharp, Wightman Cup team member in her amateur days, and Mrs. Ethel Burkhardt Arnold, conqueror of Miss Kay Stammers, English champion and outstanding Wightman Cup team member.
The Tilden troupe is on a tour of the country and will stop off at Notre Dame for one night and then continue on to Chicago where they will make an appearance at the Chicago Coliseum. The troupe recently played at Madison Square Garden and scored a great success in their stay there.
Bill Tilden, the never-to-be-forgotten amateur player who won all sort of tennis championships, originated the idea of a traveling professional tennis group. Last year he had several foreign stars with him and the year before he traveled with Rene Cochet, the Frenchman who gave Bill such terrific battles in Davis Cup play. This year, however, Tilden is presenting an All - American group composed of some of the finest men and women professional stars in the world including Bruce Barnes and Mrs. Burkhart.
The match will be staged on the hard wood court of the basketball floor.	-
Eighteen
The Scholastic
Trackmen Limber Up As Outdoor Drill Starts
By Gene Vasletf**
Fair skies and a bright sun early this week found Coach Nicholson’s indoor track squad turning toward the Cartier field oval as they inaugurate the outdoor training season, but gray clouds and cold winds later on in the week caused many an athlete to wish he had never left the smaller track in the gymnasium. Cold weather
John Levicki Corby’s net coach.
is not an ideal condition to train for an outdoor running season, but Nick has a hard schedule ahead of him and is taking the earliest opportunity to get his men in shape and also to look over his possible strength in events that did not have places on the indoor card.
Two of these events that are peculiar to outdoor competition are the javelin and discus throw, and in both of these the outstanding point-getter seems to be John Levicki. Levicki is also a good shot putter, but his specialty is the javelin throw. Last year he was handicapped by a bad hand, but this season he expects to make up for the lost points. Don Elsei’ competes in the discus throw and is expected to get plenty of points for Nick this season.
QUICK PICK-UP FOR
Retired eyes
Want to give your eyes a lift? UseMurine. Soothing, refreshing to hot, tired, reddened eyes. Great for eyes irritated by read-ing, dust, wind, smoke, or light glare. Use it daily.

1 "You say Edgeworth Junior gives you more smoke for your money?. .How’s that?”
2 "Smoke it all the ivay doivn. Then you’ll get the economy angle.”
3 "Say!.. .1 get it! ... So mild you can smoke it ALL THE WAY DOWN TO THE HEEL!”
151
A TIN
CORN COB PIPE CLUB OF VIRGINIA... Cro^roads fun, music. Wednesday evenings at 9:00 (E.S.T.) over NBC Blue Network, direct from Richmond, Va. (Pacific Coast stations—KFI, KPO, KOMO, KGW, KHQ-)
“CELLOPHANE” WRAPPED
MAKE your tobacco money buy all the smoke you pay for. Smoke EDGEWORTH JUNIOR, the new, mild, free-burning pipe and cigarette tobacco. Larus & Bro. Co., Richmond, Va. Tobacconists since 1877.
EVES
GOOD ALL THE WAY
DOWN TO THE HEEL-
April 3. 1936
N i n et een
BASEBALL
(Continued from Page 14)
stiff competition. The three contenders for the first sack post are all sophomores—Van Wagner, Wukovits, and Moir. Ponzevic and Scafati are holding down second, and Reagan, Wentworth and Corcoran are taking care of short. Wally Fromhart and Weaver will cover the busy corner. Andy Pilney and Mortality are snaring them at left field, Valcheck and Romere at center, and Chris Matthews and Borowski at right.
Must Be in CHICAGO Bright and Early?
There's only one sure way to make a Chicago appointment on time . . . and that way is the South Shore Line way.
SOUTH SHORE LINE WILL GET YOU THERE RIGHT ON THE MINUTE.'
South Shore Line electric trains depart from South Bend every hour on the hour* speeding to Chicago’s loop in 125 minutes.
You can always depend on the South Shore Line to get you there in safety and comfort and on time. -
* Ft. Dearhorn Limited leaves at 6:50 a.m.
* SPLINTERS ... (Continued from Page 16)
ter he was surprised and said we could have packed the house at a dollar a head. It was a great show with grand battlers.
MAREK AND THE CARR BOUT
On Wednesday evening, March 11, Max Marek last year’s winner of the Bengal Boxing heavyweight crown, was beaten in Miami Beach, Florida, by Steve Carr on a decision. The verdict must have been a honey, judging from the following article written by Chuck Dewees, Miami Tribune Sports Editor, on the day following the bouts.
“Miami Beach’s lily-livered boxing commission last night made itself directly responsible for one of the rawest deals ever foisted upon a long-suffering fight public when it permitted two of its judges and an inefficient referee to hand Steve Carr a unanimous decision over Max Marek of Chicago.
“As a fight it left nothing to be desired, but the side angles to a most malodorous mess will curl Greater Miami nostrils for a long time to come . . . In the ninth it did appear that Marek landed low, but the members of the Miami Beach Boxing commission themselves seated in a ringside box, told the writer individually that they did not see Marek connect with low punches. Odd as it may seem, boxing commissions are supposed to know about boxing.”
Maybe George Moriarty, the umpire, would get a laugh out of that one.
ON ROCKNE’S ANNIVERSARY KNUTE ROCKNE '	By A. J. Lesousky
His life was like unto a stately lily clad in white; Each laden heart that felt his love was gladdened and made light. Nine angel choirs did greet his soul so strong and brave and fair With trumpet and sweet song and Victory Marches in the air.
His grave—’tis where a friend will pause from toil and worldly care To lay a wreath of roses rare—each rose incensed with prayer. His monument—’tis chiselled out of every riven heart That yearns to be with Rock—true, noble Rock—and ne’er to part.
And in the garden of sad hearts, one flower blooms day by day; ’Tis Hope, bejewelled with Faith—’tis longing for a eprfect day; A perfect day—the goal of each pure soul—the day of paeans— The day we’ll meet and play again with Rock, our coach, through aeons.
TX^OUNG man s fancy
(OR A YOUNG WOMAN'S)
50“LV.RE
turns to Greyhound for vacation trips
JATATURALLY so—for spring is on parade when you travel by highway, and every Greyhound bus offers a grandstand seat. Fares are kind to anemic budgets, while frequent sched-CAMPUS OFFICE ules enable you to leave sooner and stay longer.
NEXT TO BARBER SHOP
(In former Livingston'store)'
Hours: 12:30 to 5:30 St. Vincent de Paul Society in charge.
GREYHOUND
Twenty
The Scholastic
It costs us more to build a car like this
Ford quality goes far below the surface. It is built into every part of the car—in those things you see and those that are hidden. We say it with assurance—because it has been the experience of so many .millions of drivers— that many months after your first ride you will still be saying—“I’m glad I bought a Ford.”
The Ford Motor Company is not content with ordinary specifications for materials. Its own standards of quality for many important parts are considerably higher than usually accepted standards.
Ford valves are an example of this extra value. They are made of a nickel-chrome
FORD MOTO
alloy-steel that contains 13%' chromium, 13% nickel and 2% silicon. This unusually high alloy content increases resistance to heat—insures more efficient, economical performance and longer life.
Intake valves, as well as exhaust valves, are made of this more expensive steel in the Ford V-8. It is one of several good reasons why the Ford engine is singularly free of valve troubles.
It costs us more to build a car like this — yet the price of the Ford V-8 remains low. Ford manufacturing methods save many dollars for Ford owners — and bring fine-car quality within the reach of every one who drives.
R COMPANY
FENCING TEAM (Continued from Page 14)
two sabre bouts in his smashing, speedy style to make a clean sweep of the event. In epee the Irish ace, McAuliffe, was off form and he lost his two bouts, Telmo de Landero losing the other. However, the other juniors on the squad upheld the honor of their class, winning the only point in epee for Notre Dame to make the score 13 to 4, the highest ever scored
April 3, 193 6
by the Irish. For Washington Captain Treck, Willman and Myers scored one point each in epee, Slonim scoring the other point for Washington in the foil. By winning their last match of the season, the Irish kept their slate clean and scored their 17th straight victory.
This Friday the two Irish Co-cap-tains, Carlos de Landero and Kevin Kehoe will compete in sabre in the AFLA meet at Chicago. On Saturday the two Co-captains and Jack Mc--Auliffe will compete in the foil and
epee. Should any of these men place first, second , or third, they will qualify for the national amateur meet which is to be held at New York the latter part of this month. From the cream of the competitors at the New York meet, the United States Olympic Squad will be selected.
The University novice meet has been in progress this week in the gym. Competition is in the sabre only. The results of this novice-meet will be published in the next issue of The Scholastic.
Twenty-one
The JOHN MARSHALL
FOUNDED 1899
AN
ACCREDITED
LAW SCHOOL
TEXT and CASE
SYSTEM
•
Note: Beginning September, 1936, the afternoon course continues as a 3-yeor course, but the evening course changes from a 3- to a 4-year course.
• Students desizing to take the present 3-yearevening course must enter on or before July 6,1936.
LAW
SCHOOL
CHICAGO, ILL.
CLASSES Afternoons . 4:30 Evenings . . 6:30 Lead to LL.B, and J.D. degrees. Two years' college work required for entrance.
For free catalog and booklet, "Study of Law and Proper Preparation" address: Edward T. Lee, Dean, Box 2^ 315 Plymouth Court, CHICAGO.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Twenty-two
ON DOWN THE LINE
By Al Bride
DID YOU KNOW:
LEO DUROCHER, talkative shortstop of the ST. LOUIS CARDINALS, coached the baseball aspirants at the UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY prior to his departure for the CARDINAL’S training camp? The BROOKLYN FOOTBALL DODGERS are eyeing KING KONG KLEIN, star NEW YORK UNIVERSITY center and NOWAK’S playmate, with interest? KLEIN was a regular tackle on the VIOLET eleven and took part in the fistic fracas in the FORDHAM encounter? . . , CLAIRE F. BEE, who coached LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY’S undefeated basketball
five, can take full credit for his team’s fine showing? Of the five regulars only BEN KRAMER was an outstanding performer on a high school floor. The other four regulars were just ordinary high school players until BEE took them in hand and made them among the tops in collegiate basketball . . . TEMPLE adheres strictly to training rules? Recently ten members of the OWL’S freshmen ten were ordered to pack up and leave foi- failure to observe training regulations . . . The WRIGLEYS of the CHICAGO CUBS are spending $150,000 in rebuilding WRIGLEY FIELD, yet the seating capacity will be reduced by 3,349 seats? ... In MIAMI wrestling matches are advertized in the newspapers with the tag line, Blood!! 1 - Action1! 1 - Mayhem 111? . . . The odds on the colorful BROOKLYN DODGERS to cop the NATIONAL LEAGUE flag decreased from 30-1 to 20-1 after the acquisi-
The Scholastic
19 3 6	Twenty-three
A UGH T SMOKE
OF RICH, RIPE-BODIED TOBACCO
Although the constituents of cigarette paper are, in themselves, unsurpassed in purity and wholesomeness, it may, if crudely fabricated, contribute a marked degree of irritation to cigarette smoke. Cigarette paper not only envelops the tobacco in forming a cigarette, but through its physical properties may ex-
ercise a favorable or detrimental influence upon the products of combustion.
Paper for Lucky Strike Cigarettes is made under our own supervision. Samples of each lot of cigarette paper manufactured are subjected to the most rigid analysis before it is used in making Lucky Strike Cigarettes.
Copyright 1836, Tlio American Tobacco Company
Luckies are less acid

Excess of Acidity of Other Popular Brands Over LuckyStrike Cigarettes
BALANCE

□
S T R I KE
|	BRAND	B~
I	BRAND	C~
|	BRAND	D~
««»»»
Recent chemical tests show* that other popular brands .. . have an excess of acidity over Lucky Strike of from 53% to 100%. .
RESULTS VERIFIED BY INDEPENDENT CHEMICAL LABORATORIES AND RESEARCH GROUPS
IT’S TOASTED"
Your throat protection
against irritation
against cough
I want my cigarette mild, of course—I hardly think anybody enjoys a strong cigarette. But deliver me from the flat,
I find a great deal of pleasure in Chesterfields. They’re mild and yet they seem to have more taste and aroma.