The Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC
15 Cte. a Copy	January 15
$3.00 the Year	19 3 2
“Well, so Patou is featuring a Danse de feuilles model in gold chiffon this year.”
Maybe it’s reader interest that the gentleman in the handsomely lithographed portrait is displaying. We’re not certain .... but we do know it’s not a copy of the JUGGLER he’s reading. That’s ONE magazine that never reaches an ash-can. Look for it in students* rooms, in the hands of mothers, fathers, sweethearts. It’s a sure bet that more than three thousand men at Notre Dame will read your selling message if it’s in the pages of the
University juggler
Notre Dame Indiana
January 8, 1932	'	One
But the telephone conversation must not freeze
A sudden cold snap might seriously interfere with long distance telephone service were it not for the studies made by Bell System engineers.
They found that temperature variations within 24 hours may make a ten-thousandfold difference in the amount of electrical energy transmitted over a New York-Chicago cable circuit! On such long circuits initial energy
is normally maintained by repeaters or amplifiers, installed at regular intervals. So the engineers devised a regulator—operated by weather conditions—which automatically controls these repeaters, keeping current always at exactly the right strength for proper voice transmission.
This example is typical of the interesting problems that go to make up telephone work.
BELL SYSTEM
A NATION-WIDE SYSTEM OF IN T E R - C O N N ECTI NG TELEPHONES
Tivo
The Scholastic
The Grotto
Where Notre Dame Men Pay a Year-round Tribute To Our Lady

January 8, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub- j	Ik I g	1 I g ■ Entered as second-date
lished weekly at the Univers-	I	|\|AV|*A	I JAHIA	matter at Notre Dame, In-
ity of Notre Dame. Manu-	■	■ ■ W»	■ NWil W	1XQIIIV	WHVIQdklV diana. Acceptance for mailscripts may be addressed to _ .	—	. „	T_. ,	_y.	.,	ing at special rate of postage.
THE SCHOLASTIC, Publi- DlSCC QUOSt Semper VwtUTUS VWC Quast Cras Monturus Section 1103, October 3.1917, cations Office, Main Building.	„ ~ TT »r ™ ~	„ - -	authorized June 35, 1913.
JrUUPiDrtD 1 o b o
Neil C. Hurley____________________________Editor-in-Chief
William W. Corr, Managing Editor	James S. Kearns, Assistant Managing Editor
Associate Editors MYRON CRAWFORD LESLIE RADDATZ WILLIAM BLIND
News Staff EDMUND STEPHAN...........News Editor
F. GRANGER WEIL____Assistant News Editor ■ WALTER KENNEDY ROBERT DILLON
PATRICK CORCORAN LARRY DUNDA THOMAS HILS BERNARD COUSINO ROY SCHOLZ	MITCHELL TACKLEY
JOHN McELLIGOTT JAMES McCRALEY MAURICE GARLAND THOMAS FOLEY
Desk Editors GEORGE DUQUETTE LLOYD TESKE J. DON SULLIVAN	WILLIAM FLYNN
Department Editors
JAMES CARMODY...............The	Week
JOHN PICK...............College	Parade
JOHN CONLEY.............Campus Clubs
WALTER JOHNSON..........Features Editor
JOHN RYAN.............Music	and Drama
JOSEPH LOPKER.............Staff	Artist
Sports Staff JAMES E. McFEELY....Sports	Edtior
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER JOSEPH BORDA WILLIAM O’GRADY WILLIAM DREUX	JOHN LYNCH
JOSEPH KURTH
Features Staff
WALTER JOHNSON........Features Editor
HARRY BURCHELL EDWIN KENNEDY STEPHEN HAWXHURST TIGHE WOODS EDWARD J. O'BRIEN BRYAN DEGNAN
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN......Circulation Mgr. RAYMOND J. NABER, Ass’t. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER, JR-....Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, Ass’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS.......JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY MCGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY. —Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
JANUARY 15, 1932
Number 12.
SUMMARY i NEWS ; Jerry Heffernan, well known Chicago ring man, will referee The Scholastic boxing contests; Heartly “Hunk” Anderson will judge-_____:_________________5
Four colleges of the University to he represented in ' talks over WSBT_____________________________________ 5
Junior Prom is the first dance to he held in the dining halls; Art Kassel’s “.Castles in the Air” will furnish the music______________________________ 5
Father Ryan writes “Catholic History of Western Europe”; to be read here in September_______________13
FEATURES
Paul Hallinan gets twenty letters in a day, edits . sports during the summer and edited a perfect Dome last year____________:________________________ 12
Notre Dame had hockey team at one time—-and they were champs____________________:-------------15 ,
Father Sorin purchased 120 acres near Austin, Texas, in 1871, with the intention of founding a college; St. Edward’s the successful result---------16
The real dope on “The Ghost of Washington Hall”---17
SPORTS
These boys, Krause and DeCook, show Marquette how to play ball_________________________________20
Fists fly as boxers go inot training for Scholastic meet---------------------------------------------20
Iowa, Butler, Illinois, and Marquette included on tentative track schedule_________________________22
This Tommy Burns is one tough guy to encounter----25
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, January 15—Scholastic staff meetings: Editorial board, 6:30 p. m., Publications office; news and sports staffs, 7:00 p. m., Room 222, Main building.
SATURDAY, January 16—Movie, Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.—Baseball, Notre Dame vs. University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.
SUNDAY, January 17—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.
MONDAY, January 18—French club meeting, Main building, 6:30 p. m.—K. of C. open meeting, Walsh hall, 8:00 p. m.
TUESDAY, January 19—Italian club meeting, Main building, 6:30 p. m.—Scribblers’ meeting, Howard “rec,” 6:30 p. m.—Concert orchestra program, Washington hall, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, January 20—Economics seminar, 8:00 p. m., Law building.
THURSDAY, January 21—Wranglers meeting, Law building, 7:00 p. m.— Spectators meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
By James Carmody
T HE most sedate of all campus lodgings, Sorin, has gone sophomorish in so far as it is supporting a small group of funsters with a new wrinkle in the line of annoyances. It seems that this particular band of lads happened to have a dollar between them at the time that they saw French horns at a quarter per in . Kresge’s; they blew it in the interests of amusement during the long nights of this pseudo-winter that is gripping us. If commotion was their aim, the dollar was well-spent; for at a common signal, from each of the floors will come simultaneous blasts that make State and Madison seem a suburban side street in comparison. At any rate, the idea is novel, and not nearly so distracting as the throwing of rubbish cans down the stairs; the horns are not too childish; and we secretly suspect that the rector’s smile isn’t so grim as he tells us it is. Heigh, ho, for the good old university life I
Depression has its advantages in giving us a lot more for our money than we used to get. We’re thinking particularly of the boxing show that The Scholastic is staging in the gym some time next month. In other years the quarter it costs to get in has bought some pretty good boxing, quite a bit of slugging, and a fair amount of good laughs. This year, they tell us, they are to be there in greater amount. “Hunk” is going to be head judge of the bouts, which will eliminate a lot of the boos that inevitably accompany decisions; Johnny Perone, Buffalo wit, will call the names and accomplishments of the participants; and Bill Magarrall, himself one of the cleverest boxers that ever worked out here, is in charge of the arrangements. There’s a rumor about that Perone will challenge, in the name of Corby Hall, any man of his weight from Sorin, for three rounds. The idea is, I suppose, to renew the feud between the two neighbors that was unfortunately cancelled this fall.
NE of the foremost of that exclusive group, the Rexall Rangers of Bulletin fame, has added another accomplishment to his long list. Before this he had achieved a sizeable portion of fame as a raconteur and citizen of several towns, but all this pales before the magnitude of his present undertaking. Not to be outdone by Ben Bernie, he has started out single-handed, and with no previous experience except a duet in Dayton, to croon Bing and Russ into complete oblivion. Consistently, he has made a modest start, with no fanfare, and his efforts are confined to Walsh’s frantic fourth floor. Tom Mahaffey, for it is really he, gives auditions on the slightest provocation; the fourth is becoming more and more frantic, what with the acclamation and the hair-tearing. We never knew how many friends Tom had until we noticed the fellows who kept their mouths clamped tight. But it’s all in fun, and so is this, don’t forget.
E used to hear Art Kassel over the air, and noted that after every number there was prolonged shouting and vigorous clapping. We got the impression that the Bismarck was one of the high spots of Chicago, where gaiety was, unconfined, and noise was the prevalent sound effect. So one night we felt extremely devilish and ventured into the Kassel domain. We sat to our surprise in a very sedate, quite nicely adorned room, and wondered where we could locate the source of all the gay noise. We found it after Kassel had finished a group of dances. While the crowd walked off the floor very quietly and dignifiedly, the whole band of a sudden rose up, and for the benefit of the microphone went into an excellent imitation of wild night life in the big city. It’s too bad that he won’t be broadcasting from the dining hall, because this gag is really funny.
4
January 15, 1932
Five
FACULTY MEMBERS TO GIVE TALKS OVER WSBT
Radio Addresses Will Feature Men From Each College.
Three faculty members from each of the four colleges will represent the University in a series of radio talks to be delivered in the near future over the WSBT broadcasting station in South Bend. The announcement was made through the office of Father Carrico, director’ of studies.
From the College of Arts and Letters, Professor Daniel O’Grady, Ph.D., will speak on “Contemporary Views of the Universe”; Charles Phillips, M.A., will talk on “Backgrounds in Literature”; and Professor Edwin Cooley will speak on the subject, “Making of Criminals.”
Reverend Francis Wenninger, C. S. C., Ph.D., dean of the College of Science, will represent that college with a speech on “The Insect World.” J. Arthur Reyniers, M.S., and William L. Engels, B.S., also of the College of Science, will talk on the subjects, “The Story of the Bacteria,” and “The Changing Scene of Animal Life,” respectively.
The College of Commerce will be represented by Reverend Thomas Lahey, C.S.C., Ph.D., who will speak on “The Place of a College of Commerce in Preparing Students for Business Leadership”; Eugene Payton, LL.B., who will give a talk on “Student Ethics,” and L. T. Flatley, M.S., who will discourse on “Speculations and Investments.”
Professor Clarence Manion, J.D., of the College of Law, will talk on “Decline in Ownership.” Judge William Cain, LL.B., will speak on “Delays in Litigation,” and Thomas F. Konop, dean of the College, will talk on “The Lawyer and the Public.”
Each week three radio talks will be given. Each of these speeches will be half an hour in length and will be presented at 7:30 o’clock in the evening. The date for the first of this series has not been announced as yet but will appear in the next issue of Ti:e Scholastic.
Grid Men Are Speakers
Charles Jaskwhich and Joseph Sheeketski, members of the 1931 football team, were speakers at the testimonial dinner for the St. Hed-wige High school athletes in St. Hed-wige’s hall Wednesday night.
JERRY HEFFERNAN TO REFEREE BOUTS AT “SCHOLASTIC” FISTIC TOURNAMENT
Kassel to Play For Prom In
Dining Hall
By Walter Kennedy
An innovation in Notre Dame social affairs will take place on the night of February fifth, when the Junior Prom
John Finneran
“. . . The Junior class feels it has accomplished something.”
of 1932 will be held in the west wing of .the University dining hall. This will be the first time that a dance of this kind has ben held on the campus, and departs from the usual custom of using the Palais Royale and other South Bend floors for school functions.
Kassel’s Orchestra Will Play
Neil Ebert, chairman of the Prom, also announced this week that the services of Art Kassel, and his “Castles in the Air” orchestra, have been secured for the Prom. According to Ebert, this orchestra is one of the best playing in the middle west at the present time, and the music committee feels sure that the musical score will be well handled.
It was only after considerable work on the part of John Finneran, Junior class president, that the University officials gave permission for the use of the hall. Too much difficulty which would be involved in the re-arranging of the hall from a place to eat to a (Continued on Page 10)
ANDERSON IS HEAD JUDGE
Referee Is Boxing Coach At Loyola University; Blue Circle To Help.
Billy Magarrall, boxing expert of The Scholastic, tells of the fighters on page 20 of this issue. A complete account of the training program is given.
By James S. Kearns
Plans for The Scholastic boxing tournament on February 12 have advanced rapidly during the past week, with the selection of the principal officials for the affair. Jerry Heffernan, popular Chicago ring figure, has been named as referee and Coach Heartly ‘Hunk” Anderson will act as head judge.
The choice of Heffernan as the third man in the ring during the bouts for the campus titles should insure high class handling of all the contests. Active in college fistic circles for several years in the capacity of head boxing coach at Loyola University, Chicago, he is probably one of the most competent men who could have been selected.
Coach Anderson’s connection with similar events held in past years made him the ideal choice for the post of head judge. He has filled that position at several former ring shows, and has acted as referee at others.
Indications of the support that the tournament is receiving from campus leaders were manifested this week by the overtures of assistance and approval that were made to the men in charge. President John Kramer of the S. A. C. placed the services of the Blue Circle at the disposal of the management. Invaluable aid is expected from that group in the general conduct of the tournament.
Athletic Director Jesse C. Harper voiced enthusiastic approval of The Scholastic’s activity in the sponsoring of this event. “I am definitely
(Continued on Page 9)
Six
The Scholastic
George Ryan Wins Breen Medal Oratorical Contest
WRANGLERS SELECT
ALL-INTERHALL TEAM
Foley, Madden, Becek* Named On Debating Squad.
PROHIBITION TOPIC
Will Represent N, D. In State Meet At Indianapolis Next Month,
George Ryan, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, last night won the Breen Medal oratorical award, annually presented to the student showing the greatest speaking ability.
The decision of the judges, Frank Kelly, Albert Doyle, and William Farrel, were so close that a short consultation took place before Professor William Coyne could announce Ryan the winner.. The award will be presented at commencement time.
William Whelan, a sophomore, received a large hand from the audience, and although he did not actually receive the award was an easy second choice.
Maurice Powers and Joseph Becek were the remaining two speakers that survived the stiff competition of the early trials and earned the right to speak in the final grouping.
Ryan, discussing the topic, “Prohibition—An American Tragedy,” cut loose with all of the old-time flaying invectives against the eighteenth amendment, and kept the audience at constant attention as he tore into a slashing denial of the worth of it as a constitutional amendment.
Declaring that it has made us a nation of law-breakers, he added that not only “old topers” and habitual drunkards disregard the law, but also many prominent citizens.
“Prohibition is Utopian in its ideals,” Ryan stated emphatically, “and instead of causing the saloon to pass forever—bringing with it an era of clean living, it has influenced personal conduct to a point that most people observe all civil law as they wish or not.”
Whelan chose as his subject, “Cancellation of German Reparations.” Talking convincingly, the youthful sophomore brought out well the fact that debts are no assurance of peace.
(Continued on Page 11)
W. P. BREEN, ’87, IS DONOR OF MEDAL FOR ORATORY
The William P. Breen medal is the symbol of what is highest in Notre Dame oratory. The desired award is conferred after competition in delivered orations, and the winner rep-
William P. Breen, ’87
He donated the medal for outstanding speakers.
resents the University in the Indiana State Oratorical contest. Although the medal may be won only once the winner can compete several times for the honor of representing the University in the State contest.
William P. Breen who was the donor of the medal was the recipient of three degrees from the University. In 1877 he graduated with a degree of Bachelor of Arts, in 1880 he received the degree of Master of Arts, and in 1902 the University of Notre Dame selected him to receive the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws.
He was one of the foremost lawyers of Indiana, being president of the- State Bar association for one four-year term, and a member of the Executive committee of the American Bar association for three years. In (Continued on Page 14)
Paul Foley, David Madden, and Joseph Becek were named on the Wrangler s’ all-interhall debating team last night, when a consensus opinion of all members, coachse and judges was taken in the Seminar room of the Law building.
Second team selection placed John H e y w o o d, Richard Ballman, and Arthur Korzeneski in the .honored positions. Honorable mention went to Fred Dolph, Franklyn Hockreiter, Joseph D.evitt, and Charles Monahan.
Several of the halls placed two men on one of the teams, but it is noteworthy that no team is; represented by more than that number.
“The competition,” said James O’Shaughnessy, chairman of the event, “was unusually close. It was only after hard and meticulous work that we were able to come to any selection.
“Yet,” he added, “we sincerely believe that the men we have named are unquestionably the best of the interhall competition and should advance far into the oratorical field.”
Geographically, Becek hails from Brownson, Foley from Carroll, and Madden from Freshman. Heywood lives in Sophomore, while both Ballman and Korzeneski are residents of Dillon.
Further business of the Wranglers included the setting of a date for the interhall banquet, to which all competitors are invited. It will be held the first Thursday after examinations, with Arthur Sankusky in charge.
A short talk by Neil C. Hurley, president, wound up the meeting.
U. S. C. Game In Movies
The largest scale post mortem in the history of sport reached South Bend, and Notre Dame fans, this week with the. showing of the complete Notre Dame-Southern California game in motion pictures at a local theater. .Large crowds of students and supporters thronged the theater to watch the’ pictorial version of the famous Nov. 21st battle. -
January 15, 1932
Seven
RADDATZ ANNOUNCES
SNAPSHOT CONTEST
Notre Dame Knights Will Hold Open Meeting Monday
Three Cash Prizes Are Offered For Best Photographs.
Leslie Raddatz, editor-in-chief of the Dome of 1932, announced the first of the Dome’s snapshot contests this week. James Clark, managing editor, will be in charge of the contest. The Dome will award five dollars to the
James B. Clark
“. . . We really need the pictures.”
student who submits the best snapshot. Second prize will be three dollars and third prize two dollars. Judges of the contest are James Clark, Leslie Raddatz, and Arthur Becvar, art editor of this year’s Dome.
Partial rules for the contest.are:
1.	Snapshots must be taken on the campus or in the vicinity of Notre Dame. Pictures of students on vacation will not be judged.
2.	Snapshots will be judged primarily for their photographic merits and for their interest to the greatest number of students. This excludes pictures depicting the pranks of funloving students.
“The staff of this year’s Dome,” said Clark, “is trying to turn out a snapshot section that will surpass all past ones in artistic content and in novelty of presentation. A number of students have declared their interest in photographic work for the Dome. This is their chance to do some work and earn some money. We really need the pictures.”
SEMINAR HEARS TALK ON UNEMPLOYMENT AT MEETING WED.
“It is a strange and sad paradox that man should starve, go naked, and sleep in parks because he produced too much of food, clothing and houses. Starvation in a land of plenty bodes ill for the system,” read Coleman O’Shaughnessy in the introduction of a paper on “Unemployment” written by him and given before the meeting of the economic’s seminar held Wednesday.
“The cast of idle machine and capital is included in the place of the produce,” he continued. “Why should not the cast of idle labor be assured by industry, which is better able to beat it than is the laborer and his family.”
A summary of O’Shaughnessy’s findings on the unemployment situation includes: “Public and private charities in assuming the burden of caring for the unemployed are encouraging industry to perpetuate policies that result in unemployment. In fine, charity subsidizes unemployment.”
If the cost of unemployment was fixed on the shoulders of industry by legal bonds, only then would the best minds of industry be applied to the problem of unemployment. These minds would be even keener in searching for means to stabilize unemployment than they are now in searching for machines with which to displace labor.
“Since 1910 industry has on the average saved 40% of the profits and applied them to reserve funds for dividends, bad debts and expansion, but never to a reserve fund for' unemployment. In 1930 dividends increased §1,350,000,000 while wages fell $8,850,000,000. The dividends of stockholders are protected by ingenious devices—why not flesh and blood that produces them?”
A lengthy discussion of the paper followed the reading, and solutions to the problems in the light of placing the burden of preventing unemployment. on the employers, were proffered.
SPECIAL PROGRAM
Dancing Act, Boxing Bouts and Glee Club Soloist To Be the Feature Entertainment.
Notre Dame Council 1477, of the Knights of Columbus, through lecturer John Wittliff, has extended an invitation to all students who are not members of the council to attend an open meeting next Monday evening, at eight o’clock in the Walsh hall chambers. Special entertain-tainment for the evening has been arranged by Wittliff, who has attempted to get the best of available campus and local talent.
Songs and Socks
The Three Mahons, Eddie, Patricia, and Eileen, in “Steps from old Erin, Irish Reels and Clog,” will top the program. Following this burst of Irish gaiety comes two boxing bouts directed by the pugilistically-minded Billy Magarrell, promoter of The Scholastic boxing show, Febraury 12, and well known campus fighter. He will participate in one of the bouts. Something a little lighter in the way of a few renditions from the Glee club soloists will come next in line.
The main purpose of the meeting is to give the student body an insight into the activities and routine of the council, with an eye towards increasing membership.
Entrance Fee is Cut
At the last meeting of the Knights it was decided that, in view of the fact that many would join the organization if the entrance fee was diminished, the fee will be cut from fifteen to twelve dollars. This arrangement will be in effect for thirty days.
Those interested in the above proposition are asked to get in touch with any of the Knights or to inquire at the K. C. office in the Main biulding, second floor, any- day between the hours of ten and eleven.
Eight
The Scholastic
A STIMULANT SEEMS TO BE NEEDED FOR CLUBS
Campus City Groups Show Little Activity This Year.
By John Conley
The annual Christmas formals at the Congress, the New Yorker, the Newark A. C., or at the Main hotel located in every town boasting student representatives, proved disastrous in this season of economic distress. Hundred dollar losses, which could be absorbed without embarrassment by the larger groups, aroused consternation among the smaller clubs.
Club life at Notre Dame, long tottering on a shaky pinnacle, seems destined to need adequate supports to keep the tipsy structure from collapsing altogether. The recent deluge of unsuccessful dances weakened the organizations as a whole even more.
Apparently something will have to be done. Numerous clubs, finding it almost impossible to obtain a fair gathering at any of their meetings, are considering throwing in the sponge and letting dear old Rocky Hills valley district go without representation on the local campus.
Yet the opinion of observers seems to be that such a condition would be an extremely wrong action.
“If clubs are on shaky grounds,” one leader in undergraduate circles stated this week, • “it is time for everyone to unite to keep up the interest. Numerous banquets and smokers should be scheduled. Some organizations should double up and hold joint meetings. The President’s council should meet and face this situation squarely in the face and proceed to administer first aid.”
Scholarships Announced
The University of Nebraska has announced fellowships, scholarships and graduate assistantships for graduate study during the year 1932-33. They include University Research Scholarships, Scholarships in Business Research, Research Fellowships in Chemistry, the Wolfe Memorial Fellowship, and others. Additional information may be obtained by application at the Registrar’s office.
CHAIRMAN
Jack Cooper, Scribbler and Scrip staff member, who was appointed chairman of the New Jersey club banquet to be held February 3.
PAPER ON DISARMAMENT READ TO FACULTY
BY REGISTRAR
“Some Economic Aspects of National Defense” is the title of a paper to be delivered by Registrar Robert B. Riordan at the next meeting of the Lay Faculty club of the College of Arts and Letters, Monday. Jan. 18.
The gathering, which will be the regular monthly dinner of the club, will chiefly concern itself with the election of officers for the ensuing year. The present officers are: Professor Francis E. Moran, president; Professor William E. Farrell, vice-president; Professor William H. Downey, secretary; and Professor George J. Wack, treasurer.
Boxing Show Tickets To Cost
Only a Quarter
Tickets for the charity boxing show on Febraury 12 will go on sale next week, with the admission price to students but twenty-five cents. '
Halls will be canvassed, and tickets for a special reserved section will be sold next Friday evening at the regular rate of a quarter. Ducats sold at the gate on the night of the bouts, although retailing at the same price, will not be in the ringside section.
FATHER RYAN HONORED
Appointed Member of So. Bend Washington Day Group.
Reverend John M. Ryan, C.S.C. was invited this week by Mayor Hinkle of South Bend, to act as a member of the South Bend-George Washington Bicentennial committee.
In his letter of invitation to Father Ryan, Mayor Hinkle explained that this action was in harmony with the plan of the United States and the Indiana-George Washington Bicentennial commissions which called for the appointment of such a committee composed of the most public-spirited citizens in the cities of the states to plan and direct local commemorations of the two hundredth anniversary of Washington’s birth.
In commenting on his appointment, Father Ryan stated that probably an effort would be made to incorporate the elaborate campus Washington Day exercises with the South Bend commemoration. At the first meeting of the committee which was held last evening in the Council Chamber of the City Hall, this suggestion was discussed.
Concert Band To Play For Pittsburgh Game
Members of the University concert band are rehearsing for their initial appearance on the campus. Under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casa-santa, head of the department of music, the band will play at the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game in the gymnasium on the evening of January 23.
The band has a membership of ninety this year, an increase of thirty members over last year. The personnel is comprised of the regular band members plus a number of the reserves and other students who tried out for the first time.
The concert band will play several selections preceding the game and between the halves.
Conroy, ’31, on Eastern Paper
Word has been received of another graduate of the School of Journalism. He is John J. Conroy, A. B. ’31, who is now working for the Bridgeport Post in Bridgeport, Connecticut. From the contents of his letter he seems to be very enthusiastic about the work.
January 15, 1932
Nine
SPECTATORS HEAR BLIND
Speaker Discusses Failure of the League of Nations.
William C. Blind, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, addressed the Spectators at the regular weekly meeting of the club last Thursday evening on the subject, “The League of Nations, a Failure.”
Showing first the plans and ambitions of the League at the time of its origin and contrasting these with its actual accomplishments Blind came to the conclusion in his talk that practically nothing of concrete value has been effected.
Since such is the case, the speaker advocated the abolishing of the group unless some very radical and exceptional changes take place in the near future in regard to the League’s personnel and policy.
The suggestion to abolish the League met with considerable opposition from the rest of the Spectators. The point was made that this organization, notwithstanding its limited powers and incapacity to exert coercive force is better than nothing at all, and that it is at least a step towards an ideal, unattainable though the latter may be.
To do away with all arbitration, it was contended, would be nothing but a sorry admission that all war and dispute is unavoidable.
Walter Johnson and Edmund Stephan will address the Club at the next meeting on the subjects, “Government Control of Basic Industry” and “This Superficial Age,” respectively.
FISTIC OFFICIALS PICKED
(Continued from Page 5)
planning on atending The Scholastic’s boxing show,” he stated “and expect to see a large crowd in attendance.”
With the complete proceeds to go to the Bengal Mission fund, the boxing tournament is expected to develop into the outstanding intramural event of the year. With campus interest already running high and outside fans taking more than an ordinary interest, a capacity house is expected when the Fighting Irish really start to fight.
HEAD JUDGE
Heartly Anderson, head coach of football, who will serve as head judge at The Scholastic boxing tournament, February 12.
COMPANIONS STRESSED IN DELINQUENCY TALK BY PROFESSOR PETTIT
“Child Delinquency,” was the subject matter of the talk given by Professor Maurice L. Pettit, before the St. Stanislaus’ B. M. Civic council in the St. Stanislaus’ B. M. auditorium last Friday evening. The chief factor contributing to child delinquency was said to be improper companionship.
The speaker went on to say that the important thing is to give the boys something to do, when they are not at home, in school, or in church. “We must provide recreational facilities for them,” he stated. “The cost of recreation is not so large in spite of depression because it costs $236.50 a year to keep one child in a reform institution.
Professor Pettit, is boys’ probation ' officer of the county juvenile court. He is a member of the sociology and probation department of the University.
The staff of the “Scholastic” wishes to express its deepest sympathy to Professor Camille S. McCole on the death of his father, who passed away last Tuesday morning.
“SANTA MARIA” TO BE ISSUED AS YEAR-BOOK
Council Decides on New Form At December Meeting.
The ’ members of the Knights of Columbus decided at their regular meeting Monday night that a council year-book will replace the Santa Maria magazine this year. The council approved expenditure for the engraving and printing of the book.
The same name, Santa Maria, will identify the publication as before, but instead of the two, three, or four appearances of the past, the book will be published in May. It will record the. activities of the year in the council and on the campus, together with such features as will fit in with this scheme of publication.
The plan was suggested at a December meeting by Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., chaplain, in a discussion of the magazine. Especially considered was the fact that the field of the magazine,—literary,—was fairly well covered by the already adequate group on the campus. Father Reynolds and other members present felt that a year-book would be of more value to the council.
Although the Santa Maria is famous as a one-man publication, Paul J. Hallinan, this year’s editor, has decided to utilize the talent of the journalistic and literary stars whose names are included in the Knights of Columbus enrollment. Neil C. Hurley, editor-in-chief of The Scholastic; Joseph Petritz, editor of the Football Review and director of athletic publicity, will be among the contributing editors.
It is being planned at present to include in the book, which will consist of 80 pages, photographs of the graduating members, as .well as the council’s officers and activities’ men. Other features of the magazine will be announced in the future.
Student Vagabonds
The Daily Northwestern has editorially endorsed the movement started in eastern universities, to encourage student “vagabonding.” Lectures of general interest in all departments will be listed twice weekly and the doors opened to any student, regardless of whether he is enrolled for the course.
Ten
The Scholastic
CANDOUR IS NAMED AS “DOME” BUSINESS HEAD
John Stoeckley Makes Appointment Yesterday.
Jackson Gandour, a junior in the College of Commerce, was appointed advertising manager of the Dome of 1932 last night by John F. Stoeckley, graduate manager of publications.
John Stoeckley
He selects Gandour as head.
Students interested in working on the business staff will meet Monday evening at 7:00 o’clock in the Publications office. Underclassmen who applied too late to secure positions on the business staffs of The Scholastic or Juggler may serve, if qualified, on the Dome this year and receive credit toward staff positions on the other publications for next year.
The work consists of arranging with local merchants for advertising, besides the written solicitation of national advertising. Actual advertising experience is not necessary. A limited number of typing positions are also open.
Cage Figures
In the first nine games of the season, the Notre Dame basketball team made an average of .476 of the free throws they attempted.
Campus Opinions
Question: “Hou) would you compare professional sport ivith college or other amateur sport?”
Tom Ewing, Dillon hall, freshman: “College and amateur sport has more spirit. College football, as one example, draws larger crowds than does professional football. Professional players study the games deeper and show more teamwork. College players participate in athletics for the honor of the school and for the purpose of making a name for themselves.”
Gerald J. Andres, Howard hall, junior: “I would rank professional and amateur sports equally. Professional athletes, generally speaking, have more ability and proficiency, but they do not have the strong competitive spirit that is found in amateur sport, which spirit often makes up for a sometimes amazing lack of original ability on the part of amateurs but which later usually becomes developed. Professional baseball is on a higher plane than other professional sports because it possesses both the necessary competitive spirit and ability and is very popular. It is really an exception to other professional sports because of these facts.”
Kenneth Rous, Dillon hall, freshman: “In professionalism in athletics each man is out for his own glory and benefit, whereas in college athletes are playing for the school. Their interests lie wholly in the success and good name of the school and they keep striving for that purpose. Larger attendance at college athletic contests is drawn because the public enjoys the spirit behind them.”
Bill Miller, Dillon hall, freshman: “Professional and college sports should not be compared. Professionals play for the profitable side of the games alone. College sports are played for the sake of sport alone. The public is too much of an influence in college sport. It is ruining the elementary purpose back of college football, which was fundamentally made for students and which should be left in the students’ hands. The public has not so much influence on other amateur sports as it has on football because these other sports are not so popular.”
KASSEL IS PROM BAND
West Dining Hall To Be Scene of Junior Dance.
(Continued from Page 5)
place to dance was the main reason given by the authorities when they first refused permission.
But through the efforts of Finneran and Ebert, acting under a Scholastic suggestion, the authorities were induced to allow the dance to be held in the hall.
Reviews old Traditions
President Finneran made the statement this week that “the Junior class feels that it has accomplished something noteworthy in bringing a class dance on the campus for the first time in several years.
In being able to contract Art Kassel to furnish the music for the Prom, the music committee is continuing the policy of past Proms of bringing to the University the leading orchestras in the country. Kassel has made an enviable reputation for himself during the past several seasons, and at the present time is broadcasting and playing at the Hotel Bismarck in Chicago, where he has been situated for two years.
Chairman Ebert made known yesterday that the ticket sale for the dance would begin on Monday and all the junior halls will be canvassed by representatives.
Committees Chosen
The selection of committees was also announced this week, and this also shows a pleasing departure from previous custom. The various committees, instead of being composed of a chairman and several workers, contains only two members on each committee. The committee’s personnel follows:
Favors — John Boynton, Rollin Bunch; Programs — Frank Slough, Edward Cogley; Dinner Dance — Ernest Haberkern, Chester Barbeck; Orchestra — Robert Byrne, Patrick Crowley; Reception—George Rohrs, Frank LaBorne, Laurie Vejar; Tickets—John Carey, Fred Fayette, Bernard DeLay; Hall Committee — Louis Murphy, Austin Sullivan; Decorations—Art Becvar, William Kenny; Arrangements—Fred Weniger, Leo Cummings; Invitations — Edward LeRaux, Frank Cashir; Publicity—Peter Connelly, William Bodo; Patrons’ Committee — Cleve Carey, Don Waufle.
January 15, 1932
Eleven
HUMOR RACKET EXPOSED!
“Juggler” Jabs At Gag-men In This Month’s Issue.
The Humor number of the Juggler will make its campus appearance just one week from today, editors of the publication announced last night.
Featuring contributions from many of the best known wits of the day, Editor Bob Gorman looks forward to one of the most popular issue’s of this year.
The publication takes sharp cracks at the pseudo humorists and their methods and many a well-paid columnist will feel the sting of the Juggler’s piercing barbed shaft.
As is customary, Joe Lopker, the foremost collegiate artist in America, has drawn the frontispiece. It features the head of a girl and, as usual, is one of the features of the issue.
The cover design will be simple, and displays a sour faced individual scowling at the purchaserss. This, too, was drawn by Art Editor Lopker, whose individual efforts sparkle throughout the entire issue.
Arrangements for the book were temporarily in the hands of Managing Editor Paul Hallinan this week, while Gorman recovered from a slight cold in the University infirmary.
RYAN WINS BREEN MEDAL
(Continued from Page 6)
Declaring that “peace without cancellation of reparations is no peace, it is a bold contradiction,” Whelan walked off the platform with a generous applause from the audience ringing in his ears.
Maurice Powers, a junior in Moreau seminary, went into a scholarly discussion of “The Ideals of the Constitution.”
“Framed by men skilled in political science,” he stated, “it is a golden mean between communism and tyranny.”	'
Advocating the settling of international problems by orderly processes of justice, Joseph Bezer, a freshman in the College of Arts and Letters, wound up the evening’s program by a stirring talk that was entitled, “The Abolition of War.”
In addition to winning the contest, Ryan will represent the University in the Indiana State meet at Indianapolis next month.
Seminar In Philosophy To
Be Continued
A continuation of the philosophy seminar on .American Interpretations of International Justice, conducted by Dr. William F. Roemer, will be held
Dr. William Roemer
He trains young philosophers.
during the second semester on Mondays from 7:30 to 9:00 p. m. One and one half hours credit will be extended for attendance at the seminar.
A collection of the Philosophy Seminar reports of last year may be inspected in the University Reference library.
A schedule for the semester runs as follows:
February 8—Origin of the State and of the Nation.
February 15—Origin of Authority: Equality and Inequalities of States.
February 23—Roman conception of Natural Law : Christian concept of Natural Law.
February 29—The Natural Law in re'ation to Civil Law and international relations.
March 7—Early American Interpretations of Natural Law.
March 14—American Interpretations of Natural Law. (Continued).
March 21—American Nationalism and Internationalism.
April 6—Influence of the Church in International Affairs. (Past and Present).
April 13—American, European and Asiatic conceptions of international justice compared.
April 20—National Security Reduction of Armaments.
April 27—American Foreign Policy prior to World-War. Monroe Doctrine.
May 2—American Participation in Practical World Politics.
May 9—International Debts and Reparations. American Attitude. European Attitude.
May 16—The World-Court. (Pro and Con).
May 23—American Interpretations of Natural Law.
An interesting collection of the Philosophy Seminar Reports of last yeai- may be inspected in the University Reference Library.
Club Treasurers* Notice!
Financial statements of all Christmas dances must be in the hands of the Reverend Raymond Murch, C.S.C. before January 20th, it was announced yesterday.
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS PLAN EUROPEAN TOUR
Eucharistic Congress Is Goal For Four Youths.
Representatives of Thomas Cook and the Clara Laughlin Travel Services were on the campus this week to arrange final plans for a tour to the Eucharistic congress, which is being handled by several Notre Dame students.	'
John E. Ryan, a senior in the College of Arts and Letetrs, who is director of the affair, announced Wednesday that the itinerary is now complete.
“We leave from Montreal on June 13,” Ryan stated this week, “And will arrive in Dublin the opening day of the Congress. When this has been, completed, we begin a forty-day sojourn of Europe, which will take the group through the principle countries of the continent.”
A party of about 200 persons are expected to make the trip, which is being sponsored by many Catholic leaders in this country.
Through their representatives, Thomas Cook and Sons, Ryan has obtained agents in the princple cities of the United States. Clara Laughlin, author of “So You’re Going To Paris” and others of that series, personally arranged the itinerary.
Ryan declared this week that the tour will in all probability be one of the largest that will make the excursion across to the Congress this summer.
“We’re attempting to see all of the religious, as well as the bright spots, in Europe,” William Laughlin, of the Laughlin Services, stated Tuesday. “It is primarily a tour for young people, their friends, and parents.”
K of C Holds Weekly Meet
The Knights of Columbus, chapter number 1477, of Notre Dame, held their regular weekly meeting last Monday night, January 11, in the council chambers of Walsh hall. James Collins presided over a gathering of about seventy members.
This year the chapter has decided to publish a year book instead of their usual Santa Maria. The book, under the editorship of Paul Hallinan, will contain pictures of graduating members, activities of the council and features on past members and activities.

Twelve
The Scholastic
A Man About the Campus »» Paul J. Hallinan I
DEBT STAND CONCERNS FINANCE IN AMERICA
By Bryan Degnan
“Rather hard to fix him in a formulated phrase” muses a Clevelander, pausing between puffs.
The boys are gathered — six of them—under layers of gray cigarette smoke, their faces lazily content, their minds rather heavy after the evening meal, and their tongues ready to turn the conversation with the slightest twist. We had submitted the name of Paul Hallinan.
Smiles appear casually, more smoke • sifts to the ceiling, and the Clevelander continues—Iris tone deliberately careful. An estimate, he imagines, has to be definite; preferably he’d merely observe.
And those observations: a marked independence: noticeable perhaps in dress—merely a natural neatness— otherwise, it’s of no concern; apparent also in his attitude toward men—a pleasant yet stoical indifference.
But in pleasing himself, adds the room mate, he seldom offends. Witness his drift to victory in that great third floor Walsh hall mail race— twenty letters in a single week! Those outside liked Paul well enough to barrage his room with letters; those inside liked him well enough to award victory with a mud-stained towel. The trophy bore signatures of the vanquished gallants.
A boy from the home town steers the chatter to Painesville, Ohio. It numbers 10,000, boasts a daily sheet with one hundred and ten years behind it, and is comparatively sound commercially, thank you. Talk of Painesville days presents a clue to Paul’s interest in publications.
His five summers on the Telegraph, editing sports, writing heads, yes, even directing the issue of an “extra.” But despite the grip of the Telegraph, Paul conserved enough interest in things journalistic to edge his way in on publications while a student at Cathedral Latin in Cleveland.
Thence, of course, to the good old campus where after hanging his hat in Brownson hall he proceeded to make local scoops. He’s still making them. Last year he edited a flawless and ingenious Dome. This year he pokes fun as well as being the man
aging editor of that courteously funny magazine, the Juggler. Season all this with four years of clever work for The Scholastic, and you have the story.
Paul J. Hallinan
On four publications; has time for friends.
Of course the campus advocates of romantic fiction frown on his admiration of Bob Benchley, Ogden Nash, and the very sedate Parker lady. And perhaps an enjoyment of Frank Sullivan (in or out of the New Yorker) has the adolescent stamp. Casually, however, a "waving finger indicates another row on the book case. Here we have Willa Cather, Meredith and Galsworthy. Galsworthy with his Forsythes is the favorite but Meredith’s “Ordeal of Richard Feverel” . has earned two readings.	*
Peculiarities are explained too . . . his tooting a sax in the high schc-’ orchestra . . . his weakness for hearts but only to the extent of a game . . . his inordinate yen for Swedish food . . . his sour complexion at the word “cabbage” . . . and apex of peculiarities: his prognostication that this year’s Dome will better his product of last year—with no asides.
Before the creeping in of inanities, a consensus of opinion in the group of six concludes that whatever happens Paul cannot be disappointed. Explanation: He doesn’t take himself that seriously. When the subject of razzing he merely assumes—it’s better to be laughed at than yawned at. —which isn’t such bad philosophizing.
Prof. Crecco Fears Loss of German Gold Standard.
If France insists on reparations payments from Germany, it is likely the latter will leave the gold standard and cause serious repercussions in American finance.
This was the prediction of Victor • Crecco, professor of finance in the College of Commerce, University of Notre Dame, when asked for a statement on the European crisis.
From the viewpoint of the United States, he said the present situation is peculiarly different from that in •	•
1919—for the reason that in the last -12 years Americans have invested heavily in German bonds, — close to $3,000,000,000. Should Germany leave the gold standard there is no doubt that serious repercussion will be felt in this country.	•
“Chancellor Bruening’s declaration that Germany will stop paying reparations is naturally alarming to France and Belgium,” and the Commerce professor, “in view of the attitude of our own American Congress in refusing to consider revision or	•
cancellation of inter-allied debts.”
“France will not give up reparation receipts from Germany without a struggle. And should France insist on reparation payments, it is possible that Germany will be obliged to leave the gold standard, and start ’ manufacturing German paper marks.”
Father Carrico Sings
Funeral Mass in Gary
Reverend Father J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, was in Gary last Wednesday to sing the Solemn Requiem High Mass for the funeral of Dr. Patrick Mullaney, formerly of South Bend. Professors John M. oConey and Robert L. Greene, members of the University faculty were among the pall-bearers.
Alumnus Visits Campus
William A. A. Castelline, Ph. B., ’24, paid a visit to the campus last week. At present, he is engaged in publicity work in his home town, Cincinnati, where he conducts an advertising agency in the Gibson hotel.
While he was here, he very kindly delivered a lecture to the junior class in journalism.
January 15, 1932
Thirteen
FATHER RYAN WRITES NEW CATHOLIC TEXT
A History of Western Europe
Edited by Local Priest.
The Reverend John M. Ryan, C.S.C., head of the University department of history, is the author of a new book on Catholic History of Western Europe. It will be published in time to
Reverend John Ryan, C.S.C. He writes book on history.
use in classes here by next September.
Written from a Catholic viewpoint, this work is to be a continuation of the recently published book by the same author. The tentative arrangements call for a concise study of the European countries from the dawn of history to the present time.
Father Ryan stated that his aim in compiling the work is to satisfy what he considers a long felt need for a Catholic text in the English language.
“In order to thoroughly understand the Church’s place in history,” he added, “such a work is necessary. The Church’s position in relation to the political changes of the ages has too often been misconstrued. It is time that we had some definite ’ history in place of the attempts to sandwich the truth into a non-Cath-olic text.”
The nature of the work makes it rather impossible to state definitely when the book will appear, but it was indicated here this week that it will be on sale about the first of next September.
MUSIC AND DRAMA
By John E. Ryan
/"CONSIDERABLE comment has been evoked by the South Bend showing of “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,” which brings to mind the numerous controversies which follow in the wake of any filming of a piece of literature. Campus literary authorities, freshmen or seniors, have their arguments, and the fever mounts. Presumably, such discussion is not without benefit to the participants but seldom is anything decided.
SOME SLIGHT discrepancy very often appears in the film, as is the case with Stevenson’s story, wherein the transformation from one personality to another necessitated a rather striking, if not fantastic, change. Doubtless, the director justified his artistic conscience in this case with a somewhat strident plea to the Hollywood Lares, invoking the “art for art’s sake” formula.
SO, TOO, did some exaggeration of the author’s intention show up in “Frankenstein.” One might almost get the impression that Mrs. Shelley’s husband had written the stage directions. But it was nevertheless effective in portraying the awfulness of the monster — just as the ballyhoo predicted.
“THE Rise and Fall of Susan Lenox” is scarcely in the same category, though the book was a best seller a few years ago. However, with an increasing number of films made each
Fight Date Depression
Men students at the University of Utah have started agitation for adoption of the “Arizona Plan” for the relief of romantic but financially depressed males. Statisticians at the University of Arizona announced after a survey that a date costs $1.98 on the average and voted that coeds share the cost on an equality basis. Possibly because the $1.98 had a subconscious bargain appeal, the girls accepted. As an added concession, the men voted that under the equality plan, co-eds could w’ith propriety ask for dates instead of waiting to be asked as in boom times.
year from books or from old plays, one begins to wonder if the movies may be marking time until a good dramatist comes along to write plays especially for them. For the possibilities in this matter, we refer you to the editor of Scrip, who is well acquainted, undoubtedly, with the talents of the collegiate world along those lines.
v
1\/| R. McCABE, .(to avoid the less A’* dignified titles which are daily heaped upon him by campus wits), is never at a loss for ideas; his reply will probably be something to the effect that the films are not to be with us much longer, and that it would therefore be a mistake for any of the young literati to bother their heads with an investigation of the technique of that art. However, the output of the Hollywood studios is as yet far in excess of the number of stage plays each year, so there may still be a chance.
WITH the increasing interest among college people in the legitimate stage, (The Scholastic, November 20. page 26), it becomes apparent that nation-wide apathy in regard to the “Talkies” is a reality. Perhaps this all has a bearing upon some truth ■which will be crystallized in a session over in Walsh hall one of these nights. Perhaps not, but it suggests quite a nice problem. All letters may be addressed to the editor.
Lonely Hearts Club
What is sometimes known as a “Lonely Hearts Club” but officially designated as the “Dating Bureau” is in operation at the University of Wisconsin. The young ladies of Barnard Hall, and the young men of Tripp Hall, through their respective social chairwoman and chairman, are paired off in some fashion. On certain days half of the men guests of the co-eds at Barnard Hall, while the other half entertain the co-eds at dinner at the men’s hall. The experiment will be watched with interest, but the final endorsement must be withheld until the dating bureau’s complaint department has reported.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
BOOK REVIEWS
STUDENTS ARE WARNED AGAINST PRESENT MILD WEATHER
By John Pick
PERSONAL nomination for the best titled book of the season: Every Other Inch a King, a biography of Edward VII by H. C. Wortham.
Some of the forthcoming books include William Faulkner’s Light In August, Memoirs of a Soldier of Fortune by General Rafael de Nogales, and The Quick and the Dead by Claire Spenser. (Her last book had an equally cheerful title, Gallon's Orchard.)
And for those who care to know it, there will be a new Harold Bell Wright book next fall, called Ma Cinderella. Wright is also at work on an autobiography to be entitled Letters to My Son. This having a son is especially convenient for those celebrities who feel that the world needs their life story.
Didn’t Lincoln Steffens say that his voluminous autobiography was written expressly for his small son? But at that, the American public should be grateful that Steffens did want to do something for son Peter since it resulted in a book of . such power and appeal.
IF YOU haven’t read Pearl S. Buck’s
The Good Earth yet, you need encouragement like that of Alexander Woolcott. He says, “If you have read that profoundly beautiful novel, The Good Earth, you are fortunate; to those who have not, I can suggest only that one can learn more about China from it than by reading all the news ever cabled from the Treaty ports . .”
And he ought to know, since he toured the world rather thoroughly last year and spent seevral months in China. Pearl Buck spent twenty years or so and ought to know her China, but she probably feels better about it now that Woolcott agrees with her.
Compton Machenzie regards dictionaries as “the most nutritious reading in the world” according to the New York Times. If he were banished for life to a desert island and allowed only one printed work, he would choose without a moment’s hesitation the big Oxford dictionary. ;
VV7E WONDER if there is some ” subtle fqrm of competition in progress between John Galsworthy and George Bernard Shaw for the title of Most Indefatigable PrefaceWriter. Each of them seems to be outdoing himself in a race to get the most forwards written besfore a given date. There is a great difference, we must admit, between the accomplished work of the two, for Shaw confines his forewards, prefaces, notes and explanations almost entirely to books and plays written by himself or about himself, and Galsworthy, altruistically, prefaces all his friends’ and proteges’ books with a kindly word.
There is another difference, too, in length of prefaces. Mr. Shaw’s outdistance Mr. Galsworthy’s by a ratio of fifty to one, but the latter may outpoint him in the end by writing fifty times as many.	,
THE WAVES, by Virginia Stephen Woolf. Harcourt Brace. $2.50.
Virginia Woolf has written a remarkable and original story, truly unique. The Waves is not a novel according to the usual definition of one; nor is it a poem, although the outstanding trait of the book is its powerful, poetic description. Both plot and characterization are subordinated. Snatches, bare impressions in the lives of the six main characters form the substance of the book.
Against the background of the sea, from early morning to night, we follow the group through the incidents in their lives which make the greatest impression on them.
There is no continuity of action or thought, no direct conversation, yet the characters live their lives and we realize vaguely what is happening to them.
The book is not written in a style easy to read. Most complicated, at times it is bewildering and even irritating. It must be read slowly and carefully, when one is wide awake; otherwise, one will be reading only words which, mean nothing at all. No one vitally interested. in good contemporary English literature should miss The Waves, but the average reader -will not be attracted by it.
Students are warned by the University physician, Doctor Frank J. Powers, not to place too much faith in the present mild bit of weather this vicinity is enjoying, and to exercise particular precaution against contracting colds at this time.
With the advice that “considerably more cases of pneumonia, bronchitis, and tonsilitis are prevalent during the present sort of apparently clement weather than during the really cold, yet more healthful months of the winter,” Doctor Powers stressed the necessity of proper ventilation, sufficient clothing, regular eating and sleeping habits and periodic consultation with a physician.
While the infirmary is not particularly crowded at the present time, the fact remains that abiding by the above regulations is the only way to keep it in its present condition.
HISTORY OF BREEN MEDAL
(Continued from Page 6)
1904 President Theodore Roosevelt appointed Mr. Breen to represent the United States at the Universal Congress of Lawyers and Jurists.
The competition for the Breen medal and the honor of representing the University in the State contest has always been spirited. In 1927 James C. Roy won the medal when only a sophomore and was the victor in each succeeding year, representing the school in the State contest. In 1929. he won the contest, then took part in the Intersectional contest. Winning this he went to Chicago to compete for national honors, and he was crowned the National Collegiate Oratorical champion.
On April 22, 1930, William P. Breen, the sterling Catholic lawyer passed from this earth. He was a true son of Notre Dame.
French Club Members!
French club members are urged by President De la Vergne to be present at the next meeting, Monday night, 6:30 p. m., Main building.
Do you know that American women spend almost a billion dollars a year on cosmetics?	>
January 15, 1932
Fifteen
MEEHAN TALKS TO BOOKMEN ON SUBJECT OF “UNREAL REALISM”
“Unreal Realism” was the topic of James T. Meehan at a meeting of The »	Bookmen last Monday evening. A
distinction between Realism and “Pseudo-Realism” introduced his subject. “Realism proper,” he stated, “has as its object the dispassionate promulgation of truth; the pseudorealist portrays the beautiful or ugly, »	the good or the bad with distortion.”
He proceeded to particularize upon this generality and closed by classifying the more popular of present day writers into one or other of his categories.
A great deal of discussion fol-»	lowed Mr. Meehan’s talk. His defini-
tions were challenged, and when suitable terms had been agreed upon, his classification of authors was given.
Following this discussion, Samuel • Hyde presented a paper treating of Bess Streeter Aldrich’s last two ,	books, A Lantern in Her Hand and
White Bird Flying. He reviewed the books, gave a critical estimate of each book, and compared them on a basis of literary value.
It was announced at the meeting that any applications for member,	. ship should be referred to John Dris-
coll, 248 Corby hall, before January 26. All applications received will be considered by the club at its first meeting of the second semester.
Mendota Attorney Makes Gift To Law Library
Dean Thomas F. Konop, of the Notre -Dame College of Law, announced this week that the library of the school was presented with a case of books. The donation was made by John W. Dubbs, attorney, of Mendota, Illinois.
The books are on the subject of Illinois practice and law statistics. James Heeney Dubbs, son of the donor, is a student of the College of Law at Notre Dame.
Edward W. G. McClallen, a graduate of the Notre Dame College of Law with the class of 1931, has established a practice in partnership with Joseph H. Radigan of Rutland, Vermont.
The partnership is known by the name of McClallen and Radigon and has already become popular in Rutland.
All-American Stars Old Stuff to N. D. Hockey Fans
This is the first of a series of two articles by Tighe Woods on old-time hockey at Notre Dame.
By Tighe Woods
The first hockey team at Notre Dame received about as much encouragement as an elephant act at a Democratic National Convention. The athletic association had a heavy enough burden without financing a
Prof. Benjamin DuBois
He coached one of the first hockey teams.
lot of crazy puck chasers, the day of big football gate receipts was only a dream in 1920. Luckily the output for hockey was small. Every one had a pair of skates; long underwear, track pants and a football jersey would do for a uniform and sticks were cheap. The twenty-five candidates who reported for first practice were told to take their skates off and take a pick and shovel. The squad built its own rink between Badin and Walsh halls!
Team Plays at St. Mary’s
Our hockey team’s first distinction was very local. They were the first athletic team in Notre Dame history to play at St. Mary’s. Their first practice game was held on Marian Lake and their only spectators were three hundred young ladies, who cheered them to their first victory. Of course, Captain Castner and Perce Wilcox were considered pretty handsome!
Notre Dame’s first national recognition as a power in the hockey field
was strangely like their first recognition as a football team. They were scheduled to play Carnegie Tech at the famous Duquesne Gardens. The power of the Irish was an unknown quantity. Carnegie had already met and defeated Penn and Yale. A crowd of six thousand was on hand to watch the westerner’s first invasion. Captain Castner led his team on the ice and they skated around leisurely, gently pushing the puck from wing to wing and occasionally shooting an easy one to “Hunk” Anderson tending goal.
National Fame Assured
From the first whistle- this group of gently waltzing skaters became six streaks of light and one brick wall. Castner to Flinn to Gorman, Wilcox and Larson following, up and down they flashed, spraying powdered ice in their wake! A sprawling, brawling, mad scramble for the puck? Castner has it free! A jagged, twisted bit of lightning going towards the Tech goal! A thud, a crack and a shower of ice as bodies and sticks meet head-on! A goal! Notre Dame has won and the Pittsburgh Gazette-Times devotes columns to this wonder team from the west and called that man Castner, the greatest college player of the year.
Western Hockey Champs!
In 1922, two years after Notre Dame’s invasion of the hockey field, they were declared Western Intercollegiate Hockey Champions! They played nine games that year and won eight of them. The game they lost was not to a college team, but to the Canadian Club of Chicago, champions of the Chicago Hockey League. This Canadian Club was so good they kept three former Olympic Team stars on the bench!	.
So much for the glorious history of Notre Dame’s hockey teams, but Notre Dame has played hockey since then, and the olive wreath of champions grows more and more a myth. Next week I am going to tell you about some of the humiliating defeats they have suffered since then, their causes, and what you can do about it.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
St. Edward’s College Becomes Important Educational Unit
By Walter Johnson
There is no chapter in American History more Allied with romance and tragedy, more replete with stories of daring and sacrifice, than those pages which but poorly record the settlement and evangelization of Texas. Successively claimed and ruled by Spain, France and Mexico, Texas won her independence, established a republic and was finally taken into the great family of States in the Union.
Father Edward Sorin, Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross passed through Texas on a visit in 1871, and while in Austin, was so much impressed by the need for priests and Catholic educators that he purchased one hundred and twenty acres of land with the intention of founding a college for boys. The Very Reverend Founder expressed the hope that the college would, in time, become the “Notre Dame of the South.”
❖
On the 21st day of September, 1874, two Brothers of Holy Cross, Brother Maximus and Brother John, arrived at Austin, went immediately to take charge of the farm and lived at the Doyle homestead, the site of some of the present buildings. Father Joseph Carrier, Father John Lauth and three Sisters of the Holy Cross arrived in 1875, and five years later Father Demers established a novitiate. Some young men received the . From the arrival of the Brothers in 1874 until the fall of 1878 St. Edwards was merely “The Catholic Farm.” In the fall of 1878 three boys, sons of neighboring farmers, were entered as students. From that humble beginning grew the St. Edward’s University of today. During the following year there were nine day pupils. In 1881 the first boarder enrolled at St. Edward’s and from that date we mark the beginning of St. Edward’s as a boarding school for boys.
Father Franciscus arrived in 1884 and in the same fall Father Hurth left the Presidency of St. Joseph’s college, Cincinnati, to begin his work in the development of St. Edward’s. With the arrival of Father Hurth a new era seemed to dawn upon the institution.
Father Hurth obtained a state charter for St. Edward’s college in 1885. In that year there were sixty students. The college was principally a commercial school although a few students pursued the Classical Course.
In 1887 the same Father Hurth began to study plans for a larger St. Edward’s. In previous years, though additions had been made to the old farm buildings, the students were forced to accommodate themselves to crowded conditions. Ground was broken for the new structure in July, 1888, and the building was used for the closing exercises in June, 1889.
Father Boland was elected to the office of President in 1898 and handled the affairs of the college with great success until 1907. But on April 9, 1903, Holy Thursday evening, a fire destroyed the college building and left only an empty shell of stone and brick. In accordance with Father Boland’s plans a new college building was immediately started and a new residence hall, the present Holy Cross Hall, was constructed and ready for occupation on September of 1903.
Probably the most important features of Father Schumacher’s administration were the re-introduction of college courses and the chartering of St. Edward’s as a University. In 1921 the freshman class enrolled and the first college commencement was held four years later in 1925. For about fifteen years excellent courses were given in the College of Liberal Arts; but the number of students was never more than about ten. Today bachelor’s degrees are granted in the College of Arts, Business Administration, Engineering, and Sciences.
The past is written in history of over half a century of pioneering work and is dotted with the remains of obstacles overcome. It has been a long trail since 1878 when three students were enrolled until today when St. Edward’s offers degrees in four colleges.
This year Father Hugh O’Donnell, C. S. C., succeeded Father Joseph Burke, C.S.C., who had served for six years as president. Under his direction the college is achieving a prominent place in the educational achievement in the South.
HOLD CONCERT, JAN. 21
Date Will Mark First Appearance of Symphony.
The concert orchestra which has been organized under the direction of Mr. Seidel and which has been practicing since September is the first concert orchestra in musical history at Notre Dame.
The premier appearance of the concert orchestra will be January 21 at 8 o’clock in Washington hall. As this is the first opportunity for the student body to hear the new orchestra, provision is being made for a capacity crowd.
From the extensive repertoire, Mr. Seidel has chosen the following selections for presentation January 21:
Part I	•
Overture—“Raymond” ..........4. Thomas
Mozart “Suite” .............Tom Clark
’ Concert for Pianofort No. 1.L. Beethoven
First Movement—Cadenza by C. Reinecke Mr. James A. Kaufmann
Part II
Notre Dame Victory March.......Shea
Masquerade Ballet Suite....D.	Laconic
Dramatic Overture..........E.	Isenman
FIRST VIOLINS—George M. Eichler, concertmaster ; Robert J. Klaiber, Thomas Paradise, John J. Andres. Peter J. Bossert, Joseph Petritz, George W. Barber, John B. Beyrer.
SECOND VIOLINS—Michael J. Yriberry. Wilbur Bernard, Lloyd Teske, Roland Bugni, Joseph C. Kalman, Otto Reymer, Louis Grosso.
CLARINETS —- Edward Zimmers. Jerome Boyle, Paul Dougher.
TRUMPETS—Urban Daly, John F. Murphy, Clair White.
SAXOPHONES—Alfred J. Hiegel, Theodore J. Hiegel, Lawrence Bugni.
PIANO — James A. Kaufmann, Leonard Kenkel.
Muscle Men Gather
Out of the usual post-Christmas lull in campus club activity comes the .startling announcement of the plans for a new organization. The Tarzan Sampson Memorial Muscle club, headed by the Alumni hall strong man, Ed Stephan, promises to be the most active of all student organizations.
Choosing for his motto: “We Can All Be Strong,” President Stephan has sent invitations to prospective members to meet with him weekly in his quarters to exercise with his newest type stretcher. The reading of Biff Your Way to Health, by John L. Sullivan, will conclude the meetings.
A Milinnaid Contest
Amateur milkmaids at the University of Minnesota have challenged coeds of the University of Wisconsin to a milking ebntest. An artistically engraved milk' can will be awarded to the winning team.
January 15, 1932
Seventeen
N. D. DEBATE BROADCAST
Dual Contest Will Come Over WGN at 3 p. m., January 23.
The Spirits of Notre Dame;
Or Home Life in Music Hall
Station WGN will broadcast a dual debate between the University of Notre Dame and the Chicago-Kent College of Law Saturday afternoon, January 23, at 3:00 o’clock. The
William Coyne
He shows Notre Dame debaters hozu to do it.
topic selected for this forthcoming debate is: “Resolved that the Moratorium should lead to the cancellation of war debts.” The team from the University of Notre Dame will be the negative, while the representatives from the Chicago-Kent College of Law will be the affirmative team. Selection of the Notre Dame team to go to Chicago for this meet has not yet been made, but it will be chosen from the candidates now trying out for the varsity debating team.
Professor William J. Coyne, of the speech department, progresses with the tryouts for this year’s forensic squad in the auditorium of the Law building. On Tuesday, January 19, an affirmative team composed of Roger Beirne, Hugh Fitzgerald, and Arthur Sandusky will wrangle with a negative team composed of James Boyle, John Hayes, and William Darrow. The following Wednesday another affirmative team consisting of Richard Balluman, John Heywood, James Ross will oppose a negative team composed of Walter Johnson, James Meehan, and Joseph Becek. The next day, January 21, an affirmative team made up of George Wil-linghan, Roger Breisnan, Richard Roney, and William Kirby will meet a negative team made up of John Cummings. William F. Murphy, and Thomas O’Meara.
By William A. Kennedy
It was way back in December, 1921 that they first began to hear things in historic old Washington hall. Experts, who were called in, decided that it was a ghost causing all the rumpus and, after scouting around for a suitable title, finally hit upon a strikingly original name, “The Ghost of Washington Hall.”
Well, in a couple of weeks the strange noises ceased, but the name stuck. The story was enlarged upon and told over and over, eventually becoming one of the famed Notre Dame traditions.
Thus we come down to 1932, and find any number of fabulous accounts and home-made tales drifting about the campus, causing the freshmen to become dubious and ruining his faith in the other and finer traditions. We don’t want to be an iconoclast, but we know the real story, of the affair. And we’re going to tell it. . . 1
❖
It seems that at the time this ghost was cavorting about, upsetting the mental equilibrium of both faculty and students, there was housed, where the music rooms now are, a group of “outcasts,” called that merely because they lived apart from the rest. These nine or ten students had no rector, — they came and went as they pleased.
One night, after an unusually tedious “study” session, the “outcasts” returned to their rooms. Everything seemed to be the same as ever, and for most of them, nothing out of the ordinary occurred during the night. Yet. next morning, one of them insisted that he had heard someone blowing a trumpet. Upon listening further, he said, the trumpet faded out and a soft pattering of feet drifted off into the distance.
❖
The others saw that he was serious, although none of them took any stock in what he said. It was only after the victim began to sleep with a baseball bat in one hand and rosary in the other, that his friends commenced to think about the matter.
Instantly the finger of suspicion was pointed at Joe Casasanta, who was then assistant bandmaster, and who played the trumpet. He pro
tested ignorance of the whole business, but just to make sure, his instrument was taken from him.
Here evidently, the ghost saw great possibilities to indulge his genius, and now decided to have a bit of fun. He unceremoniously dropped in to see his rival for the trumpet-playing honors of the campus.
The chapel clock had just struck three, but Joe didn’t hear it. He was asleep.
At least he was until suddenly there burst out upon the night air the unmistakable High C, heretofore unattainable in local musical circles. Snatched from a sound sleep by the shrill note, the startled youth leaped to a sitting position and peered intently into the gloom.
He saw nothing. He sat thus for several seconds, trying to make up his mind whether or not to conduct a one-man exploration of the room. Then his ears pricked up. What was that! A rythmic tapping became louder with each beat. Sitting, as it were, on pins and needles, Joe traced the noise right down to his own bed.
In the ensuing half-hour he put the Sphinx to shame. When finally he regained control of his muscles, the ghost had departed. For even ghosts must get some sleep if they have eight o’clock classes.
Well, as they say in most narratives, to make a long story short, the “Ghost of Washington Hall” went on keeping its tenants awake all . through the Christmas Holidays and right on into New Year’s Day. Then, it would seem, he made a resolution and retired in good standing with the ghosts union.
Casasanta, Pat Manion, and the other “outcasts” rejoiced in his departure, but there are some who mourn his passing. They say that if he hadn’t been such a flash in the pan, if he had continued with his nightly practicing, he might still be around here. Although by this time he most likely would have mastered “Stardust.” For then it would be a pleasure to have one’s slumbers disturbed. There is no doubt as to the reason for his unpopularity. No one likes to be awakened by High C, of all notes.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
Joe Leaves College
Everybody, an article in a Detroit newspaper informs us, has gone collegiate—except the collegians. They have gone conservative, we are told. At last, ever since the day when the public adopted and the stage and screen commercialized the rah-rah spirit, we do not have to bear the odium of baggy pants, loud overcoats, and pipes with numerals. No more are we to be disillusioned; the truth has been told. Nor do we have to open a magazine or read a paper touching on college life and say, “This is what the public thinks of us.”
Joe College is passing. Outward evidences of this are seen on almost any campus. Today the collegiate automobile painted with current witticisms and the playful boys who put the cow on the president’s roof are looked at askance by fellow students.
But Joe College is struggling valiantly to remain alive. In the movies and magazines he is a real person, but on the college campus he is almost dead.
Collegiate Lip-Curling
Snobbishness among colleges seems a thing which higher education finds it difficult to escape. The Columbia Spectator upholds this idea, in an editorial chastising the Seth Low Scop, which it calls the newspapers “of our baby brother in Brooklyn, Seth Low Junior college.”
“Seth Low,” the editorial goes on, “which was founded in 1928, may be the best three-year-old in the American educational world, but its immaturity is too evident in its outcry against the snobbishness of Columbia men. We are sure that any Seth Low student, were he instead a Columbia man, would hold some bit of snobbishness in his attitude toward Seth Low. Established tradition breeds a certain amount of snobbishness, and Columbia has traditions which are of the best. Established by royal charter in 1754, and maintained since then as
one of the aristocrats of the American educational system, Columbia has a right to its snobbishness.”
Newspaper Education
People in close touch with any activity or manner of endeavor may be expected to rank that above all others, but it is nevertheless surprising to read of the head of the department of journalism at New York University stating “If all the newspapers of the world were wiped out and the colleges left, there would be very little education.”
The newspaper had its beginning in the first part of the eighteenth century, yet one would hesitate to date education from so recent a time. Education is not merely the collection of facts about the world—information as to accidents and murders, or even political or other events which make up the news of the modern paper. Rather, it consists of a training to assimilate certain facts and to select, assimilate, and deal with situations which may present themselves to the individual.
Civilization owes much to the education that existed for thousands of years before either universities or newspapers were ever thought of.
Within the Next Decade
Predictions of a rather radical nature were made recently by Nicholas M. McKnight, retiring secretary of appointments at Columbia university. Taking Columbia as a typical example of a nation’s educational centers, he claims that ten years from now the entire student body will be working its way through college in some way.
Whether he is pessimistic enough to expect, a decade of depression, was not said. He based, his statements on the trend shown during the past few years, in which there has been a marked increase in student employment. -
c
January la, 1932
Nineteen
IIIIGI'J page
THE SEAT MONOPOLY
Another student racket was exposed here this week, when an enterprising lower classman told how he and others of his class were in the habit of entering Washington hall each Saturday evening around six o’clock and reserving seats for other students at a price that ranged from a dime to a quarter.
It is not the petty cash that these students are in the habit of making each week that concerns this editorial. Rather, it is the inconvenience that it causes other persons who seek to see the performance.
It becomes just a bit disconcerting to enter Washington hall of an evening and see some twenty undergraduates reserving as many rows. The condition has grown from bad to worse until it becomes almost necessary for a student seeking to obtain a vantage point to witness University entertainment to arrive almost an hour in advance.
Of course, not all of those spreading coats, hats and arms over a large group of the seats are actually selling them. Others happen to arrive early and hold the chairs for friends, who leisurely stroll over some fifteen or twenty minutes after the rest of the hall is filled.
This is not a major offense. But it is extremely disagreeable to arrive well in advance of a performance only to find that through the selfishness of a small group of individuals one must have recourse to space in the balcony.
This practice should emphatically be stopped. Students entering Washington hall are entitled to sit where they please. And if there is no one in a seat it automatically becomes open property, regardless of restraining arms or how high it is packed with coats or duffel.
❖ ❖ ❖
THE LOOKERS-ON
Some people, and a considerable number of students must be included among them, have the very offensive habit of expecting too much from the efforts of others. Perhaps the demands on another’s time and the erection of certain standards by which he must abide, or receive contemptuous condemnation, might be justified if the complainer were overly active in the give and
take of campus life. Such, however, is not the case with the particular kind of individual to whom we have reference.
This species has become so accustomed to witnessing the finished product, that the thought of how it reached that stage never enters into his head. It’s there for him to criticize, and why shouldn’t he?
Becoming more concrete, through all seasons of the year, a polished athletic team trots out on a battle-ground to represent the University. The time that it takes to give it its polish, the gruelling, sometimes thankless effort expended for weeks previous, seldom enters the average individual’s mind. What he’s interested in is the results, the final score, the finished product. The rest is for coaches to think about.
Every month a Juggler is brought to his room; every quarter a Scrip is waiting for him; every May a Dome is his for the buying. Who edits them? Who does the work, and how much? These questions never occur to him. He wants what he wants and if he doesn’t get it somebody will hear about it. The least little rub against that grain of his and all past pleasure that the thing in question has afforded him is forgotten.
The next time you hear somebody complaining about a missed free throw or criticizing one of the rebuttals of last week’s debate, put him in the category we have been talking about; then drop him out the window and go on with your work.
Criticism? Yes, always—but from whom it is due.
♦ ♦ ♦
THE BOXING SHOW
With the complete cooperation of all the campus leaders paving the way, plans for The Scholastic’s boxing show of February 12, continue to move forward at a rapid pace. Assurance that - the customers will receive a full evening of entertainment is to be found in the selection of officials for the event, announced today.
The widespread offers of assistance, approval, and support that have come to those in charge during the past week, forecast the most successful sort of a program. Such approbation, three weeks in advance of the contest, should carry The Scholastic’s boxing show to the first place in the winter carnival of sports.
r
Twenty
The Scholastic
SPCKTS
Marquette Bows to Notre Dame
Krause and Decook Run Hog Wild In Second Half to Bolster Locals’ Score
CAMPUS BOXERS OPEN TRAINING FOR TOURNEY
Speedy and Effective Offense Clicks In Altered Lineup Against Hilltop Outfit.
By T. Edward Carey
Marquette’s strong cage team, conqueror of Chicago and Wisconsin and winner of eight of its first nine games, wilted before the firey attack and flawless shooting of Notre Dame last Tuesday night and was defeated, 43 to 31.
Ed Krause took complete possession of the spotlight as well as the high scoring honors. A • <3	s o p h o more and
former Chic ago high school ath-u U	lete. Krause, who
was one of the sensations of the football season and is now receiving the acclaim of basketball fans everywhere, scored seventeen points with seven field goals and three foul tosses before he was ejected on personals in the fourth quarter.
First Half Close
The first half was closely contested, with Notre Dame out-speeding and out-fighting the visitors at every turn, but at the same time being guilty of some sloppy ball handling.
Whitey Budrunas, Marquette center, opened the scoring with a free throw on Krause’s foul before the game was under way a half minute. Baldwin countered for the Fighting Irish with a sensational basket from the side lines. Newbold fouled Gorychka, who evened the score, and there followed an epidemic of fouling and foul shooting which gave Notre Dame a 7 to 3 advantage.
Marquette began to click for a few minutes, and Budrunas and Zummach
counted from the floor and Ronzani from the foul stripe to give their team a one-point advantage.
Newbold then scored his only field goal, a short shot under the basket, and Krause got one out of two foul tosses. Shipley tied the score with a one-handed shot from the side. Krause and Gorychka then made it 12-all and Baldwin and Shipley boosted it to 14-all. And then Notre Dame began to function. Krause connected twice in rapid succession and Baldwin added a free throw, while Shipley completed Marquette’s first half scoring with a foul toss, and the score at half time stood Notre Dame 19, Marquette 15.
Notre Dame Pulls Away
The route of Marquette began in the first minute of the second half. Notre Dame’s team work completely baffled Coach Chandler’s outfit, and the shooting was almost flawless. Krause scored four baskets and DeCook three in the first five minutes to give Notre Dame a 31 to 19 lead.
The scoring was low for the remainder of the third quarter, and in the fourth Coach Keogan began making substitutions. Norb Crowe replaced Newbold, Schumacher went in for DeCook, Leo Crowe for- Baldwin, and when Ed Krause scored his fourth personal on a diving tackle, Voegele replaced him.
Center Budrunas, Marquette’s scoring ace, was shooting in tough luck and could not tally from the floor until the closing minutes when he dropped two in. Leo Crowe, Burns and Schumacher all scored once from the floor in the final period, Schumacher’s foul toss making the forty-third point.
Eyes in Good Condition
With the exception of streaks, the floor work of the Notre Dame team (Continued on Page 29)
Title Aspirants In Work-outs Eor “Scholastic” Mitt Show.
By Billy Magarrall
Jab, hook, cross; parry, feint, dodge; lead, counter, clinch; the thud of fist on body bag; the staccato beat of the light bag; swirling, tappingjumping ropes; hurling medicine balls and heavy breathing of those in
Len Dunn
He trains to defend his title.
calithenic exertion—that is the boxing room these days as aspiringchampions prepare for the Universitytitles February 12th sponsored by The Scholastic for the Bengal Missions.
Spirited workouts have been takingplace for the past week since this fistic festival was announced in The Scholastic. Art Cline and Nick Cartan, middleweights, opened the first day of training with a gusto, slashing and cuffing each other for three rounds with neither having any decided edge. Following this setto a bantamweight and a featherweight, Walt Noonan and Bill Case respectively, next laced on the padded gauntlets and spedily pranced through a two-round training session to a dead heat.
(Continued on Page 24)
January 15, 1932
Twenty-one
Reliable Reserve
KEOGAN TAKES CAGERS DOWN TO QUAKER TOWN
Fighting Irish Are Prepared For Eastern Invasion.
With five successive triumphs over the cream of middle-western cage teams to their credit, Notre Dame journeys east to Philadelphia to clash with their traditional rivals. Pennsylvania, Saturday night.
The Blue and Gold have no intention of allowing their winning- streak to be snapped, but the basketeers from Penn comprise a formidable aggregation. Although Pennsylvania is something of a dark horse, they gave an early indication of their strength when they dropped a close game to Pittsburgh, rated one of the strongest fives in the East, after leading-most of the way.
Penn’ Aching for Revenge
Twice last year the Quakers were humbled by Notre Dame. They were beaten in the first game decisively, 31-19, and in return engagement lost a heartbreaker, 21-20. Penn has been pointing for this game with the Keo-ganites and are eager to even up a few old scores.
Coach Keogan is expected to start the combination of Newbold and DeCook, forwards, Krause at center, with Baldwin and Burns at the guard posts. Captain Crowe will probably alternate at forward and guard.
After the demonstration which the revamped lineup put on for the crowds at the Marquette game Tuesday night it can be said that the new combination bodes ill for the chances of the future foes of Notre Dame throughout the remainder of the season. The power of offense with both of the lanky lads, DeCook and Krause, doing the follow act seems impossible of frustration.
“The team, after a slow start, has been coming along fine,”-said Coach Keogan shortly before he left; “and on form should win over Pennsylvania.”
Clay Johnson
He merits acclaim as the reliable replacement.
Bartering At Beloit
Meat, potatoes, eggs, fruit, chickens and vegetables are acceptable at Beloit College in lieu of registration fees. The faculty announcement of the return to barter explained that it was one measure to combat the dole.
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Tentative Track Schedule Includes Strong Opposition
OPEN AT MILLROSE
Butler To Open Local Season When Squad Invades Gym For Meet on Feb. 20.
With the running of the Millrose games in New York on February 6, the Notre Dame indoor track season will get under way, according to the
Coach Nicholson
He has great track schedule.
tentative schedule released this week by Coach John P. Nicholson. Other meets during the course of the schedule will find the Irish runners pitted against such outstanding teams as Iowa, Illinois, Butler, and Marquette.
In addition to the mile relay team, Alex Wilson, defending champion in the 600-yard event, will also be entered from Notre Dame. 'Wilson won this event last year with a driving finish against a field of the nation’s best quarter-milers, among whom was
1932 Track Schedule
(Tentative)
Feb. 6—Millrose games, New York, Mile Relay and Wilson, 600.
Feb. 13—Iowa at Iowa City.
Feb. 20—Butler here.
Feb. 27—Illinois here.
March 5—Marquette here.
March 11-12—C. I. C. meet here.
Outdoor
April 29-20—Drake or Penn Relays.
May 7—Michigan State at East Lansing.
May 14—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
May 21—Open.
May 28—Army here.
June 3—Central Conference at Milwaukee.
June 9-10—National Collegi-ates at Chicago.
numbered Phil Edwards, the fleet-of-foot Negro star.
One week following this meeting, the entire squad travels to Iowa City for the contest with Iowa. Butler then opens the season in the local gym on February 20.
The usual whirlwind Illinois track outfit drops into the Notre Dame quarters on February 27. In the past few years the competition between Notre Dame and the Illinois school has shot to the highest pitch when the time draws nigh for the two track teams to tangle—that is, if track teams are ever said to tangle.
Marquette serves as the competition in the third meet on the local track March 5, and the following week an avalanche of teams descends on the Notre Dame gym for the running of the annual Central Intercollegiate Conference meet. This session will officially wind up the indoor season under the schedule as it now stands. ’ Pittsburgh and Army are the two new opponents that have been added to the outdoor schedule which has
C. I. C. INDOOR MEET WILL BE HELD HERE ON MARCH 11-12
Notre Dame will act in the capacity of host at the sixth annual Central Intercollegiate track meet held in the Blue and Gold fieldhouse on Friday and Saturday, March 11 and 12, according to an announcement made this week by Coach John P. Nicholson.
Preliminaries to the race will begin Friday afternoon, March 11. The leading colleges and universities of the middle west will send their track teams to the Notre Dame campus.
A classy field of runners will represent their respective schools and from appearances many of the existing records should fall by the wayside. The events will comprise all that are feasible on an indoor track.
A team trophy will be awarded the winner of the meet. Individual gold, silver, and bronze medals will be given the winners of first, second, third, and fourth places.
The coaches of the teams represented will hold a meeting in the gym office at one o’clock, at which time places will be drawn. Track manager, John Ross, will handle all the details of the meet.
been arranged, although the meets and dates are not entirely definite.
Under the present plan the outdoor season will open at either the Drake or the Penn relays where the Irish cinder men will run up against some of the stiffest competition. Following the Michigan State meet on May 7 Coach Nicholson takes his charges to Pittsburgh to meet the Panthers.
The Army meet on May 28 follows a week of rest. Milwaukee will be the site of the Central Conference meet early in June. Notre Dame will be defending the championship it won in the conference last year.
Nicholson has hopes of sending several men to the National CoIIegi-ates in Chicago on June 9 and 10, which meet will finish the season as far as concerns Notre Dame.
January 15, 1932
Twenty-three
RESERVE TEAM WEAKENS TO LOSE TO JOLIET JUNIOR COLLEGE
Speedy Workouts Point To Successful Season In Track
After leading throughout the first half and during the first part of the third quarter, the Notre Dame “B” team finally slowed up and were beaten by the Joliet Junior college when the two teams faced each other in the Illinois city Wednesday night. The final count stood at 27-17 with the local reserves on the short end.
Every player on the squad of ten which made the trip entered the contest at some time. Leading 11 to 9 at half time, the reserves began to grow less effective until the Joliet ।	school finally took the lead and never
relinquished it.
Furlong, ex-Notre Dame frosh at forward for the Joliet squad, was the mainstay of the victors’ attack. His passing served in a large part to make more effective the play during •	the first half. Honors for outstand-
ing play on the part of the reserves went to Angsten in the first half, while it was Keating at forward during the latter part of the contest who began to - burn up the floor. The efforts of these two were in vain, ’	however, as the boys from the prison
city began to hit the basket in the one-two fashion.
Brother Ernest Is Author
,	Brother Ernest, C.S.C. has written
a book, Our Brothers, which was recently published by Scott, Foresman and Company.
The book is unique, being the only one of its kind ever published. It recognizes the need for definite in-»	formation on the various brother-
hoods existent in the United States.
Sketched in a scholarly and readable manner, the volume contains a short essay on each of the brotherhoods compiled from questionnaires sent to the sixty different religious ,	orders in this country. The informa-
tion presented is fortified by copious references and foot notes.
Confraternity Notice
There will be a meeting of the Educational confraternity in the basement of Walsh hall on Tuesday evening, January 19. Maurice L. Pettit, the probation officer of South Bend, is to address the gathering.
1931*32 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Dec. 4—Kalamazoo 7, N. D. 37.
Dec. 8—Adrian 13. N. D. 37.
Dec. 12—Indiana 23, N. D. 18.
Dec. 15—Purdue 32, N. D. 24.
Dec. 21—Northwestern 25. N. D. 32.
Dec. 31—Northwestern 21. N. D. 22.
Jan. 5—St. Thomas 19. N. D. 34
Jan. 9—Michigan State 25. N. D. 28.
Jan. 12—Marquette 31, N. D. 43.
Jan. 16—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia.
Jan. 23—Pittsburgh here.
Feb. 1—Iowa here.
Feb. 6—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
Feb. 10—Syracuse here.
Feb. 13—Western Reserve at Cleveland.
Feb. 19—Butler at Indianapolis.
Feb. 23—Michigan State here.
Feb. 27—Army here.
Mar. 4—Marquette at Milwaukee.
Mar. 11—Butler here.
Woods to Attend Convention
The International Relations club has been asked to take an active part in the Central States Intercollegiate Regional Conference to be held at MacMurray college, Jacksonville, Illinois, on April 1-2. This conference is a convention of all the universities and colleges in the states of Iowa, Illinois, Wisconsin and Indiana, and is sponsored by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
Tighe Woods, president of the International Relations club at Notre Dame, has been asked to preside at one of the round table sessions, and to deliver a twenty minute paper. His subject will be, “Chinese Adjustment to Western Civilization.” There are at least four members of the local club expected to represent Notre Dame at this convention.
Speak to Chemists Monday
Dr. Roger Adams, head of the Chemistry department of the University of Illinois, will address the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical society at an open meeting to be held in Chemistry hall, Monday evening at 7:30 o’clock. His subject will be “Stereochemistry of Diphenyls.”
MANY VETS BACK
Abundant Sophomore Material Shows Great Promise For Nicholson’s Track Hopes.
The gym is the scene of intense activities these days as Coach Nicholson rapidly rounds his large squad of trackmen into shape for the com
Bill McCormick
Ue leads Notre Dame runners.
ing indoor season. Serious practice, with long drills scheduled every afternoon, started right after the holidays, in preparation for one of the hardest indoor schedules the Irish ever faced.
Notre Dame will probably enter a pair of relay teams in the Millrose A. C. Games in New York, Feb. 5, (Continued on Page 26)
Tiventy-four
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
BOXERS OPEN TRAINING
(Continued from Page 20)
By Irving B. Halper
It was decided by George F. Keo-gan, director of- interhall athletics, and Charles E. Weiss, interhall head, to allow the Department of Physical Education to appoint the coaches for the 15 teams.
With this decision made, Elvin Handy, instructor in the Department of Physical Education and in charge of the interhall activities of that department, announced the names of the coaches and officials.
. The list of coaches is composed of men who are juniors and seniors in the University. These men will attempt to place their respective halls at the top of the ladder, for the winning of any interhall title adds confidence to these men who intend to make coaching their life profession.
In selecting the list of officials, Handy selected many men who are on the varsity basketball squad. DeCook, Voegele, Davis, are names that can easily be connected with this year’s varsity team, and many of the others in the list are men who have tried out for the varsity five.
Following are the coaches for the hall squads:
Heavyweight: Fabrycki (Morrissey), Tomasi (Badin), Kuhn (Lyons), Del Prete (Off-Campus), Ed. M. O’Connor (Howard), Szekely (Freshman), Luckett (Brownson), Bresson (Alumni), Sabo (Carroll), Wilson (Sophomore), Howrey (St. Edward’s), Bohnsack (Sorin), Conti (Corby), Behrman (Walsh), Ed. J. O’Connor (Dillon).
Lightweight: Freehill (Morrissey), Golden (Badin), Gru (Lyons), Haf-ron (Off-Campus), Hayes (Howard), Halleran (Freshman), La Borne (Brownson), McGrath (Alumni), McCue (Carroll), Reuland (Sophomore), Seidle (St. Edward’s), Addonizio (Sorin), Brancheau (Corby), Cronan (Walsh), Smith (Dillon).
The Officials: Burdick, Capter, DeCook, Dewey, Napolitano, Sheeketski, Harris, Keating, Kozak, Quenan, Koken, Davis, Voegele, Millheam, Miller, O’Neill, O’Kane, Richardson, Bason, Costello, Hanson, and Heunigfeld.
TRACK
The latter part of February or the early part of March will be the time of the first interhall track meet.
This should be good news to the track enthusiasts, who are to be seen working out daily in the field house. There are a large number of men who were track athletes in prep school but for various reasons are not listed on Coach Nicholson’s varsity track squad.
Coach Nicholson is an enthusiastic supporter of these interhall track meets. It-provides him with an excellent opportunity to see men who haven’t turned out for track and who are fair track prospects, who with a bit of coaching become quite good.
Last year Coach Nicholson was especially pleased with the showing of the finalists in the half-mile run.
It is in the interhall track meet, too, where the freshman track men are afforded an opportunity to win their numerals.
Interhall Practice Schedule
Varsity Floor	Apparatus Room
Friday, January 15
Off-Campus	7 p. m.	Sorin
Howard	8 p. m.	Corby
Morrissey	9 p. m. Monday, January 18		Walsh
Freshman	7 p. m.	Alumni
Brownson	8 p. m.	Badin
Carroll	9 p. m.	Lyons
Burke Golf Course to Have Many New Trees
The appearance of the William G. Burke Memorial Golf course will be materially changed during the coming week by the planting of between two and three hundred young trees upon it. A crew of six men is at present engaged in the task of removing the trees from property belonging to the Congregation of Holy Cross at Interlaken, near Rolling Prairie, Ind.
N. Y. U. Sports Show Big Loss
New York University sports showed a deficit of $20,034.84 during the year ending August 31, 1931. Football was the only activity to show a profit, there being $4,765.65 net on the receipts of $430,656. Total income from sports during the year was $534,098.57.
Len Dunn, last year’s light-heavy champion, started training by taking a short loosening up workout, as did Jerry Duwan, the most prominent heavyweight entrant thus far, who is busy with basketball at present and promises to begin intensive training at an early date. Pat Fitzgerald, the 1931 light-heavy runner-up, looked promising in his first siege of glove slinging with Art Cline who it seems is the most willing spar-mate of the entire group of entrants. John Fisher plans to make a strong bid for this year’s championship in the lightweight class and through early training is not going to allow lack of condition to interfere with his bid.
Bill Malloy and John Gaussland, welterweights, have signified their intentions of entering the tourney, as have several others who took only a “feel out” workout since they were uncertain of their capabilities and first wished to test themselves.
The turn-out during the opening-week of preparation has been gratifying to those in charge. The importance of early training cannot be stressed too strongly as a means to successful effort the night of February 12th to those who are delaying with the belief that sufficient time yet remains for proper conditioning. The championship itself, not to mention the handsome medal award, is worthy of earnest endeavor and only those who properly prepare themselves can hope for this coveted laurel.
'Daily training is from 3:00 to 4:30 p. m. in the boxing room.
NEWBOLD STILL LEADS (Including Marquette Game)
	FG .	FT	TP
Newbold 			18	10	46
Krause 			14	11	39
DeCook 			16	6	38
Baldwin 			15	3	33
Davis			10	3	23
N. Crowe			10	2	22
Voegele			9	3	21
L. Crowe			10	1	21
Burns 			5	7	17
Schumacher		4	2	10
Johnson 			1	1	3
Fehlig 			1	0	2
	—	——	—
Totals 			113	49	275
Opponents			67	62	196
Janua/ry 15, 1932
Twenty-five
NOTRE DAME HUMBLES MICHIGAN STATE QUINT
INTRODUCING	Tommy Burns
Long Shots Brought Into Play To Down Spartans, 28-25.
Notre Dame’s basketeers won their sixth victory of the season at the expense of the Spartans of Michigan State, 28-25, in a hard fought game at East Lansing last Saturday night.
The game was close all the way, with the lead seesawing constantly during the first half, changing twice in the first period and three times in the second, and with Notre Dame maintaining a slight edge all during the second half. The Fighting Irish led, 13-11, at half time.
Spartans Rally Late
Johnny Baldwin and Bill Newbold led the South Bend five in scoring honors, each collecting six points, all on long shots. In addition, Baldwin turned in a very remarkable exhibition of guarding. Notre Dame had difficulty in penetrating the Spartans’ defense and was forced to concentrate on long shots; the Michigan team found more effectiveness in playing a passing game and awaiting opportunities for short shots.
The Spartans handed the visitors a scare in the fourth quarter when they were successful in a series of followup shots, but Coach Keogan countered with a shift in his lineup which placed Notre Dame’s tallest combination on the floor and proved to be an adequate defense against that kind of an attack.
Ray DeCook looked equally good at center and forward, taking the latter position when Captain Norb Crowe was removed on fouls. Krause went to the center post at that time.
Guards Present Problem
Michigan State used only five men in the entire contest. Only their guards presented a problem for the Notre Dame quint, but that was almost enough. Vondette topped the scoring list of both teams with ten points, three field goals and four fouls, whfle his running mate, Kircher, was next in line with seven. Fifteen personal fouls were called against the Fighting Irish, and the Spartans were called for eight.
Lineups and summary:
Notre Dame (28)	cep
Newbold, rf ................3	0	3
(Continued on Page 29)
By James E. McFeely
You’re wrong, gentle reader. This is not an attempt to publicize one of the newest poses of that blackface comedian whom the audience knows as Al Jolson—rather we are about to introduce to you one of the “fightin-est” guards that cavorts around midwestern basketball courts this winter. Or is this winter?
Tommy Burns He went the rozcte.
Now’ we must have successfully whetted your curiosity to a high degree and the time draws nigh to make known to you this basketball playing gentleman about whom we begin our yam. Tom Burns hates publicity about as much as he hates the sight of the accompanying picture, but Tom took the picture and we grabbed it. Don’t you like it?
One Dangerous Guard
Just in case that name of Tom Burns doesn’t click immediately on your probably already befogged mind, be reminded that he is the chap who went the entire route at guard against Marquette when the Milwaukee players made their call here last Tuesday night.
Noted as a dangerous player to meet when one is headed basketward, Bums impresses the gallery not with his spectacular or “stagey” play but rather with his effectiveness at re
gaining the ball when the enemy has ideas about throwing the old leather through the bucket.
On the offense Tommy Bums has seemed a bit afraid that he is not so capable of holding his job. Only Tuesday against the brewery city team he wasn’t sure that he should take a shot at the hoop, but when he finally made up his mind to try his hand at the task, the ball was caged with effectiveness.
Burns a “ball hawk”
Tom can play basketball. It is his steady, dogged manner of following the opposition’s thrusts that make it possible to call the boy from Rochester, New York, a “ball hawk.”
In this, his third year at the court game at Notre Dame, Bums seems set to hold his position at guard without a question. During the past two years, this gentleman, who has had Irish forbears somewhere along the line, has served in the position of utility man. Last season the guarding jobs were divided between Bums, Baldwin, and Clay Johnson.
The position at the back end of the court is one which has always demanded the service of Bums. During his preparatory years at Aquinas Institute in Rochester, Tom ran the ball from the guard post.
Insurance a Sideline
Bums obtains valuable experience in the summertime when he is employed in his father’s insurance firm. It is said that he becomes very popular around his home town because of his occupation. (You know, everyone loves a fat man and an insurance salesman. But, really, Tommy isn’t fat at all.)
This is his fourth and last year in the College of Commerce, in which school he has majored in business administration. When he studies, no one knows, as he is never in that coop he calls his room on the third floor of Sorin.
If any reader retains doubts concerning his prolonged absence from his room, we suggest that he try to catch up with Bums to obtain his life story. Drop around for about a week, then try finding him in the locker rooms after the Marquette game. You may be enabled t talk to (Continued on Page 27)

Tiventy-suc
The Scholastic
TRACKMEN WORK OUT
(Continued from Page 23)
but the team as a whole is pointing to a series of dual meets with Iowa, Butler, Illinois, and Marquette to be held on successive Saturdays.
The indoor season will close after the Central Intercollegiate meet to be held on March 11 and 12 with Notre Dame acting as host to fifteen or twenty of the best teams in the Middle West.
O F COURSE this might happen to anyone who travels—no matter what mode of conveyance he employs—but we make an effort to keep dogs from snapping at you and your friends when you travel on our trains. And we can assure you that during your journey you will find no occasion to use an ammonia-charged water pistol, as did this young man. Trains for Michigan City, the Dunes, Gary, East Chicago, Hammond and downtown Chicago leave our South Bend station every hour.
Although several stars were lost by graduation, the wealth of excellent sophomore material on hand indicates that Coach Nicholson will come through with another successful season to his credit.	’
McCormick Leads Sprinters
Captain Bill McCormick, co-holder of the world’s record in the 60-yard dash, is displaying his customary speed and should chalk up many points in his specialty. Dilling and Gough, veterans of last year’s team,
are also expected to place well up in the dashes.
Alex Wilson, British Empire 440-yard champ, and second in National Intercollegiate 880-yard run last spring in Chicago, is preparing for his last and greatest season. The speedy, blond Canadian expects to defend the title which he won last year in the famous Millrose 600 over Phil Edwards and several other eastern luminaries. Regis Kuhn and Joe Young, the latter a promising sophomore, will team up with Wilson in this event.
Notre Dame will be well represented in the 440 with such stellar performers as Mickey MacBeth, another Canadian Olympic star, “Chink” Kelly, Scanlan, and Rudy Obergfall, smooth-striding sophomore, vieing for places.
Ed King is expected to lead the pack in the mile. He is a sophomore who displayed considerable ability in the cross-country activities this fall.
Howrey Returns
Gene Howrey, a veteran of two year’s experience and holder of the Notre Dame record in the two-mile jaunt, is anticipating another successful season.
Although Captain Johnny O’Brien and Roy Bailie, star hurdlers, were lost via the sheepskin route last year, no weakness will be found. in this event. The field will be led by Bill Dupuy, big Californian, who rates with the best in the country. Two sophomores, Fagan and O’Grady, have displayed plenty of finesse in stepping over-the high sticks. These men are faced with a brilliant future and can be relied on to gamer several points for the Blue and Gold. Poredon has shown considerable improvement over last year’s form and should figure in the scoring.
Field Events Doubtful
Bob Darling heads the list in the high jump. He broke into the scoring column in every meet last year and often manages to ease himself over the uprights at 6 feet 2 inches.
The loss of Marty Brill and Nordy Hoffman left a large gap in the ranks of the. shot-putters. However Charley Finkel, husky sophomore, appears all set to throw the weight away.
Two monogram men, Ed Gough and Laurie Vejar, diminutive quarterback,'.'displayed considerable ability last year and' should place well up in the broad jump this season.
January 15, 1932	Twenty-seven
Smith Addresses Engineers
“The Glacial Epic” was the subject of a topic given by Mr. K. B. Smith, head of the Mining Engineering Department, to the Engineers club, last Thursday evening in the auditorium of the Law building.
A general discussion was held as to the new date on which the Engineers’ formal dance is to be held. It was finally decided that soon after the Easter vacation would be the most plausible time for the affair. The dance was postponed because the date conflicted with that of the St. Mary’s Sophomore Cotillion.
During the future meetings a new policy of entertainment will be introduced to the members of the club.
s	Temple University offers credits
for studies in “Social Etiquette.” Barnard College grants credits to all who take the course in “Resting” on the roof of Barnard Hall. New York University offers credits in “Personality Development.” Southern Cali-■ fomia encourages students to look up to their family trees in a course in “Genealogy.” “Waiting on Table” is in the curriculum at Ohio State.
Academy of Science Notes
The Academy of Science of Notre Dame will hold an open meeting Monday evening, January 18, at 8 p. m., in the Auditorium of the Law building. Dr. Leo J. Quinlan, prominent South Bend dentist, will be the speaker of the evening.
All students and faculty members of the University are invited to attend.
A special meeting of the seniors in the Colleeg of Science was called last Monday by Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College. Father Wenningei* announced that the date for handing in the final draft of the theses had been advanced to March 23.
In regard to applications for admission to medical school, the dean advised that the matter be attended to in the very near future.
Pharmacy Club Notice
The Pharmacy club meeting which was to have been held last Tuesday evening in Chemistry hall has been postponed until this Tuesday, it was announced.
INTRODUCING TOM BURNS
(Continued from Page 25)	'
him through the lather that is flying hither and yon.
Burns waits on the head table in the west dining hall. Two years ago he worked in the library, but he flatly denies that he ever became erudite through association with such a copious supply of books.
Senior Secretary
Among his other campus activities we find that Tommy is the secretary of the senior class and a member of the Rochester club.
When questioned concerning his hobby, if he had any, be became all reticent and refused to reveal its nature because he was afraid somebody might read this squib.
My, my, wouldn’t it have been a safe place of deposit.
Peoria Club Shows Profit!
Ernest Hechinger, president of the Peoria club, announced this week final figures on the annual Christmas dance had been tabulated, and that the organization was still utilizing the blue ink pot. “Which makes it both a social and a financial success,” he added.
TOMORROW SUNDAY MONDAY
VAUDEVILLE
ON THE SCREEN
THE SENSATION OF EUROPE IN HER FIRST AMERICAN TRIUMPH
LIL
DAGOVER
Walter HUSTON
Warren William
In
“THE WOMAN FROM
MONTE CARLO”
Headed by
One of the Biggest Stage Attractions of the Day
Norman Thomas Quintette
Presenting “A JAMBOREE OF HARLEM-MANIA” The Greatest Colored Aggregation of All Times
And
4 OTHER STAR RKO ACTS
R
K
R K O
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
Splinters From The Press Box
By James S. Kearns
We borrowed the stars from one of the classifying movie reviewers so that we might present a pre-view of a real four-star attraction in approved fashion. The Scholastic boxing show will be held in the gym, Friday, February 12. Take a look at the cast:
Principals: the outstanding boxers of a campus that is famous for its MEN.
Direction: Referee, Jerry Heffernan, boxing coach of Loyola U., Chicago. Head judge, Heartly “Hunk” Anderson, Notre Dame football coach. (Two of the stars right there).
Proceeds: The Bengal Mission fund is to receive the ENTIRE profit from the venture.
Produced by The Scholastic with Bill Magarrall at the throttle.
BUDRUNAS OF .MARQUETTE
The big blonde center of the Hilltoppers again put on as fine a show as has been seen on the local hardwood in a long time. Not too smooth, but hard working and courageous, the Marquette leader deserves to be the favorite that he is with Notre Dame audiences.
V
THE CENTERS OF NOTRE DAME
When two men on any basketball team make 27 points in one game, they certainly are having an “on” night. Ray DeCook and Ed Krause of the Fighting Irish did that little stunt Tuesday night against Marquette and they are both centers. DeCook plays a nominal forward position but scored the majority of his ten counters from the pivot post on the foul line. Practically all of Big Ed’s 17 points came from the same place.
Having two men of this calibre
who can alternate at the control point of their offense should make the Blue and Gold one of the hardest fives in the country to stop for the rest of the year.
V
FOULS, FOLLOWS, FREE THROWS
Still on the subject of the Marquette game, we can’t help remarking on the apparent inability of the Notre Dame eagers to avoid a large number of personal fouls and missed free throws in every game. Also, and for the first time, they have a new and valuable habit of following shots. We hope they continue to stay in there trying when the long ones don’t drop. It pays big dividends. ■
Back to the fouls and free throws: 111 personal fouls in nine games is a fairly staggering total. Likewise a record of 54 free throws missed out of 103 tried isn’t the best possible average by any stretch of figures. When the games are close and every point needed, both these faults are likely to collect toll in the form of defeats.
The opponents to date have made 62 charity points out of 124 attempts: just .500 percent. Their foul total, too, is but 85 for the nine games.
SAVE AT
SURPLUS STOCK
Men’s High Grade
To practice real Thrift
Is really a gift
And most of us, economy crave, But try as we will
We found it hard, ’till
Walgreen’s had taught us to Save.
Now each day and night
At Walgreen’s we sight
The bunch from Old Notre Dame;
They whoop and they rave
For now they can save
And live on a budget that’s lame.
You’re Always Welcome at Walgreens
Double Tap Sole—Iron Heel
FIELD SHOES
FOK MEN OR BOYS
Last year’s price was 83.85. A shoe for all outside workers.
ENDICOTT JOHNSON Men's Oxfords $1.95
GIL-BRO'S
330 S. Michigan St.
January 15, 1932
Twenty-nine
CONFERENCE CAGE SCRAMBLE
People who like figures on comparative scores seem to be in for a busy winter season. Indiana beat Notre Dame; Notre Dame downed Northwestern twice; then Northwestern handles the Hoosiers in easy style.
Then there was the unexpected toppling of Purdue’s Boilermakers the other night at Illinois. We’ll admit that we were quite skeptical as to the chances of anyone stopping the W ooden-Kellar-Eddy-Stewart-Parmeuter combination but it looks as if they’re human after all.
western, which was defeated twice by them, pacing the Big Ten it looks as though the Keoganites have more than a fighting chance to even the count with their two conquerers when they meet them again next month.
Lineups and summary:
Notre Dame (13)	g	f	p
Newbold, rf .....................1	1	3
DeCook, If.......................4	2	0
Krause, c........................7	3	4
Baldwin, rg .....................2	1	3
Burns. 1g........................1	1	0
N. Crowe, rf .....................o	o	2
Davis, rf ........................0	0	0
L. Crowe, rg......................1	o	0
Schumacher. If....................1	1	-
Voegele, c .......................0	0	0
Marquette (31)	c	f	p
Gorychka. rf......................1	4	4
Zumach. If .......................1	0	3
Budrunas. c. If...................2	3	0
Ronzani. rg ......................1	1	3
Shipley, 1g ......................2	2	0
Blask. rg.........................0	0	1
Kukla. c .........................1	1	1
Mullen, rf........................2	0	1
Casteron. Ig .....................0	0	0
Referee. Kearns (De Paul) : Umpire. Young (Illinois Wesleyan).
N. D HUMBLES SPARTANS
(Continued from Page 25)
N. Crowe. If .. DeCook. If, e... Baldwin, rg ___ Burns. 1g____ Voegale, rf ___ Davis, rf____ Krause, c____ L. Crowe, rg...
..0 . .2
”1
..1
..0
..1
Michigan State (25)	c	f	p
Pinneo. rf .......................0	0	3
McCaslin. If .....................2	1	1
Boeskool, c ......................1	1	3
Kircher, rg ......................3	1	0
Vondette. 1g .....................3	4	1
Referee. Lane (Cincinnati) ; Umpire. Trav-inicek (Armour Tech).
N. D= 43, MARQUETTE 31
(Continued from Page 20)
was not as good as it has been on several other occasions, but this was more than compensated by its remarkable shooting, DeCook, Krause and Baldwin sinking a very high percentage of their shots. Krause’s seventeen points was high for scoring honors, with DeCook next in line with ten, and then Baldwin with five. DeCook has been consistently high in the last few games and has raised his season average considerably.
This victory over Marquette was Notre Dame’s seventh of the season and the fifth straight. Only Indiana and Purdue have been able to stop the Fighting Irish, and with North-
DUKE UNIVERSITY School of Medicine DURHAM, N. C.
Applications for admission to the first and third year medical classes entering October 1, 1932, should be sent as soon as possible, and will be considered in the order of receipt. The entrance qualifications are intelligence, character, two years of college work and the requirements for grade A medical schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.
We have borrowed this drawing from our esteemed contemporary to call your attention to the DOME’S snap-shot contest just starting. It’s really going to be quite worthwhile—and financially pleasant for the winners. $10.00 in prizes in these depressive days! Three prizes! We could tell you more about it—but turn to the news section of this issue and read all the details for yourself. Send in your entries now.
^he ^ome of 1^2
Thirty
The Scholastic
INTERHALL BASKETBALL
SCHEDULE
January 31
Group I—
8:30 a.m.—Lyons vs. St. Edward’s
9:30 a. m.—Morrissey vs. Badin
10:30 a. m.—Sophomore vs. Corby
1:30 p.m.—Dillon vs. Sorin
Group II—
2:30 p.m.—Howard vs. Walsh
3:30 p. m.—Brownson vs. Off-Campus
4:30 p. m.—Carroll vs. Freshman Alumni—bye.
February 7
Group I—
8:30 a. m.—Lyons vs. Corby
9:30 a. m.—Sophomore vs. Badin
10:30 a. m.—Morrissey vs. Dillon
1:30 p.m.—Sorin vs. St. Edward’s
Group II—
2:30 p.m.—Howard vs. Off-Campus
3:30 p.m.—Brownson vs. Freshman
4:30 p.m.—Car roll vs. Alumni Walsh—bye.
February 14
Group I—
8:30 a. m.—Lyons vs. Badin
9:30 a. m.—Sophomore vs. Dillon
10:30 a.m.—Morrissey vs. St. Ed’s 1:30 p. m.—Corby vs. Sorin
Group II—
2:30 p. m.—Brownson vs. Alumni
3:30 p. m.—Howard vs. Freshman
4:30 p.m.—Carroll vs. Walsh. Off-Campus—bye.
-	• February 21
Group I—
8:30 a.m.—Lyons vs. Dillon
9:30 a.m.—Sophomore vs. St. Ed’s 10:30 a. m.—Morrissey vs. Corby
1:30 p. m.—Badin vs. Sorin
Group II—
2:30 p.m.—Howard vs. Alumni
3:30 p.m.—Brownson vs. Carroll
4:30 p.m.—Off-Campus vs. Walsh Freshman—bye.
February 28
Group I—
1:30 p.m.—Lyons vs. Sophomore
2:30 p.m.—Dillon vs. St. Edward’s
3:30 p.m.—Corby vs. Badin
4:30 p.m.—Morrissey vs. Sorin
Group II—
8:30 a.m.—Freshman vs. Walsh
9:30 a. m.—Howard vs. Carroll
10:30 a.m.—Alumni vs. Off-Campus Brownson—bye.
Depression In Colleges
The existence of the depression has undoubtedly been strongly felt this year in the colleges througout the country. All the centers of education have reported a decrease in registration ranging in some of the largest institutions up into the thousands.
Students, due to financial distress in their families, have been unable to obtain money with which to continue their courses in the higher centers of learning.
Jobs have been provided, within the colleges, for a large number of those who are in need of them, but even this source of aid has been exhausted, and in one of the large state colleges of the middle west there has been a bulletin issued to the effect that no more positions are available about the college.
During the fall of the year 1931, the depression was having its greatest effect on the west; in one western university tuition had to be paid in potatoes. The low price of agricultural products was the great cause of the shortage of money in this section. However, the east is the heavy sufferer at present: many hundreds of students are dropping out at the end of the present semester.
MAGAZINES	PAPERS
UNIVERSITY CAFETERIA
.	and
SODA GRILL
DAILY SPECIALS
Open 6:30 a. m. to 9:40 p. m.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
Hello Men!
Smith’s Cafeteria 111 E. Jefferson Blvd.
Sherland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that 'makes you glad you’re hungry
January 15, 1932
Thirty-one
Sorin Cheers Her Hero » » »
NEVER BEFORE!

A SCHOLASTIC photographer ran across these Men of Sorin the other day as the entire Hall turned out en masse to gather at the Boxing Room of the Gym to aid their candidate in his training activities for the Bengal Boxing show, sponsored by THE SCHOLASTIC.
But Whoa! What's This?
SUPERHETERODYNE PERFORMANCE AT LOWER THAN ORDINARY CIRCUIT PRICES CROSLEY LITLFELLA
CONSIDER . . . Superheterodyne . . . Five Tubes__Pentode Output__Variable Mu ... Continuous (stepless) Static and Tone Control... Combined Volume Control and On-Off Switch . . . Illuminated Hair Line Shadow Dial with Vernier Drive . . . Full Floating Moving Coil Dynamic Speaker__Fine Wood Cabinet
• • •
The CROSLEY LITLFELLA will perform beyond your greatest expectations. It incorporates these most recent radio refinements. The extremely beautiful and exquisitely designed cabinet is the work of master craftsmen. The attractive walnut front panel is in two-tone effect and is set off at eitherside with fluted pilasters which support the gracefully arched walnut finished top. The grill openings are coved and the grill is backed by shimmering gold cloth.
Never before have all the big set features incorporated in the Crosley Litlfella been available in a receiver of this type, and never has the superlative performance they make possible been available at such a remarkably low price.
BLOCK & KUHL
Campus Representative
JIM BAKER
243 Badin
YOU’RE THERE WITH A
Just The Corby Hall Trainers, who will get their candidate in shape to battle the mighty , Sorin warrior.
You saw this space,— others will see yours. Advertise in THE SCHOLASTIC.
*
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
Phone 3-1254
Drs. Singler & Probst
DENTISTS
Suite 261 Associates Building South Bend, Indiana
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
J. Burke, I™
OPTOMERIST and MFG. OPTICIANS 228 So. Michigan St.
Est. 1900
SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS TO N. D. STUDENTS
Executive Business TRAINING for College Men Prepare yourself for a successful career in business. Avoid the wasted years of training in the “school of hard knocks”. Babson Institute offers a nine months’ residential course in executive training that gives you the fundamentals of business and actual experience in their practical application.
Students are in a commercial environment and under the direction of business men. They keep regular office hours and have frequent contact with actual business organizations. You will approach “your first job” with the confidence bom of experience, teady for rapid progress.
Next Term Begins March 26th Mail Coupon for Booklet Our booklet, ‘’Training forBusinessLeadership", gives full information about this unique course of business training. Sent without obligation. Simply mail the coupon below.
BABSON f”“ INSTITUTE “■"« g Div. 1301	Baboon Park, Mass. J
■	Send me, without obligation, “Training | I for Business Leadership” and complete g
■	particulars about Babson Institute. g
g Nest J
Steele
On Down the Line
CREIGHTON UNIVERSITY in a recent basketball game won on a technical foul which was called on the crowd because it had booed the referee . . . JOHN (HURRY) CAIN, southpaw kicker and passer of the University of Alabama, has one vice. He reads western stories . . . CHICK HAFEY, who led the National league in hitting last year was a holdout at the beginning of last season and participated in only part of the games. As an additional handicap he is required to wear spectacles. . . .
V
LOREN MURCHISON, star sprinter, is attempting to stage a comeback for this year’s Olympic Games. ... The NEW YORK CELTICS basketball team’s name is paradoxical for there is only one Irishman on the team . . . BURLY GRIMES, Pitcher recently traded from the St. Louis Cards to the Chicago Cubs, said, “that he expected to win more games this coming year because the weather is more suitable in Chicago than in St. Louis” ... Was this statement paid for? . . .
V
JOHN WOODEN, the co-captain of Purdue, and “Sally” Sudith of Indiana, who aided their local high school in winning the state championship a few years back were rivals recently in a basketball game which Purdue won mainly through the efforts of Wooden . . . GEORGE SPITZ who set an indoor high jumping record of 6 feet 7 inches last year was rewarded recently by a New York club which considered this the outstanding feat in sports for the year . . .AT AMHERST COLLEGE 92% of the students participated in fall sports. . . .
V
Last Saturday two teams from Illinois defeated two teams from Indiana; in the Big Ten, Northwestern and the University of Illinois copped the basketball honors from Indiana' and Purdue respectively . . . LOU GEHRIG, who returned recently from Japan where he played baseball with a team of all-American players, said that the baseball diamonds in Japan, are larger than they are in this country although the players are smaller. . . . Due to the fact that BOBBY JONES dropped out of amateur golf competition the gate receipts at the various tournaments dropped off to . the extent of $33,000. . . .
lb MEN only!
NO NEED to park a “Girls Keep
Out” at the top of this advertisement. They’ll shy off quick enough when they find out what it’s about.
For it’s a strictly masculine privilege —solace, satisfaction, retreat, call it what you will—the joy of smoking a pipe!
It’s the smoke “for men only,” any
She likes to see him smoke a pipe
girl will agree—one of the few rights the women haven’t crowded us on. And the only smoke for men, many a thoughtful smoker calls it. For the deep consolation and rare comradeship of a mellow, richly aged pipe are something every man does well to know.
And you taste the rich satisfaction of pipe smoking at its best when you fill up your bowl with Edgeworth. There’s a tobacco that’s made for a pipe. Cool, dry, slow-burning. Blended of fine, mellow, full-flavored hurleys.
You’ve a rare smoke coming if you’ve never tried Edgeworth. You will find Edge- > worth at your; tobacco dealer’s. Or send for special free sample packet „	,	.
if you Wish.	&e needs hts pipe
Address Lanis & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Virginia.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive
and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in twc forms —EdgeworthReady-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. AH sizes, 15^ pocket package to #1.50 pound humidor tin.
* Reader interest—that’s what makes the Scholastic a real medium for your advertising to Notre Dame! News, features, sports—■everything of interest to the student fills the pages of this weekly. Let our representative show you how economically you can contact more than 3,000 students—Phone 3-1121.
THE SCHOLASTIC
ADMINISTRATION BLDG.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME

MR. PAUL BYRNE LIBRARY, N3TRE DAME
“and\
ow
The Chesterfield soloist . ALEX GRAY ■^Romantic Baritone
© 1932, Liggett & Myers Tobacco C<
can
£. S.T.
C .S .T.
MT.
P.T.
The Chesterfield Cigarette program... Every night
except Sunday...Entire Columbia Network, coast
to coast...15 minutes of "Music that Satisfies."
Whether it’s a tender old love song or a dashing hit from the latest show, there’s the deep thrill of real music in whatever he sings. Hear his fine baritone tonight, in the Chesterfield radio program. And hear Nat Shilkret, too, with his beautifully-balanced big orchestra.
Chesterfield
i