Vol. XXI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 15, 1887.	No. 6.
To Very Rev. Father General.
To her thrice honored Founder o’er the sea, The grateful University of Notre Dame ■
Sends heartfelt greeting, emulous and free As any that devotion’s self can frame!
Though much your venerated presence grand. And so beloved, is missed, afar and near,
Yet festive mirth and joy on every hand, Resounding, permeates the atmosphere.
St. Edward’s Festival! The Founder’s Dav!
With sense of duty—aye, of noble pride, We welcome the fair dawning, and obey
The pleasant summons, ringing far and wide.
The hearts of young and old, of stern and light,
Of studious and sportive, turbulent and calm, To-day, dear Father, ardently unite
In the same earnest and triumphant psalm.
Commemoration of the conquests wrought
For faith and science in the hopeful West,
The love for virtue, and exalted thought Which you upon our nation have impressed,
These memories, our dear Father, now find voice
In feast-day honors and in feast-day bliss.
From this incentive do we all rejoice
And count at Notre Dame no day like this.
A Happy Feast Day! Grand years multiplied
Be yours, dear Father! O’er the sea’s expanse
This message to St. Edward we confide, And send to greet you in your native France.
The life of a man is a journey, the end of which is elsewhere. Like the flower, it has its root in the earth, and must force its way through its element to blow in a subtler element—air. Pain and pleasure, happiness and unhappiness, are the incidents of the journey. The wind blows, the rain falls, the traveller prepares for the struggle; at a later time the storm passes off, a ray of sunshine breaks forth: the traveller smiles, and thanks God. But has the sun and the rain changed the end of the journey ?—Mazzini.
Cellular Protoplasmic-Movement.
To illustrate protoplasmic movement, common spiderwort is used, because of the large size and transparency of its leaf-cilia and the trichomes of its anthers. It is universally convenient, since it' grows nearly everywhere in the United States. There are two principal types of protoplasmic movement in the cell, aside from the varied movements of the protoplasm prior to and during the process of cell-multiplication. These movements are properly designated rotation and circulation.
The rotatory movement is beautifully illustrated in the cellular protoplasmic motion of the cilia or hairs of the leaf, where, by means of the imbedded granules, the movements and direction of the colorless current are easily detected and followed. In a cilium, enlarged for demonstration, we have a hair of three cells, standing out from the leaf surface.	'
The base-cell is the immediate production of the epidermal tissue of the leaf, the outer two cells being its daughter and granddaughter. In the first or fundamental cell of this cilium are distinctly seen three currents of circulation—two passing from the centrally located nucleus to the outer and reproductive side of the cell; and the third to-its base. This phenomenon is quite characteristic of mature cells as rotation is common to younger and growing cells, o	o	*	-
The cilium-cell is at first but a minute, rounded prominence growing from the parent-cell at the point farthest from the parent’s basilar connection; it receives from it an irregularly moving complement of protoplasm, and assumes a more advanced form; it then severs its dependent connection with the mother-cell, forms a rotation of its own, and proceeds to re-enact the process of its own birth.
There are two kinds of cell-divisions: one connected with, and subject to, the behavior of the nuclear mass is called karyokinesis; the other is dependent on the ingrowth of the cell-wall, or simply on constrictional cell-multiplication in its various form1;. The cell-growth above described is of the . latter kind. The young cell here is originated by
THE NOTRE dame scholastic.
( i ) a protoplasmic protrusion from the mother-cell; (2) by the division of the nucleus, and (3) by the growth of the separating wall which shuts into the new cell its properly measured and allotted amount of substance. By this last development the cell attains individualization. It now supports itself by the absorption (through the minute interstices of its cell-wall where attached to the mother-cell) of an amount of food more than sufficient for its own nourishment, and the excess of which it promptly passes on to its contemporary posterity of sometimes many generations.
In the order of growth found in leaf-cilia it is conclusively proven by observation that reproduction, single and apical, always proceeds from the free end of the ultimate or youngest cell. In the trichomes or hairs of the anthers we observe entirely different phenomena. These hairs are moniliform, and appear under the microscope to be a connected column of circular and elongated cells.
•	o
The apical cell is always smallest, and is also rounded until the time when it yields its apical situation to its daughter cell when it matures and assumes the oblong form. In the opening flower they are colored (as the petals) with cyanine but are colorless in the bud.
The trichome-cell-surface is marked with longitudinal, oblique or wavy striations, which are so fine as to occur in the space of one square inch to the number of twenty-thousand. The trichome, unlike the cilium, is not a proper branch of its producing base organ, but is one of the layers of the body tissue united regularly to it up to its point of deviation. Here in the case of trichomes we have our second and truly typical cell-division by constriction. Reproduction is accomplished by the ingrowth of a slight indentation on the lateral surfaces of the cell-wall which continue to intrude until they meet in the centre, pinching the cell into two new ones. In the trichome, the nuclei of the younger cells are always in the cell-ends, and are continuous—in two adjoining cells—until maturity is attained, when they recede to their proper'central location. A typical, matured trichome-cell shows many interesting phenomena. Its nucleus is sur-. rounded by protoplasm holding many granules in suspension, which are carried around the cell for the nourishment of itself and others.
In the circulatory currents it may be noticed that at different points they touch, running in distinct opposite courses, but not commingling. These currents sometimes run on for five or ten minutes; then, from no apparent cause, they stop, and after a lapse of a few minutes recommence to flow, either in the same direction as before, or in one directly opposite.
Heat, up to a'certain point, accelerates the protoplasmic motion, then retards it, and finally causes it to’ cease to move, and in this case it does not flow again until again under formerly favorable conditions. It may- be remarked that the effects of heat are indentical with those of electricity on living _ protoplasm in general. Perhaps the most noteworthyfeature of cellular circulation or rotation is the fact that a considerable portion of the food
containing protoplasm is ever held at either end of the cell and around the nucleus. The current passing around adds to, or takes from, these accumulations, but keeps them about of a size always. It snatches up food absorbed through the lower cell-wall, carries it around (the lateral walls helping themselves from the passing stream) the sides to the other extremity, and from there the food is absorbed into the next younger cell and thus continuously handed along to the last cell.
It is seen that where the cell completes itself before reproducing, and where the mode of reproduction is by .budding, rotation is the form of protoplasmic movement; where cell-multiplication is by division, in which case the cell may constrict and divide before attaining its adult size, the movement is circulatory.
It is almost impossible to prove that the object of these phenomena is nutrition, and yet it may very safely be assumed. In the cilia each cell performs but one function at a time. The first cell develops another by elongation at its free extremity; the protoplasm rotates and carries with it material for the expansion of the cell-wall by «intussusception ”—a deposition of particles amongst the molecules of the wall which swells it until the proper adult degree of thickness and surface is attained. It next passes through the end, and the small new cell is formed in precisely the same manner as its mothercell. Whilst this second cell is forming, the first must supply it with nourishment brought by rotation from the plant-tissue. And so the process goes on; each cell attending first to its own necessities and then to those of the cells beyond.
In the trichomes much more work is allotted to each cell both before and after it reaches maturity. As before stated, cell-division here takes place some time before the cell has ceased to grow. The first cell, for example, divides transversely at its centre —whilst still preserving its rounded contour—and these two new individuals likewise divide, all meanwhile increasing in size and changing in form.	•
The cell nearest the plant receives the most pabulum, and first assumes the permanent squared shape necessary for a base—the others do so successively. Yet whilst completing themselves, they must pass on food for the sustenance of cells beyond which are also growing, and which repeat the neighborly act to others still beyond, appropriating only as much as they require. This, it will be seen, is a more difficult task than that given to the leaf-cilia. To effect this heavier passage of food, the * protoplasm is more heavily laden with nutritive matter. This makes patent the cause of the accumulations at the cell-ends; the protoplasm bearing so much food would be unable to discharge its burden in merely passing the cell-wall junction. .The food is passed through by osmosis, and hence we have currents passing one way laden with nutrient matter, and returning without it ready,to take up another supply.	-
In all probability ,the blue coloring matter, (cyanine) of the trichomes serves a peculiar and interesting purpose. Cell-division, or growth, of the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	83
higher plants takes place only in darkness; whilst the colored parts perform their task of assimilation, or food fabrication, only in the light. In this case
darkness is furnished for the growth of the trichome by its blue coloration, and the same also admits a sufficiency of light to permit assimilation.
The fact that the trichome only receives its color when the flower is opened and it is exposed to the light strengthens this assumption.
H. D. H.
Suretyship and Guaranty.
(Continued.)
Equities.—Where one of several sureties, or guarantors, is compelled to pay the entire debt of the principal, or where the sureties generally discharge the obligation of their principal, natural justice demands, in the first case, that the remaining sureties or guarantors shall contribute their -pro rata shares; and, in the second case, that the sureties or guarantors be substituted in the place of the creditor as to his rights against the principal obligor. Consequently, contribution and subrogation have long since been acknowledged by courts of equity, and latterally courts of law have assumed a concurrent jurisdiction. These are the principal equities which arise between sureties themselves and sureties and guarantors and their principal. However, of much more limited application are exoneration, marshalling of assets, etc.	•	•
Contribution.—“ Contribution is the payment, by each or any one of several parties, who are liable, with others, of a proportionate share of the whole liability or loss, to one or more of thepar-ties thus liable, upon whom the loss has fallen, or who has been compelled to discharge the whole liability.” Contribution is, to some extent, in the nature' of subrogation. This right to be subrogated must exist precedent to contribution.
An obligee in a contract of suretyship or guaranty has the right inherent in him to collect the debt, or to have the obligation performed, either' by the principal entirely, or by anyone of the joint or collateral obligors, or by all of them jointly, collecting from each his proportionate liability. If he proceeds against the principal obligor only, and receives satisfaction, all liability ends there; if he adopts the second course and compels anyone or more of several joint or collateral obligors to discharge the obligation, they are immediately subrogated to all the rights of the creditor against the remaining sureties or guarantors and against the principal debtor. The right to contribution exists as between co-sureties and co-guarantors only. Consequently, the question arises, “ Who are co-sureties and co-guarantors?” In order to establish this relation, it is not necessary that they should have entered into the agreement at the same time, or have signed the same instrument, or be bound in the same amounts. Still; in contributing, they can be compelled to contribute amounts proportionate to their undertaking only. The criteria, in determining whether the relation of
co-sureties or co-guarantors exists, are, that they are liable or undeitake for the same principal and in respect to the same obligation: Hence where a person assumes the character of surety in respect to an obligation or debt, without being aware that there is already a surety, or even without the knowledge of such first surety, the right of contribution nevertheless exists. But where a person signs as surety for another surety; and where a person has become a surety during the continuance of a suit, they are not regarded as co-sufeties, and contribution-does not exist between them. Nor does it exist where a person signs at the request of another surety. And in this case, if the first surety has promised to save harmless the surety signing at his request, he may be compelled to do so.
Accommodation indorsers of negotiable paper may constitute themselves co-sureties by express agreement; or such agreement may be inferred from existing facts; but in the absence of such agreement or facts, they are not co-sureties. If a surety exchanges his character for that of the principal, or assumes such character, he cannot demand contribution from his original co-sureties after payment of the debt by him; but for any payment they may make, they are entitled to indemnity from him. In order to entitle a surety to contribution for a debt paid by him it is not necessary that he should have been forced to make payment by the creditor. If the obligation' existed when he made paymentrit is enough. And it has been • held that, where a surety made payment on a promissory note voluntarily, though he might have resisted payment because another name as maker had been added, contribution might still be enforced as against persons who subsequently signed as sureties. But contribution cannot be enforced where the debt discharged by the surety is void at law; nor where a surety in a bail bond voluntarily pays the judgment against the principal before the bail is fixed. In these cases there is no actual obligation: in the former case because of the invalidity of the undertaking, and in the latter because the surety may relieve himself from payment by delivering over the body of the principal; and so where one of several sureties consents to an extension of time, while others refuse. If time is given the principal, it must be done with the knowledge and consent of all who may subsequently become liable; and where they do not all so agree, and time is given notwithstanding this fact, such as refused will be discharged from further liability. So,too,whereasurety releases the principal from the obligation of indemnity towards him; for here the primary liability of the principal beingextinguished, the liability dependent upon that also fails.
But the discharge of -a surety under bankrupt laws does not release him from liability to contribution. Nor does the discharge from liability to the creditor release him from contribution' in favor •of a co-surety, who discharges the obligation. Nor does the death of a surety release the obligation of contribution in equity, as against his estate, where he is bound by a joint or joint and several bond. However, a surety who discharges the
THE NOTRE bAME SCMOLAsTlb.
whole debt or obligation, can in law recover only a -pro rata proportion, having regard to the whole number of sureties originally bound, whether they are at such time solvent or insolvent, alive or dead, in or without the jurisdiction of the state. But when the undertaking is several merely, equity will not give relief against a deceased or insolvent surety’s estate; that is, in such case contribution will be apportioned between the living, solvent and domestic sureties merely.
Where a debt is paid, or an obligation discharged by several co-sureties jointly, they may enforce contribution jointly; but not so when the debt or obligation is discharged by them severally. And where one surety discharges the entire obligation he cannot in law enforce contribution against his co-sureties jointly, but must proceed against them severally, recovering from each his proportionate amount; but in equity the liability of each surety can be adjusted by the same bill, and in such bill in equity the principal may also be joined; but it is a rule in law that a principal cannot be joined with the co-sureties of the plaintiff in the same action.
. It frequently happens that a principal, in order to save his sureties harmless, either entirely or to some extent at least deposits with one or more sureties, or guarantors, some indemnity. In such case the surety receiving the indemnity must use due care and diligence in preserving it, where it has been received by such surety or guarantor after the bond or agreement has been signed; for, any indemnity given by the principal at such time inures to the benefitof all co-su reties,and thesurety holding it is regarded as a trustee merely. If through his negligence the indemnity is lost, or rendered unavailable, his co-sureties will be discharged to the extent of the injury so incurred. Where a surety pays a judgment against his principal, and upon an execution sale procured by himself purchases the principal’s property at a comparatively nominal price, which property if sold at its fair value would be sufficient to discharge the debt or satisfy the judgment, the co-sureties may show that fact in an action for contribution, and it will operate as a bar. But where a surety receives an indemnity from the principal after the co-sureties have paid their proportionate shares, such indemnity cannot be made the subject of contribution. In equity, recovery must ordinarily first be sought from the principal, and where he is insolvent, such fact must be shown; but this is not necessary in law. The bill to compel contribution may be filed before actual payment of the debt, and recovery may be had without notice to the co-sureties. .
Subrogation—“ This is the equity by which one secondarily liable for a debt is substituted for the creditor, after having paid the debt, so as to be entitled to the securities and remedies possessed by the creditor and enabled to enforce the right of exoneration against the principal debtor or of contribution against others liable in like rank with himself.” As employed in connection with the contracts of suretyship and guaranty, it is the shifting over, as it were, of all rights and remedies by the
creditor, who has been satisfied by a surety, or guarantor, to such surety, enabling him to enjoy the same privileges against the principal and co-sureties that the creditor might have had, had not the obligation been discharged by such surety or guarantor.
Actual payment of the debt must be made before the right of subrogation can be claimed against the principal; and this right, as between the sureties, may be waived without consideration. It is not an obligation devolving upon them, which they are bound to enforce, but a mere right or benefit in their favor of which they may take advantage. The debt must be wholly extinguished, but not necessarily by the sureties alone. If the debt had been partly extinguished by the principal, and then payment of the residue be made by the sureties, subrogation would be enforceable as to the amount so paid. But where a person is surety or guarantor as to a distinct part of a debt and makes payment of it, while the creditor holds securities from the debtor as to another part of the same debt, the surety cannot be subrogated to such securities. Where the debt is paid or the obligation discharged by all the sureties, subrogation springs up in favor of all of them, and they may be jointly subrogated. The equity exists between all co-sureties and is more liberal than that of contribution. A person who, at the request of the creditor, assumes the obligation of surety or guarantor, is entitled to subrogation if he pays the debt. And so, too, of a person who undertakes to indemnify a surety or guarantor, and is subsequently compelled to pa}’ the debt or obligation. But a person assuming the character of surety during the proceedings of a suit is not entitled to subrogation to the prejudice of prior-creditors of the debtor. Being a junior creditor, his rights must succumb to those prior in point of time. Nor is he entitled to subrogation where he receives from the principal other securities, which : are intended to operate as an indemnity.	;
The creditor is entitled to be subrogated to rights : or securities held by a surety or guarantor against ; the principal in equity, whether he was aw’are of ; their existence or not. And so, too, where judgment is confessed by the principal in favor of a surety, and the surety then dies; but in this latter case it is necessary that the judgment or indemnity be an incident of the debt. The rule would not apply where the indemnity is personal merely, and the surety is then released from liability; nor where merger takes place, as where the indemnity is taken ; up in an after-acquired title.	i
Exoneration__________Exoneration between co-sure- j ties or co-guarantors applies where one or more of 1 them have received an indemnity and it is suffered 1 to be destroyed or rendered worthless by their | negligence; or between the sureties and the obligee, | where he, in like manner, holds securities from the | principal obligor and permits them to become un- | available. The sureties will be exonerated to the | extent they suffer.__1
. Marshalling of Assets.—In the marshalling t of assets, equity respects the rights of subrogation, I and will not marshal them to the prejudice of a ® surety.	S
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	85
Liability.—We have already seen, the extent of the liability of married women and infants in respect to contracts of suretyship and guaranty, and also their discharge.
We will now consider the liability of sureties and guarantors generally: The law views them with favor, and protects them whenever possible under their contract; but a forced or unreasonable construction will not be given to it in order to release them. They have a right to demand a strict construction of their contract, in order to escape liability where it was not intended by them or could not reasonably be expected. And in some cases the law even permits them to construe it themselves. And it is ordinarily necessary that, in order to bind them as sureties or guarantors, they should have notice of the acceptance of their undertaking; and this must be given within a reasonable time, and where such notice is given their liability attaches when the instrument evidencing their agreement is delivered. But such notice is not necessary where the undertaking is absolute. They cannot be made liable beyond the scope of their agreement; and, unless their engagement is plainly retrospective in terms, they cannot be held for defalcations of their principal committed prior to their undertaking. Nor are they liable where, after they have entered into an agreement, there is a material change of, or addition to, the duties of the obligor, increasing his liabilitv. This rule ineludes even the enactment of a statute materially changing their duties aftei" the obligation was undertaken; but this rule may operate as a discharge of such new matter • only. And it will not operate where sureties undertake in an official bond conditioned for “the faithful discharge of all the duties of the said office” by their principal, since here the contract is wide enough to cover every liability, whether created by subsequent or precedent laws, the duties subsequently imposed being germane to those existing when the bond was executed. Consequently, where a surety is bound to the same extent as the principal he may be called upon to pay more than the amount stipulated in the bond. However, this is in every case governed by the nature of the agreement. So, too, where, if he refuses or neglects to make payment after the liability has fallen upon him, he may be compelled to indemnify the creditor for any loss or damage accruing after he so refuses to pay; and this may extend to interest on the amount of his obligation and to expenses incurred through the gross negligence of the principal. .
As a rule, the liability of sureties in an official bond extends from the time of the date of the bond to the termination of the official term, and consequently they are liable for all moneys coming into the hands of the principal in his official capacity. And in an action against the sureties for defalcations of their principal, it must be alleged in the declaration that the money was so received—an omission of this would be fatal on demurrer. This liability of sureties has been extended to moneys wrongfully retained after the expiration of his official term, as well as to moneys received prior
to the execution of the. bond, but improperly retained without the knowledge of the obligee. But the recitals in a bond as to the time in which the obligation may be fulfilled control the conditions when they are indefinite and general; and the lia. bility of the surety will continue only for the time specified.
(CONCLUSION NEXT WEEK.)
Art, Music and. Literature.
—The “ Normal diapason ” has been adopted this month for the bands of the German army. This is the same pitch used in the French army. English soldiers still march to music pitched in what is known as the English diapason, although that was abandoned several years ago by many English orchestras, including that of the Royal Italian Opera.	-
—For many years it was uncertain whether the Dresden or Darmstadt “ Madonna” was Holbein’s genuine masterpiece. The Grand Duke of Hesse has not allowed his picture to be cleared of the thick coat of paint and varnish. Herr Hauzer, the Munich restorer, has been so successful that there is no doubt as to its genuineness. It will be on exhibition shortly at Dresden, side by side with the p'eture which has so long been held to|be the original. Ti e colors are even more brilliant than those of the D.esden Madonna.
—A valuable addition has been made to the Mary Queen of Scots Relic Exhibition, at Peterborough in the celebrated full-length oil painting of the Scottish Queen from Blair’s College. The portrait was formerly the property of Elizabeth Curie (one of Mary’s attendants at the execution), and was bequeathed by her in 1620 to the Seminary or Scots College at Douai, her brother being at the time one of the professors there. At the breaking out of the French Revolution the inmates of the college were obliged to fly, and the portrait was taken out of the frame, rolled up, and hidden in a chimney of the refectory, the fireplace being afterwards built up. In 1814 it was taken from its hiding-place, transferred to the English Benedictine College in Paris, brought to Scotland in 1830 by the late Bishop Patison, and deposited in Blair’s College. The painting, which is 8 ft. by 4ft., is recognized as one of the few authentic portraits of Mary, and the portrait at Windsor is sup- -posed to be a copy.	’
—The presents that will be on exhibition-at the Vatican during the Pope’s Jubilee include an altar sent by the Bolognese Commission. It is built of inlaid wood, and the sacred vessels used in the celebration of Mass are of silver gilt or pure gold. The whole is valued at $16,000. The gifts from the diocese of Milan alone will reach the value of $70,000. A missionary sends from Burmah skins of two tigers, killed by himself, and the tusk of an elephant, carved in the form of a pirogue with its rowers. Cantu sends many lace robes, made mostly by little children. Objects in opal glass are sent
86	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
by the parish of St. Ambrogio. From Orleans comes a magnificent standard of Joan of Arc, embroidered by noble ladies. The Princess Clotilde, in her retirement at Moncalieri, embroidered a white satin robe, with gold flowers, for the Pope. A book of the life and acts of Leo XIII, a model, of painting and engraving, sent from Belgium, is called “ Leo XIII’s Book of Gold.” A model of a monumental organ for St. Peter’s has been made by Caraille Coll, a celebrated organ maker.
Some Catholic Scientists.
The meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science at Manchester, which was concluded last week, Sept, io, has been in many ways a memorable one. Not only was it the “Jubilee” meeting, in the sense that it falls in the year of her Majesty’s Jubilee, and, therefore, naturally invites a retrospect over the enormous strides of science during the fifty years of the Victorian era; but it has also been the largest meeting ever held, the total number of members and associates reaching the figure of 3,882, which fairly “beats the record” by some 500. As we indicated before the meeting an active part has been taken in the different sections by various Catholic savants and students of science. Two distinguished Belgian explorers, Captain Coquilhat and Lieutenant La Mar-inel, read papers before the Geographical Section on “ The Bangala,” and “ The Congo below Stanley Pool;” Mr. James McCarthy, of the Siamese Service, on “Siam;” and Mr. J. J. Cardwell, of St. Bede’s College, on “Realistic Teaching in Geography,” a paper which was very well received. The same may be said of the address on “ The Extent to which Calico Printing and the Tinctorial Arts have been affected by the introduction of Modern Colors,” read to Section B by Mr. Charles O’Neill, F. C. S. Professor Vilanova y Piera, of Madrid, read two short communications to the Geological Section on “The Enhydric Chalcedony of Salto Oriental, Uruguay,” and “Notice of Two Species of Dinothertum found in Spain.” In the Biological Section, two of the Louvain Professors, MM. Carnoy and Gilson, presented papers on the biology of certain of the minute forms of natural life; and in the general discussion on “The Present Aspect of the Cell Question,” Professor Carnoy’s contribution to the debate was very warmly applauded, and he may fairly be said to have carried off the honors of the day, especially in his interesting and novel observations on “ The Chemistry of the Cell.” W.e noticed with pleasure that, in his opening remarks, Professor Schafer, F. R. S., who conducted -the debate, referred eulogistically to the important researches on the muscle lately undertaken by a .brilliant young pupil of Professor Carnoy, just appointed to a Louvain lectureship, M.Vangehuchten. Probably the most gratifying success at the meeting was that obtained by two young engineers,* alumni of Louvain, MM. Henri and Louis.Siret,. by their communication to Section H. ( Anthropol-: ogy ), of a report of their extraordinary prehistoric
discoveries in Southern Spain. Their memoir set forth the results of investigations reaching over an area of seventy-five kilometres, especially directed to the search for traces of prehistoric man in the Peninsula. There had hitherto been a great dearth of archaeological materials in Spain. It was to that country that we must look for a solution of some of the great mysteries connected with the subject which were as yet unravelled. The excavations of MM. Siret had been carried on during a period of eight years. The discoveries they made showed three distinct epochs—the neolithic, a transition period of bronze and copper instruments; and an age of more advanced types of metal tools, copper being used more than bronze, and flint being entirely ‘ unknown. The stations of observations were chiefly on elevated plains. Knives, arrow-heads, necklace beads, the latter showing different degrees of advance in workmanship, numbers of the pearls being ready for stringing, were all found at the stations attributed to the neolithic age. The finds were mostly inclosed in polygonal tombs, and evidence was adduced to show that cremation and inhumation were simultaneously practised. Bones in good preservation were not frequent, but one skull in excellent condition was discovered.
The intermediate period furnished examples of needles and bodkins. A distinct advance upon the pottery of the stone age was also noticeable, but the potter’s wheel had not been invented. In the metal age the villages were built upon rocks. The discovery of native silver had evidently taken place; for the art of working in this metal was already known, and the manufactuie of articles of finery went on side by side with the making of tools. Seven hundred saws of different patterns, fashioned oolitic flint, were also found, as well as fragments of pottery. It was conjectured that the duration of this third period of civilization must have been very limited—possibly not moi e..than three hundred years. Throughout the whole of their inquiries MM. Siret had met with no trace of writings.- . Some idea of the vastness of the discovery is given by the statement that of the third epoch alone, the early bronze age, the two brothers explored 1,300 tombs, and that their collection of objects, so many of which are of solid silver, number over 15,000. This is the first time that silver has been found in this epoch. In the discussion which followed, Professor Sayce, President of the Section, Dr. John Evans, Mr. H. H. Howarth, and several other leading anthropologists, testified to the great importance of this discovery, and MM. Siret’scommunication was generally acknowledged . to be the most important one. made to the Section. Many Catholic members attended the meetings of the Association. It is, of course, quite impossible to obtain a complete list, but in addition to those we lately gave we may mention Dr. Storms, the distinguished Belgian palaeontologist; the Rev. J. A. Corbishley, B. A., Professor of Natural Philosophy at Ushaw College; Mr. F. Landolf, who holds the same post at St. Bede’s; the Rev. John Cassidy, Cork; Mr. Shoolbred, C. E., and several others,—3 ; • London Tablets ...	. <	j
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	87
[/TTww the ‘■'■Boston Pilot''] A Valiant Woman.
One of the most interesting and valuable books thus far issued from that centre of'Catholic intellectual energy, the University of Notre Dame, is the “Memorial of the late Mother Angela,” Mother Superior—foundress almost—of the Sisterhood of the Holy Cross in the United States. Mother Angela was first cousin of Mr. Jas. G. Blaine. The outline sketch of her life is preluded by a tribute to her memory by her friend, Mrs. Margaret F. Sullivan, entitled “The Study of a Soul.” No finer memorial has-been written; and, reading it, one is divided between admiration of the woman who deserved the tribute, and admiration of the one who was capable of paying it.
Mother Angela, in the world Eliza Maria Gillespie, was of Irish ancestry, born in Brownsville, Pa., in 1824, and of a family many of whose members became eminent in the annals of peace and war of this country, and some of whom are prominent figures in contemporary history. It is enough to name the Gillespies, the Ewings, the Shermans, the Blaines.
Grown to womanhood, she made a brilliant impression on Washington society, with her rare mental and personal gifts and superior education. All that is popularly accounted noble and happy was within her grasp; but it could not satisfy her great soul which was always yearning to the needy and afflicted—sympathy materializing into practical relief. She earned money for the Irish famine sufferers in 1848; she nursed with hei* own hands victims of the Asiatic cholera in 1849. The following year she became a nun in the then small, poor, and uninfluential Sisterhood of the Holy Cross, at Notre Dame, Ind. The young Community soon felt the accession of a master-spirit. Her constructive and administrative gifts developed under the guidance of the venerable Father General Sorin, and the Sisterhood entered on an era of prosperity seldom paralleled in the history of religious orders in America. -
Mother Angela founded 27 fine establishments . over a territory ranging from Maryland to California. Heading a large band of Sisters, she nursed the sick and wounded Federal soldiers all through the Civil War; founding several permanent hospitals as well as a number of field-hospitals.
Afterwards, she was associate-editor of the Ave Maria.lor many years, and compiled two valuable series of school-books. She was alwavs most gem erous in her encouragement of Catholic talent, literary, artistic, musical. She ranked among the foremost educators of our day. She might be briefly described—Mrs. Sullivan makes the parallel in her own inimitable way—as a modern counterpart of the learned and munificent Abbess Hilda, of Whitby. Miss Eliza Allen .Starr contributes a sketch to this “ Memorial,” dealing mainly with Mother Angela’s services during the war. All told, however, there is only an outline of this great and- beneficent life; but this will doubtless be ex
panded at a later day into the goodly volume which the most concise statement of what the Catholic public desire to know of the life and work of Mother Angela must make.	.
College Gossip.
—The number of students—over two hundred— who are now pursuing their studies at St. Joseph’s College, this city, is a bright and encouraging sign of the prosperity of the institution, so ably conducted by the Priests and Brothers of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. The several college societies have been reorganized; and the Literary Society, so well known for its dramatic entertainments, promises to be. unusually brilliant this year. — Cincinnati Telegraph.
—On the 22d ult., Springfield, Ill., had an interesting event—the twenty-fifth anniversary of the founding of the parochial schools of the Immaculate Conception. The occasion was rendered more pleasing in consequence of the presence of the two Brothers, who acted as preceptor and assistant at the start .of the schools in 1862, Brothers Benjamin and Gabriel of the Community of the Holy Cross, at Notre Dame. Brother Gabriel was then quite young, and assisted Brother* Benjamin. Now, the latter is at the cathedral schools of Alton; while Brother Gabriel is tbe superior of the Immaculate Conception schools of this city. At the beginning, in 1862, the parish school contained ninety pupils; now, after the original parish being divided into four parishes, each having parochial schools, the present number of male pupils is three hundred in the parish of the Immaculate Conception. Brother Gabriel takes the place of Brother Lucien, who was removed by his superior to some other field of usefulness. The celebration was attended with several interesting and agreeable features. The day was appropriately begun with the celebration of the Sacrifice of the Mass by Father Brady, the scholars and friends attending; after this, presentations of several objects of value were made to Brother Gabriel. Masters M. J. Sexton and T. W alsh making the presentation speeches—a handsome cake with heart designs, a silver napkin ring, a beautiful picture of the Annunciation, this latter the gift of Mrs. M. K. Faith; a purse of money was also presented by Masters John Murray and Willie Burke; fruits and flowers were presented. The children were granted a holiday, and a dinner was given at which Fathers Brady, Burke, and Reily were present, who, together with Brothers Gabriel, Onesimus, Andrew, Celsus, resident teachers, and Brother Benjamin, visiting, made quite a merry party. It woidd be needless to say that all innocent conversational privilege, which, renders such occasions so enjoyable, was indulged in. After dinner Mr. John Foster had conveyances ready, and generously gave all so desiring an afternoon ride through and near the city. Father Ryan, of St. Joseph’s parish, also offered his congratulations, -—Church Progress,	~
88
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WE DM SeHOUK
Notre Dame, October 15, 1887.
Founder’s Day, 1887-
Notre Dame was cnfete last Thursday, the 13th inst.—the patronal festival of its venerable founder, Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior-General C.S.C. The day was observed as a general holiday; and I though the absence of the venerated Superior was j a source of deep regret to all, yet no one could ! think of foregoing an opportunity of giving public ; expression to the sentiments of esteem and affection [ which fill the hearts of the inmates of Notre Dame j
towards him who established this famed Institution, and guided its progress towards its present pinnacle of glory. The one thought that is now uppermost in the minds of all here is to prepare for the worthy celebration of an event which will be exceptionally glorious in the annals of Notre Dame; viz., the sacerdotal Golden Jubilee of Father General, which will occur during' the month of May next year. Of this we shall have occasion to speak in another number. We give herewith a detailed report of the celebration on Thursday.
IN THE CHURCH.
The fine statue of St. Edward, King and Confessor, erected in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, was profusely adorned . with floral offerings presented by devoted friends and special ad
and Founder
of Notre Dame.
Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of Holy Cross,
mirers of Very Rev. Father General Sorin. On his bright throne in heaven the royal confessor could scarcely appear more winning and radiant than did his image, surrounded as it was by the brilliant flowers and lights, revealing, as they did, the honorable sentiments which actuated the givers. The candles and lamps were suddenly lighted just as the students were assembling for the solemn High Mass. They gleamed out brilliantly as if in welcome to the generous young souls who •vyere. there collecting to honor the treasured fes?
tival. The warm glow of the lamps and tapers, and the rich perfume and beauty of the flowers interpreted the affectionate homage and appreciation not only for the illustrious Founder of Notre Dame, but for his glorious advocate in heaven. The magnificent statue so beautifully decorated, constituted the best representative of our beloved absent Father General, and touched all hearts as nothing else could. Better still, it reminded all to pray fervently for him, for his success in the transaction of the important business which called him to Europe, and for his good health, and his speedy and safe return to Notre Dame, the home of his heart and his hope.
Solemn High Mass was sung by Rev. President Walsh, assisted by Rev. Fathers French and Coleman as deacon and subdeacon. The Mass was strict Gregorian chant, sung with that impressiveness for which our choir is noted.
THE BOAT RACE.
Next to the dinner, the boat race was the most interesting event of St. Edward’s Day. The ■personnel of the crews is as follows: Evangeline “Reds”— F. Fehr, Captain and Stroke; G.H.Ball,No. 5; G. Craig, No. 4; L. Meagher, No. 3; W. H. Gordon, No. 2; H. Luhn, No. 1; J. V. O’Donnell,Coxswain . Minnehaha, “ Blues ” —G. Houck, Captain and Stroke; F. Albright, N0..5; F. Henderson, No. 4; S.
; Stubbs,No. 2; P.VD. f Brownson, No. 1; C.
P. Neill, Coxswain.
At ha If-past ten o’clock a. m., Thursday, the two crews were upon the lake. After some delav, owing to the wind, the word “go” was given by Rev. Father Regan, President of the Boat Club. The “Blues” at once took the lead
and held it, in spite of the strenuous efforts of the “ Reds,” until the upper buoys were reached. The turn was made by both crews at the same time. When the “pick-out” was made, the “Reds” demonstrated their ability to win by forging ahead. They thus obtained a lead which was never lost, in spite of the struggles and spurts of the “ Blues ” to overcome it. The “ Reds ” won easily by about two boat-lengths, making the two lengths of the lake and the turn in about 3.25.	<	-
The good time made, and the excellence of the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, -	89
race are surprising, owing to the inclemency of the weather which sadly interfered with the practising for the contest. Both crews feel that if they had had more time in which to prepare, the race would have been much more exciting and more hotly contested. As it was, it was one of the prettiest struggles ever witnessed on the lake, and the winning crew proved by their efforts to win that they had no walk-away.
■	DINNER.
The refectory, aside from the tempting viands with which it was replete, when the 300 and more guests, with appetites just sharpened by contact with the fresh lake breeze, filed into and through its spacious aisles, looked gorgeous in the highly artistic adornments with which it had been decorated by the good Sisters. Graceful festoonings of red, white and blue lace and tapestry from whose cresses peeped the festive fern, stretched between ivy twined pillars and from wall to wall; lovely little flags and twigs of evergreen met the gaze in every conceivable spot, while in the centre waved the great Stars and Stripes, nestling in its folds the picture of the venerable Founder of Notre Dame —appropriate, truly—and on each side of the flag and picture was twined in letters of gilt and ivy “Founder’s Day, 1887.” When the guests had sated to the full their mental sense of beauty, they turned their attention to the more corporeal delights of the occasion. No need to say aught of the guests’ appreciation of the good things set before them; it is a self-evident truth that college students and the menu, as provided on the occasion, can never be other than in harmony. When the last dish had been borne away, Mr. J. A. Burns, who acted as toast-master, arose and proposed the - following toasts:
Our Holy Father, Leo XIII.—“Longum, longum vivat Papa Leo, Rex! ”
Responded to by Very Rev. Father Corby, who . began by saying that he would not enter into an elaborate speech upon the proposed toast, but that he would simply state who and what the Sovereign Pontiff is. Father Corby spoke in his usual happy style, and was loudly cheered.
Our Country.—“ Hail, Fatherland I our Glory and our Pride.”	'
Prof. Hoynes, being called upon for a response, was greeted with applause as he rose to reply. The Professor showed how much superior to the other nations of the earth is the American in all commercial pursuits, and in the nature of its constitution and laws. He was particularly eloquent in exhorting his hearers to preserve uninjured by anarchy, socialism, and all the other “isms,” this admirable edifice of government reared by our heroic forefathers. The vigorous applause which greeted his response testified to the affection entertained by the students for their “favorite” orator.
The Founder of Notre Dame.—“ Monumentum si qureris, circumspice.”	.
Responded to by Rev. President Walsh, who, in acknowledging his inability to do full justice to the subject, said that the sentiment embodied in the
toast contained matter sufficient for a volume rather than for a speech; but that, nevertheless, the merest Mance at the life of the venerable Founder could o	e
not fail to be beneficial to all. “ No one,” said he, “can glance at the life of Father Sorin, think of his labors and sacrifices, of the privations to which he subjected himself, and of the success with which God has been pleased to crown his labors, without being more ready to make sacrifices at the call of duty.” In conclusion, the reverend speaker paid an eloquent tribute to the noble qualities of mind and heart characteristic of Father Sorin, and which have contributed so much to his success in rearing the splendid monument of Christian manhood. The applause which followed bore ample testimony to the loyalty and devotedness of the students to the great-hearted, venerable Founder of the institution.
The Facultyofthe University.—“Lahore,Fideque.” Response by Prof., John G. Ewing. He glanced back at the time when he had entered the University as a student, recalled with feelings of gratitude the efforts of the Faculty to train and rear him in all that was right, and said that, as a former student, his remembrance of the college Faculty was one of the deepest love and respect. “What the-Faculty of to-day hope is that you, young gentlemen, in the years to come, when you go forth into the world, will have in your hearts as kindly and as pleasant memories as we have of our old preceptors. In this it is that we look for our reward.” Prof. Ewing spoke with a grace and a quiet, touching earnestness that went home to every one of his hearers as was evidenced by the hearty burst of applause which greeted his remarks.
The Students of Notre Dame—Past and Present. “Follow you the star that lights our upward pathway— yours and mine,	*
Forward! till you reach the highest; human nature is divine.”
Responded to by Philip Van Dyke Brownson, of the Class of ’88. “ The earnestness and reality of this life,” said the .speaker, “have no terror for the youth at college. The sternness and the harsh edges of practical facts lie softly outlined, rosy colored, in the dawn of opening manhood. But-sooner or later the light breaks in all its strength and fulness, and we find ourselves face to face with the great mysteries and doubts and fears which beset the pathway of everyone who does not close his eyes in blind despair.” Mr. Brownson spoke eloquently of the lost opportunities of youth and the consequent regrets of old age. The speaker concluded with a stirring appeal to follow the star of truth, of honor, and of manliness, which leads “to the highest, to the loveliest, to the ideal, to the infinite.” The speech was marked by forcibleness of ideas and by the beauty of its expressions, and the speaker was vigorously applauded. Thus ended happily what may be called the feature of-the day, and an occasion, moreover, that will long be a source of pleasant memories to all who were-present.
The field sports, which occurred during the afternoon, will be found reported in our local columns.	.	- ..	-
90	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Very Rev. Father General to the Minims.
The princes have been honored by the reception of another letter from their beloved Patron, the Founder of Notre Dame. It reads as follows:
Neuilly-sur-Seine, Sept. 29, 1887.
My Dear Young Friends:
Here I am yet, waiting to start on the announcement already specified and so ardently desired, on the condition sine qua non, viz., that there are 150 young princes in the palace, actually present, studying, moving in their own style, enjoying themselves, and looking for the Parisian dinner I have promised. Every day I take a ride through our little village of Paris; and whenever I notice on the street anything that will suit and delight the taste of my refined guests, I enter it on my programme. You may mention the same to your model President, to your venerated uncle, to your dear Provincial, etc. (They are your true friends, as they write me.) Of course, you will invite them; and some more, to the banquet, and they will enjoy it as well as yourselves. They might even hasten the day, by using their influence in filling up at once the halls of the palace. When I think myself of what I fancy to see on the tables on that auspicious occasion, I feel in advance somewhat hungry.
Next Monday our Fathers will open their magnificent college here with 500 pupils. They can scarcely accommodate any more. In Canada, the Very Rev. Father Louage tells me that their houses are all literally crowded. Everywhere, in proportion as the dangers of all sorts are increasing and threatening youths, parents who have eyes to see and a heart to feel for the welfare of their precious offspring realize every day more .sensibly that their first duty is to remove them from such dangers, and secure them a place of safety for the days on which all depends and rests for the future and forever.
Forget not, my young friends, to thank God in your daily prayers for having inspired your beloved parents to select for you, -while young, an Institution where your innocence is so well protected and your future secured to their full satisfaction. Now you sow the seed of a rich harvest; sow it deep, the soil is so good!
I am proud of my royal family. When I go to Rome, I will certainly ask of our Holy Father an especial blessing for our young princes and their worthy parents. When you write to them, pray, say to them that I love my dear little ones almost as much as they themselves do. Sinite farvulos venire ad Me, said our Blessed Lord. What a beautiful example! Oh! how much I wish, when I look, at their angelical features, to see them becoming eyery day more and more forcibly the delight and just pride of their families, the honor of society, the models, the efficient supporters of right in their glorious country! Who could foresee the noble career of such noble hearts!
Remember me politely, to all who feel as you do for Your ever devoted friend, *
.	~	E. Sorin.
Complete in this new world. ’Twas thus, when Time was young, Up-broken whirled The primal planet host, And seemed in dreadful ruin lost, ’ ’Til fragments formed, as shattered squadrons close, And new-born globes, complete in strength and beauty rose.
And as our Union sprang to life From riven Europe’s flying bands, Strong with the strife	•
Of those old lands,
And rich with culture of their years;
In one short century, A nation great and free,	'
The best alone her peers:
So this fair Pile, Which here the while, ’ Beneath Religion’s smile, ' Pale learning rears, By exile hands from many lands, In this sweet valley on the virgin Earth, Her total time, from feeble birth, .
And hopes and fears, To full-grown vigor, beautiful and grand, Her children’s pride, the blessing of the land, Counts scarce one-fourth a hundred years.
Old England points, with noble pride, To fanes where science, art reside; As well doth Spain and Germany, And loved France and-Italy, And many a land beside: These are the fruits of centuries,	-
Of thought, and toil, and power’s decrees;
Nor ever ill their glorious fame betide.
And in our favored clime,	I
The sister States	1
Of many a classic hall may boast,	1
' Whose open gates	~	]
Receive the earnest youthful host,	j
Aglow for learning’s festivals;	|
Free classic halls,	3
As rich in fruit and promise, if less known to time.	j
But generous bequests,	1
And State Endowments’, nurtured these;	|
As those by kings’ behests	|
Were formed, and by the rolling centuries:	|
What shall be said	|
If learning’s fount is fed .	-	|
By neither grateful dew of years,
Spring-floods of wealth, nor aught power’s channel bears;	■
But in the desert rise, Fed by the friendly skies,	•
The meed of prayer and toil, To cheer the arid soil,
The gift of faith, the pledge of love,	;
The sign of blessing from above,
Kind Heaven’s approving prize!	. .

To Very Rev. Father General *
-In distant ages, and in other climes, .
? . .While one great State was slowly formed, The golden Sun a thousand times .	.
.Rolled out the shining years. .
•	’Twas thus, while chads stormed,
The mighty spheres,
;	’Mid frost, and heat, and rain,
Their battered sides still beat amain, At length, in motions tuned to heavenly rhymes, ■ Came polished forth, from hoary eld to happier times.
• ’ Not so this mighty modern empire grows:
. ■	. Full-formed, and phoenix-like, it sprung
- From ashes dead to life that glows, -
; * Extract from a Jubilee Address, delivered in 1869, and reprinted by request.	;	.	;	.
O happy task, belov’d of Heaven, To thee and thy companions given, From that auspicious morning bright, When, clothed in robes of snow, baptismal-white, This virgin forest burst upon thy raptured sight!
sp . Then rose vow to Heaven’s Queen, . That she would bless the lovely scene, . And make its shades her dear retreat, ;
Religion’s home and learning’s seat:
And since that hour, The special power .	.
Of Mary, Queen, . Is felt and seen, .
In every shield from harm,
. Tn every added charm,
. - That marks the pleasing progress made
_ From forest glade to culture’s classic shade. _ ’ •" ; .From her sweet name, the land and lake,;-
.	Well peased, their-lovely title take;
■	. . Hers was the cot beside the pool, .
Where one small scholar came to school;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
And hers the present structures grand, Where hundreds crowd from all the land; Her praise so long the soft melodeon sung, And hers is from the mighty organ wrung;
, Hers is the magic rhyme Of sweetly flowing chime, And hers the monster bell’s sonorous sound sublime.
Where once the warrior cry . Made horrid discord on the midnight sky, There songs of praise Meek voices raise
And Christian love is borne on high; Around thee stand ' A Levite band
- Who issue forth to save the land;
While ’neath thy care Blest maidens rear, -	In every grace,
The future matrons of the race; ' And from these halls Their country calls, Each rolling year, Her sons, to cheer Her heart again,
' And'give the nation better men.
And where all this appears, Scarce more than one score years Saw but primeval wilderness,
The home of beasts, and men in savage dress. What means were thine, This gracious change Divine
To bring o’er nature’s simple shrine, Blest Founder, venerable, wise, benign? Those, only those, The good man knows;	.
Those, only those, ’ That God bestows: His blessings rest upon thy toil, His Saints and Angels guard the soil; And thy blest cheer is Mary’s smile, As borne on breezes free, By hill and dale, by land and sea, Her Angel Ave floats the while
And beareth thine and her sweet praise o’er many a mile.
.	’	Long here shall science dwell,
Long here shall Heaven’s praises swell, .	Still honored thou; for holy writings tell,
God giveth more to those who use their talents well.
When little time, and less of gold Have wroughtso much, through faith and love, . What may we hope when years have rolled, With added blessings irom above?
'	What hope the ardent toiler cheers,
What mighty hopes the future bears!
That future dawns, all lily, rose and balm, Arise, Fair Mother, radiant and calm, 'Tis thine to entone the grand, triumphal psalm ’Tis thine, ’tis thine to bear the glorious palm, And call the Nation to adore the Lamb, Thine, only thine, beloved Notre Dame!
Personal.
—Among the visitors on St. Edward’s Day were the Misses Sissie and Cecilia Cudahy.	;
—Among the welcome visitors during the week was Mr.W. Manogue (Com’I), ’81, of'Mason City, Iowa.	_	.
—William Rhodes (Com’l), ’66, of Savanna^ 111., who was recently married, visited- his Alma. ' Mater on Monday last, accompanied by his amiable bride. ,
—Rev.-M, P. Fallize, C. S. C., ’74, Rector of
**. ' •-* • { * 4 , ( ’
St. Joseph’s Church, South Bend, returned on	,
Sunday evening from his visit to Germany and.	:
Norway. He was accorded a hearty reception by 7 / - -his parishioners.	’	\	.
—Joseph E. Elder, Esq., a brother of His Grace, > the Archbishop of Cincinnati, and a prominent . merchant of Chicago, was a welcome visitor to the ; College during the week. He entered his grandson in the Minim department, expressing his surprise and pleasure at all he saw at Notre Dame. .
—Prof. John P. Lauth, ’67, who is widely known	, .
in educational circles,being the Principal of Lauth’s Academy, Chicago, paid a pleasant visit to relatives and friends at Notre Dame on Monday last. He was on his return to Chicago after a three months’ ;	•
vacation in Germany. The Professor, whose geni- , ality and good nature command friendsevery where, greatly enjoyed bis visit here. He left for Chicago < Thursday evening.	,	...
—Rev. William O’Ryan passed a few days at .	;
Notre Dame during the week on a visit to his . uncle, Rev. T. Maher, C. S. C. The reverend ;	\
gentleman is from the Archdiocese of Cashel, Ire- :	>.
land, where for a number of years he has labored .,: ‘zealously and successfully in the work of the sacred . . ministry. His health having become impaired,.he	.
is now seeking amelioration, in the salubrious cli- ■ mate of Colorado. He expressed himself greatly / j pleased with his visit, and admired the extent and! ■. advantages of Notre Dame.
—A host of friends gave a hearty greeting to V .. the Rev. John Lauth, C. S. C.,’67, on his return r -.to Notre Dame after a sojourn of a year and a half = amid the healthful scenes of his native Luxemburg. '	.	;
He arrived on Monday, and all were glad to note . his marked improvement in health with the old- L :. time genial good-nature as exuberant and joyous ; as ever. After a few days spent in visiting friends, / - T -he will return to his missionary duties in Texas whither he will be accompanied by the best wishes . ' .	2
of all.	•	.
—Among the visitors during the-week were:-	,
Rev. L. H. Becker, Garden Bay, Mich.; O. E. - V . < Lombard and daughter, Woodstock, Cohn.; E. L. . • Smith, Denver, Col.; Miss M. M. Bush, New 1 -Haven, Conn.; T. R. Johnson, Mr. and Mrs.W. P. \. .. Wilcox, Valparaiso, Ind.; A. J. Drehnan, Galva, . Kansas; R. Lensinger,Pleasant Valley, Ind.; J no. ^3:-Czizek, Porters, Ind.; C. A. and Miss L. Stem'eck, Canton, Ohio; Mrs. J. H. Stemeck, Bremen, Ind.; "ri Mrs. L. S. Pugsley and daughter, Minneapolis, Minn.; Mrs. R. and Miss Lenton, Marinette, Wis.;	.	~
H. E. Pierson, Sturgis, Mich.; L. Kelly, White v '.	.
Pigeon, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. J.lEddy, Mr. and Mrs. J. Bonebard, Michigan City, Ind.; Miss M.E.	. f "
Beckman, Ottawa, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. G. Ball,	V
Henry, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. L. J. Scott, Carthage, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs.L. Mayer, Denver, Col.; Mrs; ..4.
T. B. Johns, Terre Haute, Ind.; Mr. and'Mrs.;\ ;	2:
O. E. Aleshire, Buchanan, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs; J'^2^; Page Knight, Miss A. Knight, Miss K. Ogden, Wanpaca; Wis.; Mrs. R. George, Bourbon, Ind.; X s Mrs. P. Huntz, Mrs. G. Diehl, Defiance, Ohio; . . Mrs. W. A. Mott, Elgin, Ill.;. Mrs.;R. Sires, Mrst
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
R. Cutting, Kalkaska, Mich.; the Misses Seery, Cincinnati, Ohio; A. A. Root, Hamilton, N. Y.; Mrs. C. A. Allen and daughter, Hinsdale, Ill.; John L. Healy, ’77, Elgin, Ill.; William C. Walsh, ’57, Chicago, Ill.; Rev. John L. Connolly, Minneapolis, Minn.; Jacob Wile, Esq., Laporte, Ind.; Mrs. Dr. Rowsey, Toledo, Ohio; D. J. Hogan, ’74, and Mrs. Hogan, Chicago.
Local Items.
—Founder’s Dayl
—Look out for youi’ hat.
—Thursday was a Fehr day.
—Our musicians will see us later!
—Who will win the grand gold watch?
—Have you got a chance on the billiard-table?
—The record of the Great American Traveller has been beaten.
—Oh, that Parisian dinner! The Juniors never do things by halves.
—Mr. Jacob Wile, of Laporte, sent a choice floral grift for the Feast of St. Edward.
—It is unprofessional to umpire a game whilst perched aloft on a distant bench. -
—Bicyclists are requested to cease knocking down the shade trees around the lake.
—Our local physiologist has been under the weather since his floating ribs took a bath.
’—The Minims’ campus presented a very picturesque appearance with its display of handsome flags on the 13th.	.
—In honor of the feast of their venerated Father, all the princes’ names appear on the “Roll of Honor” this week.
—Mrs. Clement Studebaker sent her usual graceful tribute of choice plants and flowers for the decorations on Founder’s Day.
—Flattery should always be avoided; when we perceive that the flatterer considers us sufficiently dull to take it in, it becomes insulting.
— The boat club is in a prosperous condition at present, and the members are contemplating the erection of a larger boat-house next Spring.
—Query:—Is this a joke or a chestnut? “ Two ‘base bawl’ clubs are named respectively the collars and the cuffs, but the games are generally called a tie.”
—Where, oh! where is our little Band gone?
And where is our Orchestree?
—A fitting complement to the decorations of St. Edward’s Hall on the 13th was the French flag, as a mark of honor to the nation that has given Notre Dame her illustrious Founder.
—The Crescent Club Orchestra has been reorganized with the following members: Leader,' L. Preston, Bass; J. Keating and J. Reinhard, Piano; Melady,First Violin; N. Franklin, Second Violin; C. Burger, Viola.
—The princes sent their feast day address to
Very Rev. Father General to Paris, in time to reach	:
him on the 13th. He will be feasted in both hem-	■,
ispheres this year in a truly royal manner.	.
—The ploughmen, in preparing the ground for the new cement walks, neglected the most impor- , tant part of their work, namely,in the neighborhood	.
of the Presbytery and adjacent buildings. No doubt this will be attended to soon, and everything -be in readiness before the cold weather sets in.	:
—The eve of Father Sorin’s feast was appropriately remembered by the members of the Crescent Club, who gave a reception in honor of the occasion. A choice programme of music was pre- ; sented by the Club Orchestra, assisted by Professor ? Paul, who contributed greatly to the enjoyment of v the evening by his piano recitals.	I
—The “roomers” have organized a society for the purpose of promoting the art of conversation.	I
The society is after the fashion of the one presided	1
over by Dr. Johnson. The following officers were	|
elected for the ensuing session: G. Craig, Presi-	f
dent; F. Griffin, Vice-President; E. Ewing, Sec-	f
retary; G. Houck, Historian; E. de la Chaux,	f
Critic; M. Mulkern, 1st Censor, R. Newton, 2d	|
Censor.	j
—Cablegrams of congratulation	were sent to	f
Very Rev. Father General Sorin on the day of his	?
patronal festival, the 13th inst. They were sent	|
by the President, Faculty and students of the Uni-	g
versity, and Very Rev. Provincial Corby in the	t
name of the Community at Notre Dame. Of course,	*
the princes of St. Edward’s Hall did not neglect	;
to send a special dispatch, which read as follows:	i
St. Edward’s Palace, Notre Dame.	i
One hundred and ten princes wish their royal Father | many joyful returns of his glorious feast.	3
Sorin Princes.	?
—At the beginning of the scholastic year the	|
Lemonnier Boat Club was reorganized, and the	g
beneficial effects of the reorganization are now	|
apparent. When the eight old members returned I in September they found the treasury depleted, 1 and the club over two hundred dollars in debt.	I
Now the debt has been paid in full, there is money	I
in the treasury, and the club has a $100 gold watch	!
presented by Messrs. Adler Bros., of South Bend,	|
which will be disposed of in such way as may seem I advisable—the proceeds to aid in the erection of | a new boat-house and the purchasing of new boats | next Spring. The members of the club are en- 1 gaged in a meritorious labor in promoting the	j
interest in aquatic sports at Notre Dame, and we	|
trust all the students and friends of the club will | assist them in their laudable endeavors to secure the | amount necessary for the new boat-house, boats, etc. |
—The dinner on Founder’s Day was conducted | in the most approved artistic fashion and according g to the following unique	1
MENU:	g
Mock Turtle.	8
Fresh Cod, Oyster Sauce.	S
Filet de Boeuf, French	Potatoes.	S
Roast Lamb, Mint Sauce. •	S
Stuffed Tomatoes. .	.	S
Tiiji ko'i'hU LaAil scHoLAst'i'c.
Fricasseed Chicken. Sweet Potatoes. French Peas.
Chicken and Lobster Salad.
Pickles, Olives, Sliced Tomatoes, Lemon Pie, Plum Pie.
Vanilla Ice Cream and Assorted Fancy Cakes. Fruits Assorted.
Grapes, Oranges, Bananas.
Nuts', Raisins, Candies.
Crackers, Cheese.
French Coffee.
Field Sports on Founder’s Day.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
At three o’clock the heavy athletes of the Senior department appeared on the scene. They were arrayed in all those gorgeous tints that are wont to grace the forms of ball tossers and oarsmen only. The following are the results of the different con-tests:
Putting j6 pounds shot:—F.Fehr, ist Prize, Silver Medal (distance, 35 feet); T. O’Regan, 2d; M. Tiernan, 3d.
High Jump:—M. Tiernan, 1st Prize, Silver Medal, (5 feet, 5% inches); H. Jewett, 2d; P. Prudhomme, 3d.
One Hundred Yard Dash:—H. Jewett, 1st Prize, Gold Medal (time, 11 seconds); T. O’Regan, 2d Prize, Silver Medal; H.Luhn,3d:—3d Hundred Yard Dash :—E.Decker, 1st Prize Silver Medal (time, 13 seconds); B. White, 2d.
Three-Legged Race:—id. Jewett and Joyce, 1st Prize; Eyanson and Williams, 2d; Boland and Johnson, 3d.
Sack Race:—B. Sawkins, 1st Prize, Silver Medal; C. Eyanson, 2d; W. Gordon, 3d.
Mile Race:—G. A. Houck, 1st Prize, Gold Medal (Time, 5.30); P. Brownson, 2d Prize, Silver Medal; J. Norton, 3d.
Hop, Skip and jump:—J. A. Burns, 1st Prize. Silver Medal (39 ft, 11 in.); W. Tiernan, 2d; J. Fisher, 3d.
Running Jump:—J. A. Burns, 1st Prize, Silver Medal (18 ft., 5 in.); H. Jewett, 2d; W. Tiernan, 3d.
Standing Jump:—J. A Burns, 1st Prize, Silver Medal (n ft., 10 in.); W. Tiernan. 2d; F. Fehr 3d.
High Kick:—P. Prudhomme, 1st Prize, Silver Medal (9 feet); T. O’Regan, 2d.
The remaining sports were postponed until next Thursday.
Prof. Hoynes and Bro. Marcellinus acted as judges, and Messrs. Craig and Stubbs as scorers, Messrs. Cartier and Nester did duty as measurers; and Mr. D. J. Hagan (’73), as timekeeper. Bro. Paul was chosen starter, as it required a man of nerve to fire that pistol; but when two able-bodied men were needed to protect terra firma from the high kickers as they recoiled from the suspended pan-, Bro. Marcellinus and Mr. P. J. Nelson came boldly to the front and did duty as defenders of old mother earth. Judges, scorers, and general assistants received no medals, and only acted for the honor in the position.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
1st Running Race:—1st, E. Savage; 2d, L. Paul. 2d Running Race:—1st, F. Beerman; 2d, Thos. Tompkins. 3d Running Race:—1st, C. Franche; 2d, Chas. Taft. 4th Running Race:—1st, H. Durand; 2d, C. McPhee.
1st Hurdle Race:—1st, F. Toolen; 2d, R. Clendenin. 2d Hurdle Race:—1st, C. Carlisle; 2d, Fred Toolen. 3d Hurdle Race:—1st R. Hinds; 2d, H. Johns. 4th Hurdle Race:— 1st, W. Nickols; 2d, F. Dempsey.
i't Three-Legged Race:—1st, W. Williamson and Bloom-huff'; 2d, Koester and H. Seerey. 2d, Three-Legged Race: —1st, O. Griffin and Dunn; 2d, Kane and Conners.
rst Sack Race:—1st, H. Lonergan; 2d, L. Doss. 2d Sack
Race:—1st, John Barber; 2d, J. O’Mara. 3d Sack Race:— 1st, S. Bachrack; 2d, H. Marx, rst Potmen's Race:—1st, G. Black: 2d, G. Franche.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Albright, Akin, Beckman, P. Burke, Barrett, J. Burke, Barnes, Beckwith, Bronson, Ball, Barnard, Blessington, J. Burns, Bush, Brewer, Britt, E Burns, Boldrick, T. Coady, J. Clark, Campbell, E. Clark, J. Cassidy, Chacon, Cusack, Craig, Cartier, Chute, E. Coady, Donaghue, Donel-son, Dore, Dulaney, Ewing, Eyanson, Francka, Fitzharris, Finckh, Fenton, Fehr, Goebel, Gallardo, Giesler, Gibbs, Gilmartin, Henderson, Heinemann, M. Howard, Hummer, Hull, Houck, Jennings, Jacobs, Johnson, J. Kelly, Kerlin, Keating, L. Larkin, W. Larkin, Lappin, Leonard, Luhn, A. Longmire, L. Longmire, Larkin, Langan, Meehan, Mul-kern, L. Meagher, McWilliams, McDermott, W. Morrison, Maloney, Mithen, McAllister, McCart, Mack, McAuliffe, McGrath, Melady, W. McDermott, Neill, Nations, Andrew N'choll, Alfred Nicholl, Norton, R. Newton, Nelson, J. O’Shea, O’Hara, Pollock, Pears, Plato, Paschel, P. Prudhomme, E. Prudhomme, Prichard, Metzger, O’Donnell, Roper, Rochford, Rothert, Russell, Ruebsamen, Scholfield, Sullivan, Schaug, Short, Suing, Sawkins, M. Smith, Tiernan, Thatcher, Webb, Wall, Woods, Welch, White, Wilkin.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Adams, Allen, Anfender, Berrv, Boyd, Blake, Boldrick, Burger, Backrack, H. Bray. J. Bray, Brady, Bombeck, Beaudry, Brown, Cunningham. Cauthom, Campbell, Carelton, Case, Carroll, Crotty, Cooney, F. Connors, Connelly, Chacon, Ciarcoschi, Cavanagh J. Connors, Carney, Chute, D. Cartier, J. S. Doherty, J. Doherty, Delaney, Duffield, Daniels, Davis, Darragh,* Ebner F. Flynn, J. Flynn, Fitzgerald, Fleming, French, Freeman, Frei, Galbreth, J. Greene, T. Greene, Graham, Gonzales, Gale, Girten, Grever, Garrity, Heiler, Henderson, Hoffman, Hagan, Houlihan, Hall, R. Healy, P. Healy, Hillas, Huber, Hoerr, Hampton, Hughes, Henry, Hackett, Hake, Johnson, Jackson, Jewett, Johns, Josselyn, Kahn, Kinsella, Kutsche, Kehoe, Leonard, Lahey, Lane, Moncada, W. Merkle, Monaghan, J. Martin, H. Mallay, W. Mallay, John McIntosh, James McIntosh, McGurk, McMahon, McGuire, McGrath, Miner, McIvers, McPhee, McKenzie E. Merkle, W. Martin, Nichols, Neef, M. O’Kane, O’Neill, O’Hearn, W. O’Brien, G. O’Brien, O’Donnell, O’Hara, Patterson, Paquette, Priestly, Powers, Pritchard, Pfau, Pecheux, J. Peck, Quinlan, Reinhard, Rierdon, I. Rose, S. Rose, Reidinger, Roth, Rowsey, C. Scherrer, C. Schillo, F. Schillo, Stephens, Senn, ' Shenk,L. Scherrer, C. Spalding, Simpson, Silver, R. Spalding, Talbot, Thome, Walsh, Wile, Wageman, Welch, Weldon, Wood, Wright, Wilbanks.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ayer, Ackerman, H. Backrack, S. Backrack, A. Backrack, Bloomhuff, Blumenthal, Beckham, Barbour, L. Black, G. Black, Boettcher, Bates, Burns, Bradley, C. Connor, W. Connor, E. Conners, Collins, Connelly, Cummings, Clendenin, Carlile, Cudahy, Crane, W. Durand, F. Dunn, Jessie Dungan, L. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, G. Franche, C. Franche, E. Falvey, Grant, Goldmann, Griffin, Hagus, Harlan, Halthusen, Jennings, Jaramillo, Kehoe, Koester,'Keefe, Kane, A. Lonergan, H. Lonergan, Mooney, Marx, Morgenweck, A. Mayer, L. Mayer, G. Mayer, McPhee, Mott, J. Marre, A. Marre, Neef, Neenan, O’Neill, Oppenheimer, O’Mara, Perry, L. Paul, C. Paul, Plautz, Parker, Quill, Rogers, Ricksecker, Seerey, F. Smith, E. Smith, Stephens, Stone, Tomkins, F. Toolen, Fred. Toolen, Taft, Trujillo, Wal. Williamson, J. Walsh, W. Walsh, W. Welch, Witkowskey, Wilson, Young, Blake,’Beerman, J. Dunn, Jas. Dungan, Davidson, Doss, Flannery, F. Falvey, Ferkel, Hinds, Healy, Kerwin, Kutsche, Klaner, Kinsella, Maternes, Nichols, Sweet, Savage, W. Williamson, Zieman.
* Omitted last week by mistake.
94
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Class Honors.
[In the following list will be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.J
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
E. Blessington, E. Berry, W. Boland, R. Bronson, C. Bush, M. Crane, A. Hake, J. Henry, N. Jacobs, W. O’Brien, P. Prudhomme, C. Paquette, J. Pfau, J. Reinhart, B. Stephens, J. Schaug, C. Senn, F. Suing, H. Wageman, B. Backrack, J. Brady, J. Bombeck, F. Carney, H. Cauthorn, S. Eyanson, N. Franklin, T. Greene, F. Garrity, A. Leonard, H Miner, V. Morrison, W. McDermott, F. Nester, J. Russell, I. Rose, F. Schenck, W. Walsh, H. Woods.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ayer, S. Backrack, A. Backrack, Bloomhuff, Blumenthal, Beckham, Barbour, L. Black, Boettcher, Bates, Burns, Bradley, C. Connor,'W. Connor, E. Conners, Collins, Connelly, Cummings, Clendenin, Carlile, Cudahy, Durand, F. Dunn, Jesse Dungan, L. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, G. Franche, C. Franche, E. Falvey, Hal-thusen. Grant, Goldmann Griffin, Hagus, Harlan, Jennings, Jaramillo, Kehoe, Koester, Keefe, A. Lonergan, H. Lonergan, Mooney, Morgenweck, A. Mayer, L.Mayer, G. Mayer, McPhee Mott, J. Marre, A. Marre, Neef, Neenan, O’Neill, Oppenheimer, O’Mara, L. Paul, C. Paul, Plautz, Parker, Rogers, Ricksecker, Seerey, F. Smith, E. Smith, Stephens, Tomkins, F. Toolen, Fred. Toolen, Taft, Trujillo, Wal. Williamson, J. Walsh, W. Walsh, Welch, Witkowskey.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of STUDIES.]
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.
Latin—M. Dore, H. Luhn, C. Shields, W. ^McPhee; Algebra—H. Jewett, L. Preston, E. Prudhomme, M. Monroe, L. Scherrer; Arithmetic—S. Fleming, W. Lahey, H. Silver, R. Case, J. McMahon, W. Rowsey, F. Simpson. J. Peck, J. Stephenson, J. Pears, J. Norton; Grammar—A. Joyce, F. Wile, W. Martin, W. Johnson, W. Lahey, R. Monroe, P. O'Hearn, J. Burke; .Reading—J. McMahon, F. Neef, F. Prichard; Orthography—W. Allen, J. Connor, S._ Ciarcoschi, John Doherty, James Doherty, J. Greene, J. Hampton, J. McMahon, F. Neef, F. Simpson, L. Hoffman, F. Huber; Geography—W,' Lahey, W. Short, J. Lappin; United States History—J. Norton, J. Stephenson, W. Lahey; . Greek—C. Neill,V. Morrison, D. Barrett,W. Larkin, J. McGrath, E. Kehoe.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Book-Keeping—E. Blessington, W. O’Brien, J. Brady, J. Bombeck, H. Carroll, A. Leonard, H; Miner, V. M orrison, W. McDermott, F. Schenk; Arithmetic—-S. Boldrick, E. Blessington, S. Campbell, T. Eyanson. G. Hobart, H. Higgins, M. Monroe, L. Orr, F. Suing, V. O’Brien, J. Brady, . W. McKenzie, M. Girten, H. Miner, J. Reinhard, B. Stephens; Grammar—J. O’Shea, B. Stephens, T. Wilbanks, D. Brewer, A. Leonard, F. Rodriguez; United States History —C. Bush, W. Boland, S. Campbell, W. Monroe; Geography—F. Henderson, S. Fleming, T. Greene, A. Daniels, -R. Healy, E. Roesch, J. Clarke, J. Brady, T. Prichard, R. Adams, T. Wilbanks, C. Paquette; Penmanship—F. Baca, -R. Velasco, W. Mathews, J. Clarke, J. Danelson, L. Hoerr, S. Ciarcoschi, J. Reinhard, T. Gonzales, J. Peck, H. Carroll; -Orthography—M. Girten,>L. Reidinger, F.-Garrity,. W. Walsh, G- Freeman, I. Casey, E. Boldrick, W. Cartier, R.
-Weldon,-W; Short; Reading—C. Busch.
_ .	. PROF. "LOISETTE’s MEMORY DISCOVERY;
Prof. Loisette’s new system of memory training, taught -by-correspondence at 237 Fifth Ave., New York, seems to •supply a general want. . He has had two. classes-at Yale of ■ 200. each, 250 at Meriden, 300 at Norwich, 100-Columbia -Law Students, 400 at Wellesley College, 400 at University of Penn., etc. Such patronage and the endorsement of such men as Mark Twain, Dr. Buckley, Prof. Wm. Harper, of-Yale, etc., place the claim of Prof. Loisette upon the highest ground.	'
Saint JTlavy's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Miss Grace Regan deserves special mention for improvement in French conversation.
—Little Mamie Morse is still the only one in the Junior department who has received 100 in lessons.
—Miss Laura Ducey, owing to her interest and application, is making wonderful progress in Phonography.
—Thanks are returned for a “fairy lamp,” which now burns at Our Blessed Mother’s feet in the chapel. '
—The Misses Dillon, Horn, Murphy and Guise arepractically learning what is meant by “Domestic Economy.”
—By mistake, the name of Miss Gretchen Wehr was omitted from the “ Roll of Honor” two weeks in succession.
—At a spelling competition of late date, the Misses Bourne and Crane showed a thorough acquaintance with Mr. Webster.
—Miss K. Shields was called home on the Sth, by the serious illness of her mother. Many prayers will be offered for her speedy recovery. _
—The First Seniors held a competition in Astronomy last Saturday in which all did so well that neither side could be termed the .winning one.
—Word from Miss C. Kron, whose mother has been very sick, brings the pleasing intelligence, that she is now convalescent, and that Celesta will return in a few days.
—Some very fine pieces of fancy work are in progress. Among the industrious workers may b'e mentioned, the Misses Beschameng, Neff, Bub, Barry,.Latta and M. Horner.
—Very Rev. Father Corby distributed the points at the last Academic meeting, and made some pleasing remarks after the reading and-recitation of Misses Carmien and Clifford. • Rev. Fathers Saulnier and Zahm were also present.
—At the regular meeting of St. Agnes’ Literary Society on Tuesday, a well-written account of “ Sub-Marine Cable” was presented by Miss Mary Simons. The essayist, appointed every week, is permitted to,select her own theme.
—There is a decided increase of interest manifested lately in out-door exercise. As soon as recreation hour, arrives, the house is deserted for the open air, where tennis, croquet and other sports give vigor' and strength to the body and-renewed energy to the mind.
-—It was most edifying-to see.so many receive ‘Holy Communion on the first Friday of the month. The'devotipn in honor of the Sacred Heart, com-.monly called the devotion' of the nine Fridays, is becoming better known, and its observance cannot but bring down special blessings. ' ,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	95
Address from the Pupils of Saint Mary’s, to Very Rev. Father General.
1	.'
A festal month of filial love, Dear Father, shall October prove; ’ Then shall we welcome o’er the main St. Edward’s client home again! A thousand hearts send to the East Warm wishes for your happy feast!
11	.
Who loves, dear Father, more than you Those guardians, viewless, tireless, true, The holy angel choirs that shine In the calm light of Truth Divine, The splendor hiding their pure faces From us who dwell in mundane spaces?
in.
There is not one. Their Heavenly Queen, On her translucent throne serene, Requites the love to her you bear By making you their special care: With them, you do her will. As one You and the angels serve her Son.
IV.
They prize your feast; they count it blest, Because, within the mighty West You have unfolded wide the fame Of Mary’s ever glorious name;
Have spread, dear Father, her devotion From eastern sea to western ocean.
v.
Our Lady’s messengers so dear, . With her have compassed the bright year.
In Spring, sweet May they claim together;
But in this golden autumn weather, -October weaves an annual crown At Mary’s feet, to cast it down.
.	.	vi.
“ The Holy Rosary Month! ” What bliss Is in the title! Lo! in this
The fifteen decades of the beads
Show what the Church to prayer concedes. Lepanto’s victory through all time Is honored in this month sublime.
vii-	.
' But in October’s glowing heart A priceless day is set apart; A gem-like day, which Mary, Mother, And Seraphs laud to one another. Join they in our congratulation On this its happy celebration.
VIII.
This year, dear Father, you are far From where your loving children are. Lone are these occidental bowers, These fair, secluded halls of ours;	■
For o’er the ocean far away -Yon pass revered Saint Edward’s Day.
,	ix.	.
With eager hope we look and wait, With longing souls, and hearts elate;
Yes, ceaselessly our spirits yearn -For the glad hour .of your return! Meantime our filial consolation
Shall be a month of celebration. .
. Repaid? Yes, doubly, be regret.
Each night October’s sun shall set We at the Benediction holy, Bowed down in adoration lowly,*
* In compliance with the ordinance of His' Holiness Pope Leo XIII Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament-is given every evening of the “ Month of the Holy Rosary.”
Shall, till the live-long month hath ceased, There greet you—there renew yourfeast.
XI.
Yes, at the tabernacle gate, Dear Father, we for you shall wait; Or, rather, there shall join with you, Not parted by the ocean blue, But with you be each day united, Where filial love is well requited.
XII.
Dear Father, by this filial love, A festal month this one shall prove; For we shall welcome o’er the main St. Edward’s client home again! A thousand hearts send to the East Their wish for your thrice happy feast! ,
Bidden Treasures.
“Hidden treasures!” Are there treasures not concealed? That which is precious is not paraded. The choice, the dearly bought of human possessions even, are not placed upon the highway, or advertised for universal inspection. Deep in the covert of some safe seclusion, even the casket of our jewels is reposed.
The famous Kohinoor, the diamond of the crown jewels, is not worn by her Majesty the Queen of England at every court reception. Safe in the well-guarded enclosure of the old tower of London, it is never for a moment left exposed to tempt the artful or the covetous.	.
“Hidden treasures!” Who shall find them? Shall he who delves for the ruby, or the chrysolite; the amethyst or opal ? he who dives to find the coral, and to bring to light.the precious pearl? Pearls are dust, and so are rubies. Amethyst and opal, chrysolite and coral, all at last will crumble. Are they real treasures? They cannot be, since they decay. Who shall find the hidden treasures? Shall the avaricious man, the miser; he whose teeming brain is like the seething crucible of the old-time Alchemist, ever revolving the crude matter of earth to bring to light some substance which will turn whatever it touches to gold ? Shall the ’ mathematician, who lives in a world of exact principles and deductions; who draws the universe within the focus of his investigations, and who. measures the distant fields of ether, as he might, the narrow boundaries of a city lawn ? Shall the scholar, whose eager research scans the boundless blue of the clear sky at midnight, or of the stormgirt heavens when lightnings flash and . thunders roll, where in the vast aiena meteoric prodigies and ' stellar wonders congregate, and multiply; where the very clouds are - ranked and classified and marshalled in their order; where, under the telescopic lens, the radiant Saturn and the belted Jupiter play their bright drama, as-it were, close to the very verge of bur mundane horizon; where the cloud-like mist of the milky-way is expanded: and resolved into a vast, panorama of worlds and systems of worlds, till the mind is bewildered and lost in the golden maze? Are these' not celestial _ treasures?	- ’ -
96	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Distance is cold and space is wide. The Aurora Borealis, the Pleiades and Hyades, cannot be captured and made hostages by astronomers, those audacious invaders of the skies. Treasures they may be, but not our own. Were they hidden, they could not be less at our command. But the happy botanist, with the naked eye, or, perchance, with the magical microscope, has surely conquered a - kingdom of hidden treasures. The casual observer knows the floral world as a fair external pageant, it may be—beauty admired to-day, and to-morrow worthless and withered. Not so with the botanist. The sweet biographies of all the flowers are written in the very heart of his heart. To his admiiing eves they never fade; but they live in undying loveliness in the enchanting genealogy of their mystic heraldry.
But, alas! even the botanist, in all the subtle lore concealed in his sweet science, can present no proof that in durability flowers surpass other created things. We might arraign the entire world of physical phenomena, and attain to no other conclusion. And yet all this marvellous array of beauty, majesty and power is not to be despised. The use for which our comprehension of their charms has been imparted, is the key to the hidden treasures contained in all human knowledge. A drop of dew, or the mighty ocean; a grain of sand, or a lofty mountain; a ray of light, or the glowing sun, may alike point the way. As, in his skill, the musician possesses the key to the harmony contained in the harp, the piano, the organ; as the artist is master of the delineation and O'	. .
coloring requisite to produce a beautiful painting; so the reverent mind of man has within its keeping the means whereby to solve the problem of earthly happiness.
The glory of the king’s daughter is within. The real sunshine of life issues, not from the solar orb, but from that treasure of treasures, hidden, though powerful; royal, though uncrowned; contentment with the place, the surroundings, the occupations, assigned us by an All-wise Providence.
Lucretia St. Clair ( Class "'Sy).
Roll of Honor.
FOR. POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF
'	RULES. '
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Allen, Arpin, Andree, Brady, Balch, Bub, Burton, Barry, Barth, Bloom, Brewer, Boyer, Beschameng, Bourn', Butler, Bates, Blacklock, Beck, Carmien, Clifford, Claggett, Carey, Clore, E. Coll, M. Coll, Campeau, H. Dempsey, C. Dempsey, Ducey, M. Desmond, C. Desmond, Davis, English, Early, Flannery, Fravel, Fitzpatrick, Gavan, Geer, Guise, Gordon, Hummer, Hughes, Hyland, Hertzog Hellmann, M. Horner, I. Horner, Henke, Hinz, Harlen, Heffron, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hillas, Hoffmann, Hutchinson, Hepburn, Johnson, Kearns, Kennedy, Kohler, Keyes, Latta, Leonard, La Berge, Murphy, L. Meehan,N. Meehan, N. McCarthy, Morse, M. McCormick, McEwen, McNamara, Moore, C. McCarthy, Marsh, Moran, McFadden, L. Nicholas, C. Nicholas, -Neffj O’Brien, Orr, Prudhomme, Piper, Papin, Quill, Quealey, G. Regan, Rend,
Riedinger, E. Regan, Richardson, Robinson, Rowsey, Ran-nells, Reen, Snowhook, Sullivan, Stadtler, Sheehan, Sav-iers, Schmauss, B. Smith, Sloman. Sear, M. Smith, Trask, Thompson, Van Horn, Van Mourick, Wright, Waterbury, Wagner, Wiesenbach, Wehr, Young, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Par Excellence—Misses T. Balch, E. Blaine, Butler, E. Burns, M. Burns, E. Burns, Campbell, Crane, Churchill, N. Davis, E. Dempsey, Dolan, Dryer, Farwell, Foster, Fritz, Hake, Hagus, Hull, Hughes, Knauer, Kloth, Lewis, Longmire, Mercer, Miller, McCune, N. Morse, M. Morse, Newman, O’Mara, A. Papin, Quealey, Reeves, Reed, Rhinehart, Rose, Rogers, Simons, S. Smith, Stapleton, Wyatt.
SCHOOL OF ART AND DESIGN.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
ELEMENTARY PERSPECTIVE.
2D Class—Misses Sloman, McNamara, Shields, N. Morse, S. Campeau.
3D Class—Misses Andree, Sear, Kohler, I. Horner, Davis, K. Quealey, Stapleton, Burton, Hoffmann, Wright, E. Dempsey, L. Nicholas, E. Nicholas, Campbell.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
Misses Henke, Wehr, Schmauss, Hutchinson.
PAINTING ON CHINA.
Miss Grace Stadtler.
WORKING IN CRAYON.
Misses E. Coll, L. Hillas.	’
OIL-PAINTING.
~ Misses Neff, Gordon, N. Meehan, Bub, Hull, Fitzpatrick, Robinson, Hellmann. . .•
General Drawing.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. McCormick, Allen, Heffron, Hillas, O’Brien, C. Hurly, K. Hurley, Marsh, Barth, Early, Bourne, Kohler, Young, C McCarthy, Reen, Brewer, Thompson, Bray, Rannells, Richardson, C. Quealey, Clore. ’
JUNIOR .-DEPAKTMENT.
Misses M. Hughes, Rogers, Lewise, Rose, Reed, Foster, Churchill, Kloth, Simons, M. Morse, Dryer, Hull, B. McCormick, Campbell, O’Mara, Newman, Butler, Farwell, T. Balch, M. Burns, E. Burns, Crane, G. Papin, S. Smith, Hagus, A. Papin. •	•
Elocution.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
ist Class—Misses Carmien, Hertzog, L. Meehan, Schmauss, Stadtler, McNamara.
2D Div.—Misses Clifford, Bub, Hummer.
2D Class—Misses Prudhomme, Claggett.
2D Div.—Misses Neff, Kron, Hoffmann, Wehr, McCormick, Hellmann, Hutchinson, Barry, Boyer.
3d Class—Misses Hillas, Robinson, Fitzpatrick, M. Papin, La Berge, Daube, Gordon, Saviers.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
ist Class, 2d Div.—Miss Campbell.
2D Class—Misses Stapleton, Farwell, Newman.
2D Div.—Misses N. Davis, Dryer.
3d Class—Misses Fritz, Crane, Pugsley, Simons.
BOOK-KEEPING.
2D Class—Misses Neff, E. Regan, Henke, Thompson, Arpin, Fravel.
3D Class—Misses Allen, Orr, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Marsh, Haney, Kennedy, Saviers.
TYPE WRITING. ,
Misses K. Desmond, M.’ Desmond, Blaine, B. Haney, Waterbury, Quill, Coll, -Beck.	.
PHONOGRAPHY..	.
ist Class—Misses Rend, Reidinger, Kearns, Dempsey.
2D Class—Misses Ducey, B Haney, Hyland, K. Desmond, M.- Desmond, Claggett, Hoffmann, K. Hurley.
3D Class—Misses Quill, Blaine, Arpin, Beck, Gordon, Hepburn.	■ ; - ; '
