When 9t ComeA to- Nauq fynifayunA, Come, to- the Modern QiUf&ifa!	'
NAVY MEN!
AT GILBERT’S LOW PRICES
Why Buy Unknown Brands at the Same Price?
HICKEY FREEMAN NAVAL OFFICERS1 UNIFORMS DOBBS NAVAL OFFICERS' CAPS
ARROW SHIRTS AND COLLARS
And Everything You'll Need to Complete Your Outfit
CALL US — WE'LL DELIVER
THE MODERN
GILBERTS
IN SOUTH BEND — ANY TAXI FREE TO GILBERT’S. CHICAGO STORE IN THE DRAKE HOTEL.
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
OVER THE HILL
Jack had money—Jill had nil;
Jill married Jack—so Jack has Jill.
Jill went to Reno—now she’s back; Jack has nothing—Jill has jack.
—Navy Log
STREET SCENE
i' The doctor’ was on his way to an urgent call when he saw an inebriate lying face down on the sidewalk. Once or twice the ineb staggered to his feet, but he kept hitting a lamp post and falling down. The doctor, feeling sympathetic, went over to the ineb and asked if he
V could be of any assistance.
The battered man hesitated for a moment and finally said, “It’s no use, Mac, we’re walled in.”
SIGNS OF THE TIMES
For the past six years our tutors have saved many students from failing.
We are ready to help you in any subject. ... call us for appointment.
No, this didn’t come from a humor magazine. It’s part of a legitimate ad running currently in The Daily Californian.
j	❖
CALL CENTRAL
“Hell, yes,” said the Devil as he answered the phone.
WEST COAST ATTACK
The Navy and the co-eds had a tussle at the recent Santa Clara-California game, and only the shore patrol saved the day—for the Navy. Three of the gobs had wandered into the Cal co-ed ■s rooting section wearing Santa Clara colors on their sailor hats. In a very unladylike manner the co-eds advanced, removed the colors and the hats—but then came the shore patrol to break up the offensive.
BEACH SCENE
It hardly seems honest or just
To decree that all bathings suits must Be modest and shy;
Yet reformers all cry,
We’ll cover their stomachs or bust.
1-'	—West Pointer
LAST ACT
Then there was the woman in the circus who got a dishpan face from diving 100 feet into a tub.
ALONG THE ST. JOE
Geology Prof, (on field trip): These rocks were piled here by the glaciers.
Frosh: But where are the glaciers now?
Prof.: Why, they’ve gone back for more rocks.
Catholic U. Tower
FIRESIDE CHAT
Brother Rosie, quite distrait, Fell into the fire grate;
Who would have thought that
Brother Rosie
Could make the room so nice and cozy.
—St. Norbert Times
HEAD OF THE WEEK
“Best Student Acts Will Compete For Cash at Dinner.”
—Temple University Neius
The Notre Dame team of three thousand still practices three times daily. But no cash!
SEEING STARS
A lad looking through a telescope muttered, “Gawd!”
“G’wan,” said his friend, “It ain’t that powerful.”
COURT WORK
A gorgeous young creature from Venice Who spent all her time playing tennis, Played the same rather peeled, And the form she revealed
Made her court work a masculine menace.
Dee-Merit
One dog that Bill the cop has failed to round up lately is a pitch black terrier who forages the hedge near Lyons hall for stray rabbits. The sailors have become so used to his presence they have adopted him as a mascot. They call him “de-merit.”
Don Heltzel, Editor
Robert D. LEMENSE—JHawaping	Editor
Daniel Downey._________Campus	Editor
Bill Reynolds__________Sports	Editor
Robert Dunne.__________Admin.	Editor
Robert Lonergan____________Promotion
Ted Weber_______________Photo	Editor
Walter Krawiec____________Art	Editor-
James CHRisovERGiS-Sta^ photographer Gail Fitch, Jr. ___________Advertising
Rev. C. M. Carey, c.s.c., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—-San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the schoolyear at tbo TTnivorctfv of Notre Damp Address all manuscripts to Editor. 151 Alumni Hall or 121 Administration Bldg.. Xotre Dame. hiu.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms. Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS
Navy-Cleveland Trip ----------  5
18-20 Draft Poll ___;_______J.. 6
_ Bearskin a Secret _____________ 9
ADMINISTRATION
Two Science Meets ------------ 12
Centennial "Review of Politics" ....13
SPORTS
Navy Battle ________________16-17
Irish Battle Army ._;____1__.— 18
Interhall Football _________.— 19
FEATURES
College Parade _____________J____ 3
The Week ___________—4
Telescope _____1..__L__________... 4
Pressbox Splinters ____________24
Short Shots -_______....______.—.23
Strictly Instrumental _—____L._.25
Introducing _____________;_____26
3.
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
TOP OF THE WEEK
We’re off to sink the Navy. -
POEM
My Bonnie lies over Route 31,
My Bonnie lies over the Dixie, My Bonnie lies over in ye olde Rock. Boy! Ain’t those St.. Mary’s girls prevaricators I	.
VICTORY DANCE
They’re more like a parade than a dance but they’re really the thing this semester. Fifteen intermissions in a minute boys. The St. Mary’s girls like them because it gives them a chance to wear shoes. The big joke is the waiter asking what you’ll have to drink. They have two kinds of drinks at the Indiana club; warm coke and cold coke. Dancing is quite an experience. In fact it’s a novelty. According to the girls from the Rock there are two kinds of dancers here at N. D. Those who can’t dance, and those who don’t know how. At the Rock there are no kinds of dancers. The thrill of the evening is not when our Queenie trips, but while the band plays the polka and we trip, dip, and slip. Then the orchestra whips into the Victory March and you grow very red as your, date from South Bend gives out with: “Beer beer for old Centrar High.” Because he isn’t wearing high, heels, after every set the N.D. man makes a dash for a table. With’ a cloud of dust and a hearty: “Heigh-ho, I’ll see you at the table,” he’s away. It’s fun rushing for cabs at the last minute, too. After the cokes have stopped flowing, the bids have- stopped bidding, and the meter has stopped click. ing, you’re left with an empty wallet and a pack of matches to seek your way home through the Potowattomie woods. Don’t say this isn’t so, because,, brother, we know!	:
LA DE DA
With the Prom only four weeks away the Juniors are starting to ask that $32 question.... It is rumored that the band is taking the team to New York with them. — Popular new. war song: “N. D. Bonds Today?”.... When is a boop not a boop? When it’s a beep. And when is
a beep not a beep? When it’s a jeep. Speaking of jeeps, beeps, and boops, when are they gonna’ take that awful rattle off the Morning Bugle?....-Have you ever wondered ■ what they do with all those empty cereal boxes? Well, they have been turning them in for those new knives and forks that we use to chop oui’ meat. Either the meat is getting tougher or the knives are getting duller because the meat doesn’t scream any more when we go to cut it.... How about that rug cutting fee the St. Mary’s girls have to lay on the line if they want dates? ... Badin Bog is to be made over into a touch-football field for the Navy. Sort of a gentle introduction to the briney deep.... Big blow for “Red” Lonergan. He sneaked past the guards in Cartier Field long enough to garner some quips for his Scholastic column. No bells for the lugs who threw him out .... It seemed that the favorite song during the mid-semester exams was: “Praise the Lord and pass the information.”
THE CAMPUS STUDIOS
If you ever want to see a swell bunch of guys doing something worth while and enjoying themselves at the same time then drop up to the “Quiz Show” at the campus studios some Saturday afternoon. This show is really unrehearsed and is carried off with maximum efficiency. Tom Cooney and Dan Downey together with the other lads in the Radio Club are sincere in their efforts to get a good show going. Now it’s really too bad that the club can’t recognize a swell opportunity to grab some mighty fine publicity and at the same time give the potential actors, writers, engineers, etc., , . some practical experience in the work they have a heartfelt interest in. Purdue, Northwestern, Illinois, and other ' big time schools have swell radio shows.
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
“But they never flunk seniors.”
BOTTOM OF WEEK
The pep rally last week.
TELESCOPE
George Bariscillo
FRIDAY, Oct. 30: The ND Caravan Cleveland-bound; “Notre Dame Musicale,” WSBT, 3:30-3:45.
SATURDAY, Oct. 31: Close of October Adoration; “Last-minute boys” thumb-ride their way Eastward; Campus news c/o Pischke & John- ' son via “Views & Previews,” WSBT, 12:30-12:45; Navy game kick-off 2 p.m. (Breadcast 1 p.m. South Bend Time) ; The Dan Downey - Tom Cooney Quiz Show, WSBT, 5-5:20; Big doings at the Fenway Hall Hotel after the game; Non-game goers at- 1 tention: Have your apples, candy, and pennies ready for the “'witches” after the campus movie, “The Bugle Sounds,” 6:40 and 8:40 p.m.
SUNDAY, Nov. 1: All Saints’ Day; Paste the South Bend “Tribune” • headlines upright on wall; ?, WSBT, 10:05-10:30 a.m.; Interhall game-of-the-week; undefeated “gentlemen of Walsh” vs. “up-and-coming Frosh of Breen-Phillips” in Cartier Field; Glee Club “trip” to distant Elkhart.
MONDAY, Nov. 2: All Souls’ Day; Ray- ’ mond & Boss’ highlights of Saturday’s game, WSBT, 3:30-3:45; Announcement. of Junior Prom band (tentative).
TUESDAY, Nov. 3: “Farewell To Thee.” (give up if you haven’t the solution within 30 seconds).	;
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 4: The Lardie-Chrisovergis movies of the Navy game in Engineering auditorium.
THURSDAY, Nov. 5: “Buy another Bond for Uncle Sam” as Irish move East and prepare to attack the _ Army.
Alumnus of 1931 Dies;
Was a Flying Surgeon
The University’s daily Religious Bul-. letin made the following announcement during the past week:
The news of the death of Capt. George Wassell, B.S., ’31, has just reached Notre Dame. Death came in action while fight- -ing over the British Isles, Oct. 3. After receiving his bachelor’s degree at Notre Dame, George entered St. Louis University Medical .College and obtained his = medical degree. A year ago last April, ’ he left an expanding medical practice in
Sharon, Pa., to enlist. He was a flying : surgeon with the army air force.	'
4
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 77
OCTOBER 30, 1942
No. 5
Students Desert Campus For Navy Game;
U. S. O. Rally, "V" Dance, Top Program
TOM V. DOUGHERTY
By train, plane, bus, private car, and even an occasional hitchhiker, over 400 students are leaving the campus today to stand behind the team when it plays the Naval Academy in Cleveland tomorrow afternoon. Among those making the short trip are members of Notre Dame’s 100-
day when the return trip to the campus will be made.
The student body will not be the only celebrants of the week-end. Tonight the Notre Dame alumni and the Naval Dignitaries in Cleveland for the game will gather at the Carter Hotel for a joint dinner and smoker. This affair will be
evening will be the Victory Dance with “Veet” Capello and his Cavaliers giving out the rhythm at the Fenway Hall Hotel. This move marks the entrance of “Veet’s” band into the big time, and he has promised to be ready with a lot of good music to celebrate the arrival. Cleveland Club President Kane has sent tickets to the Annapolis Football Squad, as he hopes to have them on hand for the dance with some of the boys of the NJ), team. There will be a number of stag bids on sale at the door, and all students in town for the week-end are invited to attend. Bids for the dance are §2.00 per couple..
piece Band and a great number of the local N.R.O.T.C. Cadets. An added feature of this year’s unofficial trip is the presence of a contingent of St. Mary’s girls scheduled to arrive in Cleveland for the game via the student Pace-maker train.
This attraction is a natural for the students. It is the first contest of the season to present ease of travel, good hotel accommodations and promises of week-end fun. The Water Level Route will provide the best in transportation, the Cleveland hotels have an excellent reputation for hospitality, and the na-. tive Clevelandites will see that the visitors are introduced to the best spots in town.
Even though there can be no official student trip this year because of the government ban on special trains, the Cleveland Club, led by.energetic Chuck Kane of Sorin Hall conferred with officials of the New York Central Railroad and found that by traveling on trains that carried a minimum of traffic, the entire Cleveland Club and many of its friends could make the trip in a body without hindering the war effort. Consequently, 75 members of the club and 50 special guests will leave South Bend at 3:37 this afternoon and will arrive in Cleveland at 8:55 tonight. Since most of the party live in the city, and also because of the limited number of students allowed to make the trip due to travel conditions, there will be no routine followed as was the policy of former years. Upon arrival each member of the party will be on his own until 4:00 p.m. Sun-
followed by a giant U.S.O. Rally in the Rainbow Room of the Carter Hotel and will be attended by. those of the student body who are in town for the game as well as the Notre Dame alumni, the Naval Dignitaries, and the general pub-’ lie. Several national celebrities will be present at the rally. Among those expected to a.ppear are Bob Hope, Don Ameche, Ted Lewis, and Sophie Tucker. Entertainment is continuous and will run from 9 p.m. until 2 a.m. The price of admission is S1.00 per couple.
Following the game tomorrow afternoon the social program will hit top speed once more. The feature of the
There will be no issue of SCHOLASTIC next week. In accordance with the war program, the magazine does not appear on five of the fifteen weeks in each semester. The next issue will be one week before the Northwestern game. Students are urged to begin planning gala hall decorations for that occasion. That is also the week-end of the Junior prom. No definite plans for the Prom have been released by • the committee, since they are still negotiating for a band.
The "informality" of the Pace-maker.
5
Freshmen, Sophomores Feel 18-20 Draft; Majority Approve, Are Ready To Go!
F. J. PEQUIGNEY
The summer semester.... a restriction on the use of the car.... the absence of sugar bowls in the restaurant . — a little more interest in the front page.... maybe an occasional war stamp and a few prayers for victory.... or perhaps even a relative or classmate in the service. And then, in a couple of years, the draft or the navy or the air corps or the marines.
That was the average Freshman’s and Sophomore’s conception of war. To him it was something foreign and distant—-until the last Fireside Chat. Then he found the draft right upon him; England and Ireland and Australia and Libya became more realistic and more personal; and he began to make plans.
A poll reveals that the lower classmen, by a huge majority, favor the new draft age: favor it either directly or by their faith in Washington’s judgment. Most, too, plan to remain in college as long as possible. These are already in a reserve, or plan to sign up. Among the former the Naval R.O.T.C. and the Enlisted Reserve corps are the most popular; among the latter, the air corps. The rest will continue until drafted.	.
Bob Griffin, 125 Breen-Phillips. “The people in Washington should know. A fellow who has the desire to go through
"Sure, it’s true. I 'seen* it in the paper!" Left to right: Dan O'Donnell, Bob Griffin, Jerry Murphy, and Tony Mistretta.
college, if his course will aid in the future, should be allowed to stay. But not college for those who merely use it to avoid the draft. If we lose the war, education won’t mean anything anyway. I’m in the Naval R.O.T.C.”
Dick Vail, 246 Dillon: “I’m in favor of it if the army has the necessary equipment to train these men, but if not, I cannot see the sense of drafting them. Otherwise, I approve. I’m in the E.R.C.”
Frank Cacciapaglia, 115 Zahn:: “I think it is necessary. I will stay in college as long as I can, and then enlist. But I’m not quite 18 yet.”
Bob Philpott, 213 St. Edward’s: “I’m in the Marine reserve with notice already served for active duty. They tell us it’s necessary to draft 18 and 19 year olds, and they know what’s going on.”
Elmer Gillespie, 251 Breen-Phillips: “I think it’s wise that the 18-20 group, in all fairness, should receive a year’s training. There is no doubt but that 'these men are the best fighters, and have physical stamina to stand it. If we fight, we should vote. Sensible thing is to continue in college as long as possible and to enlist in reserves. The more education a man has, the more valuable he will be.”
Bill Mahoney, 209 St. Edward’s: “It is necessary, and going in the army is better than flunking out. I will stay in school as long as possible, and then come back afterwards. I’m one of those lucky boys in the E. R. C.I”
James Dolan, 142 Brownson: “I’m in the Naval R.O.T.C. It’s just as well to draft 18-20 men. Engineers and premeds should be able to stay in college, and the seniors should also be allowed to finish school.	.
Thomas Sallee, 111 Zahm: “The 18-19 year old draft is unnecessary. It is sense- , less, because they are not making plans for after the war. I will keep going until I’m drafted.”
Melvyn Tomber, Off-Campus freshman: “It’s a good thing, this 18-20 draft. I plan to stay in college until drafted, and not join any reserves.”
Tom Mulvey, 208 Dillon: “I believe it’s the best thing, because we make the best soldiers. I’m trying to get in the army air corps reserve.
Ed Maloney, 56 Brownson: I want to finsh the year out and then go in one of the reserves, such as the V-l. The quicker we get started, the quicker it’ll be over.”
Tom Scherer, 204 Dillon: “As far as I’m concerned, anything the President says is necessary, is necessary. Whenever he wants me, I’m ready to go. However, I hope Congress will give some consideration to the fact that outright induction of 18- and 19-year-olds will put an abrupt stop to advanced education. It would take less effort to keep the ball rolling than to start it over after the war. When the time comes, I •plan to join the army air corps reserves.”
Joe Carroll of Carroll; “If the government needs me, I’ll go; I will stay in college till drafted. Let the government run the deal; they know best.
Dave Scheider, 102 Carroll: “I’m a physics major, and will go in the V-l-S (special branch of V-l open to science majors) and try to finish in three years. I don’t think 18 and 19 year-olds really realize what it’s all about. But with a year’s training their minds should be more adapted to the true idea.
>
6‘
J -
4-
Reporter Routs Rumors;
Reveals E. R. C. Paradise
Every day is a birthday for rumors on the Notre Dame campus. Said rumors concern everything from extra days at vacation to the latest “did you hear what the Navy is going to do?” The establishment of the E. R. C. put the rumor artists on an overtime basis' and had even the frosh speculating.
Tales of the E. R. C. are many and varied. They say, (according to the rumors:) 1) You are made a second lieutenant upon graduation. 2) Those
I
6
who ask, can be captains. 3) All branches of the E. R. C. will be called into active service immediately.
The boys like that one about the call to active service. It works wonderful .	■ with each man’s several one-and-onlys.
She looks on with tear-stained eyes and - thinks that lieutenant’s bars would be wonderful. Secretly she would settle for corporal’s stripes, but they probably wouldn’t be yours.
The E.R.C. boys, so they say, took the easy way out and strolled down to the local bowling alley to watch them bowl. (To watch them bowl, he says). One of the operators noticed the establishment’s stream-lined versions of the one-armed bandits—a strange device that is fed with nickels and makes the proprietor very happy.
One of the boys thought that it would be nifty training for future generals to try and train on the popular electric ray guns in the establishment. These guns, ■A made famous by Buck Rogers, “moider”
Variety Show Scores Another Hit;
Cavaliers, Curtin, Kane, Scully Star
AL SOMMER
Reggie Flynn, Notre Dame Ziegfield, (male choruses only), can carve another notch in Dave Curtin’s trusty, unloaded cannon. A week ago Thursday Reggie and Dave had even Demosthenes and Cicero, those gents painted alongside M the stage in Washington Hall, cheering their variety show. Every performer, from the National Champion Drummer of 1941 down to the disgruntled laundry ' customer, is now subject to a call to the professional stage at any time.
From the first bars of- “The Star-Spangled Bannei*,” furnished free of charge by “Veet” Capello and his boys, through the final appeal to buy war
4-
stamps, the' students who jammed Washington Hall cheered, applauded, sang, laughed, and had a terrific time. Dave Curtin, master of ceremonies, hit the jackpot on his first gag when two morgue-faced men of misery dumped him from a stretcher in front of the
everything from Killer Kane to Benito Mussolini floating along in a parachute.
Thus the hero of the story who decided to condition his shooting eye found himself changing the dollar into fifty cents, a quarter, two dimes and a nickel. It ends up when he changes the last-dime to two nickels. In spending the 20 buffaloes the gunner has: filled Mussolini’s parachute with 1,034 holes, sunk 367 submarines, and made Hitler spin around 23 times.
These totals, however, look smaller than that last nickel when the gunner considers the 19 chips that have wandered in the direction of the manager’s income tax return.
So it adds up to the fact that E. R. C. rumors are merely rumors,, officers don’t shoot machine guns, anyway, and even if bus tokens aren’t bank assets, they still jingle in your pocket. So invest your funds in bus tokens and remember the old moral that a fool and his money are some party.
mike. Then the Cavaliers gave Dave time to dust himself off by playing “String of Pearls.” More music followed while Eddie Dunigan and his “oh-so-mellow” cornet sent shudders through the students with “White Christmas” and “This Love of Mine.”
Then Whozit made his first appearance. He rambled across the stage with a large calendar, ripped off a day, and threw it on the stage.
Popular Leo Linck , complete with hillbilly costumes and ancient guitar, related the tale of “The Martins and the Coys” and their never-ending feud. He sang a “College Medley” as an encore, highlighted by an imitation of Frank Leahy uttering those immortal words, “And gents, win, lose, or draw, we’ll be in there fighting and you’ll be ‘ proud of your team, gents.”
Whozit again and another day ripped off!
The unsung heroes of the wings poured out on the stage with a bevy of drums. Then came the master magician of those drums, Tom Butler, national champion drummer of 1941. And he really did magic with them. He pounded the skins hard and long while the lads on the hard seats beat it out on the floor of Washington Hall. He had the audience cheering “Woodchopper’s Ball,” “’ La Conga,” and, finally, some plain and fancy drumming.
Oh yes, Whozit again!
No variety show is complete without Kevin O’Toole and his Melody Rascals— six lads and a leader, refugees from the Glee Club. Sobs of remembrance were heard throughout -the audience as they dolefully sang, “Over at St. Mary's on a Sunday Afternoon” (comedy number). Then they swept into a more serious vein with “Notre Dame, Our Mother.”
Whozit in a rage of anger stomped across again!
The Cavaliers presented their ace specialty number, “Three Little Fellows”: “I do the cooking, I do the cleaning, I lux the . . . every night.” Dick Hines, pianist for the Cavaliers, and Phil Foote collaborated on a pair of keyboards with some Boogie Woogie and then a spot of “Tea for Two.”
Dave Curtin
Who? Whozit, of course!
Between halves, Curtin, coach of All-American peanut vendors, gave a heart-to-heart pep talk to a couple of his stars, who, inspired by Coach Curtin, bolted down the aisles tossing bags of peanuts to the hungry students. Joe Flynn, a freshman ventriloquist, stuck the right words in the mouth of his pal, Willie McGregor. The rumor that Jee coaches Edgar Bergen is as yet unconfirmed. The Cavaliers with Hank Kane vocalizing struck out, “Be Careful, It’s My Heart.” Then Bill Scully, an old stand-by, made his usual hit with “The Road to Manda-
• lay” and “The Rose of Tralee.” Dick Hines made a second special appearance with an imitation of Alec Templeton. •
The audience found out finally at the end who .Whozit was when he appeared hugging his laundry package and yelling, “I got it! I got it!” He’s the lad who didn’t get his laundry. That’s right, you and. me!
“Veet” Capello and the Cavaliers finished the show with “The Johnson Rag” and “The Jersey Bounce.” “The Victory March” rang down the curtain.
7
Knights Pay Out $1,500 for War Bonds;
Zahm Tops Weekly Hall Donations
Another payment on Hitler’s one-way ticket to annihilation was made this week as the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus Council 1477 paid out $1500 for United States War Bonds. The bonds, purchased from council funds, increased materially the total of war bond and stamp sales on the campus.
On the cover of this week’s Scholastic is the picture of Jerry Killigrew, senior from Hobart, Ind., as he receives the S1500 worth of bonds from Thomas Rolfs, general chairman of the drive, and a Cavanaugh junior from West Bend, Wis. The transaction took place in the council chambers in Walsh hall.
After the demonstration of practicing what they preached by purchasing $1500 worth of bonds, the Knights announced ‘ that total stamp sales on the campus for the initial month, totaled $1800—enough to purchase two army jeeps. This $1800 is exclusive of the large Knights of Columbus investment which swelled the first month’s total to $3,300.
Averages of the individual halls, shown in a separate box in this issue, were released for the first time. The figures reveal a $0.21 weekly average for
Students Plan Their Exodus to New York;
Irish Band Will Perform at Halftime
Apparently destined to be shelved for the duration, the New York-Army game trip, traditional with Notre Dame students for years, has survived this fall through the eiforts and plans of individual students and once again the Fighting Irish will be greeted by a sizeable delegation when they take the turf of Yankee Stadium next Saturday, Nov. 7.
Most promising of the plans for. the trip is the transporting of the 110-piece Notre Dame marching band to New York for the game. The bandsmen in uniforms that Manhattanites will be see- ’ ing for the first time, will highlight halftime and pre-game activities.
Officers of the Met club were unable to announce any definite plans for the week-end, since the trip is purely an unofficial student trip. There may be a dance in New York for students and alumni. Tickets to and from the game and hotel reservations are being handled by the individual students. Notre Dame students making the trip will number for the most part, New Yorkers and Jer-
t
each student in Zahm hall, as contrasted against the $0.09 weekly average per student of Sorin and Cavanaugh halls, which linger at the bottom of the ladder. Walsh hall, with a $0.20 average per student, is second to Zahm for top honors.
It was pointed out that the total of $3,300 was in addition to bond sales of other campus organizations, and it was said, proved that “all those dimes and quarters add up to an appreciable sum within one month’s time.”
Knights of Columbus officers praised all hall chairmen and their assistants who canvass every campus room each Thursday night, and urged students to redouble their efforts to purchase stamps.
WEEKLY AVERAGE PER STUDENT
Zahm......................$0.21
Walsh .......................20
Dillon ....................  15
Breen-Phillips.............  15
Alumni ....................  12
St. Edward’s.................11
Main Building................10
Sorin ..................... .09
Cavanaugh..................  09
seyites, getting a trip home and a football game at the same time.
Since it is the first trip of the year for the band, the traditional initiation of freshman band members will take place on the trip. At his own request, Mr. W. Lee Hope, directing the band this year for the first time, will also be initiated.
The band will board the “Pace-maker” of the New York Central railroad at 3:30 on Thursday afternoon. They will stay at the McAlpin Hotel in New York, traditional Notre Dame band headquarters. .
On Friday they will play at a rally at the Waldorf-Astoria, sponsored by the combined Notre Dame-Army relief. After the game the annual concert in the McAlpin lobby is' scheduled.
Formations will be worked out for the game; and a special arrangement of “The Sidewalks of New York” is being rehearsed this week.
Four Notre Dame cheerleaders will make the trip. They are head cheerleader Joe Tracy, Seniors Paul Toland and Bill Herzog, and Junior Dave Curtin. •
Forum Bond Sales Boom
Gail Fitch, president of the Commerce Forum, and his assistants, are well pleased with the results of bond sales during recent home football games. The Commerce Forum has constructed a bond ’ booth directly inside gate 14 from which they sell war stamp corsages to the ladies and boutonnieres to the men. So far they have doubled the original $165 sale of the Stanford game. The club has completely sold out all the corsages and all but the fifty cent war stamps.
Ted Toole, treasurer of the club, is especially happy having sold two $100 bonds to a gentleman from Cleveland, O., whose daughter one week before purchased $20 worth of war stamps.
Other purchasers of $25 Avar bonds at the Stanford game were, Mrs. Joseph Sweeney, whose son Bob lives in Alumni : Fred Christman, a student; and Virginia Fitch, sister of the Forum’s president, who attends Rosary College. The Metropolitan Club of Notre Dame buys a $25 bond each week which they present to the player-of-the-day immediately after each home game.
Reggie Flynn, off-campus senior, made it possible for the bond booth to have a P.A. system by contributing an amplifier.
It is the aim of the Commerce Forum to urge every Notre Dame student to purchase at least one boutonniere of war stamps. This boutonniere is made up of nine ten cent war stamps and sells for one dollar.	.
The drive has been launched in a very successful manner. Continued cooperation on the part of students and fans of Notre Dame will bring it to a successful completion.
Monogram Club Prepares For Annual Initiation
Initiations, for the Monogram Club started last Tuesday and-, wall continue through Saturday. Each two new- applicants have a “big brother,” one of the old members, whom they must obey through the initiation period. Cigarettes and gum must be carried at all times for the “big brother” and he is to be called every morning and presented with a newspaper. The new fellows also have to wear a suit, bow tie, and white shoes, all week. At 5:30 a.m. last Wednesday they reported at St. Mary’s to be “washed up.” It is up to the “big brother” whether those, who are under him get into the club.
The initiation committee is made up of Bob Dove, chairman, Wally Ziemba, Frank Conforti and Cornelius Weitoff.
At the next meeting plans for the Christmas dance will be discussed and a committee will be appointed for it.
—Bob Sinkle
IDENTITY OF BEARSKIN IS SECRET;
RESEARCH FAILS TO REVEAL AUTHOR
BILL REYNOLDS
* If you read tonight’s South Bend Tribune you will find in the sports section a column bearing the heading: “Punts and Passes by Bearskin.’’ Every student at Notre Dame has heard of - “Bearskin” and his mighty exploits, but no one knows who “Bearskin” is. The purpose of this article is to further acquaint you with the antics of this sarcastic sage of Irish football and at the same time add to your already confused notion of who bears this strange pen <	name.
v In looking through the Tribune files ' the first issue found containing “Punts and Passes” was dated October 8, 1926. This column was written following Notre ■ Dame’s 77-0 rout of Beloit and published t. the eve of the Minnesota game.
The Tribune’s files also revealed that “Bearskin” has traveled with the Irish k team at times. For instance, the column which appeared on November 8, 1928, the eve of the Army game, bore the dateline: “Buffalo, N. Y.”
- In discussing the origin of “Punts and Passes”, with persons who have been - connected with the Tribune or the University for a decade or more the only " definite fact obtainable was that the column started in Knute Rockne’s era. It is the general opinion that “Rock” himself «. was the original writer. Jim Costin, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune, - and Joe Petritz, Notre Dame’s athletic publicity director, were among those who "	expressed the belief that Rockne was the
K	original “Bearskin.”
< Among other ideas referring to the column’s origin was one presented by Mr. Ed Meehan, advertising director, of the Tribune. Mr. Meehan said that he thought “Bearskin” in the Tribune was k the modern version of a similar column which was published in the Scholastic in the 1890s. When asked if he had any sort of an idea as to who “Bearskin” "	might be Mr. Meehan said: “I don’t
j	know. And if I did I probably wouldn’t
' be permitted to say.” Gerald Cosgrove, associate editor of the Tribune, did not have any idea of who the author is. His - only comment was: “I’ve been with the paper for fifteen years and “Bearskin” was in it when I came. I don’t know who the author is. But it must be a'real secret as I have never heard anyone
v.. mention it.”
City editor, Russell Johnson, and managing editor, Bob Walton, were also very much in the dark as to the authorship.
When asked about “Bearskin,” sports editor Jim Costin said: “I know just about as much about that as you do— nothing. I know it has been running for quite a long while. As I recall, it started in the late ’20s under Rockne who, I believe, wrote it himself. Who writes it today, I don’t know.
“Mr. Miller, the owner of the paper, gets it and turns it over to me each week with strict orders not to edit it,” Costin concluded.
Coach Leahy's "Smilin' Thru" again!
Mr. Costin’s explanation might lead one to believe that Mr. Miller is the unknown author. This is very doubtful, however, as Mr. Miller, an elderly gentleman, would hardly be able to spare the time from his regular duties for the purpose of writing “Bearskin.” Perhaps Mr. Miller is acquainted with the author, however as far as it is known he has never divulged the secret to Costin who says he’d like to know.
On reading . “Bearskin’s” column through the years it becomes evident that ' the authorship has changed at times. The tone and style of writing at different periods indicates a change of authors, particularly in the different coaching regimes.	•
The idea that the head coach has always been the author is disproved by the
apparent changes of authors between seasons of a single coaching era. At times the tone has even changed from one week to the next. Many of the persons contacted on the survey commented on this fact—saying that it seems as though the author this year is not the same person who wrote “Bearskin” last season. Some even seemed to think that the change of tone in the second and third installments of this season, indicated a change of authors. These people jumped to the conclusion that Coach Leahy is the author and the change of tone resulted in a “guest-columnist” writing the feature in Leahy’s absence.
In all probability Rockne, the immortal, was the original author. Most dues ' lead to this assumption. All of the “Old-timers” seem quite convinced that “Rock” began writing the feature.
Among the ideas offered for the longevity of “Bearskin,” the one that appeared most logical was: The original “Bearskin” may have been a “ghostwriter” for Knute Rockne, writing what Rockne ordered him to write. Then after the great coach’s untimely death the “ghost” may have continued “Punts and Passes” on his own, keeping the established pen name.
“Who do you think ‘Bearskin’ is?”— this was the question more than a hundred students, professors and newspapermen were asked while compiling the material for this article. The answers given were often the results of minutes of reasoning, but more often an unhesitant “I heard it was so and so” or “I got it from a very reliable source that so and so is ‘Bearskin.’ ” The persons asked this nominated the following as possible authors of the pithy column of Irish football: Father Eugene Burke, C.S.C., and Father Thomas Brennan, C.S.C.; Coaches Frank Leahy, Ed McKeever, Wayne Millner, Ed Krause and Bob Snyder; John Donnelly, Coach Leahy’s secretary; publicity director Joe Petritz; basketball coach George Keogan.
Trainer “Scrapiron” Young; J. W. McAllister, equipment manager; photographer Harry Elmore; “somebody on the Scholastic staff, probably the sports editor”; baseball coach Jake Kline; Jim Armstrong, alumni secretary; “Red” Lonergan, and Jim Costin.
If the popular consensus means anything the final choice lays between Father Brennan and the coaching staff. Some of the campus poll results follow:
Paul Toland, Alumni: “Bob Snyder or one of the other coaches.”
Jim Murray, Alumni: “Red Lonergan. He’s always into something.”
9
Tony Eearley, Dillon: “Leahy.”
Hugh Lacey, CaiToll: “I think it is ‘Scrap’ Young.”
Jack Wiggins, Alumni: “I’ve often wondered. It sounds like McKeever this year.”
Tom Perry, Off-campus: “Joe Petritz, and I’d be willing to bet on it.”
George Blackmore, Alumni: “Father Brennan.”
Frank King, Alumni: “It’s McAllister.” Steve Weigel, St. Ed’s: “Father Brennan.”
Art Keating,. Alumni: “Maybe it’s Harry Elmore. He’s always around and he’s not always taking pictures.”
Al Clark, Sorin: “I’ve heard that it is Father Brennan.”
(A note to “Bearskin”: — We regret that this story did not make its appearance at the time you predicted. Hoivever, we are proud of the fact that we did get a growl out of you.
The article was not intended to expose your identity, but to give the men of Notre Dame an idea of how wrong they are when they say: “Bearskin is . . . .” We congratulate you on your knowledge of the question. — The Editors.)
Papers on Production
Feature Club Meetings
Two papers on the production phrase of the war effort have furnished topics for discussion for Wranglers, campus honorary club, in the past two weeks. Ted Weber presented a paper on “The Railroads'and War” last night and Bill Talbot, Cavanaugh Hall junior, presented a discussion of “Production and the War” last Thursday.
Talbot accused the American people of a. less than 100% war effort and urged several plans for remedying the situation. Chief among these were a reorganization of purchasing boards and the commissioning of industrial leaders.
Weber traced the history of the railroads in both World Wars, comparing especially the causes that led up to government ownership of the roads in the First War and showing how those causes are not present in this.
Inter-hall debating will start early next month. Although the notices concerning inter-hall debating have been posted for a week, the Wranglers announced this week that any student wishing to participate should see his hall coach; if he does not know his hall coach he should contact inter-hall debate chairman Talbot in Cavanaugh.	-
Collegians Meet Here;
Kurtz Resigns Position
Eight colleges were represented last Sunday at a meeting of the Fort Wayne region of the National Federation of Catholic College students held in the Rockne Memorial building. Participating in the discussion of the group were students from colleges in Indiana, Illinois and Michigan.
Louis Kurtz jack
Highlight of the meeting was the announcement of the resignation of Louis Kurtz, vice - president of the region. Kurtz, who has been long associated with Catholic clubs on the campus and throughout the country, deemed it advisable to withdraw from some of these activities since he is graduating in December. Succeeding him by unanimous vote of the group is Jack Terry, Dillon hall sophomore.
Notre Dame was appointed the head of the inter-American Relations Commission department of the federation. At the meeting it was decided to hold the National convention in Cincinnatti Dec. 27 to 30.
At the convocation a talk on Catholic Action was given by James V. Cunningham, president of the Notre Dame Catholic Action Students.
Glee Club to Present
Concert in Elkhart
The Notre Dame Glee Club will make its first trip of the fall semester Sunday in a journey to Elkhart. Under the direction of Mr. Daniel H.. Pedtke, head of the department of music, a picked group of 35 singers will entertain at a public afternoon program on which Clifton Utley, famous WGN commentator will appear.
This makes the first notable trip the Glee Club has taken since the war necessitated curtailment of civilian movements. However, the prominent organization has given several concerts in the . vicinity of South Bend throughout the summer and so far this fall,, and is expecting to make many appearances before. the end of this semester. Among these are trips to the Great Lakes Training School, to Rosary College in River Forest, Illinois, and to the giant U.S.O. center in Chicago.
Last week the club presented a short
concert to the members of the South Bend Civic Planning Association. The selections given are included in the larger program to be presented Sunday.
Victory March....................Shea
Loch Lomond ................Scotch Air
Drums....................Meale-Salter
Estrellita .....................Ponce
Winter Song ..................Bullard
Marche Militaire.............Schubert
Liberty Bell....................Sousa
Salute to the Service: •
Caison Song, Marine Hymn, Anchors Aweigh, Army Air Corps, This is My Country
Star Spangled Banner .............Key
Chicago Choir, Billiard
Expert Entertain Crowd
On Oct. 20, the Chicago Symphony Choir visited the campus and gave a program in Washington Hall. The choir consisted of 50 voices garbed in distinguishing black robes with large white - collars. They gave a program for the most part made up of Russian liturgical music and a few numbers of the Italian School, one by Rossini. The program was under the direction of Walter Aschen-brenner.
The following- day, Wednesday the 21, a billiard and pool fancy-shot expert entertained about 40 or 50 Notre Dame pool enthusiasts in the Washington Hall Recreation room at four in the afternoon. Mr. Charles C. Peterson gave those present a demonstration and brief talk on the fundamentals of billiards and then proceeded to delight the crowd gathered about his table with a galaxy of trick shots of both pool and billiards. He also demonstrated some of the shots of the world’s three cushion champion, Willy Hoppe.—Jim Clark
Law Club Hears Manion
Mr. Clarence Manion, dean of the Law School, spoke last Thursday, Oct. 15, at the first meeting this semester of the Law Club. He explained how a law student who goes into the military service may get credit for an incomplete semester by passing an examination over the semester’s work.
The club is having difficulty getting organized this semester because both its president," Bob Sullivan, and its vicepresident, P. Allonzi, have left for the army and the navy respectively. Mike Stepovich is the treasurer and Bob Sinon is secretary; Joe Barr, Student Activity Council representative, presided - at the last meeting and urged all freshmen of the Law School to join the Club. He promised that there will be various activities this year although there was no time to discuss them at the last meeting.
—Bob Sinkle
IQ
Fall Issue of "Scrip’1
Scheduled for Nov. 27
The Fall issue of Scrip is expected to come out Nov. 27, according to Editor John Gilligan. The cover will probably be changed to a Fall color in keeping with the season. The summer issue had a few innovations in the form of poetry, something hitherto excluded from Scrip, •- and a larger magazine.
Besides the regular contents, essays, short stories, poems and book reviews, the next issue of Notre Dame’s quarterly (for the duration it comes out but once a semester) will contain some full page drawings by art students. The purpose of this is to give expression to student . artistic ability of all kinds, not to limit it merely to writing.
_ In keeping with the centennial year * most of the book reviews will be of books _ written by present Notre Dame professors and alumni. Among these will be > reviews of Professor Yves Simon’s Road to Vichy, Professor Richard L. Sulli-'S van’s Summer After Summer, Harry Flannery’s Assignment To Berlin, and * Rev. Leo R. Ward’s Nova Scotia, Land of Co-operatives.—Jim Downey
Ashbaugh Wins Seahawk
Player of the Day Bond
The Metropolitan club, under the capable leadership of President Don Degnan, presented their top show of the football season, Oct. 17, after the Irish thumped the Seahawks 28-0. Russ Ashbaugh received the “Player of the Day” award, becoming the third player to receive the $25 war bond. Tom Miller and Angelo Bertelli had previously won the honor.
Undoubtedly the closest balloting of the series, Russ had to battle a host of other players, including Corwin Clatt, Harry Wright, and Gerry Cowhig, before ringing up more than 200 votes to clinch the title. Harry Wright presented the winner with the scroll.
Built around the presentation of the award, the Met club offered a fast moving show to a packed Washington Hail crowd. Dave Curtin, as master of ceremonies, Veet Capello and his Cavaliers, and Phil Foote and his piano, combined to furnish plenty of surprises. The show closed with some 900 delirious fans singing the “Victory March.”
Don Degnan announced that the actual $25 war bonds together with the money to be donated to the war charities will be presented at the football banquet in January.
The next show is scheduled for Nov. 14 after the Michigan game. The Wolverine’s ace halfback Tom Kuzma will be on hand as well as a gang of our Fighting Irish.—Phil Keen ’
Late Brother Hugh Cared for Horses and Tramps in "Rockefeller HaU"
FRANK ENGLISH
(Editors Note: The following is the first in a series of articles written by members of the journalism department’s feature- writing class to be published in subsequent issues of the Scholastic.)
Brother Hugh, and Tubby, his dog, could be seen always together on the campus of the University ;of Notre Dame. Brother Hugh, stout and squat, was rec-’ ton of Brownson Hall in the ^0’s, a horse trader (so-called), a farmer, a philanthropist, a carpenter (when a stable had to be built), and as one admirer said, “An all-around wonderful man.”
Brother Hugh has been dead some 14 years now; but he’s still living within the hearts of many South Benders, and of all those who knew him. He was kind, gentle and generous.	■
Brother Hugh was. a great horse trader. At least he considered himself as such. Among those who knew horses, however, it was said that he didn’t know a Cleveland Bay from a Clydesdale in respect to breeding, nor the gaskin from the stifle in regard to their anatomy. Once he traded a chestnut bay to a horseman in South Bend by the name of Abe Goldman; two years later, Abe traded the same bay back,to -Brother Hugh, who thought, it was a new horse. (And such was his trading of quadrupeds.) .
At one time Brother--Hugh had five, horses, but the small stables could hold only three. Something had to be -done-about this, and he did it; In the center of what is now known as Cartier Field, he built a rather crude stable from old planks, boards and boxes. The students
Neighbors of Brother Hugh's domain^ -
called it “Rockefeller Hall.” Within the walls of this stable lived not only horses, but men—derelict men. In those days, bums, tramps and hoboes were common, much more so than they are now. These men would share the stable with the horses, or vice versa.
. Brother Hugh never failed to give a meal to a man who wanted one, and to make sure that the mail was _ hungry enough to eat it, he was given an extra appetite by working at some small menial task about the campus. These men were called, “Tramps” by him. He distinguished between a tramp, who was a wanderer, but not afraid of work, a hobo, who would work occasionally and walk the rest of the time; and a bum, who would never work, and always wandered. :.	•
It was not long before every tramp in the country knew of Brother Hugh. Soon, the “waywarding” visitors were swarming over the campus. Brother Hugh again realized that something had to be done about this. He," therefore, received permission to convert an old rickety building, which was located on the spot the Huddle now rests upon, to a makeshift dining room for these men. It was not uncommon for him to feed 50 in an evening. This was also nicknamed by the students, and was commonly known as “The Privy Council.”
’ Why he ever kept that old, houn’ dog “Tubby” was never quite understood by the students. Maybe, it was to keep his vocal2cords in condition, for it
(Continued on page 30)
II

STATE SCIENCE CONVENTIONS HERE;
PART OF CENTENARY YEAR PROGRAM
President M. G. Mellon wall address the Academy on “Science, Scientists, and Society.”
Science will assert its importance this weekend when the Indiana Academy of Science and the Indiana Academy of Social Sciences hold conventions on the campus.
The meetings of the societies form a part of the University’s centennial year program. The Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, will officially welcome both units.
The program of the social sciences group will include round table discussions in each of the four academy sections: business administration, economics, and sociology. In addition to President Wesley Bender, Notre Dame, business administration, the officers of the Academy are:
Vice-presidents P. S. Sikes, Indiana University, government; William G. Mather, Franklin College, sociology; and Gerguson E. Ormes, Wabash College, economics. From Indiana University come A. B. Hollingshead, the secretarytreasurer.
Dr. Edwin E. Witte, professor of economics and politics at the University of Wisconsin and eminent authority on social security, will be the principal speaker of the dinner meeting in the Hotel Hoffmann, Friday evening, Oct. 30. At the present time, Dr. Witte is a •member of the National Railway Labor Panel, an ad hoc member of the National War Labor Board and a consultant to the War Manpower Commission. The title of Dr. Witte’s address is “What the War Is Doing to Us.”
At the luncheon meeting Saturday, Oct. 31, Mr. Ferdinand A. Hermens, of the Notre Dame department of politics, will speak on the “Problems of Post-war Germany.”
University faculty members in the social sciences will be: Dean James E. McCarthy, college of commerce; Dr. Waldemar Gurian, department of politics; the Rev. Frank P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., department ef sociology; the Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., and Professors John A. Sheehan and William J. Coyne, department of economics; and Mr. Alden E. Davis, department of business administration.
Leading institutions that will be rep- .
resented are Indiana, Purdue, Butler, DePauw, Franklin, Evansville, Hanover, Wabash, Ball State, Earlham, Indiana State Teachers, and Goshen.
Participants from governmental circles include: George W. Starr, state price executive, OPA; E. H. Shidler, Farm Security Administrator; Virgil Sheppard, State Department of Welfare; Otto K. Jensen, state examiner, Department of Inspection and Supervision of Offices; T. L. Metsker, Indiana Department of Public Works; Hans Riemer, Indiana Prison Board; M. W. Madden, Gary Taxpayers’ Association; and Angus McCoy, Allen County Taxpayers’ Association.
Industrial leaders expected to be present are: Thurman W. Tinkham, general manager of the Bendix corporation in South Bend; George W. Blair, vice-president of the Mishawaka Rubber and Woolen Manufacturing Company; and E. E. Richards, assistant to President Hoffman of the Studebaker corporation.
The main session of the Academy of Science will open Friday morning with addresses by Father O’Donnell, and Melvin G. Mellon, professor of analytical chemistry of Purdue University, President of the Academy.
Prominent among the other addresses will be those of Walter B. Hendrickson, MacMurray College, Jacksonville, HL, and Lt. Col. C. Alfred Campbell, vice-president of the Mannon-Herrington Company in Indianapolis.
Notre Dame faculty members who will participate in the convention include Drs. J. D. Mizelle, E. L. Powers, N. L. Noeck-er, and Brother Raphael Marczynski, C.S.C., department of biology; Drs. G. F. Hennion, R. R. Vogt, and acting dean Lawrence H. Baldinger, department of chemistry.
Dr. K. N. Campbell, department of chemistry, is chairman of the section on chemistry and will open its meeting with his paper.
Dr. Theodor Just, vice-president and program chairman, and Dr. E. G. Mahin, head of the department of metallurgy, are in charge of local arrangements.
The annual dinner will be held Friday 6 p.m., October 30, in the Hotel LaSalle.
Late President's Poems
Published by The Ave Maria
The collected poems of the late Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame from 1928 to 1934, have been edited by the Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., and published by The Ave Mana.
// /.
The late Rev. C. L. O’Donnell, C.S.C.
Father Carey is a nephew of the poetpriest, Father O’Donnell, who was the first president of the Catholic Poetry Society of America and one of America’s leading poets. The magazine Poetry once wrote: “We place Father O’Donnell unhesitatingly in the company of Francis Thompson, Alice Meynell, and Lionel Johnson.”
The Dead Musician was the title of his first published collection, while in 1922, he had another volume, Cloister and Other Poems, published. Upon his inauguration as president of the Catholic poetry society, Father O’Donnell received much enthusiastic praise from literary critics when his A Rime of the Rood and Other Poems came off the press in 1928.
World War I provided the background of much of Father O’Donnell’s work since he was a chaplain with the famed Rainbow Division.
'1
1?
Father Hugh O'Donnell Addresses
Catholic Alumnae at Grand Rapids
Addressing the International Federation of Catholic Alumnae at Marywood Academy, Grand Rapids, Mich., Oct. 24, Father Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, declared that “while our armed forces are winning the war abroad, we are in danger of losing it at home.”
Father O’Donnell’s subject was “Women and the War.” In his speech, he expressed the opinion that the battle for freedom should begin “at the firesides and cradles of the American family.”
Other highlights of his talk are as follows:
“We have been at war for more than ten months. Americans reacted spontaneously and unanimously when the attack came. For the first time in more than a generation we united solidly on a major issue. Our lives changed so completely that in order to describe the war effort, we even invented a new vocabulary that runs through the alphabet from ‘acceleration’ and ‘duration’ to ‘V for Victory’ and ‘W* for WAVES and WAACS. Over night a peace-loving nation became an arsenal of democracy. We beat our ploughshares into swords, and raised and equipped an army of almost five million men to fight on fronts from Alaska to Africa. There are no noncombatants in this war; there are only those who do not actually bear arms. We are in it for all we are worth. . . .”
The University’s president further stated: “In the acceleration of the war effort and our concentration upon the defeat of the axis, we are losing sight of our ultimate goal, which is a strong nation that lives according to Christian principles. Such a nation cannot be built except through the family in which Godfearing parents rear God-fearing children. And I cannot help believing that certain aspects of the immediate war program are fraught with danger.
“. . . The battle for freedom does not begin on the high seas or on a second front. It begins in the school of the mother’s knee, with an emphasis on God, the source of all freedom. And speaking of freedom—it is high time to define just what it means. Freedom is to do what you ought and not what you please. The latter is license and we have too much of that today.. ..
“For many years it has been my happy privilege to be a part of a university dedicated to a woman—the Mother of God. Perhaps that is why I feel so keenly
that the measure of a civilization is the esteem in which it holds women—‘the great inspirers.’ Perhaps that is why I know that if you assume the responsibility that a Christian civilization places upon you, that if the example of your Christian lives is translated into national strength, you will render a real service at a time when everything we cherish is under attack. As one of my distinguished predecessors so truly said, ‘Every great man is a monument to some noble woman.’
“Without intending to be humorous or to reflect upon the worth or patriotism of any woman’s organization that has recently come into existence, I suggest that there is need for one more to be known as ‘W A A H’—the Woman’s Auxiliary for the Aid of the Home.’ And if, as some one has said, we still lack a song for World War II, we might do much worse than turn back to World War I and revive a song of that era—‘Keep the Home Fires Burning.’ ”
All-Faculty Staff Marks
Current 'Review of Politics'
Dedicated to the University’s Centenary, the November Review of Politics, published quarterly by the University of Notre Dame, features for this issue an all-faculty staff, all articles and reviews being written by Notre Dame professors.
Waldemar Gurian, European author and scholar, since 1937 a member of Notre Dame’s faculty, has edited the Review from its beginning in the fall of 1938. Dr. Gurian is the author of Bolshevism, Theory and Practice, one of the best books against Communism today, and a book, Hitler and the Christians, characterizing the Nazi danger for Chris-tion civilization. Managing editors during the same years have been F. A. Her-mens, European trained political scientist, and Frank O’Malley, young Notre Dame scholar.
Leading article is “The Sources of Hitler’s Power.” This significant contribution by the editor, Dr. Gurian, contains a very vital analysis of the rise of Hitler. Stating that “a victory over Hitler is necessary for the sake of human and decent life and for the possibility of creating a better order is self-evident,” and that “the psychological war is a very important means, but not a substitute for the war of the fighting forces,” Dr. Gurian states definitely that National Social
ism and Hitler must.be conquered by a decisive military victory.
Another article, “The Catholic Church in the United States Between Two Wars,” is authored by Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., University archivist.
Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S-.C., author of the newly published “Nova Scotia and the Cooperatives,” presents the Review readers an excellent analysis of “The Social Significance of Cooperation.”
Willis D. Nutting, Oxford graduate with an Iowa background, a rising authority on agrarianism in this country, contributes “On Freedom and Reform.” Dr. Nutting is associate professor of history at Notre Dame.
Dr. Hermens, author of Democracy and Anarchy, treats the subject of proportional representation in its connection with democracy and the experience in Europe with the combination.
Frank O’Malley, managing editor, in addition to the leading editorial of dedication, contributes a very significant treatment of “Religion and the Modem Mind,” of particular importance in a war period which involves so much reference to religious factors.
Book reviews, a regular and popular feature of the Review, are contributed in this issue by Dr. Gurian, Father McAvoy and Professors Francis E. McMahon and Matthew A. Fitzsimons. Prof. Fitzsimons reviews the new book by Notre Dame’s professor Yves Simon, French scholar, The Road to Vichy.
The success of the Review in its four years of publication is one of the achievements of the University as it observes its 100th year. The publication circulates among some dozen foreign countries, including embattled England, Russia, Australia, Burma, Scotland, Ireland, Cuba, Argentina, and Brazil. Today, with over 50 Latin American exchanges, the Review continues to serve as a symbol of political unity between countries of the Western Hemisphere. Present war conditions have made circulation of the Review impossible in France, Sweden, the Netherlands, and the Philippine Islands.
The political quarterly, which has its place in the library of every important American university, has published two books. The first, Mortimer Adler’s Dia- -lectic of Morals, presented fundamental principles in ethics; the second consisted of Dr. Ferdinand A. Hermens* publication, Democracy and Anarchy.
Contributors' to the Review have included such notables as Mortimer Adler, author of the best seller, Hoiv to Read A Book; Goetz A. Briefs, Catholic economist and professor at Georgetown University; C. J. Friedrich, professor in Harvard University; and J. V. Nef, author of United States and Civilization.
is
Left to right: Lt. Commander Richard Wagner; Rear Admiral John J. Brady; Captain H. P. Burnett; Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president; and Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president.
Priest-Rear Admiral Speaks Here Navy Day
Bear Admiral John J. Brady spoke enthusiastically of the Notre Dame spirit, and said the’ coupling of the Navy with the men of Notre Dame was an arrangement from which all could gain.
The spirit between the two, the tall navy officer and priest said, was manifested in the recent football contest between the Navy cadets from Iowa PreFlight school and the Fighting Irish.
This was Father Brady’s second visit
to Notre Dame, the first having been in January, 1940, when, he attended the consecration of his friend, Most Bev. John O’Hara, C S.C., D.D., here.
High Navy officers and administration officials accompanied Fr. Brady around the campus Tuesday. He was much impressed with the beauty and size of the buildings, and with the smooth working of a University and Naval training school on one campus.
Twenty Notre Dame Men in Naval Unit Here
Twenty former Notre Dame men are now enrolled in the University’s naval pre - indoctrination school. Their names are listed below accompanied by their addresses and years of attendance • at Notre Dame:	•
Bichard E. Ball, Buffalo, N. Y.; attended Notre Dame from 1937 to 1941, and Indiana U. from 1941 to 1942; Bob-ert E. Burke, Teaneck, N. J., 1937 to 1942; Bernard A. Crimmins, Louisville, Ky., 1938 to 1942. .	.
Robert W. Hargrave, Evansville, Ind., 1938 to 1942; Leo M. Humphrey,. Cedar Rapids, la.; Charles M. Kearney, Dixon, Ill., 1938 to 1942; Michael D. Kelly, Piper City, Ill., 1938 to 1942; William E. Kennedy, Indianapolis,’ Ind., 1937 to 1942.
Paul J. Larmer, Oak Park, Ill.,. 1933 to 1937; William J. McAuliffe, Oak Park, Ill., 1938 to 1942; George J. McCabe, Jr., Davenport, la., 1938 to 1940; Robert J. McKee, South Bend, 1937 to 1942; Joseph J. Miller, Jr., South Bend, 1936 to 1942.	.
Jerome J. O’Dowd, Fort Wayne, Ind., 1936 to 1942; Thomas F. Quinlan, Lake Bomoseen, Vt., 1934 to 1938; Francis B. Quinn, Indianapolis, Ind., 1938 to. 1942; John D. Simon, Kalamazoo, Mich., 1934 to 1938; Edward M. Weinfurtner, Shaker Heights, 0., 1938 to 1942; Zigmund A. Wesolowski, Shirley, Mass., 1938 to 1942, and Steve Juzwik, Chicago, Ill., ’42.

Violinist Germano Solos
At Symphony Concert
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of Conductor Fredric Ingersoll, played its first concert of the current school year before an appreciative audience of students, clergy, and friends, Thursday evening. A variety number, “Selections from Show Boat,” was well received as something new- in Notre Dame Symphony.
The soloist for the evening, Rocco Germano, a violinist, played “Finale” from Mendelssoh’s Concerto in E Minor. Mr. Germano was accompanied by Professor Daniel Pedtke. The entire program consisted of:
Overture, The Magic Flute_________IF. .4. Mozart
Hehjre Kati------------------------------Hubay
Largo for strings from the New World
Symphony ----.--------------------4. Dvorak
Ballet Suite______________________Ramcau-Mottl
Selections from Show Boat_________-Jerome Kern
The Symphony Orchestra with its complete entourage amounts to. some 30 members. President of the orchestra is Bert Ramsour of Alumni Hall. The other officers are Felix Abaldo, vice-president, Patrick McShane,. secretary - treasurer, and Brother Leonard,. C.S.C., librarian.
—Jim Downey .
Radioman Pischke smiles at Singer Jeanette MacDonald while C. Herring and R. Johnson look on. .	.
14

> > *Z4e al Notte
vac
lx.
EDITORIALLY SPEAKING
By Lieutenant (JG) E. C. Dollard
The salesman stepped back from the cigar counter, winked at his friend and turned toward the boy in the brand new uniform. “So you’re a ‘ninety-day wonder,”’ smirked the salesman. The ensign looked uncomfortable and walked away. What he should have done would have been conduct unbecoming an officer, so we won’t print it here.
Who are the men jokingly called “ninety-day wonders?” First of all, they are the pick of the crop from all leading colleges and universities in the country. Why the pick of the crop? Simply because even an average college graduate would have difficulty learning the tremendous amount of material given the midshipmen in ninety days.
There is practically no “indoctrination period” given future Navy officers. They start training the day they arrive and must continue their studies even after they are commissioned. That’s another reason they can take pride in learning the Navy’s fundamentals in so short a time. They know they will be given a command some day and it’s a strain to work under for ninety days or ninety years.
We doubt, too, that the midshipmen from Notre Dame, who go out into the fleet, will bring anything but pride to the regular Navy men, who are our leaders.
If history means anything we don’t remember those men who were at Valley Forge being called names for lack of long training. They whipped long.armies of men who had all the equipment they needed except one thing. Spirit and a belief in the things we’re fighting for. The midshipmen have that spirit or they wouldn’t be here. The officers at this Navy school are proud of them.
. You will never hear a man from the Academy cast any aspersion on a man trained in much less time. The regular Navy men know the cause and the need is great and they take pride in the young men whom others call “ninety-day wonders.”
After battles come the casualty lists and we have yet to see the appellation, “ninety-day. wonder,” after their names. More often than not it’s “hero” and let’s remember it.
THE FO'C'S'LE
The fourth battalion, led by Lieut. E. C. Fant, will be striving with might and main to win the best battalion prize. This outfit has won the prize three out of four times in the past. They placed third in the last class. The first battalion, headed by Lieut. J. K. Lord was first, and the third battalion, with Lieut. E. H. Dunlap, Jr., in command, was second. The second battalion was fourth and the service battalion was fifth.
* * *
An instance of the hospitality of the citizens of South Bend was reported by C. S. Scott, of the third battalion. According to Scott an unidentified citizen walked up to four sailors, who were standing on a corner, and handed them a pint of Canadian Club, and then, without any further word, got into his car and drove away. (Why don’t things like that happen to me?)
* * *
R. S. Rowland, of the third battalion, was talking to one of the cadette hostesses at the South Bend Service Men’s Center. Rowland quotes her as saying that this class of apprentice seamen, (although nice) are a lot more hesitant about taking advantage of those social niceties such as cutting in, starting a conversation, etc. (Come, come, men. Do you want to give the Navy a bad name in South Bend?)
* * *
. One of the apprentice seamen in the fourth battalion jumped the .gun the other day and announced his presence with a snappy salute, saying, “Ensign -------, reporting, sir.” (I’m a Dreamer; Aren’t We All!)
* ** *
An amusing anecdote is told by Seaman Robert D. Webb, company 15. He relates:
“One lad in the fourth battalion marched as if he were trying to qualify as a substitute for Notre Dame’s high-stepping band leader, bringing his knees up to his chest and then daintily putting them down, toe first.
“Lieutenant Fant watched this sailor prance his way around the parade field several times. Several times the lieutenant explained that the men didn’t have to make so much work out of drill.
“Becoming exasperated he halted the platoon and declared, ‘You don’t have to be afraid of breaking any eggs in this parade field. Go right ahead and stamp h— out of it.’
“The seaman got the point.”
* * *
Military leadership is nothing new to the platoon and company officers of the third battalion. J. A. Orr, commander of the eleventh company the first week of training, had five years at a . military prep school, before taking two years of R.O.T.C. at Cornell.
* * *
William A. Ott, leader of platoon B, is a graduate of Citadel, which gives its men four years of military training.
* * *
Seaman Alfred C. Williams, of the fourth battalion, reports that Ensign Schwartz is making a hit with the trainees by his everlasting patience in explaining math problems. Williams adds:
“And math, incidentally, is occupying a large part in the minds of the seamen just at present.”
* * *
Dan R. Hixenbaugh, former V-7 here, asked the Public Relations Office to help him in locating a Ronson cigarette lighter that he lost when here. He believes he dropped the gadget near the putting green adjacent to Rockne Hall. The lighter has the initials “D. R. H.”
* * *
There was the V-7, according to the grapevine, who found himself on his first day standing in a long line of seamen, each of whom would- step up to the officer at the head of the line, salute smartly and mumble some words which this lad couldn’t quite make out.
The line kept growing shorter and shorter, and still he couldn’t make out .what the others were mumbling. Finally the man before him went through the little ritual. Our friend thought he caught the mumbled words this time. He stepped up to the officer, saluted, and spoke up clearly. “Season’s Greetings,” he said. A definite pause ensued. Subsequent investigation disclosed that the man before our hero had said, “Seaman Greene, sir.” Well, it was a beautiful sentiment, anyway, even if it was two months before Christmas.
(See page 30)
15
j»g!lrish>Seek Another Navy Victory;
See This Traditional Battle
0 gjj
BILL
BOSS
j.One?of^hmpooresLNa\^football teams toJbejcheered-byrthe'M	m the
, . ...
Cieyelaridl.wlncli|i^^	in
tlmSMumcipal'stadiumWaturday after-noonswhenithe Sailors?meetjNotre Dame.
Navy^Knighted \&th|fgndi^ profiefes
swaying offensive netted the Tigers ten points to none for the Navy. Two down, the Middies trimmed the Ivy from the walls and pinned Yale, 13-6. Last Saturday the Navy felt the severe sting of the little bee, Clint Castleberry, as the Academy lads lost to Georgia Tech’s Yellow jackets, 21-0. It is also rumored that this
Southern squad romped with a 13-6 victory over schM1 in “>• pas^<ofe^^o<BerteW and team personnel lines un
of 1942. The three-semester wartimei^B^ck spot in the single formation, academic program has yanked the	excellent passer and sprinter Cam-
from Navy football. Commdr. John WfielS®^^ scored against the Irish last year chel could sit back in the shadowsOf^lM^® intercepted one of Bertelli’s Bancroft Hall last year and dream^f^|||^^^ the Notre Dame 30 and loped the Blue and Gold scourge he would	®arhsdale, at quarterback, is
duce this season. But Dec. 7 disrupteji^llW^^Jj^^hcezrunner whose specialty is the his thoughts. Eruptions were thrown|in|||||^^ °f any stray pass from Cam-Academv football ranks when a	01 Gillis Hume who rocks the en-
portion of the stalwart Navy team	forward tier with amazing consist-
uated in the summer. Bill Busick is	the blocking back,
ing his passes in the Pacific and Na^^^§	f°r Cameron. Squashing
‘	‘ iceton men with lock
is left with but one returning letter^ man in the starting line-up, Capi Alan R. Cameron.
Floundering before the power of a strongly inspired William and Mary eleven the Middies slumped before the Redskins, 3-0, in the season’s opener. Striking at a weakened Virginia outfit the Annapolis anvil fell hard and won, 35 to 0.
Princeton’s
for his bulldozenfattack ependable O will operate for the Middies Channel and Bob Wil^^g Walter Schwartz and Er^lpScWu^^pet-eran linemen, at tackle^|fifeo last year an unrecogniz® Knox will be the guards at center.
The Navy-Notre DanOflp'^
director, and Knu
gASfairl
originated in 192^^K . Comnuuride^ Jones Ingram, Naval|ial|^^
n-nzl TZ~ -n -- J-^.1—
There are no fo between the two ranks second i only to the grea rivalry.
Notre Dame
trier
1A1
®s;
sour bite of the old Warner approach in
dominated the
Champaign last Saturday and they are determined to send Navy back to the-
play, winning l^confesFs and losing’only three. The Irish clipped the Middies, 19-6, in the opening engagement in ’27 and kept grinding victories until 1933 when the Sailors pounded out but two first downs to Notre Dame’s 18 yet they won the game, 7-0. Another reversal of statistics took place in Baltiimore in 1936 when Bill Ingram’s toe lanced a field goal to warp the Irish, 3-0. Bertelli’s gifted pas-ing cracked Navy morale last year,
b
the fundamentals of the Navy single-
wing bombardment. The Irish chewed a
o
20-13. Angelo’s afternoon’s endowment' was 12 completions in 18 attempts.
Notre Dame fully realized that strenuous session that is in store at Cleveland tomorrow. Acting Coach Ed Me-1 Keever has been drilling the boys against •
"—And when those Irish backs go marching by"
a
4
PROBABLE S1>
j
R,
Brown
Fedon (188)111
Knox(I Schnurr Wilcox Barksda Camera
Martin, Hume


16
started
for
go
he Irish tomorrow.
■ As Midshipmen wing pennies
at
bust of old Tecumseh in Annapolis
it;
lineup that will probable
the this
a a , e
"The cheering thousands shout their battle cry"
;jeas. The same gainst the Illini
veek Commander Whelchel is resetting his defense to match the passing attack of the Irish. Cameron will be floating ground with Barksdale to clasp the Irish aerials should they drop short of their objectives.
MING LINEUPS
j 7 j.
R|
A
R,
Dov
Log" Sports Editor is Not Op Predicts Stiff Battle
MIDSHIPMAN RALPH F. JACKS0
Sports Editor, "Navy Log"
Annapolis, Md., Oct. 20—As paradoxical as it may seem, Navy has been hit as hard as any other school in the country by the war. Early graduation took 22 lettermen of 1941’s famous football squad, and only five men were left to bear the brunt of a rathehSiou __ ule. Commander Whelchel, wh^feplaced
:hed-
“Swede” Larson as head coai ing the Navy team aroun men, drawing material from undefeated Plebes and also class of 1946.
In its opening game, a stunm saw the strong William & Ma avenge last year’s scalping w victory. A new team met Virgim^Uni; versity the following week, and on the Severn clicked wonderfully® take the big end of a 35-0 scor there followed two discouraging The Princeton Tigers downed th^^ro and Gold 10-0. Navy bounced backgthe= next game byadefeafetng Yale 13-6|glra this clash shov? ’ ‘ few instanc 4 '
wee
the old Nav
Last weelgCjeoggig ets made theirSsecb North an third defeated Clint Castle year-old f over NotfS led the JS
Now coW football Dame, an
feels can
—“Bea||Notre seasonlis
may hapi of optnm
gffor his outstanding defensive
Id prove the list is Alan he future
eat job at d can be
ing offensive of its?® effective in this of backs who wil Cameron, present ca ensigns. Al has turni fullback despite injun
couh
isiKuild-ey
’s Yellowja’ck^ myasion of the j^^Middies their seksoh. The same ®i^Georgians 18-
upporters id
roughshod the season ory.
the Navy eet Notre yay Navy e words and the hat else ■eat wave
iy this ie and 6w the
GoldWai
Navy team will fare against the Fight-
ing Irish.
Don’t let it be said, however that Navy has a weak eleven. This would be fai' from right as has been shown so far this season. There are weaknesses but there are formidable qualities as well. Against Notre Dame, the Navy will have trouble with its pass defense. This is consistently a Navy worry. But Navy has a pass-
well as great back:
§and passing, oungster,
, Hume, also fagfi^leltKreat back. iHiSSxwerful charg^S few won-
jhe was themar
richest scor-
[durag the season of 1940. Not to ^^99^ Navy’s most versatile runner, on^must place Gordon Studer among the ' WHe is the most consistent groundgamer on the squad, and some claim he good as “Barnacle Bill” Busik. Other backs who have gone places this season are Martin, Barksdale, Beckett, ierg, Pettit, Siegfriend, and Gilli-
jThe boys who eat dirt and like it are esmen. So far Navy’s line has proven Self to be a strong defensive wall and at times a powerful outfit. Outstanding in the ! “Paunchy” Knox, guard; Fedon at center, and 5 Schnurr, tackle. Knox is hard, fast charger and earned mention for AllAmerican honors last year. Dick Fedon is the mainstay of the line, and it looks as if he learned plen-(See p. 24)
a little Vworn
flooding th
17
VW	_	—	- ■ ■ 1 -B	1,1	-1IS* r
>	>	> x Notte. ^bame SpMh ,	,	> I
^}f taal ■ 1	^————.„i—_————■—~SlGV - i
Irish End Road Trip;
Play Army in New York
Phil Keen
The Fighting Irish will put the finishing touches on their present road trip next Saturday when they tangle with Army before an expected crowd of
80,000, in Yankee Stadium.
The annual Army-Notre Dame game, football’s most colorful intersectional classic, is the longest series of its kind in gridiron history. In 1913 an unknown Irish squad convinced Army of the value of the Rockne-Dorais invention, the forward pass, with a 35-13 upset. Today, aftei- 28 games in the series, interrupted only in 1918, the “unknown Irish” have a record of 20 won, five lost, and three tied.
Mr. Earl “Red” Blaik, current dean of pigskinology at the United States Military Academy, has molded together a truly representative team with only the bare remnants of the Cadet squad that slowed up the victory march of last, year’s Irish eleven.
To say that Army will be pointed for this game is putting it mildly. Four
Yankee Stadium's infield a la "Badin Bog"— not this year???
varsity Cadets have birthdays during the week-end and nothing would be sweeter than a victory over Notre Dame. However, the Irish also have a worthy motive—they have a score to settle with th^ Cadets. The 0-0 score of last year’s game is not going to be repeated. The Fighting Irish are going to make sure of that.
Red Blaik’s squad, conceded to have a light, inexperienced team, is yet to be beaten. They have convincingly stopped Lafayette 14-0, Cornell 28-8, Columbia 34-6, and Harvard 14-0. Tomorrow they meet an up-and-coming Pennsylvania eleven but have their main thoughts trained to their date in Yankee Stadium, Nov. 7.
Well fortified with bullet-backs, especially in the halfback spot, the West Point boys have an offensive squad ranking with the best. Quarterbacks Red Jarrell and “Ski” Lutry give the black, gold, and gray two signal callers who really know their way around the gridiron. In the halfback spots, there are Captain Hank Mazur, Ralph Hill, Bob Woods, Johnnie Roberts, and “Tid” Watkins. Mazur captured several All-American honors last year-and is rapidly driv
ing for these honors again. Hill, a standout sophomore last year, has recovered from a recent injury and will probably return to his right half position. George Troxell, pile-driving fullback, is the Cadets’ champion touchdown artist. Against Harvard, with whom he played last year, Troxell scored one of the two touchdowns and consistently drove for large chunks
of yardage.
The Army forward wall is tough. Although light, averaging 191 pounds, their speed and agility held their opponents to 14 points in the first four games. Ends Kelleher and Crowell, guards Merritt and Olds, tackles Sampson and Meser-eau, and center Myslinski, form the line that has the habit of holding enemy backs to short gains.
Despite the domination of air power in the present war, the West Pointers practically disregard it, averaging less than ten aerial attempts per game. However, they haven’t been behind in a game yet thus have not found much need for passing.
It is hoped that Dippy Evans and Jim Mello will see a lot of action against the Cadets. “Moose” Clatt and Bob Livingstone are expected to give the Army
many headaches. Bertelli, without the knee-deep mud that low-lighted last year’s scoreless tie, might very well make
/ it a repeat of the 35-13 stunt, of 1913.
Real Notre Dame Spirit Leads to Seahawk's Fall
J. D. Usina
Still fresh in the air is the tantalizing odor of the Irish Stew made two Saturdays ago, not of traditional ingredients but of a generous helping of Seahawks who found- -themselves trapped in the stadium' by a group of hard-hitting, savage Notre Dame gridders. Save for a . faint flicker in the opening period the Iowa Naval team barely got off with a feather in place as the Fighting Irish pulled one of the'stunning upsets of the year by parading to a 28 to 0 victory over the highly-touted grid machine under the. guidance of. Lt. Col. Bernie Bierman.
Shaking off the effects of the first quarter in which the Sailors held the upper .'hand, a -furious Irish eleven slugged- it out, literally and figuratively with the Seahawks, and midway in the second' quarter slammed over two touchdowns in less than two minutes.
18
t >
I
I Following this startling feat, xhe Irish jU. toyed with the -surprised and already . beaten Iowa team. Driving at will, Notre Dame pushed through a third tally
I in the third quarter and in the last I period third and fourth stringmen exploded another score.
r Functioning perfectly was the entire roster of the Fighting Irish. To single ' out one man for praise would be impos-
Walsh and Dillon Halls Now Leading ‘ Interhall Heavyweight Football League
Bill Carey
Under the direction of Vince Commisa the hardy heroes of Interhall Football have reached the halfway point of their season. The brand of ball played in the j Sunday afternoon tussles this fall has | been the best in years. All eight clubs * are well coached and boast capable, bal, anced squads. Competitive spirit has ' been of the highest and the resultant J games have been of the calibre interhall battles have been accustomed to pro-‘ ducing.
- As czar of the “heavies,” Commisa has put into effect a new rule that makes a ’ ■ man ineligible to play in any game, un, less he has been present at practice, at least three times during the week. This will prevent some of the Sunday stars from strutting their stuff -without under-• going the drudgery their mates suffer in weekly drills.	’•
»- ' *
Another step taken by the “Commis-- sioner” has been the standardizing of ; practice sessions. Monday .is the off day ► for all teams, with the rest'-of the week running as follows: Tuesday — regular . scrimmage; Wednesday—line scrimmage;
■S’, Thursday — dummy scrimmage against another hall; and Friday—signal drills.
L The schedules have had their troubles L- too. It has been found that many of the best players on Interhall squads have been making the football trips, neces-
sitating the cancellation of games. This problem will be settled mid-week when possible. The question of the scarcity of ; practice fields has yet to be solved.
£r> To date the pennant race has been a two-man affair between the fancy dons
' of Walsh and the Dillon strong boys. The game between the two contenders . on
sible. To sufficiently glorify the entire team would also be a tremendous task. Putting their every effort into the battle with the Seahawks, Notre Dame not only yanked the lads of Bierman from the dizzy perch on which they reposed after walloping Kansas, Northwestern, Minnesota and Michigan—they also showed the football world something which their every foe fears—Notre Dame spirit is not dead!
Sunday, Nov. 8 will probably decide the eventual winner. This tilt should attract the largest turnout of the year. Sorin loomed up as a dark horse contender but a tie with the R.O.T.C. took some of the wind out of the Seniors’ sails.
League Standings to Date
HALL	WON	LOST	TIED
Walsh ................ 4	0	0
Dillon ............... 3	0	0
Sorin.............. 2	11
Breen-Phillips..... 12	0
Cavanaugh.......... 12	1
Alumni ............ 12	0
N.R.O.T.C.....0	-	2	2
St. Edward’s .:....... 0	3	0
Walsh 2 — Cavanaugh 0 ’
On Sunday afternoon, Oct. 25, the feature game between Walsh and Cavanaugh was played in a cold drizzle. The unfavorable conditions smothered the attack of both teams. Walsh, however, maintained its undefeated string, and .eked o"t the win, 2 to 0. Johnny Baum and Joe Lea handed victory to Walsh when they nailed Dave McLaughlin for " a safety.
Walsh heroes were backs Gene Yac-lavich and Johnny Baun, and center Bob Metzler. The Cavanaugh satellites were the..Ca'sey brothers, Bob and Dan, tackle -Cy«f).esmet; and Dave McLaughlin, hard . .f hitting back.
Sorin 6 — R. O. T. C. 6
In the sub freezing weather on Monday, the biggest upset of the year took place when the N.R.O.T.C. unit came from behind to deadlock a highly favored Sorin eleven. The game was marked by " fumbles throughout,, and numbed fingers cost each team several scoring opportunities. Sorin held the advantage for the greater part of the game -but the ‘ ’ N.R.O.T.C.’ had the staying power and spirit to tie. <	’	• ;
Repeating a play they used successfully a week before, Sorin, on the first play of the game, pulled a sleeper pass from Madden to Breska that carried to the Navy 5-yard line. The sailors held but on the next series of downs Kramer plunged through to pay dirt for Sorin. The placement attempt was wide. Play shuttled evenly back and forth until the last period in which Ed Ghigliotti ignited the N.R.O.T.C. spark with a pass to Dick Young. Then, in a sustained drive, Chief Yablonski’s men pushed on to score, with Ghigliotti doing the honors. The try for point by rushing failed and the game ended in a 6-all tie.
Star performers were Bob Madden, Sorin’s stellar pass pitcher, and - the N.R.O.T.C.’s Ed Ghigliotti. The latter pulled his team up by the bootstraps and provided the scoring punch they so sorely needed.
Team Sketches
Alumni, coached by Tony Burns, boasts the best line in the league. Outstanding on the club are Morgan Green, a great defensive end; Harry Florence, powerful fullback; and Bob Degenhart, bruising tackle.
Cavanaugh, with Bud Ahern in the driver’s seat, has in Dave McLaughlin, varsity guard of last year, the hardest driving back in the league. Bob Casey, capable fullback, is one of the longest kickers on Cartier Field, while brother Dan is a grade A guard. Cy Desmet, a fine tackle; Mickey Finn at guard; and Tom Nolan, a smart, diminutive quarterback round out a well balanced dub.
The Walsh hearties are the showmen of the circuit and run their plays from the “T,” specializing in spread formations and tricky passes. Spearheading the attack, polished by Coach “Red” Murphy, are quarterback Joe Lane; passer Ed Yaklavich; and fullback Johnny Baun; Bob Metzler at center, backs up the line in impressive style; and end Joe Lea is a steady performer who excels at pass snatching.
Running from a short punt formation the N.R.O.T.C. features the passing of Ed Ghigliotti and the ininning of Fivelli. Jack DiGirolcmo, Crowley and Jack Houghteling are heads-up linesmen. At the helm is Chief Yablonski.
Sorin,-coached Jointly by Bud Dudley and Father Brennan, can claim in Bob Madden and Bob Breska the best passing combine in the loop. One Bob hangs ’em on the line and the other pulls them in with amazing regularity. This pair has accounted for three touchdowns to date. In a steady line Charlie Lewis and Watl Jones are standouts. Two pile drivers, “Boozer” Ryan and Joe Kremer, are very-rugged.backs. -	•.
19
The strongest freshman aggregation is that of Breen-Phillips which topped Alumni in the first outing. A sturdy line is anchored by center Bob Callahan, who does the kicking, Bob Logan at guard, and the Griesdiech brothers on the wings. The backfield consists of Salvi, McGrath,
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE

OFFICIAL NAVY STATIONERY AND NAVY JEWELRY
Hardigan and Coughlin. Mentor Jim Torpey handles the reins.
Pat Rega, strong runner and punter, and Bill Martin, a heady back sparkplug, spirited St. Edward’s eleven guided by Coach Harry Florence. In the line Dick Terry shines at center.
The Dillon defending champions have in Bill Cuddigan the only playing coach in the Interhall leagues. Jim Thomas and Lennie Sawicz are the speed boys to watch in the backfield. Up in the front trenches O’Neil, Pozinon and Ed Milliman shine. The Dillonites employing the Warner double wingback, work a series of reverses and have shown a polished passing assack.
Schedule for Next Two Weeks
Nov. 1: Breen-Phillips vs. Walsh; St. Ed’s vs. N.R.O.T.C.; Cavanaugh vs. Dillon; Sorin vs. Alumni.
Nov. 8: Breen-Phillips vs. N.R.O.T.C.; Walsh vs. Dillon; St. Ed’s vs. Aumni; Cavanaugh vs. Sorin.
Season's Record to Date
Oct. 4: Breen-Phillips, 7, Alumni, 6; Dillon, 18, Sorin, 0; Cavanaugh, 0,
N.R.O.T.C., 0; Walsh, 19, St. Ed’s, 0. j
Oct. 11: Breen-Phillips, 0, Sorin, 25; - -Alumni, 6, Cavanaugh, 0; Dillon, 7, St. | Ed’s, 3; N.R.O.T.C., 0, Walsh, 13.	7
Oct. 18: Breen-Phillips 6, Cavanaugh, -12; Sorin, 1, St. Ed’s, 0; Alumni, 6,	*,
Walsh, 15; Dillon, 14, N.R.O.T.C., 0.
Oct. 25: Cavanaugh, 0, Walsh, 2.	[
Oct. 26: Sorin, 6, N.R.O.T.C., 6.	X; ;
A
lllini Scares Notre Dame • But Finally Fall 21-14 L
Don Murphy
A With tongues in their cheeks and the i.
Victory March in their hearts, the Fight- i;' ing Irish played around with a highly touted lllini squad long enough to thrill ” a Dad’s Day crowd of 43,000 with a first , half deficit of 14-7 before they started । to put on the power. It was about half- - - L-way through the third quarter that Mas- I ters Clatt, Wright, Bertelli, Murphy, r J and company started to show their su-	*J
periority of numbers and conditioning to ' । finish on the top side of a 21-14 score.	.
The first gift the Irish handed the home team was Clatt’s fumble on Illinois’
Toilet Articles
. Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
HOLD THAT
HAIRLINE!
Business end social sue-cess depend on youthful, vigorous appearance. Let our trained smduaies ei. amine your hair and scalp ...treat die real cause of receding hairliee. Free elimination. Treatments
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
413 City National Bank Bidr.
HEADQUARTERS FOR ARMY AND NAVY SHOES
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
OPEN MONDAY EVENINGS UNTIL 8:30
ALSO WINTER FASHIONS IN LADY DOUGLAS —$3.45 —$4.49 —$9.49
' 20-yard line. Don Griffin personally car-ried the ball to the eight, and then made f it second down on the one foot line before McKeever’s boys tightened up. After being held, the “Eliot Elegants” added a
f score, as Tony Butkovich romped 37 < s yards to pay dirt.
. The Illini helped the Irish to the tie-ing counter as Dove recovered a fumble on the enemy 20. Corwin datt showed * the representatives of his home state y- what they missed when he enrolled at ji N.D. by taking care of the situation in three plays, the pay-off jaunt being for five yards. Bertelli’s extra point coun-
? tered McCarthy’s to make it 7-7.
Dick Good dropped a pass in the arms of Grierson for the final Illini touchdown early in the second quarter. This made the Dad’s. Day celebration between halves all the more spirited. But the celebration ended when the Irish returned to the field to start the second half.
After a few exchanges of downs, fumbles, and penalties, Pete Ashbaugh en-'*'• tered the Irish line-up and returned a
‘ Interhaliers Experience Shortage of Players Lightweight League Functions with 6 Teams
Bill Waddington
Bucking the factors of stark realism have been the troubles of Bill Stewart and his crew in running the lightweight interhall football league. Despite the fact that many of the halls cannot occupy a space in the pony league due to the un- v derabundance of 155 pounders and diminishing weights, a six team aggregation has been formed for Sunday morning competition.
punt 45 yards to his own 1-yard line. Angelo Bertelli took the ball and surprised every one by keeping it, scoring his first touchdown with the Irish. He kicked the extra point and it was again a tied ball game, 14-14.
Although Clatt, Livingstone, Bertelli, Murphy, and Cowhig did great work in carrying the ball across for points, the whole thing can be credited to a man who is listed in the line-up as a guard. Harry Wright, calling Irish signals, did his best work on this march. Mixing up the runs between Livingstone, Clatt, and. Cowhig, he had his squad rolling toward the 36-yard line of the enemy when he found it fourth down and five to go. Harry settled back and called his captain to take a pass from Bertelli. His confidence was justified when Captain Murphy made the best catch of his career and the Irish were never* stopped again. An injury to Clatt gave Cowhig the chore of carrying the ball over, but he could have gone 90 as easily as he went the one yard.
of the team. A good season is the goal of the Cavanaugh squad despite two losses which now mar their record.
Brownson and Carroll of the Main Building have combined to form the best defensive team in the league. At times a spark of ingenuity enters the backfield and they .hit a short offensive stride. All of the opposition finds their line almost
impenetrable. Jim Sheets is the star at end.
The N.R.O.T.C. Sailors have been prognosticated by the “so-called experts” to have the best club. Well drilled and possessing a bunch of top-flight men, the. Sailors have a record of two wins and one loss.
Dillon has been hampered by irregular practice. Three successive defeats have also lessened the morale of the team. Mulvey and Fassi have sparked the play for the bottom-placers.
The baby of the league, Breen-Phillips,
Notre Dame HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS
GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS
CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO PIPES
In almost every case, either time of practice, time of game, or too many studies have hampered the progress of the teams.
Last week’s schedule was interrupted by the Illini-Notre Dame game at Champaign, which took many away from the Golden Dome for the week-end, thus there were no games.
Spirit has been playing a large part in the standing so far with Zahm in the limelight. The regularity of practice and successful achievement at their dress rehearsals have given them an undefeated record. Brown, Hassett, and Bennett have sparked the Zahm “Zombies” in their play to date. Brown’s spectacular 75 yard run along the sidelines to beat the N.R.O.T.C. was one of the highlights
Switch to Sfank
MEDICO
FILTERED SMOKING
66 Baffle filter ThrillsSmokeis
USEDIN MEDICO PIPES,CIGAR, AND CIGARETTE HOLDERS
s' of league play.
New York—The scientific, absorbent filter has contributed mightily to the smoking pleasure of millions of men and women who have switched to Medico Filtered Smoking. Actually, the smoke must travel through 66 “baffles” before reaching the mouth. Flakes and slugs are trapped; and the smoke is whirl-cooled as it winds its way through the filter.
Cavanaugh has adopted the T-forma-7 tion but have not seen success that has followed our varsity with the new sys-J tern. Slattery has been the star gridder
tytvi the
fl. StuJlent:
K SLEEVELESS V-NECK SWEATER
A Wilson Bros. "Skipper," made of 100 percent wool — looks manly with or without a sport coat. All sizes, in brown, gray and tan — only $2.95.
★
the
floMf, 0^ice^:
Neckband Shirts ______$2.25
Collars ..............   25
Ties — black.........  1.00
Socks — black......39c and 55c
. And all other furnishing goods.
has only had an organization of full strength for a week. They’ve missed the first three weeks but hope to make up for lost time with good team interest and an aggressive type of play.
The league is intended to run until Nov. 15 or 22. While the dates are regularly set for Sunday, there is a strong possibility that the game will be moved up to week-days in order to avoid weekend conflicts. Brownson field has been sighted as the place of play but nothing is definite. The schedule as tentatively planned for Nov. 1 and 8 and the stand-
WARREN BROWN, "SUN" SPORTS EDITOR LAUDS IRISH WIN OVER SEAHAWKS ,
This week the Scholastic presents the second of a series of questions and answers by sports-writer fathers and Notre Dame sons. This week’s guest-writers are Warren Brown, sports editor of the
WYMAN'S
MEN’S SHOP
On Michigan at Washington " -Next to the Bank ■	. -
Warren Brown and son, Bill
Chicago Sun, and Bill Brown, Dillon Hall ■sophomore. v The questions and answers are.based on the Notre Dame-Iowa Seahawk game.
Warren Brown did not attend Notre Dame, however is one of the best known Irish “sub-way alumni.” He has gained a lot of fame on the Irish campus as toastmaster at numerous football banquets. Son Bill is reputed to be one of the best swimmers on the campus.
Q.—If there was a turning point in the game last Saturday, what would you say it was?	-
When Notre Dame, in the first ’'^period, deep in its own territory, declined a holding penalty and its 15 yards “insurance” on second down, and thereby
ings are listed below, w t	l '
Zahm.................... 3	0	0
Main Building .......... 2	0	0
N. R. 0. T. C........... 2	0	1
Breen-Phillips ......... 0	0	0
Cavanaugh .............. 10	2
Dillon ................. 0	0	3
Games for Nov. 1: Dillon vs. Cavanaugh, Zahm vs. Breen-Phillips, N.R.O.T. C. vs. Main Building.
Games for Nov. 8: Zahm-Cavanaugh, ' Dillon-N.R.O.T.C., Breen Phillips - Main
Building.
showed, in a nice way, its utter disdain for danger.
Q.—What play did you like best in ' the game?
A.—This also happened in the first period. It took place when Paul Limont * swarmed on Dick Fisher and threw him heavily as the Seahawk passing wizard was trying to get a toss away. That was 4 the tip-off on the Notre Dame pass defense that was to come, a defense that -combined in as efficient a manner as I have ever witnessed the manly art of ' rushing the passer, and knocking down or intercepting his pay-off throws when they were made.
Q.—What part of the game pleased you the most?	4
« A.—Coach Ed McKeever’s willingness to permit practically every player on the k bench, back as far as fifth stringers, to have a chance in what I shall always , consider the finest Notre Dame team performance since the late Knute Rock- < ne’s final season of 1930. Not for nothing did the Notre Dame players hoist Me- J Keever on their shoulders and bear him
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST

Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4*8251
off the field in triumph at the game’s conclusion.
Q.—What was the hardest part of covering the game Saturday?
A.—Trying to keep track of, and establish deserved credit for the waves of
blockers who were making those incredible gains much easier than they might otherwise have been. The finest individual blocking was done by Bob Livingstone in the second period when he paved the way for Corwin Clatt’s run by knocking down everybody but Lt. Col. Bernie Bierman.
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rosa. IkD.S.
Cyril F. Race, ODR.
Peter X Rose, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Buildins South Bend. Indiana
SHORT SHOTS from SPORT SPOTS
By Bill Reynolds
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
The record the Great Lakes Blue-jackets are compiling on the gridiron is going to make it hard for the sportswriters when they pick the biggest flop -•* of the year. It looked as though the Dodgers had the title clinched but the Bluejackets are waging a hot battle for the infamous title. . . . Romney Wheeler, > Associated Press writer, came up with | this one: “Sideline Suspicion: That |’ v Georgia’s All-American, Frank Sinkwich, L must have gotten flat-footed visiting all I those colleges he allegedly ‘almost entered’ before coming to Georgia.” . . .
Bill Seinsoth, one of the Card “farmhands” who was a sure shot for the 1943 - ♦ Cardinals, will be in the majors next year all right and in St. Louis, too, but not with the Cardinals. The big southpaw ace who won 24 games for New Orleans in the season just past has been sold'to the Browns. ... Bo McMillan’s Indiana ends, Pete Pihos and Ted Hasapes, are both Greek.... Up Minneapolis way they called Minnesota’s two successive defeats a Gopher losing streak. ...
—«* t
The most unique nicknames for foot-- ► ball teams belong to the Naval Pre-Flight Schools. Iowa has the Seahawks; North Carolina has the Cloudbusters; and Geor-gia’s Cadets are known as the Skycrackers. . . . And Minnesota retains posses-sion of the 30-cent “little brown jug” for another year. . . . For the upset of VY- the week, keep your eyes on the Wisconsin-Ohio game. . . . Georgia Tech beat 5 Navy by three touchdowns and Notre Dame by one which means (oh yeah!) \ that the Irish are two touchdowns better than the Middies. . . . Therefore: Notre Dame, 34; Navy, 6. . . .
Reading a recent account of a high school football game we noticed some .x> . rather remarkable statistics: The losing
team gained a total of less than 100 yards which was good for 12-first downs; the winners made only nine first downs yet gained over 600 yards. The winners tried six passes, completing three, two of which were for touchdowns. The winning team did not make a single punt nor were they held for downs. They carried the ball 28 times from scrimmage, scoring on 11 of these attempts.. One back carried the ball from scrimmage five times, scoring on three of the plays, on a 92-yard plunge over tackle. He also ran back a kickoff 85 yards for a score. His name is Justice; no wonder they say there ain’t no. His substitute scored five times. Between them they gained 446 yards rushing; 165 by Justice in his five attempts for an average of 33 yards per try; the sub gained 281 yards in 11 attempts for an average of better than 25 yards per try. . . . The score: 94-0. . . .
ROYAL DEMUTH makes pipe function superb/f
ULTRA FINE IMPORTED BRIAR
F/LTER in
fi
FILTERS FOR
,I»W ♦nr mr hiv
KIM 111
[I 111

ROYAL DEMUTH PIPES
ENGRAVED ON ETCHED BOWL
Write for chart picturing 18 beautiful all-smooth models, telling benefits of
Marvelous Patented Filter
Also same styles, all-etched, with Eagle or "V” engraved PATRIOTIC EMBLEMS specially designed for men in service as well as civilians.
406-408 Tower Building	Phono 3-3*14
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery of Heath and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M. D. M." J. Thornton, M.D.
ENGRAVED ON ETCHED BOWL

"LOG" EDITOR SAYS (Continued from page 17) ty from last year’s experience as understudy to big Donaldson all season. Fred Schnurr is Navy’s only returning “first half” tackle. “Monty” Montgomery, held back by injuries, was Navy’s most prom-
Studer Slashes Through ising tackle in pre-season work. John Gillcrist is handling a regular guard position, with Schwartz, Wilcox, Goudie, Brown, and Gillooly rounding the rest of the line positions. Bob Wilcox is a particularly flashy end who turned in an excellent performance against Army last year. -
That takes care of the individual members of Navy’s team. Its aggregation has not clicked in the best fashion so far this season, but each position on the eleven is filled by an individual of notable ability. The operation of eleven such men together will prove Navy a better team than the sport scribes have been rating them.
PRESSBOX SPLINTERS
Red Lonergan
The intramural football teams have reached a new high in numbers and interest. There are over 250 participants and 14 teams. Six teams are under the direction of Bill Stewart who tells us that he has never seen such a group of spirited players. Zahm is leading the lightweights, and is in turn being led by Hastings and Bennet, a swell pair of backs. We name Bennet the player of the day for the lights. Jack Troy is the best coach in this league so far. His team lias fine timing, mechanics, and a terrific fighting spirit. In the brute’s league, things are under the control of Vince Commisa. He says that the league is in an uproar because Cavanaugh has been beaten and N.R.O.T.C. has tied Sorin. With these two upsets Dillon and Walsh '
24
MAX ADLER
“ON THE CORNER” Michigan at Washington
It's Adlers for Arrows!
Picture yourself in the authentically styled new Arrow White from Arrow Headquarters. They’re tops for Fall . . . See them tomorrow.
Shirt Problem?
Here’s a quick solution to any shirt problem — ’ Arrow Whites, the shirts for any occasion. There’s the well-known Arrow threesome: the Hitt, Trump, and Dart. There’s the Arrow Sussex with the widespread collar (also in fancy patterns), and there’s that long-time winner, the Arrow Gordon Oxford, both with the regular collar and the button-down collar. $2.25 up.
See your Arrow dealer today for some Arrow whites, and don’t forget to get some of those eye-filling, wrinkle-resistant Arrow ties. They’re tops! 81 up.
BUYU.S. WM BONDSAND STAMPS	'
ARROW SHIRTS
TIES • COLLARS • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR* SPORT SHIRTS
still are undefeated. The player of the day goes to Mr. Ghigliotti of the N.R.O. . who set up the drive which gave 'his team the tying touchdown. They went ~ for 95 yards against Sorin, the favorite on the field, which made Sorin feel very ' unhappy. He (Ghigliotti) is the best short passer in the league, though Bob ” Madden of Sorin can throw them any distance. A couple of screen passes won the day for the N.R.O.T.C. As a runner-,r- up we choose Johnny Baun of Walsh.
He tackled Dave McLaughlin of Cava’ naugh for the only two points of that game. In Monday’s game it was a treat to watch Madden and Ghigliotti try to outpass each other, the first with very long passes into the wind, and the second with short passes over center. In the Walsh-Cavanaugh, the Walsh prize rooter wasn’t satisfied with the officiating of Stewart and Commisa. He murmured something about Getchell several times. We won’t mention your name, Father.
The outstanding blocker on the heavy S league team is Ed McKim of Alumni. He
is comparable to Marty Brill and no fool’ in’. The best lineman is, without doubt, Tony Pojman, a relative of the Pojman ‘ who once played some mighty good ball
at N.D. We can’t help talking about the short passes we saw today, mostly be>- cause they were completed so often.
“Little has Governali, Leahy has Ber-telli, and Commisa has Ghigliotti.”
, STRICTLY INSTRUMENTAL
>	Frank A. King
Since the last issue of the Scholastic, — South Bend has been visited by three “name” bands. Old “Satchmo” Armstrong, Art Jarret and Jimmie Lunce-> f°r(I-
" Lunceford and Armstrong were both splendid but, through fear of libel suits, I shall not say what Mr. Jarret gave — > out with.
Armstrong played a mighty fine trumpet, both lead and ride, but got an awful lot of competition from one of his sec' tion men. On the whole, “Satchmo” gave everybody with the wherewithal a lot of good music.
If somebody would only tell Mr. Jarret that those long things sticking out of the bells of his trumpets and trombones are called mutes and that they can be re-1
moved from said trumpets, one of the major obstacles to his playing good music would be removed.
--- It wasn’t very long ago that I mentioned to one of my friends that the reign of Dinah Shore would soon be over. She has a definite appeal, that appeal is based on her individuality, her newness.
. That new quality'can last only so long
and then it is old. She is on the way out and if she doesn’t get tied up with a band soon, she’ll be all finished for good. This, in spite of the fact that she has just signed a contract with Eddie Cantor for another year on his air show’ and wTill appear with Cantor in a picture to be released soon, called, “Thank Your Lucky Stars.”	-
The Army should have quite a line-up of musicians if they claim the services of many more of the nation’s big-time men. During the month of October, Glenn Miller ■was commissioned a captain, Claude Thornhill joined the navy, Ray Bauduc, ace drummer for Bob Crosby, and Gil Rodin, sax man for the same outfit, were assigned to the 211th Coast Artillery in California. Clyde McCoy, Joey Kearns, Pancho, Eddie LeBaron, and Emery Deutch have also definitely joined the colors, wrhile it is rumored that Sammy Kaye and Alvino Rey are soon to go.
The best record released lately is by Charlie Spivak and the Stardusters, “People Like You and Me” is on one side with “At Last” on the reverse—a Columbia. Woody Herman and his crew do the honors for Decca -with “There Will Never Be Another You” and “Please Be There,” the latter tune featuring some fine clarinet work by Mr. Herman.
From the best wre go to the worst. If a certain columnist can’t think up any better cracks than “D------is d-----” he might do well to retire gracefully. I’ll pull one just as obvious and mail the apologies out immediately. . . . “The Week is weak” . . . Boy, am I clever!!!
CURB SERVICE AND DELIVERY WELCOME MIDSHIPMEN!
Special Prices to Students and V-71
American Shoe Service New, Modern Repair Shop All work guaranteed
Phone 2-4830	613 N. Michigan
(Two blocks South of Bridge)
Supplies of Complete Navy Officers' Uniforms
Shetlands, Tweeds and Flannels	.
by
AALen,-kockeAteft
Custom made or ready to wear Suits,	;
Sport Coats and Topcoats	.
FULL DRESS AND TUXEDOS FOR RENT
PARKER-WINTERROWD
I 15% - 117% N. Main Street (Upstairs) North of Oliver
Bob Kuipers	Captain George Murphy	Eddie Dore
114 Alumni	■	130 Alumni	238 Alumni ■ '
INTRODUCING
JACK DENNISTON
In Alumni Hall is senior Robert
Hudkins Neff, husky 210-pound right tackle. When Neff reported for grid
Bob Neff
drills in his initial college semester he scaled a mere 235. Plenty of exercise and hard work dropped Bob down to 210. which is just about right for Frank Leahy’s fast - moving offense. “If I can keep
away from my favorite meal—steak dinner—I’ll be able to move around much
faster,” observes the conscientious tackle.
Bob was born August 25, 1920 in Buckhannon, West Va. At Buckhannon-Upshur High School Bob won eight monograms: four in football—he starred for four years at his right tackle post, captaining the team his senior year; and four letters in basketball also captaining the hardwood squad his last season. Bob was president of his senior class, as well as a representative of Buckhannon High in the annual West Va. North-South allstar football game. Bob lined up against Bobby Dodd and Charley Anderson, both now of Georgia Tech, and Marshall Goldberg’s brother in the all-star tilt. On his side Bob had Bill Earley, still a teammate; Vince Commino, West Va. U. halfback; “Piggy” Barnes, L. S. U. lineman and Ray Wolfe, Dartmouth back. -
Bob’s greatest thrill in high school was intercepting a forward pass from a Mount Hope back (Buckhannon’s dreaded rival) and racing 64 yards to the Mount Hope one yard line before being spilled. Selection on the all-tournament team in the regional basketball tourney was a thrill for the stocky Buckhan-noner.	.
A Notre Dame scout at the NorthSouth game saw Neff in action and steered him to Notre Dame. He was a first team tackle on the Frosh squad and earned his monogram his sophomore year. Injuries slowed him down in his junior year, but he is back this fall and is giving and taking with the better tackles of the nation this fall.
Eagle’s triple-threat halfback is the Neff idol. Hunting and fishing, afford the big man off-season enjoyment. Bob is secretary of the Monogram club and also a member of the West Virginia club.
“Ice-cold Coca-Cola is more than thirst-
quenching. Yes siree. It’s refreshing. There’s an art in its making. There’s know-how in its production. The only thing like Coca-Cola is
Coca-Cola itself. Nobody else can duplicate it.”
“If we keep up the fight we had against Iowa Pre-Flight we will come ~ out on top,” commented Bob on the possible outcome of this year’s season. And we can only add that if Bob keeps fight- „ ing like he did against Iowa Pre-Flight he too will come out on top, especially when he enters the Marine Corps after
December graduation with a B.S. degree * in physical education. Enemy gridders watch out this fall, and Japs watch out next fall for Robert Hudkins Neff.
(Continued on page 28)
Alf Bauman, Northwestern U. and Gene Flathmann, Navy, . both husky tackles draw Neff’s praise as the outstanding linemen he has faced; Bobby Robertson, fleet Southern Cal halfback gets the nod as the top ball carrier.
Leonard Barnum, the Philadelphia
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
It Pays to Patronize "Scholastic” Advertisers
26
$1

RAINFAIR
§
y.
Topcoat Smartness phis Showerproof Protection
in the year’s best eampus styles

TACKLE
TWILL... $10.75
Made from weather-and-wear defying Tackle Twill fabric. Used by leading teams for football pants. Chosen by Uncle Sam for first Paratrooper uniforms. Balmacaan style, rag-lan shoulders. Deep yoke and sleeve linings of lustrous rayon. Made showerproof by famous Long-Life Cravenette process.
Keeps its water-repellent qualities when dry cleaned! Colors: eggshell or tan. Sizes 32 to 44. Regulars or longs.
GRAFTON . . . $11.50
Definite "favorite” with college men everywhere! Balmacaan style, Piedmont gabardine Storm Coat with fly front.. expertly tailored .. and finished with sleeve and deep yoke lining of lustrous rayon. Showerproofed by Cravenette. Colors: fawn, light olive or taupe. Sizes 34 to 46. Regulars, longs, shorts.
ZIPRAIN______$13.75
The nonchalance college men look for .. an English style knee-length Storm Coat.. made of fine quality Piedmont gabardine, showerproofed by Cravenette. Talon fastener on fly front. Slash pockets, railroad stitching on cuffs and bottom, full iridescent rayon lining! Colors: bleached bone or light olive. Sizes 32 to 44. Regulars, longs.
MAX ADLER
"ON THE CORNER”	Michigan at Washington
« For Victory Buy War Bonds and Stamps »
27
INTRODUCING (Continued from page 26) Tom Brock
to Fordhams
Everyone has heard of Fordham’s sev- , en blocks of granite. There is a sequel
>wer line in Columbus, Nebraska in the bulky seven “Brock s” of granite. Columbus High has been proud of its * Brocks—in fact for 13 straight years there have been Brocks on . their football teams. They are: Charley, for- > mer Nebraska U. center and present Green ¥ Bay Packer pivot man;
Mike, former Midland (Nebraska) star; Bill and Fred starting “Brock” tradition at Creighton U.; Bob, who was a flashy back in high school before sidelined from a football shortly after his prep days by an attack of double pneumonia; Johnny, present Columbus High dynamo; and fin- , ally Thomas James, Notre Dame center.

Tom was born Feb. 29, 1920 in Columbus, a small farming town in the , heart of Nebraska. He led a very nat- <’ ural life during Highland Park grammai' school days until he stumbled into sev- ; enth grade. Here a ruptured appendix _. i floored him for 18 weeks, and the doctor predicted he would never be able to play football. Eight years later the doctor sat in Notre Dame Stadium and saw his expatient maneuvering in the Fighting Irish center slot.
Before you call Long Distance, please ask yourself:
1.	Is it really necessary?
2.	Will it interfere with war calls ?
During the eight years before that game, Tom had centered the football team for four years at Columbus High. ‘ -
IT IS NOT TOO LATE; MEET THE GANG AT THE
TELEPHONE lines — especially Long Distance circuits
—are crowded as never before, these war days. Materials to build new lines — copper, rubber, nickel—are needed for the shooting war. So we must get the most out of present facilities.
You can help us keep the wires clear for vital war calls if you Avill do these two things: (1) Don’t call Long Distance unless it’s urgent; (2) Call by number if possible and please be brief. Thank you!
SUNNY ITALY
for
ITALIAN STYLE SPAGHETTI
Under the new management of Leonard and Bob
Sunny Italy Cafe-
601 N. Niles Avenue Phone 3-0678
28
South Bend's
Leading Jeweler
Buy with Confidence
“It ain't so much the hours — it's the
WOIK . . ."
You said it, Butch — driving to Chicago is just plain woik. That's why so many people prefer to ride the South Shore Line. It's the carefree, sensible way to go. No traffic congestion. No driving jitters. And when you get there, no parking problems.
Next time you go to Chicago, ride the South Shore and relax! For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan Street. Phone 3-3111.
NAVY MEN!
Ask about special furlough rates
He called signals from his pivot position in his senior year and led the team to an undefeated, untied, and unscored upon season. He was all-state center for two years.
Harry Hopp, former Nebraska U. and Detroit Lions footballer proved to be Tom’s jinx opponent in high school basketball. Harry’s older brother, Johnny, is first sacker for the World Champion St. Louis Cardinals. Tom claims his greatest' thrill came from the state YMCA basketball tourney. “We played six games in one day to win the tournament,” he recalled. He received statewide recognition in basketball and football for two years. In his senior year he captained the track squad and the basketball outfit, as well as the football team. Tom earned 12 letters while in high school.
“I had wanted to get away from Nebraska, and Marchie Schwartz guided me to South Bend. I was glad I came but for two years injuries kept me from playing in most of the games. In the Frosh-Varsity game my sophomore year I wrecked my leg and have played with it taped ever since,” cited Brock.
Thomas James saw action enough last fall to win his monogram and has enough time in already for another. He rates the second team drive against the Army last fall as his biggest college experience next to the Iowa Pre-Flight rout. Ben Sohn, mammoth Southern Cal. lineman, and Hill, Army’s slippery right halfback, as the outstanding players he has faced.
Brock rates pro-football’s great wingman, Don Hutson, as his idol. Vaughan Monroe’s music and Mother Loseke’s fried chicken are tops. Fishing and hunting are his favorite outdoor pastimes.
The husky senior has enlisted in the Marine Corps and will be called to service after December graduation with a B.S. degree in physical education.
MILLIONS LISTEN WHEN IT’S
MILLIONS PREFER^
Dr-GRABOW!
THE Poe-Smoked PIPE II
The only correct way to break in a pipe is to smoke it Linkman’s mechanical smoking machine P^-SfHoJtU every Dr. GRABOW with fine tobacco.
MADE BY M. LINKMAN A CO. jD* GRABOW
BREAKING IN NO BITE NO BITTER TASTE
iOR VICTORY j..-
15 3CWS i SrJ v = '
GIFTS
Interhall Fencing
Something new will be added to the sports program here at Notre Dame this winter. Walter Langford, coach of the varsity fencers, announced this week that an interhall fencing program has been approved and a call will be issued shortly.
It is stressed that no experience is necessary or expected. Anyone having an interest or desire to learn fencing is urged to sign up for his hall team. Both foil and sabre bouts will be scheduled when competition begins late in November.
Approximately one month is going to be devoted to training and learning the fundamentals of fencing before the teams swing into action.
Beautiful and practical gifts of leather . .. - easy to mail to the brother or friend in service.
Mail them now!
138 N. Michigan
29
Notre Dame Scene of
Navy Day Celebration
Celebrating one of the nation’s most significant Navy Days in history, l,2C0 midshipmen from the Notre Dame base marched en masse in review Tuesday morning, Oct. 27, on the drill field opposite Notre Dame stadium and adjacent to Juniper road.
The University president, Father Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., introduced Rear Admiral John J. Brady, chaplains corps, U.S.N., (retired), in other ceremonies
Tuesday afternoon. Rear Admiral Brady, in turn, spoke to the Navy school in the University’s fieldhouse. The Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, delivered the invocation.
Other observances in conjunction with the program included a luncheon in honor of 20 South Bend Navy recruits, Monday, in the Indiana Club. Ten of the future Navy men are Notre Dame students. They are:
John E. Burke, Donald E. Colgrove, Leo B. Kunkel, Raymond H. Murray, Jr., James V. O’Donnell, Casimir S. Re
gent, Jr., Cristos S. Rellas, Francis Wyrens, George Schmitt, John D. Witt, Robert Gibson,. Chester Marinczak, John Stilson, John K. Wells, Walter G. Kohn-ke, Herbert Schroeder, George L. White, * ’ Walter V. Copeland, Wallace Abbee, and James E. Drummond.
At the Monday affair, Capt. H. P. Burnett, commanding officer of the midshipmen school at Notre Dame, adminis- ■-tered the oath of allegiance to the recruits and the entire group gave the '** pledge of allegiance.
Singing “Anchors Aweigh,” the Navy choir concluded the event.
LATE BROTHER HUGH v
(Continued from page 11) was a well known fact that he could be heard calling the dog at distances over a half mile. And why the two could never be found apart from each other, might A' be explained by the following story. Tubby was once on a hike with another j Brother, and as all dogs sniff, so did Tubby. Coming upon a hole in the ground [ the mongrel stuck his nose into it, only d to have it bitten by a ground hog. It is / said that Tubby never strayed from his * * master after this calamity.
The poor of South Bend will remember Brother Hugh for his charity, the tramps -i will remember him for his cooking, and the horsemen will remember him for his ! trading. Truly, he was “An all around : wonderful man.”	|
GLOSSARY OF SEA TERMS 'j (With Apologies to All Skippers,
Past and Present)	t
*ENGLISH TRANSLATION
This lamb is reminding her friend about tonight’s get-together for the gym dance. She totes the sandwiches —he supplies the Pepsi-Cola. Nice supplyin’, too!
WHAT DO YOU SAY ?
Send us some of your hot slang. If we use it, you get $10. If we don’t, you get a rejection slip. Mail slang to College Department, Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island City, N. Y.
Winch—You know, one of those gals you meet near the Navy Yard.	""
Wind—Something you shoot.
Yard—Something you play in.
Tug—The motion you go through to get the girl friend away from the $4.40 window.
Buoy—Oh!-----.
Wharf—Oh you know this one. It’s the noise a dog makes. Wharf! Wharf!
Port—I’ll have a glass, bartender.
Hash Marks—Those marks on the old _ vest after the blue plate special.
Waterline—That mark in the tub of a -K-‘-Sattidy night.
Tiller—Tiller to wait for me.	<
Tanker—Tanker may be a storm tonight, matey?
Pepsi-Colais made only by Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N. Y. Bottled locally by Authorized Bottlers from coast to coast.
Tar—Tar-ra-ra boom de aye.
Surf—What the Russians used to chase around.
Stow—Stow bad Hitler didn’t fall off one of the ladders when he was paintinghouses. \,
Derrick-Derrick goes, my old pal.
Combustion—The boat’sn’ll combustion one if yuh don’t get that bulhead painted.
30
NAVAL OFFICERS
Fine serviceable leathers and approved design are just a part of these Mansfield Military Oxfords. It’s their superb friendly fit that makes Mansfields the preferred shoe by men in the Service.
military blucher oxford, black Alpine leather and rubber heel.
NAVAL MEN PREFER
ARROW SHIRTS
Official Arrow White Neckband Shirts with French Cuffs
All Sizes and Sleeve Lengths '	*
$2.25
MANSFIELD’S
FAMED FOR FIT
$5.95
BOSTONIANS, $8.95
Official	Official
Arrow Duncan Collars Arrow Black Ties
25c	$1
Regulation	Authorized
Double Woven Gloves Cuff Links
S2	$1
M*X ADIER
Michigan at Washington
K ADLER
“ON THE CORNER" . . . Michigan at Washington
Southeast Corner Across From Bus Terminal
Look for Our Sign When. You Get Off the Bus
31
a
THE UVIVERSITY LI33A.RY
-LESLIE?. LIHaARY-
N3TRE DAKE, LOCAL ____
CLAUDETTE COLBERT is doing a grand job in the Volunteer Army Canteen Service (VACS to the boys) You should see her starring in the new Paramount Picture "PALM BEACH STORY"
’5**W8
“***«^^^
sw*^^’*****?’
^59**
Keep 'em Satisfied
Copyright 1942, Liggett & Myths Tobacco Co.
Tfaey Satisfy


Milder.. Cooler. .Better-Tasting Cigarettes
... that’s what smokers ask for.. and that’s Chesterfield. Milder when you smoke a lot.. Cooler when the going’s hot.. and Better-Tasting all the time! Buy CHESTERFIELDS hy the carton . and treat the hoys and yourself to more smoking pleasure than you’ve ever known ...
