THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	131
The Notre Dame Scholastic
PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY
(Quasi temper l^itturus : ^ibe (Quasi €ras JRorituruS
INDEX
-	PAGE
The Salute to the Rising Sun__________T. Dart Walker Frontispiece
The Week_______________________________________________J. A. 133
Old Students Hall—..________________________________________ 135
Spiritualities __________________Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C. 141
A Glimpse of Yesteryear______________________________..... 142-143
Editorial___________________________________________________ 144
Where Are Our Poets?___________________Charles Phillips, M. A. 146
Snatch of Sea Song (A Poem)_____________________Anselm Miller 147
Father De Smet, S. J_________________________Francis A. Klein 148
Notre Dame (A Poem) ____________________________John O'Neill 151
Book Leaves ______________________________Joseph P. Burke '25 152
Sports _____________________________________________________ 153
The advertiser in Notre Dame publications deserves the patronage of Notre Dame men.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1108, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
132	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE SALUTE TO THE RISING SUN
T. Dart Walter
(University Art Collection)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	133
Now that Homecoming troubles are over, the committees are settling down to enjoy the prospects of the impending examinations. The rest of us who really enjoyed Homecoming and walked to its triumphs over the dead bodies of martyred committeemen, are not yet certain whether the week of November 9-15 will go down in local history as the “week of the examinations” or the “week of the Nebraska game.” Downtown betting favors the latter. As far as we and our confidential advisors could ascertain everything was very successful. The reception committee is partly to be congratulated, partly to be envied. The entertainment was well-planned and excellently executed despite its heavy nature, as evidenced in the “Follies.” The decorations committee succeeded admirably in turning the campus into a thing of beauty and a joy until the visitors left.
Boxing came into the spotlight with the preliminary fights Thursday night and the finals Friday night. Coaches Springer and Miller have a hard-hitting aggregation ready to exchange slugs with the best in the college rings. Captain John Wendland’s men avenged their Conference defeat by Northwestern in showing the way to the Indiana harriers.
Lovers of band music had a big week-end with the three organizations at the game and the Marine concerts Sunday. The News-Times, Studebaker and Notre Dame bands were brilliant bits of color and harmony against the Homecoming background. There were many minor but colorful incidents that space does not permit us to elaborate. Some of the visitors’ comment was enlightening. One sincere individual asked whether Sorin and Corby students had to
eat in the cafeteria. Another individual, stimulated, was asked where he got an odd badge he was wearing. This was apparently not the question he was used to answering for he gave an address which was not connected, it is supposed at least, with the badge business. Why another spectator left the wide fields still uncovered to campaign among the audience at the Homecoming will always be a mystery to us. But we confess to a post-excitement fogginess, and maybe a constant fogyness.
We were amazed and delighted to observe that the Freshmen have listened to the words of wisdom and advice, a few of which they generously attribute to our own well-meaning publication. This is the first symptom that marks the transition of the Freshman from the follies committed in ignorance to the follies committed in a super-sophomoric sophistication, from which latter state he is toned, down to the happy medium by the exigencies of increasing scholastic burdens.
The ‘last student has left the stands’; pocketbooks too are empty; even the bottles have yielded up the last drop of that delicious catsup that added so much to the barbecue. Next week’s complications remind us that after all man is dust and we have to get back to earth once in a while. But the Notre Dame student has a peculiar resiliency—he’s no sooner down than up again. Having descended from the clouds, of Homecoming, omens of the Wisconsin trip are already in evidence. Many of the boys are planning on tagging the band to Wisconsin one way or another. Our parting word to the students making the Wisconsin trip is “Take a Scholastic With You.”	•
134	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	135
Old Students Hall
The following article, reprinted through the courtesy of “The Alumnus,” gives a somewhat technical description of Old Students Hall.
For a building of four floors above grade, the height of Old Students Hall does not make itself felt. The main lines of eaves and ridges work low and rambling with ever-occuring gables, small and large. The most compelling feature is its low square tower fused well into the building and with a broad grip on everything. A carved and cusped bay grows out of the entrance buttress at the center archway, runs through two stories and stops with the pierced coping of its parapet.
To the left is the door to the south wing and to the right the north. Heavy oaken doors with a dull stain, rough iron hardware and a small pane of leaded glass carry out the vigor of the random quoined and carved stonework with which they are surrounded.
Entering from the arch there is a small vestibule paved and wainscoted with red brick. This opens into the terrazzo floored corridor. Off this corridor the student rooms open.
The rooms are all designed for single occupancy. These have oak floors and narrow, plain trim of the same material finished in a brown stain. The windows are of six lights and both the interiors and the exteriors benefit in scale. The customary furniture such as tables, beds and chairs are of simple, strong design. The wardrobe cabinets are especially built of steel. Washstands and toilet cabinets are located in each room. Each floor of each section has a centrally located toilet and bath with gray tiled floor and wainscot. The rector’s and prefect’s quarters have private baths equipped in the same manner.
At the end of this corridor and close to the other entrance to this portion of the building is the lounge room. Three panelled openings allow admittance from the corridor. Its walls are oak
panelled and the steel casements light the room. Its furniture is strong and masculine with built-in seats and tables, bread and heavy with bulbous turned legs. The proximity of the room to the
entrance should make it an inviting lounge, convenient and comfortable with an atmosphere of fine simplicity. Nearby is the batten door to the chapel and, slightly apart, stairs to the floor above.
On opening the chapel door, one finds himself on a landing of red brick guarded by a wrought . iron hand-rail with twisted spindles. Turning to the left down three brick steps to the red brick floor of the chapel there is the soft orderly melting of rough plaster walls and ceiling, small, splayed and recessed casement with leading and medallions. The pews are rush-bottomed and open-backed. To the right and near the little sanctuary a heavy, folding drape marks the confessional. AU the windows are in one wall, and opposite these is a batten door leading to the court without. Against the back wall a dim, dark drape offers its folds as a reredos to the altar. The altar-itself is plain and strong with a carved and polychromed spot upon the frontal and with gold leaf intricacy upon its tabernacle door. Surmounting it, two tall candlesticks lining through with the gleaming crucifix stand bold and sharp against its dark draped background. Off the sanctuary a roundheaded batten door leads to the sacristy.
On the floors above the arrangement, save for the chapel and lounge, is similar. Through all floors there runs a trank storage room which is the only part excavated to a depth greater than, foundations.
In general these are the features of the new dormitory building known as Old Students HaU. The construction throughout is first class and fire-proof. The materials and the manner of construction have been the best for beauty and durability and this applies down to the last detail. A hundred and sixty men will make their residence here.
M
»*
;	136	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
:	Dr. J. J. WALSH SPEAKS	NOTICE TO ESSAYISTS
Dr. James J. Walsh, prominent physician, author, and lecturer, of New York, gave his annual and enjoyable address before the student body in Washington Hall Monday night. The topic of Dr. Walsh’s address was “Religion and Health.” In pointing out the relation between the two, he called attention to the fact that both words have the same root, the one meaning the wholeness of the body, the other the wholeness of spirit.
While the body of Dr. Walsh’s talk was composed of deeper thinking, the sidelights that he brought in as illustrations were the real gems for his audience. Dr. Walsh is a true scholar and one of the few who can entertain those who are not so scholarly with scholarly thought. This address has paved the way and with a little more publicity beforehand, the merits of Dr. Walsh’s talk should fill Washington Hall for future speakers.
---NDS---
DR. WALSH TO LECTURE AGAIN TUESDAY
On Tuesday next, in Washington Hall and at 8 o’clock, Dr. James J. Walsh will lecture on “Some New Things and Their Meaning.” Those who were delighted with Dr. Walsh’s lecture last Tuesday night will welcome the opportunity to hear this charming speaker again.
Timothy S. Hogan, Columbus, Ohio, former attorney general of Ohio, has presented the Notre Dame College of Law with a most interesting collection of his own briefs. Mr. Hogan is a well-known lecturer, and will give a series of lectures here soon.
Notre Dame owes many thanks to Rev. Michael Shea, former Notre Dame man and author of “The Victory March” who is now at St. Joseph’s Seminary in Yonkers, New York, for the prominent part he played in arranging an audience with Cardinal Hayes for the football team on their Princeton trip.
“Public Services of the American Press” is the subject of a prize essay contest sponsored by Columbia University. In addition to the endowment of the School of Journalism of Columbia, the late Joseph Pulitzer provided for the establishment of a number of prizes. Under the provisions of the bequest three prizes, one of $1000, and two of $500, will be awarded for the best history of the services rendered to the public by the American press during the year 1924, provided always that the essays received are deemed of sufficient merit to justify an award. Manuscripts sent in for competition must reach the hands of the Secretary of Columbia University not later than February 1st, 1925. Further particulars and forms of application for candidature may be obtained from the Secretary, Mr. Frank D. Fackenthal.
NOTRE DAME’S PART IN THE ELECTIONS
No matter how republican the nation and the state went, the voters at Notre Dame were overwhelmingly democratic. More than 700 votes were cast at the N. D. polls under the supervision of Jimmie Crowley, election clerk.
Voters included members of the community at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, students who have legal residence here, and farmers within this vicinity. Miss Mary Hagerty, democratic candidate for county treasurer, received the greatest number of votes cast.
The official count follows:
PORTAGE TOWNSHIP
Precinct A
Coolidge, 105; Davis, 535; LaFollette, 62, Jackson, 5; McCulloch, 691; Gilliom, 564; Harmon, 122; Hickey, 108; Harman, 592; Pattee, 88; aJck-son, 611; Taylor, 10; Sommerer, 690; Bradford, 25; Cook, 672; Bernhardt, 21; Beczkiewicz, 675; Calvert, 20; McClellan, 675; Carlisle, 20; Rice, 678; Swintz, 8; Hagerty, 690; Goodrick, 10; Hanley, 688; Crumpacker, 187; Helmon, 512; Gillin, 74; Moomaw, 623; Cook, 18; Roy, 680; Barnard, 18; Smoger, 680; Houser, 20; Hardenbrook, 678.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
S. A. C. NOTES.
The S. A. C. wishes to thank heartily all the men who contributed their time and ability so generously to make Homecoming the splendid success it was. To the Blue Circle, especially, it extends deep appreciation and sincere congratulations.
---N D S-
Approximately two hundred dollars was realized from the sale of tags to help in sending the Band to Wisconsin. The S. A. C. donated an additional fifty dollars toward defraying the expenses.
—nds—	■
The Akron and Calumet District Clubs are official organizations on the campus as a result of their recent sanction by the S. A. C.
---N D S-
Gridgraph in the Gym again Saturday for the Wisconsin game. Rumor again has it that George Bischoff is considering a strategic move to insure a good attendance.
---NDS---
The S. A. C. Homecoming dance, held at the Palais Royale last Friday night attracted a large crowd. It was a colorful gathering of graduates, students, and friends of Notre Dame. The Miami Lucky Seven outdid itself in furnishing excellent music. Harry Elmore, News-Times photographer, and Virgil Fagan, of Sorin, took the usual flashlight photo of the affair.
---NDS---
The Student Directory for the present year is being printed and will be ready for distribution in a short time.
---NDS---
A silver football of actual size, mounted on a wooden base, is the trophy which will be awarded by the S. A. C. to the football team winning the interhall championship this fall. This trophy has been ordered and will be placed on display asvsoon.as it arrives.
---NDS---
Four hundred students, in addition to the Notre Dame band, will be aboard the Wisconsin special when it leaves South Bend at 11:30 Friday night. The train is sched
137
uled to reach Madison Saturday morning at 7:30; and upon its arrival the Notre Dame delegation will parade to the hotel where the the team is to be registered. There it will noisily give notice by its cheering that the Irish are in town.
—nds—
The Madison K. of C. are to entertain the team Saturday night; and it is probable that they also will arrange entertainment for the other Notre Dame visitors.
The return trip will start Saturday night with the football players aboard the special train. The travellers will reach South Bend at 7 o’clock Sunday morning at which time special cars will be waiting to convey them to the University for the 8:15 Mass.
SCRIBBLER CONTEST OVER NOV. §
One-act play writers are approaching the time limit set by The Scribblers for the close of the contest which they are conducting. All manuscripts must be in the hands of Harry A. McGuire, president, or J. E. Armstrong, secretary, by November 8th. A number of plays have been promised by prominent campus writers and it is. hoped and thought likely by promoters of the contest that much new material will be uncovered. The one-act play is rapidly taking a distinct place in literary and stage life. The writing and presentation of this form of the drama is being adopted in most of the prominent schools. If the present contest culminates as successfully as anticipated, Notre Dame will find a place among the leaders in this field.. The early-closing date for the submitting of manuscripts was decided upon in view of the possible publication or presentation of the plays.
Poets of the campus have been granted’, a later date for the submission of poems for the Second Annual Poetry Contest conducted by The Scribblers. From the success of last year’s contest, there is little doubt that in this field much new valuable literature will be added to the present praiseworthy collection. The final date for the poetry manuscripts is December 1st.
jl I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
138
ALUMNUS PRES. SAVES VALET
(Editor’s note: The following article concerning Hugh A. O’Donnell, President of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, will be of interest to readers. It appeared in the Editor and Publisher of October 18.)
“A New York newspaper man was responsible for the successful termination of the four year fight, Oct. 11, resulting in the United States Supreme Court decision, barring a murder confession made under duress.
“The court held that the confession of the Chinese student, Ziang Suho Wan, convicted of a triple murder, was inadmissible because after Wan was arrested in New York and taken to Washington, where the crime was committed, he was “third-degreed” for eleven days. A new trial was ordered.
“Wan had been the valet of Hugh A. O’Donnell, assistant business manager of the Neto York Times....
“Wan confessed to having killed Dr. Ben Sen Wu, under-secretary of the Chinese Educational Mission, and his two secretaries.
“Efforts in Wan’s behalf, conducted by O’Donnell and his friends, never ceased in all the years he was in jail, although he was penniless and no material sum was ever raised to help him. The Chinese Government is said to have spent a considerable sum to aid in prosecuting him because the murder victims were members of its official government family.
“Five times during the four years, Mr. O’Donnell, through his own efforts, saved Wan from execution. He enlisted the aid of priests and missionaries who, working in China, assisted in the fight.”
ALUMNI HONOR COACH ROCKNE
Coach K. K. Rockne was presented with a Studebaker Big Six Phaeton before the Georgia Tech game last Saturday. Frank O’Shaughnessy, of Chicago, made the presentation speech on behalf of the Notre Dame Alumni. The car was driven on and off the field by George Hull, formerly of Hullie and Mike’s, now a salesman for the Studebaker Corporation.
IN CASE YOU MISSED “THE FESTIVITIES”
The flames of the Victory Bonfire cast their flickering light over the crowds that assembled south of the Gym Friday night to witness the Homecoming Festivities planned by Harry McGuire and his Entertainment Committee of the Blue Circle. Pat Manion, well-known professor in the Law School, presided as Master of Ceremonies and further distinguished himself by his cleverness in getting his audience into the spirit of the occasion.
Brownson Hall was announced as the winner of the loving cup to be awarded to the hall building the highest pile of wood for the Bonfire. Brother Alphonsus (rector of Brownson,) accepted tthe cup amid enthusiastic applause. Brownson’s pile reached fully six feet higher than that of its nearest competitor. The chorus of The Fat Men’s Follies sang earnestly and entertainingly and then surprised their audience by going through an intricate dance in which high-kicking was a much-appreciated feature. AEhough the costumes were naturally* rather revealing, it was still impossible to identify all the participants who were announced in the program as Morrissey, Mil-bauer, Sexton, Donn, Whelan, O’Connor and Morsches. Whoever they were, they furnished plenty of laughs.
The Team of 1887, the first football team of the University, was next called upon by the Master of Ceremonies. Each of the members, except two that could not be present, was introduced to the crowd and received his share of applause. Mr. Hagen-barth spoke for the team, devoting his remarks to a comparison between the University of his day and that of the present. The team of ’87 was composed of Captain Luhn, Prudhomme, Delady, Houck, Cusack, Nelson, Jewett, Fehr, Hepburn, Sawkins, McPhee, and Hagenbarth.
The two numbers that followed were probably the most popular on the program. A Cowboy Quartet, made up of Haley, Koch, Butler, and Meyers, sang the “Hike Song” and thereby made themselves indis-pesable. They were encored again and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
again and finally George Koch, took up the burden and sang several solos before the audience would let them go. The voices rang strikingly clear and sweet in the still night air. After the Quartet came Jack Doyle, dancer de luxe. Jack frolicked back and forth across the platform in three rapid and clever dances that made an immense hit. The musical background for his steps was furnished by an orchestra directed by Joe Hemphling. The singing of the “Victory March.” concluded the well-balanced and entertaining program and the crowd adjourned to the gymnasium to witness the finals in the tournament for the boxing championship of the University.
ENGINEERS WIN BY A WINK
With an “artistic wink” as the feature of their decorations the Engineers Club won the handsome loving cup awarded to the hall having the best Homecoming decorations. Coming into the race as the dark horse they easily carried off the honors with their well thought-out plans of decorations that included bunting, pennants, signs, and lights. Credit for the work belongs to the committee of the Engineers Club composed of George Rohrbach, chairman, Ed Pfister, Bob Parnell, Paul Sagstetter, Art Bergeron, and Charlie Marquet, and numerous other helpers.
. The plan of the decorations was Paul Sagstetter’s and the ingenious contrivance that supplied the “wink” was the work of Lester Wolf and John Kelley. This is the first year that the Engineers have decorated their building, and the fine work that characterized their efforts this time stamps them as one of the most wideawake organizations on the campus, and one that must be reckoned with when the ribbons for the most active clubs on the campus are distributed.
The Senior Class will sponsor the Nebraska dance, November 15th. The Concession Committee John Bartley, chairman, Ralph Gladen, Howard Spencer, George Laughlin, is planning on making this one of the most elaborate dances of the season.
139
MUSICAL NOTES
The third and final cut in the ranks of aspirants to the Glee Club was made during the week-end of Homecoming. Of the fifty men remaining forty will be chosen to make the trips during the course of the year.
Those men who are successful in passing the requirements are: First tenors—Ochoa, G. O’Brien, McDermott, Mullen, Frantz, Creadon, Summers, E. O’Brien, J. Butler, Herman, Lenihan, Smith, O’Toole, Pfortner and Reidy.
Second tenors are: Banks, Haley, Lem-mer, Stoeckley, Bower, Culhane, Uhl, Ryan, Lopresti, Griffin and N. Butler.
Those in the first bass section are: Howland, Ward, Baumgartner, Foos, Masenich, Koch, Hart, Rothboler, Carney, Schlegal, Ducey, McNamara, Schroeder, Dooley. Second basses are: Knox, Gene O’Brien, Langton, Pitsenberger, Meyers, Regan, Hold-ampt, Mullreany, Lauder and Doyle.
These men will compose the working personnel of the Club for the year. All other men who tried out for the Club but whose names did not appear on the personnel, will meet every Saturday for rehearsal under Dr. Browne. They will form the basis for the chorus from Notre Dame to take part in the proposed music festival to be given by Dr. Browne in the spring.
---NDS----
A prominent feature of the Homecoming game with Georgia Tech was the appearance of the bands on the field during the half. The Notre Dame band, the NewsTimes boy band, and the Studebaker band marched around the field several times, all of them featuring “Dixie” and “The Victory March.”
---xV D S-
The United States Marine Band gave two concerts at Notre Dame Sunday, November 2. The afternoon concert was given in Cartier Field and the evening program in the Gymn.
A large number of Notre Dame men and people from South Bend attended both the performances, which were given for the benefit of the two South Bend hospitals.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
140
“ The first concert of the year was held in Washington Hall Wednesday night, October 29, when the Thavieu Festival Company appeared before the Notre Dame student body. The company was composed of an orchestra and a quartet of singers.
The Orchestra was one of the best which has appeared at Notre Dame, and was exceedingly well received. Their best numbers were the Grand March from Aida (played by request) and the William Tell Overture. The Grand March was probably the high spot of the program.
As much cannot be said of the vocal part of the program, although the singers were well received also. Possibly the best of the vocal numbers was the Finale from Act II of II Trovatore, which was made original by the fact that the soprano sang in English, while the baritone followed in Italian. The usual Quartet from Rigoletto was also sung. The program closed with the singing of The Star Spangled Banner.
WITH THE CLUBMEN
The Notre Dame branch of the A. I. E. E. held a meeting last Monday night in the Engineering Building. Lester J. Wolf read a paper entitled “The Radio” and Carlton A. Rogge read a paper entitled, “The Hy-•dro-electric Plant.” Entertainment was also a part of the program.
--xV D S-	.
Dr. Janies J. Walsh addressed the SCRIBBLERS at a special meeting held in the K. of C. council chambers last Monday •evening. Dr. Walsh gave a very interesting talk which was appreciated by all present.
--NDS---	•
The METROPOLITAN CLUB met in the Badin Hall Rec room last Monday evening and discussion of the Christmas dance was Tesumed. It is to be held in New York 'City at the Astor Hotel, December 29.
--NDS----
At a meeting Monday night, the GRAND RAPIDS CLUB completed arrangements for its Christmas dance. The dance committee announced that the Pantlind Hotel Ballroom had been engaged for Dec. 26. The Diedrich-Lewis Orchestra will play.
THE DECORATING RECORD
The Engineering Building with its “winking expression” was awarded the loving cup as the best decorated hall, during the recent Homecoming.
Each branch of Engineering was represented by illuminated letters, while in the center of the building was a large sign welcoming graduate engineers with bunting strung between the various degree signs adding color to the whole. The “winking expression” was given by means of a flasher, which at night alternately turned the signs off and on, attracting attention to them.
Walsh Hall also used the flasher effect to draw attention to a large welcome banner strung across the entrance to the hall. An “N” and a “D” placed on opposite side of the doorway and pennants with a free use of bunting made up the remainder of its decoration. Sophomore probably used the most unique means of decoration on the campus and it is to be regretted that the Hall is situated so that so few could see it. The alternating of Blue and Gold lights in the second floor windows, gave a most pleasing appearance from across the campus. Freshman Hall used the lightning rods atop the roof as pennant bearers and the green colored roof was the background for a huge “Welcome” banner. Brownson and Carroll achieved decoration by means of arches built over the side entrances to the respective halls, but the wind soon played havoc with them and the effect was lost. Bunting and a large illuminated “Welcome” sign made up Sorin’s decorations.
Praise is due the decoration committee for the erection of the arch at the entrance to the campus. This extended almost the whole width from the Off-Campus building to the Post Office and was covered with Blue and Gold bunting, bearing a large illuminated “Welcome” sign while rising from the top were flag poles bearing Notre Dame and Georgia Tech pennants. At night the whole was illuminated from within the arch and was visible from far down the road.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
141
Your Face and Your Fortune.
When Ralph Adams Cram sat on the stage in Washington Hall at Commencement last June, he turned to Father Burns and asked: “What is there in the faces of these young-men that I have not seen before in the faces of the college men I have addressed? I am accustomed to speaking to college men; I like them; I feel that I know them. But these men are different. Their faces have something that is new to me, and it is a spiritual quality. What is it?”
Father Burns told him about daily Communion at Notre Dame, and he replied with conviction: “That’s it. It’s the grace of the Sacraments I”
---W D S-
Beauty Talks.
Beauty lies in the soul, but it speaks through the face. So does its opposite. The history of your moral life is written large upon your face, where “he who runs may read;” and often as a warning that he who reads may run.
---NDS---
The Fascinating Face.
Dr. James J. Walsh tells this one on himself. He and the late Dr. James C. Monaghan were charter members of the Anti-Pulchritude Society, but they had never met. Each had heard the other referred to as the homeliest man in the world, and each was prepared to dispute the other’s claim. When they met, both said, “You win, Jimmie.”
Neither of these notables ever won a beauty contest, yet both had the power of captiv-ing an audience and holding it spellbound. Intelligence gleamed through the homely featuers, and enrapturing eloquence flowed from the lips. Both won the Laetare Medal.
Dr. Monaghan has gone to his reward, which must have been great, for he burned out his soul in the interests of God; Dr. Walsh still charms and fascinates.
---NDS---
The Baby Face.
One must have worlds of common sense to overcome the handicap of a baby face, because with it goes the villainous complex that one must be hard-boiled. The handicap can be overcome, but only by way of humility, which comes through humiliations.
---NDS---
The Vacant Face.
“I call my sweetie bungalow because there’s no upstairs,” ran a squib in the Wake last year. The empty head always has a “For Rent” sign on the face.
---VOS---
The Honest Face.
The honest heart needs no letters of recommendation. It’s character is written all over the face. It does not conceal because it has nothing to conceal.
1 1 i i
---NDS---
Your Face.
“As a man thinketh in his heart, so he is.” By a strange human contradiction we are often as careless of our thoughts as we are careful of our reputation. If your heart is not just right, be assured that your face reflects your heart, and that you are not fooling those who know. If you want the peace of God to shine forth in your face, be at peace with God in your heart.
142	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Coach Jessc IIaki»i:i^ *13-18, is Hriny on his ranch in Kansas.
A Glimpse q
N. D. Vs. Olivet
This ya me teas planed Oct. 1010. Score, .V. D. 4S, Olivet 0.
The 1916 Varsity Track Team
(Left to right) Bachman, Eichenlaub, Welch, McDonough, Miller, Kirkland, Dugan, Hanahan, Bartholomeiv, Larkin, Rockne, Kelly, Nooning, Yeager, Plante, Costello, Hardy.—“Rodd’ was a pole-vaulter and held the Gymnasium record for several years.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	143
Yesteryear
Rev. Charles L. O’Don-
nell, C.S.C.
Provincial of the Holy Cross Order. Chaplain in the World War.
The band has grown rapidly since this picture was taken four years ago.
Military training was a part of Notre Dam e’s Curriculum. Col. Stogsdall, U. S. A., retired, the Notre Dame commander, is noic living in South Bend.
144	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE FRESHMAN CLASS
It is with great satisfaction that the campus has witnessed the change which has taken place in the Freshman Class during the past several weeks. This following editorial is a confidential word to the Freshmen, just a “between you and me” chat with the men of ’28.
First of all, the Scholastic wishes to congratulate you upon your choice of class officers; Eddie Collins seems to posses every qualifications which a class might ask of its President. Follow him, fellows, and support him to the very utmost of your ability. A well-organized class in its first year will be a superbly organized body in the years which follow.
About the rooting, the Scholastic knows that the system and not the Freshmen is to blame* for the lack of concerted noise. When a compactly organized rooting section is established for you men, the difficulty of getting over your yells will be eliminated. For the present, just yell lustily and get the most noisy results possible. Especially at the Nebraska game, fellows, we must all give everything we have, for the team will be fighting to break that jinx—and you of course will be fighting with them.
The matter of smoking on the Hill St. car and the quadrangle seem to have been taken care of satisfactorily. You will find, however, a few men in your class who disregard every regulation, and what is worse, every tradition. It should be easy to clean up your class, eliminating the harmful conduct of such individuals, or what perhaps would be the more efficient way, eliminating the individuals themselves. That, however, RESTS WITH YOURSELVES AND IS A CLASS MATTER. The Scholastic
in addressing the former somewhat harsh editorial to you was conscious that some of the infractions of traditions ascribed to your class, if traced to the source, would be found to have come from members of other classes.
And now let us make a last remark, give you a thought which is most important for every Notre Dame man: “EVERYTHING which goes out from this blessed old campus be it our football team or our graduating class has a KICK to it.” Therein lies that elusive Notre Dame spirit. Your task, Freshmen, is to cultivate that wallop — NOW!	—J. w. s.
---NDS---
THE MEDIOCRE MAN*
Is the mediocre man silly, stupid, idiotic? Not the least. The idiot is at one extremity of the world, the man of genius is at the other. The mediocre man is in the middle. I do not say that he occupies the centre of the intellectual world, that would be quite another matter; he occupies a middle position.
The characteristic trait of the mediocre man is his deference for public opinion. He never really talks; he only repeats what others have said. He judges a man by his age, his position, his success, his income. He has the profoundest respect for those who have attained notoriety, no matter how, and for authors with, a large circulation.
The mediocre man may have certain special aptitudes; he may even have talent. But he is utterly wanting in intuition. He
This bit of writing, so important in content to the university student, is taken from “Life, Science and Art,” by Ernest Hello. It has been translated from the French by E. M. Walker.
9
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
145
has no insight; he never will have any. He can learn; he cannot divine. Occasionally he allows an idea to penetrate into his mind, but he does not follow its various applications, and if it is stated in different terms, he denies its truth.
The mediocre man may, and often does, respect good people and men of talent. He fears and detests Saints and men of genius —he considers them exaggerated.
Of what use, he inquires, are the religious Orders, especially the contemplative Orders? He approves of the Sisters of St. Vincent de Paul because their work relates, partially at least, to the visible world. But the Carmelites, he says, what can be the good of them?
The mediocre man admires everything a little; he admires nothing warmly. If you confront him with his own thoughts, his own sentiment expressed with enthusiasm, he will be displeased. He will declare that you are exaggerating. He prefers enemies, so long as they are cold, to friends who are warm. What he detests above all is enthusiasm.
To escape the reproach of intolerance aimed by him at all who think with consistency and decision, you would have to take refuge in absolute doubt; but even then you must be careful not to call doubt by its name. You must represent it as a modest opinion, which respects the rights of the contrary opinion, and appears to affirm something while affirming nothing whatever.
The mediocre man, in his distrust of all that is great, maintains that he values good sense before everything. But he has not the remotest ideas what GOOD SENSE is. He merely understands by that expression the negation of all that is lofty.
The man of intelligence looks up to admire and to adore; the mediocre man looks up to mock. All that is above him seems to him ridiculous; the Infinite appears to him a void.
The mediocre man is much more wicked than either he himself or anyone else imagines, because his coldness masks his wick
edness. He never gets in a rage. He perpetrates innumerable little infamies, so petty that they do not appear to be infamous. And he is never afraid, for he relies on the vast multitude of those who resemble him.
When, however, a man mediocre by nature becomes a true and sincere Christian, he ceases absolutely to be mediocre. He may not, indeed, become a man of striking superiority, but he is rescued from mediocrity by the Hand that rules the world. THE MAN WHO LOVES IS NEVER MEDIOCRE.
---NDS---
COOPERATION
For the benefit of the staff, as well as of others who have material for publication, let us urge again that copy for the Scholastic be in not later than the Tuesday noon preceding the issue in which the article is to be printed. Type is like individuals—it can stay up all night more easily than it can be gotten up in the morning.
THE STAFF
J. W. SCALLAN Editor
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG News Editor
ALBERT SOMMER Assistant News Editor
JOHN GALLAGHER
LESTER GRADY MARK NEVILS
WILLIAM DOOLEY
EDWARD T. LYONS Literary Editor
GERALD HOLLAND
Assistant Literary Editor
ANDREW MULREANY JAMES WITHEY WALTER HAECKER ALFRED MEYERS
THE NEWS DEPARTMENT
JOHN F. STOECKLEY
THE LITERARY DEPARTMENT
HARRY A. M’GUIRE R. C. CUNNINGHAM JOSEPH P. BURKE FRANCIS C. MILLER
ANSELM MILLER EUSTACE CULLINAN RICHARD LIGHTFOOT BERT V. DUNNE
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT CORBIN PATRICK Business Manager GEORGE SCHILL	JAMES WITHEY
Local Advertising Manager Foreign Adv. Manager ALFRED DIEBOLD Circulation Manager BUSINESS ASSISTANTS CHARLES CASEY DAVID HICKEY FRANKLIN CONWAY	JAMES LOFTUS
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
146
Where Are Our Poets?
CHARLES PHILLIPS, M. A.
Where are the poets, unto whom belong
The Olympian heights; whose singing shafts were sent
Straight to the mark, and not from bows half bent,—
But with the utmost tension of the thong?
Where are the stately argosies of song,
Whose rushing keels made music as they went Sailing in search of some new continent
With all sails set, and steady winds and strong? —LONGFELLOW.
THERE are the poets of yester-1/1/ year? Perhaps some of them ’ ’ have been with us during Homecoming; at any rate, we know where they are to be found, year in, year out,—between the covers of not a few books on our library shelves—particularly in those two little volumes of pure Notre Dame inspiration, Notre Dame Verse and The Scribblers Book of Notre Dame Verse. They are there, articulate and real—not “mute inglorious Miltons” by any means—voicing the spirit that exhales from every angle of every old hall on the campus; the spirit that broods around our lakes and lies under every tree like a shadow—rather like an after-glow, a light.
It is easy to find our “poets of yester-5rear”;—but not so easy to find our poets of today or of tomorrow. Are they here among us, too? Surely, somewhere—touched by the gesture of the bronze Christ, who bids every leaf fall and fly to its appointed place as the golden shower of October drifts by Him in the wind; touched by the mute eloquence of our Soldiers’ Gate, that exquisitely wrought portal of memory, where Saint Joan’s and Saint Michael’s names speak the glory of Notre Dame in carven stone:—touched by the sun on the old roofs, its shimmer on the Dome.... by the voices of men on the porches, in the paths.... • the shouts of crowds at the gridiron: surely they are here, somewhere, these Notre Dame poets of today.
There is such a thing as “college poetry,” a high form of art. We need only read The Spires of Oxford, to realize what college poetry can be. Or there is the long
series of class poems written by Oliver Wendell Holmes during the lapse of thirty years.... year in, year out, the old fellows gathering together to refresh their hearts with the charm of verses that voiced in a hundred different moods the soul of Harvard. Or, to come home again,—there are our own Notre Dame poems (of yesteryear), not a few of them equal to the best college poetry that has ever been produced: Father O’Donnell’s Founders Day, his splendid sonnet In the Greek Room, his touching Prayer.
“Pray God, until the moon
Is made the fixed footstool of his feet, . And all the stars, compact in golden twelve Shall glimmer deathless ’roufid her perfect brow, May Mary stand 'twixt Heaven and Notre Dame.”
Such poems as these of Father O’Donnell’s, such a perfect lyric as’ Stoddard’s Indiana, such a fine sonnet as Anthony Brogan’s May at Notre Dame; such a perfect song as Professor Shuster’s Our Lady Robed in Gold; these show what college poetry can be, and what Notre Dame poetry can be.
But who of us is to be satisfied with only what has been done? The spirit of Notre Dame demands more of the poet than this: that it shall inspire the present and shake the future. All this material is here, a rich heritage— atmosphere, inspiration, the classic air:
“This might be Athens, here might Athens be. In all that earth can offer to make fair: This haze is soft as hangs in Attic air;
And morn and we our western sky can see Its chastened glories from the lake look free On scenes that might with Grecian lands compare;”
The Attic air—and above all the Christian atmosphere:
“What reads blind Homer in yon crucifix?”—
We have it all, we breathe it every day of our lives; and it has been sung for us in a way to make poetry stir in the hearts of the starkest realists.
Will it wake up our new poets too?— our poets of today? They are here somewhere. ... somewhere!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
147
In that last sonnet written by Longfellow, the octette of which is quoted above, the aged poet went on to say:
Perhaps there lives some dreamy hoy, untaught
In schools, some graduate of the field or street Who shall become a master of the art, An admiral sailing the high seas of thought,
Fearless and first, and steering with his fleet For lands not yet laid doivn in any charts.
But what of the boys taught in such a school as Notre Dame, where, (to paraphrase Wordsworth) “every prospect pleases and only man is dumb?” They are not all dumb; the Notre Dame poetry already published proves that; and I have just read Raymond Hunt’s beautiful little
Homecoming lyric in the Scholastic to add further proof, proof of the moment. But there must be a great deal more material here, as yet hidden, undeveloped, waiting only for the word to come out into the light; some such word, perhaps, as that being now given by The Scribblers (more power to them, pens and all!) in their annual contest. The fruits of that contest are eagerly looked forward to. The tradition of Notre Dame poetry is a high and. a precious one. Notre Dame must produce her poets and her poetry this year as in years past. The answer to that call, “Where are the poets?” must be a full and rounded one —not “somewhere, somewhere,” but “Here! Here!”
Verge
SNATCH OF SEA SONG
Green are my hills as the hills of Old Ireland, Blue are my hills as the hills of the sky;
Glorious, dangerous hills of my Sireland, With protean valleys where hardly men die.
The tops of my hills are a foam-crested whiteness, Leaping up skyward as if to be free.
To all other beauty my eyes have been sightless, For I am a son of the King of the Sea.
—ANSELM D. MILLER.
I
REMORSE
He was only a sightless beggar, Piteously asking aid;
Clothed in rags and squalor,
Yet to the image and likeness made,
But I who had eyes and saw not Heartlessly passed him by
With a frown and a curse; was ever one So blind as I?
—FRANCIS A. KLEIN.
148	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Father De Smet, S. J.
FRANCIS A. KLEIN.
OF all that noble band of Jesuit missionaries that labored so heroically to evangelize North America and add the savage hordes to the army of Christ, none stand out so brilliantly as Father De Smet. Beloved Pere Marquette is perhaps better known to the majority, but, with all due respect to him, it must be pointed out that his fame rests more on his achievements as a discoverer and an explorer than as a missionary. He combined the two; De Smet was heart and soul for the missions. He lived among the Indians; shared their rough life, ate their abominable food, smoked their peace-pipes, ministered to their bodies as.well as to their souls; was, in fact, one of them throughout the best years of his life. No hardship was too great, no journey too far for him to undertake, provided that good come from it for his neophytes. Marquette, on the other hand, was a traveler; one who sowed seeds of faith and then passed on. We draw this comparison not to detract from any glory that is Father Marquette’s, for he was a good and holy man, but only to show that De Smet deserves as much, if not more, praise than his predecessor.
Father De Smet was born January 30, 1801, at Termonde, Belgium, the fifth son of Joost De Smet and his second wife, Marie Buydens, and was christened Pierre Jean. He grew up in an atmosphere of ardent faith, such as is engendered only by religious persecution. He himself says that “the lesson of piety taught me in childhood were the seeds of that desire, which I conceived and afterwards executed by God’s grace, to give myself without reserve to His service.”
He early showed that he possesed an adventurous, inquiring spirit, and a keen, observing mind, both of which qualities he would need so abundantly later on. He was also strong and robust, with an iron constitution and a fearless heart. “He had a pronounced taste for games and athletics” and, in fact, everything that savored of daring. His father said of him that he would
be either a great soldier or a great traveler, but that he would never remain at home. The last part, at least, of this prophecy was fulfilled.
His education was secured in various ways the variety of them being mainly due to his impetuosity and roving disposition. His intellect was judged more solid than brilliant at the Seminary of Mechlin, whither he went after some years spent at the preparatory seminary of St. Nichlos and at the College of Alost. Here his great strength won him the name of “Samson.”
Peter’s vocation was not definitely decided till he was twenty, at which time he met Father Nerinck, a missionary from Kentucky, whose influence decided his career. This missionary was a native of Belgium who had returned to his country to seek recruits for the missions. At Mechlin he told of the conditions in America, where thousands of Catholics were forgetting their religion for lack of priests to help them, and of the benighted condition of the Indian tribes of the West. He also told them of the Society of Jesus, which had recently been re-established in the United States by Pius VII, and how the order had “important houses.... where young novices received solid religious and ascetic training, and were wisely directed and fitted for every kind of apostolic work.”
The result of this plea was that nine future apostles were selected from those that volunteered, among them being Peter De Smet. The future showed that he was not obeying a passing impulse in his choice of a career; he had thought long and well on it.
His family, however, was opposed to seeing so young a person depart for so arduous a work in a foreign land. He avoided their prohibiting by leaving without their permission, doing this more to save both them and himself the keen pain of parting rather than as a deliberate act of disobedience. He always regretted that circumstances forced him to leave thus abruptly. Nevertheless, this shows us how his heart was set on missionary labors.
Some difficulty also was encountered in leaving Belgium, but the young religious
o
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
149
recruits overcame this obstacle by journeying- into Holland and thence setting out from Europe in a skiff—to be picked up at sea by the vessel in which their passage was arranged.
Forty-two days later they landed at Philadelphia, from there they went on to Baltimore where Father Nerinck left them to resume his work in Kentucky. Two of the novices remained in Baltimore, but the rest went on to Georgetown, where they were very cordially received by Father Kohlman, the superior of the Jesuits in the United States. He sent them on to Whitemarsh to enter upon their novitiate.
Here they studied for eighteen months under Father Van Quickenborne, a man of prodigious energy and all-embracing piety. Then came the call to the West. Bishop Dubourg of New Orleans urged the establishment of a Jesuit mission in Missouri for the Indians, and offered the Jesuit Fathers a large farm near Florissant, sixteen miles from St. Louis. The offer was accepted, and Father Van Quickenborne, with seven novices, De Smet among them, three lay brothers and a companion priest, left for Missouri. “When they started off... our young men little dreamed they were going to found in the center of the United States a new province of the Society of Jesus; that at St. Louis they would establish a flourishing university; that they would erect numerous colleges, and that their missions would extend from the Gulf of Mexico to the Great Lakes, Canada, and even to the shores of the Pacific.” In this glorious work of religious empire building Father De Smet had no little part.
The travelers arrived at Florissant in due course, after an exciting trip down the Ohio in flat boats and across Illinois on foot. Aided by Madam Duchesne and the Ladies of the Sacred Heart, which religious society was already established in the vicinity, the missionaries endured the first hard winter fairly well. In the spring began their labors of farming, improving the land, and studying.
The novices made their first vows on October 10, 1823. Four years later, September 23, they received Holy Orders from
Bishop Rosati. From then on their apostolic work began in earnest, though the “third year” prescribed by St. Ignatius was not neglected. The Catholics of the district were drawn away from Protestant influences, and a school was opened in Florissant for the Indians. It prospered for a time, till the landgrabbing policies of the Government forced the Indians to move farther West, when the school perforce declined and was closed finally in 1830. In 1829 a college was opened in St. Louis which was later to grow into “St. Louis University.” Here Father De Smet taught English, and filled the offices of Procurator and Prefect of Studies.	.
Four years later he left for Belgium on the first of his many returns to his native land to collect funds and missionaries. Ill-health forced him to remain in the country for some years and, in fact, to sever his connection with the Order. When his health was restored, however, he re-entered the society and returned to America, where he began the arduous work that was to win for him the title of “Apostle of the Rockies.”
The first mission established by Father De Smet on his return was the one for the Potawatomi Indians at Council Bluffs. Here he found the savages open to religious instruction, but very demoralized, chiefly through drink. How Father De Smet eliminated this source of evil, and also effected a reconciliation between the Potawatomi and the Sioux, their bitter enemies, and finally made model Christians of these tribes, forms but a chapter in his long story of conversions.
In 1840 he made his first journey to the Rockies and visited the Flatheads. They had been pleading for the “Blackrobes” for four years, and had several times made a 3000-mile journey to press their suit in person. They therefore welcomed the missionary with joy and listened with avidity to his instructions, promising faithfully to adhere to his teachings till such time as he could return and found a mission for them and initiate them into the mysteries of civilized life as well as into those of religion.
From this time forth Father De Smet’s
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
150
labors as a missionary were unceasing. It is impossible to detail them here; they have been more adequately set down elsewhere.* It is enough to say that he founded missions for the Flatheads, the Crows, the Blackfeet, the Coeur d’Alenes, the Kalispels, and others; covered Oregon thoroughly, was instrumental in bringing the first sisters—those of Notre Dame de Namur—to the far West and in inducing the Canadian fathers to labor in the vicinity of Vancouver and Fort Union. The hardships he endured in this service seem unbelievable, and even today stand forth as one of the ■ greatest examples of heroic self-sacrifice ever performed by man for no reward other than a spiritual one.
Despite all this suffering and extreme personal discomfort, Father De Smet was a missionary through and through, and his heart was almost broken when he was recalled to St. Louis and thus forced to give up work. The reason for this action is inexplicable. He was a man with an especial talent for the rigors of missionary life, just as other men are suited for the arts or sciences. He understood the Indians; loved • them and was reverenced by them; why so valuable a “worker in the vineyard of the Lord” was withdrawn in the very flower of his usefulness, to serve in the comparatively minor capacities of Vice-Provincial and Procurator-General at St. Louis University, is beyond explanation.
He accepted the situation, however, in all humility and obedience, and served to the best of his ability. Yet even here his beloved missions were not forgotten. He used his influence to send them money and essentials ,and several times made trips to them, but his active missionary days among the Indians were over.
Another event that happened at this time tended further to depress the apostle. He had written numerous letters of his various travels in which he describes the hardships of the journeys and the work accomplished, giving, in fact, a complete record of his
-	* See Father E. Laveille’s: The Life of Father
De Smet, S. J. All quotations in this article are from this book.
missionary labors together with much data relative to the nature and products of the country. He was by inclination a deep student of natural science and a very keen observer. The statements of some of these letters were now doubted, even by some of the superiors of the Order who were not conversant with the true facts. Father De Smet, who was naturally very sensitive, was wounded to the heart by these doubts. He made haste to vindicate himself, but even the public acknowledgement of the error could not entirely heal his hurt. It left its impress on him for the remainder of his life.
In his capacity of Procurator he made-several journeys to Europe to collect funds-for the order, but more especially for his missions. He was very successful in these--various “begging-tours,” and the fact that the Western missions, particularly those in Oregon, endured as long as they did isowing entirely to him.
Up to the very end, Father De Smet labored for the missions, even undertaking a-voyage to Europe, his last, in their behalf, when he himself was so racked with illness-that even a short journey was a torture. But his fortitude upheld him, though he almost died in Europe. He was everywhere-received with acclaim and deep admiration; he felt that his labors, no matter how assailed by circumstances or enemies, would endure.
He returned to St. Louis, broken in health but supremely happy. His last trip abroad had been in most respects the best-of all. He died in St. Louis May 24, 1873.
We may sum up his life in these words, borrowed from Father Laveille, his bio- -grapher:
“The motive power of his life was the-spirit of faith; this gave him the coin-age to face the hardships of his prodigious labors.... He had a calm assurance in adversity; refused nothing to the Master whom he served; counted always on His providence, and abandoned himself to it with a simplicity that recalls the native con^ fidence of the saints. His obedience was remarkable.” Still more so was his devotion-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
to the Blessed Virgin. During all his dangerous travels he always invoked her aid. “The rosary he wore in his girdle and recited daily,” was worn thin by his constant application to the All-Powerful Mother. He gave the name of St. Mary to the first mountain mission in her honor.
The vastness of Father De Smet’s labors is borne in upon us when we realize that, in performing them, he traveled some 250,-•000 miles, most of them over trailless moun tains, virgin prairies, through primeval woods and uncharted streams, on foot, on horseback, on snow-shoes (on which occasion he fasted thirty days so as to reduce his weight to the minimum required for show-shoe travel), or in frail canoes and
151
insecure steamboats, and this in all kinds of weather and under conditions that would have appalled many a heart less stout. He frequently went without food the entire day, rode a horse for twenty hours at a time, slept in the open, and was ever in constant danger of his life. That a man of no extraordinary learning, with simple faith his only asset, could do all this, endure all this for no other purpose than the salvation of souls, puts to shame our highly-touted captains of industry, on whom we are so prone to look as examples of successful men. Even the enemies of the Church must regard her admiringly when she produces such valiant warriors as Father De Smet.
NOTRE DAME
Mellow old domes and spires
Colored with sacred traditions and dim-writ achievements
Pencil a towering splendor, Dark in the evening glow.
A wind that seems but a whisper
Stirs the slumb’rous shadow—flood with a gossamere finger of leaves
And cools the ardor of the conquering green That marches up in stealth to kiss the grey old stones.
And ere the whisper passes it thrills into a song
That rises from a myriad marching hearts.
JOHN O’NEILL
152	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
BOOK LEAVES
JOSEPH P. BURKE, ’25
OPEN FOR OPINION
The SCHOLASTIC will print any book review of merit. Correspondence must be addressed to Book Leaves, The Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana, and must be signed.
In throwing open its review columns to the campus book critics, the SCHOLASTIC hopes to stimulate interest in books ami reading, and to arouse beneficial discussion.
Dr. James J. Walsh, who lectured in Washington Hall on Monday evening, has published three books within the last few months, “What Civilization Owes to Italy,” “Cures,” and “Success in a New Era.” In the first mentioned book Dr. Walsh shows Italy’s great contribution to the Arts, Sciences and Crafts. “Cures” is a proof of the author’s wonderful versatility. In this volume he not only exposes the absurd pretensions of most panaceas for human ills, but at the same time demonstrates that many ills are purely imaginary and therefore easily curable. “Success in a New Era” is a study in character building, and an aid and stimulus to develop one’s latent powers and tap one’s hidden sources of strength.
—nds—	.
Professor Charles Phillips, of the College of Arts and Letters, has contributed to the November “Catholic World” a poem entitled “Aloha” and a review of George Cohen’s “The Jews in the Making of America.” Sister M. Madeleva, C. S. C., has contributed to the same periodical an article on “The Religious Poetry of the Nineteenth Century.”
--NDS---	.
An enthusiastic reviewer of Tom Daly’s latest book of verse, “Herself and the
Household,” dedicated to his wife, sent this ultimatum to the publishers: “Don’t send me any more review copies of subsequent Daly books until after the 10th of the month; it interferes with the regular routine of business.” '
--N D-S—.
Under the title “Conflicts With Oblivion,”-Wilbur C. Abbott, professor of history at Harvard, has grouped a number of studies of such persons' as Pepys, Disraeli and Captain Blood the. crown-stealer.	.
---Ar n s-
Another Harvard professor is responsible for a book entitled “Getting a Laugh.” It is by Charles Grandgent, a well known Dante scholar, who has descended from the platform and adopted the laughter vein. Although the title sounds ominous the book is said to be anything but that.
.	—n d s—
“Mark Twain’s Autobiography” is the manuscript that , a certain Samuel Clements left to posterity -with the stipulation that it should not be published until long after he was “dead and unaware and indifferent.” The introduction was written by Albert Bigelow Paine. Harper & Brothers are the publishers.
--NDS-----
In “Great Christian Artists” by Edward F. Garesche, S. J., the versatile Jesuit turns from poetry, preaching and 'organizing to treat the life and work of seven, representative Christian painters: Fra Angelico, Leonardo da Vinci, Raphael, Michelangelo, Murillo, Rubens, and Van Dyck.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
153
“Tornado” Flashes to Defeat
The “Golden Tornado” flashed across Cartier Field only to fluster and become tarnished by Blue and Gold flashes to a 34-3 tint. It was a slashing Irish attack which drove right down the field and left helpless though fighting Georgians in its wake. It was a thrilling picture for Notre Dame Homecomers and the crowd of twenty thousand madly applauded as the Irish supermen cut down the plucky Yellow Jackets and their mighty Wycoff.
The gritty Southerners unfolded their offense with the initial kick-off, but with the beginning of the second period it was the usual story of the master backfield performers whose crushing advances sent the •crowd ‘back home’ wondering at the antics of the Notre Dame men. These flying lads sent the Tech fighters crashing down to .sudden destruction in such impressive fashion that not a doubt was left in the mind
Livergood
of anyone as to the greatness of Rockne’s fighting team.
The glowing action of the ‘regulars’ and near-lights showed the way for some of the lesser luminaries of the Irish who followed with a great little exhibition in which the reserve strength of the home team was evidenced. The performances of Livergood, Edwards, who led the three “wonder men” in the absence of Stuhldreher, and Roach, beside a host of others, were especially colorful and added greatly to the discomfort cf the fighting Tech men.
Wycoff, the great “Tornado” full-back, put hope in the hearts of. the Southern rooters in the first quarter when he dashed off yardage to place the ball in position for Williams to start the scoring with a field goal, which advantage the Georgians held until the mighty Irish trio brought Notre Dame into a cyclonic sweep down the field which culminated when Crowley shot an unexpected pass into the anxious arms
Roach
154	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of Don Miller. Layden lunged over the line for another counter in that second period and a short time later Roach completed the scoring for the half with a spectacular dash over the Tech goal.
The final quarter saw the Notre Dame team negotiate the Southerner’s goal for two more scores. Livergood, who was very much in the picture during the-afternoon, pounded through for the final tally after Scherer had wafted a forward pass over the goal line into the waiting arms of Roach.
The effective use by Notre Dame of the forward pass was clearly demonstrated against Georgia Tech. Two resulted in touchdowns while a couple others were good for substantial gains. It is this method of the passing game which makes a Rockne team feared. It is a very effective and deadly weapon, as the Tech men will admit.
It was a spirited battle throughout, the Yellow Jackets, with Wycoff leading them, fighting to the end. This was shown by the fact that in the final seconds of play the
aggressive Wycoff picked up a fumble and’ dashed for the Irish goal only to have Bernie Coughlin bring him down when but a yard from his ambition. No greater exhibition of fight and grit has ever been shown to a Homecoming gathering on Cartier Field.
THE SPORTFEST
LES HEGELE, ’26.
Army, 7; Yale, 7.
And lo, their score leads all the rest! Again Old Eli may sit back with satisfaction for our opponents of the Plains treated the Bull Dog with no consideration whatever and, they say, should have come off the field with a victory. Nuff said!
The Cardinal Rests!
Coach Jack Ryan and his boys thought they needed a rest in preparation for the “Fighting Irish” and as a result had an off-day. Some five hundred rabid NotreDame enthusiasts will see the Rockne streaks perform for the benefit of Big Ten-
Around the End in the Lombard Game.
•	(Courtesy—Alumnus)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
followers and we know their showing will be everything and more than is expected of them.
The Purple of Northwestern took heart and captured their first Big Ten win since 1922. Young Mr. Baker seems very progressive on the gridiron and we wonder how he will behave himself on the afternoon of the 22nd. We hope he is in form though we know he will not duplicate his flashy actions to such an extent against his second Indiana opponents.
The fighting Cornhuskers took the Missouri Tigers into camp for their first defeat of the season,. After a rather disastrous first half Nebraska came back fighting to win from the conquerors of the Maroons. “Choppy” Rhodes was again the main cog in the Cornhusk victory with Quarterback Bloodgood also performing brilliantly for the Irish jinx.
Again the Rockne system came to the fore when Chet Wynne’s battling Creighton eleven handed Marquette its first defeat since 1921. The western lads started right off to battle the Wisconsin boys off their feet and continued until they came off the field a 21-7 victor.
Illinois continues to show the way for the Big Ten schools. Iowa failed rather miserably to hold Grange in check and as a result brought a 36-0 licking back home with them. Grange continued his usual performance and although he was held in to short jabs, he contributed twelve more points to his score column.
155
“AS YOU LIKE IT”
BILL REID, ’26.
Captain Wycoff raised his arm; Notre Dame signaled she was ready. The referee’s whistle sounded the beginning of the game, and with the ball came the fuiy of the “Golden Tornado,” tearing, whirling, spinning yard by yard over the cross-ban’ed turf, disturbing the peace and serenity of the Irish record. Later the sun came, warmed and soothed into submission this destructive force from Georgia, and also contented the nerves of the N. D. followers in the stands. There was more excitement crowded into the first ten minutes of play than during the remainder of the game for it was during this time that Tech displayed to the eighteen thousand spectators why she was called the “Tornado.” Down the field she swept with swiftness and dexterity sucking in a victim to be left helpless behind nor did she stop until Williams booted the ball for three points. Here the destructive element of the “Tornado” became a minus quantity and for the remainder of ’ the afternoon the storm from the South seemed like a sun-shower.
---iV d s—
John Roach and Bernie Livergood deserve unstinted praise for their performance against Tech last Saturday. Bernie’s plunging piled up the conquered yardage, while Roach was responsible for two touchdowns. Bernie Coughlin’s speed coupled with superb effort averted a Tech score. ,
Layden Punts.
(Courtesy—Alumnus)
*

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
156
IS INTER-HALL SPIRIT DYING?
Sport writers throughout the country comment especially upon the inter-hall system of athletics at Notre Dame. What has been common here for years is now taking form elsewhere in the "intra-mural athletics” idea. As usual, when a thing becomes popular with everyone else, it loses some of its glamor for its pioneer exponents. Notre Dame has been threatened with a loss of interest in interhall sports.
By means of the inter-hall system every student is given an opportunity to take part in competitive athletics. The varsity squads are necessarily small and exclude many men who fall only a little short of the varsity requirements. The system gives these men an opportunity to train themselves and often to eliminate the defects which keeps them from the first strings. When the freshmen were allowed to play on the inter-hall teams, it served as a valuable training ground and from this source many stars arose.
Perhaps the outstanding example of this point was George Gipp. Gipp was a member of the Brownson hall team before his ability won for him his position on the varsity squad. An unfortunate spirit has been creeping into Notre Dame that a place on the inter-hall teams is to be deplored rather than considered as an honor. If individuals of this opinion would consult the list of Notre Dame athletes whose early training was gained from the inter-hall teams, it is probable that they would change their minds.
In interhall, as in varsity sports, football heads the list. A lagging interest in interhall football was threatening to destroy with it interest in the other sports. An effort was made this year to revive the old spirit of rivalry between the halls and met with some success.
The campus was divided into two major sections, East and West. This plan succeeded in centralizing the rivalry and equalizingcompetition. The games actually have aroused enthusiasm. Much excellent material has been uncovered. The rivalry has been keen, and there has been more support given the teams than in former years. A still more active interest in the team and larger
attendance at the games is desired. With, this end in view The Scholastic has interviewed the hall rectors with regard to the desirable or undesirable features of inter-hall athletics of this year or years past, and suggestions for gaining the ends desired. A few of the interviews follow:
Coach Rockne: “The Inter-Hall teams have good material but they should be supported. The students of each hall should get behind their teams. It is nearing the time for Winter sports as track, basketball, swimming, boxing, etc. All students should take advantage of the gym and try out for at least one of the above mentioned sports.”
Fr. Hagerty—TTaZs/i Hall.
“I would like to see all students turn out to-witness these Inter-hall contests. There is a little increase in attendance over last year but the rate is not as high as it might be. Each hall is fitted out better this year than in previous years. The main thing to aid the Interhall activities, though, would be for the men of each hall to get out and support their team.”
Fr. O’Malley—Corby Hall.
“The general system of the Inter-hall league is as near perfect as it can be. Every hall has a chance to get out and play. Every man in each hall has a chance to play on his hall team. Each hall has a chance for out-of-town games.”
Fr. Devers—Carroll Hall.
“If members of the Freshman football squad were allowed to play in Inter-hall football it would be the means of aiding the system. At the present time members of the-Varsity squad are not allowed to take part in the hall football games. Otherwise the system is good. But there is not enough interest shown in the games. Students should get out and encourage their hall team. There is not as much interest shown this year as there has been in others. How can one expect a team to come through with a win without support? Where would the Varsity team, be without support?”
Fr. Stack—Freshman Hall
“The Inter-hall system is better this year

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
157
than in the past. The classing of the halls into the distinct sections has aided. Under the old schedule freshmen played seniors. But now the three freshmen halls and the sophomore halls have their own schedule while the upper classmen battle among themselves. Then the rating of halls by percentage this year is another aid in making the system better. There hasn’t been much interest manifested in the hall games for the past few years but this season the attendance at the games has increased somewhat though it is not as high as it might be.”
i
I
INTER-HALL FINALS
Walsh Hall and Sophomore Hall will meet Sunday, November 16, in a battle that will decide the championship of the InterHall League. Sunday the sophs defeated the strong Brownson Hall team by a 26 to 0 score and thus became winners of the East Campus section. They won each of their three games. Freshmen Hall of the same section did not lose a game but tied two of its scheduled games. Thus the title went to the sophs. Walsh Hall, in defeating Sorin Hall a week ago, won the title in the West campus section.
The game for the championship will be one of the best tussles of the InterHall schedule. Everyone should see this game.
The Notre Dame cross country team defeated Indiana University last Saturday morning, 20 to 35. Captain Wendland came in first closely followed by Nulty. Indiana made third. The next meet will be held here the day of the Nebraska game.
“Drop Test” Fountain Pen
wllewel
THE six FOOT DROP TEST
Never before has any fountain pen been offered to you with such a guarantee, or with such proof of wonderful durability.
Think of it! A point that will stand up under the grilling “Drop Test.”
Hold a “Jewel” six feet from the floor. Drop it point down! Bang! Pick it up and write with it as before. If the “Jewel" pen does not stand up to this test we want it back. Out of 1,003 tests we have found an average of only two f a u 11 y points. Think of that! Buy a real pen for a real man.
Identify the Jewel by th$ Red Cap and Holland’s name on point and barrel.
On Sale at Co-op Stores and other good dealers. If unable to purchase locally, write us, giving dealer’s name and we will see that you are supplied.
>Zf0HN HOLLAND GOLD PEN CO.
Makers of Pens Since 1841
127-12* E. Fourth Street
Cincinnati, Ohio
Dorgan won the class B tennis tournament last Sunday when he defeated Donaldson in the finals played on the N. D. tennis courts. Dorgan lost the first set 4-6 but came back and won the next three sets 6-3, 6-4, and 6-3. A fifth set was unnecessary.
Every “jewel” Fountain Pen Point, made in Cincinnati, by The John Holland Gold Pen Co., is guaranteed to Hive absolute satisfaction o
Many Holland Pens, made 50 years ago, are still writing. We have no hesitancy in offering you the “Jewel” on the above terms.
The Price
Including Gold Band, Clip and Lever
The Jewel for Women is $4, including gold band, ring and lever.
Holland’s guarantee makes a “Jewel” pen a family heirloom. Buy one with the assurance that you can hand it on to your son or daughter. Jewel Points are adjustable to any touch. Every point is tipped with best Tasmanian Iridium.
Actual She
158
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE PRINCETON ALUMNI WEEKLY
BY DONALD GRANT HERRING
October 25, in the Palmer Stadium, Princeton was defeated 12-0 by a great eleven from Notre Dame. The same quartet of splendid backs who ran wild last year again proved their title to fame as one of the most marvellous backfields of all time. Without any question, I think, this quartet is collectively the fasted backfield I have ever seen. In my judgment the slowest member of it can run a hundred in ten-two. But they have not only speed, they have intuitive genius in eluding tackles; moreover, genius fortified and improved by carefully polished coaching to obtain the last inch out of every effort to advance the ball. Crowley is the finest back, ball-in-hand, who has appeared on an eastern gridiron since Mahan. He does not attempt to do all the things Mahan did, but at running with the ball
TOWER’S FISH BRAND COLLEGE COATS
SNAPPY,SERVICEABLE WATERPROOFS Oil thego with Collide men o
Varsity Slickers (YELLOW OR OLIVE >
Sport Coats
< YELLOW OR OLIVE)

AJ TOWER CO. BOSTON a mass a
62*
he is every bit as good as Mahan. On the showing of Saturday he is as good defensively as on the offense. Indeed, the great defensive power of this whole backfield was a distinct surprise to me.
I do not wish to overlook the visitors’ line in the distribution of praise. They performed admirably, all of them, Bach standing out from the rest. But there have been better lines: there cannot be better backs. The essential point to remember about this Notre Dame team is that every time their line gives their backs a chance to cross the line of scrimmage any one of these backs is likely to get away for a long run or even a touchdown. And this against the best of defense. Princeton sympathizers have little cause for complaint at the playing of their team. They did the
best they could. Their efforts appeared a bit crude at times by comparison with the polished workmanship of their opponents. But the truth is we did well to keep the score down. As it was the visitors had two frightful breaks against them or the score would have been two touchdowns more. In spite of the fact that Notre Dame was far superior to Princeton as a football team, the game was not a runaway and was never, till the last few minutes, safely on ice for the eleven from South Bend. Princeton fought to the last as hard as they could fight. They simply were not able to fight effectively against men who were faster, mentally and physically, whose team-play was gem-like in its polish.
I could go on praising our opponents for pages: their play deserves it. But I must turn to some unpleasant truths about the play of our own team, and our prospects for the November games. I must again remind you that no one on this Princeton team quit, or lay down on his job. Every one of them kept on trying his best to the last. But even making allowance for the fact th'at the opposition was truly great, our best was not actually very good. In fact the best we showed was not the best of which we are capable. The spirit was willing but the flesh was weak. Even more, the brain was weak.
To start with generalship. Our generalship was hopeless. It should have been evident from the beginning that we could not gain much through or around the Notre Dame line. It should therefore have been very plain that the only tiling left to do was to try to gain over the heads of the Notre Dame line. The first quarter showed us that, against a team of substitutes, we had gained a net total by running attack of 1% yards in twenty plays. Among those twenty plays we had not tried even one forward pass.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	159
The Fountain Pen Ink/or All Pens
The Notre Dame BarberShop, Bill Roach, proprietor, is open every day from 8 A. M. to 6 P. M. Bill is succeeding, as he has always succeeded, in giving Notre Dame men the very best in service and tonsorial workmanship. Visit Bill’s shop in Washington Hall, adjoining the Brownson Rec Room, for that next hair-cut or shave.	.. n „
---A U o-
V	- ...	..—	■	-	■
SANFORDS
“ Fountain Pen Ink
FRENCH. SHRINER &URNFR
1 M MEN’S SHOES MJ
It’s Permanent
WRIGLEYS
aiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiini
Chew it after every meal
If stimulates appetite and aids digestion. It makes your food do you more good. Note how
FOR THE DINNER DANCE
breath and it’s the goody that
It relieves that stuffy feeling alter hearty eating.
Whitens teeth.
PATRONIZE SCHOLASTIC ADVERTISERS
French, Shriner & Umer dress oxfords are as pleasing to the feet as to the eye—they hade all the easy comfort of slippers.
Specially priced at $10
Mr. Arthur Jackson will exhibit these famous “Shoes for College Men” at the Oliver Hotel, November 10
STORES IN NEW YORK
153 Broadway
131 West 42nd St.
350 Madison Ave. 1263 Broadway
Other stores in Neu) York, Brooklyn, Chicago, Philadelphia, St. Paul,
Minneapolis, Kansas City.
Dealers throughout the country.
Rubbed On
PATRONIZE SCHOLASTIC ADVERTISERS ::
1
160
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Over-Size Duofold Holds That Extra Ink A
Which Is Just Like Money in the
Bank When You Need It
- And Its Man-Size Grip Keeps Fingers Gently Extended so You Can’t Cramp Your Style
MANY a time the Duofold’s Over-size ink capacity will tide you over those extra pages of writing that you can’t foresee when you go to class, or that come as an afterthought in your correspondence.
An executive of the Public Securities Corporation, Los Angeles, writes us:
“I signed my name to 1067 checks with one filling of my Duofold in just 1 hr. 30 min.”
Yes, not only distance writing but speed as well—the speed and character that win with the world.
The size of this strapping big, black-tipped lacquer-red beauty provides you not only with ink to spare, but also with a man-size grip that can’t cramp your style.
Its symmetry and balance inspire and steady the hand—its jewel-smooth point is guaranteed, if not mistreated, for 25 years’ WEAR.
Step in and get it at any good pen counter.
THE PARKER PEN COMPANY
Manufacturers also of ‘Parker ‘Duofold Pencils to match the pen, $3.50
Factory and General Offices: JANESVILLE. WIS.
IfTearPomt
Lady Daofold <5 With ring for chatelaine
Red and Black Color Combination Reg. Trade Mark U. S. Pat. Office
With The
Daofold Jr.
Same except for alee
Tam
" -
Save Your Copy of “The Scholastic”
Not a hair out of place and not a single flake of dandruff. Big and strong also. Adonis had nothing on him.
You can gamble he doesn’t say a word about “Vaseline” Hair Tonic. But he uses it almost religiously. Nothing like it for mastering unruly hair and keeping the scalp healthy. Rub it in regularly and your hair will stay with you and look right. At all drug stores and student barber shops.
Entry “Easeline’’product is recommended everywhere because of its absolute purity and effectiveness. Vaseline
AEG U.S PAT.OFF.
HAIR TONIC Far tlie Health and Appearance of the Hair
Chesebrough Mfg. Company (Cons’d) State Street	New York
A class “open to beginners in dancing and to those who are anxious to learn the fundamentals of good dancing” has recently been begun at the University of Kansas. Meetings, open to the entire university, are held every Friday afternoon, the first half being devoted to the teaching of dancing and the remainder to practicing. A small sum is charged for each lesson.
“The University recognizes the fact that dancing is the foremost form of social entertainment and encourages students to enjoy dancing to the fullest extent,” said the Kansas Dean of Women.
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	161
Copyright 1924 Hart Schaffner & Marx
College men sense that subtle something in clothing called style
r | ’HESE very smart clothes you’ll see here aren’t * just in the style—the are the style, fl These have the swagger smartness that young men recognize as the mark of the real thing—easy fitting coats, larger trousers, wider cuffs; we’ll show you plenty of style and value.
SUITS and OVERCOATS
$35 to $75
Sam’l Spiro & Co.
Hart Schaffner & Marx Stylish Clothes
Complete Writing Equipment
Side by side in your pocket, Eversharp and Wahl Pen are ever ready to serve your thoughts.
Durability and dependability are common qualities of these economical, practical writing companions.
The non-clogging rifled tip, quick reloading, and complete interchangeability of parts are among the six new features which make the perfected Eversharp.
And the Wahl all-metal Pen is at par with Eversharp in giving thorough satisfaction. Light in weight, perfect in balance, resistant to wear, and beautiful in design—it is the ideal pen.
Eversharp, $1 to $45. Wahl Pen, $5 to $55.
Made in the U.S. A. byTHEWAHL COMPANY, Chicago
Canadian Factory, THE WAHL COMPANY, Ltd., Toronto
MmfaBmn of the ITM Ermharp and the IFahl All-Metal Fonntain Pen
The perfected
VfAHfmRSHARP &WAHP PUN