The Notre Dame Scholastic
101
COMMENT
This column has accomplished one purpose at least — it has proved that some students do read the Scholastic. Judging from the abundance of “birdies” which this column received after the last issue was distributed we gather that the Scholastic has its advantages — and its good points.
Turning back to the previous issue of the Scholastic we wish to say that what is written is not put in print just to fulfill a duty to get out a magazine each week. The Scholastic is the organ of the school; it is printed for the benefit of the students and belongs to them; but the fact that it is a school paper does not mean that it is issued without a great deal of work and worry—witness the gray hairs in the editor’s fevered brow.
| The Notre Dame Scholastic |
| Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi CrasMoriturus I
j	Founded in 1872	E
:	EMIL L. TELFEL...............................Editor-In-Chief	=
;	HARLEY L. McDEVITT.......................Graduate	Manager	E
i	EDITORIAL STAFF	1
z	JOHN E. Bergan..............Managing	Editor	z
z	James J. Kearney.....Assistant Managing Editor	:
:	Edward E. Brennan....Assistant Managing Editor	:
E	Walter V. Beesley.............Makeup	Editor	=
z	Alfred	E. Gall................Makeup	Editor	=
z	James K. Collins............Features	Editor	z
z	Austin Boyle..................Script	Editor	z
z	Paul J. Hallinan.............Associate Editor	z
z	Richard J. O’Donnell..............The	Week	=
:	Ramon G. Smith.............The	College Parade	=
z	Frank E. Seward............Music	and Drama	z
z	W. Leslie Raddatz..............Campus	Clubs	z
Many hours of useful time are spent in the office of the Scholastic i by those who rack their brains and scour the campus for material; they don’t get anything out of it but ex-perience—that thing which is said to be helpful after school is out for all time. We have taken many razzber-ries because of things which have t been printed in our columns, but still we keep on. We should like to see the day when the Scholastic would be read without a single grumble from the students about its contents.
=	NEWS STAFF		=
	Neil C. Hurley		.News Editor	.	
1	William C. Karl	Assistant Edward R. Brennan	Myron Crawford James Carmody	Anthony R. Schreiner William Fitzgerald	William Corr	News Editor John Pick Lawrence Dunda Sanguinet Willlvms	
=	SPORTS STAFF		s
z	John A. Kiener	 Cleve Carey	James E. McFeely, Jr. Robert Balfe	William J. Magarrall	Sports Editor Henry B. Asman	=
s	BUSINESS STAFF		
=	James H. Rorke	Local	Advertising Manager James L. Rizer	Foreign	Advertising Manager John R. Blanda	Local	Circulation Manager Andrew McGuan	Foreign Circulation Manager Frederick Bauer Merle Baldwin Raymond J. Naber John P. Hess		
	Vol. LXIV	OCTOBER 17, 1930	No. 4	x
			z
i	TABLE OF CONTENTS	|
I The Week_________________________________102 |
The silent cheering has been tried at two games now and compliments have poured in on both occasions. However, just a few mistakes which were made could easily be rectified if the “silent cheerers” would remain absolutely quiet while the cheerleader is giving instructions
Perhaps a little hint at this time might prove helpful to those who are contemplating easy labor when school is out. The easiest thing we know of is to join the South Bend police force and have your beat in the River Park district where the cops play minature golf all night on the new indoor course. It’s a tough life for cops.
=	A Man About the Campus—Austin Boyle----------------------105	E
E	Music and Drama—Frank Seward_____________________________108	z
E	Stadium Dedicated_______________________________________ 109	z
| The Wink_____________________________________r____________110 j
:	Editor’s Page____________________________________________111	=
z	The College Parade—Ramon G. Smith--------------------•----112	=
E	The Pride of the Lawyers—William Corr and Myron Craivford-113	e
=	Campus Clubs—W. Leslie Raddatz---------------------------114	=
=	Notre Dame Faces High Hurdle in Tartans—John A. Kiener----115	z
9	Introducing Captain John O’Brien—Henry	B. Asman----------117	z
5	Splinters From the Press Box-----------------------------121	z
i	On Down the Line-----------------------------------------128	z
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing a special rate of postage. Section T103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
Q aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaBaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiBaQ
102
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE WEEK
IF there has ever been a more beautiful and more impressive pageant presented on the Notre Dame campus than the one which took place in the new stadium last Friday night, it happened in a past so distant as to be beyond the memory of anyone who witnessed the inspiring ceremonies of the dedication. The setting could not have more closely approached the perfect. Mother Nature and the S. A. C. worked hand in hand to arrange a stage of which David Belasco would have been proud. Tim Benitz and his outfit of arrangement-makers must have derived sweet satisfaction from the results of their labors. Mr. Manion is to be congratulated for the graceful manner in which he carried out the difficult duties assigned to him as master of ceremonies. He proved himself a brave man indeed by his stoicism when his first words into the amplifier came echoing back from the distant end of the stadium. A less courageous person might have lost his voice. No more representative men of the two institutions which took part in the dedication could have spoken than Rear-Admiral Robison and the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., .president of the University. The former was a typical graduate of Annapolis whose manner and speech ideally fitted the popular conception of our country’s generals of the sea. Father O’Donnell suited his talk to the spirit of the moment, yet he did not ignore the traditions of the past and those in the making. All the happenings of the evening must have proved pleasantly novel to Mr. Chesterton who honored the occasion with his presence. That unique American expression of respect, the college cheer, was given for him. “Four rahs for Chesterton” was the leader’s instruction, and three thousand lusty voices shouted the name of one of the world’s leading literary lights. So auspicious an opening of the new playing field should be a good omen of what is to transpire during the rest of the season. Let us hope that the Scotsmen who visit us tomorrow are respecters of omens.
Singers, and also those talkie “artists” who say the words while the orchestra plays the music, have been announcing to the world for some time that the best-things in life are free. This does not prove, as anyone who has studied logic can tell you, that the Tree things are the best in life. But the local theater managers are doing as well as they can in spite of their handicaps, and are giving us the best they have sans admission price. Their altruism is admirable, as the freshmen who have acquired the “crashing” habit will readily attest. The charity show they gave for St. Mary’s on Wednesday provided the ideal opportunity for the blind date adventurer. That was one instance where he could go wrong, and still not come out “in the red,” as the accounting students say. The idea was probably stolen from the well known local clothing firm which advertises two for the price of one. This idea, incidentally, was adopted by Jack Dempsey in his first edition of the Juggler. Two jokes for the price of one, and a lot of persons are still wondering what lay underneath it all.
fl student with an ultra-discriminating ear has suggested that “Founder’s Week” is more euphonious than “Founder’s Day,” and should therefore be substituted in the school calendar in place of the terms now used. The suggestion is one which should meet with much approval on the campus. It has many points in its favor, aside from the poetic or musical assets. Father Sorin is a figure to whom every student and graduate of Notre Dame is indebted. Were it not for him, some of us would be squandering our time selling bonds, or peddling magazine subscriptions, or prying into the earth’s surface with a pick, or even perhaps attending a state university. Considering the fates that might have awaited us had not Father Sorin intervened, we should be impressed by the insignificance of the recognition given him by limiting it to a single day. A day’s classes are certainly a puny sacrifice to be made upon such a great occasion. Surely the men at Notre Dame are broadminded enough and generous enough to give up their whole week’s classes for a cause so worthy as this. Certainly they are in a small minority who would object to relinquishing their grasp on knowledge for but seven days when the purpose is the acknowledgment of the achievements of our University’s founder. Those who complained about the free day on Monday cannot be too harshly reprimanded for their selfishness. They should have borne their sufferings in silence, and patiently awaited the resumption of classes.
^1' HE weather, as a topic of discussion, should not be admitted into such an intellectual column as this. Emily Post, however, suggests that “Nice day, today” is a conversation-opener that is proper even on Fifth Avenue. Her revised edition states also that it might get by on Western Avenue. So if Emily does not object to it, the editor should not complain if his lowest paid staff writer has to resort to such a subject to fill his column. Furthermore, the California sun, the Gulf-like breezes, and the Mason-Dixon temperature of the past week have seemed , so strange in their Hoosier setting as to be worthy of some comment. And what more certain means of acquiring fame than by singing hymns of praise to the Indiana weather! For the past three years, we will admit, it has been bad, but as Napoleon said at Waterloo, it might have been worse. Sun in the morning, rain all afternoon, and a snowstorm in the evening, at least pre- « vents life here from becoming monotonous. And it also allows us to “gripe” about something besides the meals, and classes, and South Bend dates. Furthermore, it is the means of allowing the campus humorists to wax witty in seven out of the.eight numbers of the Juggler. If the school year were one round of sunny, summery days and balmy breezes, much of the campus conversation would j become dull and listless; professors could no longer spring the annual puns about the bad lakes in front of Badin; Californians and Floridans would lose their Chamber of Commerce pep, and resourceless columnists would have to seek loftier and more effort-requiring themes than this one.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
103
PEP MEETING TONIGHT TO CLIMAX WEEK OF HIGH ENTHUSIASM
NOTRE DAME-NORTHWESTERN GAME IS PLANNED FOR SOLDIER FIELD
Noted Alumni to Give Talks
Proceeds Are to Be Donated To Associated Charity
The pep demonstration this evening is expected to be a fitting climax to the triple dose of yell sessions that have predominated the campus for the past two evenings. Placards, songs, speeches, torch-light parades, all are on the program for tonight. It has been noised about that Tim Galvin, the stormy lecturer at Notre Dame pep meetings, will be present to make one of his stirring addresses on this occasion.
As previously arranged the band will start at Lyons hall, and moving on from there will lead a parade over the campus, picking up the contingents from the different halls as it goes. When the representations of all the halls have joined in the line of march it will move to the gymnasium, where the real fireworks begin.
Wednesday night began the intensive pep drilling of the week, with all the halls doing their bit more or less individually to organize cheering, to practice yells and sing the battle songs of Notre Dame. Each hall became enthusiastic in its efforts to outdo its neighbors. There were cheers for the players, for the team, for “Rock”, for Notre Dame. And everywhere there was the resounding “Beat Carnegie Tech!”
Thursday night the pep spirit was burning just as high. After supper all students assembled in front of the dining halls, where they awaited the members of the team. “The Victory March” was sung, yells rolled out, and there were cheers for “Rock”, and for “Rock’s” boys, for Captain Tom Conley, for Brill, for Savoldi, for all of them.
But tonight promises to be the busiest and biggest yet. Elaborate preparations by the S. A. C. have assured lots of noise, of talented and inspiring talkers—a real pep session. Coach Rockne, Pat Manion, Tim Galvin perhaps will all be there to rouse the old fight.
The inspiring sight that predominated the pep session of last Friday evening is expected to be outdone this week by Tim Benitz and the workers on the S. A. C.
The Notre Dame-Northwestern game will be played at Soldiers field on November 22, according to reports received by the Scholastic late Thursday afternoon. Proceeds of the event, over the first 50,000 tickets sold, will be donated to various charities of Chicago and South Bend.
The South Park board of commissioners have recently acknowledged their favorable attitude towards the project by donating the playing field to the universities.
The game if played in Dyche stadium could have been witnessed by only 50,000 persons, and a sell-out was expected. However, by moving into Soldiers field, a much larger attendance might be handled, possibly in the neighborhood of 100,000 persons. The receipts of the first 50,000 tickets sold therefore will go to the two schools, as that amount had been guaranteed them by the previous arrangements. All proceeds over- this
BLUE CIRCLE REPORTS ON INFORMATION BOOTHS
OF PAST WEEK-END
During the week the Blue Circle compiled reports on the activities of that organization in connection with the various information booths established prioi* to the last two football games.
Booths were set up in various convenient places which included the Union station, Jefferson, Lasalle, and Oliver hotels, South Shore station, the stadium and the Off-Campus • office. Returns from these show that approximately 14,300 questions were asked by 4,200 people, with the booths at the Lasalle and Oliver hotels leading. The booths at the stadium and at the Jefferson hotels are to be discontinued.
Chairman Ed Madden has received many letters commending the Blue Circle on the courteous wray that the booths were conducted. Undoubtedly, by means of this service they proved a valuable aid to the University in playing host to the football crowd.
mark will be divided among charities.
All organized charities in Chicago will be beneficiaries, and through the efforts of the South Bend News-Times organized charities in South Bend will also be included.
As we go to press the committee on athletic relations at Northwestern university is in conference to- decide whether or not the project will be given their official sanction. This is all that is needed to complete the arrangements.
Notre Dame officials have declared unanimously in favor of the plan, the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, and Mr. Rockne declaring that the arrangement to benefit charities met with their full approval. But the final word must come from Northwestern university, as the game is scheduled to take place in their stadium, and the right to change sires is entirely their privilege.
ENGINEERS INITIATE 130 FRESHMEN LAST
WEDNESDAY
The largest initiation ever held in the gymnasium took place last Wednesday night when 130 freshmen engineers were inducted into the mysteries of one of the largest campus societies. Presiding over the ceremonies were “King Logarithm” and “Queen Slipstick,” in the persons of Herbert Perry and William McCarthy.
The engineers would not divulge the mysteries of their august ceremonies. However, Robert Baskerville, who was the official hangman, and Joseph Conley, the “killing blacksmith,” had their hands full at the initiation. Other unique features made the evening an enjoyable one, and mention of a soot bag will bring back memories of scantily clad freshmen scampering over the gymnasium floor.
Paul Enright, Edward Coomes, Vincent Eichenlaub, William Karl and Francis Loney were in charge of the initiation.
104
The Notre Dame Scholastic
BIG “FIRE” IN LIBRARY GIVES DIVERSION FOR
STAFF AND STUDENTS
False Alarm Calls Fire Trucks
SILENT CHEERING RECEIVES PLAUDITS OF VISITORS
Benitz Well Satisfied With Results
More than a thousand Notre Dame students hearing the clanging of fire bells and the sirens of police cars, hurried to the steps of the Library last Friday afternoon. They were just in time to witness the conclusion of a mad dash across the campus of two fire trucks, the flaming red vehicle hauling the chief of the South Bend fire department, and a police flivver, carrying sufficient law enforcers to hold back the student multitude.
Armed with axes, hand extinguishers, and in complete fighting attire, the trusty guards burst into the tranquil recess of the Lemonnier fireproof library.
“Where’s the fire,” shouted one of the men to the surprised librarians. The consternated custodians of the building 'were unaware of flames, but their negative answer did not satisfy the trusty fire-eaters of South Bend. They spread, some went through the great archives in the rear, others burst into classrooms below, a few climbed the stairs into the art collections— all with eyes pealed for any sign of fire.
As the thousand students stood outside cheering the men on to greater, efforts, the local firemen finally agreed that no flames could be detected. The water was turned off, the hoses rerolled, and the ladders locked back on their usual posts. In a whirl-wind of shouting, the trusty guards of property left the campus.
Theories were advanced by many as to the reason for the false alarm. One stood out as the most plausible. A quizz was being given during that period in one of the basement rooms of the library. A member of the class, knowing it was to come, and being unprepared, arranged with a confederate to call the fire company at such a time as would break up the class and prevent the holding of the test. According to the legend, the fire companies came . . . just as the quizz was completed.
Reports came from the Navy bleachers after the game last Saturday that the newly organized silent cheering went over on that afternoon with a decided bang. On Saturday, for the first time, the students in the cheering section were distinguished from those sitting around them by the white jackets that were worn by all of the silent cheerers. The jackets were a new twist in the stunt, and it is said that they added a great deal to the effect. The movements were those that had been announced before the game, namely: the spelling out of “Notre Dame” and “Navy,” the forming of the football monogram and the forming of the anchor, emblematic of the Annapolis football team.
Tim Benitz, president of the S. A. C., was very enthusiastic over the results of his labor.
“We "will have several new formations to make at the Carnegie game,”
NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB PICKED AS ONE OF
NATION’S BEST
The distinction of being picked as one of the twelve best glee clubs in America was this week accorded to the Notre Dame organization, according to an announcement received from J. Edward Phelan, manager of the club. Selected from over seventy competing schools, Notre Dame was ranked highly with the first twelve. A series of radio broadcasts over a national hook-up is to be held shortly to determine the best of the nation.
According to present plans, a series of concerts lasting a half hour each will be held during twelve consecutive weeks. The three clubs receiving the most mail applause will be the recipients of attractive cash awards, besides the large share of individual honor the title will hold. Up to the time when the Scholastic goes to press, no word has been received whether the club will be allowed to accept the offer by University officials.
he said, “which are expected to bring even more credit to the new system here.”
The changing of colors, or reversing the figures, was rather ragged but it is expected that this will be remedied in the game tomorrow. The usual stock formations will all ,be used between the half, which coupled with several new figures worked out by Benitz and his assistants, will present a colorful spectacle to visitors.
The formation of the anchor, the Navy symbol, received more plaudits -from the crowd than any of the other designs. Its execution was splendidly worked out, each man playing his part to perfection. The Notre Dame monogram, a difficult design to compose, likewise came in for its just share of the applause.
The splendid reception that the silent cheering is receiving is a good indication that it will be continued in future years.
Under the direction of Professor Joseph Casasanta, the men have been meeting with a great deal of success during the past few years, with broad- . casting as no novel affair. It will be remebered that last Spring the club attracted national attention on their triumphant eastern tour, appearing at the best conceit halls in that section of the country.
Ronald Zudeck is president of the club; Donald O’Toole, vice-president; and Edward Phelan, business manager.
S.A.C. DEDICATION DANCE ATTRACTS 300 COUPLES
More than 300 couples attended the dedication dance following the Navy game, held last Saturday in the Knights of Columbus ball-room.
The affair was sponsored by the S. A. C., who report that it was a financial as well as social success. The crowd was estimated as one of the largest that ever assembled in the K. C. ball-room.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
105
I
A Man About The Campus
It has been said that Tom Conley-had to make good at Notre Dame, because he came from Roman Catholic High in Philadelphia. Behind him were the splendid records of Joe Boland, Joe Maxwell, and Vince McNally to spur him on.
Tom is probably tired of hearing about his high school performances, but they bear repetition. In them he was guided by another Notre Dame “great,” Gene Oberst, the giant tackle and javelin thrower. Tom, as would be expected, was a star end on the football team. In 1927 at the National Catholic basketball tournament sponsored by Loyola of Chicago, Roman Catholic High took first place. Tom was on the team, and at the conclusion of the meet was named one of the all-tournament guards.
That fall he entered Notre Dame, and proved his stamina, courage, and keen mental perception by spending a year in Brownson hall. Tom was a stand-out prospect on' the frosh football squad, and easily won his numerals.
In his sophomore year he moved up to the varsity squad and won a monogram, not an easy thing for a sophomore to do at Notre Dame. He had been making good steadily all during the season, but waited until the Penn State game before the home folks in Philadelphia to exhibit his real football talent. Here he showed up as a formidable opponent at the right end position and a real threat to any school’s team in his remaining years of competition.
Last year Tom Conley justified the predictions made for his football career by playing regular* right end and holding down the post in true veteran style. He was outstanding particularly in that undefeated season for his fine work in the Southern California and Army games. This year his all-round ability should make him one of the best ends in the country. He is equally proficient at nabbing passes and ball-carriers. It is hardly necessary to inform you that this year he is captaining the team which faces the toughest schedule of any college aggregation.
But Tom has not confined his cam
pus activities to football. In his sophomore year he functioned capably as class president. For two years he has succumbed to the lure of the footlights and lent his handsome figure to the goings-on in the annual Monogram Absurdities. His early proficiency in basketball has not left him, and last year Tom won a monogram in that sport as a guard.
Tom Conley
Full details as to his private life are missing, but those who know him say that Tom is a fine fellow, and it is not hard for anyone else to guess it. For the last ten years he has been spending his summers at a boys’ camp near Philadelphia. As captain of the Notre Dame team, he is the idol of nearly every youngster who plays football, and is already receiving fan mail from young admirers. He also gets some from older admirers who should know better.
If anyone cares to know, Tom spent his second year here in Sophomore hall. Last year he roomed in Walsh, first with that sporty Kentuckian, George Spalding, and later with Nordie Hoffman. He now shares a double on the second floor annex of St. Ed’s with Nordie. He is enrolled in the physical education course, and this year is coaching the Walsh interhall team. Prospects, as the sport writers say, look bright for Walsh.
K. C, SUPREME KNIGHT TO VISIT CAMPUS
The Honorable Martin H. Carmody, Supreme Knight of the Knights of Columbus, will visit the Notre Dame campus tomorrow. According to plans arranged by Professor Ray Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance department, Mr. Carmody will meet with the officers of the council at ten o’clock Saturday morning and will meet the holders of K. of C. scholarships in Boy Guidance at ten-thirty.
Mr. Carmody’s visit is a result of a promise made this summer to Past Grand Knight Jack Chevigny of the Notre Dame council. The visit is anticipated as one of the premier events of the year by the local knights in and about Notre Dame.
The Supreme Knight and party will be the guests of Professor Hoyer at dinner in the lay faculty dining room. Following this, the group will attend the Carnegie Tech game in the afternoon.
CHESTERTON SPEAKS IN
CHICAGO OVER
WEEK-END
Last Saturday evening Gilbert Keith Chesterton spoke in Chicago on the Modern woman, war, love and rum. His trip to Chicago was sponsored by Loyola University and the lecture was given in Orchestra Hall.
The spirit of wit that has characterized the speeches in Washington hall seems also to have been present in Chicago judging from some of the remarks made. At the end of his lecture, a, youth wearing horn-rimmed glasses asked him if he did not think that woman in her present “slavery,” as the lecturer termed her fight into politics, industry and professional life, was happier than her grandmother in her freedom. Mr. Chesterton replied, “I have never been my grandmother, but I remember her as being very happy.”
In closing the famous essayist and journalist stated that women enjoyed more freedom in the ancestral position of wife, than they ever can enjoy as stenographers or social butterflies.
NOTICE!
The regular meeting of the faculty will be held Wednesday, October* 22, in Room 222 of the Administration building.
106
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SOPHOMORE COTILLION CENTERS WORK ON
TICKET SALE
A vigorous student-to-student campaign for the sale of Sophomore cotillion tickets is now in progress. The sale will continue until a week before the dance which will be held on Nov. 14 at the Palais Royale ballroom. Members of the ticket committee will visit each of the sophomores within the next few days. They are: Donald Lusardi, chairman; Donald Martin, George Meyers, Willard Higgins, William Kenefick, William MacCarthy, James Galligan, Edward Moriarity, George Reilly, Jack Kiley, Philip Ott, William Hanifin, William Hawkes, Seton Staley, Clem Kolonczyk, and Julius Kiraly. Sophomores are urged to buy their tickets as soon as possible.
Tentative arrangements are being made for the holding of a Communion breakfast. Arrangements have been made permitting students from St. Mary’s to attend this affair. Announcements as to details of this breakfast will appear in a future issue of the Scholastic.
Negotiations with several of the leading bands from Chicago and the vicinity are still in progress; however, it is probable that it will definitely be announced next week.
All efforts this week are being centered on the ticket campaign.
CONNECTICUT CLUB PLANS CHRISTMAS DANCE
On Tuesday evening the Connecticut Valley club met in the old Law building. President Dan Halpin appointed an executive committee of five members, one from each locality. They are Joseph Robinson, of Waterbury; John Carney, of Hartford; William Flahaven, of Bridgeport; Raymond Snyder, of Springfield, and John Kennedy, of New Haven. This committee is to represent the men in all parts of the Connecticut valley and cooperate with the officers of the club.
Plans for the Christmas dance to he held at Hartford were discussed and the committee members will be announced at the next meeting.
Members voted upon a banquet to ' be held within the next few weeks. Frank Murname, of Bridgeport, was put in charge of arrangements.
SPECIAL TRAIN TO BE
RUN FOR PITT GAME
*
The Pittsburgh club is running a special on the New York Central for the University of Pittsburgh game next Saturday. The train will leave the station in South Bend on Friday night, October 24, at 7:10, and will arrive in Pittsburgh at 9:30 the next morning. Those who are making the trip will be permitted to spend the week-end in Pittsburgh, and will start on the return journey at 9:30 Sunday night. They will be in South Bend at 9:55 the next morning, and the Pullmans will then be detached from the train for the benefit of those who wish to remain in them until the hour for classes.
Since the Pittsburgh game has been a sell-out for almost two weeks, the only tickets left are those in the block reserved for students who are making the trip. Each man is entitled to one ticket which he may purchase at the athletic office upon presenting his railroad ticket.
The Pittsburgh club expedition has the sanction of the University, and the Reverend Raymond Mutch, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, will allow all juniors and seniors to go on the excursion, and everyone whose home is in western Pennsylvania.
PARKING SYSTEM TO BE CONTINUED
The parking system which has been in effect over the two recent football weekends has met with apparent success. The officials of the University are pleased with the method employed in handling the traffic and the system will probably continue.
The entrance to the parking field is made through the Dore road, and the cars are lined facing Notre Dame avenue, upon which ready exit is made. This eliminates possible danger to the people who are apt to congregate in the vicinity of the postoffice and to the students and guests passing from the various halls to the stadium.
NOTICE!
The Notre Dame Press club will meet in the Journalism room of the library at 7 o’clock next Tuesday evening. All students majoring in Journalism are urged to attend.-
<•---------------------------♦
1
i College of Law
Officers and managers of the Indiana State Bar Association will be the guests of the faculty of the College of Law at a banquet this evening at seven p. m. in the faculty dining hall. The members of the Law club will also join in the banquet.
Tomorrow morning the officers and managers of the Bar Association will hold a business meeting in the new law building. In the afternoon they will be the guests of Eli F. Seebirt, prominent South Bend attorney who is a member of the board of managers of the State Bar Association representing this congressional district. They will attend the Carnegie game.
Moving of the law library into its new quarters in the new law building is nearing completion.
FREE SHOW ATTRACTS 1300 STUDENTS TO COLFAX
Yesterday the local Colfax theatre gave a free show for the students here. It was estimated by the management that over 1,300 men attended. The picture, “Monte Carlo,” with Jeanette MacDonald, is said to be one of the smartest comedies of the year.
FOOTBALL TEAM IN NEWS REEL AT GRANADA
The first of a series of a football pictures “Football with Rockne” was shown at the Granada theatre last week. The series consist of six parts and one part will be shown each week. The reels show clearly the various players and the Rockne system of football.
DINING HALLS FILLED BY VISITORS
Figures show that fifteen thousand persons, including students and visitors, were served in the University dining halls last Saturday and Sunday. This is an all time record.
The dining halls will be open to the public at all of the remaining home games this season and in the future. The east dining room is opened to the public every Saturday at noon immediately after the student meal.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
107
CARNEGIE FOOTBALL DANCE TO BE GIVEN BY THE SENIOR CLASS
William McAleer Is Chairman of "Scotch Soiree"
“Scotch Soiree” will be the name applied to the dance sponsored by the senior class after the Carnegie game. The dance will be unique and outstanding in many ways and will embrace ideas which have never before been attempted by any Notre Dame class or organization.
The K. of C. ballroom will be the place. The time is from nine o’clock to twelve o’clock tomorrow night, Saturday, October 18. Twelve-thirty permissions will be obtainable.
John F. Saunders, president of the senior class, has appointed William McAleer general chairman. Albert Maloney, 201 Sorin, is the ticket chairman, while Theodore Lee, Badin, will head the music committee. Those comprising the ticket committee are Joseph Deeb, who will canvass the residents of Badin hall, Martin Dowling and Ray Mannix, who will cover
MEETING OF INTER-HALL DEBATERS TO BE HELD
MONDAY EVENING
Chairman Frank Noll of the Wranglers inter-hall debating series has announced that there will be a meeting of all freshmen interested in forensic activity on Monday of next week. The convocation will be held in the north room of the library at a time to be announced by bulletins throughout the campus.
President J. Edward Phelan of the Wranglers will address the prospective debaters, informing them of the purpose of the contest and exhibiting । the historic Lemmer trophy which will be presented to the winner. According to Noll many excellent speakers have been arranged to talk to the freshmen who assemble at this time.
It is a known fact that the Notre Dame debating team is composed largely of men who reached their fame by means of the inter-hall debates, staged annually by the Wranglers for the new students at the University.
Lyons hall, and John McNulty and Joseph Meitzler, both of whom will take care of the off-campus sales.
The price will be $1.50 a couple. The ticket committee has been doing extensive canvassing this week.
An exceptionally good orchestra, Windy City Blue Blowers, has been obtained; this orchestra has a reputation for being one of the smartest in this section of the United States and will guarantee a good time.
In addition to the excellent music, added attractions will be witnessed by all of the people present. Louise Umble, the noted blues singer of the Carolina Cotton Pickers, as well as Dancing Ted Gravely, radio tap dancer, have been secured. Their selection and performances will be prepared specially for the “Scotch Soiree” after the Carnegie game.
MOLLER WINS MEDAL GOLF TOURNAMENT; SHOOTS
FOUR ROUNDS IN 298
Larry Moller, captain of the University golf team, won the annual medal golf tournament last Monday morning by copping his last round in which he shot a 75. Moller’s total for the four rounds was 298. Russell Beaupre was second with 301.
Beaupre was one stroke under Moller until the twelfth hole, but Moller ■ nosed him out by making it in two strokes under’ his opponent. With this advantage Moller easily coasted on to victory.
The trophy, symbolical of the victor’s accomplishment, is now being inscribed and will be placed in the club house shortly, where it will remain. The winner each year will have his name engraved on it.
The scores of the first five low scorers are as follows:
Larry Moller_____77-71-75-75—298
Russell Beaupre 77-74-72-78—301 John Montedonico 78-74-78-77—307 Francis Beaupre 77-78-77-78—310
SPALDING AND O’MALLEY READ PAPERS BEFORE
SCRIBBLERS
Papers by George Spalding and Frank O’Malley were read at the weekly meeting of the Scribblers held last Wednesday. Spalding’s paper was a short story entitled “The First Doll House,” and O’Malley’s contribution, “Minstrelsy,” was an impressionistic view of Vachel Lindsay’s poetry. Both papers caused a rather warm discussion among the members of the club, “Minstrelsy” in particular starting a sharp dispute, in which all the members took part, as to whether Lindsay was presenting a true picture of the subjects of his poetry.
At the next meeting, to be held Wednesday, October 22, at 6:30 p. m., papers will be read by Frank E. Seward and Louis Brennan.
Emil L. Telfel, president of the club, announces that applications for membership are still being received. They should be sent to Louis Brennan, secretary, 245 Corby hall, along with two papers (short stories, essays, criticisms, plays, or poems) as evidences of literary ability.
UNIVERSITY HAS LARGE ENROLLMENT
Mr. Robert Riordan, registrar of the University, announces that the final registration figures have been compiled. To date the records indicate a total enrollment of 3132 students, 80 of whom are seminarians and brothers. This shows an increase of four students more than last year’s number in spite of the fact that the officials of the University had tried to limit the registration to 2,800.
CLEVELAND CLUB HOLDS INITIAL BANQUET
The Cleveland club held its first banquet of the year Thursday, Oct. 9, at the Lasalle hotel. A large crowd was on hand to welcome the freshman members of the club. After the dinner Professor Daniel O’Grady spoke briefly and pointedly.
Substituting for John Beljon, entertainer at Cleveland club banquets in past years who was graduated last June, was Joseph Straus, freshman pianist.
The freshmen elected Robert Butler to be their representative during the coming year.

108
The Notre Dame Scholastic
« Music And Drama »
David Belasco announces “Veiled Eyes” as his third production this year, the first two being “DancingPartner” and “Tonight or Never.” The-theme of “Dancing Partner” is “To seduce or not to seduce,” and what do you think “Tonight or Never” sounds like? Too bad, that a man with the genius of Mr. Belasco will not produce a play which has no bedroom scene, or its equivalent. Last year, Faith Baldwin’s novel The Broadway Interhide so satirized Mr. Belasco and this characteristic we mentioned that no actor on Broadway would undertake to play the role in the dramatization of the book. All of which seems to point out the fact that Mr. Belasco still reigns along the White Way, either because off or in spite of the sex-appeal of his plays. We don’t mean that there is anything wrong in sex-appeal, but when a man consistently produces only such plays he deserves the high place he holds in the annals of the American stage.
Watch for “Body and Soul,” a song sensation coming from London and Paris. Mystery has surrounded it for some time, but a few copies have finally reached our fair shores. Libby Holman, of “Moanin’ Low” fame, is to use it in Three’s a Crowd . . . Another tune sure to be popular is the tango, “I Still Love Her,” introduced by Rudy Vallee, whose knack of “making” a song as well as foj- wearing it out you have without doubt noticed . . . The best sellers around New York are: “If I Could Be With You One Hour ToNight,” “Confession,” and “Go Home and Tell Your Mother.” . . . We hear that the score for Just Imagine is a knockout. It’s by De Sylva,
MORRISSEY ADDRESSES
BOY GUIDANCE MEN
William D. Morrissey, director of Boys’ Work for the Archdiocese of Cincinnati, addressed the Boy Guidance students at Notre Dame on Thursday 'morning, on the work of his department.
Brown, and Henderson, who gave us Good News, Follow Thru, Hold Everything, Sunny Side Up, and numerous others . . . Colleen Moore starts behind the footlights in On the Loose. We only hope that the show is not as moronic as Miss Moore usually is . . . The year’s high spot in idiotic exrav-aganza — “Madam Satan.” Cecil B. De Mille has returned to the days when he made a clothes-horse out of Gloria Swanson. For the first half of “Madam Satan” he had a plot, but suddenly must have said, “There isn’t enough to this. We need more of everything!” Naturally, fifty million “Yes”-men did their duty. Here the scene shifted to the Zeppelin (1975 model), and Cecil went on a rampage, finally using some of the lightning left over from “The Ten Commandments” to wreck the Zep. Some day, Mr. De Mille, you will learn the value of simplicity.
Paul Whiteman has recorded for Columbia “Nola” and “Tiger Rag.” You have heard the tunes many times already, but there is superb piano in “Nola.” Also for Columbia is Ruth Etting singing “Don’t Tell Her What’s Happened To Me” and “The Kiss Waltz.” We liked “The Kiss Waltz” better, but when you hear her sing “D. T. H. W. H. T. M.”, you’ll know that the amorous pensiveness of Miss Etting still takes first place. She changes the “her” to “him,” by the way, if that’s of any importance. Another young lady just as well known as Ruth Etting is Aileen Stanley, who records “Wasn’t It Nice?” and “I’ll Be Blue Thinking of You” for Victor. For the same company Ted Weems plays “Sing” and “I’ll Get a Thrill,” and does a nice job of it.
Mr. Morrissey graduated in Boy Guidance in 1926 and has been identified with Catholic boy work in Cinci-nati during the past four years.
While at Notre Dame, Mr. Morrissey was a well known figure around the campus because of his ability as an entertainer and singer. He served as a member of the Blue Circle in 1925-26.
DREUX ELECTED TO HEAD LE CERCLE FRANCAIS
Le Cercle Francais, French Club of the University, for several years inactive, was reorganized last Tuesday, under the supervision of its director, Reverend Conrad Hoffman. At the first meeting, attended by about 25 students of advanced French, Dreux, Michael O’Hara and Fred McBeth were elected president, vicepresident and secretary, respectively, and Father Hoffman explained the nature and purpose of the club. As two credit hours in French are offered for attendance, procedure will naturally be academic in nature,' and according to Father Hoffman, the Bur-litzer or direct teaching method will be used; no English will be spoken at any time during the meetings. The club will meet on Mondays at 4:30 p. m. in room 222 of the Main building during October and November, and later an evening hour will be appointed.
NEW CLASSICAL SOCIETY
MAKES PLANS FOR YEAR
The regular meeting of the new classical association at Notre Dame will be held shortly, according to word received from officers. The organization, newly founded on this campus, has for its purpose the promotion of an interest in the classics here.
Although its membership will consist chiefly of advanced students in the department of the classics, membership is also open to those who, while not pursuing a classical course, manifest a sincere interest in the matter.
A list of topics for talks at the meetings has been prepared by association officers. They include such subjects as “The Value of Commentaries; Ancient Scholia; The Lives, Literary Moods, Influences, and Literary Technique of the Ancient Greek and Latin Writers; Modem Literature and Its Classical Background.”
The philanthropic activities of the association will be chiefly concerned with the formation of a classical library and with the ornamentation of the classical seminar room. An effort will also be made to 0 assist students majoring in the classics by securing the books and materials necessary for their study, which the library does not possess.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
109
STADIUM DEDICATED LAST FRIDAY
EVENING IN BLAZE OF GLORY
Father O’Donnell, Admiral Robison and Rockne Give Talks
Notre Dame’s new stadium went through its dedication ceremonies under a glare of floodlights last Friday night, with the entire student body and a host of guests from South Bend and other places as spectators.
Professor Clarence Manion of the Law school served as toastmaster. He spoke briefly and apologized for having nothing to say but added that his usual type of address would be out of place amid the dignity of the occasion.
Coach Rockne was the first speaker introduced by Professor Manion. On behalf of the University, Mr. Rockne welcomed the Navy to Notre Dame and expressed the pleasure of the Administration and of the students in having the Navy for the dedication game. He spoke of the wonderful work of the service institution in training men for the defense of the nation.
Rear Admiral S. S. Robison, superintendent of the U. S. Naval Academy expressed the gratitude of the Navy in being asked to come and help Notre Dame dedicate her new stadium. He went on to say that “the Navy feels that it is a great honor-and privilege to be permitted to as-
College of Arts and
Letters
Freshman Convocations
Immediately after the quarterly examinations a series of convocations • for freshmen in the College of Arts and Letters will be held in Washington hall. The precise days and hours will be announced later. Specially selected members of the faculty will give brief addresses at these assemblies on those subjects the knowledge of which will be of especial interest and value to the young men beginning their college course. While attendance of all liberal arts freshmen will be required, it is hoped that freshmen from other colleges may also be able to attend. A further announcement on this subject will be made in the near future.
sist Notre Dame in his dedication of her stadium and to meet her splendid football team which is composed of such fine sportsmen.”
The Very Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, concluded the ceremonies with an eloquent address in which he recalled to the minds of his audience the memory of George Gipp and' told the stirring ancedote of Gipp’s last game against the Army.
The entire ceremonies were marked by the explosion of multi-colored bombs over the stands. Amplifiers carried the voices of the speakers to the crowd. A march around the campus by the students, led by the University band, preceded the ceremonies. As each hall was reached the residents fell into line. When the stadium was reached, cheers were given for almost anyone of whom the cheerleaders could think, Gilbert Keith Chesterton in particular receiving a rousing ovation when he took his place in one of the front row seats. Mr. Chesterton bowed his acknowledgement.
All arrangements for the exercises were in charge of the Student’s Activities and the Blue Circle.
STADIUM CONCESSIONS
REPORT LARGE SALES
With over seventy-five students employed in the labor of distributing hot dogs, peanuts, and more or less ice cold pop to the forty thousand at the Navy game, officials of the stadium concession report that top sales were recorded. The concessions at the new stadium are held by Bruyn and Neuberger of Chicago, reputed to be one of the largest caterers in the country.
More than $25,000.00 have been invested in the enterprise, which includes an agreement to hold prior right on all football game concessions for five years. Eight booths, four inside and four outside the grounds, at present represent the investment of the company.
NEW LATIN COURSE TO BE
OFFERED NEXT YEAR
A new course, to be called Latin 8 is to be established at the University next year according to an announcement made by the Reverend Peter E. Hebert, C.S.C., head of the department of Ancient Languages. A tentative program of study has already-been prepared by the department. In a large measure, however, the suggestions of the present students of Latin 7 will be followed.
The course will be purely cultural. It will not follow the old system of slavish translation and will be concerned mainly with the philology- of the classics. The history- and background of the various authors will come under the careful scrutiny of the students.	’
About twenty-five seniors are expected to enroll in the course as it fills a long felt need at the University.
TWO ALUMNI MARRIED IN LOG CHAPEL
Two Notre Dame graduates were married last Saturday in the Log Chapel. At nine o’clock Clarence J. Kaiser, ’25, was married to Miss Barbara Fleishman of Grand Rapids. Ed Ahlering of Hammond and a classmate of Mr. Kaiser acted as best man. The bride was attended by Miss Margaret Nolan of Grand Rapids. The ceremony was performed by Reverend Edward Finnegan, C.S.C., pastor of the Sacred Heart Church.
Mr. Kaiser and his bride will travel through Canada on their honeymoon. After their return they will make their home in South Bend where Mr. Kaiser holds the position of chief chemist with the O'Brien Varnish Company.
At 10:00 a. m. Arthur K. Sullivan, ’26, of Moravia, N. Y. was married to Miss Adlora M. Maze, ’25, of St. Paul, Minn., a graduate of the University of Minnesota. James Mulvaney of Auburn, N. Y. who will graduate in January acted as best man. The bridesmaid was her sister, Miss W. Mary Maze who graduated from Minnesota in 1927. Reverend Alan Heiser, C.S.C., performed the ceremony.
The bride and groom took a motor trip east to see the parents of Mr. Sullivan. After November 1 they will be at home in St. Paul where Mr. Sullivan is connected with the Royal Indemnity Insurance Company.
110
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE WINE ♦
Let’s have a dirge For Joe McMope. He kept on saying, “What’s the dope?"
Pardon, people. We’ve been affected by the conversation of the worldly Brownsonite who sat opposite us in the street car last Sunday. He had lived life to the full on a twelve o’clock “per”, and all we could do was to chew our finger-nails and listen to him.
QUICK WINKS
Indian summer . . . Everything in a haze, including us in ethics class . . . The Sunday school picnic atmosphere of the campus over the week-end . . . The Annual Firemen’s ball atmosphere of the hotels . . . Loyal, but befuddled synthetic alumni giving the Upton yell . . . Frank Wallace, College Humor’s son of old New Dominion . . . And loyal son-in-law of Jaundice . . . “From Denmark to Notre Dame” . . . Don’t boast, Mr. Rockne. You know very well we’ve got them here all the way from Brooklyn . . . Warren Brown’s write-up of the Navy game and the press box rush for sandwiches in the Sunday Her-Ex. . . . The Chesterton interview in the Chicago Daily News in which the doughty defender of the Victorians commends us “for displaying the same robust endurance under my lectures that has distinguished them on the gridiron.” . . . The Calumet club finally having a meeting . . . Walgreen’s sidewalk customers still being bored with the passing throng . . . Fellows inside admiring the soda-jerker’s two-and-a-half back somersaults with the malted milk cans . . . This column traveling with the Bergan expedition to darkest Mishawaka Monday afternoon . . . And returning only to find the bed stolen out of his room by supposedly civilized suite-mates ... If we get a cold, it’ll be from sleeping with our head in the sink ... It was just like camping in the open, lulled to sleep by the fall of drowsy waters from a leaky water-faucet.
AUTUMN
Leaves are turning red and gold, Days are long and nights are cold. Ripe the nuts and full the com, Blue the plums—all in the bam. Rosy, red-cheeked apples gay, Put away till winter’s day. These all tell us, oh, so plain, That October’s here again.
—Portland Lassie.
Well, that brings in almost everything anybody could think of on the subject and just about blights the rest of our fall poetry crop. But we like it anyway, even if the only letters we get next week are from people complaining that plums aren’t put in the barn. We note only the omission of a pumpkin, but we suppose it would be too easy to rime that with drunken and go on loosely speaking of nuts full of corn. And then where would this column be? Inny alley, ’at’s where it’d be. Not even sittin’ onna coib, see? Right inny alley. Annen a babe comes along in a big Packard, see, an’ we ups to her an’ says ....
BUGLES
(With apologies to Marie Louise Raische)
I dream my dreams when the lights blaze high,
I dream to sound of woe.
I sing my songs when the earth is shrill
And the sea moans dangerous low.
When the trees are smashed as by lightning flash
And war-winds have set to blow—
IF/iCJi the roads are shadowed by hidden guns
That aiuait their turn to go.
When the dust blows high and the lovely brook
With blood shall be made to flow,
And keep on running down the hill—
Then I hope my soul shall go,
And crash on out with one of my songs
When the bugles commence to bloiu.
—Michael Lindon.
For “Bugles” we are indebted to the same author whose poem was an unexpected feature of the Comment column two weeks ago.’ Such persistency should get this up-and-coming poet into bigger and better columns all the time. Perhaps we should revive the Scholastic’s literary section for him.
I
Two weeks ago our registrar received a letter from the Epsilon chapter of Beta Pi, the national chess fraternity. From it he learned that the chess team at Ohio State, formed from members of the University Chess club, would like to match wits with us for an evening. They hope that the season of 1930-31 will find our schools chess rivals and that they eagerly await our answer. Now in the first place we can’t imagine chess players eagerly ' awaiting anything. An eager chess player is as unheard of as a fly with hiccups. And besides, there’s entirely too much to do right now without running around holding pep meetings for the chess team and sending it off to the Army game.
Our situation is precarious. In the fourth week of our existence we are already fighting with our backs to the wall. If we don’t get contributions soon we’ll have to effect a merger with the “College Parade” and turn over all our dots to “On Down the Line”. Don’t bother about giving us a name now. The time for fooling is past. Dig your poetry out of the trunk and send it in. This means you, you big sissy.	?????
i-
88
The Notre Dame Scholastic
111
IIIMI'J PAGE
J
SILENT CHEERING
In the news section of the Scholastic mention is made of the fact that the silent cheering at the past two games was well received. We, too, liked it. It was a spectacular sight and rightly deserved the praise of the visitors.
But, though silent cheering in itself is well worth watching, we are strongly against it. Many distinguished visitors come to see our games. We are sure they do not enjoy being pelted with colored cards during the course of the game. What must they think of Notre Dame courtesy? What is the impression they gather of Notre Dame men?
The S. A. C. deserves credit for the work they are doing, but while basking in the reflected glory of a well-done accomplishment, they should be ready to take all the censure that accompanies every deed. If they organize silent cheering they should make it a point to see that it IS organized.
But after all, just what does silent cheering add to the game? The stunts are enacted during the half, and only one side of the stadium can appreciate what is being done. The other half are probably out getting sandwiches and soft drinks. Besides, the space occupied by the silent cheering section could be utilized for a better purpose. There is the injustice of depriving the seniors of the seats which are rightly theirs, and would be were it not for this bit of effort on the part of the S. A. C. We have noticed, too, one evil effect of silent cheering. Since the advent of this—shall we call it new sport?—the vocal cheering section seems to have lost its power.
There are some students who will say that silent cheering has been a great success on the west coast. True, but they do not throw their cards away, and pull their stunts not only at the half, but all during the game. Then, too, silent cheering seems to us to be too sophomoric, too “collegiate”, too movie-like. People are more interested in the football game than in silent cheering. Furthermore, at an athletic contest vocal appreciation is always better than mute admiration.	A. E. G.
ON YOUR WAY, RUDY
Perhaps we are being previous, and it may be that no one has ever thought of such a thing, but it’s too late to lock the bars of college songs after their melodies have been violated by every jazz band in the nation. The name of Notre Dame, always colorful, traditional—has been teamed with her songs, “The Victory March” and “The Hike Song”. Their music sounds spirited and significant when played by Casasanta’s boys. But Maine, we have heard, once had a “Stein Song”.
Fill the steins to dear old Maine! To the trees, to the squirrels, to Rudy Vallee and his megaphone!
Recently Mr. Vallee tried to capitalize on the name and music of fair Harvard. Admitting that he had done an excellent job of corrupting the chant of her New England neighbor, Harvard told Mr. Vallee to go back to Maine, or wherever the haven of money-mad music-maes-tros may be.
Anchors aweigh! My boys, anchors aweigh!
And Navy is in danger of losing one of her splendid hymns. Losing it to a flock of silly saxophone-sobbers, and even sillier dancing debutantes
Perhaps it’s melodramatic to cry, “Keep the ‘Victory March’.” But it is Notre Dame, and has been since 1908, when Mr. Vallee and his colleagues were scampering about in knickerbockers, instead of robin’s-egg-blue roadsters. In these days of card-board Victrola records, “Betty Co-ed”, and toasts that are drunk once again, a college song hasn’t a chance.
Viva the “Victory March”! Viva Rudy! But don’t forget that Maine once had a “Stein Song”.
Fill the steins to blah, blah, blah!
In other words, the “Victory March” should not be cheapened by allowing it be played by every jazz-band in the country.
P. -J. H.
112
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COLLEGE PALACE
A column in the Syracuse Daily Orange given over to campus comments in anticipation of Mr. G. K. Chesterton’s visit there in December advises students at Syracuse to read as many of Mr. Chesterton’s books as possible, in order to better appreciate his coming lectures. Because of some tragic misunderstandings here, freshmen and sophomores feel they are not able to go to the lectures, and there are not enough juniors and seniors of the more intellectual type to fill more than the first floor. Hence, Mr. Chesterton speaks to an empty balcony practically five evenings a week.
At the University of Colorado moves are being made to supply co-eds with silver hats and men with gold hats to put color in the student stands at football games. With the doctor’s j'ackets the cheering section here wears, and »vith some cheer leaders I have seen decked out in trousers of one pink colored leg and one orchid colored, I wonder if the whole world is getting “that way.”
(against Ohio State) make me more strongly your supporter.” It seems they did close up for Oklahoma A. and M. and held them to a 7-7 tie. I would suggest they keep right on closing up so that when they meet one of the nation’s best later in the season, they won’t be tired of opening up.
The Beanpot, humorous magazine of Boston university, cannot keep an editor. For some time no editor has lasted more than two months. Considering the fact that the last editor of the magazine (who j'ust resigned) succeeded in printing Groucho Marx’s article on “Beds” before it appeared in College Humor for this month, I am not at all surprised.
Smith college women may smoke during a half hour period following each meal. When visitors appeal- the girls may smoke in rooms set aside for that purpose.
I hear that at Northwestern they have what might be termed photographs in student A. A. books too. The “Funny Fellow” the other day suggested thumb-prints as a new wrinkle.
The Broiun and White of Lehigh university prints a fast one. A gentleman plays four years of football at Lafayette university. He then goes to St. Thomas and plays two years there. The second year he meets some of his former teammates across the line, still playing for Lafayette, yet Lafayette gets real mad and is making plans to break off athletic relations with St. Thomas. The thing I can’t understand is: all this is going on in the state of Pennsylvania, and the Carnegie report last year didn’t say a word about either of the two colleges.
A short time ago a student at the Colorado School of Mines was killed in a duel. Although the man was a native of Mexico, I fear his opponent was not, and they do not have classes in dueling at Mines.
Colorado college, Colorado Springs, is having a hard time finding j'obs for its football men. Some of the team are threatened with a park bench and a bread line unless they quit football and go to work. Years ago the lads used to stay in Colorado Springs and “work” the Indian summer visitors for their winter allowances. (Ed. Note: That is, the summer allowances of the Indians became the winter ditto of the students.) The Indians still go there but the boys find times much harder than they used to be.
Ohio State university is making a drive for a chess conference among the schools in the middle west. If there are any young men about the campus who would like to take up their boards and walk, Ohio State will take them in if they can play chess. Imagine Notre Dame having a national championship in chess .... Now one at a time, please ....
“Close up. Everybody. Close up and march down the line . . .” says the president of Indiana university to the football team. Fifteen minutes of reverses on Saturday
Syracuse university has a sophomore vigilance committee. While all this talk about vigilance is going on around here, we might mention that the sophomores are a pretty tough lot to get along with and we should know when we’re well off.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
113
THE PRIDE OF THE LAWYERS
New Law Building Most Imposing on Campus
By William Corr and Myron Crowford
Viam veritatis elegi;
Indicia tua non sum oblitus.
WITH the dedication of the new Law building on Tuesday, Notre Dame men can point with pardonable pride to the first achievement in a varied extensive building plan. Shaded by the trees along Notre Dame avenue, this edifice does not bow even to the imposing magnificence of the new stadium.
Structure Impressive in Size
It would take 262 people linked arm-in-arm to circle this building. Alex Wilson would require about fifty-two seconds to complete two and one-half circuits of the building, which would be somewhat more than a quarter mile. It fronts along Notre Dame avenue, set back 50 feet from the car line, a distance of 157 feet, 7 inches. Along Dorr road and set back fifty feet, the building runs 105 feet, 1 inch. At the southwest corner a tower rears its cross into the sky to a height of 78 feet. The rest of the structure is 56 feet high. Picture if you can, a fly crawling up the tower from the ground, without making any stops and traveling at a rate of three feet per minute. He would take 26 minutes to get up. After a rest to cool off from his exertions and to survey the scenery, he now would come down the other side of the building at the increased speed of four feet per minute and again reach solid ground in just 14 minutes from the time he left the roof.
Interior Decorated by Seals
Exploring the interior by way of the north door, we are met by the three last verses of Psalm 118, as used in the Holy Office on Prime Sunday. They are seen in Latin at the beginning of this article and are translated as follows by the Reverend Paul D. Doherty, C.S.C.
The way of Truth I have chosen; Thy judgments I have not forgotten.
Underneath this verse is found the seal of Gratian, the founder of the science of canon law. Upon entering we see the seal of the Blessed Thomas More, famous English statesman who was martyred for his religion. When
the second floor is reached the eye beholds a great variety of seals and inscriptions. Far over head is a statue of Christ the King.
Directly below this imposing figure is the seal of Pope Innocent III. This great canonist occupied the Papal See from 1198 until 1216. During this time he held more power than any othei- man before him or after him has ever enj'oyed. On the left of this seal is that of Cardinal Gasparri, the present Papal Secretary of State and one of the greatest canonists of all time, as was shown by his negotiations with Mussolini during the recent settlement of the confusion between Church and State in Italy. To the right of these two seals is that of Robert, Cardinal Hellerman, the eminent Jesuit canonist.
Over the doorway leading to the dean’s office is the seal of St. Francisco de Vitoria, the Dominican theologian and exponent of canon law. Opposite this seal and over the door leading to the other offices on the north side of the second floor, there appears a seal bearing a scroll on which are written the words, “Fert, Fert, Fert,” which could not be explained by such experts on heraldrjr as Reverend Peter E. Hebert, C.S.C., oi" Reverend Paul D. Doherty, C.S.C.
Names of Ten Lawyers Inscribed
Over Library Entrance
Entering the reading room we find over the north door the names of ten great English and American j'urists of recent times. Sir William Blackstone, the great English j'urist, who lived from 1723 to 1780, heads the list. Joseph Chitty, who lived from 1776 until 1841, is the only other English lawyer’ whose name appears. Two great Supreme Court j'ustices head the list of American men of law. John Marshall, who lived from 1755 until 1835 is the most famous of these. However he does not dim the fame of Roger Brooke Taney, who lived from 1777 until 1864 and who occupied the position of Chief Justice after the death of John Marshall. Thomas McIntyre Cooley is another American j'urist whose name appears in this illustrious company. A former governor of Massachusetts, Christo
pher Gore, also is a well-known figure in American jurisprudence. James Kent was an eminent contemporary of John Marshall. John N. Pomeroy was a recognized authority on legal matters during the latter part of the nineteenth century. Edward G. Ryan who was bom in Ireland in 1810, but early removed to America to become a j'ustice of the Supreme Court before his death in 1880, is also remembered here. Joseph Story who was an associate Justice of the Supreme Court, was a contemporary of Joseph Chitty and occupies the same position in America that Chitty does in England.
Seals in Library
Flanking these illustrious names are the seals of two great canonists, Popes Gregory IX and Boniface VIII. The reason for placing the seals of these great canonists in a building devoted to civil law is easily explained. At the time that these men held their power the Church and the State were one and the same, instead of separate entities as they are now. All the great canon lawyers of those times were great civil lawyers as well, since the spiritual and temporal power were united under one head.
At the south end of the reading room, grouped over the doorway, are the names of the foui- Evangelists. These illustrious men were examples of the greatest legal minds of all time. Set high above these names is the outline of a shield still left blank which is to contain the coat-of-arms of the University.
Leaving by the main door and casting one look back at the Building the Papal seal and that of the United States are seen immediately over the door. They form a fitting entrance to one of the most beautiful law schools in the country.
These seals were previously cast by the Architectural Stone Company and then mounted in the building. The materials for the building include non-staining white Portland cement, “Persian” colored brick and Indiana Limestone. The general contractor for the work was Ralph Sollitt & Sons of South Bend and Chicago. The architects were Maginnis & Walsh of Boston.
i.
me Scholastic
CAMPUS CLUES
First of the clubs on the campus to announce the committees for its Christmas dance is the METROPOLITAN club. Richard Barber is general chair-man of the affair. Under him are the following chairmen: William O’Brien, music; Frank Kosky, hall; John Foley, patrons; James Ward, entertainment; William Lynch, program; J. Marshall McAveny, decorations; and John Hoyt, floor. Under these men plans for the dance are taking shape.
At its meeting last week the METROPOLITAN club voted upon the question of electing a freshman vice-president. The motion was carried and the new officer-will be elected at the next meeting.
Also discussed was a projected testimonial banquet for Frank Carideo and Ed Kosky, New York men on the varsity football team. Last year the club held a banquet for Captain John Law here on the campus. It has not yet been decided whether this year’s banquet will be held on the campus or in New York.
HIT THAT LINE!
The line we’re talking about is the line-
up along Walgreen’s soda fountain, for
those thick creamy “malteds” and the
spicy kokas served there. And, say!
. . chocolate sundaes, covered with
that .rich, slow-pouring syrup that call
for one or more encores.
For the first time since its failure to reorganize in 1928, the CINCINNATI club held a meeting last week. Present were 22 men, among them 12 freshmen. The election of officers was the principal business of the meeting. Elected were William J. Cassidy, president; Clarence Brink, secretary; and J. E. Madden, treasurer. Another meeting will be held in a short time to decide upon a constitution and to make plans for the coming year.
In 1927 the CINCINNATI club had 15 members; in 1928 only 13. In the latter year- a ruling was put into effect that clubs might not organize unless they had 15 members or over. Realizing that there were many new Cincinnati men on the campus, J. E. Madden, treasurer of the club, called the meeting which again brought the club into being.
e
35c size Peau Doux
SHAVING CREAM
with purchase of
Guaranteed
SHAVING BRUSH
Specially qq
Priced O7C
At its second meeting of the year on Tuesday, October 7, the INDIANAPOLIS club had present only about 25 of its 45 members. A projected banquet or smoker was discussed but nothing definite was decided.
Planning to win the title of “most active campus club,’’ the BUFFALO club at its last meeting decided upon the banquet held yesterday evening at the Oliver hotel. Other business at the meeting on October 9 was the election of a freshman representative. The first year men chose Norman Wietig.
Club Secretary Anthony Brick wishes all men who live in the vincinity of Buffalo to join the club. Prospective members should communicate with Secretary Brick, the president, John Haussel, the vice-president, Paul Haag, or with John Travers, club treasurer.
WALGREEN CO
Drugs with a Reputation
Guest of the WEST VIRGINIA club at its banquet last night was Francis Wallace, Notre Dame man, West Virginian, and author of Huddle, the football story based on Notre Dame life now running in College Humor. After the dinner at the Rose Marie tea room, Mr. Wallace addressed the members of the club. He was at Notre Dame for many years gathering material for his story. This fact made his observations especially interesting to the West Virginia men. William Davis was in charge of arrangements for the banquet.
3,
The Notre Dame Scholastic
115
♦ SPOKTS ♦
Notre Dame Faces High Hurdle In Tartans
Carnegie Tech Looms Strong With Fighting Irish {Gloomy.
THE Fighting Irish are still in their stride. They have taken the first two hurdles safely, just nicking the initial one and going over the second with comparative ease. Tomorrow the third and all important obstacle will be drawn out on the Notre Dame gridiron.
Fighting Tartans are these Carnegie Tech Skibos, and they are reputed to be bigger, tougher, and more powerful than ever this year. They have on the lineup practically the entire 1928 team which twisted Notre Dame’s tradition of an unblemished home ground for 23 years standing into a 27 to 7 loss, making it the second loss at home in old Cartier’s history.
Carnegie Loss Nil
The 7 to 0 victory of last year was a partial assuagement of the injury administered by the Plaid in 1928, but whereas Notre Dame’s powerful team of last year lost its line, the Carnegie Tech lineup is almost intact from 1929.
Among the Tartans back this year who made football history in 1928 against the Fighting Irish are Captain John Dreshar, guard; Highberg-er, tackle; Ducanis, center; Rosenzweig and Latham Flanagan, ends; McCurdy, quarterback; Eyth, halfback; and Karcis, fullback. Several newcomers have shown up well, including George Keval, so talented a passer and runner that he has beaten out of a first string position Thayer Flanagan, a regular in 1928. Joe Morbito is battling with Bull Karcis for the supremacy of the fullback division.
Speed, Deception, Pozver
Coach Wally Steffan has his usual preponderance of speed, deception,
and sheer man power which characterized his teams of the past two years. The fact that the Skibos waded through Georgia Tech, 31 to 0, last Saturday without uncovering a thing, stamps the Tartans as a great ball club.
Knute Rockne, fairly confident up to the present, said this week, “We’re scared dizzy of Carnegie. This is sincere. Our team has been coming along as well as expected, but doesn’t begin to stack up with Wally Steffan’s boys.”
Bill Alexander, head coach of Georgia Tech, exclaimed after his team’s defeat that they met Carnegie with an outside chance of a win. “Georgia Tech left Pittsburgh with an idea that Carnegie Tech is as good a football team as it has ever played,” he finished.
And mind you Notre Dame’s na-
FIGHTING IRISH SINK NAVY EASILY IN DEDICATION GAME
Send Navy Dreadnaught Down Under 26 to 2 Defeat.
THEY wanted to call it Rockne Stadium, but the “old master” said no. They wanted to honor him as he should be honored, but he wouldn’t accept their homage. So they honored him with touchdowns instead, four of 'em, that swept the best that the United States Naval Academy could offer before them, and dedicated the great, new Notre Dame Stadium in truly fitting style, with a 26-2 victory.
The great Fighting Irish grid machine was “hot.” There’s no doubt about that. It was smooth; it was polished. Led by the galloping giant, Joe Savoldi, they outclassed the fighting midshipmen in every department of the game and showed the 45,000
tional championship team of 1929 played and defeated Georgia Tech!
McCurdy Fine Passer
Of McCurdy, Alexander said, “He is an ideal quarterback. McCurdy mixed in straight line plays and end runs with reverses and double reverses at precisely the right moment. In addition he is the best passer I have seen in a couple of years.”
Karcis is a bull both on offense and defense. When he hits them they stay put for a few plays. The only time he was pummelled at all during the Georgia Tech game occurred when one of the halfbacks started about ten yards back and butted Karcis as he came tearing through.
Steffan has in addition to his well rounded running and forward passing attack a very fine lateral pass combination which will be no end of trouble to the Fighting Irish.
spectators that filled the great bowl the proper way to dedicate a stadium.
Sailors No Match
Uncle Sam’s sailors were obviously no match for the Notre Dame first team, who scored at will, but they battled fairly even with the shock troops, with the exception of the fourth quarter, when “Cappy” Kaplan cut loose with a pair- of forty yard runs that resulted in a touchdown for the second stringers.
The result of the game was never in doubt. Notre Dame tallied twice in the second quarter, and once each in the third and fourth. Navy’s lone score came late in the game and was chalked against the third team.
The initial touchdown came after the Notre Dame first team was in the game four minutes. It was a colorful feat, and was the result of per-
(Continued on Page 124)
116
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CROSS-COUNTRY MEN
ELECT GENE HOWREY
Eugene E. Howrey, a junior in the department of physical education, was elected to the captaincy of the varsity cross-country team for the 1930 season at a meeting held last Thursday. Only those men who were awarded
Gene Howrey Cross-Country Captain minor monograms for cross-country at the end of the 1929 season were eligible to vote, and these four harriers rewarded Gene for his sterling work of the past year.
This marks the second consecutive year in which the Blue and Gold thin-lies have been led by a Junior. Last season Joe Quigley received the honor after but one year of competition and
STATISTICS OF THE GAME
First Downs:
Notre .Dame, 12.
Navy, 7.
Yds. Gained From Scrimmage: • Notre Dame, 352.
Navy, 64.
Forward Passes:
Notre Dame, 2 completed of 10 tried for 66 yards.
Navy, 6 completed of 19 tried for 69 yards.
Average Punts: • Notre Dame, 30 yards.
Navy, 37 yards.
Penalties:
Notre Dame, 75 yards.
Navy, 15 yards.
now he is being succeeded by another third year man.
Despite the fact that he has but one year of varsity competition behind him. Howery cannot be considered lacking in experience. Even before entering Notre Dame he had established a reputation for himself as a distance runner in southern Illinois, where his home, Danville, is located.
Gene earned his varsity insignia as a two-miler on Coach Nicholson’s track team last winter. He is one of the hardest workers out for the team and shows the result of his labors each season by being the first member of the team to get into condition.
TECH TEAM PRACTICES
IN ELKHART TO-DAY
Carnegie Tech’s football squad dropped off at Elkhart this morning on their way to Notre Dame and will be quartered this evening at Hotel Elkhart. The Skibos stayed in Elkhart before playing Notre Dame two years ago at Cartier field.
Arrangements had been made for a closed drill at the Rice athletic field in Elkhart this afternoon. About 12:30 to-morrow afternoon Studebaker busses will convey the players to the Notre Dame stadium where they will dress, making their appearance on the field at approximately 1:40.
MANAGERIAL DUTIES
IMPORTANT FACTORS
For the past few weeks football has been paramount in campus discussions. But curiously enough, everyone seems to forget the important part the managerial system plays in making the games, both at home and abroad, successes. ■
The managers plan and perform every detail in the handling of all varsity, freshman and interhall teams. It is they who are responsible for the smoothness and precision so essential in caring for the mammoth crowds which have thronged the stadium during the past two weeks.
Then, there is the visiting team to be taken care of. Bourke Motsett, senior manager in charge of visiting teams, has been working like the proverbial Trojan playing host to' S. M. U. and the Navy. Both teams were lavish with praise for the courteous and sincere treatment they received during their stay at the University.
Tomorrow Carnegie Tech’s band of Tartans must be looked after by Mot-sett.
The reserves, too, must be taken care of and their two longest trips,
Bourke
Motsett
Host to
Visiting Teams
Nashville, Tenn, and Seton Hall, N. J. ■will be under the direction of the junior managers.
Special notice should be given also to the Ushers club which, under the leadership of Dan Halpin, senior manager, handled the thousands who flocked to the stadium with an ease and .deftness that bespoke careful planning and numerous drills.
Summing it all up it seems rather thoughtless of the spectators to sit smugly in the stands never thinking of the thousand and one important details that were taken care of by the managers; and which if not done in the proper manner would cause quite an amount of distraction and discomfort.
PROBABLE LINE-UP TOMORROW
Notre Dame	Carnegie Tech	
Kosky	LE	Rosenzweig
Culver	LT	Highberger
Kassis	LG	Dreshar (c)
Yarr	C	Ducanis
Metzger	RG	Burzio
Kurth	RT	Fletcher
Conley (c)	RE	L. Flanagan
Carideo	QB	McCurdy
Schwartz	LH	Eyth
Brill	RH	Kavel
Savoldi	FB	Karcis
Shock Troops:		O’Brien, left
end; Hoffman, left tackle; Greene, left guard; Rodgers, center; Kerjes, right guard; Donoghue, right tackle; Mahoney, right end; Koken, left half; O’Connor, right half; Howard, fullback; Jaskwich, quarterback. •
❖------------——— -------------
The Notre Dame Scholastic
117
INTRODUCING
Captain John O’Brien
AST June, following Notre Dame’s victory over the Navy at Annapolis, in which Coach John P. Nicholson’s track
squad closed the most successful season in Notre Dame track history, the team met in the locker-room and elected John J. O’Brien captain for the 1931 season.
For two seasons Johnny has been one of the most consistently brilliant performers any coach could hope to have on his team, and no one on the squad deserves the honor more than he does. Nor does he limit his brilliance to the cinder path.
We dare,,say that there is no one in school who does not remember, or ast least, has not heard of, that great pass from Niemic to O’Brien that beat the Army, in Yankee stadium, late in November, 1928. That was in Johnny’s sophomore year and, we might say, the beginning of his march to fame as a wearer of the Blue and Gold.
O’Brien entered Notre Dame in the fall of 1927, from Los Angeles, Calif., High School, where he more or less confined his athletic activities to playing football. The track held no lure for him, and so his support of the high school track team was of the ‘•'moral” variety only. After being graduated from high school he took a trip to China, and it was there that he first started to run. The high hurdles seemed to be his “dish” and before he returned home he was crowned high hurdle champion of
northern China.
In his freshman year here Johnny earned his numeral in football and then, for the first time, turned his attentions seriously to track. Under the direction of Coach Nicholson he
worked on the high hurdles could take them just as weren’t there at all.
until he if they
During the indoor season
of 1929,
his first year of competition, Johnny began to show the results of his work and training under “Nick” by tying the world’s record for the high “sticks” at 40 yards in a dual meet with Wisconsin, at Madison. That was just the beginning of his exceptional performances. Later on, when activities were transferred to Cartier field, he proved that he wasn’t kidding by cracking the existing field record for the 120-yard highs. His time was :15.1, all the more remarkable when it is remembered that the Cartier field track, at that time, was in anything but good condition.
Last season Johnny lost no time in continuing his record-breaking exhibitions. In the very first meet of the season, with Butler, he clipped onefifth of a second from Joe Griffin’s old gym record in the 60-yard high hurdles. On this occasion O’Brien was clocked in :07 3/5 and, although there is no official world’s record listed, it is believed that this time ties the best that has ever- been made at that distance. Johnny, himself, tied the mark two weeks later in the Illinois meet.
Out-of-doors, he placed in both the
By
Henry B.
Asman

Ohio and Drake relays while competing with such stars as Sentman, of Illinois, Rockaway, of Ohio, and many others from the mid-west and far west.
This year, with an added incentive, the captaincy, O’Brien may well be expected to have his best year. If the new members of the team follow the example of theii- captain in his systematic and earnest training, the work of Coach Nicholson will be greatly lightened.
As we said before, Johnny O’Brien hails from California. He is a member of the California club and, needless to say, the Monogram club. He is a senior in the department of physical education and rooms in Sorin
:sub” with Frank Leahy.
THINLIES MEET BUTLER;
HANDICAP MEET OCT. 21
Coach John P. Nicholson and a squad of eight men left South Bend shortly after noon today for Indianapolis where they will meet the thin-lies of Butler university tomorrow. The trip is being made by bus and will get the men io the Hoosier capital in time for them to witness the Butler football team in action tonight.
“Nick” was not the least bit optimistic over his team’s chances when he departed today. His task of building a team around only two really
experienced men has been a tremendous one, and it is far too early in the season to expect the boys to show the’ results of “Nick’s” training-.
Besides Captain .Howery and excaptain Joe Quigley, Bauers is . the only man on the squad who received a monogram for his efforts last year. The work of Tom Grimes, a sophomore, has been outstanding but an injured ankle has kept him more or less inactive for the past week or ten days. He will not be in condition to give his best in the test with the Bulldogs. “Red” Hoyt, another sophomore, and Rudd and Rusnak, both juniors, have also been showing up well in practice
lately. These men, together with Duke and Ewing will probably see action tomorrow.
Early this week a handicap crosscountry meet, open to the entire student body, was announced by Coach Nicholson. The course will be around the lakes, covering a distance of two and one-half miles, and is scheduled to be run on Tuesday, Oct. 21.
Prizes amounting to thirty dollars have been donated by Coach Knute K. Rockne, Mr. Robert Borland, Max Adler’s, Livingston’s, and Spiro’s. “Nick” would like to see as many men as possible in this race.
118
The Notre Dame Scholastic
4 INTERHALL SPORTS 0
Just a trifle too much color was evident on the campus last Sunday for the well-being of interhall football, and then, too, there were more enjoyable occupations than cavorting around the gridiron in uncomfortable football togs on a warm day. Many of the fellows were in distant cities on the much cherished weekends—all this merely being dished out as an explanation concerning the postponement of several of Sunday’s games until Tuesday and Thursday, thereby throwing the interhall sports department into a nervous fit in attempting to concoct a plan by which Thursday’s games could be included in the interhall standings before they actually took place. The result is evident.
from across the lake is again without a representative this year — last season the Badinites lost several games on forfeits, according to the archives. The boys from downtown played their first game under fire against Lyons Thursday afternoon. Off-Campus now has a representative in each group of the interhall league.
Off-Campus, champion last year and winner of the title in Group two, is again leading the pack with two wins to its credit. By virtue of a tie game played by Sophomore and Corby Sunday, those two squads are now atop the heap in their own division with a victory and a scoreless tie marked up in the standings. With the insertion of the Off-Campus “B” team into the schedule, the teams will now settle down in the long race for the campus championship which will be decided in the contests between the -winners of the two groups on November 9.
1 t
The Off-Campus reserve team, known as Off-Campus “B,” has been named to take the place of the Badin hall entry in Group one. The hall
A survey of the results in. the two divisions to date shows that there have been a number of games that terminated in scoreless ties. At no time has the score of any one team in a single game totalled more than 13 points. Howard defeated Carroll 13-6, Walsh defeated Freshman by a 12-0 score, and Freshman turned the trick on Brownson with the same count. All of the campus teams seem to be evenly matched, the comparative power of the teams being shown in the numerous low score games.
Howard 0, Walsh 0
Two good defensive teams without much offensive punch seldom come to a decision in a football game. Such was the case last Tuesday afternoon when the teams of Howard and Walsh halls met on the Minims’ gridiron.
Although Howard threatened their opponents’ goal four times, they could not score, and the Walsh passes always failed when they got into advantageous territory. Grundeman and Thomkins gained much ground for the boys from Howard, but their efforts were well matched by the end runs of Reaume, Walsh quarter. Robinson, giant Howard center, and Jane, Walsh right end, bore the brunt of

the defensive play. The game hard fought throughout.
STANDINGS
was
4
WHEN old man hunger drives
you to the campus restaurant late at night, why not eat one of the
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American • colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALL-BRAN, Pep Bran Flakes, Rice Kris-pies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s Shredded ■ Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee —the coffee that lets you sleep.
most delicious treats you ever tasted . . . and one which is so easy to digest it lets you sleep like a baby.
Here it is: A bowl of crunchy-crisp Kellogg’s Corn Flakes with cool milk or cream. Now sweeten it with honey or add a bit of preserved fruit. Then watch your spoon get busy!
CORN FLAKES
CORN HMES
it
a
Group I Sophomore .... Corby ........ St. Edward’s .. Lyons ........ Morrissey .... Off-Campus “B’
Group 2 Off-Campus Walsh .... Howard .. Freshman Brownson . Carroll __
W .1 .1 .0 .0 .0 .0
w .2 .1 .1 .1 .0 .0
Standings include games of
0 0
0 0
1 0
0 0 0
1 2
1
1 1
1 0
0
T 0 1 1 0 0 0
Tuesday,
SUNDAY’S RESULTS
Sophomore 0, Corby 0.
Freshman 12, Brownson 0.
TUESDAY’S RESULTS Off-Campus 6, Carroll 0. Howard 0, Walsh 0.
PCT.
1.000 1.000 .000 .000 .000 .000
PCT.
1.000
1.000 1.000 , .500
.000 .000
Oct. 14.
SUNDAY’S GAMES
Lyons-Corby, Cartier field No. 1, 9:00.
Morrissey-Sophomore, Brownson field, 9:00.
Badin-St. Edward’s, Minims field, 9:00.
Howard-Brownson, Cartier field No. 2, 9:00.
Freshman-Off-Campus, Cartier No. 1, 2:30.
Carroll-Walsh. Brownson field, 2:30.


The Notre Dame Scholastic
119
120
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Palace
STARTING SUNDAY thru TUESDAY
STARTING SATURDAY thru TUESDAY
Meyers's Fountain Luncheonette.......
tf nr
A Well Balanced Lunch
Meyer’s Extra Rich Malted Milk and one of those delicious Three Deck Sandwiches.
Comer Michigan and Colfax
m—u—tn—tw—na—mi—ua^—oq^—uo-^mi-^tta—im— nc*^—u<
ua«^— mi—«j—m—on*— nn—m—nn—bh—uu—-w—an—-Bn-
cfeor
3-'. 3d//en'
403	Afreet
-.1
LAST TIMES FRIDAY Geo. Arliss in
Old English
Helen Twelvetrees
Ricardo Cortez
cw
IFe specialize on collar - attached shirts, tailored as you might expect from fine shirting
MAW
A Story That Is Vivid! Human 1 Real
Extra Exclusive Attraction .... FOOTBALL WITH ROCKNE
Great Grid Moments re-enacted by N. D.’s own varsity team.
।	।
I	I
|	I
j IMPORTED AND DOMESTIC I I	MEN'S WEAR	|
The Notre Dame Scholastic
121
Splinters From the Press Box
CARNEGIE A CRITERION.
From the record of eight years of competition with the Scotch from Carnegie Tech may be deduced that the Skibos are more or less a criterion by which Notre Dame’s true strength may be judged.
The records show five Notre Dame victories to Carnegie’s two. The Tartan victories, however, were both costly. In 1926, the Skibos upset Rockne’s hopes of a national title by
Windy city’s needy through the means of a cut in the proceeds of the Notre Dame-Northwestern game by having it played in Soldiers field is a commendable one.
The Chicago Tribune is to be congratulated on having the enterprise to push forward the movement in having the game transferred from Dyche stadium to the capacious monumental grounds.
Without a doubt, the combined fans of the Fighting Irish and Wildcats will fill Soldiers’ field to capacity. The 50,000 seating capacity of the Dyche stadium is already practically taken up. 60 000 more can be expected to see the game if both teams continue their spectacular showings.
The only possible inconvenience can be that caused the respective business managers. They have in both cases laid out most of the tickets for Dyche stadium. In case of a change of locale, tickets must be reprinted and reallocated. That is minor, however, considering the benefit charity will

i
PROBABLE SCORES TOMORROW
Notke Dame 20, Carnegie 13.
Northwestern 19, Illinois 6.
Ohio State 13, Michigan 7.
Purdue 27, Iowa 0.
Florida 6, Chicago 0.
Minnesota 20, Indiana 7.
Pennsylvania 7. Wisconsin 6.
Yale 7, Brown 0.
Dartmouth 14, Columbia 6.
Cornell 13, Princeton 6.
Georgia Tech 13, Auburn 7.
Harvard 21, Army 14.
Pittsburgh 13, Syracuse 0.
N. Y. U. 27, Missouri 6.
Alabama 13, Tennessee 7.
Southern Methodist 20, Baylor 13.
Drake 12, Grinnell 6.
Loyola (N. O.) 7, Loyola (Chi.) 0.
Marquette 13, Creighton 0.
U. of Detroit 19, West Virginia U. 7.
Iowa State 7, Nebraska 6.
Oregon State 13, Stanford 7.
Southern California 13, Utah Aggies 6.
California 21, Olympic Club 0.
Washington 14, Oregon 6.
a smashing 19-0 defeat. The Fighting Irish had won eight games, and subsequently won from Southern California, 13 to 12.
The 1928 loss to Carnegie upset the tradition of 23 years standing on the home grounds. In 1922 and 1923, the Fighting Irish lost only to Nebraska after defeating Carnegie. In 1924, the era of the Four- Horsemen, they won all the games and the national title. In 1925, they lost to Army and Nebraska defeating eight other worthy foes.
If Notre Dame wins tomorrow, great things may be expected for the remainder of the season; if the Fighting Irish lose, there may come a lowering of morale which will end disastrously.
NORTHWESTERN BENEFIT.
The plan sponsored by a prominent Chicago newspaper for the aid of the
Bo th Ends Write

i es, nere is really an example cf an instance where * Loth, ends meet to form one compact, beautiful writing instrument which is loth a dependable fountain pen and an ever-handy automatic pencil...a complete writing equipment in one piece.easily earned in pocket or purse, easily parked on the most crowded desk. Artistically designed, made of beautiful non— breakable matenals, generous ink capacity, non-leakable construction, ample lead magazine., complete eraser assembly... the outstanding writing tool for knowledge diggers. You'll find this and other Conklins in leading college stores-
TOLEDO. OHIO
SAN FRANCISCO CHICAGO


I
122
The Notre Dame Scholastic
derive. The plan should receive the strongest advocation possible.
GUESSING CONTESTS.
Not resting content with having five winners, two losses, and a tie score last week in our selections, we have looked over a total of 25 games.
There are at least a half dozen contests tomorrow which command more than passing interest. Army’s real early season test comes when it meets Harvard. Ohio State tries for its third successive victory over Michigan and its sixth in the series of 27 games played. Two of the 27 have ended in ties, Michigan copping 20.
Northwestern and Illinois meet in which one Big Ten contender will be eliminated. We’re inclined to think it will be the latter, even though the Wildcats have undergone the worst kind of bad luck.
Out on the coast, Washington looks good against Oregon, and Oregon State should take Stanford. Loyola of New Orleans can ease a victory over its namesake from Chicago.
Notre Dame scouts can get a good line on both Wisconsin and Pennsylvania for the two meet tomorrow, with the Quakers by a shade.
RESERVE SQUAD PLAYS
DUQUESNE TOMORROW
A reserve squad of 22 players will leave this evening for Pittsburgh where it will meet the Duquesne “B” outfit tomorrow.
The men who will compose the Notre Dame squad are as follows: left end, Holman and Bice; left tackle, Ledding and Bassett; left guard, Wunch and Massey; center, Aug and Zoss; right guard, Kreus and Whalen; right tackle, Kozak and Blinn; right end, Abbatamarco and Rohrers; quarterback, Foley and Cronin; left halfback Banas and La Bourne; right halfback, Branchea and Tobin; fullback, Kremer and Meyer.
150 FRESHMAN CAGERS CONTINUE PRACTICE
“Give them a little time” is what “Oonie” Donovan, captain of last year’s varsity quintet and successor to Joe Jachym as frosh basketball coach, said of a squad of 150 aspirants for the frosh cage team.
Nothing definite can be said of the material yet as the majority of the yearlings are chasing the pigskin. However, a few have shown promise
in displaying their wares before “Oonie.”
The first cut is to take place next week.
STUDENTS
PERSONAL
STATIONERY
Send today for samples—letterheads and envelopes—printed with name and address—also fraternity or sorority— highest quality ripple finish—boxed— choice of three colors. 200 envelopes, 200 letterheads, only 84.75. Money making agency open to live student in each college. Write for particulars. Address Dept. 033, Merchants Industries, Inc., Third and Wayne Avenues, Dayton, Ohio.
Phone 3-1254
f	Drs. Singler & Probst	I
I DENTISTS |
j	261 Associates Building	*
^»n—■»—nu—-w— na——41——nt—nu—»nt——
Starts Saturday
fOLFAY
theatre VW
Thru Tuesday
A GAY AND SOPHISTICATED COMEDY WITH A THRILL IN EVERY SCENE!
GLORIA r»AN/(\
Piquant, gorgeously gowned, wealthy, she is the magnet for sheiks and philanderers. Out of the melee comes a romance worth all of the dangers she dodged ............................
“What a Widow”
A UNITED PRODUCTION WITH
ADDED
Paramount
Sound News
OWEN MOORE
LE W CODY
A Publix Theatre
ADDED
Vitaphone
Sound Vodvil
The Notre Dame Scholastic
123
"I STILL GET A TH RILL
^aiff-chested Greeks
Smartest Coat on the Campus
College men who know what to wear and how to wear it choose Alligator ”50”— the new College Coat... Alligator ”50” is a smart double-breasted raglan—long—fullcut—roomy—full-belted, with big patch pockets, and a convertible collar that gives extra protection around the neck ... Light in weight—semi-transparent—absolutely weather-proof. Four rich, original colors—Deep Sea, Tan, Blue, Black—and only $7.50!... Other Alligator models from $5.00 to $25.00.
THE ALLIGATOR CO.
St. Louis, Mo.
T Residence	Office • =
। Phone 3-4041'	Phone 2-1067 =
1 Dr. Edgar	S. Lucas I
*	Dentist	।
I	§
1	702 J. M. S. Building	|
I	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA	|
|	|
——4

ND you’ll get one too . . . whether the cause he blond or brunette, extra or intra-mural, when you swing to this ringing, singing "Come and kiss me” waltz...on a Victor Record
played for you by Ted Weems and his well-known dance orchestra . . .
The world’s “big shots” in music—every kind of music . . . record exclusively for Victor. They bring you the latest hits first! Here’s a hand-picked, 5-starred list . . . both hot and sweet . . . unleash the old dogs on these!
9
VICTOR RECORDS
22515 I STILL GET A THRILL Ted JFeems
Sing
Orch.
22504 ON A LITTLE STREET Hilo Haicaiian IN HONOLULU	Orch.
All Through the Night
22516 LEARNING A LOT Johnny Johnson FROM YOU	Orch.
A Big Bouquet for You
22511 HULLABALOO
Baby Won’t You Please Come Home
McKinney’s Cotton Pickers
THE MUSIC YOU WANT WHEN YOU WANT IT
Victor Records
124
The Notre Dame Scholastic
FIGHTING IRISH SINK NAVY
(Continued from Page 115)
feet co-ordination plus lots of speed. Savoldi carried the ball 11 yards to his own 38 yard line. Schwartz passed 39 yards to Captain Conley, who was allowed the pass because of Byng’s interference. After an out-of-bounds play Savoldi circled right end behind perfect interference for 23 yards and
the first tally. Carideo’s placement was good.
While the boys from Annapolis were still recovering from the first thrust, Big Joe galloped around right end again for 48 more yards and another touchdown. The kick was wide.
The- shock troops played the remainder of the half, and it looked more like a football game. Captain Conley and his boys took charge again
in the third quarter and marked up seven more points. They scored in five plays from the 50-yard line, where Carideo had placed the ball after a nice return of Hagberg’s punt. Savoldi hit left tackle for the last five yards.
The shock troops, augmented by 18 substitutes, finished the game and scored the final touchdown. Kaplan placed the ball in position with two
Delicious and Refreshing
Drink
V
There’
Silver Lining
i
m
Pause
that refreshes
«
LISTEN IN—*-
Grantland Rice Famous Sports Champions -•'Coca-Cola Orchestra-•'Wednesday 10:30 to 11 p. m. E. S. T. —' Coast to Coast NBC Network
do many unhappy things can happen to increase that old inferiority complex. Deans and Doctors, Mid-years and Finals, all dedicated to the cause of making life a burden. Coca-Cola was made for times like these. Here’s a drink that will quickly invest you with some of its life and sparkle. Give you exceeding joy in its tingling, delicious taste. And leave you with that cool after-sense of refreshment in which a right-eons megalomania may wax fat and prosper.
The Coca-Col* Company, Atlanta, Ga.
9 Million A
.	CW-0
HAD TO BE GOOD TO GET WHERE IT IS
9
The Notre Dame Scholastic
125
great runs, and Staab went over the top from the one-yard mark. Navy scored a safety in the fourth quarter when Mahoney fumbled a bad pass from center, and preferred to play it safe rather than risk a blocked punt.
Notre Dame gained 352 yards from scrimmage, while Navy advanced only 64 yards. Navy’s passes were good for 69 yards and those of the Irish for 66.
■Jan.
The Athletic Shoulder
Reserves Show Strength
Notre Dame’s reserves showed unexpected strength and their playing was received with much enthusiasm by the Fighting Irish followers. Their supposed inferiority to last year’s shockers was one of Coach Rockne’s chief reasons for pessimism about another national championship. Kaplan, Koken, and Staab were the outstanding backs of the shock troops, while Mahoney, Pierce, and Vik shone on the line.
With the new stadium dedicated, Rockne’s dream has come true. Maybe he has another dream—maybe he has dreamed that the great Notre Dame teams will make the same glorious record in the new stadium that they did in the old; that future students will talk reverently about the ghosts of another Gipp, or another “Four Horsemen,” that roam within the walls of Notre Dame Stadium. We wonder.
Athletic Shoulders Can
Notre Dame	Navy
Host ..............LE............ Smith
Hoffman ...........LT......... Bowstrom
Pierce ............LG.........Underwood
Rogers .............C............ Black
Terlaak ...........RG.......... Johnson
McManmon .........RT............. Bryan
Vik ...............RE............. Byng
Jaskwich ..........QB............ Bauer
Koken .............LH........... Gannon
Howard ............FB.......... Hagherg
Kaplan ............RH............. Kira
Be Fitted in a Learbury
Football, basket ball, baseball, swimming and other sports develop shoulders that ordinary clothes simply cannot fit without excessive alterations.
Score by quarters:
Notre Dame ................0 13 7 6—26
Navy ......................0 0 0 2—2
Touchdowns: Savoldi, 3; Staab, 1. Points after touchdown: Carideo, two of three. Safety: Navy.
Substitutions — Notre Dame: Kosky for Host; O’Brien for Kosky; Culver for Hoffman ; McNamara for Culver; Kassis for Pierce ; Harris for Kassis : Yarr for Rogers ; Butler for Yarr; Cavanaugh for Butler; Metzger for Terlaak; Kerjes for Metzger: Massey for Kerjes; Kurth for McManmon : Donoghue for Kurth; Conley for Vik; Mahoney for Conley; Carideo for Jaskwich: Christman for Carideo.; Schwartz for Koken; Leahy for Schwartz; Savoldi for Howard; Staab for Savoldi: Brill for Kaplan; Sheeketski for Brill; Murphy for Christman: Bailie for O’Brien; Agnew for Cavanaugh; Foley for Murphy; Van Rooy for McNamara.
Navy: Wieseman for Smith: Miller for Wieseman; Reedy for Underwood: Tuttle for Black; Thompson for Johnson; Chambers for Bryan; Elliott for Byng; Greathouse foi-Elliott; Torgeson for Greathouse; Denny for Bauer; Williams for Denny; Binns for Williams ; Tschirgi for Gannon ; Antrim for Hag-berg ; Campbell for Kirn.
Officials; Referee, Garner, Cornell; umpire, Haines, Yale; head linesman, Daniels, Loyola; field judge, Hackett, West Point.
Only in Learbury will you find the “athlete shoulder” specially designed to meet the college man’s needs for freedom in body movement . . . placing a new emphasis on clothing comfort.
The new fall Learbury suits are here in interesting new patterns . . . Oxford Sil-vertone blacks, Glen tans, Saville blues and stunning Gray Tweeds. Come in and browse around.
All suits with extra trousers
M. GILBERT & SON
The Notre Dame Scholastic
126
i




The South Bend Clearing House Banins Invite Your Patronage
FIRST NATIONAL BANK . j INDIANA TRUST COMPANY	I
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS	j
BANK	1
ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST	I
COMPANY	I
UNION TRUST COMPANY	|
AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY	।
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK	I
CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS	|
BANK	।
I : I
§
8
i £
HELLO MEN!
SMITH S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame
8
s I
I s I
The Notre Dame Scholastic	127
NICK TO ANNOUNCE
FALL HANDICAP MEET
With the reconditioning of the Cartier field track completed, activities in fall track have been transferred to the outside. Interest in this preliminary track practice has picked up slightly in the past week or so and in the neighborhood of approximately
fifty men have been reporting each day to Coach Nicholson and freshman coach “Spike” England.
Coach Nicholson announced that the annual fall handicap meet will probably be held next Thursday after suitable prizes will be awarded to winners of the first three places.
There are several outstanding
freshmen in training now and these men should turn in some very good times on the resurfaced track on old Cartier field.
Weather conditions have been perfect for the past few weeks, and this has enabled the coaches to get a better slant on their cinder artists, since the majority of the practicing has been carried on out of doors.
No. LTSC, $3.25
SAFETY SKRIP, SUCCESSOR TO INK, SKRIP-FILLED, 50c to $10. Carry Safety Skrip in your luggage and to classes. It’s leak-proof, practically unbreakable. Saves furniture, clothing, rugs, keeps the fluid fresh, makes all pens write better.
This white
Lifetime0
pen.
No. H74TC, Marine Green, $9.50
dot identifies
Sheaffer's,the
Only genuine
Why do Most
Students buy Sheaffer’s
It is a fact proven by sales figures that amon^ America’s hundred leading colleges, each with 1700 or more students registered, Sheaffer’s outsell all others.
Is such leadership ever an accident?
You know the answer. These sophisticated pen users have found that they like Sheaffer’s individualized pen points, that they like the comfortable Balance0
BALANCE
The only Balance0 pen and pencil is Sheaffer's.
designed into Sheaffer’s, that they like the streamlined, modem contour of the
Balance0 pen and pencil, and that Sheaffer’s Lifetime0 guarantee of satisfactory service means something.
That explains Sheaffer’s college sales leadership, and prompts the su^estion that if you’ll ^ive Sheaffer’s Balance0 Lifetime0 a class-room test, you’ll adopt that pen for your Lifetime0.
AT BETTER STORES EVERYWHERE
SHEAFFER’S
V PENS PENCILS-DESK SETS SKRIP
W. A. SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY -• FORT MADISON, IOWA, U. S. A.
° Reff, U.S. Pat. Off.
© W. A. S. P. Co., 1930
The ONLY genuine Lifetime0 pen is Sheaffer’s; do not be deceived! All fountain pens are guaranteed against defects, but Sheaffer’s Lifetime0 is guaranteed unconditionally for your life, and other Sheaffer products are forever guaranteed against defect in materials and workmanship. Green or Black Lifetime0 pens, $8.75; Ladies’, $8.25. Black-and-Pearl De Luxe and Marine Green Lifetime0 pens, $10; Ladies’, $9.50. Petite Lifetime0 Pens, $7 up; Golf or Handbag Pencil, $3. Others lower.
*A recent survey made by a disinterested organization showed Sheaffer's first in fountain pen sales among the 100 leading American colleges having registration of 1,700 or more students. Documents covering this survey are available to anyone.
128
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ON DOWN THE LINE
R. emember, the brain doesn’t function alone.“The most brilliant man” of the senior class takes advantage of the added mental stimulus that comes from a strong, healthy body.
Shredded Wheat adds to your thinking prowess by building up your physical reserve. It supplies the essential body fuel in the most
Man”
delectable and easily digestible form. If you want your mental wheels to whirl in double quick time keep your physical machinery in perfect condition. A bowl of Shredded Wheat with whole milk every morning will do wonders to increase your intellectual caliber.
. . . President LOWELL of Harvard once held the Crimson record in the mile run and his predecessor, President ELIOT, rowed on the Harvard crew, back in 1853 . . . Stanford university’s entire issue of 2,200 season ticket books was sold this year several weeks before the first football game of the season . . . the number was 400 more than ever have been sold before at the Cardinal school . . . Yale’s success in passing this year may lie on the fact that BENNY FRIEDMAN was a guest coach on MAL STEVEN’S staff to aid in developing the Blue forward passers . . .
. . . Boys under the age of 14 years are admitted free to seven home games of the University of California Bears this fall . . . What appears to be two different kinds of grass in alternate five-yard strips on the Stanford stadium gridiron in reality is the same kind of grass but mowed differently . . . The mowers are run parallel and perpendicular to the sidelines in alternate areas . . . University of Minnesota football squads annually use more than 150 footballs . . . Chicago has won one Western Conference football game in three years . . .
. . . Because of the extensive travels to be undertaken this fall by West Virgina’s eleven, a “blanket” insurance policy, paying liberal amounts in case a serious accident to the men in travel, has been taken out by the school athletic association . . . Horn footers aijd drum beaters in the University of Texas this fall will accompany tfie longhorn eleven on every trip of the grid schedule . . . The schedule calls for three trips within the state and a fourth into Oklahoma . . .
. . . Only one member of the University of California football squad comes from outside the state . . . He is CLARENCE GARRITY, halfback, registered from Homedale, Idaho . . . Europe’s highest tennis court —1,900 meters — has just opened in the commune of Maran ... At this altitude a few sets of tennis leave no trace of fatigue . . . After electing two captains, both of whom were declared ineligible for Western Conference athletics, the University of Iowa grid team is captained each week by a player named one week before the
date of the contest . . .