
What can you buy with twenty ,bucks these days? 
2 All "minor" sports passes 
, 26 hours and 40 minutes worth of fines at the reserve book room 
3.2 dinners at the diJ1ing half 
27.2% of a season's football pass 
57.14 % of your ff miscellaneous fee" 
OR 
A subscription to Scholastic 
(your---parents will l_ove you) 
Please send_ years of Scholastic to: Name:·
--------------------'-----'­
Address:~--~----------,------­
City: State:--'--_Zip:___--"'-_ 
Please make check~ payable_ to : 




SCH 
LASTI 


Notre Dame's Student Mag3:zine November 9, 1989 
Cover Picture by Ian Johansen 
COVER 
Notre Dame Football Weekend 
6 
An Essay in Pictures 
by Features and Photo Staff 


NEWS 

17 And the Survey Says ... by Derik Weldon O'Meara Leads the Way by Steffanie Keller Veteran of a Moscow Winter by Shaun Sparkman 

SPORTS 
22 
They're Baaack ... 

... well, sort of. Forrest Gregg's young team has taken its licks, but 
shows promise for the future. by Kevin Sproule 

OPINION 

25 BottomsUp Two students look at the rationality of Saint Mary's Alcohol Policy. by Angelique Dioguardi and Kathryn Jansey 
27 
Sticking Together 

Legal department's Greg Volan questions policy of minority placement in donns. by Greg Volan 
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Not.re Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues are available al S 1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Not.re Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic. 
Copyright 1989 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in pan without permission is prohibited. 

November 9, 1989 
Letters 

Dear Editor: 
One of my student employees obtained a 'copy of the Septem­ber 28, issue of Scholastic and brought it to my office. I was flattered to see that a copy of our Pre-Season Intramural Rank­ings were in your magazine! The rankings are something that our Intramural Sports participants take a great deal ofinterest in, and seeing them in a magazine at Notre Dame really surprised a lot of people. I was also very impressed by the rest of the magazine. 
James B. Lewis Coordinator, Intramural Sports Creighton University 
JoinThe Great American Smokeout, November 16. 
+= 

For more information, call l,800,ACS,2345 
Scholastic 

!..! 


Week in Distortion/ Shawn Carlow 
Baby, It's Cold Outside! 

T 
he orange sun rises over the snow­from warmer climes who have a romantic order to keep extra warm. In fact, my favorite filled plain. A cold biting wind hits notion of winter from the pictures you might wintertime activity is walking outside on a slowly, then begins to accelerate, have on the walls in your homes. For those of beautiful winter day-which in South Bend jumping from drift to drift, sending up small you unacquainted with the rigors of South is around -10 or so-happy and content with whorls of fine, white powder into the red, Bend weather, here's a quick and helpful that twenty pounds of extra blubber whis­weather-beaten face ofthe lone traveler. The guide to a few ofthe necessities you 're going tling,«I am the walrus." traveler staggers and is temporarily blinded to need this winter: Also, keep these facts in mind: by the swirling white mass of wind-driven 1) First and foremost one needs warmth, After a winter here, Spring Break' in snow. and thl.! best way is with brandy. But if you Reykjavik might not seem like such a bad 
The traveler trudges on, a solitary figure can't find a girl named Brandy, the beverage idea. outlined against the vast frozen tundra of will do just fine. The St. Bernard is optional. The song<'Winter Wonderland" was obvi­snow and ice. An Arctic explorer? A Siberian 2) A good pair of cross-country skis are a ously written by someone who had never prisoner braving the frozen hell to escape nice thing to have. Eventually, the sidewalks been near South Bend. Communist clutches? No, in fact it's a Notre are going to be buried under many inches of And according to the latest Farmer's Dame student braving the frozen hell of snow. Any decent sporting goods shop can Almanac, the greenhouse effect is a phe­South Bend to get to an early morning class track down an appropriate pair for you; the nomenon caused by toxic pollutants given I I 
in the wintertime. nearest one is a 'Mahre' two miles away. off into the atmosphere, and the effect it i Once you get them it's all downhill from produces is global warming, raising tempera­
The recent fall break weather fluke which there. More powder to you! tures everywher~ on the planet. Except found temperatures in the 60s and 70s has 3) Multiple layers ofcoats, sweaters, shirts, South Bend. It's true. Look it up. come and gone, and it's time for South Bend and blubber. It's going to be tough at first Anyhow, the winter life goes on and on ... 
to show its true face. With the temperatures looking like a poster boy/girl for Michelin and on. There's no escape from the bitter, icy falling rapidly and the wind picking up, it's tires, but you'll get used to it. When the Hades we will have to endure for the next five time to don those winter parkas and suffer Michelin service representatives come to months. I guess the best advice I can give is 
the next five months of brutal climatic tor­South Bend, you might even get hired. The to grin and bear it. If you grin, you 're going ture. extra blubber is key here. You need to pick up to have to bear it, because your face will Freshmen be warned! Especially those that extra baggage before winter comes in probably freeze that way! II 
November 9, 1989 3 

Music/ Kristin Ballard 
Heavy Metal Myths Debunked 
It's not all grunts and screams and 

. ·y roommates were probably 
ready to send me back after our 
first day here freshman year. I watched their faces drop as I began unpack­ing. Heavy metal music covered my one­third of the floor as T-shirts, tapes and C.D.' s appeared. 
Although I have been introduced to many different kinds ofmusic over the past two and a half years-and like most of it-metal is still a favorite. It's great to come back to the room after a long day and put on some Scor­pions or DefLeppard to help me forget about conjugating verbs in Spanish or the three research papers which are due before Christ­mas. Most people on this campus would cringe at the thought of unwinding, or doing anything else, to heavy metal. Many claim that it consists of nothing but untalented drug addicts with long hair, who destroy instru­ments while screaming unidentifiable or vul~ gar words as loud as humanly possible. In de­fense of metal, I disagree. 
Granted, most members of heavy metal bands have hair longer than mine, but these 'long-hairs' are extremely talented. Because the music is fast and hard, group members need to be masters of the music. Electric guitarists and drummers need to be quick and powerful. 
Two great examples are Eddie Van Halen and Rick Allen. Eddie, the lead guitarist for Van Halen, possesses incredible playing ability, seen especially during his solos. Rick Allen, the drummer for DefLeppard, lost an arm in an accident a few years ago. Rather than letting his handicap ruin his career, he stayed with the band and learned to play with only one arm. 
Vocals are difficult as well. Lead singers of 
M
untalented headbangers 
these groups need to have wide-ranging, full 
voices in order to sing and scream in key. 
Another common complaint about heavy 
metal is that the songs are just meaningless 
grunts and screams put to music. This is also 
untrue. Heavy metal lyrics often express the 
same things as other music. They talk about 
love, war, dreams, people, happiness and 

heartache, but say it differently than perhaps James Taylor, R.E.M., or the Rolling Stones. 
Thinking that all heavy metal is the same is probably the worst misconception of all. Metal comes in many different forms. Some ofthe groups, like Bon Jovi and Great White are very 'Top 40', played every hour on the radio or MTV. Other groups hit the country with one smash single and then seem to drop off the face of the, earth. Quiet Riot and "Cum on Feel the Noize" comes to mind. There are also many image oriented groups like Poison, Twisted Sister, and the Bullit Boys, who spend incredible amounts of money on make-up and neon clothing. 
then there are the groups who play be­cause they love the music and their fans and aren't worried about reaching num berone on Casey Kasem's American Top 40. These groups, such as Van Halen, Scorpions, Whitesnake, Def Leppard, Ratt, Cinderella, and Motley Crue--to name a few-put their money into better equipment and elaborate stage effects and lighting. They want to put on the best possible show for their loyal fans. 
Seeing heavy metal groups in concert re­ally makes this difference obvious. This summer I saw Great White and Warrant play with Ratt and the Bullit Boys, and Winger with Cinderella. The opening groups spent a lot of time talking to the audience and the remainder of it playing a few songs. Fans milled around the arena and only payed attention when the band was playing a hit. Ratt, Cinderella; and· Van Halen put on an entirely different show several years ago. This included half-hour drum and guitar solos and incredible stage effects: scaffold­ing towering above the audience for band members to climb, and baby grand pianos coming out of the ceiling. These groups also involved the audience in much of their con­cert, having them sing alone and competing with one another to see which section of the audience was the loudest. 
I realize that many people wouldn't will­ingly fork over thirty dollars to see any of these groups, or even listen to them while roadtripping or driving home. No one can deny, however,jamming to AC/DC's, "You Shook Me All Night Long," the token party song of college. campuses, at least once a weekend. Try listening to more metal, or at least acknowledging it as real music. Who knows? Maybeyou'llbecomeahead-banger too! • 

Scholastic 

,J  
..  
On Other Campuses  

ID the Streets



Chaos • 
Wi_ll recent rash ofstudent riots spread to Notre Dame in light of university's decision to suspend matching fund allocations? 

Women at Vassar College (N.Y.) with the intentofliterally"clean­
EDITED BY CHRIS FILLIO ing up" arrived at the disgustingly sloppy campus women's center 
recently, armed with vacuum cleaners. According to Holy Cross' 
ni~al House 1989" could be the title ofa new documen­newspaper, The Crusader, the new club of "Future Housewives of 
taryfilm starring a castofthousands; college students, that America"-which hopes to gain official campus recognition this 
is. In several reports by the College Press Service, college fall-is also interested in cookbooks and dating services. In fact, it 
students nationwide are wreaking havoc with increasing regularity. already has a professor lined up to speak on "The Impact ofTupper­
A crowd ofabout 15,000 students protested further cuts in Massachu­wareon U.S. Society." Some tickets are still available for this special 
setts' higher education budgetat the state capitol in Boston earlier last event. But no matching funds will be offered to offset ticket prices. 
month. Unruly students trampled the Statehouse flower beds; broke 
a window and knocked down a drainpipe. Officials estimate damage The New Shepherd of the Lord has arrived at Brown University. 
at $20,000. Meanwhile, students at Plymouth State College (N.H.), -Or so he says. An article in The Brown Daily Herald identified the 
Purdue University, Michigan State and Western Michigan Universi-Bible-clutching preacher, using a garbage can for a pulpit, as Wade 
ties staged street parties that led to fires, property damage, numerous Demers, the headofChrist'sChurch in Action (CCA), a 150-member 
arrests and pleas from student body presidents and university offi-grqup "grounded in the word of God." Demers, the self-described 
cials. One such group of revelers at MSU pushed over a trash "new shepherd," says he had embarked on his own computer com­
dumpster,chanted"burn,burn,burn.. " and then fed two bonfires with pany, but something didn't feel right. "I tried Baptist, Methodist, 
mattresses, bicycles, a big-screen TVanda moped, while flames rose Hinduism, New Age, but I couldn't find a church that lived the word 
thirty feet into the air. However, so far there have been no threats ofGod to the letter," saidDemers. Then one day, somefriends invited 
concerning the suspension of university matching funds. him to see an evangelist preacher. "I drove up to this field in East 
Bridgewater, Mass., and there was nothing there but this big circus 
tenL..this guy came running over to me, and I asked him where the 
How seriously do college professors take their jobs? Serious evangelist was. He says, 'It's you, man. You're the new preacher."' 
enough for one professor at Samford University (Ala.) to murder a Unfortunately, this revelation has resulted in Demers losing his job, 
student whom he felt was not"studying enough." A newsbriefin The his wife, his hou~. most ofhis money, along with a four-year prison 
Duquesne Duke reported that Rex B. Copeland, a 20-yearold student sentence for obstru~tingjustice. Despite the lack ofpositive reaction 
at the university, was found dead of stab wounds in his apartment from passersby, Demers and his folk guitarist, Larry Landry, con­
September 22. William Lee Slagle, a Samf~rd professor who tinue taking their message to the sidewalks ofProvidence, R.I. "I'm 
coached Copeland on the debating team, wrote a letter to police praying for everyone on the streets," Landy said. "Some of these 
admitting to the murder. The pair had argued about preparation for people really want to go to Hell. They think they'll be there with all 
a debate and Slagle "dido't feel like he (Copeland) was studying their friends and party. But Hell is a literal place, and there's not 
enough." I wonder how he feels about administrators who deprive gonnabeany party, only gnashing ofteeth. To the max." rd betthere 
students of university appropriated matching funds? are no matching funds in Hell, either. ¦ 
f A 
November 9, 1989 5 
I 
r 
f 
·r 
! 
I 
NOTRE DAME 
Football 


Weekend 
An essay in pictures 

One home game last year a dorm banner read: "John 3:16,Lou 12-0; both are religions at Notre Dame!" Although the spirituality may be question­able, most would agree with the sentiment; at Notre Dame football and faith do sometimes seem to be one and the same. To many, Notre Dame is college football. In the following pages Scholastic has tried to capture a home game in pictures. The game itself is not ~ctually shown; it was the 
Scholastic 

----------------------------------------------------;­
' 
I 
.! 
spirit off the field that interested us. Scholas­tic photographers took photos at every home game this year to compile a composite photo­graphic record of a typical Notre.Dame foot­ball weekend. The photos are arranged more or less chronologically, from practices early in theweekuntil the endofthe game on Saturday. In between is the spirit, dedication and pride which has made Notre Dame famous: pep ral­lies, helmet and face painting, tailgaters and band step-off. 
Cheerleaders and players, alumni and students all combine to make a Notre Dame home game unlike anything anywhere else. Whether you 'reone of the long-suffering Irish faithful or a recent convert to Lou's team, we hope you enjoy this look at a football weekend in South Bend. 
Ian Mitchell 
Features Editor 

November 9, 1989 

Scholastic 


... 

' 

I 
f
,. 
November 9, 1989 '. •· · 

Scholastic 


November 9, 1989 

Scholastic 
.. 


November 9, 1989 


Scholastic 


November 9, 1989 


.16 Scholastic 

... 



News 



And the 
urvey Says ... 
Reasons Behind U.S. News and World Report ranking Notre Dame 23rd among national universities 
BY DERIK WELDON 
Yearly, U.S. News and World Report publishes a ranking of America's best colleges and universities. This 
year s rankings are in, and Notre Dame finds itself ranked a respectable 23rd. 
This ranking is based on an overall percen­tile score computed using scores for each school in five attribute areas: Academic reputation, faculty quality, student selectiv­ity, retention patterns, and financial re­sources. The first three attribute areas listed, academics, faculty, and student selectivity, are given twice the weight as the last two, retention and financial resources. 
The top school in the survey, with an over­all percentile score of 100.0, is Yale Univer­sity. ·other schools ahead ofNotre Dame in the survey were perennial favorites, Har­vard, MIT and Stanford to name a few, as well as a few surprises, such as Duke Univer­sity climbing to number five ahead of such powerhouses as Dartmouth and Cornell. 

goals for further scholarly growth, a close teacher ratios, percentage of the professors Among the 204 national universities con­look must be taken at the faculty. Although with doctorates, and per-student instruc­
U.S. News and World Report is still a bit tional budgets for the individual schools-a
sidered for this ranking, Notre Dame's high­

est attribute ranking is in retention patterns, skeptical about the quality of Notre Dame's reflection of faculty salaries. where it ranks sixth nationally. This figure faculty (currentranking is53rdnationally); it This week, beginning with the College of is computed based on the number offresh­is obvious that professors are theindividuals Science and the College of Arts and Letters, men in each school who became sopho­_ultimately responsible for strong showings in the Scholastic will take a close look at four 
academics and retention. After all, if the professors whose excellence· helps Notre
mores in the classes 1985-87 and on the number offreshmen entering into the classes students were not learning or did not feel that Dame attain its elite national ranking. These they were treated fairly in the classroom, they interviews are not meant to single out indi­
1981-83 who were able to graduate within would not stay at Notre Dame. vidual professors for special praise above
five years. The lowest attribute ranking for In fact, U.S. News and World Report ad­that of their peers. Rather, these stories are
Notre Dame, 122nd nationally, comes in the financial resources catagory. mits that ranking faculty quality is the most meant to be a sampling of the rich faculty Because of Notre Dame's strong national difficult to capture quantitatively. Three sub­resources available to Notre Dame students. 

ranking and the current administration's factors go into ranking faculties: student-to­
¦ 
November 9, 1989 
' . 

~,·~,~-·_,,.,,~···•··~~---...-~r-=-..,1L..:.1' •,...~ • _...""'""-----'-'-'--"-~"'~----, --------~~--....._~------___ ·-------~--­
" /
' 
News 




O'Meara Leads the Way 
As university provost and a world-renowned mathematician, Timothy O'Meara relishes his role as chiefacademic officer 
BY STEFFANIE KELLER "My experienceas ateacherand professor calculus. There is a special kind of thinking of mathematics has been a great asset in my that comes with being a mathematician that 
A fter spending several years as a role as Provost," said O'Meara. "I have incorporates itself in my decision making at facult! member at Princeton Uni­

taught Ph.D. students as well as freslumm the arademic side of the University." An­versity. 
other factor that contributes toUniversity Provost O'Meara's decision making is hisTimothy O'Meara role as a parent of five alumni. 
came to Notre 
O'Meara has one son and fourDame in 1962 as a daughters, all of whom graduated
professor of 
from Notre Dame. 
mathematics. He was named the 
In his role as University Pro­Howard J. Kenna, vost, O'Meara is actively involved C.S.C., Professor with the academic quality at Notre of Mathematics in Dame and is concerned wfrh Notre1976 and was ap­Dame's reputation as an institutionpointed Provost in of higher learning. O'Meara takes 1978. Born in a positive attitude regarding Notre South Africa, Dame's ranking in the recentO'Meara became a U.S.News and World Report sur­naturalized U.S. 
vey of undergraduate institutions. 
citizen in 1977. He is the author offour "Obviously, we would rather be books on mathe­at the lop than at the bottom,"matics, the most O'Meara said. "However, at thisrecent of which is a level there is a great amount ofcollaboration with variation in the instrument itself. Itfellow Notre Dame is difficult to assess certain factors, professor Alexan­such as the advantages of privateder Hahn. 
institutions versus public institu-

University Provost Timothy O'Meara File Photo 

Scholastic 

•'l • ­>'1\ • • . • -,.. I ._,, • • • • 

News 

tions. Many state schools have low tuitions, but we (Notre Drune) charge lower tuition than many private institutions, Much de­pends on what each student wants in an undergraduate university. 

O'Meara said that he was pleased with improvements that had been made in the U.S.News survey since it was last published. "It used to be a survey of university presi­dents at various institutions," said O'Meara. "That was a bit unscientific. The survey has been improved with· the addition of some more objective criteria. However, there is no perfect measure of all the factors involved." 
"When all is said and done, what the survey has determined is that these are the .best undergraduate universities in the coun­try," said O'Meara. "I am pleased that Notre Dame is in this top bracket." 
In hisdualroleasProfessorofMathemat­ics and University Provost, O'Meara has been active in Notre Drune's development as amajor teaching and research university. He was chairman of the 1982 PACE Report (Priorities and Commitments for Excellence: ReportoftheProvosttothePresident), which identified several areas in which the Univer­sity needed to make improvements. Accord­ing to O'Meara, most of these goals have been met. 
"The recommendations in the report have led to such projects as the renovations of the LaFortune Student Center and Washington Hall, the plans for a new classroom building, the more balanced number of men and women enrolled here, and the increase in faculty salaries," O'Meara said. He noted that the PACE recommendation students would be most fruniliar with was the chang­ing of the University alcohol policy. 
The increase in faculty salaries and the improvementofthe quality of the faculty are two University developments that O'Meara said have had a great effect on the quality of intellectual life here. "We have a very strong faculty at Notre Dame," said O'Meara. "I am proud to be provost during a time when the quality of faculty has never been higher." The university's_ success in fulfilling en­dowed chairs has helped to attract strong teaching is stronger, the faculty are also in­volved in more things. We have moved forward in many significant areas but there are more that we need to address." O'Meara said that he would like to see an increase in the number of faculty, especially in the numbers of women and minorites hired and an increase in the quality of graduate pro­grruns and students. 

"By and large, I am very encouraged by the state of the University," O'Meara said. "Ourmain purpose is to influence society and the Church not only in the quality ofstudents that we graduate, but in tenns ofthe thinking that is done here. Notre Dame is a Catholic university," he said. "This should be a part of the ethos of this place. In the 1960's, some Catholic schools chose to abandon their Catholic character. We did not. I see that as a strength and not a weakness." 
"If you put the whole picture together, it 
is obvious how desirable Notre Drune is and I think that other people have begun to realize that," O'Mearasaid. Hesaidthat although the number of spaces in each incoming freshman class has not changed, the number of students vying for those spots has increased sig­nificantly, a statistic that illustrates the ·greater re­spect and visibility Notre Drune has achieved. 
Notre Drune is chang­ing and growing at a rapid pace according to O'Meara. "In the early 1980's, I used to tell people 'if you have not 

Mari Okuda been to Notre Drune in the 1982 Pace Report authored by O'Meara last five years, you have 
senior faculty to crunpus and, consequently, junior faculty are encouraged by the greater opportunities according to O'Meara. 
"I believe that the intellectual quality of the lectures has never been stronger," said O'Meara. "However, while the quality of not been to Notre Drune.' " said O'Meara. "Then it became 'ifyou have not been here in two years ... ' Now, I say''if you have not been here in two months ... ' All of the advances that we are making are like a snowball that has really begun to roll." 111 
November 9, 1989 

/ 
News 




Veteran of a Mo cow Winter 
Professor George Brznkley is Notre Dame's expert on the Soviet Union, bringing with him a wealth of personal experience in Russia 
BY SHAUN SPARKMAN 

E motion has the ability to capture and retain the attention of viewers and listeners. Itis difficult to forget the joy of the 1980 Olympic hockey team's victory or the sorrow expressed by John F. ! . Kennedy, Jr. at the funeral of his father. On
i 
the academic level, an emotional lecture can consume the student, and, if properly pre­sented, propel him into the realm of the Professor's topic and a subsequent sharing of experience. 

Professor George Brinkley has good rea­son to be emotional when it comes to the subject of the Soviet Union. He has studied at the University of Moscow for a year, 

written a book on the Russian. Civil War, and dedicated over thirty years of teaching to the policies and history of the Soviet Union. 
Along with the publication of the Volunteer Army (N.D. Press '64), Brinkley has contrib­uted to five other books and written numer­ous articles. In the hierarchy of work priori­ties, however, publication is not at Brinkley's, nor Notre Dame's, letterhead. 
"From my point of view," said Brinkley, "the real purpose ofa University is teaching-the passing of knowledge and experience from the professor to the student. A professor should involve himself in research for no other reason than to become a better teacher." It is much easier for a student to appreci­ate and under­stand course ma­terial. when it is presented through first-hand experi­ence according to Brinkley. 
"Notre Dame rightly felt that in order to become a better university 
and have a better . . .h

faculty it had to Russian history as put more emphasis on scholarship, publica­tion, and research, but the bottom line is that 

Marl Okuda 
b f i·" " G B · kl 

ecome a way o 11e 1or eorge rm ey. the university is emphasizing teaching. A university cannot benefit student body 
Scholastic 



scholarship by putting pressure on faculty to 
publish." 
Fluent in R~ssian; George Brinkley's edu­

cation has been almost completely dedicated 
to the Soviet Union. He received his masters 
degree from the Russian Institution of Co­
lumbia University where the entire curricu­
lum concerned different aspects of Soviet 
language, history, foreign policies and politi­cal ideology. In 1962, at the time. of the Cuban missile crisis, he spent an entire year · at the University of Moscow as part of a 
doctoral exchange program. · 
"The idea in the '60s was that the Soviet 

Union was going to have such an influence on 
American life that there should be some spe­
cialists on every aspect ofSoviet life. As for 
News 
the year I spent in Moscow, being a part of the life of a country is something that can never be experi­enced through any text book. I know what it is like to spend a winter in Moscow or stand in block-long queues in or­der to buy basic necessi­ties, and this experience is what I hope to relay to my classes." 
Getting to know the So­viet people and their ways of life have emotionally tied Brinkley to the country and the grave problems that it faces. Since coming to 

Notre Dame to teach in 1958 (some of these years were spent in graduate programs at Co­lumbia) he has been to the Soviet Union eight times. His teaching life has spanned the Cu­ban Missile Crisis, the Cold War, Afghani­stan, and now Gorbachev's reforms. 
"Every time I return, I see something new and promising, although sometimes I'm misled. Last time I was there I noticed many of theSoviet people walking dogs. I thought that it was great because it was a sign that the economy was improving and that the Soviet people were warming up from their usually dreary lives. I approached a dog-owner and told him how happy I was that he had the freedom and money to own a pet and he replied that the only reason he owned the 
mutt was to keep his apartment from being 
robbed." . 
On some cold South Bend morning, 

George Brinkley will begin his lecture with 
the following story, as an attempt to share the 
severity and his first-hand knowledge of the 
Cuban Missile Crisis with his students: 
"The media in the Soviet Union kept creat­ing the impression that war was inevitable-­they would interrupt programming in the middle of a show and I would think that this is going to be the declaration of war between the Soviet Union and the United States, but they never said it I was terrified beyond belief; the U. S. Embassy told us to stay inside for fear ofbeing lynched in the streets. 
"At the end of the week, I left my dorm room and went to the U.S. Embassy to see what I should do. That same day the Soviet Union had planned a demonstration at the embassy and as I sat inside I watched mobs of people throw things and bum American flags. At the end of the day an embassy car tried to drive me back to campus. When we got outside the gate, the car was attacked by hundreds of Soviets that bounced the car all over the place. 
"I finally returned to his dorm room where I received a phone call from the U.S.; this was the first time in a week that a phone call had actually made it through. As I conversed I realized that I did not know the person on the other line. 
"'You don't sound like Georgy,' said the man on the other line and he hung up. 
''The operalor came on and said, 'The At­torney General, Robert Kennedy, does not wish to speak to you any longer.' 
"Robert Kennedy had a contact in the Kremlin named Georgy and was worried that something might have happened to him. The whole Kennedy family, including the Presi­dent, was vacationing and they called to see if Georgy was O.K. At the same time my father was trying to call me, the lines were accidently switched, and my Father was connected with Kremlin and Kennedy with me. I thought perhaps I had caused some trouble because Kennedy was surely· con­fused but nothing ever came ofit" 
Experiences such as this bind student, teacher and topic, and help formulate the backbone of the Notre Dame faculty. II 
November 9, 1989 



Sports 


•••well, sort of Southern Methodist football has returned and taken its licks, but F arrest Gregg's young team shows promise for the future 


BY KEVIN SPROULE 

A t first glance, the 2-6 Southern Methodist Mustangs seem to be having a poor season. After all, not much could be expected from a team that had not played a down in two full seasons. But considering the rebuilding task SMU has faced this season, the two victories are an amazing accomplishment. The 1989 football season is the Mustangs' first since the NCAA handed them the "Death Penalty" following the 1986 season for a series of rules violations within the football program. So while their fellow Southwest Conference members have been battling for a spot in the Cotton Bowl, SMU has spent the past two years working to re­store the program. 
The first step was to hire Forrest Gregg as head coach. Gregg had formerly served as head coach for three Na­tional Football League teams (the Cleveland Browns, Cincinnati Bengals and Green Bay Packers). More importantly for the administration, Gregg is an SMU alumnus who showed an earnest desire to help the Mustangs get back on their feet the right way. As Ray Buck explained in the Houston Post in June 
1988, "(Forrest Gregg) accepted the job because somebody had to step forward to restore faith and football to the Hilltop. He 

thanks In part to Jason Wolf. 
wanted to be that somebody." 
Once Gregg took over, his first task was to replace almost all the pre-Death Penalty scholarship athletes. When SMU received its punishment, the players had the chance to leave and finish their collegiate careers with 
Scholastic 
other schools. Most did. 
Southern Methodist felt it hired the one man who could entice qual­ity players to take a chance with a program that had to start at square one. Gregg commands respect and instills confidence in everyone with . whom he speaks~I "In Forrest, we found someone who is tough~ minded enough to rebuild our pro­gram," said Athletic Director Doug Single. "He is the right man to lead our program." 
At the start of fall drills, Gregg had put together a team large in number but miniscule in experi­ence. Of the 89 players he began with, 69 were either red-shirt or true freshmen. Only 41 have received scholarships, including just two who earned letters in 1986. The remainder of the squad consists of walk-ons leaving the Mustangs
' 


e agams a tough schedule that includes four top-25 teams (Texas A&M, Houston, Notre Dame and Arkansas). 
Nevertheless, Gregg entered the season with an outlook of cautious confidence. He feels he has a core of players big and fast enough to compete. He also knows that 39 of his 41 scholarship athletes had never played a college football game. 
"f don't think size and speed will be as much a problem for us as the lack of experi­ence," said Gregg. "We'll be limited in the amount of time we'll have to prepare the freshmen to play." 

fr th ts t . t Romo has compiled Impressive passing numbers. 
outmanned om e ou . eight games Romo has completed 
Although SMU enters Saturday's contest against Notre Dame with only two wins, those wins are two more than most people thought possible, not only for this season but beyond. "The big thing here is the total picture," said Gregg following their 35-9 victory over North Texas. "A lot of people said we wouldn't win a game for three years. We just didn't believe that. These kids just didn't believe that. ..and it shows. They've played hard and tried to improve. And they have improved." 
Unfortunately, their wins over North Texas and Connecticut (31-30) still left them 
ill-prepared to handle the thrashings more powerful teams would give them. Witness the beatings they took. from Texas A&M (63-14) and Houston (95­
21). 
Those night­marish experi­ences aside, 


Sports 
the victory over North Texas proved satisfying in that it demon­strated the potential ofSMU' s new "Run-and-Shoot" offense. The "Run-and-Shoot" is one of Gregg's new implements, an of­fense designed to be a wide-open passing attack that puts a lot of points on the scoreboard. This new scheme allows him to best utilize his recruited players and play an exciting brand of football the fans will enjoy. 
Quarterback Mike Romo has benefitted from the Run-and­Shoot and has emerged as a bud­ding star. As a red-shirt freshman, Romo is already moving up the ladder of the Mustangs' career pa~sing leaders. Rpmo set a school record for passing yards in a single game by throwing for 450 yards against North Texas. Through 

over 50 percent ofhis passes for at least 150 yards in each. He has connected on 189 of 342 attempts for 2,061 yards and ten touch­downs. 
SMU has two legitimate pass receiving threats to complement Ramo's abilities. Senior Mitchell Glieber has 37 receptions for 432 yards and one touchdown, while Michael Bowen, a junior, has snared 34 passes for 339 yards and one touchdown. 
The Mustangs' defense hasn't been as successful. The unit starts ten freshmen and has endure'd its share of punishment at the hands ofconference opponents. Other than Texas A&M and Houston, Rice (35-6), Texas (45-13) and Baylor (49-3) have feasted on SMU' s youth. The unit did show signsofimprovement two weeks ago, hold­ing North Texas to nine points and 239 total yards. 
Don't count on things to be that easy for them this weekend, though, when they face the top-ranked Irish in Notre Dame Sta­dium. Expecting a win from SMU this weekend would be akin to expecting Lou Holtz not to worry about an opponent. The Mustangs may leave South Bend disap­pointed, but things can only get better for this young squad. 
November 9, 1989 
Sports 


COMPILED BY JIM MAGGIO 

CROSS COUNTRY 

Both the Notre Dame men's and women's The Irish regained the Notre Dame Relay 

Liji':E'~~ 

cross country teams travel to Ypsilanti, Michi-title last Friday as they defeated six tough oppo-:wEEK > 
;I::";:i"~~~=;:;~i~; ::~,~::t?.EZi:f~i:r~:: ·»AVJ ~:N:it:.: 
for the third consecutive year, while the women took nine first-place finishes, including victories cBank6ske: a sophci~ore .· .· .·. , . .. . . , ..·..•·•• set their sights on finishing in the top ten. in the 400-yard breastroke, 200-yard freestyle, fromW'illiams~ill~;N)\wentona½oririgS!)t~ Senior captain MIKE O'CONNOR and 800-yard freestyle and 500-yard crescendo relays. inthe hock~y te3T:'s sw,eep ?f He>ly¢re>s~J~t • teammatesJ.T. BURKE and TOM O'ROURKE Notre Dame talces to the road for the first time ..w~kendJie ~Ii~pisfirst5ar~~r~att.ri~~-wtfh
2~~~=1;:;:::;~~lf~u1~ ..,..,.,,:_!.,..~,...~-:s.,..g_oG,...n,,..r:.,..m.,..n.,..~.,..rr-o..,w_,_N_o_v_.-10,,..-,w.,..h.,..en,,....,it..,tr..,a..,v.,..el,,.s.,..to.,..; ,ffi!;~:~i~&~!lii;!t squad. 
VQUbEYBAiJL 


finals of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference 1-----'--------'----'----'""'----------'---;.;_=--'-..;._--'----'-I 

The Notre Dame men's and women's fenc­
ing teams travel to University Park, PA this weekend to open their 1989-90 season at the Penn State Open. The Irish will compete against 
SO.schools from across the U.S. and Canada in that event. 
Three returning starters lead the men's team in an effort to extend its 22-match win . strealc. CHRIS BAGUER, MARK GUGEL and JOEL CLARK will captain the sabre, epee and foil squads respectively. All-America ANNE BARREDA returns to captain a veteran women's team that includes KRISTIN KRALI­
CEK, HEIDI PIPER and LYNN KADRI. 
tournament last weekend. They had defeated Xavier 3-2 in the first round of the championship. Notre Dame finished the season with a 10-7-3 mark. 

Midfielder PAUL LaVIGNE and forward KEVIN PENDERGRAST each picked up all­conference honors for their play this season. Senior DA VE AUGUSTYN finished his career at the MCC championships after appearing in 86 consecutive matches in a Notre Dame uniform, breaking the previous career record of 84. Goal­keeper DANNY LYONS also finished a stellar career by appearing in 64 contests over the past three seasons, brealcing the old mark for keepers of 
60. 

The Irish looked strong in its first competi­tion of the 1989-90 season last week, taking first place at the Michigan State Invitational. Their score of 102.5 provided a comfortable margin of victory over second-place host Michigan State 
(73.75) and was the second highest point total in the history of the tournamenL 

ANDY RADENBAUGH and MARCUS GOWENS each won their second consecutive championships of the tourney, while PAT BOYD and MARK GERARDI each won their respective divisions. 
The Irish are off this week to prepare for the SL Louis Open on Nov. 18. 
The Irish (11-14) struggled last week as they posted one win against three losses. They dropped a five-game match to Illinois last Wednesday, defeated Rhode Island and lost to Iowa in the Golden Dome Classic and fell to Kentucky in four games on Sunday. Seniors TARYN COLLINS and KATHY CUNNING­HAM were each named to the All-Tournament team at the Golden Dome Classic. 
Notre Dame hosts Illinois-Chicago tomor­row, Nov. 10 and Texas-Arlington on Saturday, Nov. 11. 
The Irish hockey team (3-1) looked power­ful last weekend in a two-game sweep of Holy Cross College. They defeated the Crusaders easily in the two contests by scores of 10-4 and 9-2. The 19 goals in these two games increased Notre Dame's season total to 28, and their point total of 75 through the first four games is 49 higher than last year at the same point in the schedule. Notre Dame puts its two-game win streak on the line thi's weekend in a home-and-home series against Michigan-Dearborn. Tomorrow's game will be at the JACC Field­house at 8:30 p.m. 
Scholastic 




Opinion 






Bottoms Up 
Two students look at the rationality ofSaint Mary's Alcohol Policy 
BY ANGELIQUE DIOGUARDI AND KATHRYN JANSEY 

The opinions in the following article do not necessarily reflect the opinions ofScholas­tic or its Editorial Board. 
lcohol awareness. Drunk driving. 

A 
Alcoholism. The topics have 

plagued the administration of both St. Mary's and Notre Dame forovera decade since the policies were revised. 
The alcohol policy at Notre Dame allows for very small social gatherings. Drinking is not condemned as long as the noise level is reasonable, the social gatherings do not be­
. come "parties," and the alcohol is kept in the room with the door closed. Although alcohol awareness and drunk driving are a serious concern for everyone, the school allows stu­dents to make their own decisions as long as they are not disturbing others. 
St. Mary's, on the other hand, has a policy which is in strict compliance with that of Indiana State Law. Simply put, that means it is illegal for any student under the age of twenty-one to consume alcoholic beverages. Any minor in the presence of someone twenty-one or over who is drinking, whether the minor is drinking or not, violates the college policy. 
At St. Mary's the enforcement of the alco­hol policy is largely up to the resident advi­sors. They are specifically trained to be responsible and report illegal or uncontrolled drinking. Individual R.A.s are trusted to make their own judgements regarding the guilt or innocence of underage drinkers. The vagueness of enforcement guidelines for 
R.A.s 
causes anxiety among students and 

R.A.s 
alike. The students' disadvantage is the biased opinion of certain R.A.s. 


Just like differences between every St. 

Mary's student, there are some resident 
advisors who are more responsible than oth­
ers. The lack ofguidelines creates animosity 
on the part of students towards resident 
advisors because the students are at the 
mercy of the R.A.'s personal policy. 
In the training program for resident advi­sors, enforcing the Indiana State Law is the first priority. The administration realizes that a dry campus is an unrealistic goal. Con­sequently, controlled drinking is discussed. St. Mary's is aware that alcohol is an un­avoidable factor in student life and that con­trolled drinking is a better approach to the issue, according to one R.A. Because their policy does not differentiate between con­. trolled and uncontrolled drinking, it contra­
dicts that understanding. 
More specific guidelines might create a more justified policy. Perhaps students would have more respect for the policy if it were geared more towards controlled drink~ ing than the prohibition of drinking alto­gether. St. Mary's students, who are taught self-discipline and responsibility, can under­stand the problems of alcoholism and drunk driving. Perhaps they don't need these deci­sions to be made for them. Individual pri­vacy should be respected. Drinking that is confined to your room is a personal issue and should not be subject to reprimand by the school. If drinking is out of control or in­fringes on the rights of your neighbors, it is no longer a private matter. 
As discussed previously, St Mary's is a liberal arts institution that is geared towards self-discipline and responsibility. College is not a purely academic experience, but a growing period as well. The purpose of St. Mary's is to give women a chance to become well-rounded, responsible, mature adults, able to make sound decisions. 
Traditionally women have been second­class citizens, but St Mary-'s women are taught to be leaders in the community. The college needs to place its trust in the students in order to help them grow into responsible adults. This trust starts with allowing them to make their own decisions. Regardless of whether or not the alcohol policy prohibits underage drinking, those who have not yet reached a certain level of maturity will only learn through their own experiences and mistakes. 
Enforcement beyond resident advisors is passed on to the resident directors or the judicial board, which consists of student and faculty. The situation is presented before the board and they decide the seriousness of the incident. Usually first offenders will be is­sued a warning, and a notice ofprobation will be put in their resident file. The second offense, in addition to a warning and proba­tion, includes disciplinary action. Third time offenders are put on social probation which requires them to write a paper and partake in 
November 9, 1989 


community service. All these 
disciplinary actions are subject 
to change according to the par­
ticulars of the situation. 
There are various student re­
actions to the policy. Anne­
marie Mathews, a sophomore, 
recalls a situation when the resi­
dent director reported her for 
violation of the alcohol policy. 
It was after an SYR and several 
of her friends were sitting in her 
room eating pizza. Empty beer 
cans were on the floor from 
earlier in the evening, and the 
door was open. No one was 
consuming alcohol at this point, 
and there were no loud noises 
coming from the room. At the 
resident director's own discre­
tion she chose to write them up 
despite the fact that no actual 
alcohol was in sight. Techni­
cally she should not have been 
found guilty because the cans 
were empty. 

The situation was unfair in one respect because a different person may not have seen it as a violation of the policy. Ifthe guidelines of the policy were clearer she may not have been so careless. Mathews and her friends were punished with a notice ofprobation and had to research and write a paper about a law · case concerning the invasion ofprivacy upon a particular drug find. The punishment did not seem applicable to the crime. "I had no problem accepting the guilty charge, but the punishment was irrelevant because the case we researched concerned the issue ofprivacy rather than drinking," said Mathews. 
The policy was broken by another student, Tracy Seppi. Seppi was among ten couples socializing in a friend's room before an SYR. There was music playing and people were talking, but the noise level was not unreason­able. A passing R.A. heard a phrase with the word "beer" in it and considered that suffi­cient evidence to be suspicious. The R.A. knocked, entered the room and found alcohol being consumed by minors. The R.A. wrote up the room's residents and noted the names of the other female participants. For their dates, however, there was no punishment. 

At the trial the students were charged with violation of the social conduct code and dis­orderly conduct. Disorderly conduct be­came a factor when one of their dates took a picture of the R.A. 
Apparently none of the female students brought up on charges acted disrespectfully. Seppi contested the disorderly conduct charge and, though the Judicial Board took this into account, it had no affect on the decision. This example represents a student who did not agree with the outcome of the trial. "I did not contest the charge of guilty because I had broken the policy earlier, but I had to question the reasons for which she entered the room." said Seppi. Guidelines protecting the rights of a person within their own room should exist in order to give stu­dents the freedom to make their own choices. Drinking and driving was not a problem in this case because transportation was pro­vided to and from the dance as well as from St. Mary's to Notre Dame. 
Many people have a different opinion on the subject of the alcohol policy. Some stu­dents believe that is is fair and just and that it should remain unchanged. Others feel the policy needs to be reevaluated. There are 


Opinion 
students who have adopted the attitude that it is a rule and if caught they should be pun­ished. If one chooses to drink that person must risk the consequences. Although this attitude does not condemn the policy it does not show ·respect for it because it has not prevented drinking. It has only succeeded in forcing people to drink behind closed doors. Wouldn't it be nicer to be able to acknowl­edge the desire to drink and keep it under control than to deny something that is going to happen anyway? 
St. Mary's alcohol policy does not neces­sarily need to be changed, but the enforce­ment rieeds to be clarified by clear guidelines and consistent methods. On the basis of several interviews, peer pressure, ~ommon motivation for drinking, is not a big problem on this campus. People will drinkornotdrink according to their own personal beliefs and limits, regardless of the school's alcohol policy. Notre Dame make a positive state­mentbyputtingtrustinto its students. Rather than leaving these important decisions up to the possible bias of particular resident advi­sors, St Mary's should take this opportunity toletusleadthewayinestablishingourselves as mature adults. 
Scholastic 


Opinion/ Greg Volan 

I I 




Legal department's Greg Volan questions policy ofminority placement in dorms 
In recent years, I have noticed numer­ous cases in which freshman minority students were placed in the same room. 
Every time a freshman quad was filled with minority students, I became increasingly convinced that there is an administrative housing policy that steers minority students together as freshmen. 
I believe that there should be no university policy considering race as a factor in making housing assignments. Simply because mi­norities may have extra adjustments to make when they come to Notre Dame, a predomi­nantly white school, certain people believe 
·that these adjustments would be eased if minority students had roommates that share their background. But this attitude, when argued by a white person, is paternalistic and assumes problems before they actually oc­cur. 
White people should not decide for minor­ity students that it is better to have other minority students as roommates. Because policy at this university is made primarily by whites, a policy that houses minority students together is wrong. After talking to some of the minority leaders on campus, I get the impression that minority students do not have a consensus on which is better: for minority students to be paired with other minority students to help with adjusbnent problems, or for freshmen minority students to have roommates selected randomly, to integrate them into the campus more effec­tively. The minority leaders, however, do agree that this decision should be made by the minority students themselves, and not by way of university policy. For these reasons, the university should have a practice of ran­domly grouping freshmen as roommates, with no consideration of race. 

Evelyn Reinebold, director of housing, assured me that race is not considered when housing assignments are made for the fresh­men. In fact, the housing office does not even have access to this information. On the other hand, she showed me a list that she compiled . of 56 cases in this year's freshmen class in which minority students were placed to­gether. At first glance, 56 cases seemed numerous enough to suggest that the housing office must be considering race when making these decisions. Reinebold was very helpful, however, giving me more information so that I could calculate the statistical chances of minority students to be randomly assigned together. The figures show that, _in part because of the increased enrollment of mi­nority students in this year's freshman class, one could reasonably expect dozens of cases -not quite as many as 56, but more than I suspected at first. It is my conc1usion that the housing office does not deliberately place minority students into the same rooms: 56 cases is more than one would expect, but not enough to point the finger at the administra­tion. 
On the other hand, the problem of how to account for the additional cases remains. For instance, the chances of four minority stu­dents being randomly placed in a quad is so small that even one case raises an eyebrow. There is one such case this year and several more in the recent past. I have to leave such anomalies as open questions. I have heard that the university, which has switched over . to a computerized syst~m of making housing assignments, is checking their system to ensure that it does not discriminate in ways of which they are unaware. I hope that the university is taking, and will continue to support, active measures to ensure that race is in no way a factor in freshman housing as­signments. II 
November 9, 1989 


COMING DISTRACTIONS 



CLASS NEWS 
Junior Class dinner at Senor Kelly's. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. $4 all you can eat 
SeniorBlockParty. 4p.m.-7p.m. JACC Fieldhouse. 
LECTURE 
"The Politics of Industrial Restructur­ing: Transitional Finns' Search for Flexible Production in the Mexican Automobile Industry." Kevin Middle­brook, Indiana University. 4:00 p.m. Room 131 Decio. 
"Dealing with Difficult People." Dr. Raymond Tucker, Bowling Green State University. 7 p.m. Carroll Auditorium, 

SMC. 
College of Business Administration Faculty Research Seminar. Michael Mussa, University of Chicago. 4:15 p.m., Hayes-Healy, Room 120. 
MUSIC 
Fall Choral Concert. 8 p.m. Little The­atre, SMC. 
FILMS 
"When Harry Met Sally." 8 p.m. & 
10:15 p.m. Cushing Auditorium. $2. 
SPECIAL 
Second City Comedy Group. 8 p.m. Washington Hall. Tickets atLaFortune Info. Desk. $5 student, $7 non-student. 
Greek Olympics. 4 p.m. -6 p.m. North Quad. 3-legged race, Super Skiing, Dizzy Izzies, Food Games (Fieldhouse Mall). 
SPORTS 
Football Pep Rally. 7 p.m. JACC Arena. 
Basketball. ND vs. Israel. JACC Arena. 
Volleyball. ND vs. University ofIllinois at Chicago. 7:30 p.m. JACC Arena. 
Hockey. ND vs. University of Michi­gan-Dearborn. 8:30 p.m. JACC Field­house. 
MUSIC SPECIAL 
"Expo Roma." Student works from 1988­89 Rome Studies Program. 5p.m. Archi­tecture Building lobby. Runs through November 17. 
Obstacle Course. 4 p.m. -6 p.m. South Quad. 
Philharmonic & South Bend Symphonic Choir. 8: 15 p.m. North side Main Audito­rium, IUSB . 

ND Chorale Concert. 8:15 p.m. Wash-En,,.--===== 

ington Hall. 
FILMS 
"The Accused." 7:30 p.m. & 9:45 p.m. 
Annenberg Auditorium. $2. 
"Say Anything." 8 p.m. & 10:15 p.m. 
Cushing Auditorium. $2. 
LECTURE 
"The Year of the Family: The Power of the Family: What Systems Theory · Teaches Us." Bill Tageson, Professor of Psychology. 12:15p.m. CSCRoom 124. Brown bag lunch: soup and bread for $1. 
"Knowing What It's Like." Jeremy But­terfield, Cambridge University. 3:30 
p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
"Classification Theory--A Survey." Pro­fessorCaniel Lascar, University of Paris. 
4:30 p.m. Math Building, Room 226. · Also offered in Coffee Room 201 at 4 
SPORTS 
Football. ND vs. SMU. 12 p.m. 
Volleyball. NDvs. UniversityofTexas­Arlington. 7:30p.m. JACC Arena. 
Hockey. ND vs. University of Michi­gan-Dearborn. 7:30 p.m. JACC Field­house. 
SPECIAL 
Closed. meeting for Alcoholic Anony­mous and Al-Anon. 9:30 a.m. Multi­purpose and Coffee House Rooms, Cen­ter forSocial Concerns Building. 
FILMS 
"Peace Peeping Up: Ending Nicaragua's Other War." Anna Carringan and com­mentary by Fr. Robert Pelton, Director, Institute for Pastoral & Social Ministry. 4p.m.CSC. 


Scholastic 


COMING DISTRACTIONS 
FILMS 
"MarriageofMariaBraun." 7p.m. An­nenberg Auditorium. $2. 
"La Marseilles." 9:15 p.m. Annenberg Auditorium. $2. 

LECTURE 
"On Changing Roles of Men and Women." Phyllis Schlafly.. 8 p.m. Washington Hall. 
i::,_;·:]'.::-!:.:-:. 
ib 
r+ ',sifuid~iii~*~.·.•. \... 
.·•·. VAN BEETHOV'~N)
•..,,, .,; ·hciitre ::fo :.wt~}5.
·.,_: _:,\-~ ·=·:;://// :·::~:;.~:,:...::·'.: 
·•*?~~l~P..........······•··· ·•·•.•··••: ..~;~y~Hi.B··············'.•·.··
·. I!arkWest(S~t/~Su11:),7:30 .. m.·$20 
i.:.cix':1'':. ·. ,q'ilfii;'l':ii~d~y;'Nti~~I>,er{{••(:



11t;;;;:•· ~-~~~i 

LECTURE 

Forum on Gender Problems and Stere­otypes. 7 p.m. at Theodore's. No Charge. 
FILMS 

"The Criminal Code." 7 p.m. Annen­berg Auditorium. $2. 
"ToHaveandHaveNot." 9p.m.Annen­berg. $2. 
,;~r>:-:->_,·-, -;'.'··>·> :?~-? 

.i'.WEDNESDA.Y,·.:NoV)lis:tfi
,·:·~ '(::-t 



LECTURE 

Eleanor Smeal in response to Schlafly. 8 p.m. Library Auditorium. No Charge. 

THEATER 

"Three Sisters." ND/SMC Theater. 
8: 10 p.m. Production runs through Nov. 
18. Ticket info. call (219) 284-3626. See advertisement below. 
· . 
November 9, 1989 
. 


Editorial 



The O-ther Hoosier Lottery 
A u_tomation has crept into virtually every ~pect of modem l_ife. T~e Univer­sity of Notre Dame refuses to be left behmd. And refuses 1s the nght word. Direct Access Registration by Telephone has fallen short, but the admini­stration will not, or cannot, accept that the system needs several revisions before it becomes ready for widespread use. The central problem with the DART system has not been what students were predicting-namely, that the system would lose or rearrange their schedules leaving the university in a state of chaos come second semester registration day. Rather, students who have been cursed with a late registration time face is class closures. Due to the nature ofthe system, students are informed immediately as to whether they have successfully added a class to their schedule. Unfortunately, students with late registration times have been effectively precluded from including even one class at their choice of times in their schedules. Thus the system discriminates against those who lose the lottery. The department of accountancy tried to add some degree of fairness to the system by establishing randomization by social security numbers. This, too, failed. As stated, one of DART's key features is that students will immediately know whether they have added a class. There is, according to the Registrar's Office, no way in which this randomization could be added to the system. Further complaints have arisen in the area of prerequisite courses. The foreign language departments have reorganized, leaving many students with credits in classes that do not exist in the infinite wisdom ofthe DART computer. Several other examples include the fact that somehow painting one is no longer the proper prerequisite course for painting two and an accounting course open only to accounting juniors which cannot be added by accounting juniors because the machine apparently does not believe them. Wake up. We're a Catholic university. We forgive each other, don't we? The Registrar's Office should just admit their mistake. Continued testing and investiga­tion into the fairness issue could someday make DART change the direction of registration. But take time so the same mistake isn't made again. 
-Scholastic 
Scholastic 
.. 
Final Word 

Issues of Drug 

and Health Education at Notre Dame 

BY PAT RUSSELL 

f Drugs: Notre Dame's Problem But the point isn't that the photographer course in contemporary health education, 
and Solutio·n," promises the doesn't know how to snort cocaine. Rather, as part of the physical education rotation. 
cover of the September 28th the point is that the silly mistake made in the This health module focuses on alcohol and 
issue of Scholastic Magazine. Unfortu­picture detracts from the serious nature of the drug use, stress management, nutrition, nately, the problem is given only a few article. The potential impact of the article is and sexuality. paragraphs of quotations contributed by instantly compromised. Notre Dame stu­Although perhaps a few years late, the students reputed to be 'in the know,' and dents want to have an effect on the world University is to be commended on the im­the solution retires into a discussion of outside, but they will not have that ability if plementation ofthis area ofstudy. The sup­existing University structures intended to they are not properly educated in such impor­port of the student body is well deserved. deal with drug use. Students do need to be tant, contemporary issues as illegal drug use However, one recommendation is still to be made familiar with the institutions around and abuse. made. Why not increase the length of the them which are meant to help them, but The field of illegal drugs, however, is not course to a full semester and grant aca­there is a vital issue here which is being the only area where Notre Dame students demic credit for its completion? Such a robbed of attention: the former lack of need better education. Consider the use of move would simultaneously increase the educational opportunities at Notre Dame alcohol, most likely the single largest drug topics which could be covered as well as to learn about drug/alcohol use and abuse, problem faced by the Notre Dame student bolster the academic atmosphere of the and the University's recent attempts to rec-body. Most people drink while they are in class. tify the situation. . college, and the University acknowledges Perhaps the drug problem faced by the 
The problem with the lack of education this. But what the University has failed to student body of Notre Dame has not been reveals itself on thecoveroftheScholastic realize is that most of this drinking occurs so much orie of abuse as it has been of ig­issue with the article. The cover picture with out any real understanding on the part of norance. Students at Notre Dame do not, as depicts some 'cocaine,' a couple of the students in regards to the effects ofalco­a whole, have much experience with illegal 'joints,' a crushed beer can, and assorted hol. Thus the decision ofstudents to drink is drugs, and this is good. Howeyer, the naive drug paraphernalia. At first glance, it is a not based on any real knowledge ofalcohol; attitude that this lack of exposure instills is hard hitting photographic commentary on often the type and quantity of alcohol con­sad. In its recent response to this problem, the drug culture at Notre Dame. But the sumed is based on experimentation. the University is to be congratulated on im­drama quickly dissolves into comedy as Other areas deserving ofacademic instruc­plementing a course in contemporary those familiar with how cocaine is used tion include smoking, common diseases, health studies. notice the rough surface on which the lines and-dare it be said-sex education. Notre Dame Alumni presently hold im­of 'cocaine' are cut. Cocaine is an expen­The solution is simple, and has recently portant social, business, and political posi­sive narcotic, and to suggest that someone been undertaken by the University through tions. If we want our future alumni to who is about to use it would waste some of the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education. continue to make a difference, then we it by spreading it on a rough, textured Beginning this year, all incoming freshmen must educate them in such basic yet impor­tabletop is absurd. will be required to complete a seven week tant areas. II 
November 9, 1989 




Hunchback by Greg Delate 


1t jurl dot,>n' f ,n~Jc .)11\1~ •• • J" 7o .,f /1,. ~~,,J,.fs .,l, Jl,000 .,,,11, of dowj• o,.{ #.., l/11111,r.,1 laJ:o °""j 4J.O, 0()0 f,­
Q/( & slrd..tJ 4IS ·.. pu.,~A~<tlf. JIJ Nl .('41,. ri,, ..) rl fo h~ Q "°j Ii, 1Mk, ./lu'jJ f«,·r. 
::;:::, 
C: 
C---~
~G7 Jc ' ? /
Break anofher $/8, ODO 
fJlor-fA of windows f @} 


.. ,• .­
Bring 


T-Shirts · 
. Your 
$10 
Parents! 

9th, THURSDAY, 9:00-2:00 -CUP NITE -DJ John Biscaino 10th, FRIDAY, 9:00-2:00 -SMU Blues -Live Blue Light Special 11th, SATURDAY, 1/2 hour after game-2:00 -Live Blue Light Special 
13th & 14th, 9:00-2:00  Sr. Class Fund Raiser -Tickets at door $5  
"Entertainer Cliff Erickson"  
15th, WEDNESDAY  Cross The Border  -DJ Todd Brown  ·  
Senior Formal Fall Raffle -10 PM  


@[qBq 
13'? MArtt 

GRb-tN 1).1(; 

HOW LONG WILL YOU LIVE? 
A FUN TEST 
SiPIRiiHIS FUN TEST Wl"'l'H 73 LVC~ BoNu5 Pot.st'S. 

~O\JR. sc.oeE. A""t" "TH\S 
POt>JT IS: !:lo\JR-1,..1;:E. 
exPE.c:tA>JC.Y. 
ittwe. 0.. rrull.. ~• 











