Disce quasi semper vieturus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 10, 1885.
No. 18.
Alfred Lord Tennyson.
POET LAUREATE.
God-gifted poet, by two nations crowned, With life as pure and perfect as thy song—	-
May grace continue, and thy days be long, With love and honor all-encompassed round! Those, there have been, who in this latest day Impatient of all custom not their own, Have cried: “The Poet no~v has passed aivay Above the ivy, shines a golden crozon'' O let the faithless in the Poet’s worth
Search where love’s sorrow shows thy truest mind; And see how little in thy song is mirth, And how much prayer and pity for mankind.
O Laureate-crowned, they wrong thee speaking ill; Men thoughtless, brazen-throated, never still!
T. E. S.
Frederick. Ozanam and the Society Which He Founded.*
Charity is the pivotal virtue of the Christian religion. The constant precept of the Divine Founder of Christianity, it was likewise His last injunction and dying legacy to man; and this characteristic quality is the distinguishing mark and token of the religion which He founded and established.
Every age in the history of the Church has produced multiplied societies, brotherhoods and confraternities consecrated to works of charity, varying more or less in character and organization according to the spirit and tendencies of the age or country, and the conditions or necessities bf society. Care for the poor, the sick, the prisoner and the distressed has been peculiarly the mission and characteristic of the Catholic Church in every ' age and in every land.
■ In the Middle Ages, when the Church was the acknowledged almoner of the bounty and benevolence of her children; when large patrimonies were often given to bishops, and when abbeys and monasteries and convents were generously endowed, the design and intention in bestowing these
- * Condensed from the Scholastic Annual report of the Address of the Hon. Wt J. Onahan, LL. D., ’75,. delivered on the occasion of the celebration of the Golden Jubilee of Frederick Ozanam, at St. Louis, Mo. .
gifts most generally was that they should be employed for the greater honor of religion in providing for the.necessities of the poor; and the deeds of conveyance of these ancient grants and bequests most commonly so expressly declare. How loyally and beneficently their wealth and these revenues . were dispensed by the Church, let history bear witness I	_
No frowning prison, no gloomy and repelling “ poor-house ” then chilled the hearts and crushed the manhood of the poor and needy as a condition precedent to relief and alms. To be poor was not regarded as a crime for which men and women should be arrested and imprisoned, as in some states and countries is the practice in our day. Poverty was simply regarded as a misfortune, appealing all the more strongly to Christian hearts that the Divine Founder of Christianity had Himself been poor and lowly and afflicted; hence, relief and succor for the poor and the needy was given in a spirit of generous charity and sympathetic kindness, instead of, as now, doled out by the cold hand of official, and too often unsympathetic,, authority.	.
“ Every monastery,” as Mr. Lecky testified in his “ History of Rationalism,” “ became a centre from which charity radiated. By the monks the nobles were over-awed, the poor protected, prisoners ransomed, the remotest spheres of charity explored.”
The wealth and resources acquired by the Church in the Catholic ages, the free gift and voluntary offering of Catholic benevolence and piety, which was known and regarded as “ the patrimony of the poor,” has long been confiscated and squandered by alien hands. -	.
The grasping, and persecuting arm of power under the convenient plea of “state necessity,” or under the false and more unjust pretence of “disorders and irregularities in religious communities,” spurred on by the hate of zealots and the avarice of needy and greedy courtiers, effected the swift confiscation of the possessions once held by the Church in trust for the -poor.	’
When the Catholic faith and the ancient spirit was banished from, or extinguished in, Catholic lands, it was the poor that chiefly .suffered by the change. But notwithstanding that authority and possessions were wrested from her, the Church •never forgot and never neglected the poor. When no longer able, to divide with the mendicant and the forlorn the wealth of which she had been un-.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
justly despoiled, the Church shared with them the scanty alms of which she herself was the recipient.
The very reproach sometimes employed in derision against her that she is “ the Church of the poor and the lowly ” is, after all, one of her proudest and most honorable titles. She never has made undue discrimination in favor of rank, or caste or class among her children. Within her sanctified temples the king and the beggar kneel together, and both approach her Holy Table side by side.
The spirit of charity, and of the true brotherhood of man, governed and controlled by the precepts of Divine love, is seen and notably illustrated in the confraternities of the ,ACaritad^ in Spain; that of the uMisericordia^ in Italy; the“Barm-herzigen Briider? in Germany; and in the Society of St. Vincent de Paul everywhere. I will now briefly refer to the circumstances and conditions t under -which this latter organization first came into existence, fifty years ago.
Despite the crimes and weaknesses that from time to time have sullied and defaced the escutcheon of France, that Catholic land, even in the darkest hours of her passion and frenzy, has given the world splendid examples of Catholic devotion and of Catholic zeal; and even in these days of trial and persecution she continues to send forth, as of yore, missionaries of the cross to carry the torch and ligsht of faith and the benignant influences of religion to the remotest parts of the earth, with a spirit and a chivalry worthy of the days of St. Louis and Charlemagne; and illustrated in latter times in our own country by a Marquette, a Bre-boeuf, a Joques, a Lallemand.
Fifty years ago, France was in a condition of political and social turmoil and disorder not unlike that prevailing there at the present time. Then, as now, everything was tolerated in France except God; everything was free except the Church. It was a period, as Perrand testifies, “ torn asunder by the most violent passions.” Religion was stifled under the pall of officialism, and religious principles and religious rights were either trampled upon or ignored. Infidelity rioted as now in high places of authority—in the government councils, in the halls of legislation, in the university, in the lyceum and in the press. It was at this period that Mon-talembert, Lacordaire and Ozanam became prominent and recognized as the champions of Catholic principles; the advocates and defenders-of Catholic rights and interests, which then as now and always are identical with the true interests of society itself. The ardor and eloquence of these young and enthusiastic “ Sons of the Crusaders” in the public arena, their resolute and determined vindication of the ancient faith of France; their vindication of Christian principles against the teachings of a false system; their consistent action on al!public questions, arrested attention and commanded respect, .even when they failed to stay unfriendly edicts and avert or defeat hostile legislation. The struggle maintained under unequal conditions and during many years by the French Catholic public' men of this period is well worthy the study of
Catholic laymen of to-day. It will serve as an example and an inspiration.
Frederick Ozanam, .was at this time a young man of twenty, pursuing his studies at the College of Paris. He. had from his childhood been imbued with sentiments of earnest and tender piety, love for the poor, and an excessive sensibility to the sufferings of others. He was a diligent and sucess-ful student, winning distinctions with ease in his classes, his tastes being manifestly literary and philosophical. Designed for the profession of law, he had served as an apprentice or clerk in an attorney’s office, reading enormously, writing occasionally, and all the time eagerly watching the current of public events and following the drift and discussion of public questions. In 1831, he was sent to Paris to complete his studies and to qualify him for the professional career upon which he expected to enter. He attended the lectures in the college, frequently taking part in the debates and discussions. He was confronted there and environed by the hostile and malign “philosophical ” influences of the period, and only his strong faith and earnest piety saved him from the contaminating influences. In the lyceum, as in the parliament and in the public journals, the ancient faith of France was then made a scoff and a byword.	'
Strange though it may appear, amongst the great number of students who attended the courses and lectures only a few comparatively were professed, practical Catholics; and of these a smaller number had the courage and fidelity of their convictions. Among these few faithful ones Ozanam was conspicuous, and his ardent and eloquent championship, on every proper occasion, of his principles and convictions, constituted him naturally a leader, a rank to which his talent and abilities could not fail to raise him.
Learned, logical and eloquent, he could hold his own in the debates and discussions, especially when his faith and principles were assailed; but he became weary and heart-sick of these controversies in which, even when triumphant, he could point to no results; and so one evening, when the scoffs and jibes at his religion had been renewed and repeated with unusual vehemence and bitterness, there was one taunt hurled at him which left a sting. “Yes,” it was said, “your Church was a grand affair in the past, and has filled a great place' in history; but she is now only a venerable relic, a crumbling- ruin, cumbering- the earth. Wherein does she now show anything of her ancient works and spirit? What does she do? What do you Catholics do to demonstrate your faith in practice?”
The dart struck deep. Ozanam went forth from the hall that evening pondering on.this taunt. It is true, he could have answered, as doubtless he did, that the whole world, including France herself, afforded abundant proofs and shining evidences of the splendid vitality and undiminished zeal of the old faith. She was. still, as in. ancient days, multiplying monuments of religion and charity1 on every hand, but this was not enough: Ozanam re-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
*19
solved that the taunt should be answered, not in words only, but in works. They must give “an outward sign of the inward faith.” He called together a few of his Catholic associates to consider the problem which had taken, possession of his mind. They accordingly assembled one evening in May, 1833; and there it was settled that their work henceforth should be the “ service of God in the persons of the poor whom they were to visit in their own dwellings and assist by every means in their power.” Here began, and thus was formed the nucleus of the great organization which has since become world-wide and world-famous. See what mighty results sometimes grow out of an obscure and humble beginning! Consider for a moment the magnitude and variety of the good that has been effected by this society during the past 50 years; its influence over its members and over society; its power for good, and its labors to lift up the poor; its generous fosterage of every charitable and philanthropic work undertaken by it, and then if there are those who have not heretofore joined it or been identified with its practical work of Christian charity, let them,,as did Ozanam, ask themselves the question—“What are we doing to give a reason of the hope that is in us?” How many works of duty and utility are presented to the zeal of the earnest Catholic layman, and especially to the young men who have zeal, and vigor, and intelligence, and true piety, in aiding to sustain Catholic schools, in visiting the poor, the sick and the prisons, aiding the needy immigrant, promoting the progress of temperance, actively assisting in the spread and support of Catholic literature, extending and multiplying the circulation of respectable Catholic magazines and journals, and helping to create and foster sound Catholic principles, and to create and keep alive a sound Catholic opinion on all public questions! In how many multiform ways and generous works, in societies, in • Sunday schools, in public and in private, always with propel- modesty and without parade or ostentation, and never in a contentious spirit, how many channels, I repeat, are open to the zeal of our Catholic laymen, and especially to the young and the ardent, to employ themselves and. give a good account of their talents in fields of generous labor, in works of general Catholic importance! Do you do the work that is before you and around you; that you can see with your own eyes, touch with your own hands, and that appeals to your. own hearts and consciences?
Remember, and take courage and inspiration by the example—that the young*men who founded the Society of St. Vincent de Paul, under the lead of Ozanam, were without power, without influence and without money! When the hat was passed around among them for- contributions at the first meeting, it was but little each could give. “ There were only eight of us,” as Ozanam afterwards remarked, speaking of that first meeting, “ but the spirit and the zeal was there, and the will and the determination to do something in testimony of their.faith and its teachings.”
This society has spread into every country, and
conferences are to be found in almost every parish in our chief cities and towns. Its membership is ' limited to no class or condition, exemplary conduct being the sole qualification. The visiting and the relief of the poor is the special work of the society; ' though no good work of whatever kind, not incompatible with the rules and spirit of the organization, is foreign to it. In France the society has always numbered in its ranks professional, military and commercial men; in England, Ireland and in other countries, gentlemen of highest social rank and position count it a privilege to be enrolled in its ranks and engaged in its charitable works.
Its founder, Ozanam, during his too brief career, continued to be the animating spirit of the society.. He attained to honors and distinguished literary fame, but always performed with alacrity and assiduity his duty as a member. He died in Marseilles, the 8th of September, 1853. His deathbed was surrounded by members of the society who thronged to testify their respect and sorrow.
In the death of Frederic Ozanam, the Church lost a loyal and devoted champion, literature a brilliant and luminous writer, and the poor a never-to-be-forgotten friend. In life he was a model Catholic layman; and his career may be held up as a shining example of what zeal, combined with just principles and true piety, makes it possible to accomplish in works of practical Christian charity. See how this society, the work of his zeal, has filled the world with apostles of charity! It has visited and brought aid and comfort and good counsel to countless thousands of the starving and needy poor, to the afflicted and the erring in their lowly and forsaken homes.
Think of the burden of woe and despair that has been lifted from suffering humanity by the charitable labors of this generous brotherhood! It has lightened the infirmities of age; it has soothed the bereaved and penniless widow in her affliction,’and cared for and educated the neglected orphan and foundling. It has.carried the boon and blessing of charity, the solace and sweetness of brotherly love and kindness to every, distressed creature within the range of its influence, regardless of race, color and religious distinctions. This it is which has won for it the applause-and admiration of the world and the gratitude of humanity.
The work undertaken by a few zealous young Frenchmen can he imitated in America. , There is here ample scope and a wide field for similarworks of charity and benevolence; as I have already, said, you have only to look around you. Are there no obstacles to engaging such works?" No difficulties to be encountered, no embarrassments to overcome? The answer goes without saying. There are difficulties in every work, and I think they multiply in the case of every good, work; and.the better and more laudable the work, the greater, likely, will be the difficulties,, trials and. discouragements at the outset. But what of that? Success that is worth anything is only . gained after a struggle, and we. must moreover ' remember that success, in the worldly point, of view, is not and ought not to be the object and; -
28o	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
end of our labors. Men of principle, men of consistent convictions, men who would be willing to make sacrifices for the sake of religion and duty, men like Ozanam, are animated by sterner motives, aim at a nobler end, and are stirred and moved by a loftier ambition than merely the gaining of applause that is in its nature inconstant and ephemeral, and success which would be too dearly purchased by the sacrifice and abandonment of just principles.
Here, in this glorious land consecrated to freedom, opportunity is open to us to realize the highest ideal of Catholic development and progress in propagating and extending the dominion of Catholic principles, in multiplying works of charity and piety. Nowhere, perhaps, has the Catholic Church made greater progress; nowhere is it, as the late venerable Pius IX testified, more free and untrammelled. Here is the empire of the future. Here lies before you the opportunities for your zeal and enterprise in helping on and forwarding every generous and useful work. ■
In the great centres of trade and commerce, side by side, or not far removed from the splendid and opulent homes reared by wealth and taste, may be explored the hovels and “ shanties ” of the poor. It is one of the anomalies of our modern civilization that great fortunes and dire wretchedness are.almost in juxtaposition; as though one were the consequence of the other. Communism so interprets the appearance. If we are to put aside one of the perils of the age it will be in guarding against this dangerous tendency which would seek only the acquisition of riches without the moral sense and Christian responsibility to wisely employ this wealth in doifig good. In vain will we have multiplied prodigies of human skill in inventions, in the extension, and improvements of railways, telegraphs and methods and agencies hitherto unknown and undreamed of; vain will have been our discoveries in science and our progress in art and general knowledge; in vain will we have reared lofty and palatial store-houses, hives of trades and industry, rivalling and even surpassing Venetian palaces in display and architectural beauty—and dwellings that kings might covet, and halls of legislation unequalled in grandeur and symmetry —all this will have been vain, unless, along with these, homes shall be provided for the orphans, asylums for the infirm, hospitals for the sick, refuges for the homeless and friendless, and resource for the poor who are to be “ always with us,” and, crowning all, a spirit of Christian charity, which-religion teaches as a precept, and the Society of St. Vincent splendidly illustrates in its beneficent and praiseworthy mission and labor.	-
The clock oh the houses of Parliament, in London, is said to be the largest in the world. The four dials are each twenty-two feet in diameter, and at each half-minute the minute hand moves forward about seven inches. The clock runs eight days and a half; and the pendulum is nineteen feet long. The bell on which the hours are struck weighs fourteen tons (two thousand two hundred and forty pounds).
The English. Civil Service.
The English system of making appointments in' the public service is one which must needs commend itself to the thoughtful and patriotic statesman. The “spoils” system is there entirely unknown. Formerly, appointments were made much in the same way as in the United States at present; but the spread of education, and the consequent increase in the national intelligence demanded reform, and measures were passed by both houses of the legislature which completely changed the system of appointment. Political influence has nothing whatever to do with the appointments; mental and bodily qualifications of a high order are alone the means by which a young man can secure employment in the public service.
The power of appointing is vested in a body of men called the “ Civil Service Commissioners,” who have their office in London. The heads of the several departments of State when they require additional help, notify the commissioners, stating the age and the literary qualifications necessary to enable the candidates to efficiently discharge their several duties. The commissioners appoint a day for examination: this is done by inserting advertisements in the leading papers of the United Kingdom. These advertisements name the vacant offices, and state the literary qualifications necessary to pass a successful examination. The commissioners have their own examiners, and each subject has its own special examiner.
These examinations are open—that is, any young man of the prescribed age, whose character is unimpeachable, may, on application to the commissioners, present himself forexamination. The examinations are all written, and are conducted simultaneously in the leading cities of the United Kingdom—London, Manchester, Edinburgh, Dublin, Belfast, Carlow, etc. A gentleman of good local standing is appointed by the Civil Service ’ Commissioners in each of these cities to superintend the examinations. To these gentlemen the printed questions are sent in a carefully-sealed envelope the day preceding the examinations. These envelopes are on no account to be opened until the ’ morning of examination. At an appointed hour, .every candidate is in his seat with pen, ink and paper, all’in readiness to commence. The instant the clock strikes the hour, the superintendent opens the sealed envelope and hands each candidate a copy of the printed questions. A certain specified time, say two or three hours, is allowed to answer the questions. These questions are so prepared by the examiners as to necessitate a thorough previous preparation of the subject on the part of the candidates coming up for examination. All the candidates get the same questions. When the time allowed for examination has expired, the superintendent, collects all the papers, puts them into a large envelope provided for the purpose, seals it, and dispatches it by the next post to the examiner in London. When all the papers have reached his office, he commences to examine them, and assigns to each candidate a number of marks
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	281
proportionate to the number of questions he has accurately answered. He then arranges the names of the candidates in a list in the order of merit, giving first place to the candidate who has the highest number of marks, and hands in this list to the Civil Service Commissioners. Each examiner in the subjects of the prescribed course does the same. The commissioners collect all the marks of each candidate and prepare a list containing the names of all the candidates arranged in the order of-. merit. Suppose a thousand candidates to present themselves for examination, and only seventy, vacancies, the first seventy on the list of the commissioners would receive the appointments. The commissioners notify by letter these gentlemen of their success, and also the unsuccessful candidates of their failure.
This system of appointment is based upon justice and common sense. Merit, and merit only, is recognized. The men best qualified to fill positions in the public service are secured, and the efficiency of the service approaches as near to perfection as possible. The candidate, too, has “security of tenure.” He is not deprived of his means of living with every change of government. Once appointed, he holds the office for life, or during good behavior. He becomes thoroughly acquainted with his duties, and knows how to efficiently discharge them; he is also content, for he knows he has provided a competence for life—a pension being secured for his declining years. This system of appointment has given a great stimulus to education, schools for the preparation of boys for the Civil Service examinations being scattered all over the country.
The United States should adopt this European plan. It is true, in this country attempts have been made on a small scale, but there is still a wide field for reform. In the United Kingdom the son of the humblest peasant who attends the elementary school frequently becomes a candidate for offices in the government service, and in the race often outstrips the more favored sons of the parents of the middle and upper classes, because of the total absence of political influence. The boy who has real merit, no mattei' what his position in life, has a chance in open competitions of this kind; while under the old system a young man belonging to the humbler walks of life had not the shadow of a chance of obtaining a position in the service of the government. This system of ‘appointment would undoubtedly, were it introduced into this country, be productive of highly beneficial" results. The status of the officers in the Civil.Service would be raised, and a decided improvement effected in the management of every department of the State. Young .men attending college and the higher schools would have something tangible to work for besides a business or professional" life, and a more healthy tone would be imparted to the education of the country—elementary, intermediate and collegiate.
It is to be hoped that at no distant day this method of appointing Civil Servants, or some method tantamount to it, will be introduced into
this country by the governing authorities at Washington, and that the merit of the young man alone, his ability, both mental and bodily— not political influence and “wire-pulling”—will be the means by which he may aspire to positions of trust and responsibility in the Government service of the United States. The statesmen of this country possess a high standard of intelligence, and are not so conservative in their views as to continue to adhere to old customs, which they know are detrimental to the best interests and efficient government of this great and flourishing commonwealth. The poet’s advice is—
“ Be not the first by whom the new is tried, Nor yet the last to lay the old aside.”
And statesmen of this country have implicitly followed the first’portion of the advice; let them follow the second portion with the least possible delay, and they will effect a reformation which will induce the best men in the country to join the ranks of the great army of Civil Servants, and by so doing, all matters coming under the control of the Civil Service will be administered in a manner satisfactory to all parties—both governors and governed.	J. McC.
Book-Copying'.
WHAT THE “ LAZY MONKS ” DID.
The Religious Orders used to have the monopoly almost of the copying of books* for the num- -ber of laymen possessing the requisite skill and learning was very limited. Some orders, such as the Carthusian monks, made it-one of their chief duties, as they depended on the pay derived from their labors, to keep them independent of all charity. In every abbey or other religious house, the inmates were allotted certain tasks, varying according to their mental and physical qualifications; but the task that was most highly esteemed, and which provided constant employment, was copying books. •
A room called the scriptorium was specially set apart for the monks to pursue their labors in, and here they would meet every day for a certain number of hours. These rooms were sometimes furnished with stone or wooden desks fixed to the walls round the room; but before desks were introduced, the only supports on which the copyists could place their books were their knees. There was always a fixed number of transcribers, and whenever a vacancy occurred, through death or any other cause, it was filled up immediately. It was usual to intrust the copying of books for the choir, and those not demanding great skill, to boys and novices; but Missals, Bibles, and books requiring the highest skill and learning, were only executed by priests of mature years and great experience.	.	-
The rhonks were enjoined to proceed with their labors in strict silence, that their attention might not be distracted from their work, and to avoid, as • far as possible, any errors in grammar, spelling, or
282
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
punctuation. In some cases, authors prefixed to their works solemn adjurations to those whose duty it was to transcribe them. For instance, Irenaeus wrote: “ I adjure thee, who shall transcribe this book, by our Lord Jesus Christ, and by His glorious coming to judge the quick and the dead, that thou compare what thou transcribest, and correct it carefully according to the copy from which thou transcribest; and thou also annex a copy of this adjuration to what thou hast written.”
Every possible precaution was taken to insure strict accuracy in the copies, and it was the duty of certain monks to examine and compare faithfully every copy with the original. Other monks, again had to busy themselves with illuminating the copies, and others with binding them. A beautiful specimen of the skill of the priests is the copy of the Gospels preserved in the Cotton Library, which was written by Eadfrid, Bishop of Durham. The illuminations, the capital letters, the pictures of the Evangelists, were executed with consumated skill by his successor Ethelwold, and the whole, when finished, was bound by Bilfrid, the anchorite, with gold and silver plates and precious stones.— The Bibliogra-pher.
is-	..	_______ ____________
Art, Music and Literature.
—The monument to Virgil at Pietole (which is supposed to be the Andes of the Romans), near Mantua, was unveiled lately.
—The hero<of Mr. William Black’s new novel, “ White Heathen,” is a Scotch poet, and his verses are to be scattered through the story.
—Cardinal Manning is writing a “Life of St. o	o
Vincent de Paul,” a work which will be the crowning achievement of his literary life.
—The November Cenhiry is on the press for the fourth time. The first edition of the February number, containing Gen. Grant’s “ Shiloh,” will be 175,000.
—In view of the approaching bicentenary of Sebastian Bach’s birth, the town of Gothen, in which the great composer was organist from 1717 to 1723, is about to erect a monument to him.
—The French Academy has awarded the prize of 15,000 francs, founded by M. Stanislaus Julien, for the best work on China, to a Franciscan missionary, Father Zotoli. The subject of the prize essay was Chinese literature.
—The King-Pau is the name of the official Chinese paper. It was started in the year 911 as a semi-occasional journal. Then for some centuries it was a weekly, and at the beginning of the present century it became a daily.. It publishes three editions and has six editors, with a circulation of fourteen thousand.
—Dr. Schliemann’s new work, giving an account -of his excavations at Tiryns, is now in' the press, and will be published next March simultaneously in England, America,- Germany, and France. When the work is more advanced the learned
doctor will proceed to Crete, where he expects his excavations will be crowned with his usual success.
—The second vol. of the “Regesta of Honorius III,” compiled by the Rev. Professor Pietro Pres-sutti, will soon be published. This volume will embrace the third and fourth years of the Pontificate of that great Pope—July 1218 to July 1220, —and will contain 1,700 characters or diplomas of the greatest historical importance, of which about 1,300 are unknown even to the learned. In this second volume the author has followed the method of arrangement adopted in the first.
—“ A remarkable tenor voice,” says the Baltimore American, “ attracted much attention from those who attended the Plenary Council services at the Cathedral. It belongs to Father O’Keefe, of the Church of the Immaculate Conception, of Philadelphia. He is not only a fine vocalist, but he is a theoretical musician. The range of his high notes extend to C flat, which he takes easily, and not only holds at length, but Sunday evening executed an impromptu cadenza of delicate thrills, touching against this high note.”
—The Musikalisches Wochenblatt announces that Herr Schradieck, the well-known German violinist, who is now in Cincinnati, has discovered the tree from the wood of which the celebrated Cremona violins were made. Herr Schradieck has long been of the opinion that the peculiar excellence of these instruments resulted less from their construction than from their material, and it is said that he has found in the United States the kind of wood used by Guarnerius and other renowned makers. A violin constructed by an instrument maker under the direction of Herr Schradieck from this special wood is said to have been brilliant.
Scientific Notes.
—In Buffalo, N. Y., 1500 telephone instruments are supplied from electricity made by the water power of Niagara Falls.
—The light of an electric lamp travels at the rate of 187,200 miles a second; that of the sun 186,500, and that of a petroleum lamp 186,700.
—Probably one of the earliest references to the use of India-rubber for the removal of .pencil marks occurs in a note to the introduction of a treatise on perspective by , Dr. Priestley, published in 1770. The author remarks at the conclusion of the preface: “Since this work was printed off I have seen a substance excellently adapted to the purpose of wiping from paper the marks of a black-lead pencil. It must, therefore, be of singular use to those who practise drawing. It is sold by Mr. Norse, mathematical instrument maker, opposite the Royal exchange. He sells a cubical piece of about half an inch for three shillings, and be says it will last several years.” ' _	.
—In the current number of Science fresh interest is given to the subject of earthquakes, which have lately caused alarm in both hemispheres, by
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
a statement of the number of noticeable shocks in this country during the twelve years from 1872 to 1883, inclusive. No less than 364 earthquakes are recorded as occurring in Canada and the United States, not including Alaska, within the above period. Of these the Pacific slope had 151, the Atlantic coast 147, and the Mississippi valley 66. Thus it appears that an earthquake occurs about once in every twelve days somewhere in the United States and Canada, and about once a month on the Atlantic coast. These are exclusive of the lighter tremors which do not make an impression on observers, but which would be recorded by a properly constructed seismometer—an instrument designed to detect the slighter shocks.
—Dr. G. Decaisne has made special observations of the effects' of tobacco in thirty-eight youths, from 9 to 15 years old, who were addicted to smoking. With twenty-two of the boys there was a distinct disturbance of the circulation, with palpitation of the heart, deficiencies of digestion, sluggishness of the intellect, and a craving for alcoholic stimulants; in thirteen instances the pulse was intermittent. Analysis of the blood showed, iii eight cases, a notable falling off in the normal number-of red corpuscles. Twelve boys suffered frequently from bleeding of the nose. Ten com-plained of agitated sleep and constant nightmare. Four boys had ulcerated mouths, and one of them contracted consumption—the effect, Dr. Decaisne believed, of the great deterioration of the blood, produced by the prolonged and excessive use of tobacco. The younger children showed the more marked symptoms, and the better-fed children were those that suffered least. Eleven of the boys had smoked for six months; eight for one year; and sixteen for more than two years. Out of eleven boys who were induced to cease smoking, six were completely restored to normal health after six months, while the others continued to suffer slightly for a year.—Scientific Monthly.
College Gossip.
—Spanish is said to be a very popular elective at Columbia College.
—“ Piscatorial Spheroids ” is what the Vassar girls call fish balls.—Ex.
—The Chicago Times compared the Yale-Princeton foot-ball game to a bull-fight.
—The average salary of college professors in the United States is said to be $1,530. '
—The Yale Record offers three prizes of ten dollars each for contributions to its columns.
—University of Virginia has sixteen fraternity chapters—the largest number of any college in the United States.	t
■—German is the most popular language at Yale, and the number of those who take it exceeds the number of those who choose the ancient languages.— Cynic.
—There are thirty-one colored students in the Freshman class at Yale. Of these seven arestudents in law, eleven divinity, and the remaining thirteen medicine.— College Record.
—A large number of students of the University of Michigan spent their vacation at the New Orleans Exposition. They started from Ann Arbor on the Monday before Christmas.	_
—Four students of the Wesleyan Academy at Wilberham, Mass., have been expelled for hazing. They attempted to put a new man through the “ mill,” a process which nearly resulted in his death. —Ex.
—At a meeting at Columbia of forty Professors of Modern Languages, representing various institutions throughout the East, it was moved that a good knowledge of French and German be required for the degree of B. A. The motion was lost.—Ex.
—Ex-President Woolsey has offered his resignation as a member of Yrale corporation on account of his advanced age and increasing deafness. The venerable ex-President will be eighty-three years old on the last day of this month, and has been connected with the college almost continuously for sixty-seven years.
—“Sit down in front!” cried some members of an audience, at a Decoration Day matinee, as a Professor of Grammar stood up to take a survey of the house. “Cannot be done; it’s a physical impossibility, constituted as I am,” replied the Professor. “Sit down, sir!” said the policeman. “ Ah! now you talk, sir. But when these gentlemen told me to sit down in front and leave my back standing up, you—” “ Sit down! ” yelled the audience.—Ex.	.
—The first college paper, says the Harvard Crimson, was not established by the oldest university, but by one of her younger sisters, Dartmouth. There appeared in 1800 at that institution a paper called the Gazette, which is chiefly famous for the reason that among its contributors was Dartmouth’s most distinguished son, Daniel Webster. A few years later, Yale followed with the Literary Cabinet, which, however, did not live to celebrate its birthday. It was not until iSro that Harvard made her first venture in journalism, and then Edward Everett, with seven associates, issued the Harvard Lyceum.
—Pennsylvania has 26 colleges with property valued at $4,000,000; Ohio, 35 colleges, $3,200,000; Illinois, 28 colleges, $2,500,000; Indiana, 15 colleges, $1,220,000; Massachusetts, 7 colleges; $1,310,000; Connecticut, .3 colleges, $478,000.
We fear that very little reliance can be placed on these figures. Just think of it!—“Indiana, 15 colleges, .$1,220,000” in the aggregate, or 81,333 dollars and 33 cents each, when the buildings and property of Notre Dame University alone are probably worth as much as is placed to the credit of the fifteen colleges in the State. The man that compiled the above list had little idea of the amount of money or property required for the sustenance of a college worthy of the name.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
I»M 5 OH 01 ASTIg
Notre Dame, January 10. 1885.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Eighteenth vear of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate ior the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,	-
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
-	Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—The close of the holiday season was duly commemorated on the evening of Wednesday last by a select few of the Euglossian Association. Under their auspices a very pleasing entertainment was presented in Washington Hall; and, as but little time had been given its preparation, it was very appropriately styled “an impromptu affair.” The programme will be found in our local columns. Each one took his part with-credit to himself, and contributed his share to the general success of the exhibition and. the enjoyment of the audience. . Much credit is due to Messrs. Ramsay and Otis, who furnished the principal portion'of the exercises.	■
—The Rev. Fathers F. Merlini and W. J\Con-naughton are now in New York, having come io this country to seek aid.in the furtherance of the noble object of their Society of the African Mis-' sions. They have published, and offer for sale, to the public a very valuable book,—the translation from the French of the- magnificent work on “Fetishism and Fetish-Worshippers,”, published ]
this year by an African Missionary, Rev. R. P. Baudin, who has had an experience of twelve years among- these wretched tribes. It also contains a full account of the Missions confided to the care of the above Society. This is a most interesting study of the worship of countless blacks who inhabit Equatorial Africa. Their various rites and ceremonies, including human saci ifices, even now prevailing, are here fully described, and show the reader how human nature is degraded, by placing before him a striking contrast between Materialism and the worship of God. No more interesting or instructive book can be placed in the hands of a Christian, for it not only treats of the inhabitants and their customs, but also speaks of the trials and triumphs of the Church on that distant shore, where the European missionary finds a grave in the short space of four or five years, and very often less. .
Moreover, this remarkable work has already attracted the attention of the French clergy, because of its connection with the doctrine of the existence of God, in which respect it may be considered as a corollary- of the study of Theology. Its value is still further enhanced by a series of thirteen faithfully-executed illustrations, showing the different divinities, their temples, adorers, human sacrifices, etc.. It is offered to the public as a means of aiding these poor Missions, and many spiritual advantages are promised to subscribers. The Fathers may be addressed, P. O. Box 3512, New York.
—Comparatively' few students seem to have any idea of the value of reading—judicious reading, of course—in - the work of education. A student who wishes to make the most of his time and opportunities while at college should take a firm resolution to spend a fair portion of his time everyday with well-selected authors. Some of these— a few—should be chosen for their style; the greater number should be solid and instructive. A student who devotes one hour a day7 to a good book will at the end of the year be surprised at the amount of information acquired, while, in the mean time, his own style of writing and his manner of thinking partakes more or less of that of his favorite authors. Even the most casual acquaintance with good books is not without benefit; but to be of the greatest advantage, both the style and the matter should receive careful attention. Disagreeable at first, perhaps, reading grows upon one, and when it becomes a habit it will prove both pleasant and profitable. One of our confreres in the' University Cynic says:
“The mere association with books, and familiarity7 with even their outside appearance, the- reading over of titles and authors’ names has more of an. educating influence than might be at first supposed. We believe it is Holmes, somewhere in the ‘ Autocrat,’ who argues the advantage of having a child brought up where he daily7 sees books of all kinds and sizes; and who, though he may7 not be able to read them, gradually- comes to regard them as old acquaintances, almost as bosom friends. And we can hardly7 help believing that the ‘ Autocrat’was right.
“If, then,-the influence of books is so.considerable over
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
285
i
I
s
young children, as we think it must be, it can hardly be overestimated when these children are grown up .to be younsr men and young women.
“ By browsing through a large and well-selected library for over an hour or two, taking down one book after another, and glancing at titles, authors, tables of contents, and reading an occasional page that may chance to attract the eye, one feels his fund of knowledge perceptibly increased. He begins to feel that he is getting an insight into the ■world of literature.”	: •
In this connection it should be needless to add that trashy literature ought to be avoided as a pest. It is neither .useful nor ornamental, but when once indulged in to any great extent, it destroys the zest for sound mental pabulum, and experience teaches that where the ounce of prevention has not been employed, the pound of cure will be necessary, and may often prove ineffectual.
The Middle Ages.
One of our college exchanges recently published an essay in which the following passage occurred :
“. . . . During the 1 Dark Ages,’ secular and religious improvement almost went out in the darkness of the night of superstition and ignorance; when every lofty principle in man was sacrificed to the thirst for conquest, and to furthering the blasphemous claims of the Pope; when the name and purity of woman was held in such slight esteem, society is found' at decidedly a low ebb.”
We charitably suppose that the writer is not “well up” in historical studies.. The extract, however, is of a piece with a time-worrr and oft-repeated charge, so we shall have to content ourselves with laying before the reader a few leading facts, from which he may draw his own conclusions.
* • * *
Literature and arts during the Middle Ages supply a theme at once vast and important: ’ vast, because it comprises a period of nearly a thousand years; and important, because it exhibits the rise and progress to perfection of institutions intimately connected with civilization and political liberty. That period was the nursery of nations, the parent of civilization and of empire. From the partial chaos of those ages sprang into existence systems of government, which, by their harmony and adaptation to the wants of mankind, are the admiration of the present century.
Before the reign of Charlemagne, schools had been established in many of the monasteries and parishes in Italy, France, England, Ireland, Spain, and Germany; and he ordered, by a public law, that seminaries should be opened at every cathedral church throughout his vast empire; Libraries • were founded all over Europe; and even during the darkest part of the Middle Ages the monks kept their constant occupation of copying books, and to them is due the preservation of the Bible, of Virgil,. Horace, Cicero, and all the old classics.
. About the middle of the seventh century, Greek literature, was introduced into. England by Theo
dorus, Archbishop of Canterbury. St. Gregory the Great, .by his enlightened mind and patronage of learning, shone like a brilliant luminary in the centre of Italy in the beginning of this century. St. Isidore of Seville, by valuable works on various subjects, laid open the treasures of learning to his countrymen in Spain. About the end of this century flourished tbe Venerable Bede, the father of English History, whose name is in itself a eulogy. Towards the close of the following century, Alfred the Great, of England, re-established learning in his kingdom. But space will not permit us to follow, century by century, the progress during the Middle Ages. Allow me to call the reader's attention to a few of the most important improvements, and the progress—of vast and paramount importance to society—which we owe to those much-abused ages.
That which had, perhaps, the greatest influence on modern refinement was the elevation of female character, for which we are mainly indebted to the chivalry of the Middle Ages. During and after the fifth centuries, when the Northmen were converted to the Catholic faith, they learned, with the other teachings of Christianity, that the God-whom,-they adored vouchsafed to be born of a-woman, to call her Mother, and to be subject to her. The high honor - which was thus conferred on the Mother of God was reflected from her- upon her whole sex—just as the disobedience and consequent dishonor of Eve had bowed down .woman to the dust. The generous Northmen caught up at once this idea, so just and so beautiful, and their.enthusiasm in honor of the sex was aroused. The principles of mediaeval chivalry were developed. But the feeling outstripped the principle, and woman suddenly found herself raised to her true position in society.
We owe all our modern languages to the Mido o
die Ages; we owe all our modern poetry, and also the introduction of rythm into poetry to that period. The rude laws of the Troubadours,'in the twelfth, prepared the world for the Divina Com-media of Dante in the thirteenth century. Petrarch ■ and Chaucer followed in the fourteenth. Paper and the art of printing was invented during the Middle Ages; the. illuminated manuscripts of that time show that the art of penmanship was then carried to a degree of perfection which it has never since attained. Universities were first founded in those ages.. To them we owe the two great English Universities—Oxford, founded in 886, by Alfred the Great, and Cambridge, in 915.. The University of Paris, established by Charlemagne, about the year 800; and the perfect galaxy of Italian universities at Rome, Bologna, Padua, Pavia and Pisa, which became famous in the twelfth and following centuries, and which counted their students by the thousands. The University of Padua—the Alma Mater of Christopher Columbus and Americus Vespuccius—is said to have contained at one time no less than 18,000 students; and in the thirteenth century the University of Oxford contained, according t«> its historian, Anthony Wood, 30,000 students. . . .
286
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
We also owe to the “dark ages”—and to a monk, too,—an invention unknown to the ancients, by which music has become a science, taught upon regular principles. Sounds were reduced to simple and systematic rules, and musical instruments were invented. The Mariner’s Compass was invented during this period, and commerce was carried on with spirit and vigor. Geographical knowledge was extended. Banks and post-offices were first introduced then. During the Middle Ages spectacles were invented; gun-powder was invented; stone coal was discovered in England in 1307; Arabian arithmetical numbers were introduced into Europe by Pope Sylvester II; Algebra, in 1412; glass was made into windows, and a method of staining it was then known. The monks applied themselves to agriculture and taught others how to practise it. They also cultivated Botany and studied medical qualities of plants. The clock was invented about the year 1000, by Gerbert, afterwards Pope Sylvester II. Painting was revived in Italy in the thirteenth century, and then commenced the great Italian school of painting which afterwards produced a Raphael, a Titian, a Michael Angelo, a Hannibal * Caracci, and a Leonardo Da Vinci. The Italians introduced the culture of the silk-worm into Europe in the twelfth century, and the silk manufactories of Italy, France and Flanders flourished to a wonderful extent in the thirteenth and following centuries.
Those ages had the merit of originating and carrying to the greatest perfection a new style of architecture. Take, for example, the grand and famous cathedral of Pisa, with its leaning tower, or rather the latter only- Can modern skill and architecture rear a pile like that—upwards of 200 feet high, six stories high besides the basement and pinnacle, with 209 beautiful marble columns encircling it, and leaning between fifteen and twenty feet from the perpendicular? It was built by William of Norimberg, and Bonanno of Pisa, in the twelfth century, and has been standing for more than six' hundred years.
Let men of the present day build an edifice like this; let it stand six hundred years, and then, if it be still firm and uninjured, they may sneer at the darkness of the Middle Ages!
■	C. F. P., ’85.
. Exchanges. . ' * -
—The last number of the Ariel is an exceptionally good one. An editorial on the question “ What will Become of the House of Lords?” attracted our attention. The essay “ Shakespeare’s Women,” is fairly good.	.
—We have just received for the first time the Thidensian, from.Thiel College, Pa. From the specimen we have before us, it promises to be an interesting exchange. It contains a couple ' of good essays, and some creditable editorials. Come again, Thielensian. .	.	.
—The holiday number of the Ob'erlin-Review
is replete with well-written essays, interesting editorials, and local and personal notes. One carefully-prepared essay, entitled “ The Son of the Revolution,” by W. L. Tenney, deserves special credit, and is well worth reading.
—The Exchange-editor of the Hesperian Student says:	•
“A cyclone must have struck California University. The Berkeleyan and Occident are reduced- in size almost one-half.”
The effect of a “cold wave” in California, perhaps. The cold must indeed have been intense there. The Brooklyn Bridge—an eighth of a J	o	o
mile long—contracts only 42 inches in the coldest weather.
— The Literary Gem is, in fact, anything but a gem. The last number contains an essay on “Fashion,” in which the writer tries to be funny, and he is just too funny for anything. A spirit of bigoted ignorance and prejudice pervades many of the articles, which would otherwise be creditable. One would suppose, after reading the article on “Social Life” that it was the author’s first attempt, and he wanted to immortalize himself by bringing forth the stale and oft-refuted calumny of the “ ignorance and superstition of the dark ages.”
—The Queen's College Journal has undergone a change, both in form and typography, and presents a very neat appearance with its buff cover and engraved title. The typography is clear, but one-half of the paper is in such small print that we venture to say but few will care to read it. The editorial items—in large type—are sensible and well written; of the sermon and the other matter and departments in the small, jammed-up type we can say nothing, for the reason that we . did not read them. The print of this part of the paper is too much in the multum in parvo order, like the Exchange notes of The Niagara Index.
—In the Otterbein. Record we find a spiritedly-written article on “Law as a Profession for Women,” by Madge Dickson. We think that in the admission of women to the bar there would not be so -much danger of. lowering the standard of professional excellence—as an enthusiastic supporter of the legal, standard alleges—as there would be of lowering the status of woman herself. Women of the Belva Lock wood kind are far from elevating the status of' womankind; but, even so, we do not usually “taste vinegar to see if we like wine,” as Wedgewood puts it. Prof. Zuck continues his charming “ Mosaics of Literature,” this time giving us Chaucer, the story-teller.
—From a sensible article in the last number of the University Cynic, relative to the fact that the professions are fast becoming overcrowded, save at the top round—thus placing success beyond the reach of persons of mediocre talent and advan-tages—we take the concluding sentences:
“ Provided that four years of study do not stuff them with a self-conceit that disdains hard, honest work, a liberal education is no detriment to success in business spheres, and they whose, intellects are thus strengthened and broadened will, ceteris faribtts, distance the men who know only dollars and cents. With a. laudable purpose

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
firmly adhered to, the college man who prefers entering business to professional life will never regret having received a liberal education.”
— The Pennsylvania University Magazine poets seem to have furbished their arms and come to a “ present,” much to the delight of the editors. Some very good prose sketches have also appeared in recent numbers of the Magazine, not the least interesting of which is “ The Stolen Breakfast.” Strong efforts are being made by both editors and correspondents to push college athletics up to even a higher plane than formerly. This is as it should be; athletic sports are very good in their way, but all coarse and unmanly attempts at foul play should be cried down. We do not go with those who decry this or that athletic sport simply because abuses have crept in; abuses should be carefully guarded against, from the beginning, and mercilessly cut out when they obtain entrance, but the sport itself should be retained.
Books and Periodicals.
—The Phonetic Educator is a neat, 28-page monthly magazine in common print and phonetic shorthand. The Editors, Elias Longley of Cih-cinnati, and E. N. Miner of New York, both practical shorthand writers, and reporters of large experience, contribute an instructive table of contents. - Not the least interesting articles to connoisseurs are the able and exhaustive reviews of new systems, and some older ones put up in competition with the standard Pitman Phonography. In the January number, just received, we find a continuation of the Bishop controversy, with practical tests, and a comparison of the work of the Stenograph with phonography, in which both of the later aspirants are badly worsted.
—The holiday number of Brownds Phonographic Monthly (New York) is a double number, with illustrated sketches, many of them humorous, and one or two of them rather ill-natured. If, instead of quizzing Pitman and Longley, the versatile editor of the Monthly turned his pen and pencil against some of the many humbugs and shorthand o	”	•
pretenders that are throwing dust in the eyes of the public he would do a great deal of good and make himself famous. Satire and caricature are powerful weapons, and the, holiday numbers of the Phonographic Monthly are fast-establishing for it a reputation as the Punch of the phonographic world. Mr. D. L. Scott-Browne’s artist possesses no little genius as a cartoonist, but he should turn it to better account. “A Bright Future for Woman”—in the Stenographic sanctum, of course —isone of best articles of this number. In his leader, Mr. Scott-Browne intimates that Phonography is becoming so popular that it will next be knocking at the doors of the school-room. We hope not; at least until a great deal of the rubbish now in the school-room is swept out of it. What if Cross, and Lindsley, and Allen, and perhaps a dozen Other shorthand pretenders, invaded it ? It is already
so crowded with “ologies” and “onomies” and “ ographies” that everything but a solid, practical education can be had there.	■
—7'he Century for January presents a crowded table of contents, both the body and the departments showing a wide range of topics. Chief among these, in timeliness, is the status of the negro at the South, which Mr. George W. Cable treats with much plainness of speech and much suggestiveness in a paper entitled “The Freedman’s Case in Equity’,” which is likely to attract attention and give rise to discussion North and South. The same theme is touched upon, less directly, in an editorial article, “A Grave Responsibility,” and in an “ Open Letter” from “A Southern Democrat.” The first of the illustrated papers is’a continuation of Mrs. M. G. Van Rensselaer’s papers on “ Recent Architecture in America,” the principles of church building being now under review. Of the papers on the Civil War there are two, both dealing with the Western gun'	o	_ o
boats: one by- Captain James B. Eads,, who built them; and the other by Rear-Admiral Walke, descriptive of their operations at Belmont, Fort Henry, Fort Donelson, Island No. 10, Fort Pillow, s and Memphis—covering, in short, the opening of the upper Mississippi. Admiral Walke participated actively7 in all these engagements, and a number of the cuts are from his contemporaneous sketches. A large portrait of Admiral Foote is given, and smaller ones of Generals Tilghman and Mackall of the Confederate service.	i
—The Christmas number of 7'he American Shorthand Writer (Rowell & Hickcox, publishers, Boston) comes in a new dress and with promises of even a higher grade of excellence for the coming year. During the four years of its publication, this magazine has moved onward and upward, until now it stands at the head of periodicals of its class in this country,—a magazine for shorthand writers of all schools, and one whose opinions on matters pertaining to the craft can be implicitly trusted. Always open for the expression of opinions, it is neither one-sided nor partial. Under the editorial management of a practical reporter who can make a reasonable allowance for the opinions of those who differ from ‘him and who knows that a free and untrammelled expression of opinion is ■ the best way7 to arrive at just conclusions, the discussions in the American Shorthand Writer are both valuable and instructive. Some of the leading stenographers of the United States and England are frequent contributors. Their communications appear in the ordinary print, and are therefore accessible to the practitioners of diverse systems. A page or two of fac-simile notes are given in each issue. If, as the editor was wont to say, the Shorthand Writer was formerly worth a thousand dollars a year to every7 shorthand writer, it must be worth a great deal more in future, with the prom-' ised improvements, and yet it is sent to subscribers for $ 1 a year.	_	•
—“ The Cincinnati Artisan, a Journal of Practical Science and Mechanical Industries,” edited by
288
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
J. H. Horton, and published monthly by the Cincinnati Artisan Co., 233 West Fourth. St., Cincinnati, has proved an agreeable surprise to us. The Scientific American and Van Nostrand's have long been familiar in this line, but we had not met with or heard of the Artisan until recently, when a copy addressed to the Notre Dame'Manual School, or School of Applied Arts, caught our attention in one of the reading rooms. As it is a 16-page monthly, and issued for the nominal sum of 50 cents a year, we had an idea that we should find nothing new or valuable in its pages. Such is not the case, however. Among the editorials we find one on “A New Method of Developing Steam Power,” another on the“ Consumption of Smoke,” a review of “Machinery at the Exposition,” an able article on “Central and South America, the great field for North American Manufacturers to Cultivate,” an article on “Water,” another on “ Unnecessary Jars by Machinery,” “ Talks to Apprentices-—No. 6—On Gearing,” etc., etc. “J. F. E.” contributes a very able continued article on “Boilers,” in which material, fuel, losses, and scientific action are considered. Another on “ Internal Corrosion and Scale in Steam Boilers,” by G. S. King, is republished from the Journal of the Society of Arts. Besides which there are a number of minor articles and notes of interest.
Personal.
—	J. Solon, ’84, is teaching school in Chicago.
—	A- S. Roch, ’79, is head cashier in a bank at Lincoln, Ill.	. -	.
—	F. W. Bloom, ’81, is successfully practising law.in Vincennes, Ind.
—	W. B. McGorrisk, ’82,- paid his Alma Mater a short visit this week. .	•
-	—O. Rettig (Com’l), ’78, is engaged in business with his father in Peru, Ind.
—	F. M. Bell, ’81, holds a responsible position in the railroad business at Lima,,Ohio.
—	Martin F. Doty, ’79, holds a good position in a wholesale' clothing-house in Chicago.
—	Rev. J. A. Zahm, C.‘ S. C., has returned from -an extended visit, to the New Orleans Exposition.
-	—rP. H. Vogle (Com’l), ’80, is engaged in a thriving general merchandise business at Colum-, . bus, Ohio.	’
—	Among the welcome visitors of the past week were Rev. T. O’Sullivan, ’58, and J. J. Fjtzgibbon, ’59, Chicago.	-	"
—	J. Eberhart (Com’l),.’78, is interested in the woolen mills at Mishawaka, Ind., and is on the high road to success. '	.
—	Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., for many years President of Notre Dame, and now the efficient Rector of St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wis., received, on New Year’s day, a .substantial mark of the. esteem in which he is held by his parishioners. He - was. presented with a; New Year’s gift of a purse of $225."	.
—The Catholic Reviezv, speaking.of the Cathedral at Baltimore, says:
“The artistic part of the work was intrusted to Professor Gregori, of the University of Notre Dame. Gregori’s brush embellished the vestibule, dome and sanctuary with colossal figures of ‘The Assumption,’‘ Four Evangelists,’ ‘ Eternal Father,’ and ‘ Heavenly Choir.’ The paintings are all of the purely classical school, and after the style of Michael Angelo and Raphael.”
—The Dubuque Herald speaks as follows of John Ney, of ’76':
“Judge Ney, the fore part of last week, finished his first term of court in Grundy county, which will be the only -term the Judge will hold during his term of office. There was a very full docket, and a very large amount of business was disposed of, to the satisfaction of all in attendance at the court. The Dubuque lawyers and others from this city who were in attendance speak in the highest terms of the manner in which the Judge' disposed of the business of the court, and the lawyers are especially commendatory of the legal learning exhibited by the J udge. We are glad to hear such a good report of Judge Ney, and we cannot but regret that he is not to continue on the bench, a position which he is so well qualified to fill. Judge Ney is a young man of much promise, and has a very useful, and, we have no doubt, successful, career at the bar before him. It is certainly flattering tobim that the Supreme Court should have turned aside to compliment his conduct of his business before that court. Judge Ney will be heard from again, and to his credit.”	.
—From a letter to tlie Journal of the Paulist Fair (New York), we extract a notice of thelate Rev. Louis Rosecrans, who was a student at Notre Dame in’64 and’65. The writer is speaking of a mission preached some ten years ago by the Paulist Fathers in San Francisco, and says:*
“.... I remember well the first announcement that was made of their coming. It was from the altar in the Cathedral. Our saintly Archbishop told us how for years he had been trying to obtain the services of the Paulists, and had at length succeeded—that there were six of them coming—that one of them, Father Rosecrans, was already on the way, and that he would be pleased to preach in the Cathedral next Sunday. I always had a taste for good preaching, so I determined, there and then to be present next Sunday and hear Father Rosecrans. It had been whispered around that he was Gen. Rosecrans’ son. I imagined then we would be ti eated to a sermon that would smell of the battle-field—one that would have all the blood and thunder of war in it. Realize my agreeable disappointment when, after the. Gospel, I saw coming out, not a warrior, but a priest—a meek-eyed, saintly, ascetic-looking priest. What he preached oh I now really forget, but what I do not forget is the way his words burned into my heart. Virtue, as it were, seemed to go out from him. More than one fervent act of contrition v as made before that Mass was over. Many a one.went away with a deeper sense of their own littleness and a stronger sense of.< God’s greatness.”	,....	-	- •	-
' Local Items.
—The skating is splendid.
.—Examination is rapidly, approaching. .
—The Thespians arc preparing for the 22d.
—The Infirmary has few inmates these days.
—The Scholastic Annual has received fine press notices. .	.	:
J—There have been many new arrivals since-the holidays. 7.	‘	.	...
—The question of-building a roller skating-rink is being agitated. - " J -	'

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .	289
—Those who spent the vacation here enjoyed a most pleasant time.
—Prof. Stoddard is expected here about the middle of the month.	,	■
—Our genial confectioner “set ’em up” all around, on Christmas.
—The work on the interior of Science Hall is being steadily carried on. •
—A very good account of the St. Cecilians’ play appeared in the Chicago Times. _
—The continued open weather has caused the reorganization of some baseball nines.
—The Director of Vocal Music has composed several new pieces which will soon be published.
—Rev. Father Fitte’s course of lectures on Church History are highly interesting and instructive.	.
—Some valuable improvements were made in the Seniors’ reading-room during the Christmas holidays.
—The columns in St. Edward’s Hall have been beautifully and artistically “marbled” by Prof. Ackerman.
—The Editor of the Scholastic Annual has received a large number of complimentary letters on his publication.
—The prospect of getting ice from the lakes this . year is very poor. N. B.—As we go to press, said prospect is brightening rather considerably.
—A large and handsome Photograph Album was presented to Rev. President Walsh by the members of the Junior Temperance Society.
—Several rooms in Science Hall have been finished off, and the students of the Natural Sciences have ample opportunity of displaying their zeal.
—An impromptu entertainment was given Wednesday evening by the members of the Euglossian Association. It was a success. Ramsay, as usual, carried off the palm.
—All the students who remained here during the holidays speak in the - highest terms of the Rev. Prefect of' Discipline’s untiring efforts to make the time pass pleasantly. .
—Our “ box ” has been removed to more elegant and commodious quarters in the Students’ Office. It will now be found in close proximity to the telephone. Don’t be afraid, it won’t go off. Step right up and deposit your billets-doux. .
----During the holidays, our young friend, Master J. Monschein, displayed his elocutionary ability, and created quite afurore at his home in Elkhart, Ind. He well sustained his reputation as a leading St. Cecilian. The Elkhart press spoke of him as “ a promising young elocutionist.”	.
‘ —“The stay-at-home members of the Scholastic Staff, even if they do say it'themselves, have done pretty well. ’ We expect to hear.it said that this number is one of unusual excellence.”—N. D. Scholastic.
Well, not to have you disappointed, we’ll say it is.—Ypsilanti Sentinel.	•	'
Thanks! -	'	.	'
--—Rt. Rev. Monsignor Bessonies, of . Indiana? polis, has presented to Prof. Edwards a. life-size
bust of the late Bishop de St. Palais, fourth incumbent of the See of Vincennes. The bust-will, be placed* in the Bishops’ Gallery, opposite z that of Mgr. Brutd, first Bishop of Vincennes. .
—During the holidays Prof. Gregori painted-an exquisite genre picture representing “A Neapolitan Nurse Girl Carrying an Infant.” Henow has on his easel a most remarkable effect of light and shade, entitled “Night Prayer.” Before the holidays, he sent to Chicago for exhibition at O’Brien’s Studio, a beautiful specimen of his art' in miniature, entitled “A Times News Boy.” . -■ —The Scholastic Annual,.for 1885, makes its appearance in good time, and with an interesting table of contents, including prose and poetry; . The Annual- has now reached, its tenth number, and under the editorship of Professor J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, has yearly widened the sphere of its influence. The ladies will be specially interested in a paragraph in the chapter, devoted to astrological predictions for the year.— Chicago Journal.	.
—We are told that the New York Freemans Journal, which is a universal. favorite in the Seniors’ reading-room, is a voluntary contribution by the publishers. From what we can learn, they will not in the near future suffer anything by their generous act. The Freeman! s Journal is so well liked, by the students that when they leave College they will hardly wish to be without it. It is certainly a sterling Catholic paper.
—We are indebted to our genial friend, Prof. J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame, Ind., for a copy of the Scholastic Annual. The present number excels all the preceding ones, and reflects much credit upon the taste and diligent care of the compiler. Besides being replete with rich literary productions, it is very artistic in its make-up, and is printed on beautifully tinted book-paper. The Professor is surely of the Wise Men, “bathed in the effulgence of the Star,” as his. beautiful, card would suggest.— Catholic-Columbian. '	.
—The Librarian requests us to acknowledge the receipt of the following contributions, to the Cabinet of Curiosities: From Master Gus. Cooper, of Dubuque, Iowa, three silver coins and twelve copper coins; from Rev. Father Fallize, Rector of St. Joseph’s Church, South Bend, a.collection of engravings and an Indian birch canoe; from F. Shaw, of Marengo, Iowa, a rare coin; from E. Amoretti, several Indian knife sheathes and amu- . lets; from the Editor of The Ave Maria, several autograph letters of distinguished writers.
—The Scholastic Annual, which has become so famous for its amusing astrological predictions; contains more than the usual quota of pleasant reading this-year. Besides being entertaining, it . is useful. and instructive. All .the; information proper to almanacs is given, and there are several articles which would, perhaps; be too serious for such a publication if. not judiciously set-off by humorous selections. The.editor is to be congratir- . lated on his happy faculty of making a literary salad-sure, to suit all tastes. Noone will regret to
29°	the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
have expended 25 cents for this unique publication. J. A. Lyons, publisher, Notre Dame, Ind.—Ave Maria.	'
—The latest work from Signor Luigd Gresrori’s easel is now on exhibition at the Tribune store. It is a remembrance of homely Italian life sketched by him on his recent visit to his native land. “ The Neapolitan Nurse Girl ” shows a Naples girl, presumably of the peasant class, with an aristocratic babe out for an airing. The background is a stone doorway. This doorway, the stone pavement, the girl, the babe, and a dog seated on the stone step are all there is in the picture, but everything is so exquisitely done that if « L. Gregori 1885 ” in one corner did not reveal who the artist is, the picture attracts one as the work of no ordinary artist. The queer head dress of the girl, her patched garments, the bits of leather fastened sandal-like to her feet in place of shoes, the stolid, yet pleased countenance, the tired pose of the body bringing out in strong relief the principal figure in the picture. Come and see it, for it will be on -exhibition for several days, and a sight of it gives a bettei- idea than any description. The painting is 10 by 14 inches in size and the price is two hundred dollars.
, —South Bend Tribune.
—The-“Home Dramatic Club” sfave their entertainment last Wednesday, according to previous announcement. They executed the following classic .
Programme :
Music...............-..........N. D. U. Brass Band
Address (Salutatory).................S.	Dickerson
“ Punishment for Rejected Addresses ” (Tragic) J. Conway
“DISTURBED REPOSE." (A Farce in One Act.} Huckleberry Snobbington..........Elmiro	A. Cicerotis
Squibenezer Cricket........GuilielmusE.	Miloramsy
Mrs. Squibenezer Cricket......Alberto A. Brownsville, Numerous officers, etc.
Interlude.
Music...................................Orchestra
“ Cataline’s Defiance ”...........F. J. Hagenbarth
Spanish Declamation......................F. Alvarez
“The Boy on the Ocean Wave ”.............J. Garrity
Personation—“Much Ado about Nothing,” J. Monschein
The whole concluding with
The Quarrel Scene of the Fourth Act from “ Mike Beth’s Julius Sneezer,” Remodelled for the Occasion.
Mike Beth............................W. E. Ramsay
Mike Duff................................,E.	A. Otis
Mrs. Julius Sneezer..................A. A. Browne
Guards, ghosts, skulls, grave-diggers, etc. c , Epilogue..................................J.	Kleiber
“GRAND HOLIDAY MARCH” FOR RETIRING.
—A. Minim’s Adventurous Holiday Trip -Home.—One of our bright little Minims has written the following interesting letter to a friend, in which he recounts the incidents of his eleven days’ journey to his home in the “ Far, Far West ”— Lander,Wyoming Territory :	,
“ After I left you in Chicago, I got as far as Rawlins (Wyomin^all right; I should have reached there Friday morning at 3.50, but the train was eight hours late, so when I arrived the stage coach had already gone to Lander; I had then to stay in Rawlins three days.- Monday morning I took the stage; and when we were three miles out, we-, were; stuck in a snow-bank, and had .to staythere-
eight hours; then we got started again, and went all right until about five miles from the second station, Lost Soldier, we stuck again in a snow drift, ten feet deep. We had to unharness the horses, and then it took us three hours to get the horses out of the drift; then it was about 10 o’clock in the night, and we had to walk 5 miles; we had only one horse that we could ride, and I rode him. One of the passengers was a fat English Lord, and he had to walk, too We got lost, but I found the way into Lost Soldier. It happened that the night was not very cold, else we would have been frozen to death. When the English Lord got into Lost Soldier, he was nearly frozen, and about given out. The next day, the men went and got the coach; but when they brought it to Lost Soldier it was about noon, and just then a big storm came up, and the driver had to leave us and go on ahead with the mail on horseback. I had to stay there two days. When the coach came in I left, and arrived at Signer Station in the morning; there we had to wait all day for the transfer to Lander. At night I was in the cabin, sitting down, and some one said two men were - coming. I thought it was the stage, so I didn’t move; after a while, I thought I would go to the door to see who were coming: and who should it be but papa and Mr. ' Jones, and Miller, my dog? I did not expect to see them, but when I saw them I was so glad I did not know what to do. Papa thought I was lost in the snow and he came to look for me. When he saw me he was so glad, he cried; I was glad, too. i could hardly keep tlfe dog oft* me, he was so glad to see me. We remained at Signer’s all night, and started for Lander next morning. I had to stay at Sydney Station to eat my Christmas dinner—bacon and bread. My papa is forty-eight years in the mountains, and he has never before seen so much snow. The Green River coach for Lander has been out ten days, and it has not been heard from yet. They are hunting all over for it now. I arrived home December 26th, about ten o’clock at night. All were glad to see me. They thought I was lost. The same night we passed near Lost Soldier, one man had his two feet frozen, another his nose, and another his hands; but I had lots of blankets and buffalo robes, so I got along all right. Thanks to God that I got home safe. Papa had just as bad a time to come to find me. When he left Lander with Mr. Jones, all his friends tried to persuade him not to go out in such a terrible storm. They said he would be lost in the mountains; but he felt so bad they could not keep him. Papa caught a bad cold, but I think he will be better soon. Remember me to all the good Fathers, Professors and Brothers. Write soon.
“ From your true friend,
“E. Amoretti.”
*	Roll of Honor.
.	--- r
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Aiken*, Ackerman, Barnard, Borgschulze, F. Benner, Byerly, Baur, Berthelet, Burrett, Congdon, Cummings, Chamberlain, Clarke, Cooper, Calvin, Dempsey, Donnellan, Daly, Eppstein,. Ewing, Finckh, Flood, Frain, Grunsfeld, J. Garrity, F. Garrity, Grimes, Harris, Howard,. Hieronimus, Hibbeler, Holman, Houlihan", Hagenbarth, .Johnson, Kegel, Klaner, Luther, Loya, Martinez, Mul-kern, McCourt, V-. Morrison, Monschein, Menig, Mason, Myers, Nusbaum, O’Brien, Portillo, Prudhomme, Robinson, Real, Rose, Rattigan, Rebori, Remish, Reynolds, Ryan, Stubbs, Spencer, Schmauss, Shaw, Sedberry, Servis, Tewksbury, Talbot, Thurston, Tarrant, Wabraushek, P. Wagoner, Zollars.. \	-
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	-
f	*	-	7	,
Masters Adams, J. Addington, Ackerman, Boos, Bull, Bunker, Berry, Barger, Blakeslee, Crotty, Comins, Cobts, F. Dunford, G. Dunford, J. Doss, E. Doss, L. Doss, T. Falvey, F. Falvejr, E. Falvey, Grunsfeld, Henry, Haney, Hopkins, S. Jones, E. Kelly', McPhee, Murphys /Morgan,' C. Mitchell, J. Mitchell, Moncada, McCourt, Mason, McNulty, Mooney, Nusbaum, Noonan, Nester, J. Peck, Piel, Piero, Paul,. Rugee, Ramsay, Salman, Sweet; Scherrer, Stone, Smith,,Zozaya, Campau.	.	‘
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint Tftary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
Jesus, Mary, Joseph..
Manhood, womanhood, childhood— Their models divine we see, With all that is best and dearest, In Bethlehem’s hallowed Three.
Humility, gentleness, courage;
These are the traits that shine On the tranquil brow of St. Joseph—
Fit guise of his office divine.
Purity, thoughtfulness, meekness, Like a mantle of starlight, grace
The beautiful figure of Mary;
They speak like.a voice from her face.
Obedience, patience, affection, Like a veil of mystical mesh, Surround the form and the features Of the Child—of the “Word made Flesh.”
Lo! the centuries glide on in silence;
The ages like billows recede, And ever, and ever that picture Has given the. lesson we read.
The future will come; will be swallowed, Lost in the deep sea of the past;
Foster-father, the Babe and His Mother Will preach the same code to the last.
For Truth, heavenly Truth in the Person, Of that Child whom the Wise Men adore, Came to earth but to teach us submission: The Manger—the. Gross tell no more.
For arrogance dragged the Archangel, The brightest in heaven, to dwell
Amid tortures and torments undying;
It was arrogance first opened hell. _
The antidote changing.the virus, And bidding its poison depart
Is to learn of, and follow that Master Who is meek, who is humble of Heart.
—The “ Roll of Honor ” and “ Class Honors ” will appear next week.
—Mr. Theodore Schultze, of St. Paul, Minn., was among the visitors of the week.
—On Monday, the 5th inst., the young ladies remaining during the Christmas holidays enjoyed a.trip to Niles.
—New Year’s congratidations to the Prefect of Studies were presented on the . part of the young ladies by Miss Belle Gove.
—On the Feast of the Circumcision,, a most eloquent sermon on “Christian Sincerity.” was preached by the Rev. Chaplain at the High Mass.' "—On Epiphany the Rev. Father .L’Etourneau. made his usual donation of “ Blessed Bread” to the Children of Mary, who offer their thanks to, . the kind and pious donor.
—Grateful acknowledgments are extended to. : Miss Della Gordon from the custodians of St. Ed-■ ward’s Reading-Room for her generous donation o	o
of “ Abbot’s History,” in six .volumes.
—The pupils gathered in the study-hall at about . 2 p. m., on New Year’s Day, to welcome Father General. The address was presented, by1 Miss Marie Bruhn. Miss Sarah Dunne read the address to Mother Superior. ;
—A beautiful, letter from a former pupil, who now resides in St. Joseph’s, Mo., was received on Christmas, in which the. writer touchingly reverts to her baptism in St* Mary’s Convent chapel, at Midnight Mass, eight years ago.
—The vacation passed very pleasantly and profit-: ably to the pupils; the forenoons were devoted to classes and music, and the afternoons and evenings to entertainments and social pleasures. The reading-room was. never more enjoyed.
—The Misses L. Blaine, F;-Henry,E. Wallace, B. Heckard, Teresa, and A. McSorley, Murdock and Wolvin, of the Seniors,5 also the Misses.Richmond, Regan and Sheekey, of the Juniors, have been active in contributing to the merriment of the two weeks past.
—Mass was offered on Monday for the repose of the soul of Mrs. Mary Zahm, of Huntington, Ind., the mother of Rev. Father Zahm,; of the University. Many Holy. Communions were offered, and the warmest sympathy is extended to-the afflicted family.
—The young ladies who were kindly invited by the Mistress of Novices to visit the Bethlehem o£ the Novitiate, were so fortunate as to: view, the beautiful representation of the adoration of the Magi, there presented on Tuesday evening. . It. was a truly edifying picture. •	-	.
—Pupils are arriving constantly, their bright faces and- merry voices causing* the halls to resume, their customary appearance. They are already cheerfully addressing themselves to the great work* of the coming month—preparation for the semi-' annual examination in February.
—;Santa Claus was very generous to little Florence Johnson, who has just returned from her. Christmas visit to her home in Chicago. Her presents “ out-numbered a score.” She has been charming her friends at home with her recitations, not only in English, but also in French.
—The Misses Lily and. Virginia Johns,. Alice; Schmauss, Mary Lindsey, and Lola Chapin, have often entertained visitors and friends.by their skill’ in elocution. Ella Blaine, Edna Burtis, Fannie Spenser, Genie Hammond,, and. Bridget Murray,.
292
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
have also lent their versatile powers to the improvised entertainments of the holidays.
—On Friday, the young ladies were afforded the pleasure of a visit to the buildings of the University. The Sisters at the Convent treated them to an excellent repast, for which they feel greatly obliged, and tender their acknowledgments; as also, for kind attention, to Rev. President Walsh and to Bro. Francis, who spared no pains to make the visit interesting, entertaining and useful.
—The impressive ceremony of Religious Reception took place in the Community chapel in the afternoon of New Year’s Day. Very Rev. Father General conducted the ceremonies, and Rev. Father Cooney, Miss. Ap., pronounced the sermon in his usual earnest and effective style. Miss Lizzie O’Neal (Class ’78) was among the happy number of those who received the religious Habit. She will be known hereafter by the beautiful name, Sister M. Clarissa.
—On Epiphany, the ancient custom of gateau des rois was observed. The feve fell to Miss Bruhn, who was crowned “ Queen of the Evening,” and attired by the Prefect of Studies. The pupils repaired to St. Edward’s Reading-Room, where a throne had been erected by the Misses Dunne and Sheekey, and the graceful queen selected her royal court; choosing Miss Williams as her first Maid of Honor, and little Ella Blaine and Lolie Chapin as train-bearers. To complete the pleasures of the evening, the Prefect of Studies announced, in the name of the queen, a dance for the next evening.	*
—A “Christmas Poem in Prose,” written for the Freemans Journal, by Miss Eliza Allen Starr, the distinguished writer and artist, of Chicago, was ' read in the refectory. Were this charming composition published in book-form, with illustrations from the grand Madonnas named, it would constitute an admirable and most valuable addition to any Art Library, especially those of schoolsand academies. It would also be a valuable pocket-companion to the connoisseur, or other votary of art, since Raphael’s Madonnas, of which the poem treats, are, so to speak, innumerable, and the descriptions contained compose a summary of those most celebrated. The vivifying faith, clear intellect, and noble appreciation of Christian art and its mission to the world, which always characterize the works of Miss Starr, ring out with unusual beauty and power in this “ Christmas Poem in Prose.”
—The sermon on Tuesday was explanatory of the feast and of the offerings made by the Magi to the Infant Redeemer of the world. The Rev. Chaplain was particularly happy in his" illustrations and in his remarks upon the virtues symbolized in the gold, frankincense, and myrrh presented by the Gentile Kings. The feast naturally calls to mind the art treasure in St.-Luke’s Studio—Master Stephano Lochner’s “ Adoration of the Magi.” It is a colored lithograph from the original in the Chapel of the Three Kings; in. the famous Cath
edral of Cologne, where the relics of Casper, Melchiore and Baltazar now repose, x The picture is the central panel of three; the two smaller being, one of “ St. JJrsula and her Companions, Martyrs,”—these noble women having suffered near the site of the great German city; the other, of “St. Maurice and the Thundering Legion.” St. Maurice is the patron of Cologne, which accounts for the distinguished place given to the group. These paintings were executed in the fourteenth century.
—On entering the Chapel of Loreto at St. Mary’s, and looking at the arch above the statue of the Blessed Virgin, just over her crown of gold, suspended from the centre of the arch, the visitor will notice a solid silver star, glittering and catching the rays, now from the sky-light above, anon from the sanctuary lamps in front; or, if at Mass, from the lighted candles beneath. This silver star is a votive offering from the gifted and celebrated writer of “ Pilgrims and Shrines,”—a work in two volumes, issued by the Union Catholic Publishing Company, of Chicago, in 1883, but which has just now found its way to St. Catharine’s Library. “ Adrift ” and “ Notre Dame des Victoires,” the two first chapters of the work before us, will explain the circumstances which called forth this appropriate ex voto; that is to say, Miss Starr’s rescue from the dangers of a sea voyage, in November, 1875, when the steamer on which she embarked was at the mercy of the high seas for forty-one days. Very Rev. Father General was on the same vessel, and the anxiety of friends on that occasion will never be forgotten. The fascinating account given we will not mar by any attempt at quotation ; but from the introduction we will give one of the reasons which render the volumes so desirable :
' “ The illustrations have been etched directly from sketches taken on the spot during my visits; and, with few exceptions, represent objects and localities which have not been made familiar by photographers. Years ago the etcher’s needle was taken up with the intention of illustrating my own pages without regard to anything but the benefit of my readers, knowing well that the simplest representation to the eye assists the imagination to take in the description. I present them to my young friends as an expression of personal regard, hoping that printed page and picture may be an incentive to thousands of youths and maidens in these United States to visit-Europe, Italy, Rome, with the intention of pilgrims rather than of tourists; and trusting that they .may bring with them from the old home of faith and the., shrines qt. martyrs and confessors the aroma of piety worthy of the first, the middle and the last ages of that Church which has never cehsed to - give saints to God and to humanity, which is still beautiful . as the Jerusalem of the Apocalypse, and still worthy to
be called the Bride of the Lamb.” .	'
If woman’s dress were not so costly there would, be fewer walls bare of pictures; many families now illiterate, though fashionable, could, afford to. buy and read all the new books, and . children could; be carefully, educated instead of being compelled to take their chances at the public schools.—1New York Herald. . ' ' ' I ’ ’