^Jhe. Noite
^he SNotre Q)ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ, Editor-in-Chief
JOE THORNTON	AL BROTEN
Associate Editor, Marines Associate Editor, Navy
EDITORIAL STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN -	-	- Managing Editor
BILL WADDINGTON -	-	- Sports Editor
DICK MURPHY ...	- Circulation
BOB O'TOOLE	-	-	-	Promotion
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -	-	-	Observations
LIEUT. J. J. COLLINS -	- Know Your Navy
JIM CASEY -	-	.	The Green Banner
JIM HECK ----- Introducing EMMETT HASSETT -	- The College Parade
BLAIR NATTKEMPER -	- Man About the Campus
PETE BROWN -	-	- Pressbox Splinters
HARRY LE BIEN -	-	- The Periscope
ARNIE SKLARE - ’	-	- The Gabby Gizmo
CONTRIBUTORS
DON MURPHY GEORGE KRAUSER R. L. VOSBERG
jack McCarthy	RONALD BYERSMITH	TOM SHANAHAN
JOHN BUTLER	JOHN FEENEY	BILL LESSARD
TOM DINGES	HARRY SEIMONSMA	JIM FOY
JIM CAREY	GREG HALPIN	J. KLOCKENKEMPER
DICK GORMAN	ROBERT MOLNAR	ART WAGNER
JACK CAHILL	GENE DIAMOND	L. HERGSTEIN
DICK MELLETT	BILL BYINGTON	C. STONEBARGER
JOHN MORRIS	D. NUECHTERLEIN	BILL OVER
TOM McNALLY	JOE HAMMOND	JIM SOMMER
JACK MILES	S. B. STOCKWELL	AL KOHN
JAMES KEENAN	J. S. HAMEL	GUY WILSON
GEORGE DESPOT	A. E. FUSS	GEORGE NUTIL
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD DON WHITE
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manu-■eript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
EDITORIAL
Men About the Campus
Another war-accelerated class graduates from the University this coining week. With the best wishes of the staff, this issue is dedicated to the graduating seniors, and to the countless other students who are leaving the Notre Dame campus to enter the armed forces of our country. In this respect it is dedicated to the memory of the gallant Notre Dame men already dead and to the honest courage of those yet preparing for their places in the fight.
Across the broad land of America, in every foreign corner of the globe, and on the many shell-torn battlefields across the seas, there are found men of Notre Dame. It was many years ago for some and only a short time for others, but each of them went out one day from the campus, taking with them a way of living which they acquired here. It is so with this graduating class.
To Find Their Places ....
Tomorrow these men will slip swiftly, almost unnoticed, into the uniforms of our fighting forces and go out to find their places in the battle. Men of Notre Dame have served their nation well in all times whether they have gone out into a world of peace and tranquility, or a world at war. It will be so with this graduating class. Quietly their clothing will change from the informality of student dress to the khaki of the military.
This class of seniors is graduating and leaving Notre Dame without an annual as a record of their life on campus. Theirs will be but memories of when they used to sit on classroom building steps, have bull-sessions in the Caf; play touchball and softball in Biology Field and Badin Bog; sit on the chairs of famed Sorin porch; find their way down to the Grotto for simple prayer, to the bus stop, the Memorial; spend much time in solitary study in the quietness of their rooms. All these are living parts in their pattern of life here.... a pattern grown rich in Christian ideals. It is a pattern which men remember always, for its simplicity is the Notre Dame way of life.
Several obvious difficulties resulting from the war forced the discontinuance of the University’s yearbook, the Dome. Without attempting the impossible task of issuing a miniature yearbook, Scholastic has endeavored to provide in. these pages some small clue of remembrance of undergraduate days to these “men about the campus.” . . . the seniors of October, 1944.—Al Lesmez
Our Thanks
As we draw to the close of another successful semester for the Scholastic, we pause to thank those who have done so much for it. The editors wish to express their thanks to the men who have made possible such complete coverage of navy and marine news. Special thanks are due Al Broten, associate editor in charge of navy, and Joe Thornton, associate editor in charge of marines. These men, along with their columnists and writers have done a truly wonderful job for which we are extremely grateful.
To all the staff, navy, marine, NROTC, and civilian— our thanks.—Robert Riordan
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 82
OCTOBER 20, 1944
No. 14
Admiral Jacobs to Address Midshipmen
Vice-President Wallace
Visits Campus Briefly
United States Senator Samuel D. Jackson, accompanying Vice-President Henry A. Wallace, was responsible last week for bringing the honored guest for a brief visit to our campus. Senator Jackson, a friend of Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, thought it would be a friendly gesture to have both men meet.
On arriving on campus, the party did not find Father Cavanaugh at the University, but was met by Rev. John Lane, C.S.C.
After speaking with the vice-president for about 20 minutes on topics of general interest, Father Lane escorted the party to Notre Dame Avenue from where it headed downtown to activities planned there.
The visit was an informal, spontaneous affair.... a gesture of friendship on the part of Senator Jackson and Vice President WallaceX', •
News that Wallace was on his way to South Bend reached the chairman of the St. Joseph county democratic central committee less than an hour before the vice-president’s arrival. Wallace appeared somewhat ruffled and tired from his whirlwind trip which saw him in Indianapolis Saturday afternoon; Muncie, Saturday night; South Bend at noon Sunday, and Gary Sunday afternoon for an address.
Vice-president Wallace stated that if 45,000,0C0 Americans vote November 7, President Roosevelt will be returned to office “easily,” but if the vote falls off to 40,000,000, as some say it will, “it may be another story.”
Downtown before addressing the crowd, Mr. Wallace took a few minutes to answer questions of reporters. He said he was encouraged by the registration returns, and the sentiment among the farmers he talked with, including many he met in Indianapolis last week was “fully as good or better than in 1940” for President Roosevelt.
Bishop Noli Speaks
St. Joseph county’s first Eucharistic hour was attended by 12,000 Catholics last Sunday afternoon at 3 o’clock in School Field stadium, South Bend. The elaborate program, lasting slightly more than an hour, was planned with the cooperation of all Catholic societies in St. Joseph county.
The principal speaker was the Most Rev. John Francis Noll, D.D., bishop of the Fort Wayne Roman Catholic diocese. Bishop Noll was introduced by Rev. Wendell P. Corcoran, C.S.C., pastor of St. Joseph’s Roman Catholic church. Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament followed the Bishop’s address.
The music selections rendered during benediction were under the direction of Brother Arnold, C.S.C. The Central Catholic High school Glee Club sang with Orville Foster at the organ.
V-12 Enrollment Reduced
No new V-12 trainees will be assigned to the University or other colleges and universities participating in the navy training program at the beginning of new terms next March.
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University revealed that he had been appraised of the navy’s decision in a letter from Vice-Admiral Randall Jacobs, chief of the bureau of navy personnel in Washington.
The decision will not affect in any way those men under training in the V-12 program, Admiral Jacobs explained in his letter to Father O’Donnell, but it will affect the overall number under training and their distribution.
Father O’Donnell said the effect on Notre Dame would not be made clear by the navy until it has completed a detailed study of the situation; that he had been assured by Admiral Jacobs that every effort would be made to use the University’s instructional facilities to the greatest possible extent compatible with the needs of the navy.
850 to Receive Commissions At Sixth Graduation
Approximately 850 graduating ensigns will hear Vice Admiral Randall Jacobs, Chief of the Bureau of Navy Personnel, when he addresses the sixth graduating class of the Notre Dame Midshipman School in the Navy Drill Hall on Oct. 26. The invocation will be given by Rev. James Leahy, C.S.C., administrative assistant to the president of the University, and Captain J. Richard Barry, will
swear the men in as newly commissioned ensigns. Commander T. C. Scaffe, executive officer of the school, will present special awards and presentations.
It was Admiral Jacobs who was in charge of the mammoth job of increasing the navy personnel from a peacetime figure of 100,000 to 2,300,000 officers and men and 30,000 women. Much of the success of the navy today may be attributed to Admiral Jacobs’ effective handling of this gigantic task.
The traditional Midshipman Hop will be held Monday night, Oct. 23, in the Drill Hall with the music of Bud Simpson. A feature attraction will be a Spanish Exhibition Dance which will be presented at intermission time.
■iiiitmitmniiinumiimMMtiminniimmutmMinmmnuinR
I	REMEMBER	1
i There will be extra copies of this 5 i issue on sale in the Cafeteria this i i week, at ten cents per copy.	1
i The next issue of SCHOLASTIC i : will appear on Nov. 17.	=
till till 11 ittlillllliilllliii 111 Illi llllilttllilliittittiin 1113113111Q
9
Major Jones Announces Marine Destinations
From the office of Major Ernest W. Jones, came the announcement this week, that the Marine Detachment will officially terminate its program at Notre Dame, on Nov. 1. Men who have not completed the program will move elsewhere—the engineers to Cornell, and the basic men to Colgate. With few exceptions, all Marine trainees will remain in the program.
Leaves will be granted to trainees after their last exams at Notre Dame. The duration of the leaves will vary, in individual cases, but will average four or five days.
The ship’s company will report to Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind., to take over the Marine Detachment there, where all members of the training program are engineers. Though here for only a short time, Major Jones expressed regret at leaving Notre Dame, saying: “While my assignment here on the campus provided my initiation into the V-12 training program, I have been very much pleased with the results achieved, and found the Unit satisfactory in every detail.” With a touch of humor, Major Jones added: “The only disconcerting experience I recall is the way in which Notre Dame trounced Tulane. Otherwise I have enjoyed my stay here very much.”
Chief Warrant Officer Banashek, who has been stationed at Notre Dame since the inception of the Marine program on campus, expressed himself as having found duty here very pleasant. He has not as yet received his future assignment.
The exodus of the Marines will leave a noticeable void in campus activities. “Chick” Maggioli, of the football squad, will play his last game on Oct. 28. Other athletes to depart are wrestlers Stav-
Major Ernest W. Jones
Renaud. O'Connor, and White Win First Places in "Scholastic" Photo Contest
Winners of the three divisions of the Scholastic Photography Contest were: C. B. Renaud, Campus Division; D. L. White, Action Division; M. J. O’Connor, Still Life Division. These pictures, contrary to the previously published intentions of the Scholastic, will not all be printed in this issue of the magazine, but will be reproduced in each of three consecutive issues. Chosen for this time was the winner in the Action Division. The other two pictures will be the cover for the first two issues of the Scholastic next term. In so doing, the Scholastic
"Man Safe On First," First Place Action Winner by Don White
ridis, Stasiewicz, Steinback and Mowry; trackmen Wares, R. E. Smith, • Stupay and Quasey; and Mayo of the baseball squad.
Scholastic readers will miss the Shanahan cartoons, Arnie Sklare’s “Gabby Gizmo,” and other Marine features ably edited by Joe Thornton, and the contributors, Bill Lessard, George Nutil, Bill Over and Guy Wilson.
Chaplains Carrier Unit
Reecently a group of men stood in the twilight gazing southward, scanning the far horizon for three specks. The specks should be planes, planes carrying the
hopes that the men and their pictures may thus be given the publicity and credit which they deserve for their outstanding work.
In the opinion of the judges, the work of all the entrants was excellent. The Scholastic hopes that this contest may be the first in an annual continuation of similar contests.
Both winners and other contestants may receive their pictures and negatives by calling at the Publications Office in the Main Building. At that time the winners will be awarded their prizes.
personnel of a Wing Headquarters commanded by Colonel Maurice N. Beach, of Osborne, Ohio, returning from Italy to join another section of their unit, after successfully completing the airborne landings in Southern France. This was invasion number two, for the Wing also led the Normandy assault on Hitler’s European Fortress.
Chaplain Edward Richard Fitzgerald of Mission House, Notre Dame, Indiana, served as Padre for the Wing on both invasions. He has done an excellent job.
The wing to which Chaplain Fitzgerald is assigned is a part of the Ninth Troop Carrier Command, commanded by Major General Paul L. Williams.

Commission on InterAmerican Action Formed
On Columbus Day, October 12, group of students interested in Inter-American affairs and faculty advisers of International Relations, Spanish, History, and Inter-American Affairs clubs, met at Downtown Loyola University in Chicago, to organize a Commission on Inter-American Action in the Chicago area. Eleven institutions were represented, with delegates coming from three states, Illinois, Wisconsin and Indiana.
After a brief statement of the aims and activities of a Commission of this nature by Father Cunningham, C.S.C., of Notre Dame, the same theme was developed by two other faculty representatives, Sister Mary Celeste, R.S.M., of St. Xavier College, representing the women’s colleges, and Dr. Paul S. Lietz, Director of the Institute of Inter-American Studies at Loyola University, representing the men’s colleges. Senor Manuel Perez of Venezuela, a student in education at Chicago University, spoke briefly for the Calvert club, the Catholic club of that institution. Then the topic was thrown open to general discussion by all present.
Following this a demonstration of one form of Inter-American action was given by members of La Raza Club of Notre Dame in the presentation of a Panel discussion on Inter-American Affairs. Jose Cardenas of Panama spoke under the title “Why the Americas are Disunited” and Joseph Menez on “Making the Americas One.” This was followed by a question and discussion period. Then Miguel Vila of Chile spoke on “Education in Latin America” again with a discussion period following.
The afternoon session opened with a talk by Miss Patricia Gilroy of St. Mary’s College on “Developing Catholic Lay Leaders.” This was followed by the election of officers which resulted in: Joseph Menez of Notre Dame, chairman; Robert Hassett of Loyola University, vice-chairman; Gene Ann Tobin of St. Xavier College, recording secretary; Delfina Vergara of Rosary College, corresponding secretary and treasurer. Fr. Cunningham was elected faculty adviser.
Following this an invitation from La Raza club of Notre Dame to hold the next meeting of the Commission at Notre Dame in celebration of the feast day of Our Lady of Guadalupe as “Queen of the Americas,” Dec. 9 and 10, was enthusiastically accepted by the Commission. It was then decided that a spring meeting would be held in Chicago on or about April 14, Pan-American Day, and it was agreed that the faculty advisers of the Chicago institutions, through conference, would work out the details of the meeting.
"Scholastic" Soap and Candy Drive is Success; Nearly 100 Packages Sent for Children of Italy
With the shipment of nearly 100 boxes containing a total of approximately 450 pounds of soap and candy to Major John V. Hinkel for distribution to Italian children at a Christmas party which he and his fellow officers have planned, the Scholastic drive for soap and candy ended.
Under the direction of Miss Marguerite Varga of the Publications Office,
—Photo by Renaud
Preparing packages of soap and candy for shipment to Italy.
the drive gained momentum and was climaxed by feverish work in packing the collected items for overseas shipment. At the last moment it was found that no funds were available for postage fees, but with the help of Rev. John P. Lynch, C.S.C. and Breen-Phillips Hall and Rev. R. Simonitsch, C.S.C., student chaplain, funds were made available for this purpose.
The actual collection of the soap and candy was a problem as well, but with the help of Father Simonitsch and the
Father O'Brien Writes
On Peace Organization
An article on “The Pope’s Way to Peace,” by Rev. John A. O’Brien, Ph.D., professor of apologetics and politics at the University, is featured in the International Conciliation magazine published by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
In his article Father O’Brien discusses 15 principles for a stable and just peace taken from the writings of the present pontiff, Pope Pius XII. In an intro
men from Breen-Phillips, the Marines, the Navy men, and the office staff, much more was collected than at first hoped for.
Another problem arose when it was found that there was no way to accurately determine the weight of the packages and make their weight uniform. As an answer to the prayers of those in charge, Mr. Tom Hartman of the local
Railway Express Agency offered a scales which he had and progress was unimpaired.
The cooperation of the V-12 offices and the duty chiefs’ offices were of great help in organizing the Navy and Marine halls in this drive.
Interest was intense in all quarters, and it was this factor which made the drive a success. Truly Notre Dame men follow the teaching of Christ.... “and the greatest of these is Charity.”
duction to the article James T. Shotwell, professor of political science at Columbia university and chairman of the commission to study the organization of peace, calls the article “a challenging and inspiring statement” and says that he knows of no other presentation of these fundamental principles from the general standpoint of the Church which compares with it.
Former President Herbert Hoover and Archbishop Francis J. Spellman, of New York, have written brief forewords commending the article for general reading.
OBSERVATIONS
BY LIEUTENANT S. L. BEATTY, USNR
1.	Information on V-12 Colleges: Men being transferred to other V-12 Units will find at the University Library reference room two informative books on all colleges and universities: Hart’s The College Bluebook, and Marsh’s American Universities and Colleges.
2.	Aviation Pilot Training Program of the Navy: From now on the two sources of pilots are to be the competitive quotas from V-12 and selected men from the Fleet. No new civilians are being enlisted in V-5, and after this November 1944 no new men from civilian life or from the Fleet will be sent to V-12. The only new men being sent to V-12 this November are one thousand from the Fleet, and they are being divided among those smaller V12 units whose quotas would otherwise fall below 250.
Seven colleges have been chosen to serve as Navy Academic Refresher (NAR) Schools for selected men from the Fleet to prepare for midshipman school, and four have been chosen as NAR schools for men from the Fleet who are chosen in the quotas for V-5 training. None chosen from the Fleet for V-5 will be sent into V-12. Entries from pre-flight to primary flight are reduced to about one-third of the previously scheduled rate of entry, and all civilian procurement discontinued. The output is to be geared to the needs of the Fleet.
Under the revised program, students who enter naval aviation as enlisted men will spend 16 weeks receiving academic refresher courses in mathematics, physics, and English before beginning the standard 70 weeks of pre-flight, primary, intermediate, and operational. The 17 flight preparatory and 89 CAA-WTS schools have been closed, and their work turned over to pre-flight schools, which are lengthening their course of training from 12 weeks to 26 weeks. At the same time, primary flight has been lengthened from 12 weeks to 16 weeks. Intermediate formerly ran on a 16-week syllabus, which now becomes 20 weeks. Present plans contemplate lengthening the eightweek operational syllabus to 12 weeks by the second half of 1945, the lengthening to be made gradually. These changes are possible because the rate of survival in battle areas for aviators has proved to be one-third greater than had been anticipated.
Ground training in the pre-flight schools includes celestial navigation, com
*
munications, essentials of Navy service, recognition, aerology, gunnery, seamanship, and first aid. Principles of engines, CAA regulations, and principles of flying are taught. In the physical training part of the program the students have a wide variety of spoits: swimming, gymnastics, soccer, military track, hand-to-hand combat, football, wrestling, basketball, and boxing.
Men from the Fleet who enter the pilot training program without being taught in the first two semesters of V-12 are first sent to one of the eight NAR schools: Louisiana State Normal, Wooster College, Monmouth College, St. Olaf, Murray State Teachers, Cornell College, William Jewell College, and the California Polytechnic School.
■ The cadet will be in naval aviation 26 weeks before he enters a plane, but when he reaches the primary training phase his 16 weeks will contain plenty of flying.
Prof. Smith Addresses
State Teachers Meeting
Prof. Edmund A. Smith, of the Department of Business Administration of the College of Commerce, will represent the University at the annual meeting of the Indiana Academy of Social Sciences when it convenes at Purdue Oct. 20-21. Mr. Smith is a member of the nominating committee which will select the directors of the Academy for the ensuing two years, and in 1943,- he was vice-president of the Academy. The Academy is composed of members of the faculties of all colleges and universities in the state and in addition those in government service. •
On Oct. 26, Professor Smith will participate in a program which the Academy is presenting for the State Teachers Association at the Claypool Hotel in Indianapolis where he will present a paper on “The Baruch Report and Sequel.” Mr. Smith will be one of the three featured speakers on the afternoon session, the theme of which will be “Some Postwar Problems.” Dean A. L. Prickett of Indiana University’s School of Business will preside, and other speakers will be Professor C. L. Heyerdahl of Purdue speaking on “Postwar Federal Finance: Chaos or Stability,” and DePauw’s Professor Hiram L. Jome speaking on “The Prospects for a Stable International Currency.”
University Band Feted in Bronzewood Room
“Turkey with all the trimmings” was the fare last Monday evening as 110 members of the Notre Dame marching band enjoyed a banquet in the Bronzewood Room of the LaSalle Hotel. The guests of honor, other than the musicians, were the Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., faculty adviser to the band, Commander Walter S. Gabel, executive officer of the V-12 at Notre Dame, and Rev. E. A. Keller, C.S.C.
As Father Kehoe explained in his talk, . the banquet was the University’s treat to the band in lieu of the trips they will not make this fall. Due to travel regulations the band may make no long trips, and due to the way the schedule works out, there are no short trips to go on.
After the dinner, Father Keller showed movies of the Tulane game, including the band’s fine performance. The chairman in charge of the banquet was Marine Jim Kress, who has been head drum major of the band for three seasons. He was aided by Louis Twardzik, Ray Kopi-tuk, Joe Emmond, and Tom Vail.
—Dick Gorman
Gurion Speaks to Group
Professor Gurian spoke to a small group on the subject of F. Dostoievski’s novel The Possessed, on October 12 in Rockne Lounge. The invitation for Dr. Gurian to speak was extended by a campus discussion group, The Bookmen, who planned Mr. Gurian’s address as part of an open meeting. Invitations to hear the speaker were also put forth to faculty members. Also present, of course, were the members of the Bookmen. The reviewer explained who the possessed were, presented the political and social significances of the characters and the themes, and related the novel to the events of early revolutionary Russia.
Open meetings for the Bookmen were only innovated this term and shall be continued in a similar manner in semesters to come.
PEP RALLY TONITE
(^Graduating Class of October, 1944
regret that the Law club members say farewell to the ‘‘Little Caesar,” whose absence will be felt greatly by all its members.
MARCEL JOHN AUCREMANNE, B.S. in Electrical Engineering. “Mark,” who hails from Clarksburg, West Virginia, was born on June 27, 1923. He was "graduated from St. Mary’s high school in Clarksburg in 1941, and enrolled in the College of Engineering at Notre Dame the same year. Active in extra-curricular activities, he has held the offices of Chairman, Vice-chairman, and Treasurer in the student chapter of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. Radio and Photography are tops on his list of hobbies, and swimming, football and softball are his favorite sports. Mark hopes for a direct commission in the navy upon graduation. After the war he intends to accept a position with the Federal Telephone and Radio Corporation.
Saverio J. cAlonzi
William H. Sodden
SAVERIO JOSEPH ALONZI, Bachelor of Law. Better known to his buddies as “Little Caesar.” Sam graduated from Loyola university with a B.S.C. in 1942. Entered Notre Dame Law school in * the summer of *42. Since that time Sam has been the sparkplug of the Law school. Among his list of achievements while at Notre Dame are Business Manager of the Lawyer, secretary of the Law club. Cochairman of the Lawyer’s Ball, chairman of the senior picnic, and has received a key for work on the Lawyer. It is with
Parcel J. eAucremanne
WILLIAM HENRY BODDEN. Bachelor of Law. Better known by his classmates as the “Senator,” Bill has completed two years in the A.B. school here at Notre Dame, before entering the Law school in the summer of ’42. Bill was in the Glee club and is the student representative for the Law school. The morning after graduation Bill will marry a South Bend girl before leaving for Wisconsin where he intends to practice Law.
CHARLES MARTIN BOYNTON, Bachelor of Law. Known by his intimate friends as “Doc,” he graduated from the University of Michigan where he received his A.B. Chuck entered the Law school in the fall of ’42 and is a well-known figure. He worked his way up on the LAWYER from Business manager to the position of Editor-in-chief, and has received his key for the splendid work and articles he wrote for the LAWYER. Chuck was the ticket chairman for the Lawyer’s Ball, which was a social as well as a financial success. He will graduate with the highest honors and will have bestowed upon him the degree of Juris Doctor, an honor which few ever attain.
LYONS ANTHONY BRISTOL. Bachelor of Commerce, came to Notre Dame from a long line of schools. He attended four different high schools, and eight grammar schools. He claims this is so because business entails much moving about.
Tony is a native New Yorker, and so was a member of the Metropolitan club. But it is in the Commerce Forum that he rose to fame. He is a co-president, and represents the Forum on the Student Coun
cil. He beats drums for the University band, and for the local dance orchestra; he procured Chuck Cavello for the recent Autumn Ball. “Tony” is returning to the Notre Dame law school on the G.L Bill of Rights.
JAMES FRANCIS CASEY, B.S. in Commerce. “Jap” Casey, the wittiest man on campus (to say the least) will leave the Commerce School with a degree in Business Ad. He hails from Buffalo, New’ York, and it is rumored that he turned
Qharles SM. Boynton
7
politician only upon hi? arrival on the Notre Paine campus. Cieighton Miller had the great honor and privilege of being the “Jap’s” room-mate. Jim was in the Commeice foium and the Radio club, besides playing interhall baseball. He is most widely noted for his universally-read column in the SCHOLASTIC. the "Gieen Banner.” Aho. along the social fronts, the ‘‘Case*’ i" a gieat admirer of St. Mary’s.
and he did a magnificent job a* Chaii man
of the Autumn Ball.
Lvons oA. ^Bristol
J
JAMES MICHAEL CHRISO VERGIS. Bachelor of Law. “Little Jim” entered the Law school in the summer of *42, after completing two ye.us in the undergraduate school here at Notre Dame. Jim has received both keys for the SCHOLASTIC and the LAWYER for the good woik that he accomplished. He is fond of taking picture** and reading the Southwestern Reports*. which we know will be of the most importance when Jim goes back to Kentucky to practice Criminal Law. Jim is quite the Earl Rogers of the Law Schorl and pleads his case to an acquittal every time If and when you get into tiouble “Little Jim” is the man to see: he guarantee* an acquittal for your case.
RAYMOND CUSICK- Raymond will ie-ceive a Bachelor of Architecture Degree. His home is Jersey City, New Jersey. He majoied in design and received several leading awards on problem submitted to contest for Architects in New York City.
Raymond is a member of the Architects Club. His hobLy is sketching. He intends to work in an aichitect's office to acquire experience for future independent work. Marriage ha*- not gone through his mind yet
James F. Qasey
RAMON ALBERT DI NARDO. Bachelor of Arts and Letters, is believed to know more languages than any other graduate —and probably mnie philosophy too. Ray was born in Milfoid. Massachusetts, and attended high school there. His home is at Hopedale. After high school, he spent a year doing post-graduate woik, and then enrolled at Clark University to study languages. Two years later he became head bookkeeper at a large hotel in Washington. At night he studied accounting and business law at Columbus University, and spent two years at the Berlitz school of languages. At Notre Dame diNai do has maintained a magna cuin laude average in philosophy. He will work for his doctor’s degiee at the Catholic University of America.
For recreation Ray turns to sketching and music. He has some knowledge of seven languages
James ^4. Qhrisovergis
WILLIAM FREDRICK DOLL, B.S. in Electrical Engineering. “Will” is the fairhaired graduate from Bismarck. North Dakota He attended St. Mary’s high school in Bismarck, entered Notre Dame as a sophomore after transferring from a junior college. In November, 1943, he was accepted by the navy for their V-12 program, and now distinguishes himself by being the only navy graduate. During the past semester he served as secretary of the student chapter of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. His ambition is to become affiliated with General Electric or the Westinghouse Corporation.
8
JOHN PATRICK FLANAGAN. Bache-lor of Law. Pat received his A.B. degiee from the University of Notre Dame in 1941, and ha* played in the N.D. band for Three year*. He studied education at the
University of Miami for one year and then came back io Notre Dame to pursue the study of Law. Pat is the President of the Law Club which boast* of the mo-t <uc-
ee.**ful year of all He intend* to give ’’Little .lim” plenty of tiouble in the field of Criminal Law.
John cp. Flanagan
ROBERT JAMES GANTNER, B S. in Commerce. “Bob,” the man with the big -mile. although lixing otT-campu* is one of the most popular men in the gi.'.dilating rias* He leeches hi* degteo in Bus. Ad Bob is -‘nother one of the Chicago I oys. having been one of the officer.* in the Chicago club He was in the Commerce Fotum in 1911-12. and was ako a member of the fencing team. When Bob’s bicycle artixed on campu*. it was lumoied that everyone iodo it hut Bob. at lea*t he doesn’t remember *eeing it xery much.
WILLIAM JAMES GILLESPIE. Bnche-lor of Science, i* now studying medicine at St Louis Unixei*ity—at hi* home town. Hts B S. repiesents hi* pre-medical woi k done at Notre Dame Bill i* the only undergraduate recehing hi* degree in absentia. A giaduate of Chaminade college of Clayton, Mi.**ouii. Gillespie was a member of the Biology and Chemi*: rx club* here, ami x.as president of the St. Louis club. Some *ay that friendly “Doc” Gillespie would make a better politician than a doctor. They aren’t disparaging his abilities in medicine; they’ie paying tribute to his likable natuie.
Robert J. Qantner
THOMAS SYLVESTER GORDON. JR.. Bachelor of Aits and Letter*. A stutteiing ted putt-putt speeds Tom along the campus walks. And the putt-putt will now disappear—but only for a time. Tom will be back to study law. Gordon attended Wright college in his home-town Chicago before enrolling at Notre Dame. He hail previously graduated from Tuley high school, studied at Weber high, and done his elementary work at St. Mary’s of the Angels—all in Chicago. His uncle, the Rev. Francis Gordon. C.R.. founded the elementary school.
Tom is in his twenty-thhd year, and is an economic*' major. He fishes, and collects pipes and stamps, and boasts a fine collection of the latter, particularly U. S.
stamps.
William J. (Jillespie
EMMETT ALBERT HASSETT. JR. “Buzz” Hassett was born in Wisconsin, and has been traveling ever since. His college years weie filled with activities. In his freshman year. “Buzz” was a member of the Catholic Action group, participated in interhall football, swimming and tennis “Buzz” in his later years wrote the two most widely-read columns, “The College Parade.” and the “Gieen Banner.” “Buzz” served as Vice-Ptesident of the Commerce Forum. Manager of the Radio department, wa* a representative of the Student Council, and a member of the K. of C. He also held the chairmanship of the Pen Rally Committee.
Emmet c/L Hassett
^Bill Hendrick.
a
WILLIAM ARTHUR HENDRICK. B.S. in Civil Engineering. Bill is the only civil engineer of the graduating class. He is from Saginaw, Michigan. In his college days. Bill has held the cilice of president in the student chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineers and is distinguished in that he is a cum laude graduate. He has been an active member in interhall football, basketball and track teams. It is Bill’s fond hope to become a partner with his father in the contracting business.
FREDRICK WILLIAM KOETTER, B S. in Mechanical Engineering, was born in Peoria. Illinois. He graduated from Spalding Institute and entered Notre Dame in
September of 1941. His extra-curricular activities include membership in the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and Engineers club. Golf takes up his leisure time- After graduation, he intends to accept a position with Pratt and Whitney Aircraft corporation.
Fredrick W. Koetter
BENJAMIN J. MAMMINA. B.S. in Commerce. Called “Red” by his many friends. Ben commutes three times weekly from his home in Benton Harbor, Michigan. Though a Bus. Ad major, he divides his time between the Commerce Building and the Law Building where he has already embarked upon his legal preparation. During his career at Notre Dame. Ben has been a member of the Commerce Forum, Glee Club, and Deputy Grand Knight of the Knights of Columbus. Other activities in which he engaged were campus bowling, interhall basketball and baseball. Last spring Ben was co-chairman of the Knights of Columbus Ball, which rounded out a very successful social career.
John eA. Parcheni
‘Benjamin J. ^Mammina
RICHARD GALLIER MURPHY, B.S. in Commerce. “Murph,” Notre Dame’s Man about Campus hails from Oak Park, Illinois. It is rhe opinion of many that “Murph” is best known by his boisterous laugh which can be recognized in a gathering of any size. Suave and handsome. “Murph” was a natural to be picked Co-chairman of the Junior-Senior Ball in 1943. * * * Having had a band of his own in high school, it was only natural that Dick was chosen Music Chairman of the Sophomore Cotillion and the Engineers’ Ball. As a freshman he won the “Frosh” Oratorical contest. Now’ finishing up his school career, we find Dick Co-presid-dent of the Commerce Forum and Circulation Manager of the SCHOLASTIC. Dick is a Bus. Ad. major in Commerce.
Farre J. ‘Pequigney
Richard Q. ^furphy
IC
JOHN A. PARCHEM, B.S. in Aeronautical Engineering. John was born in Detroit, Michigan, and attended St. Ambrose high school, where he won nine athletic letters. In June of 1942 he transferred from the University of Detroit. Since his coming here, he has been president of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Institute of Aeronautical Sciences, a member of the Student Activities Council, and a member of the American Society for Metals. On June 23, of this year, John was married to Dorothy Van Nest, the ceremony taking place in Sacred Heart church on campus. His interests and hobbies are all connected mainly with aeronautics. After graduation he hopes to
Qerald F. cPutnam
Evald ^odin
receive a direct commission in the navy. His ambition after the war is to have his own business in some phase of aeronautical engineering.
FARRE JOSEPH PEQUIGNEY. Bachelor of Arts and Leters. **Tex,” as he is known to the boys, is a native Texan, without the usual drawl. He is graduating with a Magna Cum Laude average from the /\.B. School. Known as a “quiet” politician, “Tex” served as president of both the Wranglers and the Bookmen. Writing is “Tex*s” forte, and for two semesters was Editor-in-Chief of the Notre
Dame SCHOLASTIC. Mr. Pequigney is a member of the Student Council and is in charge of the arrangements for gradu
ation.
James Q. Thomas
GERALD FRANCIS PUTNAM, B.S. in Mechanical Engineering. “Jerry” was born in Fort Wayne, Indiana, where he attended Centra] Catholic high school. His activities at Notre Dame have included his terms of presidency and treasurer of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, a member of the Glee club, and the Student Activities Council. “Jerry’s” main interests lie in the study of internal combustion engines: spends a great deal of his time at the local power laboratory. Among his favorites are contract bridge, quartet harmony and sweet dance music. At present he is headed for the armed services via Selective Service, but hopes to become an engineering executive with a large corporation after the war.
EVALD M. RODIN. Bachelor of Science. member of the Marine detachment of the V-12 at the University, will be one of the graduates to receive his degree. Friday. Oct. 27.
Marine private Rodin, who will receive his Bachelor of Science Degree, is a graduate of Burlington high school. Since entering Notre Dame in July, 1943, he has been an active member of the Notre Dame and V-12 glee cluls.
LUIS CARLOS SMITH. B.S. in Chemical Engineering. Luis is the only graduating chemical engineer. He hails from Cardenas, Cuba, where he attended Colegio de Belen, a Catholic school directed by Jesuits. In high school “Louie” played basketball and baseball, making the varsity team in his last two years. Luis is a member of the American Society of Chemical Engineers and La Raza club. After graduation he hopes to do research W’o»*k.
JAMES CAMPBELL THOMAS. B.S. in Commerce. The “White Man” hails from the Tri-state area of Ohio. Pennsylvania and West Virginia. He is the lone representative of the Accounting department in the Commerce School to graduate, this October. As a freshman he played football and baseball and in his sophomore year was a member’ of the varsity baseball team. Jim prides himself on being a member of the Commerce Forum and the Knights of Columbus. Though an off-campus student, he did manage to greet his many friends in the Cafe every day at noon.
RALPH RICHARD VALVA. Bachelor of Science in Aeronautical Engineering Degree. Ralph hails from Brooklyn, New-York. He is 20 years of age. measures an even six feet and weighs 165 pounds.
Ralph graduated from St. Francis Preparatory in Brooklyn, New York, before entering the University of Notre Dame. His chief interest is Airplane Design and Aerodynamics.
Some of his extra-curricular interests include “Camels,” all kinds of sports, and phonograph records. Ralph has a huge collection of over 300 records including selections from Bach to Boogie Woogie. He is
^alph Tlalva
a member of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences.
Ralph’s ambition is some day to be a successful Aeronautical Engineer. He will enter the Armed Forces upon graduation.
CHARLES WEIHER, B.S. in Physics, will be the only one to graduate with a degree in Physics this year. He likes to boast of his first-hand knowledge of the “white tablecloth days” of 1941. He was called by the army in his junior year but was released later and returned to finish his work. For the past two semesters he has been student prefect in Breen-Phillips but he manages to frequent the halls of learning in venerable Sorin. Charley s?y> that he plans to return to Notre Dame for graduate work in physics as scon as graduate school opens.
Qharles Weiher
11
Recalling 50-0 Thumping Last Season, Irish Hope for Repeat Against Badgers Tomorrow
BY BILL WADDINGTON
"Scholastic" Sports Editor
The natives of Kilkenny, Killarney and Cork are all riding the Fighting Irish bandwagon today and with a more than justified position at that. Pitt was stomped, 58-0; then Tulane’s Green Wave made the jaunt to South Bend but went home 26 points sorrier; Dartmouth played host to the Blue and Gold last
Texan Ed McKeever
week and found themselves 64 counters short; and now, the local patriots are awaiting great things again this week from Notre Dame.
An unbeaten, untied, and unscored upon club that ranks No. 1 in America will defend a perfect record against a Wisconsin Badger contingent that is attracting plenty of recognition in the Middle West. With only a single setback, and that to a heralded Ohio State squad. Wisconsin can’t be put in the pushover class for Ed McKeever’s lads.
In running up a total of 148 points, the Irish have spread the glory all over the backfield. Bob Kelly, Chick Maggioli, Frank Dancewicz, Elmer Angsman, George Terlep, Steve Nemeth. Joe Gas-parella, Nunzio Marino, Ed Clasby, Art Fitzgerald, and John Corbisiero have made the word “brutality” a reality for the opposition, and they have no intention to letup for the remainder of the schedule unless the Navy puts a crimp in the style when it draws away some of the stalwarts at the end of the current semester.
McKeever In Charge
Coach McKeever, who used to play with rattlesnakes in Texas, has learned the technique of developing his own sort of venom, a la gridiron. When he took over the Notre Dame team in ’42 in the absence of Frank Leahy, he directed the team to victories over Stanford, Iowa Seahawks, and Illinois. Now, as acting director of athletics and head football ‘ coach, the youthful mentor from the cow country is leading a team that has a trio of triumphs in a similar number of contests this season.
Under the tutelage of McKeever, the 1944 version of Fighting Irish have not only become well-grounded in the fundamentals but have activated potentialities to the point of excellence. An aggressive attitude thdt won’t be denied has instilled itself in the grid machine emanating from this locale.
When Dancewicz doesn’t click with the aerials, then there’s Joe Gasparella around to do the tossing—the two of ’em never seem to be off on the same weekend. And you want runners?—There’s a pink - cheeked, piano - legged stepper named Kelly around the campus, and he does plenty of jogging on the turf each Saturday afternoon. But he equally divides the show with some of his companions. Chick Maggioli and Elmer Angsman have been more than prolific in their abilities at scooting hurriedly across the terra firma. Then there’s a newcomer like Marino who did damage in Boston last week as did George Terlep.
For variety, the services of Steve Nemeth, John Corbisiero and Art Fitzgerald, all ball-toters of some note—in fact, all of the future opposition’s scouts have their hands full taking note, hoping to devise a method to stop the boys from South Bend.
But He's An Irishman Too
The Badger aggregate will entrain for this area with an ex-Irishman in the midst, in fact, in the driver’s seat. Harry Stuhldreher, one of the Four Horsemen of ’22, ’23, and ’24, has yet to gain a victory over his Alma Mater as Wisconsin hasn’t brought home the bacon since 1928 when they gained a 22-6 win. In 1942, a tie resulted, 7-7, the first time that the Red and White chargers from
(Continued on page 23)
ML.?*
Illinois. Navy, Army- >1 Grid Crop—Fa< r
BY BIL ft
"ScholaJ
Three of the juggernauts on this se son’s billing for the Irish who answer the name of Illinois, Navy and Army the order of play, will be the competitic for the Fighting Irish for the next thri week-ends. With Coach Ray Elliot and £ experienced contingent, mostly re-trea< from the ’43 campaign, the Illini ha' already spread defeat and devastatic on three foes this fall, beating Illino Normal 69-0, coming from behind to n: Indiana, 25-18, and stomping the low Hawkeyes last week, 40-6. Besides thi there was a brilliant 26-26 tie with und' feated Great Lakes and a smarting los to the highly esteemed Purdue Boile makers, 35-19.
niinois' Fruitless Efforts
In seven meetings, Illinois has yet 1 gain a victory. In 1898 Notre Dame wc 5 to 0 and then the next encounter i 1937 ended in a scoreless tie. The follov ing year, the Blue and Gold were on tl long end of a 14-0 call. They missed year and then took up a four game serie that started in 1940 and has continue The South Bend boys triumphed kj scores of 26-0, 49-14, 21-14, and 47-0 rd spectively in the 40’s.	|
Give 'Em the Deep Six	1
The men who watch the games eac week with battered hats, wrinkled coat and antiquated portables are high i their praise of Navy. That opener the dropped to North Carolina Pre-Flight 21-14 should be no criterion of th Navy’s true strength they contend. Th 55-14 beating they administered unt Penn State the following .Saturday wa more of the expected caliber. Then the; just eked out a 7-0 win over Duke las week and tomorrow take on the pride o the Southland, Georgia Tech.	■
Navy and Notre Dame have playec continuously since 1927 and in the 1' get-togethers, the Blue and Gold of loca distinction have been victorious 14 time; while the sailors have been able to gaii > but a trio of triumphs, in ’33, ’34 anc ’36.	;
12
K
tentates of '44's fish in Weeks to Come
DDINGTON
iports Editor
JIL
>la
se
a e; .s 0
The Old Army Game
The sidewalks of old New York will really be trampled by a football hungry mob when West Point’s proud aggregate gets together with Notre Dame for their annual session at Yankee Stadium. “The Met,” which really sees football on parade, par excellence, when these two rollicking rivals put their heads across from each other. If the East ever became solidified on any one issue, it is certainly in their support of the yearly classic that has caused so much pageantry in the Empire city.
To date, Col. Earl Blaik’s squad have merely gone through the motions with such opponents as N. Carolina, Brown and Pittsburgh, winning by scores of 46 to 0, 59-7 and 69-7 respectively. Tomorrow they meet the U. S. Coast Guard Academy and the following week, Duke, which should prove to be their only real test until the Irish tilt two weeks later, for sandwiched in between the Blue Devil and Notre Dame games is a friendly encounter with Villanova which should cause no unusual worry to the boys from up the Hudson.
PROBABLE LINEUPS
Notre Dame	Wisconsin
Sullivan......L.E..........Weber
Mergenthal ...L.T.......Schwartz Filley (C)..............L.G. Collias
Ray ..........C.......... Cusack
Rovai ........R.G..........Davey
Adams ........R.T......... Esser
O’Connor .....R.E........ Bahlow
Dancewicz ....Q.B........ Shafer
j", Maggioli ______L.H...... (c) Girard a	Kelly__________R.H...... Hecker
ei ,r	Angsman________F.B.____ Thompson
Coaches: Ed McKeever, Notre Dame; Harry Stuhldreher, Wisconsin.
Wisconsin-Rough and Ready-Are Optimistic About Outcome of Game with Irish Tomorrow
BY LOU LANDMAN
Sports Editor, "Wisconsin Daily Cardinal"
Madison, Wis., Oct. 20—The University of Wisconsin Badgers, one of the most amazing football teams of 1944, are working out daily on Camp Randall field in preparation for their game next Saturday with Notre Dame at South Bend.
Remarkably free from injuries, the Badgers are going through plays designed to stop the Irish T formation, Frank Dancewicz, Joe Gasparella, and Bob Kelly. Five Badgers have returned from last year’s squad, a team that took a 50-0 pasting from Angelo Bertelli and company. John Davey, Roger Laubenheimer, Clarence Esser, Pat Weber, and Jim Kusa will have that memory with them when they take the field Saturday.
Counting on Girard
Coach Harry Stuhldreher has built his offense around a 17-year-old freshman from Marinette, Earl “Jug” Girard. The youngster, a triple-threat, should make things plenty hot for the Irish. Rated as the greatest passer ever to wear the Cardinal of Wisconsin, Girard has so far this season thrown two touchdown passes, scored one marker himself, and booted the extra points after the Badgers’ five touchdowns.
Rounding out the first-string backfield are Allan Shafer at quarter in the Wisconsin T formation; Joe Campbell or Bob Hecker at right half; and 160-pound Jerry Thompson at fullback. Campbell and Hecker are both fast, shifty runners, able to go places once a hole is opened for them. Thompson, one of the smallest, lightest fullbacks in the country, is a speed boy, and can move on the open field.
At the ends Stuhldreher has started Pat Weber, and Ed Bahlow. Weber played last year, although he was sidelined much of the time with a bad leg. Bahlow has seen fleet duty in the Pacific, and played his last football in 1938.
Bruce Elliott, son of “Rowdy”-Elliott, Badger halfback of another era, is in the right tackle slot if the Badgers kick off, otherwise Clarence Esser, a veteran of last year, handles the post. Big Johnny Schwartz capably fills the left tackle spot, with Martin Meyer ready to relieve him at a moment’s notice.
Nick Collias, Chicago boy who made the All-Big Nine team after his sterling work in the Wisconsin games against
Northwestern and Marquette, is the left guard. John Davey, another veteran of the 1943 squad, is the starting right guard. At center it’ll probably be Don Cusack, a fine pivot man, and a great line backer. Don, however, has been troubled with a bad elbow for the past two weeks, and, although he played 35
Leader Harry Stuhldreher
minutes of the Ohio State game, Jack Haese started the fray.
Aggressive Squad
The Badgers are one of the speediest teams in the Midwest, but their speed is second to another item. That is spirit. Seldom has such a light team been pitted so successfully against heavier, more experienced opponents. For the Badgers have refused to say “uncle,” to anyone so far.
Against Ohio State they were unable to make a first down for the entire first half, but they refused to give up; fought back, and had the veteran Buckeyes worried until the final ten minutes of the game when Ohio took a 13-7 lead. But their chances died as one of Girard’s desperation heaves from behind his goal line was intercepted, and the play later led to a Buckey touchdown.
Even if the Badgers lose Saturday— and nobody can tell them now that they will lose—the Irish are going to know that they have been in a ball game.
13
Student Poll Shows Notre Dome Favored Over Wisconsin; Jim Cooper Close Again
BY PAUL WOOD
Even though the Dartmouth game was played in Boston almost as many students heard the game as would have seen it if it had been played here. Ears were glued to the radios all over the campus which was evident from the cheering after each of the many touchdowns. Most of the scores picked last week for the game were low because for the third time it took an adding machine to add up the yards gained and the touchdowns made. That adding machine idea also applies to adding the yards lost by Dartmouth, thanks to none other than big Pete Berezney. The Shillelagh hit it on the head when he said a few weeks ago that Pete “was coming along.”
This week our guest interviewee is none other than our same guest of last week, Jim Cooper, Marine V-12 from Newark, Ohio. In last year’s student football poll Bob Gludowatz was the guest interviewee for five consecutive weeks, and maybe this season Jim is out to top that record. He picked last week’s score as 55 to 6, missing each total by one touchdown.
Jim Cooper says: “This week’s game will be a little closer. Wisconsin gave Ohio State a good game and Ohio State has a good team. They have scored in every game but I still like N.D. due to their speed and passing and the “T” formation. N. D. 33, Wisconsin 7.
- Jack Sanders, Civilian freshman from Hamilton, Ohio: “I believe Notre Dame will have a little trouble defeating Wisconsin. The Badgers may be surprisingly tough. That Wisconsin line is tough. The final score should be, Notre Dame 26, Wisconsin 7.”
Tom Mahoney, Navy V-12 sophomore from Virginia, Illinois: “Notre Dame 40, Wisconsin 0. The Irish powerhouse will run over the Badgers with ease.”
Thadd Harrington, NROTC sophomore from Maquoketa, Iowa: “Notre Dame will win over Wisconsin. I think they’ll keep from being scored on. Score 37-0.”
Nick Canzona, Marine junior from Chicago: “Notre Dame will win 33 to 7. I think Wisconsin will score, but they will still be overrun by the Irish passing and running attack.”
Paul “Pinky” Gadle, sophomore from Norwich, Conn.: “Notre Dame 27, Wisconsin 0. The Irish, with a host of flashy backs, an improving overhead game, and complemented by a powerful forward wall, will roll over a scrappy Wisconsin eleven, in its march towards a second national championship.”
Bob Thomas, NROTC sophomore from Altus, Oklahoma: “With the spirit the Irish have I don’t think Wisconsin is the team to stop us! Notre Dame 32, Wisconsin 0.”
Ben Torrison, Midshipman from Waukesha, Wisconsin: “I think it will be a close game, all the way. I think that N.D. may be overconfident and slip up. If Wisconsin is on its toes I’ll pick Wisconsin by seven points.”
William Kornblum, Navy V-12 junior from Maywood, Ill.: “It should be all Notre Dame tomorrow. The kinks of the first season plays were ironed out and it will be N.D. by five touchdowns, 30-0.”
Virgil Kennedy, NROTC sophomore from Cairo, Illinois: “Wisconsin may have a fairly good team but Kelly and company will just be too much for them. N. D. 33-0.”	-
Robert Swain, Midshipman from Phoenix, Arizona: “Wisconsin should lose by 13 points, but it will be a hard-fought game. Notre Dame has good interference and fast well worked plays that are very deceiving to the opponent. Score 13-0.”
John Clark, Civilian sophomore from Santa Maria, Calif.: “The Irish will come through with another victory with such an offense. But the opposition will be tougher due to the Badgers showing
*♦* ❖	*♦*	•** *3* ❖ ❖
❖	❖
'❖ PEP RALLY TONIGHT ❖ ❖	❖
❖	FIELDHOUSE	❖
❖	❖
❖	7:15	«
♦	«
«	BE THERE	«
❖	♦
this season especially against the potent Buckeyes. N. D. 32, Wisconsin 13.”
Joseph Dalesandro, Marine V-12 sophomore from Pittsburgh, Pa.: “Notre Dame over Wisconsin. Wisconsin has about as good a team as Tulane, therefore Notre Dame will come out on top by at least 31-7.”
1 ■ ■ 1
Edward Shea, Navy V-12 sophomore from Springfield, Illinois: “I think Notre Dame will win, but I think Wisconsin has a chance of breaking our run of unscored upon .games. The score will be 30-6.”
Irish Begin Rehearsals
For '44-‘45 Cage Bill
Workouts for Notre Dame’s varsity basketball aspirants opened October 12 in the Fieldhouse with a large number of candidates reporting. The practices are conducted, for the present, under the supervision of Marine Trainee John Kelly, a letter man from last year’s quintet, who is filling in for Coach Clem Crowe. The latter’s duties are now those of assistant football coach, but he will assume direction of the cage squad before the first game in early December. This is Crowe’s first year at Notre Dame. In 1943 he held the position of Director of Athletics at Xavier University in Cincinnati. He is replacing Edward “Moose” Krause, mentor of last season’s aggregation which won 10 and lost nine tilts. Krause is now a Lieutenant in the U. S. Marine Corps.
Not a single letterman remains available for service this year. Gone is Leo Klier, who set a new N. D. scoring record by dropping 117 field goals and 59 free throws through the mesh for a grand total of 293 points. Missing also are Mike Todorovich, Bernie Rutledge, and Johnnie Lu jack together with a group of lesser stars. Kelly, the only monogram winner still on the campus, is scheduled to leave at the end of the present semester and so will not see service in any games.
The docket for the 1944-45 campaign has not as yet been officially released but approximately 20 engagements are carded with the annual jaunt to Madison Square Garden to meet New York University’s Violets highlighting the list. The Iowa Seahawks will appear on the N. D. maples for the first time and such familiar opponents as Kentucky, Northwestern, Indiana, Purdue, Marquette, and Great Lakes N.T.S. compose the remainder of the schedule. Dates have not been definitely set nor has the schedule received the Athletic Board’s official approval. Further details will appear in the Scholastic at a later date.
John Feeney
14
Irish Backs Run Wild and Also Run Point Total To 148 With 64-0 Win Over Dartmouth
BY GEORGE KRAUSER
"Scholastic" Sports Writer
Under a dark and rainy sky with a packed house of 40,000 looking on, the Irish of Notre Dame cooked up a storm of their' own that engulfed the Dartmouth Indians 64-0 at Fenway Park in Boston.
From the first play from scrimmage in which Bob Kelly swept left end for 52 yeards, it was evident that the Irish were complete masters of the pigskin brawl. Dartmouth stopped the Irish on their five in their only goal line stand of the day, but then after taking a Big • Green kick on the Indian 32, Dancewicz’ passes and Kelly’s runs placed the Blue and Gold on the Easterners one. “Boley” Dancewicz then crashed over for the initial tally of the day and the Irish were on the way.
In the second period, the Irish culminated a 48 yard touchdown march when Bob Kelly carried over from the Indians four yard stripe. After the conversion try by Kelly had failed, the Irish kicked, but in four plays they had the oval on the Ivy Leaguers’ 48. George Terlep cracked right tackle for 19 yards and Nemeth moved the pigskin to the 21. Big Joe Gasparella then belted through center and churned up the remaining 21 yards to payoff turf. Terlep failed to add the conversion, but the Irish led 18-0. At this point a Dartmouth aerial attack moved the Indians to the Irish 15, before the Notre Dame forward wall threw the Big Green back to the 33. From here the Irish “T” rolled 67 yards to the fourth marker. Dancewicz hit Maggioli twice for long gains, and two plays later Elmer Angsman went over right guard from the six to bring the count to 24-0. When Ralph Stewart picked an Indian aerial out of the air on the Dartmouth 30, it set up the fifth tally for the Golden Domers. Dancewicz chucked two perfect flings to Nemeth and Guthrie to advance to the five, and then John Corbisiero on the second try cracked left tackle from the three to mount the lead to 30-0.
The Irish were able to score only once in the third quarter as the Indians momentarily stemmed the flow of six-pointers. After the Indians took the halftime kickoff and failed to advance, they came into possession of the pigskin on their own 45. Nunzio Marino, speedy 152 pounder, was stopped for a yard gain on the first play, but then with Fred Rovai and Pete Berezney furnishing beautiful
downfield blocking, Nunzio sped 54 yards to cross the double stripe with the sixth Irish score. Terlep added the first conversion of the day to up the count to 37-0.
On the second play of the fourth quarter, after the Irish had advanced from the Dartmouth 46, George Terlep bucked over from one yard out and added the extra point to bring the point total for the day to 44. Pete Berezney recovered a
STATISTICS
	Attempts		Yards		Average	
Rushing	Dart.	Tot.	Dart.	Tot.	Dart.	Tot.
Marino	6	6	82	82	13.7	13.7
Kelly	9	33	90	304	10.0	9.2
Nemeth	6	24	77	156	12.8	6.5
Maggioli	5	22	18	139	3.6	6.3
Gasparella	2	5	27	30	13.5	6.0
Terlep	7	16	63	84	9.0	5.3
McGurk	2	2	10	10	5.0	5.0
Angsman	10	32	38	146	3.8	4.6
Corbisiero	5	8	10	35	2.0	4.4
Fitzgerald	4	5	7	20	1.8	4.0
Dancewicz	6	15	15	37	2.5	2.5
Clasby	2	2	3	3	1.7	1.7
Ruggerio	0	2	0	9	0.0	4.5
Krall	0	1	0	4	0.0	4.0
Totals	64	173	440	1059	6.9	6.1
	Tried		Completed		Yards	
Passing	Dart.	Tot.	Dart.	Tot.	Dart.	Tot.
Dancewicz	9	34	6	19	110	362
Gasparella	3	16	1	8	7	173
Clasby	1	1	0	0	0	0
	—	—	—		- .	—... ■
Totals	13	51	7	27	117	535
Dartmouth fumble moments later on the Indian 33, and Terlep scored again—this time from 32 yards out—added the conversion attempt and mounted the margin to 51-0. The Big Green workecT their way to the Irish 19 after a fumble recovery, but the Blue and Gold line threw them back again and the Irish took over on their own 34. Steve Nemeth and Jim McGurk moved the leather to the 41 and then Nemeth sprung through tackle and scampered 59 yards to tally. One play after the ensuing kickoff, Joe Kelly, Irish tackle, fell on an Indian fumble on the Dartmouth 20. Four plays later Ed Clas-by sneaked over from the one and kicked the extra point to post the final 64-0 whitewashing.
Irish Harriers Win In
Close Call From Purdue
BY JACK McGRANE
Notre Dame’s cross country team edged out Purdue last Saturday morning, 27-28, over the local 3.6 mile course in one of the most thrilling finishes seen here in years.
Cal Davis, Purdue No. 1 man, led at the mile and two and one-half mile posts, and came ramping home the victor by 25 yards over Notre Dame’s Bill Tully. Bill Beile of the Boilermakers was home next, closely pursued by three Irish harriers, Ken Muening, Roger Wheeler and Steve Provost. Then followed a trio of Purdue runners to garner places, seven, eight, and nine.
Jack McGuire, Notre Dame’s no. 5 man, decided the race as he outkicked William Haynes of the losers for tenth place. Had Haynes beaten McGuire', the Purdue hill-and-dalers would have had a tie at 28-all.
This victory raised considerably Coach Handy’s hopes for a successful season, because four of the Purdue thinlies are holdovers from their Big Ten Championship team of last year.
The order in which the runners came in was: Cal Davis, Purdue; Bill Tully, N.D.; Bill Beile, Purdue;,Ken Muening, N.D.; Roger Wheeler, N.D.; Steve Provost, N.D.; Jack Wohl, Purdue; Don Weber, Purdue; Ray Helsing, Purdue; Jack McGuire, N.D.; William Haynes, Purdue; L. J. Sutter, N.D.
The Irish will face Wisconsin’s five tomorrow afternoon at 12:30 with the start and finish on Brownson Field.
Associated Press Poll
Ranks Notre Dame No. 1
Notre Dame stands on top of America’s football crop again this week after their 64-0 assault over Dartmouth last Saturday in Boston. For the second consecutive week, the Blue and Gold have held forth in the key position, this week totalling a point count of 973 with 59 1/3 votes for first place. Pursuing the Irish is another undefeated aggregate from up the Hudson, Army, who amassed 862 points but with a meager 11 1/3 ballots for the no. 1 spot. 107 Associated Press writers voting in the weekly poll count ten points for first place, nine for second etc. (First place votes in parentheses).
Notre Dame (59 1/3) ------------973
Army (11 1/3) ------------------862
Randolph Field (21 7/12)--------681.5
Ohio State (4) -----------------631
Iowa Pre-Flight (%) ----------399.5
Great Lakes (1) ----------------386
Pennsylvania (3) ---------------328
Georgia Tech -------------------313
Navy____________________________308
N. Carolina Pre-Flight----------216
IS
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxro
THE GREEN BANNER
BY JIM CASEY
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxS
THE CURTAIN FALLS
We come up to this final issue with mingled feelings, lost opportunities and a weary pen. Long ago, we should have told you of certain characters who have so skillfully eluded the sheriff, that they are now taking on the appearance of learned gentlemen. But don’t let the cap and gown fool you, as it will us. And we should like to tell you that the “Green Banner” will go on without us. Hence, a warning to the wise: Keep your keyholes plugged; watch your careless words, and don’t go out on a limb for anyone. Beware of St. Mary’s. Always tip your hat and greet Mr. McAuliffe graciously. And if you must consort with the crowd on Sorin porch, sit quietly and observe. Bear these things in mind; observe them; and so help us, we can promise for you as the pilot promised his passenger who fell out of the plane: “He’ll go far.” And one more caution—don’t leave any tips in the dining room. There are enough obnoxious practices around here now. And if you want to learn the secret of our success, here it is—daily application. Yessir, a daily devotion to books.
WHAT OF THE SENIORS?
X X X X
X
what we admire about them is the enthusiasm with which they are going into the finals, these days. They are the most optimistic group we’ve ever encountered. Says Murph: “It’s a grand feeling; gives you an opportunity to pick up a new set of pink slips.” That’s what we like about them; they never quit, really!
ANNOUNCEMENT
According to “Ziggie,” there will be no refund on un-used dining hall tickets.
HERE AND THERE
Another big week-end coming up. We understand that there is a group of young ladies coming down for the weekend, and that they will be interested in blind dates. That ought to provide some interest for the local scene. According to rumors at St. Mary’s, blind dates are out from now on, and we’ll have to get along without them. Hence, while St. Mary’s fades from the local social scene, another group of beauties rear their “ugly” heads. And so, we’ll get by.
Tomorrow, by the grace of God and
the Indiana weather, we’ll be over there in the stadium, pitching cheers with the loudest of them. Again, it will be a bonanza for the program venders with their “Names, Numbers and Draft Status of all the players!” We don’t know much about Wisconsin, other than that it is a co-ed school, and therefore worthy of interest. How much interest will depend upon the competition. But we do like to welcome them to the campus, and see to it that they are properly chaperoned. And if our catch is of the more fetching variety, don’t bother us by correcting our explanations of the University’s origin, data, etc. It’s very humiliating, and it cramps one’s style. Who are we to spoil a good story for want of a few facts?
AU REVOIR
And now we turn this page over to our successor, whoever he may be. You have no idea how much fun it has been, insult- ' ing everybody, telling lies, exaggerating what rarely was the truth. Don’t think it hasn’t been fun—because it hasn’t. Only your patience, and your broad sense of humor, and your kind interpretations have caused us to survive. Anyway, we bow out of this role, trusting that you have taken this column as lightly as we have warned you to take it. Even better, don’t believe a thing you ever read here —because we don’t. And so—
BIG BLOW FOR	•
The readers of this column.
And now the suave gentlemen with the sheepskins are moving out from our midst—to fairer pastures, to greener pastures (they hope). Engineers have visions of a mechanized future. A.B. men are going to change the world’s philosophy. Science men will continue to unearth and concoct new formulae of medical miracles. Lawyers will search for cases, not necessarily legal ones. And the Commerce crowd—well, as we said before, they are looking for greener pastures, principally lettuce. “And if it ain’t lettuce, they ain’t interested.”
These are hard words, Egbert, but take a look at the men involved. Not a one, hardly, but who has seen service in a number of dubious enterprises. What’s more, the competition elsewhere cannot be so keen as it was here. Hence, think of them! They had to be good to survive. Take the case of Hassett, or Thomas, or Murphy, or Pequigney, or Chrisovergis, or anyone else. Nevertheless, we must admit that they made things lively for all of us—even for the Prefect of Discipline, at times. And something tells us that the crowd will be missed at Rosie’s; in some cases, even at the “Rock.” And
And then if you take post graduate work, no dock punching for another year.
16
EXCERPTS FROM THE EXPERTS
BY JOHN FEENEY
Another Boston “T” party was staged last Saturday afternoon and again the Indians came out second best. Only this time it was Ed McKeever’s fleet Irish backs who paraded over the double white stripes ten times behind the superb blocking of their linemen mates to annihilate Dartmouth’s demoralized Redmen, 64-0. This performance—third consecutive triumph which Notre Dame has accomplished with consummate ease—prompted the nation’s football writers to exhaust all superlatives in pouring praise on the 35 ND men who took part in the rout. Here are some of the various descriptions :
Wilfrid Smith, Chicago Tribune
“Nine Notre Dame backs scored ten touchdowns this afternoon in Fenway Park to overwhelm Dartmouth’s helpless Indians, 64-0, the highest Irish football score since the Haskell Indians were licked 12 years ago, 73 to 0. Forty thousand—a crowd that occupied all seats and overflowed into the corners of the field —watched Notre Dame’s parade of power and passes against an opponent unable to gain on the ground and which only twice got inside of Notre Dame’s 20 yard line.”
Jim Kearns, Chicago Sun
“Notre Dame, rolling on unbeaten, untied and not scored upon, was a football facsimile of a hurricane here today as it roared through its first Boston appearance of all time with a 64-0 victory over Dartmouth College’s overmatched and overpowered young squad before a capacity audience of 40,000 in Fenway Park. This crushing triumph, added to earlier victories over Pittsburgh and Tulane, leaves the new young Fighting Irish force with a record of 148-points scored and none given up in three games. Today’s devastating splurge represents the largest score achieved by any Notre Dame team since 1932. when Haskell Institute was beaten, 73-0.
achieved since anno Domini 1932, when they outpointed the Haskell Indians by the margin of 73-0, the kids in the Kelly green anvilled and cudgelled Dartmouth to a humiliating 64-0 defeat at Fenway Park, yesterday afternoon, before an awed audience that filled each nook and corner of the park.”
Ed Costello, Boston Herald
“Forty thousand football fans jammed their way into Fenway Park yesterday afternoon with one thought in mind. They had heard and read for years that when it comes to football Notre Dame teams are good. They wanted the Fighting Irish of South Bend, Ind. to prove it. Adn prove it they did, sending 40,000 football fans away from Thomas A. Yawkey’s baseball house satisfied after watching the football activity of Notre Dame against Dartmouth college for two hours and 36 minutes.”
SAVING AMERICA TIME AND EFFORT
To DEVELOP AND USE ways and means for saving time and eSort is a typical American trait. You see it among your classmates and you exhibit the same shrewdness when you send your packages, laundry and baggage, home and return, by Railway Express. The pick-up and delivery at your door, and the quick forwarding by fast trains, or by superspeed Air Express planes, is a shipping service unique in American life. It has saved time and eSort for generations of college students.
Joe Trimble, New York Daily News
“The mighty host of Notre Dame paid their first visit to staid old Boston this afternoon and left the Beaneaters agape as they ground a hapless eleven from Dartmouth into the Fenway Park sod by a 64-0 score. Lured by the magic name of Notre Dame, a capacity crowd of 40,000 came out and marveled at the brilliance of the Irish eleven as it whirled through 10 touchdowns.”
Howell Stevens, Boston Post
“Immortal Notre Dame, kingpin of the American football firmament for the last quarter of a century, added fresh lustre to its gridiron fame in its Boston bow at Fenway Park yesterday, the dazzling, green-shirted dervishes, directed by Texas Ed McKeever, blitzing a game but thoroughly outclassed Dartmouth team, 64 to 0 as a capacity crowd of more than 40,000 spectators watched in awe.”
Associated Press
“Notre Dame’s undefeated Irish, performing on a New England gridiron for the first time in 20 years, overwhelmed Dartmouth 64 to 0 today before an overflow crowd of 41,000 at Fenway Park. It
(Continued on Page 19)
Dave Egan, Boston Advertiser
“The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, rampaging along the road that leads toward another national championship, paid their first visit to Boston yesterday afternoon and the Dartmouths wish they had not. Rolling up the highest score that any Notre Dame eleven had
These nation-wide facilities are now being utilized to their utmost by the government, industry and the public. You can help Railway Express to carry its share of this war-time load by doing three simple things: Wrap your packages securely—address them clearly—express them early. "A shipment started right is half-way there.”
NATION - WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE
17
REMINISCENCES AND APOLOGIES
Whispering in the halls after lights out.... jumping off the pier down at the lake._cramming for a math quiz tomorrow. .. drilling with rifles... EPD
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. .. TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
S Glasses Correctly Fitted re
Est.
1900
g	J. BURKE	g
g	W. G. BOGARDUS K
g	E. C. BEERY	ft
n]	Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians	[H
3	228 S. MICHIGAN ST. g
f"	Evenings by Appointment	f{]
15E5E5E5E5E5E5E5E5HH5E525E5E52S25E5ES
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Saturday afternoon... a formal at the Rock... early morning treks around the Stadium... meeting people, warm handshakes, soldiering friendships... waiting in the chow-line... complaining, laughing, complaining, and some more laughs; 16 months as a V-12 Marine at Notre Dame are ending.
Marines who fought on Guadalcanal and Midway rooming with esthetes from Harvard; men from colleges in the West studying and working with men from colleges in the North; each one laughing out loud at himself and his problems, and working hard. That’s what it’s been like. Sixteen months on campus here finds the marines well integrated in the military, intellectual, and social life of Notre Dame, and it’s not easy to shove off and leave it all behind.
HOW MANY WAYS CAN YOU WEAR
THIS SHIRT?
More ways than you can shake a stick at!
Leave the collar open and loll around in the most comfortable sports shirt you ever slept through an 8 o’clock class in.
Button up the collar, slip on an Arrow Tie, and be set for any prom. With short or long sleeves.
Arrow Sports Shirts, $2.25 up.
ARROW SHIRTS

GOLF CLUBS
BASEBALL GLOVES
BASEBALL BATS
SOFT BALLS AND BATS
TENNIS RACQUETS
‘boK.'l C/MxE (p YOU ARE FLUNV<M<3 OUT- Y*3"1	X KAMts THAT TrtetE. I
To the marines going east to Cornell to continue engineering studies, we say study hard and do a good job of preparing to build fortifications, bridges, and defenses in the islands; to the basics leaving for Colgate, we say learn that American history and literature and know how to lead men into battle; to former fleet men departing for New River, we say use the same stamina
(Continued on Page 22)
FISHING TACKLE
SONNEBORN'S
121 W. Colfax Ave.
Goldsmith and Spaulding Distributors
18
CONCERNING MARINES
It’s an old story that people never say anything nice about you until you’re gone. Undoubtedly that had something to do with the precipitation of this paragraph, but we are still completely sincere in what it expresses.
The marines are leaving Notre Dame, and are taking with them some of the finest guys we know. Now, despite the fact that there is absolutely no demand for fine guys this season, we can still truthfully say that in you marines we of the Navy have found many great friends and respected competitors. After all, you can’t freeze, fight, argue, live, gripe and sweat with the same bunch for a year and four months without developing some sort of admiration.
During that time many unfair stories circulated, like the one where the little girl was looking down the street and suddenly ran to her mother crying, “Mother, here comes a sailor!” The mother im
mediately told her to hurry into the house. “But mother, there’s a marine with him,” furthered the little miss, causing her spouse to urge, “well, hurry up, and bring your dog with you.”
Stories like that are based on nothing but hearsay.
In conclusion we want to repeat a very simple truth: that when fighting in their own element, the U. S. Marine Corps, and the U. S. Navy are unbeatable. That is the last thing we are ever going to say about marines in this column, and it is after all the only thing that really counts.
So long Marines! The very best of luck!	'
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
People have a tendency to utter positive statements which become noteworthy only because of the contrary manner in which facts uphold them. These quaint sayings started when Adam said, “Boy, that apple looks good,” and have continued up to this day. As the present semester draws to a close some real gems are being pronounced:
“So, what if it is the last train?”
“I got a system for the physics final.”
“Uwant hip thereet fo.” (these groans really are leaving.)
“My last week-end in South Bend! Let’s drink to it....”
“There’s one exam I won’t have to study for.”
“I’d like to write the ‘Periscope’ next semester.”
“I have a four striper working for me. I can’t help but be sent to North-western.”
“This SP is a good buddy of mine.” “That CPO wouldn’t dare put me on a 2 to 4 watch!”
EXCERPTS FROM THE EXPERTS (Continued from Page 17) was the South Benders’ highest scoring total since 1932.”
United Press
“The Ramblin’ Irish of Notre Dame made their first football trip to Boston a never-to-be-forgotten one today, handing Dartmouth’s badly outclassed Indians a 64-0 beating before 41,000 fans at Fenway Park. It was the worst football defeat Dartmouth has suffered in 60 years of competition. Not since 1884 when Yale administered a 113-0 beating to a team of gridiron novices has Dartmouth been crushed so completely. It was the highest score a Notre Dame team had amassed since a Knute Rockne-coached eleven beat little Haskell 73-0.”
BEAT WISCONSIN
Have a “Coke” = Eat, drink and enjoy yourself
...or adding refreshment to a backyard barbecue Plenty of ice-cold Coca-Cola helps make any barbecue a success. Have plenty of “Coke” ice-cold and ready to drink. When you shop, remember to ask for Coca-Cola. Everywhere, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,—has become a high-sign of hospitality in the American home.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
,© 1944 The C-C Co.
19
•**	«*«	«j» ♦J* «£* «$♦ «$» •*•
❖ "SCHOLASTIC" PREDICTIONS ❖ ❖	FOR THE WEEK	❖
❖	Notre Dame over Wisconsin	❖
❖	Illinois over Pittsburgh	❖
❖	Indiana over Northwestern	•♦•>
❖	Purdue over Iowa	❖
❖	Ohio State over Great Lakes	❖
❖	North Carolina Pre-Flight over Geor- ❖ ❖	gia Pre-Flight	❖
❖	Army over Coast Guard	❖
❖	Navy over Georgia Tech	❖
❖	Tulane over Auburn	❖
❖	Texas over Arkansas	❖
❖	Texas A. & M. over Texas Christian ❖ •Ji Southern Methodist over Rice	❖
❖	St. Mary's Pre-Flight over U.C.L.A. ❖
❖ Southern California over Washington £• Iowa State over Missouri	❖
Kansas over Nebraska	‘S’
*•* *•* *♦* *•* & •••♦«••♦*•♦*
Lt. Sprinz Transferred
Announcement was made this week by the office of Public Relations of the Midshipman school here that Lieut. N. Paul Cronin, U.S.N.R. had been appointed to replace Lieut. Paul T. Sprinz, U.S.N.R. as Public Relations Officer.
Lieut. Sprinz, who has been in charge of public relations since his arrival at Notre Dame on December 30, 1943, has been assigned to the office of the Port Director in New York City where he will receive instructions.
Lieut. Cronin was a gunnery officer for 14 months and spent a month at the office of the Port Director in Tampa, Florida, prior to being assigned to the Notre Dame Midshipman school. In civilian life, he was a lawyer and newspaper editor in Aberdeen, Maryland, where he was on the Hartford Democrat, a non-political weekly.
Since he has been here, Lieut. Sprinz has done much to keep the public informed of the activities of the midshipmen, and it was under his direction that the middies aided the paper collection in South Bend recently. On a basis of his past record, Lieut. Cronin will be well able to fill the position effectively.
Scratch another “Zeke” ...and look out below!
Navy dive bombers—about to strike! In each rear cockpit rides a radio gunner — trusted protector of his pilot and plane. His skill with radio and detection devices permits his pilot to concentrate on flying the plane and blasting the objective. His marksmanship makes enemy planes scarcer, brings V-Day nearer.
Until that day comes, Western Electric’s major job ■will be making huge quantities of radio and detection devices. As our forces strike farther and farther into the vast areas of the Pacific, these electronic weapons become more important than ever. At Western Electric, many college graduates—both men and women—are helping to put these weapons in our fighters’ hands.
Buy all the War Bonds you can —and keep them!
AHNIVEffs^
20

The Shillelagh
NOTICE
The Big Green from Hanover couldn’t handle the Irish in the home of the bean and the cod. Earl Brown and Milt Piepul and Babe Marshall didn’t have much to work with. I hope the lads know that. If Notre Dame had been playing Wisconsin last Saturday, the Badger would have got away. They need plenty of work this week because from now on they’re going to be playing a tough team every Saturday.
Nunzio Marino looks like he might help out a bit. He’s a fast and smart runner.
Kelly almost ran out of the ball park on the first play from scrimmage.
Pete Berezney finally came through with one of those tackles that coaches talk about but hardly ever see. The field judge looked like he felt that one.
Art Mergenthal is coming along. I wonder when he’ll get in shape. He and Sully ought to make a pretty good pair.
Fred Rovai gets better every game. That’s good. The tough ones are coming along in a bunch.
They say Jug Girard, who will be the Badger captain against Notre Dame, is one of the best Notre Dame will have to meet.
The report about campus is that some of the boys are beginning to think they’re pretty good. That won’t hurt Wisconsin any.
George Terlep looked the part at Boston. I’m glad he can kick those points. Wisconsin won from Northwestern by a point after. Notre Dame’s average is awful. Let’s not mention it but do something about it. Young Clasby made his point like a veteran. I noticed he kept his eye on the ball. The field judge will most likely see it if it’s good.
Pat Filley is still a lot of guard. John Adams gets better every game. He’s still a little too gentle for my money. He gets too much ping pong in his blocking. Maybe he’ll show us something tomorrow.
The one dollar question is “Hovt can a team win by 64-0 and still not play good football?” If the team can’t answer that one we’ll have to call another candidate.
Wisconsin isn’t kidding! They’ll be stronger than they were against Ohio State. And you’ve heard of Ohio State.
Johnny Ray really smacks ’em.
Steve Nemeth plays heads up.
Ken Schuster is getting there.
One very good thing about all positions is that they are all wide open. Step right
The store in the basement of the Dining
Hall is now open for the of civilians.
convenience
Socks Towels Shirts
Tobacco
Cokes Shorts Cigarettes
Girls’ Gold Bracelet
MONDAY — on Campus v
Return to
PUBLICATIONS’ OFFICE
East Wing Main Bldg.
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
REWARD!
Christmas Cards - 5 and 10 cents Souvenirs - Notre Dame Jewelry Toilet Articles - Stationery Supplies
NOTRE DAME PENNANTS SOON TO ARRIVE
Notre Dome Bookstore
Badin Hall
21
| GIFTS
B	for those at home—
m	beautifully boxed
pl	and wrapped.
BLOCK BROS. CORNER MICHIGANWASHINGTON
up and make yourself a berth.
Glad to see Creighty Miller back on Cartier.
Well, I’ll see you Saturday. Frankly, I’m a little worried, not about what the boys can do if they forget the Panther and the Green Wave and the Big Green but because they may put the Badger in that class. The Badger doesn’t belong there. If you unlax against Wisconsin, you’ll be sorry Saturday night. If you play like you can, I’ll pick you. If you don’t, I’ll pick a nag in the seventh at Sportsman’s Park.
GABBY GIZMO
(Continued from Page 18) which brought you this far and you’re bound to go further; to the men shoving off for Parris Island and boot training, we say work hard and keep laughing, (I’ll see you there); to the officers and NCO’s, we say thanks for the many things you’ve been able to teach us about the Corps, and to the whole gang, the best of luck. None of us want to forget the war-days of rigorous work, genuine effort, and warm friendships as marines at Notre Dame!
Thanks to Lieut. Collins for his patient reading of copy, to Tom Shanahan for some really clever cartoons, to Joe Thornton for his willing help, and to the whole Scholastic staff for its understanding and cooperation. It has been fun!
And now, as is customary, I’d like to make public apologies. We’ve made cracks about the swabbies, we’ve taken digs at the officers and NCO’s, and we’ve said things about other columnists. Understand that there has never been any real malice or distaste in what has appeared in the Gabby Gizmo; this column was consciously designed to be completely unsophisticated, not too sensible, and in keeping with good American collegiate tradition. Just smile and forget it!
"SCHOLASTIC" MAKES NEW ASSIGNMENTS
With the beginning of the new term, new assignments for the SCHOLASTIC were announced this week by Father Charles M. Carey, Faculty Advisor.
AyS Gene Diamond was named Associate Editor in charge of the V-12 SCHOLASTIC contributions, while AyS Art Wagner was assigned to write the "Periscope," Navy gossip column. Other members of the V-12 editorial staff will be announced by Editor Diamond in the next issue.
John Powers hereafter will appear as author of the "Green Banner," civilian gossip column, while Harry Walters will write the "College Parade."
Campus Centenary Publications
Notre Dame—100 Years-----$4.00
Collected Poems of Charles L. O'Donnell_____$2.50
... at the Bookstore
./>, nix . Tin! VITAMINS
HIGH-POTENCY TABLETS
VITAMINS A-D-B-B, (G)-C-B,;
E-Niacin-Calcium Pantothenate
As Dietary Supplement ONE TABLET A DAY Will Supply the Full Daily Minimum Adult Requirement of the Vitamins of Which the Requirements Are Established.
Each small Ninc^Vitamin Tablet Contains—
AS MUCH “A” as 4 Pints Whole Milk
AS MUCH “D” as 1 lb. of Butter
AS MUCH “C”
as 2 ozs. Orange Juice
AS MUCH “Bi” as 35 ozs. Raw Cabbage
AS MUCH “B2”
FOR ADULTS
OR CHILDREN
as 40 ozs. Raw Green Beans
AS MUCH “Bo” as 30 Grs. Brewer’s Yeast AS MUCH NIACIN as lb. Lean Meat AS MUCH CALCIUM PANTOTHENATE as 150 Gms. Carrots
AS MUCH “E” as in 5 mgm. wheat germ oil
90 TABLETS™ 83.50
ON SALE AT THE BOOKSTORE
. DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
FISHER. M.D.
M. J. THORNTON.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG
SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-406 TOWER BUILDING
PHONE 3-2674
22
gent student. His pleasing personality has won for him the friendship of all. His efforts to date prove that he has spirit. Good luck, John.—The Burble
The organ inside Sacred Heart church played softly while Father Simonitsch performed the ceremony. Anxious, happy parents watched as the Sacrament of Marriage was administered to John Par-chem and Miss Dorothy Ann Van Nest, both of Detroit, Mich., on June 23, 1944.
John attended Saint Ambrose High school where he won nine varsity letters; his field of action being football, baseball, and golf. At the same time he was voted president of his senior class. Then in the Fall of ’41 he entered Detroit university where he played on the freshmen basketball team.
Majoring in aeronautical engineering, John attended Detroit for one year. One day he visited the Notre Dame campus and liked it so well that he decided to transfer here, enrolling in June ’42.
He has been here since then, and has distinguished himself in this brief period as one of the outstanding graduates of this class.
While attending the University, John has been interested particularly in preparation for flight research, aeronautical research, aero-dynamics of the plane, and designing. Since he is enlisted in the naval reserve, he hopes to receive a direct commission upon receiving his bachelor of science degree in aeronautical engineering.
After the war, and after having gained some experience working for the National Advisory Committee of Aeronautics, John hopes to start a business of his own. The exact nature of such a business is but an idea now; only time and experience will determine exactly what the field will be.
As for hobbies, John has quite a few: golf, softball, swimming, tennis, eating home-cooked meals, and—of all things for an engineer—reading Ellery Queen THRILLER mysteries. He blames this on the fact that he almost took a commerce course.
Since he is a popular figure on campus, he is president of the Aero club, student branch of the American Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences; associate editor of the Burble, official publication of the Aero club; and representative in the Student Activities Council for the club. That he is a versatile man can be proved easily by this accumulation of services and honors.
John is a quiet, hard-working, intelli-
RECALLING 50-0 THUMPING (Continued from Page 12) dairyland scored since 1929. Last year, the Irish laid it on thick to the tune of 50-0, but that was a national championship team and it’s plenty optimistic to be looking for a repeat performance this trip.
To the 140,000 grid fans that have viewed the Irish in three games to date, at least an additional 40,000 are expected to turn out for the tilt tomorrow. And as a reminder, there hasn’t been an opponent to face the Irish who has gone further than the ten yard line, and that was Dartmouth, but only once in a desperation toss as the half ended, never really threatening. But the locals expect a better offense from Wisconsin and from all notices, Jug Girard and company will present one.
MONOGRAM "T" SHIRTS
GYM PANTS
PLAIN "T" SHIRTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS
CANDY
TOBACCO
PIPES
STATIONERY
SANDWICHES
THE HUDDLE
SIX CONVENIENT CHICAGO STATIONS
The South Shore takes you direct to downtown Chicago. Six convenient stations — Kensington, 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
S0UTHn5H°R[
23
OVER OTHERS
FOR MILDNESS...FOR BETTER TASTE
RIGHT COMBINATION
WORLD’S BEST TOBACCOS
FOR YOUR FIGHTING MAN
BUY MORE BONDS
And as sure as night follows day. . . Chesterfield s
definitely Milder Better Taste is the result of their . . .
Make these 5 Key-words the key to your Smoking
Pleasure, as they are for millions everywhere.
Copyright 1944. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.