The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 75	MAY 19, 1942	Special Issue
Welcome, to Hdoo ^bame!
Two Men Directing Training Have Colorful Navy Careers
Two men who have been down to the sea in ships—fighting ships—direct the indoctrination program of thousands of young officers and officers-in-training at Notre Dame.
Calm, business-like Capt. H. P. Burnett is commandant of the station which dismissed its first 900 apprentice seamen on May 15, and received its second group of 1100 commissioned officers foi* special work on May 18.
Young, dynamic Lieut. Commander J. D. Shaw is the executive officer of the station who keeps the machinery of training humming.
Both are graduates of the United States Naval academy, Annapolis, Md., and both have been, during the course of their interesting navy careers, commanders of destroyers.
Becomes Commander in 1935
Capt. Burnett was graduated from the academy in 1915, and during the first World War he served on the staff of
Commanding Officer Capt. H. P. Burnett, U.S.N.
Admiral Henry T. Mayor, the commander-in-chief of the United States fleet, aboard the flagship U.S.S. Pennsylvania.
His advancement in naval ranks was rapid. Commissioned an ensign upon his graduation, he became a lieutenant junior grade in 1917 and in the same year added the other half-stripe to become a senior grade lieutenant. In 1925 his rank became that of lieutenant - commander and 10 years later he became a full commander. When he was sent to Notre Dame last September he was.commissioned a captain and took charge of the University’s Naval R.O.T.C. training.
In addition to commanding a destroyer, Capt. Burnett has been commander of a submarine. From 1927 to 1930 he held a commission in the Peruvian navy as a member of the U. S. Navy mission there.
During his 32-year career, Capt. Burnett has been decorated with the Victory medal of the first world war; the second Nicaraguan Campaign medal, and expert rifleman’s badge. In addition, his submarine insignia is the equivalent in the navy to an aviator’s “wings.”
Serves in Far East
Lieut. Commander Shaw’s naval career which began with his graduation from the academy in 1923, contains a’bit more color for present war followers because of his active duty in China and in the Philippines until Feb. 3, 1940, when he was stationed at Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill., for the purpose of preparing the Abbott Hall training station there.
For two years after his graduation, Commander Shaw' was aboard the U.S.S. Maryland, then one of the most powerful units in the fleet. From 1925 until 1937, he was assigned to destroyers. In 1937 he was sent to China, his arrival there being timed with outbreak of the war between China and Japan.
During the heavy bombings of Canton, before its occupation by the Japs, Commander Shaw served on a river gunboat, holding that assignment for 14 months. His gunboat was the Mindanao which was lost only recently in Philippine waters.
When he was shifted to shore duty Commander Shaw was skipper of the destroyer John D. Ford, the lone surviv-. or of its destroyer division of four ships which is Still afloat and fighting somewhere in the Pacific theater.
Much of Commander Shaw’s time, as well as much of Capt. Burnett’s time, has been spent in the Philippines. Com-’ mander Shaw said he had often been on and around Bataan peninsula and describes that area, as well as most other Philippine territory aside from its immediate coastline, as being extrerilely wild. Much of the land, he said, has never been explored by a white man.
Executive Officer
Lt. Commander J. D. Shaw, U.S.N.
I
WELCOME ABOARD!
To the Student Officers of the Naval Training School:
I wish to extend to you a welcome on behalf of myself and the officers of this school. We hope you will find your tour of duty here instructive and profitable in every way. Our only desire is to help make you more valuable as a leader in the greatest Navy in the world. We are sure you will fully cooperate to achieve that most important result.
With every day of this war the responsibilities of every man increase. Therefore our steps can only be forward ; our bodies and minds devoted only to the Cause of Freedom; our hearts set on the fine Victory which will be ours.
How much of that victory can you help win?
That depends on how much responsibility you place on yourself as an officer in the Navy. It’s up to you to prove that you are truly an important rivet in the ring of steel around Democracy!
More power to you.
Captain H. P. Burnett, U.S.N., Commanding Officer.
"Notre Dame is pleased to welcome another group of young men to the campus for the United States Navy's Officers Indoctrination program. The University has, for many years, enjoyed cordial relations with the Navy and is indeed honored in being selected as a center for specialized training for World War 11. I express the hope, therefore, that all of you will be very much at home on this historic campus, and that your stay here will be both enjoyable and beneficial." Rev.Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.
President, Univ, of Notre Dame
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, has received two recent honors in connection with projects vital in the current American picture. One was appointment by President Roosevelt through Secretary Knox to the Board of Visitors of the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. The Board convenes there on April 2 for its annual inspection of the Academy. The other is appointment to the Board of Directors of the new National Nutrition Foundation, established by major food and allied industries to meet the national nutirition problems created by wartime conditions.
To the Officers
of the United States Navy:
The student officers now in attendance at the Navy Training School on the campus here at Notre Dame comprise one of the largest groups of Naval Reserve officers in our country’s history. You are going to be watched closely from all sides. Your instructors will carefully note your actions and progress. The enlisted personnel in this area will look to you as an example of the men under whom they may some day serve. Then, too, the civilian population in surrounding towns will judge the Navy when they judge you. All these things you know.
When you leave this school we hope you will know much more. We stand ready to help you in every possible way. Our goals are the same and we want our paths to the goal to be the same too. So come to us whenever we can be of assistance.
We’re proud of you and happy to have you aboard. And we stand confident that you will increase our pride as you distinguish yourselves here at this school. We await the day when we can place a Navy “E” on the main truck of your fitness report. From now on it’s all up to you!
J. D. Shaw,
Lieut. Commander, U.S.N., Executive Officer.
(Letter to the Scholastic Editor from o student.)
Cavanaugh Hall April 21, 1942.
Dear Sir:
About one week ago our campus here at Notre Dame was very fortunate in receiving some of the navy’s blue jackets who are to train for the V-7 program. And it is no military secret that there was hardly an individual on the campus who wondered if the middies could be swallowed up in the school life of Notre Dame. There were not a few individuals who wondered if the navy boys could assimilate the tradition of Notre Dame in such a short time. Now as we all know the navy boys have surprised even the most skeptical of us in becoming real Notre Dame. Proof of this is offered by their response to the Notre Dame night in the field house last week. There was not a blue jacket who wasn’t on his feet when they played the Victory March. There was not a sailor who was not proud of his newly adopted school. So it is no more than fair that we students turn back some of this good will to these boys of the navy. Why not say hello to them when you see them on the campus? And it never* costs anything to stop and talk with them for a moment when they are off duty. Good will can help along Notre Dame, and it will tend to help you along when the chips are down and you are in the service yourself.
Thos. Vai. Dougherty.
Father Hugh O'Donnell greets Rear Admiral John Downes, U. S. N., Commandant, 9th Naval District, on his recent visit to the campus.
Service Center . , , Beit Place, in to- Qo-l
Immediately following the first announcement that Notre Dame had been chosen by the United States Navy, as the locale for the initial training of the V-7 unit, there was an urgent desire on the part of South Bend to cooperate. From this desire, evolved the idea that there was a definite need in the city of a recreational center for service men. The idea seemed in keeping with what other cities throughout the country were doing for the men in the uniform.
Since the first contingent of the V-7 unit were due April 15, there was little time to deliberate further, and action was necessary. With less than a fortnight to work out the idea of a recreational center, a small group of volunteer
women under the intuitive guidance of their Chairman, Mrs. William T. Riley, organized one committee after another to further the projects that are now under way at the Service Men’s Center, located at 107-109 East La Salle street.
The first step was to beg a “heart-of-the-city” location for the duration, then enough paint to make it as attractive as possible. But the incubation period was over when twenty painters, who were on strike, volunteered their services to do this patriotic job in three days. In their wake followed carpenters, plumbers, electricians, sign-painters; almost every one in the Classified Directory, was eventually called to do their bit, that the Center might officially open on Friday, April 17.
One hundred attractive South Bend girls, were recruited to serve as cadettes, and their first assignment was to assist in entertaining the entire group of the “Meet Your Navy” program from Great April 17, between the early rehearsal and broadcast that night from the University campus. It was no slight innovation to have Eddie Peabody and his “gang” participate in the Center’s opening.
The idea that was so spontaneously fostered and nurtured from the outset, was now a reality. All that remained was the whole-hearted acceptance of the Center by the V-7 unit.
Captain Burnett and Lt. Commander Shaw had given the committee their official stamp_of approval, along with untold cooperation and moral support.
Approximately seven hundred boys visited the Center the first week, read the books and magazines, played ping-pong, bridge, danced with the Cadettes, and wrote hundreds of letters and post-cards.
KING OF HI-DE-HO ENTERTAINS SERVICE MEN
"Get hep to really send the Jep right out of this world"—said Cab Calloway when he entertained informally in the Service Men's Center— 107-109 East La Salle Street one night last week.	.	.
’	Photo by South Bend Tribune Staff Photographer
On Saturday and Sunday evenings, members of the Canteen units of the American Red Cross, have volunteered to serve the men at the Center with Buffet Suppers.
Another project that has met with considerable favor is the Sunday Dinner invitation, arranged through the Center whereby the people of South Bend are privileged to entertain the Navy men in their homes.
On May 7, Cab Calloway, who was making a personal appearance at the Palace theatre, was invited to visit the Center between his two last performances. He accepted, bringing five men from his show, who generously entertained, making that evening one more memorable occasion.
With the arrival of the Naval Reserve officers on the Campus this week, the Service Men’s Center extends to them a cordial welcome, and it is hoped, upon their arrival they will acquaint themselves with the facilities of the Center and make it their home during their stay in South Bend.
lEelcome!
U.S. Navy Officers
To the Notre Dame Campus and South Bend
A hearty welcome also awaits you at the OLIVER HOTEL Coffee Shop and the Emerald Dining Room, where for years Notre Dame Men have found food and refreshments moderately priced, in delightful environment and pleasantly, but efficiently, served.
We wish you success in your new career and hope that through your efforts glorious victories will accrue to die U. S. NAVY.
Oliver Coffee Shop
Oliver Emerald Room
THE OLIVER HOTEL, Inc
Corner Washington and Main Streets
6
NOTRE DAME TO-DAY
On Nov. 26, 1942, the University of Notre Dame will commemorate the 100th anniversary of its founding by the Rev. Edward Sorin and six Brothers, of the Congregation of Holy Cross, then a French missionary Order itself but five years old.
The Centenary finds Notre Dame participating with all its resources in the great American war program. Many of the plans for observances in the interest of the University have been abandoned or modified in the greater and more urgent interests of the government.
But so definitely has the University established itself as a bulwark of democracy and citizenship, and the fountainhead of the very principles for which the war is being fought, that some attention to this significant anniversary is well within the scope of patriotism and the broader aspects of the war program itself.
’ Father Hugh O’Donnell, president of Notre Dame has keyed the present critical period with the statement that “the peaks of the University’s history have been shrouded in the mists of war.”
A Century Through Wars
In the Civil War, the young institution, just approaching its Silver Anniversary, gave freely and wholly of its personnel in preserving the Union that its founder from the start had so ardently admired.
In the World War of 1917, the Diamond Jubilee was observed with many of its participants in uniform, two months after war was declared.
Notre Dame priests have been pre-eminent among the great chaplains of these Wars. The statue of Father Corby on the battlefield of Gettysburg is a symbol of their achievement, more familiarly reflected in the records of Fathers Charles O’Donnell and Matthew Walsh, both later presidents of Notre Dame, the late Bishop George Finnigan of Helena, and other soldier-priests of the Congregation. The nation’s roster is magnificently filled, in proportion, with the names of Notre . Dame men who fought for America. The War Memorial Door, and many deaths not recorded there, are testimonials to
By JAMES E. ARMSTRONG Director of Publicity and National Alumni Secretary
the sincerity of their conviction.
In the present World War, Notre Dame has already forfeited the lives of a growing group of young men to the demands of the democratic and the Christian way of life.
N. D. Men Serving Now
Today, in addition to the hundreds of Notre Dame men in the services, and they are in all branches—Army, Navy . and Marines—in addition to the Holy Cross Chaplains who are working familiarly under the direction of Bishop John F. O’Hara of the Army and Navy diocese, himself a former president of Notre Dame, Notre Dame is developing young men for America trained in both the immediate needs of winning the war, and the ultimate needs of perpetuating the peace to follow.
A unit of the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps is equipping 160 young men with the qualifications of that branch of the service and now we are happy to have on campus 1100 student officers of the U. S. Navy.
Night Training for Defense
Notre Dame’s classrooms, laboratories, shops and faculty are training in night courses 1300 defense workers of the industries of the St. Joseph Valley.
Many Notre Dame students in school under the various deferred enlistment programs of all the branches of the service, training in special curricula for their selected fields.
And most of the upperclassmen above the age of 20 are, unless enlisted, in other branches, awaiting the calls- from draft boards in the 48 States represented in Notre Dame’s 2,900 student enrollment.
Accelerate Academic Program
In addition to the above listed man and plant power being devoted to the war effort, the University has gone beyond all precedent in adapting its academic program to the maximum efficiency standards of the war era.
. For the duration, Notre Dame has adopted the three semester academic program, which shortens the semester to
15 weeks, and permits a summer semester of the same length and academic content as the traditional fall and spring semesters. All three semesters contain the same academic volume, through elimination of -holidays, vacations, and so on, that obtained in the previous programs. Consequently the bachelor’s degree can be obtained in eight semesters as before, but the calendar year requirement for the degree is reduced to two and two-thirds years.
The College of Law has recognized the need for trained men in the legal profession by reducing its pre-law requirement to two years, or four semesters. Consequently, in ten semesters, four pre-law and the customary six semesters of law, the student can secure his LL.B. This represents three and one-third calendar years under the new program. The combination Commerce or Arts and Letters courses, with the LL.B., require twelve semesters, bringing both degrees within the scope of four calendar years, as against the previous six required.
Notre Dame’s growth in the first 100 years has been unique in American education from the standpoint of financial endowment. No permanent endowment existed until 1922, when §1,000,000 was raised, and that figure still represents the total permanent endowment—a figure exceeded by 146 colleges and universities with endowments of from §2,000,000 to §140,000,000.
The Centenary
Plans for a year-long celebration of the Centenary which would have focused the various spotlights of higher education on Notre Dame have been forced to substantial modification. Nevertheless, the significance of Notre Dame’s 100 years of history, and the immediate problems and contributions of the University, are of a nature that makes any possible observance appropriate. Notre Dame’s principles are so closely allied with the development of sound citizens, and Notre Dame’s teaching is so essential to the proper preservation of those things for which the war is being fought, that any possible means of celebrating its Centenary in war-time America will be carried out beginning next September.
10
Her lakes and woodland paths—Notre Dame men share with the men of the United States Navy!
When In South Bend
Do As the South Benders Do!
Take a Tip From the Home Folks
FOR
•	Greeting Cards
•	Fountain Pens
•	Pen Repair Service
•Ora Half Hour's Browsing Among Those "Hard-to-Find" Magazines
TRY
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
FREE!
FOR
•	A Game of Billiards, "Rotation" or "Kelly"
•	A Dunhill, Sasieni or Kaywoodie Pipe
•	Or Your Favorite Cigar or Blend of Tobacco
TRY
no- iwr maw
SOUTH BEND/ INDIANA
Opposite Post office To "Navy - N. D." Men Only Opposite Oliver Hotel
TWO $25 DEFENSE BONDS
To be awarded June 20 (one bond at each store) to the holder of the lucky numbers drawn. Simply call-at each store and sign up. NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. YOU CAN WIN AT EACH STORE.
11
First Class -
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner
All work done promptly and at reasonable prices.
Next to THE HUDDLE
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
THE HUDDLE
A Variety of Pipes —
A Variety of Prices -=•
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow ......................$1.50
Yello-Bole Regular _______ 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial________ 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ........ 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor_______ 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran .... 5.00
Hollycourt_______:---------3.50
Comoy ______________________6.00
- Corncobs____;____10c and 25c
New York Alumni Open Club to Navy
The “Victory March” sung by all the Navy officers-in-training at their closing entertainment in Washington hall echoed clear to New York and roused the Notre Dame alumni club of that city.
Realizing that many of the men assigned to the “U. S.- S. Prairie State” would be strangers in the big city, they opened their club rooms as headquarters for the Navy men on leave. The New York Alumni Club sent to their new alumni - brothers of V-7, the following telegram (which arrived too late for a general announcement here but was relayed to the men in New York) :
“Notre Dame club and Hotel Woodstock look forward to welcoming Navy men stationed at Prairie State Club room open to them at all times Do not hesitate to call on us if special help or consideration is required.”
signed Timothy Toomey, Secretary Notre Dame Alumni Club, N. Y.
Religious Services
The religious services of the various churches in South Bend are posted on the bulletin boards in each •hall and at the service men’s center in town. The
complete religious facilities of the University and the services of every priest on the campus are open to the Catholic members of the Student Officers unit. Hours of all the religious services and other news are found in a special bulletin posted on the large bulletin board at the Howard Hall corner, directly facing the Mess Hall.
Navy on the "Victory March"
The night before the first V-7 men departed specially talented members entertained the entire unit with an amateur program in Washington Hall. .
The old Hall rocked with the applause, well-earned, that repaid the efforts of the entertainers who recently were handling leading parts in collegiate theatricals.
Not scheduled on the program but added at the suggestion of the assembled company was the.singing of the “Notre Dame Victory March” as a closing.
Ivy League joined with Pacific Conference, Big Ten with Southern and Southwestern in a rousing chorus of - their new Navy-born “Alma. Mater”— Notre -Dame. : • .	'
Welcome! Nawf Mert!
WE'RE PROUD TO HAVE YOU HERE
The Modern Gilbert’s has plenty of
Naval Officers1
WHITE SHIRTS
with detachable collars
by
ARROW $225
All sizes and sleeve lengths
GILKIRK
WHITE SHIRTS. $1.35
TAXI FREE TO THE
MODERN GILBERTS
OPEN EVENINGS
hn MOWN GILBERT'S see
813-817 S. Michigan St.
“SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN”
12
aeA -
Ao/te ^bame Athletic^
v&c
So successful has the 1941-42 Notre Dame athletic program been that it’s difficult to know where to begin this postcommencement report.
It is a well-known fact that Coach Frank Leahy’s 1941 football team was undefeated. The basketball and fencing teams had winning seasons, which is somewhat of an understatement. The track squad was beaten only once indoors, by Michigan, and came back to beat the Wolverines, Ohio State’s Big Ten champions, Nebraska, the Big Six titlists, and a bang-up field in the Butler relays. This same track squad is undefeated outdoors, as of this writing.
- The golf and tennis teams are undefeated, the latter with its season ended. The baseball team, off to a shaky start, won 7 out of 11 games. The track and golf teams had fewer contests remaining at this writing than they have victories in the ledger, so winning seasons for all sports are a mathematical certainty.
TENNIS
On a straight news basis, the tennis team really rates first consideration. Prof. Walter M. Langford’s squad was, without any question, the strongest ever to represent Notre Dame. It was the first undefeated Notre Dame team since 1927, and, the second in history. The Irish marched through their matches with Michigan State, Michigan’s Big Ten champions, Illinois, Kentucky, Western Michigan, Indiana, Wisconsin, Chicago, and Northwestern in that order.
The record:
Notre Dame, 6; Michigan State, 3
Notre Dame, 6; Michigan, 3 Notre Dame, 5; Illinois, 4 Notre Dame, 8; Kentucky, 1 Notre Dame, 5 ; Western Michigan, 4 Notre Dame, 8; Indiana, 1 Notre Dame, 9 : Wisconsin, 0.
Notre Dame, 6.; Chicago, ’3 Notre Dame, 4; Northwestern, 2
TRACK
William P. Mahoney, 25-year old “boy wonder” of the track coaching profession had produced outdoor dual meet victories over Missouri and Michigan State at this writing, and he was heading for West Point and Annapolis. The West Point trip was for purposes of a meet with Army. The Annapolis trip was for purposes of taking a. 30-day indoctrination course, Mahoney having been com-
By JOSEPH PETRITZ, Spurts Publicity Director
missioned an ensign three days after the Michigan State meet.
GOLF
On the basis of its six victories in as many starts, the golf team probably rates better billing, but future issues will carry accounts of further no-doubt-illustrious achievements. Most immpressive victory to date has been over Illinois, the Big Ten darkhorse and defending champion, 15 to 12. The Irish came from behind to annex a 14 to 13 decision over Minnesota and played their best golf under the worst conditions to date to swamp Wisconsin, 17% to 6%.
Matches remain, in the summer semester, with Michigan State at East Lansing June 5, and with Northwestern at home June 15. The latter match will be played on the Chain O’Lakes course of the South Bend Country club, site of the 45th annual National Intercollegiate tourney June 22 to 27. Notre Dame, now in its centennial year, will be the . host school.
It is likely that the N.C.A.A. tourney will be the occasion of many a reunion. The field took in representatives of 51 schools last year and should be just as large this season.
The scores:
Notre Dame, 18; Purdue, 8 Notre Dame, 15%; Detroit, 2% Notre Dame, 15; Illinois, 12 ' Notre Dame, 14: Minnesota, 13 Notre Dame, 23% ; Chanute Field, 3% Notre Dame, 17%; Wisconsin, 6%.
BASEBALL
There was nothing much about Notre Dame’s 3.71 earned run average for pitchers and .936 fielding mark that the lusty .313 team batting average could not overcome. As a result, Coach Clarence (Jake) Kline’s boys wound up with a record of 7 victories in 11 starts. Only Iowa, last year’s runners-up in the Big Ten and again one of the leaders, was able to sweep a two-game series. These games were the second and third of the season, and Notre Dame mistakes made therein were not made again.
The Fighting Irish managed an even break with Michigan’s defending conference champs, and with Western Michigan. They won. two games from Purdue and two from Northwestern. The big game, however, was with Great Lakes, with a crowd of nearly 4,000 present.
CORRECT FOR NAVAL OFFICERS
Fine serviceable leathers and approved design are just a part of these Mansfield Military Oxfords. It’s their superb friendly fit that makes Mansfields the preferred shoe by men in the Service.
Specifications:
_	Above. Boxford,
military blucher oxford, black Alpine leather and rubber heel.
MANSFIELDS
FAMED FOR FIT
$5.95
MAX ADLER'S Michigan at Washington
13
Reprinted from Indianapolis Star
They play baseball now for Great Lakes — Sailors Pytlak, McCoy, Lucadello, Cochrane and Grace .
Included were nearly all of the 900 V-7 apprentice seaman whose loyalty was divided between the stars from the Naval Training Station and their hosts. For the head Irishman, Capt. Bernie Crimmins, is a V-7 man himself, subject to call to active duty soon. The possessor of only two hits in seven games up to that time, Crimniins got himself 3 singles in 4 trips, knocked in a rim, and scored two against the Sailors, helping Pitcher Hal Smullen to an 8 to 6 verdict.
The record follows:
Notre Dame, 12; Purdue, Notre Dame, 5; Iowa, 10
Notre Dame, 1: Iowa, 4
Notre Dame, 13 ; Northwestern, 1
Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Notre Dame,
4; Purdue, 3
6; North-western, 4
2; Michigan, 3
8; Great Lakes, 6
7 ; Western Michigan, 12
Notre Dame, 11: Michigan, 7
Nctre Dame, 2; Western Michigan, 0
kome,
I
Naval Officers!
May we assist you by taking care of your	.
needs for these or any other items of apparel	.
Arrow White Neck-band Shirts
Arrow Duncan Collars Arrow Black Ties
MAX ADLER
“ON THE CORNER” . . . Michigan at Washington
NOTES TO YOU
The eyes o fthe entire Navy are on the Navy School here.... there’s no doubt about that. It is one of the first schools of its kind, and hence great care was taken by Naval authorities in Washington in selecting the permanent station personnel.
You PROBABLY DIDN’T KNOW. . . . that the percentage of instructors from the Naval Academy aboard this station is unusually high. Percentage-wise._it is almost double that of Great Lakes, the largest Naval Training Station in the world.	.
Arrangements are now being made to give every man aboard a personal membership card to the Indiana Athletic club. You’ll find billiard and pool table, special rooms for reading and writing, showers, dining rooms.... yes, the whole club will be yours. Look for more news on this subject very soon.
The Public Relations Questionnaire will be used to send good news about you back to your home town. Your community has every right to be proud of you, so we’re going to tell them about it.
Don’t be surprised if you receive a personal invitation to Sunday dinner at some of the finest homes in South Bend. ,The last class enjoyed these contacts very much.... and we know you will. It’s the next thing to dinner at home. -
Your patronage of firms advertising in Scholastic would be appreciated. Get the finest, from, the finest!
Like to sing? Here’s a challenge to you! Get a group together, pitch in for some music, and organize a choir. The last class had one of the finest male choirs heard in these parts. We’ll guarantee you radio time.... write the program for you.... and if you’re really good, contact the networks.
We carry the regulation
NAVY SHOES
Florsheim’s $10.50 up Freeman’s $6.95 up
Rms Km
MAIN AT COLSAX
Welcome Student Officers of the
U. S. NAVY
ARROW SHIRTS $2-25 and up
(White, to meet Navy specifications)
BLACK TIES.........$1.00 Come in and let us help you.
★
MAIN AT COLFAX
Ensign Dollard Appointed Public Relations Officer
Ensign Edmond C. Dollard, U.S.N.E., graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1939. Since graduation he has been affiliated with the radio networks . in Chicago and was the youngest writer employed by one of the country’s largest advertising agencies.
Ensign Dollard has been in the service for the past eight months, his last billet being at Great Lakes Naval Training Station, Chicago.
Clash or Click
Many people wondered before the Navy entered Notre Dame, whether the two student bodies 'would clash or click. The “Meet Your Navy” national broadcast on April 17 answered the question, they clicked. Proof of this was found in the April 20 issue of the Notre Dame Religious Bulletin, mimeographed daily and addressed to Notre Dame students:
In the Gym April 17 at Universal N. D. Night and “Meet Your Navy,” the blue and gold of the Navy was blended with that of Notre Dame, “Anchors Aweigh” with “The Victory March” and more than this... hearts were joined last Friday night as Navy was welcomed sincerely, warmly, deep in the heart of Notre Dame.
The Navy men “belong” now. They are part of the family, and it goes without -saying that the courtesy, thoughtfulness and Christian gentlemanliness, for which the U. S. Navy is known, will be matched if not surpassed, by you, sons of Notre Dame.
Star of the Sea and Mother of all men is Mary, Notre Dame, but she can’t take care of each Navy man individually and make him feel at home, so it is up to you individually.
You did it Sunday on almost the first
ike
Dining Room
ike J.<z£<zlle Jieiei
You will enjoy fine food — distinctive appointments. and -	-
excellent service.
* .
ORVILLE FOSTER at the ORGAN
Sunday, 12:30 to 2:00 p. m. and 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
Week days, 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
free day given the Navy men. Groups of Navy and Notre Dame men about the campus were seen mixing, unrestrained-ly.The softball players needing an extra player or two, made a fine move in asking the Navy men to fill in, and you could tell they appreciated the opportunity.
These new men aren’t homesick but do like a touch of home. The students who let the V-7 men use their golf clubs symbolized the new and proper spirit, too.	□
SMOOTH SAILING
TO CHICAGO
Nineteen speedy South Shore trains every day — breezing right into the heart of Chicago. A handy nearby terminal here in South Bend. Six convenient stations in Chicago — three in the Loop. That’s service! Chart your course to Chicago over the South Shore.
Welcome, Navy Men! Ask about special furlough rates.
For complete details call
C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent
301 N. Michigan St. City Ticket Office
Phone 3-3111
•j
15
Important
NAVY OFFICERS r r
Notice!
WELCOME!
We are proud and happy to greet you ..................Officers	of the greatest Navy in the world —
For Your Convenience . .
We have purchased and warehoused more than
700 PAIRS
of Regulation Dress Oxfords . . . available in all sizes, 6 to 12, and BCD widths, and
Black, Blucher, Plain Toe Oxford
SPECIALLY PRICED to Navy Officers at
$4,35
per pair
The Boston Shoe Store is justifiably proud of its record of fitting shoes properly, with emphasis on Quality Merchandise, sold at Popular Prices. We back each sale with a 43-year reputation for Integrity and Honest Value. To serve you will be deemed a privilege.
(Our regular $5.85 quality I
To facilitate handling we have developed the following method: Come into the store and be measured and fitted in the correct size. Then obtain a receipt for payment. Your shoes will then be made available from the warehouse stock and delivered to you on the Notre Dame campus.