I
YOU'LL HND EVERYTHING FOR VACATION WEAR AT THE CAMPUS SHOP NOW!
‘ALM BEACH SUITS PALM BEACH SPORT COATS PALM BEACH SLACKS
SWIM TRUNKS	SHORT SLEEVE SPORT SHIRTS	*
THE PALM BEACH ANSWER TO COMFORT AND CONVENIENCE ON YOUR SOUTHERN VACATION!
THE PALM BEACH PALM LITE ... . 49.95
HERE’S the suit for spring and summer that’s got everything! Superbly tailored from the finest blend of Dacron Polyester and worsted — a blend with unbelievable wrinkle-resistance, crispness and body. An invisible “ventilating” system lets cool air in, body heat out. And, no one can match the Palm Beach lightweight suit tailoring know-how.
•	In Checks, Glens, Stripes and new Compound colors. See the Palm
Beach Palm Lite soon.
GET WHAT YOU NEED NOW ...
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY:
PAY ONE-THIRD IN JUNE . . .
ONE-THIRD IN JULY . . .
ONE-THIRD IN AUGUST . . .
•	Every Notre Dame man has a charge account at the Campus Shop.
Get what you need . . . when you need it . . . charge it the Campus Shop way. No interest or carrying charge.
On the Campus—Notre Deane
On Candis MsShuknan (Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis", etc.)
BOOM!
Today, foregoing levity, let us turn our keen young minds to the No. 1 problem facing American colleges today: the population explosion. Only last week four people exploded in Cleveland, Ohio—one of them while carrying a plate of soup. In case you’re thinking such a thing couldn’t happen anywhere but in Cleveland, let me tell you there were also two other cases last week—a 45 year old man in Provo, Utah, and a 19 year old girl in Bangor, Maine—and in addition there was a near-miss in Klamath Falls, Oregon—an eight year old boy who was saved only by the quick thinking of his cat Walter who pushed the phone off the hook with his muzzle and dialled the department of weights and measures. (It would perhaps have made more sense for Walter to dial the fire department, but one can hardly expect a cat to summon a fire engine which is followed by a Dalmatian, can one?)
I bring up the population explosion not to alarm you, for I feel certain that science will ultimately solve the problem. After all, has not science in recent years brought us such marvels as the transistor, the computer, the bevatron, and the Marlboro filter? Oh, what a saga of science was the discovery of the Marlboro filter! Oh, what a heart-rending epic of endless trial and error, of dedication and perseverance ! And, in the end, what a triumph it was when the Marlboro scientists after years of testing and discarding one filter material after another—iron, nickel, lead,
tin, antimony, sponge cake—finally emerged, tired but happy, from their laboratory, carrying in their hands the perfect filter cigarette! What rejoicing there was that day! Indeed, what rejoicing there still is whenever we light a Marlboro and settle back and enjoy that full-flavored smoke which comes to us in soft pack or flip-top box at tobacco counters in all fifty states and Cleveland!
Yes, science will ultimately solve the
Yes, one further question: Have you tried Marlboro’s newest partner in pleasure—the unfiltered, king-size Philip Morris Commander? If not, by all means come aboard. You’ll be glad you did.
problems rising out of the population explosion, but in the meantime the problems hang heavy over America’s colleges. This year will bring history’s greatest rush of high school graduates. Where will we find classrooms and teachers for this gigantic new influx?
Well sir, some say the answer is to adopt the trimester system. This system, now in use at many colleges, eliminates summer vacations, has three semesters per annum instead of two, and compresses a four year course into three years.
This is good, but is it good enough? Even under the trimester system the student has occasional days off. Moreover his nights are utterly wasted in sleeping. Is this the kind of all-out attack that is indicated?
I say no. I say desperate problems call for desperate remedies. I say that partial measures will not solve this crisis. I say we must do no less than go to school every single day of the year. But that is not all. I say we must go to school #4 hours of every day!
The benefits of such a program are, of
course, obvious. First of all, the classroom shortage will immediately disappear because all the dormitories can be converted into classrooms. Second, the teacher shortages will immediately disappear because all the night watchmen can be put to work teaching calculus and Middle English poetry. And finally, overcrowding will immediately disappear because everyone will quit school.
Any further questions?
© 1961 Max Shulman ♦ ♦
A DEFENSE Editor:
In reference to the letter to the editor’s in The Scholastic of March 10 which devotes itself to the captain of this year’s basketball team, I would like to make the following comments:
1.	Because it is true that there im likely to be a marked division of opinion concerning anyone in the public eye, I consider letters of this sort to have very little real importance in themselves, expressing as they do an individual opinion. But a letter’ such as this does involve ■ an individual’s good name, and therefore I believe that the editors should confine this department to comments of a more j newsworthy nature.	(
2.	Before the followers of Notre Dame athletics turn their critical attention t^ those competing on the various athletic fields, they would do well to turn their gaze upon themselves. While the spirit and enthusiasm of the Notre Dame fans ,£ is a constant impetus to the competing athlete, our fans might make more of a distinction between spirit and un- g sportsmanlike conduct.
John Tully	?
109 Walsh	;
Editor:	£
Last week Messrs. Kerney and Regan of Badin Hall announced their dissatis- J faction that this year’s captain should -have been “the leader of a team repre- ■ senting this University” on the basket- l ball court. They evidently are dissatis- : fied that Bill hasn’t always showed what they call “good sportsmanship.”	.
I think that these two critics are in : error on both of the above points; cannot comment on their- admission tha* Bill Crosby is a good ballplayer, since I know so little about basketball. But I do know a little about sportsmanship, leadership, and what seems to be the Notre Dame conception of these qualities. If the two boys who wrote the letter have watched Bill play, they have probably watched him in the field house. , (Continued on page 25)	•
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class M ' mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special -' postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic^ '
|l*TlTMtre Dame

I
Vol. 102 No. 18
March 17, 1961
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
CHARLES RIECK
1
associate editor
ROY RUBELI
news editor
THOMAS WEISS John McCabe
I features editor ,	:
e THOMAS SULLIVAN Thomas Hoobler .

sports editor
. JAMES KILROY
. William Cary
~ John Bechtold
4
copy editor
THOMAS MARCINIAK । . Philip Larrabee - . .
4
art editor
THOMAS HANSEN
THE PEACE WAR: In all the energy and flurry surrounding a new Washington Administration, the Peace Corps is about to be launched — the first major step in a program of foreign aid that lifts its vision above the military and purely economic level. Of particular interest to those students concerned with the project are three facets of the program.
Contrary to the impression given by the preliminary campaign splash the tentative program created, the project will be very limited. According to some reports, the pilot projects will select only 1,000 students; sober reflection upon this figure indicates that it will absorb less than one student per college in the country; when enrollment figures are considered, this means that the Notre Dame contribution cannot be expected to total more than ten. Projecting for the future, the Kennedy Administration envisions only 5,000 students in the foreign fields, but note that this number will be spread out over perhaps three graduation classes.
But this is only what calm forethought would allow, for the preparation these scholars-of-foi-tune require demands not only considerable time and extensive facilities, but large sums of government money. Students preparing for countries other than South America must spend the greater part of a year in intensive study of the culture and native language.
Then too, the problem of salary is always raised in dormitory discussions. Since the program is aimed not at individual advancement, but rather the service of the nation, a direct salary seems ruled out — and notices from Washington have emphasized this sentiment. During the period of sei-vice, only an allowance directed towards subsistence in the particular area seems desireable — what must be kept in mind is that one of the major benefits of this program stems from the contact the finest representatives of American culture can have with the local population. But on the other hand, it is the responsibility of the nation to compensate in some degree for the three-year delay in the initiation of a career — which would begin for a large number of the potential Peace Corps volunteers automatically exempt from military sei-vice in view of graduate school or marriage, or which would have its financial basis in military service. Washington has indicated the possibility of a small severance grant; but anything short of compensation equivalent to that provided by the Armed Forces would ignore the fact that the Corps will ultimately benefit the nation in the same degree as its military services.	.
And then the problem of draft exemption. Because of the unrealistic views of some legislators who refuse to see the dedication and self-sacrifice that such a Corps will demand of its members, no draft exemption seems likely in the first proposals, beyond a temporary deferment for the period of service. In legislation of the future these scruples will be overcome, no doubt. In effect, however, the returning Peace Corps veteran will have the opportunity to avoid further delay in his career. Graduate school, marriage, “old age,” the reticence of draft boards to induct a Nigerian “vet,” etc., all reduce the possibility of Armed Forces service to a minimum.
photographer
WALTER DALY, Jr
business manager
JOSEPH FINNIGAN . Robert Buckley
4

circulation manager
JAMES HICKEY
moderator, •_ ;• - y'’
REV. GEORGE BERNARD
news staff, .<•-, Joseph Caspar ? ;
; Frank Cuiffo \< Lawrence Kavanaugh
; James Oliver
Thomas Scheuring r Steve Stapp A - -	Steve Stuecheli ? < ;
sportsstaff
MRobert Chiappinelli Thomas VValsh < ^^teinr^’Wolkerstorfer v
I
J 5
KUDOS: There is a tendency among seniors to regard various events in their last year as the best. But we are confident that everyone will join us in considering the recent lectures by Dr. Elizabeth Sewell as one of the finest series of talks to be given by a guest lecturer. Sponsored by the English dpartment, Dr. Sewell delivered four public lectures — each to capacity audiences in the Engineering auditorium. She also gave freely of her time in several class discussions and personal gatherings. Each time that we met or heard Dr. Sewell we were struck not only by her scholarship but her charm and graciousness as well. We certainly hope that it will not be too long before Dr. Sewell returns to Notre Dame.
MEDAL: Certainly this year’s presentation of the Laetare Medal to President John F. Kennedy came as no surprise. One had only to consider the prime qualification of being “an outstanding Catholic layman” to predict the recipient. From the first days of his successful campaign to the present, the President has probably done more to bring the image of the Amei-ican Catholic to the public than any other
single individual. Those who are concerned with the question of the separation of Church and State have on several occasions constructed a very thin line. Yet, the President has treaded it with tact and dignity; Other occassions will certainly arise, but we are confident that this year’s Laetare medalist will handle them with the same honesty and conviction that he has shown thus far and though there may be disagreement there will always be respect.
— R&R
Is your future up in the air?
As the communications needs of our nation become steadily greater and more complex, the Bell Telephone System is continuing its pioneer work in microwave by “taking to the air” more and more to get the word across.
To this end, Western Electric—the manufacturing arm of the Bell System—has the monumental task of producing a large part of the microwave transmission equipment that knits our country together by shrinking thousands of miles into mere seconds.
In spite of its great technological strides, the science of radio relay is a rapidly-changing one. And new break-throughs and advances are common occurrences. A case in point: our Bell System “TH” Microwave Radio Relay. This newest development in long-distance telephone transmission will eventually triple the present message-carrying capacity of existing long-haul radio relay installations. A fullscale system of 6 working and 2 protection channels can handle 11,000 telephone messages at the same time.
To make microwave work takes a host of special equipment and components: relay towers, antennae, waveguides, traveling wavetubes, transistors, etc. But just as important,
it takes top-caliber people to help us broaden our horizons into such exciting new areas as communication by satellites!
And microwave is only part of Western Electric’s opportunity story. We have—right now—hundreds of challenging and rewarding positions in virtually all areas of telephony, as well as in development and building of defense communications and missile guidance systems for the Government.
So, if your future is “up in the air,” you owe it to your career to see “what’s up” for you at Western Electric.
Opportunities exist for electrical, mechanical, industrial, civil and chemical engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, and business majors. For more information, get your copy of "Western Electric and Your Career" from your Placement Officer. Or write College Relations, Room 6106, Western Electric Company, 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y. And be sure to arrange for a Western Electric interview when the Bell System recruiting team visits your campus.
L—@
MANUFACTURING AND SUMY X»Z UNIT OF THE BEU SYSTEM
Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, III.; Keamy, N. J.; Baltimore, Md.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale, Pa.;
Winston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla. Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J. Teletype Corporation, Skokie, III., and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric distribution centers in 33 cities and installation headquarters in 16 cities. General headouarters: 195 Broadway. New York 7, N. Y.
The Scholastic
6
'UNIVERSITY AWARDS JFK LAETARE MEDAL
President Joins Line Of Prominent Laymen
John F. Kennedy was named last Sunday as the 1961 Laetare Medal recipient. Conferred annually since 1883 on an outstanding American Catholic layman, the Laetare Medal will be formally presented to President Kennedy at a place and time convenient for him. He is the 79th recipient of the award which has been won through the years £ by celebrated statesmen, soldiers, artists, industrialists, diplomats, philanthropists, educators and scientists.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., in announcing the selection of the President for the honor this year, said that Kennedy “in a most unusual way, at a most unusual age, and against unusually long odds, has risen to the top of his profession. . . . Because of what he has accomplished in so £ few years, because of his unique position in the long list of distinguished American Catholic laymen, and because of the sincere hope placed in his vision, energy and dedication by so £ many Americans of all races and faiths, the University of Notre Dame is pleased to confer this year upon John F. Kennedy the highest honor within her power to bestow: The Laetare Med-
• al.”
Last year’s Laetare Medalist was Dr. George N. Shuster, former president of Hunter College, and now special assistant to President Hesburgh here. Other recent recipients include for" mer Under Secre-
tary of State Robert D. Murphy, industrialist Frank M. Folsom, former U. S. Ambassador to Italy Clare Boothe Luce, General Alfred M. Gruenther, AFL-CIO President George Meany and Thomas E. Murray, a former member of the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission.
Noitre Dame’s Laetare Medal was conceived in 1883 by Professor James Edwards of Notre Dame, and his idea met
* March 17, 1961
with the immediate approval of Rev.
Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder and first president of the University. The Laetare Medalist is selected each year by an award committee headed by the president of the University. The recipient is traditionally named on Laetare Sunday, with the actual presentation taking place later at the recipient’s convenience.
President Kennedy’s association with Notre Dame began more than ten years ago when, as a young Congressman, he received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from the University in 1950. As a U. S. Senator, Kennedy accepted the annual Patriotism Award of Notre Dame’s senior class and delivered an address at the Washington’s Birthday Exercises on the campus in 1957. The President is also a member of the University’s Advisory Council for the Liberal and Fine Arts.
Said Father Hesburgh, “The Laetare Medal has traditionally been regarded as the highest University award to a Catholic layman in America. It has been conferred annually since 1883 by the
University of Notre Dame on a long list of Catholic laymen and lay women who have distinguished themselves in their chosen profession and way of life.” He further remarked that President Kennedy “stands today as a kind of landmark for the place of young men in our times, as a symbol of the new energy, vision and dedicated service of youth to the public welfare.”
Library Notes Shortened Easter Holiday Schedule
Victor A. Schaefer, director of libraries, requests that students note the following library policies and schedules in force during the Easter vacation:
All regular loans (28-day books) due between March 28 and April 10 must be renewed prior to the Easter vacation.
Reserve books, reference books, journals, periodicals and similar material will not circulate and may not be charged out for use out of the city during the vacation.
The library reserves the right to limit the books which are requested for use during vacation.
Closing time on Tuesday, March 28, will be 5 pan. with the following hours of service taking effect: March 29 and 30, 8 to 5 p.m.; March 31, 8 to 12 noon; April 1 and 2, closed; April 3 through 7, 8 to 5 pan.; April 8, 8 to 12 noon and April 9, closed.
Fourteen Domers Win' Wilson Fellow Grants
Fourteen University of Notre Dame seniors were named winners of Woodrow Wilson Fellowships this week that will grant them a year of graduate study during 1961-1962.
From among 10,000 applicants only 1,333 students from 381 colleges and universities were selected for this teaching grant. Sir Hugh Taylor, president of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, N. J., has announced that over $3 million is available this year to encourage the recipients to consider college teaching as a possible career. Sponsored by a 1957 Ford Foundation grant of $24,500,000 each award gives a $1500 stipend plus family allowances. Additional fees are provided for under the fellowship, and can be applied at any college in the country.
The 14 Notre Dame winners are the following: Kenneth M. Brown, Robert B. Burckel, John J. Bums, Jr., John C. Cahalan, John E. Clark, Arthur De-chene, John H. Engler, David C. Hudson, John K. Kealy, Jr., Jerome T. Kriegshauser, William P. Pflaum, Joseph A. Pichler, Guy D. Powers and Maric E. Thompson.
Eighty Notre Dame men have won these fellowships since the University first was represented in the competition in 1952-1953. For several years the Notre Dame group has been one of the largest among the colleges producing fellowship, winners. ’
7
Form Group to Study Permanent Residences; Consider Possible Plan of Interclass Living
Once again the question of permanent hall residence has arisen in the Student Senate.
Still in the planning stage, the matter has been referred to a newly formed residence halls committee. The committee is to study old and new plans in order to come up with “feasible improvements in the present system.”
According to Simon St. Laurent, Badin. Hall senator and president of the committee, the commitee will try to determine a workable plan for interclass hall residence. “The plan will consist in integrating the sophomores, juniors and seniors in the various residence
halls according to a numerical ratio.” The freshmen halls would not be included in the plan.
Under the system being considered, upperclassmen could reside in the same hall and even the same room for his upperclass years “if he so desires.” Any student dissatisfied with his room or hall could transfer, as now, at the end of semesters.
Students would be assigned to halls at the beginning of their sophomore year according to their grade average and their preference. At the end of the year, if they wished to keep their room, the room would be reserved for them. Otherwise, they could move and the room would be open to othei- students desiring the location.
' According to one committee member, an advantage of this system would be to give the students a hall “loyalty.” Tying the students closer, the plan would offer many of the advantages of fraternities, with obvious restrictions, without any of the disadvantages. The students would be less prone to be de-
S
structive and more likely to be constructive, since they would take a pride in their “home” for the “duration.” Said St. Laurent, “It is hoped that a plan such as this will lead to a strengthening of the student hall and campus governments and relieve some of the pressure on rectors. For example, putting discipline into the hands of students will allow the prefects and rectors to give more time and attention to their religious duties.” -
The committee plans to conduct a survey to obtain the general consensus on the idea and to get suggestions. An attempt will be made to make the student
body well-informed on the matter by the use of WSND, Scholastic, leaflets and hall discussion groups. A student referendum on the plan will then be held.
After correlating the results and formulating a plan, the committee will submit a written report to the administration for consideration. The Student Senate and the general student body will also be informed of the results of this report.
The basic plan of having permanent hall residence has been proposed before without success. This year the plan is given a better chance to succeed that in years past when the main objection was that the plans weren’t workable. The committee will try to eliminate this objection.
The most recent attempt to bring about this idea took place two years ago when the student consensus was “decidedly in favor.” On 1500 survey sheets, student response was 3-2 “for.” Tom Cahill, chairman of the committee that (Continued on page 10)
DR. NORMAN R. GAY
End of an interregnum.
University Announces Dean for Engineering j
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., re- , cently announced the appointment of G' Dr. Norman R. Gay as dean of the University of Notre Dame’s College of Engineering, effective July 1.
Dr. Gay, who is a specialist in thermo- < dynamics and heat transfer, currently [ is director of the Texas Engineering J Experiment Station, College Station, j Tex. He succeeds Dr. Mario Goglia who left the post last year to become associ- £ ate dean of faculties at the Georgia i Institute of Technology. Dr. Harry# Saxe, head of Notre Dame’s Department of Civil Engineering, has been serving ■ as acting dean of the engineering school, i
A native of Cortland, N. Y., Dean | Gay holds a bachelor's degree from the J University of Rochester, a master’s de- > gree from Cornell University, and a i doctorate from Purdue University. Ex- | cept for two years of World War II * service as a Navy lieutenant in the^ ’ Pacific theater, Dr. Gay taught in Cornell’s thermal engineering department from 1942 to 1956. He has since served as staff engineer with the Bendix-Westinghouse Co. of Elyria, Ohio, and has been consultant for a number of
firms including Bendix-Westinghouse, Convertor Manufacturers’ Association
and the Consolidated Edison Co.
While an undergraduate at the University of Rochester, Dr. Gay was a member of the varsity football and track^ teams, president of the Students’ Association and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and Tau Beta Pi. He is a member of Sigma Xi, Pi Tau Sigma, The American Society for Engineering Education, The American Society for Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers and The American Association of
University Professors. Dr. Gay is a licensed professional engineer in New York State.	I
The Scholastic^

Set Breen Oratorical Contest for Mid-April
Masters of oratory are once again invited to compete in the annual Breen Oratory Contest to be held on campus April 12 and 13. First place winner will receive a gold medal.
“The Breen Medal for Oratory” was founded by the Honorable William Patrick Breen, of the Class of 1877, and is awarded annually to the student who excels in oratory. The competition for this award is conducted by Professor Leonard Sommer of the department of communication arts, and is open to all undergraduates. However, no student may win the Breen Medal more than
once.
The speeches will be given in the 9 Forensics Room of the LaFortune Student Center and must be seven to ten minutes in length, on any topic suitable to oratorical delivery, but they must be original. All entrants must submit a typewritten copy of their oration to Professor Sommer in Room 344, O’Shaughnessy Hall by March 27.
There was no award for oratory in 1877 when William Breen, with a 96 average, was one of the two graduates £ that year to receive a Bachelor of Arts degree. However, in 1883 an anonymous letter printed in the Scholastic expressed indignation that the State Oratorical Association had rejected the applications of several Notre Dame students who had attempted to enter the state contest. That year, for the first time, a medal was awarded to the senior who excelled in oratory.
In 1902, the medal was presented at Q graduation by the Honorable William P. Green, LL.D., and has since been donated by him.
Last year’s winner was a sophomore, Charles McCarthy.
Encyclopaedia to Include Area Teachers1 Articles
Four educators from South Bend are among the new contributors to the 1961 edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica.
Of these, three are members of the f aculty of the University of Notre Dame. They are: James A. Corbett, Professor the Mediaeval Institute, author of four with other authorities to write five articles, Boniface (Popes), Alexander (Popes); Julius; Martin and Urban; Rev. J. Garvin, C.S.C., Associate Profes-f sor of Latin and Assistant Director of the Medieval Institute, author of four articles, Saint Colette; Saint Hubert; Saint Remi and Turpin; and Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., Archivist and former Head of the Department of History, Sorin, Edward Frederick.
The fourth South Bend resident to cointribute !an article to the famed reference work is James R. Constantine, Instructor in History at the Indiana University Center, Vincennes.
* March 17, 1961
Final Institute to Feature Professor Christin, Wife
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Christin will conclude the seventh annual Notre Dame Marriage Institute this coming Wednesday, March 22 with a lecture entitled “Romance in Marriage.”
Dr. Christin, a Notre Dame faculty member, is a professor of English, and also Chairman of Freshman English. He has taught at Notre Dame for the past eight years. He and his wife have spoken at previous Institutes and are back again this year by popular demand.
Seniors attending the lectures are reminded that if they wish to obtain the certificate of attendance at the Institute — which many dioceses will recognize as fulfillment of Pre-Cana Conference obligations — they should present their tickets, stamped once for each lecture attended, at Father Putz’s office in the Student Center Rathskeller.
Sacher Designated Recipient Of Annual Cavanaugh Award
Charles P. Sacher, a senior from Miami, Fla., has been named recipient of the second annual Rev. Joseph H. Cavanaugh Award by the department of theology.
Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., department head, said the honor is conferred on a gi-aduating senior “who had evidenced high qualities of personal character and academic achievement, particularly in theological studies.”
Sacher is an accounting major in the College of Commerce and formerly played varsity football.
The annual theology department award was established in memory of Rev. Joseph H. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., formerly head of the department, who died in 1954.
CHARLES SACHER
For “scholarship and character.”
Q^aham
Policy
. Monday night the Senate concerned itself with policy . . . summer storage policy, photo concession policy, and proposed amendments to the student government constitution. Revisions in policy are often due to the hard work and initiative of an individual senator, who on presenting his revisions to the Senate^ finds a docile and approving body bowed to his strong personality. Such was not the case Monday.
Keegan took the stand first, and proposed amendments to the constitution to be voted on next week. Major revisions were those necessitated by making the chairman of the Hall Presidents Council a voting member of the Senate; also the extension to November 1 of the earliest date for freshman elections and the depletion from the constitution of Article III, concerning the Student Court
Mike Connor, St. Edward's senator, suggested keeping Article III and prefixing, “If a Student Court is deemed necessary.” Keegan said that this could not be done. Joel Haggard forcefully suggested that Article III be made an appendix to the constitution. Somewhat at a loss, Keegan was about to agree with Haggard, when John Clark asked that the matter be settled by committee. Keegan agreed. ’
Tom Colleton took the rostrum and began a section by section explanation of five pages of summer storage policy which had been presented to the senators five minutes before the meeting. Colleton was no further than the first paragraph of the first page when Haggard suggested that the senators study the policy until next week. The motion on summer storage policy was promptly tabled until then.
Senate policy states that the holder of the photo concession shall have “exclusive right to take pictures of students and their dates at Senate sponsored activities.” In the. past all campus-wide dances have been considered Senate activities. At the Military Ball this year, the Tri-Military Council, contrary to Senate policy, hired their own photographer. This action has resulted in an agreement, between the Tri-Military Council and the Senate, that the Military Ball will no longer be considered a Senate sponsored activity.
Because the concessionaire will lose money if excluded from certain dances, Joel Haggard proposed a number of amendments to the photo concession policy. One of these promised the concessionaire $100 for equipment depreciation, film and labor losses, for each dance he is excluded from.
Some astute questioning by Tom Colleton brought out the fact that labor and film loses could be avoided, and the sum was down to $75. At this point John Clark moved that the motion he tabled for a week.	.
All agreed.
9
Slide Rulers Blueprint Open House for April; Show Will Accent Engineering Achievements
“Atlas, Engineering Achievement,” the 1961 Engineering Open House, will be presented over the weekend of April 28, 29 and 30. This year’s title was chosen for the purpose of showing how individual achievements from the many different fields of engineering are coordinated to effect the success of an undertaking such as Project Mercury, and also with the general design of showing how this same cooperation and planning among engineer's is improving every phase of our lives.
The kickoff. The activities will begin on Friday afternoon in the Engineering Auditorium where Dr. Harry Saxe, acting Dean of the College of Engineering will speak. A prominent guest speaker is promised, and it is also expected that the newly appointed Dean, Dr. Normian Gay, now Director of Experimental Stations at Texas A&M, will be present. At this time the sophomore and junior Engineer of the Year Awards will be announced, and five seniors also will receive plaques as Engineers of the Year.
An added attraction will be the gala Auto Show in the Drill Hall, featuring competition and experimental cars as well as many new models. To generate a little more excitement the annual human Chariot Race will be held on Saturday afternoon at Cartier Field.
The engineering displays will be set up in the various departments of the Engineering building under the direction of the student chairman in each department.
For moonbuilders. Displays will be centered on such topics as “Development of Rocket Fuels,” “Dynamics of Orbiting,” “Nuclear Engine Construction for Missiles” and “Construction Difficulties on the Moon.” Prizes will be awarded for the best department display, for the three best individual displays and for the most creative individual display.
James Kaval is the General Chairman
Permanent Residence
(Continued from page 8) year held the opinion that possibly 80% of the students would have been in favor had they been thoroughly informed.
The committee that year noticed an apparent correlation between the popularity of the rector and the attitude of the students of the particular hall. The seniors, of course, were the least enthusiastic but in no hall was the proposal defeated. Students objections to the plan then were concerned with a reluctance to mix classes and a fear of the disciplinary conflicts that would be caused by senior privileges.
—Joe Caspar
of the Open House, assisted by Luino Dell Osso, department displays; Tom Jordan, awards; Bill Long, publicity; Dennis McMahon, auto show; and Joe Bendix, programs chairman. Students representing the various engineering departments on the displays committee are John Martine, architecture; William Hug, aeronautical; Jon Roark, chemical; Don Mars, civil; John Chestnut, engineering science; Frederick Fath, electrical; Robert Krause, metallurgy; Calvin Wolf, nuclear, and George Janicek, Tom Brennan and Joe Ogurchak, mechanical.
Pick Morris Inn Scene Of Legal History Talks
The 1961 Midwest conference of The American Society for Legal History will be held at the Morris Inn, March 18. The conference chairman is Dean Joseph O’Meara of the Notre Dame Law School.
President of the Society Prof. Morris Forkosch, of Brooklyn Law School, will greet the group at the opening session beginning at 2 p.m. Four legal educators will present papers during the afternoon. They are Dean Noble Lee of the John Marshall Law School, “The Northwest Ordinance”; Prof. Francis A. Allen, University of Chicago Law School, “Historical Research and Law Reform”; Prof. Roger P. Peters, Notre Dame Law School, “Historical Note of Estate Tax Treatment of Lifetime Transfers with Interest Retained,” and Prof. Phillip Kurland, University of Chicago Law School, “Some Problems of Judicial Biography.”
The conference will close with a dinner at 6:15 p.m. to be addressed by Prof. Nathaniel L. Nathanson of the Northwestern University Law School. His topic will be “The Constitutional Law of India in Historical Perspective.”
National officers of the society, in addition to president Forkosch, are Ralph Newman, Washington College of Law, Washington, D. C., vice president; W. Lee Guice, Biloxi, Miss., secretary, and Warren Patton, Los Angeles, Calif., treasurer.
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist • EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED •
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
Fr. Gabriel Publishes on Paris Skara House
Rev. A. L. Gabriel, O. Praem., director of the University of Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute recently wrote a history of Swedish students and colleges at the University of Paris during the Middle Ages. The Skara House at the Mediaeval * University of Paris, has been published by the University of Notre Dame Press.
Using unpublished and hitherto unknown archive and library materials, Father Gabriel offers a vivid picture of the Parisian life of Swedish scholars recruited from such important cities as Upsala, Linkoping and Skara. The city of Skara, located between Goteborg and Stockholm, is well known today by American tourists for its splendid thirteenth century cathedral. It was an important ecclesiastical and cultural center during the Middle Ages. A canon of the Cathedral established the charitable foundation which created the House of Skara, also called the House of Notre Dame, from the picture of Our Lady [ which appeared above the entrance to I the Swedish student hospice or college.
Lovers of old Paris will find Father Gabriel’s book particularly interesting because of its new and picturesque information on the Latin Quarter, Quar- : tier Latin, where Skara House was lo- i cated. The volume includes illustrations ‘ of such old Swedish cities as Waxjo, : Skara, Falkoping, Linkoping and Upsala f as well as maps of Paris and seals of ? great Swedish scholars reproduced for^ the first time.
Father Gabriel’s earlier book. Student Life in Ave Maria College, Mediaeval Paris, was awarded the Thorlet Prize of j the French Academy des Inscriptions.
REV. A. L. GABRIEL AND EDOUARD MOROT-SIROFTHE FRENCH EMBASSY.
10
The Scholastic
Bright idea with a glowing future
At Gen Tel, research is put to work to advance communications through sight as well as sound.
The dial of our compact Starlite* phone, for example, utilizes an entirely new source of light that marks a milestone in visual communications. Called Panelescent® (electroluminescent) lighting, it produces light without heat, has no bulb to turn on and off, and costs less than 1$ a year for electricity.
Pioneered and developed by the Lighting Products Division of our subsidiary, Sylvania, this dramatic new light opens up almost infinite product possibilities in sight communication. Already it is being used for clock faces, radio dials, auto instrument panels and road signs.
And, through the development of an ingenious “cross-grid” design, electroluminescent panels are now capable of reproducing alpha-numeric "readouts” for electronic computers. This achievement, in fact, may one day lead to “flat wall" TV.
It is another example of the way General Telephone & Electronics coordinates the scientific and engineering leadership of many divisions in order to make communications progress on all fronts.
•Trade Mart
GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRON ICS
March 17, 1961
11
If at First . . .
by WILLIAM REAGAN
(Johnny Tarquinn and Roosevelt (Rosy) McLease are vying for a campus boxing championship. The scene is a locker room. To the right is a row of lockers, front facing the stage. A bench is placed before them. To the back and left is a table on which are rols of tape, water bottles, scissors, etc. As the curtain opens, Howie Davin, a student trainer, is putting one article each from the table into a bucket. He finishes and comes to the front of the stage. A
12
bench, separated from but perpendicular to the one in front of the lockers, is placed there. He sits and places the bucket on the floor. The door, to the left, opens and Joe Bazette enters. He is a student and coordinator of the bouts. Whenever the door is open, noise of the crowd can be heard.)
JOE: Where are Johnny and Rosy? (closes door)
HOWIE: They’re both dressed and
ready. They left separately. Look* around behind the stands if you want them. They’re probably walking the tension off.
JOE: No ... I was just going to tell them that there’s about 15 minutes left. This fight is about half over and there’s one more before they go on. (pause) Isn’t anyone else using this room?
HOW: Not until the last fight. Main room’ll be too crowded so they put the last two in here. The guys in that bout^.
The Scholastic
(•
s
. are dressed too.
JOE: Johnny and Rosy are both rugged boys. They’re light enough to move around, but they’ve sure got strength. The crowd is waiting for their scrap. Where’s your money Howie?
HOW: No bets from my pocket. I know these guys from home. Went to high school with them.
JOE: (emphatically) You mean they • went to the same school?
HOW: Yes.
JOE: Why hasn’t the paper built this up?
HOW: Maybe they didn’t notice or maybe they don’t want to emphasize it. It will be pretty obvious when they announce them both from the same town; it isn’t that big.
JOE: What’s the story? They have a grudge or anything?
HOW: No. They’re good friends. They both like to fight and they weigh the same. Since they both want the championship, they have to fight each other for it.
JOE: Bosom buddies, but murder in the ring. Think they’ll ease up any? I mean if one has the other staggering do you think he’ll treat him easier than if he didn’t know him?
HOW: Who can say for sure? Rosy might if he knew he had the fight won, • but I don’t think Johnny would. That guy is a dedicated perfectionist. Loves the physical stuff. Look at him and you can see what I mean. Not an ounce of fat on him. Rosy, though, he’ll carry fat so long as he feels strong.
JOE: Do they know each other’s strategy?
HOW: They’ve sparred a few times. Usually, though, they fight side by side. Those two could lick any gang that • formed in our town. They’re mean when they want to be.
JOE: They seem to be too close friends to fight. Why should Johnny and old Rosebud want to fight?
HOW: Don’t let Rosy hear you call
him that name; he’ll kill you.
JOE: Why?
HOW: I don’t know. It’s just a nick
name he
_ craddle.
" nickname
picked up while still in the He hates it. “Rosy” is his and he will prove it to any
one who cares to stand before him and
say different.
JOE: Thanks for the warning. But why are they fighting? What are their motives?
HOW: The champ’s trophy mainly. Of course, they’re both chasing the same girl at home, but they date a lot of different girls. Sarah, the one I’m talking about, is the only one that’s ever come between them. They don’t fight • over her or anything; they just move together. They’re waiting for her to decide.
JOE: Now there is something. When I spread that around in the stands, they'll all howel.
HOW: (chuckling) Joe, that’s all you care about. The more cries for blood and screams for vengeance you hear the happier you are. Good thing these fights are only once a year. You’d get a riot started if you had every week to work
March 17, 1961
at it.
(Door opens. Noise of crowd is heard. Rosy enters then shuts door.) How do you feel, Rosy?
JOE: Have you got this one in the bag? You sure walloped that guy Wednesday night.
ROSY: (not listening) How much time?
JOE: About 10 minutes, (pause) I’ve got to get around and see how the other boys are doing. Good luck Rosy. I hope you win that girl.
(exits)
(Howie gets off the bench and walks toward the table).
HOW: Want your hands taped now?
ROS: What have you been saying to Joe? He mentioned a girl. That would not be Sarah, would it?
HOW: We were talking Rosy. I had just mentioned it. You know how Joe is; he’ll pick up anything he can get sensational about.
(A silence. Howie starts to wrap Rosy’s hands). Tell me, Rosy, could there be anything to it? Does Sarah mean that much to either of you?
ROS: I got a letter from her this afternoon. “You boys are terrible,” she said, “Isn’t there anyone else at that silly school you could fight? Why do you have to fight each other?” Johnny got the same thing, I’m sure.
HOW: It does mean something, huh? You are thinking about her.
ROS: Sure, I’ve thought of her, but she doesn’t mean that much. She’s in the back of my mind all right, but I don’t really know how much she does mean.
HOW: (finishing one hand) Is that tight enough?
ROS: Yeh, that’s fine. (A silence. Howie begins the other hand). It’s funny, Howie; I’ve been thinking all day today. I tried to sleep this afternoon, but I couldn’t. I kept thinking about the guys in the stands, ’specially the guys from home. The Juniors and Seniors won’t say much. They’ll probably congratulate the winner and attempt a few consoling words to the loser. You, me, and Johnny are involved, so it doesn’t seem like much to us. It’s the three Freshmen that I keep seeing. Those guys love to talk. One is a real heroworshiper. I can see him in the front row. If I’m pounding Johnny around, he’ll holler, “Kill him Rosy.” But I bet he’ll yell the same to Johnny if he lands a few good ones on me. Yeh, those three will talk. They’ll tell everyone they know on campus about how tough we are and then they’ll tell how they’ve been om- friends for years. When they get home, they’ll really make it good. They’ll call the winner the greatest fighter since Jack Dempsey. The winner will be a legend by Easter.
HOW: You’ve got something there. I’ve heard them blabbering all week. They got louder each time one of you won a preliminary, (look at the hand) That all right?
ROS: Yeh, thanks Howie.
HOW: Anytime. (Howie walks over to the bench where the bucket is. He sits, picks up the bucket, and tinkers with its
contents. Rosy begins walking around behind him.)
ROS: After I tried to sleep for a while, I went and took a shower. As the water was pouring over me, I kept thinking of high school, (pause) Johnny and I had a lot of fun together. We both got twelve letters. Some of those athletic trips were great, (thinks) Then there was the chemistry class we were always getting thrown out of; and then the time we bom-owed the principal’s car. Boy was he mad when he went into the parking lot and it was gone. We had to promise him that we’d stop fooling around, and that we’d study hard, and all kinds of things. He almost turned us in to the police.
HOW: Hey, cut it out Rosy. This is no time to get sentimental. You’ve got to throw punches tonight.
ROS: O.K., Howie, O.K. I’ll punch, don’t worry about that. (A silence. Howie continues playing with the contents of the bucket. Rosy continues to walk around behind him.) I’ve just been wondering. What’s it all worth? What good is a college championship? What’s it got to do with life? But then, suppose I get good grades and go on to get a law degree. Maybe I’ll even get a top salary job. What good is that? What will it mean? There’s a whole world, (pause) But suppose my name is significant; everyone knows who I am. So what?
HOW: That’s the stuff, Rosy. Winning tonight is the same as conquering the world.
ROS: I don’t give a damn about either, (pause) It’s like taking a trip in a car. I pass all these places and I think how interesting life must be here. Maybe they’ve got the real thing. Life looks like it might be fine. Then the car stalls. I’m back facing the world. The gloss is gone. I’ve got to get a mechanic. The town becomes drab, the people dull. There’s nothing but my hometown routine; maybe simpler, maybe more complex. It’s all the same. But then I get the old car going again and I know everything is going to be swell, (dejectedly) I don’t know how or where, but everything’ll be swell.
HOW: The story of life in one analogy. Rosy, you don’t need to fight anymore than you need Sarah.
ROS: (nervously) I know, I know. Johnny is my best friend, I don’t know why I’m fighting him. It’s just that I’ve got to keep that car going. When it’s stopped, I get scared. I’ve got to have something. (Johnny enters) Hello Johnny
JOHNNY: ’Lo Rosy. Hope you feel pretty good.
ROS: I do. (exits)
JON: Would you tape my hands for me, Howie?
HOW: Yeh, sure Johnny. Come on over to the table. (They both move to the table where Howie begins to tape.)
JON: How was Rosy? Was he nervous? Boy I sure am. My stomach is flopping all around.
HOW: Rosy’s the same. He’s got the butter-flies too.
JON: Tell me, did he mention Sarah (Continued on page 18)
13
THE SCREEN ARTS AND NOTRE DAME
Ib the University Library card catalog there are about 100 entries under “Primitive Society,” many more than under the entire subject of moving pictures. Under “Moving Pictures” there are six books with the word “art” in the title, exactly as many as there are for the subject of brewing.
In the small company of film art books is a new one by Professor Edward Fischer of Notre Dame’s Department of Communication Arts. This book, The Screen Arts, published last fall by Sheed & Ward, has been greeted with satisfaction by reviewers in such diverse journals as the New York Times, the Chicago Tribune, Our Sunday Visitor, and the Journal of the Hollywood Screen Producers’ Guild. It is used as a text in some high schools and colleges, and it has been the subject of many studyclub meetings and student-teacher conferences.
Gratifying as all this is to the author, he still finds the fact that there are so few books about the movies mystifying. Even so new a branch of literature as science fiction has been officially recognized by the Modern Language Association, the trade-union of the literature professors. But neither the MLA nor any other similar group has shown much interest in the movies or television, which reach more people than any other medium of communication in history.
Professor Fischer thinks they deserve better. His book is a demonstration that everybody does NOT know all about the movies, and that people need to learn the language of the camera before qualifying as critics.
“So simple a thing as the meaning of movies is not well understood,” Mr. Fischer says. “The movement is first of all by the camera itself. The people and objects before it don’t move as much as it does. And it is in the handling of this camera movement that the ait of the film lies.”
14
His book makes this plain when he discusses the art of the director, the key figure in film and television. Another section, “The Grammar of Film,” explains the basic shots and the meaning of scenes and sequences, the paragraphs and chapters of films. Another interesting part of the book shows why film acting is less important than acting on the stage, and examines the phenomenon of film personalities.
But Professor Fischer does not let his book be a catalogue of techniques. From the first he insists on the screen art, and his discussion of how certain movies and television plays achieve that status and others on the same themes fail is the heart of his book.
Fischer brings to his book not only a sensitive and cultivated taste but practical experience. He has written and directed two documentary films which his students in the Department of Communication Arts produced, “Shake Down the Thunder,” made on the golden jubilee of the Victory March, and “Life Without Gei-ms,” on the work of Lobund. Each year his students make some films to learn the basic techniques of film production, and they have written scripts for many documentary television programs and public service films. He is active in the College Film Producers Association, serving this year as their publications chairman.
But Professoi- Fischer lays no great stock in classroom and laboratory techniques as such. “We teach just enough techniques in the Communication Arts department to give the student some feeling for the medium,” he says. “Technical proficiency must be learned on the job. College can’t do it, and even if it could it shouldn’t. We aim at teaching good writing, good design, good taste, and some knowledge of world the student will communicate to. If my courses in the media of communications don’t achieve these, even when they teach
techniques effectively, they have no place in the college curriculum.”
But Mr. Fischer believes that learning _ how to look at a film does belong in a®-college curriculum. He is appalled at the number of college students who still look at films and television programs like grade school children, students whose only criticism is “I liked it” or “I didn’t like it” and who believe that the success of a film depends on the skill of the actors.
Much the same thing is true of Fischer’s hobby, painting. This summer he will receive a master’s degree in art,Q) which he began working toward while indulging his habit of drawing on every scrap of paper he could find. This led him to formal courses, and finally back to water-colors and oils, which he had dabbled in before.
But Fischer claims that most students who are tempted to try painting necessarily learn something about it. But who makes a movie? Yet everybody sees^ them. Only in the schools can film ap-*' preciation ever be formalized, he thinks. And schools should have more of it.
Or maybe they should have more books like his. The Screen Arts contains all the essential information. The basic parts of it can be read in a couple of hours. And it is the only book of its kind in the library.
Professor Fischer, a Kentuckian, graduated from Notre Dame in 1937, where he was a student of the late Dr. John M. Cooney, for many years Head of the®' Department of Journalism. He worked for newspapers in South Bend and Chicago, and taught and directed the information service of St. Joseph’s College before going off to the war, where he was a military historian in India, Burma, and China. He lives with his wife and two boys near the campus.
Thomas J. Stritch, Chairman Department of Communication Arts.^
The Scholastic
JOHN OLIVER CRITIC •at large
The Saint Mary’s theater season continued on its wonderful course last week with a production of Rodgers and Hammerstein’s The King and I. The authors provided their effort with all the necessary elements of slick theater as they usually do, but in this particular piece ® they also succeeded in molding a unique dramatic situation, through effective characterizations, into a truly believable human experience. The music is simple and direct, neither commonplace nor pretentious, and woven into the play with the expertness that comes from long practice.
Mr. James Cronin, director of the present production, knows the limitations of college theater thoroughly and works £ within a framework which will not tax the less experienced member of his cast, but will give every opportunity to the more advanced actors to use their talents without restraint. This approach requires more from a director than any other for it demands that he discipline himself to a greater extent in shaping the play and compromise certain ideas he might have included in his ideal conception of the play he is working on. The wise director is willing to content " himself with these limitations for he knows that they are vital to the success of a college production.
The over-all smoothness of the Saint Mary’s effort reminded me that this virtue, suggestive of professionalism, is probably the most sought after, least often attained goal of academic theater ventures. The members of the cast who fell far below the polish of Ann, the King and Lady Thiang, were not at all in the way and added to the whole with their inconspicuousness, one result of Mr. Cronin’s able direction.
Myrna Walker, in her second local campus appearance in a lead role, gave to the character of Anna a believable poignancy and unaffected warmth which grew in depth as the play proceeded. She is prone to begin rather coldly, but whereas in her previous appearance she warmed up slowly and lost many of the role’s good moments, as Anna she eased into the character immediately after the first scene and made the most of her opportunities right up to the last curtain. Miss Walker showed her considerable flexibility in the number “Shall I Tell You What I Think of You” and displayed a command of the audience throughout the play which was notable for several reasons.
Many of her scenes involved moments of a kind of painful tenderness which is most difficult to put across. At these times the script provides no supports for the novice actress; the dialogue contains the emotion in barely skeletal form. This is especially true of the action centering around the death of the king in the last act m which Anna breaks down twice, once while reading a letter and again while singing a song. This type of emotion is treacherous for the inexperienced, for the slightest overstatement of feeling can turn the scene into parody and send . an unsympathetic audience (the only kind that seems to attend anything in this area) into a state of amused hostility toward “the kids” on the stage. If Miss Walker’s back
ground suggests that she is inexperienced her performance doesn’t and she hurdled these pitfalls expertly, climaxing her portrayal with a truly moving final scene.
The role of the King, portrayed by Norman Ornellas, presents an entirely different problem than that of delicate subtlety. It demands an actor who is able to communicate a variety of emotions through the facade of an elderly absolute monarch who functions at fever pitch throughout the action of the play. In addition to the communication problem, there is the hindrance of an assumed Oriental accent, always detracting if it is inconsistent in any way. Happily Ornellas continues to show his ability to master a variety of characterizations with complete ease in the role of the King. His only problem throughout the evening was a slight one of projection, due partially to the hall and partially to the strain of performing such an arduous role, many nights in succession.
His portrayal took in the role completely, from his spoken songs to the last et cetera. Ornellas’ scenes with Miss Walker were especially rewarding, particularly their excellent romp through “Shall We Dance.”
Mary Kay Vrancken, as Lady Thiang, completed the trio of leads in a warm and credible reading of the King’s head wife. Her performance was at all times consistent and played to match the emotions put over by Ornellas and Miss Walker.
In the romantic leads, Barbara Pied-mo and Tom Karaty had their difficulties, but Miss Piedmo’s lovely singing and the adroit staging of Mr. Cronin avoided most of the obstacles. John Patrick Hart’s Kralahome added considerably to the polish of the show and the Chululongkorn of John Rammel was surprisingly authentic.
at the galleries
0 Very little is known of the life of "" Bartolommeo Veneto, due possibly to the great number of artists working all in a vei-y similar style in and around Venice at the beginning of the 16th century. Veneto’s works have often been confused with those of another painter, Andrea Solario, because of his dependency upon influence from Leonardo da Vinci. It has been suggested that Veneto was a student of Leonardo’s in Milan as early as 1498, although his first known signed 1a and dated work is a Madonna and Child w painted in 1502. It is generally agreed that he was a pupil of Gentile Bellini and that in 1506-08 he was working in Ferrara for Lucrezia Borgia; he was ;	later active in Bergamo and then in
•	Milan. His last known painting was
| done in 1530, though there is reference to him as late as 1535.
The painting in the Notre Dame Col> lection is a magnificent work typical of I , the Italian High Renaissance. It is of a Is®
g March 17, 1961
I
noble lady, seen nearly full-face, and placed against a dark, rather obscure background in which there are barely discernable two castles, one on either side. The lady is wearing a rich gold-brocade gown decorated with ribbons and puffs of a lighter material. She holds a crab-apple in her left hand. The pose is very similar to that of Leonardo’s “Mona Lisa,” indicating that Veneto was aware of that masterpiece. Although a positive identification of the subject is impossible to make, most experts agree that the Notre Dame painting is probably a portrait of Beatrice D’Este, Duchess of Milan. The reason for this is that on the lady’s belt buckle is inscribed the name “BEATRICI,” and the two castles in the background are identifiable as the Sforzza Castle in Milan (left) and the D’Este Palace in Padua (right). Another point-in-case is that the crab-apple is part of the D’Este family insignia. It is unlikely that the portrait was painted from life because the D’Este family usually had portraits painted to commemorate members of their family after death. Our portrait probably dates from about 1502. It is
painted in oil glaze on a wooden panel and was given to the University Art Gallery in 1951 by Mrs. Fred J. Fisher of Detroit.
James Key Reeve
GOALS FOR AMERICANS (Ed. by H. M. Wriston et al.), Prentice-Hall: $1.00.
Eleven fairly prominent leaders of government, business, labor and education have combined their talents into preparing “The Report of the President’s Commission on National Goals.” This document of scarcely two dozen pages is accompanied by sixteen explanatory essays, written by other prominent leaders an.’i concerned with a wide variety of topics — from Henry Wris-ton’s “The Indirtdual” to “Technological Change” by Thomas J. Watson, Jr. and “Farm Policy for the Sixties” by Lauren K. Soth.
The comprehensive nature of this book, which attempts to survey all aspects of the American situation in the coming decade and suggest appropriate courses of action, precludes a detailed consideration of its contents. But there are certain points that ought to be brought out. As the Commission is composed of quite outstanding and respected thinkers and men of action, one might expect the Report to be filled with the accumulated profound wisdom of acute obsei-vers of the contemporary scene. Closer examination of the Report, however, seems to show that the panel members were content with suggesting goals that no one could particularly object to —and which, of course, become quite innocuous. Thus, the President’s Commission seems to have been only able to agree on a least common denominator of the membership’s views. One might recall Montesquieu’s observation that “when you have the greatest number of wise men gathered together, you have the least wisdom.”
The value of the suggestions contained not only in the Report itself but also of the supplementary studies is substantially lessened by the absence of any attempt to present more than one point of view on the topics discussed. Generally, a specific national problem, area of friction, or need will be stated, and a detained remedy will then be offered. While it is something of a relief to read a report that does not see additional federal spending and control as the “only realistic” panacea for America’s problems, it is rather a disappointment that the authors refuse to acknowledge any solution—or even any perspective
16
— differing from their own. Furthermore, attempts are but seldom made to show that the proposed remedies and courses of action would, in fact, produce the desired goals. Consequently, although an avowed purpose of the book is to “evoke active discussion,” a genuine stimulation of constructive criticism cannot be expected. A reader can do little more than give a yes-or-no response, to the Report’s recommendations, and any discussion engendered by the book would either be on a theoretical — almost philosophical — level, with the usual liberal-conservative clash, or else be reduced to an argument on the feasibility of some particular remedy. In either case, the book will be of little or no genuine value to the participants.
Another serious editorial defect is the lack of any over-all unity that would bind the various studies and suggestions together in one workable, understandable whole. While, for example, the Commission feels that several million farm families will have to leave their farms and move to the cities in the coming decade, there is no cognizance taken of this proposed influx into the already glutted labor supply when the latter problem is raised a few pages later. Thus the policy of presenting each topic in a vacuum undoubtedly does much to extenuate the influence of this work.
In sum, while often quite lofty and admirable — and in several places nearly profound — Goals for Americans is not suitable for anyone interested in the America of the Sixties who happens to lack a very full acquaintance with the current social, economic, educational, technological, political, ideological and international situations in which America finds itself. Indeed, perhaps the professional himself would feel that nothing in the Report is especially new, and the mode of presentation adopted may leave the expert quite exasperated.
Richard Jensen
PETER FREUCHEN’S ADVEN-
TURES IN THE ARCTIC (edited by Dagmar Freuchen) Julian Messner,
Inc., $4.95., 383 pp.
Peter Freuchen's Adventures in the
Arctic is a fascinating narrative of life
F -in a strange, hidden world of the Arctic. «. The author, Peter Freuchen, was born 17 in Denmark in 1886 and after a brief, unsuccessful academic career joined an 9 expedition to Greenland led by the ex- f plorer Mylius-Erichsen. After several | return trips to Denmark the author ■ settled among the Eskimos on the north- j west coast of Greenland and with his | lifelong friend Knud Rasmussen founded I the settlement at Thule. Freuchen mar- [ ried an Eskimo woman, Navarana, who| • accompanied him on many of his trips j | and eventually bore him two children. I 7 The author spent over twenty years in A this isolated region exploring, hunting, and learning about the people there. Peter Freuchen has written several other F books about his adventures including his j famous Book of the Seven Seas and a | novel made into a movie, Eskimo. I
(Continued on page 18)	I _
BOOKS RECEIVED
BARNES AND NOBLE (University Paperbacks)
The Sacred Wood, by T. S. Eliot, essays on poetry and criticism, 171 pp., $1.25, paperpack reprint.
SCRIBNER'S (The Scribner Library)
11
Christianity and History, by Herbert Butterfield, 146 pp., $1.25, an essay on Christian philosophy of history, paperback reprint.
NEWMAN PRESS
The Conversion of Augustine, by Romano Guardini, 253 pp., $3.95.
Origins of the Modern Roman Liturgy, by Van Dijk-Walker, 586 pp., $10.50.
JULIAN MESSNER PRESS
The World of Carnegie Hall, by Richard Schickel, 438 pp., $8.50.
The War: A Concise History 1939-1945, by Louis L. Snyder with forward by Eric Sevareid, 579 pp., $7.95.
The Scholastic
4
'Critic'
■	(Continued from page 15)
Much credit should be directed to other members of the production staff whose help was indispensible for the total effect the production created. The costumes of Suzanne Stemnock, for example, were designed and executed with | -close regard for the personal traits of I "the character they adorned. Miss Walk-I er’s costumes were stunning and Mr. Ornellas' suggested precisely what they were intended to, the clothing of a semi-barbaric king trying to civilize himself ' and his country.
The dancing, including a full length ! ballet with chorus, grew from the joint | efforts of Janetta McNamara and Tom Karaty and fit the production perfectly. The musical direction came from Mr. Rocco Germano and conformed to the ' whigh standards he has set in the past.
If there is any complaint about the I show, it is with the unnecessary amount | of stage business allotted Miss Walker during her early numbers and one or two positionings which forced singers to lose their voices into the wings. Aside from this the show deserved the sell-out crowds it drew and Mrs. Jean Gatch, Chairman of the Saint Mary’s Spech and Drama Department, should be encour-G aged to continue to provide us with these examples of what college theater can be.
* * *
On the seventh of March in Washington Hall, the Department of Music provided another of its free concerts to the public, and though the audience was typically small it was a gratifying affair. Mr. James Bastien former instructor of piano here at the University, £ played a wide range of selections from the piano literature and, after Ullmann, provided us with a look at the other side of the coin. If Mr. Bastien can be said to be technically perfect he might also be called almost perfectly cold. Charming he can be, as in the Haydn sonata he chose, and also barbaric and forceful, as in his craggy rendition of Prokofieff’s B-flat Sonata, but give him _ Chopin and he loses the very thing that " is most important in the music — the poetry.
His Chopin (he played the Heroic Polonaise and the D-flat Major Nocturne, Op. 27) has all the mannerisms of good Chopin, suggesting that he may have studied the approach of other pianists who know the composer well, but there is no life in the music as he plays it. His approach to Debussy strangles the music in the same way, but here he has Debusy’s immaculate form w to capitalize on and does.
He included a Menotti Ricercare and Toccata which he executed with breathtaking clarity and the Prokofieff mentioned above was a brilliant reading. His performance on the whole satisfied more than Ullmann’s, for he picked his program better and had a good instrument to work with, but both pianists avoid to a great extent the necessities for producing art. Maybe another time.
—J. S. Oliver
March 17, 1961
At the Theaters
Two unexpected switches this week: Can-Can and Where the Boys Are did not run as long as expected. Naturally, this is a little sad, since you who saw the latter know how funny it is, and I have already said I — I like-like Can-Can.
The Colfax is bringing us a true story that is definitely stranger than most fiction. The movie is billed as the tme story of one Ferdinand Waldo Demara: The Great Impostor. His exploits were serialized all over the printed world, and what was yet to be done with him — a movie — is here now. Of course, you can’t expect a movie to be based on too much realism, even when the gist of the plot is true, but things might have been carried too far. Tony Curtis, with his baby face (to say something else might be uncharitable), plays the leading role with two things in mind: a madcap heroism in parts and strictly for laughs. This, and the many amorous encounters during the film, detract from the kind of man Demara is in real life. He lived his roles so completely that, by his own admission, he sometimes forgot who he really was. And his plain-looking, tummy-heavy appearance bears no resemblance to Curtis’ extreme flamboyance. Together with Curtis, Edmond O’Brien, Arthur O’Connell, Karl Malden, and Gary Merrill, there appear no less than four serious romantic entanglements within 112 minutes.
By the way, if you have heard the theme song of the movie as played over the radio, you won’t recognize the original version. A minor headache, but a little bothersome.
“Finally,” as the manager said, the Granada is hosting The Grass is Greener. By this time, many of us had already given up hope. This offering can only be called a very broad drawing room farce, but a veiy engaging one at that. It provides some of the best dialogue ever written and hands it over to a talented quartet: Cary Grant, Deborah Kerr, Jean Simmons, and Robert Mitchum. Yes, even Mitchum is influenced into being entertaining, as he was in The Sundozvners. There is also another star, Moray Watson, an Englishman who behaves very much like Tony Randall and manages to look like him at times.
The topic is adult, to say the least, and the treatment is the lightest possible. Grant and Miss Kerr are a married English couple whose palatial mansion is haunted by paying sightseers. Mitchum is an American millionaire who meets Miss Kerr during a tour and falls for her like a rock, and Jean Simmons is a divorced friend of the family who has been drooling over’ Grant for some time. What could possibly come out of this? Much on and off, but in the end everything turns out fine and Grant and Miss Kerr return to marital bliss.
Several songs by Noel Coward liven up the movie, notably “The Stately Homes of England” and “Mad Dogs and Englishmen.” This and Technicolor do much for a movie which here and there suffers from an overabundance of dialogue. These spots, however, don’t dominate the plot.
Down in what used to be our biggest state, there’s this old mission, see, and in it were holed up some blood-and-guts men who didn’t want to be ruled by Mexico. So they fought it out and in the end none of these men survived, which meant they wouldn’t be ruled by Mexico after all. A true story which is already gathering
(Continued on page 19)
17
from the STACKS
(Continued from page 16)
Freuchen made many expeditions throughout the Arctic regions ranging from Greenland and northern Canada to Lapland and Siberia. He describes his journeys and their often harrowing experiences. Death and disaster seem to be a part of daily life in the Arctic. On numerous occasions Freuchen faced death in the form of starvation, icebergs and blizzards, the perilous sea, and wild animals. He emerged miraculously unharmed, but was eventually forced to lose one leg which had once been frozen.
The real interest of the book lies in the many descriptions and anecdotes, the Eskimo themselves — a simple childlike people untouched by the vices and corruptions of a more complex civilization. These people are modest to an extreme, only referring personally to themselves in the indefinite third person. It is considered by them bad manners to ask for things directly or to appear anxious about anything. This last is very difficult for them since they are an extremely curious people. Shows of emotion are bad omens and when Freuchen leaves his wife to return some stranded whalers to their ship he “casually mentioned to Navarana that the weather seemed good for a little boat trip.”
The narrative is never dull, and his descriptions of a number of incidents involving the Eskimos are quite humorous. At one time the author and several Eskimos, including women and children, were trapped on a small ice pan that threatened momentarily to plunge them to an icy death in the Arctic sea. One Eskimo apologizing for his wife calmly and confidently told Freuchen that she must not be blamed for her irritation since “she belongs to those who are angry when adrift on an ice pan if they have small babies.” In another place he gives the Eskimo definition of bear as “so constructed that they do not like to have a spear in them.”
Their moral code, quite shocking to us, is quite simple and natural to them. The relationship between a man and his wife is purely economic; love to them is something isolated from sex. A man might lend his wife to other men, indeed this was the hospitable thing to do, but it was very serious business for a man to get another woman to sew for him without her husband’s expressed permission. Women referred to their husbands as “The Terrible” or “Dreadful”-because a man’s affection is most readily shown by beating his wife mercilessly — usually in the company of other men and women.
Freuchen writes in an easy to read, straightforward style. He has a pleasing, droll sense of humor. The book gives a vibrant, personal description of the people, the environment, the customs and folklore of an isolated culture. For anyone with an interest in strange people and places, and a yen for adventure, Peter Freuchen's Adventures in the Arctic will prove to be fascinating and rewarding reading.
18
THE WRANGLERS	'
Invites Applications for Membership
Notre Dame’s campus discussion group is now open to new : members.	f
In bimonthly meetings, the readings of a short paper on some problem of a serious intellectual nature is followed by a critical 1 discussion. Some idea of the variety of its concerns can be seen ® within the context of first semester’s theme, Christianity and Classicism: “Israel and Revelation,” “Ethics and Antiquity,” . “Augustinian Politics” and “Order and Myth.” The current | semester is being devoted to more modern problems. Already ? presented were papers on “Frontier and the West” and “Philoso- , !, phies of the Absurd.”	{
Since one-half of the present positions will be vacated by ! an unusually large number of graduating seniors, we encourage . anyone interested to apply. Applications addressed to 325 $ Walsh before March 28 will be personally notified of admission procedure. Freshmen are especially welcome.
If at First . . .
or a letter or anything?
HOW: Yeh, he said something about a letter.
JON: Tonight could be it. That girl likes to brag and boy she’d be proud of a champ. This’ll probably decide it.
HOW: I can’t say, Johnny. I suppose she’ll have to choose one of you soon.
She’s a cute kid.
JON: Yeh, the best in town. I don’t know a better looking girl, (a silence) I keep seeing punches coming at me. I had a rough fight Wednesday night. Second round, I remember seeing an opening. I shot a left into his chest, but dropped my guard a little and caught a hook square on the chin. Good thing it was near the end of the round or he would have had me. (looking at the tape on his hand) Tighten it a little, Howie, it’s still pretty loose.
HOW: (unwinding the tape) O.K., let me know how tight.
JON: Then in the next round he almost got me again, but I rolled with the punch. (Howie begins retaping) Yeh, that’s good Howie. Keep it that tight. Then I threw a jab that landed. I threw another; he parried; I hooked; he ducked; I crossed and boom, got him square on the nose. Blood squirted out and I got cocky. He rallied and I had to duck. He missed over my head and then I saw his stomach, open and twisted with the momentum from his cross. I wailed in my right and then heard him gasp. I threw an uppercut and he buckled. The feel of victory ran up my arm. It was all over.
HOW: That was a good fight. I remember that everybody was standing and cheering.
JON: Yeh. Boy I’d like to do it again tonight. My muscles are aching to fight. I’d sure like to win.
HOW: (finished wrapping) Might as well put your gloves on, Johnny. It’s al-
(Continued from page 13)	J
most time. (Johnny goes over to his £ locker and pulls out a pair of boxing\V gloves.)
JON: Here, Howie, hold them while I push my hand in. Lace ’em up too, if you will. (Rosy enters, goes to his locker- and gets his gloves. He waits : while Howie helps Johnny and then he ,
goes to him.)
ROS: Mine too, huh, Howie. (Howie is silent. He helps Rosy. Johnny walks over to the door and stands. Rosy gets F his gloves on and Joe enters.)
JOE: (loudly) Tarquinn and Me- ! Lease, you’re on. (Johnny walks through the door followed by Rosy.) Aren’t you -coming Howie?	?
HOW: No, I’d rather hear about it. . (Lights dim. Joe exists and closes out the roar of the crowd. The stage remains quiet and dark as Howie sits on c the front bench, head down. A short f ' space of time passes. The door opens. A Rosy enters, sweating and cut over his v--left eye. Johnny, bleeding from the nose and lip, is right behind him patting his back and making an effort to shake his
hand. Rosy looks up, exhibits a faint smile, and shakes his hand briefly.)
JON: Nice fight Rosy, old Rosebud, way to go. (Howie, standing, looks puzzled. Rosy walks over to his locker, looks down at his gloves and begins to remove them. Johnny, standing next to Howie, begins to speak enthusiastically.) Yeh, it was close. I tried charging in a few too many times. He caught on and clouted me in the third round, (looks over at Rosy) You’d have to say it was close till then, wouldn’t you Rosy? (Joe enters)
JOE: (excitedly) Let’s go Rosy. Out to the ring, they’re taking pictures. Bronson knocked out Georgie in the first round. They want a shot of all the champs together. (Rosy looks up; his
(Continued on page 19)
The Scholastic

your HEADQUARTERS IN SOUTH BEND FOR
I
Top
Evening Star Engagement Ring
Bride’s Circlet..............
IAM0N
RINGS
$475.00 $ 60.00
Bottom
Emerald Cut Engagement Ring
Bride’s Circlet...............
$225.00 $ 30.00
Wonderful selection of Artcarved Diamond Rings from $50. All fully guaranteed for diamond quality and Permanent Value.
CREDIT (with no interest) AND LAY-A-WAY AVAILABLE TO NOTRE DAME MEN
C«*K>
121 W. WASHINGTON CE 4-1311
Author,^ Artcarved j-rf*

'Reagan*
(Continued from page 14) face still moody. He tugs nervously at his robe and then looks sharply at Howie.) Hey, let’s go. That’s no face for a champ. You’d think you’d lost or something.
ROS: I’m coming Joe. Yeh, sure I’ll follow, (pause) I might even write to Sarah tonight. (Joe exits. Rosy follows with Howie hanging on his shoulder exclaiming his congratulations. Johnny moves over to his locker. He punches it. Again. Then again, and again, and again.)
'Theaters'
(Continued from page 17) bits of legend around it is in its second week at the State. Its name: The Alamo. Remember the Alamo? This is not meant in jest of the men who died there or of the ideals for which they died. This is meant to jolt the minds of screenwriters who have put more psychological depth into Davy Crockett (John Wayne), Jim Bowie (Richard Widmark), Colonel Travis (Laurence Harvey), and Sam Houston (Richard Boone) than they probably had. These men fought for a very simple reason: they wanted to be free. Naturally, the movie has to fill in quite a bit, since no eyewitnesses were left on the Texan side and after the event, Mexico and this country were hardly on speaking terms. But that filling might cause some indigestion.
The movie was filmed at a cost of $12 million, on the biggest screen they could find, and in full color. This color bit lends special realism to the blood, which by mid-battle is knee high. (I have just been informed that two witnesses, a mother and her small daughter, were alive after the Alamo, but they didn’t see much.)
John Wayne produced, directed, and leads the cast. Dimitri Tiomkin is responsible for the splendid musical score. You don’t have to be in much of a hurry to see this one, since the manager won’t venture even the most modest estimate of its stay in this fair burg.
A note of interest before we part: the Colfax is already exhibiting posters for Cimarron and Gone With the Wind. Let’s just hope they don’t turn out a performance similar to the Granada’s the past few months. Tony Wong
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. Michigan	AT 7-5477
You’re a natural wonder in
THE WORLD’S UGHTEST SPORT COAT
If your natural instinct is to play it cool — brother, you’ll flip your raspberry for an Odd Jacket by H-LS. Almost burdenless to begin with, it’s almost supernatural how such slim-cut lines can generate so much high-powered fashion. Three-button front;, shoulders entirely your own; hacking pockets; center vent.
At your favorite campus store-; in a wide and wonderful selection of washable all-cotton fabrics and automatic wash-and-wear Dacron polyester blends... $14.95 to 325.00.
' March 17, 1961
19
For Notre Dame Men...
NOTRE DAME'S JOHN ZAHM
By Ralph E. Weber
Publication Date: February 15 210 pp.	$5.00
The vital story of a vital man! Father John Zahm, graduate of Notre Dame and priest of the Holy Cross community, was at various times in his career a scientist, an administrator, an apologist for true science and true religion, and Provincial of Holy Cross in this country. But above all, he was a promoter of the University of Notre Dame. More than any other single man, John Zahm exerted a decisive influence in the molding of this university into a respected institute of learning and a powerhouse of Catholic intellectual effort. Mr. Weber has skillfully woven together a fascinating account of a dynamic priest, the impact of whose presence is still being felt at Notre Dame.
* * ♦
The University of Notre Dame Press is dedicated to a publishing program that will reflect the best in Catholic intellectual endeavor. We urge you to consult a copy of the 1961 Spring Catalog for a complete listing of current and contemplated works.
One example of the direction toward which the University Press is aiming might be the International Studies Series. Two new titles to be published this Spring are:
SOVIET POLICY TOWARD THE CONTROL OF ATOMIC ENERGY
By Joseph Nogee
AMERICAN DIPLOMACY SINCE THE SECOND WORLD WAR
By Stephen D. Kertesz, ed.
Other popular titles in the series DIPLOMACY IN A CHANGING WORLD and
WHAT AMERICA STANDS FOR
Both edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons
currently available:
SOVIET POLICY TOWARD THE BALTIC STATES, 1918-1940
By Albert N. Tarulis
THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION AND RELIGION, 1917-1925
Edited and translated by Boleslaw Szczesniak
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS
Notre Dame, Indiana
20
The Scholastic
FINALS
Notre Dame’s Bengal Bouts, having featured two nights of talented and colorful fighting, progresses into the final and big performances tonight when champions in each of the six divisions ■will be crowned. The finalists, of course, are those battlers who dominated the Wednesday night encounters; and indeed this group is one of the greatest ever at Notre Dame.
The opening night fights, staged before a sparse crowd and competing against the Patterson-Johansson clash, provided an ample supply of fine pugilists. The eighteen first round battles proved to all that there was a liberal distribution of talent in each division; the spectators responded with no little excitement.
AN EXCITING INITIATION FOR 1961
The first Monday night fight set the tone for the rest of the evening. In this 132-pound clash, Bill Friedheim of Zahm out-maneuvered and out-classed a spirited Jim Motsett of Morrissey before gaining the nod on a TKO with one minute gone in the second round. The crowd had yet to settle itself again when Kevin Connelly, fighting in the 165-pound class, powered two stiff rights to Jack Hildebrand’s chin, knocking him out with just 43 seconds of the first round history.
Then the 145-pound class gained the feature role. Art Rutherford of Zahm demonstrated steady control and weathered a comeback from his Lyons opponent, Ross Rosi, to merit the judge’s decision. The second clash of 145-pounders featured one of the most scientific bouts, Dick Morrissey from Off-Campus winning a close decision over a troublesome foe, Dick Engelhardt. Carl Hogan then claimed the coveted winner’s laurels as he outpointed Arnold Leporati after gaining the advantage on a first round knockdown. A final clash in the 145-pound division featured Brian Richardson of Zahm by a rugged Jim Furstoss in a see-saw encounter.
r
1961
- M-j
MANY CLOSE ENCOUNTERS
Monday’s closest encounter resulted in the opening of the 150-pound class. Here, Joe Srholez of Zahm had quite a struggle against Francis Callahan’s long right arm; it was Srholez’ perseverance that finally won. Dan Fichter, a solid first-year man seemed to have the next 150-pound go in control, but he tired in the second round and Ed Hagan of Cavanaugh staged a great comeback to emerge victorious. Rich Ginder and John Welch, both of Zahm, fought evenly before Welch won on short jabs in that 150-pound fight. In the final 150-pound encounter, Bill Cleary of Dillon, a crowd pleaser, outpointed Tony Kozole of Badin after surviving a first-round knockdown.
Aside from Connelly’s sensational knockout, Clyde Hightower of Fisher provided the greatest thrills in the 165-pound class. Hightower demonstrated finesse and solid powei- in the TKO subdual of Lyons’ Charles McCafferty. This was after Dillon’s Dick Trujillo had counter-punched his way to victory over a never-say-die Jim Fleming of Morrissey. The final 165-pound battle featured two Brennans, Tom of Lyons and Pat of Morrissey. It was Pat, using a longer reach to good advantage, finally the victor in this battle of the fightin’ Irish.
MORE EXCITEMENT
Excitement was yet to come, this time in the person of freshman footballer Bill Mundee. Initiating the 170-pound slate, Mundee demonstrated awesome power in flooring George O’Meara of Zahm with just 1:26 passed in the first round. But Sorin’s Tom Romans was determined to equalize such prestige. He, also in an awesome display of thundering punches, earned a technical knockout over Bob Mulcahy of Zahm in the first round. Tom Hynes outpunched Sonny Hayden of Lyons to gain the final 170-pound semifinal right.
In the 191-pound division, Rich DeRosa outboxed Dick Eatinger in a scientific display while senior Dennis O’Shaughnessy closed out the evening with a victory over Wayne Zdanowicz of Breen-Phillips.
There were more, many more good fighters who received first round byes and therefore weren’t recipients of Monday’s acclamation. Their acknowledgment came last Wednesday. It was just as thunderous. And certainly tonight’s will be the culmination, the final tribute to the hard work of all. The 1961 Bengals began sensationally; it is likely they will end that way.	—Jay Kilroy
c March 17, 1961
21
ODDS and ENDS
Now that Trader Frank Lane has set up offices in Kansas City, owner Charles Finley has ventured a prediction: “Kansas City will have one team going, one coming, and one playing.” . . .
Denver, Minnesota, St. Lawrence, and Rensselaer Poly Tech are the four finalists in this year’s NCAA hockey championships in Denver. Coach Johnny Mariucci’s entirely American-horn Gopher squad finished second to all-Canadian Denver in the Western Collegiate Hockey Conference, and bested third-place Michigan in a two-game, total goals playoff series. Opposing Denver and Minnesota will be the East’s two top teams, St. Lawrence and RPI; Denver and Minnesota are rated the favorites. . . .
SCHOLASTIC prognosticator Bill Cary feels that Ohio State can avoid the inevitable off day long enough to capture the NCAA playoff tide. Cary picks St. Louis’ Billikens to take the NIT. . . .
Notre Dame student Carl Yastrzem-ski is the most highly publicized rookie of the spring, and is a good bet to take Rookie of the Year honors in the American League. . . .
This month’s copy of “Track and Field News” carries a photograph of Russian high jumper Valeriy Brumel touching his foot to the rim of a basket, ten feet above the floor. Pretty decent spring! . . .
Closed circuit TV made the gross income for the Patterson-Johansson fight the largest in boxing history. Each fighter raked in over $750,000 on TV-radio-film earnings alone. Fortunately, a capacity crowd turned out in Palm Beach. . . .
AROUND THE REGION ... The 1960-61 basketball season is history, but one can only act in good sportsmanship while praising All-American Indiana players Terry Dischinger and Walt Bellamy. Dischinger ended the season with a phenomenal .825 from the free throw line and .585 from the field. Bellamy, meanwhile, converted on .510 per cent of his field goal attempts while hauling in a record number of rebounds for his Hoosier team.
Northwestern baseball mentor, Fred Lindstrom, has more problems this year than one might encounter in ten years. No less than six men counted on as starters have been cancelled out for one reason or another. Included in the six was centerfielder Denny Lundgren, a recent pro signee. Pity how the college diamonds are the major scouting grounds these days. . . .
TRANSITION ... The Wild Card substitution in the Pacific Coast Baseball League this summer should add much class to the diamond game. Now the pitcher can remain in the game while not talcing his usual cuts. This should result in nine hitters on each team instead of “eight and the moundsman” — thus, look for more scoring and higher earned run averages.
22
DAN RORKE Notre Dame quarter ace
Irish Two-Milers Await Cleveland Relay Events
Tonight Notre Dame’s two-mile relay team will be performing in the Cleveland Relays in Cleveland, O. Seniors Dennis Johnston, Dan Rorke and Ron Gregory along with junior Terry Jones will form the quartet.
Last week end, the track season’s biggest, found the two-mile relay group showing its wares at the Chicago Dooly News and Milwaukee Journal Relays. Friday night saw the two-milers finishing fourth to Western Michigan, Kansas and Iowa in the Chicago affair. The following evening in Wisconsin Coach Wilson’s quartet moved up a notch to third place, once again trailing the crack Western Michigan team.
Meanwhile, six other Irish cindermen were competing in Saturday’s IC4A meet in New York’s famed Madison Square Garden. The top Notre Dame performance was turned in by Mike Terry, who tied for fourth in the pole vault, while his classmate, junior Tom Dempsey, posted a fifth in the two-mile run.
The four remaining Notre Dame entries ran into stiff competition and failed to place. Jerry Fitzpatrick, a senior, participating in the 60-yard dash and the broad jump, sprinted against the likes of Villanova’s Frank Budd and opposed Michigan State’s Sonny Akpata, one of the best collegians in the broad jump.
Hurdlers John Mulrooney and Jim Scheeler failed to score in their specialty. One of their opponents was Boston University’s John Thomas. Frank Froelke, a sophomore, joined Terry in the pole vault event, but failed to make the select class.
The meet was won by a well-rounded Yale squad which registered a total of 30 points. Mike Pyle, All-American footballer, participated in the shot put for the Ivy Leaguers. A strong Villanova team paced second; one of the Wildcat stars was Hubie White.
baseball
ROAD TRIP
Impatience with the Indiana weather J and confidence that this year’s team will be one of his finest have prompted^ Coach Jake Kline to schedule the mosW' ambitious road trip ever undertaken by 4 a Notre Dame baseball team.	•'>
This year the squad will travel to y California and Arizona instead of a making the traditional swing through Florida and the South; plans call for | 12 or 13 games on the 16-day trip. After | flying to the coast on Saturday, March |T 25, the team will open against the Uni- k versity of California in the San Fran- £ cisco Giants’ Candlestick Park on Sun-^ day afternoon, March 26. If this game®( is not rained out, Kline plans a game L with the University of Nevada in Reno i on Monday. The Irish will then return f; to California for another contest with g Cal in Sacramento. Night and day ap-pearances against Fresno State in Fres- >7 no, and an Easter Sunday afternoon y game with Santa Clara follows. fc
The Kline nine then faces USC and H UCLA in Los Angeles, and swings south^ for games in Long Beach against Loyola®. and in San Diego against San Diego ; University.
Crossing the border to Arizona, the ' Green will close out the trip with three £ games against the University of Arizona in Tucson on April 7 and 8. A flight on ; the ninth will bring the team home in £ time for their home opener against £ Purdue on April 11.	v
Kline himself appraises the journey / thus: “It should be a really great trip,® and we hope to win a few games, too. £ They have a tremendous edge on us in I conditioning. Many of those teams will £ have played 10-15 games by the time we K play them. What we need now is some f outside work to practice hitting and '( sharpen our timing.”
Although Kline is awaiting the re- , t suits of final practice sessions before
naming his 18-man traveling squad, the@. first team is fairly well set: catcher Walt Osgood, first baseman Dick O’Leary, £ second sacker George Sefcik, shortstop | and Captain Jack Gentempo, third base- f
man Dan Hagan, Dave Hanson in left £ field, Bill Brutvan in center, and Chuck | Lennon in right.	f
As for pitching, Kline has some of f the best in the country. Senior Nick | Palihnich, right-handed ace of the Irish | staff with a 6-2 record last year, is a g prime prospect for All-America honor^^ this season, according to Complete Base- f ball, 1961; that publication ranks him as i one of America’s top three collegiate | pitchers.	J
Other senior Irish hurlers are Jack
Mitchell, who posted a 0.71 ERA in 50 2/3 innings last season, and southpaw Mike Brennan, who had a 3-1 record
and 1.25 ERA last spring. Juniors Jim < Carey and Jim Fitzpatrick are also top I
Terry Wolkerstorfer
prospects.
The Scholastic |

Spring is just around the corner and with it, many of the traditional sports here on the Notre Dame campus. One sport seldom recognized but gaining in popularity is that of sailing. The Irish sailing teams have done well in past years against the best competition that Midwest and Eastern teams have had to offer.
At the present time, the sailors are beginning their spring sessions on St Joseph's Lake. The team officers have also been holding weekly meetings every Wednesday night in the Engineering Building to stimulate interest in the team. The meetings are held at 7:30 p.m. and the public is invited to attend.
The pictures below depict sailing as it is — exciting and always interesting. Sailing demands balance and stability, thus much work and effort is expected from the team members. And, of course, there is another prerequisite — the wind.

17, 1961
Sorin Cogers Win Title As Winter Activities End
An organizational meeting for spring Interhall sports will be held in the boxing room of the Fieldhouse on Monday, March 20 at 4:30 p.m., according to Mr. Dominick J. Napolitano, Director of Intramural Athletics. Softball, baseball, volleyball, golf, and tennis programs will be discussed.
All interested in the golf and tennis programs and a representative of each tentative softball, baseball, or volleyball team are requested to be present.
The only Interhall sport currently underway is handball, with basketball, swimming, wrestling and track recently concluded. Finals in the handball tournament will be held in the Eockne Memorial.
Sorin defeated Dillon Black, 43-39, to win the Interhall Basketball Championship. A strong second half pulled it out for the Sorinites in the Friday night contest.
Keenan swept the wrestling and swimming competition, with Cavanaugh finishing first in the campus-wide track meet.
In the swim meet, Keenan had 23 points; Sorin, 16; Cavanaugh, 15; and Dillon, 12. It was no contest in the grappling competition, as Keenan with 73 points outscored runner-up Breen-Phillips by 33. Breen-Phillips had 40, Zahm 33, and St. Edward’s 30. Ten halls had wrestlers in the eight novice and five open divisions.
Cavanaugh romped in the track meet, with 41 points to Stanford’s 19. Dillon finished third with 18 points. Individual winners are: 60-yd. dash, J. Robinson, :6.5; 60-yd. low hurdles, J. Snowden, -7.6; 220-yd. dash, T. Kollman, :24.9; 440-yd. dash, J. Kelly :56.0; 880-yd. run, M. Kovac, 2:03.0; 880-yd. relay, Dillon (Coffin, Belefonte, Goodwin, Cooney), 1:42.0; shot put, J. Snowden, 45'1"; high jump, D. Yates, 5'9"; broad jump, O’Meara, 19' 8%".
Fencers Lose to Wayne; End Year With 10-6 Slate
Wayne State of Detroit took the decision in a hard fought 15-12 win over the Notre Dame fencers in the final meet of the season last Saturday in the Fieldhouse. For the fencers of Wayne State it was the fourteenth straight win this season and gave them a record of 21 straight over the last two seasons. The Irish ended their season with a 10-6 slate, an off year for Coach Walter Langford and his team.
Although succumbing to their sixth setback of the season, the Irish made a good showing against the visitors from Detroit. After the sabre and epee competition had been completed, the score was deadlocked at 9-9. A strong showing in the foil where they outscored the Irish 6-3 proved to be the decisive factor in the Wayne State triumph.
In the individual competition the fencers outdistanced Wayne in the epee competition, 6-3. John Donlon won all three of his matches to give the Irish three valuable points. Donlon was a standout all season in the epee. Dan Kenney was close behind as he took two out of three matches. The sixth point was picked up by Mike Fernandez.
In the sabre and foil Wayne won out with 6-3 advantages in each event. A bright light in sabre for Notre Dame was Larry Keough who won two matches. A big disappointment in this phase of competition was Tom Shipp, a junior who had been coming along well in recent matches. Tom experienced an off day and failed to win in his three matches.
In foil Tom Dwyer won two of three matches for the best individual performance by an Irish fencer in this section. Captain Mike Curtin got the other point for the Irish in foil.
The only remaining competition is the NCAA meet. Coach Langford is undecided as yet as to whom will represent Notre Dame.
BEST BUYS IN BOOKS
MACMILLAN
• DIALOGUE WITH DEATH
Arthur Koestler
IMAGE
• WE HAVE BEEN FRIENDS TOGETHER
Raissa Maritain
•	STAGE OF FOOLS
Charles Brady
•	CASE OF CORNELIA CONNELLY
Juliana Wadham
• UNDERSTANDING EUROPE
Christopher Dawson
CAPRICORN BOOKS
• POETRY OF BORIS PASTERNAK
INFORMATION PLEASE ALMANAC $1.35
THE CATHOLIC ALMANAC
BANTAM
Hawaii lames Mitchner
Gl

BLOCK BROS.
Gift-wrapped and Mailed To All Parts of the World
Cor. Mich, at Wash, in Downtown So. Bend
RWTURBOW
^OPTOMETRIST
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVES HOTEL
207 W. Washington—Phone CE 4-5777
ATTENTION SPORTS LEADERS
Next Monday afternoon at 4:30, Dominick Napolitano will meet with all students who wish to submit team entries in the following interhall sports: tennis, golf, volleyball, softball and baseball. The meeting will be held in Mr. Napolitano’s office on the second floor of the Fieldhouse.
Those attending the meeting will act as the official representatives for the particular team they might wish to enter; all entries must be submitted by March 27, the final day before the Easter vacation.
With prompt response resulting at this meeting, play in the sports mentioned above can begin soon after the return from Easter vacation.
ATTENTION:
Faculty and Students
Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (Latest Ed.)
Special Price $5.85
Notre Dame Bookstore on - the - campus
24
The Scholastic
Letters
(Continued from page 4)
There the student body proclaims for its playing representatives just how much । sportsmanship they are willing to allow, Qj and just what kind of leadership they | require.
(y'i	Susan DiNahm
/Jl Editor:
k ? i The “letter” which appeared in the ; Scholastic last week concerning your article “Tribute to a Leader” was downright nauseating! Is it possible that a ; couple of our fellow students could have written such a letter?
I The captain of this year’s team was I not only a leader on the court but was 1 ' also a representative of the University of Notre Dame throughout the country. '» ’ Wherever spectators saw him, they saw ' : us. No matter what certain individuals ‘	• might think of him, he was willing to
give his time to further the interests of the University of Notre Dame; and for , this, I believe he deserves our commendation— not our condemnation.
I hope this letter will discourage others from making similar attacks upon “our representatives”; for such things can only lead to the disunity of the student body.
Peter Fischer
335 Breen-Phillips
NEW ORLEANS ' Dear Editor:
Among your letters of two weeks ago was one in defense of New Orleans. I would wholeheartedly concur with the author’s contention that much progress i had been made in New Orleans prior to /. the present school situation.
, However, what I would most like to , Sbomment upon is his statement that “the > few negroes that are here are either ! international students or athletes.” As ’ far as I know there are twenty-two : Negro students attending Notre Dame.
Of these, three are athletes and six are foreign students. Thus about forty percent of the Negro students here are foreign visitors or athletes, instead of the hundred per cent indicated in the ^previous quotation. Last year the per-xientage was about twenty-five per cent among twenty-one students. I might add that half of the Negro students presently enrolled are either in the College of Science or Engineering.
Although these corrections may seem trivial, they point out one of the main
NABICHT CAFETERIA
1415 Lincolnway West AAA Approved Cafeteria
FREE PARKING
causes of prejudice, mass generalization. It is assumed that, generally speaking, the only Negroes who could get through four years at Notre Dame are athletes who would get special tutoring, and foreign students that are somehow different from the American Negro. Yet we see that in this case the generalization is untrue. This is only one of the many “myths” that form a stumbling block in the path of the Negro’s progress. This could aptly be called “the White problem.”
Percy A. Pierre 203 Sorin
TRUE INDIVIDUALISM Editor:
The Sharon Statement, included in a recent Back Page summarizes well what Modern Conseiwatism is, but it is sad that such an important statement does not summarize what Modem Conserwa-tism should be. In recording this “statement of principle” the “100 delegates, representing 44 colleges and universities” neglected completely their true student responsibility.
It is not the task of university students to rashly join. It is not their task to immediately bind themselves to Modern Consei-vatism or to the popular notions of Liberalism. Students have been given a number of years to study these theories, to evaluate them, to criticize them, to improve them, or to develop new ones.
The framers of the Sharon Statement, the Young Americans for Freedom, have neglected their student responsibilities, since they have taken up an assortment of misunderstood and unimproved nineteenth century ideas and have tried to make of them a twentieth century political philosophy. With this “underlying philosophy” as a base, they have whirled into action — organizing, demonstrating, speaking, picketing, and, chiefly, attracting publicity.
Have they answered these questions: Can individual freedom for all men ever be gained if each man is working only for “my freedom?” Would individuals, if free, be able to protect themselves from the more powerful? Isn’t the tyranny of an unregulated market economy just as stifling as the tyranny of giant-government and overorganized labor unions? Isn’t the nineteenth century myth of the “nigged individual” dead? Wasn’t “nigged individualism” merely “ragged greed?” What is true individualism? What is true freedom? Shouldn’t Young Americans for Freedom be as much interested in the freedom of Southern negroes as they are in the freedom of the states or in the freedom of their own personal property from inordinate taxation? Can an effective political system be based on selfishness? Can an effective foreign policy be based on selfish nationalism?
It is true that there exists today a reversion from blind popular Liberalism, a “Liberalism” which, in attempting to free men from the control of the market economy, is binding them with the control of rampant central government.
Yet this reversion should not cause university students to repeat the mistakes of the nineteenth century “liberals.”
Let’s not organize. Let’s disorganize^ and allow all worn-out organizations, and all new organizations founded on worn-out theories, to fall apart. Deciding which theories and organizations are vital, and developing fresh political theory based on this vitality is the responsibility of university students.
Robert Stepsis and Thomas Cassidy 214 and 313 Howard Hall
Classified Advertisii<
EARN $135 weekly during summer traveling overseas.
MUST BE U.S. CITIZEN. Completedetails furnished. Send $1.00 Lansing Information Service, Dept. E-17, Box 74, New York 61, N.Y.
CANOE TRIPS
into the Quetico-Superior Wilderness. For individuals or groups. Write Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Ely, Minnesota.
Scholar dollars travel farther with SHERATON HOTELS
STUDENTFACULTY DISCOUNTS
Save on the going prices of going places at Sheraton Hotels.
Special save-money rates on singles and greater savings per person when you share a room with one, two or three friends. Generous group rates arranged for athletic teams, clubs and college dans on-the-go.
For rates, reservations or further information, get in touch with:
JAMES F. TWOHY. 105 Walsh Hail Notre Dame. Indiana
Phone CE 4-9011, Ext 373
diarch 17, 1961
25
justice for all men.
Jacques Maritain has written: “The worker stands before his employer in a relationship of justice and as an adult person, and not as a child or a servant.” A brief glance at the history of the industrial revolution will make it clear that justice has not been done to the worker, nor has the worker been treated as an adult. Contrast the present fortyhour week with the previously common seventy-two-hour week. Compare the present compensation, pension and welfare benefits with the previous lack of financial benefits for the maimed, the aged, and the sick. The gross violations of human dignity were not done away with until unions won their remedies as concessions from management at the bargaining table.
Management has been and still remains ignorant of the problems of living on an hourly wage. The owners set their own salaries while the worker faces hazardous working conditions, the possibility of a sudden layoff, and the possibility of working a short week. The man on an hourly rate must endure all these situations in the face of family need of food, clothing, shelter, and medical care, and above all, the continuous efforts of the breadwinner. Without a job the workingman has nothing. He has no reserve to fall back on in case of a depression. The reason he lacks such a reserve is not thriftlessness, as some would say; rather, the daily expenses of a family require eveiy fraction of his take-home pay.
Favorable Legislators
On the other hand, the controllers of industry command their own wealth, and the wealth contributed to the corporation by stockholders in the hope of profits. It is important to note that the men comprising the management of corporations are not merely disinterested persons hired to protect the interests of the stockholders. These are the men controlling enough stock to have themselves elected as the corporation officials. In short, they have the advantage of the dispersion of the capital stock of a corporation into the hands of thousands of shareholders. The situation at the bargaining table becomes like that of a
26
single owner, or a small group of partners, having a strictly personal interest in the profits of the firm, facing the labor representatives. The variation on a time single ownership, or partnership is that these men control the money of thousands of apathetic shareholders.
How then, is the worker, with small economic stature, to face the corporation? The fact that the worker cannot expect benevolent attitude from the companies is verified by the recent steel strike. The strike was caused by company refusal to write into the new contract the work rule provisions which had been in the contracts for the preceding 10 years. The workers must unite with his fellow workers in order to achieve the minimum living conditions required by justice. The form of this uniting has evolved to the labor union movement institutionalized in the AFL-CIO. Only by means of this common effort can the workers muster a force, an economic force which might be equal to the economic force of the employer.
The recognition of the right to unionize and the right of employees to exert the economic pressure of which they are capable has been made a legal right only less than thirty years ago. The Wagner Act gave the worker the opportunity to exert his economic power; prior to this law, workers could be prohibited from what is today recognized as legitimate union activity by a court injunction, and the courts were not, in general, favorable to the worker.
It is only by means of keeping legislators in office who are favorable to the interests of the workingman that the workingmen can protect their economic interest. The economic weapons of the worker, the strike, slowdown, and boycott, are all negative in manner. To act in a positive manner the worker must enter politics, and by so doing influence legislation. This is a perfectly legitimate device of a democracy where each and eveiy man is entitled to speak his mind on subjects which affect him and his fellow citizens. At this point we might note that although there are only 13 million union members in the country, the wages and working conditions which unions win will eventually raise the standards of all workers and hence benefit the nation.
In the second part of this essay the
basic charges of the essay “Labor and Politics?” will be answered. First, freedom for the individual worker — as was^ said above, the workers must present a united front to the owners. Those who are solicitous for what they call the “suppressed and oppressed minority” in unions do not understand the reasoning behind the democratic system of majority rule. Those who would try to “free” this minority from the union would actually achieve a breakdown of the union, and thus have each individual worker face by himself the strength of^ the owner. They are not naive in this;" their object is the destraction of the instrument by which the workers protect themselves.
Power Struggles
Secondly, the actions of the Committee on Political Education are legal both in the spirit and in the letter of the law. । It is charged that labor union people®^ provide the backing and the working forces of this committee. This is true, but they engage in politics not as a labor union, but as a group of private citizens. Let the writer of “Labor and Politics?” look behind him and he will see that the men who draw their income from a “corporation or bank” are contributing to and working for the Republican party. The situations arq** equivalent. Both groups are trying to , gain control of the law making and law . enforcing instraments.
The third error is the proposition that t ruling the unions out of politics could i be equalized by ruling the companies out i of politics. The writer fails to realize ; that the two major power centers in ! our society are economics and politics. ; Forcing union people out of politics I would render helpless those who lack * great economic resources.
The union people are not on the fring^' of the law as the writer has stated, nor are they the strongarm goons as he implies by vicious innuendo. The ’ people in unions use two different organizations to participate in two different ;| but related power straggles, and to gain J the same end, justice and dignity for 1 the worker. This is completely in keep- I ing with the letter and the spirit of the I Constitution and the laws of our country. I
The ScholastiS^i
ARROW*-
snw owu
the British Ink ii shirtiigs
The eminent good looks of Arrow’s British striped oxford adds much to a man’s wardrobe. The authentic roll of the classic button-down is perfectly interpreted in the University Fashion B.D. Offered instripings of muted masculine tones as well as white and solid colors in both long and short sleeves.
*5.00
STYLING...in the classic traditiea
From the Arrow Cum Laude Collection comes the perfect example of authentic traditional styling. This luxury oxford is offered in subtle British stripings tailored with button-down collar and box pleat. Whites and plain colors too. Available in long and short sleeves *5.00
^GILBERT'
I
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS
Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
the refreshing smoke, and it combines this springtime freshness with rich tobacco taste. Spe-
cial High Porosity paper "air-softens" every puff to make Salem the most refreshing smoke
of all. No wonder it's America's fastest-growing cigarette. Smoke refreshed...smoke Salem!
C*ec‘pd b\ R J Reynolds Tobacco Company