September 23, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-liihtrl wc'h U at the Un'vers-{fi/ or Notre Dame. Manuscripts man be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Pub'i-cathns Office, Main Building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1 8 (5 7
E n terc d as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Octeb.-r 3. 1017, authorized June 23. nils.
Edmund A. Stephan................
James S. Kearns.................
Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Associate Editors
F. GRANGER WEIL	JOHN PICK
WALTER JOHNSON WILLIAM DREUX LESLIE RODDATZ	LLOYD TESKE
News Staff
MITCHELL TACKLEY..........News Editor
RAY SCHOLZ.......Assistant	Ncics Editor
MICHAEL WIEDL ROBERT DILLON
JOHN McELLIGOTT
Desk Editors
BERNARD COUSINO WALTER KENNEDY
PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY
Department Editors
JOHN PICK .............. The	Week
ROGER MCGOVERN........College Parade
JOHN PICK.............Booh Reviews
ROGER BEIRNE........Music	and Drama
Sports Staff
T. EDWARD CAREY	JAMES PICK
WILLIAM FLYNN JOSEPH KURTH PAUL HOST EDWARD VAN HUISSELING GEORGE BELTING
Features Staff
RAY WATERS.............Features Editor
LOUIS HRUBY	HARRY BURCHELL
WILLIAM KENNEDY" BRY'AN DEGAN EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
Business Staff
JOHN F. STOECKLEY... .Graduate Manager RAYMOND J. NABER___Circulation Manager R. J. FITZSIMMONS .. Advertising Manager
HARRY MCGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON J. ALBERT SMITH
Volume LXVI.
SEPTEMBER 23, 1932
Number 1.
5 UM MA R Y
COMING EVENTS
NEWS
Scholastic year opens in Sacred Heart Church;
Father O’Donnell delivers masterly sermon________ 5
S. A. C. prepares for a busy season; The Blue
Circle is organized______________________________ 5
Aspiring journalists will be given a chance upon Scholastic staff ________________________________ 5
Interhall debating will be directed by the
Wranglers this year______________________________ 6
Ten newcomers take places among the faculty; Several distinguished men are added to teaching staff____________________________________________ 7
FEATURES
Charles Sheedy is The Man About____________________12
Bishop Finnigan, eminent prelate, buried here on
August 22______________________________________16
Frank Buhl, stadium manager, has 800 men under him______________________________________________17
Introducing Captain Paul	Host___________________22
SPORTS
“Well have a tough team,” opines Coach Anderson as he puts his squad of 110 through first drills of a rigorous gridiron campaign. Story by Joe Kurth _____________________________________________20
Absence of Howery, Wilson and King dim crosscountry prospects as harriers report for work----20
Thirty-two outstanding officials named to handle nine Notre Dame games this fall------------------21
Mickey MacBeth and Jim McGrath elected captains of varsity track and baseball squads----21
Outstanding field enters annual fall medal play golf tourney scheduled for next Sunday----------------22
A dash of Irish is added to the Notre Dame grid squad’s international flavor this fall. But they’re all Fighting Irish_______________________28
FRIDAY, Sept 23—Scholastic staff meetings: editorial board, Publications office at 6:30 p. m. news, sports, features, and candidates meeting, Room 222, Main Building at 7:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, Sept. 24—Freshmen mission services 6:30 a. m., Sacred Heart Church. Movie, Ramon Novarro in “Huddle,” Washington Hall at 6:30 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, Sept. 25—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church; S. A. C. meeting, Library at 10:30 a. m.; Upperclass mission service, 7:25 p. m., Sacred Heart Church.
MONDAY, Sept. 26—Upperclass mission services, 6:30 a. m., 7:25 p. m., Sacred Heart Church; David Goldstein lecture in front of Library, 4:15 p. m. K. C. meeting, Walsh Hall, 7:45 p. m.
TUESDAY, Sept. 27—Upperclass mission services, 6:30 a. m., 7:25 p. m., Sacred Heart Church; Freshmen convocation, gym, 12:30 a. m.
WEDNESDAY, Sept. 28—Upperclass mission services, 6:30 a. m., 7:30 p. m., Sacred Heart Church; Wranglers meeting, Law building, 6:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, Sept. 29—Upperclass mission services, 6:30 a. m., 7:30 p. m., Sacred Heart Church; Spectators meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.
g
Four
The Scholastic
WE always liked green: we are gratified by the fleet of new cabs (they remind us less of Halloween); we are thankful that Indiana rains kept the grass verdant and yet neglected to wash the very leaves from the trees; as we roll our trunk behind the door we begin to enjoy our rooms, newly decorated in the latest anaemic seaweed-green; most of all, however, we like this year’s crop of Freshmen who will soon learn that life is quite earnest, that their next four years are to do something more than stamp them as college bred, that there is no such thing as a four year loaf, that education is “the process of learning the right from the wrong and that consistant practice of the right” (as noted in Education la). To repeat, we like the Freshmen, sun-bronzed, carrying labelled bags, wearing forbidden knickers. Freshmen, we welcome you.
But already you should be well on your way toward absorbing that intangible thing which is called the spirit of Notre Dame; for that spirit found perfect and facile expression in the President’s address Sunday morning. Ask any Senior; he’ll say it’s the finest talk he ever heg.rd. At least that seems to be the opinion of even the champion campus gripes. Sunday’s service, with its faculty in formal attire and its impressive ritual, has served as a suitable initiation into the collegiate year of 1932-33.
First classes are uniformly unorganized: generalizing statements and definitions, strained English attempts at humor, young instructors pulling tight-knotted ties up to stiff white collars, conscientious teachers trying to
out-patience students for fifty minutes. Always in second classes long and exhausting lists of unusable bibliography are dictated; Mr. O’Flahrety is seated next to Mr. Oldenstein. After classes corridors are filled with jumbled talk of trips to Arizona, 6-4, 7-5, 7-5 sets of tennis, 300 yard golf drives, blond-headed beauties,. and nights as boisterous as cinema plots.
1 HE brisk tempo of the exodus from class buildings to -dining hall indicates that vacation appetites linger on. But then, why shouldn’t they with fresh surprises at each meal (especially the grapes, the asparagus salad, and the liberal sprinkling of stuffed olives) ? The waiters, however, while they walk the terrazzo, still dream of summer romances. The other noon one came prancing down the aisle, buoyantly singing “You’re Blase.” Is it possible to say that the removal of many of the priests to the faculty dining hall could have elicited such frivolous thoughts ?
S OON—for it is merely a matter of a week or two—the tensity will break to give way to the routine of English themes, logic duties, drab classes, and half-hearted diversion. Wild-eyed youths dressed in their Sunday-go-to-meeting clothes will stop rushing past bulletin boards festooned with phonograph advertisements, will no longer madly pull the wrong class cards out of their pockets, and will no longer be required to present their dining hall credentials to Father Farley.
Then the school year will have begun.
September 23, 1932
Five
S. A. C. OUTLINES BUSY SCHEDULE FOR FALL
PROCESSION, DISTINCTIVE MASS, UNUSUAL SERMON OPEN THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR
Lee, Finneran, Brancheau Get Executive Positions.
FR. O’DONNELL PREACHES

Fourteen members of the Student Activities Council, under President James Gerend, met last Sunday morning in the Journalism room , of

James Gerend Has his troubles. -
the Library and formulated organization plans for the next few months.
Maurice Lee, senior in the School of Arts and Letters, was appointed chairman of the Blue Circle committee. Following Lee’s appointment came the list of proposed candidates for admittance into the Blue Circle. It was decided that further affairs of the committee would be discussed at a special meeting to be held this week.
Brancheau Heads Committee
Ray Brancheau was named chairman of the dance committee which is composed of Francis Werner, president of the senior class, Joseph Condon, president of the junior class, and John Breen, president of the sophomore class. With four home games this season, the usual football dances after each game, to which all students are admitted, will be held. The dance after the Pitt game will be in charge of the S. A. C. The others, Haskell, Drake, and Northwestern have yet to be arranged.
The Navy game at Cleveland this fall gives rise to the possibility of a student trip; consequently, a committee, beaded by John Finneran, was appointed. A rally committee, whose (Continued on Page 15)
“Scholastic” Issues Call For Candidates; Staff Meets Tonight
Students desirous of obtaining a position on the staff of The Scholastic are requested to report to room 222 of the Main Building at seven o’clock tonight, where they will be met by members of the editorial staff.
While previous work on high school publications or other University periodicals will be taken into consideration, the foregoing are not necessary qualifications. A willingness to work, coupled with a reasonable ability to write, will be the qualities most in demand.
Candidates may apply for a position on either the news, sports or features staff. All candidates must serve a probationary period of approximately six weeks during which period their, earnestness will be tested from time to time by work of a less desirable nature. Following the period of probation the applicant will become a full-fledged Scholastic staff member with the addition of his name to the mast-head.
K. of C, Initial Meeting
is Scheduled for Monday
Notre Dame Chapter, Knights of Columbus, will begin activity next Monday evening under the direction of Grand Knight John J. Cahill. At that time the organization’s opening meeting will be held.
Lecturer Charles Fiss has outlined a complete program for entertainments. Along with the plans for initiation, a report of the national K. of C. convention held last August in Washington, D. C. will be read. A financial report of the past year will be read by Eli Abraham, financial secretary.
All active members of the chapter are asked to be present. Appointments to the Activities Committee will be made by the Grand Knight.
Mass of Holy Ghost Attended by Capacity Congregation; Freshmen Predominate.
(Text of Fr. O'Donnell’s sermon on page S)
Notre Dame’s scholastic year saw its official opening last Sunday morning in a ceremony which made an indelible impression on a capacity congregation which was composed mostly of first year men.
A procession in whose ranks were members of the lay faculty clothed in cap and gowns, priests, and seminarians of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and the celebrants of the Mass, walked from the Main Building down the aisles of Sacred Heart church. The Moreau choir chanted in its most melodious tone; the celebrant, the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, the deacon; the Reverend J. L. Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, and sub-deacon, the Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, all garbed in red vestments, ascended an altar decked in flowers to begin the Mass of the Holy Ghost.
“Red -Mass” Is Said
Long one of the Church’s most distinctive ceremonies, the “Red Mass” is said on such occasions as the opening of councils, law courts, and universities. Notre Dame’s opening, then, carried with it not only the impressiveness inherent in the ceremony itself but had, in the background, the tradition of ages.
Following the Gospel, the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, delivered as remarkable a sermon as the campus has heard in years. Father O’Donnell dwelt, to some length, on the uniqueness of the occasion, established the position of God in Notre Dame’s educational life, and made it clear to the freshmen that whereas it might be considered unusual in many schools to begin the scholastic year in such a way it would be distinctly abnormal for Notre Dame to start in any other.
.J
September 2-3, 19-12
Seven
M’CABE TELLS WORLD ABOUT HIS “JUGGLER”
Ten New Members Added To The University Faculty
First Edition of Monthly Will Appear Oct, 15.
By Funny Fellow Joe McCabe
Lest everyone become single-minded through over-concentration on the thought of football, the editors of the Juggler have resolved to make their first bow on the eve of the Drake game. Of course the rendition will be largely devoted to football, but in a manner quite different from the serious, intense, life-and-death attitude taken towards it by all except players and coaches.
This year’s editors are faced with the tremendously successful precedent set last year by Editor Bob Gorman and his crew of Joe Lopker, Hallinan, et al. This year’s Funny Fellow still has many of the et al, but to offset this good fortune, the et al have him. However, Art Becvar, as art editor, and Tighe Woods, Les Raddatz, and Joe Dempsey as most of the et al have promised to do their best to overcome this handicap.
(Note to The Scholastic: If the aforementioned lads don’t hand in a contribution before you go to press drop their names and print mine.) Also there are many new fellows coming aolng to aid the old mag— why don’t you join? Hasn’t anyone laughed at you at some time or other? (Liar, you know they have!)
Anyway, if things go well you’ll have your chance to criticise the Juggler on the 15th. And if things don’t go well—you’ll have twice as much fun! All for the small sum of twenty-five cents, ladies and gentlemen—a quarter of a dollar. If you know what I mean.
Enrollment Stands at 2749
The total enrollment in the University for the present semester is 2749, according ot a report issued by the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies.
The College of Arts and Letters, has, as usual, the greatest number with 1,155 students. The College of Science has 239 and the College of Engineering, 409. There are 156 in Law and 731 in Commerce. In the Graduate School 59 students have enrolled.
“Scholastic” Board Of Editors Named;
Kearns Is Promoted
James S. Kearns
Upped Again
Editorial positions on The Scholastic for the current school year have been appointed during the past ten days with the approval of the Faculty Board of Publications.
James S. Kearns, of Dubuque, Iowa, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, has been named managing editor to succeed Henry Asman. Kearns, the Scholastic’s sports editor last year, has thoroughly familiarized himself with the paper’s make-up problems.
Mitchell Tackley of Malone, New York, and Ray Waters of Fereth Amboy, New Jersey, become news and features editor respectively.
Associate editotrs for the year are Walter Johnson, John Pick, Granger Weil, Lloyd Teske and William Dreux.
Appointed desk editors were Bernard Cousino, John Conley, Walter Kennedy, and Patrick Corcoran.
The editorial staff will meet in the Publications office every Friday evening at 6:30 o’clock.
SEVEN GOTO A. B.
Fr. Hoever, Well Knovzn Cistercian, Joins Philosophy
Staff; Here For 1 Year.
The faculties of the University have this year been augented with the addition of ten new members, according to an announcement by the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies.
The College of Arts and Letteis will have seven of the new teachers.
The Reverend James A. Fogarty, C.S.C. will serve as an instructor in economics and sociology. He received his bachelor of arts degree from Notre Dame in 1922 and those of master of arts and doctor of philosophy from the Catholic University in Washington, D. C.
Father Hoever’s History
The Reverend Hugo Hoever, O.Cist. is professor of philosohy and religion. Father Hoever received the degree of doctor of philosophy from the University of Freiburg, Germany, in 1910. He was professor of philosophy at the Cistercian Abbey in Marienstatt from 1910 to 1927, and director of studies there from 1918 to 1927. In 1927 he was named independent prior of the abbey at Harden-hausen where he developed a school for mentally deficient boys.
Founded Monastery
Father Hoever came to America in 1928 and was co-founder of the first Cistercian monastery in this country at Spring Bank, Wisconsin, in that year.
He has written numerous philosophical works. Among the better known of his books are his “Life of St. Bernard” and a book upon the Franciscan philosopher, Roger Bacon, which is based largely upon a thirteenth century manuscript translated by himself.
Frederick I. Myers, associate professor of English, is not a new comer to Notre Dame, as he has taught here during several summer sessions. Professor Myers received his degrees of A.B. and A.M. from Indiana Univer-
(Continued on Pane 1-1)
Eight
The Scholastic
The Supreme Direction
(Text of Father O’Donnell’s Sermon)
Seek ye God and your soul shall live,— Psalm LXVIII, 33.
The official opening of the University is a religious ceremony, the solemn Sacrifice of the Mass. We have not to account for this, in the sense that we have to justify it: we need only to explain its meaning. This practice forms the rule in Catholic colleges and universities, and happily so. Many years ago, an English Protestant sighed for the return of ancient pagan times as offering at least something of the comforting content of a religious creed, actual though outworn. The modern pagans do not believe, and their name is legion. They open schools, they begin an academic year not only without religious sense or ceremony but also without imaginative insight, whose field of vision is the future, and without memory, whose tribute to the past we call tradition. A more fortunate course indeed is ours. Aware of destinies to be, and conscious of present responsibilities, and wise with divine experience, we hold you up to God, young men, and we hold God up to you as this new school year, the ninety-first, opens at Notre Dame.
What is there about the opening of the school year, it may be asked, that we should all grow so very serious and thoughtful and solemn? Why cannot we, like so many other persons, take this thing as it comes and gradually and easily slip into the swing of it? Or even take it on our own terms, letting college life adjust itself to us rather than try to fit ourselves to its atmosphere and regimen? Whether we be freshmen or seniors, you may say, we are young, and we claim lightheartedness, buoyancy, pliability, as our prerogatives. I grant you this last provided the implication is not intended that you may, with a carefree indifference, let things take their course. College life is certainly another kind, though a very special kind, of human relationship. But ‘ just here its important difference for us from all other human relationships must be noted. To be a student at Notre Dame is a dedication to a belief and an ideal which impose special obligations. The ancient philosopher declared: “I am a man, and therefore nothing human can fail to be of concern to me.” And we say, “I am a
Notre Dame man, nothing human and nothing divine can be to me altogether alien.”
Accordingly, we rest upon experience in this present hour, which is of necessity so forward-looking. To know what manner of men we are and must become, we bring the past and the future into the councils of today. Why are we here involves the question, why was this University founded. And that question is answered only when we have solved the first and last of all problems, why is man. Why was the Catholic Church, of which this University is the instrument and handmaid, founded? Why did the psalmist ask, “What is man that thou art mindful of him, Almighty God?” Why did the psalmist say, “Seek ye God and your soul shall live?”	.
Man is God’s creature, body and soul made by God. Resembling God in his nature, which is rational and free, he has a closer claim still upon Divinity since his own flesh - and -blood-Brother, Christ, is God’s Son. Man’s life has no other proper dedication than to God as its chief, underlying, fundamental control. God is man’s final end. His happiness, which he must seek because that is the way he is made, cannot be achieved apart from God, for whom he is made. His only failure, the only failure that counts, is to go on apart from God in life,' and to miss Him afterwards.
Briefly, that is the basic belief and the ideal whose implications this solemn service recognizes. You cannot properly start a school life, you cannot begin any important work, without bringing your intellectual and moral powers into focus upon this object. On intellectual grounds alone, purely as educators, it is our highest privilege not to let you forget that there is a God: it is our first duty as custodians and dispensers of knowledge to keep before your mind the greatest truth of all, that God is the answer to the final as to the first questions of lifA Your school years will be busy, as they should be. Work in the form of study will be an obligation binding upon your conscience. All fields of knowledge will be proper territory for you to explore, and intellectual adventure attends upon your footsteps. What is true of real students everywhere is true in your case
also. But this much more is true, that in the spirit of this University there is a certain steady, clearly perceived, openly acknowledged, direction of effort toward an Infinite goal, a common dedication, as I have said, of all our lives to that which alone and ultimately gives meaning to life.
Therefore it is that our school year at Notre Dame opens with this solemn dedication of ourselves and of our work to the service of God. It has become the practice in many colleges and universities to designate the first week of school as orientation week. In many cases, freshmen, in view of this end, are asked to enter a week in advance of upperclassmen. Obviously, I do not mean here to discuss the merits of this particular plan. I mention it only in connection with a practice which, I believe, is distinctly our own. During the first two weeks of the school year at Notre Dame, a mission is conducted for the entire undergraduate body: the first week the mission is for freshmen, the second week for upperclassmen. In a very true sense, though a particular sense, these are the weeks of orientation at Notre Dame. It cannot be unknown to many of you that this University is pledged to two special devotions: devotion to the Blessed Virgin and devotion to the Blessed Sacrament through frequent Communion. The roots of these devotions are sunk deep in the very origins of the place.
Two centuries before the University was founded, this spot was an outpost of the Faith where the earliest missionaries traversing this region brought the good tidings of the Gospel to the native Indians. The earliest records attest that here, as elsewhere through the Western missions, the Indians readily accepted and zealously cherished devotion to Mary. The records of our own particular mission state that many of the converted Indians were frequent communicants. This tradition it was the privilege of our founders to inherit ninety years ago when they came to this wilderness and found here little else but the name of Mary and a log chapel housing the Blessed Sacrament. That was, of course, enough. Under that prevailing name and in the constant company and comradeship of Christy St. Mary of the Lakes, as the spot (Continued on next page)
September 23, 1932
Nine
BECKLENBERG TO EDIT K. C’S “SANTA MARIA”
THEATRE TALK
By Roger Beirne_
Magazine May Again Appear As An Annual,
In all probability the Santa Maria, periodic publication of the local chapter of the Knights of Columbus, ^vill be put out this year as an annual.
Fred Becklenberg
Will edit official K. C. organ.
This announcement, made during the week by John Cahill, Grand Knight, was concurrent with the bit of news that Fred Becklenberg, Jr., Arts and Letters senior, will edit the magazine.
Becklenberg will be remembered as th defeated candidate for th Grand Knight office in the election last May. (Continued on Page 14)
First and most of all, the University Theatre. Although the professional stages are dark ones, Professor Frank Kelly, director of the University Theatre, plans to lighten up Washington hall this year with productions equal to the finest ones on the old hall’s long, proud record.
Soon Professoi- Kelly will call for those interested in acting in the University Theatre. If a student has any ability, or if he wants to find out if he has, he should report. Especially should the underclassmen prick up their ears at the appeal. There are no cliques to break through; there is a thorough, appreciative acquaint-tance with the theatre to be gained. Under ultra-modem influences and the like the theatre has suffered perversions at times. Professor Kelly is one director from whom it is still possible to learn the sincere limitations of the stage.
That the legitimate stage is dormant with an unprecedented inactivity none will disagree. But that the cause is the financial disability of the theatre-goers some will disagree. For the cynics and pessimists have been in hiding since Walter Hampden with his immortal proboscis and Katherine Cornell with her sonnets proved to the world last Spring that even barnstorming can bring profitable trade. Yes, good theatre shall always have good houses as long as man looks into a mirror.
Moreover the theatre has benefited in its sacrifices. Seeing a possible field for, at least, earning a subsistence, stageland migrated to the country this past summer. The period between June 1 and Labor Day is traditionally an out-season. The Rialto of any city was satisfied with passing fancies for entertainment. It was not until late in August that Fall plans were made. But, paradoxically, this past summer saw the confirmation of a new field for the nutriment of not only the experimental but even the most seasoned theatrical circles. This windfall, is namely, the summer stock and repertory. Refurbished bams in the rural sections of New York, Connecticut, and New-Jersey numbered thirty-odd in. the Actors’ Equity survey.
For pre-season preparatory work nothing quite compares with the summer theatrical possibilities. The famous and the inexperienced unite to teach and learn without the coercion of the Broadw-ay push and pull. Plays were bought, tried, discarded. Actors retouched their art and foundlings enjoyed intimacies with finesse and perfection. And while the old lovers of the theatre were made content, new hearts, heretofore untrafficked in the ways of the play, were wooed and won. What importance this vast, fresh extension to the dramatic world will be graduated only on the test tube of time. Certainly the mark will be a high one.

was then known, has become Notre Dame.
I wish it to be kept constantly in mind that I am speaking of a university, not of a monastery. I am speaking not of some exclusively religious and missionary enterprise but of an educational foundation, a modern college home in which normal American boys live and study. The whole point is missed if this idea is not grasped — that the Faith at Notre Dame is inclusive of the everyday human life we all must live, of all human concerns and activities. Elsewhere it may be thought that religion is for Sunday, that it is for mature persons and old people, that it is for times of sorrow and trial, that it has no connection with libraries and laboratories, with social relations, with sports. That simply is not our understanding of religion. “Seek ye
first the kingdom of God and all these things shall be added unto you.” Your heritage of youth, with all its lightheartedness, its buoyancy, its pliability, will come to you in its fullness at Notre Dame only in the measure that you accept that yoke which is . sweet and the light burden of the Master’s divine teaching.
Therefore I urge upon you this morning that you make personal this official dedication of the school year to Almighty God. “Hitch your wagon to a star” was said by one who had no power of calling forth a single star in all the heavens. Leaving littleness aside, and detail, and the concept of school as the humdrum business of attending class, I say to you in the words of Holy Church, Sursum Corda; lift up your hearts, make use of the powers you have, to remember, and to see, and to foresee.
Remember that for nearly three centuries the men who walked this ground have seen with the eyes of their soul the light that ever was on land and sea, Mary, the Morning Star; that they have walked in close company with Him who is the Way, the Truth, and the Life. Set that Star before you. Choose that Companion. In the name of recorded experience, no less than in the name of our Holy Faith, I will answer for the happy results of this dedication. Seeking God where He is to be found, in the arms of His Mother and in the tabernacle of this altar, your soul shall live that abundant life which infinite love has prepared for us, now and everlastingly, and education will be for you that which it rightly is, a-process which is itself a result, an approach which is an arrival, a beginning that is an end.
Ten
The Scholastic
SEVERAL MEMBERS OF
FACULTY LEAVE N. D.
Will Teach and Study In Affiliated Schools.
Several members of the faculty have left Notre Dame this year for further study or to teach in schools affiliated with the University.
The Reverend Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., assistant professor of sociology, is now teaching at St. Thomas College in St: Paul, Minnesota.
The Reverend Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C., instructor in physics, has enrolled for graduate study at the California Institute of Technology.
The Reverend James J. Ryan, C.S.C., instructor in religion is now stationed in New Orleans, La., while the Reverend George L. Holderith, C.S.C., assistant professor of history, is at Holy Cross College, Brookland, D. C.
The Reverend John Lohan, instructor in religion, is doing graduate work at Columbia University this year, and Professor William J. Leen of the department of philosophy is at the Catholic University in Washington, D. C.
The Reverend Dr. Carroll F. Deady, instructor in religion, is at Ypsilanti, Mich., as chaplain of the Normal School.
The Reverend James E. Kline, C.S.C., instructor in astronomy, who has been on leave of absence during the past year for graduate work at the University of California, is continuing with his work there this year.
Several Rectors Change
Halls For Ensuing Year
Several shifts in the rectorships of the halls on the campus have been made for the school year. The following rectors have been assigned to each hall:
Father Molony, Walsh Hall; Father Gassensmith, Howard Hall; Father Charles McAllister, Freshman Hall, (formerly Sophomore Hall) Father Stack, Corby Hall; Father Muckenthaler, Badin Hall; and Father Leo Heiser, Morrissey Hall.
The remaining halls have retained the same rectors as last year.
EDITOR
Presenting Arthur Sandusky, Editor-in-Chief of the 1933 “Dome.” Art has already begun his big job.
Librarian Paul Byrne Releases List of New Books
Paul R. Byrne, librarian, has released a complete list of new books to be placed at iimmediate disposal of the students. Leading the list are three excellent novels: Captain Archer's Daughter by Margaret Wade Deland, The Adventures of Baron Mffunchausen by Rudolph Erich Raspe, and Pre-War Lady by Margaret Weddemer.
The book list follows:
What Price Jury Trials—by Irwin Stalmaster.
A Concordance to the Poems of Ralph Waldo Emerson—by George Shelton Hubbell.
A Handbook of Child Psychology— by John E. Anderson, Charlotte Buhler, Anna Freud, and others, edited by Carl Murchison.
Behaviour Aspect of Child Conduct —by Esther Loring Richards—with a foreword by Adolf Meyer.
Orientation in Education—edited by T. S. Schutte; contributors: T. S. Schutte, William Carl Ruediger, Holland Holton and others.
Systematic Sociology, on Basis of the Beziehungslehre and Gebildelehre of Leopold von Wieseadaphted and • amplified by Howard Becker.
The Correspondence of Pope Greg-
BAND TURNOUT IS POOR
Graduation Leaves Many Posts Open; Tryouts Still On.
Turnout for the University band fell far below the necessary quota this year. Tryouts were held Monday in the Music Hall and according to an announcement made this week by Prof. Joseph Casasanta, musical director, students still have an opportunity to try out.
Because of the unusually large number of bandsters lost both through graduation last June and students who failed to return to the University this year, the ranks of the band have been considerably depleted.
Tryouts for the position of drum major, formerly held by Henry S. Tholen, were also held Monday. Five students reported to Prof. Casasanta. The position is as yet open to competition.
ory VII, selected letters from the registrum; translated with an introduction by Ephram Emerton.
Homicide in the United States—by H. C. Brearley.
Race, Class and Party; a history of the Negro suffrage and white politics in the South, by Paul Leivinson.
Know Your Child—by Louis Monash—with a foreward by Dr. John H. Finley.
An Introduction to the Scientific Study of the Classroom Supervision, by A. S. Barr.
America Faces the Future, edited by Charles A. Beard.
Obscure Destinies—by Willa Cather	.
Portraits—By Desmond MacCarthy.
Biography .of Sister Louise (Josephine van der Schriek) 1813-1886), American Foundress of the Sisters of Notre Dame de Namur, by Sister Helen Louise (Nugent).
Numerous other books obtained during the summer are classified under the titles of mathematics, biology, essays, poetry, drama, literature, architecture, education, law, criminol,-ogy, advertising, commerce, geography, history, religion and esthetics.
September 23, 1932
Eleven
PREXY COUNCIL MEETS
Will Name Representative Executive Committee.
Organization of the President’s Council will begin next week announced Cleve Carey, president of the club. Robert Monahan, president of the Boston club, has been appointed financial secretary.
The club’s initial meeting will be held some time next week before which time the executive council will have been chosen. The recording secretary will be elected at the meeting.
The executive council is comprised of one representative from a large city club, a small city club, a state club, the president’s council and the editor of one of the campus publications.
“Scrip”, Literary Quarterly, Out In November
Although no definite date for publication has been set at this time, it seems certain that Scrip, the Notre Dame quarterly, will make its initial appearance this year about the second week of November.
According to the editor of Scrip, a definite effort will be made this year to bring out the very best in campus writing, regardless of the class standing or college affiliation of prospective contributors. Freshmen and seniors, arts and letters students and engineers, all will have a chance to see their work published in Scrip.
All Notre Dame men should be pleased to see the fine standing Scrip has attained in the current edition of the Edward J. O’Brien Anthology of Best Short Stories. Of ten short stories published between May 1, 1931, and April 30, 1932, seven achieved distinction. Of these one received two stars and one three stars. The three-star story is Louis Brennan’s Poisoner in Motley, which is printed in full in the O’Brien collection.
Although Brennan has been graduated, two of the authors recognized by O’Brien will be in school this year. It is to be hoped that Joe McCabe will be able to take sufficient time off from the arduous duties of editing the Juggler to write some of his well-
SECRETARY
Robert Monahan, Boston Club President who has been appointed Financial Secretary of the President’s Council by President of Presidents Carey.
known, penetrating stories for the magazine which he edited last year.
Mattingly Spalding, winner of the Laidies’ Home Journal short story prize last year, is back at Notre Dame for some graduate work, and no doubt will contribute some of his fine work to Scrip.
So, all in all, it looks like a big year for the Notre Dame quarterly.
Boston Club Holds Meeting
The Boston club met last evening to lay organization plans for the coming year. Robert Monahan, newly appointed Financial Secretary of the President’s Council presided.
Compete For Position of Drum Major as N, D. Band Parade.
Competition for the position of drum-major on the Univresity Band was keen Thursday afternoon when the entire personnel of the organization to date, paraded about the campus.
The selections played by the local musicians included several of the Notre Dame football songs. Each candidate for the drum majorship took his turn at swinging the baton.
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
ORGANIZES DURING WEEK
Expect Membership of Fifty; Violins, Cellos, in Demand.
Lacking but one member, who was lost by graduation, the Notre Dame Symphony orchestra began its years’ activity at the first meeting and practice held last Wednesday evening in Washington Hall.
The orchestra had its beginnings as the Notre Dame String Ensemble in February, 1931, and was organized as a symphony orchestra in September, 1931. During the past year the membership stood at thirty, there are hopes of increasing it this season to at least fifty.
Names Officers
Professor Rechard H. Seidele, director, officially announced the officers for the current year: Joseph Petritz, president; Lloyd Teske, vicepresident; Michael J. Yriberry, secretary and business manager; Wilbur Bernard, librarian, and a membership committee consisting of Thomas Paradise, Alfred J. Hieger, Theodore J. Hiegel and Edward Zimmers.
Rehearsals Twice Weekly
Rehearsals will be held in the Music Hall on Tuesdays and Fridays at 6:45 p. m. Any student who can play an orchestra instrument is invited to join the orchestra. There is a special need for violins and cellos.
The repertoire of the orchestra at present includes overtures, symphonies, concertos, and selections by Beethoven, Mozart, Mendelssohn, Hydn, Thomas, Lacome, Isenman, Boieldieu, German, Nicolai, Clark, and Kriens. According to the present plans the orchestra will give its first concert during the latter part of December.

Campus Club Presidents Must Report To C. Carey
According to an announcement made this week by Cleve Carey, president of the President’s Council, no campus club is to hold a meeting this week unless arranged with him.
Presidents are asked to interview Carey before organization and the necessary time and place instructions will be given at that time.
Twelve
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
FROSH MISSION CLOSES WITH TOMORROW’S MASS
By Bryan Degnan
Time in his hands, size eights on that new green desk blotter by Gil-Bros, and ahead of him the hair graying process of editing Scrip: Charles
Charles Sheedy Missed a nine inch putt.
Sheedy seated in Sorin 348 with all sorts of disturbing light cords and no signs of immediate arrangement as yet.
If you know your Pittsburgh, you’ve heard of Oakmont. It’s one of the most exacting golf courses in the country. Back in the early twenties when Sheedy was preparing for his tenderfoot test he remembers seeing a lad named Jones in action—and what action! Clad in a white sweatshirt, gray knickers minus a buckle, and a disposition not too peaceful, the links artist was playing a long iron from the rough. Oakmont’s greens are, for the most part, projected from sand. Young Jones pulled his shot badly to the left. Before the ball swished into the sand Bobby had matched his hickory against a nearby oak. The iron, well damaged, dropped into the thick rough. Young Sheedy couldn’t figure all this out. Not such a quiet game after all. The next day his back lawn was being mowed in a different way. Today, after a decade of hooks, slices and timid putts Sheedy is still hanging on. He breezes around in the low eighties quite often. This morning he missed a nine inch putt.
Chuck Sheedy is matter of fact, clean cut, and not over serious about
his prospects. At times he is fiercely candid. He will tell you that his being selected as editor of Scrip came to him with a swift turn of surprise. Pretty well prepared for the future, he has definite ideas about being certain of things. Some past certainties, now ridiculous, provoke laughter. Golf gives many nothing more than a pain in the neck and, perhaps, a more extensive vocabulary; it has gives Chuck Sheedy a saving sense of humor.
Sheedy likes his literature but not too thickly proportioned, thank you. He hasn’t much sympathy with the fading realism of the twenties. His tragedy of the week would be Bill’s evacuation of the barber shop under Washington hall.
Reads Good Literature
Chuck remembers seeing Alexander Woolcott as an actor in “Brief Moment.” All too brief, says Chuck. Woolcott’s style of writing pleases him and he buys the New Yorker chiefly for “Shouts and Murmurs,” despite the smooth women parading for Bergdorf Goodman. Sullivan, Joel Sayre, and Benchley are equally admired. And if you think you’re a John Mosher give Scrip a break.
Not having a dollar kept Chuck in school at one time. Now he doesn’t complain when he’s broke.
There have been Sheedys here off and on since 1916. Next year another goes but another comes to take his place.
Dresses Conservatively
In the way of clothes, Sheedy goes in for quiet colors, appearing mostly in gray. His hat brim is usually turned up. But that didn’t make him editor of Scrip. .
Sheedy is no longer wondering just how he’ll do the wiring in his room. He’s just practical enough to know that lie’s impractical. Reminding us of the time to leave was the entrance, of an earnest looking young man in brown. Sheedy had invited the young man over from Walsh. They weren’t going to talk about Keats. The young man was an electrical engineer.
Father Dolan Will Conduct Upperclass Services.
Mission services for Freshmen, Off-campus students, and residents of Sophomore hall will be brought to a close tomorrow morning at the 6:30 mass in Sacred Heart church. The Papal Blessing, carrying a significant indulgence, will be given to those in attendance. During the entire week mass and instruction have taken place in the morning while benediction and a sermon have been given at night for the above group of students.
Father O’Hara In Charge
Reverend John O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion, in conducting the mission this week, laid emphasis upon the two-fold type of education which Notre Dame offers, stressed the value of daily communion, and asked his listeners not to waste the opportunities that crop up day after day at Notre Dame.
Next week upperclassmen will hear the Reverend Patrick Dolan, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, who will conduct their mission from Sunday evening until next Saturday morning. As during the past week, confessions will be heard daily in the Basement Chapel and the Dillon hall chapel after supper, and in Sacred Heart Church after benediction. Only a limited number of. penitents can be accommodated during the morning mass. Communion will be distributed in the Dillon hall chapel from 7:20 a. m. until noon.
Dean Konop Gives Talk To South Bend Organization
Dean Thomas F. Konop of the Notre Dame College of Law addressed the Sons of the American Revolution in an after dinner talk Monday evening of this week at the Oliver Hotel. His subject was the “Federal Constitution.”
The relationship of the state and federal government was discussed. Dean Konop discriminated between the powers of the state and federal courts, and defined their limitations as either expressed or implied in the Constitution.
September 23, 1932
Thirteen
ALUMNI OF CATHOLIC COLLEGES TO MEET HERE
BOOK REVIEWS
By John Pick
Armstrong Will Preside At Conference in November.
Alumni of the Catholic colleges of • the north central states will meet at Notre Dame, Sunday, Nov. 20, it was announced here by James E. Arm-
James Armstrong
He will be general chairman.
strong, alumni secretary of the University and vice-president of the National Catholic Alumni federation. He will be general chairman of the conference which replaces the annual federation convention.
The one-day program, not completed as yet, will include a solemn high Mass in Sacred Heart church, luncheon in the University dining halls, a round table discussion in the afternoon of alumni activity and the trend toward stronger educational relations between alumni and their colleges.
Banquet Will Close Session
A banquet in the evening will close the program, at which prominent speakers will discuss the Catholic viewpoint on current conditions, stressing particularly the two great papal encyclicals on economic problems, the “Rerum Novarum” of Leo XIII, and the “Quadragesimo Anno” of Pius XI.
Alumni associations and faculties of the Catholic colleges in Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Ohio, Wisconsin,
There are not, as so many complain, too many good books. There are too many footling, foolish, dry-rotted, or soft-fibred books standing around when they should be burnt, too many books published only to be bought, too many books used as a “color note,” books as paper weights, books for baby to sit on, books kept as the feeble proof that someone has been educated, books that are everything but good books.
However, it is not frequent that we have the pleasure of reviewing such an outstanding volume as Willa Cather’s Obscure Destinies (Knopf).
Unlike Shadoivs on the Rock this is a book of three short stories, more properly, perhaps, called sketches.
This time Miss Cather has turned to the W est for her characters, ordinary people whose lives are humdrum to everyone but themselves. The most common events offer subjects for these sketches, vibrant with a full knowledge of life. In the last of the sketches, “Two Friends,” Miss Cather says, “Wonderful things do happen even in the dullest places—in the corn-fields and the wheat-fields.”
Prairie Farmer Characterized
The first sketch, “Neighbor Ros-icky” is the story of an old prairie farmer’s reminiscences and recollections. It is pervaded by deep repose, whimsical and mellow humor, and an engaging sanity and health of spirit. Rosicky’s wife, Mary, his son Rudolph, his daughter-in-law, Polly—all of them are made articulate through his observations. Those who liked My Antonia (and who didn’t) will not be disappointed in “Neighbor Rosicky.”
“Old Mrs. Harris” is probably the finest of the three stories: a delicate portrayal of the conflicts of three
Minnesota, Nebraska, Idaho, and the Dakotas will be represented at the meeting, and alumni of any Catholic college, yvho live in this territory, will be invited to attend.
The Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley, leaders in the program of activity in the alumni association
women, Mrs. Harris, Victoria, and Vickie. Again the author stresses the thesis that as one matures a mellowing kindness invades one’s quietude. Age makes one say to oneself, “I was heartless because I was young and strong and wanted things so much. But now I know.” It is this calm perspective with which the writer examines life that makes her probably the most popular novelist today.
Last Sketch Inferior
The last sketch, “Two Friends,” is a somewhat inferior attempt at anal-lyzing two men whose friendship is strangely ended by the limitations of the men themselves. Robust and rm-fettered by any modem psychological faddism, “Two Friends” fails to compare with “Neighbor Rosicky” or “Old Mrs. Harris.”
On the whole, Obscure Destinies is so rich in content, so warm in spirit, so graceful and clear in style that when it is surpassed we hope it will be by Willa Cather herself.
We are somewhat surprised by the subject matter of Mr. Chesterton’s latest book, Chaucer (Farrar & Rinehart); after his studies of Dickens and Browning we hardly expected that he would write of an author who lived five hundred years before the Victorians and whose temperament was almost the antithesis of theirs. But, then, Mr. Chesterton really does belong in Catholic Medieval England; it is the age he loves, and, after all, Chaucer, the immortal author of the “Canterbury Tales,” was the last great man of Catholic England.
Without a touch of pedantry Chesterton brings out- the power and brilliance of his subject. At times he is serious, then again he is facetious— but always he is readable.
of the University of Notre Dame, will be prominent in the program which is being planned.
Similar meetings will be held simultaneously in New York City, St. Louis, Washington, D. C., and Oakland, Calif., for the four other districts of the federation.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
FR. MOLONY ANNOUNCES NEW MOVIE SCHEDULE
“Huddle” by Francis Wallac, Shown Tomorrow Night.
Talking pictures to be shown at Washington Hall on Saturday nights for the next three weeks have been secured by the Rev. William Molony, C.S.C., in charge of the schedule of entertainment.
“Tarzan” Soon
On Saturday Sept. 24, “Huddle,” starring Ramon Navarro and based on the football novel by Francis Wallace, Notre Dame graduate, will be shown. Following this on Oct. 1, Edgar Rice Burroughs’ highly imaginative “Tarzan of the Apes” will appear. Johnny Weissmueller, world-famous swimmer, plays the part of the jungle man.
Finally “When a Feller Needs a Friend” will be presented on Oct. 8. The leading parts in this picture are taken by “Jackie” Cooper and Charles “Chic” Sale. Briggs’ true-to-life cartoon is the basis for the plot.
A news reel, comedy and short subjects will be shown at each performance.
BECKLENBERG EDITOR
(Continued from Page 9)
His appointment, however, is by no means the customary boon to a vanquished rival. He is a journalism major, an officer of the local Press Club, and has done a sizeable amount of work during the past two years on the Dome.
The magazine itself, a chronicle of all K. C. activities, was until last season edited monthly. At the beginning of the 1931-32 term Paul Hallinan, retired editor of the Dome, became the Santa Maria’s editor and turned out an annual commendable for its completeness and balanced make-up.
Hallinan, one of the finest pens the campus has known in years, recently entered a seminary in Cleveland to take up his studies for the priesthood.
Wranglers* Meeting!
The Wranglers will meet at 6:30 Wednesday evening in the Law building.
GRAND KNIGHT
John Cahill, Grand Knight of the local chapter of the Knights of Columbus, ivhose organization will open its gear next Monday evening.
INTERHALL DEBATING
(Continued From Page 6)
It was felt that the need for public speaking had become general and should not be confined merely to debating among the Freshmen. Moreover, the selection of suitable subjects for discussion will break away from staid and uninteresting questions, and will be replaced by arguments of social and human interest. These subjects are now being prepared by the Wranglers, and the final choice will be made known in a short time.
The meeting last night witnessed the largest attendance ever had by the Wranglers. Eight men, who had been elected to membership last May, participated, as well as seven others who remained from last year’s enrollment.
When the meeting adjourned, Boyle, expressing the new policy of the Wranglers, said: “Realizing that public speaking needs a regeneration here at Notre Dame, we are planning to do everything we can to accomplish that end.”
S, A. C, Meeting Sunday.
According to an announcement by James Gerend, president, the Student Activities Council will meet in the Library basement Sunday morning at 10:30 o’clock. The question of a student trip will be voted upon, and plans for the freshmen convocation will be laid.
NEW FACULTY MEMBERS
(Continued from Page 7)
s
sity in 1914 and 1915, respectively, and has done graduate work at the Universities of Harvard and Illinois. He was a member of the faculty at the U. S. Naval Academy at Annapolis from 1921 to 1932.
The Reverend Norbert C. Hoff, instructor in religion, is president of Carroll College (formerly Mt. St. Charles) in Helena, Montana, from which he is now on leave. Father Hoff received the honorary degree of laws from Notre Dame in 1930.
The new rector of Freshman Hall, the Reverend Charles McAllister, C.S.C., will be an instructor in religion. Father McAllister has a degree of Master of Science from Notre Dame received in 1931. He has taught for the past year at St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn.
New Philosophy Professor
A new member of the department of philosophy is Dr. Robert C. Pollock. He holds a bachelor of science and a master of arts degree from Harvard Univresity, given in 1924 and 1927, respectively. The University of Toronto conferred the doctorate of philosohy upon him in 1932. Dr. Pollock taught at Bowdoiu College from 1927 to 1930, and is at present engaged in writing a book upon St. Anselm.
A new instructor in sociology is John A. Sullivan who received his bachelor of arts degree from Boston University in 1928. He did graduate work in the New York School of Social Work during 1931 and 1932.
The Reverend John J. Tiernan, who holds the degree of bachelor of arts and master of arts from Creighton University, is an instructor in religion.
N. D. Grad Returns
The College of Science claims Donald J. Plunkett as instructor in biology. Mr. ..Plunkett received his bachelor of science degree from Notre Dame in 1929 and taught at Mt. St. Charles during 1929 and 1930. He pursued graduate work at the University of Michigan from 1930 to 1932.
Dr. Alden E. Davis is a new member of the faculty of the College of Commerce as instructor in money and banking. Dr. Davis received his bachelor of philosophy degree from Bucknell in 1919, his M.B.A. from Harvard in 1923, and his doctorate in philosophy from Columbia in 1932.
1

September 23, 1932
Fifteen
100 TRY FOR GLEE CLUB
Eighteen Veterans Return;
Eliminations Under Way.
One hundred students reported to Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta this week for membership in the Notre Dame Glee club, the singing organization of the campus. From this number eliminations will be made each week until Oct. 1, when the final personnel is announced.
Eighteen gleesters from the traveling personnel of the 1932 Glee club returned for tryouts in this year’s organization. Maurice Scanlon is president of the club.
As yet no engagements have been made for the singers, but Prof. Casasanta contemplates a very active season.
Automobile Regulations
Issued by Father Dolan
The Reverend P. H. Dolan. C.S.C., prefect of discipline, has issued a regulation that only those students whose permanent residences are in South Bend or Mishawaka will be permitted to own or operate automobiles during regular sessions of the University. Those with cars must secure Father Dolan’s approval to operate them. Students with cars who do not live in South Bend or Mishawaka are instructed to place them in storage and to deposit storage tickets in the office of the prefect of discipline.
Hitch-hiking and over-crowding of taxicabs between Notre Dame and South Bend are forbidden for reasons of safety.
Barber Shop Removed From Washington Hall
In mentioning changes on the campus the fact that Bill has removed his barber shop from the basement of Washington Hall to the Badin Hall sub must not be overlooked.
Five chairs of the latest style, modernistic mirrors, and the last minute barber furnishings have been installed in the new shop. A shoe shine parlor is operated in connection with the establishment. The hours are from 7:30 a. m. to 8 p. m.
CHAIRMAN
Jack Finneran who has been placed in charge of the annual student football trip by James Gerend, S. A. C. president.
S, A, C. ORGANIZES
(Continued from Page 5)
purpose is * to take charge of the pep meetings and the head cheerleader will be appointed and announced next week.
The matter of the freshmen convocation was discussed. The assembly will be held next week in the' gym with the Reverend Patrick Dolan. C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline. Paul Host, captain of the football team, James Gerend, president of the S.A. C., and Francis Werner, president of the senior class giving short addresses.
“Scholastic” Will Start a Letter Column Next Week
Beginning with the issue of Sen-tember 30 The Scholastic will inaugurate a correspondence column in its pages. The department will accept letters from the student body on matters pertaining to editorial content, news, snorts and feature items; will attempt to act as an information booth for sensible inquiries; will, in short, do all in its power to promote any field of student interest.
Letters must be addressed to the editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall; must be signed in full with address appended. Initials alone will be used upon request.
BANQUET LAST EVENING OPENS SPECTATOR YEAR
Pick Delivers First Talk on Disputed Topic
A dinner at the Joan Tea Room in South Bend opened the Spectators’ year last evening. Twelve members were in attendance.
John Pick
Exploded a theory.
John Pick, president, addressed the club on the subject of the authorship of Shakespeare’s plays. By the use of an elaborate system of cryptograms Pick attempted to show that Francis Bacon, eminent Elizabethan scholar, was the actual writer of the many dramas attributed to the Stratford poet.
About Bacon’s Life
Criticism of Pick’s talk centered itself chiefly around the following points: If a great deal is known of Bacon’s life his authorship of the Shakespearean plays ought to be easily established; if little of his life is known, attributing the plays to him is just as foolish as attributing them to Shakespeare.
Again, the fact that the entire subject of the authorship did come up until twenty years ago would point more to the whole thing as being a fancy dr whim of some research scholars. .
The meeting place of the Spectators will be at the Law building, at 8 o’clock on Thursday evenings.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Bishop Finnigan Buried At Notre Dame During Summer
By Raymond F. Waters
2UOST REV. GEORGE FINNIGAN C. S. C., D. D.
Requiescat in Pace
With plaintive toll the bell in the tower of Sacred Heart church broke the calm of the summer campus. Softly from afar, came the doleful playing of the South Bend bugle and
drum corps.
Along the paths his feet had so often
trod as student and priest went a mournful cortege to the Community cemetery beyond Holy Cross Seminary. .
The day was Monday, August 22. Within a casket draped with the American flag lay the remains of the Most Reverend George Finnigan, C.S.C., D.D., priest, soldier, educator, and prelate of the Catholic Church.
Eight days before, friends in all parts of the world were stunned upon hearing that this young and distinguished member of the American hierarchy and member of the Congregation of Holy Cross had succumbed to a heart attack in the course of his duties as Bishop of the Diocese of Helena, Montana.
Bishop Finnigan was indeed a man of Notre Dame. It was here that he had spent his days as a student, here that he entered the Congregation of Holy Cross and was ordained to the priesthood. He served the University as vice-president, after which he became American Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross. From Notre Dame he was sumomned by His Holiness Pope Pius XI to undertake the task of Ordinary of the vast Diocese of Helena.
At the altar in the Sacred Heart church he was ordained priest, consecrated bishop, and solemnized in death. Now, in the little Community cemetery west of the campus proper, his corporal self is resting beside the graves of his brothers in religion . . . as he requested.
Bishop Finnigan, the son of John Henry and Louise Frances Finnigan,
was born Feb. 22, 1885, at Potsdam, N. Y., later residing at Malone. In 1910 he received his Bachelor of Letters degree here at Notre Dame. While attending the University, he was a member of the Editorial board of The Scholastic. After being graduated from Notre Dame he studied at the Gregorian University in Rome, Italy, where in 1912, he received the degree of Sacred Theology.
He was ordained to the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1915. The following year, after his studies at La Valle University, Quebec, he received a Doctorate in Sacred Theology.
From 1916 to 1918 he wTas a member of the Holy Cross Mission band. When the United States entered the World war, Father Finnigan, with several other members of the Congregation, became a chaplain. He was commissioned first lieutenant chaplain of the United States Army, January 13, 1918, and became captain in May of the following year. He served with the 137th Field Artillery at Fort Shelby, Hattiesburg, Miss., and later with the 80th Field Artillery A. E. F., in France from October, 1918 to June 1919. He was a member of the American Legion.
After the war he returned to Notre Dame, being appointed rector of Holy Cross Seminary, which position he held from 1919 to 1925. Following this, he served for one year as vicepresident of the University. He was then made American Provincial Superior of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
It was in 1927 that he assumed his duties as Bishop of the Diocese of Helena, succeeding the late Bishop Patrick Carroll.
Spectators Open Year
Twelve membres of the Spectators club met in the Joan Tea room last night to open that organization’s year with a dinner.
Those in attendance included John Pick, president, William Dreux, secretary, Robert Flint, Francis Fallon, Eugene Sullivan, Gerald Doyle, James Danehy, Jules de la Vergne, Daniel Rolfs, Kenneth Kreps, Patrick Corcoran, and Edmund Stephan.
HALEY ANTICIPATES LARGE TICKET SALES
Army, Northwestern, S. Cal., Navy Probable Sell Outs.
Attendance at Notre Danie’s football games this fall will undoubtedly equal or surpass that of last season.
As in previous years the Army game in New York City leads all others in the advance tickets sale. By all indications it will be a sellout by the end of October as it was last year. .
Second in advance is the Navy game to be held ip. Cleveland, Ohio. This game will probably be the student trip. The Cleveland municipal stadium where the game is to be held is the finest combination football and baseball stadium in the country, most of the 80,000 seats being under cover. In July of the current year this stadium held 80,000 to break the big league attendance record.
The Northwestern game to be held here November 12 according to the advance sale will have the largest attendance of the home games with Carnegie Tech, probably running second.
Southern California reports a very strong sale on the west coast, and Pittsburgh and Kansas have indications of sizable crowds.
Students are reminded that if they wish to procure tickets in advance for any of the games they should call at the Athletic office and obtain application blanks without delay.
“Jugglers” Enjoy Ocean
Breezes As They Play
Life for a University orchestra often becomes well worth the living. The Notre Dame Jugglers, widely known campus syncopaters, spent one of this summer’s warmest months on the high seas and in Europe. Playing twice daily on the S. S. “Satumii,” laden with Eucharistic Congress bound passengers, the band made many a friend, had a good time itself.
Leaving New York on June 9, the Notre Dame musicians visited Dublin, London, ; Paris and surrounding points of interest, and returned to the States July 5.
Eight men, Al Stewart, director, Paul Guaneri, Leonard Kenkel, Robert Fillson, James Bordeau, George Bryan, Joseph Argus, Charles Morris.
<
September 23, 1932
Seventeen
PETRITZ BEGINS WORK ON FOOTBALL REVIEW
Stadium’s Management Is One of N. D’s Hardest Jobs
Edmund G; Britz Will Act As Business Manager Again.
Joseph S. Petritz, Editor of the Official Football Review, has announced the staff of that publication for 1932-33. Edmund G. Britz, Busi-
Edmund Britz
Will take his old post.
ness Manager of the review last year, has returned to take up his old post. The co-publishers are Joseph Kurth, “■Mike” Koken, William Pierce, and Emmett Murphy, all of the class of 1933.
Last year’s edition dedicated to the late Knute Rockne, contained articles by writers of national prominence.
The magazine this year will have the same number of pages, but there will be several innovations in writeups and arrangements. Efforts are being made to secure the services of many national sports writers for the 1932 number.
“The Football Review was well received last year by the students and the public in general,” said Editor Petritz, “and we hope to be able to repeat the process this year. The cover and frontispiece have not been decided upon.”
It is expected that the magazine will appear about the middle of December before the students go home for the Christmas vacation. In the meantime if there are any students, artists or writers, who wish to submit work to the Review, they are advised to see Joseph Petritz in the Athletic Office.
When Notre Dame opens the gates of the stadium on October 8th, the date of the Haskell game, the eyes of the football world will be focused upon eleven football players. From all parts of the country, crowds will swarm to the amphitheatre to witness the opening classic.
One of the most difficult problems connected with the stadium activities is the handling of the crowds in an efficient manner. Frank R. Buhl, associate manager of football in charge of the stadium, has been assigned to the task. His chief duty is the seating of 55,000 people in the quickest and easiest way possible.
800 Others
Under the leadership of Buhl are eight hundred men, all of whom are members of the “Ushers’ Club.” Several classifications are made of the duties assigned to these groups.
At each gate there is stationed a man known as the head gateman. This man is in complete charge of the entrance and a number of auxiliary gatemen. There are two others to each stile, whose duty it is to tear off the stubs from the tickets.
Within the entrance to the stadium there are individuals stationed at each of the 36 ramps which lead into the corresponding sections of seats. The duty of these men is to certify that the ticket-holders are entering the right section.
Department of Music Active
During Summer Vacation
Activities of the Department of Music during the summer session of 1932 consisted of organ, piano, and violin concerts. The programs were open to the public and were received with acclaim by local music followers.
Dr. Wilhelm Middelschulte, professor of organ, gave a series of Sunday night concerts in the Sacred Heart church. Dr. A. Pouliot presented a piano recital in Washington hall on July 19.
A violin and piano sonata recital was given by Dr. Middelschulte and Prof. Richard H. Seidel in Washington hall on July 27. They were assisted by Miss Agnes Hope Pillsbury.
Dr. Middelschulte, Prof. Pouliot, and Miss Pillsbury were guests teachers at the summer session. Prof. Seidel is a regular member of the department.
Crews of twelve ushers each are in control of each of the 36 sections. They are headed by a senior and a junior captain. Each of the ushers is in charge of five rows of seats with the two captains acting as their superiors. .
Under Classmen Too
Individual ushers are also assigned to each section of box seats as well as to the press box. Twenty messengers are kept on hand to run errands for the personnel office and the ticket offices. Twenty inspectors are interspersed throughout the stadium as a check rein on the whole system.
Buhl himself is assisted in his personnel office by a crew of underclassmen managers whose work is to have all the members of the usher’s club in their appointed places at the right time. '
In an interview, Buhl stated: “The stadium should be better managed this year because this is the third season in which the system has been in force. Most of the ushers have been with us during this time and are well acquainted with the general run of things. All the underclass managers, except the new freshmen, have served at least one year during the stadium’s existence. With all these factors in view every cog should turn in a well-oiled fashion. That is all I can hope for.”
160 Students Registered In N. D- College of Law
One hundred and sixty students are registered in the Notre Dame College of Law according to figures issued by Dean Thomas F. Konop this week.
From this number, eighty-eight are first year men, thirty-three are second year men, thirty-three, third year men, four special students, and two students enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters and the College of Law.
• Hurley Writes For “Tribune”
Neil C. Hurley, Jr., last year’s editor-in-chief of The Scholastic, is at present a member of the Chicago Daily Tribune’s sport staff. During the summer months Hurley covered all the major tennis tournaments in John Patrick Carroll.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
AVE!
Elsewhere in The Scholastic, ye Editor dons his toga and in true editorial fashion welcomes the class of 1936. As a supplement to his welcome, we reprint an editorial from the current issue of the Daily Trojan of the University of Southern California, entitled, “Select an Activity,” applying we believe not only to freshmen but to upperclassmen as well. The reason for our approbation isn’t motivated by conceit, (since we have an activity) but because we believe, from past experience, that many attending college are prone to adope a laissez-faire attitude and only realize it when it is too late to rectify, it. Several deletions have been made owing to their irrelevancy.
SELECT AN ACTIVITY
“An education is a priceless possession. A large portion of it may be gained in the four years of university life and every facility possible has been furnished to make their four years more worthwhile. Not the least of these advantages are the many clubs and organizations that play such a vital part in extracurricular activities.
Students should not become self-centered and let one interest occupy their undivided attention. The athlete should not let sports take all his attention, the scholar should take occasional jumps to amusement and recreation, the musician should take up athletics and club life, and in similar fashion, every type should seek a diversion from routine studies.
There is hardly a school or department that does not have several or many small groups and clubs of students interested in some endeavor. Honorary and professional societies have become well established and offer an incentive for better work. . Athletics are especially well organized for both men and women, in three divisions of intercollegiate, intramural and gymnasium classes. Publications, music, dramatics, public speaking, and committee work are only a few of the many choices.
There is no excuse for not participating in activities outside the classroom. A well-budgeted day will include other things beside study and sleep. Examine the possibilities, inquire of your friends, make your decision and then work hard in your chosen field. Perform the double purpose of bettering and building for a greater university.”
SHALL WE BRING HIM BACK ALIVE?
We had to go to the theatre to borrow this title and when it was safely ensconced at the workshop bench, true lapidary that we are, we cut and polished it, to fit this warning, which came in the form of an editorial from the University of California’s Daily Californian. It is presented for your perusal.
“In several weeks, a great serpent will raise his head and transfix each student with gleaming eyes.
All summer he dozed peacefully and lazily —he was forgotten. Now this mighty reptile is slowly uncoiling, and noiselessly begins to glide across the campus. As each day passes, his wanderings become more evident. Former victims revive horrible tales for trembling Freshmen. Some braver than the rest dare to scoff—they will suffer his displeasure. As his search for food become more deadly, he pursues students. Even Seniors fear this menace. His fiery breath scorches loiterers.
Midterms are inevitable.”
ROCKNE
Leader, rest! thy warfare o’er, Sleep the sleep that knows no break
Dream of football fields no more, Days of mapping, nights awake;
No rude din shall reach thy ear, No more for you the band’s acclaim, For you no more the students’ cheer, Forever gone to Notre Dame.
—The Santa Clara.
September 23, 1932	Nineteen
WELCOME!
The Scholastic takes this opportunity to welcome the class of 1936 to Notre Dame. Greetings are sometimes a bit perfunctory and given for the lack of something better, but in this instance the editorial staff is sincere in its hope that your four years at Notre Dame will be pleasant and profitable.
Notre Dame offers much to you men and does not ask a great deal in return. . She lets you use her name and associate it with your own. You will be proud to do so; it is only natural and Notre Dame does not begrudge it of you. She does ask one thing, however, that you do justice to the name, both home and abroad. It is not a difficult contract to keep, but because of that very fact a breach is the more unpardonable.
Perhaps it’s a bit premature to talk about such things. At any rate, you of ’36 have four enviable years ahead of you. Cynics will tell you differently but that is because they haven’t the faintest notion of what comprises true worth. And then, again, they are usually the kind who are the first back in September—and they invariably bring somebody back with them.
V	'
ORIENTATION
It is an old adage and perhaps a very fine adage that experience is the best teacher. Like most wise sayings, however, this one has its limitations and its loop-holes. Many is the man, who after spending a few years in college, has learned from experience that he has been going about this peculiar task of educating himself in an entirely erroneous manner. He wistfully checks the hours he has tossed to the winds, precious hours. He chides himself for his incompetencies and his puerile fancies. He vows that his future will tell
a different story. He finds consolation, though, in the rather unconsoling thought that he has learned from experience. He rationalizes his past actions by looking upon them as hurdles in his educational steeple-chase.
Granting for a moment that the man in the question has taken a new lease on life, few will deny the fact that his lessons have been expensive to date. He may feel that he has won a victory, but if he scrutinizes it he will find that it is Pyrrhic in nature.
It is a sad commentary, indeed, that batch after batch of students pass through such an enervating and superfluous process. They are told how to begin, but they prefer their own starting blocks. They are warned in mid-stream, but prefer it out a little deeper. Surely this cannot be experience if the term embodies anything constructive.
Speaking of proverbs, the one about a good start being half the battle is excellent. And is there any plausible reason why freshmen, here, today, this minute, cannot make such a start? True they must take a lot of things on faith, but these things, for the most part are told to them by men who know what freshmen are—and what freshmen aren’t.
But when has a man made a real beginning at Notre Dame? First of all when he understands Notre Dame’s purpose—the training of Catholic gentlemen. When he becomes conscious of a distinction between cut and dried education and education which keeps one eye on God. When he finds out that training the intellect for the intellect’s sake is vastly more important than the accumulation of mere data. When he realizes that after all is said and done his problem is a personal one and must be personally solved. It shouldn’t take years to learn these things but some obstinate individuals will prefer the experience route, the process of elimination, the “collegiate” method. The only difficulty there is that their moment of illumination may come at just about the same time as when the hare woke up to sniff the turtle’s dust.
Twenty
i
The Scholastic
'.1 i
ATHLETICS
Varsity Grid Practice Under Way
Powerful Squad of 110 Turns Out For CROSS-COUNTRY SQUAD Initial Drills; 24 Lettermen Are Back OPENS FAIL CAMPAIGN
Wealth of Backfield Material On Hand; Competition Keen For First Team Positions.
By Joe Kurth
All-American Tackle, 1931
With the sound of tearing paper to accompany the pounding feet of 110 candidates, Captain Paul Host tore his way through a wall of paper, erected as a novel shot for the newsreel cameras, officially opening the 1932 season at Notre Dame on September 15. Opening day, at Notre Dame, always means nothing more than an afternoon of posing of the entire squad before a battery of movie cameras.
24 Monogram Men
Among the 110 candidates who reported to Coach Heartley “Hunk” Anderson, were twenty-four monogram winners of last year. Only eight of last year’s lettermen have been lost to the 1932 squad. The men lost by graduation were: Marchy Schwartz, All-American left halfback, acclaimed the outstanding player of 1931. Tommy Yarr, All-American center; Nordy Hoffmann, All-American right guard; and Dick Mahony, right end, are three regulars whose graduation left gaping holes in the line. Al Culver, left tackle, and George Kozac, right tackle, make their loss felt in reserve material. Carl Cronin and Bernie Leahy, shock troop backs, are the remaining men lost upon reception of the sheepskin.
Competition Keen
Besides three monogram winners who are competing for the vacated left halfback post, there are several other promising candidates in the run. The most formidable candidate seems to be Mike Koken, Schwartz’s understudy for two seasons. Mike’s injury has healed perfectly and his
Coach Heartley W. Anderson “. .-. we’ll have a tough team.”
antics on the practice field indicate that opponents will have to be nifty if they want to down the elusive Youngstown “ball toter.”
Nick Lukats and Frank LaBorne, both lettermen, are apt prospects for the halfback position. Lukats had the misfortune to break his leg in a practice game at the start of the 1931 season, but it, too, has mended and Lukats should be in there. Al Mc-Guff, star at St. Mels in Chicago, should see much time at the left-half post.
No vacancies appear at the quarterback position since all of last year’s squad have returned. Competition again is keen, as it was last year, among Chuck Jaskwhich, Emmett Murphy, Laurie Vejar, Joe Foley, Reyman Bonar, and Angelo Carideo.
At the right halfback post three men are pressing each other for the right to be called a regular. There are: Ray Brancheau, Joe Sheeketski, and Curtis (Duke) Millheam. Press-(Continued on Page 25)
Stars Missing From Harriers’ Ranks; Season Opens Early.
By James Pick
With only four weeks in which to whip a team into shape, Coach" Nicholson is presented with a serious problem and cross country team aspirants are realizing the difficult task before them.
The 1932 aggregation of thinly clads facing a staunch group of opponents finds itself lacking in veteran material.
Three Aces Missing
The fleet long legs of Gene Howery, 1931 captain, and Alex Wilson, Notre Dame ace who set an enviable record in the Olympic games this summer, will be extremely difficult to replace on the team
Eddie King, who was the third man of the trio — Howery, Wilson, and King — which consistently held down the first three places in competition last fall, will also be absent when the Irish harriers follow the long course this fall.
King Not To Run
King suffered a leg injury in Los Angeles this summer while wearing the oak leaf in the 1500 meter race. He has gone through months of gruelling training without a week’s relief. Coach Nicholson has ordered him to rest until the indoor track period opens.
The graduation of the tenacious distance runner Ewing will also leave a gap in the field at the starting mark.
Although the cross country squad has no champion distance man to lead them this fall, the team is well balanced and will make up what has been lost with their spirit. Coach (Continued on page 29)
September 23, 1932
Twenty-one
OFFICIALS SELECTED FOR NINE GRID GAMES
Prominent Arbiters Picked For All N. D. Battles.
Thirty-two of the most prominent football officials in the country were named this week to officiate at the nine games on the Notre Dame schedule this fall. The list was released Wednesday by the Athletic Association.
The Northwestern game at Notre Dame on November 12th will bring Frank Birch of Earlham, Col. H. B. Hackett of the Army, John Schommer and J. J. Lipp of Chicago in the roles of arbiters. Other games on the card will be under similarly high class handling.
None of the nine men named as referees will serve in that capacity for more than one game. In fact, only three men will serve more than once in any capacity. J. J. Lipp of Chicago will be head linesman at the Carnegie fray and field judge at the Army game in addition to the Northwestern assignment.
John Schommer of Chicago is another who will appear twice, acting as umpire in both the Northwestern and Army games. Col. Hackett is the third member of the repeaters, coming to Notre Dame as referee of the Carnegie game and head linesman of the N. U. tilt.
The complete list is as follows:
HASKELL: Don Henry (Missouri), referee; Dr. F. A. Lambert (Ohio State), umpire; Dr. E. P. Maxwell (Ohio State), head linesman; Frank Hogan (DeKalb Normal), field judge.
DRAKE: Ed Cochrane (Kalamazoo), referee ; H. L. Ray (Illinois), umpire: Sec Taylor (Wichita U.). head linesman; M. P. Ghee (Dartmouth), field judge.
CARNEGIE TECH: Col. H. B. Hackett (West Point), referee: G. G. Eckles (W. & J.), umpire: J. J. Lipp (Chicago), head linesman; E. E. Miller (Penn State), field judge.
PITTSBURGH: W.T. Holleran (Providence. R. I.), referee: Fred Young (UI. Wes.), umpire ; C. L. Bolster (Pennsylvania). head linesman ; Nick Kearns (DePaul), field judge.
KANSAS: E. C. Quigley (St. Mary’s Kas.), referee; C. L. McBride (Kansas City Star), umpire; Dr. Joseph Reilly (Georgetown), head linesman ; Dr. Izzy Anderson (Missouri), field judge.
NORTHWESTERN: Frank Birch (Earlham), referee; John Schommer (Chicago), umpire ;Col. H. B. Hackett (West Point). head linesman; J. J. Lipp (Chicago), field judge.
' NAVY: Frank Lane (Detroit) , referee : Lee Daniels (Loyola), umpire ; Don Lourie (Princeton) , head linesman; Jay Wyatt (Missouri), field judge.
ARMY: J. C. Masker (Northwestern), referee ; John Schommer (Chicago), umpire: Joseph Madigsohn (Michigan), head linesman; J. J. Lipp’ (Chicago), field judge.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA: Herb Dana (Nebraska), referee; Bobbie Morris (Washington), umpire; Bruce Kirkpatrick (Occidental) . head linesman; Tommy Fitzpatrick, Reid judge.
TRACK CAPTAIN
Mickey MacBeth
Picked by letter men to lead 1933 Track Team.
Klein, McNamara, and Kozak Take Charge of 275 Freshmen.
Coaches Jake Klein, George Kozak, and Rege McNamara took charge of a squad of 275 freshmen football candidates in their first practice last Saturday. Since that time the yearling gridders have been sent through daily drills.
Klein is the lone holdover from the frosh coaching staff of last year. Kozak won a monogram as shock-troop right tackle with the varsity squad a year ago and McNamara played a similar post two years ago.
The work for the freshmen during the past week has been principally on fundamentals. Dummy tackling and blocking, drills in line play and in the rudiments of Notre Dame’s backfield style have also featured the workouts.
M’BETH AND M’GRATH NEW IRISH CAPTAINS
Named to Lead Baseball and Track Squads For 1933.
Two new names were added to the roll of Notre Dame sport captains last June when Fred MacBeth and Jim McGrath were elected leaders of the track and baseball teams respectively for the 1933 seasons.
MacBeth is a veteran of two years varsity competition in both indoor and outdoor meets. He has competed as a member of the Irish mile relay team and as an entrant in the individual 440 yard .events during that time.
In ’28 Olympics
In the summer of 1928, MacBeth, whose home is in Hamilton, Ont., competed for Canada in the Amsterdam Olympic games. Coming to Notre Dame, two years later, he won his freshmen numerals during the indoor season. Joining the varsity the following winter he won his first major monogram at the 440 distance. At various times in the past two seasons MacBeth has run the low hurdle event.
Jim McGrath, the new baseball leader, is a senior in the Physical Education department, and lives in Rochester, N. Y. He has won two monograms with the Keogan-coached nine.
Other Captains
McGrath has been used at various times as a first baseman and in the outfield. He has seen considerable service as a pinch hitter and is a reliable and steady man both at bat and in the field.
Completing the group of spring sport leaders are John Montedonico, golf captain, and Louis Chreist, head of the tennis squad. Montedonico and Chreist were elected shortly before the close of the school.
The first of the yearlings’ major assignment is scheduled for Oct. 1, when they will face the varsity in the annual pre-season scrimmage in the stadium. After that they will learn and forget new plays and formations each week in order to afford the varsity with some animated opposition after the style of the current opponents.
Tzventy-two
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING Paul Host
By William Flynn
1926. LaCrosse Central and Madison high school basket ball teams were meeting to decide the winner of the Wisconsin state championship. The LaCrosse line-up included a high school junior, one Paul Host. Among
i
Captain Paul Host
Makes and writes sport news.
the Madison players was listed a certain Fred Staab.
When the final gun had sounded, Madison was the 1926 Wisconsin interscholastic basketball champions. Second and third place were to be decided between LaCrosse and Kenosha the next morning.
When game time arrived, Host was again in the LaCrosse line-up. A chap named Charley Jaskwhich was a member of the Kenosha team. Kenosha emerged the winner of the early morning game, and LaCrosse took third in that year’s tournament.
Host Wins One
During the fall of 1927, the next year, Kenosha and Jaskwhich went to LaCrosse to meet Central in the Thanksgiving football classic between the two schools. Host and LaCrosse emerged victors this time by the score of 19-7.
Aside from his football and basketball activities, Host was a member of the track team at LaCrosse Central for several seasons. He ran the hurdles, the hundred, and competed in the broad jump. His team always got to the state meet. LaCrosse Central has the unique record of winning sixteen annual district track championships without a break.
Four years later—1930. The scene
shifts to the Pitt Panther stadium in Pittsburgh. Notre Dame had gone to the Smoky City to meet the 1929 Tournament of Roses representative and claimant of national honors.
Listed in the program on the Notre Dame roster were: Paul Host, LaCrosse, Wis., left end; Fred Staab, Madison, Wis., fullback; and Charles Jaskwhich, Kenosha, Wis., quarterback. Three high school rivals of the backetball court had become teammates.
Host, The Ball Carrier
The fall of 1931. Pitt was guests of Notre Dame in the Memorial stadium. The Panthers were rated as one of the strongest teams in the East.
The two teams lined up in about mid-field with the ball in possession of the fighting Irish. Signals were called. Tommy Yarr snapped the ball. Paul Host cut back from his position at left end, tucked the ball under his arm, started up the field.
Forty yards of emerald turf and eight, white chalk five-yard markers passed under his flying, cleated shoes before he was brought to earth. At the end of the season, when statisticians had compiled their averages, it was found that this same Paul Host had been the best Notre Dame ground gainer of the year. His attempts at ball carrying numbered one and his average yardage gained was forty.
Paul Host'—Captain
Then comes a scene in the Notre •Dame dining hall last spring. The 1931 football squad was being banqueted. The last event on the program was the election of a captain for 1932. When the last ballot had been tallied the new captain’s name was Paul Host.
Take down the files of the Notre Dame Scholastic from February to June, 1932. Turn the pages of almost any issue until you find the sport section. There you will probably see a story headed: “ ‘My Tensest Moment in Sport’ by Paul Host, Copyright 1932.”
Read the story. Notice its graphic description, for instance, of the time Billy Sullivan robbed Babe Ruth of a hit or of the time Tommy Yarr made a touchdown gift to Northwestern. Then look again at the by-line at the (Continued on Page 23)
FALL GOLF TOURNEY SET FOR NEXT SUNDAY
Strong Field Expected For Annual Medal Play Test.
By George R. Belting
Approximately 55 Notre Dame golfers have been spending the greater part of their afternoons during the past week polishing up their brassies
Johnny Montedonico
Favorite in Fall Tourney.
niblicks and putters, in preparation for the third annual William J. Burke Memorial tournament.
The tourney will be staged on the University course Sunday morning, Sept. 25, at 9:00 o’clock. Entrants must start before 11:00 a. m., or be disqualified.
In the previous tournaments 72 holes were played. This year, however, owing to the large number of entrants it was wisely decided to limit the matches to 36 holes of medal play. By doing this it is hoped that the entire tournament can be played in one day, eliminating the week day games that were necessitated in the past by entrants who did not get a chance to finish their 72 holes.
Many of the enthusiastic campus (Continued on'Page 30)
September 23, 1932
Twenty-three
1932 Football Schedule
(Officially released by Jesse C. Harper)
October 8—
Haskell Institute at Notre Dame.
October 15—
Drake University at Notre Dame.
October 22—
Carnegie Tech, at Notre Dame.
October 29—
Univ, of Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
November 5—
University of Kansas at Lawrence.
November 12— Northwestern Univ, at Notre Dame.
November 19— Navy (Cleveland)
November 26— Army at New York City.
December 10—
University of Southern California at Los Angeles.
Today’s most outstanding radio value. Gothic table model with 7-tube receiver, 8-tu be performance, beautiful in tone and
design, includes MODEL 311 many features	M a
found in higher priced models.
Above prices include Majestic tubes and Federal tax paid.
RADIO EQUIPMENT CO.
213 W, Jefferson
Drop in and hear this MAJESTIC at the room of JIM BAKER 101 Sorin Hall Campus Representative
Introducing Paul Host
(Continued From Page 22)
top of the first column. In what you have just read is proof that Paul Host is something more than a football player.
He is a journalism major, and will finish his course at the end of the present semester. He has been a member of The Scholastic sports staff for two years. He was co-edi-
Notre Dame Men!
Get Acquainted With
MAX
ADLER
“Ozz the Corner”
[Southeast corner Michigan and Washington]
Fashion Park & Charter House Suits Manhattan Shirts, Florsheim Shoes Notre Dame Jewelry Monogram Blankets
6 6 Where Well Dressed Men Select Their Clothes"
tor of the 1931 Football Review. This year he is one of the editors of the Football Program.
Perhaps, before the present season is over, some editor will approach the 1932 Notre Dame football captain in his room, 115 Sorin, to make him an offer for a series of signed articles. If that happens, some ghost writer will be out of a job, for Host can write his own—he is a good reporter.
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
Hunk’s naivete is most refreshing. Two weeks without a single bear story! The attitude of “it’s a tough schedule, but we’ll be pretty good” is man-biting-dog news of the first water.
Now that the traditional peddling of moans has been set aside by one de-bunking coach, we are waiting for
Men of Notre Dame
SAMUEL SPIRO and COMPANY
Invite you to share in the remarkable savings during our
FORCING OUT
WE HAVE LOST OUR LEASE
SUITS . . TOPCOATS . . OVERCOATS . . FURNISHINGS
reductions from regular prices.
at tremendous
Fall Neckwear
SLACKS
$2.69
95c
SAMUEL SPIRO and COMPANY
Hart Schaffner and Marx Clothes'
Regular $1.50 and $2.00 values, now—
SPIRO’S 43 years in business and the home of “Hart Schaffner and Marx” CLOTHING . . . Stetson Hats . . . Manhattan Shirts . . . Munsingwear and dozens of other nationally known brands of merchandise.
We are forced to dispose of and sacrifice our $200,000.00 stock of MEN’S WEAR.
Men's Shirts
Manhattan and Eclipse Brand
Beautiful new fall patterns; collars attached or collars to match, including white and white on white; $2.00, $2.50 and $3.00 values—
S1.29
The new fall silks, plain shades and new pattern effects. All HAND-MADE TIES. Regular $1.00 values, now—55c.
Stagg of Chicago to complete the iconoclaslm with a startling announcement that he really will have eleven men on hand for the Purdue game.
PUTT-PUTT
We understand that there has been some pretty fair golfing skill loosed on the Burke course this fall. Mon-
22 - inch bottoms, the new English styles. Ten different shades. Genuine Hockmeyers . . will not peel or new pair FREE. Special—
tedonico, Veeneman, Fehlig, Banks— the Western Junior Champion—and a freshman chap named Win Day have been shouldering their clubs with an air of accomplishment.
It is a little far ahead till spring, with an important fall tournament intervening, but it isn’t too far off to hope a bit. With the first four of the above quintet eligible for varsity competition, it is to be hoped that Notre Dame will again have a squad productive enough of results to get themselves to the in-tercollegiates next June.
WILSON OF CANADA
“The most unsung hero of the Olympics—Alex Wilson.” So says the Los Angeles Times. It isn’t the greatest title of the games, nor possibly the best he deserved, but it does give some measure of tribute to a great runner.
Wilson ran seven races in as many days against the best talent in the world—a mark probably unique in the middle-distance records of the games. Starting with the heats of the 800, he ran the historic finals of that distance, two preliminaries and a final in the 400, and two 400 meter races with the Canadian relay team.
It was heart-breaking to Notre Dame fans that Wilson lost in the 800 meter thriller. Racing in the finest contest of the games, he forced Hampson to a new record and was clocked himself in 1:49.9. At this late stage we would add our word of commendation for his outstanding performances.
BEARSKIN
We wonder if he’ll be back this fall. To date he hasn’t shown his head. We mean the second-guessing lad on one of the local (sheets. With no one taking him very seriously, he did produce some very entertaining gripes. . . . albeit a trifle on the petty side.
SCORE-CASTING
It’s a heritage of the conductors of this column — yeh, this is a column. With few games scheduled for tomorrow, though, we’ll spend another week getting in shape and will unload our first selections one week from today. Any one with a really good system, please see us soon.
»
J
September 23, 1932
Twenty-five
Grid Squad Practises
(Continued from Page 20)
ing on their heels are Red Tobin, who showed up very well in spring practice, and Al Costello. At fullback, George Melinkovich, Steve Banas, and Jimmy Leonard reign supreme, followed by Fritz Staab, reserve fullback on 1930 squad, and Fred Carideo, cousin to Frank Carideo.
The line candidates for the Notre Dame team show up well. The loss of Mahony at right end has necessitated moving Captain Paul Host to that position from left end. Ed Kosky will hold down the left wing position where he has been threatened during the two seasons by Host. Hugh DeVore, the vicious tackler and blocker on the squad, is back to assure Coach Anderson of an excellent shock-troop right end. Frank Canale and Hubert Gildea, and Harold Quinlan are reserve wingmen upon whom some duties will fall.
At the tackle positions E. Krause and Joe Kurth hold sway, having commandeered the left and right tackle positions last year. Tom Roach and Mike Ledding show promise of being capable of holding the shock troop tackle positions in the absence of Al Culver and George Kozac. Richard Pfefferle and Harry Becker are reserve tackles who will travel with the traveling squad as reserve tackles.
The guard positions are well taken care of. Hoffman is the only man lost out of six monogram winners. Jim Harris, Bill Pierce, Norm Greeney, Joe Pivarnik and Harry Wunsch, all letter winners, are back. Jack Flynn, converted from a tackle, shows promise at a guard post.
Today and Every Day at
Cafe Peacock
' □
Tenderloin Steak, 50c Chop Suey., 25c Chicken Chow Mein, 50c
• □
CAFE PEACOCK
128 W. Washington Ave.
South Bend
In replacing Tom Yarr at center Coach Anderson has a real task, but Tom (Kitty) Gorman, former allIllinois and all-Chicago star with St. Phillip’s high school, shows likelihood of holding down the keystone position. Ben Alexander, a letter winner, follows on the heels, of Gorman and between the two of them the center position should be capably held. John Robinson indicates that he is not en
Make it a habit to telephone home at least once a week during your days at school. These telephone chats with the home folks will certainly pep you up . . . and the charges may be reversed to the home telephone if you desire.
INDIANA BELL TELEPHONE Company
tirely out of the running as a center.
The schedule, typical of Notre Dame, takes the team from coast to coast. In looking over the schedule Coach Anderson stated: “We’ll have a tough team, but the main question is how tough are the other fellows going to be. Injuries and inexperience helped to wreck us last year. We have experienced men this year, but we can’t tell about injuries.”
*
The Economical
Voice of Millions
Twenty-sis:	The Scholastic
PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY
Phone 1°““ 4-5661 „ | Residence 3-4041	X-ray
DR. E. S. LUCAS	
Dentist	
702 J. M. S. Building	South Bend,
Opposite Oliver Hotel	Indiana
™	(Office 4-2373 PhOne (Home 4-3517	
C J. LANGENBAHN, M. D.	
906 Bldg, and Loan Tower	0
Hours: 11:00-12:00 a. m., 2:00-4:00 p. m.	
Office Phone 3-3309	Res. Phone 5-1343 DR. B. A. KAMM Ear, Nose and Throat Suite 526 Sherland Building Jefferson and Michigan u	(10 to 12 m. Hours ■? (3 to 5 p. m.	South Bend, Indiana		DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST D entis ts Phone 3-1254	405 Associates Building
		
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective Shoes Residence Phone 4-6354 DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 432-34 Associates Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.		Dr. E. J. Cain	Dr. H. H. Rogers ROGERS Eyesight Specialists Phone 4-8251	213 S. Michigan Street
		
Hours	a- m- (2 to 4 p. m. DR. H. BOYD-SNEE Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat 716 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Indiana		Orthopedic Shoes	Hours: in Stock	9 a. m. to 5 p. m. DR. L. K. BUNCH Registered Podiatrist Practice Limited to the Foot Telephone for Appointment 411 J. M. S. Building	Phone 3-2805
		
Expert Eye	Glasses Properly Fitted Service	at Moderate Prices J. BURKE, Inc. Optometrist and Manufacturing Opticians Established 1900	228 S. Michigan St.		FRANK J. POWERS, M. D. University Physician Office at	Hours: University Infirmary	12:30 p. m. to 4 p. m.

September 23, 1932
Twenty-seven
LIVINGSTON'S
South Bend"s leading store for Notre Dame men
# < <
2 Stores for your convenience
. . . downtown and on the campus
Get in on our weekly Guessing Contest!
$15.00 FREE
to the right guesser of the score for the next NOTRE DAME Football Game
« « » »
In case of a tie, prize will be divided.
COME IN AND TRY YOUR LUCK— either at campus shop or downtown store.
LIVINGSTON’S
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
LEAGUE OF NATIONS?
NO!—FIGHTING IRISH
And, Strangely Enough, Some Of Them Are Really Irish.
That all - European Fighting Irish football team begins another grid season in a couple of weeks, and unless some drastic changes in personnel occur between now and then there
Balance your budget with
KUEHN SHOES
Not one change in their long famed quality and stylelasting fit. Just newer-than-ever styles and greater values at lower prices.
$3.00 — $4.00 — $5.00 — $6.50 — $8.00
A Few Higher
Master Fitted
120 South Michigan Street
A D I O *7	44c
SETS	Radio Tubes_______i i c
TUBES	Your Set and Tubes tested FREE!
■ REPAIRS
RADIO CLINIC --------------------
116 W. Colfax Ave., in McDonald Studio. -
Across from Palais Royal
will actually be a couple of Irishmen on the team.
In fact the whole center of the line will be composed of lads who could probably get through the’ first five chords of “My Wild Irish Rose” without breaking out into a Greek accent. Harris, left guard, Gorman, center, and Pierce, right guard, are the young men referred to, and they probably represent the longest consecutive list of Irish names that will have apepared on a Notre Dame program in many a year.
STUDENT Newest $12.95
SPECIAL -------- Kadios with tubes
Bring your radio to us for the best and lowest priced repairs in the city.
Notre Dame earned the name of Fighting Irish in the good, old days when any player weighing less than two hundred pounds was a sissy, and everybody on the team except Knute Rockne was an Irishman.
Since then the game has been modified, other things than Irishman’s hardihood have entered into the player’s requirements, and young men of other nationalities have stepped into the football spotlight. But the name of Fighting Irish has stuck to the Notre Dame team, probably because of its color, but also because it implies pluck, endurance, courage.
While not more than three Irish names will appear with the first team, 43 of the 110 who. turned out for the squad trace their origin back to Erin. Others on the roster include IS Germans, 9 Italians, 8 Englishmen, 5 Poles, 3 Spaniards, 2 Slovaks, 2 Hungarians, and one each of Austrians, Portugese, Jewish, Belgian, Bohemian, Swiss, and Swedish. In all there will be 26 nationalities represented on the squad.
STRATIGON “Smith Bend’s Distinctive” Lunch Soda Grill 114 N. Michigan
□
Noonday Luncheon 25c —dessert and beverage included.
Complete Supper 50c —from soup to dessert.
Sunday Dinners Special —served all day.
Try our Fish and Spaghetti Supper every Friday evening, 50c.
We bake our own Pastries —the best in town.
Buy a ticket and save money.
“Where Notre Dame Students Meet” Open 24 Hours.
September 23, 1932.
Tiuenty-nine
Cross-Country Practice
(Continued from Page 20)
Nicholson stated that their enthusiasm will probably carry them through to a fair showing this season. This situation will probably result in keen competition for varsity berths.
Three Lettermen
The Irish contingent for 1932 will find three monogram men in its ranks, Joe Young, Tom Grimes, and Ralph Bowers. These men will form the backbone of this year’s team along with a few old campaigners, Red Hoyt, Ray Troy, Tommy O’Meara, and Clyde Roberts.
Grimes and Bowers ran the two mile arce in track while Young, Roberts, Troy, O’Meara and Hoyt specialized in the 880-yard event.
Due to’ the fact that there are only seven men of varsity experience on the squad, Coach Nicholson urges all the boys who are interested in cross country to report for practice.
The team is comprised of eight men. About twenty prospects are training at present, but this number is exceedingly small when one considers the runners who do not reach their peak of condition until late in the year or who are otherwise incapacitated during the season.
Coming Attractions
NOTICE!
The Lost and Found Department wishes to remind you to mark purchased goods immediately so that if an article is lost it can be easily identified.
Bring material found to room 124, Main Building. Unclaimed goods will be returned to finder after sixty days.
Office hours are from 8:00 a. m. to 9:00 a. m., and 4:30 p. m. to 5:00 p. m. Closed on Sundays.
Saturday, Sept. 24 BOBBY GRICE AND HER 12 BRICK TOPS The Musical Sweetheart of the Nation 25c Park Plan
THIS TICKET AND
10c
WILL ADMIT
YOU
ANY EVENING AFTER 6 P. M. TO
THE OLIVER
The Oliver makes special concessions to the students to see the best talking-pictures at the lowest prices. :	:	:
Patronize
The Oliver Theatre
and
Save Money.
Palais Royale
BALLROOM
Sunday, Sept. 25 JIMMIE GARRIGAN
Oriental Gardens, WBBM, Chicago 25c Park Plan
WEDNESDAY NITES Now 25c per person.
No Charge for Dancing
Sunday, Oct. 2 CARL MOORE Drake Hotel, Chicago 25c Park Plan •
Experts on
Shoe Rebuilding
Highest quality leather. Work done by expert shoemaker, winner of prize in National Shoe Repairing Contest held in Chicago in 1930.
HAT CLEANING and
SHOE SHINE
O. K. Shoe Repair
124 N. Michigan St.
LEMONTREES
Optometrists
222% S. Michigan Street
102 W. Washington Street
GLASSES . . .
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
> □
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately.
Thirty
The Scholastic
Fall Golf Tourney
(Continued From Page 22)
golf fans were looking forward to seeing Joe Switzer, last year’s winner, repeat. Unfortunately, Switzer did not return to school this year.
It is not our purpose to discourage anyone, but for the information of those interested in golf, we wish to state that John Montedonico, captain of the 1933 golf team, together with Bill Veeneman and Vince Fehlig both
O. A. CLARK’S RESTAURANT 104-106 North Michigan Street
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House
Catering to
NOTRE DAME MEN for over thirty years
Complete Dinner .... 35c to 50c
For a real man’s meal drop in any time.
TWO YARDS TO GAIN!
NOT MUCH!
THAT’S THE WAY OUR PRICES LOOK TO THE FINEST FOOTBALL TEAM IN THE WORLD.
SOME HONOR!
The Enterprise Furniture Exchange
MICHIGAN STREET AT WAYNE
“Service”
monogram men, will compete in the tournament. Billy Cole, No. one man on last year’s frosh team is also rated among the favorites.
Other pre-tournament favorites include Johnny Banks, returned to Notre Dame after a year’s absence, and Winfieled Day, a freshman. Banks won the Western Junior championship last summer and went to the quarter-finals of the Western Amateur meet. Mike Moore, winner of The Scholastic’s handicap tourna
ment last fall is also expected to compete and should be among the leaders.
Spring varsity ratings will be determined by the cards turned in after Sunday’s performance. In the event of a tie, the playoff will be staged the following Sunday, October 5. All men wishing to participate in this open tournament are asked to appear at the club house at 9:00 a. m., and all entrants must start before 11:00 a. m. There is no entry fee.
The winner of the contest will have his name engraved on the William J. Burke memorial trophy which is permanently kept in the club house.
Interhall Sports Notice
Plans for the fall program of the interhall athletic organization will be announced next week by Assistant Coach Tom Yarr, head of the organization.
A meeting for all interhall candidates will be held early next week. All those who plan on participating in interhall football should attend. Details as to time and place will be announced on the campus bulletin boards.
60 Out For Fall Track
A squad of about 60 track candidates reported to Coach John. P. Nicholson this week for the annual fall training period. The group will work out-of-doors as long as weather permits.
Prominent among the candidates is Vince Murphy, sophomore high jumper, who went to the final round of trials for the American Olympic team last summer.
The
Rainbow Cap Shop
322 S. Michigan
Offers you a line of caps made to order.. Manufactured from the highest quality materials in the smartest styles.
Notre Dame men bringing in this ad will receive a 10 percent discount.
RAINBOW CAP SHOP
"For Stylish Caps”
a
September 23, 1932
Thirty-one
/OURsmartly dressed classmates trade at Gilbert's. They've learned that authentic style and fine tailor* ing are in-built in Gilbert's clothes. For here you'll find the best — "GGG" and "Stein-Block" brands. Yet our prices afford you real savings.
Come out to South Bend's finest and busiest men's store and get acquainted. You'll find us as modern as Bond Street. We can outfit you From a Dobbs or a Mallory on your head to Flor-sheim's on your Feet.
We really believe you'll have to see our store to appreciate the fine merchandise we sell. Many, many Notre Dame men have Formed the profitable Gilbert habit. Why not you?
Owe Ulam/ ftnotfev!
(pILBERli
813-815 S. Michigan St.

Thirty-two
The Scholastic
On Down The Line
NOTRE DAME has played every school on this year’s schedule at least once . . . The last game with KANSAS was in 1904 . . . NOTRE DAME, 5 . . . KANSAS, . . . 24! . . . The all-time Irish record against the nine schools on the card shows 50 wins ... 11 losses ... 4 ties . . . HASKELL . . . DRAKE . . . and NAVY have never beaten the Irish.
❖
JOE SEWELL of the Yanks has struck out only 110 times in 1761 major league games . . . FRANK CROS-ETTI will be the youngest regular on either team in the World Series . . . In five friendly rounds of golf against the same oposition this summer, LARRY MOLLER, ex-Notre Dame captain was nine under par . . . for the 90 holes. . . .
JOHN BANKS of Notre Dame won the medal at the Western Junior with a 75 . . .and a playoff was necessary at 77 to get into the low 32! . . . Just a memory: SCHWARTZ making 511 yards in 92 tries last year ... in six games . . . BILLY SULLIVAN, N. D. law student, is the leading Chi White Sox batter this season. . . .
Please Patronize Our Advertisers.
YELLOW CABS
Offer a genuine meter cab service
No extra charge for additional passengers
Last year’s records of this year’s opponents . . . HASKELL: won 5, lost 6 . . . DRAKE: won 5, lost 6 . . . CARNEGIE: won 3, lost 5, tied 1 . . . PITTSBURGH: won 8, lost 1 . . . KANSAS: won 5, lost 5 . . . NORTHWESTERN: won 7, lost 1, tied 1 . . . NAVY: won 5, lost 5, tied 1 . . . ARMY: won 8, lost 2, tied 1 . . . SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA: won 10, lost 1. . . .
FOR SALE — Used upholstered chairs—also Easy Rockers. M. E. Gilman, 129 N. Main St., or 916 E. Sample St., cor. Lincoln Way, East, South Bend.
WELCOME
Notre Dame Men To Our
SODA FOUNTAIN AND LUNCH ROOM
Platter Lunches Complete Dinners Special Sunday Dinners.
“Service with a Smile”
THE PHILADELPHIA 116 N. Michigan
ALLERTON HOTEL.
A
make this your Chicago Headquarters
Get full enjoyment out of your visit to Chicago by coming here. Billiard and card rooms, gymnasium, indoor golf course, 8 tennis courts, library. R-C-A Radio speaker with choice of stations in each sound-proof room.
A year-round social program with something doing every night if you want to join in.
Overlooking Lake Michigan. Quiet surroundings. All rooms are outside rooms. A short walk to the Loop. Two blocks from the Cathedral. For a week-end or a month, or a year, you will be glad you chose the Allerton.
1932 RATES
Single—$10.50 to $25.00 weekly
Double-r-$8.50 to $12.50 weekly, per person
Transient—$2.00 to $3.00 daily, per person
Philip E. Cobden, Manager
YELLOW CAB COMPANY
Phone 3-5151
ALLERTON HOTEL
,. Chicago 701. North Michigan Avenue
The Parker Pen Company Announces:
Look at these liberal allowances :
for the New Term of School
$5 Duofold or Lady Duofold Pen, only $3^ and an old pen
$3.75 Pencil to match, only $3^? and an old pencil
$3.25 Lady Duofold Pencil,
only $2 - and an old pencil
$7 Parker Duofold Sr. Pen,
only $5^? and an old pen
$4.25 Pencil to match,
only $3^ and an old pencil
$10 Duofold De Luxe Pen, only $7^ and an old pen
$5 De Luxe Pencil to match,
only $4^? and an old pencil
and the New Business Upturn
To reduce retailers’ stocks for late fall and Christmas shipments, Parker offers you a $1.25 to $2.50 cash allowance for your old pen on the new streamlined Parker Duofold Pen, or 75c to $1.00 for an old mechanical pencil on a fine new streamlined Duofold Pencil.
The Duofolds offered are NOT discontinued models, but Parker’s finest and latest—exclusive jewel-like colora in non-breakable Permanite—Sea Green and Black, Black and Pearl, Black, Jade, and others—all gold mounted, and all with Parker’s super-smooth, “special-order” Duofold point, extra ink capacity, and quick-starting, non-clogging feed.
The Pens and Pencils you trade in do not have to be Parkers. We only require that the old pen have a 14k gold point.
So ransack the home and office for old pens and pencils. Take them to the nearest pen counter, trade them in, like cash, and walk out with a brand new Parker Duofold Pen or Pencil, or both. But hurry— Parker reserves the right to withdraw this offer at any time. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wisconsin. 234
PARKER RESERVES THE RIGHT TO DISCONTINUE THIS SALE AT ANY TIME-SO DON’T DELAY
THE OFFICE ENGINEERS [nc.
CAMPUS PARKER PEN STORE
The Parker Pen Store
THE BOOK STORE
116 S. Michigan St.
Badin Hall
j
© 1932, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
uak Turkish, lut not
4
4
Hear the Chesterfield Radio Program. Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays — 10 p.m., Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays—9 p. m., E.D.T. ChlundnaNetwork.
Turkish tobacco is to cigarettes what seasoning is to food . . . the "spice,” the "sauce.” You don’t want too much seasoning in food. Or in a cigarette. But you do want enough!
Chesterfield uses just the right amount of Turkish to-
J
bacco. Not too much, but just enough to give to Chester-f	field the finishing touch of better taste and aroma.
U	1 Smoke a Chesterfield . . . and taste the difference.
V>hesterfield
S.
<1