^he SNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
.	FOUNDED 1867
EDITORIAL

THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ, Acting Editor-in-Chief
RALPH ABELL
Associate Editor, Marines
EDWARD MADDEN
Associate Editor, Navy
Mothers’ Day
This Sunday is Mothers’ Day. Perhaps to many of us the remembrance of this day has never meant so much as it does now, for the very good reason that we are away from home. It has taken time and distance to accentuate the real importance of the occasion.
It would be a sad commentary on our sense of values if, in the busy schedule of study, and in the activities of an accelerated program, there were no time left for thinking of someone so close and dear as a mother. How wrong this is; how void of any semblance of true love.
Everyone loves to be remembered. Mothers, in particular, take pride in their sons’ remembrance of them. And who deserves it more than they.
It is not the big and showy gifts that count; but rather the small and simple things that show a true love—a spiritual bouquet, a well-chosen greeting card, a letter, a small gift; these are the things that wear the livery of honest sentiment and a son’s true love.
Let no mother go unremembered, Sunday. Let no home be minus some sign of remembrance and esteem on this day. Send a letter, a card, some flowers, or other token of your thought to “Mom.” Act on it now.—/U Lesmez
EDITORIAL STAFF
HAROLD BERLINER -	-	- Managing Editor
BILL WADDINGTON -	- '	- Sports Editor
DICK MURPHY -	-	-	- Circulation
BOB O'TOOLE -	-	-	Promotion
COLUMN ISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -LIEUT. (J.G.) J. J. COLLINS * JIM CASEY -	-
JIM REGAN -	-
BILL CARNAHAN	-
ROBERT RIORDAN -
LEO OUILETTE -HARRY LE BIEN -
- Observations - Know Your Navy
The Green Banner - Introducing The College Parade Man About the Campus - Pressbox Splinters - The Periscope
NEWS STAFF
THOMAS PAYNE
ARTHUR WAGNER
STEVE LOYACANO BILL THOMPSON
JOHN KNUDSON
BOB STEVENSON
CHUCK RUSS
DON FORGAYS
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD . JOE HALLER
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegriate Digest. Represented for national-advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Dos Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
2
Week-end Maneuvers
Lincoln once remarked that you can’t fool all of the people all of the time. We could twist this epigram to say that you can’t please all of the people all of the time, and it would be equally true. However, the V-12 executive committee, in planning the Week End Maneuvers, is attempting to please as many of the V-12 trainees as possible for the week end of May 26. In order to satisfy the tastes of many trainees instead of a few, three activities are to be held: tea dance, picnic, and ball. These three “socials” are diverse in nature; consequently they will accomplish their mission by attracting a large following. In fact, the week-end is so jam full of fine things to do, as one trainee put it, that about the only thing missing is a good ice cream social.
On the Cultural Side
Along with the* boosting of the Bengal Bouts et al., the . Scholastic has campaigned in the past several issues for increased attendance at musicales, plays, concerts, and lectures. The success of this project was shown by the throngs of people---many of whom were naval trainees—that heard Miss Vivian Delia Chiesa, Bishop Yu Pin, Claudio Arrau, and the South Bend Symphony Orchestra. The Navy and the University are gratified at these results.
These activities were sponsored by the entertainment committee of the University of which the Rev. James R. Connerton, C.S.C., is chairman. According to Father Connerton, no, further attractions are formally scheduled for the remaining part of the present semester. However, he advises everyone at-the University and on the Station to watch for an announcement of a band concert by the University band, and alsd to watch for. announcements about lectures that < materialize on short notice. Publicity notices concerning these programs will appear in the Scholastic.	i
,	,	—Echuarcl H. Madden ■
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing	' -	.
at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 81
MAY 12, 1944
NO. 8
NROTC Ball Tonight at Service Center
Chuck Eaton to Play for Corps at Servicemen's Center
Tonight at the Servicemen’s .Center in downtown South Bend, the Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps at Notre Dame will stage its Fifth Annual Ball. Music for the gala event will be capably provided by Chuck Eaton and his Neiv Yorkers, and sweet and sentimental strains will reign for the pleasure of all hands. The featured vocalist will be the talented leader, whose songs blend for perfect combination with the orchestrations.
Under the direction of Chairman Herb Daiker, the Servicemen’s Center’ will be rigged in typical nautical fashion. Guests will enter by mounting the gangplank, and enjoy dancing in the ballroom under Navy flags and decorations.
Miss'Judy Merrifield, of Howe, Ind., will be the Queen of the Ball and the guest of General Chairman A. A. Wade. e Chairman and his committee have devoted great effort and time in the plan-
—Portrait by Leone Studios
Miss Judy Merrifield
Battalion Commander Caron
ning of the Ball, and guarantee to all a pleasant and enjoyable evening of entertainment.
Captain J. Richard Barry, USN, commanding officer at Notre Dame, and Mrs. Barry will be in the receiving line, as will be Commander Butcher, USNR, Miss Merrifield and Chairman Wade; and Miss Pat Lawless of St. Mary’s College and Chicago, who is the Guest of Honor; she ■will be escorted by Battalion Commander J. B. Caron.
Chairman of the orchestra, Bernard Gotta, will escort Miss Janos Murray of Fort Wayne, Ind. Miss Murray is now enrolled at St. Mary’s College. Miss Florence Mickly of South Bend will attend as guest of David Champion, chairman of bids and favors. Decorations Chairman Daiker will escort Miss Harriet Arnold of Mishawaka for the evening.
Out of town guests of the cadets will come from twelve different states, coming from the East coast to Iowa, and from Michigan to Virginia.
Captain and Mrs. J. R. Barry will be the special guests of honor for the evening. Among other guests invited are Commander Butcher, Executive Officer
V-12 Conference
Rev. .John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vicepresident of the University and Captain J. Richard Barry, commanding officer of the Notre Dame Naval Training Station, are at Columbia University in New York city today, attending a conference on the V-12 program.	-
Father Cavanaugh is representing the University and Capt. Barry is representing the University’s naval trainees.
Tomorrow morning at 11:15, following the conference, there will be a dress parade. The Columbia midshipmen unit and the V-12 trainees stationed at Columbia will pass in review before the assembled Naval officers and educators who are attending the conference.
of the unit, Lieutenant Commander Homer Howard, Lieutenant Commander H. C. Harshman, Lieutenant Commander Roy Aaron, Lieutenant Howard W. Walker, Lieutenant (jg) A. E. Coryn, and Ensign S. J. Jablonski, as well as members of the South Bend citizenry who are interested in the unit.
—Portrait by Priddy
Miss Pat Lawless
3
Miss Trexler, New Cafeteria Manager has Years of Experience; Graduate of Seton Hall
By JOHN O'HARA
About three weeks ago the “cat” was the scene of much head-turning, and eyebrow arching, coupled with mild confusion. The reason: “something new has been added!” That something neiv is a -young and pretty manager, who has proved herself most efficient. Her name:
. Miss Trexler (Sorry, fellows, her first name is a military secret).
Despite her youthful appearance, she has had extensive experience both in college and in the business world. . . . Notre Dame will prove a good place for her to get some intensive experience as the cafeteria is one of the most popular places on campus.
Born in Cresson, Pa., she went to Seton Hall college in Greensburg, Pa., where she received a Bachelor of Science degree, majoring in Food, Nutrition, and Cheihistry. Her minor in sociology and psychology will undoubtedly come in handy during the stress of rush time.
After she was graduated from college, she received experience in cafeteria management while working in th 2 Buffalo Statler Hotel. She resigned from that hotel to come here to handle the
position of managing our cafeteria.
Although she has been with us but a short time, in three weeks of cooperation with Mr. Ford, director of the dining halls, she has made an important improvement. The movement of the cash register and coffee urns to the west end of the food line ensures warm food for the patrons. This has certainly worked out favorably.
Miss Trexler, however, does not intend to stop there. She and her equally progressive superior, Mr. Ford, have many plans for making the cafeteria even more attracive and efficient.
Officers Enjoy Barn Dance
Last Wednesday evening, the Navy officers, their wives and guests were honored at a barn dance, given by the Young Mothers’ Club of Navy Officers* Wives. The affair was held at the Danish Hall, in South Bend, and was marked by a large attendance and much gaiety on the part of the participants. Similar features are planned for the near future.
Engineers' Ball Success
One of the most enjoyable dances of these past semesters was held last Friday as the Engineers Ball materialized into fun and entertainment. The dancing was more than expected, due mostly to the excellent music of Al Kavelin and his “Cascading Chords” . . . and can they cascade!
The dance-goers were a relatively small group . . . some 250 couples attending . . . and things in general were done on a small scale. But it was enjoyable to all, and small numbers meant nothing, except, of course, more comfort. There were smiles on everyone’s face, and the mood was one of mirth and fun.
Looking around the Indiana Club, Scholastic was surprised to see so many of the conservative element of the campus dancing around much like professionals, cheek to cheek with pretty dates.
The decorations theme was taken from the original meaning of engineers. There was a caboose with moving wheels, far from a streamliner of today.
Reports from the general chairman of the Ball, Ray Smith, show that a comfortable profit was made, an indication that an engineer is an efficient worker. The ball committee has decided that this profit will be given to the various engineering clubs in direct proportion to the number of members the particular club has that attended the Ball.
These car permissions granted on ball week-ends by Rev. John J. Burke. C.S.C.. certainly are a source of pleasure to the civilian. Here Chauffeur Chuck Sarlore sits behind the wheel, while student council prexy. Joe Mumane, can't make up' his mind whether to get out, or to take his chances. Back-seat drivers and turn-advisors to Sartore are Paul Smith and Al Lesmez. Vince Cushing was the fifth man, but it was his turn at the camera. A good example of fickle Indiana weather is the. open top and the sunshine, in contrast to the wet pavement.
The members of the committee wish it known also that they are thanking all those who attended or who made the success of this Ball possible. They explain that without the aid of all those who so generously gave their time and efforts to putting across the idea of the * Ball, and who did so much to induce interest, the Ball would not have, been as much of a success as it was. .
College Publicity Meet
On May 4, 5 and 6, Mr. Walter Kennedy, director of publicity, and his assistant, Miss Mary Pat McCormick attended the National Convention of the American College Publicity Association. The convention was held at the Medinah Club in Chicago.
Another convention is being held in Milwaukee, through tomorrow, under the auspices of the Catholic Press Association.	"
Notre Dame is being represented by three delegates at Milwaukee, representing the publicity department, the Scholastic, and the faculty.
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of politics, will address the gathering tomorrow. The other delegates are Miss McCormick of the publicity department and Bill Carnahan of the Scholastic.
4
V-12 "Week-end Maneuvers" Draws Closer;
Promises to be Biggest in N. D. Navy Life
. “Maneuvers Week,” being something new on the campus, has unleashed a torrent of questions. As May 26th approaches, excitement over the coming week-end is growing. Seamen and Marines are rushing about in berserk fashion, attempting to get dates and borrowing money. Others are walking around in a stupor because the hometown girl is coming for the week-end. A few are struggling along, trying to decide whether or not they should attend. However, all are asking questions.
“Maneuvers Week” will be a combination of four separate affairs: the V-12 Ball on the evening of Friday the 26th, review on Saturday morning, the picnic on the afternoon of the 27th, and the tea dance on the afternoon of the 28th. This will constitute the first “Maneuvers Week,” an event which should set a great precedent for the V-12 at Notre Dame. Plans have been in operation for some time, and the results promise to be pleasurable. This semester the Ball will be even better than before.
Jerry Wald’s orchestra was chosen because his subdued style suits the occasion perfectly. Wald and his orchestra have appeared recently at some of the country’s most prominent spots; including the famed Kenmore Hotel in Albany, Ocean View in Boston, and the Pier at Old Orchard Beach in Maine. Wald completed a successful session on the West Coast, appearing at the Palladium; more recently at the Panther Room in Chicago, and in New York City at the famous Hotel New Yorker. Among musicians, that’s the “bandmaker circuit.”
Dick Merrick
Wald’s music is smooth and sweet; he has a well-blended organization of brass and reeds, backed by fine arrangements. Ginny Powell and Dick Merrick, vocalists, know how to put over a song. Both have met with broad popular acclaim.
The decorations committee is censoring all loose talk until preparations are completed. However, it promises a sight designed to dazzle when the time for unveiling comes. This information has been gleaned. “Neptune’s Nocturne” is the chosen theme, an imaginative reproduction of the briny deep perhaps. Who knows?
Many have asked if one may attend
Ginny Powell
the picnic and tea dance without going to the Ball. Bids are being sold for the Ball, the picnic, and the tea dance; but tickets for the picnic and tea dance may not be purchased unless a bid for the Ball is first secured. The reason is the necessity of limiting attendance and of knowing in advance the number of guests. However, buying a bid for the Ball does not oblige one to buy a ticket for the picnic. Bids for the Ball are $3.50, and twenty-five cents additional is charged for attending the picnic and tea dance.
Saturday at 1100, the entire unit will fall out for a regimental review. The seamen have been rehearsing their drum and bugle corps technique, while the marine band has also worked diligently. The week-end guests are all invited to visit the campus and witness the review. Competition, no doubt, -will be running high between the seamen
Jerry Wald
and the marines, for both will be out to surpass the other.
The picnic, starting at 1630 Saturday, will be held at Potawattomie ParkSufficient transportation facilities will be on hand to carry everyone there and back again. The main purpose is for everyone to have a good time by snoozing in the shade, visiting the monkeys, playing ball, or batting the breeze. There will be all the activities without which no good, old-fashioned picnic is complete: one-legged races, sack races, potato races, and athletic games. Weiners and soda pop will be furnished, along with plenty of fireplaces and wood.
Toward evening, everyone is invited to gather around the outdoor stage to witness the “Nites and Daze” show, a spectacular event that Broadway has been trying for weeks to contract. A band of V-12ers that appeared at St. Mary’s and at the Service Center with great success will appear for your pleasure. The show has been scheduled to allow everyone ample time to plan the remainder of the evening as he wishes. In case of “Indiana weather,” arrangements have been made to hold the picnic indoors.
Sunday afternoon at 1400, the band will begin to play at the Indiana Club. Cordiality is the order of the day, and formality is strictly taboo. There will be plenty of room for all; there are numerous tables surrounding a huge, smooth dance floor. The expectations are that everyone will have a most enjoyable afternoon. The tea dance will formally close the first “Weekend Maneuvers.” It will be a farewell for the seniors, who a few short weeks thereafter will be leaving the campus, and a welcoming for those who have just arrived.	. J * .
jpXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXZZXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX^ K
THE GREEN BANNER
BY JIM CASEY
t’TiTTiiiTTTnninninnTTTTrTTTmxrinTnixmnimillj
H M
PEOPLE AND SUCH
What with all the social whirl about us, we just can’t keep up on the contemporary scene. However, we did notice Betty Ludwig smiling, last week, as she has not smiled in a long, long time — probably due to the touch of Texas which the campus acquired for a day. Then too, you know, it’s spring. . . . What’s the matter with the KOTC socially? The crowd used to be teeming with Lochinvars, but their apathy towards the dance, this evening, is pathetic. Caron, of course, will be there displaying his usual good taste (the fellow has really come a long way in the last three months — or Patricia is very easily pleased). Bateman and Driker are coming along nicely, while Des Currier’s social lapses into society depend largely upon the South Shore (line or club; hell listen to ei’her surgestion). We can’t understand why more members in the Unit do not take an interest in the dance. We gave them the pick of St. Mary’s (this is intended to be complimentary, anyway). . . .
MUSCLE FACTORY
• Last Monday, or sooner, we listened to Jim Costin’s broadcast which featured St. Mary’s athletic prowess. According to the lady being interviewed on the subject, St. Mary’s has a sports program that fairly rivals Annapolis and
“Odd sort of person; says he can't get St. Mary's off his mind."
x
West Point. For a long time we’ve had the impression that the girls pl?.v lb? field, and do it fairly well, too. That’s probably why Frank Kent feels so much at home in that atmosphere, not to mention Creighty Miller whose only major competition has come from across the Dixie. That explains, too, why Dick Murphy — famous campus bachelor — used to come back fairly winded, while Fanning, not being an athlete, has had +o give up altogether. Oh, it’s a rugged routine, all right! On May 17, we understand, they are really going to decide just who are the champs over there. If our press-pass is honored, we’ll give you a complete account of the gruesome fatalities, and the victors. ...
CLANSMAN'S CALL
The unforgettable clansman’s yodel in The Desert Song spelled misfortune for Jim McGurke and a few of his chums in Breen-Phillips, Sunday evening. Their deep baritone voices slowly resounded the memorial call from open windows once too often. . . . They were reported marching from the hall to the circle long after midnight.
HE DO'OD IT *
We dislike mentioning Doc Gillespie’s name in this column two weeks in a row (chances are, he doesn’t enjoy seeing it himself), but humor as truth will out.
Doc was placidly waiting for his date in the Oliver Hotel lobby Saturday afternoon, when his gaze lit upon a sign which read: “Remembei' her on Mothers’ Day.” “Whoops!” said Bill, and was off to the telegraph office like a clock watcher at quitting time, knocking down three of the hotel’s guests in his haste to wire flowers. A few minutes later, he returned to his task of waiting for his date (she was only 40 minutes late, now.) He believed he had done the proper thing. Mother would say: “My Billy,” but just then Mr. Devaney came along and said: “If you must knock down patrons, clip those who don’t pay their bills.” Bill’s mother thanked him for his thoughtfulness, Wednesday, and . asked if his Quarterlies had been trying on him.
HERE AND THERE
Young Kent’s new-found freedom did not last long. He received the sad news Saturday. . . . Ben George, a private in the air-borne infantry, was on campus, Sunday. . . . Johnny Byrne is a member of the South Bend Volunteer Firemen’s Association. . . . Harry Berliner liked the punch that was served at St. Mary’s last Sunday. . . . Perhaps we had better check on that statement. . . . Bill Bender knows a man who is 8-F; he is the father of two 4-F’s. . . . Skeets Oswald and Jim Cantion must be hard pressed for ready cash. . . . Their suits are up for sale now. . . . One difference between a President and a King is that a King has no vice.... The off-campus team is willing to take on all comers in baseball on any pinball machine in the city. . . . The annual Old-timers vs. Varsity football game had to be stopped before the final whistle, last Friday. . . . The Old-timers had only ten men on the field, and no substitutes on the bench after an end was injured. . . . Congratulations, engineers, your well-planned dance was enjoyed by all who attended. . . . Where was the Declaration of Independence signed? ... At the bottom, you stupid glunk, at the bottom! . . . And in conclusion, we might add that rural life is found mostly in the country. -
Alumni Council in Session
Mr. James Armstrong and Mr. William Dooley of the Alumni office are attending the National Convention of the American Alumni Council, which is in session in Chicago this week.
The American Alumni Council is the national association of the professional alumni office workers.
. On Thursday Mr. Armstrong delivered an address to the assembly entitled: “College Enrollment Programs.”
6
Grotto Hymn-Singing Attracts Many;
Quiet Moment After Dinner Spent in Prayer
With the coming of the warm weather, students have begun to wend their way back to their halls by way of the Grotto each night after supper. This hymnsinging has long been a tradition at Notre Dame. As the mother of the late Larry Barrett, graduate cum laude with the class of ’40 wrote the students right after his death in an airplane crash:
“How glad I am that Larry had those happy years at Notre Dame. He carried from there his habit of living his Faith; if ever a boy used his religion, he did, with all his heart, as he did everything. I have a comforting little belief that on May evenings when the boys are at the Grotto, his dear, deep voice rises again... ‘Macula non est in te’____such a host of Her Notre Dame boys are even nearer'
War Classes to be Given
The opening of a new series of classes in the engineering, science and manage7 ment war training program at the University of Notre Dame has been announced by University officials. Registration for the new classes will be in the Hall of Engineering at the University on May 15, between seven and 10 p.m. Classes are open to men and women who have graduated from high school and who are employed, or who expect to be employed, in war industry. There will be no charge except that.those taking the classes must provide their own text books. The classes will consist of one three hour meetting each week for 15 weeks.
The University will give assistance, it
to Her now, young and fine forever."
The present schedule of hymn-singing makes it possible for all groups on campus to attend. Civilians will gather at 6:10, while the seamen and marines of the V-12 unit will meet at 6:50.
The Prefect of Religion pointed out that one of the greatest athletes of Notre Dame fame, chunky Greg Rice, two-miler superb, was one of the most frequent visitors to the Grotto. Many stories are told of how Greg would wrap himself in a towel to protect himself from the bitter Indiana weather, and would spend a short time each night at the Grotto.
It has been announced that this hymnsinging will continue through May, and that the intention is for Notre Dame men, wherever they may be found.
was stated, in making requests for additional gasoline allotments for those attending the classes. The classes are being presented in cooperation with the United States office of education to prepare men and women for essential war industry classes.
. Classes especially featured are: Electronics, AC circuit, electric motors, and electrical engineering (with a preliminary course). Other classes are: inspection mathematics, advanced industrial mathematics, stress analysis and design, aircraft engines, engine testing, industrial management, industrial psychology, and motor and time study.
To be held if there is sufficient demand are: Engineering drawing, applied descriptive drawing, tool and die design,
industrial accounting, cost accounting, engineering tools and processes, and. industrial personnel relations. -	:
The program is under-the direction of Rev. James J. Leahy, C.S C., administrative assistant.—Bill Thompson -
Letter to the Editor
May 10,1944
Mr. Al Lesmez, Editor	..
The Notre Dame Scholastic -Notre Dame, Indiana	.
Dear Mr. Lesmez:	.	.
Just thought you might be interested in a remark that passed into my hands a short time ago, from the letter of an infantryman at Anzio: (dated March 29).	-
- “Just attended Mass for the first time in quite a while today. It’s a case of opportunity here . . . and we don’t, have the facilities provided at home. Here the Chaplain brings the ‘Church? to us. Usually, an improvised altar on the • hood of a jeep in the shadow of a tree. He’s always on the go making his rounds reaching small groups at a time. Felt as though I played a truly active part in this Mass as Father Barry had me read the Mass aloud in English. ... Father Joe Barry, C.S.C., is from Notre Dame, although he never taught there. He left St. Joseph’s church, where he was assistant pastor, to join the services — the most popular and truly loved man in the regiment. Small and wiry — a bundle of energy — a great understanding of men — and a sharp Irish wit. He can make you grin anytime.”
I’m sure that the Pioneer would be pleased to have you use this.
Sincerely yours, Elenor Skemp Milwaukee 3, Wisconsin
May brings back the Notre Dame tradition of singing hymns at the Grotto, and a quiet moment after dinner in prayer.
"Cover Girl" Pleases Large Navy Audience; Miss Hayworth in Technicolor is Attraction
The latest Rite Hayworth vehicle, “Cover Girl,” seemed -to please the Navy Drill Hall audience last Saturday as might well be expected, for it made up in entertainment value for whatever deficiencies existed in its musical comedy plot. The story draws its impetus from the fact that the road to wealth and acclaim is somewhat less exhausting as a photographer’s model than as the chiffon-and-lace half of a Brooklyn dance team. The heroine manages the occupational transition with a single click of the camera shutter because she reminds the editor of a top-flight magazine of his heart’s delight in the Gay Nineties era. The resemblance is explained in that the ladies in question turn out to be grandmother and grand' daughter. The former is shown in occasional flashbacks. The resemblance is particularly marked in as much as Miss Hayworth handles both roles with not so much as a variation in lip-stick shade.
When Gene Kelly realizes that he would rather have Miss H. as his dancing partner than on the cover of a ladies’ magazine, the conflict begins, and the situation becomes more acute with the appearance of Lee Bowman as a wolf in theatrical producer’s clothing. The entire cast remains completely unhappy throughout most of the picture which accentuates their formula for comedy. Yet, “Cover Girl” does contrive extraordinary bits of high comedy for which it has Eve Arden to thank. More than once, Miss Arden’s uncanny- sense of timing and apt delivery lift the picture out of the doldrums. She might be called “the poor man’s. Rosalind Russell” except that her style is not mimicry but entirely individual; and her hats are as comic as her lines.
Considering the publicity the actual cover girls received, we saw surprisingly little of them. . Columbia afforded Technicolor’s Natalie Kalmus a field day with the result that garish swirls of color absorbed a good part of the few moments the models had a reasonable excuse to appear at all! On the other hand, color proved Miss Hayworth’s ally, for she is more attractive than ever and her every scene is. a., shining example - of Hollywood glorifying the female of the species.
The movie has a plethora of musical -numbers, the best of which is a “sweet” ballad called “Long Ago and Far Away.” The other songs almost demand
8	.
a novelty act to put them across; however, they do provide ample opportunity . for Gene Kelly to display his amazing talent. It is interesting- to note that in working out his own dance numbers he has achieved an effect that until now seemed monopolized by Fred Astaire. Critics have acclaimed Kelly’s unusual sketch in which he dances with himself — a feat which requires a good deal of ingenuity besides the services of a clever cameraman. The dance dramatizes the hero’s struggle with his alter ego as he determines a course of'action following his partner’s abrupt rise to fame and fortune. “Cover Girl” offers a suggestion of the rich potentiality of Hayworth and Kelly as a dance team. For a few seconds, in the “Long Ago and Far Away” sequence they display the same fluid grace and exciting artistry that Astaire achieved with Ginger Rogers and has been unable to attain with his numerous subsequent partners — one of which, surprisingly enough, was Miss Hayworth!
This production is probably the most lavish undertaken by Columbia, a studio which has never been characterized by this type of extravagance. In one instance Miss Hayworth dances down a winding ramp that would be to the 0600 jaunt around the stadium as the . squat thrust with a push-up is to the breather. If.you enjoy looking at Rita Hayworth in technicolor (and who doesn’t?) and you think you can hold up under a lengthy story, “Cover Girl” is well worth the price of admission.
—Seaman Mitchell Erickson
Lt.-Col. Henebry'40.
Still Making War News
The Allied Headquarters in New Guinea recently announced that Lieut. Col. J. P. Henebry, N.D., ’40, has completed 118 flying missions in the southwest Pacific battle area.
The announcement further stated that Lieut, Col.. Henebry, who is affectionately known to his fellow flyers as “Jack,” has compiled 470 hours of combat flying time. This is an amazing total when viewed in the light of the terrific handicaps under -which the men in the Pacific area have been fighting.
Henebry, who makes his home in Plainfield, Ill., has been shot down twice,, but each time he quickly returned to combat duty.	•
The first time heavy anti-aircraft fire from a Japanese cruiser caused extensive damage to Henebry’s plane and caused him to make a crash landing at sea off Karawina.
His second mishap came when Japanese anti-aircraft fire ripped through his plane while flying over Wewak. This time he made the crash landing in the Ramu valley.
Col. Henebry’s group has been credited with destroying 440 Japanese planes and 104,000 tons of Japanese shipping. The group has also done three new things in aerial warfare.
It was first to use the 75 millimeter gun as an aerial weapon; first to make use of parachute bombing; and first to use masthead bombing. The latter was first discovered during the battle of the Bismarck sea, when it was found possible to neutralize .an enemy ship’s fire by concentrating the firing power of a bomber’s nose and wing guns, and then coming in from the side to drop a cargo of bombs on the ship.—Bill Thompson
Notre Dame Man is
Missing in Action
Lt. John E. Walsh, Jr., ’26, of 7529 Ridgeland Ave., Chicago, the son of Mr. and Mrs. John E. Walsh, sr., one of three brothers in service, failed to return from a bombing sweep over Berlin, ^pril 18, his parents were informed by the War Department yesterday. A graduate of Mt. Carmel High School, and the University of Notre Dame of the class of 1939, the air navigator joined the army three years ago. He was assigned to a B-17.
ND Grads Win Primaries
The recent primary elections in Indiana found two Notre Dame men winning nominations. Strangely enough, Robert A. Grant of South Bend who received the Republican nomination for United States Representative from this district and Marshall F. Kizer of Plymouth -who received the Democratic nomination for the same post are not only both Notre Dame graduates, but both were awarded their . degrees in Law in the same year, the class of ’30. .	.
: Mr.- Grant received a monogram for basketball while at Notre Dame, and ' Mr. Kizer won his monogram in football. He played guard on the famous Four Horsemen Team of ’24.
Kizer is a brother of the late Noble Kizer, ’25, who until the time of his death was head football coach and director of athletics at Purdue University.
'	—Bill Thompson
Former Scholastic Editor Goes to Chicago Tribune
Dave Condon, former editor-in-chief of the Scholastic, has accepted a position with the Sports department of the Chicago Tribune. He will leave to assume his new duties next week.
Before Mr. Condon returned to the University, following his honorable discharge from the army, he was employed as feature editor of the South Bend Tribune. On the resumption of classes he divided his time between the University and his newspaper work down town. At the same time he assumed the position as editor-in-chief of the Scholastic, and brought to the campus news weekly the benefit of his experience and his editorial knowledge. Later, he resumed a full-time position with the South Bend paper, and at the same time became a free lancer.
Last week, upon the request of Mr. Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune, Mr. Condon accepted a position with the sports department, and will do both reporting and feature writing. He is the third Notre Dame man, and the third Scholastic writer to be honored by being accepted into the field of major newspaper writing on the same paper. He was preceded by Bill Fay, former editor-in-chief, and Robert (Red) Lonergan, of promotion fame.
Mr. Condon goes to his new position with, the best wishes of all his former ____^Scholastic associates who are likewise grateful for al] the valuable contributions he made to the magazine.
Eric Gill Autobiography Reviewed for Bookmen
Richard Ames, junior English major from St. Paul, Minn., reviewed the Autobiography of Eric Gill at a meeting of Bookmen . Monday night. Ames stressed Gill’s revolutionary ideas of art, indus-tralism, and Catholicism.
“People claim, arid, quite legitimately too from their point of view and system of values,” Ames said in defense of Gill, “that Gill is visionary, and his ideas for reform impractical. It is somewhat like saying to a war hero that his heroism is incredible, and that the deeds which he has already done could not possibly have been done. For people forget that Gill has done all the things he advocates, that he has demanded and expected certain things from himself and from life, and that he has achieved these things. And in that fact lies the objective validity of his ideas which is so apparent to him and so difficult for the reader to grasp. .
“Gill honestly believes that the way .which he has chosen for himself is the way of spiritual life,” Ames went on, “and that the present way of the indus
trial world is that of spiritual death. It is quite logical that he should speak’firm-ly and even bitterly then; and it is certainly imperative that we. understand these reasons why he is justified in doing so.”
The members of the club commended Ames highly for a brilliant paper in the discussion that-followed.
The final details of the Bookmen library were arranged at the meeting, and the books were assembled and indexed during the past week. Each member has contributed several current books of great variety. They range from Thurber to Maritain, and from Wodehouse to James Joyce. These books are available to the members of the club.
—Tex Pequigney
No Change in Schedule
In-keeping with the best undergraduate traditions of each semester, the usual rumors regarding early exams, longer vacations, cruises for Navy men, and similar tidbits, have made themselves audible within the last two weeks.
This week Scholastic representatives approached the director of studies’ office, seeking confirmation of various rumors, only to be told that no changes in the regular schedule are contemplated; and that all rumors to the contrary are, therefore, unfounded.
Accordingly, semester exams will begin on June 19, and extend until June 23. Navy officials will determine the extent of leave-taking for all in the’ service, and any other program contemplated.
On Saturday, July 1, there will be a placement test in mathematics for new students in the V-12 Program.
■ On Monday, July 3, there will be registration of new students of the Navy V-12 with the deans for courses in the summer semester, and registration of civilian students with the director of student accounts and with the deans.
On July 4, Tuesday, registration of old students of the Navy V-12 for courses.
On Wednesday, July 5, classes begin at 8:00 a.m.
Any deviations from the above-mentioned schedule will be noted in the Scholastic.
New Saturday Co-Hops > Start at Progress Club
The first of a new series of Co-Hops will take place Saturday. This will be the .same dance enjoyed in the past, with some added features that make it a new Co-Hop..
The place will be the Progress Club, the time 8:30, and the date Saturday, May 13. Admission is 50 cents.
Dates aren’t needed; it’s a mixer dance, and there are girls for all the fellows who come.
Marty Ross and his band supplies the music, but that’s not all. Additional entertainment will be given by Johnny Clark at the piano and the “Muskrat Maulers,” Pappy Maggioli’s notorious Marine musicians. This Saturday Pappy is featuring Jim “Twirler” Kress on the baritone and McAndrews on the licorice stick; with Scotty, Twardzik, Egbeer, and McMaster completing the picture.—John O’Hara
La Raza Awards Prizes
A special meeting of La Raza Club was called on May 3. One of the purposes of the meeting was to award the prizes to the winners of the chess tournament sponsored by the Club.
Twenty-six students participated in the tournament, representing five halls of the campus. The first round was won by Roberto de Romana, and the second by Robert Burns. In the finals, Romana beat Burns, thus getting first place— and the cup-trophy donated by La Raza; the second prize, a chess set, was won by Robert Burns, and the third, a large ashtray, was won by R. Mehren, who .beat J. Elliott for third place: The prizes were awarded by the president of the club, Jose B. Cardenas.
In the same meeting, $20, from, the club’s funds, were set. aside-to 'bay gloves, - balls and bats for. the soft-baU team that will participate arid represent La Raza club in the Student Council League.	\.. . j
A third poir-t was the choosing, of;, a 1 day and hour for the regular meetings of the Club..After some discussions,-; a decision was reached to have the meetings every other Wednesday at 7:15 pm. in Room 2, of the Law.-Building-;.
—Miguel J. Vila-
' - ’ - '
Golfers Win From Wildcats and Michigan;
Culver Team is Matched Against Freshmen
Overcoming what may well be called "stage fright’’ in the opening match with Purdue two weeks ago, Notre Danie’s golf team did double duty in high style last week-end, licking Northwestern on Saturday, 1 9 ’a-7 2, and then coming back on Sunday to take a match from Michigan, 17 to-9’2.
Any pessimistic attitudes held by local armchair linksmen can now be truly forsaken in view of what has been done. Bev. George L. Holderith. C.S.C., golf coach, was confident that the comeback displayed in the Boilermaker match two weeks ago would prove to be a determining factor in future meets, and thus it did with the Wildcats and Wolverines. Spirit was high in the Irish behalf and when combined with their golfing prowess, it spelled a winning pair of matches. Nevertheless, there still remains room for improvement, but last week’s work can be termed satisfactory.
Beating two Big Ten teams on successive days saw a total of 72 holes of golf being played by almost each of the Irish contestants. This week-end, the linksmen travel to Detroit where they are guests of the University of Detroit in a four-man team match, differing from the six-man teams that were employed in last week's tilts.
Continuing a tradition that has held forth practically every year since 1930, Culvei’ Military Academy will send a contingent of golfers to the Golden Dome campus this Aveek-end to take on the Notre Dame freshmen in a set of afternoon matches on Saturday.
While the win over Michigan moved the Irish golfers into a tie, 3-3, for the all time series, the defeat of Northwestern even added more to the Blue and
On the Green?
Gold prestige as it sent the Notre Dame record surging to the fore, having beaten Northwestern six times while losing five and tying one.
Jack Fitzpatrick, freshman ace, paced the Irish with a pair of 72’s and a 74 in the week-end play. Tom Kennedy who • made his initial collegiate start came out with a creditable 74 and 75 while Bob Terry, another first starter, annexed a 7-5, 76, and 78 to his record. Tom Hanlon, the third newcomer this past week, garnered an 82 but halved the match with Fargo of the Wildcats.
Summaries :
Northwestern
Double?: Wilke. None Dame ...............37	39—76
Kennedy. Notre Dame ...........3S	10—78—3
Williamson. Northwestern ......38	41—79
Stotler. Northwestern .........38 41—79
Fitzpanick. Notre Dame ........39	35—74
Terry. None Dame ..............12	31—76--3
Alexander. Northwestern .......10 36—76
Kuehn. Northwestern ...........10 38—78
Seidel. Notre Dame ............10	11—SI
Clynes. Notre Dame ............42	36—78—2
Fargo. Northwestern ...........12	11-—S“.
Malenius. Northwestern ........40	41—81—1
Singles:
Wilke. Notre Dame ............13	37—SO—1K>
Williamson. Northwestern .....39	40—79—1%
Bessenfelder. Notre Dame .....37	3S—75—2’4
Alexander. Northwestern ......40	38—7S—
Kennedy. Notre Dame ..........40	39—79—1
Kuehn. Northwestern ..........12	38—SO—2
Terry. Notre Dame ............12	36—7S—2
Malenius. Northwestern .......41	40—81—1
Seidel. Notre Dame ...........41	38—79—3
Stotter. Northwestern ........43	42—S5—0
Hanlon, Notre Dame ...........44	38—82—ll-j
Fargo. Northwestern ..........39	42—81—1’,4
Michigan
Doubles: Fitzpan ick. Notre Dame ........—36	36—72
Terry. None Dame ..............39	36—75—3
Tews. Michigan ................39 37—76
O’Hara. Michigan ..............40 38—78
Wilke. Notre Dame .............42	36—78
Kennedy. Notre Dame ...........39	36—75—
Marcellus. Michigan ...........39	36—75
Messinger. Michigan ...........39	37—77—
Bessenfelder. None Dame .......39	39—78
Seidel. Notre Dame ............38	40—78—21/£
Jenswoold. Michigan ...........40 40—SO
Noble. Michigan ...............40 39—79—*4
Singles: Fitzpatrick. Notre Dame .........37	35—72—3
Tews. Michigan ..............  40	38—78—0
Terry. Notre Dame..............12	39—81—0
Marcellus. Michigan .......... 40	35—75—3
Kenne<ly. Notre Dame ..........37	37—74—3
O’Hara. Michigan...............40	39—79—0
Bessenfelder. Notre Dame .....39'	40—79—2
Messinger, Michigan ...........43	37—80—1
Wilke, Notte Dame ............ 39	36—75—2^4
Jenswold. Michigan ............39	39—78—%
Clynes. Notre Dame ............42	40—82—0
Noble. Michigan .............. 38	38—76—3
AoAe 2)0}
Football Veterans Win a
Produce Standc
Experience won ov
Scoring three touchdowns in a little over 30 minutes of playing time, those members of last year’s Notre Dame's national football championship team still on the campus overwhelmed next year’s eleven in the final workout of the spring drills last Friday on the Cai tier Field turf.
Starring for the veterans in the backfield were Creighton Miller, Julie Ryko-vich and John Lujack. Miller scored the first and third touchdowns while Ryko-vich raced over for the second score. Lujack passed superbly, hitting the mark on well over -50% of his tosses. Freddie Earley was the fourth man in the quartet for the old-timers and he managed to convert one of his two chances for the extra point. Lujack’s try at the conversion after the third tally was no good.
The superior line play of the veterans, Flanagan, Perko, Signaigo, Coleman, Urban, and Meter, enabled their backs to roll up large gains. On the defense,
10
Baseball Team to Play for Home Crowd After Bad Road Trip; Face Brones and Bunker Hill
By HANK SLAMIN "Scholastic'' Baseball Writer
qsame Fails to
jhe line play of the winners was also Stove average.
4	*
No Standout
No one stood out particularly for the lewcomers who were unable to dent the coring column. They did manage to ’ hake two threats but were unable to J ross the goal line. On one attempt they i eached the one-foot line before being i alted. Just before the whistle for the l.nd of the annual spring- finale, they eached the seven yard stripe only to be enied the fruits of their efforts as play-1 -ng time had run out.
4 *The play of next year’s men was far irom discouraging, however, but it *howed that Coach Ed McKeever and his : (taif, Adam Walsh, Hugh Devore, Clem prowe, Wally Ziemba, and Jake Kline, 1 pxill have a difficult job in building up a learn to replace the marvelous aggrega-
4 Jifcn that represented the Irish last year.
After dropping a pair of games last week-end to Purdue and Freeman Field, Jake Kline’s diamond aggregate now settles down to the more serious business of displaying their wares before the home crowd as they open with Western Michigan at 4:00 on the Cartier Field turf. Another contest is scheduled for tomorrow afternoon at 1:30 with the Brones and a third game being on tap for Sunday with Bunker Hill Naval Air Station at the cadet’s field.
After losing two to Michigan and bouncing back this past week-end to add more insult to injury, it is believed that there will be some shake-up in the lineup but as yet Coach Kline has not made decisions and game-time will probably be the first signs of an innovation if any at all is forthcoming.
Playing on a damp field due to a little spring- snow, Purdue banged out a -5-2 victory over the Blue and Gold last Saturday at Lafayette on six hits and four Notre Dame miscues. Tom Sheehan broke up a scoreless tie in the fifth, crossing the plate on Ken Manarik’s single. Ken was promptly cut down at third to end the inning. Purdue grew run-conscious in the sixth frame scoring all their runs in the one bracket. An error by John Barret, who had relieved the starting Irish hurler, Joe Zieminski, who was yanked after yielding a triple in the third, opened the fatal inning and the curtain didn’t fall until the Boilermakers had collected five tallies on three hits— two of the “bat handle variety,” two more Irish errors, and a walk.
From the spectators standpoint, the game was filled with spectacular plays. Jack Mayo’s backhand, shoulder rollingrobbery of Young’s potential triple with one man on base was easily the standout play of an otherwise unproductive day.
Another Nose Dive
Sunday afternoon, Bill Martin ’ toed the rubber against Freeman Field’s soldier nine. The game was played on the Blue Devil’s diamond at Seymour, Ind. and outside of the trip, there was nothing else to bring about a cheery optimistic mood. The Irish, playing their best ball of recent weeks backed up Martin’s seven hit pitching with fine field support to produce hits with men on bases— the sad part of the whole story.
Freeman Field’s Ed Albright, who earlier in the season shut out the Detroit Tigers for eight innings, surrendered no runs on eight scattered hits. Notre
Dame’s most serious threat to the soldier’s lead came in the ninth inning. With two men out, men on second and third, pinch-hitter Lamas went down on strikes thus ending the ball game, thus a 4-0 finale with the locals on the short end.
R it cl 0 0 3 Sehue. 3b 112 Martin. 2b 0 1 11 Murphy. If 0 0 1 Eliott, cf
Purdue
AB r h c
4 12 4
3 0 0 4
3 114
3 10 2
Simmons, ss	3	1	1	3
Timm, p	4	0	16
Davis, rf	4	0	0	1
Young. lb	4	1	1	11
Hesse, c	3	0	0	5
Totals	31	5	6	40
..0 00 010 001 — 2
-0 00 005 0 0 x — 5
Notre Dame
AB Scarpelli. cf 4 Klien, ss 3 Reither. lb 4 Rykovich. rf 4
Sheehan, c 4 12 5 Mayo. If 4 0 0 2 Manarik. 3b 4 0 1 2 Balbierz. 2b 3 0 0 5 Zieminski. p 1 0 1 1 Barrett, p 2 0 0 2
Totals 33 2 6 32 Notre Dame _______________ Purdue ___________________
Errors—Notre Dame: Klien, Manarik. Balbierz. Barrett. Purdue: Young. Two-base hits—Ziemin-ski. Sehue. Stolen bases—Martin, 2; Murphy. Sacrifice hits—Simmons. Hits of Zieminski. 2 in 21-3 : off Barrett. 4 in 5 2-3. Bases on balls— Timm, 1; Zieminski, 2; Barrett. 1. Strike outs— Timm. 3 : Barrett. 3. Double play—Balbiers. unassisted. Losing pitcher—Barrett.
Notre Dame
AB RHE Scarpelli. cf 4 0 2 0 Klien, ss 4 0 10 Reither. lb 4 0 0 1 Rykovich. rf 4 0 0 0 Sheehan, c 4 0 10 Mayo, If 4 0 2 0 Manarik. 3b 3 0 0 0 Balbiers, 2b 3 0 1 0 Martin, p	3 0	0 0
xMealey	10	10
XX Lamas	10	0 0
Totals 35 0 1 1 X For Manarik in 9th. XX For Martin in 9th. Notre Dame ------------ Freeman Field ---------
Freeman Field
AB R H E Tieman. lb 3 0 0 0 Leahy. 2b 3 110 Madrid, ss 4 12 0 Schwartz, c 4 0 I 0 Gittens, If 4 0 0 0 Crimmins. 3b 4 0 1 0 Swartz, rf 3 10 0 Wolan. cf 3 0 10 Albright, p 3 1 1 0
Totals 31 4 7 0
000 000 00 0 — 0
001 120 00 x —4
Safe on First and None Out.
II
Track Team Loses to Great Lakes; Martin Fights in Vain as Thompson Wins Two Events
By JACK McGRANE
A Great Lakes track team composed of many former collegiate stars, overwhelmed Notre Dame 72-46 last Saturday on Cartier Field as they showed a marked superiority in the field events.
The appearance of Glenn Cunningham came as a complete surprise, since most of the spectators were unaware of the fact that he was even in the Navy. The barrel-chested Kansan turned in a 51 second quartermile in anchoring the mile relay team, but Notre Dame’s Bob Purcell had too great an initial lead and Cunningham was unable to completely close the gap.
The advantage had been built up on the second leg by Don Lundergan, who came from behind to gain a 30 yard lead for the next man. Glenn appeared to be in splendid condition, his long smooth strides and finishing kick looking as they did five years ago. Adding to the volume of applause accorded to him on finishing were the high-pitched cheers of his two small daughters who watched their famous father from the infield.
Martin Beaten
Frank Martin, recently crowned two-mile Drake Relay king dropped two close races to Jerry Thompson, who was N.C.A.A. champion while attending the University of Texas last year. In both events, Thompson fought off and out-kicked Martin to romp home the winner: The Tars thus lured the one and two mile events into their point column.
Brad Bennett was the lone Irish double-winner, nipping Bud James of Great Lakes in both the 100 and 220 yard dashes with final bursts of speed. Frank Fletcher, who was a member of Seton Hall’s National A.A.U. champion mile relay team two years ago, captured the 440 and 880 yard runs. Great Lakes’ Bates also scored a double, taking firsts in the 120 yard high and 220 yard low hurdles.
Joe Kelly and George Sullivan placed one, two in the shot put to beat out former teammate Jim Tharp. Phil Anderson encountered little difficulty in annexing his specialty, the pole vault. Otherwise, the .Navy outfit from the shore of Lake Michigan had a free hand in the field events. They swept, the broad and high jumps and took the first two places in the discus throw.
~	Sad Spots
It was a lack of strength in the hurdles and jumping events that spelled
defeat for Notre Dame. The .runners turned in creditable performances, and more than held their own in the track contests.
John Lyons and John Cawley, former ND runners, competed for the sailors. Lyons placed fifth in the mile while Cawley scored a second in the 120 yard high hurdles.
Summary:
Mile run—Won by Thompson (GL), Martin (ND) second: Lipski (GL), third. Time—4:29.6.
120-yard high hurdles—Won by Bates (GL) ; Cawley (GL), second; O’Neill (ND), third. Time :15.
440-yard dash—Won by Fletcher (GL) : Purcell (ND), second; Lundergan (ND), third. Time :50.5.
Shot put—Won by Kelly (ND) : Sullivan (ND), secoond; Tharp (GL). third. Distance, 45 feet, 5-;.s inches.
100-yard dash—Won by Bennett (ND) ; James (GL). second; Bourgeois (GL), third. Time ;10.5.
220-yard low hurdles—Won by Bates (GL) ; Patrick (ND), second: O’Neill (ND), third. Time :26.4.
Pole vault—Won by Anderson (ND). Second and third place entrants were disqualified. Height 11 feet.
220-yard dash—Won by Bennett (ND) ; James (GL), second: Carter (GL), third. Time :23.1.
SSO-yard run—Won by Fletcher (GL) ; Texeira (GL), second; Wares (ND), third. Time 2:01.6.
Discus throw—Won by Coker (GL) ; Purina (GL), second; Kelly (ND), third. Distance 130 feet, S% inches.
Two-mile run — Won by Thompson (GL) ; Martin (ND), second; DeWolf (ND), third. Time, 9:53.6.
Broad jump—Won by Groswird (GL) ; Hadne (GL), second; James (GL), third. Distance 20 feet, two inches.
High jump—Won by Bates (GL) ; Walker (GL), second: Texeira (GL). third. Height six feet.
Mile relay—Won by Notre Dame (Jones, Lundergan. McCauley, Purcell). Time—3:29.
NROTC Baseball Starts
Notre Dame’s Naval ROTO opened the baseball season last Saturday and pulled their game out of the fire in the last inning to win a 6-5 victory. Trailing 5-4 in the last of the seventh, the NROTC nine tallied twice in rallying, to defeat a combined campus team pitted against them.
Bud Gotta handled hurling chores for the winners and gave up two hits, a double and a single. Shaky fielding accounted for the rest of the runs gathered by Bob Kelly and his crew of campus baseballers. Johnny Lu jack and Frank Gilhooley shared tossing; for the losers and allowed six hits, three of which were bunched by the Naval ROTC for four runs in the fifth.
It's a Tough Life, But— "Dogpatch" Isn't Far , k
By SEAMAN PAT SMID	>■ *
Salty McBoot moaned and groaned U over his desk-full of homework ’till finally he could stand the grind no longer. ;
z^
Shoving aside his tankard of foaming '
5
Sunday milk and dish of salted tangents, o' f dodging a few stray vectors and clap- i ping a hat on his little mildewed head, t he amblecf outside.... in a hurry to go ! some place where there were no coeffi- « » cients of linear expansion, laws of comparative costs, somesthetic senses and A' • Pythagorean theorems.	.
His wandering feet carried him to a nearby settlement known to the citizens hereabouts as “Dogpatch.” His blurred vision suddenly noticed the strange sight of a man, with his shirt sleeves rolled up and wearing a baseball cap, going through all the motions of a baseball pitcher on the mound. Salty was so astonished by the sight of something his capacious mind could comprehend that he stood fascinated, watching the hurler pitch two complete innings—even though the pitcher had no ball, glove, teammates, or even an opposing team. Finally his cultivated desire for knowledge gave him the courage to shatter the shell of concentration within which the pittcher had enclosed himself.
“What do you think you are doing?” he asked.
An expression of pain and disappointment trampled across the player’s already deeply rutted face. “What does it look like I’m doing,” he countered. “It’s the last half of the ninth inning in the last game of the World Series. We are leading one to nothing, there are two outs, runners on second and third, and the count is three balls and two strikes on Babe Ruth. This last pitch will probably decide the World’s Championship... and you ask what I’m doing! Go ’way, you bother me.”
Salty seemed pleased at this strange explanation. He turned toward Zahm • with a weird gleam in his eyes, and said as he was leaving: “Okay, I’ll go now, but if I can’t get I to equal ER, I’ll be back to catch for you tomorrow!”
•4. I
4
12
Tennis Team Beats Michigan; Meets DePauw
Tomorrow; Western Michigan Next Tuesday
By BILL WADDINGTON
It may not be the most logical thing to do now, but placing a bet on the Notre Dame tennis team to go undefeated for the remainder of the schedule wouldn’t be the craziest wager a guy could make, that is, since they took Michigan into camp last Saturday, 5-4, on the clay courts adjacent to the Law Building.
“As I said before, barring an upset, we should go undefeated,” and with these words emanating from Coach Walter Langford, there is good evidence that he has plenty of confidence in his squad’s future encounters.
Last year’s Michigan triumph was of a similar score, 5-4, and this year’s about-face was strictly “an eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth” affair. As suspected, Coach .Langford surmised that his own top men would be superior to what the opposition had to offer and thus it worked out. Similarly did he become partially prognostic in believing that the bottom men on the Wolverine roster would be better than his bottom men so too did that follow suit. It was the middle men who told the story, and fortunately enough, it was in the Notre Dame behalf.
DePauw courts in morning and afternoon contests with. DePauw and Indiana. In three matches with DePauw to date, the Irish have been successful in all three attempts while the Indiana series relates a record of nine wins for Notre Dame and a pair for the Hoosiers. Chicago, in its hey-day, took the Blue and Gold netmen for nine years straight but the day of reckoning set in, the tide has changed giving the tennis locals two successive wins in as many years.
Western Michigan on Tuesday
Next Tuesday, Western Michigan makes the jaunt to the Golden Dome campus, hoping to rebuild on a record that has seen the Broncos triumphant ten times while losing but three to Notre -Dame.
Summaries of last week:	.
Singles:
Back and forth it goes; where
it stops . . . .
The Langford regime now reads three wins and a pair of losses in contests with Michigan while the whole series favors the latter in a five-four arrangement.
Yesterday the netmen faced Chicago here but press deadlines do not enable us to have the results at this time. Saturday, however, the squad travels to Greencastle, Ind. where they take to the
Samson (ND) defeated Johnson (M), 6-3, 7-5; Evert (ND) defeated Lewis (M), 6-4, 6-2; Tully - (ND) defeated Frolik (M). 6-4. 6-3; Ford (M) defeated Griffin (ND), 4-6. 8-6. 6-2; Gulick (M) defeated Warshawsky (ND), 6-4, 6-4; Post (M) defeated Wood (ND), 6-1. 6-1.
Doubles:
Evert-Tully (ND) defeated Lewis-Frolik (M), 6-2. 6-2; Samson-Griffin (ND) defeated Johnson-. Ford (M). 6-1. 8-6; Gulick-Boucher (M) defeated Wood-Black (ND), 6-2, 6-4.
Adam Walsh, '24 Football Captain, Joins Coaching Staff; Will Assume Duties July 1
It was a well-deserved victory that the Notre Dame lads wrested from the Wolverine racketeers; the locals fought hard all the way and there was no sign of give-up anywhere in the procedure, “stick - to - it - iveness” being keynoted throughout the whole afternoon’s program.
In annexing their third straight victory, the Fighting Irish netmen barely escaped the throes of disaster when a four-all tie turned into a 5-4 triumph as the last doubles team of Samson and Griffin brought home the bacon with winning margins of 6-1 and 8-6. Michigan employed the same strategy as did Coach Langford in composing the doubles teams of the one and four man and the two and three man, but both the Irish pairs were victorious, garnering two points for the home team.
In the singles events, stand-bys Charley Samson and Jerry Evert won their matches as did Bill Tully. Stan War-shawski and Joe Wood and Jim Griffin took it on the chin, however, in their respective brackets to give each squad an even split.
With the announcement of the signing of Adam Walsh, captain of the 1924 national championship grid team, by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., it thus brought to a close the search for personnel in the athletic department to take over the duties of the recently departed Ed “Moose” Krause and the about to depart, Frank Leahy.
Commenting on Walsh’s appointment, Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C S.C., president of the University, said, “The appointment of Mr. Walsh completes several changes made recently in the Notre Dame coaching staff, necessitated by the induction into the armed forces of the athletic director, Frank Leahy, and by Notre Dame’s determination to help continue the values of intercollegiate athletics for the war. While we naturally regret losing Mr. Leahy for the duration we are also proud that we can “lend” to the Navy and to the winning of the war a man of Mr. Leahy’s character, talents and leadership. Frank knows that the prayers of the great Notre Dame family will be ever with him. Ed McKeever, who has so ably assisted Mr. Leahy, will take over as acting director of athletics and football coach, and we
have full confidence that our present staff will ably carry on until Frank returns.”
Leahy and Krause, who were here for the full campaign last year left two vacancies in the football coaching staff and the recent signing of Clem Crowe and the newly acquired, Adam Walsh, will do much to bolster the always stalwart prestige of Irish grid teams.
Comes From Bowdoin
Walsh, who is on leave of absence from Bowdoin College in the state of Maine, has been actively engaged in coaching ever since he left the player ranks back in ’24 when he was also chosen All-American center on the team that boasted such a combination as “the four horsemen and seven mules.”
To this day, Adam still retains the kick of one of those mules as his football tactics as a coach indicate. After leaving Notre Dame upon graduating, he became head coach at Santa Clara and then went to both Harvard and Yale as line coach before assuming the head tutor’s duties at Bowdoin.	.
Mr. Walsh will take up his new duties on or about July 1.	-
13
Pressbox Splinters
By LEO OUILETTE
«*•	•J*	♦$» «£♦
❖ MEET THE CHIEF *
By SEAMAN TOM PAYNE
Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s master-of-all-sports, is in midseason form on the links.... Ask Creigh-ty Miller—he had the old master 20-1 on a 40-foot putt and lost._Tom Sheehan, Jake Kline’s hard-hitting backstop, was playing the equivalent of Class-D ball while he was still in high school. — Our Notre Dame football team, in its long regime as a grid power, has batted .000 in only one section of the country—New England.... Yale defeated the Irish at New Haven, Conn, way back in 1914— Our boys will be out to erase that blemish next Oct. 14, when they tangle with the Dartmouth Indians at Fenway Park in Boston._______________Hank Slamin, former star' swimmer at New Trier High school in Winnetka, Ill. and present staff writer for the Scholastic sports department, proved he still retains his old speed when he ran away with three events in the NROTC inter-company swim meet a week ago.... The Detroit Tigers, who are at present roosting in last place, are the only team in the American League that has never ended a season in the cellar. ... The St. Louis Browns, who are now leading the league, are the only team that has never won a pennant.
Rumor has it that Pat Filley will soon be discharged from the Marines because of a knee injury received while playing football.... Let’s hope that the scrappy little All-American of ’43 will be back to bolster the Irish forward wall come next September... Now that the 1944 version of the Kentucky Derby is history, there remain but two categories of speculators — the ones who luckily strung along with the Calumet Farm’s Pensive and those who made wrong monetary decisions. _Of the former class we have Vernon Hecht from Racine, Wis. who took down a tidy sum in a little local pool.... On the o^her hand, in the latter group, we have Bob “Louisville Colonel” Veeneman who touted Skytracer without reserve but the best his colorbearer could do was a sad, sorry sixth...You Bengal. Bouters who were dead tired at the end of three rounds ought to be interested in knowing that John L. Sullivan and Jake Kilrain battled it out for 75 rounds -with bare fists before John L. knocked Jake out to win the heavyweight championship.
Rev. Gerald McMahon, C.S.C., is all business when it comes to golf_a couple of months of his present practice .sched-14
ule and he’ll be odds-on favorite to win the Tam-O-Shanter tourney this summer .... We understand from reliable sources that the St. Louis Browns are planning to sign J. J. L. Johnson as a one man rooting section to make up for the lack of fans at their home games.... It seems that one of the Brownie’s scouts heard Johnny bellowing from a third deck window in Walsh Hall during one of the RO softball games.... Bob Steuber, AllAmerican half-back from Missouri, is not only the fastest but also the strongest man on the Iowa Seahawks baseball roster.... Speaking of Seahawks brings something to mind that must have been an awful headache to pre-flight coaches last week.... Steuber and Price Bookfield are standouts on both the baseball and track squads at Iowa City and last Saturday both teams were scheduled to meet Iowa State at Ames. They got around the difficulty by first competing in the track meet at 1:30 and then quickly changed to baseball togs for the double-header that was due to start an hour later.... Pensive, last week’s Kentucky Derby winner, was the third horse Ben Jones has trained to cop first prize in the “run of roses”.... His other two winners were Lawrin in ’38 and Whirl-away in ’41.... If the law of averages holds, Jones is due for another winner in 1947.
When Frank “Lefty” Coyle defeated Joe Platak in the National A.A.U. handball championship last Saturday, he accomplished a feat that the country’s best have unsuccessfuly tried to do for eight years.... Camp Grant has returned to the athletic world after a two month layoff from competitive athletics._Four of the 72 points run up by the Bluejackets last week in their dual meet with Doc Handy’s boys were accounted for by former Notre Dame men. John Cawley placed, second in the 120 yd high hurdles and big Jim Tharp took a third in the shot put.... Adam Walsh, Ed McKeever’s new coach, should prove to be one of the best-liked men on the campus... Yours truly was a neighbor of Walsh at Brunswick, Me. back in 1936 and he always proved himself to be tops... Jimmy Evert, last year’s tennis captain and brother of this year’s Jerry, is being detached to Bainbridge Naval Station where he will enter a course which will provide him with the necessary requisites for an athletic instructor’s position in the Navy physical fitness program.
Presenting this week, Chief Specialist " (A), William H. Clason of the Naval’ Athletic Instructors on the campus of Notre Dame. Chief Clason was born in 1916 at Goshen, Ind., where he attended d Goshen High school. While at Goshen A High he played basketball and was active on the track team. However, his favorite is basketball. After high school he I went to Ball State Teachers College, at Muncie, Ind. from 1937 until 1941. In A college the chief played basketball, baseball, and was on the track team. He	*
received three letters in each of these	1
sports.	’
i
After leaving college Chief Clason enlisted in the Navy as a yeoman second class on Oct. 19, 1941. He was stationed • at Great Lakes Naval Training Station • for the next 19 months doing yeoman j work. He was then promoted to the rat- ? ing of chief specialists (A), and was u sent to Bainbridge, Md., for his physical instructors course. He was at Bainbridge 4 » for six weeks training and then he did | duty there for three months. In August, 1943 he came to the University of Notre i Dame as a physical instructor for the •; V-12 program. In December of 1943 Chief Clason was married.	<
Introducing Chief Yeoman Robert G. Lewis of the V-12 Administration Office. -i Chief Lewis was born in Philadelphia, . ' Pa., on Dec. 5, 1916. He attended Ger- ’ mantown High school in Philadelphia ) and he graduated from there in 1934.	/.
He then started his career with the	.
Pennsylvania Railroad, working for that concern for eight years. During this time ; he worked on various jobs. At the time of his enlistment in the Navy he held / the position of secretary to the district 1 freight agent at Akron, Ohio.	j
-	«
Chief Lewis first donned the navy blue	j
in February, 1942, and his first assignment took him to the boot camp at the ( Great Lakes Naval Training Station. J After his boot training he was retained | at Great Lakes to do yeoman work in the district personnel office. He was then transferred to the new Naval Air Sta- i tion at Columbus, Ohio, in June, 1942, to * > start the personnel office there. At the । Naval Air Station he was in charge of f all the yeomen attached to the personnel ' j office. After staying at Columbus for 13 months, the Chief was then transferred to the V-12 Unit at the University of -Notre Dame when the program was A.:
launched here in July, 1943. On Jan. 1, 1944, the Chief was appointed to the rating of Chief Petty Officer. Chief Lewis has charge of all the yeomen attached to
the Administration Office here, and he does the secretarial work in the office. Chief Lewis is very eager to go overseas and participate in some “action.”

| INTRODUCING j
|	By JIM REGAN .	|
“Introducing” presents this week the number 1 and number 2 men on the Notre Dame tennis team. . . . They are Charlie Samson and Jerry Evert who have played an important role in preserving an undefeated record for the “Irish” thus far.
PAST AND FUTURE
Ho Hum, by now the slide rules, triangles and Draft squares (ever since I k received my I-A I like to give my draft board a blow) are back in their respective cases very fatigued from the big weekend. But as the engineers regain both financial and physical energy, the Navy men are trying their best to hold on to last week’s pay check in order to have something in the sock for the V-12 ’ Ball on the 26th. And save they’d better, for that weekend promises to outdo anything on this campus since Cotillion days.	’
CEST LA GUERRE. PROFESSOR
(ACP) Professor George Wells, Hartford Seminary Foundation Psychologist, suggests the college diploma either be done away with or “be given to everyone as soon as they enter college.” Then, he said, “those who just want a degree can leave right away, and those who are left can stay for an education.” Wells declared the diploma sets a “false vo^l” on education. The psychologist added that if he ever founded a college, middle-aged and elderly people would be encouraged to attend such- a college because “higher education as it is now administered actually discourages older people from furthering their learning.”
My Gremlins report that he is also president of the Hartford Draft board.
COSMO MONKHOUSE JR.
I crept upstairs, my shoes in hand, Just as the night took wing,
And saw my wife, five steps above, Doing the same darned thing. . . .
HARVARD VOO-DOO
From The Crimson-White comes this piece of analysis and advice for those born in April:
.“You are inclined to be emotionally unstable. Control your hidden feeling. If a small child throws a ripe tomato at you, don’t let your temper get the best of you. Use your head; it’s harder
and you probably can hurt them more that way. Be careful with over-popularity; it may be that your so-called friends are the only ones who have eaten onions besides you.”
Give me a drag off that, Bud. •
THINGS ARE TOUGH ALL OVER
The other day a V-5 at Purdue was put on restriction for going to sleep in the linen closet.
THEY'RE EITHER TOO YOUNG OR TOO OLD
With their ingenuity North Carolina Women’s College students broke the monotony of the quarter grind by inviting available male faculty members as dates to a dance. The arrangements, including the wife’s permission were made by the girls. The whole affair turned out to everyone’s satisfaction. One gentleman unobtrusively requested the orchestra to play “They’re Either Too Young Or Too Old” and another remarked, “So this is how the other half lives.”
Oh Yeah!—Plainsman
LITTLE JOE FROM ND
Senior: “Where are you all going in such a hurry?”
Frosh: “I just bought a new text book and I’m trying to get to class before it goes out of date.”
AH, THIS COLLEGE LIFE
Prof: “Say, you missed my class yesterday, didn’t you?”
Unsubdued Student: “Not in the least, sir—not in the least.”
T'WAS THE END OF DEAR MIRIAM
There was a young lady named Banker,
Who slept while the ship lay at . anchor!
She awoke in dismay
When she heard the mate say:
“Toss up the topsheet and spanker!”
Poor Miriam.	.
CHARLIE SAMSON
Charlie Samson, V-12 trainee, now makes his home in Kansas City, Mo., having lived previously in Wichita, Denver, and Portsmouth, Ohio. . . . He is a civil engineering student in his fifth semester, three of which have been spent at Notre Dame. . . . He attended Ohio Sate University for two semesters before being assigned here in the V-12 program. ...
Charlie was graduated from Denver South High School in 1941. ... In high school he was a member of the tennis team for four years and also nlayed on the basketball team. . . . Another sport in which he likes to participate is badminton. . . . Charlie was an active member of the Letters, Social and Rebel Clubs while in high school. . . . At Ohio State Samson was the number 2 man and in the Big Ten tournament last year he won the second division championship. . . . He also was a member of the winning doubles team in the Big Ten tourney. . . . Other tournaments in which he took part include the Ohio Valley Mens’ and Juniors’ singles in 1942, New Mexico State Junior tournament, Colorado State Junior tournament, and the Colorado and Ohio High School tournaments. ... In all of the events named, Charlie emerged the winner. . . .
Charlie’s hobby is reading and he expresses a fondness for reading classical writers. . . . His favorite meal includes a large serving of breaded pork chops. . . . His.present aim is to lead Notre Dame to an undefeated season in tennis. ... So far it looks, as though he may be able to achieve his wish and he certainly is contributing heavily to the success of the team as he is undefeated himself in both singles and doubles. . . .
JERRY EVERT
Number 2 man on this year’s tennis squad is Jerry Evert, V-12A'trainee, of Chicago, Ill. . . . Jerry is in his second semester here at N.D. . . . He is a brother of Jimmy Evert, one of the leading members and captain of Notre Dame’s tennis team last year. . . .
Jerry was graduated from Senn High School last June where he was a member of the tennis team for four years. . . . He has also participated in many tournaments during his tennis career.
. . . Among the more well-known are the Illinois State Mens’ tournament, Western Tournament, National Junior tournament, and National Interscholastics. ... In the Western event he upset Charley Oliver* who is ranked number 12 nationally. . . . He succeeded in reaching the semi-final round of the national interscholastics before being eliminated. ... As a result of his showing in this event he was ranked no. 4 in the country in scholastic circles.
' Jerry’s favorite pastime is dancing and he only wishes he had more time off to indulge in this recreation. . . . He loves to drink chocolate milk shakes and he is waiting for that day that the University will install a soda fountain in Dillon Hall so that he won’t have to walk to the “Caf” or Huddle for a “shake.” . . .
He lust Passed a Salty Fleet Man and got Seasick!
Jerry is also looking forward to an undefeated season for the tennis team. . . . He likewise has played an important part in the team’s successes and like Charlie Samson is undefeated in both singles and doubles competition this season. . . .

Marine Murmurs
QmummumiumtuumuuuuumumuuummmuumumuJ
THINGS WE'D LIKE TO SEE
Sammy “Smooth” Unshuld down at the Service Center telling any girl the truth, instead of using that “smooth” line of his.
The Service Center without Bill Eggbeer.
Willie Bollaei*t without demerits.
Terry Anderson without a “cock and bull” story ready for immediate usage.
Larry Lynch in a conversation and not talking about Larry Lynch.
“Midshipman” Dewey when he knows where his slide rule is.
John “Lt.” Bily, alias “ladder-legs,” with a healthy case of laryngitis.
WE HEAR	’
that the Parris Island “Finishing School” is about ready to out. Latest word from this exclusive school brings the glad tidings that of the 86 N.D. boys down there, 25 received expert ratings on the range and all but 2 qualified. It looks as though the N.D. boys are doing all right! Now all we have to do is to follow.in their footsteps.
that the Service Center hostesses are really turning on the charm and personality. Reports from some of the “Cowboys” indicate that the transformation in some cases is amazing. Could it be the spring weather that makes them so sociable and inclined to talk about their new formal and how they love Jerry Wald’s music?
BOUQUET AND BOO-QUET OF THE WEEK
This week the bouquet of the week goes to the O.P.A.	and whoever else was
|	BUY WITH	CONFIDENCE	I
i	at	=
|	South Bend’s	Leading Jeweler	E
E	A wide selection of
1	Desirable Gifts
=	on display.
E	Use our lay-away plan.
IfliuiiiimiimiiuiimimiiiiimimiiimiHiii.tuiiiitiunitiiiii|
16
I
j responsible for last Sunday’s steaks — | they were juicy!
The Boo-quet of the week to those “eager beavers” who were responsible for those' two most enjoyable sessions on the fundamentals of calisthenics.
HEAD-LINERS
There was a kicking Marine, Who kicked the whole year long.
What wasn’t always ought to be, What was . . . was always wrong.
He didn’t like his captain,
He cussed his general, too,
He saw no basic reason
For the work they made him do.
They sent him o’er the ocean
With his rifle and his pack
But no sooner had he landed, Than he wished that he was back. '
At last Death’s final transfer, Took him to realms afar
He drew a post in Heaven Where the perfect quarters are.
No sooner was he seated
Than he passed around the word
If St. Peter could arrange it He would like to be transferred.
Marine: “Your girl’s spoiled, isn’t she?”
Sailor: “No, it’s just the perfume she’s using.”
The Private picked up the telephone and dialed a number.
“Hello, babay, this is Gideon.”
“Who?” asked the girl.	'
“Gideon,” he answered.
jk “I can’t understand you.”
“Listen” said the private, “it’s Gid-i eon — G for ‘gin, I for ice, D for drink-x ing, E for excess, 0 for off duty, and Z N for nothing to do, got that?”
“Well, not all of it,” said the girl, , “but come on over* anyway.” k ■	, -
DAFFY-NITIONS
Professor — A textbook wired for sound.
Girl—A. vision in the evening and a sight in the morning.
FROM THE COMPANIES
ACHES, pains and bruises are always frequent after a hard week end, but not with such quality as the eye that Werner Hass showed up with at formation on Monday morning. Naturally there is a story that goes with it, but for that you’d better see Hass.
“BURGLARS-, we’ll have to take a chance on, but the door stays open.” These are the words of Pvt. Scott who is definitely in favor of the “open door policy,” especially after a small incident last week.
COULD it happen to anybody else except Co. “C” to have two such charming playmates as “ace” Wheeler and Dale Venning? Which is the worse is hard to say, but when the two get together — beware!	*	.
ON THE BALL
Bids for the V-12 Ball have been selling like ten dollar- bills for the same price. The remaining margin is diminishing rapidly, so it might not be a bad idea to get in your bid for a bid. There aren’t too many left. Could be a Tough Situation if they should be sold before you get yours.
SCUTTLEBUTT OF THE WEEK
The present semester to end June 16 instead of June 23 because the profs, are sorely in need of a vacation.
-From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
[■JiiiaiiiitiiiiaiiiiaiiaaiaaiiitiiiaiiiaiaaaaiaaaiaaaaaaaaaaiaaaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaiQ
1 Campus Centenary I i Publications I
: Notre Dame—100 Years____________________$4.00 =
1 Collected Poems of	=
E Charles L. O'Donnell____________________S2.50 =
1 ... at the Bookstore |
GOLF CLUBS	|
3	BASEBALL GLOVES	|
3	BASEBALL BATS	|
$	SOFT BALLS AND BATS	|
TENNIS RACQUETS	|
FISHING TACKLE	|
?	Goldsmith and Spalding	g
j	Distributors	§
SON NE BORN'S | SPORT SHOP I
?	121 W. Colfax Ave.	g
Mason and Dixon line—The boundary between “you all” and “youse guys.”
Kiss—The only agreeable two-faced action.
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
QQaiatiiaiiiiaiiiiiaiiaaaisaaiiaaaaaaaiaaaiiiiaHtaaaaaiiaiaiaaaaaaaiittiiiiaiiQ
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
IHOLD THAT HAIRLINE! I
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL, VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE. FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN’S SHOP
Qaaaaiaaiiiaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaiiaaaaaaaaaiaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaiiaaaaaaaaaaaaii
REVIEW "
Or should we say the Marines’ Parade? In all respect to the four pieces the Navy band is learning, we must mention here that anything is better than the one the Marine outfit knows. But the band wasn’t the only thing that needed practice last Saturday. With no one knowing just what to do, everybody was watching everybody else. When “present arms” was called, Byron Buckley, with’ benignant interest, looked at his arm. The whole first platoon of his company followed suit. When one of the directors loudly shouted to, “Do it like I did it,” the frantic results of doing it like he did were very colorful.
DONATION	* ■
And this time it is for a really good cause: To purchase Frank Palowsky a combination set of violin lessons and a violin without strings. People with scissors have been noticed prowling past his door at odd hours, with the gleam of frustrated mania in their eyes. As one observer remarked, “It isn’t so much his playing the thing, as it is his playing it so we can hear him!”
SIGHTS WORTH SEEING
Bill Daily easing his bay window over the fence of the golf course nightly after chow. Why don’t you charge admission to watch, Bill?	•
John Witt wearing out shoe leather on Saturday afternoons.
Steak and ice cream for Sunday dinner.
SCUTTLEBUTT WEEK
And has it been flying! With everything from an Invasion to mid-semester vacations to talk about, it has been almost necessary to carry a shovel around with you to dig your way out of the latest breeze session with the boys. Here are some of the more worn-out tidbits with the correct answers:
1—(Old faithful). The V-12 program is being abolished. (I wish people would quit saying things like that). False, as far as anybody in authority knows.
2—Final exams are being moved up a week, thus allowing a week extra vacation. Again False.
3—The European Invasion will start at 0001, July 32, 1945. Not being on
rxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxy *
JOSIE and JIM'S


JUNNY ITALY
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS
SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
A TRADITION AT NOTRE
CAFE
PLACE
N N
*4
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Phone 3-1254
South Bend. Indiana
825 Sherland Building
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS ’ 503 Sherland Building
Telephone 3-4269
ft
ri'
Glasses Correctly Fitted
Est.
1900
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS
E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
L. E. Fisher. M.D.
M. J. Thornton, M.D.
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE D.D.S.
DAME
>< >4 N
N M M
M
623-629 Sherland Bldg.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist ■
SERVICE MEN: Make This Your First Stop on That Night Off!
M
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
South Bend. Ind.
Phone 3-2574
18
good terras right now with General Eisenhower, we wouldn’t know.
4—C. Tenezar, the Brain of Dillon, is going to flunk out. False.
5—Sam Kitchen pounded an Army Lieutenant on the back and shouted: “Hi there . . . doc!” True.
6—Only fifty percent of the V-12’s will go to midshipmen’s school. False, as far as anyone in authority knows.
CALISTHENICS
An unfortunate thing happened last Saturday which has caused some bitter feeling, bitter talk and at least an hour of extra exercises. Perhaps by the time this appears the whole thing may have blown over; maybe we’re still squat pushin’ each evening. Whatever the situation, there are still a few facts that should be cleared up.
First off, the majority of the trainees realize that they were in the wrong. We did keep talking after attention was called; we did shout and boo the chief. But, there is another side to the question.
It was 0600 in the morning. We absolutely defy anyone to fall out of the sack at 0600 (and we do mean fall), stagger over to a stuffy drill hall, Wearily gaze at an individual who rapidly takes on the appearance of a wolf in chief’s clothing, and then, when you are ordered to lie down on the dirty deck and place your feet behind your head, to shout with joyous anticipation and, with great glee, strenuously apply your tight muscles to the task. At 0615 things just don’t work that way.
BAND
George Finn and his Basin Street Lease Breakers (168 Dillon) are currently warming up for the coming Weekend Maneuver’s show, “Nites and Daze.” Rumor has it that for the big event they are even going to teach Willie the Guitar player, and Roy Lang, trombonist, how to read notes. Supercroon Sal Perez and John Clark’s piano will highlight the show of such promised numbers as: “Tea for Two,” “Sunnyside of the Street,” “Honeysuckle Rose,” “Goin’ to Chicago Blues.” (South Shore Shag.)
While we’re on the subject of bands, a word might be pertinent on the V-12 marching band. Practice sessions are held three times daily. (Guess when.) Right at present the trombones are in disagreement with the trumpets. However, we look forward to the near future when everything will again be in harmony, and the beat will not be raised 50 counts each time the horns play alone.
Official U. S. Army Photo.
Long range battering rams, these big mobile g«ins bombard enemy positions, laying down a creeping barrage in advance of our infantry and tank attacks.
Gun crews keep in close touch by telephone with "fire control.” Over quickly laid networks of wires the battery command coordinates these heavy artillery units, effectively focusing their combined fire power.
Peacetime telephones doing a wartime job! That’s also the main assignment now of Bell Telephone Laboratories’ scientists—for this country, with the world’s best telephone service in peace, can give no less to its fighting forces in war.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
1
War calls keep Long Distance lines busy ... Thafs why your call may be delayed.
19






ij5ws8mmmsmtss®ss8
THESE.
MEAN
THINGS
gqWff^jgggRgfi
WO
^•v^cSSSSS
■)
{
1
fcSSSSiftS
s WW®
3
■ t
£•3
K £
A
j
u
'i
I
•1
hesteriield
Copyright 1944, Vggett & Mn»j Tobacco Co.
IT MEANS A LOT when a
You first soldier.
I’ll have a Chesterfield
while you talk
cigarette gives you the genuine satisfaction
you get from Chesterfield.
It MEANS that Chesterfield, more than
any other cigarette, gives you the things that count... real Mildness, Better Taste and a Cooler Smoke.
The reason is Chesterfield’s 5 Key-words
RIGHT COMBINATION WORLD S BEST TOBACCOS
BUT*
ANOTHER
