PUBLISHED WEEKLY - FOUNDED 1867
2
THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE. EAR. NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3-1395
J- M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG
PHONE 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-8989
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661
RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTISTRY—X- RAYS
YOZ J. M. S. BLDG.
SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
405 ASSOCIATES BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L.	E. FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON.
M.	D.	M. D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP Leonard A. Rose, d.d. s. Cyril F. Rose. d. d. s. Peter J. Rose. d. d. s.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.
SOUTH BEND
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
associates building
SOUTH BEND. |ND.
X
a
_ Who purchases the thousands of products needed by the Bell System o What distributor can make tele-phone supplies quickly available almost anywhere

The answers are: Western Electric, Western Electric, Western Electric, Western Electric. Monotonous?— the answers, perhaps, but the job, never!
Filling the day to day needs of the telephone companies—helping them to meet and beat emergencies caused by fire, flood, storm—has never lost its "kick” in 58 years.
So Western Electric contributes its share toward making your telephone service the world’s best and most economical.
Western Electric
... /.s back oj your Hell I elephone service
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
3
COLLEGE PARADE
—— RAYMOND J. KELLY	»
Harvard "Men"?
When the M.I.T. Voodoo stated that “male and eager” persons did not go to Harvard, we merely put it down as a display of jealousy and bad manners on the part of roughnecks from the wrong side of the Charles River. However, a report of an intercollegiate athletic contest involving some Harvard lads and the field hockey team from Wheaton College for Women, forced us to conclude that M. I. T. had the right idea all along. Not only were the Harvard boys trounced 1-0, but two of them were treated at the infirmary for bruises.
♦j.
Regarding exams
One of the commentators for the Daily Californian had three mid-term examinations on the same day and devoted his next column to a complete castigation of our present educational system. Not being the type that criticizes without suggesting a solution, he produced an idea that might put an end to those early morning vigils over notebooks and texts. He wanted to divide each semester into as many sections as the number of courses the student takes. Each section would be devoted exclusively to the study of one subject. When one section i_s over, that subject is done for the semester. This plan seems to have possibilities. The text-book racket could be given a severe jolt and cramming would be reduced to a minimum. It’s a great idea but probably 20 years ahead of its time.
In a woman's world
Unlike most collegiate funny magazines that meekly inform you of their existence and intended purpose and only hope that you find them worth a chuckle, the Old Maid defiantly proclaims to the world that it is “the humorous magazine of Randolph - Macon , Woman’s College.” Delving into this interesting document, might furnish Hennessy with a Wrangler’s paper on “Southern Women—So What?” or some equally engrossing topic. However, all we could discover was that the girls from Randy-Macon were people just like everyone else. Much space was devoted to bemoaning, poetically, the fact that life is “mail-less and male-less.” One lass sounded a different note when she come out with a bit of verse that was a frank, honest admission;
It seems My dreams Once more betray me.
I’m not So hot As Morpheus made me.
Viewing with Alarm
Last Saturday evening in Boston, Northeastern U. held its annual Sophomore Dance. Featured as a novelty was an electro-magnetic device which was supposed to register the amount of heat generated by a single osculation. This “Kiss-O-Graph” may actually be nothing but a fad. However, it is a symptom of an increasing American mania for exactness. We are becoming too intent on graphs and charts and cold, calcu
lating figures to properly enjoy life. This vicious system of calories and vitamins has taken all the fun out of eating for a great many people. Are the few who still go through life unconcerned by statistics and totals to be confronted with osculatory measuring devices? We think that this is one step too far and if it continues we will be forced to join the English majors in a concerted drive to eliminate engineers from the American scene.
❖
It's a Trojan Horse on them
The F.B.I. has been active in Lawrence, Kas., conducting investigations of two Kansas U. students. One girl lost an invitation to a Delta Upsilon “Blitzkrieg” party and it took an afternoon’s talking to convince the G-men that the invitation, a rifle cartridge, intact save for the power and containing a note “Ihre nummer ist aufgestanden” (Your number is up), had no subversive significance. The second suspected fifth columnist was believed to be a leader in a secret organization, the “11-11-41” which was believed to be the date set by radicals for a national uprising. It was finally discovered that buttons, bearing the esoteric numerals “11-11-41” were advertising, of all things, a national convention of the Veterans of Foreign Wars which was held in Kansas, this summer.
♦ Glammer Gals
This week, instead of a cut from the 1929 Juggler with a modernized caption, we present two of Dogpatch’s delightful daughter, Misses Fruitful and Frightful McGulp who will be among those present tomorrow evening when Cory and Co. hold the Sadie Hawkins Dance that will positively end all Sadie Hawkins Dances.
Be the life of the party
If any of the lads from that sweatshop next to the Law Building find themselves at a loss for words while attending one of those Sunday afternoon tea-parties they might find it helpful to start the conversational ball rolling with a story that appeared in the Ohio State Lantern, an issue or so ago.
“An engineer stood atop the huge dam he had built. It was the opening day, and as the water rushed through the turbines, large cracks began to appear in the masonry. Soon the block on which he was standing started to tumble. He whipped out his slide rule, made a calculation. As the structure collapsed under him, he cursed “That damn decimal point!”
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
— FRANK WEMHOFFS=
Top of the Week
It’s corn-husking time.
With the Weekenders
The papers say extraordinary things about Notre Dame’s victory over Navy .... The Navy was sunk, scuttled, disarmed, dismantled, drowned with all hands, and one correspondent even had them “beached”. — In fact, would we believe all that we read we would no longer have a fleet.... It is hard to imagine that something which had taken years to build could have been so completely demolished in two minutes and forty seconds by only eleven saboteurs. ... Some nomadic souls had an opportunity to compare the two St. Mary’s, “the woods” and “the rock”.... Del Courtney’s band swung at the Junior Prom for “the babes in the woods” .... basically, there is no difference between the two schools, save one._at “the woods” they act like real people, instead of merely acting.... there is also a warm rivalry.... “the woods” girls believe that the only reason for going to school at “the rock” is Notre Dame.... D. D. Dahill established himself as an ace operator by meeting the ■best of the wrong people in the worst of the best spots.
*
How to Treat a Cotillion Date
Seniors know all about these things... but theory is not practice.... The correct time to bring your own date to your room is from 12:00 to 12:30 (noon) and from 6:00 to 6:30 (evening).... any other times are sheer bravado.... take her to eat in the caf so us poor boys can have a chance.... any reliably broke roommate will do to jog her around the quads while you go to class.... try to let her talk only to fellows who have dates themselves.... you will have to be especially vigilant at the pep rally.... may we not suggest the speaker’s ramp .... may we suggest that she wear hornrims, blinders, and her pinkest putty nose.... come early and bring your handcuffs.... On Saturday get her the eternal “mum”.... the flower, that is... You might tell her how homely football players are, after first blacking out the picture of Paul Lillis.... unless Mike
Enich beats you to it.... but remember .... all’s fair in love and war.... just fair.
❖
Calling Joe Blow
“We have a call here from Lucy Tanya of Iowa. Will you accept the charges?”
“What charges?”
“Batteries, you fool.”
“O.K. Put Lucy on.”
“Hello? Joe?”
“Yeah.”
“This is Lucy.”
“So they tell me.”
“Listen, dear, I can’t come tomorrow.”
“______________!?#”
“Joe!”
«  |9*55
“I’ll never speak to you again!” «!?*»
“Goodbye! You—you poor sport!”
“______________!?*”
“That’ll be 95 cents please and don’t you dare say--------------!?* to me!”
• <♦ .
Pertinent Pertry
When your eyes have that furtive expression
That sets you apart from the rest;
When you look in the depths of depression,
Though your clothes may be those of the best;
When your bravado’s gone
And your lot is to fawn
If you want to be sure of salvation Then you’re one in this mass Of the privileged class Of Notre Dame regimentation.
—E. H.
❖
Correspondence
Dear Pop,
Everything fine at school. I’m getting lots of sleep and am studying hard.
Incidentally, I’m enclosing my fraternity bill.
• Your son, Pudge
Dear Pudge,
Don’t buy any more fraternities.
Your pop,
Pop
OPINION
The election is over in America. Winter is coming on. But the war still rages in Europe and the future is more of a question mark than ever. What may happen within the next year or two? Take your pick of any of the following eight predictions:
St. Edward’s Hall, James Hurley says: “Russia will sooner or later befriend Britain, and our relations with the Soviet Union will improve. However, if the war is drawn out, the European countries •will become so weak that Russian agents will be able to move in and set up communistic states in their stead.”
Badin Hall, John Wood thinks England will probably win the war. “But,” he adds, “when the conflict is over, the democracies of Europe in order to deal with and control Germany hereafter will probably slip over into more of a socialized type of government under which emergencies can be met more easily and effectively.”
Walsh Hall, Emmet Stritch doesn’t see how either Britain or Germany can invade the other and believes, therefore, that the war will be a lengthy one. As to who will win, he holds that “Britain will ultimately be the victor since totalitarianism, bred from distress, is a necessarily impermanent thing.”
Zahm Hall, James Coogan says: “Britain will have enough airplanes by spring to hold off Germany indefinitely. Then a stalemate is bound to result as both nations are so powerful, England on the sea and Germany on land. Under any peace, both will necessarily survive.”
Howard Hall, Jack Lawler feels that “Germany has done about all she can do now, and since Britain doesn’t have the facilities for an attack on Germany, the two will probably make some sort of peaceful settlement.”
Brownson Hall, Bob Burke brings up another point. “If the U. S. goes to war, it’s much more liable to be with Japan over the question of the Philippines than •with anyone else. We don’t seem as much inclined to give those islands up as we were.”
Alumni Hall, Dan A. Justen is of the opinion that, with enough new planes, England can set Germany back on her heels within another year. He does not believe that Hitler’s air attacks have succeeded in destroying British morale.
Carroll Hall, Bob Duffey says: “Our policy of furnishing Great Britain with supplies will involve us in the war before very much longer. Eventually, too, Italy and Spain are going to try to sew up the Mediterranean area.”—Carl Rohrer
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Volume 74
NOVEMBER 15, 1940
Number 8
COTILLION GUESTS WILL SEE SOMETHING LIKE THIS
Boyd Raeburn And His Orchestra Play At Annual Cotillion This Evening
surrealist invasion is due to tHe enterprising members of the Student Council.
The pep rally tonight is scheduled for 7 o’clock, and is to be held in the gymnasium as usual. Dr. Eddie Anderson, Iowa’s head coach, Pat O’Brien, the beloved interpreter of the Knute Rockne part in the recent Warner Brothers’ cinema, Elmer Layden, members of the football squad, and other notables will speak at the rally. A fireworks display will climax the pep meeting.
Tomorrow, the day of the final home game of the year, will be characterized by milling crowds and lusty excitement. The Cotillion, yet a pungently fresh memory, will be lovingly discussed by those fortunate who attended. Hall decorations, competing for the annual campus honors, will be compared, scoffed at, and judged. At 1:30 the electric kickoff of the Iowa game will initiate an afternoon of nail-biting suspense as the Irish go out to avenge last year’s defeat. Cotillion couples will see the game from a specially reserved section of the stadium.
Dance Featured During Weekend of iowa Game
The chiffon romance of the Sophomore Cotillion, “homecoming” weekend, the campus decorated in a peacetime camouflage of gold and blue, and this evening’s pep rally promise to provide Notre Dame students with one of the most gala events of the season. This evening, from 9 until 1 o’clock, the smooth, casual dance music of Boyd Raeburn and his nationally known orchestra will set the theme for the 1940 Sophomore Cotillion in the lushly lame decor of the Palais Royale.
Femininity at its most gracious will be escorted by over 400 Notre Dame men to what is so far the biggest dance of the
NO ‘SCHOLASTIC’ NEXT WEEK
The Scholastic will not be published next Friday, Nov. 22, but will appear again on Friday, Nov. 29.
year. Representative groups from all classes except the Freshmen are expected to be there tonight. The dance will be broadcast by station WFAM at 9:30 with Bill Foley acting as announcer for the half-hour program. Two o’clock extensions have been granted to those attending the cotillion.
Queen of the Cotillion will be Miss Elizabeth Jane Rock of Oak Park, Hl., a sophomore at Rosary College in River Forest, and guest of General Chairman Hans O. Helland. Miss Marianne Donahue of Chicago, president of the sophomore class at Mundelein College, Chicago, will be escorted most adequately by Ambrose F. Dudley of Philadelphia, sophomore class president.
Cotillion guests and fans coming for the lowa-Notre Dame football game, mindful of the macabre lynchings at Badin Hall last year, anticipate witnessing again a gusty comedy of errors — bunting alternating with streamers of highly suspect tissue. Residence halls, from hoary Sorin to that stripling, Breen-Phillips, represent violently original ideas in decoration. Credit for the
In the evening the Sadie Hawkins Victory Dance at the Indiana Club, sponsored by the Vincentians, will taper off the weekend festivities. If the Vincentians are able to find a man on the campus who can call square dances, the regular dance program will be interspersed with homely bits of jive to insure a bonafide Dogpatch atmosphere.
BOYD RAEBURN
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Ta-Morrer Night Hizzoner Makes De-Boo
Doahn’t yo fergit thet ta-morrer night will ma’k th’ de-boo in Notre Dame social life o’ sich pussons as “Earthquake” McGoon, “Lonesome Polecat,” “Hairless Joe,” and hizzoner, Promethus J. Gurgle, th’ Mayor o’ Dogpatch.
Undah th’ auspices o’ th’ Vincentians th’ Sadie Hawkins Dance will be held at th’ Indiana Club aftah th’ loway game.
Ballistics, Economics
Added to Programs
Two new courses, Ballistics and Economics, have been introduced in the College of Engineering. The course in ballistics began last Monday, Nov. 11, and the course in economics is to begin next semester.	-
The ballistics course, taught by Prof. Arthur E. Haas, of the department of physics, is a one-hour course at 11:00 a.m., Monday, Wednesday, Friday, in room 104 of Science Hall. In the second semester the course will be continued as an elective which may be taken either for credit or audited. Students who audit the course will have the opportunity to take the examination, if they wish, and receive a certification of results.
The course is open to those graduate students and seniors who have sufficient advanced mathematics. No formal admission card is necessary for the first semester.
The new course in economics is to give students the necessary background knowledge of the social sciences. Because the course includes Calculus it is more analytical than any previous economics course offered at the University.
Details of the new program were mapped out by Dugald S. Jackson, dean of the College of Engineering, the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, William H. Downey, head of the department of economics, and Robert B. Riordan, registrar and associate professor of economics.—Bill Herzog
Von Trapp Singers
Open Concert Season
The Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., recently announced that the College of Music will sponsor a concert by the von Trapp Family Singers on Monday evening, Nov. 18. The entertainment to be held in Washington Hall at 8:00 p.m. will be the first of the season at the University.
The Singers, directed by Dr. Franz
All them thet air good -fellows air goin’ to be there wif their bes’ gals. Fo’ wif squah-dancin’ an’ moosic by th’ Modern-aires an’ all th’ speciel entertainments thet “Calefaction” Corey an’ his boys have drummed up fer th’ crowd only a foolish un would stick at humh thet night. So, ah’ll see yo all then wif Daisy Mae an’ th’ McGulp gals.
Wasner, is composed of the wife, five daughters, and two sons of Baron George von Trapp.
During the past four years they have made successful concert tours of England, France, Belgium, Sweden, Norway, Italy and Holland and have sung before royalty in England and Sweden. While on tour in this country during the 1938’39 season they sang at such colleges as Lafayette, William and Mary, and the New Jersey College for Women. During their 1939-’4O tour they visited Indiana University, Swarthmore College, Green Mountain Junior College, and the University of North Carolina.
"Cat and Canary" To
Appear on Saturday
Tomorrow night at Washington Hall, comically loquacious Bob Hope will personally pursue the feline villain in the Paramount film, “The Cat and the Canary.” Co-starred with him will be Paulette Goddard. The program will also include a “March of Time.”
—Mark G. McGrath
Dr. Bates Speaks at
Society for Metals Meet
The Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals held its November meeting on Wednesday. A dinner in the dining hall preceded a technical session later in the Engineering Auditorium.
The speaker, Dr. A. Allan Bates, manager of the chemical and metallurgical department of research laboratories of the Westinghouse Electric Manufacturing Co., East Pittsburgh, Pa., spoke on “Metals vs. non-Metals in Industry.”
Dr. Bates said that the growing industrial and economic importance of such non-metallic materials as plastics and ceramics has led to considerable discussion concerning the extent of their future use in engineering applications. He explained the chemical and physical nature of plastics and the peculiar
strength characteristics which they possess.
The speaker indicated reasons for his belief that metals will always have an assured place in engineering design, even when the use of plastics is extended. The address was illustrated by lantern slides and exhibits.—Kelly Cook
Rehearsals Under Way For "Outward Bound"
Rehearsals were begun on Tuesday night of this week by the University Theatre group for the production of Sutton Vane’s play, “Outward Bound.” The play is scheduled to be presented to
The curtain will rise again
campus audiences on the evenings of Dec. 12 and 13.
Play books arrived the early part of the week, and the Rev. Matthew Coyle, C.S.C., director of the group, announced a tentative casting of players. The play contains only nine characters, all of whom are shipmates on a strange and mysterious sea voyage.
As presently and tentatively scheduled, Doug Haley will play the part of Scrubby; Miss Jeanne Campbell of South Bend is to portray Ann; the part of Henry will be taken by William Mulvey; Jack White will play Tom Prior. Miss Dorothy Taaffe, director of dramatics at St. Mary’s College, will take the part of Mrs. Clivenden-Banks; Helene Cryan, assistant director of dramatics at St. Mary’s, -will play Mrs. Midget. Vern Witkowski is to play the Rev. William Duke; the part of Mr. Lingley will be handled by John McGrath; and John Coppinger will fill the role of the Rev. Frank Thomson.
—John Casey
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
Schedule Examinations In All Courses
Immediately Before Christmas Holidays
Examinations counting approximately 10% of the final semester grade will be given immediately before the Christmas holidays, according to an official notice issued by the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies. This new arrangement, admittedly a temporary measure, is directed against the recurrence of the abuse of absences which characterize the pre-holiday period.
The Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., announced that a bulletin will be posted with information regarding the legiti-
17 Students Make Solo Flights In CAA Class
Since Oct. 1, 50 Notre Dame students have been taking instruction in what the Civil Aeronautics Board calls its “primary” training course, and 20 students have been receiving instructions in the more complicated and advanced secondary course. Stockert Flying Service and Indiana Ah' Service of South Bend have government contracts to train these students.
Announcement has been made this week of the 17 primary students who have made their solo flights under the CAA program. These men include: Craig Simmons, John Kop, William X Hampel, Harold Borer, Edward Buddy, William Gallagher, John M. Kelly, W. P. Marsh, Matthew R. Byrnes, Donald E. Nuner, Lorenz Cutlip, Robert Iverson, Daniel Stack, John Tormey, John Powers, William Karpf, and James McNulty.
—Mark McGrath
Symphony Orchestra To Stage Concert
The Notre Dame Symphony orchestra has been preparing during the past few weeks for their first concert, which will be presented during the last week of November. The personnel has been increased to 40 with the addition of several members from South Bend. The instrumentation has been improved con-’ siderably and is now properly balanced. This current organization-will appear in formal attire.
The members are confident that this year's orchestra will far surpass those of the past few years. Plans are in progress for a concert tour to take place during the first part of next year.
—C. S. Coco
macy of cuts during the Thanksgiving week-end. Contrary to current rumors, classes will be held as usual on the Saturday of the Notre Dame-Northwest-ern game, Nov. 23.
Father Carrico also announced that the pink slips will be fully recorded by the end of this week. As yet, no definite date has been set for pre-registration for next semester. The deans of the respective colleges will make announcements relative to pre-registration within the next two weeks.—Ed Drake
Prof. Clarence Manion
Speaks at Pep Meet
Speakers for tonight’s homecoming pep rally will include Clarence (Pat) Manion, Notre Dame professor of Law and author, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, and a noted sports writer or broadcaster, possibly Ed Burns of the Chicago Tribune.
Another concert by the Glee club will be given between Dillon and Alumni immediately after the rally. The evening
Pep Rally — tonight
will end with a fireworks’ display on old Brownson field, as is the custom for homecoming eve, and a parade from hall to hall led by the band.
Winners in the hall decoration contest now going on will be made known at the Student Council meeting next week, according to President Jack Burke. First prize is a party for the members of the best decorated hall.
In last year’s contest Dillon’s bunting and borrowed hurdles took first, with Walsh’s Irish washerwoman a close second.—James V. Cunningham
Construction Completed on New Chemical Building
The new addition to Chemistry Hall is to be occupied by the Department of Chemical Engineering. Construction has been completed and the interior is now being fitted for occupancy in the near future.
To be known as the Chemical Engineering Building, the new wing extends approximately 85 feet east of the old building line and adds more than 10,000 square feet of floor space to the previous facilities.
Additional Rooms
The basement provides for two offices, fuel analysis laboratory, research laboratory, service shop, shower room, and unit operations laboratory.
This latter room, 32 by 5 feet, extends across the east end of the building and is 27 feet from floor to bottom of roof slab. A balcony, 10 feet wide, extends along the west wall and opens into the first floor corridor. A stairway connects it to the main floor of the laboratory. Drainage trenches along the full length of the floor, and several conveniently located outlets for each of the installed services permit maximum flexibility in arrangement of appartus. The heating is accomplished by means of unit heaters mounted below the balcony, thereby making all wall space available.
A research laboratory, thesis laboratory, an instrument storage room, office, classroom, and the upper portion of the unit operations laboratory constitute the final floor. To facilitate convenient assembly of distilling columns and the like, a drainage gutter runs along two of the walls at the floor in the thesis laboratory.
Second Floor Plans
The second floor contains a classroom, drawing room, research laboratory, and reference room. The reference room is to house a library of manufacturers’ publications and catalogues used in connection with design courses.
The Building is serviced with 100-pound air from a compressor, steam, hot and cold water, gas, 110-volt single phase and 220-volt three-phase alternating current.—Bill Herzog
Alumni Secretary III
James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni Association,. was operated on for appendicitis on November 7 at St. Joseph’s Hospital in South Bend. He entered the hospital Thursday morning. Mr. Armstrong has been associated officially with Notre Dame since 1926. His present condition is favorable and he will be back at his desk in the Alumni office within two weeks.
—-Elmer D. Silha
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Scrip Features 80 Pages of Best Campus Writing
First position in the new issue of Notre Danie’s literary quarterly, Scrip, went to Erwin Mooney’s sketch, “The Little Piggie,” a sympathetic tale of a poor farm boy who wants to better himself by going to school, and a little pig which unwittingly holds back the boy’s progress. This first issue for the 1940-41 schoolyear of the seven-year-old publication contains 80 pages of short stories, sketches, essays, poems and book reviews.
Mooney, a senior, was awarded a special prize recently in Harpers short story contest for his “The Golden Earrings,” a short story which appeared in the May, 1940 issue of Scrip.
Second article is an essay by James O’Donahue, “The American Borgia.” It is a satire on young ladies who insist on organizing and leading the social events of an entire neighborhood. Sophomore John Considine’s essay tells of the sorry history and dark future of one of America’s many smaller industrial centers. It is a realistic, hardhitting piece entitled “Little Steel.” “Goodbye Johnny,” a story by Charles Cyprian, depicts clearly the change oc-curing in a college senior and the resulting emotions of his worried mother and father.
Other stories and sketches are “The Monthly Letter,” by Noel J. MacCarry; “Nigger Jim,” a sharply, realistically described day in the life of a cottonpicking negro written by John T. Bat-taile; Joseph R. Hillebrand’s excellent story of a younger brother, “August Wasn’t Very Far Away”; and “The Road,” by John Hunt, a moving incident from the night journey of a lone traveler.
Essays include: “Time Does Not March,” by Thomas J. McGee; “Old Chris,” the poignant recollections of an ex-laborer on his old working companion, written by Felix Pogliano, Jr.; and Carlton Rohrer’s “She Ain’t What She Used to Be...Poetry contributions include "Incredibilities,” by Louis Kirk; "Lament at Dawn,” by “C. J. K.”; and "The Silent Words,” by “E. H.”
Humor is handled in the new Scrip by a series of three short essays grouped under the heading,' "Sauce for the Gander.” In this department Richard Everroad writes on modern college life, Felix Pogliano on bells, and Russell Harris laments conscription boards. In the book section Charles Kirby expertly reviews Raymond Larsson’s Weep and Prepare; John Gilligan writes about Kay Boyle’s new book, The Crazy Hunter; and William Mulvey presents a commentary on
“THERE’S NOTHING UP MY SLEEVE!”
Jack Whelan Named Master of Ceremonies For Vaudeville Show On December 9
Deadline for entries in the Knights of Columbus vaudeville show has been extended from Nov. 18 to Dec. 2, according to chairman Tom Teamey. Those wishing to try out for the show, which is to be staged shortly before Christmas vacation, may file entries in the K. C. offices in the basement of Walsh hall, or in either room 118 or 162 of Dillon.
This year’s master of ceremonies will be Jack Whelan, wise-cracking sophomore magician, who won first prize in last year’s event. This makes him ineligible to be in the contest, but any one who has not won a money prize in the past is
Dubose Heyward’s established classic, Porgy.
The contributions were picked as the best of many submitted to editor Felix Pogliano, Jr., and his associate editors, Erwin Mooney, George Miles and Russell Harris. Cover revision and drawings are by William J. Schickel.
—James V. Cunningham
qualified to enter this year.
Four prizes, one each of $5, $10, $15, and $25, has been announced by assistant chairman Bill Hickey. This is in keeping with the custom of old time vaudeville.
Any type of single, double, or group act will be accepted. The entertainment may be in the form of comedy, music, drama, magic, dancing, or anything else.
The Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., faculty director of the event, urges all students with a<ny talent at all to cooperate by signing up early. The contest will be judged by a prominent committee of theatre men from South Bend.
Early entries in the show are: Jim Ford and his instrumental swing quartet; four men who sing and play in much the style of radio’s “Merrimacs”; and the Unknown Trumpet Trio who will play a special trumpet arrangement by Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Notre Dame music department.
—James V. Cunningham
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
Arnold Lunn Drops in from England
To Chat a Bit with Campus Friends
OUR DAILY BREAD
course
Arnold Lunn
seemed to personify

Arnold Lunn, English apologist and author, who presented an apologetics e two years ago, stopped here Monday night for an informal chat with his old friends. He was not here in any official capacity. He wanted simply to see the campus again because, as he said, “With times a s uncertain as they are, who can say when I might see it again?”
As Mr. Lunn talked to me concerning the problems facing war-torn England, he he English spirit
—that indefinable something that cannot be denied, defeated, or exhausted.
He mentioned his own family—his two sons fighting against the invader, his wife nursing in an English hospital, and his home which is in constant danger of being bombed. Yet Mr. Lunn faces the future with “hope and courage, as does all England.”
In commenting on the position of England in the war, Mr. Lunn says, that primarily England is fighting for her existence. But the people as individuals have secondary reasons: the
Plan Defense Training Courses Here
Plans of the University of Notre Dame for additional engineering training for defense industries under a government program, open to 150 men in South Bend and vicinity, will be submitted to the United States office of education in Washington for approval.
The night classes will be open—and the only costs will be for textbooks, instruments and transportation — to young men in industry who have a part or all of their work toward a college degree, or the background of a high school diploma and the equivalent of some college work in actual experience in the field.
A committee has been named by Dean Dugald C. Jackson to visit the industries in this area, acquaint them with the program and get their cooperation and an estimate of the number of prospective enrollees. Any man, interested
Jew, the Catholic, and the Liberal—each has his own secondary reason to wish and pray for England’s triumph, but they are all united in the common cause — England must stand!” The people seem firmly convinced that any concession would mean eventual vassalage and they would rather die than submit.
Mr. Lunn believes that the fate of Europe is dependent upon England, that today she is not only the symbol of European freedom but the bulwark of Christian Culture. England is not fighting for Christianity but her Christianity is the backbone of her fight. Concerning the English policy of today and yesterday Mr. Limn says: “What matters is not England’s past but Europe’s future.”
The purpose of Mr. Lunn’s lectures at the present time is to describe the war from a Catholic stand, as it appears to one who has seen it and its effects. He believes that it is every Catholic’s intellectual duty to find out what is happening and his further duty to hear both sides, and then as St. Paul says “.... hold fast to what is good.”
Last Monday Mr. Lunn was on his way to California, where he will spend some time before returning to New York, by way of Chicago, shortly after the first of the year. His plans are uncertain after that time, although he confesses a great desire to return to England as soon as possible and once more be in the center of action.
—Joe Stephen
in taking the course, who has not been approached by the end of the week is invited to call at the office of the South Bend Association of Commerce or Mishawaka Chamber of Commerce for in-. formation.
Members of the committee are: E. L. Bach, of the South Bend Association of Commerce; F. M. Paul, secretary of the Mishawaka Chamber of Commerce; F. A. Miller, director of training of the Mishawaka Rubber Company; and S. J. Krzezewski, plant manager of the Oliver Farm Equipment company.
Others aiding Dean Jackson in Hie forming of the program are: Dr. E. G. Mahin, Prof. Ernest J. Wilhelm and Prof. John A. Northcott, of the University of Notre Dame; Marvin Heidt, Bendix company industrial relations manager; Harold Frauenthal, general manager of the Bantam Bearing corporation.
LITURGY
The “abundant life” is the current popular theme.... Its substance is more cars, more radios, more leisure for worldly pleasures.... These are good and desirable in their proper place and measure.... They are all God’s gifts.... They are hurtful only when they become ends instead of means... The least image of the creature is greater than God when it robs us of God.
The Mass sets the balance true.... “I have come that you may have life and have it more abundantly,” is the promise that Christ there fulfills._He gives Himself, the source of life.... The gift and the giver are one.... The name we give to this divine life is Grace.
Grace (favor) is a reality that lies outside the realm of reason.... It is a gift far beyond the capacities of our human nature.... It perfects these capacities by refining them, uplifting them, directing their operations to our true end.... It raises us to the supernatural order and its fullness is eternal life.... “The Grace of God is Life everlasting.” (Romans 6,23)
This, in sum, is the mirabiliiis refom-asti of the Offertory prayer.... “The mystery oTthis water and wine” reviews God’s greatest gift to man, the Incarnation. .. It anticipates the Consecration, the Sacrifice of the Victim, “who for us men and for our salvation came down from heaven.” (Credo)
Our earth-bound nature requires signs, and symbols to grasp both the meaning and the effects of Grace.... “We see now through a glass in a dark manner.” (1 Corinthians 13,12).... Reason tells us the process is valid.... Faith tells us that what they signify is true.... “Faith is the substance of things to be hoped for, the evidence of things that appear not.” (Hebrews 11,1)
Nor must we assume that Grace is a substitute for effort on our part... Only that will is good which is inconformity with the will of God.... Sin alone drives out Grace.... “Look to yourselves that you lose not the things which you have wrought but that you may receive a full reward.” (2 John 8,9)
(Mass Calendar on page 21)
The classes, extending from 18 to 20 weeks, will be held at Notre Dame. Students will be given access to instruments, machines, laboratories and library at the university. The minimum number in any one class will he 15 depending on the laboratory facilities in the particular course.—Kelly Cook
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By William Mulvey
This is the story of Jack Burke. He
is the man who makes speeches at pep-
meetings, presides
Jack Burke
at student council meetings and pleads for student culprits at board meetings.
Jack hails from Sioux Falls, South Dakota. While at high school there, he claimed little of the spot-light, but he modestly admits some measure of success in football
and basketball. As a matter of fact, he
received a scholarship to a Jesuit college called Creighton. This opportunity was refused partly at the wish of his father and partly of his own desire. Each of them wanted Jack to play football at Notre Dame.
On his arrival here in the fall of 1937, he—like many other average prep-school players—found the competition a bit too keen. Jack pocketed his pride and wrote a letter to his father telling him that it was up to the younger brother to carry the family to the summit of football fame.
i
Having shrugged off the mantle of athletic hopes, he donned the black cloak of the politician. He joined a party, gave his all, and was finally rewarded in his junior year with a position on the Student’s Activities Council. It was a short but treacherous step from this to the presidency of the organization. Jack made it, and at the same time made up to his father the failure at football.
Jack takes time out now and then from his political chores to do a bit of debating. He has been a varsity debater for the past two years, and has managed to distinguish himself enough to be accepted in the university’s honorary forensic society, The Wranglers. But, irony of irony, despite all this success in extra-curricular speech making, he is flunking a speech course he elected as a “snap subject.”
In his strictly curricular work, Jack dabbles in St. Thomas as an undergraduate philosopher. After he gets his bachelor’s degree next June—and if the
Father McAvoy is Author of Book on "Catholic Church in Indiana, 1789-1834"
The story of a frontier people who, despite suffering and neglect, have retained their faith, is the subject of the volume, The Catholic Church in Indiana, 1789-1834, by the Reverend Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., which has just been published by the Columbia University press. Granting as a basic historical fact the continuity of religion, after all other characteristics of early French dominion had ceased in the trading centers and pioneer settlements of the middle west, Father McAvoy traces the vein of religious fidelity from the difficult frontier times until the establishment of the later Catholic dioceses. Concentrating upon Indiana, especially Vincennes, Fort Wayne, and the old St. Joseph mission as a working field, the author has revealed much hitherto unused documentary material to support his thesis. In the archdiocesan archives of Baltimore, Quebec, St. Louis and the University of Notre Dame, the author has found in letters and journals contemporary with the periods under discussion, highly detailed reflections of missionary life, of Indian degradation under the curse of liquor, and of general living conditions among the pioneers along the Wabash and St. Joseph rivers.
Problem of Transition
Father McAvoy maintains that most of the prejudice in American history against the French of the middle west has arisen from partisan reports representing early English bigotry. Too often little sympathy is extended to the confusing administrative problems of the settlements current during the transition from French dominion to government by the United States.
Father Pierre Gibault, the patriotic priest who aided George Rogers Clarke in the capture of Fort Vincennes, left the mission of Vincennes in 1789, thus closing the period of Canadian missionary activity in Indiana. His successor was Father Benedict Flaget, later bishop of Bardstown.
draft doesn’t catch him—he will head east to either Catholic University or Georgetown where he will begin his law study. It will be some kind of corporation law, because Jack feels that it is silly to hang out a shingle for general practice and then starve to death.
Jack’s likes and dislikes are few, but violent. Sarcasm is One of his pet “likes”; so we may gather from that that he doesn’t like the fauning hypo-
He then became judge, teacher, and friend, as well as priest of the settlement. After him came the heroic Abbe Jean Francois Rivet, who tended the mission from 1795 to 1804 under the most trying circumstances. Father Rivet, because he held a commission as Indiana missionary from the United States government, at first intended to come to the site of old St. Joseph Mission near Niles, but he could not secure the necessary means of subsistence there.
Friend of General Harrison
Only a short time later he became a close friend of Colonel Francis Hamtramck, and of General William Henry Harrison, later president, and cooperated with them in reestablishing the shattered fortunes of the villagers. From Rivet’s death to the coming of Father Anthony Blanc in 1819, the Vincennes mission received only occasional visitations from Kentucky missionaries, and religious fervor declined. Then Father Leon Cham-pomier, a former captain of the Huz-zars, came to Vincennes. Champomier built the Cathedral and prepared the way for the first bishop, Simon William Brute, who took over his see in 1834.
The story of these poor missions is told simply and directly with occasional illustration from contemporary material. Particularly interesting is the description of Bishop Flaget’s first episcopal visitation to his former parish, and the account of the labors of Father Stephen Badin and Father Leon Champonier. Father Badin revived the old St. Joseph Mission between Niles and South Bend. He later purchased the land upon which the present University of Notre Dame stands and instituted there an orphan asylum. Later, when his health failed, Father Badin gave the land to Bishop Brute. The account of Bishop Brute’s exploratory visit of his frontier diocese closes the period of transition from the old missions to the new diocese and is the author’s final proof of the fidelity of the French to their Catholic faith.
crite. He also likes swing music, especially Holly Van Swall’s library, and the free tickets to various school functions which come to him by virtue of his position on the Student Council.
When I asked him to name one particular dislike, he thought a minute and then said, “Some people.” That reply was at once ambiguous and pointed. I pressed the question no further and ended the interview immediately.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
THE CAMPUS
BY GEORGE MILES
Well the election is over and the results are in. And we have nothing but the finest feelings about the whole thing. Once again the University has demonstrated how distinctive it can be when it wants. For in the face of terrifying opposition the majority of the University people joined together and cried out for their man. And the shout rose to the sky, echoed and re-echoed, ringing round the welkin in strong and vibrant tones: “We want Willkie, we want Willkie.” But those people ask for no sympathy. We can hear them say to all those deluded souls who would comfort them: “We guess you don’t know us; we guess you just (forcefully) don’t know us,” as off they march bloody but unbowed.
* * *
A fellow we know was standing in front of Washington Hall a few minutes before the Day lecture. A young man of the University, attracted by the crowd, came to him and asked what was going on inside. “Dorothy Day is going to lecture,” said the well-informed fellow. “Is she good-looking?” the other asked. “I don’t think so. . . .” started our friend. “Well I guess I won’t go in,” said the University man. And so the Catholic Worker lost a potential lay apostle.
* * *
It is our constant desire that this department shall avoid becoming provincial, and it is with that desire in mind that we present the following excerpts from an article in “the world’s greatest newspaper” written by a cousin Sue: “I for one like ‘Aida,’ because it makes me think of Egypt and the slow moving Nile and huge columned temples towering in the blistering sun. I remember fragments of music, the strange thrill of the pipes, and the plaintive charm of distant songs heard as if across water.” We prefer “Take Me Out to the Ball Game,” because it reminds us of Brooklyn and the gurgling Gowanus Canal and squat tenements trembling in the wind. But, Cousin Sue, every one to his taste, every one to his taste!
* * *
The other day, while we were discussing major problems in philosophy class, a painter sat outside painting the classroom windows. And it occurred to us how fine it would be if the painter were able to follow all that passed from the minds and the tongues of the students and the professor. We found ourselves wishing that he would stick his head
through the window, point his finger calmly at the blackboard and say, “Fx-cuse me, Professor, that second premise is invalid.” But nothing of the sort happened. Just as our instructor cried, “. . . and so we have proven that there is in man some non-physical power,” the painter climbed through the window, and pulling in his window perch, walked from the room, dragging his paint behind him. He didn’t say a word. However, our philosophy professor is probably as incapable with problems of paneling and second coats.
* * *
There is a bird show in South Bend this week. All bird lovers are cordially invited to make entries. So far as we know, there are no definite requirements, but we feel sure that eagles and cormorants will be refused. We have it on good authority that the canary is a decided favorite among the South Bend folk.
* * ♦
Two seniors in English have decided to avoid conventionality in the handling of their thesis problems. They are going to collaborate in writing a book. The two men have agreed that the work shall be called “Kultur Kampf,” but until this moment they are undecided as to the exact content. You see “Kultur Kampf” will seek to find a basis for the popular American mind and it will use the comic strips as a means of approach. Now the Walsh Hall senior wishes to emphasize the philosophical content of “Little Orphan Annie” or the fatalism of “Terry and the Pirates,” but the Alumni Hall man argues stubbornly that the domestic system of the “Dagwood Bumsteads” is the most tantalizing and important problem. The project is at a standstill now, but we know that all difficulties will be ironed out soon.
* £
From this day forward, November 11, 1940, shall be known as the day of the great blow. And we refer only to atmospheric blowing, nothing else. As we write the fence which surrounds Cartier Field is down in many places, the dining hall roof is crumbling, and Badin Hall is standing on its heels. One thing is clear: the persons responsible for tearing down Freshman Hall last summer were men of foresight and sagacity. The old Cardboard Palace could hardly have resisted the rushing and the bluster of Monday past.
Band Moves Practices to
Gym Apparatus Room
No longer will the ears of the members of the band ring for a half hour after rehearsals are over. No longer will they have to practice in cramped positions because of crowded quarters, for the band room has been transferred from Music Hall to the apparatus room of the gymnasium. Last Monday was the date for the hegira.
The band is ready to make its final home appearance of the present football season at tomorrow’s Iowa game and has a few new members on hand for the occasion. A special program for peace will be the feature event between the halves.
Preparations for next week’s journey to the Northwestern game are under way. The approaching basketball season has not been forgotten and a new, complete, and interesting supply of music has been secured. Plans for the Easter tour are rounding out, and a number of concerts have already been arranged, covering many parts of the East.
—C. S. Coco
Interhall Debate Tourney
Opens With 6 Contests
The interhall debate series opened Monday with a non-decision practice round. The debates were held in the Library basement, the Law Building, and Badin recreation room. Cavanaugh met Lyons; Alumni matched wits with St. Ed’s; and Badin bandied words with Zahm.
Last night Walsh argued with Breen-Phillips; Morrissey tried to befuddle Sorin; and Dillon hurled words at Howard. Brownson-Carroll drew a bye for this round. This practice session is designed to give newcomers a chance on the platform.
The interhall teams are debating the national intercollegiate question: “Resolved, that the nations of the Western Hemisphere should form a permanent union.” The teams are coached by members of the Wranglers Club. Thomas Grady is general chairman of the interhall debate.—Robert LeMense
Guests at Iowa Game
As a courtesy to the parents and alumni who will come from Iowa for tomorrow’s game, the Iowa club of Notre Dame has reserved tables in the West Dining hall. The visitors need no reservations and will be charged the usual price.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
WILLIAM C. McGOWAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr.. Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND. Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN.
. Newa Editor
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES.
Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER Art Editor
REV. C. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C.
Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
All One Again
The Junior Association of Commerce in St. Paul, Minnesota established the symbol of the United States’ desire for unity following the recent political campaign by collecting and burning all available campaign literature in a public bonfire the other evening. The event signified the strength of the people of the country — such bitterness as might have developed during the battle for votes was abolished for the common good.
Approximately 26 million people reaffirmed their intention that Franklin Delano Roosevelt should be delegated to handle the destinies of the nation in the not - too - attractive looking future. The 22 million voters who backed Wendell Willkie, a most able man, form the minority which also has an important task ahead. That group fulfils the desired “check” of the check-and-balance system of government established by the Founders of the nation a century and one-half ago.
* * *
James A. Farley, former Democratic national chairman, spoke significantly when he commented: “Now, perhaps more than ever before in history, the United States has need for national unity.” He hoped that “victors would be moderate and considerate and that the losers would overcome their disappointment and pitch in like the loyal citizens that they are.”
Marinette, Wis. provided the idealist’s dream: Complete unofficial returns gave
President Roosevelt and Wendell L. Willkie an equal number of votes — 7,694 each. But, one of two very capable men had to win.
* * *
The New York Times, one of the leading pro - Willkie newspapers in the country, exhibited the true ideal of American sportsmanship by conceding the victory near midnight of Election Day. An editorial in that publication frankly depicted the thought of many Americans: “We disagree with the decision that has now been made. But we glory in the fact that ours is still a system of government in which the will of the majority prevails, and the minority gives ungrudging support to the majority in the achievement of every truly national purpose.”
Newspapers across the nation picked up the sportsmanlike attitude. The New Orleans Item and Tribune editorialized: “In our democracy a majority has at last overridden this third term tradition. Hence we bow to its will. For the time being this issue is dead and we extend to Mr. Roosevelt our sincere congratulations and best wishes for an administration that will redound to the progress and security of the country....”
* * *
To those men who fought the sensational battle — Wendell Willkie, Notre Dame’s genial guest of Sept. 30, and Franklin Roosevelt, honorary Alumnus of 1935 — congratulations. The nation rallies behind the both of you, champions of your respective political interests. May your futures he eventful.
—Bill Scanlan
A Gay Farewell Party
Tomorrow’s battle with Dr. Anderson’s Hawkeyes bears no official distinction as a homecoming affair, despite some people’s impressions to the contrary. But somehow the whole festive week-end bears much significance for Notre Dame and her many alumni and fans. In the record books, the Iowa contest is just another football game, but it is also the last home game of the 1940 season, and in that fact a difference lies.
Tomorrow, for the last time, the student body will see their pals: “The Moose,” Tom Gallagher, Johnny Gu-banich, Pete Kelly, Johnny O’Brien, Bob Saggau, Al Lee and the rest of the senior squadmen fight a grid battle for Notre Dame. Never again will these fellows stream from that mysterious portal under the north stands of the Stadium to the strains of the Notre Dame band and the cheers of thousands. Unofficially the day is a sort of homecoming, but to many it has the aspects of a Farewell party as well.
But don’t let the sadness of farewells dampen your spirit. The fallen leaves may have left the campus trees bleak; grey November skies have settled upon us, but now for the last time this season the walks of Notre Dame will be brightened by feminine promenaders— the Cotillion guests. Their arrival climaxes many weeks of anticipation. Freshmen will eye the Cotillion with envy and longing; sophomores with exultation and pride; juniors with complacent enjoyment, and the seniors in tranquil comparison with their approaching Senior Ball and memories of past cotillions.
While it is not an official day for alumni reunions, there will be many old timers back on the campus to see the Irish wrest their first victory from Iowa, to meet some of the “boys,” to see what changes have been made on the campus, and to find out if these young fellows are as full of the Notre Dame spirit as they were.
This year’s student body will have an opportunity to demonstrate spirit and ingenuity in their hall decorating plans. When the Notre Dame contest climaxed the Illinois homecoming on Oct. 26 the Illini campus was ablaze with clever tableaux depicting the fate of the Irish at the hands of Zuppke’s warriors. Irish stew concocted from a defeated N.D. squad was the favorite motif. Now let’s see what themes the Irish can plan for their decorations in anticipation of a beaten Hawkeye squad.—John Dinges
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Dorothy Day and the Catholic Worker
—by Julian Pleasants
Whatever else you may consider Dorothy Day—and she has been considered practically everything—she is definitely unignorable. She upsets people. She exasperates them. After you have heard her or read one of her hooks, you may not find it easy to return to the even tenor of your way. You begin to have doubts about those soothing statements that everything is being taken care of. Politicians glow about their latest advanced social legislation. Dorothy calls it a confession of defeat. Social workers, Catholics among them, aim at adjusting people to the existing environment. Dorothy says the environment must be adjusted to fit human beings.
It is all very disturbing. Here is a woman who can be at home anywhere, who can speak from personal acquaintance with the most prominent figures in Catholic thought. And yet she becomes so tormented by the thought of her personal responsibility for the poor, so convinced that they are really Christ in person, that she not only goes to them, as the social workers do, but becomes one of them, as Christ Himself did. Why can’t the woman be sensible? That fellow you go by on your way to Mass will after all be taken care of by the appropriate social agency. There’s no particular reason why such people should be cared for by Catholics. The Salvation Army has excellent facilities’ (they put up 30 a night in South Bend). Why should Catholics take the matter so seriously, as if heaven depended on it?
It is a terrible thing to experience a spiritual eye-opening. Once you have seen Christ suffering in the bodies and souls of the poor, you can never be the same again. That is what happened to Dorothy Day, as she tells of it in House of Hospitality. She saw not only bodies starved for food, but souls starving for Catholicism. She learned that you can’t preach the Gospel to men with empty stomachs. But she didn’t know what to do about it. Then she met Peter Maurin. Peter knew history. Peter knew what other Catholics had done when they had felt the same way. They had started houses of hospitality “to give to the rich the opportunity to serve the poor .... to bring the Bishops to the people and the people to the Bishops._______to bring back to institutions the technique of institutions.... to show what idealism looks like when it is practiced....
to bring Social Justice through Catholic Action exercised in Catholic Institutions.” So Dorothy started one. Peter has always said that without Dorothy there would have been no Catholic Worker movement—“She’s the general. I am only an agitator.”
Since 1933, 33 other hospices and 11 farming communes in the United States, Canada, England, and Australia, have opened their doors to the ambassadors of God. People opened them because they were tormented by the terrible thought that Christ might be walking the streets of their city “because there was no room for Him in the inn. 115 Mott St. had shown them what to do about it.”
But you can’t feed 1500 a day (unfortunately people don’t stay fed, you have to feed them over and over again) without beginning to wonder if there mightn’t be something cockeyed about a system which makes breadlines necessary in the first place. It’s a greater work of mercy to show people how to help each other, than it is simply to feed them. So the Catholic Worker, a monthly newspaper, was introduced to the world at the Communists’ May Day parade of 1933. Of the three distributors who started, only one managed to stand the taunts of the Communists long enough to finish that first issue, 2500 copies. Since that time the circulation has grown to 100,000, and includes subscribers in practically every country in the world. There came a time when it almost stopped. Peter and Dorothy felt they would have to maintain the breadline and let the paper go. Then came orders from the Vatican — let nothing interfere with the paper; it is an essential work. So they kept going, and St. Joseph, responding to picketing, came through for the bread-line.
The power of the Catholic Worker comes from the fact that it is the voice not of a University library, but of a movement. You know that its staff first of all live that philosophy of poverty which they preach. When they talk ' about personal responsibility, you know it is the burning conviction of their lives. When they insist that it is the Catholics who should be doing all the necessary works of mercy and laying the foundation for social reconstruction, they are obviously not calling on people to do something they have not done
themselves. When they express their belief in the power of the people to help themselves, through the cooperatives, through unions, through farming communes and Catholic farm communities, you know they are not talking about paper men and women.
So the influence of the movement was bound to spread. Most immediately influenced were the men on the line. There are no statistics on the number of converts made, or the number of men returned to the Sacraments after years on “Skid Row,” or the number of Catholics who have said after seeing the movement, “Now I know what real Catholicism is.” You have to live with the movement for a while in order to appreciate that through all this necessarily material concern for men’s bodies, the primary and ultimate purpose of the movement is spiritual.
But the influence hasn’t stopped there. Peter has always insisted that the workers must be scholars and the scholars workers. So the colleges have begun to take it up. The house in Toledo is directed by a student at DeSales, who credits the Holy Ghost with the cum laude average which he manages to maintain at the same time. Students at St. Thomas pay the running expenses of the house in Minneapolis. Two students from Notre Dame have spent the summer months at Mott St. and the Easton farm — plan to attend Peter’s three months’ school at the farm next summer unless they should have a house started in South Bend by that time. Several Notre Dame professors are active in fields which tie in with the long-range Catholic Worker program: Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., in the cooperative movement, Professor Willis D. Nutting in agrarianism, Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., and Rev. Charles Marhoefer in the Catholic Action organization, and Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C., in the spiritual preparation of lay apostles by means of the liturgy.
Yes, Nov. 8 had a typical Dorothy Day schedule; breakfast at St. Martha’s House in Detroit, lunch at St. Mary’s College (Dorothy manages to be both Martha and Mary), lecture to 500 at Notre Dame, birthday dinner at the Rose Marie Kitchen, then off to St. Joseph’s House in Chicago, to begin and end the day with the poor.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
N. D. HOPES TO ENTE t
Notre Dame Plays Another "Easy One";
Hawkeyes Set to Repeat 1939 Upset
21 Irish Seniors Play Last Game In N.D. Stadium
Tomorrow afternoon the Irish have another sports expert’s “breather” — remember Army and Navy? They face ‘ Dr. Eddie Anderson’s Hawkeye squad from the University of Iowa.
The Hawkeyes have a poor record so far, but a win over Notre Dame can salvage the season. Iowa scored smashing triumphs in her first two games, and then hit the rough road of bad breaks, losing four straight. Dr. Anderson’s charges plan to snap this losing streak and at the same time ruin Notre Dame’s plans for a brilliant weekend. Twice before, in Iowa City, the Hawkeyes and the Fighting Irish have locked horns, and each time the Iowa boys have left the field of battle the victors, in 1921 by a score of 10-7, and last season by a 7-6 margin.
“Homecoming day” is “home leaving” day for 21 Irish seniors, seven regulars and 14 members of the shock troops. The seven first stringers are: Captain Milt “Moose” Piepul, Bob Saggau, Johnny O’Brien, Tom Gallagher, Pete Kelly, John Gubanich and Bob Osterman. The other senior squadmen are: Frank Doody, Bob Koch, Howard Korth, Al Lee, Bob Leonard, John Maloney, Bill McGannon, John Mortell, Walt O’Meara, Joe Papa, George Rassas, Charles Schmid. Henry Schrenker, and Phil Sheridan. These 21 gridders will file onto the green turf of Notre Dame Stadium for the last time shortly after noon tomorrow, and at 1:30 the last home game of the 1940 season will begin. Three hours later it will be history.
The 50,000 expected fans will focus their eyes on red-haired Bob Saggau who hails from Denison, in the Hawkeye
St. Ed's Leads League
LEAGUE 1
St. Edward’s 13; Brownson 0
Rolling along toward a divisional title in the Interhall football wars, St. Edward’s powerful eleven subdued Brownson’s plucky forces by the score of 13-0.
Jess DeLois, stocky, hard-running halfback, was responsible for both of St. Ed’s scores, going over for the first one in the second quarter on a 40-yard pass from Johnny Kilbane. Harry Erd place-
state. It was Bob who did so much to beat Navy last week; he passed to Bob Dove for the first touchdown and then skirted the Navy end for the winning score, while his teammates held back a strong Middy defense. Bob has been waiting for the game with the boys from his home state to renew old rivalries with Ray Murphy, Al Coupee, Ken Pettit and Joe Moore of the Hawkeyes whom he played against in high school. South Bend fans in the stands will again see in action Jim Walker, Iowa tackle, formerly a Washington high school ace.
When asked about the game, Head Coach Elmer Layden said that the Iowa squad showed evidence of finding themselves against Nebraska last week and is in good shape to rescue their season at Irish expense. Coach Layden said that, with the exception of center Bob Osterman and tackle Paul Lillis, the Notre Dame team is in excellent shape and these two men should be ready to play by Saturday.
Gone from the Hawkeye lineup are Nile Kinnick, recipient of nearly all possible football honors, and Erwin Prasse, all-confemce end, but their shoes are capably filled by such outstanding men as Ken Pettit and Bill Gallagher. Captain Mike Enich is the same big tackle who was outstanding in the Iowa victory last season. •
Iowa not only brings a squad of good football players, but they also possess an all-Irish coaching staff. Head coach Anderson captained the 1921 team that lost to the Io wans; Frank Carideo, backfield coach, quarterbacked Knute Rockne’s powerhouse teams of 1929 and ’30. Jim Harris, line coach, was a star guard on the 1933 team, and Bill Hofer, freshman coach, was the unknown sub who led the Irish to victory over Northwestern in 1938.—Bill Reynolds
One—Marcucci Stars
kicked the point to give St. Ed’s a 7-0 lead at the half.
Late in the fourth quarter, a hard charging St. Ed’s forward wall ripped open a gaping hole in the right side of Brownson’s first line of defense, and sent the irrepressible DeLois barreling through on a 45-yard jaunt to pay-dirt. The point waS missed, and St. Ed’s left the field with a 13-0 victory.
One of the most exciting plays of the
Interhall season was executed by George Marcucci, St. Ed’s right half, when he intercepted a Cavanaugh pass into the end zone and raced through his surprised opponents for a 105-yard touchdown gallop! This tally was the last in the 19-0 victory St. Ed’s Iron Men scored over Coach Nowicki’s Cavanaugh charges last Wednesday.
Cavanaugh 2; Zahm 0
Bespattered with mud, and thwarting Zahm’s last minute attack in the very shadows of her goal-posts, Cavanaugh eked out a 8-0 victory over a Zahm Hall eleven that had shown much superior play throughout the game.
An errant Zahm punt bounded into the end zone, where a bewildered Zahmite was pounced upon by a host of Cavanaugh linemen for a safety, and the only score of the game.
Breen-Phillips 6; Badin 6
In the biggest upset of the day, a gallant freshmen outfit from Breen-Phillips hall, knocked a favored Badin team out of a tie for first place in League 1 standings, by holding it to a । 6-6 tie.
Breen-Phillips scored first shortly after the second quarter got under way, on a 30-yard pass from Johnny Kermit to Leo Donati. The attempted conversion was blocked. Badin tied the score late in the third quarter on a seven-yard dash off tackle by John Brinjek. Brinjek’s attempted conversion failed.
THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ITE ITAIN IOWA ROYALLY!
?e tie tie jd
-0 er st
Splinters From the Press Box
-........ JAMES	NEWLAND—
LEAGUE 2
Sorin 20; Howard 7
Concentrating a second half offensive that produced two scores to add to a second quarter touchdown, a big, powerful Sorin eleven defeated Howard’s plucky crew by a 20-7 score.
After three wasted scoring opportunities in the first quarter, Ed Shevlin, an offensive star all day, culminated a 50-
ig ry ?h ill
or
to :d
[yard sustained drive with a ten-yard touchdown dash around end. Dave Reidy place-kicked the point.
In the third quarter, two passes, one of 30 yards and the other 40, from Vic Gulassey to Joe Fritter, gave Howard its only score of the game. Gulassey place-kicked the point and tied the score at 7-7.
of Sorin then turned on the heat and id	registered a quick touchdown on a
blocked punt, Shevlin running it over from the Howard 15-yard line. The seniors added another one in the last
a
nin
in
a ’
iy y> lit
in sh it-
quarter.
Walsh 13; Morrissey 0
Chagrined by its last minute loss to Lyons last week, an infuriated Walsh eleven whipped a crippled Morrissey team by a 13-0 score. All points resulted from a second half drive.
Joe Campagna, hard-luck Morrissey back, playing with an injured, shoulder, was the victim of both Walsh touchtowns. Joe Lawler, fleet Walsh quarterback, scored the first touchdown in the third quarter, when he took Campagna’s (Continued on Page 21)
Deep, dark memories of 1939 rule the minds of Notre Dame football men tonight. For it was just a year ago the Irish were Iowa guests at Iowa City. You know the rest. It isn’t very often the house that Layden built gets a chance to honor a distinguished team who the year previous set his team back on their ears. Tomorrow this supreme opportunity will be theirs. The Hawkeyes, whose life began in ’39 and apparently died when Nile Kinnick walked off with his sheepskin, are here at last.
Dr. Eddie Anderson, who wrote football history last year with an Iowa fountain pen, will probably greet students tonight at what is expected to be the noisiest pep rally of the year — which is nothing presumptuous, to say the least. He will probably tell a tall story or two in characteristic Notre Dame manner. He may even reminisce about the days when he threw bread balls in the dining hall; when he slipped in by the fire escape after midnight. Yes, he and his boys will be given a real Notre Dame welcome tonight. And, lest we forget, they will all be in for a very busy afternoon tomorrow.
The University has special reason for “open house” tonight for the Iowa coaching staff and the Hawkeyes. Frank Cari-deo, Notre Dame’s house of thought during the 1929-30 football boom, has been instructing Iowa ball carriers for several years. Bill Hofer, who will long be remembered for his sensational ball toting against Northwestern two years ago, is also helping out at the Iowa institution.
There is something strangely significant about the Irish 13 to 7 victory last week over Navy. For five days prior to this game, erudite sports writers, particularly one local “gentleman,” blasted big, bad, bold adjectives at the Laydenmen because they weren’t good enough to win by more than seven measley points. The only apparent conclusion one could possibly draw from these scribes is this: 61 points means victory; 7 does not; 26 points means victory; 7 does not. In other words, if Notre Dame can’t score any more than seven points they might as well quit.
A week later, after the Irish turned on the steam in the final quarter against the Middies at Baltimore, these so-called writers still blow. Of course, it didn’t take a good team to be able to score
when points were needed. Any team could have done that against Navy. After all, the Midshipmen had only a mediocre team. PHOOEY!! A victory is a victory, whether it’s by 60 points or three points. A five-year-old child could tell that. We wonder how old some of these scribes are, especially that local “gentleman.”
Back to Iowa. The chips were down for Dr. Anderson this fall. Only an Iowa City miracle could lift the Hawks to the unprecedented heights they attained last season. Anderson proved that you can win ball games sometimes with only 14 men — sometimes. This year he has double that number, and yet they just can’t click. Out of six games the Hawkeyes have attained victory only once, against South Dakota. Since that time they have dropped games to Wisconsin, Indiana, Minnesota, Purdue, and Nebraska. Last year they played inspired football.
Whether you have noticed it or not, Piepul, Juzwik, Saggau, Hargrave et al, have been in dead seriousness all week. Several present squad members will remember witnessing Iowa’s 1939 victory, and whether this phrase is trite or not “revenge is always sweet.” At any rate, when slim Elmer calls the roll tomorrow, watch the ball, because it’s going places, we think, in the arms of the Irish backfield.
The files, a year ago tomorrow: Enthusiastic followers of the Hawkeyes are boosting Coach Eddie Anderson to the title of “Rockne II.” His adroit handling of the Iowa boys against Notre Dame and other teams this season has marked him the wonder coach of the year. . . . Nile Kinnick, spearhead of the Hawks, averaged only one yard per try in his 19 tries at rushing against Notre Dame. . . . Iowa Sunday papers forgot about the war. . . . The Hawks were smart in not making either a punt or a kick-off return. . . . They continually called for a fair catch. ... If they had run, the hospital might have been the next stop.
Picking Splinters:
Notre Dame over Iowa Duke over North Carolina . Cornell over Dartmouth Michigan over Northwestern Minnesota over Purdue Navy over Columbia
Indiana over Wisconsin
Penn over Army
Southern California over Washington Tennessee over Kentucky
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
-BY ALBERT DEL ZOPPO
When Albert Lee graduated from Carlinville Community High school three years ago, he had already made up his mind to enroll at Notre Dame. But he was due for a disappointment. Notre Dame’s freshman registration was already over the enrollment limit when he sent in his application. Al then tried the University of Illinois and was accepted Two weeks before school opened, Al Lee received a letter from the Notre Dame
registrar’s office informing him of an opening in the freshman registration.
So it has been with Al ever since he came to Notre Dame — just when things looked blackest, something turned up to brighten the world for him.
Albert Lee was an unknown fullback on the Notre Dame squad in 1938, playing far behind such men as Simonich, Tonelli, Thesing, and Piepul. Few noticed him on the football field, with the exception, perhaps, of the coaches who saw possibilities in this 180 pound, blond sophomore who ran hard and fast with his knees kicking high. Last year coach Layden decided to try out the Carlinville, Bl., star by giving him a chance in the Carnegie Tech game. Lee made good. When Layden used him in the Navy game the following week it looked like Al Lee had won a place on the travelling squad. But a bad charley-horse that
did not respond to treatment benched him for the remainder of the season.
Until the Carnegie game this year, Lee’s chance to win an N.D. monogram looked very, very slim. But an injury to Bob Leonard gave Al the chance he had been waiting for. Playing fullback with the third team against the Tartans, Al pulled off the niftiest touchdown run of the day — a 37-yard gallop through the Carnegie team without a hand being laid upon him. Al not only kicked the extra point, but managed to score another seven points before Layden sent his fourth team into the game.
Anyone would think that Al Lee’s biggest football thrill came to him in that Carnegie contest. But Al says he never felt as happy about playing a football game as he did several weeks ago when he was given a chance in the Illinois game. For that day his mother was in the stands watching him play college football for the first time.
Football isn’t the only sport in which Lee has demonstrated his athletic abil-
ALBERT LEE
ity. At Carlinville, besides winning three letters in football, Al won three in track and three in baseball. “Whitey” admits that track is his favorite sport — he was a dash-man and low-hurdler in high school — but he says he gave up his running activities when he came to N.D. to put some time on his studies.
Al attributes his good fortunes to “breaks of the game.” But we know that it is due to something more than that •— an indomitable spirit. Al Lee doesn’t become discouraged very easily. And that perhaps explains his populartity on the campus.
Irish Meet Wildcats
at Evanston Nov. 23
Coach Lynn Waldorf started his sixth season at Northwestern this year with a squad that now has Irish rooters keeping their fingers crossed. They call themselves the Wildcats, and no better name could be found to express the fight and spirit of this Northwestern team which will meet the Irish at Evanston next Saturday. This year they have two shining stars in the backfield, Don Clawson and Bill deCorrevont.
Little can be said about left halfback Bill deCorrevont that would not be repetition in one way or another. DeCorrevont came to Northwestern as the most publicized prep gridder in the country; the ballyhoo which preceded him was the greatest any high school graduate had ever received. To live up to the headlines which heralded him was a task that would have stopped even Superman. Bill accepted his lot, and today, under the guiding hand of Waldorf, has developed into one of the hardest hitting men on the Wildcat squad. Ollie Hahenstein, de-Correvont’s alternate, will also see plenty of action.
The other star who is sharing the headlines with deCorrevont is Don Clawson, fullback. Six feet-four and carrying 213 pounds, Don ranks with the Northwestern greats; when he hits a line he hits with the power of a runaway locomotive.
This Northwestern squad is well balanced. The line, a questionable factor in pre-season predictions, has proved itself in five victories and one loss, and is now a factor with which the Irish must reckon, in addition to a wealth of backfield men, all of triple threat caliber.
Playing their 20th game against the Irish, the Wildcats are pointing to a victory to avenge last year’s 7-0 defeat. The series record favors the Irish with 15 wins, 2 ties, and 2 losses. Northwestern will probably be the toughest team Notre Dame will meet this year. When Dick Richards, quarterback and captain, meets Milt Piepul for the toss of the coin, set yourself for a real thriller.
Tomorrow the Wildcats face Michigan. Both have lost to Minnesota, prominent in early National Championship selections, by one point. Northwestern lost, 14-13and Michigan, 7-6. If Northwestern should beat Michigan decisively, and if the Irish clear their Iowa hurdle and ‘lick” the Wildcats by a good margin, then they should be right up near Minnesota in the “moral victories” ratings.—Joseph Lafferty
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
AS I SEE IT
By John Patterson
Tacking across the campus Monday against the stiffest Indiana wind since Bearskin, this meek, apologetic “college journalist” grappled with the problem of what to write for the Scholastic this week. After much debate with self, he finally decided to attempt to answer the self-assigned, pseudo-signed critic of Notre Dame’s football players and writers.
Pleading not guilty to the charge of orchidaceous prose concerning the Irish pigskin greats of 1940, this writer rises, amateurishly of course, to answer the professional taunts of Bearskin.
It appears that somebody connected with this, “the world’s greatest college weekly,” has dared to praise the institution’s football team. Well, gee whiz! Didn’t Notre Dame romp through Pacific, Georgia Tech, and Carnegie right in the Notre Dame Stadium, right in front of the eyes of us college amateur scribes? So the Irish showed off before the little journalists, but looked sloppy when playing in Gotham in front of all those big shot press box wolves. So the Irish got a little cocky, and the Army and Navy took unfair advantage of them. So the campus correspondents got a little cocky too. But what can Bearskin expect from such uniformed youngsters? Gosh! We aren’t as smart as Bearskin is.
Having steered clear of wild praise of the football team, this column feels that any colleague who has done so is absolutely justified. Notre Dame looked like a real football team in its first four games; no harm in saying so. How could such inconspicuous writers as members of the Scholastic staff ever swell the heads of the gridiron stars? Maybe the Chicago boys could, but not the unimportant schoolboy reporters.
Now with the Iowa game coming up tomorrow, Notre Dame’s team, although woefully below par these last two weeks, has shown that it can come from behind, in other words that it has guts. Two minutes and some-odd seconds after the Navy took the lead, the Irish came back with a tally. That kind of comeback means something, anyway. The scare the Midshipmen gave Notre Dame may be the shot in the arm the Irish needed.
Bearskin will again rip in his column tonight, and probably he is performing a righteous duty. Whatever faults have
cropped up in the Irish ranks during the past two weeks, old Mr. Bearskin will hash over in no uncertain terms. But, holy smokes, Mr. Bearskin, don’t trample us poor, hard-working, aspiring journalists out here on campus. We’re just trying to get ahead. Gee!
Irish Harriers in Third Place At Indiana State Meet
Notre Dame took three of the first ten places in the Indiana State Intercollegiate Cross-country tournament at Lafayette, Ind., last Friday but took third place in team standings behind Indiana and Purdue universities.
Oliver Hunter pressed the winner, Earl Mitchell of Butler around Purdue’s
Harriers will be indoors soon
four-mile course to edge out Ed Holderman of Purdue, Big Ten two-mile champion for second place in a field of over a hundred runners, with a time of 20:55. Tony Maloney stumbled and fell at the three-mile mark but recovered to finish sixth for Notre Dame. The next man in for the Irish was Frank Conforti who placed tenth. Capt. Joe Olbreys took 23rd, Joe Bogan, 28th, and Paul Scully, 29th.
The meet marked the first intercollegiate running of the season for Notre Dame marathon men, and Coach Bill Mahoney expressed the opinion that he was “well satisfied” with the fellows’ performance. The Irish are now looking forward to the National Intercollegiate Cross-country meet Nov. 25 at Lansing, Mich. It will be run on Michigan State’s four-mile course.
Frosh Meet Today
The freshman cross-country men will vie this afternoon in a meet over a two-and-a-half-mile course around St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s Lakes. The first six ! runners to cross the finish line will be awarded medals.—Francis Carver
Cagers Outlook Favorable;
Center Only Weak Spot
Give basketball coach George Keogan a center, a lanky six-footer up to the standard set by Rex Ellis and Mark Ertel last season, and he’ll ask no odds of any team on his schedule. Keogan says, “Our chief problem lies inx finding a new center. The other four regulars are all under six feet and thus the acquisition of a tall, talented center is imperative.” Returning reserve players, from last season, Joseph Gillespie, and Frank Quinn appear to be the choice from a host of center aspirants.
The Irish were one of the sparkling teams of last season, a bit uncertain at one stage of the campaign but always -playing an interesting brand of ball. This year they are due to gain in poise, with no letdown in colorful, fast play. Rex Ellis, Mark Ertel, Dick Smith, and “Red” Oberbrunner have been lost by graduation, but four letter-men remain to shine. Captain Eddie Riska, possessor of a two year scoring mark which reads like a telephone number, and swiftfooted George Sobek combine to give Notre Dame a pair of brilliant forwards. The guard posts will be manned by capable seniors, Bob. Smith and Larry Ryan.
An imposing list of probable reserves, gifted with fortitude, fire, and mobility, include: Jim Carnes, Al Del Zoppo, Sam Yezerski, Art Pope, Jim Kelly, Sy Singer, Charley Butler, Chuck O’Leary, Jim Engel, Ralph Vinciguerra, Bob Rens-berger, and Bob Stall. It is possible that grid-men Steve Bagarus, Bernie Crimmins, and Dick Creevy may also join the Keoganites at the close of the football season.
The team will open the season two weeks from tomorrow with a doubleheader against Monmouth college from Illinois and Kalamazoo from Michigan. At this writing it appears very doubtful that injured George Sobek will be in condition for the opener.
Commenting on the rules Keogan said, “The rule changes, last year, were negligible and as a result the current brand of ball will greatly resemble that of last season.”—Frank L. Kunkel
Attend Charities Convention
Professor Frank T. Flynn-, head of the department of sociology, and the Rev. Frank P. Cavanaugh, associate professor of sociology, will represent Notre Dame at the convention of the National Conference of Catholic Charities to be held in Chicago Nov. 17 to 20. Leading Church members from all over the country will attend, including 70 of the hierarchy.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Library Displays Books By Catholic Authors
A collection of autographed books written by famous Catholic authors has been on display in the library of the University of Notre Dame during the celebration of National Catholic Book Week, Nov. 3-9, and will remain a short while longer. Many of the authors were
I on the University faculty, and most of I the books have personal dedications to past faculty members and University officers.
Included in the display are the works of the following authors: Gilbert K. Chesterton, who lectured here and received the degree of LL.D.; Joyce Kilmer and his wife Aline Kilmer, also a poet and essayist; John Bannister Tabb,
priest and poet; Hilaire Belloc, famous English writer and historian; Maurice Francis Egan, who came here as professor of English in 1888 and whose experiences at Notre Dame have a place in his biography, Recollections of A Happy Life; Charles Warren Stoddard, professor of English here in 1885-86; John Henry Cardinal Newman, famous convert, educator, and writer; T. H. Daly, Irish poet; and Louise Imogene Guiney, Catholic poet.—Bill Welch
Foi More Fun Out ot Ute Chew Delicious DOUBLEMIM DBM Daily
Highspot your “tog DOM®®! GM-to ol chewing relre pogmsMOTT GUM
The velvety	Delicious^
adds to the	helps make your mouth
cooling, real-mintfl	to to everything you doteel refreshed ... a	inexpensive treat
Chewing this hea < ^OUI diges-helps sweeten your	attrachve.
non . .. helps keepjo	ddictos
Treat yourself aauy doublemint gum.
tr-147
Fall's Flower for Football
Is the Chrysanthemum
The kingly and gorgeous Chrysanthemum (Matricaria Japonica Maxima) is the national flower and imperial emblem of Japan—and a popular football visitor. Its age is indefinite though it has been known for over 2,000 years. The Chrysanthemum which was introduced into America in 1847 was derived from blended hybrids of Eastern Asia. This perennial flower is quick maturing and blooms from late August to December in the Southern, Eastern, and Mifidle-Westem states.
Nearly 1,000 varieties of the flower are given in horticultural indexes. The most common colors of the flowers are red, brown, maroon,. purple, lilac, rose, white, yellow, orange, and combinations of these. The plant varies in size from a species with a diameter of less than an inch (Pompon) to one with a diameter of eight inches (Show); all varieties, however, are scentless.
The Chrysanthemum ranks fourth in importance in the United States as a commercial flower, about $500,000 worth of them being purchased annually. It has long held first place as an autumn garden and exhibition flower. The Chrysanthemum has become the fall flower for football because of its seasonal and practically universal growth, and because of the many colors in which it blooms.—Bill Talbot
Record Room Operated in Music Hall for Students
The department of music has announced that the record room located at the north end of the band room is open to students wishing to play their favorite records. The department has at its disposal a record-playing machine. Students may bring their own records to play or may enjoy those that are in the library of the Music Hall, room 24. The hours the record room will be open are as follows:
Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday—2:15 to 4:15 p.m.
Wednesday—2:15 to 4:15 p.m.
I The intention of the department of

THE
music is to better acquaint the students with the more classical type of music, and to instill in them a greater appreciation for it.
Some of the outstanding records in the library are:
Tschaikowsky’s Fifth Symphony; Tschaikowsky’s 1812 Overture; Beethoven’s Third Symphony; Beethoven’s Emperor Concert; Strauss Waltzes; Shubert’s “Unfinished Symphony,” Shubert’s “Eighth Symphony”; a number of Mozart symphonies; and songs by Tibbett and Crooks.—C. S. Coco
Knights of Columbus
Distribute 3,000 Cards
Nearly 3,000 prayer cards bearing a picture of His Holiness, Pope Pius XII, were distributed at the Sunday Masses by the Knights of Columbus, in accordance with the Holy See’s wish for a peace Mass all over the world.
John M. Kelly, junior lawyer from AKron, O., was chairman of the distributing. The Holy Father has set aside Nov. 24 as a day for a Mass of Peace. However, it was observed here last Sunday, because Monday, Nov. 11, was Armistice Day.
The 2,800 Kinghts of Columbus chapters in the United States observed the peace Mass by receiving Holy Communion in a body. At Notre Dame, 125 members attended Mass in a body at the Alumni Hall Chapel and received Communion. The Rev. John D. Gallagher, C.S.C., chaplain of the council, was celebrant. After this Mass, there was a late breakfast in the dining hall. The Rev. Francis McMann spoke on “Peace.” Grand Knight Robert E. Sullivan also spoke.—Kelly Cook
Invite Debate Entries
William C. Coyne, director of debate, announces that any undergraduates desiring to try out for varsity debate are requested to hand in their names to some member of the department of speech before Wednesday, Nov. 20.
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D. E. C. BERRY. O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
NOTRE D
Football Injuries Plentiful
Two things seem to follow from hard football, victories and injuries, plenty of notice has been given to the victories of Elmer’s boys, but little has been said about their injuries.
The Irish started the season at nearly full strength, but now that the campaign is well under way, the Notre Dame coaches are glad to find a capable reserve to replace the frequent minor injuries.
The injury jinx struck first early in the Georgia Tech game when big Cliff
Under this famous name in tailoring— ADLER-ROCHESTER—you can have a suit or coat—made-to-measure for $35.
Men who are hard to fit—we can make your suits and coats—tailored to your own specifications—choice of a broad selection of patterns and fabrics—$35.00 upwards.
PARKER-WINTERROWD 115^2 - 117% N. Main Street
JOHN SIEVERT	CAPT. MILT "MOOSE” PIEPUL	JOHN RYAN
234 Alumni	107 Alumni	337 Walsh

The LEE TEL •5.00
19
Brosey cracked his ankle in some rugged line play. At present Cliff must content himself with swinging his 240 pounds between sagging crutches. Although Dr. McMeel’s plans for Cliff include no more football until spring, Brosey has plans to be out before the season is over and “win the rest of another monogram.” Track practice is another incentive for Brosey to get back on two legs and in condition for the shot put.
Jim Ford, while able to get around, has been held back by knee and ankle trouble since the opening of the season. To add to the ravages of injury at the
Makers of the Aetna Insured Hat..;$3.50.
Will not onlyimprove your Hat-i-tude but your appearance as well. It’s not the same old hat. The mirror tells the story.
LEE HATS
358 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, N. Y t«REG. U. «. PATENT OFFICE

20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
$750
Galecloth
$18.50
Other Alligator Raincoats $5.75 to $26J0
The "Coacher" by Alligator also avaifdMe in
SamthurSpecialRnish$14.75
AT BETTER DEALERS EVERYWHERE THE ALLIGATOR CO., St. Louis, Los Angeles, New York


The one and only genuine wateiproof raincoat that’strulyhighlystyled! And because it’s an Alligator, it won’t crack or stick—andit’ll giveyears andyearsof faithful service. See this handsome beauty today—get yours and be prepared for even the severest rains.
ALLIGATOR
" '/imua/afi aw/
l	because...lT'SSURETORAIN! J
center spot, Bob Osterman has been out of two games with leg trouble and Marty O’Reilly and Tom Brock just got over limps in time to take injured John McHale’s place.
Bob Dove got his nose in one of the Navy pile-ups and will sport one of Scrap’s helmet visors along with Paul Lillis who is protecting a tender nose acquired at the start of the season.
The “B” team has been having its injuries also. In the St. Benedict’s game Eddie Stelmaszek, guard, ran into a former Mt. Carmel (Chicago) team-mate, playing quarterback and came out with a broken fibula and a dislocated ankle. While Stelmaszek was receiving first aid in the locker room, Bill Stewart, second string quarterback, was carried in with a pulled tendon. Before Bill was able to walk without crutches, he rode to class in a wheelbarrow, while Ed boasted the plutocratic luxury of a wheelchair to supplement his crutches. Bob Corrigan, sophomore guard, received a broken ankle when the “B” squad was running Illinois plays against the varsity. Last week sophomore Joe McGovern, first string tackle for the “B” men, had a cast poured for his ankle which was broken in scrimmage.—John Quinn
60-Mile an Hour Gale
Causes Campus Damage
One of the worst storms in 25 years swept across the Notre Dame campus last Monday, Armistice Day, leaving a trail of destruction behind it. In 15 minutes the temperature dropped from 66 to 54 degrees. Later the gale mingled with ’ particles of sleet, reached a record velocity of 70 miles per hour and the temperature dropped to 19 degrees.
From Cartier Field, famous as the site of athletic exploits of the Four Horsemen and other athletic notables, to Dujarie Institute the tempest swept leaving debris in its wake. Badin and Lyons halls suffered most, when slate was torn from their roofs. Falling slate from the dining-hall roof required a roped-off area, and detour to protect students and visitors from being hit. Lights on the practice football field were out of order Tuesday. At least 300 feet of the Cartier Field fence was blown down.
One of the young women employed in the laundry was caught and hurled to the ground but was not injured. The Main Building had windows broken and gilding torn off the Dome.
A black crow was forced to land on the campus and spent a fruitless 15 minutes trying to rise again. The strong wind proved too much for it. When last seen, it was walking toward the aviation field with a determined look in its eye.
—Elmer D. Silha
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
Mass Calendar: Nov. 17-23
Sunday, 17 — Twenty - seventh after Pentecost (Sixth after Epiphany) 2d prayer, St. Gregory, the Wonder Worker, Confessor, 3d, the Saints (A cunctis), 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Monday, 18—Dedication of the Basilicas of Sts. Peter and Paul. Mass: Terri-bilis (in Common of Dedication of Churches) 2d prayer, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo.
Tuesday, 19—St. Elizabeth, Widow. Mass: Cognovi (in Common of nonVirgins). Prayer proper, 2d, St. Ponti-anus, Martyr, 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Wednesday, 20—St. Felix of Valois, Confessor. Mass: Justus (in Common of Non - Pontiffs). Prayer proper, 2d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Thursday, 21—The Presentation of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Mass: Salve (in Common of the Blessed Virgin from Pentecost to Advent) 2d prayer, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.Credo. Preface of the Blessed Virgin.
Friday, 22—St. Cecilia, Virgin, Martyr. 2d prayer, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Saturday, 23—St. Clement 1, Pope, Martyr. 2d prayer, St. Felicity, Widow, 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
INTERHALL LEAGUE
(Continued from page 15) punt on his own 30, and weaved his way up the sidelines 70 yards to score. His attempted point conversion failed.
Walsh scored again in the last period when Ed Hogan, diminutive backfield star, intercepted one of Campagna’s passes, and raced 30 yards to the payoff stripe. George Katter booted the extra point.
Bob McSweeney, stellar Morrissey center, deserves recognition for his great defensive play.
Dillon 7; Alumni 0
Three goal-line stands by an inspired Alumni team, kept Dillon from plowing under its weaker opponent by a larger score than the 7-0 final.
Ed Dunlevy, a shifty fast-cutting halfback, was the fair-haired boy for Dillon in this encounter. Midway in the third quarter he galloped 80 yards off his own right tackle for the only score of the game. Larry Kelley place-kicked the point.
Emmett Moran of Dillon, plus Tommy Miles and Ben Cutlipp of Alumni were other backs who stood out.
Schedule for this weekend is posted on hall bulletin boards.—Jim Clemens
M4X ADLER
ON THE CORNER” ... Michigan at Washington
Where Youll Find the Largest, Most Complete Assortment of Arrow Shirts, Shorts and Ties
It's Adler's for Arrows!
AMERICA\ LISE
Your Arrow dealer has this unbeaten, untied line under contract . . . See him today.
Arrow Shorts, with the patented seamless crotch to give you extra comfort. 65c, up.
Arrow Ties, designed specifically to harmonize with your Arrow Shirts and your suit fabrics. SI and SI.50.
Arrow Shirts, with the smartest patterns you’ve seen in many seasons. $2, up.
From Arrow Shirts to Arrow Shorts, here’s your chance to sign up for the best coordinated line of men’s wear in the country.
Arrow Handkerchiefs, also planned for your Arrow' Shirts and Ties. 25c, up.
ARROW SHIRTS
COLLARS ... TIES ... HANDKERCHIEFS ... UNDERWEAR

22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Headquarters for COCA - COLA
“The Huddle”
PIPE TOBACCO and CANDY
Radio Club Reaches Halfway Mark in Weekly Sked
Drink
During the past month the University Radio club has been unusually active. Beginning with the Founder’s Day broadcast the club has steadily added programs until it has reached the halfway point in the intended weekly schedule. Although, Notre Dame programs do not yet occupy as much time as they did last year they are on a much sounder basis.
This year the Radio club has brought back to the air-lanes a show which was popular’ four years ago. This is the Thursday afternoon news program

Their log gets bigger and bigger

\ Delicious and
Refreshin
A drink has to be good to be enjoyed millions of times a day by people the world over in every walk of life. Coca-Cola is one of* those good things whose quality stands out. You welcome its taste and its after-sense of refreshment.
fiAUSE THAT REFRESHES
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by
COCA - COLA BOTTLING CO. of South Bend, 1107 Beyer Avenue
known as “The Scholastic of the Air.” Under the generalship of William Mulvey this program scoops the Scholastic by getting the campus news to the student body a day early. Mulvey gives orchids with great abandon and hands out much golden rod with even greater-dexterity.
Another campus program which is popular with the student body is the Sportscast conducted by Bill Foley and Jack Morrison. This show is the equal of the product put on the air by Walt Hagen and Jerry Flynn in the last three years.
Arrangements are being made for four or five new programs, among which will be a round table discussion sponsored by the Academy of Politics, a musical program of the Department of Music, and another dramatic production to be known as Patriots of Peace.
Radio Log
4:45—Mon.: Music by the Quintet
7:00—Mon.: Patriots of Peace
8:45—Tues.: Radio Stage
3:30—Thurs.: The Scholastic of the Air 4:45—Thurs.: Sportscast
—Thomas F. Carty
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
Irish Defy Statistics Again; Beat Navy 13-7
For the second consecutive Saturday afternoon the fighting forces of Uncle Sam nearly tripped the undefeated stride of the Fighting Irish as Notre Dame, with minutes remaining in the final period drove, across Navy’s goal line for the winning touchdown and a 13 to 7 victory.
The 63,000 people packing Baltimore Municipal Stadium to capacity watched Bob Saggau heave a 30-yard pass to Bob Dove in the Middies’ end zone for the first score in the opening quarter. Milt Piepul, who did some fine offensive and defensive backfield duty, failed to convert for the extra point. Then for nearly three quarters the two teams battled, with statistics giving the edge to the Middies, neither team being able to drive a decisive wedge in to the defense of the opposition. Then midway in the final period Gebert of Navy could not find a receiver for an intended pass and drove around left end for 30 yards to tie the score. Leonard booted the extra point pushing the Midshipmen to a 7-6 lead over the Irish. After the kickoff, the Irish started a desperate piledriving offensive which, in a sustained
drive, never ended until Saggau skirted left end for seven yards and the winning score. This time Piepul kicked the pigskin between the cross bars to end the scoring in a game which marked victory number eleven for the Irish in the 14 year old series between Notre Dame and Navy.
In downing the Navy to win their sixth consecutive victory, the Irish displayed a powerful passing attack which sank the Middies’ defense.
Once again, however, the score belies the statistics of the Irish victory. Navy
“CHICAG
led in first downs, 13 to 6. Total net yardage gaining laurels also fell to the Middies by virtue of their 223 yards to the Irish 175 yards. The local boys led in passes completed with six out of eight attempts connecting to the Navy’s five out of 16. Mr. Layden’s charges intercepted three passes to none for the Midshipmen—which goes to prove that Notre Dame does a lot to make its own breaks.
Maybe the statistics did favor Navy —but as they tell us “Rock” used to say, “You don’t win baseball games by counting the men left on base.”
A SURE ^Z> SHOT FOR ft PLEASURE!
COLLEGE INN
Conveniently Located In the Lobbies of
HOTEL OLIVER HOTEL HOFFMANN HOTEL LA SALLE
PRESENTS
THE JUGGLIN' JIVE OF
FATS WALLER
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
IN THE
PANTHER ROOM
$1.00 MINIMUM SATURDAY $2.00
AND IN THE
MALAYA ROOM
DINNERS FROM $1.25
NO MINIMUM EXCEPT SATURDAY
NO COVER CHARGE IN EITHER ROOM
HOTEL SHERMAN
__________________2)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Art Department Acquires
New Sculpture Section
The University Department of Art, comprising professors Stanley S. Ses-sler, head, and Francis J. Hanley, has acquired this year for the first time, a department of sculpture. This department, giving a full course, is open to juniors and seniors and is under the direction of the Rev. John J. Bednar, C.S.C. Father Bednar is a graduate of the University’s school of art and has been studying the past three years at the Chicago Institute of Art where he majored in sculpture and gained his advanced degree.
At the present time students of the new class are studying the full-length human figure and modelling in clay. Since this is one of the most difficult subjects, the actual sculpturing is preceded by figure drawing with charcoal and other media.
Handle “Dome” Art Work
The department of design, directed by Mr. Hanley, has undertaken the complete art editing of the 1941 Dome, the University annual. In conjunction with the advanced painting students directed by Mr. Sessler, John C. Bermingham, Dome art editor, and a staff of artists are doing the entire artistic synthesis.
Picture layouts, lettering, division pages, and general style will be co-
Select your
NEW PIPE
■from the largest pipe stock in South Bend.
HMDKERCHIEF TEST PROVES
mt zoHEnwMvs spotless^j^
Always dean and free from goo no matter how often you smoke it. Challenging higher-priced pipes in briar quali-^4tJkl/S|
ty and value. /*^ J,
WM.DSUJTH & CO., NEW YORK
ordinated in order to provide a more attractive book. A feature of this year’s Dome is that the division pages will be done in oil. Also, various new black and white media will be used in the layout, designs and sketches. Some of these used will be employed for the first time in the Dome.
Another problem being undertaken is the planning and decorating of a South Bend shop window. The shop is that of Jackson Chung, University student and Chinese Curio dealer. The window is to be decorated in a suitable oriental theme.
The working of practical problems such as these is of great importance to the students because it is an example of the work they will do after graduation.
Art Exhibitions
In conjunction with the actual work of the Art Department there are scheduled, throughout the year, exhibitions in the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery on the third floor of the University Library. A partial list of the exhibitions follows.
Nov. 18-25, Greeting Cards by American Artists. Nov. 26-Dec. 15, Photographs by Paul Biersdorfer. Dec. 16-Jan. 7, Drawings and Paintings by Leo Bushman. Jan. 7-Feb. 11, The W.P.A. Index of Design.
Opening Feb. 12 an exhibition of water-colors by Francis J. Hanley will continue for three weeks. This group of water-colors will be on exhibition in Cin-
Bruggner’s
Cigar Store
HON. MAIN STREET
IN THE J. M. S. BUILDING
The Natural N. D. Hang-Out
I NO GOO nCAN PASS
BESSON GUARD
IT'S CUSHION SEALED
»Qq
HE55OO GUARD miLAno
cinnati from Dec. 5 through Jan. 10. From March 1-15 the 5th Annual High School Art Survey will be held, including the work of students in six midwestern states.—John A. Lynch

0©^

Carefree
— is the wearer of handsome shoes, on or off the campus
Wearing them, you're carefree, for you know their smart appearance wins approval—their easy-fitting comfort keeps you "on your toes" — their modest price keeps you within your budget . .. Slip into a pair today.
OTHERS FROM $3.28
PAUL 0. KUEHN
120 So. Michigan
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
25
*
THEATRE
By Vern Witkowski
The November newsstands provided a pleasant surprise for theater lovers: Stage magazine has been revived. When this publication died on its feet some two years ago, a host of enthusiastic readers were not a little disappointed. And in the interim questions were continually asked of its possible rebirth. The questions have been positively and pleasantly answered with Vol. 1, No. 1, the November issue, of Stage. It has come back stronger, and more roguishly than ever.
The old Stage policy of pithy articles on popular topics is seen again. Alexander Woollcott, the man who came to dinner, writes about the theater again as he used to do, and as only Woollcott can do. Ward Morehouse interviews the novelist-playwright Somerset Maugham. One William Saroyan, who loves America even more than himself, writes the inside story on William Saroyan, which incidentally is illustrated by William Saroyan. Claire Boothe writes an open letter to Herbert Hoover, and shows how Saroyan’s "The Time of Your Life” is but a socio - politico - economic allegory with F.D.R. as Joe, the leading figure of the play. It may be plausible; it may not. It is entertaining nonetheless. Every play and musical on Broadway at the moment of publication is reviewed, in this way bringing up to date to some extent what Stage has missed in its many months off the newstands. Through 128 pages the editors frolic and romp, obviously aiming again at the popular reader (can we truly say “dilettante reader” when the price is but 25 cents?)
And as is customary, in a rather obsolete way, we save the best news for last. In Stage magazine for November, you can find the complete text of Kaufman and Hart’s “The Man Who Came To Dinner” (coming to South Bend, by the way, two weeks from next Wednesday). If for no other reason you decide to read Stage, the percentage is so favorable we won’t comment. And even Mr. Arch Oboler, the radiowriter extraordinary, contributes his widely - discussed “This Precious Freedom” for publication in Vol. 1, No. 1.
If Stage can maintain this terrific pace for more than a year, we will declare positively that wonders have ceased and the world has come to the end of its rope and we congratulate Mr. Alexander Ince, who publishes the new magazine.
SAM'L SPIRO & CO.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
“Manhattan
Shirts, Pajamas, Handkerchiefs . . . Mansco Underwear
The Wide-Spread Collar is Way Out in Front
Young men who go for hefty, handsome knitted ties welcome the space the Manhattan wide-spread collar provides! There’s continuous comfort, too, in the way it slopes gently down toward the front of the neck. Manhattan shirts with the wide-spread collar are the college hit of the year’s upper, lower and middle classmen. Choose yours from the assortment of handsome Manhattans at a nearby store today. S2 up.
size-fixt -Average fabric shrinkage 1% or less XUSWiOKMED shaped to masculine contours COLLAR-PERFECT styled to stay set just-sq
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MUSIC
By John W. Larson
The musical world of this nation is presently joining in an expression of hearty good wishes for the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, now celebrating its golden anniversary. For this season, its fiftieth, the orchestra is scheduling in Chicago special concerts featuring the world premieres of several modem works especially commissioned for the occasion. Moreover, the orchestra is undertaking a tour of the East which will bring it to New York for two concerts on Nov. 20 and 22.
The Chicago Orchestra, for numerous reasons, has been set apart from other major orchestras of this country. Because it owns Orchestra Hall, bought for it by public subscription, the orchestra is self-supporting. Moreover, it is the sole orchestra in this country which has known, in its fifty years of existence, only two principal conductors.
Theodore Thomas, a German musician who had come to this country when he was ten, was called upon to organize the Chicago orchestra. He had done much pioneering in America, had brought orchestras to the “barbarian” west (where cow hands delighted to spit from the balcony upon the bald heads - in the audience), and in general had brought music to the American public. Thomas brought sixty of the best musicians from New York, and to these added thirty Chicago men. The first concert of the Chicago Orchestra was
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
given Oct. 7, 1891, with Beethoven’s Fifth as the major work of the program. Thomas remained conductor for fourteen years, and before his death selected Frederick Stock to be his successor. Stock, also a German, had played in European orchestras directed by Brahms, Tschaikowski and Richard Strauss.
Stock, who is the present director of the orchestra, has always impressed me as being an extremely cautious man, perhaps even too much so for the advancement and development of his orchestra. There is no question that he is a remarkably humble man, who has never used art for his personal aggrandizement. He strikes me as being very conscientious and devoted to all that is solid and good in music. But I have sometimes wondered if a streak of divine madness in Stock would not inspire his men to play themselves above their usually dull, ponderous style. Stock has none of that electric vitality you find in Toscanini or
The CROMWELL $3.95
$3-95 - $5
Custom and Normal-Trad sories $7 00
Quality Host, 4 pairs $1.00

. . . That’s what well-dressed men on every campus are now saying about the Douglas Cromwell and those other swagger brogues in new-tone "antiqued” finishes and rich grained leathers. For comfort and appearance they’re the season’s buy.	.
DouqlaiSkoei
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET Open Saturday Evenings
Koussevitsky — a quality which is responsible for the fact that a great orchestra is infinitely, more than just a group of players who happen to be hitting their notes together and producing mildly pleasant sounds.
"N. D. Corsages Our Specialty"
SOUTH BEND FLORAL CO. 114 S. Michigan St.
Phone 3-8227

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ROP//VS	WUF
THE MUSIC BOX
By Felix Pogliano
ENTIRE STOCK REDUCED AS MUCH AS ONE-HALF
Vocal
AVE MARIA (Schubert) and AUFENT-HALT (Schubert) Marian Anderson, $1.00
AN SYLVIA (Schubert) and STANDCHEN (Schubert) Jussi Bjoerlinjr..$1.00
Record of the Week. . .
Glenn Miller this week issues a record that will probably be adopted by all intrahall broadcasters as a theme song, it seems to me — just as, in fact, it is the new theme song of New York City’s WNEW Make Believe Ballroom. Martin Block helped write “Make Believe Ballroom Time” and he’s just as good at lyrics as he is at the WNEW mikes. The Four Modernaires, a new addition to Miller’s band, harmonizes on the vocals. A good job all round. “Old Black Joe” is the tune on the reverse. We expected Miller to ride out on this one, but he gives it a. “Danny Boy” treatment instead. Nice, but disappointing. (Bluebird)	.
Symphonic Works
HEART OF THE SYMPHONY—Charles O'Connell—Victor Symphony Orch.. $3.50
SYMPHONY NO. 1, in C Minor—Brahms — Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra with Bruno Walter conducting.$5.50
CONCERTO in A Major—Mozart—Reginald Kell, clarinetist with the London Philharmonic Orchestra ......—$4.00
CONCERTO in D Major (violin and orchestra)—Beethoven—Jascha Heifetz and Arturo Toscanini with NBC Symphony Orchestra ..........-...........$5.00
Sweet ano Swing
Victor Popular Recordings, 50c
A HANDFUL OF STARS LOVE OF MY LIFE
—Artie Shaw and his orchestra.
MAKE BELIEVE BALLROOM TIME OLD BLACK JOE
—Glenn Miller and his orchestra.
Still rising. . .
Vaughn Monroe continues his strong bid for top honors among the mighty with his latest Bluebird release, “Or Have I” and “The Moon Fell in the River.” He sings both himself, and very well, too. “Or Have I” is the better side, but both are played in a fine style that is becoming more and more Monroe’s own.
Bobby Byrne is another boy you can’t omit when you’re listing the better bands. If you don’t have his “The Right Time” and “Take Care (of You foi* Me)” by now you Have passed up one of Decca’s best offers in recent weeks. “The Right Time” features very solid work by the band and a progressing time-signal chant. Dorothy Claire takes care of the vocal on the backside. “Take Care” sounds very much like the old “Would Ja Mind” but that doesn’t keep it from being a sweet song. Excellent solo work by trombonist Byrne backs up the vocal chorus.
ISOLA BELLA WHATCHA KNOW JOE
—Charlie Barnett and his orchestra.
Largest Record Dept, in Michiana 9 Listening Booths Electric Victrolas Well-Informed Clerks
HODIIIS /3t WW	.
Open Tues., Thurs., Sat. Evenings
Shaw again. . . .
Artie Shaw’s ‘A Handful of Stars” (Victor) is sung by Anita Boyer. Miller’s much slower handling of this same tune is perhaps better suited to the mood of the piece. Backing it up is “Love of My Life,” the more satisfactory of the two. The first few turns sound like the old Shaw. Anita takes the lyrics agaain.
“Green Eyes” and “Adios” are Xavier Cugat’s latest answers to his followers. The former seems to far outclass “Adi
os” but I know nothing about rumbas. (Victor)
Current Favorites. . .
“I’ve Got a One Track Mind” and “I’d Know You Anywhere”—Bob Crosby. Latter may be as good as T. Dorsey’s. “Stars Over the Campus” and “You’ve Got Your Mother’s Big Blue Eyes”— Johnny Long.
19 TRAINS DAILY TO CHICAGO
No guesswork, just remember this easy schedule: the first two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning with the third, at 7:30 P. M., and until 9:30 P. M., there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight.
Ticket office: 301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111.
TO CHICAGO
SOUTH BEND
Give ’em the SMOKER’S cigarette
COOIER, MILDER, BETTER-TASTING
With Chesterfields the smoking situation is always well in hand—because Chesterfields have what smokers want. Chesterfield’s right combination of American and Turkish tobaccos makes it the smoker’s cigarette.
Do you smoke the cigarette that SATISFIES
Copyright 1940. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
YEARS OF PAINSTAKING STUDY
film lOBACCOLAND U. S, A.
□nd research have put Chesterfield far out in
front in the blending and preparation of to-
baccos to give you a cooler, better-tasting and
definitely milder cigarette. (As seen tn the new
