CLOTHES FOR EASTER VACATION
Planning a carefree southern vacation this year? The Campus Shop is ready with the right clothes for carefree fun. Come in soon and select your fashion-right ensembles for spring and summer 1962.
Lightweight Sport Coats, from..................................16.95
Wash Slacks.................................................... 5.95
Catalina Swim Trunks, from..................................... 3 95
Handsome Walking Shorts, from.................................. 4 95
Cool Short-sleeve Sport Shirts, from.........................   4.5g
Dacron and Wool Tropical-weight Suits......................... 49.95
CAMPUS SHOP WAY
CHARGE IT THE
NO CARRYING CHARGE
Whether you’re in need of handsome, fashion-wise vacation wear . . . practical clothing for school ... for any of your clothing needs, in the styles Notre Dame Men prefer, come to the Campus Shop where you find sizes for ALL men . . . and you can charge your purchases the Campus Shop way: Pay one-third in June, one-third in July, and one-third in August. Never an interest or a carrying charge.
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS...
On the Campus—Notre Dame
3
On Campus WWman
(Author of “Rally Round The Flag, Boys”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
SHAKESPEARE DOESN’T
A recent and most heartening development in American college life has been the emergence of the artist-in-residence. In fact, the artist-in-residence has become as familiar a sight on campus as Latin ponies, leather elbow patches, Rorschach tests, hula hoops, and Marlboro cigarettes.
And we all know how familiar that is— I mean Marlboro cigarettes. And why should it not be familiar? Why, where learning is king, where taste is sovereign, where brain power rules supreme, should not Marlboro be everyone’s favorite? The same good sense that gets you through an exam in Restoration Poetry or solid-state physics certainly does not desert you when you come to pick a cigarette. You look for a flavor that is flavorful, a choice of pack or box, a filter pure and white, a lot to like. You look, in short, for Marlboro— and happily you don’t have to look far. Marlboro is available at your friendly tobacconist or vending machine, wherever cigarettes are sold in all fifty states and Las Vegas.
But I digress. We were speaking of the new campus phenomenon—the artist-in-residence—
a man or woman who writes, paints, or composes right on your very own campus and who is also available for occasional consultations with superior students.
Take, for example, William Cullen Sigafoos, artistin-residence at the Toledo College of Belles Lettres and Fingerprint Identification.

As we all know, Mr. Sigafoos has been working for many years on an epic poem in rhymed couplets about the opening of the Youngstown-Akron highway. Until, however, he went into residence at the Toledo College of Belles Lettres and Fingerprint Identification, his progress was not what you would call rapid. He started well enough with the immortal couplet we all know:
They speed along on wheels of rubber, Rushing home in time for subber_
Then Mr. Sigafoos got stuck. It is not that his muse deserted him; it is that he became involved in a series of time-consuming episodes—a prefrontal lobotomy for Irwin, his faithful sled dog; fourteen consecutive months of jury duty on a
Take cheer, good friends, from one masterpiece that is complete. We, refer, of course, to Marlboro cigarettes. Filter end and tobacco end are both as good as tobacco artistry and sceince can make them.
LIVE HERE ANY MORE very complicated case of overtime parking; getting his coattail caught in the door of a jet bound for Brisbane, Australia; stuff like that.
He was engaged in a very arduous job in Sandusky—posing for a sculptor of hydrants—when an offer came from the Toledo College of Belles Lettres and Fingerprint Identification to take up residence there, finish his magnum opus and, from time to time, see a few gifted students.
Mr. Sigafoos accepted with pleasure and in three short years completed the second couplet of his Youngstown-Akron Turnpike epic:
The highway is made of solid concrete And at the toll station you get a receipt.
Then a few gifted students came to visit him. They were a prepossessing lot —the boys with corduroy jackets and long, shaggy beards; the girls also with corduroy jackets but with beards neatly braided.
“What is truth?” said one.
“What is beauty?” said another.
Should a writer live first and write later or should he write and do a little living in his spare time?” said another.
How do you find happiness—and having found it, how do you get rid of it?” said another.
Whither are we drifting?” said another.
I don t know whither you are drifting, said Mr. Sigafoos, “but as for me, I am drifting back to Sandusky to pose for the hydrant sculptor.”
And back he went, alas, leaving only a fragment of his Youngstown-Akron Turnpike epic to rank with other such uncompleted masterpieces as Schubert’s Unfinished Symphony, the Venus de Milo, and Singer’s Midgets. © i»62 sbuim»a
GLANCES
A segment of the literati is spoofed in a piece called “First Poems,” by John Pesta . . . page 7.
Our regular “News and Notes” column . . . page 9.
Latest news about the situation at the SMC Dixie Highway crossing — no bridge planned . . . page 10.
Dr. George Schuster, special assistant to President Hesburgh, with brief ' comments on education today . . . page 10.
Where does it come from, where does it go? Read about the ins and outs of Student Government finances; a breakdown of the SG dollar. The second of two articles by Tom Schlereth . . . page 11.
John McGuire’s weekly entertainment column, “In Town and Around” . . . page 13.
Tom Scanlon, class of 1960 and head of the Blue Circle in ’59-’6O writes a letter describing his work with the Peace Corps in Chile . . . page 14.
Basketball season is over, and the Scholastic features an interview with retiring captain Armand Reo, who looks back on it all . . . page 19.
Where are the ND basketball stars of yesteryear? A few reports on our alumni eagers . . . page 19.
Odds and ends in “As We See It” . . . page 20.
A feature story on Ed Rutkowski, wrestler, at the close of the season . . . page 20.
And “Voice in the Crowd” offers a quick review of the basketball season, with comments . . . page 21.
Robert Cihak challenges Jerry Brady’s idea of a university in the “Forum,” “The City and the University” . . . page 26.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC, printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors,, Box 185,, Notr* Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material be comes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic
4

	Vol. 103 No. 15 Mar. 9, 1962
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
THOMAS WEISS
associate editor	-
MICHAEL ZWETTLER
news editor
JOHN McCABE,
Ken Arnold, Joe Caspar, Pete Clark, Jim Wyrsch.
new» staff—John Buckley, Vince De Coursey, Dick Maher, Ted Pinta, Steve Stapp, Steve Stuecheli, Don Wharton.
features editor
TOM HOOBLER
features staff—Carl Wiedemann, R. E.‘ Me-Gowan, Brion Bornes, Tom Cullen, John Pesta, Mott Cosgrove.
sports editor
JOHN BECHTOLD Bob Chiappinelli, Terry Wolkerstorfer.
sports staff—J.C. Higgins, Frank Hinchey, Dave Fuys, Bob Scheffing, Tom Kistner, Joe Ryan.
copy editor
PHILIP LARRABEE
art editor
THOMAS HANSEN, Patrick Saxe, Robert Sajnovsky. photography—Brian Beck, Wes Clark.
layout editor
STEVE PODLAS
business manager
JAY WARD,
Art Berry, Bob Buckley, Tom Dalum.
ad salesmen—George McGuire, Rich Rogge- > veen, Phil Tomber.	:
circulation manager
. JAMES CREAGAN
faculty advisors
DONALD COSTELLO
JOSEPH HOFFMAN, C.S.C.
. . 1
DARK AT THE TOP OF THE STAHLS: For three-and-a-half years the student body in general and the Scholastic in particular have refrained from commenting formally on the Sunday sermon situation in Sacred Heart Church. Perhaps this has been because of the conditioned timidity of the layman outside the sanctuary to question any pronouncements emanating from the clergy within; or perhaps because of a general disinterest in the problem as being both irrelevant and irremediable. But it is a matter of great importance to the laity, for whom the sermon presents either an aid or a deterrent to worship at Mass. And concern in the situation is quite pertinent to us as students at a Catholic university, where, if anywhere, there is an opportunity for a reflective approach to improvement.
In an article entitled “The Sermon as Part of the Mass” (Homiletic <£ Pastoral Review, LX, 517-526), Rev. William O’Shea, S.S., considering the traditional view of the sermon and certain contemporary European movements to relate it more closely with the Mass, states that “the sermon at Mass is an integral part of the Mass itself, and preaching at Mass is above all else an unfolding of the texts of the Missal, bringing to light the teaching they contain and confronting this present congregation with the word of life.” This is not to say that the Mass texts should be used as a gimmick to introduce some topic on which the preacher desires to speak, unrelated to the liturgy of the day. Nor should they be used as the basis for some ten-or fifteen-minute limping analogy exhorting moral perfection in obvious and simplified terms. On the other hand, the sermon is meant to be neither a capsule lecture in philosophy, nor a Sunday supplement to the University’s theology courses. As Rev. O’Shea says:
The whole Mass is therefore a proclamation of the Gospel. . . . The sermon at Mass is only the further development of this proclamation — it cannot be other than the expansion and application of this great theme. If it were other, it Would be at variance with the rest of the Mass, it would be out of harmony with everything else that is done there.
In an environment such as ours, the preacher, if he is to be at all effective in aiding worship at Mass, must meet the additional problem of formulating his “proclamation” so that it fits into the intellectual atmosphere of the University. In dealing with the “great theme” of Christian salvation — the “good news” of which the Mass is a repetition — he need not fear that he will become monotonous if he draws yearly from the Mass papers. The scriptural texts alone should provide a reasonably rich source of material related to the salvific message of the Mass.
Students attending Mass, if they are conscious of what they are doing, “do not come to be instructed; they come to worship, and the purpose of the sermon at Mass is to help them worship better.” The very position of the sermon — immediately before the sacrificial part of the Mass — emphasizes this point. If the sermon serves only to bore or embitter the hearers, it is hardly achieving its purpose.
We find it disappointing to note that, in the upper church where students are required to attend Sunday Mass, we cannot enjoy the full advantages of participation in the liturgy. Sermons crystallizing the Church’s tone for the day are the rule rather than the exception in Sacred Heart Parish downstairs.
The main troubles with most of the sermons at Sacred Heart have been that they have tended toward simplistic moral admonitions proceeding from ridiculously elaborate metaphorical constructs; have tried to say too much, with a pretense of arriving at a truth with theoretical rigor; or have used the Gospel as a “jumping-off point” for a sermon unrelated to the message of the day.
As we have pointed out, the sermons ought to help the congregation worship better. The University Chaplain and his staff thus have the difficult problem of deciding how best to help the Notre Dame congregation worship. Any approach to this problem should, we think, keep in mind the growing participation of the laity in the active life of the Church. Some possible implications of this approach might be the emphasis of personal responsibility, in contradistinction to pastoral admonitions; or the layman’s duty with respect to the clergy, to aid the work of the clergy through intelligent Catholic action. Such emphases by no means need conflict with the actual “message” of the day’s liturgy. On the contrary, the mission of today’s Catholics as “spreaders of the word” is contained in the “news” of the Gospel, as that to which Christ calls us today.
— W.&Z.
IS IT SQUARE TO SEE EUROPE ON MR?
A Munich songfest, a London theatre party, the Lido Club in Paris, the Student Inn in Heidelberg—all are part of American Express’ 1962 Student Tours.
This year, American Express will take students to a Bavarian songfest in Munich; a party at the famous Student Inn in Heidelberg; on a gondola tour of Venice by night; a theatre party in London; a “Sound and Light" spectacular at the Roman Forum; open-air opera and concerts in Rome, Verona and Salzburg; a Swiss fondue dinner; on a visit to the Flea Market, and to dinner and show at the Lido Club in Paris. Does that sound square? There will be ten student tours in all. These tours are priced from $1132 up, including transportation. Details are arranged by a regular tour escort. You needn’t fuss over timetables and road maps. You’ll have more time to learn, to see things, make friends and have fun.
The tours will leave New York June 8 through July 12 and return July 26-Sept. 5. They last from 6 to 10^ weeks. Six tours feature transportation on the new S.S. France. In addition to Western Europe, itineraries include Russia, the Scandinavian countries and Israel.
One group will be led by Notre Dame’s Rev. Michael J. Gavin, C.S.C. Father Gavin knows how to show you Europe. See him on campus for tour information.
If you'd like full information—itineraries, prices, departure and arrival dates—on all ten 1962American Express StudentTours, mail in the coupon below.
American Express Co., 101 South La Salle Street, Chicago, Illinois Please send me literature on your 1962 StudentTours of Europe.
. Name_______________________________________________________
Address_____________________________________________________
City____________________________Zone_____State
Also, please send literature to my parents.
Name________________________________________________________
Address_____________________________________________________ City Zone State
AMERICAN EXPRESS
TRAVEL SERVICE
REPERCUSSIONS
GRATIS
Editor:
Dear Mr. Root,
Thank you for the “hot” clue about a Penitential Ball for the Palm Sunday week end. We had been looking for something in that line to “fill” that week end too, but we could only come up with something in the line of Mahalia Jackson. Now you have rounded off our year. Oh joy, thank you, Mr. Root.
The Social Commission
BEHIND THE PRICKLY PEAR Editor:
As one of many who found Jerry ■ Brady’s article in “Forum” only too true, I wish to commend the Scholastic for publishing it. I would also like to point out that one need only to flip a few pages of the Scholastic to find an excellent illustration of the Notre Dame apathy for controversy to which Mr. Brady refers. In J. T. Phillips’ “Apologia for WSND,” while discussing the program Controversy, he makes the astounding statement that a recent show actually caused some controversy and that the station is doing its best “to straighten out this furor and guard against its recurring in the future.” The lack of courage exhibited by students in responsible positions is merely a symptom of the near unanimous opinion on this campus that truth exists in a steel-plated vacuum and would certainly wither and die if exposed to the fresh air. Mr. Phillips cannot be too drastically condemned since he is merely taking his cue from the University Administration, who exhibit an even more virile disdain of controversy, and yet ask “Where are the Catholic intellectuals?”
William C. Slattery South Bend
DOCILE CLODS?
Editor:
Is Mr. Brady an anomaly among Notre Dame graduates? With due reverence the defenders of the status quo have proudly pointed to the letters of Notre Dame graduates; a typical letter might read — “as I look back on my years at Notre Dame, I can now see the value of protective discipline and cautious pedagogy.” But let’s take a closer look at this Notre Dame man. Isn’t he that portly gentleman who, rain or shine, leads the collection corps every Sunday at 11 o’clock Mass? Isn’t he a bold Knight of Columbus, stout defender of what?
A University professor in a more (Continued on page 24)
The Scholastic
101 South La Salle Street, Chicago, ANdover 3-1718
First Poems
by John Pesta
13 EFORE me lies an unpretentious volume of poems by a much read if little understood poet. Of this latest collection the poet himself has said, “The poems epitomize a universal theme: the flight from childhood’s security engendered by an unsuspected urge of the libido, and culminating in a complex of social fears and anxieties.” In one of his poems, “Bluebirds and Guppies,” the poet himself is the bluebird wrapped in conflict with the emerging libido (the crisis of the unfortified child). The quiet peace, beauty, and symmetry detectable in this particular work are emblematic of much of Erstens’ material.
Strong parallels to the work of sociologist J. Wilson White suggest themselves here. It is White who has written, as you will no doubt recall, “We are the product of our very experiences: Who can say what shadowy germs of genius stir like bats in the narrow passages of a child’s mind?”1 In the penetrating exposition from which this passage is quoted we are confronted with the awesome knowledge that the very subtle and often concealed facets of a child’s imagination are genuinely the demented result of society’s one-eyed view toward the orphan. A product of 20th century “Securityanism” — White’s term — the child conjures up in her mind the image of a sexually frustrated “Daddy Warbucks,” himself an image of the emerging MadAve/Corporation Man complex.
Even closer similarities can be found in Genesis, Chapter 21, a volume of the Christian Bible. Here, in a truly dramatic scene, the hero Ishmael, victim of stifled expression, is recognizable as the product of primitive ideals of free love. An uncompromising society casts him out, into the desert of dry thought. Later, however, hope arises when Ishmael is summoned back to his rightful home, to receive his own inheritance of understanding.
This is the very acclaim, so well known to best-selling authors of twen-
* Oedipus Complex in the Female Mind: a Critical Study of Little Orphan Annie, Fidelity Press, 1961.
March 9, 1962
tieth century America, this very Olympian feeling of “belonging to the tribe,” that Ewing Erstens, object of our present attentions, is most striving for. In 24 complete poems, and six fragments, all done as an undergraduate, the poet explores that melancholic, dismal period known by so many artists in their expanding, university years. This is not, though, the poet’s first book. Trivia, Incantations to a Recreant Muse; Painted Women; and Willows £ Rivers preceded this latest gift to a fond public.
Though he has never taken a degree, Mr. Erstens has studied at several New England colleges: at Harvard under Archibald MacLeish for two years; later at Wesleyan under Mrs. Agar Smith; then at Norwich University. “I rebelled against the materialism that motivated so many of the young men around me in a misdirected search for a misunderstood comfort,” he writes in the foreword to First Poems. Probably in this period of discontent, rendered as “that lovebed depression: that thirdhand whore’s kiss,” the young artist first came to grips with the gestating impulse already shaping his future.
At great personal stress he examines the incompatible forces and relationships that this country has forced upon the people who have “terrorstruck weeping emigrated to your bosomshores, america.” “Can we ask who has crucified art in this country?” he asks. “It is the melting pot that has boiled away creativity, that searching desire of man. The pity! The terror!”
There is little doubt that this volume will be interpreted by unfamiliar readers as a rebel’s thesis. But it is a calamitous error to judge Erstens on the evidence of this material alone. Clearly the attempts in this volume are immature, groping attempts. We have only to compare the dedication in this collection with that outspoken, loving, kisstender idyll that opens Painted Women:
pink is a sour color ther’ve been bahhs where
i tasted pink wine
& brothels where i tossed all nite in pinkened sheets: at break of day . . .
i never seen days break but oh
to count the nites that’ve C B D
RUM LE
This is the true Erstens, the dynamic, struggling innovator. Several of his loudest critics have found in such lines incontrovertible proof for claiming his direct descendancy from Robert Frost. “A certain moral, plaintive, nostalgic note pervades all his work,” writes Thomas Markham Lloyd in a recent Blue Mountain Review, “definitely in the trend of Frost’s verse.” Frost himself has perhaps hinted at this kinship: “You don’t have to know how to spell to write poetry," he has said,, “ . . . You don’t need to know how to punctuate." Of course, Frost has never explicitly identified his spiritual heir, but the implication remains.
In coming years, Erstens will undoubtedly be most associated with a new movement on the American art scene — the Lost Object School. Several years ago, when many people, sculptors mainly, were expressing themselves through compounded items found around large cities (bottlecaps, wires, and glass were favorite finds and vehicles of expression), a small group under Erstens’s influence led a trend in the opposite direction. It was their aim to discard, throw away, objects. “Our efforts sprang from a growing confusion of illusion and image with reality,” the movement’s founder states. “We sought refuge in the Lost Object syndrome. For me at least it was indeed a blessing. Shortly after, I met my wife Cyrilla, and we’ve been living in Greenwich Village ever since.”
This last fact, the poet’s residence, brings up an interesting sidelight to his story. New York authorities are currently conducting a program of eviction and arrest, largely centered in
(Continued on page 23)
7
bD^dl© D©§i
A good sword nowadays is hard to find—and in olden times, too. Many a feudal lord saw it pointless to joust with a faulty halberd, and for worthy steel alone the Visigoths sacked Rome.
Today, centuries later, the search for stronger steels goes on. And among those making most dramatic strides in advancing the state of the metallurgical art are the research teams at Ford’s Scientific Laboratory in Dearborn, Michigan. In exploring the “world of microstructure," these scientists, using methods of extreme sophistication, have been able to look at iron and steel on a near-atomic scale. They have discovered secrets of nature leading to new processing techniques which yield steels of ultra-high strength unknown a decade ago. The promise of such techniques seems limitless. As man develops the needs and means to travel more swiftly on earth and over interplanetary reaches— wherever economy of weight and space is required—strength of physical materials will become paramount. This is another example of how Ford is gaining leadership through scientific research and engineering.
8
The Scholastic
NFCCS CONFERS HERE
Forty Catholic colleges and Newman Clubs have been invited to attend the National Federation of Catholic College Students Conference on Racial Discrimination to be held on the Notre Dame campus today and tomorrow. One hundred and fifty delegates are expected from Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Ohio, Kentucky, and Pennsylvania.
Mathew Ahmann, Executive Director of the National Catholic Conference for Interracial Justice will speak Friday evening on “The Catholic Role in Ending Racial Discrimination.” Mr. Ahmann is the former head of the Catholic Interracial Council of Chicago. He is the author of The New Negro, and in 1956-57 he served as the business and circulation manager of Today magazine. He received his
MATTHEW AHMANN
master’s degree in Sociology from the University of Chicago.
The other speakers are: William J. Brown, Executive Director of the South Bend Urban League, who will talk on the role of the individual citizen in effecting interracial justice in the community; Walter Williams, Administrator of the Southern Student Freedom Fund, who will discuss how the student can act to end racial discrimination; and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of the University and member of the U. S. Civil Rights Commission, who will speak on the present condition of civil
March 9, 1962
rights and the work of the Civil Rights Commission.
All of these men have played an important part in interracial justice. Their talks will be augmented with group seminars and discussions in order to develop their ideas and to arrive at. concrete means of acting locally and nationally to end racial discrimination. It is hoped that this intercollegiate discussion workshop will present suggestions to the delegates to remedy their local problems.
Registration for the conference will be held at 4:30-5:30 p.m. and 6:307:30 p.m. today, and again 9:00-9:30 a.m. tomorrow. Paul O’Bryan, Chairman, will open the conference Friday at 8:00 p.m. in the Law Auditorium. Saturday the talks will be given in the Law Auditorium and in Washington Hall. All Notre Dame students are cordially invited to attend free of charge. All NFCCS members will be charged $3.00 to defray the cost of the speakers’ accommodations, and expenses. Excess funds will be turned over to the North Central District of the NFCCS. There will also be a slight charge for St Mary’s students. All the delegates have been invited to a social Saturday evening.
VISITORS DEBATE HCUA
In a somewhat tame debate last Wednesday night Fulton Lewis m and Michael Harrington paired off on the now timeworn controversy surrounding the pros and cons of the House Committee on un-American Activities.
Arguing in favor of the resolution to abolish the House Committee was Michael Harrington, who graduated from Holy Cross College and received his M.A. at the University of Chicago. He is presently editor of New America, has written a book called The Other American, and contributes regularly to The Commonweal.
Harrington described the Committee as a “pernicious institution,” and contended that it has led to a common and dangerous trend of unnecessary investigation. Regarding (the Supreme Court decision upholding the activities of the Committee, Harrington said that a simple majority vote does not establish the right. The practice of the Committee, he said, was destructive, and its mandate is dangerous to the security of the basic rights of the people. Commenting on the
Smith Act Harrington labeled it as unnecessary.
In opposition to the abolition of the Committee, Fulton Lewis said that apparently Harrington thinks that there is no communist threat. He also upheld the activities of the Committee because the Supreme Court has stated that it consistently refuses to accept the Communist Party as an ordinary political party. The purpose of the Committee according to Lewis, is to check an overthrow of the government through a constant investigation of the Communist Party. He also advocated the extent of jurisdiction given this committee because there is no other committee in the Congress able to undertake such problems. The powers that Congress has conferred upon the Committee, Lewis said, were quite legitimate and necessary. He also pointed out that the House voted 412
MICHAEL HARRINGTON
to 6 in favor of retaining the Committee.
MAGAZINES SEEK WRITERS
Cash prizes totalling $2000 will be awarded to collegiate authors in a short story contest designed to discover talented young American writers. The winners will have their stories published in the annual hardcover volume, Best College Writings. Any college or university student is eligible to compete.
The search for promising young fiction writers is the sixteenth in an
9
annual college short story contest conducted by Story magazine. The Reader’s Digest Foundation is providing the prize money.
Prize for the best short story submitted in the contest will be $500. Second prize is $350 and third, $250. Eighteen honorable mention awards of $50 will be given.
Deadline for the contest is Apr. 20, 1962. Manuscripts should be from 1500 to 9000 words in length, and should be submitted to Story Magazine College Contest, c/o The Reader’s Digest, Pleasantville, N. Y. Manuscripts must be certified by a faculty member.	e
Judges in the competition include Harry Hansen, critic and former editor of the O. Henry Award Volumes; Ralph E. Henderson, editor of Reader’s Digest Condensed Books; and Whit Burnett, William Peden, and Richard Wathen of Story. Hallie Burnett is Contest Director.
FINANCIERS SPEAK TO BENDERS
William Beaver, president of the Finance Club of Notre Dame, has inaugurated a student speaker program within his club. Its aims are to present educational financial talks to groups in the South Bend area in order to create a social bond between Notre Dame and the surrounding community and to improve the public image of Notre Dame.
Speakers for the program are Tom Blair, banking; Dave Castaldi and Jim Listak, investments; Dick Meece, insurance; and Beaver, communism. Talks have been presented to 550 citizens of South Bend. Beaver and Meece have spoken to a number of economics classes at St. Joseph High School, and Castaldi has spoken to an economics class at Bethel College. Planned for the future are talks by Nick Harkins at Penn Township High School and by Jim Listak at St. Mary’s College.
TWO FROSH HELPERS NAMED
Two Notre Dame faculty members have been appointed to newly created posts of Assistant Dean of Freshmen to assist Dr. William M. Burke, Dean of Freshmen, in the administration of the new Freshman Year of Studies. They are Rev. Daniel J. O’Neil, C.S.C., Vincent R. Raymond, assistant professor of business organization and management.
Father O’Neil and Prof. Raymond will aid the freshmen in making their “declaration of intent,” indicating a preference for one of Notre Dame’s four undergraduate colleges. Their counselling will help the freshmen to choose the proper college in the spring.
10
GEORGE N. SCHUSTER: ON EDUCATION
Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to the president at Notre Dame, recently warned in a speech at Dayton, Ohio, that the nation’s Catholic schools must gear themselves for profound changes in American life. But, said Shuster, “we may not have the oil in our lamps which alone can make them glow in the winds and storms of this time.”
For the purpose of determining how much oil there is, Shuster noted that the Carnegie Foundation had recently granted Notre Dame $350,-000 to study Catholic grade and high schools. The scope of the study does not include “any sort of exercise in stone throwing.” Rather the study will attempt to answer three questions: What is Catholic education and whom is it serving? What are the goals it has in mind when it considers the present and future of the Catholic population in the U. S.? How well prepared is it to reach those goals?
Shuster made a particular point of the positive approach of the study. He noted that some Catholic quarters have leveled the charge that the Church does not “prepare the young for the world. . . .” But this is a
NO BRIDGE OVER DIXIE
The Indiana Highway Commission and the administrative heads of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College recently met to decide what could be done in order to avoid future traffic fatalities on U. S. 31. After considerable discussion, the following decisions were made:
1)	A stop light will be immediately erected above each highway lane.
2)	A safety island will be erected in the middle of the road for pedestrians.
3)	A left hand turn land will be fixed in U.S. 31, going north from South Bend, to facilitate traffic into St. Mary’s.
4)	A “walk and wait” light will face the Notre Dame and St. Mary’s sidewalks.
5)	A 30-mile per hour speed limit will be enforced.
The inclement winter weather has forced postponement of much of this work until the summer. The Highway Commission will then enact all of the above measures as quickly as possible.
St. Mary’s authorities are convinced
“laming suspicion.” The real problem confronting Catholic schools is rather one “of shortages of every kind — of staff, facilities, money.”
Describing himself as “some twenty leagues this side of Admiral Rick-over,” Shuster told the Dayton audience that “nothing is good just because it is modem,” though “a great deal has been learned during the past century about the learning process, about the effective organization of the classroom, about the psychology of children, and about such things as the integration of school and community.”
Many Catholic schools, Shuster concluded, have availed themselves of this new knowledge. “And as a result there are schools which can serve as models from which the whole American educational community can learn a great deal. The time has surely come when we should listen carefully to our school superintendents who have in this respect led their teachers to success, and we should spend less time echoing the view of men whose children have gone to excellent private schools on the subject of Three R’s for the masses.”
that this plan will solve the pedestrian and automobile traffic problems and, as a result, are not presently considering an overpass. But Kevin Hart, Tim Haidinger, and co-chairmen Dave Ellis and Jack Tate of the Senate Bridge Committee recently met with the Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, Vice-President for Business Affairs, to decide what steps could be taken to get a bridge built. Father Wilson’s advice was to wait until September, when the effectiveness of the present safety measures can best be considered.
Interviews will be taken of students crossing to and from Notre Dame to find out their opinions of the new measures. The Highway Commission will keep close tabs on the effectiveness of the new safety devices, particularly the speed limit. The Highway Commission has shown’ much interest in the U.S. 31 situation and wifi take all measures necessary to make the crossing safe.
JUGGLER
Anyone who has paid for a subscription to the JUGGLER can secure his copy from John Reishman in 348 Dillon Hall.
The Scholastic
STUDENT PART
On Feb. 5, the Student Senate passed a spring semester budget which is slated to have an anticipated expense total of $7,692.88 and a combined income and cash-on-hand sum of $8,352.55. Thus with accurate control and no unforseen major expenses, Aug. 31 (end of fiscal period) should see the Student Government operating with a reserve of $659.88.
As outlined briefly in Art Graham’s column last week, the budget is a low one compared with the spring semester monstrosity of the past administration that resulted in a $5,027.27 deficit with twelve departments of the Student Government exceeding their budgeted expenses.
As explained in last week’s article, analyzing the making of a Senate budget, the Student Government Fund is first considered in such a budget and its total expense will be $707.27, with the Science Open House and the Blue Circle receiving the greater part of this allocated expense ($328.55 and $285.00 respectively). The reasoning behind these two figures is that the Science Activity Council has approximately $225 cash on hand to be added to the allocation from the Senate, thus giving them sufficient operating expenses. In the case of the Blue Circle, the major portion of the allotted sum will be used for a four-week leadership training program aimed at the entire student body.
Largest expenses in the Commission Fund will be incurred by the International Commission ($1,325 — see breakdown in Scholastic, Mar. 2, 1962, p. 10) and the Academic Commission ($1600). The Goldwater lecture ($300), three poetry readings ($250), the Harrington-Lewis HUAC debate ($400), and a major lecture program featuring the philosopher Fr. Dietrich von Hildebrand ($550), account for this latter budgeted expense.
Run by a man whose political affiliations claim “fiscal responsibility,” the Campus Clubs Commission is again destined to merit a $58 profit due to income ($90) derived from club registration.
The Social Commission is slated to make a $110 profit, though this figure
FINANCE:
TWO
must be viewed as a conservative estimate. This low figure accounts for the low budgeting in the various other aspects of the Student Government, since the Commission is planning to lose money on six functions, break even on two, and make a profit on two. This 6-2-2 record could be easily exceeded with close control by the Commission; and with accelerated student support for the Four Lads Concert there seems to be little reason why the $55 loss budgeted for this function could not easily be converted into a substantial profit. This small-budgeted income has inhibited the Student Government from greatly enlarging its scope. This is the reason the original total anticipated expense of $10,234.93 requested by the various departments of Student Government had to be sliced to a more reasonable $7,692.88.
The Office Expense “grant” (cf. Art Graham) will amount to $1,350. This is a fairly accurate figure based upon
I. - STUDENT GOVERNMENT COMMISSIONS *.$.41
II. - SPECIAL PHJJECTS................$.18
in. - office..........................
IV.	-NATIONAL AFFILIATIONS ........**.$illt
V.	- STUDENT GOVERNMENT FUND .......,.$.09 VI. - SENATE COMMITTEES ..............$.05
past expenses of this type, as is the $200 allocated for Student Senate committees.
National Affiliations expense is exceptionally high this fiscal period because of the summer congress expense that will be incurred by the Notre Dame NSA delegation this August. This amounts to $665 out of the $1,070 granted this aspect of Student Government. In addition, $250.00 has been allocated to the YCS for such items as the Leo XIII Lecture Series ($60), Vernacular Petition ($66.55), and two YCS Study Days ($50). This organization had not filed an appropriation request for the first semester.
The last aspect of the budget is the Special Projects expense which includes the Senate’s assumption of the cost of printing and mailing the Events Calendar ($250), a $658.40 grant for the enlargement of the card stunt program, and $500 in a general fund to be allocated at the Senate’s discretion.
In the final analysis, the budget is a “short” one, but so is total budgeted income expected this semester. It attempts to stretch the Student Government Activity Fee dollar to benefit the majority of the student body and to maintain a realistic financial appraisal of what the Student Government can accomplish. For a more visual analysis of the spring budget see the accompanying diagrams.
— Tom Schleretk
March 9, 1962
II
Learning never stops for engineers at Western Electric
There’s no place at Western Electric for engineers who feel that college diplomas signify the end of their education. However, if a man can meet our quality standards and feels that he is really just beginning to learn... and if he is ready to launch his career where learning is an important part of the job and where graduate-level training on and off the job is encouraged — we want and need him.
At Western Electric, in addition to the normal learning-while-doing, engineers are encouraged to move ahead in their fields by several types of educational programs. Western maintains its own full-time graduate engineering training program, seven formal management courses, and a tuition refund plan for out-of-hours college study.
This learning atmosphere is just one reason why a career at Western Electric is so stimulating. Of equal importance, however, is the nature of the work we do. Our new engineers are taking part in projects that implement the whole art of modern telephony, from highspeed sound transmission and solar cells to electronic telephone offices and computer-controlled production techniques.
Should you join us now, you will be coming
to Western Electric at one of the best times in the company’s history. In the management area alone, several thousand supervisory jobs are expected to open up to W.E. people within the next 10 years. And our work of building communications equipment and systems becomes increasingly challenging and important as the communications needs of our nation and the world continue to increase.
Challenging opportunities exist now at Western Electric for electrical, mechanical, industrial, and chemical engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, and business majors. All qualified applicants will receive careful consideration for employment without regard to race, creed, color or national origin. For more information about Western Electric, write College Relations, Western Electric Company, Room 6206, 222 Broadway, New York 38, New York. And be sure to arrange for a Western Electric interview when our college representatives visit your campus.
Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, 111.; Kearny, N. J.; Baltimore, Md.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale, Pa.; Winston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla. Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J. Teletype Corporation, Skokie, III., and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric distribution centers In 33 cities and Installation headquarters in 16 cities. General headquarters; 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.
12
The Scholastic
Of Special Interest. If you think that there was little to do last week wait until you try to find something to do in this the first full week of Lent. Since you have given up beer at Joers’ and ice cream at the Huddle it will be all the worse.
I suggest that you visit the State Theater on Wednesday night where the third in the Grand Opera Film Festival series will be screened. Gounod’s Faust will be the feature — with Nelly Corradi and Itale Tajo. The operas are, of course, sung in Italian — but the photography is excellent and the music very pleasing — besides there is just enough narration to keep an English-speaking audience in the know. This is the only place where you can enjoy opera and eat popcorn at the same time.
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary’s Orchestra will perform in Washington Hall on Tuesday at 8:30 p.m. Admission will be free.
On Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday at 8:00 p.m. An Evening with the Brownes will be on the SMC Little Theater stage and sponsored by the Speech and Drama Department “over there.”
Again at SMC: the Lions Club Travelogue Film Series presents The Mighty Mississippi as its next to last offering next Friday at 8:00 p.m.
The Avon Art. Again a double feature: more art for your money. The second feature, however, is a composite of selected shorts and a Tom and Jerry cartoon.
The feature, Murder She Said, concerns the spinster sleuth created by mystery writer Agatha Christie: Miss Marple, for detective fans, has come to the screen. She is portrayed by Margaret Rutherford — who is superbly cast. The story as a mystery is only average — the antics of Miss Rutherford are classically comic. She acts with complete aplomb as she goes about solving a murder complex in the dark and sinister house of an English aristocrat. Margaret Rutherford has attempted to tell the police of a murder she saw committed on a nearby train through her train’s window — but to no avail. So, she undertakes to solve the puzzle herself — just to prove that she isn’t the dizzy old lady that the police think that she is. Lively . .. funny . . . but the same old story. Arthur Kennedy and Muriel Pavlow also star.
The Colfax. On into Lent . . . and King of Kings, like a hard night, lingers on.... Perhaps, now, it is more appropriate. Why one should say his night prayers and tell only the truth. A grammar school sermon ... in technicolor. Meant for the masses: understandable theology with the theology removed. It reminded me of a pictorial radio show. If you like splendor and garb and Eurasian countryside — and Biblical imagery . . . this is for you.
(King of Kings: Week 2-8; Sundays 1:30 - 4:45 - 8:00)
The Granada. A change of show and a change of pace. Sergeants 3 is a noveaux Ocean’s 11. The Clan again assembles to fill the theater with sassy banter — and the marquee with appealing names. Dean Martin, Frank Sinatra, Peter Lawford, Sammy Davis, Jr., Joey Bishop, the Crosby Brothers, and, briefly, Ruta Lee (the girl). The story is an adaptation of Gunga Din to the early American West . . . and would be not unlike a Hopalong Cassidy spectacular if it weren’t for the antics and technique of the above — who are each “in his own.” And the film work — Panavision and color — is excellent . . . Winton Hoch. The direction is well executed . . . John Sturges. The music is above average . . . Billy May. And thus we must give it the nod for the best in town this week. Mostly because everything else is pretty bad.
March 9, 1962
(Sergeants 3: 1 - 3 - 5:05 - 7:10 -9:10)
River Park. Mishawaka’s family theater has a double bill this week end: Second Time Around — a terrifically dull comedy with Debbie Reynolds, and Bachelor Flat — a most refreshing and bright comedy with Englishman Terry Thomas. The King and I will play for a week starting next Wednesday . . . Yul Brynner and Deborah Kerr in the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical.
The State. Another double feature . . . a new South Bend vogue? Only this time it’s a horrible mixture of The Three Stooges Meet Hercules and Underwater City. The former is “ . . . a fun film for children and unsophisticated adults.” The three stooges are transported to ancient Greece, there to pan the epic films made in recent years. The pie throwing and inane madcaps are retained, of course, in typical Moe, Larry, and Curly Joe style. Vicki Trickett, George Neise, and Samson Burke also appear. The second picture is a submerged science fiction adventure. It complements the feature just perfectly — for children and unsophisticated adults.
(Stooges: 1 - 3:50 - 6:40 - 9:30; Underwater: 2:30 - 5:20 - 8:15)
Campus Clubs. Tomorrow — Les Girls and Marconi Story in the Engineering Auditorium — 7:15 and 9:15. The Lehigh Valley Club.
Sunday — the Dixie Club will show Pillow Talk with Rock Hudson and Doris Day at 2, 4, 6:30, and 9 in the Engineering auditorium.
The Cal Club has scheduled Love Me or Leave Me for Thursday in the Engineering Auditorium at 7 and 9:30.
Washington Hall. The campus Radio City will show an English Comedy with Alistair Sim — the funniest of English funnymen (Green Man, Christmas Carol, Belles of St. Trinians) — in Left, Right, Center... tomorrow at 2:30 - 6:30 - 8:15.
—John McGuire
EUROPEAN TRIP OFFERED
The American College Association is sponsoring a trip to Europe this summer. Leaving June 9, the group will fly the Atlantic in a turboprop DC7C to London. There is no obligation for a guided tour after arrival in Europe. The group will return on a Aug. 30 flight from Paris. Cost of the flight is $250. Information and reservations may be obtained from P. J. Friedrich in Lyons Annex and at the Political Science Department.	.
13
Hello Everybody,
It’s the week end of the New Year holiday and the Chilean Peace Corps project has a few days of rest from its work. At last I have the chance to compose a brief history of my work in the south of Chile during the past month and describe to you the assignment I have received for the duration of my term with the Peace Corps.
Officially, I have just finished the Peace Corps training program. After the two months of Notre Dame, we spent another two and a half months training in Chile — six weeks at Lo Vasquez, a small village some twenty miles from Valparaiso and five weeks dispersed throughout the rural areas south of Santiago in on-the-job-training.
In every instance these final days of training were spent in outposts of the Chilean Institute of Rural Education. The work of this Institute is as diversified as the needs of the Chilean campesinos themselves. It has many media for reaching the campesinos — radio broadcasts, publications, rural schools, and 115 young men and women called “delegados” who travel village to village vaccinating animals, constructing looms and teaching sewing techniques to the men and women who are willing to gather in some community meeting place. Because of the direct and broadside approach which the Institute takes to the rural problem in Chile, it is very difficult to describe the purpose of our Peace Corps mission in one project definition. Secondary teachers are sent to Ghana and the Philippines, and a group of engineers to Tanganyika to build a road. In Chile this month the Peace Corps has 15 representatives teaching everything from mechanics to food conserving in the rural schools; 6 nurses and a dental hygienist in these same schools keeping records, teaching and examining the students; 2 men working in credit unions and cooperatives, 4 in the Institute headquarters, and 18 “in the zone” working full-time in community development. During the week ends, the nurses and teachers of the rural schools also enter the zone for community development work.
14
Obviously this was more than training. For the first time we started our work in behalf of the Chilean campesino, yet the emphasis was still on preparation — learning the area, making contact with the people and seeing with our own eyes the needs of these peasant farmers. Now we are in Lo Vasquez again spending some time making recommendations to the Institute. It is clear to all of us that our most important work in Chile is to render the Institute itself a more effective instrument for the education of the campesino. Already our six home economics graduates are in complete charge of all the food bought and served in any of the Institute’s schools; our nurses are examining, treating and keeping records on all the students; our mechanics are supervising the one well-equipped mechanical plant which the Institute owns and our men and women “in the zone” are helping to transform the present work of the “delegados” from community service to community development.
So that you can understand the possibilities for community development in the rural areas of Chile, I want to describe the conditions of life among the campesinos. This raises a touchy question—even though I’m not writing this on a postcard. Everything I have learned about Chile’s social problems has been taught me by the Chileans themselves and that the intelligent interest which millions of people here have in the campesinos shows that a large percentage of the population is not “underdeveloped” at all. I never use the word “underdeveloped” when talking about the country in general. There are great numbers of educated people, large cities and industries at a high level of development. What no one can deny is that at least one segment of the population is very “underdeveloped” indeed — the 45% who live as campesinos. It is their life which I want to describe to you.
First of all the campesinos are almost completely without money. They are without purchasing power for food, clothing or farm utensils, having only the land they live on to support themselves. One of our com
munity to community campaigns to demonstrate the construction of a good loom for making their own clothes was severely hampered because most of the people had neither hammer nor saw. One type of campesino has a little more cash than another. The “inquilino” who works on the large hacienda or “fundo” makes a small salary while the small property owner has about 40 acres of poor, hilly land and nothing more. This does not means that the inquilino has a great advantage over the small property owner. He doesn’t own his own land but uses an acre or two of the fundo and a small ramshackle house given him by the “patron” or owner. On the contrary, I believe that the small property owner is better off than those who work on the fundos if for no other reason than he owns his own land and has more initiative.
These homes are poor and unsanitary. They are usually one story, unpainted houses with 2 or 3 rooms one of which can be made warm in the winter time with a stove. Sanitary conditions are always bad. During these past summer months, there were thousands of flies in every kitchen in which I sat eating or drinking. In the winter, Rio Negro receives an annual rainfall of 80 inches; and these homes must become permanently damp, a good explanation for the prevalence of tuberculosis. Water, despite the heavy rainfall, is a problem for many because the soil is so porous that the summer becomes dry. This worsens the sanitary conditions in the home.
The Scholastic
The outhouses are usually poorly constructed if they exist at all.
In my area of Rio Negro, the houses give an appearance of greater prosperity. Many are new. The explanation for this is not a cheering one. In May of 1960, the old ones were wrecked by an earthquake. I slept in the new house of one man who reconstructed his entire farm plant including his house without one helping hand from another person or agency. The favorite topic of conversation in Rio Negro is still the earthquake and the help which the U. S. gave is always mentioned with real gratitude. Well constructed buildings like hotels and churches were demolished. You can imagine what the earthquake did to the homes of the campesinos.
With poor living conditions and improper diet as well the campesinos are subject to a storm of maladies and physical handicaps. One of the saddest experiences of my six weeks was a recurrent one — happening every time I boarded a local bus or climbed on a wheezing truck jammed with campesino folk. The older men and women would show signs of a life’s struggle with sickness — looking older than they really were, with only a few teeth left and with a figure that indicated a life-time diet of starches. The young children would be as cute and well-formed as grade-schoolers in the United States, but the only possibility open to them within their environment was to resuffer everything their parents did and lose what we consider to be normal health. It is
when this problem can be seen perpetuating itself that one becomes discouraged.
The older people suffer from pneumonia and tuberculosis a great deal. Typhus, dysentery, and typhoid fever are also killers. The strain of having large families and little protein in their diet means an early death for many women. The women also encounter difficulties from having babies in crude ways. In Chol-Chol, an Indian settlement to which two Peace Corpsmen are returning in February, the woman is customarily left alone in an isolated shack as the time of labor approaches. In San Juan de la Costa there are worse customs. Although proper medical attention is available to all the campesinos, the problem is to reach a clinic or hospital. We took the “senora” of one man some 50 miles over dirt roads to a hospital in Osomo. He brought her to where we were from his home which was a two-hour journey on horseback from the road. She was unconscious and had been that way for 2 days.
This problem of mobility affects the campesino’s life in many ways. It means that he is unable to arrive at a market frequently or stay there very long if he wants to return home the same day. He has to travel part of the distance on horseback and then hitch a ride on the back of a truck. The inaccessibility of the market means two things — he can’t buy economically and he can’t sell economically. Instead of making the time-consuming journey, he will purchase commodities in nearby stores called “boliches” where prices are twice the normal cost. To sell his crops, he’ll hand them all over to a middleman in town who pays him little. We are collaborating with the Ministry of Agriculture in Osomo to bring the campesinos to a new free market where they can sell directly to the public. In another area, two corpsmen spent the entire month carting the campesinos' lettuce to the nearest market in a truck. With a better market and greater profit motive, these particular farmers were already showing enthusiasm for better use of their land.
Although their land is poor and hilly, it could produce more than at present in almost every case. They plant wheat and potatoes, year after year, without rotating crops or using fertilizer and causing soil erosion on a grand scale. Oxen pull their plows when workhorses would do twice the work in the same amount of time. They have no idea of farm finances. They will raise a turkey or two and sell them for less money than they invested in labor or feed. With a few
new farming and husbandry techniques and some elementary habits of calculations, the campesinos could have a better life for themselves. It is this fact which makes our work more challenging than discouraging.
This point leads to the most important problem of all — lack of education. In the rural areas of Chile, the average child has 4 years of schooling. A successful educational system in the rural areas could diminish every difficulty I have mentioned. If they understood the connection between the dampness and tuberculosis; between the fly, the outhouse and the baby’s fever; between the irrigation ditch and the dysentery, they could avoid many bouts with illness. If they learned the real needs of a woman in labor or a child in its first few months of life, they could satisfy many of them with what they already have. With technical advice and a calculated investment in fertilizer or animal vaccine, they could build up a farming operation which would satisfy their own needs and provide them with goods for the market.
It is in this area of “rural education” which the Peace Corps is working in Chile. We will use the direct approach of giving talks to the men and women gathered at the local “centro” or meeting place. In the first week of February, one of the Peace Corps girls will accompany me to Rio Negro armed with pamphlets from the U. S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare; a dictionary; visual aids, and a background in education courses, practical nursing, and home economics experience. Her name is Janet Boegli — a gorgeous blonde graduate of the University of Texas. She’ll give talks and demonstrations once or twice a month in each centro of mothers. I’ll do the same before the men, explaining the advantages of simple farming and husbandry techniques.
But we must use an indirect approach — for the most important thing we can teach the campesinos is that they can do for themselves. Through hints, discussions, sometimes outright suggestions, we will try to organize the efforts of individuals into community projects. The possibilities are limitless. In one area, the farmers are running out of firewood and in a few years will be using their floors or fences for winter heat. We want to encourage a community plan to buy seedlings of Monterrey pine trees which grow so rapidly that they can be cut in ten years. In one fundo, we are arrainging a competition in rabbit care. I’ll organize the youngsters,
1?
March 9, 1962
DRY CLEAN ONLY SERVICE COIN-OPERATED TYPE DRY CLEANING
8 LBS. OF DRY CLEANING — $1.50
EACH ADDITIONAL LB. — 20<
LIMITED SPOT REMOVAL • PRESSING NOT INCLUDED
STUDENT DISCOUNT NOT APPLICABLE
Returned on Hangers • No waiting • Quick Service
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFERSON
Downtown on the Bus Line
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE
ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Don’t meet your Waterloo at the typewriter—perfectly typed papers begin with Corrasable! You can rub out typing errors with just an ordinary pencil eraser. It’s that simple to erase without a trace on Corrasable. Saves time, temper, and money!
Your choice of Corrasable in light, medium, heavy weights and /	/
Onion Skin in handy 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet boxes. Only Eaton makes Corrasable.	,
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
EATON PAPER CORPORATION ■
/
teach them about proper sanitation and feeding for the rabbits and arrange for them to buy a buck and a doe very cheaply. Janet will teach the mothers some tasty ways to serve rabbits and we might succeed in getting them more protein during the winter.
If the community as a whole could be convinced of their efficacy, medicines and vaccinations against animal disease could be bought and distributed with little initial cost and great. dividends. Most important of all is the cooperative. By pooling their money, the farmers can buy in wholesale markets and in bulk quantities. They can run large-scale animal operations with better equipment and more pro- . fit for distribution to all. They would be in a position to receive credit for buying farm equipment — perhaps someday even a tractor.
Even if we succeed in all our attempts, it would not be a tangible amount of success in the over-all fight against poverty in Chile. Therefore one group of Peace Corps men and women have accepted two very important principles. First, while in the “zone,” we will work very carefully with a few communities hoping that word of highly successful community activity will spread and more campe-sinos will be inclined to attempt it later. Secondly, we want to deposit in the Institute all the valuable things we know. In 18 months we leave Chile — its rural schools and campe-sinos. The most permanent contribution we can make is to incorporate better methods and ideas in the structure of the indigenous Chilean Institute of Rural Education. For this reason we are spending January with the staff and delegados of the Institute in summer workshops even though they take us out of direct contact with the campesinos where we would like to be.
I am anxious to return to Ri° Negro because I enjoyed December there. My life was hectic but not unhealthy. In one period of nine days. I slept in eight different places —'
E*: PITTSFIELD, MASS.
Available at
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477
The Scholastic
16
once sprawled on the floor of a chapel in my sleeping bag. I traveled from place to place on foot, horseback, bus, truck and sometimes in the Jeep of the North American “padres” in Rio Negro. I ate well enough; and, although a great portion of our Peace Corps contingent has suffered from intestinal disorders and loss of weight, I remain one of the lucky ones.
Another big reason for wanting to return is that I like the campesinos and have grown to respect them a great deal. Their endurance for hard work, their ability to live off the land without any of the things which we call “necessities,” their love of music and their generosity leave me filled with admiration. They are simple from their lack of education, and this is refreshing even though it caused me one of the most difficult moments I have had with the Peace Corps. One long Sunday afternoon I attended a dance at one of the centres and had to rock’n’roll with every girl under 40 in the place and answer questions about Brenda Lee for six hours — all in a language I acquired recently and then pronounced miserably and while a bunch of microbes played havoc in my lower intestines. But it was worth it when one of the men asked me for my autograph and when, a little later, one of these local jitterbugs approached me and shook my hand in the middle of the busiest street in Osorno.
The campesinos were usually flattered that a North American had come so far to work with them even though they knew little about the United States. (One asked if we received those wonderful Care packages in our country, too.) The higher social classes haven’t quite figured me out yet. One time they saw me walking through Osorno in old clothes, caked with dust and with a sleeping bag on my back. The next time I was standing before them at a banquet in my campus-shop, ivy-league suit explaining our work. Some have been very understanding, however; and one patron” purposely avoided me in (Continued on page 23)
stay with a n.d. man BLUE & GOLD MOTEL
i block north of toll road exit on U.S. 31
•
Reservations: CE 4-0136
•
CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. ’38 LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. ’38
THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE'S
SUGGESTED READING LIST No. ;
Each week in this space, the Notre Dame Bookstore will present a list of books which have been recommended by the various department heads and their staffs as among the most profitable and worthwhile in their field. The purpose of this is threefold: First, to provide the student with a guide for his outside reading; second, to provide a medium for the departments in furnishing this guide; and third, to provide a guide for the Bookstore in its stocking of better books.
o
THIS WEEK’S FIELD IS
SOCIOLOGY
The Organization Man by William H. Whyte, Jr. Anchor $1.45. The now classic study of life under the protection of bigness—big corporation, big government, the University, or the Labor Union. Valuable and absorbing reading.
Protestant, Catholic, Jew by Will Herberg, Anchor $1.45. A book all of us at Notre Dame should be required to read. It gives sympathetic and understanding objective views of not only our own religion but that of other Americans.
Love in The Western World by Denis de Rougemont, Anchor $1.45. The theme of his thesis is that the dominant attitude toward love in the Western World prefers adultery to marriage, opposes love to life, and pursues passion irresistibly to death.
The Lonely Crowd by David Reisman, Doubleday $1.25. The analysis of the “New Middle Class” in terms of inner-directed and other-directed social character. It is to some degree an analysis of our society, the N.D. student and his family.
The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism by Max Weber, Scribner $1.45. A brilliant study of the fundamental relationships between religion and the economic and social life in modern culture.
All these books are available at Notre Dame Bookstore
March 9, 1962
17
“Some Sundays you wish you had stayed in bed...”
Alex Webster, N.Y. Giants
44 You've got to expect punishment out there. Some days it's worse than others. You get it from all sides. When you're hit, you know it—especially in the face. I learned a long time ago not to trust anything but a remington. Those roller combs suit me fine. Give me the closest shave I ever got without ruffling the bruises. J J
The closer you try to shave, the more irritated you’re likely to get Only Remington*—because of its adjustable roller combs— allows you to shave closer more comfortably, more safely. Try it.
REMINGTON SELF-POWERED LEKTRONIC Shaver with exclusive roller combs. Shaves without a cord. Frees you from sinks, outlets, bathroom tie-ups. Powerful sealed-in cells recharge on shaver’s own charging stand for shave after shave without a cord. Also: Remington Roll-A-Matic* plug-in model with roller combs. Both are now being featured at your college or university store.
Cl 1962 BY SPERRY RAND CORPORATION
18
The Scholastic
Only as a sophomore . . .
Irish Cage Stars...
What They’re Doing
Executives, seminarians, coaches, professional athletes: graduates of the John Jordan basketball regime fill all these positions. Of Jordan’s notable stars, three are seminarians, three are coaches, two top professional athletes, and another four are successful executives.
John Smyth, captain of the 1956-57 team who is the third highest scorer in Notre Dame history with 1236 points, will be ordained a priest in May, for the Archdiocese of Chicago — his home diocese. Other seminarians are John McCarthy — a 19.2 scorer as a senior in 1957-58 — who is at the Dominican House of Studies in River Forest, Ill., and the other 1957-58 co-captain, Bobby Devine, who is studying to become an Oblate of Mary. Devine taught last year at Father Judge High School in Philadelphia.
Dick Rosenthal, one of Notre Dame’s all-time greats who scored 506 points and averaged 20.2 as the captain of the 1953-54 team, is now a vice-president of the Indiana Bank of Fort Wayne. Bill Sullivan operates his own employment agency in Chicago, and is a past president of the Chicago Junior Chamber of Commerce; other executives are Lloyd Aubrey, now a Los Angeles insurance man, and Gene Duffy, general manager of the Davenport, Iowa, farm team of the Chicago White Sox. Former Irish eager Henry Luepke is now a St. Louis attorney.
Among the coaches, the most prominent is Jim Gibbons, who has returned
ARMAND REO:
A Long, Long Season
by ARMAND REO as told to TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
It’s been a long, frustrating, disappointing season for the whole team, especially the seniors. There’s much more pressure on a team that’s losing than on a winning team; when you’re in a slump, you just keep wondering when you’ll win the next one.
I thought we were going to get off to a much better start than we did, after we beat Bellarmine and Northwestern. But then we took our first trip of the season, to Nebraska. Losing to Creighton there was no disgrace — they gave everybody a tough time this year. But we should never have lost to Nebraska. . . . Still, we came right back and beat Michigan State at East Lansing, something Notre Dame hasn’t been able to do in quite a few years, and
to his alma mater as assistant coach of basketball and baseball. Leroy Leslie is now basketball coach at Johnstown, Pa., Catholic high school, and Tom Sullivan coaches St. Procopius of Lisle, Ill.
All-American Tom Hawkins now stars with the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball League; as an athlete, however, he is overshadowed by Paul Hornung, not particularly known as a basketball player. Says Coach Johnny Jordan of Hornung, NFL scoring champion the past three seasons, holder of the single season scoring record, and this season’s most valuable player: “Paul was a good, very aggressive, basketball player. When he won his basketball monogram in 1954-55, he played in 10 games as a forward and guard and scored 61 points. Had he played his junior and senior seasons, he could have become a very fine player, and would almost certainly have started.” * * *
Of recent graduates, 1959-60 captain Mike Graney is now following in his dad’s footsteps at Inland Steel; John Tully has joined Emmett McCarthy at the Michigan Law School; and 1960-61 captain Bill Crosby now manages the Newark branch of a New York investment firm.
I thought we might be all right.
But the Christmas road trip broke us. We played too many good teams in too short a time, all on the road. The traveling got us down; we got discouraged and we just never came back. Kentucky, St. Louis, Indiana, and North Carolina were just too much. If we’d played .500 on that trip, you can never tell. . . .
When we beat Detroit and DePaul at midseason, I was hopeful that we’d pick up, but the bottom fell out again.
Looking back on the season, I don’t feel that anyone — player or coach — deserves all the blame. It seems that we just didn’t have the horses. We had good scoring, but little board strength. I think our biggest single problem was a lack of depth; we just tired out. Essentially, we played the season with only six men.
And yet, I have more respect for this team than for any I’ve played on. They didn’t quit; they always wanted to win. We kept the spirit up and kept plugging, and gave almost everyone a good game. We lost a lot of close ones, too.
But no matter what anyone says, when you lose, it’s a long season. . . .
REO
March 9, 1962
19
Cltt AS WE / "/ See IT
by BOB CHIAPPINELLI
While Wilt Chamberlain was racking up his unbelievable 100-point total in a single game last week, an experiment was being conducted at the University of Pennsylvania which may eventually cut down on the effectiveness of The Stilt and others who are a wee bit taller than the normal giraffe.
With the Pennsylvania varsity serving as guinea pigs, the basket was gradually raised until it reached a height of 11% feet. After a brief warming-up period, the players, surprisingly enough, began popping in shots with almost the same consistency as attained when firing at a 10-foot-high basket. The chief difference was in timing, and with a little practice that difficulty would probably be overcome. So it looks like Wilt can start aiming for 200 without too much to hinder him.
Twenty-two-year-old Jim Hannan, a former Notre Dame student, is now a top pitching prospect in the Washington Senators’ training camp. The 200-pounder compiled a 17-7 minor-league mark last year and stands an excellent chance of breaking into the starting rotation of the pitching-poor Senators.
With Jerry Lucas apparently sticking to his promise to forsake professional basketball, the top pro prospect likely is Purdue’s Terry Dischinger. But the pros might find trouble even here as the rumor grows that Terry will play AAU ball next year. In addition, Dave DeBusschere is expected to choose baseball as his career.
This Hoosier Hysteria goes pretty far. Wisconsin’s monumental upset of the nation’s top team, Ohio State, placed a rather distant second to a high school basketball game in headlines of last Sunday’s Indianapolis Star.
The $1,850,000 which the New York Mets doled out in the recent National League player draft was only the beginning of their financial worries. The total invested has now climbed to $5 million and the team has yet to play a single game. But the Mets are optimistic and have claimed that their advance ticket sales are better than even the sales of the New York Giants in their biggest years.
20
ED RUTKOWSKI
Few Notre Dame quarterbacks have won glory in other sports than football — but junior Ed Rutkowski has done just this. A monogram winner at quarterback and halfback as a sophomore and one of three Irish quarterbacks who saw offensive action this past fall, Rutkowski has captured the imagination of the student body not as a football player, but as a wrestler.
A heavyweight, he has become one of the most colorful and talked-about athletes of the winter sports season at Notre Dame, and has been almost solely responsible for the greatly increased popularity of wrestling on the campus — in a season when the Irish team is, at best, mediocre.
Rutkowski first gained prominence as a wrestler last season, when he lost only one regular season match, and won the heavyweight championship of the Wheaton Invitational Tournament.
But this year, Rutkowski has become nearly a legend. He has won ten matches without a loss, six by pins. He has repeated as heavyweight champ of the Wheaton College tourney. And climactically, he has given Notre Dame a last-second, 14-12 victory over Miami of Ohio. Notre Dame had won three decisions, Miami of Ohio four, when Rutkowski took on 240-pound Tim Stein in the heavyweight match; a decision by Rutkowski could give the Irish only a tie — a pin was mandatory if Notre Dame hoped for a win. And he got it. With only 30 seconds left in the match, Rutkowski pinned Stein with a desperate, sudden effort, and was immediately mobbed by the 2,000 students who had tensely watched.
Ed Rutkowski has achieved a status few nonfootball athletes have ever attained at Notre Dame.
Frosh-Varsity Game Cancelled
The Freshman-Varsity Charity Basketball Game, sponsored by the SCHOLASTIC, and scheduled for 2:00 p.m. this Saturday, March 10, has been cancelled.
The game was originally planned with the assent of the coaches, and school and athletic authorities, but unfortunately, without consulting the players.
Since participation in the game was to be on a voluntary basis, and since four seniors had previous commitments which we respect, we were faced with the choice of having the freshmen play the scrubs, or cancelling the game. We thought it in the best interests of both players and spectators to do the latter.
Swimming
Last week, in a meet advanced a day so as not to conflict with Roger Williams in the Taj Mahal, Notre Dame’s swimming team was edged by Pittsburgh 49-46. It marked the fifth Irish loss in the last six meets and dipped the team’s record below .500.
Pitt showed it had quality, if not quantity, as the small Panther squad set a new pool record in the first two events, giving them a 12-4 advantage. Bob Lieb and Bill Vasu swept the 50-yard freestyle event, but Pitt liked the gap the way it was originally and swept the next contest, the 200-yard individual medley, to stretch its lead to eight points.
Pitt’s sweep of the 200-yard butterfly was offset by a similar effort by Bob Lieb and John Macleod in the 100-yard freestyle. Then Tony Devine and Larry Temple took first and third in diving to cut the lead to five.
The Panthers then widened the gap to 12 as they swept the backstroke and set another pool record. Notre Dame’s comeback would have been successful were it not for the breaststroke event. Both Irish co-captains, Dave Witchger and Joe Bracco, entered the water knowing that one of them would have to beat the lone Pitt entry, Dennis McHugh. The race was a close one for four laps, then McHugh confirmed the faith of his teammates as he pulled ahead to win
(Continued on page 22)
The Scholastic
VOICE IN THE CROWD:
inconsistency
Inconsistency marred the performance of this year’s Irish tesketball team. Notre Dame held its own against highly ranked Bradley and St. John’s, but were slaughtered by powerful Kentucky, North Carolina, and Indiana. Even the infamous Notre Dame Fieldhouse did not provide its usual refuge as the Irish dropped four of nine home engagements. The reasons for this inconsistency which caused the Irish to lose 16 of 23 games are many and varied.
Many envisioned a rebounding season for Notre Dame after last year’s 12-14 record. Only last season’s captain Bill Crosby and center John Tully were missing as the Irish opened against Bellarmine last December. Six lettermen returned, including high scorer Armand Reo, pesky Eddie Schnurr, senior veterans John Dearie and Karl Roesler, and talented juniors John Andreoli and John Matthews.
The performance against Bellarmine left much to be desired, but could be excused as a typical opener. However, it was obvious that something was lacking even as Notre Dame won its second straight against Northwestern in a take-off of the Syracuse football game.
The victory string was snapped by Creighton in the final seconds, and a loss to Nebraska in another close affair leveled the season record at 2-2. A last-second victory at Michigan State on Dec. 16 was the last win for the Irish until the Jan. 13 Detroit game.
The six games during this interval are best forgotten. The Irish lost a close skirmish to NYU, were beaten by St. Louis in a game which, according to Coach John Jordan, “. . . set basketball back fifty years,” received a demonstration in scoring from Kentucky, North Carolina, and Indiana and watched the Butler Bulldogs give them one of the worst shellackings in Fieldhouse history.
At the time it seemed an understatement when a cynical senior leaving the Butler debacle said that Notre Dame athletics had reached its lowest ebb. The sell-out crowd that packed the Fieldhouse the following Saturday for the Detroit game either came to see how good Titan Dave DeBusschere was or how bad the Irish were. Those that had witnessed the Butler game soon wondered if a pro team had stolen the Notre Dame jerseys. To the bewilderment of all, especially Detroit Coach Bob Calihan, Notre Dame gave its finest team effort since the days of Tom Hawkins and Gene Duffy in out-shooting, out-re-bounding, and out-hustling the shocked Titans, 77-59.
Three days later Notre Dame proved its performance was not a fluke as they whipped a highly-respected DePaul five, out-rebounding the top rebounding team in the nation in gaining an 88-80 nod.
The rest of the season further emphasized Notre Dame’s inconsistency. Creighton, Purdue, and a rejuvenated Detroit crushed the Irish while the sixth-ranked team in the country, Bradley, pulled out a last minute victory over a hustling Notre Dame squad.
The reasons for this inconsistency were not apparent at the season’s beginning. On paper the Irish had two returning veterans to play the inside post, John Dearie and Karl Roesler. Neither proved to be the consistent per-former so needed at this position. Both had good days ms season, but neither developed into the high-scoring man that most Irish opponents possessed.
Seniors Reo and Schnurr both came up with brilliant ^arcA 9, 1962
performances; however, both missed the screening and playmaking of Bill Crosby. Creighton most effectively demonstrated the value of Crosby’s screening from the high post as they constantly badgered Reo before he could get off his potent jump shot.
There has been some criticism of John Jordan and his coaching methods during this disappointing season. Many argue that his controlled 1-3-1 offense is outmoded and should be junked in favor of a brand of race-horse ball. It is, at the least, highly debatable whether Jordan can be criticized for his style of play. No one criticized Pete Newell at California when he won the NCAA title with a controlled offense. Sports Illustrated recently praised Ray Mears of tiny Wittenberg, voted the top coach in Ohio. This may seem insignificant but remember Cincinnati's Ed Jucker and Fred Taylor of Ohio State were also nominated. Mears explains, “I use the 1-3-1 offense because everyone else uses the two-guard offense. That way you have to make preparations for us, and you lose a lot of practice time.”
It appears then that Jordan’s style of play is not to blame. Some critics feel Jordan does not recruit effectively, while others think he is just a poor coach. The first of these charges is easily disproved by glancing at this year’s freshman squad. It is remarkable that these boys are here considering the handicaps Jordan has had to work with. In athletics, Notre Dame has been and, probably, always will be a football school. The “breathtaking” Notre Dame Fieldhouse symbolizes the position of basketball at Notre Dame. A sought-after high school senior can hardly be blamed for preferring Kentucky, Ohio State, or St. John’s.
This year’s freshman squad will quite possibly either disprove or prove the latter criticism during the next three years. A final evaluation of this disappointing season rests with their performance.
— John Bechtold
21
Mitchell Travel Service
LaSalle Hotel — South Bend
CE 2-2253 — Phones — CE 3-1181
Res.: CE 2-0185
•
OPEN SATURDAYS
•
★	AIRLINE RESERVATIONS
★	HOTEL & RESORT RESERVATIONS
All at no extra charge to you.
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM SATURDAY, MARCH 31 AT 8:30 P.M.
ERROL GARNER
Famous Jazz Pianist with
Bass and Percussion Accompaniment
TICKETS: S3.50. S3.OO. $2.00. $1.50
On Sale: MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM or ari<«: BOX 2117, SOUTH BEND, IND.
On Campus Reservations: See JAY WARD or PHIL JONES —304 DILLON Mail Orders to the above address also accepted.
DOING IT THE HARD WAY by bo#
easier 3-minute way for men: FITCH
Men, get rid of embarrassing dandruff easy as 1-2-3 with FITCH! In just 3 minutes (one rubbing, one lathering, one I rinsing), every trace of dandruff, grime, gummy old hair I tonic goes right down the drain! Your hair looks hand-
FITCH
LEADING MAN’S
QUAMDAA KeeP y°ur hair and scalP r	really clean, dandruff-free!
FITCH
tingles, feels so refreshed. Use FITCH Dandruff Remover SHAMPOO every week for positive dandruff control.
A vail able at
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
WRESTLING
The Notre Dame wrestling team wound up its season at Milwaukee on March 2 with a 14-16 defeat at the hands of Marquette, thus posting an over-all record in dual competition of three wins and nine losses. The Marquette contest saw Ed Rutkowski pinning his opponent in 5:02, with the Notre Dame decisions going to Dick
Martin (123), Fred Morelli (137), and Jack Barry (147).
Prior to this match Tom Fallon’s team enjoyed a Feb. 22 victory .over Miami, Ohio by a score of 14-1.^ while suffering losses to Cincinnati (Feb. 24) and Wheaton (Feb. 28) by respective tallies of 13-14 and 8-19. Decisions in these matches went in favor of Dick Martin, Ed Rutkowski (2), Jack Barry (2), Fred Morelli, John Gibbons, and Al Goodrich. Martin endured two draws and Rutkowski highlighted the Miami contest for the Fighting Irish with a pin in 8:30.
Undefeated Rutkowski has now achieved victory in seven dual competition matches, three of these seven wins being recorded as pins. The Wheaton Invitational Tournament on Feb. 17 saw “Rut” earning two more pins and a decision.
Today and Saturday will find two Notre Dame representatives competing in the 4-1 (Interstate Intercollegiate Individual Invitational) Tournament at Case Tech in Cleveland. These participants will be Dick Martin, dropping from his usual 123 pound class to the one at 117 pounds, and Ed Rutkowski, foregoing the Heavyweights for the 191 pound division. Rutkowski should be favored to repeat his victory of last year while Martin, by virtue of his runner-up position in the 1961 match, should be ranked among the top contenders in his class.
—W. H. Schroder
Swimming
(Continued from page 20) the event and put Pitt an unattainable ten points ahead. The Irish victory in the 400-yard freestyle relay did little but close the gap as the mermen fell in defeat by the score of 49-46.
The Notre Dame squad closes the season tomorrow with a two o’clock meet against Washington of St. Louis.
—Joe Ryan
MARRIAGE INSTITUTE
Mr. and Mrs. John Drish of Evanston, III., will speak to the marriage institute audience Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. The subject will be "Growing Up Through Marriage." Tickets can be obtained at the door, or at 120 Sorin Hall °r 233 Walsh Hall.
The Scholastic
'Peace Corps'
(Continued from page 17) front of his “inquilinos” because he knew I wanted to associate myself with them. This same patron only laughed a few hours later when I arrived at his mansion for Sunday dinner in clodhoppers and soiled working shirt. It was all I had with me in the zone.
My work was carried on in a peaceful atmosphere without disturbance from any enemies of the United States. This is not to say that they aren’t active here. There is an area in the coastal mountains within my zone where 200 Indian families are living on land they claim for their own but which has been deeded to some large land owners by the government. They retain this land with arms and refused us permission to enter when we requested it. Struggling for leadership in this “revolt” are two Communists, one of whom lives in Rio Negro. They operate as do all the 1500 Communist agitators in Chile — making themselves part of a local community and spreading dissension against the government. This is not an isolated case. I know of a more bitter revolt in another area. Both are dramatic instances of Communist influence in Chile — an influence which has already been directed against us. We know that word has been sent to Communist members of labor unions to embarrass us at every opportunity. The daily Communist paper “El Siglo” has branded us “45 spies” in a full page, front page story. When our teachers arrived at one rural school, anti-Yankee signs had been posted on the gate.
Janet and I will request permission again to enter this mountain colony because we believe that part of the Peace Corps idea is to show the poor people in the world that the United States can be as interested in their problems as the Communists and that where they offer bitter slogans, we can offer deeds and helpful advice. Still we work not so much for the downfall of Communism as the elevation of the campesino. Communism is the symptom; poverty is the disease; and, if our work were motivated by a fear of Communism instead of a human compassion for human misery, we would never succeed.
Somehow it is hard to end this Jitter. It has already become too long. This because no conclusions or summaries are possible. Like the campesi-nos themselves, we are just beginning, “lease remember us in your prayers.
—Tom Scanlon Notre Dame ’60
March 9, 1962
'First Poems'
(Continued from page 7) the Village. Whenever residents are unable or unwilling (by right of personal choice, we would attest) to install toilet facilities that comply with the city’s restrictive specifications, they face these dire consequences. Erstens is an unfortunate victim of these bureaucratic machinations of will. The simple truth is that the Erstens have no toilet facilities at all; that is, other than an off-premises affair behind their home near Washington Square. The authorites, needless to say, will have none of this. Mrs. Erstens, staunchly proclaiming her family’s rights, has said: “We’ll not leave! My husband does his best work out back, and can’t be expected to quit his most inspirational spot on the Island." Let us all hope that the City Fathers recognize the poetic justice inherent in this grand lady’s plea.
In this incident, as well as in many other small but heroically noble efforts, we are in profound sympathy with Ewing Erstens. In his struggle to fill an artistic void in this country we can be comforted in the face of so much Philistinism by his own words:
Who can say where to the Fantastic Foolyhaahaa ... &
By whatever gifts
The dearth remits
Know me not for here is
Burgeoning
Lif
E
for your personal copy
1 of this special story about a very
MAKIELSKI ART SHOP
SINCE 1911
PICTURE FRAMING •
ART SUPPLIES
COMPLETE SELECTION OF ART SUPPLIES FOR THE ARCHITECTURAL AND FINE ART STUDENTS •
117 NORTH MAIN ST. South Bend, Indiana CEntral 3-2409
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pizza
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. on the hour.
•
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
•	Full information on the University of Wisconsin's famous Summer Sessions for ’62: S sessions, 60 institutes, 600 courses.
•	Colorful features about the good life in Madison, by distinguished Wisconsin alumni:
Holiday's Herbert Kubly Washington's Marquis Childs Yale's John Dollard
•	Illustrations by our artist-in-residence, Aaron Bohrod of Time and Look fame, including a custom four-color cover, ‘‘Summertime Wisconsin.”
•	A campus report by The Milwaukee Journal.
•	Helpful full-length articles on:
How to Study in Summer
How to Plan Your Lifelong Learning
How to Be a Scholar
You’ll want to keep this unusual guide to a successful academic and professional career. Send 25c in coin (to cover handling costs) to:
Dean L. H. Adolfson
UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN SUMMER SESSIONS '62
Extension Building, Room. 609 Madison 6, Wisconsin
23
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
N ABICHT CAFETERIA ★ 1415 Lincolnway West AAA Approved Cafeteria ★ FREE PARKING
'Repercussions'
(Continued from page 6) realistic appraisal of the situation asks this question: is Notre Dame merely turning out docile clods, indoctrinated, unquestioning, circular thinkers? Mr. Brady intimates that a positive answer would be more apropos than a negative one. Are we to confront the world as knowledgeable Catholics or are we to maintain our pristine vacuity? To confront the world we must know the world.
Ed Butler South Bend
FOR MODERATION
Editor:
The extra space allotted to Jerry Brady in last week’s issue of the Scholastic seems to me to have been entirely justified. He attacks an area of sensitivity, an aspect of Notre Dame life that merits further discussion. But I contend that much of this activity he considers significant at Berkeley is the expression of a philo
sophical attitude at odds with the Catholic viewpoint.
College campuses have traditionally been the starting point for “avant-garde” movements. Today this propensity for the unusual and unique takes the form of an emphasis on social action. The alleviation of world problems will be accomplished as soon as every stomach is full and every body is healthy. The call for fewer but better men than Julian Huxley has made is now accepted along with all of its ramifications.
The Catholic, on the other hand, has been tutored in the thought that man will be happy only when both his physical and spiritual cravings are satisfied. Ideally then, campus social groups should combine this dual problem into a single activity. For this reason, I believe that a group such as the CILA which was formed at Notre Dame, but which is international in its scope, is the correct answer to the problem by a Catholic university.
Edward Malloy
Cool, clean Old Spice After Shave lotion always gets you off to a fast, smooth start. Feels just as good between shoves as it does after shaving. Rates A-OK with dates
AFTER SHAVE LOTION
S H u L.TO N
24
The Scholastic
Check your opinions against L‘M’s Campus Opinion Poll '18
I
OOOO
O Would you volunteer to man the first space station if odds on survival were 50-50?
□ Yes □ No
0 How many children would you like to have when you’re married?
© Do men expect their dates to furnish their own cigarettes?
□ Yes □ No
J few*.-;
I
I
□ None □ One □ Two □ Three □ Four or more
HERE'S HOW 1029 STUDENTS AT 100 COLLEGES VOTED!
L&M gives you
MORE BODY in the blend, MORE FLAVOR
» 11199H
in the smoke, MORE TASTE through the filter. It’s the rich-flavor leaf that does it!
%LZ %£L
%9?....ojoiu jo jnoj
%IE.........aajqi
%l£.............. Omi	Q
%6............ouq
%£.......... ouon

%W %9E’
L4 M’s the filter cigarette for people who really like to smoke.
iK w's / .Xs Xs	--Xs X.-- ' xsv -X	S'-X -■ " "A S ' ’ '	*	...X-.-A... 
9
FORUM
THE CITY AND THE UNIVERSITY
I WOULD first like to make some comments on what Notre Dame could do in order to develop more “vigor and perspective” along the lines suggested by Jerry Brady in his recent Forum articles “Community or the Gift of Tongues,” I and II.
I would like to congratulate Mr. Brady on his own little demonstration as a Notre Dame student. Judging from his comments, he carried on a “hunger strike” by staunchly refusing to take a single bite out of our “exclusive diet of Thomism,” as he calls it. Or at least he did not chew on any of the “off-campus ... bones” offered by Aquinas’ unfinished commentary on Aristotle’s Politics, Treatise on Law (Summa Theologiae, I-H, Questions 90-97), On Princely Government, or On the Government of the Jews. In these, Aquinas says more than once that “man’s responsibility goes beyond family and associates to a society he must found in Christian justice,” a message which Mr. Brady claims “Catholic moral theologians have only recently” delivered.
The third suggestion of Mr. Brady in his second article might be implemented by having a debate on the aforementioned question of man’s social responsibility. A second Aquinas and St. Paul would make a good affirmative team; a second Hobbes and a prominent Marxist would be the negative.
Mr. Brady says that campus problems which now occupy students are often too much outside their control to be fit subjects for dialogue. The Thilman’s situation seems to be one of these problems. Following the example of Cal, students could direct their energy to a solvable problem by setting up an ad hoc chapter of the “Student Alliance against Totalitarianism.” After quickly solving the problem, the club would “wither away” along with all Marxist states.
The present condition of “physical isolation” from some of the more unpleasant aspects of society seems to account for part of Mr. Brady’s complaint of “a general stupefaction in public life at Notre Dame.” A partial solution might entail importing several dozen Congolese and placing them in unused Vetville apartments thus forming a tribal enclave. In no time at all, a model
26
slum would probably develop. “Academic principles” could then “be tried out on the facts by intelligent people” as Mr. Brady suggests, by using the Congolese for experiments to solve problems like Congolese soldiers headhunting while on furlough and the development of slums. The Congolese could also be used as symbols by a radical “Fair Play for Congo” movement, if the need arose.
Another of Mr. Brady’s suggestions is to hire a few “young professorial bulls” (polar bears might be better for the South Bend climate). By turning these “bulls” and all underclassmen loose in the freshmen quad we might get a real “milieu” in which some substantial bull could be thrown around. Potential political leaders could get a solid background in evading questions by trying out their skill as a matador.
When Notre Dame students do become “aware” they will be able to turn their “stupefied” actions into socially relevant “witnesses to the community.” If another Giuseppe’s raid occurred, students would be prepared to steal the police cars, paste posters on them, and stage a parade up and down Michigan Avenue protesting police brutality generally. More constructively, students could drink more in bars which do serve Negroes (i.e., in what used to be the out-of-bounds area). The students could wear “Fight Dis-Integration with Beer” sweatshirts. A “broad base of sympathy” of the sort existing at Cal would be quickly generated.
If these, as well as more ambitious projects, were carried out, Notre Dame’s rating on Mr. Brady’s “intellectual scale” of “vigor and perspective” would certainly move up; but it will not be able to approach Cal’s “third best” rating (perhaps judged by applause meters in “centralized plazas”) until an “ad hoc committee” called “Snow, Snow, Go Away” is formed to solve the problem of holding “noontime speeches” on the main quad during blizzards.
an alternative to Mr. Brady’s notion of the university, I would like to suggest that the university is first directed to the speculative order simply because this is the highest activity of man’s being. The sapiens, Aquinas’ wise man, “directs his con-
by Robert J. Cihak
sideration to the end of the universe, which is also the origin of the universe” (Summa Contra Gentiles, 1.1). The philosopher simply, the “lover of wisdom,” seeks out the root and source of all being as an intelligible principle. The student is a philosopher insofar as he engages in speculation and seeks the absolute under the aspect of knowledge.
In contrast, the first concern of the citizen simply is his fellow citizens. The existence of a plurality of wills and of diverse solutions to practical problems makes debate and deliberation necessary in order to decide on appropriate common action for the city. Mr. Brady confuses the university with the city by making the proper activities of the student subservient to political action. He says that the students’ “real contribution will be an intellectual one which they will forfeit with immediate activity,” implying that the intellectual and speculative are ordered to political activity.
But the speculative is not ordered to the practical nor can the practical be ordered to the speculative. Speculation and political action are not essentially opposed; indeed, they have responsibilities to one another. In a way, philosophers are responsible for the consequences of their speculation in human action, even though these consequences are accidental to their search for truth; citizens should respect philosophers and not expect them to work in the city.
Existentially, the student is not a philosopher simply, nor a citizen simply; the student should respect the aims of the city and of the university. This is not to say that he should not go from the agora to the academy. But he should recognize the priority of speculation in the academy and the priority of political action in the polis. Other concerns follow behind these.
Rather than trying to make the university part of the city, the student of activist bent might direct his energy to making a public place in the real city. To make the university the place of political action not only destroys the university but makes a mockery of political action. The university would become a Boys’ State in which deliberation and debate would become irresponsible and sterile, due to the absence of real consequences in the political realm-
The Scholastic
*5.00
-ARROW-
From the
Cum Laude Collection”
ARROW
University Fashion Batiste Oxford
This authentic Arrow button-down, has a special appeal for you. Here’s why... Arrow craftsmanship and care for detail insures you of a properly fitting roll collar. The shirt is Mitoga cut to fit the lines of your body with no unsightly bunching around the waist.
In stripes and solid colors of your choice. Sanforized labeled.

VVAVn - WAH WW LLk.llUIII *
in the Classic tradition
From the Arrow Cum Laude Collection comes the perfect example of authentic traditional styling. This luxury oxford is offered in subtle British stripings tailored with buttondown collar and box pleat. Whites and plain colors, too.
*5.00


IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend