Refreshing new idea in smoking
menthol fresh
rich tobacco taste
most modern filter


Take a puff, it’s springtime! Refreshing as this spring scene looks—that’s how new Salem tastes. Full rich tobacco Havor with a new surprise softness. Try all-new Salem ... first cigarette of its kind. A wonderful new experience!
Salem refreshes your taste...you’ll love ’em!


NORTH AMERICAN HAS BUILT MORE AIRPLANES THAN ANY OTHER COMPANY IN THE WORL®
Engineers, scientists, physicists, mathematicians...
LIKE TO HELP WITH THE NEXT ONE?
The North American airplanes of the future mil come from the creative potential of today’s young men. Possibly you— or members of your graduating classwill help to engineer them. One thing is certain. They will have to be the best to merit the space reserved alongside the famous North American planes pictured in this ad.
Designing the best airplanes to meet the demands of the future is the challenging work North American offers to graduate
engineers and to specialists in other sciences. If you want to work on advanced projects right from the start... enjoy recognition and personal rewards... live and work in Southern California... then join North Americans outstanding engineering team.
See your Placement Officer today to arrange for an appointment with North American Engineering representatives ... they will be on campus on:
OCTOBER 17
If you are not available at this time, please write: Dept. Col, Engineering Personnel Office, North American Aviation, Inc., Los Angeles 45, California
NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION, INC
tober 12, 1956
3
DRESS RIGHT—
YOU CAN'T AFFORD NOT TO!
Fine clothes have been a tradition at Gilbert's for more than a quarter of a century. Because we feel that no one maker . . . nor one model . . . can properly fit or become all men, you will find a variety of makes and models from which to choose. Come in at your convenience and let us help you select the right clothes from our vast selection.
On the Campus—Notre Dame
4
The Scholastic
PAY	PAY	PAY
’3	■	%	■	' 3
JAN	FEB	■	MAR
USE YOUR CONVENIENT CAMPUS SHOP CHARGE ACCOUNT
Gilbert’s Campus Shop knows the value of a good wardrobe to you . . . and our Campus Shop Charge Account is designed to help you own the kind of a wardrobe college men should have. Because good clothes will open any door, now is the time to think of your future as a junior executive or professional man. Select the clothes you need now . . . charge them this convenient way and be ready when opportunity knocks on your door.
October 12, 1956

Parker-Winterrowd, Inc.
Tailors - Clothiers
Just like “the proof of the pudding is in the eating” . . . let us prove to you that Frankie’s pizza is the best. Try Frankie’s tonight!
The best dressed Notre Dame men all over campus rent formal wear today from Parker-Winterrowd, Inc., their tailors will fit them perfectly and that they’ll save enough to buy their date a beautiful corsage.
Every garment is spotlessly cleaned and pressed. Next time rent all your formal attire from Parker-Winterrowd, Inc.
Impressive and inexpensive
Blue tropical tuxedo and trousers, cummerbund, shirt, tie, jewelry and suspenders.
Special to N. D. Men $9.00
Parker-Winterrowd, Inc.
Upstairs—North of Oliver Hotel llS’/j-llZYa N. MAIN
Phone CE 3-6318
Watch. Repair
•	1-Year Written Guarantee
•	All Watches Tested Electronically
•	Specialists in Automatics, Chronographs and Waterproofs
•	Indiana Registered Watchmaker— 11 Years Experience
121 W. Washington Ave. CE 4-1311
For Coming Proms . . .
Louie’s Tuxedo Rental
222 Laurel
Special Student Rates
ON THE COVER: Aubrey Lewis takes off around left end to score Notre * Dame’s final six points in a 20-6 triumph over Indiana’s Hoosiers. The sequence series was photographed by J Bob Early.
The Scholastic
6
by Bryan Woods
horatio alger up-dated
I am sure that the purpose of the great majority of students in going to college is a seeking of knowledge for its own sake. But for those few who might be interested in making money after ,^hey leave, I have managed to get interviews with a number of highly successful old grads whose success stories may be enlightening.
The first of these is Bortley C. Alperstien, prominent financier and chairman of the Board of the investment firm of Boggle & Filch, Inc.
“Mr. Alperstien, sir, may I have a minute?”
“Call me Bortley, son. What can I ^(chuckle, chuckle) do you for, son?”
“Ha, ha, sir, very funny.”
“Thank you, son.”
“Sir, would you consider letting the students here in on the secret of your success?”
“Of course son, where shall I start?” “A little background first, Bortley.” “Sure son. I graduated in ’21 with a Bachelor of Arts degree. ’21 was a ^great year son. You got a fair bunch V>f ballplayers here now, but I think we, the team that is, would have pushed them out of the stadium. I say this of course with all due modesty.”
“Oh then you were on the ’21 team, sir?”
“Not exactly, boy, I sold programs at the gate.”
“Oh.”
W “Where was I boy?”
“Graduated.”
“Ahem, yes indeed. Well lad, the very next week I went to work for Boggle & Filch for $25 a week running errands. Five years later I had been promoted to assistant clerk at $40 a week.”
~ “But what was the turning point, ^Bortley?”
“Call me Mr. Alperstien, lad, it’s more respectful. Now, what was that?”
“The turning point in your career, sir. As I understand it you’re worth $30 million today.”
“Well boy, naturally I don’t have the exact figures, but I’d guess it’s closer to $31,568,021.54. The turning point? That came the next year. 1927 to be exact.”
“What happened that year, sir?”
“My grandfather died and left me twenty million. I bought the company from old Boggle and appointed myself Board Chairman at $75,000 a year. That's where I’ve been ever since.”
“Truly an inspiring story, Mr. Alperstien.”
“Thank you, son. But call me Bort-ley; Mr. Alperstien sounds too dad-blasted formal. Just think of me as one of the boys.”
DREAM GIRL
Every healthy American boy needs a dream girl. She’s one of those essentials like Mom’s apple pie, or the old swimmin’ hole. After all we’ve fought two wars in the last 15 years for apple pie and swimming holes, haven’t we? If you don’t believe it I can see that you don’t see many movies. And it’s the same way with dream girls.
Of course styles change in dream girls, just like anything else. So if you’ve been standing in front of the pool hall (or sitting on Sorin’s front porch) yelling “Hubba, hubba, ding, ding, baby you’ve got everything,” wise up. That went out with double-breasted suits. Try “See ya later, Gila Monster,” or “After while Pterodactyl.”
The way to really get a line On the latest styles in dream girls is to listen
to the latest pop records. Most of them sound something like this. If you want to record it, go ahead. It’s sung to the tune of “Moonlight in Vermont.”
MY TEENAGE PRINCESS’
She’s my teenage princess in the old army shoes, She’s a rock n’roll teener who’s the absolute end;
oo-oo-oopa oopa doopa, oo-oo-rooty tooty doopa, Oh yeah------------ah!
Fungus on her earlobes, warts on her nose, but when she starts to rock, she go, go, goes. She’s my teenage princess in her old anny shoes, a too cool kitty who’s
the absolute end,
oo-oo-roopy doopy goopy, oo-oo-boopy doopy doopa Oh yeah------------ah!
She’s built like a horse, and age thirteen, But she’s a real mean, real keen teenage queen. She’s my teenage princess in her old anny shoes, She’s every teener’s dream and
the absolute end,
oo-oo-hoopa zoopa doopa, oo-oo-loopy roopy doopa, Oh yeah------------ah!
ECHOES FROM THE NROTC
On Winston Churchill’s last trip to Africa he was devoured by a tribe of cannibals. The cannibal chief rubbed his greasy hands on his fat stomach and grunted, “Ummmm, Winston tastes good, like a prime minister should!”
October 12, 1956
SPECIAL STUDENT
RATES
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Eighth Year
•	1,000 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•	Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•	No Deposit for ND Students
Free alterations lor personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including tux shirt, $55.50
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 98 October 12, 1956 No. 3
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Charles McKendrick
Editor
JOE NORTON
Associate Editor
DAVE THOMPSON
Associate Editor
JIM STEINTRAGER ..................News Editor
JAMES McDonald .................Copy Editor
DAVID KUBAL ..................Feature Co-Editor JOHN QUAGLIANO ....Feature Co-Editor GEORGE CLEMENTS .....Assistant News JIM DULAN ............ Assistant	News
JOE HEIMOSKI .....  Assistant	News
BOB VONDRASEK..........Assistant News HARRY McKEE............Assistant	Copy
MARSH PIDGEON...................Assistant Copy DON STUHLDREHER....Circulation Mgr. HARRY CONLON .......... Business	Mgr.
JOHN GLAVIN ...........Sports	Editor
BOB EARLY....................Assistant	Sports
MIKE FITZPATRICK _______________Assistant Sports
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is jiublished weekly during the school year, except during, vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.
INVENTORY
Escape _____________________      7
View ______________________       9
Campus Scene____________________ 11
Features —..................     16
Movies _____________________     24
Irish Scene ................     27
Time Out ....................    30
Back Page....................... 38
University of Notre Dame BLAZERS

•	Lightweight Wool
•	Custom Tailored
•	Full Range of Sizes
Just the thing to wear at your Dances and Parties
Notre Dame Bookstore

8
The Scholastic
View
senate on spot
Yesterday a number of students were elected to positions in the Student Senate. The following; words are di-rectcd primarily to those men who have been entrusted -with The task of presenting’ legislation for the improvement of •tudent life mainly on the social level.
The fact that the campaigning is over does not signify that the Senator may rest on his victory. The measure of prestige attached to the title of “Senator” lasts only until the last hand is offered in congratulation.
Each year about this time there is a fair amount of publicity concerning the admission of new personnel into the student government. But usually at the end of October, the Senate has retired to the confines of the Student Center and the promises which echoed throughout every hall just a few ^veeks before arc buried under the first snowfall.
What happens to this “new personnel”? Evidently the personalities who won places in the Senate were nothing more than rank-happy little boys who needed another extracurricular activity to place under their names in the Dome.
When spring comes and campaigning returns to the campus these same Senators complain loud and long about student apathy toward the Senate. Well, why shouldn’t the student be apathetic toward our student government? He knows nothing about its constitution, has mixed emotions about its activities, and somewhat shaky faith in the abilities '^>f its members.
To many students our Senate is no more than a club which is given the task of planning mixers and collecting tickets at various social functions. On the academic and spiritual levels the Senate has been virtually ineffective these past few years. The student court is in the same undetermined state it was two years ago.
Please let us have no complaints from the Senators about the lack of interest among the student body in local govem-mient. The students don’t have to prove themselves to the Wien ate. The shoe is on the other foot. It is the Senate which must prove itself to the student body.
To those new members, and the old ones too, for whom the opportunity to better student life is offered, may I say— do not closet yourselves in the friendly atmosphere of the Student Center. Seek out student opinion on proposed legislation, prepare constructive legislation of your own. Yours alone is the opportunity to promote worthwhile pro-agrams on the campus.
-	-	— C. McK.
October 12, 1956
american privilege
This is an election year and the time for every patriotic American to exercise his great democratic privilege, the vote. Not only is it a lawful right, but it is every American’s solemn obligation to vote. For the vote is what keeps America free from Fascism and Communism and all the rest of those totalitarian “isms.” The vote is the basis of democracy itself, and for a person not to vote is unthinkable. Why, it’s even “un-American.”
And with these idealistic sentiments firmly secured in his skull, Joe Citizen fills his pen and hustles himself to the polling place to prove that he is not “un-American.” He marks his ballot, making sure that no office goes unattended, and marches home with a feeling of pride and a sense of duty well done.
“I’m Joe Citizen. I voted. Pin a medal on me somebodv.”
But what has Joe accomplished by simply filling out his ballot? Did Joe know anything about the candidates and the offices? What reason did he have for voting for any particular man? "What about the obligation connected with Joe’s right to vote? Is it just the right and duty to vote, or is it the right to vote and the dutv to vote intelligently?
You’d be surprised at the number of people who feel that the vote is quite a monumental thing yet consider it verv lightly when the time comes for exercising it. And among this number are people you might expect to be more conscientious; educated people who should realize the significance of the vote.
Last -week the papers carried a story of a voting man at a midwestern state university who advertised in his school publication for a wife. This young man had suddenly realized that he was old enough to vote, and although his home state provided no absentee ballot, he was determined to exercise his great American privilege. He found that if he married in the state of his present location he could establish residence and thereby be eligible to vote. Accordingly he advertised for a girl to marry him, promising that he would divorce her quickly after the election.
This is indeed a patriot.
But as the applause for this minuteman fades away, you might wonder what kind of a lightweight this is who will deliberately abuse the sanctity of marriage just so he can vote. Just what will be the quality and value of a vote coming from this type of mind? Should such a person be allowed to vote at all? And how many others are there like him?
The right to vote is a fundamental instrument in our American governmental system:.a system that allows men to live in freedom and reasonable comfort. It is a right then that should be given the respect it deserves to keep it from degenerating into the tool of an arrogant mob. The vote then should be exercised with intelligent discretion— or else it should not be exercised at all.
-	-J.N.
9
I

A Campus-to-Career Case History
Roger Lindblom (left) discussing a construction job with, J. R. Young, Wire Chief of Huron, S.D.
“I’m learning more every day—and like it”
Roger Lindblom, B.S. in General Engineering, Iowa State College, ’49, is today District Plant Superintendent for the 11,000 square miles of the Huron, South Dakota, district.
“The openings are there,'5 says Roger, “and the telephone company trains you to fill them. I joined Northwestern Bell in 1950 and spent one year learning pole line and cable construction. This, plus short periods in other departments, gave me a good telephone background.
“My experience really grew when I became an installer-repairman, then a construction crew foreman, and, in 1952, Wire Chief at South Sioux City, Nebraska. There I was responsible for the 3500 dial phones that served the town.
Roger Lindblom is one of many young men who are finding rewarding careers in Bell Telephone Companies, Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. See your placement officer for more information on career opportunities in the Bell Telephone System.
soil Telephone System
In March of 1954 I went to Grand Island, Nebraska, to help supervise dial conversion projects in that district. Everything I’d learned to date came in handy on that job.
“A year later I went to Omaha on a staff assignment, and in March, 1956, I moved up to my present position.
“I head a group responsible for installing and maintaining Plant equipment in the Huron district. We supervise ordering and distributing supplies, and I’m responsible for personnel and employment. I work with other department heads in the administration of our district.
“Each assignment I’ve had has been broader than the last, and believe me, the more I learn, the better I like it.”
1 .5
10
The Scholastic
Camfiul Seem
SCIENTISTS PLAN ANALYSIS PF ‘SINGEN UND TANZEN'
Jimmy Richards to Provide Music in Center Tonight; Initial Science Ball Communion Breakfast Scheduled
a “Singen und Tanzen” will prevail TOnight as 275 Science men and their dates enjoy a bit of German atmosphere right on campus. Jimmy Richards and
Festival of Arts Slated For Week of Nov. 14-20
The “Festival of the Arts” week is ^heduled to take place this year from Nov. 14 through 20, it was announced this past week by Tom Shehan, chairman of the affair. The theme of the festival is “Contemporary Art.”
Representing the drama aspect of art this year will be the University Theater’s production of Death of a Salesman, which will be presented in Washington Hall from Nov. 14 through 18.
The two extremes of contemporary ™rt will be on exhibition in the O’Shaughnessy Art Gallery on Sunday, Nov. 18. The traditional field will be represented by the works of Francis Chapin, a landscape painter in the style of Goya, while the modern or abstract art will be headed by a collection of works by various artists from the Guggenheim Museum of Art in New York.
The celebrated pianist and composer, Alexander Tcherephin, will give an in-fonnal concert in Washington Hall on Tuesday, Nov. 20, featuring his own compositions.
Also included in the week’s activities will be the AB Ball the evening of Nov. 16, a panel on modem tragedy, and a series of classic foreign movies w> be shown during the week.
his orchestra will play for the Science Ball couples from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Student Center.
Miss Judith Howlett, from Belvidere, Ill., will reign over the activities for the weekend. She will be crowned queen by Lawrence Baldinger, dean of the College of Science. Bill Bauer, a senior pre-med from Caledonia, Ill., will escort Miss Howlett.
Tomorrow afternoon the Science students and their dates will attend the Purdue game. In the evening there will be a victory dance in the Drill Hall, from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. Ed Pistey and his Lettermen will play at the “Boilermakers’ Bop.”
A Communion Breakfast will be held Sunday morning in the Morris Inn after the 8 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church, for those attending the dance. This will be the first time since the initiation of the Science Ball that a Communion Breakfast has been included in its list of activities. Moose Krause, athletic director of the University, will be the guest speaker.
General chaii-man for the dance is Bill Bauer. Assisting him are: Jim Butcofski, publicity; Bill Scanlon, entertainment; Manny Rivas, publications; Pat Williamson, Communion Breakfast; Frank Pugliese, business manager; Ron Sables, decorations; Pat Kavanah, Science senator; Ray Miller, hotel accommodations; and Pat Logan, favors.
Late pel-missions for those attending the ball will extend until 2 a.m. There will be no admission to the dance after 10 p.m. The usual car permissions will extend until 2 a.m. tomorrow morning.
JUDITH HOWLETT . . . ist der queen . . .
Solemn High Mass to Honor Fr. Sorin Tomorrow Morning
A Solemn High Mass in Sacred Heart Church will commemorate the observance of Founder’s Day at 8 a.m. tomorrow. Rev. Arthur Hope, C.S.C., author of Notre Dame—One Hundred Years, will speak about Notre Dame’s founder, the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., who came to this area with six religious brothers in 1842.
This year the freshman halls, encouraged by Rev. Daniel O’Neil, C.S.C., freshman spiritual advisor, are to make a special observance of the day. Members of Sorin Hall are also encouraged to attend the 8 a.m. Mass in memory of their hall’s namesake. All upperclassmen, however, are asked to actively participate in the commemoration of this day by attending Mass tomorrow morning in Sacred Heart Church.
‘BOILERMAKER HOP’
Ed Pistey’s orchestra will provide music for tomorrow night’s victory dance, the “Boilermaker Hop,” from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. in the Navy Drill Hall.
An added feature will be the music of Bob Byrnes and his combo, who will play during intermissions.
October 12, 1956
11
“STREET SCENE” ORCHESTRA LEADER AND VOCALIST
. . . Russ Carlyle ...	... and Fran Clarke . . .
Engineers Pick 'Street Scene' for Ball Motif; Russ Carlyle to Provide Musical Background
The seventh annual Engineers Ball will bring some 370 engineers to the LaFortune Student Center at 9 p.m. next Friday evening. The theme of the dance will be “Street Scene.” Decorations, handled by David Klocke, will depict the atmosphere of a big city.
The musical setting for the theme features the Russ Carlyle orchestra, with Miss Fran Clarke as vocalist. The orchestra records for ABC-Paramount. Carlyle does comic imitations of well-known vocal artists.	■
The Notre Dame Glee Club’s octet will sing during interludes in the dancing.
General chairman of the dance is Ed-
MurderCase toOpen Moot Court Sessions
Junior competition in the eighth annual Moot Court will take place in the Law School on Thursday at 8 p.m.
The case to be argued concerns a conviction for murder over a plea of insanity. The arguments of the participants will be centered around the proper test to be used in determining what type of insanity will mitigate criminal responsibility.
The judges -who will compose the three courts heai-ing the arguments ■will consist of representatives of the South Bend bench and bar and members of the faculty. Among those who will be sit
ward Lynch, a senior electrical engineer from Pottsville, Pa. Lynch’s date, Miss Clare Ann Malarkey, a junior at Man-hattanville College, will reign as queen of the -weekend.
On Saturday afternoon the engineers and their dates will attend the Michigan State-Notre Dame game. That evening, they -will attend the Victory Dance in the Drill Hall.
Other members of the dance committee are: Gregory Conron, William Lennon, Robert Norris, Albert Mooney, Desmond O’Connell, Guy Weismantel and Ronald Harron. Honored guests at the Ball will be the entire Engineering College faculty.
ting on the various courts are: Judge F. Kenneth Dempsey and Judge E. Spencer Walton of South Bend; Mr. James Keating and Mr. Graham McGowan of the St. Joseph County Bar association and Mr. Donald Barrett of the Notre Dame sociology department.
The winners in each of these courts ■will be eligible to compete in the next round of arguments, which has been tentatively scheduled for December. In each round this process of elimination is carried through until there are only two competitors remaining. The survivors will represent the Notre Dame Law School in the regional round of the national Moot Court competition to be held in Chicago sometime next November.
Rev. Hesburgh NameaJ i To Represent Vatican I
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, has been appointed a Vatican delegate to a United Nations conference currently underway to organize an international “atom-for-peace” agency.	>
Also representing the Vatican at the" sessions in New York City is Dr. H. Marston Morse, a noted mathematician and professor- at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, New Jersey. Morse received an honorary doctorate from Notre Dame last June.
Lewis L. Strauss, chairman of the Atomic Energy commission, in a wel- ' coming address to delegates of nearly.. 90 nations, described the conference as-“perhaps the largest in the entire history of international collaboration.”
MEMBER OF MURA
Father Hesburgh is also active in another phase of atomic research and development. He is a member of the i board of directors of the Midwest Uni- ! versifies Research association, a non- ; profit corporation formed by a grou<> ' of midwest educational institutions to conduct nuclear research. The Atomic Energy commission has authorized . MURA to design and construct “the world’s finest and most powerful ultra-high-energy accelerator.” The site for the installation has not yet been determined.
By appointment of President Eisenhower, Father Hesburgh is a member,= of the National Science board as weL-as a member of the Board of Visitors at the U. S. Naval Academy. He recently returned from an extended tour of virtually all the South American countries in his capacity as vice president of the Institute of International Education.
Chemistry Dept. Slates Science Lecture Series
Dr. Robert DeVogelaere will deliver a lecture at 4:30 p.m. today in room 343 of the Nieuwland Science Hall. The lecture will be entitled, “On the Method of Richardson to Accelerate the Convergence of Numerical Processes.”
Dr. D’Alelio, head of the chemistrj(<& department, has scheduled a series of" Reilly lectures by Prof. Raymond Fuoss of Yale University. Prof. Fuoss is lecturing on the “Theory of Electrolytes.” The series began yesterday and succeeding sessions will be held next Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 4 p.m. in room 123 of the Nieuwland Science Hall.—
All lectures are open to the public^
12
The Scholastic

Senate Schedules Inaugurations for Sunday; Four Constitutional Changes Passed by Body
The official inauguration of the hall and off-campus senators and hall presidents, elected yesterday, will be held in the Ballroom of the Student Center
^t 7:30 p.m. this Sunday.
® Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of business affairs, will deliver the main speech to the newly elected officials. Student Body President Pat Logan will give a short talk on student government. Conrad Conway, chief justice of the student court, will preside over the swearing-in service. The Notre Dame Glee Club will provide entertainment. The inauguration is open
£b the public.
CONSTITUTION AMENDMENTS
Main business of the Student Senate meeting last Wednesday and two extra sessions on the past two Sundays was the amending of the constitution. This marked the first time since 1952 that the constitution underwent any changes. These amendments, according to Logan, ^ere made “to form an effective and Workable constitution of practical nature, one suitable for both this year and the future.”
There are four basic changes, the first dealing with the freshmen. Unlike the upperclass halls, the freshmen will not elect any officials until after the mid-semester reports. Until that time YCS men will handle all their activities.
In December, each freshman hall will ^lect a senator, hall president and council. No class officers will be elected. Instead, the senators and hall presidents will form a freshman activities council with Student Senate Vice-President Jerry Murphy serving in an advisory position. All freshman functions will be handled by this council.
RECALL SYSTEM
A second change replaced impeachment proceedings of the class president and student body senators with the recall system. In order to remove a man from office, 25 per cent of the electorate must petition for such action. Recall of hall senators is provided for under hall constitutions.
Also amended was the section of the
~ ATTENTION FROSH
Freshmen in AB and Commerce, who have not been contacted by their student advisor may find out the advisor’s name at the Blue Circle office in the Student Center. The office is open from 3:30 to 5 p.m., ^Monday through Friday.
constitution concerning the Judicial Court. No longer is this body responsible to the Senate. It will function as a completely autonomous organization with its own constitution.
The remaining changes in the senate constitution clarify or define previously vague sections. Qualifications for class officials were more positively explained and powers of the hall presidents council were enumerated. A new member, a representative of the president’s council, was added to the Senate.
JACQUES MARITAIN
On Hegel and dialectics
Prof. Maritain Holds Philosophy Lectures
Prof. Jacques Maritain, one of the leading philosophers in the United States and France spoke here last Monday, Wednesday, and Thursday in the Rockne Memorial Lounge as part of the Department of Philosophy’s fall lecture series.
The material for Prof. Maritain’s lectures was drawn from a book on ethics which the philosopher is preparing for publication.
Prof. Maritain’s topic for the Monday lecture was “The Dialectics of Hegel.” He opened by tracing the history of the dialectic, and followed this with an explanation of the method and procedure involved. An elaboration of the basic errors in Hegel’s use of the dialectic completed the lecture.
On Wednesday, Prof. Maritain ex-
Friday Ball to Open Lawyers' Weekend
Bob Mihlbaugh, general chairman of the semi-annual Law Ball, announced this past week that the Ken Morris orchestra will provide the music for the semi-formal affair.
The Ball, sponsored by the Notre Dame Student Law association, will be held next Friday evening from 9 pan. to 1 a.m. at the '.South Bend Countrv Club.	.	*
Over 100 law students have purchased bids for the. Ball, which will have “Lawyers by Mdonlight” as its theme, with the ticket-takei’s and doorman attired in judicial robes to set an atmosphere for the evening.
Mihlbaugh’s date for the dance, who will be crowned queen, is Miss. Carolyn Risel, R.N., of Wapakoneta, 0.
In addition to the Ball on Friday evening, there will be a luncheon on Saturday after the Michigan State game. Saturday morning, prior to the game, the student practice court will be in session with Judge F. Kenneth Dempsey of the Superior Court of St. Joseph County presiding.
On Sunday morning the law students and their dates will attend a special Mass at 9:30 a.m. in the Alumni Hall Chapel, with Rev. Edward' Murray, C.S.C., assistant chaplain for the Law School, as the celebrant.
Honored guests for the Ball include Paul Butler, chairman of the Democratic national committee; Alwin Farny, president of the Colorado Fuel and Iron Co.; Henry Barnhart, executive vice-president of the Baldwin Locomotive Co., Lima, O.; and Rudolph Halley, corporation lawyer who gained national recognition as counsel for the Kefauver crime investigation committee in 1951.
plained Hegel’s view of religion. The final topic was “Hegel’s God,” which was followed by a brief question and answer period.
Following his resignation as French ambassador to the Vatican, Prof. Maritain lectured at Princeton University. More recently, he has lectured annually at Notre Dame.
Prof. Maritain is the author of a number of books, among them Art and Scholasticism, Creative Intuition in Art and Poetry, and Man and the State, as well as philosophy textbooks currently required in many universities.
The three lectures were designated primarily for graduate students;in philosophy, history, English, and political science, and members of the faculty.
13
October 12, 1956
ENGINEERING ADVISORY BOARD
Martin, Ahern, Scriba, Conron
Senior Trip Planned * For Nov. 3 Navy Til+
The Class of ’57 will leave on Nov. 2 for the annual Senior Trip to the Navy game at Baltimore.
The group will leave the campus at 5 p.m. for LaPaz, Ind. They depart from LaPaz Friday evening and arriir in Washington, D. C., on Saturday morning. After lunch the seniors will leave by bus for Memorial Stadium in Baltimore for the game with the Middies. The seniors will wear the traditional green derbies.
They will return to Washington for dinner after the game. Following dinner there will be a mixer with the students of Trinity College.
Saturday night and Sunday will ‘ue left open for the students to see Washington on their own. The return trip will begin at 5 p.m. Sunday from Washington. The group will arrive at Notre Dame at 7 a.m. Monday morning.
Engineering Advisory Board Officers Named; Scriba, Conron, Ahem, Martin to Head Group
Officers of the Student Engineering Advisory Board for this semester were announced this past week. They are: Jack Scriba, chairman and engineer senator; Greg Conron, vice-chairman and electrical engineers’ chairman; Mike Ahern, secretary and mechanical engineers’ chairman; and Tom Martin, treasurer and electrical engineers’ representative.
The board is now in the process of planning future activities and revising its constitution. The board is composed of 18 men, two from each of the seven engineering professional societies on campus—either the chairman or vicechairman of the group and the elected representative; the engineering senator; the representative of the YCS engineer-
STUDENT TRIP
Ticket sales for the student trip to the Pitt game will take place in the Rathskeller of the Student Center on Oct. 22 and 23.
The student trip dance, not included in the “package offer” of $27, will be organized by the Notre Dame club of Pittsburgh, which will also handle the ticket sales. Dates for the dance will be arranged at the time of the ticket sales.
Buses will depart from the circle at 4:30 p.m. on Nov. 9 for the Pennsylvania station.
There will be excused cuts for those on the trip.
ing group; and two representatives of the Tech Review.
The Student Engineering Advisory Board is the only organization in the college which encompasses the entire student body and not only one department or activity.
Annual activities sponsored by the advisory board are the Engineers’ Ball, the Engineering Open House, three engineering athletic leagues and panel discussions by men in the professional realm of engineering.
The advisory board is presently in the process of constructing its first constitutional revision. This revision will permit the society to operate under more workable conditions. It will give the society clearcut responsibilities to and authority over the individual clubs as well as more efficient regulations of its own activities. Chairman of the parliamentary committee doing this work is Dick Woods, the civil engineering vicepresident.
YCS President Announces Annual Membership Drive
Paul Krapp, president of YCS, has announced that applications for membership in the organization will be accepted during the coming week at the YCS office in the Student Center.
YCS, a Catholic Action group, has for its primary purpose the development of the campus community through services directed along the three aspects of student life: academic, social, and spiritual.
The complete cost of the trip will be $43. The ticket will include all train and bus transportation, lodging, game ticket, and green derby.
“The success of the Senior Trip * the Navy game will be a great measure of the spirit of the class of ’57,” said Mark Maley, trip chairman. “This will be the last time the seniors as a whole | class wrill be able to show their support of the Irish on the road,” Maley added.
Tickets will be sold in the basement of the Dining Hall from 5:30 to 7:30 j p.m. on Oct. 17 and 18. Seniors will also be able to purchase tickets from Malar and the other members of the committee, Tom Shehan, Joe Reich, and Bob St. Clair.
Work Begun on '57 'Dome';
Format of Issue Announced >
Work on the 1957 edition of the I Dome, a publication which premises be “different” in the words of Rogc. Bennett, the yearbook’s editor, has begun.
Bennett, in describing the cover of the yearbook, stated that it was to be “simple” and, in that way, “modern.”
The book itself is planned to be a 354 page effort. It will be arranged in chronological order beginning with freshman orientation, running t* course of activities, and finishing with the graduation of the seniors. The hall pictures will be spread out—frosh halls will be included in the autumn season, the seniors in the spring, and so on. There will be no special sections for sports and other activities. Each game and each activity will be taken in tl^ order of its occurrence.	~
14
The Scholastic
tlniversity Establishes 'Living Chairs' Plan
SECOND CALL
To Defray Annual Faculty Salary Expense
The University recently announced a plan whereby corporations, alumni groups and individuals may establish “living chairs” on the faculty by contributing approximately one-third of a Bacher’s annual salary.
According to Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation and former president of the University, the new plan is based on the fact that students’ tuition payments meet only two-thirds of the university’s faculty budget. By gifts ranging from as little as $1,350 to $2,400 donors can underwrite one-third of a teacher’s salary and help make up the deficit, he ^plained.
Notre Dame benefactors can establish “living chairs” at the University and renew them in succeeding years with comparatively small gifts, Father Cavanaugh observed. He compared these
Trade Experts Attend Annual World Meet ® Eight specialists in various aspects of foreign commerce will serve as panelists at the ninth annual World Trade conference to be held at Notre Dame Oct. 23, according to an announcement made this week by Dean James W. Culliton of the College of Commerce.
More than 200 midwest businessmen engaged in exporting and allied activi
ties are expected to attend the sessions the Morris Inn and the Engineering Auditorium on the campus. Harry Schwartz, Soviet affairs specialist of the New York Times, is scheduled to address the conference luncheon.
Four experts will discuss selling and advertising in the world market as well as research and export department cost analysis at the opening session. They are Joseph Harrington, resident mana-»er of the Pfizer Corp, in the Panama Qanal Zone; Richard O. Hobbs, vice president of Gotham-Vladimir Advertising, Inc., Chicago: Dean M. Prather, president of A. C. Neilson Co. of Canada. Ltd.; and Wesley Bender, professor of marketing at Notre Dame.
The afternoon discussion will include the effects of taxation and government regulations on world trade as well as problems of finance and transportation, ranelists will include: James Whitaker, president of C. S. Greene, Inc., Chicago; Antonio Sarabia, partner in the Chicago law firm of Baker, McKenzie and Hightower; Henry Ralph, vice president of the Bank of America, New York City; and E. E. Schnellbacher, director of the Office of Trade Promotion, Department K Commerce, Washington, D.C.
“living” teacherships with the academic world’s traditional endowed chairs which require a capital gift “beyond the means of most persons interested in aiding private education today.”
WILL BEAR DONOR'S NAME
The University has agreed that each faculty chair so subsidized may be named for the corporation, individual or alumni club making the gift, Father Cavanaugh said. Prior to the public announcement of the new plan, the Lord Beaverbrook Professorship was established at Notre Dame by Joseph P. Kennedy, former U. S. ambassador to Great Britain. A second professorship has been established by Mr. and Mrs. William Sheehan and family of Cleveland, 0., and an instructorship was underwritten by the Notre Dame Club of Toledo, he disclosed.
The amount of the gift required to create a “living chair” is based on the salary mean total of the four faculty ranks. Accordingly, a benefactor may provide approximately one-third of a full professor’s salary with a gift of $2,400. Corresponding figures for the other faculty ranks would be $2,000 for associate professors, $1,650 for assistant professors and $1,350 for instructors. It is likely that these figures will increase somewhat in succeeding years as faculty salaries rise.
“Some people say Tm a pretty tough guy.”
The feature staff of the Scholastic is looking for any type of fiction, humor, and satire, in any length.
Send all manuscripts to D. Kubal, 346 Sorin, Notre Dame, Ind.
Father Cavanaugh stressed that the amount of the gift will not be added to the salary of the teacher chosen to fill the designated position, but will be a contribution to the total faculty budget of the University.
Since 1953 all unrestricted gifts to the University have been earmarked for faculty development, Father Cavanaugh pointed out. Under the faculty development program, he said, the salary scales for the several faculty ranks have been raised appreciably and more than a score of internationally recognized scholars have been added to the faculty either pennanently or as visiting professors.
The Ford Foundation grant of $2,630,-300, which included a substantial accomplishment grant recognizing Notre Dame’s earlier efforts in the field of faculty development, assures the University of an annual income for faculty salaries over and above tuition fees, Father Cavanaugh noted. But he emphasized, as have officials of the Ford Foundation, that additional support for faculty salaries is needed “if the nation’s colleges and universities are to retain and attract teachers of the highest quality in the years ahead.”
October 12, 1956
15
Concert and Lecture Series
•	i*
by John Hirschfeld
ON October 30, the 1956-57 Concert and Lecture Series will make its debut in the newly redecorated Washington Hall. Six top-ranking performances have been scheduled for both the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s, and for the general public. Such names as the Juilliard String Quartet, the Don Cossack Dancers and Chorus, the Jose Greco Dancers, the duo-pianist act of Whittemore and Lowe, the lovely contralto, Claramae Turner, and the well-remembered Players, Inc. will compose the Concert and Lecture Series for this school year.
The first production which will appear on the Washington Hall stage is the Juilliard String Quartet. This performance will be given on Tuesday, Oct. 30. Upper classmen here at the University and those members of the nonstudent body from the South Bend area will remember the large ovation which this foursome received when appearing in Washington Hall last year. It was one of the largest turnouts for a Concert and Lecture Series performance which Notre Dame has witnessed.
Much of the success of this group undoubtedly lies in their vast repertory of more than a hundred major works which reaches back through the centuries to the early beginnings of string quartet writing.
INCLUDE MODERN SELECTIONS
Within this prodigious repertoire are the masterpieces of Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven. Besides these classical works, however, the Juilliard String Quartet has brought to the fore masterworks . of today’s great composers— works which had remained inaccessible due to their immense technical difficulties and newness of musical language until the Juilliard brought them to life
JOSE GRECO
Dancer par excellence
with supreme skill and understanding.
The Juilliard Quartet’s ability to make the new seem familiar has drawn to them most of America’s active composers — Schuman, Harris, Foss, Shapers, Kirchner, to mention a few—and they have given many world premiere performances, and repeat performances, of their works.
The four musicians making up this outstanding quartet are Robert Mann and Robert Koff, violinists, Raphael Hillyer, violist, and Gaus Adam, cellist.
Following this brilliant group will be the world famous Gen. Platoff Don Cossack Chorus and Dancers, another group which Notre Dame students of previous years are familiar with.
The Don Cossack Chorus was originally organized in the capital of Czechoslovakia, Prague, in 1927. Ever since it* inception the chorus has been headed by Mr. Nicholas Kostrukoff. The membership of the chorus has always comprised the best of the vocal talent obtainable among the White Russian emigres who fought Communism in Russia as early as 1918-20 and who actually may be considered as the pioneers in the fight against world Communism.
WORLD TRAVELERS
Since 1927, the chorus has toured all five continents and has nineteen times crossed the equator, visiting 67 different countries. The chorus first came to the United States on Jan. 3, 1939, arriving in Seattle from Honolulu and during its 13 year stay in this country has given more than 1600 concerts.
A noteworthy result of its American sojourn is that all its members are no^ American citizens, some of them having fought during the Second World War in the ranks of the U.S. Army.
A more fitting press notice could not have been given this group than that given by the Boston Post which said: “When they stamp onto stage in perfect formation with their erect military bearing and bright uniforms you get your~ first impulse to cheer—and your second' when they begin to sing.”
This group, the Don Cossacks Dancers and Chorus, will make their appearance on the Washington Hall stage on Friday, Nov. 30.
Next in line is a group which everyone has long waited for, the Jose Greco Dancers, who will appear in WashingtorJ^ )
16
The Scholastic
CLARAMAE TURNER Opera and movie star
Hall on Feb. 21, 1957. An introduction hardly seems necessary for Mr. Greco and his fine dancers, for they are internationally known, being recognized as the foremost living exponents of • the Spanish dance forms.
£ Greco himself was born in Italy and began his dancing career at an early age. His first public performance as a professional was at New York’s Hippodrome in “Carmen.” Since that time, Greco and his troupe have toured Europe, and starred in a motion picture filmed in 1948, “Manolete.”
Now, firmly established in America, Jose Greco has been accorded a tumult ^df welcome, such as to make ballet and ^theatrical’history. He holds the distinction of being the first artist to ever have been booked into the Empire Room of the Waldorf-Astoria for two engagements within a six month period.
In addition, Greco and his troupe have appeared at the Sahara Hotel in Las Vegas, the Hollywood Bowl and the Statler Hotel in Los Angeles. Greco has also appeared on television on Ed Sullivan’s ®‘Toast of the Town” and on “Omnibus.”
C & L ROAD SHOW
The fourth member of this year’s Series will not appear in Washington Hall, but will grace the newly erected O’Laughlin Auditorium with their presence. 'This is the top American two-piano team of Arthur Whittemore and ^Jack Lowe.
“ Veterans of annual 70-city recital tours, a best selling status on RCA Victor Red Seal Records, and appearances on important radio and television programs, these two men have long since established not only their popularity, but their musical importance as interpreters •of the finest two-piano literature.
One of the greatest accomplishments
of this piano team is their remarkable ability to play both classical and modern musical modes and play both with a brilliance that is truly astounding, another bright star in this year’s Concert and Lecture Series.
Opera and film star Claramae Turner, recently appearing in 20th CenturyFox’s version of Carousel, is the next star to appear at Washington Hall. She will make her debut on the Notre Dame campus on March 22.
Miss Turner’s appearance here follows her highly successful engagements earlier this season with the San Francisco Opera and with the Chicago Lyric Theater. Miss Turner’s appearance at Notre Dame is a highlight of her eighth annual trans-continental tour. Thus far she has sung in all of the 48 states, Canada, Mexico, Central America and South America.
Quite aside from her mastery of 75 major operatic roles, the singer’s incredible versatility stems out in other directions. Musical comedy literature being one of her specialties, she is often called upon for such occasions as the 1953 Rodgers and Hammerstein night at the Hollywood Bowl that was to lead her into new stardom on the screen. For all lovers both of operatic and musical comedy music, Miss Turner’s appearance constitutes a “must.”
“PLAYERS" RETURN
On March 30-31, Washington Hall will play host to one of America’s foremost theatrical organizations. Players Incorporated, international classical repertory company, has earned a unique name in its seven seasons of touring. In addition to the touring, Players now operates
DON COSSACK DANCERS
World famous troupe to appear in Washington Hall
WHITTEMORE AND LOWE Double pleasure
the year-round with two summer theaters, one at Olney, Md., and one at Winooski Park, Vt.
On four- occasions Players Inc. have made the long trek ovei-seas, twice going to the far east, and twice to the European theater of military operations.
In a series of three performances Players Inc. will present Shakespeare’s Henry IV, the famous classic which is really two plays in one, and Brandon Thomas’ Charley’s Aunt, the first time a modem classic comedy has- been offered by this touring company. Judging from the reception given to the Players in their previous appearances at the University, another sell-outjcrowd is ex-? pected for their three performances this year. . <"'•	’	• . .	"
October 12, 1956
17
How To Be
A Jazz Snob
Despite the frantic cries of “GoI Go!
Go!” often uttered by uninhibited jazz addicts, jazz is definitely here to stay, stay, stay. After a stormy 60-year history, it currently has become an established part of the musical scene. You hear jazz in movies and on radio; its practitioners are seen (and sometimes even listened to) on TV; its recording stars are finding an increasing market; its supporters flock to concert halls or night clubs where jazz is offered. It is, therefore, no longer smart to have no attitude toward jazz. You must take a stand, and be able to hold your own, should the topic come up at a cocktail party.
For several years now, I’ve been keeping one eye on the jazz scene and the •other on the audience. I write a weekly column discussing jazz records in a newspaper, I do a radio jazz show, and I also haunt the jazz spots. Like it or not, I’ve observed enough of their behaviour to be able to give a quickie course on “How to Be a Jazz Snob.”
This then, is a new kind of “How-To” article. Its purpose is to equip you to take some stand on jazz, without burdening you too much with such dispensable frills as facts, history, or any other useful knowledge about jazz itself.
The Anti-Jazz Snob must start out with the deep conviction that jazz is trash; that it is not respectable; that its background is shady; its exponents disreputable; and its importance over-emphasized. All the facts may indicate just the opposite, but an Anti-Jazz snob cannot be stopped by facts. He must
by Alex Barris
Alex Barris took a job with the Toronto Globe and Mail nine years ago, and has stayed with them ever since. He does a weekly jazz record column, and a daily entertainment column. This summer, he began a weekly television variety show which he writes and MC’s.
We asked Mr. Barris how he found time to turn out this article for us. He replied: “I’ve found an ingenious way of doing so much work—I’ve given up sleeping.”
So if you want to be hip, not square, dig this crazy bit. Man, it’s the end. You’ll flip later.
pretend to listen to jazz, though somewhat impatiently. He must mix with Pro-Jazz Snobs, go to jazz concerts. But he must make it evident he feels he is watching some quaint, tribal rite. He can express interest, but only in a way that throws jazz fans on the defensive. Here are a few sample lines.
“How remarkable? And you mean to say they don’t rehearse?”
“These fellows are all playing the same tune, aren’t they?”
“This isn’t bad at all, when you consider how little education these musicians have had.”
Should the subject arise, the AntiJazz Snob must express surprise at the slightest intimation that all jazz musicians do not necessarily take drugs. This is as much his responsibility as it is the solemn duty of any Pro-Jazz Snob
to minimize the incidence of drug addict * tion among musicians. Actually, both sides are exaggerating, but neither can prove it.
Another good way of irritating the Pro-Jazz Snobs is by asking why the drummer makes such funny faces while he plays. Most drummers do, and no jazz fan has yet been able to come up with an adequate explanation.
Avoid the use of jazz slang, even as a' gag. It’s much better to profess complete ignorance of such hip talk, particularly when the Pro-Jazz Snobs use it. This way you force them to explain it, and they always feel a bit foolish doing that. (“How do you mean ‘cool’?” you ask, and then watch them squirm as they try to define it.),
On the whole, though, being an Anti-^ Jazz Snob is a negative approach. You’re'1' really better off being a Pro-Jazz Snob, because then you can lord it over those who aren’t equipped to discuss the subject. For the purposes of clarification, I’ll break down the Pro-Jazz group into two separate divisions: The Traditional-Jazz Snob and the Modern Jazz Snob.
TRADITIONAL-JAZZ SNOB
First I’ll deal with the Traditional-* Jazz Snob, because he really came first. He’s been around, to hear him tell it, since Satchmo left the orphanage. To begin with, the Traditional-Jazz Snob must swear on a stack of Jelly Roll Morton records never to get enthusiastic over any jazz recorded latei- than 1930 —unless it is by such still-active traditionalists as Louis Armstrong, Pee Wee Russell, Phil Napoleon, or Sidney Bechet. It is permissible to express a* kind of patronizing admiration for the revivalists (like Turk Murphy or Conrad Janis), but don’t really go overboard.
No good words, however, can be said of Benny Goodman, the Dorseys, or any other big-band leader of the swing heyday. If someone praises Goodman, you simply point out, “Goodman used Fletcher Henderson arrangements, and* you know how old they were.”
MELODY: Practically a dirty word in jazz circles.
PROGRESSIVE: Almost any jazz you can’t otherwise describe.
SQUARE: Anyone who doesn’t agree with you.
18
The Scholastic
| Duke Ellington presents a bit of a problem, but you can solve this if you’re careful. It’s perfectly all right to like early Ellington—“The old Brunswicks weren’t bad” is a handy phrase—but you must find current Ellington works distasteful, or, at least, disappointing.
Slang is a ticklish matter for the Traditional-Jazz Snob. Such armchair expressions as “tailgate” and “barrel-chouse” must be used sparingly. But at all costs, avoid modernisms like “man,” “cool,” “crazy,” or “dig.” If you steer clear of these words, you are then free to ridicule others for using them.
DON’T NAME DROP
Name-dropping is an integral part of jazz snobbism, but the Traditional-Jazz Snob can drop only old names. The “I .saw-Pinetop-split-blood” approach is al-ways effective. You are forever being reminded of a little speakeasy in Chicago, where Bix and Tesch used to play after house; you ■will never forget the time when Fats Waller sat down at the piano, with a bottle of cheap wine at one end of the keyboard and a big cigar at the other, and didn’t get up again until both were used up; you can still see Django Reinhardt in that little dump in .Paris when you were there—was it in ’34 or ’35?
You can do your best work when you’re among other Traditional-Jazz Snobs. Don’t be afraid of being obscure—the uninitiated will be impressed by the scope of your experience, and the other snobs will have to work hard to top you. Make an issue of whether that barber shop was two or three doors away from the Royal Garden in Chicago. Argue over who took the first cornet solo on a certain 1924 Gennett record. Memorize a few dates out of Delaunay’s Hot Discography.
If you’re in one of the night spots where jazz is featured, make a point of getting the band leader to sit at your table between sets. When he comes over, grasp his hand and say: “Muggsy, you probably don’t remember, but we met at the Blue Note three years ago.” (This needn’t be true; Muggsy^ (or^Pee1 Wee/
or anyone else) is forced to say, “Sure ... I remember . . . you’re . . .” Then you toss in your name, just in time to bail him out.
“Of course,” he says.
The others at your table will never catch on.
After a brief conversation about the good old days (“the trouble with the kids today,” you can begin, “is that they don’t play the melody”) make certain you request a number. The Saints, South Rampart, or Muskrat are the old reliables. (The full titles are “When the Saints Go Marching In,” “South Rampart Street Parade,” and “Muskrat Ramble,” but you’ll make a better impression by using the abbreviations.) And when the band does play your number—you’ll be able to recognize it because the leader will say it’s being played for “an old friend from Chicago” —you lift your glass in silent salute to him; and then turn to your friends and say, “He’s a sweet guy, that Muggsy.”
Unless you’re among hardened jazz snobs, it will never occur to your companions that any of them could have done the same thing. Now, you are not only An Authority, but you are A Close Friend of Muggsy’s.
There’s still another way of suggesting intimate knowledge of the band leader’s private life. If the musician who just left your table has had a drink with you, you shake your head sadly after he’s gone and inform youi* friends: “Too bad he’s back on the stuff.” If he didn’t have a drink with you, then the line is: “He used to hit the bottle pretty hard. I’m glad to see he’s straightened out.”
By far the best kind of snobbery is that of the Modem-Jazz Snob, because it is really modem music that has created most of the interest in jazz these days and, consequently, the need for jazz snobbery. However, there are more serious pitfalls here, too.
The Modern-Jazz Snob has nought but scorn for the traditional jazz fan—usually referred to as the “mouldy fig.” He finds early jazz “quaint” and “primi-' tive.” ' This does not stop him from lis
tening to it. Indeed, he often goes to grog-shops, where old timers are playing, just so he can needle those of his friends who are backward enough to still enjoy this elementary jazz.
The Modem-Jazz Snob’s talk is liberally peppered with modem jazz talk; the more cryptic the better. He likes nothing better than to baffle the novice by pretending it’s impossible to express himself accurately in any other terms. The key to modem jazz slang is the superlative. This musician is “the greatest,” or “the absolute end.” “Crazy” is high praise, as is “wild.” If something impresses you, you are “knocked out” or you “flip.” What you don’t like is a “drag” or “nowhere.”
If you really want to talk in code, there are things to be remembered. Nobody plays an instrument, they all “blow,” even drums, piano, or guitar. You don’t go to somebody’s house, you “fall by” their “pad.” There is, however, a danger in the use of such hip talk. Once you start using it, you have to keep right up to the minute, because the expressions and their meanings change so fast you can be spotted as a square by using last month’s phrases. (A square is someone who says “hep” instead of “hip,” for example.)
ALWAYS USE NICKNAMES
Name-dropping is, again, most important. Perhaps even more so than with the Traditional-Jazz Snobs, the use of first names and, wherever possible, nicknames, is a wonderful weapon for confusing the enemy, or exposing his ignorance. Brubeck, Kbnitz, Getz, Manne and Rogers are all right, but Dave, Lee, Stan, Shelley and Shortey are better.
If you really want to get dirty, bring the discussion around to some musician who has the same first name as another equally-well-known jazzman; make your friends (or opponents) wonder which one you mean.- “Oscar” will do for both Peterson and Pettiford. “Stan” can mean either Kenton or Getz. And “Bud” will serve for either Powell or Shank.
And don’t forget those intimate-sound-(Continued on page 35)
FINE: most overworked adjective in jazz; means anything you want it to.
SOUND: That quality you like in someone’s music; conveniently vague.
GONE: Just way up there, where all cats go.
October 12, 1956
19
Oh, don’t worry he’s from my home town
Wall Street Strut
We’re so much better than the rest?----------- - —, -------- — ----------------------- —_ —- ----------------------------------j
The Scholastic

October 12, 1956
21
'The Marriage of Figaro’ ,
by DOROTHY DOYLE and TOM FARRELL
The NBC Opera Company scored a brilliant success with its presentation of Wolfgang Mozart’s “The Marriage of Figaro” in English, last night. In O’Laughlin Auditorium of Saint Mary's College, 1,310 people applauded the world premiere of NBC’s touring opera company. The formation of this new company marks another musical first in the history of RCA and NBC.
This opera was chosen particularly to help celebrate Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart’s bi-centennial. The ingenious plot of love, intrigue and marriage, coupled with the witty, melodious and brilliant score by Mozart has made “The Marriage of Figaro” one of the most popular comic operas for almost two centuries.
Broadway in South Bond
The distinguished company includes 100 performers recruited from the NBC Television Opera Theater, the Metropolitan Opera Company, New York City Opera Company and concert stages all over the country.
The role of Figaro, the Count of Al-maviva’s clever valet, was sung by Ralph Herbert. Viennese born, Mr. Herbert made his American debut in 1942 in the English version of Strauss’ “Fle-densuares.” He has achieved wide success singing in English and two seasons ago joined the Metropolitan Opera Company.
Adelaide Bishop was cast as Susanna, Figaro’s fiancee. Miss Bishop, who has appeared in “The Magic Flute” and “Griffelkin” on television, was affiliated
with the New York City Opera Company.
Also a member of the New York City Opera Company and well known on concert stages across the country is Phyllis Curtin who sang the role of the Countess of Almaviva. Walter Cassel was heard as the Count of Almaviva, Luigi Velluci as Basilio, Ruth Kobart as Mar-cellina and Frances Bible as Cherubino^
The taunting opera was especially" mounted for the theater by Samuel Chatzinoff, producer, and Peter Herman Adler, the music and art director. The entire company is under the expert management of Chandler Cowles, Broadway producer and General Manager of the NBC Opera Company.
The idea for the current tour was born from the overwhelming public acceptance of the NBC Television Opera? Theater. The Theater has presented more than 40 operas in English over the past seven years. Last winter, with public opinion at its peak, the NBC Opera Company was formed. Shortly after, General David Sarnoff, Chairman of the Board of RCA, announced plans for the tour, which is to be an annual event. Immediately, the movement was hailed as a great cultural experiment^ and many eyes in both the entertainment" and educational fields will be closely watching its progress.
The tour’s itinerary will take the players through 46 cities across the nation. On Dec. 1, they will return once again to South Bend to give their’ closing performance. The repertoire of the new company consists of two operas, Mozart’s “The Marriage of Figaro” and? Puccini’s “Madam Butterfly.”
Consisting of 100 singers, musicians, and technicians, the group seems certain to maintain the unchallenged reputation they established on television. Their style is basically the same as in tlje television productions, but new sets and costumes have been prepared for the^
The Scholastic
22
stage versions. Youthful faces have the majority in the cast and they instill a bright novel spark into an art that has long been considered staid.
One of the most interesting aspects of the tour is the cultural effect it will have on our nation. Thousands of Americans will view live grand opera for the first- time. At the conclusion of the tour, ^over 9,000 people from this area alone • will have witnessed opera. In fact, a greater proportion of Northern Indiana residents will see grand opera, than any other area of the nation. This is the initial step in a long term plan to establish this area as a cultural center of the nation.
Originally the tour was scheduled to hold its world premiere in _ Philadelphia. NBC, upon the suggestions •of Saint Mary’s and South Bend-Mishawaka citizens, agreed to come 1,600 miles off the planned route to open in South Bend. Residents of the two cities contributed the necessary funds to pay the cost of the company’s transportation and their expenses while in South Bend. Thursday evening marked the first premiere in this area since the 1930’s.
This past week was busy for the ^members of the operatic groups. Arriving last Sunday at St. Joseph County Airport, they were greeted by Mayor Voorde. They then joined a motorcade which led them to the steps of Moreau Hall. Here they were met by Sister M. Madeleva, President of Saint Mary’s College, who accompanied them on their first tour of the building. Returning by motorcade to South Bend, they were feted at a buffet supper in the Oliver •Hotel.
Monday found the opera principals visiting the children’s hospital and three high school assemblies. That night the company presented its first dress re-
O’LAUGHUN AUDITORIUM
‘Art is the signature of man.’—G. K. Chesterton
hearsal of “The Marriage of Figaro.” During the next three days three more of these rehearsals were staged and attended by some 4,000 high school students from the neighboring towns. Wednesday evening’s performance was attended exclusively by Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame students.
Thursday evening also provided another first at Saint Mary’s College, the formal opening of Moreau Hall. During the intermission, brief dedication ceremonies were conducted to honor the occasion. Among the notables participating in the ceremonies were the Honorable George N. Craig, Governor of In
diana, Frank N. Folsom, President of RCA, Sister M. Madeleva, President of Saint Mary’s College, and Honorable Edward Voorde, Mayor of South Bend.
Moreau Hall, a $2,500,000 fine arts center, houses O’Laughlin Auditorium which served as the theater for the opera. Seating 1,310, air conditioned and ultra modern, the auditorium is considered the finest and most modern college theater in the country. Chandler Cowles, General Manager of the NBC Opera Company, commented, “I have never seen or heard of anything like it anywhere. Nothing like it on Broadway.”
WALTER CASSEL
EDITH EVANS
October 12, 1956
23
At the Movies
Ciccino
by tony speranza
STATE
King Kong and I Walked With a- Zombie. Oct. 12-13.
No Comment.
Carousel. (A-2) Oct. 14-17. Gordon MacRae, Shirley Jones. An excellent musical with an excellent cast. If you didn’t see it the first time it is well worth your valuable time.
Co-hit -.Massacre. (A-2) Dane Clark, James Craig.
Gunrunning and Indians.
RIVER PARK
The Man Who Never JFus. (A-l) Oct. 12-13. Clifton Webb, Gloria Grahame. A very good spy story about how the English planted a dead man with fake plans detailing the D-day invasion. The story is true, which makes it even better.
Co-hit: On The Threshold of Space. (A-l) John Hodiak, Virginia Leith.
The Fastest Gun Alive. (A-l) Oct. 14-16. Glenn Ford, Jeanne Crain, Broderick Crawford. Brod Crawford is a very mean gunslinger who threatens to blow the town up unless Glenn Ford will sling guns with him. Jeanne Crain cries her eyes out for ten minutes but to no avail. Big Brod slings and misses and everyone lives happily ever after, except Brod.
Co-hit: The Catered Affair. (A-2) Bette Davis, Ernest Borgnine, Debbie Fisher. A pretty fair double feature.
The Girl in The Red Velvet Siring (A-2) Oct. 18. Joan Collins.
Co-hit: Foxfire. (A-2) Jeff Chandler.
AVON
Boom Town. (A-2) Oct. 12-13. Clark Gable, Spencer Tracy. I don’t know anything about the movie, but if the cast is any indication it should be worth a look. The actors should look young since this is a reissue. ■ The Last Horizon. Oct. 14.
COLFAX
The Best Things In Life Are Free. (A-2) Dan Dailey, Gordon MacRae Ernest Borgnine, Sheree North, and introducing Webley L. Webster as Rickey L. Llewellan. The story revolves around the music and speakeasys of the roaring twenties. Dailey, MacRae and Borgnine are cast as Henderson, De Sylva and Brown, who combined to turn out some pretty fair tunes in their time. The film abounds in such atmospheric paraphernalia as the black bottom, comic gangsters, Al Jolson, and the outrageous clothes of the period—take note, Bob Marco.
Summing up: Butler isn’t leavin’ till he sees this one. This is the one CBS did show.
GRANADA
TFar and Peace. (A-l) Was fabulously reviewed in last week’s Scholastic.
PALACE
Port Afrique (A-2) Pier Angeli, Phil Carey. The producers tried valiantly to make a routine murder plot more attractive with Technicolor and a North African setting. They failed miserably. The story is about a war hero who returns to find everything gone, including his ND bathrobe.
Summing up: Take your incompatiable roommate to this one.
Co-hit: Cha-cha-cha Boom. (A-2) Stephen Dunne, Alix Talton.
WASHINGTON HALL
Broken Lance, (tonight) Spencer Tracy, Richard Widmark. Two showings at 6:30 and 8:30 p.m.
Hell and High Water. (Saturday night) Richard Widmark and Bella Darvy. Two showings at 6 :30 and 8:40 p.m.	A .
‘Aw righ’, you guys, whose da joka?” He had interrupted a sound sleep. “Wha . . . what’s the matter, Cheech?” “Done gimme any a dat stuff, sport. Da lig-hts in my pad jus’ wen’out, an I ’ wanna know who it was dat donnit.”
“It was the Rector . . . didn’t you go to the meeting . . . we’ve had a couple of midnights, but ... it was the Rector, honest!”
“Where’s dis Recta live?”
‘‘Down . . . (cough) . . . downstairs." He did not bother to knock. He burst into the office and found Father sitting behind his desk.	■?
“Don’t you believe in knocking?”
“Why? Y’ain’ undressed, and I’m in a hurry. You da Recta?”
“Yes, I’m the Recta ... I mean Rector. But before we go any further than that, suppose you go back into the corridor and enter this office the right way.”
“I done know da righ’ way. An besides, I jus’ tole ya, I got no time fir^ yere silly games.”
“What’s your name, boy?”
“Ciccino. But dats got notten ta do wit da lights in my pad. Why’d ya put em out?”
“I answered that question the other night at the hall meeting. You were supposed to be there.”
“I was deer, but I was too busy prayin’ ta be listenin’ ,ta you. Dat’s wha’ yere sposed ta do in a chapel, ya~ know . . . Pray.”
Heh hum! . . . yes I know . . . but there isn’t another place large enough for everyone in the hall to meet at the same time, so we’re forced -to hold our meetings in the chapel.”
“Well, deer should be, an ya .oughta make one, evin if ya haveta knock out a couple a rooms. I need a place big enough ta have my crap games in, an I sure ain’ gonna shoot in no chapel!”^
“We can’t always have what we want, Ci . . . Cic . . . what was your name again?”
“Jus’ call me Cheech . . . righ’ now dat’s all I wan’ is my lig-hts put on. Ya gonna do it?”
“Cheech, there are those in the administration who feel the lights in students’ rooms ought to be turned off at* 11 o’clock for reasons of health and : discipline.”
Ciccino leaned forward and pressed his clenched hands- on the surface of the desk.
“Look, Fatha, I done know abou’ da res’-a-da guy's aroun’ here, but da las’ time anybody babied me was jus’ befaw I learned howta walk!”	•
24
The Scholastic
October 12, 1956
25
Take a 2-minute preview of your path to RCA engineering
Specialized training program
Earn a regular professional engineering salary as you work on carefully rotated assignments giving you a comprehensive view of RCA engineering. Your individual interests are considered and you have every chance for permanent assignment in the area you prefer. Your work gets careful review' under RCA’s advancement plan and you benefit from guidance of experienced engineers and interested management. Following training, you will enter development and design engineering in such fields as Radar, Airborne Electronics, Computers, Missile Electronics. For manu-. facturing engineers, there are positions in quality, material or production control, test equipment design, methods. You may also enter development, design or manufacture of electron tubes, semiconductor components or television.
Direct hire
If you are qualified by experience or advanced education, your interests may point to a direct assignment. The RCA management representative will be glad to help you. Many fields are open ... from research, systems, design and development to manufacturing engineering — in aviation and missile electronics, as well as radar, electron tubes, computers, and many other challenging fields.
... and you advance
Small engineering groups mean recognition for initiative and ability, leading on to advancement that’s professional as well as financial. RCA further helps your development through reimbursement for graduate study under a liberal tuition refund plan.
Now... for a longer look at RCA
See your placement director about an appointment with an RCA engineering management representative who will be on campus...
Monday, October 22
Talk to your placement officer today ... ask for literature about your RCA engineering future! If you are unable to see RCA’s representative, send vour resume to:
Mr. Robert Haklisch, Manager
College Relations, Dept. CR5-23 Radio Corporation of America Camden 2, New Jersey
RADIO CORPORATION of AMERICA
26
The Scholastic
Dliik Scutt
THE AUTHOR
After the Southern Methodist game we were all pretty low. Coach Brennan said we’d have to put in a lot of hard work the next two weeks and we did. We scrimmaged every day and pretty soon we began getting our confidence back and the spirit picked up considerably. Our spirit was better than before the SMU game and I think we’ve improved more and more each day, even with the injuries of the Indiana game, because of that regained spirit.
Our defense needs an awful lot of work. Anybody who knows anything about football can see that. But that’s mostly due to a green line and a lack of experience. We’re a young team yet and still have a great deal to learn.
Our offense was improved but it, too, needs a lot of work and has a long way to go.
Indiana’s fullbacks, Bob Fee and Jim Yore, gave us a lot of trouble both inside and out, but later in the game Coach Brennan changed the defense and we stopped,-them, a,-little better. , They • weren’t the hardest runners in the world, but they were tough.
Indiana wasn’t too hard to move out offensively. In the second half Paul started calling more straight stuff, drive plays up the middle, and we moved better. Also, I thought the blocking improved in the second half.
To me, though, the one outstanding thing of the whole game was that there were 11 men on the field, and there were 11 men pulling together. If somebody made a mistake the other guys tried to help 'him shake it. We were working more as a unit than we did earlier but we still have a way to go.
Coach Brennan gave a pretty inspiring talk before we took the field against
One of the Irish guards is optimistic about the future because he thinks . . .
“We’re Improving”
by BOB GAYDOS as told to BOB EARLY
Indiana. We lost the toss and had to kick. Al Ecuyer burst down the field to make the tackle on the 19-yard line, hitting his man so hard that he knocked himself out. Indiana got a couple of quick first downs but then we dug in and got serious. They punted and we took over on our own 27. Morse flipped a pass to Ron Toth on the first play and we picked up 19 yards. Then Hornung pitched out to Jim Just for another 19, before carrying it himself to the Hoosier seven-yard line. Our offense was really going great. Morse smashed into the line twice and then Paul took it over for the touchdown.
But then we got a little bit lacka-
ITS UP FOR GRABS
Rabold jars Studer as Amstutz covers.
dasical and Indiana began to move. However Fee fumbled and that stopped their drive.
We got another drive going in the second quarter after I.U. punted to our 46. Hornung threw to Morse and Toth for about 35 yards before he tossed the touchdown pass to Lewis. Paul missed the point and we led 13-0.
Indiana came back with about six minutes left to go in the half. They marched down to our one-yard line where they had a first down, goal situation. We stopped Yore on the first play, but Tom Kendrick went through for the score.
In the third quarter our defense (Continued on page 31)
October 12, 1956
27
%
Dawson-Lundy Combination Key to Upset Win As Irish Play Host to Tough Boilermaker Eleven
by JIM GOETHALS
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish will play host to aerial artist Len Dawson and Company tomorrow in the 28th renewal of the Boilermaker-Irish series in a jampacked Notre Dame Stadium. The Irish, having revitalized themselves against another intra-state opponent last Saturday, will seek another notch on the victory ladder in what should prove to be another outstanding grid battle.
The series began back in 1896 and since then Notre Dame has built up a 19-6 advantage with two ties.
Chief threat to the Brennanmen will be Purdue’s adept signal caller, Len Dawson, who will be striving to upend the Irish with his aerial tactics as he and his immediate predecessor accomplished so expertly in recent past seasons.
TWICE BEFORE
Notre Dame remembers only too well when Dale Samuels passed them to defeat one cold, rainy fall afternoon only six seasons ago in the Stadium to end a long streak of 39 games without a loss. Then four years later another quarterback in the person of Leonard Dawson, a sophomore, tossed four touchdown passes to hand the Irish their lone defeat of that particular season. And now this same Dawson will be attempting a repeat performance tomorrow with ponderous, All-American end candidate, Lamar Lundy, as his favorite target.
Dawson, the poised veteran quarterback and a co-captain, will direct their.

NEIL HABIG
From Center .	.
fundamentally straight T type of formation. He has led the Big Ten in total offense in addition to passing for the past two years and topped the nation in touchdown tosses as a sophomore. Also, in addition to his passing and playcalling talents, Dawson has established himself equally as adept in kicking and in handling defensive chores, all of which help rank him as one of the country’s top ranking nominees for AllAmerican honors at quarterback.
Operating at the halves and producing the running attack to blend with the passing of Dawson will probably be Tom
LENNY DAWSON . . . to Quarterback . . .
Fletcher at left half and rugged junior letterman, Erich Barnes on the right side. Fletcher is especially skilled in broken field running, as he proved in , Furdue’s opening game of the season
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
PURDUE	NOTRE DAME
Lundy ........  L.E...... Prendergast
Mumley ........._L.T......... Geremia
Voytek .........L.G..........  Gaydos
Habig ..........„C.—........ Sullivan
Clasey .........R.G........... Equyer
Farmer .........R.T........  Nagurski
Khoenle .........R.E..........  Myers
Dawson ---------Q.B.......... Hornung
Fletcher .......LH............  Lewis
Barnes .........R.H...........  Morse
Dillard ........F.B...........   Just
KICKOFF—2:00 p.m. C.D.T.
LAMAR LUNDY ... to End.
against Missouri by gaining 154 yards net in 22 carries. Barnes who is much taller and heavier is an exceptional tackler on defense and has adequate speed to make him a threat on offense.
Replacing last year’s leading ground gainer and power runner of the^-Boilermakers in Bill Murakowski will be Mel Dillard. Dillard did see some action last year and displayed good drive and speed.	'
STRONGEST AT END
The strongest position on the team is at end. Last years regular starters are both back. A permanent fixture and another of the co-captains for Purdue <5 is left end Lamar Lundy. Lundy, the “iron man” on last year’s squad, is a versatile 6-6, 225 pounder possessing incredible speed for his size and serves as the favorite target for Dawson’s passes. In addition to being a keen blocker offensively, Lundy has been a tower of strength defensively where he uses his speed, size, and long arms to advantage.	~
At the other end is Bob Khoenle, a" senior letterman who led the Big Ten in pass receiving last fall, and who is an equally permanent fixture.
Two sophomores, Nick Mumley and Wayne Farmer, a pair of 240 pounders, will occupy the tackle posts for Purdue. Both, though having little game experience going into this game were highly praised by Head Coach Jack^, Mollenkopf after spring practice.
However, two proven senior lettermen, co-captain Bob Clasey and Ed Voytek will provide a more than capable starting duo at guard. The all-around play of Clasey was one of the highlights of last fall. Excelling as a linebacker, he more than filled the gap left by the loss .
(Continued on page 31)	$
28
The Scholastic
& ?
The Day the Streak Ended
This is the second in a series of articles by Joe Bride, assistant to Charlie Callahan, Sports Publicity Director, giving some of the background on the games between Notre Dame and the opponent of the week. This iveek the author highlights the Purdue game of 1950.
A Purdue-Notre Dame game in the Stadium has come to be a clash between two squads of supreme football ability. Three times in recent years, the Irish and the Boilermakers have engaged in ^spirited battles under the shadow* of Notre Dame.
In 1954, Terry Brennan suffered his first defeat as a coach, and a sophomore passing quarterback, Lenny Dawson, led the way to a 27-14 victory.
In 1948, Steve Oracko, after missing three extra points, booted a clutch field goal to give the Irish a 28-27 victory.
And, on Saturday, October 7, 1950, Dale Samuels, a 161-pound sophomore L ^quarterback, paced the Boilermakers to a 28-14 victory over Notre Dame, thereby ending modern football’s longest consecutive streak without a loss.
In 1950, Notre Dame was the apparent heir to its own National Gridiron championship of 1949. The Irish had battled through 39 tilts without a loss. The last defeat had been to Great Lakes, 39-7, on Dec. 1, 1945. In fact, Notre Dame hadn’t
IT WAS BOUND TO HAPPEN
Maccioli heads for paydirt and final score.
lost at home since 1942, when Michigan defeated them, 32-20.
The inspired Boilermakers took charge from the start and sprinted to a 21-0 halftime lead. Driving from the opening kickoff, the Boilermaker machine penetrated to the ND five, but Jerry Groom, Bob Toneff, and Fred Wallner stopped the threat.
SAMUELS SPARKS DRIVE
The Irish couldn’t move on offense and Samuels moved the Boilermakers into Irish land. He completed three consecutive passes for a first down on the ND two. John Kerestes took it over and Samuels converted.
Twice the Irish offense was stopped in its own territory, and Purdue took over, midway in the second quarter, on the ND 42. On first down, Samuels passed 36 yards to Neil Schmidt. Kerestes again scored, taking two plays, and Samuels again converted.
Before the half ended, Samuels passed 30 yards to Schmidt for the third Purdue score. Samuels again converted and the score at the half was 21-0.
At the outset of the second half, the Irish suddenly became dangerous. Dick Cotter recovered a fumble on the Boilermaker twelve. Aftei* three unsuccessful attempts into the line, Bob Williams passed to Jim Mutscheller for the score. Joe Capara converted.
Following the kickoff, Purdue drove toward the Irish goal. Samuels carried
for a first down on the Notre Dame seven. Kerestes, Mike Maccioli, and Samuels, carried to the one. On fourth down and a foot, Toneff, Groom, and Wallner spearheaded the line as they hit Kerestes for a two-yard loss. Notre Dame took over.
PENALTY STOPS PURDUE
Williams punted deep into Purdue territory and on the succeeding punt, the Boilermakers were penalized to the Irish 43 for unnecessary* roughness where Notre Dame’s offense took over for its only sustained drive of the afternoon.
Billy Barrett broke around his own right end for 30 yards and a first down on the Purdue 23. John Petitbon, Jack Landry, and Barrett fought their way to a first down on the 10 as the third period ended.
On the first play of the final period, Petitbon bolted through left tackle for ten yards and the touchdown. Capara’s placement was again good, and Notre Dame was only one touchdown away from rescuing an almost certain defeat.
With the score now 21-14, it seemed that the Boilennakers had lost the poise and confidence which had been the main factor in their inspired play of the first half.
But, not satisfied with a one touchdown lead, the Boilermakers gambled for another score, got it, and this was enough.
Capara kicked off to Darrel Brewster who was swarmed under on the 31. Samuels first down pass was broken-up.
Then, Kerestes and Maccioli picked up a first down on the 43. The diminuitive Samuels tried two passes to Maccioli in the left flat. They both dropped incomplete, and the Irish made no change in their defensive set-up.
MACCIOLI CLINCHES GAME
On third down, ten yards for a first down, Samuels threw the same pass to Maccioli in the left flat. This time the little halfback gathered it in and raced 57 yards for the score that halted Notre Dame’s victory march at 39 games.
The Irish had two more chances with the ball, but could only earn one first down. The game ended as Williams was hit by a herd of tacklers deep in Notre Dame territory.
Not even Irish coach Frank Leahy had forseen that the mighty Irish juggernaut would be humbled so convincingly by the Boilermakers. In a post game statement, Leahy said: “We lost to a better team. We were out-played, and out-coached, but not out-fought.”
—Joe Bride
October 12, 1956
29
TIME OUT
Sullivan and Gene
GENE HEDRICK

TYLER’S PICKS OF THE WEEK
Yale over Columbia Penn State over Holy Cross TCU over Alabama Baylor over Arkansas Georgia Tech over LSU Mississippi over Vanderbilt Tennessee over Chattanooga Oklahoma over Texas Navy over Tulane Wake Forest over Clemson Ohio State over Illinois Iowa over Wisconsin Michigan State over Indiana Minnesota over Northwestern Missouri over North Dakota State Notre Dame over Purdue Stanford over San Jose State UCLA over Washington State Washington over Oregon Williams over Middlebury LAST WEEK:
12 Right; 8 Wrong. Pct. .600 SEASON:
29 Right; 11 Wrong. Pct. .725
Now that the Irish have finally dented the win column, we can sit back, at least for tonight, and wait for the second win to show up on the boards. It was a rather unimpressive win last Saturday and had many of the local followers wondering if things will get worse before they get better. It seemed as if the Irish were lacking the necessary spark to fire them up. A couple of times on offense, the team looked like Notre Dame teams of old. It is on defense though that our lads looked woefully weak.
This can partly be explained by lack of experience and this will take care of itself in due time. The two mainstays of the line last Saturday were Ed Hedrick. Sullivan made 12 tackles and was all over the field. It was Hedrick along with Sullivan and Aubrey Lewis who stopped a Hoosier drive in the third quarter that would have tied the score. With first down on the six, the Hoosiers attempted four times to get through the left side of the Irish line but Hedrick and Sullivan broke through to dump the ball carrier. On the last two plays, it was Lewis who made sure that Indiana didn’t make it a new ball game.
It was quite erident that Coach Brennan has junked his idea of having two teams which he can switch, off with at any time. He just doesn’t have the manpower-this season. After the first 14 or 15 men, the replacements are noticeably weak. It looks like the “iron men”
role for the regulars unless something out of the ordinary happens.
But most of all, it is that necessary something extra that has to be provided before the Irish can really get going. The time to stop the offense is when they are in their own territory. As yet, we haven’t done it. It could be Hedrick and Sullivan that could provide the necessary spark. They showed signs of it last week and we’ll know for sure in the next couple of weeks.
Purdue is going to be the toughest test to date and no matter what anybody says the fact that Michigan State and Oklahoma follow is going to play a factor in tomorrow’s game.
Look for Dawson to fill the Stadium with his tosses and provide the Notre Dame rooters a few anxious moments. The Boilermakers will be tough but the Irish are going to be improved. They don’t do things any other way around here. Look out, State and Oklahoma! After tomorrow, we are really on our way. Notre Dame 27, Purdue 14.
HOW ABOUT SUPPORT FOR THE CROSS COUNTRY TEAM?
On the golf course tomorrow morning, the cross country team will open its season against Marquette. Last year’s squad was one of the best in the country as they compiled a perfect 7-0 record and placed third in the NCAA. This year’s squad is not as strong but Coach Alex Wilson expects a great deal from his charges. A few students at these home meets might add a little incentive to the harriers. Drop out at the course around 11 a.m. and bring your folks along if they are out for the game. Let them see that football is not the only sport in which Notre Dame excels. If you’ve never seen a cross country meet, here is college competition at its best.
After last week’s buildup, Tyler just about let everyone down. I don’t know what his excuse is because he hasn’t been around. His picks for this week were found under the door the other night. He is bound to pick a Stanford game right before the season is over. (He has missed two weeks in a row.) According to Tyler, the Prediction of the Week: Casey Stengel to call it quits after this season.—J. G.
Irish Sailors Second In 7-Team Regatta
Last Saturday, the Notre Dame sailing team was runner-up to Wisconsin for the second consecutive week, as the Badgers sailed to a nine-point victory at Orchard Lake, Michigan.
The Irish sailors got off to a bad start in the seven-team regatta and found themselves in sixth place after only five races, due partly to a disqualification of skipper Lou Morgan in the third “A” division race. However, from^ that point on, the Irish didn’t place below second and managed to nose out
Purdue by one point for second place.
Notre Dame went into the seventh race in the “A” division trailing Purdue by four points but Lou Morgan brought his boat home in front while Purdue
finished fourth. This tied the two teams
with only one race remaining. Ray Nelson, who skippered all the “B” division^ races sailed to a third in the final race^
but Purdue had to settle for fourth, giving the Irish second place by one point.
Ray Nelson was high man in the “B” division with 48 points followed by Wisconsin’s Taylor at 45.
The final totals showed Wisconsin on top with 93 points followed by Notre Dame at 84, Purdue 83, Michigan State 62, Wayne 59, Hillsdale 59, and Uni-^ versity of Detroit 42.
On Nov. 10 and 11 the Irish sailors will travel to Purdue, to compete in the Timme Angsten Eliminations. They will sail against four other schools from the midwest, with the top two teams journeying to Chicago for the Timme Angsten Memorial Regatta over the Thanksgiving weekend.	?
30
The Scholastic
THE JONES BOY HEADED FOR TROUBLE
Hornung to finish what Lewis started
'We're Improving'
£ (Continued from page 27) started slowly and Indiana was on our five-yard line with a first down. But the team came to life and stopped them cold with Sullivan and Hedrick making key tackles. The team is capable of playing much better than they have and when the going gets tough they really put out. That’s what happened on that goal line stand.
6 DRIVE FOR FINAL SCORE
After that we were really fired up and we put together a good march th?.t moved 98 yards for the touchdown. Lewis climaxed the drive with a run around left end. Paul added the point and that finished the day’s scoring.
The win, I admit, wasn’t anything * great, but it was a start. And once you _ get a start you progress. I guess that’s • the theme, progress game by game.
Things look pretty good for us schedule-wise. That open date after the SMU game sure helped, and playing at home for the next few games will also give us an added boost.
Tomorrow we’ll have to play better against Purdue than we did against Indiana, just as we had to play better against Indiana than we did against SMU. The Boilermakers, with Len Dawson and Lamar Lundy, will probably go to the air as they have been doing so far this season, but we’ll be ready for them.
A couple of weeks ago, Jim Morse said we’ll come back, and we’re coming. Things look a little brighter because ” we’re improving.
Michno, Irish Meet Marquette On Burke Course Tomorrow
Tomorrow morning, over the four mile layout of the Burke Memorial Course, Coach Alex Wilson will unveil his 1956 cross-country squad, a team which he hopes will measure up to last year’s undefeated squad. Providing the opposition foi* the harriers in their initial encounter will be a highly rated Marquette team.
The Irish have been rounding into shape for the past three weeks and Coach Wilson feels that the chances of an Irish victory over the Indians are “very good.” As a result of time trials held the past week the Irish starters will probably be Ed Monnelly, Dale Vandenberg, John Burns, Neil Wallace, Billy Newell, Bob House, Bob Huetz, and Stan Wegrzynowicz, led by their captain John Michno. Included in the starting lineup also will be three graduates of last year’s freshman team— Bud Doha, Mike Haverty, and John Buck.
Irish Host Purdue
(Continued from page 28)
of All-American Tom Bettis and ranked second only to Lundy in the matter of minutes played last season.
At the center slot, and completing the Purdue starting lineup will be Neil Habig. Habig, replacing the graduated Don Fife at center, excels as a linebacker and though out of action most of last season with an elbow injury, he figures to be a mainstay at the middle post.
Hornung Leads Irish In Five Departments
Paul Hornung, Notre Dame senior quarterback, has cornered the Irish two-game statistical market. Hornung leads the Irish in five departments, and has run and passed the ball for a total offense figure of 416 yards.
Hornung leads the team in rushing, scoring, punting, kickoffs returned, and passing. The only department he isn’t leading are pass receiving, opponents’ fumbles recovered, and punts returned.
He has carried the. ball 25 times for 182 yards and a 7.6 average. He completed nine of 15 passes in the Indiana game to run his season’s total to 14 completions in 24 attempts, a .583 percentage. His tosses have been good for 234 yards and two touchdowns.
In punting, he has punted five times foi* 195 yards, and has an average distance of 39 yards. He has scored two touchdowns and booted three extra points to lead in scoring with 15 points. He has returned three kickoffs for 75 yards to hold the lead in that category also.
Captain Jim Morse is the leader in pass receiving with six catches for 141 yards, and also ranks third in rushing with 47 yards in 15 carries.
Aubrey Lewis, junior halfback, ranks second in rushing. Lewis has carried the ball 16 times for 133 yards, for an average of 8.3 yards per carry, the highest on the team. Lewis’ rushing total includes a nine-yard dash around Indiana’s right end for the third Irish touchdown of that game. He also has caught three passes for 26 yards, one for a touchdown. He leads the squad in punt returns with two for 13 yards and has recovered one fumble.	’
WITH THE PIGGYBACK RBILL Aubrey Lewis and friend
October 12, 1956
31
IQUIOS LIBRARY and BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Activities Scheduled By Discussion Groups
The Wranglers and the Bookmen, two literary and discussion groups, will begin their activities next Tuesday with a meeting for all members and interested freshmen.
For freshmen who are interested in discussion of this type, a Freshman Wranglers-Bookmen group will be formed. Those members who intend to join either of the upperclass organizations next year will be briefed on the methods of discussion by four of the regular members. The men chosen for this project are: Tom Hoberg, Gary Gates, Bob Dempsey, and Bob Blakey.
At the first few meetings, the freshmen will listen to a report i-ead by one of the four and will then discuss the report and the topic. Later on, some of the freshmen themselves will be given an opportunity to report and lead the discussion.
The Wranglers, under the moderation of Prof. Francis O’Malley, is an organ
ization which discusses contemporary^ thought with Catholic1 interpretation. President of the group is Hany Heyl.
The Bookmen, who in the past have discussed modern art and literature in general, have decided on a definite topic for their program this year, the “Literature of Freedom and Revolt.” Membership in this club is restricted to 25 upperclassmen. Prof. Alvin Ryan is moderator of the club, and Tom O’Brien^ is the president. The Bookmen meet on alternate Thursdays in the evening in O’Shaughnessy Hall.
PLACEMENT BUREAU
All graduating seniors are urged by the Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., director of the University placement bureau, to register as promptly as possible at his office on the second floor of the Main Building.
Senior AB majors are especially cautioned that their registration demands a longer time for special counselling and aptitude tests.
IKORSKY s4 AIRCRAFT
A SIKORSKI MWJJ iJteIh W
TUESDAY
OCTOBER 23
32
The Scholastic
* ^UniversityAnnounces FacultyAppointments
The appointment of a new department head and 59 new faculty members at the University for the 1956-57 school year was announced here recently by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice president [ -^for academic affairs.
Prof. Raymond Gutschick has been named head of the department of geology succeeding Prof. Archie MacAlpin who 'will devote his full time to teaching and research. Dr. Gutschick, a specialist in sedimentary geology, has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1947.
Rev. Joseph Fichter, S.J., an authority on parish sociology, will serve as a visit' Wing professor at Notre Dame during the coming year. He is head of the department of sociology at Loyola University of the 'South, New Orleans. Also joining the Notre Dame sociology department is Dr. Robert Schmitt, a psychiatrist, who
will lecture on social psychiatry and child development. He is chief of adolescent service at Beatty Memorial Hospital, Westville, Ind.
An authority on the history of the French restoration period, Rev. Guillaume Bertier de Sauvigny of the Catholic Institute of Paris, will be a visiting professor of history during the fall semester. He will also lecture on European diplomatic history of the 19th century.
(Continued on page 36)
ACTIVITY FEE
Due to the late registration of some students, the date for activity fee payment has been extended. Anyone who has not purchased his activity card may do so in the Student Senate office in the Student Center between 1:30 and 5:30 p.m. from Friday, Oct. 12, to Friday, Oct. 19. ID cards must be presented upon payment of the $2 fee.
ROTC Rifle Team Formed; Plan Intra-College Matches
The Army ROTC unit on campus has organized a rifle team among the cadets under the. supervision of Capt. John Brady, Jr. Competition has been arranged with other AROTC units at colleges throughout the country, beginning with a match against California Institute of Technology on Oct. 27.
Other matches on the schedule include Arkansas State, Wisconsin State, St. Bonaventure, Cornell, the University of Puerto Rico, Loyola of Baltimore, Tennessee, Tulane, and Xavier.
Approximately 50 men of all four classes in military science have tried out for the team. The team has been practicing two hours a week for several weeks. Qualifications for team placings are now being held. The highest 15 to 20 men will be on the regular team. The others will not be dropped, but will be given coaching and practicing time.
October 12, 1956
33
Classified Advertising
_____________WANTED______________
NATIONAL ORGANIZATION has opening in South Bend for 3 men, 21-35 years old with nice personality, reliable and ambitious. Car necessary. Exceptionally good income and future. Experience helpful but not necessary. Contact Mr. Hoelscher, CE 2-4596, 606 North Scott, South Bend.
WANTED: Salesman. Work one hour four nights a week. Paid by commission. Write 212% S. Main Street, Elkhart, Indiana.
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
BURROUGHS CO., Tuesday, Oct. 22— Placement Office.
CREOLE PETROLEUM CORP., Monday, Oct. 22—Placement Office.
LOCKHEED AIRCRAFT CORP., Friday, Oct. 19—Placement Office.
NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION, Wednesday, Oct. 17—Placement Office.
RADIO CORP. OF AMERICA, Monday, Oct. 22—Placement Office.
SIKORSKY AIRCRAFT, Tuesday, Oct. 23—Placement Office.
ROOMS FOR RENT "
SLEEPING ROOMS for rent close to town and bus. Use of phone. Reasonable. Inquire at 606 North Scott Street after 4:30 P.M. or all day Saturday and Sunday.
Placement Bureau to Open Fa’I Job Interviews Oct. 15
The Placement Bureau announced recently that fall interviews for job-seeking graduates will begin Oct. 15 and continue until Dec. 14.
One hundred and thirty-eight corporations, including the Bell Telephone Co., Standard Oil Co., and the Radio Corporation of America will be represented at the interviews. Graduates of January, May, and August, 1957, who are interested in being interviewed must register their names at the bureau office in the Main Building.
In addition to interviews, the Bureau makes use of bulletins throughout the campus, and radio announcements over WSND to assist students in obtaining secure, well-paying jobs. Rev. Louis Thornton, C.S.C., placement bureau director, and his associates also maintain
LETTERS
All correspondence to the Sch-lastic should be addressed to Editor, The Scholastic, Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind.
contacts through the various deans oift the colleges, department heads, and faculty members.
'Tech Review' to Announce Results of Engineering Poll
The first issue of the Tech Review, set for publication Nov. 15, will feature the results of a poll taken among l,40Cg engineering graduates on the values of the engineering program of the University.
The poll asked the men to point out good and bad features of the program and appraise the values of their education at Notre Dame.
Other articles slated for the November issue include reports on the activities of the engineering advisory board and th% upcoming conference of the Engineering* College Magazine Press Association, to be held Nov. 1 through 3 in Fayetteville, Ark. The “Wealth of a Nation” section of the magazine will feature transportation as its theme.
Three other issues of the “Tech Review” are planned during the coming school year. Publication dates are set for Jan. 15, March 19, and May 21.
Editor Bill Reeve has also announced* the recent appointment of Bob Graham* as head of the art and layout department of the magazine.
Employment Opportunities	t
in VENEZUELA with
Creole Petroleum Corporation
An Affiliate of Standard Oil Co. (N. J.)
Representatives of Creole will be on the campus
Monday, October 22 to interview unmarried graduates with majors	f
in ENGINEERING and GEOLOGY
See your Placement Director for interview schedules 	 I 34	The Scholastic
* Jazz Snob
(Continued from page 19)
ing nicknames. Ellington is always “the Duke.” Herman is always “Woody.” Hodges is never Johnny, but “Rabbit.” Charlie Parker is “Bird.” Lester Young is “Prez.” It’s all right to say “Dizzy” t for Gillespie, but “Diz” is even better, ^.nd if you want to be sharp, get away *rom “Hamp” for Hampton—“Lionel” has the ring of close friendship.
Name-dropping in jazz can also be used with regards to little-known record record labels or out-of-the-way ginmills. If a Modern-Jazz Snob tries to impress you by mentioning “that Storyville LP of Brubeck’s,” you can always top him by insisting that Dave played much better “when I caught him at Howard’s Alace in Hermosa.” (Translation: Howard Rumsey’s Lighthouse, a jazz spot in Hermosa Beach, California.)
The Modern-Jazz Snob must be very careful not to let his enthusiasm for a musician get out of hand—particularly when other Modem-Jazz Snobs climb on the bandwagon, and there is danger the . musician in question might become popular. That’s the time to drop him Quickly, and discover someone else.
“Barbara (Carroll) and Martan (McPartland) are all right, of course,” you start out, “but I heard a little girl in Boston last month who really cuts them. Clementine MacTavish. Blows the end! I don’t think anyone’s recorded her yet, but'mark my words—she’ll be big some day.”
' DISCOVER A NEW STAR
Even if you can’t discover a new jazz star, it’s always good to start agitating against a popular one. “I hate to say this,” you confide, “but the last Brubeck concert was a drag. I don’t know what’s happening to Dave. He doesn’t seem to care any more.” This places your friends behind the times.
/ Be right up to the minute with news, even if you have to invent it. Make it '^ound confidential, and, above all, keep it cryptic. “I guess you heard Bud is in trouble again,” you say casually. Chances are, nobody at your table will dare ask which Bud, or what trouble. And some of them will invariably pretend to have heard all about it.
Never travel with the pack. If every-< one is flipping over Chet Baker, point !^pt he can’t touch Diz’s technique. If the boys are putting down Gamer, mention he has “a kind of charming simplicity.” When Tristano is characterized for being cold and abstract, shake your head sagely and insist that Lennie gets so far out, thus indicating that these peasants around you don’t really understand Tristano as well as you do. w Should you be lucky enough to get a
band leader ovei- to your table, your attitude must be entirely different from that of the Mouldy Fig who bags Muggsy. Not too much enthusiasm; just a subtle sort of suggestion that you dig the master. Drop a casual orchid, like: “Hey, I like that Stardust bit, man.”
Before a particular musician hits your town, bone up on his recent activities. Then when you get him to your table, you can drop something like: “How did the Hartford thing go, Lee?” This immediately establishes you as an expert, particularly if your friends haven’t the foggiest idea of what “the Hartford thing” was.
By now, you should know enough about jazz snobbery to get started. But remember, whether you decide to be an Anti-Jazz Snob, a Traditional-Jazz Snob, or a Modern Jazz Snob, the main thing is not to be shy—the more dogmatic you
are in your views, the more your friends will respect you.
Just one thing more. What kind of jazz snob am I? Simple: I’m an AntiJazz Snob Snob. If you don’t believe me, start reading this article over again.

ARTHUR ***	par1-,e5
Visit out tu	oturday*
on Thursdays and *	_____
Do you think you have no talent for dancing...that good times and popularity can’t be yours? Well, here’s good news for you Whether you’re a timid beginner or just an old-fashioned dancer, here’s your chance to find out that you can be a sought-after partner and have more fun without risking a single penny.
You see, the Arthur Murray Way of learning to dance is different, better than any other. That’s because you not only learn all the latest steps but develop your dormant personality, gain confidence while you’re learning.
This you do at our Student Parties, a very important part of your course. At these parties you

meet new people, dance with all types of dancers, get the feeling of being out in public. Even timid people become confident and their true, attractive personality comes out at these parties.
So don’t wait. Come in now and have your free lesson. Get started on a new life of more good times and popularity than you’ve ever had before.
Copr. 1952—Arthur Murray, Ine.
ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing
120 E. Wayne St.
CE2-3339
October 12, 1956
35
ONLY PEN WITH A
BUILT-IN SPARE REFILL!
cNew BiperbMate
YOU HAVE 2 POINTS
2 INK supplies!
ANP THEY’RE PIGGYBACK!
(trademark)
only $ j95 at
I © THE PAPER MATE COMPANY, 29M
Notre Dame Bookstore On the Campus
Complete Optical Service!
•	EYES EXAMINED
•	GLASSES FITTED
• OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced. Broken Lenses Duplicated. “Bring in the Pieces.”
DRR.W TURBOW ^OPTOMETRIST
207 W. Washington	OLIVER HOTEL	CE 4-5777
126 N. Michigan, South Bend CE 2-1202
A New Classified Section will soon appear in the SCHOLASTIC for the convenience of readers who wish to buy, sell, rent, etc.
Please watch for further notice.
Faculty Appointments I
(Continued from page 33)
OTHER NEW PROFS
Colonel Edwin Grenelle, USA, former chief of staff at Fort Devins, Mass., has been appointed professor of military science and commanding officer of Notre Dame’s Army ROTC unit. Eugene Kalman has been named to a full pro-^ fessorship in the department of engineering mechanics.
Rev. Frank O’Hara, C.S.C., former dean of science at Kings College, Wilkes Barre, Pa., has been appointed an associate professor of biology at Notre Dame. Other newly named associate professors are Henry Hare Carter, modem languages, and Lt. Col. Harvey Feehan, USMC, naval science.
ASSISTANT PROFESSORS
Twenty-five assistant professors are included among the new faculty members. They are Frank Anderson and Richard Meyer, speech; Lt. William Bartlett and Lt. Cmdr. James Davis, naval science; Capt. John Brady, Jr., Major George Grace and Major James Huddleston, military science; Cornelius Browne, physics; Paul Conway, account* ing and finance; William Eagan and Frank Numer, business administration; and Cyril Finnegan, biology.
Also appointed were Rev. John Keating, English; Ching-Wen Kwang, finance; Kenneth Lauer, civil engineering; Rev. James Maguire, religion; Raymond Maras, history; Edmund McCarthy and Edgar Schnadig, marketing; Louis Pierce, chemistry; Robert Rodes^ Jr., law; Rev. Regis Riter, C.S.C., philosophy; (Majoi- Archie Roy and Capt. Frank Zettel, air science; and Adrien Theriault, modem languages.
INSTRUCTORS
Newly named instructors on the Notre Dame faculty include Rev. Thomas Bar-osse, C.S.C., and Rev. Patrick Maloney, C.S.C., religion; Donald Coleman, Alfredj. Goulet and John Rosshirt, business administration; David Dems, Francis Don-Ion, Robert Eschbacher, Paul Morin and Ben Park, English; Rev. Richard Downs, C.S.C., Rev. Donald Draine, C.S.C., and Rev. Matthias Lu, philosophy; Raymond Grummell, sociology; and V. C. Harter, education.
Others are James Horrigan, account^ ing and finance; Lester Lange, mathematics; Cecil Mast, physics; Oliver Owen, biology; Harry Poole, Rev. Donald Siebert, C.S.C., and James White, history; Gilbert Rathbun, speech; Dennis Stark, physical education; and Stanley Thier, engineering drawing. Boleslaw Sobocinski will serve as a research associate in philosophy.
The Scholastic
36
Aircraft Corporation
California Division * Georgia Division
Aircraft Corporation
California Division, Burbank, California • Georgia Division, Marietta, Georgia
MM
This broad expansion program is creating new positions in each division.
Graduates in fields of: Aeronautical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Mathematics and Physics are invited to investigate their role in Lockheed’s expansion.
G-ra-dtiates
in Engineering... Physics... Mathematics

will be on campus
Friday, October 19
given for each division.
Both divisions of Lockheed are engaged in a long-range expansion program in their fields of endeavor.
California Division activities in Burbank cover virtually every phase of commercial and military aircraft. Seventeen different models of planes are in production, including cargo and passenger transports, high Mach performance fighters, jet trainers, radar search planes, patrol bombers.
B. S. graduates who wish to attain a Master’s Degree will be interested in the California Division’s Masters-Degree Work-Study Program. In the program, participants achieve their M.S. while working concurrently on Lockheed’s engineering staff.
Lockheed Representatives of the California
Division and the Georgia Division
You are invited to consult your
placement officer for an appointment.
Separate interviews will be
At Lockheed in Marietta, Georgia, new C-130A turbo-prop transports and B-47 jet bombers are being manufactured in the country’s largest aircraft plant under one roof. The division is already one of the South’s largest industries. Moreover, a new engineering center is now in development as part of the division’s expansion program. In addition, advanced research and development are underway on nuclear energy and its relationship to aircraft. A number of other highly significant classified projects augment the extensive production program.


October 12, 1956
57
James Dean, by Joe Taft and casual teens
j
i
i i
!
!
i
)
I i k
e
I t s
The abrupt rise and crash of James Dean is rapidly becoming a legend. Last week’s Look magazine has a color cover and a long article tracing this star’s life, death and growing legend. According to this article Warner Brothers Studio has received as many as 7,000 letters a month requesting pictures and information; a few fans have even denied his death. Why has such a youngstar received this post mortem worship among the teenagers?
HE WAS ONE OF US . . . MAN, HE WAS CASUAL
Dean, it seems captured many of the frustrations, hopes and desires of the awkward set. His casual indifference both in celluloid and real life has definitely appealed to his followers. His two stepping stones to fame, Rebel Without a Cause and East of Eden, were films showing the plight of a teenager to gain security and recognition as an adult. Dean’s portrayal as a mixed-up, unrecognized individual captured the imaginations and often the reality of the teenagers’ problems. Dean’s airs seemed to conform with the couldn’t-care-less appearance of today’s youth— he stood on street corners holding up walls, he dressed sloppily, he had unkempt hair, and he competed only when forced by the gang. His cause in these two movies gave a publicized expression to his followers. They chose him as their spokesman . . . and their idol. His early death sealed over this romanticized picture of today’s youth and they in turn have created and nourished his legend.
HAS HOLLYWOOD DONE IT AGAIN?
Has Hollywood misrepresented the forces that cause many of our teenagers to be little monsters or is this the real picture? The celluloid and real life teenager has definitely drawn into his own world—a groupized world, a nonconforming world. A visit to practically any high school will give an authentic picture of his own world. He has his
own fashions—fashions characterized by suede shoes, chukka boots, pegged pants, open collar “Mr. B” shirts, carefully cultivated duck tails and leathei- jackets. He has catered to a definite brand of music—“rock and roll,” “bop” and “progressive jazz.” He congregates at drive-ins and movie theaters.
But is he really the monster that Hollywood has nurtured? I don’t believe he is that mixed up. His real problem, the problem that Hollywood romanticizes, is his means of self-expression. He wants to express his desire to be an adult,. but he is not sure how to express himself. His parents want to help him in this process but they do not understand his idiosyncracies—“why •in the world do you wear those sloppy clothes and listen to that animal music?” they ask; “It’s real gone,” Junior replies. And so the vicious circle of misunderstanding rotates.
Often his self expression is heard in juvenile courts. His crimes have skyrocketed him into the national spotlight and given birth to a new teenage sociological theme for Hollywood. Films like Crime in the Streets, Young Guns, Teenage Gangs, East of Eden, Rock Around the Clock, Rebel Without a Cause, and Blackboard Jungle have created a public image of the teenager. Now he has a set of standards to emulate: Hollywood’s sensationalized standards.
WILL HE SURVIVE THESE STANDARDS?
Flattered by this recognition, the teenager begins to wonder if this screen image is really a true picture of his character. Naturally a few tend to go along with this role but the majority, I believe, begin to wonder. “The costumes are authentic, the settings are partially correct, the actors use our language but the script is all jumbled— like maybe an adult wrote it,” he muses. He does enjoy a greater mobility through the use of automobiles and other means of transportation but is he spreading his “diseased” character or
dispersing it? His new independence is slowly shifting from the gang standards to sobering thoughts like the draft, col-^ lege, buying a new ear and marriage. This colored restlessness is crystallizing into a new life—a life of accepting responsibilities with the same casualness he once applied to his non-sequitors.
“I WON’T WEAR A THING
BUT TOWNE AND KING!” J
......................i
nys MICKEY HOBBS, switch pitcher
BUSH LEAGUE. OKLA., Sept. 10-Top teams in both major leagues are angling for the services of young Hobbs, the sensational right-and-left-hand pitcher who finished a 12-0 season for his college team and struck out 26 batters in his last game for the Purple Sox. a local semipro outfit. Scouts are amazed at Hobbs' ability to get his slider over the plate occasionally with either hand. Postgame post mortem shows Mickey wearing his new T&K collared pull-over.
T&K's own blend of imported Lambs' Wools: new California colors; 38-46... 13.95
Crew length sox to match; 1016-13... 1.95
Towne and King, ltd. Coordinated Knitwear
395 Broadway, Redwood City, California
38
The Scholastic
A scoop
His Arrow University sport shirt is bi news with college men this Fall. We brought custom shirtmaking to casual wear with this one, from its buttondown collar in front (and. center back) to its action box pleat. “Custom” patterns, too . . . authentic tartan stripes, tattersall checks, many other stripes.
Tartans, $5.95; checks and stripes in cotton-rayon, $7.95.
ARROW
Latest (and last) word in style
You’ll be hearing a lot of talk about this shirt. For here are all the dress-up details of an Arrow University
style ... in a sport shirt! Button-down collar, front and back, full box pleat. And you can be as formal or informal as you like in our full choice of last-word fabrics and colors. See them soon.
University (“Ivy League”) shirts, $5.95 and $7.95.
GILBERTS
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS (Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
So, try ’em. SMOKE FOR REAL .. . SMOKE CHESTERFIELD!