
letter from the chief--------------------, 
Dear Editor: 
Congratulations on another fine year. The Sarcastic really reached new heights this year. Keep up the good work. 
As you probably know, I'll soon be stepping down as President of the University. There's not much of a job market for former university presidents and I under­stand that you are now accepting applications for next year's editorial board. I have some experience in national and world affairs and feel I would be a fine addition to the magazine's staff. My managerial and educational experience make me an excellent candidate for almost any editorial position. I think Sarcastic is on the move and I want to be a part of it. I'm ready for a new challenge. 
A resume and references are listed below. Once again, congratulations and good luck. 

References: Kurt Waldheim, Desmond Tutu, George Bush, Mario Cuomo, Tip O'Neill, _Richard M. Nixon, Cyrus Vance, His Holiness, Pope John Paul II, Jimmy Carter, Henry Kissinger, Joseph Cardi­nal Bernardin, Ronald Reagan. 
Education: Le Moyne College, Bradley University, Catholic University of Santiago Chile, St. Benedict's College, Villanova University, Dartmouth College, -University of' Rhode Island, Columbia University, Princeton University, Brandeis University, Indiana University, Northwestern University, Lafayette College, University of Vienna, University of California, Los Angeles, St. Louis University, Gonzaga University, Temple University, University of Montreal, University of Illinois, Atlanta University, Wabash College, Fordham University, Manchester College, Valparaiso University, Provi­dence College, University of Sout~ern California, Michigan State University, Saint Mary's College, Catholic University, Loyola University, Anderson College, State University of New York, Utah State University, Lehigh University, Yale University, Kings College, Stone Hill College, Alma College, Syra­cuse University, Maryknoll College, Hebrew Union College, Harvard University, Regis College, Lin­coln University, Tufts University, University of Portland, Fairfield University, Davidson College, Col­lege of New Rochelle, University of Denver, Dickinson College, Georgetown University, Queens Col­lege, University of South Carolina, University of Pennsylvania1 Duquesne University, Saint Francis Xavier University, Universi~y of Evansville, Albion College, University of Utah, Assumption College, College of William and Mary, Johns Hopkins University, Seton Hall University, Tuskegee Institute, University of San Diego, Seattle University, University of Toledo, Saint Ambrose College, University of Scranton, University of. Cincinnati, University of Michigan, Hope College, University of Brasilia, New York University, Indiana State University, Madonna College, Loyala Maryrnount University, 
Hahnemann Medical ·college, Kalamazoo College, Loretto Heights College, Universidad Catolica Madre y Maestra, Saint Josephs College, Rider College, Colgate University, St. Leo's College, Wesleyan College, University of Notre Dame, Carroll College, College of Mount St. Joseph, Holy Family College, Duke University, Christian Brothers College, Saint Thomas University, Walsh College. 

contents-----------------------~ 
Editor-in-Chief  James F. Basile  
General Manager  Maher A. Mouasher  
Design Editor  Alex Peltzer  
Managing Editor  Matthew H. Bradley  

Production Manager Barbara Blanchette Administration 
Pete Cespedes/Advertising John Zufelt/Circulation Mike Hoffman/Asst. Gen. Manager 
Editorial 
Pete Butler/Copy John Dettling/Sports Mary Dolan/Departments Mary Hartney/Student Life Ted Kelleher/Nat. Affairs Jim McGarry/Copy Jean O'Bryan/Notre Dame 
Graphics 
Steve Traubert 
Tom Falvey 
This special issue is only a joke. Repeat. Only a joke. Had this been a real issue you would have been informed where to send complaints and death t~reats. This not being the case, we hope that every­
one can take a joke. 

The opinions expressed in SARCASTIC are those · of the authors and editors of SARCASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of SARCASTIC or the University of Notre Dame;·,its administration, faculty, or stu­dent body. Editorials, unless otherwise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the edi­torial board. 
SARCASTIC is not represented for national advertising. Published annually on or around April 1, it is a subsidiary publication of SCHO­LASTIC which is published bi-weekly during the school year except during vacation and examina­tion periods, SARCASTIC is printed at The Papers Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75 a year and back issues are available from SARCASTIC. Please address all manuscripts to SARCASTIC, Notre Dame, IN 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of SARCASTIC. Copyright© 1986 SCHOLASTIC. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 
SARCASTIC Volume 127 Number 12 April 2, 1986 
2/lnterview: Switek and Montanaro 4/The Rise and Fall of Will Mealy 
by T-t'd Kelleher 
IO/Sarcastic Top Twenty 
12/Asinine Architecture by Monica Spoelstra and Dan Sheldon 
16/Subliininal Seduction? 17/Campus Comments 18/The Winner Is ... 19/Recipes From the ND Kitchen 22/Rad Lab Terror 

Contributors to the Scholastic· humor issue were John Affleck, James Basile, Barb Blanchette, Matt Bradley, John Dettling, Mary Dolan, Mary Hartney, Mike · Hoffman, Ted Kelleher, Maher· Mouasher, Alex Peltzer, Dan Sheldon and Mon­ica Spoelstra. 
SARCASTIC 
l_ 
. ' 


Men Of The Year 

Switek and Montanaro, seated in their new office, discuss plans for the upcoming year. 
SWITEK AND MONTANARO DISCUSS CRAYONS, COUCHES AND TOILET PAPER IN THIS EXCLUSIVE 1 SARCASTIC' INTERVIEW. 
Villanova downs Georgetown. Tru­man nips Dewey. Britain sinks the Spanish Armada. Then there's Mike Switek and Don Montanaro, two somewhat irreverent, . some­times serious, crayon bearing upstarts who pulled off the upset of the year on this campus. In light of the freshness and the long needed sense of humor they bring to stu­dent government, the Sarcastic is proud to announce that Mike Switek and Don Montanaro have been named Men of the Year by the Sarcastic's editorial board. In this exclusive interview with Sar­castic political correspondent Ted Kelleher, Switek and Montanaro discuss Kraft, Crayolas and Cathol­
icism. 
Sarcastic: Congratulations, Mike and Don on your brilliant, if not some.what surprising victory in this year's student body elections. Gen­tlemen, what was the first thing that went through your mind when you heard that you had won? 
Mike: Gee, it's mighty warm here in Houston. 
Don: If I don't tell Mike, maybe he'll never come back. 
S: What will be the first thing you do when you walk into your offices on the morning of April 2? 
Mike: Offices? We get office~? 
Don: Turn on the lights, I guess. 
S: What sort _of relationship with the Administration do you think you'll have next year? 
Don: Purely platonic. This 'is our final decision and we're prepared to stick by it. 
·Mike: Honestly, we see no reason why we can't grab a seat on their collective couch and voice our opinions freely. We're regular guys, and we're willing to listen to their side of things. I'm sure they'll approach the situation with a simi­lar attitud<;. · 
. S: Mike, during the debate among the student body presidential can~ · dictates, there was a terrifying, yet little publicized attempt on your lifa Could you tell us a little about 
SARCASTIC 

your impressions of the incident? other causes you and Don plan to ingly large Catholic block on this 
Mike: Well, as your parents are all . too aware, Ted, there are a Jot of wierdos out there. This :particular would-be assassin happened to be aware of my close personal friend­ship with Jody Foster, and hoped to impress her and possibly win her over by killing me. Poor deluded man. Don could have told him -it's a lot harder than that to get a date around here. 
S: Does this change your attitude toward public office at all? 
Mike: No matter how many of them come out of the woodwork, my personal army of wen trained secret service personnel will be better, tougher, stronger. 
S: Don, what was going through your mind when those shots rang out? 
Don: "Student Body President" looks even better than "Student Body Vice President" on a law school application. 
S: Do you really think you can make any progress on this "cheese and macaroni" issue? 
Mike: We're pretty sure that we'll 
be able to unite the student body 
on this issue. 
Don: And if we do, how could those guys at Kraft possibly ignore a unified cry from one of the most respected Catholic institutions in the world? 
6

S: How do you think the student body will react to your crayon expenditures? 
Don: So far all crayon funds have 
come strictly out of our own pock­
ets. 
Mike: Also, we want to continue to stress that ST.UDENT GOVERN­:MENT IS NO LONGER A PRIVATE CLUB, our crayons are available for student use at any time. 
S: Besides the "cheese and macaroni" issue, are there· any 
APRlL 2, 1986 
champion next year? 
Mike: We are prepared to rock this campus with another scandal. 
Don: Few students are aware of this, but the bathrooms in all build­ings used by faculty members are stocked with two-ply toilet paper, while the dormitory facilities sport the single ply variety. 
Mike: We want to know why. 
S: Don, even though the Fightin' Irish are out of the NCAA tourna­ment, Gil Thorp's Milford cagers are facing the Canton Bisons in the semi-finals of the play-offs. Can Milford go all way, Don? 
Don: Well, I'll go out on a limb here. Yes, this is the year for Mil­ford High -I can feel it. Gil has worked long and hard for this, and so have the kids. 
S: Mike, you're the first student body president in Notre Dame his-. tory to sport a dangling crucifix earring as part of your normal attire. You said at the debate that you wear the earring in hopes of 
securing the support of the surpris­
campus. Do you think this strategy played a large role in your victory? 
Mike: Political analysts sometimes forget that there are indeed quite a few Catholics here on campus, and in a close election their votes can make the difference. Of course, we don't get to see a religion by reli­gion breakdown of the votes ::. .so we'll never know for sure. · 
S: Are there any individuals that you specifically would like to have in your cabinet? · 
Mike: We have only named -one cabinet position thus far: Bruce Lohman will be playing the role of Dr. Spock. 
Don: Mike and I are both around 5'8", and Bruce is well over six_ feet tall, so he'll add some much needed height to the administration. 
S: Any final comments or state­ments for the press? 
Mike: We are going to do a good job this year, an~ have · fun at the same time. I hope that you guys can have as much fun asking us ques­tions as we plan to have avoiding, I mean answering them. • 


The Rise and Fal I .· of WILL· MEALY 
A TALE OF POLITICS. VIOLENCE AND AMB,ITION 
At it.~;~; i?tri~,i, cf 1~f;ffYlF Mimt[4' ~Jlretb oj-~~4-5 . . mt.(J~.r:,~trctl titg:~~Jd -C~if.f~ dedwsmg ih~t~, F4PptJJ'j; j(ff' Me;uly'i :sf1ui:itf'rsg ~~J¥1H, W"llr with tfreir .un=r~ ext~ed, 
pointingJoward his office. 
"f?yTed Kelleher 
South Be,nd. (AP) --The Notre Dame Student government cns1s worsened today as Student Body President Will Mealy declared the recent student government election invalid. In an interview with WNDU's Dick Addis, to be broad­cast this morning, Mealy said,"This is a managerial decision. I don't regret it. After all I'm in charge here." Addis was rumored to have 
said after the interview, "Looks. like· today's weather· word is 'Fas­cist'." 
The· pace of events here quick­ened last night, when Mealy call~d in Notre Dame's Army and Marine ROTC Units to disperse an angry crowd gathered outside of LaFor­tune Student Center, where Mealy's office is located. The crowd tried several times to rush the building, which Mealy has attempted to rename the Will Mealy Presidential Palace. 
· One observer claims to have spotted Notre Dame Government Professor Peter Walshe in the mob. The source said Wal3he had his right fist held aloft and was leading the angry students in cries of "Amandala!", the Zulu word for freedom. When Mealy heard of Walshe's actions, he is reported to have said "Can't that troublemak­ing foreigner think of something better to do with his time?" 
President-elect Ivfike Swizzles­tick had been called awav on 'fam-
SARCASTIC 

ily business'· and was unavailable for comment, but vice'."president­elcct Don Manitoba issued a state­ment, written in crayon on .legal paper, which said, "Mealy Wants Power." A later statement,.-using different colored crayon but still on legal paper said "Does Mealy love his children too?". · · 
Father Theodore M Huddleburger, University President, has been carefully silent on the current turmoil. Huddleburger said at a press conference here last night, "I remember one time when I was in Moscow with the members of the . Civil Rights Commission and George Bush walked into the room, and I said 'George, you've got· to do something about those nuclear weapons; and George said, 'Well Ted, we're· trying,' and I . said, 'George, did I ever tell you about the time I was in Ecuador with Mother Teresa, Mick Jagger and 
Winston Churchill?' and George 
said, 'Sorry, Ted that'll have to 
wait until I see you in Grenada for 
the conference on foreign medical 
schools,' and I said 'OK George, 
you take care and say hi to Ron for 
me,' and then I turned to Andrew 
Young, a good friend of mine and a· 
negro as well, and said 'That 
George is quite a guy, isn't he?~" 
Reporters here were unsure · of 
whether this was · a thinly veiled 
endorsement of Mealy or meaning­
less babble. 
Mealy's current problems began several weeks ago when he issued a statement declaring that he was fir­ing Coca-Cola Chairman Donald Keough and San Antonio Mayor Henry Cisneros from Notre Dame's Board of Trustees. The statement, which was issued on Student Government's. new. .~•People .Serving . Mealy'; stationary, concluded by saying, "Keough, Cisneros, Huddleburger -they're all just cogs in the Will Mealy machine." 
Huddleburger originally tried to bargain with Mealy, offering him guaranteed admission to the law school of his choice, an unlimited 
APRIL 2, 1986 
supply of letters of recommenda­tion and one of his own 15,376 honorary degrees if he · would moderate his government and agree to move off campus. Mealy quickly rejected the offer saying, · "If Huddleburger isn't careful, I'll put TWO students ori the Board of Trustees." 
Mealy next · declared himself President-for-Life and issued an official list of enemies and traitors. Mealy's enemy list is rumored to · include: the editor •of the chief opposition ne~spaper, The Obscurer, Jon Wettling and Curious George, leaders of Notre· Dame's. Anti-Apartheid movement, •·whom Mealy has referred to as ''those backstabbing. commies who made 
.me look bacl," 0and ·a:ll· ~embers ·of the Young . Democrats of Notre 
Dame. · · · · · 
As the the new student govern­ment elections approached, doubt as to whether Mealy would relinqu­ish his position grew. The Obscurer published an editorial which said, in part, "Meaely no is not a godd 
presdint. He shud gho way and not be the presdint no any more casue he no gddo forr it." It appeared, however, that this was not a unani­mously held op1ruon at the Obscurer, as one of the paper's copy editors issued a statement say­ing: "We arre thinikng we woldu lik e Wiiil to kkep be the prresdint. He ma ny do godd vents wich we . likes." Ironically, the statements seemed to add to the confusion. Obscurer officials hoped a more unified editorial position could be developed once the paper's typeset­ting equipment was repaired. 
Until this point, Student Body Vice President-for-Life Drone Lowrents had remained mysteri­ously quiet. Shortly after the 
· Obscurer issued · their statements, however, Lowrents agreed to an interview with the Sarcastic. . The interview proved to be quite unin­formative, as Lowrents' · only response to every question posed was, "Yes Will." · 
Election day dawned with the odor of turmoil hanging thick in the 





A member of the Mealy troops, caught napping while guarding the entrance to LaPorte. 
blue-gray Indiana sky. As voters went to the polls Mealy and the heavily favored Jim Domergalski, who first announced his candidacy at freshman orientation in August of. 1983, sat anxiously in their LaFortune offices, each waiting for the other to make a move. At Swiz­zlestick and Manitoba headquar­ters, in nearby Cavanerd Hall a dif­ferent mood prevailed. Swizzlestick supporters sat clad in Hawaiian shirts sipping Old Milwaukee and watching Wheel of Fortune (Mani­, toba was heard to comment "Old , Mil and the lovely Vana White -it 
-doesn't get any better than this"); they seemed oblivious to the upheaval around them. 
That evening's election returns all but guaranteed Domergalski a victory in Thursday's runoff. Swiz­zlestick had finished second but was 28 percentage points behind clear favorite Domergalski. Throughout the actual polling noth­ing was heard from Mealy's office and hopes for a peaceful transition grew. 
On Thursday this campus was turned upside down. Jim Domer­galski, considered by many the best qualified candidate in three years, became the unfortunate victim of a massive groundswell. This usually serious student body had flocked in droves to the Swizzlestick camp, giving the brash young geology 
· major, armed only with his crayons and his sharp wit, a stunning upset victory. Swizzlestick's victory came as such a shock that most commentators were at a loss for words. 
The usually serene campus exploded in • violence on election night. Sarcastic editor-in-chief Jim Banal was found dead in his office, 
. the victim of an execution style assassination. Mealy immediately claimed responsibility . for. the act, saying "It was a managerial deci­sion. I don't regret it." Student Body Vice-President-for-Life Drone Lowrcnts Was heard to com­ment, "They got too big for their tritches. They stepped on Will's toes once to often. Besides, they're just a mouthpiece for every two bit special interest group on campus: liberals, broads, intellectuals. What a rag. No one read them anyway. Everyone on this campus reads Will's student government uewsletter Me the Ruler." 
The optimism for a peaceful transition of power that had built in the preceding days was shattered in the wake of Banal's assassination. Mealy called the election invalid, saying "Fifty-two percent does not, in my mind, constitute a clear majority of the electorate. The peo­ple love me and want me to stay in power." Mealy called in the ROTC units to back up his claims. 
Mealy called a press conference in order to explain the confusing events that had transpired over election day. Not present were the Obscurer, which Mealy had shut down in order to prevent any "outrageous commie slandering and misrepresentation of the truth," and the Sarcastic, which had gone underground after the assassination of Banal. The only member of the press present was Will Mealy, managing editor of Me the Ruler. Me the Ruler Editor .Patti Narcissus was not present because she was out of the country spending student government money on other worthwhile causes. The f 9llowing is a portion an exclusive interview with President-for-Life Will Mealy by Me the Ruler Managing Editor Will Mealy: 
Me the Ruler: Hey Will, why are you smiling? 
SARCASTIC 

Will: Good question!! I'm really . happy about finally having he power to run Student Government like it should be run: with an iron fist! 
M R: Will, what is student govern­ment? 
Will: Are you kidding? 
MR: On the recall, hold any grudges? 
Will: Yes, of course, wouldn't you? Those people were just radical trouble makers in search of a cause. They were frustrated at the administration, so they took it out on me. As a comrade said to me, "They could probably get 600 peo­ple to sign a petition saying 'lets kill yuppies'." See? Besides, anyone who opposes me opposes demo­
cracy. So, I've taken care of them. It was a management decision; I don't regret it. They were bad peo­ple in my eyes because they almost ruined my political career. 
MR: And the Anti-Apartheid Net­work? What about them? 
APRlL 2, 1986 
Will: Well, they are obviously com­munist infiltrators. What more can I say? An obvious danger to human­ity. They've been upset at me since I dismissed Curious and Jon. I just think that we have to be extremely mature and very rational when we 
arc trying to manipulate people. Marching does not work. Martin Luther King did it, but he was a communist. 
MR: The press seems to have stereotyped you as power hungry? 
Will: For one, I don't believe every­thing I read .in the press, but if it is remotely false, then I must shut the press down. We can't have all these 'lies circulating about, can we? Second, the President's job is not one of great power, but I'm work­ing on changing that. 

MR: You seemed really happy that Swizzlestick and Manitoba won the election. 
Will: Well, as a matter of fact, I was ecstatic. They would have done such a pathetically awful job next year that my presidency would have looked good. Then all the stu­dents would be begging me to come back to Notre Dame and be the student body president. I antici­pated this sentiment in my consti­tuents, so I said "Hey, why should they suffer next year without me?" It was really a blessing when I discovered that the election was a fraud. Some people have said that there should be another election in order to give Jim Domergalski another shot at the presidency. But how could he do a good job. He opposed many of my positions on issues this year. What does he know? The administration sup­ported my positions and I think they know a little better what is best for Notre Dame. 
MR: Any reflections on your life­
time term? 
Will: Well, the office is being reno­vated and I'm looking for a First Lady. I'd like to thank all of those students who served me this year. 
Unfortunately for Mealy, the 

dream of a lifetime presidency would soon cruinble. Swizzlestick supporters, wearing their purple Burger King crowns tried election night to enter Mealy's presidential palace. They were dispelled by Mealy's ROTC cadres. It seemed as .if Mealy had the military might to 
hold power. 
Many analysts had long suspected that Mealy could not continue to hold power without the political and economic support of the Young Republicans of America. Apparently, it was the withdrawal of this support that ultimately led to Mealy's demise. Ori the day fol-· lowing the election, Young Repub­lican Spokesman, Calvin Harding Hoover Taft III, issued a statement. saying that Mealy's funding had been cut off. This proved to be the death blow for the doomed Mealy administration. 
The funding cutoff sparked a mass mutiny among Mealy's mili­tary forces. Marine leader Bobby McRambo was · heard to comment, "No money, no protection. It's the 
7 



SBP Mike Swizzlestick, caught sneaking in. He was reportedly trying to rescue his crayon supply. 
American way." Thus it became support from Mealy, he helped him clear that Mealy would be forced to escape campus to• prevent further flee the campus. Even though bloodshed. Huddle burger Huddleburger had withdrawn his apparently ordered Notre Dame Security forces into the besieged Presidential Palace to rescue the fallen president. 
Mealy was escorted to the Gol­den Dome where he used Fr. Huddleburger's secret nuclear crisis escape tunnel which connects the Administration building with Michiana Regional airport. He then boarded Huddleburger's special AWAC command plane, which is on 24 hour standby in case, as Huddleburger himself is rumored to have put it, "of the slim chance I fail in my personal mission to the _save the world from the nuclear 
menace." 
A triumphant Swizzlestick and Manitoba entered the Palace, carry­ing their trademark Crayolas and purple Burger King crowns. An enthusiastic and optimistic Swiz­zlestick issued a statement saying, "The real new beginning starts now. Well, actually it starts as soon as we figure out what the hell is going on and how the hell we got here." Manitoba chimed in with "We're real happy we won. Only in America can someone be a nobody one day and have his ticket to law school in hand the next." • 

Applications are being accepted 
Everyone has resigned from everything this year leaving only me and I'm_ getting damned sick -of it, S~.nd jil_your _ name and address (for.get tlie-qiiillfications, I don't care) and you will be informed almost immediately of all the 
neat jobs you have received. · 
Last date for application: 

0 
AP~ 
After that there's going to be a draft of people to be editors and commissioners and stuff like that. 


No, Really 
This Is No Joke 
The Scholastic needs photographers who can develop. 
We are also seeking a photo manager. 

Come to Scholastic -office for details. 
j 8 SARCASTIC 

I____ 

PROGRESS MADE ON STUDENT CENTER 

Ellerbe and Ellerbe unveiled the final plans today for the renovation · of LaFortune Student • Center, already in progress.. Ellerbe and Ellerbe architect Stanley N. Stanley said in a CLC meeting last night, "These renovations will make the center eminently more practical. The changes, which reflect Ellerbe's continued committment to functional yet aesthetic design, are proceeding as scheduled; the grand opening of the new center will probably coincide with · Notre Dame's next national football. championship celebration." Stanley was quick to point out however that the giant Notre Dame Memorial Mud Moat, built in honor of those Notre Dame students killed in the An Tosta! mud pits, which will surround the center, will probably take several weeks longer to complete.• 
Not Very Athletic 
h]'E) 
1/.fk'J•1v1.t 
IJ 

/~ . 

----------, ---­
-··-•-·. . -~ 
~ .-----=:i. 
c;__.. ­


Coming soon from NVA: 
Co-ed Rollerball 
· cfne Day Tournament 
, Date: April 23 Time: 3:00 PM 
' 

Location: Rolfs Rollerball-atorium 
1. 
No Penalties 

2. 
No Substitutions 

3. 
No Medical Time-outs 

4. 
Submit Rosters to NVA by March 30 

5. 
For More Information Call Jonathan E at 239-7419 


APRlL 2, 1986 
music-------------'-----------------­


TOP TUNES 
The Sarcastic Magazine Top Twenty 
"Road to Nowhere" by Digger and the First Round Follies "I am the World" by Father Ted and the VIPs "It's A Miracle" off Switek and Montanaro's CRAYOLA 64 "Money for Nothing" by Ellerbe and Ellerbe off the FOUNTAIN BUILDERS album "Brown Rain" from Roger Parent's ETHANOL "Hit Me With Your Best Shot" by Sluggo Joe and the Bengals· "Burning Down the House" and "Light My Fire" by the Grotto Gurus "Careless Whisper" by Accuracy in Academia "King of Pain" by the John Goldrick Group "All Mixed Up" by the Observer Copy Editors "Stay Just a Little Bit Longer" and "Does Anybody Really Know What Time It Is" by Domer and the Parietettes "I'm your Man" by Dave Tyson and the Successors "Material Girl" by Sally and the SMCs "Don't You Forget About Me" by Gerry Faust and the Escape Clauses "ln my Room" by Mooch and the Cavanites "You Ain't Nothin' But a Hound Dog" by Fr. Griffin and the Darbettes "Legs" by the Dancin' Irish Cellulite Review "Sharp Dressed Man" by Digger and the Class Acts "Speaking in Tongues" by Juanita and the Dining Hall Five "Sound of Silence" by WVFI and the Transmission Towers "Eight Days a Week" by Notre Dame Maintenance 

SARCASTIC 

NOTRE DAME ACTION WEAR 

He's Gerry Faust: Coach on the Way Out. Whether its wearing Gerry Action Wear. New this spring from the bringing the house down at a pep rally, praying to Our Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore (baggy pants Lady for that · big win next week, or just another optional). Saturday afternoon fiasco, he looks great, because he's 
AVAILABLE EXCLUSIVELY AT HAMMES BOOKSTORE. _ 
APRIL 2, 1986 
Asinine Architecture 
On Campus Atrocities and Eyesores 
-By Monica Spoelstra and Dan Sheldon 
No college campus is perfect· and God knows Notre Dame is no exception. In looking about our beloved campus we came up with this compilation of some of ND's architectural and decorative faux pas and eyesores. 

Think about this: What building is strategically located at the very entrance of this fine institution so as to leave a lasting impression on the minds of incoming freshmen? ,1 I The ever-impressive bus shelter. ,; • You'd think the Administration
il . _could have come up with something 
ll •;: mo;-e palatable and welcoming than !; ·::: this grimy little hovel. Sure, it keeps i!.::: the rain off our heads and houses !J ·::: two vending machines and the i'i:: ·: banking exchange, but certainly a ;I·· : : : -more aesthetic building could graceU:: :the entrance of our lovely campus. 
d .. 
ij . A glance down South Quad 1j · : reveals O'Shaughr.essy's famed 11. · ·: clock tower crowning that bastion [(j · --: of liberal arts. This. architectural ., -' blunder, jutting proudly against the \) · · South Bend-Mishawaka skyline, is <~i a startling mesalliance with South 
Quad's Gothic atmosphere. Sorry, but the new sculptures on O'Shag's terrace hardly compensate for the fact that the Neo-Roman clock that adorns this tower seems to have a mind of its own. O'Shaughnessy Tower and its defective clock answer no prayers for architectural inspiration. 

Walk through the doors beneath O'Shag's notorious tower and a . quick peek in any classroom will 
. 12 
reveal yet another of Notre Dame's feeble attempts at functional inte­rior design. It's not hard to find ­simply enter the room and you trip over it. There you have it, a rec­tangular wooden platform serving no purpose except to make your professors five inches taller and giving them the chance to leave a good impression every Monday morning when they topple over its edge. This useless construction should be removed at once and everyone's life at O'Shag would be a little bit easier. 
Okay -we know it's only temporary and that the dutiful Huddle workers need some place ing breeding ground for botulism. Hopefully, the Huddle's renovation plans allot space for legitimate storage space, like, you know, maybe a freezer? 
And in the immediate vicinity, just· what docs the prominent display of Joy's Johns mean? Con­struction workers, like everyone else, feel nature's call, bnt must the outhouse be right outside the Hud­dle door? This is clearly not the most appetizing sight on the way to the land of double-Huddle burgers and plastic pizza. Surely they could find some more discreet location for Joy and her Johns. 



A quick peek in any classroom will reveal another feeble attempt at functional interior design. Simply enter the room and you trip over it. 
to hang out during coffee breaks, but that seedy-looking trailer by the Huddle has got to go. It is our sincerest hope that the Huddle is not using this trailer to store surplus gyros meat and Polish sausages because, from all outward appearances, it looks like a fester-
The Pit: What images does this foreboding word conjure up for you? Located in the bowels of the towering Memorial Library,. this invasion of formica and tile infused with intimidating fluorescent lights is a haven for homeless grad stu­dents and those whose. attention 
SARCASTIC 
spans cannot accommodate more than twenty minutes of theology in one sitting. A seemingly endless array of vending machine cuisine greets the eyes of the hungry, quarter-laden student in dire need of. a quick caffeine or sugar fix. We don't object to the Pit in principle, it's just that grimy table tops (bear­ing the remnants of last week's microwave popcorn) and the ever­present haze of stale smoke do not make the Pit utopia for all study­weary collegians. 
Located ever-so-conveniently on the outskirts of campus . is the Aerospace Engineering Building. Herc, out by the ACC, sits one of the most ugly buildings on campus. This squat, nondescript, little shack has no redeeming qualities (cer­tainly not that Star Wars-csquc sculpture facing traffic -is this meant to inspire would-be engineers?). It only makes life worse for the unfortunate freshman with an 8 a.m. class in this bui!ding and a 9:05 Physical Education at the Rock. 
Across the way and down the road looms a· fearful sight -Stepan Center. Its wart-like splendor rises ominously on the horizon. Reminis­cent of a ·bad day in the life of George Jctson, this domed struc­ture with its reptilian undulations of glass and other synthetic materi­als pays for its upkeep by housing registration, yearbook distribution, and countless 8 a.m. exams. One advantage in its being so far away is we can almost pretend it's not part of the Notre Dame campm and palm it off on South Bend.

1 
And on the other end of campus

l we find the ROTC BuHding. Come on -who ever heard of a pink ROTC building? 
October heralded the advent of the western fence on North Quad. On the way to breakfast one morn­ing, we noticed the transformation of our traditional collegiate quad to an Arizona dude ranch with the sudden appearance of these split­rail affairs. To our dismay, the 
APRlL 2, 1986 ' 
Campus Beautification and Landscaping Committee could only provide sufficient funds to give us just enough of these Ranchcro, Ltd., f cnccs to border the corners of the walkways. Maybe next year there will be enough money to complete this frontier look. 
How about those vintage 1973 print curtains adorning the win­dows of North Dining Hall? The last time the dining hall was redecorated, these blaring green and blue splashes of color were chosen to complement the soapy­blue walls and the mini skirts and go-go boots of the student checkers. As the dining hall has not yet announced any plans to "move ir:to the 80s" the oh-so-tasteful rem­nants of the days of Greg and Mar­cia Brady arc here to stay. 
Computer reader boards they're everywhere. A bright flash of red assaults the unwary with round-the-clock media in the din­ing halls, the Pit and the Huddle. What would we do without these life-saving up-to-the-minute reports concerning last month's "crea~e your own pastry night" and the commencement of Christmas break 1985? 
Winning our vote for the most 1bsurd public display on campus goes to the gigantic, triple extra large Notre Dame jersey, so proudly and prominently flaunted in chat lair of ND paraphernalia and haven for all plaid-clad alumni, the Hammes Notre Dame Book­sture. All we want to know is how many polyester animals were need­lessly slaughtered to produce enough yardage for this most obnoxious of all Notre Dame sportswear? Our suggestion is to auction it off to the highest bidder as a fundraiser for some truly deserving charity, like the Alcoholic Alumni Anonymous. 
While we're on the subject of alumni, the Notre· Dame Alumni van is the most offensive vehicle to have free rein on campus. Parked in front of the Golden Dome, this 

The Notre Daine Alumni van is the most offensive vehicle to have free. rein on campus. There it sits, 


·emblazoned with every conceivable kind of Notre Dame decal. 
mobile for wayward Darners tries in vain to establish itself as a monu­ment comparable to Father Sorin's statue and the Grotto. There it stays, emblazoned with every con­cci vable kind of Notre Dame decal, 
.an assault to the ears as well as the eyes. We can hear it now -the crisp autumn air on football Saturdays rcnded by a ncver.,-cnding chorus of the Notre Dame Fight Song; rumor has it that even the horn of this van has been wired to play that most rousing of all melodies. This van with a vengeance will undoubtedly haunt the . dreams of students for years to come. 
In consideration of these aforemen­tioned atrocities, we can only hope that in looking back on our college days we can remember some of the good things about the Notre Dame 
campus.  Things  like,  
well...Stonehenge II. •  
13  


The University of Notre Dame Proudly Presents Clothing for Men on the Move. -Notre Dame Action Wear 

"For men secur~ enough to be Domers." 
-Calvin Klein 

He's Phil Donahue: Opinion Maker. Whether its great, because he's wearing Phil Action Wear. New championing the latest chic liberal cause, interviewing this spring from the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore a mass murderer, or bad-mouthing .his alma mater for (Marlo Thomas not included). making him an uptight, guilt-ridden Catholic, he looks 
SARCASTIC 

NOTRE DAME ACTION WEAR 

· ''Hot. Now. The eighties." 
-Bill Blass 
He's Digger Phelps: Man in Motion. Whether he's screaming at the refs, preaching on the corruption of college athletics, or picking up the crap those damn kids threw on the court, he looks great, because he's 
AVAILABLE EXCLUSIVEL V AT HAMMES BOOKSTORE 

APRIL 2, 1986 



Subliminal Seduct·io~n?, 
VICTORY MARCH A CHANT ·oF EVIL? 
Are evil hidden messages secretly polluting the minds of Notre Dame students? WSND recently revealed on their Nocturne Nightflight pro­gram that secret messages may be hidden in the Notre Dame Victory March. DJ Skip Biffo played a copy of the song backwards. Biff o said, "At first I thought it was a joke, or my imagination, but if you listen to the thing closely, it's really scary.". 
Apparently, the message ,plays something like this: 
Go crazy and break the rules. I want to drink beer in the corridors. I'll walk across the quads; I don't care. Beelezebub is my buddy Shove beer down freshman throats. Get drunk and blowoff your homework. I'll break parietals every night. 
Chorus: 
Maim and kill and bum and shout. Crank Black Sabbath out your window during mass. Throw up on . your Rector's door. Drive on campus Park wherever you want to. Spend your dough on booze and par.ties. Don't listen to authority. 
Notre Dame Band President Damien Thorn refused to comment on the • allegations. The Victory March has always symbolized Notre Dame pride and spirit. Has it now become a terrifying example of mass subliminal manipulation? Perhaps this would explain the behavior of alumni on football weekends.• 


NEW SECURITY MANUAL TO.BE RELEASED 
Notre · Dame's Jupiter. Press. announced today that it will soon be publishing a secret manual to be used for· training Notre Dame's . on-campus security forces. 
The president of the publishing house released some preview excerpts of the manual: · 
Sec. 112.2: DEALING WITH STU­DENTS' UNLAWFULLY RECREATING .ON QUAD/OTHER. GRASS COVERED AREA: 
1. Warn students they are violating Section 22.54 DuLac Penal Code .. 
2. 
Attempt to· confiscate frisbee, football or other recreational dev­ices. 

3. 
Inform s~udents of their options: 


a) Leave quad/other grass covered area immediately; b) Get shot in forehead by ND security agent. 
4. In the event that option b is chosen by the afore-mentioned stu­dents, ·report the termination of said students to Office of Dead Domers using form 105/lb6. ~ 


CAMPUS COMMENTS 
WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE SARCASTIC MAGAZINE? 
Sammy Davis Junior: "I love it baby. It's my, like, bag man." 
Mary Hartney: "I'm just using it for my resume." 
Mary Dolan: "All the trash that's fit to print." 
Mike Hoffman: "A rag. Completely inconsistent with tlie missiQn of a Catholic university." 
Ted Kelleher: "A left wing commie rag scandal sheet. I read it every week." 
Alex Peltzer: "I like the pictures." 

Barb Blanchette: "Yeah, I read in __ t_he Obse_ryer _that they got rid of the 
. Bill Healy: "That's the success SMC editor--tiiose fascist pigs." story of the year. Jim Basile and his 
· crew should be commended. I read it cover to cover. It is high quality journalism." 
John Dettling: "Bleeding heart 
muckraking yellow journalism at its 
Matt Bradley: "It's great. They 
worst. I'm · only in ·it for the send each other a lot of memos." 

.: ~oney~·-and the h:appy·noiirs:"·--·· · ······· 
.. . .., . .. '" . . 
APRIL 2, 1986 



awards---------------------------. 
And The Winner Is • • • 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY REAPS PRESTIGIOUS AWARDS 

SARCASTIC 

food-----------------------------' 
Recipes From The 
N.D. Kitchen 
Tofu chili-bean brocoli pasta wrap-ups with special brown sauce (377.749328 calories) 
Ingredients: 
-2,000 lbs. Imported Belgian Tofu 
-4.1 metric tons red chili beans (if red chili beans are unavailable substitute tofu) 
-3.76 acres fresh Kansas Brocoli (if fresh Kansas Brocoli is unavail­able, substitute tofu) 
-7830 lbs. pre-chewed Linguini pasta 
Directions: 
Combine all ingredients in large· 70,000 gallon high steam cooking· apparatus. Boil at high temperature for 3-4 days. Serve luke warm with special brown sauce. Serves about 8,500 with plenty left over for JPW. 
Special Brown Sauce:· 
.Ingredients: 
-715 gallons fine Dutchboy Latex · Indoor Wall Paint (preferably · Moroccan Brown) Salt and Pepper 
tQ Taste. 
Directions: 
Combine all ingredients. Serve with. Tofu chili-bean brocoli pasta wrap-ups. 
Serving Suggestion: Serve in steam warmers. Display calorie count conspicuously for aesthetic effect. Garnish with cold squash. Bon Apetite. • 


APRlL 2, 1986 
.. 


Thanks to his Army ROTC Scholarship, Butch BI-odnguts isn't just going to college.. He's signing away four years of ,1is life. He'll receive full tuition, travel expenses to Managua~ and allowances for ammunition, then he'll serve four tedious years in a mediocre management position. As an Army ROTC student, you can earn a college degree and an officer's commission in the US Army, and graduate with the management and leadership skills necessary to turn these credentials into massive budget overruns and botched rescue attempts. 
· For more information about indentured servitude that can pay for college now, write: I Doi:i't Want to Control my Own Destiny, Army ROTC, Department :MP, P.O. Box 7777, Bayonne, NJ 89067. Be what we want you to be. 
"For me, an Army. ROTC Scholarship. isn't making spending $54,231.87 for an ashtray any easier. It's making it possible. 
-Butch Bloodnguts 
Notre Dame Senior 
20 

SARCASTIC 

AVAILABLE •·EXCLUSIVELY AT HAMMES BOOKSTORE 

"What all Catholic men-in-the-know are wearing." 
-Pierre Cardin 

He's Fr. Ted Hesburgh: Priest on the Oo. Whether. its talking shop with His Holiness, chatting with the: .. Governor, or just dashing off to' the Grotto for a quick . 
APRIL 2. 1986 


Rad Lab Terror 
ARE THEY USING STUDENTS AS GUINEA PIGS? 
"The students here at Notre Dame have neither the need to know, nor ari interest in knowing what type of research we do here at the Radia­tion Laboratory," said Yael Oppenheimer, director of the the Lab, in a recent telephone inter­view with Sarcastic. Despite the fact that the Lab is located on campus, Sarcastic was told that it would have to conduct the inter­view by phone, "in keeping with the Lab's policy of not allowing students inside the Lab." 
Sitting like a benign .tumor in the heart of campus, the Notre Dame Radiation Laboratory is a mystery to most Notre Dame stu­dents. Hidden behind its tinted· windows, dozens of scientists expl9re the frontiers of man's knowledge about radiatiori's effects on plants and animals. The fact that so little is known about their research is considered to be an asset. by the Lab's aaministrators. Even the faculty and administration are unsure of just what kind of work the lab_ does. "I've been on the faculty here for 12 years now and I've never even seen anybody go in or come out of the building," Professor Gun ta Parvis told Sarcas­tic. "At faculty functions its like taboo to speak about it I asked a colleague what kind of work they did once and a hush fell over the room," she added. · Professor Parvis was one of very few faculty members that would speak with Sarcastic once the Lab was men­tioned. The University's adminis­tration was not much more helpful. Fr. Less Nesburgh could only say, "Uh, I think it has something-to do with radiation. I remember one time I was at the Vatican..." 

Sarcastic, however, has obtained information that raises serious questions . about the Lab's purpose. A Notre Dame student, who we will call Joe Domer for his protec­tion, stumbled across sensitive · docunie'nts while interning in Wash­ington D.C. this summer. These documents in_dicated that the Lab · does research for for government agencies regarding the use of radia­tion for covert operations. One INS bulletin declared, "Hungarian Noo­dle Bake should be considered a complete success. It's effect on the standard of living and the subse~ quent drop in moral of Eastern European peoples · has been every-. thing we could have hoped for. Rising dissatisfaction with govern-­ment food stuffs in Poland, flun­gary and Romania are proof posi~ tive of the Noodle Bake's effect." This revelation:· raises serious ques-
SARCASTIC 

!
.... 



tions about the Lab's role in the Notre Dame community. Can a Catholic university inflict .•. Hun­garian Noodle Bake on a person in good conscience? · · 
When questioned about this document, Dr. Oppenheimer said,· "The Center's research is of a purely scientific nature. The fund­ing we receive from the fuhrer. er I mean the government is intended solely to advance the frontiers of science and, of course, the genetic purity of the Deutsch Jugend und Madchen uf der Vaterland. We have never and will never accept any money intended to fund research to be used against people." 
But other documents contradict this claim. Several documents were devoted to "Operation In Loco Parentis." In what appears to be an on going experiment, Radiation Lab research uses students as guinea pigs, testing the possibilities of sapping the will power of an individual through controlled expo­sures to radiation. Rad Lab scien­tists worked on decreasing student opposition to the alcohol policy, increasing acceptance of parietals and limiting resistance to authority. Eventually, it seems the govern­ment hopes to use this technique on such leaders as Cuban President Fidel Castro and Sandinista Daniel Ortega. Dr. Oppenheimer labeled this allegation as "completely untrue." One fact that seems to contradict Dr. Oppenheimer's assertion is a recent add run iri the Obscurer which read: "Need money 
. for Spring Break? Drop by the Rad Lab, IO minutes in our tanning booth will earn you $1 O." 
·Perhaps the largest mystery surrounding the research Lab is 
who is actually in control of it. Undoubtedly the strangest l:lspect of the investigation was the identity of the Lab's head administrator and director of research. . Oppenheimer . remains a murky figure. Sources say he is a genetic engineer who emigrated from Germany to Brazil in the late forties and eventually went to work for the American government during the height of the Cold War. • 
,eNo ltlf.1110 TME 
27 WOR<J.£­"IMG K8-L OF 
lfl«£6j10Ni\8U: 
}uttNt\USM 

APRJL 2, 1986 
Coming in future issues: 


Administration unveils new plan for self-contained freshman dining/housing facility. 

Holtz, true to his word, opens spring practice to everyone. B.P. Giant king swipes Sacred Heart Church. 



Morissey loan fund expands operatiop. 








