Ship atop Commerce Building—a well known Notre Dame landmark.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
i— — RAYMOND J. KELLY ■—  —
Milestones of Education
Twice a week, the Queen’s Journal comes out of the wilds of southern Ontario, bringing war news, a huge collection of better than ordinary anecdotes usually featuring that pair known, for obvious reasons, as “Her” and “Him,” and stories about the campus life, which is probably the .maddest the Parade knows of. Last week, for instance, the Queen’s Debating Union brought together a team of women and a team of men. Sufficient to say the men were ignomin-ously beaten. They tried fruitlessly and probably half heartedly to prove that “a flashlight is of more use to a girl on a dark night than a man is.” Instead of just having dances, each organization tries to, at least, give their affair a • unique title. Thus, this latest issue was filled with notices, regarding a “Skeleton Serenade” to be put on by the Sophomore Med students. This same issue had a short, short story about “Her” and “Him” that tickled this jeded old soul.
“How do you like my new hat?” “Swell. Only there’s a run in one of them.”
Feet of Clay
conscious of the fact that we are outside the ivory tower, to the conclusion that English majors and their feuhrers really don’t hang on every word in the text, endeavoring to drag the least shade of meaning and minutest truth from it, that, oh impious thought. They are like ordinary mortals and even dash off assignments without reading the book like we did until this semester. (That last had to be put in, for the benefit of any of our profs who might read this).
Life, Liberty, etc.
After 195 years of technical aridity, the rooms of Princeton students have been opened to John Barleycorn. The Board of Trustees recently repealed an ancient law that forbade the men of Nassau to keep spiritous beverages in their rooms. This action was “a recognition of an existing situation rather than a radical change.”
Among the ads
The Parade has always enjoyed reading advertisements. Whether the picture
showed Brenda Frazier at the Stork, Betty Petty at the phone, or just Jinx Falkenburg herself, we have always poured over the particular page, even wishing, at times, that a scissors was handy so that the picture could be cut out and pasted on the wall. Ads can be so fascinating.
However, there are ads and ads. Recently, the Scholastic editor, a trade paper for people like Mr. McGowan carried a testimonial advertisement featuring the face and remarks of one Neil McCarty, the editor of the Dome,. Few Notre Dame men achieve the distinction of appearing in the public prints, endorsing anything, even engraving companies. Most of us are more than satisfied if Coach-pro-tem Joe Boland has ever interviewed us over one of his man-in-the-street broadcasts. But Neil" unconcernedly notifies the world that he thinks the Pontiac Engraving Company is the nuts, though he expressed the idea a bit differently.
Impossible at N. D.
While studying the Carnegie Tartan, we were surprised and somewhat elated (being romantic in nature) to read that the editor-in-chief and the managing editor of that paper are man and wife. In the masthead, however, both retain their original family names.
One thing certain is that “it can’t happen here.”
When the Mundelein College Revieiv came into the room on a tide of exchanges, we glanced through it with the same skeptical look that is bestowed on the publications of Pogliano, Ltd. We did stop at a poem, not that we particularly enjoy any poetry other than “Dangerous Dan McGrew” or anything by Rudyard Kipling, but because we recognized the name of the writer. She was that Mundelein freshman, who notified the publishers of a text that has been in use for 15 years in the English departments of more schools than I would care to count, that they had erred in crediting a quotation to Max Eastman which actually was Max Beerbohm’s. It naturally created quite a commotion, even bringing the young lady a letter of congratulation * -from the author, because in all the time that the book had been used, no one, either teacher or pupil had even spotted the mistake.
The whole affair casts a poor reflection on English departments in general. It leads those of us who have been made
,	” 5> 'd.ck I
McCarthy, either improve your work or transfer your allegiance to “Scrip.’*
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
= FRANK WEMHOFF—
Top of the Week
. . . Shamrocks over Violets.
(Somewhere with the student expeditionary force in the caf. A sinister conversation is overheard behind the enemy lines. The amazon chieftain, Miss Dinah Titian, and General Kor-nelly are discussing new menu-vers.)
General, wijl you weight up a minute? I have some sad noos.
Watt is it, fare warrior?
The Kornelly Youth Movement just cleaned out the candy counter.
Private or student stock?
Private.
They’ll be alright then. Well don’t stand there! Charge it up to advertising.
Again?
I’m runnin’ this show.
Yes, massah ... I have some more sad noos.
Watt Now?
I have a note from the infirmatory.
I’m happy for you.
Oh, nothing like that, but conditions are desperate over there. It means Wah!
How come, Dinah?
That last attack of chopsewage has destroyed the balance of trade. The roads are blocked with refugees.
Let them eat crackers.
But they need oranges at 96c a dozen.
Ah, they’ve met our price at last.
We will attack again in force soon.
Are we going to assault with that new weapon, cheesecake?
Quiet, someone may hear you. You make me sick.
No, you make me sick.
This time I’m going to spy on them and find their weekness. Then we will strike with deadly power and you, Dinah, ' will direct the menu-ver to annihilate them.
I am greatful. But how will you go among these primitives without being recognized? What if they might capture you?
Never fear, Dinah Tician, I will trick them. I yam going to stough raisins in my ears and maskerade as a cookie. Then no one would dare lay a hand on me.
- How diabolically clever. As anyone can plainly see, no one would dare lay a hand on you as a cookie.
I must leave this dangerous territory now to prepair.
Would you like me to fix you a box of goodies before you go?
What? You dare to threaten me? You shall be shot!
(Needless to say, Dinah Titian was burned with a passel of chicken bones. End of a beautiful dream.)
❖
Self-explanatory
The tinie: Exams.	•
The place: Language class.
The prof: From the typewriter of the same name.
The class: Five in the first row flunked. Three in the second row flunked.
The next five rows passed. Three in the last row got 90.
❖
Another candidate
... A certain prefect has a passion for putting up pertinent notices outside his room on the door panel. Last week he put up a notice saying that there was a “team” of disturbers on the floor and named the principals and their playing positions. The notice mysteriously disappeared and in its place appeared a notice entitled “Thanks for the Blow” and invited all hall members to try out for the squad. Tryouts are to be held every day from 0:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. The notice was signed by “The Four Horsemen.”
❖
Commerce Student
Rumblings from Washington indicate that the next victim of Uncle Sam’s trust-busters and revenue collectors will be Frank McGroder, Alumni’s racketeer, who makes jack in all trades. McGroder, who sells jewelry, furs, stationery, birthrights, corsages, shrubbery, Lucien LeLong’s cologne, and not-so-candy kisses, failed to file his income tax report. And when he finishes his eleven years there Thurman Arnold will pick him up for violating the Sherman anti-trust Law.	.
❖
Bottom of the Week
. . . No. 417 .. . My love at locksmiths now can laugh.
It speeds through to you by Postal Telegraph. . . .
THE MUSIC BOX L
By Felix Pogliano
Two swing classics released by Victor | last week must take a back seat to brother Bluebird. The much-heralded Metronome All Star Band (Goodman, T Dorsey, James, Basie, etc., etc.) is an all star band, and then do “One O’Clock Jump” and ‘Bugle Call Rag” the way all star band, and they do “One O’Clock Jump” and “Bugle Call Rag” the way and solid ensemble work, but mostly the pair of tunes is made up of solo after solo—the best, we must admit, if ; you like that kind of stuff. Then there : is Artie Shaw’s Gramercy Five doing “When the Quail Comes Back to San j Quentin” and “Dr. Livingstone, I Pre- « sume.” The same old riffs and the same j old method are beginning to make this ' quintet monotonous. Which is too bad. {
So Glenn Miller steals the glory with f “Song of the Volga Boatmen.” Miller § sounds new and different in this medium f drag arrangement, featuring an effec- K tive and appropriate beginning, a fine j trombone and trumpet duet against a i background of clapping hands, and a : discord ending. (Bluebird) Ray Eberle : and the sax choir get a chance on the « reverse, “Chapel in the Valley.”	|
Gene Krupa does a fine job on “The j Sergeant Was Shy,” written by Eiling- I ton. The fast swing treament includes t the military strains of muted trumpets | and some brilliant section work by the | whole band. The backup is “He’s Gone.” | (Okeh)	|
Other outstanding Okeh releases in- 1 elude: “Isle of Capri” (a brand new ? arrangement) and “The Girl with the ; Light Blue Hair” by the Adrian Rollini , Trio (something good and different); “Stampede in G Minor” and “Who Am I, I?” (sung by Helen Humes) by Count Basie and his orchestra; and “Do Re Mi” f and “Ginger Belle” as ably done by f; Horace Henderson.
A Columbia record that deserves the title of jazz masterwork is Benny Good- i man’s “Somebody Stole My Gal” and * “I’m Always Chasing Rainbows.” The j tremendous power and versatility of | B.G.’s outfit really comes through in I the first number, and the flipover, sung 1 by Helen Forrest, does not suffer by 1 comparison.	j
In the case of Jimmie Lunceford and® “Mixup” the same title is a little doubt- £ ful. Here’s one case where a slightly J changed style didn’t help the band. The® other side, “Blue Afterglow,” sung by^ “Gruesome” Dan Grisson, is much bet-0 ter. A blues tune with the real Lunce-S ford drag.	m
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 74
FEBRUARY 14, 1941
Number 15
/ZNappy/z Takes 85 Under His Wing As Initial Bengal Training Starts
Five Champions Return to Defend Laurels
Every Monday, Wednesday and Friday nights, the lights in the Rockne Memorial Boxing rooms burn intensely over one of the most unusual classes in the University curriculum. There are no lectures, no textbooks nor desks.
This is a strange class. The 85 members assist the teacher, an innocent looking diminutive man with black-flashing eyes, in teaching. No one is required to attend.
This is an informal class. Not one member wears a tie or a clean shirt. There are no final examinations. The course lasts only five weeks. Graduation exercises consists in three final classes in which the most able members are allowed to display their skill before their professor and an appreciative audience of students and friends.
will be defending their titles this year. They are: Paul Malloy, 120 pounds; Rod McGuire, 145 pounds; Bill McGrath, 165 pounds; Jerry Ryan, 175 pounds; and Lou Rymkus, heavyweight. Four of these champions started learning their fundamentals in the Beginners’ class of last year.
Mr. Napolitano, “Nappy,” has this to say to prospective members of his class: “If you wish to learn to box, come over and we’ll teach you. The Bouts are sponsored for those who like to box and those who like to watch it.”
The personal safety of the contestants is again assured this year. “All entrants must have passed a physical examination given by Dr. McMeel at the University infirmary before they can be admitted to the class or to competition in the Bouts. During the weeks of preparation, the boys will train according to a schedule which will be change progres
sively each week. At present the schedule calls for, among other things, light gym work with the punching bag, pulleys and skipping-rope, light contact work not more than twice a week interspersed with two days of light roadwork. All matches will be made according to physical abilities.”
The care with which the training and the Bouts are conducted is evidenced in the fact that out of the 1200 boys who have participated during the past ten years, not one has been seriously injured.
The Bengal Bouts are sponsored by the Scholastic and are under the personal supervision of Mr. Napolitano. The list of prizes is not yet complete but thus far it consists of: a trophy to the residence hall whose entries gain the most points; a blue sweater with a gold monogrammed boxing glove emblazoned upon it for each finalist.
The Bouts were inaugurated at Notre Dame in 1931 under the sponsorship of the Students Activities Council. Since that time they have grown to the extent they are now considered one of the feature attractions on the University’s winter sports program. Cooperative efforts of some campus dubs has been assured to help make this year’s fights outstanding in every respect.—Tom Powers
This is the most practical class in the University curriculum. It teaches the manly art of self-defense or offense, as the case may be. The professor is Mr. Dominic Napolitano, associate professor of physical education. The 85 students are learning the fundamentals of boxing. They are part of the group of 150 boys who will enter the 10th Annual Bengal Bouts, Notre Dame’s biggest intramural event, the proceeds of which are to Be presented to the Holy Cross Mission in the province of Bengal, India.
On the opening night of the Bouts, which are tentatively scheduled for March 17, these 85 “beginners” will have been converted into short, chunky boys with piston-like punches; tall, skinny guys with long, supple arms and grim faces; big, lumbering heavyweights with barrel-chests and bruising, round-house swings; wiry lightweights with sharp, paralyzing fists.
Five champions of last year’s events
Bengal Promoter Jim Newland, Director Napolitano, and Sports Editor Jack Dinges examine entry blanks.
?
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
'1 “'s ^‘4
6	THE
Jack Russell’s Orchestra
Plays at Junior Dance
Tuneful rhythms hy Jack Russell and his orchestra will be the order* on Saturday, Feb. 22. Tea Dance Chairman Steve Glaliker has announced that plans have been completed to bring Russell’s band to the Junior Prom tea dance which will be held from 2:00 to 5:00 p.m. at the Indiana Club. Mary Jane Howard does the vocals for this orchestra which is now being featured intermittently at the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago.
Reduce Ticket Price
Chairman of Tickets Walter P. Mc-court has recently revealed that the tickets for the Notre Dame-Georgia Tech basketball game will be included in the price of the bid, instead of charging 50 cents extra as had been previously announced. The total fee is seven dollars. Prom-goers may secure two tickets for the game merely by presenting their A.A. books at the Athletic Offices.
The Class of ’42 will award two free Prom tickets; one to Phil McCanna, a senior from Burlington, Wis., for his prize-winning Prom song entitled: “Just One More Waltz”; the other will be given to Leo Lee, of Washington, D. C., who held the lucky number for the contest which was held during last year’s elections.
Jack White, a senior from Sorin Hall, will conduct a special broadcast from the Palais Royale ballroom during the Prom. The tentative time of this broadcast is from 10:00 to 10:30 p.m. White, who hails from Brentwood, Md., is well known on the campus for his oratorical prowess, and is one of the outstanding members of Notre Dame’s Radio Club.
The bids for this year’s Prom will be limited to 350, according to General Chairman Jim Fayette. He has also made known the fact that juniors and seniors attending the Prom will be given 2:30 a.m. permissions on Feb. 21.
Solve Parking Worries
Parking worries will be avoided at the Prom this year. . . . This is another accommodation which will make this dance more convenient. The Green Arrow Parking Service will have uniformed attendants at the Palais Royale. They will take the cars and then deliver them at the end of the Prom, for 25 cents. These attendants are fully covered by insurance.
—James O’Laughlin
Seniors to Appear
On Washington Day
Timothy P. Galvin, prominent Notre Dame Alumnus of Hammond, Ind., who was recently elected Supreme Master of the Fourth Degree of the Knights of Columbus, will deliver the principal address at the Washington Day ceremonies at the University. Seniors of the Class of 1941, as part of a 96-year-old tradition, will appear attired in academic caps and gowns for the first of their graduation exercises.
Presentation of an American flag by the senior class through its representative, Charles Dillon, class president, will be a highlight of the program. The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, will formally accept the gift.
William Cotter, of New Rochelle, N. Y., a senior in the College of Commerce, will present the Washington Day oration. The other speaker, Mr. Galvin, was president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association in 1934-35. He is a former president of the Hammond Chamber of Commerce, and since 1933 has been a supreme director of the Knights of Columbus.
Life Saving Classes Begin
Monday at Memorial Pool
As many as 150 students are expected to enroll in the Senior Life-saving course to be given in the Rockne Memorial beginning Monday evening, Feb. 17. Juniors Tom Hoyer and Ed Storck, and sophomores John Lanahan and George Bartuska, are set to act as coinstructors with “Gil” Burdick to facilitate the handling of such a large class.
Open to all who wish to take it, the course will extend over a period of about ten days and will consist of about 15 hours of training. Everyone passing the test given at its conclusion will become a qualified Lifesaver.
7:30 is the time set for the first period of instruction in the Memorial pool Monday night. No one who is absent at that time will be permitted to take the course.
Speaker on "Social Insects"
Notre Dame men and St. Mary’s girls walked into Washington hall Monday night to learn about “Social Insects.” The lecture on the subject was given by Professor Alfred E. - Emerson of the University of Chicago department of .zoology. Professor Emerson’s “social insects” are termites, which live together under a three class system. The same lecturer addressed the biology department earlier in the day on “Speciation.”
Notre Dame Graduate 4;
Heads Southern Pacific S
w
Angus D. McDonald, president of the Southern Pacific Railway, once turned down a professional baseball career to V; become a clerk in the Houston, Texas, r; offices of the company he now heads. ; | Since then he has worked his way	I
through the various offices to his pres-	s
ent top position, and now directs the 1 activities of the more than 100 corpora- ; tions which comprise the Southern Pacific System. Included among these are real estate, terminal, mining, oil, electric, steamship, and railroad companies.
Angus D. McDonald
Mr. McDonald, a member of the class of 1900 and recipient of an Honorary Doctorate of Laws in 1931, is a member of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University. He received monograms for football in 1898 and 1899 and for baseball in 1898, 1899, and 1900. He was captain of the baseball team during his junior and senior years.
■ A reproduction of Mr. McDonald’s letter to J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., appears on the following page.
—Robert Fitzpatrick.
1
I
"Flight Angel" Coming As Movie on Saturday
Tomorrow evening, “Flight Angel,”! Warner Brothers’ dissertation on the! lives of America’s Air Stewardesses! will bring to Washington Hall, Wayne! Morris, as the boy they all desire. J® feature on a band of the day, an<P RKO news will complete the programs

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
A. D. MCDONALD.
PRESIDENT
February 4, 1941.
Reverend Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., President, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dear Father O’Donnell:	-
I am pleased to acknowledge the Trustee’s Report, and again wish to say I am sorry I was .unable to attend the meeting, owing to business which kept me on the West Coast.
I note with interest the progress which the University has made since our last meeting, and I congratulate your administration on the construction of an addition to the Chemistry Building and the new Heat and Power Laboratory. I hope it will be possible for Notre Dame to carry on the additional construction indicated, and to stimulate interest in endowments for foundations of Chairs and for visiting lecturers in the various departments of the University.
While in school it was indeed difficult for me to realize and appreciate that we students paid only two-thirds of the cost of our education. This figure, of course, is also true of other universities; however, their endowment is from ten to one hundred times greater than ours. After experience in the business world,. I have found that cold statistics take on a more severe and actual form. I hope that some day Notre Dame’s endowment per student, which is now $315, will be raised to $3,315; and this is still only one-half of Stanford’s figure of over $6,000 per student, which amount I noted in a Press release last week.
I hope to have the pleasure, at an early date, of stopping off at Alma Mater on
ADMCD*db
THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By Russell L. Harris
Kentucky is usually associated with
horses, blue grass, baseball bats, derbies, and bourbon whiskey. This is in
Jack Gaither
deed quite a comprehensive group of associations, but probably never in the history of mankind has anyone ever thought of that state in connection with fencing. Feuds, long - rifled mountain men, tobacco juice all go with
Kentucky, but fencing — well, not until Jack Gaither came along.
Fencing played no integral part in Jack’s life until he came to Notre Dame. In his freshman year he decided to take up the sport. The reason for this decision is not quite clear but it probably could be traced to an Erroll Flynn picture or to a desire of escaping freshman phy-ed. However sordid may have been his first motives he soon found that he liked sword play. He developed rapidly under the Mexican maestro Professor De Landero, and at the end of the year won the freshman foils tournament. Since then it has been a continual climb upward, and this year he has reached the summit — the captaincy of the team. His position today could even have been higher than that if he were not so modest. When he was elected to lead the 'team, he was offered the title of “colonel” instead of “captain” in keeping with the Kentucky traditions, but he refused it.
Seeing Jack in action with his hops, parries, coupes, lunges (complete or otherwise), strange yells, remises, stops, beats, and binds makes one wonder how he got that way in just four years. Although fencing is now the soul, but not the heart, of his life, it is completely Notre Dame acquired. His early life was spent without the inspiration of the sword. But there were many other things that more than adequately satiated the romantic dreams of adolescence. When he was twelve years old, at the age when most of us are rubbing sticks together or tying square knots, Jack learned to fly. By the time he came to college, he was a winged veteran with over 300 hours in the air. Now
that he is a senior the glitterings of life have disappeared. Out of a class of 25 boys who learned to fly with him, 17 have managed to kill themselves in crack-ups.
Another little childhood experience of Jack’s was to cross the Atlantic in a 54-foot sailing yacht. After 17 days of salt spray and blue sky he landed in Southampton. Two hours later he was on his way back aboard a steamer. Quite a sightseeing record even for an accelerated American tourist.
Then there was a South Sea trip. Tahiti, Pago Pago, and all those other places made famous by Lamour, Sarong, and Co. The whole trip was disillusioning — the maidens were fat. the flies were fat, and the beaches were of poisonous coral.
In June the world will see one more
graduated accountant in the person of Jack Gaither. But he is not going back to Kentucky. He thinks that southern Indiana is much nicer. He has even taught her to fence.
Fr. O'Donnell Announces
Newly Appointed Registrar
Notre Dame’s first major readjustment to the national defense program came Thursday with the announcement by the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., that Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C., will take over the duties of university registrar late next week. Major Robert B. Riordan, who has held the post since 1930, is leaving for active army service on February 21st.
In making the announcement Father O’Donnell stressed the regret caused by Major Reardon’s departure and paid high tribute to his work for Notre Dame
Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.G.
both as teacher and executive during the last decade. The president’s statement follows:
“It is with deep regret that the university has granted a leave of absence to Major Robert Riordan who has been called to active duty with the nation’s armed forces for the duration of the current national emergency.
“I have been acquainted with Mr. Riordan as a student, teacher and executive for almost twenty years, and am deeply appreciative of the sterling Catholic qualities of the man, and devotion with which he has served alma mater. We look forward to the day when he x\nll be free to resume his campus duties.
“Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C., will take over the post of registrar within a few days.”
Father Connerton, professor of music and religion at the University, is a native of Binghamton, N. Y. He received the degree of Litt. B., from the University in 1920. After pursuing graduate studies at the Catholic University, Washington, D. C., 1925-26, he received a diploma in Gregorian Chant from the Pius X School of Liturgical Music in New York City. From 1931 to 1937 he was superior of Moreau Seminary and director of the nationally famed Moreau Choir. During the next two years he was master of novices at St. Joseph’s Novitiate, Rolling Prairie, Ind.
During the current year Father Connerton has been serving as head of the university program committee, and is secretary of the committee on plans for the Centennial.
Symphony Orchestra
Plans St. Mary's Concert
An extra amount of enthusiasm has
been noticeable for the past few days in the rehearsal room of the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra. President Art Starr has contacted Sister Made-leva, President of St. Mary’s college, and has announced that the orchestra will present a concert at St. Mary’s the first week of March. This is the first time that such a program has been arranged in the history of the two schools.
The orchestra will also take a prominent part in the Flag Day exercises on the 22nd of this month. A concert will be presented in Washington Hall about the middle of March. *
“Victor Herbert’s Favorites,” a medley of such perenial favorites as “Kiss Me Again” and “I’m Falling in Love,” is but one of a number of new selections obtained for these approaching events.—Carl Coco.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
Sister Madeleva Lectures
Here Next Thursday
Medievalist to the core, possessing the sainted face of a niched nun in Rheims, Sister Madeleva, president of St. Mary’s, is famous not only for her exquisite poetry but also for her mountain climbing, and the efficient manner in which she wields a hand-saw. Exquisite craftsman, charming conversationalist with the happy faculty of turning a barbed word into an abstract pleasure, Sister Made-leva not only enjoys international friendships but also international reputation as the foremost Catholic woman poet. Gilbert Keith Chesterton, contemptuous of febrile feminine poetry, had to admit that Sister Madeleva was the only modem woman poet “that had the power to stir him within.” She is scheduled to lecture in Washington Hall next Thursday at 4:15 p. m. on “Frontiers of Poetry”
Sister Madeleva is well qualified to lecture on poetry. She is an active member of the Catholic Poetry Society of both London and New York. Her poetry has been represented in most of the distinguished literary periodicals of the United States. Among her numerous published volumes of poetry outstanding are Knights Errant and Other Poems, Penelope and Other Poems, A Question of Lovers and Other Poems, Ballad of the Happy Christmas Wind.
(A correction in the entertainment schedzile which appeared in an earlier Scholastic reserves the evening of March 20 for Maude Scherer who will give a reading of the play “Life with Father.” On March 9 the Catholic University Players will present “God’s Stage.” This group from Washington, D. C., is one of the foremost university dramatic clubs in the country.)—Robert LeMense
SEEK FRUIT CAKE OWNER
A fruit cake is growing stale and a Notre Dame student and his friends have missed some good eating. Officials of the Southwestern Railroad have written University secretary, Donald Easley, asking him to try to locate the owner of a ten-pound holiday fruit cake left on a train which carried students from Texas to St. Louis on their journey back from Christmas holidays. The cake has just been found and by this time will probably make an excellent door stop.
THE CAMPUS
BY GEORGE MILES
In all confusion and clamor which surrounded the resignation of the football coach and the early speculations concerning the new leader, very few people noticed that something very sad took place last week. For the first time this year the fencing team of the University was defeated in official struggle. And although we do not know for sure, we suspect that an innocent little aspirin caused it all—or rather the absence of an aspirin. It seems that there is a fencer on the University’s squad who cannot operate well without certain aids. Not long ago, a friend of ours, attending a match, saw this fellow wringing his hands desperately and remonstrating with the student. “But I’ve got to have an aspirin. I can’t have a bout without an aspirin.” Sure enough, the fellow was an easy mark in his first match. We don’t know how the pill supply was last Saturday, but we hope that there will be no shortage in the future. Those football players got their gelatin, didn’t they?
*	^5
Of course, the most controversial ruling of the new term was the setting down of slumbering Sorinites. It was a great shock to many to discover that all they would have for the last term of their senior year was a porch (with new furniture) and a sprinkling of tradition. No longer would there be the lump of sugar after the castor oil. And the pain was all the worse because the young men of Sorin had grown used to the sugar. Back to the dining hall was as severe and dreadful a verdict as back to the salt mines. It was, as one student put it, like a return to Inferno after a reprieve in Paradiso.
* * *
All the facts seem to indicate that the retiring football coach will greet his successor with words like these: “Everything I have is yours—except those who are drafted.”
* * *
Completely disregarding all those admonitions which command one to protect his body, and forsaking a wonderful state of peace and security, we went last Saturday to the gym and sat close to the Cassasanta Crashers. After the performance, we were obliged to admit to ourselves that the drummers worked harder, playing the unique version of
Tiger Rag, than the basketball players did ragging the Cats.
* * *
We were quite moved when we read of the immediate departure of several young men of the University for army camps. We were filled with all the proper emotions when we saw a picture of these same young men bidding farewell to the president on the Main Building steps. But we were soon to suffer disillusion. For only a few days later, one of the draftees was walking around the campus as large as life. How are we to build up our country’s defenses; how are we to inspire the youth of our land, when the draftees do not go to camp after their departure has been announced, and especially when their pictures have appeared on the front page of the Scholastic?
* * »
Since the showing of Philadelphia Story in these parts, we look for a revival of intense activity among the high-school students of South Bend. If J. Stewart could overcome early frustrating environments, so can any one else.
* * *
Oh yes. There will be no more of those things on Saturday afternoons.
Fr. Cunningham Named
Director of Faculty.
Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., has been named director of the faculty at the University by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., University president.
Father Cunningham, who has long been nationally recognized as one of the leaders in American educational thought, in this newly-created position will give special attention to the improvement of instruction and will serve as a connecting link between officers of the administration and members of the faculty in both educational and social matters.
He has recently been named chairman of the executive committee of the National Conference of Church-Related Colleges, is a former president of the College Division of the National Catholic Educational Association and his text “Pivotal Problems of Education” is widely used by schools in this country.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Fisher Body Craftsman Award Winner, Edward Sendek, is Jack of All-Trades
In 1939, Edward Francis Sendek, 26 Lyons Hall, a native Pennsylvanian, entered Notre Dame. He attended the Monessen Vocational High School and graduated as a machinist. In 1937, Ed won first prize in the national contest of the Fisher Body Craftsman’s Guild, after approximately 3,000 hours of tedious model work. The award was a $5,000 university scholarship to any school of his choice. He chose Notre Dame because “it is the best Catholic school in the country and is not coeducational.”
Model work and handicraft have been Ed’s predominant hobbies since he was four years old. But he did not take his hobbies seriously until his sophomore year in high school when he was asked to represent his school in the Fisher Body contest. He entered the contest annually for four years, and the fourth time he received state, regional, and national awards for his efforts. His model of the Napoleonic stage-coach was judged the perfect facsimile; it was made of the same metal, -wood, and elaborate upholstery as the original. The model was exhibited at the Museum of Science and Industry, R.C.A. Building, New York City.
Ed is continuing in his natural vein as a student in mechanical engineering. He realizes this course is an outlet for developing ideas and for creative ability. Ed plans to become a machine designer, especially in the aircraft and automobile industries. Ed has a pilot’s license but as yet he has never driven an automobile; he believes, as he says, in working from the top down.
From the fall of 1938 to the summer of the following year Ed worked at the New York World’s Fair on the drafting of the General Motors exhibit, Highways and Horizons, whence he was transferred to work on model buildings, specimen trees and bridges.
Ed is a clever football player but lias very little time to compete in organized ball. He has several other hobbies too. He is a good violinist, having played in an orchestra back home; but here at school he plays only to relieve his mind when studies become too exacting. He spends some of his time sculpturing from wood and plaster of paris. His most recent work in this field is the sculpture of an eagle and a
plaque of Lincoln’s head. He loves to cook and thinks it a delightful hobby.
Occasionally Ed helps Jim in the campus shoe repairing shop and Father Bernard Lange, C.S.C., in the wood shop behind the Main Building. Ed affirms there is nothing more he would like to do than to continue at Notre Dame, but he feels quite certain that he may be called for military service before July.
—Bill Talbot
Pax Romana Group Plans
Trip to South America
Two years ago, members of the United States branch of the Pax Romana organization stood waiting on a pier in New York harbor for some 20 South American Catholics, to whom had been extended an invitation for an American visit. The boat docked and down the gang-plank came 100 Latins, all of whom had accepted the invitation. All were taken in as guests of Pax Romana members, and spent an enjoyable week at Fordham, in New York, and another at the Catholic University, in Washington, occupied in Catholic student councils, before returning to the twenty South American nations which they represented.
Edward J. Kirchner, Secretary of the United States branch of the Pax Romana, on a recent visit to Notre Dame outlined the plans for the return of their visit, which action has been requested by South American friends of the or
ganization. Inasmuch as they have promised lodging in their own homes for each visiting student, the cost has been cut to mere transportation rates, which through the courtesy of the Grace Lines will not exceed $300.
The group, consisting of some thirty U. S. and Canadian Catholics, will leave New York on July 18 aboard a Grace Line steamer. Passing through the canal it will reach the coast town of Buenaventura, from which it will proceed by rail to Bogota, capital of Colombia. There a week of conferences will be held, attended by Catholic student representatives from every American nation, beginning July 29. The North American students will put forth suggestions which they will have discussed in their daily conferences aboard ship during the initial stages of the journey; the South American students will bring forth suggestions which will have been hashed over during the previous week in the meeting of the Catholic University Student Association of South America. Afterwards the group will proceed through Ecuador and Peru, stopping at many towns, including Lima, the capital of Peru, at each of which a conference will be held, until finally it reaches Santiago, the capital of Chile. After a week spent there it will do an about face and follow its tracks back to New York. As to the purpose of the movement Mr. Kirchner commented, “With all the present day interest in Inter-American collaboration there has been very little activity among Catholics. South American students almost doubt the existence of Catholicism and Catholic Universities in the United States. It is our intent to prove our existence and to initiate Catholic collaboration between the students of this hemisphere. In cooperation with Rev. William Ferree, S.M., of the Catholic University, and secretary to the newly organized Catholic Bureau of Inter-American collaboration, Pax Romana is seeking a greater exchange of students and professors between the American nations.”
The idea of the trip has received energetic promotion at Notre Dame from Rev. William F. Cunnningham, C.S.C. Late in November he organized a class in preparation for the trip. Every Monday evening from 6:30 to 8:00, twenty Spanish enthusiasts meet in Room A in the basement of the Law Building, and under the tutelage of Seiior Eduardo Al-cayaga, study a Spanish text of South American history. The classes are conducted entirely in Spanish.
An invitation is extended to any and all students with an interest in Spanish, whether or not they are planning or were aware of the Pax Romana trip to attend these classes.—Mark G. McGrath.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
On Nov. 27, 1842, Father Sorin Found a French Interpreter and a University Site
OUR DAILY BREAD
The Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., plodded into South Bend with an oxcart on Nov. 27, 1842. He was ferried across the St. Joseph river by Detroit-horn Alexis Coquillard and guided through a mile of forest to the marshy edges of St. Mary’s lake. There he found a half-breed French interpeter, an empty, two-story log cabin and the site for his university.
The log cabin immediately became the first building of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and a little while later Coquillard was enrolled as its first student.
Ten years before, the Rev. Theodore Badin, author of a poem in Latin to celebrate Perry’s naval victory at Lake Erie and the first priest ordained in the United States, had purchased the land for the purpose of building an orphanage. A few years later Fathers Louis De Seille and Benjamin Petit became the Indians’ “black robes,” the latter remaining until 1838. In that year the United States government drove the Pottawatomies out of the region at bayonet point, treating them as prisoners of war. Father Petit accompanied them on their painful, heart-breaking trek to Missouri, helping to bury the scores who died on the way.
In the next four years there was no resident missionary, and the region of the twin lakes was farmed only by its half-breed tenant and the few Indians who had escaped the enforced exodus.
When Father Sorin arrived he had with him $400 to build his college. If it were not completed within two years the 524-acre grant would revert to the donor. With him were six brothers, two of them merely 15 years old, to aid in the construction.
In South Bend, anti-Catholic feeling ran high when Father Sorin’s purpose became known. “It was announced that twelve Roman priests and twenty monks ‘were out at the lake’ — rhat the Pope of Rome (Oh, my brethren, O-o-h!) had already sent $90,000 to Father Sorin, and would shortly send over the trifling sum of $10,000 more to make a round figure,” reports an historian of the University. Some of the outraged townspeople threatened to burn to the ground the first building completed. It remained only a threat.
The poverty of the first colony was extreme. Father Sorin and the brothers lived in the old log hut until a new one was completed the following month. The 28-year-old priest slept in the only
bed while the brothers used the floor. After the arrival of more religious from France, Father Sorin and another priest had but one pair of boots and one hat, which they shared. On another occasion a brother froze his feet and was forced to use Father Sorin’s last 50 cents to remedy his suffering.
Typically, Father Sorin obtained a university charter for the school before the first college building was completed. However, within five months the building was up, and Father Sorin found himself deeply in debt. At one time a creditor unhooked the school horses from the plow they were pulling and ran off with them; on another occasion there was no food for the students’ supper.
In 1845 the first commencement was held. The day opened “with the -warlike sound of the big drum of the South Bend band . . . booming through the woods.” When the band arrived on the campus they proceeded to play “Home Sweet Home” and repeated it over and over again; it was the only piece they knew. On the stage the students presented a play by Moliere, and they in turn were presented with their certificates. Many of the students, by the way, were from the east, some of the addresses being New York City and Detroit, and one listed as Dover, England.
No account is given in the commencement proceedings of Alexis Coquillard, the first student. It is known, however, that he joined the California gold rush and later returned to South Bend to become a successful wagon builder. After he was getting along in years he went to St. Mary’s Academy to see a stage presentation, meeting there the lady destined to be his wife. An article states that he “was successful in his wooing and Miss Perely became his bride.”
The eastern seaboard first became aware of the new school when an article about the commencement exercise appeared in the Philadelphia Catholic Herald. This publicity was the first in a series which gradually brought Notre Dame recognition as the leading Catholic institution in the United States.
Not many years after its obscure origin Notre Dame had obtained prominence throughout the world and could be identified with such figures as Henry Clay, General William Sherman and Napoleon HI of France.
This marks the first of a series of historical essays revolving about the traditions of Notre Dame. —Donald 'Heltzel
LITURGY
Man is always such a busy-man. . . . His chief concern is with the business of just being man.... Let him have a little success, a little flattery and he begins to think of himself as a superman. . . . At his very origin he succumbed to the notion that he might become super-God. . . . This seed of pride sprouts in every age. ... Its fruit is confusion.
The sacred humanity of Christ on the Cross is the answer to every human problem. ... It reminds man of his littleness and his greatness. ... It is the divine evidence of his loss and gain. . . . It is the symbol of his restoration to the supernatural state.
The mystical humanity of Christ, or the Church, continues to make this effective by divine command. . . . “Do this in commemoration of me.” . . . The same sacrifice and the sacraments that flow from it continue to nourish in him the seed of eternal life. . . . “He that will, let him take the Water of Life freely.” (Apocalypse 22,17)
God and man are the only words that have enduring meaning. ... In eternity, the Angels apart, nothing else shall remain. . . . Even the Angels “are ministering Spirits, sent to minister for them who shall receive the inheritance of salvation.” (Hebrews 1, 14)
The perfect understanding of man is to see God in himself and himself in God. . . . The Season of Septuagesima is a call to remove the obstacles to this vision....Sexagesima Sunday is a summons to cultivate the field of the soul (Gospel . . . The glorious chapter from 2 Corinthians is a perfect boast made with perfect good reason. (Epistle)
Long ago it was written that the soul is naturally Christian (Tertullian, 2d century). . . . Man hungers for the divine. . . . The Liturgy is the divine banquet room. . . . “He that cometh to me shall not hunger.” (John 6, 35)
(Mass Calendar on page 18)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
WILLIAM C. McGOWAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr., Managing: Editor
JAMES NEWLAND, Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN, News Editor
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES.
Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER
Art Editor
REV. C. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms. Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Some Think Too Much
Twenty-three years ago the boys didn’t have time enough to think about it very much. The volunteer or draftee of the first world war had an opponent already selected for him when he marched off to the strains of “Johnny Get Your Gun” or some other blood-stirring and highly purposeful tune. The United States was at war, and that made a lot of difference. Young men left their college educations for army life with a purpose: their country had declared war and they were going to see to it that she did not lose that war. Very few stopped to think of any personal plans or how they were going to like sleeping on a cot — they had so little time to think.
Once again the college man is facing the possibility of marching off to join the nation’s armed forces, but this time there is very little tapping of feet. Wicked-looking wolves in Boche helmets are not leering from every third billboard. Today we have a more farsighted, thorough plan in forming our army. There is hurry, but it is a well-ordered hurry that lacks the blaring of bands and parades to the railroad station. 1941 draftees leave for army camps under a condition in which a war is not already declared; there are no
echoes ringing in their ears about horror stories such as the Lusitania sinking. The propaganda and color are less intense, and Red Cross girls are prettier and more distracting. The college boy leaving now for the army has heard only some rather vague and not too exciting stories about hemisphere defense and helping Britain restore an economic system in Europe under which America can do business. Today’s average man of draft age in this country is better informed about contemporary world affairs than were men of any previous period of history. Therefore, the purpose of an army such as we are forming is clear to all, but it is equally clear that this time the purpose is not to win a declared war.
Knowing that the United States is in no immediate need of being saved from an enemy, that as yet there is no definite direction for their hobnailed boots, a few potential soldiers are doing some heavy thinking about their position. There aren’t many, but they are to be found on the local campus as well as any other place. These serious youths whom the idea of going to an army camp has so seriously upset, can easily be identified by their long faces and evident listlessness toward studies. Why bother about classes and marks, they reason, when we have to spend the next year in the army anyway? Some have even figured it out that they will never get out of the anny, because, they claim, men with higher education will be need
ed to command, and the world of the future will always require nations to have military forces large and strong. These are perhaps two of the more ridiculous of arguments; on the other hand, it must be granted there are cogent reasons for tense thinking in the face of the present plight.
But this is not written to persuade these few fellows that there really exists a need for their services. That now familiar big white envelope with something about “local board” printed in one corner can persuade better than a set of encyclopedias. The thing is: Why be gloomy? Why think too much about the frustration of previously made plans? Maybe the draft has taken about half of next year’s football team, but are other schools any better off? It is also possible that spending some time in the army might have ruined someone’s chance of getting a job after college, but that should not destroy all hope of ever securing another job.
There are infinitely worse prospects for the young man of today than a year in an army camp. The boys in 1918, for example, had the certainty confronting them that they were to be used in actual war. No draftee of this year knows that he is going off to war.
Reports coming from the camps now have it that the food is excellent. Rising at 6 o’clock in the morning (theoretically and based on past experience, at least) should not be too difficult for Notre Dame students. The army claims that the day of the tough top sergeant is gone, and many camps are provided with hostesses to give them that homey atmosphere. The spirit of friendship among the men in these camps is strong, and the spiritual life of the men is never neglected for chaplains are present in all camps. Entertainment is no problem for a large group of men approximately the same age, and visits home are permitted frequently.
So why don’t the few who dislike the thought of being in the army try to think less about it? Perhaps the friend on whom they unburden their woes is not very sympathetic; he may feel normal and not at all unhappy about spending a year in learning how to carry a rifle. Worry and self-pity never solve a problem, but a changed outlook will in this case. No year spent in the army can destroy the effects of an education, hence there is no need for the attitude that all is lost and further study is useless. Giving a little thought to the possibility of being away for a year may be justifiable to a certain extent, but some people think too much; that’s all that troubles them.—John Casey
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Something In Tweed
—Edward C. Cummings
Stuffed behind his doughy wife in the crowded elevator, Mr. J. L. Cowan squawked, “Three, please,” his voice snapping brittly like a thin cracker. He wanted to repeat the instruction more clearly, but he hoped that the girl operator had heard.
With a hydraulic jerk, the cage stopped and the door slid open before a sea of lush green carpet. Cautiously, Mrs. Cowan paddled out with her son, Donald, close to her husband who steamed determinedly in the direction of a fat little man leaning against the top of a large glass case. “We want to look at a top coat,” said J. L. nodding vaguely toward the interior of the room.
The fat little man called, “Mr. Goldberg!” and Mr. Goldberg came running, his hands washing in speculation. “Show the gentleman some top coats, please.” Mr. Goldberg bowed in a deep jackknife. “Yes, sir. Right this way.”
They followed him down a small, musty Versailles of mirrors. In one of the full length mirrors the boy glanced hard at a pretty girl. She was standing beside a young’ man shuffling into a new blue coat. He looked a bit older than she, and Donald wondered if they were lovers.
Mr. Goldberg reached into one of the big cases and unhitched a dark green coat. “How do you like the looks of this?” he asked J.L.
“It’s not for me,” he answered, “it’s for the boy.”
Goldberg screwed up into a flabby frown and said, “Oh, I thought that you wanted it. Well, come up here and we’ll see about a bigger one for the boy. Have-any special color in mind, son?”
“He wants something collegiate. He’s just home from school for Easter.”
Donald looked at his father and smiled limply. He waited for the salesman to ask what college he came from. But the salesman ignored colleges. That peeved him. They walked past more cases, and Mr. Goldberg asked Donald how he would like green.
“Well, I think I’d prefer brown,” Donald answered. “My overcoat is a greenish-blue.” He tried on a light
Complaint to a Pot of Cyclamen
I had watched your fragile troupe, all morning,
Hoping some remembered Bacchic excess Would ripple your slim green thighs To the thin drumming of the rain.
But no.
Achieving a monochrome modesty,
You contrived to keep your shining draperies
Close about you,
Adhesive as the wet icings of moths, Your feet relaxed in brooding inaction.
But when the sun came to the window, As if to a sudden baton’s arched imperative,
You performed, ecstatically, -A flattering ballet of flame.
Perhaps, only the sun has a ticket to your beauty,
And I have none,
Who bought you entire,
Sacrificing two eclairs Sunday night, Rachmaninoff on Monday.
—C. L. J.
brown model. It made him look like a maladjusted collie and he said so.
“Yeah,” drawled J.L., “that’s too big. Haven’t you got one a size smaller?”
“They come in only three sizes,” said Goldberg, “and all these are mediums. If the boy doesn’t like that length, I can show him the short size. How about it, son?”
Donald resented being called Goldberg’s son. After a while he admitted that he wanted a shorter coat. -
“Oh Kehl” snapped Mr. Goldberg, “we’ll have to go back to where we were. I thought you might like a larger coat.” He strode back to the other case. Yanking out a brown tweed, Mr. Goldberg held it while Donald slipped his arms through the sleeves. Mr. Goldberg fastened the three alligator buttons. Donald hunched his shoulders once, then
stepped into a niche and beheld himself miraculously as triplets.
“Fits nice,” remarked Mrs. Cowan as if giving a tentative decision. Mr. Goldberg agreed.
“I don’t like the shoulders,” J-L. blurted- “Raglan shoulders are more collegiate.”	-
“Do you like them, son?” asked Mr. Goldberg. Donald got streaky red in the face and was going to tell Mr. Goldberg what he thought about sons of . . . when the pretty girl in the mirror came by. She wore a green plaid and looked fresh and sweet. Donald thought of similes . . . green as new grass, or clover ... or Spring and forgot to tell Mr. Goldberg. He heard his mother say, “They make him look so manly.”
“Yeah, I guess they’re all right,” Donald answered vaguely. He wondered where the young man in the new blue coat had gone. The girl sat down in one of the springy steel chairs which the store kept for patrons and played at arching her feet until Donald wondered how she managed to keep her slippers on.
Mr. Goldberg, impervious to the charms of ladies juggling slippers, unclothed a barrel-chested mannikin and brought over a coat with Raglan shoulders. It was a dejected, dead green.
Donald growled, “I hate green I Besides this smells like it had ink in it!” But he retreated into the niche. In the mirrors he spied the girl. Sunlight from a back window sprayed gold over her shoulders and small green toque. Her eyes laid caressing estimates on his dead green tweed. Donald began to prance up and down the aisle. The pretty girl nodded and smiled.
Suddenly Donald turned to his parents. “Believe I’ll take it. You know green does something to a fellow!”
Mr. Goldberg sighed deeply from his diaphragm. “Come with me, son, and try on the pants for length.”
Son! But it didn’t make any difference now. The girl kept smiling and arched her eyes just once ... but, oh . . . well, just once.	_
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Irish Quintet Seeks Tenth In Row
though the names of men who will be chosen for these events are not available at this writing.
Against New York U. In Garden
Capt. Ed Riska Still Out of Lineup
The Irish basketball squad, riding on the crest of a nine game winning streak, invades Madison Square Garden tonight to battle New York University, one of the powerhouses of the East.
Eddie Riska, Irish captain and ace forward, has just laid aside his crutches but it is very doubtful whether the veteran will be able to play at all against the Violets. In Riska’s absence Notre Dame will depend on Charlie Butler teaming with Georg Sobek at the forward position. Butler’s brilliant play since taking over the captain Riska’s post serves warning to the Easterners that he will require plenty of watching.
The local aggreation, unbeaten since losing to Northwestern on New Year’s Eve, won its ninth straight game at the expense of these same Northwestern Wildcats last Saturday night. Although Ryan and Butler sparked the drive which provided the margin of victory, team
play was the feature of the contest. In commenting on the game, Assistant Coach Meyer pointed out that the scoring was well distributed, with seven out of the first nine players breaking into the scoring column. He also praised the fine defensive work of the team as a whole.
The Irish are out to avenge last year’s 52-43 defeat suffered at the hands of the Violets. To prevent Notre Dame’s ambition from turning last season tables, NYU Coach Howard Cann will have four of last year’s five regulars in the lineup tonight. The Violets, playing their fifth game of the season in the Garden, are favored to win.
Victory over NYU will mean certain high national ranking for the Keogan-ites, and, as slight underdogs, the Notre Dame basketeers step into tonight’s contest with a slight psychological advantage. The game here next week with Georgia Tech marks the last home game for this year’s Irish quintet.
—Ray Donovan
Trackmen Leave Today For Illinois Relays
Headed by Coach Bill Mahoney, a squad of 17 Irish track and field men left this afternoon for Champaign, Ill., where they will compete in the annual running of the famous Illinois Relays tomorrow afternoon and evening.
Although his squad ran rough-shod over the hapless Michigan State thinlies last Friday night, Coach Mahoney is by no means suffering from any grand illusions as to how his boys "will fare in the meet tomorrow. Mahoney himself says, “We will be up against the toughest competition that the Mid-West and Far-West can offer, with practically every major university in these sectors being capably represented by some of the nation’s foremost track stars.”
While he is predicting no certain victory in any special event, Coach Mahoney is looking for his four-mile relay team of Frank Conforti, Bill Riordan, Tony Maloney, and Ollie Hunter, (an all-soph aggregation), to give a very creditable account of itself, along with his two-mile relay team of Dick Tupta, Joe Olbrys, Conforti, and Hunter. The Irish will also have teams running in the mile and distance medley relays, al-
Next stop — Madison Square Garden and N.Y.U.
Other possible victories, according to Coach Mahoney, may be gained in the individual events. Jim Delaney in the shot-put, heaved the 16 lb. pellet 49 ft. last Friday night, to set a new meet record for that event. However, Delaney will be competing against such stars as Archie Harris of Indiana, and Hugh Rendleman of Chicago, and so will find the going much tougher. Keith O’Rourke in the high-jump, will find among numerous other stars, Dan Canham of Michigan, national collegiate champion, an outstanding opponent to beat. Bill Nicholson and Bill Dillon in the high and low hurdles, Ezra Smith in the pole-vault, and Bob Sag-gau and Jay Gibson in the 75-yd. dash give Notre Dame added power.
In reference to the 84-20 defeat his squad dealt the Michigan State trackmen last Friday night, Coach Mahoney reiterated: “I was well pleased with the performance of the boys against State. They showed good early-season form and proved themselves to be in good condition. However, they shouldn’t take too much stock in the big margin by which they whipped the Spartans, for State was unusually weak in most events. The boys will have to improve to show up well in the tough competition to come. However, with plenty of hard work and a little luck they •will improve, especially the sophs, who will gain the necessary experience that comes with competition.—Jim Clemens
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
Ties Complicate Interhall Basketball Standings
Now that players on the 35 teams have recovered from their exams, the interhall basketball season is back into full swing. Four hotly contested battles are decided each night from Monday to Friday on the Memorial courts. Director Mills and Referees Armand Lopez, Norm Trembley and Ed Kelly say that there are some excellent players on all the teams in both the heavyweight and lightweight divisions.
In the lightweight division, Morrissey and Dillon halls are tied for the leadership of League I, each team having three wins and no losses. Both outfits are confident of winning the championship and it looks as though the game between them will decide the winner. Captain Don Degnan, Ed Reagan and Fred Christman are Morrissey’s scoring threats, and Ted Burke and Ken Duffy concentrate on keeping the other team from scoring too often. Coach Jim Asmuth of Dillon has a well balanced combination in his starting quintet of Dan Canale, Jim McFadden, John Baty, Archie MacLeod and Pete Moulder.
An undefeated Howard hall five leads League II of the lightweights. Forwards Sammy Boyle and Jim Dick and center Frank Fox are the leading point-makers of the team; guards Jim Duggan and John Treacy round out coach Robert Fushelberger’s quint.
League I of the heavyweight division has two teams, Alumni and St. Edward’s, deadlocked for the top rung of the championship ladder. Captain Bill Sturm and John Meyers team together to give Alumni one of the finest pairs of forwards on the campus. Footballer John Mortell and Jim Murray, defensive threats, and another footballer, John Maloney, complete the lineup. St. Edward’s team presents. Jack Clifford and baseball captain Andy Chlebeck at forwards, John Kilbane, center, and Bernie McKay and Jim O’Brien at the guard positions. Chlebeck is the high scorer of the quintet.
Walsh hall’s well balanced five stands alone at the head of heavyweight League II. Coach Johnny Ross has a very dependable combination in baseballer Charlie Crimmins, Bill Wilson, Bob Illif, Frosh basketball coach Tony Romeo, and Bob Fitzgerald.
—Bill Reynolds
Splinters From the Press Box
■■	— JAMES NEWLAND
Just as every dog must have his day, so also must every sports writer. We have reference to this fourth estate talk over the selection of Elmer Layden’s successor as Notre Dame coach and athletic director. All this excitement in the form of beautiful adjectives being thrown together by well-known scribes is in reality just so many words. Their predictions for the most part are not reliable.
We do not infei' that Arch Ward, of the Chicago Tribune, Eddie Brietz, Associated Press, Jackie Ledden, of you know what, and all the rest of these well-meaning individuals are not sincere in what they say. They’re just like every other newspaperman — looking for scoop. You have read all the nice things they have said about our Elmer, that he is a graduate of Notre Dame and a member of the immortal Four Horsemen; that he coached at Columbia college, and Duquesne university and that he has given his all for the school he loves. You’ve read what Elmer has done at Notre Dame as athletic director and football coach. They’ve told you he is 37 years of age, married and has four children. The Scholastic’s Weak (pardon, Week) even divulged the “qualification tests” last week. But these men have not told you who our next coach will be. That’s where we come in. And here’s why.
❖
Splinters has been informed by an unimpeachable source as to who will direct Notre Dame’s athletic destinies next year. Yes, we know who will cause the varsity players to be late for dinner most every afternoon next fall because of late practice. The unfortunate thing for you, dear reader, is this. We promised not to reveal our secret until Saturday morning, March 1. We were informed of the selection only on our promise not to divulge the news until that date.
♦
At the same time, knowing that readers are very scarce and that they are to be protected and treasured, we have decided to let you in on this scoop under the following conditions. Let it be known we have thought this over thoroughly. We doused our heads in cold water, we walked around the lake three times; yes, we even made ourselves eat a whole mystery ball before we decided to confide this amazing secret to our readers. Here’s the set-up.
We will disclose the name of our next athletic director to all those who will send us 2000 empty N.D. match books (please send no more) with a letter of not more than 547 words telling why Splinters is the worst column in the SCHOLASTIC. There is no red tape, no sticky, gooey, pasty taste or feeling as you can see. Decisions of the judges will be final and in case of ties, duplicate awards will not be made. (Judges, incidentally, will be Adolph the aupple man, Clashmore Mike and a St. Mary’s freshman — yet to be named.) Please enclose in your letter a self-addressed, stamped envelope and $5.00 for mailing and handling. The contest closes at midnight, Saturday, Feb. 15.
❖
Knowing that every student on the campus will be on edge to learn the identity of the new coach, we have made the above qualifications as easy and as simple as possible. Needless to say, as we are anticipating thousands of empty match books, we made arrangements with the dining hall officials to remove the cigarette lighter (until recently it stood directly in front of the cigar counter in the caf) so that every person could stock up with contest tools. (Match books are a penny apiece, in case you don’t know.) Post office heads have also been informed of our plans and it is reported that the Brother in charge will arrange to hire 10 extra men to handle the increased volume of business.
❖
Won’t it be fun? Here we are not only giving you valuable information — the answer to the question that is puzzling thousands all over the country — but you are also given the chance to buy plenty of those pretty blue and gold match books and at the same time write a 547-word essay! English majors should especially take advantage of this grand opportunity. You can see that this contest will be something new and different.
♦
If it will ease your curiosity any we will give you the names of two candidates one of whom will be named to the . Notre Dame vacancy. We hope the linotype operator doesn’t misspell their names, as they sometimes do. The names are §qxi;p %ixbmguv and &wodncyg @oqxzkbm. (Shucks, the guy never spells names right.)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
ALBERT DEL ZOPPOn —
The good Sister Agatha who taught Charles Joseph Gillespie in grade school once told him that he would never amount to anything. “You’ll never learn to do anything right,” she said. “You’ve been dismissed from serving duties because of your gawky walk; you’ve lost your part in the play because you can’t speak distinctly; and now you’re off the basketball team because you haven’t yet learned to do what you’re supposed to do.” That afternoon
Charles Joseph pithily summed up his failures when he told his mother: “I guess I don’t know anything, mom. Sistei- says I can’t talk, and I can’t walk.”
Teachers often make mistakes ; especially grade school teachers. And Sister Agatha made one when she said that Joe Gillespie would never learn to do anything right. For by the time Joe graduated from high school he had learned to walk, speak, and play, as well as, if not better than most of the boys with whom he went to grade school. At Cathedral high in Indianapolis Joe stood head and shoulder above most of his classmates, not only in size, but in scholastic and athletic ability. Besides ranking in the upper third of his graduating class scholastically, Joe was Cathedral’s regular basketball center during
.his junior and senior years and one of the team’s leading scorers.
Of the four basketball players on Cathedral High’s fine 1936-37 team who enrolled at Notre Dame — Dick O’Connor, Bob Fitzgerald, Frank Quinn, Joe Gillespie — only Quinn and Gillespie decided to play college ball. Both boys made the varsity squad, and strangely enough both players have been fighting for the same center position. In virtue of his lofty 6' 3", Gillespie was expected to take over the
pivot job when the season started last fall, but a badly sprained ankle put him on the sidelines for about five weeks and ruined his chances to monopolize first-string duties. Since his recovery, however, Gillespie has shared the center spot with Frank Quinn, and he has been of no little help in compiling the team’s present winning streak.
Joe has not been much of a scoring threat in the games he has played for
N.D. But that’s because he has been setting up plays. As a play-maker Joe is tops. He knows how, when, and where to maneuver on the floor so that his teammates can break around him for open shots; and he possesses an uncanny ability to spot and pass to open when he plays the pivot. Furthermore, Joe has proved himself invaluable with his fine rebound work around the back-boards.
For a student who lives in Indianapolis Joe Gillespie takes very few week-
Interhall Track Trials
Feb. 17, 18; Finals 20th
Under the “expert” coaching of a dozen varsity track men, potential inter-hall stars are preparing for the annual Interhall Track and Field meet, the finals being scheduled for Thursday, Feb. 20.
Medals are to be awarded to the three men to win, place, or show in each event. A hall trophy and a relay cup will also be given to winning teams.
Rival halls will be out to wrest the championship from Brownson, traditional meet winner, whose destinies will be guided by wiry Tony Maloney. Joe Olbrys, varsity captain and half-miler, is at the helm of the Alumni squad while Oliver Hunter and Bill Riordan, sophomore milers, are Badin hall coaches. Bill Bogan and Paul Scully are directing the track prospects of Sorin and Walsh halls respectively.
No entry blanks are necessary for the meet, the only essential requirement is to report for the events at the scheduled times.
Trials in the following events will be held on Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 17 and 18:
60 yard dash Low Hurdles High Hurdles 440 yard dash
Pole vault Shot Put High Jump 880 Yard relay
There will be no trials in the 880, mile or two-mile events. Finals in all events except the 880 yard relay will be held Thursday, Feb. 20. The finals for the relay will be during the Central Collegiate Meet here, March 8.
Trials for the following halls will be on Monday, Feb. 17 at ' 7:30 p.m.: Alumni, Walsh, Howard, Carroll, Breen-Phillips, Zahm, Morrissey. On Feb. 18 at 7:30 p.m.; Sorin, Dillon, St. Edward’s, Brownson, Cavanaugh, Lyons, Badin, Off-Campus will hold their trials.
—Francis Carver
ends. But that’s because his mother and dad are frequent visitors here.
Brother Tom is a graduate engineering student and works at the University heating plant.
Joe spent his past three summers working on the state. highways. Someone stole the scythe he was using to cut weeds along the highway one day. His friends believe he hid it in hope of getting a different job.
Gillespie is a Business Ad major but you would never know it by looking at his book shelf. He uses a couple of commerce books as book-ends for his assortment of detective thrillers.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
Notre Dame Pucksters
Defeat Illinois Tech
Led by fast-skating, lanky Angelo Bertelli, Notre Dame’s makeshift hockey team outscored a red-shirted aggregation from Illinois Tech, 7-2, last Saturday. The game was played in a blinding snow storm.
Bertilli, who started at center on the Irish forward wall, beat Tech goalie, Glenn Wittekindt, four times during the game. The first tally came shortly after the initial face-off. Bertilli took a pass from John Patterson, skated through the Tech defense men, and fired the puck past Wittekindt.
Bill Kyle, going into the nets at the last minute to replace the regular Irish goalie, more than took care of his position. Bill Stewart starred at defense for the Notre Dame team. Wings Paul Patten and Tommy Fallen accounted for three Irish scores. Assists for Notre Dame were gained by Patten, Jack Barry, Bill Herzog, and Patterson. Steady ND wingman was Tom Reilly, while Joe Lane did well at defense.
McKechnie and Crawford scored one goal apiece for the Redshirts.
Irish Swimming Team
Meets Indiana, Chicago
The Athletic Board has finally approved the idea. Notre Dame swimmers will soon test their natatory abilities in two dual intercollegiate swimming meets to be held Feb. 22 and March 21 in the Rockne Memorial pool. The newly inaugurated team will meet the University of Chicago on the 22 and Indiana’s boys next month. These meets, although definitely sanctioned, are really to be informal preparations for a more definite Notre Dame swimming team.
In spite of the short notice afforded them, many candidates have been training for the various events. Gil Burdick is seeking in every nook and cranny of ' the campus for swimmers; freshmen or upperclassmen, ex-high school stars or beginners, crawlers or waddlers, it makes no difference. Just have an interest in the sport and see Gil at the pool any afternoon until five. Daily varsity practice has been nominally arranged for 4:00, but those whose schedules interrupt this time can come for coaching from Gil or George Bartsuka, his student assistant, at any time during the afternoon.
There has been a heated debate over the eligibility of freshmen in the coming meets. Intercollegiate rules forbid their participation but the informality of the
meets might bring on similarly informal ruling.
Upperclassmen who daily churn the Rockne waters are: Tom Miller, Lee Hastings, Bob Finneran, Frank Pollnow, John Doerr, Bob Russell, Tom Hoyer, Bernie O’Connor, Gerald Kamm, Jack Walsh, Bob Levernier, Jack Griffin,
Priming for first meet.
George Haninger, Charles Jitnik, Don Hogan, Carl Rohrer and “Mac” McCarthy. These freshmen are practicing and hoping: Marty Kuntz, Emmett Hasset, Mark McGrath, Moe Smith, and Ted Toole.
The following events will be staged in the Chicago and Indiana meets: 300-yd. medley relay, 220-yd. free style, 50-yd. free style, 100-yd. free style, 150-yd. backstroke, 200-yd. breast stroke, 440-yd. free style, 400-yd. relay, and fancy diving (low board).—Mark G. McGrath
Brutz, Ebli—Missionaries
Jim Brutz and Ray Ebli have scored some more points toward their halos. The two junior* footballers and Ebli’s roommate, Hugh Mallon, were greatly responsible for St. Ed’s fine turnout at chapel Friday night when they got up at 5:45 to roam the corridors of the “hall of men” with a clanging cowbell and a blaring portable radio which supplemented Father Gorman’s usual Sun-' rise Serenade.
Jim and his two helpers were also equipped with a pass key to persuade those sleepers who had not heeded their first summons. Investigation of their possession of the key disclosed that their sleep-breaking tour was caused by true Christian zeal. Brutz had offered his services to Father Gorman who had used the cowbell himself the previous morning to make St. Ed’s beds less attractive.
Yes, Jim went right back to bed after Mass was over.
Irish Fencers Mar Record
Lose to Ohio State, 15-12
Fencing their first match away from home, the Notre Dame swordsmen received the “unpleasant surprise” that Coach. Langford feared; they lost to Ohio State, 15-12, dropping the foil, 7-2, but winning both sabre and epee, 5-4. The Irish once trailed, 10-3, but rallied to within one point of the Buckeyes before they clinched the match.
Saturday’s defeat ended the fencers’ three-match winning streak; the opening 15-12 upset of Wisconsin, the surprising 17-10 drubbing of Chicago, and the 19%-7% win over Marquette;
Most cherished win was over Chicago. In defeating the Maroons, the Irish stopped their long winning streak and handed the Chicago boys the first loss they had suffered after winning 25 consecutive matches. On this wave of victories, they had won the Big Ten fencing title five consecutive years.
“The loss to Ohio State crushed any thought of an undefeated season,” said Coach Langford, “but this squad, the most inexperienced I ever had, has wonderful spirit, and there is no limit to what they may do in the rest of the matches. Herb Melton, for instance, now has seven straight wins in sabre — an outstanding achievement for a sopho-fiiore.”
Looking at the rest of the schedule, Coach Langford said, “Next week we should beat Marquette, though they will doubtless cut down the gap of the first match score; we will be favored over Michigan State; then Illinois will give us a tough battle.; Cincinnati is of unknown quality; for our last match, we have Washington U. of St. Louis, one of our toughest hurdles.” Coach Lang-ford pointed out, however, that all remaining matches hinged on five men — Capt. Gaither, Harris, Melton, Humphreys and Corbett. —= who have been scoring 12 points a match. “If they can keep that work up, we will be tough to beat.”—Kelly Cook
Interhall Swimming Finals Held Last Night
Campus swimmers dived into action last night in the second interhall swimming meet in the Rockne Memorial pool. This year’s meet is of special interest as it served as a preview of the talent which is to face Chicago’s swimmers here on Feb. 22.
Action got under way shortly after 7:30, and in the course of the evening the following events were run off: 200 yd. free style, 100 yd. free style, 50 yd.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
1«	THE
free style, 50 yd. breaststroke, 50 yd. backstroke, a 200 yd. relay, a 150 yd. medley, and low board diving.
Preliminaries in the more crowded events were held Wednesday night. As The Scholastic went to press too early for the results of last night’s finals to be included in this issue, they will be published next week.—Carl Rohrer
Sallows Leads Campus In Squash Tourney
Top rung contender in the campus ladder squash tournaments this week is Cavanaugh hall’s Robert Sallows. Having played his way to the top of the heap of 22 entrants, Bob can only be challenged by the men in the two positions directly below him. It is up to either Bill Hannon of Lyons, who holds second position, or third place John Barry of St. Ed’s to make his stay at the top as toughly contested as possible.
Other entrants who can easily complicate things for the leaders before the tournament closes on Feb. 22, are Tom Carroll of Walsh and Tom Walker of Dillon, who are in fourth and fifth place on the ladder. The top eight players are eligible for the play-offs, medals will be given to the finalists.
—Carl Rohrer
Dillon Bowlers Lead
In Campus Tourney
Last week marked the completion of the first round of the campus bowling league. Eight teams, composed of five bowlers each, constitute the league. At the end of the first round, the Dillon hall team, composed of Joe Vollmer, Vic Gulyassy, Bud Gans, Fred Meyer, and Dick D’Alton, leads the league. Sorin hall is in second place, Walsh hall in third, and Brownson, the fourth place occupants, round out the first four quintets.
Joe Vollmer of Dillon earned top individual billing for the first round with an average of 178. Graduate student, Leo Maloney, rolled a 169 average to place second in the individual standings.
Cy Tlusty, sponsor of the annual K. of C. bowling league, announced that the five high men in the K. of C. tournament would enter the national bowling tournament at Indianapolis next month.	.
Basketball center Frank Quinn, forward George Sobek, and forward Jim Carnes are roommates on the fourth floor of St. Ed’s.
Steele, 127 lb. Champ, Boxed to Protect Family Rights
The boxing room of the Rockne Memorial is enjoying more and more company as each day drops from the calendar and the date of the 10th Annual Bengal Bouts draws nearer. These boys who spend their afternoons flailing the air and other sundry items with padded fists have various motives for their entry, but common goals; to win their divisional title.
A Fair Trade.
The force that moved Bob Steele, 127 pound winner in last year’s bouts, to enter should be considered by all those who are hesitating about entering the events. “I’ve two younger brothers who are coming up close behind me and who at times seem to forget that I have priority rights in the family. So I thought the bouts might be a good chance to prevent any further misunderstandings.” Bob entered the bouts without any previous boxing experience and after several “misunderstandings,” the last of which occurred the night of the finals when he took a three-round decision from Martin Rock of Roberts, Illinois, found the 127 pound title in his hands and a blue and gold boxing sweater on his back.
Bob sidetracks any credit for his success to “Nappy” Napolitano, University boxing instructor, and to his two seconds in the ring and roommates in St. Edwards Hall, Bill Schickel of Ithica, N. Y., and Gene Jaeger of Geneva, Ill. Because of pressing duties as a Philosophy major and guardian of Carroll Recreation hall, Bob may not enter competition this year.
He came to Notre Dame from Regis high school in Denver, Col., although the family now lives in Chicago. His brother. Bill, has since followed him here, and plans to enter the bouts. Bob refuses to recognize priority rights. —Tom Powers.
19 Teams To Compete In Bridge Tournament
Howard and Dillon halls are the scenes for setting up card tables and dealing of cards this week as an upperclassmen’s bridge tournament, directed by Bob Finneran and Frank Pollnow, gets underday with 19 doubles teams competing for championship contract honors.
Pairs of contestants include Charles Kirby, Phil Richards; Dan Canale, Don Connors; Joe Champley, Dick Alton; Dick McMahon, John McNamee; Frank Pollnow, Bob Finneran; Frank McDonough and John Maloney.
George York is paired with Jim Doyle; Fred.Meier with John Q. O’Connell; Gus Hardart with Charles McMahon; Bob Sinon with Chuck Kaiser; Walt McCourt with Howard Macintosh; Bernie Mar-bach and Joe Sheedy.
Teaming up with Jim Dick is Warren Davis; Max Hill and Charles Oliveros; Bob Haines and Bill Dilhoffer; John Conry and Charles Becker; Bob Sibilsky and John Stauber; Ed Griesedieck and Tom Hennigan; ‘Red’ Wade and ‘Duke’ Galler.—James V. Cunningham
Mass Calendar: Feb. 16-22
Sunday, 16—Sexagesima Sunday. 2d prayer, Intercession of the Saints (A cunctis) 3d, Choice, v.g. Church, Pope or Peace.
Note: In all masses until Easter Saturday the Tract replaces the Alleluia Verse after the Gradual.
Monday, 17—Feria. Mass of Sunday. 2d prayer, Intercession of Saints (A cunctis) 3d, the Faithful Departed, 4th, for Peace. Votive or Requiem
Tuesday, 18—Saint Simeon, Bishop, Martyr. Mass: Statuit (Common of Martyrs). 2d prayer, Intercession of the Saints (A cunctis), 3d, for Peace. Votive or Requiem
Wednesday, 19—Feria. Mass of preceding Sunday. 2d prayer, Intercession of the Saints (A cunctis), 3d, for Peace. Votive or Requiem
Thursday, 20—Everything as yesterday.
Friday, 21—Everything as on Wednesday.	-
Saturday, 22—Vigil of St. Matthias, Apostle St. Peter’s Chair at Antioch. 2d prayer, St. Paul, 3d, the Vigil, 4th, for Peace. Credo. Preface of the Apostles. (Alternate Mass: the Vigil, 2d prayer, of the feast, 3d and 4th as given. No Credo. Last Gospel of the feast).
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
Chaplain's Aid Ass'n. Continues Work
The Chaplains’ Aid Association was organized when the United States entered the World Wai’ in 1917, by the late Rt. Rev. Msgr. John J. Burke, C.S.P., afterward Executive Secretary of the National Catholic Welfare Conference in Washington, D. C.
The Association functioned with great usefulness throughout the War, and has continued on through the years of peace. It has the advantage, in this Defense crisis, of its long establishment, and stands ready to support the spiritual work of the Catholic chaplain for the men in the U.S. Army and Navy.
The importance of the presence of the Catholic chaplain among the men in our armed forces cannot be overestimated. He brings an atmosphere of home to the camp or battleship. These boys, all of an impressionable and adventurous age, are suddenly torn from home surroundings and influences and cast into a strange environment, with companions of every type of upbringing. Temptations are on every side. The chaplain brings them the services of the church: Holy Mass, the Sacraments, Benediction, the last rites in illness or accident. He supplies the place of home and family. He exercises an influence for good in every phase of Army and Navy life. It should be an infinite consolation to parents whose sons have been called for training to know that a Catholic chaplain is with them to supervise their activities and to guide them into the right way.
The Chaplains’ Aid Association helps the chaplains in this holy work. It supplies them with everything necessary for the celebration of Mass. The complete Mass outfit comes in a compact valise, with consecrated chalice and altar stone, missal and missal stand, vestments, linens, crucifix, candlesticks, candles, wine cruets and flask, ablution cup, Mass cards, bell, etc. Every chaplain, on entering the service, receives this outfit. In addition, the furnishings of a permanent altar in a large camp are supplied; the articles for* Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament: monstrance, cope and veil, incense boat, thurible; the requirements for attendance on the sick (complete sick-call outfits) ; altar wine and altar breads for the Mass. Almost too numerous to mention are the aids given the chaplain. He dis
tributes free to the service men the prayer books, rosaries, medals, small crosses (for the sick) catechisms, and books of instruction (for those whose religious education has been neglected), good Catholic reading matter to offset the influence of the irreligious magazines so plentiful today, hymn books, and hymn cards for choirs. All these aids to grace are supplied by the Aid to the chaplain, helping, to make a success of his work among the men.
The chaplain, in the Army and the Navy is always an entertainment officer, providing athletics, competitions, movies, and recreation of all kinds. But the Catholic chaplain is still more, his spiritual work goes deep into the life of each service man. He has untold influence for good, because of his sacred calling, an influence which is recognized by people of all creeds. The record made by the Catholic chaplains during the World War, and since, has been a chapter of remarkable service for God and Country.
The Chaplains’ Aid Association extends its sphere of usefulness to the veterans’ hospitals, C.C.C. camps, prisons, etc. Reading matter, religious articles, calendars, sacred pictures, games, etc., relieve the monotony of life for the men in these places. The Association works through the chaplain, fulfilling his requests for whatever he considers necessary to the success of his work.
(This article teas written for THE SCHOLASTIC by Miss S. M. Murphy, secretary of the Chaplain's Aid Association, Inc., 401 West 59th St., New York City.)
Dean Konop Upholds
U. S. Bureau System
Thomas F. Konop, Notre Dame’s dean of law, was the principal speaker at a dinner meeting of the Round Table held in South Bend at the LaSalle Hotel recently.
The topic of Mr. Konop’s address was the defense of the system of bureaus and agencies in the United States, which, he said: “are absolutely necessary to carry out the executive powers of government; our democratic government simply cannot function without them.”
Mr. Konop further explained: “From
the very beginning of our government the proper exercise of the legislative, judicial and executive powers required agencies such as committees, boards, bureaus, and commissioners.”
Answering the challenge that the board system gives rise to too many abuses, Mr. Konop continued: “That at times an unnecessary board of commission was created ought not to justify a condemnation of the entire machinery of government.”
Showing how co-operation of labor and
Dean Thomas F. Konop
capital is essential if American democracy is to survive, Mr. Konop said: “There must be a better spirit of co-operation with American labor if our industrial system and our American way of life is to survive in this world of ‘ism’s’ destructive of ‘rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.’ ”
Regarding the efficiency of the committees, Mr. Konop stated: “On the whole, commissioners and officers of state and federal bureaus are sincere and honest men and women and able public officials. That they make mistakes is but human.”
Mr. Konop received his LL.B. degree from the University of Nebraska in 1904. He was a member of the United States House of Representatives from 1911 to 1917, and has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since September, 1923.
—Edivard Drinkard.
Those who are connected with school publications, on their numerous treks to the new Ave Maria Building have made many new friends in Niles. Editors’ leg muscles are growing to enormous proportions.
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Library Includes Many of Rarest Book Collections in Country
One of the country’s finest collection of rare books is located in the Notre Dame library. Many first editions of both famous American and English writers are kept behind locked doors and used only for reference work. The collection consists of such works as the Nurenberg Chronicle, written in 1493, and the Divine Comedy, by Dante. The latter book is valuable because it consists of nine of the entire set of eleven volumes.
It is difficult to estimate the present value of the Dante series because of the fluctuating effect the war has had on the book market. However, one of the original copies of the Divine Comedy sold for $13,500 in 1939.
A recent purchase of second-hand books in California turned up a book owned by Mabel Normand, a former Max Sennett bathing beauty. Which only shows that strange things can happen even in a library.
The majority of the books are purchased, but donations by various persons interested in the school have greatly added to the collection. There are approximately 195,000 volumes in the library, which employs a staff of 13 regular and 49 student employees. The staff is headed by Mr. Paul R. Byrne, head librarian.
Each University course has a section devoted to it for the convenience of students, operated on the Library of Congress system which permits a wider selection of information on the catalogue cards. The main topic is divided into sub-topics and each sub-topic is listed under an individual number.
At the present time fiction books are the most popular on the shelves. Among the many popular books in the library are the poems of the late Rev. Charles Leo O’Donnell, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s poet-president.
Occupying the same building is the Charles A. Wightman Memorial Art Gallery. It is recognized as being one of the finest collegiate art collections in the United States. The collection is especially noted for its 16th and 17th century Italian masters. Two paintings that are world famed, the famous “Crucifixion” credited to Van Dyke and, Lorenzo de Credi’s “Madonna and the Child,” are included in the gallery.
In 1917 the late Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Ph.D., then president of the University, obtained from Monsignor Marois, vicar general of Quebec, Canada, 136 paintings which he bought in Rome from the noble Braschi family, kinsmen of Pope Pius VI. Seventy-four of these paintings were selected to adorn the walls of the galleries.
To enlarge the work and to make the collection representative of the best in Christian art, Charles A. Wightman, LL.D., of Evanston, Bl., donated in memory of his late wife, Cecelia, an addition of 108 masterpieces.
This was the origin and the expansion of the now popular gallery of more than 300 paintings. Of this number only-five or six are not originals.
—Elmer D. Silha
Class of 1941 Commences "Get Acquainted" Move
The graduating class of 1941, in a movement designed to better acquaint its
members with one another, and to more
Hal Barris
firmly unite the class as a whole, has initiated a series of events which will take place prior to Ash Wednesday, the beginning of Lent.
The first of these was a Senior Convocation, held last night in Washington Hall. Arch
Ward’s sport picture, “The All-American Way,” was shown on the screen. It depicted a number of sporting events, all of which were covered by the Chicago Tribune throughout 1940.
There will be an informal Valentine Dance at the Progress Club tomorrow night, from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. Only seniors will be admitted. Bids are $1.00, and music will be furnished by the Modern-aires. St. Mary’s girls have been granted permission to attend. Hal Barris, general chairman, requests the seniors to . “bring your own valentine or reasonable facsimile.”
Tickets may be obtained on each floor of the three senior halls, or at the door the night of the dance. All proceeds exceeding actual expenses will be donated to Father Lynch’s Mass Kit fund.
The third event planned — and it is still in the formative stage — is a senior party to be held in the gym of the Rockne Memorial from 7:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m., at a date yet to be announced. Henry Shrenker is chairman in charge of the affair, and he intends to pattern it along the lines of the highly successful Sorin Christmas party, but on a much larger scale. The gym will be decorated, a regular meal will be served, and entertainment provided.
The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, has been invited to attend, and it is Mr. Shrenk-er’s desire to have the senior hall rectors present, along with several members of the faculty.
This party will be the first of its kind in the history of Notre Dame, and may set a precedent which succeeding graduating classes will find worthy to follow.
—Dan Brdderick
Hearts or Heads—Today Is Valentine's Day
Valentine’s Day derived its name from a man who lost his head. St. Valentine, famous for providing indigent girls with dowries, was beheaded by Emperor Claudius in the third century. February 14 ever since marked a day when men lose their heads, but not quite so nobly.
The amorous feast enjoyed great popularity in Europe where it was the custom for village boys and girls to put their names on slips of paper and deposit them in gaily festooned hats. On Valentine’s Eve the boys drew the girls’ names out. It was then the boys’ duty to bring gifts of gilded cake and ribbons on the next day to the girls who became their sweethearts for a year. Today the boys rely on the less sentimental but more efficient draft.
Chaucer and Shakespeare make reference to Valentine’s day; they claim that the day originated because “birds and the animals of the forest seek their mates upon this day.”
There are several superstitions connected with Valentine’s Day, chief of which is: the one you dream about on Valentine’s Eve will be your valentine on the following day. Another tradition contends that if many little clay balls, into which the names of several girls are inserted, are thrown into water, the inevitable sweetheart will rise first to the surface. There is an unconfirmed rumor to the effect that soup with alphabet noodles is to be served on Valentine’s Eve and each student is counselled to look soulfully into his plate for his valentine.
—Elmer D. Silha.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
Baader, Scholastic Artist Dabbles in Oil Paints
He doesn’t fit the popular conception of an artist. That is, he doesn’t wear a sky blue cape or have paint brushes protruding from behind his ears. But all you have to do is stroll into his room and admire the free-hand drawings of our well known athletes on the walls to know that popular conceptions are wrong. Bill Baader is an artist.
Bill’s home is in Chillicothe, Ohio. He had no art training before coming to Notre Dame yet his drawings of athletes are so real you can almost hear the referee’s whistle.
His work is done with a lithograph pencil and ink, and shows an amazing talent for life-like action. Each drawing takes approximately five hours to complete and is done with the aid of an action picture of his subject. The work is done entirely free-hand.
Bill hopes to be able eventually to do creative work in oil paint but until then plans to establish himself in the field of commercial art, possibly along the lines of the work he is doing now.
According to Bill, the ladder to success in the art world is a difiifficult one to climb, and some of the most talented never reach the first rung. But if we may judge by the success he has already attained on the campus, many will be admiring drawings with the neat “Baader” in the comer after the class of ’42 graduates.—Jack Sprague.
Siberian Singers Appear
At Washington Hall Tonight
Washington Hall’s annual Russian folk song reverberations will come to life again tonight at 8 o’clock. Last year the famed Don Cossack troupe was enthusiastically received in its presentation of the liturgical and folk music of old Russia. Tonight a different male choir, the Siberian Singers, will endeavor to present a program as good in entertainment value.
The Siberian Singers are under the direction of youthful Nicholas Vasilieff. The group has an unsual range — from contra G to treble E. Each member of the contingent is an artist in himself. The Singers are making records exclusively for RCA Victor.
—Robert LeMense
Dome Work in Full Swing
Way back in 1906, the editors of a fledgling Dome hoped that “time will show that the first Dome rested on a basis of substantial merit,” and time seems to have furnished the necessary proof. Although the annual has been published under various systems, and by various class groups, the result has always been an accurate and pleasing picture of Notre Dame school life. The new edition, which will reach student hands at the end of the semester, will be the thirty-fifth volume.
The 1906 edition was the work of pioneers and the biographies were restricted to the members of the Senior class. The Rev. Michael Shea and his brother John F. Shea, collaborators of the famous Notre Dame Victory March, were both present at that time, the former as a member of the faculty and the latter as president of the senior class. President of the University during that period was the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C. Many members of the present faculty supplied naive, clean-shaven portraits.
From that time until 1923 the Dome continued to be published by the Senior class, but in 1922 it was published jointly by the Seniors and Juniors. In the following year the present system was installed, and the Juniors published the annual. Up until 1928 the Dome was a class project, and those who wished a copy purchased one. The class either made or lost money. It then became a school project, as it is today.
Many former editors have become prominent in a host of activities. Typical . examples are Harry W. Flannery, class of 1923, who is the C.B.S. commentator from Berlin, and Timothy Galvin, 1916, former president of the Alumni Association, and the Supreme Director of the Knights of Columbus. Many members of the community have been on the staff.—Bill Welch
Honor Student's Mother
At Newspaper Banquet
Mrs. Joseph Mara, known professionally as Margaret Mara, columnist on the Brooklyn Eagle, Brooklyn, N. Y., was given a testimonial dinner in honor of her column, “About a Column,” last Wednesday. Thursday she was interviewed over radio station WVFW by Frances Lipp. Mrs. Mara is the mother of Francis Joseph Mara, Notre Dame student who lives in Brownson hall.
General Electric Man Here
Seniors from this year’s graduating class, qualified for appointments with the General Electric Company’s production, sales or accounting departments, may sign up for interviews with the General Electric representatives in Dean James E. McCarthy’s office in the Commerce Building. The interviews will be held on Tuesday, March 4th, with Mr. G. E. Burns representing the General Electric Company.
j
Water Color Paintings
On Exhibition in Library
A collection of water color paintings, the work of Mr. Francis J. Hanley, of the department of art of the University, went on exhibition today in the Wight-, man Memorial Art Gallery. It will remain there until March 14.
The nucleus of this collection has just arrived from Cincinnati, where it received much favorable comment from the art critics.—Dan Broderick
Conveniently Located In the Lobbies of
HOTEL OLIVER HOTEL HOFFMANN HOTEL LASALLE
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC'
Latest Issue of Scrip Featured by Variety
The January Scrip contains some of the finest writing that has come forth from undergraduate writers in many an issue. The four essays on various aspects of “the spirit of liturgy and art” are significant. James Meaney seeks the true connection between liturgy and the artist in the light of Romano Guardini’s The Church and the Catholic and the Spirit of the Liturgy. John Larson sees music as a “handmaid to the liturgy” in his essay on “The Liturgy and Gregorian Plainchant.” Charles M. Kearney deals ■with the “dualism of liturgical and literary art” in the plays of Paul Claudel, taking particular note of his poetic drama, The Tidings Brought to Mary. Charles J. Kirby writes of Leon Bloy, a misunderstood and unread French writer, who has hurled a powerful denunciation at the modern world.
Mr. Kirby deserves something of a special mention for his contribution to this issue of Scrip. His essay, “Of Souls and Stones,” is an examination of Dostoyevsky’s Brothers Karamazov in the light of Dawson’s statement that “man alone stand in the strange twilight world of rational consciousness.” Kirby shows a fine understanding of the significance of each of the brothers. Kirby’s symbolist poem, “Melody in the Afternoon,” has strained the comprehension of not a few of us. It reminds us of a reply that Browning is said to have given to some of his followers who asked him about a certain mystifying poem he had written: “When I wrote this poem, only God and Robert Browning knew what it meant. Now only God knows.”
Of the stories and sketches, Joseph Hillebrand’s "The Day Opened Up” is to be recommended for its smooth, New Yorker-esque subtlety. William J. Brady does fine work in elegizing the life of the girl behind the ticket window in “Jennie Goes On Forever.” Walter Desel’s “Fifth Grade” is an exercise in compact description. Felix Pogliano has introduced a new note with his one-act play, “It’s Been a Year.”
The freshman sketches are devoted, as they usually are, to recapturing local color. Henry Adam deals with an Alabama locale and Charles Patterson reproduces the flora and fauna of Gretna, Nebraska. Kelly Cook reminisces on the faded glory of Lexington, Kentucky.
Donald Denniss Connor’s review of 68 short stories from the New Yorker attempts to choose the best from a good
anthology and it is written with a nutshell compactness that is worthy of mention. John Gilligan, who can also turn out a good sketch, deals with O. E. Rol-vaag’s Norse heroes of Giants in the Earth with deft understanding.
That the first may be last, the frontispiece pictures a group of William J. Schickel’s stark Venetians.
—John Considine.
Nobile to Conclude Series Next Week
Arctic explorer General Umberto Nobile will come to Notre Dame next week to conclude a series of six lectures he is giving to juniors and seniors in the department of aeronautics on “Performance Estimation of Airplanes.” Three lectures were delivered by the General in the course of a visit to the campus last week, and the other three will be given at four in the afternoon this coming Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday in Room 301 of Cushing Hall. Though of an extremely technical nature, the lectures are open to all who may wish to attend.
General Nobile is at present head of the department of aeronautics at Lewis Holy Name Institute in Lockport, Hl., and because of this proximity as well as his distinguished record, the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., at the request of Dean Jackson of the college of engineering, invited him to speak here at the University.
Nobile is former director of aeronautical design for the Italian government, and was in command of the airship
FEBRUARY CLEARANCE SALE—includes our regular stock — made - to - measure ADLER-ROCHESTER suits — selection of fabrics and colors — values from $35.00 to $55 — now
Savings up to One-Half
FORMAL ATTIRE FOR RENT
Tuxedo, shirt and tie__________________$5.00
Tails, shirt and tie..................  6.00
(Give us 3 days' notice.)
PARKER-WINTERROWD II5%- H71/2 N. Main Street
Come to our upstairs shop, or see our campus representatives: JOHN SIEVERT	CAFT. MILT “MOOSE” PIEPUL	JOHN RYAN
234 Alumni	107 Alumni	337 Walsh
Italia on a flight over the Arctic in 1928. Forced down, he and his crew were rescued by a Russian ice breaker. Later he went to the soviet as deputy chief of air construction, with the special permission of the Italian government.—Carl Rohrer
Corsages a distinctive selection at the
South Bend Floral Co.
Phone 3-8227	114 S. Michigan
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE, O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D. E. C. BERRY, O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
MUSIC
Corner” XVJL 7k /AvJLjLIY Washington
H's Adler’s for Arrows!
For biggest assortment come to • Adler’s. Newest Arrow patterns in al the latest authentic collar styles, are here by the hundreds.
Homer Flunked Out!
NO wonder ... he never had time to do his lessons. His domestic duties kept him too busy! Homer’s chief trouble was buttons . . . unfaithful little perforated disks that kept coming off his shirts (which weren’t Arrows). While other guys were out dating on weekends, you could always find Homer nimbly thimbling a needle.
Why didn’t someone tell him about Arrow Shirts with anchored buttons? They never come off! They’re as permanent as the fine style and fit of all Arrow shirts.
Arrow whites are all-time favorites. As all Arrows they have the
Mitoga tailored fit and the one and only Arrow collar in a variety of styles to suit your type. Stock up on Arrows today. $2 up.
ARROW SHIRTS
By John W. Larson
Hendrik Willem Van Loon has once again, in his recent book The Life and Tinies of Johann Sebastian Bach (Simon and Schuster, S.50), set himself to the business of making things which have usually been judged rather profound and substantial quite trivial and inconsequential. This book is supposed to be — according to the notice on its jacket, graciously given by the publishers — ‘’the fruit of profound meditation on the life, background, and multifarious creations of that greatest of Saxon musicians.” I cannot resist writing that this seems to me a bit of advertising which could only have been inspired by the devil, for Hendrik Willem Van Loon has never in all his life, I am sure, been guilty of so great a crime as that of “profound meditation.” What a rhapsodic phrase that is! And how Van Loon must subscribe to it!
Perhaps I am being very cruel to Van Loon. Yet I imagine he is a wonderfully self-complacent sort of man, who just skips along in his leisurely manner with no heed for what others think of his work. But, should he or his friends think I am unjust in my re-marks^ let me say that I do not think his little biography of Bach is an entirely malicious thing. Perhaps it could best be characterized in the restrained simplicity of a phrase used by one of Notre Dame’s great scholars — though I do think one must hear the man say his own phrase in order to appreciate the point. However, with apologies to him, I should like to call Van Loon’s work “a nice little book, a nice little thing.” It is nice for those pleasantly, scratchy looking drawings by the author. The one captioned “The Bachs are home” is especially pleasant. It is simply the picture of a wall with fourteen huge black hats — the Dutch burgher type — hanging on their respective pegs. You see what I mean when I call this “a nice little book.”
But I insist that you may be suspicious whenever there is a book by Van Loon in which he is attempting to make someone or other an “approachable personality.” The whole difficulty of this is that invariably Van Loon makes his suffering victim a freak known as “the regular guy.” And whether or not Johann Sebastian had the misfortune to be one of these creatures, to make him popular on this account results in a miserable destruction of the magnificent
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
achievement called to the mind and heart by that single sublime name: BACH. I recommend that those really interested in Bach stick to his recognized biographers: Schweitzer, Spitta, or Terry. The works of these men are the product of "profound meditation” even though they were never so advertised.
Drs. Gurian and Hermens
Contribute to New Book
In collaboration with some of the leading political scientists of the country, Dr. Waldemar Gurian and Dr. F. A. Hermens, of the department of politics at the University, have contributed to a unique publication, Introduction to Politics, released last week by the Crowell Publishing company, New York. This textbook symposium is edited by Roy V. Peel, of the University of Indiana, and Joseph S. Roucek, of Hofstra college, Long Island, N. Y.
With Prof. Francis J. O’Malley, Dr. Gurian and Dr. Hermens edit the quarterly Review of Politics, published at Notre Dame. Although less than two years old it is recognized as one of the outstanding publications in its field.
The contribution to the new book of Dr. Gurian is “Trends in Modern Politics;” and “Parliamentary Government” is the title of the section, by Dr. Hermens.
In his chapter Dr. Gurian outlines the leaning of nations throughout the world, particularly in Europe, towards totalitarianism during the last two decades. He lists “precisely calculated violence” as an outstanding characteristic of the totalitarian system and emphasizes the fact that the “totalitarian regimes destroy all real stabilizing forces.”
In commenting on parliamentary gov-• ernment, Dr. Hermens refutes the belief that parliamentary governments are doomed because of the world crisis, and points out the weaknesses of the totalitarian systems.
For example, Hitler’s and Mussolini’s territorial gains have been bought at the heavy price of moral degradation, he
ATTENTION STUDENTS!
ADMISSION ) Always SKATING > OE-CHECKING J
Al Wish's
Playland Roller Rink
Make money on parties here.
says, and corruption is rampant in their non-democratic countries. He adds:
“There are many people in the totalitarian countries who, even if a comparatively short time ago they were opposed to parliamentary democracy, now wholeheartedly agree that ‘the worst chamber is still preferable to the best anti-chamber!’ ”
Twenty-four leading political thinkers contributed to the unique publication.
Varsity Debaters Take Trip to Southland
In the spring the thoughts of the Notre Dame varsity debaters will turn to a trip through the sunny South. But lolling in the sun and courting southern belles will not be the reason for the squad’s departure from Northern Indiana’s spring climatic uncertainties.
Reception of vitamins A and D will be an incidental part of the tour for varsity debaters John O’Loughlin and Milt Williams on the affirmative and William Meier and Thomas Grady on the negative. William J. Coyne, director of debate, has announced that five debates have been scheduled for the tour to date with more debates pend-
A Variety of Pipes— A Variety of Prices—•
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow ..............$1.50
Yello-Bole Regular ....... 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial...... 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ...... 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor..... 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran _____ 5.00
Hollyclourt ...............3.50
Sasieni .................. 5.00
Comoy .................... 5.00
ing. The tour will start April 10 and end April 17; debates scheduled are:
April 11—University of Alabama at Tuscaloosa.
April 14—Georgia Tech at Atlanta.
April 14—Emory University at Atlanta.
April 15—University of Georgia at Athens, Georgia.
April 17—Xavier University at Cincinnati, Ohio.
This Southern tour, however, will merely climax the debate season. This afternoon at 4:15 the Notre Dame affirmative meets the University of Georgia negative team in the auditorium of the Engineering Building. Next Friday and Saturday both “A” and “B” squads will go to North Manchester, Indiana, to participate in the tournament sponsored by Manchester College. On February 27 Emory University will debate here. Then on March 28-29 both “A” and “B” squads will travel to Madison, Wisconsin, for
Buy America’s No. 1 PIPE— The One and Only
lypatat k The 20th Certify Fei Fill
*11000 ABB
SAMO~
pM Of*
Dr. GRABOW
F 5; j’
MADE 6Y M LINKMAN 4 COMPANY Makers of || el I v c o u ri Pipes
There’s only one correctway to“breakin" a pipe.. that's by
smoking it... Only Dr Grabow pipes ate pre-smoked with fine tobacco (Edgeworth) onLmkman'smechan-ical smokingmachinft
BREAKING IN NO BITE
NO BITTER TASTE
DR. GRABOWS
PATENTED CLEANER
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the University of Wisconsin tortrney. Finally on April 2, the University of Pittsburgh will debate here.
Last Wednesday Milt Williams and Mark Lies discussed this year’s intercollegiate question, “Resolved, That the nations of the Western Hemisphere should form a permanent union,” at the Anderson High School, Anderson, Indiana.
Members of the “B” squad are. Edward Meagher and Fred Holl, affirmative; Mark Lies and Tom McGee, negative.—Robert LeMense.
With relaxing
and
music
pause
Four generations have enjoyed the'refreshing goodness of ice-coid Coca-Cola. Its pleasing taste always leaves a cool, clean after-sense of complete refreshment. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola.
Drink
Delicious and Refreshing
'c
YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. of South Bend, 1107 Beyer Avenue
Dining Hall Head Sees
Ice Cream Popularity
Girls! If you plan on working youi* way to a man’s heart ■via his stomach, take a tip from E. F. Connolly, for nearly a decade manager of the University of Notre Dame dining halls where 3,000 young men from all over America are fed three times daily.
“The pies and puddings that appealed to the students of a generation ago hold little allure for the undergraduates of 1941,” he advises. “If you really want
to please the boys feed them ice cream for dessert after each meal.”
Connolly points out that the general nation-wide trend is toward lighter meals with salads and sandwiches, but that college men, because of their active life, prefer a more substantial diet, although they have very definite gustatory tendencies.
In other years puddings of all kinds were very popular but they no longer appeal to the student palate. Fruit juices have also suddenly crept into favor, probably because of intensive publicity campaigns to make the American people food conscious, Mr. Connolly, has observed.
If you are inviting “him” out for a meal, girls, you will create a tremendous impression by serving a big, juicy steak, according to Mr. Connolly. And your stock will probably rise 50 points if you also include mashed potatoes and a salad of head lettuce, for that is the favorite meal of a good cross-section of young men at Notre Dame.
1942 License Plates
To Honor Notre Dame
Edward H. Stein, Indiana state license commissioner, has announced that old gold and blue, the colors of the University of Notre Dame, will be used for 1942 Indiana automobile license plates. The figures for the plates will he blue on a gold background. The plates will be manufactured at the Indiana state prison and work will begin as soon as materials arrive.
In 1939 the University of Notre Dame colors were used. That year Coach Elmer F. Layden was issued the first plate from the South Bend license bureau. Colors of Indiana, Purdue, and Butler universities have been used for plates in recent years.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Committee Sets Date
of Competition Deadline
The Committee on Scholarships and Prizes will accept applications for University scholarships from the date of the publication of this bulletin until April 1.
1—All necessary information concerning University scholarships is presented in the University Bulletin, p. 77 ff.
2—All awards of scholarships are made in accordance with the donor’s contract of foundation. The student to whom a particular scholarship is awarded must have the qualifications required by this contract.
3—Students who at present hold scholarships must make re-application for a renewal: re-appointment to a scholarship depends upon the scholar’s having maintained his qualifications.
4—Applications for scholarships must be made formally on the regular application blanks. No other form of application will be accepted. Application blanks .may be procured from the comptroller’s Office during the regular office hours.
5—Applications must be mailed to the Committee on Scholarships and Prizes, Office of the Comptroller of the University, Notre Dame, Indiana. No application post-marked after April the first will be accepted. Scholars now holding scholarships ivho do not apply for renewal before the date here indicated will be assumed to have forfeited the scholarship for the ensuing year.
6—Awards will be made public in June.
7—The Committee does not undertake to inform unsuccessful applicants that no award has been made. Successful applicants will be notified by mail.
8—A University scholarship is an endowed or annually sustained fund out of which the University has the right to make allowance for tuitional, and, in some instances, other University fees, according to the terms of the contract with the donor. It is to be distinguished, therefore, from “student employment.” An application for “student employment” should not be made to this committee.
—Committee on Scholarships and Prizes.
No Flu Epidemic Here
Dr. J. E. McMeel, University physician, revealed today that Notre Dame was little affected by the flu epidemic which has recently swept the nation. Highest number of students in the infirmary at one time has been 35 boys, a mere 1% of the student body. Dr. McMeel asserted, however, that he treats over 2%’in sick calls every day.
The conventional but effective throatswabbing and nose-drop treatment is probably the reason for Notre Dame’s low sick list in comparison to that of colleges and universities all over the country. The treatment is painless, and Dr. McMeel orders a student to bed only if he has a fever.
The cause for this nationwide epidemic is not known. It originated in this country in California, traveled from
Talk about a swell treat... just sink teeth into smooth DOUBLEMINT SUM
Yes,
teeth into delicious
x rJreshing ilavoi.
DOUBLEMINT	addiJoons',
informal get-togeihers, study.
XydeKcionsDOUBmmr everyday.
V-59




8^


there to Texas, then to the north central part of the country which includes Notre Dame, and is now in the East. As a whole, the epidemic has been mild; very few complications have resulted, such as pneumonia, bronchitis, mastoids. Only one case of pneumonia has been reported on the campus so far this season. Usually eight to ten appear and are treated by this time of the year.
The cure for flu consists of rest, which




THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
27
is very important, and of a fluid diet, usually of fruit juices or ginger ale. Isolation is necessary of course. If this prescription is followed, even the most serious cases can be cured in four or five days. Mild cases can be cured in two days, according to Dr. McMeel, if the patient reports three times daily at the infirmary for- treatment. This treatment takes only a minute, a minute which may save hours later.
—Jack Fallon
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
• Hourly service between 6:00 A. M. and Midnight. Fits in with your plans morning, noon, or night.
Just remember this schedule : the first two morning-trains leave South Bend at 6 :00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. The third train leaves at ' 7:30 A. M. Thereafter, until 9:30 P. M., there is a train an hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12 :00 Midnight.
For detailed information inquire of ticket agent, 301 N. Michigan Street. Phone 3-3111.
TO CHICAGO
SOUTH BEND
Freshman to Direct
"Ghost of Green Mansions"
A freshman has done it! James C. McDonough has overcome the scruples of more sophisticated upperclassmen and somehow obtained the sanction of Bob LeJeune, president of the Radio Club,’ to produce his own program on Notre Dame’s campus studios.
His program will be dramatic presentations, the first of which, entitled “The Ghost of Green Mansions,” will be broadcast over WFAM’s kilocycle band from 8:34 to 9:00 Tuesday evening, Feb. 18. McDonough has adapted the play to radio and will direct the performance. Frank McDonough, Jim’s brother, will announce, Lou Ronder will handle the sound department, and the following cast has tentatively been announced : Emily Upton of St. Mary’s College, and the following campus radio performers: Dave Curtin, George Baris-cillo, George Eusterman, Dick Miller and Vail Pischke. The program will be continued weekly or bi-weekly if the Radio Club schedule permits.
—Mark G. McGrath
Present N. D. Men Follow
Footsteps of Relatives
Some light was thrown on the question of why students come to Notre Dame when it was revealed recently that of the present undergraduate enrollment, 713, or almost one-fourth of the total, are relatives of other Notre Dame men. Many of them came because some other member’ of their family was here before them and liked it.
Of these 713 students, 103 are sons of alumni. This number increases annually as the larger classes of the post-war years reach the parent age for second generation representation.
Seven of the present students are grandsons of alumni, men who were among the earliest of Notre Dame students.
The reason that so many men have recommended Notre Dame to their relatives is that they had known it firsthand and respected the tendency of the University to preserve carefully the qualities throughout the years which have endeared it to them.
—Robert Fitzpatrick
Former Editor Marries
Mark Mitchell, of the class of 1939, and editor-in-chief of the Scholastic during the 1938-39 school year, will be. married at Winnetka, Ill., on February 22 to Miss Marguerite McNulty of that city. During his junior year at Notre Dame, Mr. Mitchell was sports editor of both the Dome and the Scholastic.
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. HARRY BOXD-SNEE EYE. EAR. NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3-1395	J. M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 4-8989	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
OFFICE 4-566!	RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTISTRY—X-RAYS
702 J. M. S BLDG.	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER . DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER.
M. D.
M. J. THORNTON.
M. D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard a. Rose, d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s.
Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
523-629 SHERLAND BLDS.	SOUTH BEND
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST ASSOCIATES BUILDINS	SOUTH BENO. IND.
Smokers know.
Chesterfields
with their Milder, Better Taste
Do you know why Chesterfield gives you more pleasure? Because it’s the smoker’s cigarette . . . it has everything a smoker wants . . . Real Mildness and a Cooler, Better Taste.
and mild,. .not flat... not strong, because of their right combination of the world's best cigarette tobaccos. You cant buy a better cigarette.
Copyright 1941. Liccett & Myers Tobacco Co
Valentine Greetings from ELLEN DREW, starring in the current Paramount hit "THE MAD DOCTOR"...and from CHESTERFIELD, theMilder, Cooler, Better-Tasting cigarette.