

Whil;;ou were busyw;tt;~;lett~rs}o S~~fa,}f' 
, we hereatJlfrJIFiwere·hardatwork.. :·•· 
.·..... ·:.·.·· .. pr,epd~i~g the:~(atioil.Jqt//i·.···.· 
. 
."-,;,::.... 
.wvn-·~ 
: .-_';:(·,~:-\'.-'::> . "•~/" 



rfc{i'f~Ef:i.6/IO{&_Pl T... 
...,
~{\/~ ' ·. 

·. . -~•--:·,-~•:f1/!J~/;_}t~~ 
-·t;:;:it{::i::.•.······ 
·, . :.-. ·.-:\:':::::·':-;~::-_-· ·._ 
._·:_::fi~~it~{}}:\,·. 



A Fan's 

Journey
On a late November afternoon in 1985, my father took me to my first college football game. The wind chill was 20 below and the freezing rain continued throughout the game. Still, I couldn't wait to get inside Beaver Stadium that day, for I was about to see the team whose name appeared on 90 percent of the shirts I wore throughout my childhood. In their final home game of the season, Joe Paterno's Nittany Lions trounced the visitors 36-6 to complete an undefeated regular season and enter January 1 the num­ber-one team in the land. But I didn't care about them. The team I was there to see wore golden helmets that glistened in the sunlight even as their uniforms were Splattered with mud. I couldn't take my eyes off of them. When you're little, the first thing that you notice aboutNotre Dame is the helmets. I was only eight years old then, but I knew the names of practically every starter on the team and couldn't believe they were right in front of me. Allen Pinkett. Steve Beuerlein. Wally Kleine. I had no feeling left in my hands or feet by then, but it didn't matter. I made my first trip to South Bend in 1990 with my father.and two ofour friends. Chills ran down my spine the first time I spotted .· the Dome from U.S. 31. An electric pep rally featured a magical speech by Holtz and the next day, the Rocket ran a kickoff back for.a score and they upset Miami 29-20. It was the best weekend of my life. 

Growing up with Lou Holtz at the helm spoiled me, like it did many Irish fans. I used to take any loss personally; I still remember locking myself in my room after Miami snapped the 23-game win streak in '89. Like every die-hard fan across the country, I expected them to win every game and when­ever it didn't happen, I had strong opinions concerning why. 
Three years later, I, like everyone else on this campus, received my acceptance letter and made the easy decision to attend Notre Dame. I couldn't wait to set foot in the stadium as a student and watch four seasons of Irish football unfold before my eyes. With the talent on the team, a national title was surely in the cards. 
It's funny, though, that as Ilookback now on four years that included at least three losses a seas01:1, whatlfeelisnot disappoint­ment but gratitude. Considering how big a fan I was when I entered the university, it speaks volumes to say that, despite the 15 defeats, I will leave with an even greater · attachment to Notre Danie football. This is solely due to the unique relationship be­
. tween players and students that exist here. I am fortunate to say that some of the best friendships I have made here are with se­niors on this football team. I still took the losses here· hard, but for a deeper reason than a mere drop in the polls. I felt terrible because I knew just how much time and effort my friends had put into football . 
It's hard to explain the bond that exists here among the players and students. The best example I can think of is . what hap-

~~yout.:ljl.ea,th.~r/J:IC>gan,.assistant! :M1~e G,~1ff1n,_!Sr1~t1,;_C:9s,tc.Q~,~ .,, -:,.~--·-~.--:.::-::--}/ ::.'.. ,;, ' ; : ..the imrilial footbalLieview aie available at $5 per copy: : 


¦ltlii!t!!%~,~l~'ii,ltt~0·l~l¦P-!1 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

pened after the West Virginia game last season. Students at a school with 11 na­tional championships rushed the field to celebrate with a team that was only 6-5. It's about more than wins and losses at Notre Dame. 
Fans constantly ask me whenever I go home what Notre.Dame is really like. Many regard it as an almost mythical place, but what makes Notre Dame special is the people, football players included. This isn't Tennessee. Wedidn't win the national cham­pionship this year but 80, not 24, percent of our players graduate. Doing things the right · way often costs Notre Dame football games against more talented teams. But you have to stand by the players through the good and the bad. Believe me, they 're worth cheering for. 

Thanks 
Special thanks to Pat Downes, Allison Fashek, Brian Christ, Meredith Salisbury and Christopher Hamilton whose tireless work made this issue possible. Also, thanks to Gordie Bell and our staff photographers and the Obsetver photography crew for their great shots. Thank you also to Tim Ridder for agreeing to write the Final Word. Most importantly, I'd like to thank my par­ents for supporting me and enabling me to attend Notre Dame. 

Sports Edi.tor 
, .. --:.·· .. ·~· :, ,.-· 

"Tl 
iO 
0 
~ 
-I I 
m m 

CJ -I 
0 
iO 



' 
' 
'
E 


M·Eis 
Michigan 
by Andrew Nutting 

Michigan State ~ 
~ 
by Brian Vernetti 

Purdue 
n
by Joe Malichio 

Stanford 
115
by Tom Repetto 
Arizona State ~@_!!:1·_
fill~
by Jason Petrungaro 

Army 
by Christopher Hamilton 

Baylor 
by Patrick Downes 

Boston College 
by Corey Spinelli 

Navy 
by Tom Repetto 
LSU 

_USC 
by Corey Spinelli 

Gator Bowl 
by Patrick Downes 
i. .



_I___ . A_Tu ·o··--E-S 
Where They Stand 
111
by Corey Spinelli 
Bunning down adream 
2~
by Christopher Hamilton 
Heads of the Class 
~~ 
by Corey Spinelli 
All-Opponent team 
~~ 
Splinters @J.8 In With the New 
by Christopher Hamilton 5@ 


Final Word 
by Tim Ridder 
Volume 140 • Number 8 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 








HE CHAMPS 
The defending national champs fell to the Irish in the season open,er 
by Andrew Nutting 

thinkeveryone had written Notre Dame off," said senior running back Autry 
Denson after the Irish smacked Michi­
gan 36-20 to open the season. "But we 
knew good things were going to happen." 
For the first time since the Gerry Faust 
regime, the Irish indeed had been written off 
as a national title contender. The 1997 
season's bitter conclusion, a 27-9 mauling 
at the claws ofLSU, had negated the year's 
biggest win. The final regular-season game 
had been an embarrassing one-point, last­
second edging of the perennially irrelevant · 
Hawaii Rainbow Warriors: A new quarter­
back handling the snaps and a second-year 
coach who hadn't showed any particular 
genius in his first season led cynics to pre­
dict a painful year. 
Off-the-field events contributed to the 
diminution of Notre Dame's gridiron stat­
ure almost as much as on-field awkward­
ness. Terms like age-discrimination law-. 
suit, Quarterback Club booster and cheer­
leader sex peppered the nation's summer 
sports sections. The names Joe Moore, Kim­
berly Dunbar and Peeping. Tom Athletes 
made even the most laudatory Domers and 
subway alumni cringe. Such external pres­
sures, thought the naysayers, could only 
make a mediocre squad worse. 
It didn't help matters that the Irish were lining up against the Michigan Wolverines, whose shiny 1997 national championship trophy had yet to collect dust and whose defeat ofthe Irish last year remained fresh in all fans' minds. The Maize and Blue re­turned nine starters from a defense that ·· allowed just 9 .5 points a game, featured one of the top recruiting classes in the country and had the confidence of a 10-foot-tall Philistine. 
But, as Denson said, good things hap-
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
pened. Not good things, actually. Great things. A combination of stalwart defen­sive play in the first half: brilliant second­half offensive execution and some timely Wolverine mistakes enabled the Irish to saunter off the field after the game back at the top of the world of college football. 
The Irish didn't systematically destroy Michigan. Denson kicked the season off with a bang, taking the first Irish play up the middle for 58 yards before being caught at the Michigan 14. After the electrifying opening, though, the offense died. The next two plays netted minus-1 yards, and third down was wasted when, in the end­zone, Malcolm Johnson dropped a pass from Jarious Jackson. Jim Sanson's 32­
1998 FOOTBALLREVIEW 

yard field goal tied the game at 3-3. opening drive encompassed 15 plays and 
In the entire first quarter, the Irish ran swallowed 5:23 off the clock, but the Wol­just five plays and held the ball for only verines were forced to settle for a 36-yard three minutes. Denson's opening blast field goal after Irish defenders stopped was more than half of the team's 114 first­Michigan at the 19. half yards. Michigan's drive following Sanson's first 
Jackson, the redshirt junior making his field goal racked up another 66 yards before first start at quarterback, struggled in the A'Jani Sanders dropped Justin Fargas atthe first half. He missed numerous open receiv­ND 16, one yard short of a first down, ers, completing only one of six attempts. forcing the field goal. Baker's 33 yard chip­His 33-yard completion to Raki Nelson did shot attempt was wide left. Baker would set up a second quarter field goal by Sanson, miss again in the first half, coming up a few but only after Jackson badly overthrew to feet short of the ~rossbar from 43 yards in Johnson in the endzone. the middle ofthe second quarter. 
"We felt like we didn't get enough plays "We have no excuses," said Michigan to get in a rhythm," said senior tackle Mike Head Coach Lloyd Carr after the game. Rosenthal of the first half. The defense, on "We had a lot of opportunities we didn't 
the other hand, take advantage of." was on the field Michigan finally got a few more points on long enough for the board when kicker Craig Baker was a full game. . benched in favor of Jan Feely. Feely's 21­
The Blue and yarder capped a 54-yard Wolverine drive Gold's defense initiated by Travis Knight's phenomenal was not as inept reception. In midair, Knight outmuscled the as its offense in ball froin Irish comerback Deveron Harper, the first half and falling to the ground with pigskin in hand eventualiy let for a 42-yard gain. Michigan cause Despite their problems, the Irish defense its own downfall didn't allow a touchdown until 23 seconds through, a series remained in the first half. On second and of missed field · goal from the one, Michigan's offensive goals. Mich­line allowed enough space for quarterback igan's long Tom_ Brady to break the plane. The extra 
8 
:II 
C 
ffi 
m 
~ 

SWEET RELEASE. After a forgettable off~season for Notre Dame, 
the dominating performance finally gave the students something to cheer about. The student body rushed the field immediately after the game.'. 
FULL STEAM AHEAD. Fullback Joey Goodspeed and his backfield mates pounded away at the vaunted Wolverine defense for four quarters, gaining nearly 300 yards. 
SCHOLASTIC 5 
MAGAZINE 



point put the Irish behind 13-6 going into nering two second-half touchdowns and fin­Freshman defensive lineman Anthony the half. ishing the day with 163 yards rushing, of­Weaver stripped Ray Jackson of the ball in In the locker room, defensive coordinator fensive coordinator Jim Colletta said, "Autry the backfield, and sophomore linebacker 
Greg Mattison expressed frustration with Denson may have had his best day running Grant Irons, jumped on the ball at the Michi­the Irish tendency to let Brady and the football." gan 35. runningback Clarence Williams steadily Sanson's third field goal got things going "Turnovers, then doing something with 
drive deep into Notre Dame territory. "I told for the Irish in the second half. On the them, is a big part of the game," Colletta our players that it was their own fault they ensuing kickoff, Clarence Williams had said. were on the field so long," Mattison said. "We had them in third down so 
"We had a lot of plays in .the first half that were
many times and wedidn'tgetoffthe field." 
1

'almost' plays. But in the second1 half, we took those
Mattison was right. In the first half, the Irish were outgained 269­

'almost' plays and turned them into big plays."'
114 in total yardage, ran 32 fewer plays and had possession for 10 

-Hunningbacks Coach Desmond Robinson
fewer minutes. Pure fortune, not efficient football, allowed the Irish to be gained significant yardage when he was hit Jackson did something with it soon there­down by 7 instead of by as much as 28. by Irish cornerback Brock Williams. The after. First, he dropped back from the cen­
Running backs coach Desmond Robinson ball came loose, and safety Tony Driver ter, lost his balance and nearly fell over. said, "You can look at plays and say 'al­recovered for Notre Dame. Then, he recovered just in time to see two most.' We had a lot of plays in the first half Williams' monster hit paid off with a Wolverine linemen mere feet away, and that were 'almost' plays. But in the second four-yard touchdown pass to tight end Dan uncorked an on-the-money pass to the wide­half, we took those' almost' plays and turned O'Leary, the first of O'Leary's career and open Nelson.Jackson's Tupelo Twist earned them into big plays."' the team's first ofthe 38-minute old season. a 6.0 for artistic impression, and Nelson's 
That they did. The Irish scored 30 points, And before ushers could tell more stu­waltz into the .end zone earned six points on ran for over 200 yards and capitalized on dents to remove their "Michigan Sucks" T­the scorebo,ard. Sanson's PAT gave the Irish two early Michigan turnovers in the second shirts, Notre Dame had the ball back again. a 23-13 lead, one they would not relinquish. half. Jackson, who hadrushed5 times for 12 yards in the first half, ran 11 times for 61 in the second, showcas­ing the best Irish option attack since Tony Rice was be­hind center. He also completed three of four passes, including two for touch­downs. 
"I knew number seven would play better in the sec­ond half," said head coach Bob Davie. "I've just seen him in situa­tions before and I knew he could play better -he knew he could play bet­ter than he played." Gl 
0 Denson also :n 0 
impressed the m 
DJ 
r

coaches with his m r 
-


Davie and the pl~yers attributed the team's improved performance in the second half not to "halftime adjustments," but to mental focus and execution. "At halftime," said Davie, "I told the kids to stay positive. I told them I don't want one negative thought or one negative word on that sideline." 
Denson was equally happy about the team's second-half turnaround. After put­ting the game out of reach with two short fourth-quarter touchdowns, Denson said, "Wemade up our minds that the defense had carried us the whole first half. We just wanted to pull our weight in the second half." 
The Irish resolve to play a perfect second halfhadn'tjustbeen a spontaneous halftime decision, though. The summer had been dedicated to bulking up and increasing stamina after last season's disappointment. "That has been our focus since we lost in Shreveport [to LSU in the Independence BowI] last year," said senior fullback Jamie Spencer. "We made a promise to ourselves and to each otherthat we were going to play 60 minutes." 
New strength and conditioning coach Mickey Marotti had much to do with in­creasing the Irish' s brawn. Marotti had play-
J J 
w 
Ill 
w 
ci 
a: 0 
(!) 

ers lifting weights and pushing vans all summer. The effects were clear when the Irish appeared stronger than the Wolver­ines in the trenches as the game wore on. 
"Notre Dame did an outstanding job blocking us," acknowledged Carr. "I think our front line got handled." 
Notre Dame's defense also dominated the second half, holding Michigan score­less until freshman Drew Henson led the visitors to a worthless touchdown with two minutes left. Linebacker Jimmy Fri­day also provided one ofthe day's biggest thrills, blocking a 40-yard field goal at­tempt and setting up Denson's second touchdown. 
The Notre Dame student body euphori­cally rushed the field before time expired, and were ordered back to the sidelines so the gun could officially be sounded. Play­ers and fans marched off the field, making .the tunnel the most raucous spot in South Bend since the 1993 defeat ofFlorida State. 
"It's called playing out of your chest," said Denson, summarizing the second-half thrashing ofthe defending national champs. "You play with a lot of heart and soul, and that's what we were all about today." D 
First 

·.•. 2nd Qtiarter .... UM:Feely 21FG ND: Sanson 27 · FG 
.... ND: O'Leary4pasifrom Jackson(Sans6n PAT):. . . . _ 
ND: Nelson 35 pass from Jackson (Sanson < kick) · 4t~ Quarter .. . . ... . 
. .. 
NP:-Denson 3 run (Sanson PAT) .. . . ND:.-Denson 1 run (Sanson PATblocked) • UM: Tummi 8 pass from Henson (Feely
i PAT)./ . . . . . . .....·· .. 
·., ····p~ft~game_AP Rank:10 
.·._ >•'•, 
.Notes:.·. <The win over Michiganwas justth~ · ... ·.. fourth time a Notre ·Dame teamrarik:ed b~low 20th in. the AP bowl beat ateam in 
UPENDING THE VICTORS. A'Jani Sa.nders and his teammates put an immediate end to any Wolverine hopes of defending their title. 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW SCHOLASTIC 
.MAGAZINE. 

The underdog Spartans demolished Notre Dame 

SCHOLASTIC 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW
MAGAZINE 


otreDamefootballfans tookadvantageofthat. "They came through tion return by Julian Peterson. 
are growing accus-the left side and we had a mental mistake . . . Irish quarterback J arious Jackson added 
tomed to having their it's all because we didn't get our assign-to the poor showing by consistently over-. 
hopes for a successful ments down on the punt team," Special throwing receivers. "The ball went eight 
season stamped out by Teams Coach Urban Meyer says. miles over the guy's head," said Offensive 
notoriously inferior The next Irish possession ended in a punt Coordinator Jim Colletta of one such pass, teams. After handily defeating defending and the Spartans capitalized again, driving "and from there it went downhill." 
co-national champion Michigan 36-20, 69 yards for another score. Sedrick Irvin, "We just didn't execute," Jackson added 
Notre Dame fans had plenty of reason to who accumulated 122 yards on 24 carries, after completing only 12 of 30 passes. 
celebrate. But it seems they didn't know gained47ofthoseyardsonthisdrivewhich By the end of the first half, a week of 
whentostop.Aweekafterthewin,thelrish ended in a 16-yard _touchdown pass from celebration came to a gasping halt as the 
traveled to East Lansing, Mich., lost their quarterback Bill Burke to Plaxico Burress. Irish found themselves down 42-3. The 
concentration and motivation and were hu-The Irish showed some signs oflife when source of the blowout may have been a 
miliated for the second year in a row by a Jim Sanson made a 32-yard field goal fol-lackadaisical attitude in practice. Even 
relentless Michigan State. · lowing a 66-yard Notre Dame possession. though Davie told the players to enjoy their 
Head Coach Bob Davie's boys simply But most ofthe gains were made only due to victory over Michigan only until practice weren't ready. several Spartan penalties. began on Monday, his team lacked focus all 
"There are no guarantees that if you play After that score, superior special teams week and continued patting each other on well one week, yoti '11 play well the next," play gave the Spartans great field position. the back. Colletto recognized the difference Davie said. Thecoachshouldbequiteaware A 30-yard kick return brought the ball to in the team's effort from one week to the of that by now, as he has lost the second midfield, andlrvincappedthe50-yarddrive next. "We just didn't seem to have the same game of the year in each of his first two . with a thr~e-yard touchdown plunge to end energy level. It was visible to all ofus. We seasons as coach-after winning the first. the first quarter scoring at 21-3. were saying, 'Come on, let's go, let's go,"' 
Michigan State extended this streak by Michigan State didn't let up in the second he said. thoroughly dominating on offense, defense quarter as it doubled its point output starting The Irish went into halftime with their and special teams. The final score was a 45-with Burress' second touchdown reception, heads down after being tossed around by the 23 victory in favor of the Spartans. this one an 86-yard strike -the longest aggressive Spartan team. Winning the game 
Thedecidingfacetofthegamewasun-passplaygivenupinNotreDame'shistory. was no longer likely, so the team's main doubtedlyMichiganState'sunyieldingspe-TheSpartansscoredtwicemorebeforehalf-goal was to improve in every facet of the cial teams. Davie predicted these difficul-time,. once on a 17.:yard Leroy McFadden game. They struck first blood in the second · ties before the game, saying, "I think special reception and again on a 23-yard intercep-half on a two-yard touchdown run by Autry teams will be key in this game. . .. Our kickoff and punt coverage is critical. They are a really good spe­cial teams football team." 
Big plays also hurt the Irish all day long. On Notre Dame's firh possession, Hunter Smith's punt was blocked by. Michigan State's Sean Smith and picked up by teammate Ri-· chard Newsome who ran it infora25-yard touchdown. "The blocked punt right off the bat-we got beat over the top three times on ma­jor, major home-:-run plays," Davie said. Early in the year, the punt _team had trouble keeping opposing rushers away from Hunter Smith: Against Michigan, the Irish got lucky when a roughing-the-punter call negated a blocked punt. 
No corrections were made for the. next game; though, and the Spartans 

1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE

L___ 

. 
.. 

SMOTHERED. Michigan State sophomore T.J. Turner (35) and a host of Spartan defenders I" i• take down an Irish ballcarrier. Notre Dame would manage just 118 yards on the ground. 
ii 
i 
Denson, which capped a 29-yard drive fol­lowing a Spartan fumble. This was all the scoring seen in the third quarter as the Irish defensive adjustments proved beneficial. Oneofthese important adjustments occurred on the defensive line. In the first half, a weak Irish front allowed Spartan quarterback Jim Burke enough time to pick out his favorite receivers time and again. Due to the ineffec­tive play ofAntwonJones and Lance Legree, backup defensive lineman Andy Wisne was able to step in and made some big plays. Freshman quarterback Arnaz Battle was also impressive in his debut by completing his only pass attempt, a 40-yard toss to Joey Getherall, and by running for 22 yards on four carries. 
The truly loyal Irish fans who kept their TVs on for the fourth quarter saw the speed ofIrish defensive back Deke Cooper as he returned a fumble 96 yards for a touchdown. Following a successful two-point conver­sion, the Irish attempted an on;.side kick that was recovered by Michigan State, and led to the Spartans' final three points. 
AnIrish defensive breakdown on the first 
10 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
play allowed for a 29-yard scamper by Irvin. This drive culminated in a 37-yard field goal by Michigan State place kicker Paul Edinger. 
Substitute players on both teams got ample playing time and Irish running backDarcey Levy scored his first career touchdown to finish scoring for the day. 
The game was over before the Irish ever set foot on the field. Their inability to ex­ecute, in addition to multiple mental mis­takes, showed that their week ofpreparation had been inadequate. "We can't justify it. It was all mental mistakes. . . . We have to regroup," Jabari Holloway said about the 
loss. 
Defender Arie Morris agreed. "We still believe we have a good team," he said. "We're not going to let this season slip away." 
Simply showing up at East Lansing flash­ing golden helmets wasn't enough for the 
Irish. Davie would have to stress to his team the importance offocusing in each practice, and somehow find a way to recover from the. game and face the rest ofthe season. D 


.Firs . 
·"\ii.· Msui··2r·:••~f::-':/\?.•:~.·.·.·;,.:........::::.\., . 
.......,,--~--,-......,.,_.---.:.....:.·:./.· ·.·' ::.:c\· ;:· 
.· >· / ->·scoR1&& 
.,·,. . :_. .. _1•. ' 

'N'otr~banie :C;'.;:•:f'.. · · Mich1¥~d~tate\_.·p..·· .·._.ii.:-::-:·: 



(:)1st:9j~,r,\~tS.Z:\\:•\:////::~:::_::,:.f{>-:)<.(:.;-,· .. 
.:. MSU:)Newsome·;25-bfocked purifr.eturn ·· 


f,(ii:r:r~~=. 
t<. ']y1Sp;~urress:86pass•fr9rri·B.iirke{Edinger· 
;.',.iri;r~~i~Ilrt . 
:. cMSV.:.-'PetersoP:>23 intefc¢ptioll' return .. 


!:IIJlt~l=:~:: 
i,iilll#~~rtrt?'}
,' 1,•·-'.-. -'.::•·:..-•_:·:.:.. . 

.;/:Nqi.~~i.}:~ .· .;·:;r=· · · ·· ··• (: ; \ :. 
•: -• T~~~22-point_niirrgin o( loss·was the:: 
: ," l~ges{such.ni°argi'n for Notte Dame since . the,:199.1 squad'lost to·Penn State 35:13. 
~Y°:.·.':)1:~{f'.:••.·.:·'-: :":·.:· ';:?•;·
> ::· •••• : :' 


'.. 



n 
s 
s 
m 
z 
7J
. 
-< 

FACING FACTS. After losing four out of their first five games under Davie, the Irish have come back to win 15 of their last 20 contests. 
their best was senselessly sidelined. The beliefthat they should have been able to win without Jackson is mistaken. This class had overcome enough already. They had proven their mettle and, judging by the amount of open receivers in the Coliseum that night, withJackson's presence it probably wouldn't have been close. As itis, the group that entered with so much promise now leaves as losers of their last two games. 
Where does Notre Dame football go from here? Personnel-wise, they mustreplacefour starters on the offensive line and four at linebacker. Jarious Jackson's return will be invaluable to a young offense but the sched­ule, featuring trips to Michigan and Tennes­see, is brutal. The coaching staff is showing potential. Jim Colletto called some great games this year. Greg Mattison's defense kept the team in numerous games and cre­ated crucial turnovers, though its disappoint­ing performance in the Gator Bowl after a month ofpreparation was puzzling. Davie is still learning the ropes, but February hauls will help the situation. 
A key component of any successful team is the leadership the upperclassmen provide to the younger players on the squad. It sepa­rates good teams from great ones. You can't teach it, but the '98 version of the Fighting Irish had an abundance ofit. Ifthe '99 team and the ones that follow can somehow match it, appearances in New Year's Day games will once again become the norm instead of 
the exception.  0  
SCHOLASTIC  11  
MAGAZINE  

Where They 

Stand 

Despite qualifying for '98 Coach ofthe Year honors and bringing the Irish to a game on New Year's Day, reviews of Bob Davie's two-year performance remain mixed 
by Corey Spinelli 

ever in recent history has the Notre Dame football program needed a win so badly. Disturb­ing public revelations about the 
program followed the disaster of the 1997 season, and they couldn't have come at a worse time. Bob Davie and his players insisted that the summer ofdiscontent was not a distraction as they prepared to battle the defending champs in their home opener. Butfrom the outside, it was hard to believe. The performance of the Irish in their runaway win seemed to vindicate the program and, at long last, its head coach. Davie deserved a great deal of credit for keeping his team focused and implement­ing a successful game plan. Optimists be­gan to rationalize national title scenarios; after all, Michigan was the highest-ranked team on the schedule. 
Then the Hottom fell out. After a humili­ating loss to a Michigan State team that would finish with six losses themselves, the questions resurfaced. Notre Dame sim­ply wasn't ready -physically or emotionally -to play that game. Getting a team to·understand that one win doesn't make a season is the head coach's respon­sibility, and he rightfully shouldered the blame. The question ofhow the coach and his boys wouldrespondhoveredoverNotre Dame Stadium on September 26. The jury was out, but in the press box during half­time ofthe Purdue game most ofthe media were bracing for The Fall of '97, Take IL 
That the exact opposite happened is also a credit to Davie. His team consistently found ways to win. They won ugly, but who can recall a more exciting and, until· "The Injury," a more gratifying season that began with such modest expectations? The 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

Irish won nine of 10 with a healthy Jackson, fell to Southern Cal withouthim and nearly came back to defeat a potent Georgia Tech team in the second half with a rusty and sometimes gun-shy quarterback working his way back into the top form he exhibited all season. 
The progress made underDavie has been considerable. He and his staff are gaining continuity, and with another list ofimpres­sive high school seniors setto signletters of intent,. he has now proven himself an out­standing recruiter. Everything seems to be moving in the right direction. 
The '98 season has now neatly been classified as the foundation upon which future successes will be built. I prefer to view it not as a beginning, however, but an end. Make no mistake about it. The leader­ship and play ofthis year's seniors are what propelled Notre Dame to within a win of finishing the regular season 10-1. This tight­knit group was Lou Holtz's final mark on Notre Dame football. Many of them came here to play for him and accomplish the ultimate goal with his guidance. His ab­sence, along with factors beyond their con­trol, resulted in their sub-parjunior outing. Determined to end their careers on a high note, they gave a little extra in the off­season and consistently rose to the occa­sion in the fall. When asked to speak of their greatest influences at Notre Dame, very few mention the present coach. In­stead, most mention Holtz's impact on their lives. 
The seniors seem to feel slighted by what transpired on the football field in their time here. Who could blame them? On the verge of closing their careers 11-1, the rug was pulled from under their feet when one of 


.V_,:: 
-~·.--... ;·: f: 
oming off the devastating Michigan 
State loss, many questions loomed 
concerning this 1998 Irish football team. Was Michigan just a fluke? Could Bob Davie's squad win big games on the road? Would this season tum out like the previous one? And worst of all -where was Tony Driver? 
Two days after the debacle in East Lan­sing, the Notre Dame defensive back took an unexpected road trip home to see his mother, and many wondered if he would return. Driver, who had moved from tailback to free safety to strong safety, was rumored to be unhappy with the position move and with the coaches. Some speculated this was the motivation behind his departure. When he returned-just one day after he had left -the sophomore from Louisville was dumbfounded by the gossip. He said that he was just homesick and needed to see his family. Regardless of the reasons, he was back. Eleven days later he was the key player in Notre Dame's squeaker against Purdue. 
p 
u 
12 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

Tony Driver stole the ball and the spotlight with two late-game interceptions 
by Joe Malichio 
With just under two minutes remaining in Notre Dame's game with the Boilermakers, and the opposition clinging to a two-point lead, Driver came up with two interceptions and snatched a victory from the Purdue squad. How improbable were the two late take-aways? For starters, Boiler quarter­back Drew Brees was 24-of-33 with 261 yards at that point in the game. Notre Dame's leader in interceptions the last two years, Benny Guilbeaux, was sidelined following an injury from the Michigan State game, and most significantly, Notre Dame had not yet collected an interception that year. 
The first 96 passes thrown against the Irish defense in the 1998 season were either caught by opposing receivers or had fallen incomplete. The 97thfellinto Tony Driver's hands. The timing could not have been better. "I was fortunate," Driver said. "I was in the right position at the right time to make the play." After intercepting the overthrown pass forced up by Brees, the Irish strong safety scurried 37 yards down to the Purdue five. This set up Jim Sanson's winning field 
R D 

goal. Severai plays later, Driver sealed Notre Dame's second victory of the season with his second· pick of the game. And just like that, the -Irish jumped from the jaws of defeat into the arms of victory. 
Through_ most of the contest, however, the mood on the Irish sideline was anything but festive. From the stat sheet alone, the game with Purdue appeared to be as surpris­ingly even a matchup as one could get. Both teams executed 69 plays on offense, Notre 
Dame had-possession of the ball for just 44 seconds more than its adversary, the Boilers outgained the Irish by a mere two yards in total offense, and the outcome of the game was decided by a single point. Frankly, though, it was Purdue's game to win, as the Boilers dominated throughout. 
For the second year in a row, Coach Joe Tiller's squad had Notre Dame players, coaches and fans pulling their hair out, as his offense once again showed how superb execution can decimate a defense. It was the 
-. 

crafty Purdue passing attack-dubbed"bas­ketball on grass" by Tiller__: that kept the 
• u • E 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Irish off balance. Under the command of Brees, the Boilermakers marched 80 yards in just eight plays on their opening drive and jumped out to a 7-0 lead. The drive was highlighted by back-to-back tosses of 20­plus yards to Isaac Jones and the touchdown pass, caught by Purdue receiver Randall Lane. The pass was a controversial one, however. It appeared that Brees' pass had been picked off by Irish defensive back Brock Williams, but it was ruled a touch­down, as Lane ripped the ball out of the defender's hands. Nevertheless, as Irish head coach Bob Davie later agreed, it turned out to be the right call. 
After just four plays on offense, Notre Dame put the pigskin back in the hands of the Purdue offense and the Boilermakers' second drive ofthe afternoon ended in simi­lar fashion to their first one. At a critical point in the drive, the Irish were close to wrapping up Brees on a third-and-nine from the Irish 33, but he eluded the pressure and hit Lane for a huge 22-yard completion. Several plays later, Purdue's wily quarter­back ran it in himself and, after a Travis Dorsch extra point, the men from West Lafayette were up 14-0. Panic grew, as visions of the loss the week before in Spar­tan Stadium danced in Irish heads. 
In the first half the Boiler offensive attack was essentially unstoppable. Purdue's pass protection was flawless, while Notre Dame's pass coverage was rarely a fac­tor. Brees had plenty oftime to throw -and the Irish missed several tackles. "Their offense is very hard to defend, bµt we weren't making the plays on defense and not making the tack­les," Davie said. "We never consistently stopped them." 
Following Purdue's sec­ond score, though, Irish quarterback Jarious Jack­son and the Irish offensive attack attempted to stop the bleeding. They responded with a long 13~play drive, which ended with a 14-yard touchdown run by Autry Denson. After three plays, it looked as though thefrish were going to punt the ball away again, but Davie opted to take a chance and go for ing the football, I didn't want to give them the ball back," the coach explained. "We were going to try to draw them offsides and take the penalty, but then I went back and thought, 'Heck, let's go for it because right now, we can't stop 'em, and we need points."' Jackson barely got the first down, but the Irish marched on. Faced with an­other fourth down at the Purdue 27, Davie to drive down the field for their second touchdown. Notre Dame was superb on third down, converting on all three tries. Tight end Jabari Holloway snared a 10­yard pass from Jackson for the score. With only 2:54 remaining in the first half, the Irish had crept back into the game and felt more than content going into the locker room down only three points. But Purdue 

"I was fortunate. I was in the right position at the right time to make the 


,play." 
again elected to try his luck. This time the Irish quarterback hit wide receiver Malcolm Johnson for a 13-yard strike. It was Denson, however, who hauled the team down the field, rushing for over 50 yards en route to the score. "Autry flat out carried us in the first half," Davie said. "With the way he played, we needed to go to number 23. We had to get him the ball." 
Following a Purdue field goal, the Irish successfully churned out another lengthy drive. Starting from their own 14-yard line, they used more than six and a half minutes 

-Tony Driver 

had other plans. 
Drew· Brees, in a Joe Montana-like groove, continued to direct the Purdue blitzkrieg. The Boiler quarterback com­pleted all six passes on his team's final drive of the half, and scrambled for 10 yards himself. B utPurdue' s 10-pointhalf­time lead was questionable. Irish cornerback Deveron Harper clearly jabbed the ball out ofreceiverisaac Jones' hands before he got into the endzone, and as the ball rolled across the plane, free safety Deke Cooper pounced on it. After confer­

itonashortfourth-and-one. STRETCHING TO VICTORY. The Irish offense put 10 points on the board in the final 3:36 to escape with a "Thewaytheyweremov-one-point win. 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW . SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


_____.__,___ 
. . . ­
ring, the officials awarded the Boilermakers a touchdown. By halftime, Purdue had racked up some 278 yards oftotal offense to go along with their 24 points. Notre Dame was in need of major adjustments. 
In 1997, the second half was a bad dream for the Irish, but this time the team showed why games run an hour. In the second half, Notre Dame returned to a base defense, allowing its players to be a more aggressive with their reads. The move paid off. The Irish defense limited the Purdue quarter­back to just 49 yards passing and 3.3 yards per attempt for the remainder of the game. 
"We were calling a lot ofdefenses, which were read defenses, where we were trying to stop their run onfirst down," explained Irish defensive coordinator Greg Mattison. "But they were throwing a lot on first down, so in the second half we were going to go out and just play base defense. When you play base defense,just straight defense and don't blitz much, then playmakers have to make plays." 
After the teams traded punts to begin the third quarter, Notre Dame capitalized on a huge 51-yard pass play to Holloway on the first play of the next drive. Denson ran it in and the Irish were down just three points. Purdue gained justone yard on its next drive and the three-and-out gave the ball right back to Notre Dame. Jim Sanson's 45-yard bid to tie the game slid wide right and the remainder of the quarter became a defen­sive battle, though Purdue added afield goal to their lead near the end of the quarter. 
Toward the end of the fourth quarter, the game officially became a nailbiter, as the Irish were now faced with a fourth-and-five at the Purdue 32. Jackson avoided a near sack, scurried away from the rush and fired a 15-yard bullet to Jay Johnson for the first down. On the next play he found Holloway on a slant for a touchdown and with 3:36 left, Notre Dame trailed by only two. Driver then picked off a tipped Brees pass and returned it 37 yards to the Purdue five-yard line, setting up Sanson's 17-yard field goal which gave the Irish a 31-30 lead. Driver sealed the Boilermakers' fate by intercept­ing his second Brees pass on Purdue's final possessions. 
Those who doubted this team's determi­nation after Michigan State might have looked foolish after the effort put forth against Purdue. "Our kids believe," Mattison said. "Our kids don't ever quit." With this victory, the Irish clearly showed that they never lost heart. D 
:• --c••~.,.a•,_:::. ~-..:,.;,:· 

BURSTING TO DAYLIGHT. Autry Denson heads upfield en route to another stellar day. The senior finished with 158 yards on 31 carries and two touchdowns. 
14 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 




EVEHSAL 
The Cardinal got a taste of their own medicine 
~ 
aJ 
w l5
a: 
g 
hat a difference a year makes. Last year, Notre Dame traveled to Palo Alto, Calif., to suffer its fourth consecutive loss at the hands of the Stanford Cardinal. Stanford embarrassed the Irish with 322 yards rushing and the Stanford band insulted the school, mocking Catholics and -Irish people. Notre Dame sought to avenge last year's humiliation and did so with a convincing 35-17 victory over unranked Stanford 'in Notre Dame Stadium. CoIJJ.ingoffa31..c30 thriller against Purdue, Notre Dame put the game away early and beat Stanford in convincfog fashion. 

by Tom Repetto 
Stanford was already having a disappoint­ing season, losing the previous week to Oregon 63-28, and they dropped to 1-4 after the loss to Notre Dame. 
Thekey to the game was the stellar play of Jarious Jackson. In his finest game yet as mi Irish quarterback, Jackson ran for 100 yards and scored three touchdowns. He became the first Irish quarterback since Tony Rice to eclipse 100 yards rushing, and his three touchdowns were the most by a Notre Dame quarterback since Reisman Trophy winner Paul Hornung in 1956. 
Jackson also completed 11 of his 15 passes for 163 yards. His execution and hard-nosed running paved the way for an impressive offensive display. 

"Basically, we just came into the game pretty much focused," Jackson said. "Icame out today and just threw the ball like I was in practice." · 
The Irish started the game more effec­tively than in their first three games. After the opening kickoff, Autry Denson andJ ack­son ran through the Stanford defense to move the Irish downfield. A key play in the drive was a fourth-down completion from Jackson to Malcolm Johnson, who had an impressive seven receptions for 113 yards. The Irish took the opening drive 65 yards 
s T. A N F 0 R D 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW .SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


and with a 22-yard touchdown run by Jack­son the traditionally slow-starting Irish were ahead 7-0 just three minutes into the game. 
Notre Dame scored again on its second possession. After a Stanford punt, the of­fense drove down to the two-yard linewith help from a long 30-yard dash by Denson. He then finished off the drive with the two­yard plunge that made the score 14-0. On the whole Denson had another strong game, gaining 88 yards on 20 carries. 
Stanford, already in a 14-0 hole, was forced to rely on its passing game. But quarterback Todd Husak had trouble pen­etrating the Irish defense and often felt pres­sure in the pocket. With more than seven minutes still left in the first quarter, Deveron Harper sacked Husak and forced a fumble deep in Stanford's territory. Brad Williams recovered on the Stanford 16-yard line, to set up another scoring drive. 
"I was glad that we played with more personality on defense," Davie said. "We came up with some big plays and showed some enthusiasm." 
The two-play scoring drive was capped by a six-yard touchdown from senior full­back Jamie Spencer. He rushed for a career high 80 yards on 10 carries and extended the lead to 21-0. 
"We knew we had to come out physical this week," Spencer said after the game. "When I got the ball, I just found my holes and went to the creases." 
Down 21 points halfway through the first quarter, the Stanford offense did not give up. Husak threw short passes and advanced the team up the field. A 28-yard screen pass to wide receiver DeRonnie Pitts brought the Cardinal to the Irish 15-yard line. Notre Dame held Stanford in check after that,· preventing a touchdown that would have kept Stanford in the game. Kevin Miller kicked a 25-yard field goal, and the score was 21-3 after one quarter. 
The first quarter marked the return of Notre Dame's brand of run-it-down-your­throat football. The Irish dominated on the offensive line and pounded the ball with several runningbacks, a confusing variety of running plays and strong blocking. Not the least of these runningbacks was the quarterback Jarious Jackson. 
"He's so good with that football," Davie said of Jackson. "He's ... what. all of us thought he could improve to be." 
The Irish extended their lead late in the second quarter. Spencer keyed the drive with a 37-yard scamper to the Cardinal 14­yard line. Then from seven yards out, Jack­
16 SCHOlASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
son scored for Notre Dame's fourth rushing touchdown of the day. 
The defense held Stanford scoreless in the quarter, preserving a 28-3 halftime lead. 
Known throughout the early part ofthe sea­son as a second-half team, the Irish's first­half outburst paved the way for an easy win with a comfortable lead before the second half even began. 
"Maybe we did something right in practice this week or maybe it was the extra 15 minutes," Davie said, referring to the ex­tra 15 minutes the play­ers were allowed to sleep before the game. Whatever the reason, the team started the game stronger than any other game during the season. 
Bobbie Howard play-ed impressively for the Notre Dame de­fense, leading the team with 11 tackles. Defen­sive backs also stepped up to stop the three-re­ceiver and four-receiver alignments used by the Cardinal. Tony Driver played well again at strong safety, recording eight tackles, while Brock Williams made five tackles and successfully defended sev-. eral passes in his first career start. 
"Brock brings a lot of fire to us," Irish defensive coordinator Greg Mattison said. "You almost have to border on showboat­ing. I would never want our kids to show­boat, to taunt, but you've got to play with some emotion. If you can't play with emo­tion, you can't play defense." 
That emotion allowed the defense to shut down a Stanford offense that one year ago racked up 514 yards against them. While the Irish were overmatched by Anthony Bookman and Mike Mitchell's 277-yard rushing tandem last year, the Irish managed to limit Stanford's rushing total to 63 yards in this year's contest. 

"One of the things that helped us stop · their running game is we were more aggres­sive," Mattison said. "It wasn't so much calling blitzes and calling defenses. We just turned it loose." 
Notre Dame sealed the game in the third quarter with one of its most impressive drives of the season. Starting on their own one-yard line, the offense picked up first down after first down. After seven minutes and 10 seconds elapsed, the Irish scored with Jackson's third touchdown of the day. After eating up much of the third quarter play clock, the Irish sealed the fate of the Cardinal by going up 35-3. 
The fans in Notre Dame Stadium began the wave in the third quarter, but Stanford did not roll over and die. Against a Notre 
1998 FOOTBAll REVIEW 


A WALK IN THE PARK. Three quick strikes by the offense gave the Irish a 21-0 lead with 
7:20 left in the first quarter, leaving the Cardinal down and out. 
Dame defense that tried to prevent big plays, Stanford orchestrated two fourth-quarter scoring drives. Their first touchdown drive started when Jackson's only interception of the day. Stanford, in good field position, drove 30 yards and scored on a five-yard pass from Husak to Russell Stewart. 
Randy Fasani came into the game as the quarterback for .the Cardinal. He marched the offense 72 yards and capped the four­minute drive with a one-yard scoring run. After the two-point conversion was com­pleted to Dave Davis, Stanford reduced the gap in the final score to 35-17. 
As the clocked ticked to 0:00, there was 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

no mad rush by students onto the field. Fans stayed where they were, cheering on the Irish and signaling the return of the Irish of the past, when winning was expected, not a surprise. 
Two teams went in opposite directions as a result ofthe game. Stanford, at 1-4, looked at the rest of the season as a rebuilding experience. Notre Dame, at 3-1 after the game, was poised to make a run at a major bowl game. 
The Irish orchestrated the kind of vic­tory that converted doubters into believ­ers -a far cry from last year's Stanford game. D 


The Irish shoot the lights out at ASH 

by Jason Petrungaro 

ctober 10, 1998.Outof the prover­bial ashes of Sun Devil Stadium arose not a mighty phoenix, but a Notre Dame football team determined to prove its mettle on the road and ;'; show the rest ofthe nation 
lJ that it was truly a team worthy of respect. The Irish did not need electric­ity. They did not need a functioning scoreboard. They did not even need ABC's coverage for most of the third quarter. Notre Dame came into town to win a football game, which it accomplished in classic form with a final score of 28-9. With an opportunis­tic defense and a swelter­ing running attack, the No. 22 Irish handed the talented Sun Devils a 2-4 record while building a respect­able 4-1 record for them­selves. 
On the same field where Notre Dame won its most recent national champion­ship at the Fiesta Bowl in 1989, the Irish successfully 

EASY DOES IT. Jackson led the Irish to a big win, despite passing for just 69 yards. 
rather trying season2opening schedule. Up to this point, Notre Dame appeared to be on a rollercoaster of sorts -both physically and emotionally. Elation from the Michigan_ victory was quickly replaced with utter em­barrassment after Michigan State, followed by anxiety after Purdue. Finally things ap­peared to be leveling after two convincing victories over Stanford and now Arizona . State. Not even a lack of electricity could hinder the effort put forth by the Irish on this 
Saturday afternoon. 
The failed transformer in Sun Devil Sta­
dium createci an almost surreal setting ­
one that some called "Rockne-esque." No 
public address system and no replays re­
called images .of how simply football was 
played back in the days of Rockne. And in 
a day when the Irish gained 263 of its total 
332 yards on the ground, simplicity was the 
theme of the afternoon. 
From the beginning of the contest, Ari­
zona State committed numerous mistakes, 
which were capitalized on by the Irish. The 
Sun Devils opened with quarterback Ryan 
Kealy in a shotgun formation that proved 
grossly ineffective. Kealy proceeded to 
throw two interceptions in the first 17:30 of 
play, ending the day with a total of three 
interceptions, an invitation to the bench and 
replacement by qua):"terback Chad Elliot in 
the fourth quarter. 
The first score for the Irish was set up 
largely due to the effort of Notre Dame 
linebacker Brock Williams. Williams bat­
completed the first leg of a ted a potential first-down pass from Arizona 
. .

A ® Re I ~ l ~ 0 ® N@ A S~ T~-A~-Te E 
18 SCHOLASTIC 1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
MAGAZINE 




State receiver Lenzie Jackson to kill the first Sun Devil offensive series and then proceeded to in­tercept Kealy on thenextSunDevil i series. Williams yanked in the ball at the Irish 13 af­ter it was thrown behind receiver Brian Forth. 
Enter Jarious Jackson. The se­nior quarterback started the I I ­play, 87-yard drive to the endzone with a huge 20-yard completion to sophomore tight end Jabari Holloway on the 
second play ofthe drive. After rattling the Sun Devils a bit, Jackson called on senior backs Autry Denson and Jamie Spencer to hit the trenches on runs that bagged three consecutive first downs. Six runs in this first drive gained seven yards or better, and Denson earned 26 of his total 84 yards. Third-and-goal from the seven saw J~ckson roll out with a loop­ing pass to §enior split-end Malcolm Johnson, who made a spectacular diving catch inside the left sideline as Arizona State's defender J'Juan Cherry arrived just a bit too late. Notre Dame 7, Arizona State 0. 
While the Irish now held the lead, they were definitely losing in the field position department. Keeping Arizona State out of striking distance was crucial in this game, considering the fact that the Sun Devils had much more offensive firepower than they displayed on paper. Notre Dame's coaches have learned that, the man to count on in these situations is Hunter Smith. After the first Irish touchdown, the senior punter trot­ted onto the field early in the second quarter and proceeded to blast the football for an astounding of79 yards, giving the Sun Dev­ils what could be called a less-than-desir­able starting point for their offensive series. Surprisingly, Smith's 79'...yarderwas the third longest in Notre Dame history behind kicks of 86 and 80 yards by former players Bill Shakespeare and Elmer Layden, respec­
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

tively. However, neitherofthosepunts could have been as essential as Smith's, for not only did he dig the Irish out ofa hole, but he .. also set the stage for the upcoming intercep­tion and return by A'Jani Sanders. 
Bad luck continued to plague Arizona State. After his second interception in the second quarter, Kealy was back on the field faster than he could sing a verse ofthe Fight Song. Dropping back to pass, Kealy saw Sun Devil tailback J.R. Redmond open but threw behind him, right into the waiting arms of the ever-present senior safety and playmaker Sanders. Gathering the ball on the fly, Sanders lurched past a diving tackle attempt by Marvel Smith and burned 25 yards to the endzone to put the Irish up 14­0 with 12:27 remaining in the second quar­ter. 
"I was a little bit surprised, but you hope for plays like that," Sanders said. "When they come, you just try to take advantage of it and I think I did pretty well." 
The remainder of the first half was con­sumed by Arizona State's two time~eating drives, the first of which ended in a 22-yard field goal by kicker Stephen Baker. The second drive ended with Baker's missed 38­yard field goal attempt. Entering the locker room, the Irish held a respectable 14-3 lead -something they would not relinquish the entire afternoon. 
The third quarter saw the same smashmouth football and standout defen­sive efforts continue to demoralize the Ari­zona State squad and silence their fans. A 12-play, 80-yard touchdown drive saw the Irish extend their lead to a commanding 21­3 while the stadium stood without power and an eerie feeling of "football past" per­meated the atmosphere. Taking a total of 

6: 15 to complete, this touchdown drive saw Jackson throw 30 ofhis 69 yards on the day. On a third-and-IO from the Irish 20, Jackson completed a 15-yard pass to senior receiver Bobby Brown. Two plays later Jackson . connected with sophomore receiver Joey Getherall, and Joey Goodspeed followed that with a 20-yard romp down the field. Jackson's next pass was intercepted, but fortunately the call was negated by an offsides call on Arizona State. The call was one ofonly five penalties for the Sun Devils, but it helped the Irish seal the victory. Denson scored from one yard out two plays later for the only points tallied in the third quarter. 
The dis~runtled and muted crowd of 73,501 shuffling out of Sun Devil Stadium after the third quarter set the stage for even 
· more blue and gold fireworks during the fourth. In Kealy's final series of the day, Irish cornerback Deveron Harper tipped a pass which sailed into the possession of safety Deke Cooper, placing Notre Dame in Arizona State territory. After the Irish failed to capitalize on the pick, Sun Devil replace-
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
ment quarterback Chad Elliot directed a 65­yard drive that ended with Redmond's 1­yard touchdown run and a missed extra point with 10:40 left in the game to bring the tally to 21-9. The rest of the game was all Notre Dame. 
Goodspeed gave credit to his last name with four rushes throughout the game for a total of 109 yards, including his explosive 60-yard breakaway run during the fourth quarter. After breaking through the Sun Devil line, throwing off cornerback Courtney Jackson at the Arizona State 25 and reaching open field, the junior fullback rumbled towards the endzone, only to be caught from behind at the Arizona State 6. 
Goodspeed didn't get the points, but he did set up Denson's second 1-yard touch­down of the afternoon with 8:48 left in the game, bringing the final score to 28-9. 
"I just tried to lower my shoulder and keep my feet moving," Goodspeed said. "We know that that's going to be a big play forus, because they've got to respectJarious Jackson and Autry Denson. When it's our [fullbacks'] tum to get the ball, we just hit the hole as hard as we can." With a laugh, Goodspeed added, "I'm just not as fast as I thought, I guess." 
Irish Head Coach Bob Davie said that Goodspeed' s emergence had a lot to do with his battle for playing time with senior full­back Jamie Spencer, who had 10 rushes for 37 yards. "He [Goodspeed] looked like he ran hard. He had a little more juice to him," said Davie. "Competition either brings out the best in you or the worst in you. I think it's brought out the best in Joey." 

When a power transformer blew up near the end of halftime at 2:15 p.m., the Irish retook the field to find no working scoreboard. To their advantage, they never really needed to worry about the score. 
"It was definitely weird," J arious Jackson said. "It felt a lot like practice. You 're not looking at the time clock. You don't see the score. You're just playing." 
In what could be called a quiet day for Jackson, the senior quarterback threw seven­of-13 for 69 yards, no interceptions and a touchdown pass. In addition, he tacked on six rushes for a total of 7 yards. 
"I don't care ifl get negative-19 rushing yards as long as we got more points than the opponent," said Jackson, who bruised his right shoulder the week before against Stanford but said he felt fine throughout the entire Arizona State game. 
Davie needed this game. The players needed this game. To every critic who de­clared Notre Dame incapable ofwinning on the road, the team devoted this game. This initial meeting of Notre Dame and Arizona: State was the 19th out of 20 series openers since 1950 that the Irish have won, which goes to show anypne that a team with heart can always pull back together for the win after facing adversity. 
At this point in 1997 the Irish stood at an abysmal 1-4:In 1998 they suddenly stood at 4-1. It's pretty safe to say that is a reversal offortune that any Irish fan would take. D 
JUST TOO MUCH. Denson celebrates with the men who make the holes after scoring his second touchdown. 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 



ivenNotreDame'srecentstruggles with the service academies, it's surprising that many Irish follow­
ers ignored Head Coach Bob Davie's wor­ries about the Army game in the weeks leading up to the battle with the Cadets. 
"One ofthese days, you guys are going to start believing me," said .a noticeably re­lieved Davie at the end ofthe 20-17 contest, which saw the Irish improve their record to 5-1, albeit unimpressively. 
"I tried to tell you guys all week what kind of game this was going to be," continued Davie. "We knew coming in this was going to be a hard-fought, tough football game to win. I must admit, I didn't think it would come down to a 48-yard field goal to win it at the end." 
Although the game was sloppy by most accounts, the Irish were 'able to draw some positives from the victory. First, and per­haps most importantly, junior place kicker Jim Sanson showed h~ had bounced back from last year's forgettable campaign by 

STUFFED. The Irish had to rely on Jackson's 270 yards passing as the ground attack sputtered. 
hitting acare'er-long, game-winning 48-yard 
field goal. 
Another positive gleaned from the win was the impressive aerial attack led by quar­terbackJ arious Jackson. With tailback Autry Denson rendered ineffective by Army's aggressive defensive front, Jackson took to the air and racked up a career-high 270 yards passing. Jackson kept the Cadet sec­ondary off-balance all afternoon, spreading the ball to six different receivers, with split • end Malcolm Johnson, who accounted for six receptions for 82 yards and a touch­down, doing the_brunt of the work. 
Defensive play was also admirable. Army entered the contest averaging an NCAA third-best 283 rushing yards per game. The Irish defense yielded a respectable 218 yards on the ground against the Cadets and com­

. pletely shut down Army's passing game, giving up a paltry 12 yards in the air. With · few exceptions, Notre Dame played about as well as could be expected against Army's Wishbone/option offense. 
"That's why I'm proud of these guys," said Defensive Coordinator Greg Mattison. "When you add up all the plays, they ex­ecuted more positively than negatively... and that's when you have a good perfor­mance." 
Although the Irish started off strong de­fensively, forcing the Cadets to go three and out, they were unable to find a rhythm during their first possession, and the teams traded punts. Cadet Lyle Weaver broke through the Irish line and partially blocked Hunter Smith's IO-yard punt, gjving Army excellent field position at the Irish 25-yard line. Notre Dame's defense refused to give up a first down, forcing Army to settle for a 40-yard field goal by Eric Olsen. 
Notre Dame answered with a score ofits own on the ensuing possession to knot the score at three apiece. But the Irish offense could not help feeling a little disappointed with Sanson's 39-yard field goal after pick­ing apart Army's defense on the drive. Notre Dame seemed destined for a touchdown but 
A •• R M. • y 
1_998 FOOTBALL REVIEW SCHOLASTIC 21 
MAGAZINE 


stalled on the Army 14-yard line when it was flagged for a 15-yard facemask penalty. Notre Dame's first scoring drive was an indication of things to come, as the running game struggled and Jackson passed for an uncharacteristically high 55 yards on the drive. 
After another Army punt, the Irish took over at their own 42-yard line and went to work. Jackson completed two passes on three attempts for 33 yards. Then, for the the kick off, and the team suffered a five­yard loss. This failed scoring opportunity marked the first time all season the Irish did not produce points while in the "red-zone." They had scored on all 23 previous trips inside their opponents' 20-yard line. 

Late in the third quarter, the Irish put together another impressive drive. With the Irish on the Army 38-yard line, Jackson hit Bobby Brown for what looked to be an easy six points. But upon reaching the one-yard 
line, safety Kenny 
Rowland stripped 

The underdog Cadets remained com­
the ball from Brown's out­

petitive without attempting a single 
stretched hands. 
pass in the first half 
first time in the game, Denson found day­light and raced 17 yards down the left side­line before being tackled by safety Kenny Rowland. On the next play, Denson danced into the end zone unscathed on a four-yard run to cap off a six-play, 58-yard drive, giving Notre Dame a 10-3 edge. The Irish drive took only 1:48. 
Army's anemic offense continued to sput­ter and the Cadets were forced to punt for the third time. The Irish offense took over on their 36-yard line and appeared to be headed on another trip to the endzone after Jackson's dump-off pass to Denson gained 33 yards. But Notre Dame was unable to overcome a barrage ofmistakes, including a one-hop pass on third down to a wide-open Joey Getherall at the Army 12-yard line. Sanson was also unable to connect on a 48­yard field goal attempt. 
Led by a rushing attack powered by half­back Bobby Williams and fullback Craig Stucker, Army's offense finally came to­gether. Both Williams and Stucker ripped through Notre Dame's defensive line with ease and enjoyed long runs. Williams fin­ished the drive and the scoring in the first half, with an explosive three-yard jaunt through the heart of a fatigued Irish defen­sive line. 
At halftime, with the score 10-10, Notre Dame was in an awkward position. Not only were the underdog Cadets very much in the game, but they remained competitive with­out attempting a single pass in the first half. 
The Irish came running out of the tunnel re-energized for the second half. Wa~ting little time, Notre Dame's offense marched down the field effectively mixing the pass andtherun. TheirishwerestymiedatArmy's five-yard line and attempted a field goal. After a botched snap, Sanson couldn't get 
22 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
Johnson, who had 
been hustling right 

behind Brown during the play, jumped on 
the loose ball in the end zone, and the Irish 
added a touchdown and took a 17-10 lead 
into the fourth quarter. 
Army, which took over possession with a little more than a minute remaining in the third quarter, again looked to Williams and Stucker to carry the offensive load. Al­though the backs were not as dominating as , they had been on the drive at the end of the first half, they slowly chipped away at the Irish defense. Stucker was able to capitalize on the first real Irish defensive breakdown ofthe game, a missed coverage assignment,. and went untouched on a 19-yard touch­down romp to even the score, 17-17, with 
less than 10 minutes remaining. 
After the teams traded punts, Notre Dame 

took over possession at its own 24-yard line 
and began what would ultimately be the 
game-winning drive. Jackson led the pass­
ing attack down the field, which was high­
lighted by a nine-yard toss to tight end 
Jabari Holloway and an athletic 13-yard 
grab by Johnson. On fourth down, with 1 :06 
remaining, the Irish called on Sanson to 
attempt a 48-yard field goal. Sanson sent his 
kick sailing through the uprights and put the 
Irish on top for good, 20-17. 
The win, Notre Dame's 36th all-time 

against Army in the 48 match-ups between 
the two schools, may have been the last one 
over the Cadets for quite some time. There 
are no scheduled meetings between them in 
the near future, partially due to the fact that 
Army is constricted by its ties to Conference 
USA. This historic series, which inspired 
Grantland Rice to write his famous "The 
Four Horsemen" story and moved Knute 
Rockne to give his "win one for the Gipper" 
speech appears to be over for now. But it 
will not soon be forgotten. D 
Rushing Yards 


218 ND 1123 PassingYards·. 
.¦ARMY.12. 
'-----,--------'ND'-=-'1265 230 

.. 

'-I--,---"-----,--~-,-,--N__,D1388 


Halloween woke up the echoes -and some 

other characters 

hey were all gathered to­gether. Ghosts and goblins. Cowboys and Indians. Batman and Robin. Drag 
queens and the Artist formerly known as Prince .. Prostitutes, pregnant nuns and Saturday Night Live's ambigu­ously gay duo. And they weren't at a showing of "The Rocky Horror Pic­ture Show." This was something far more interesting: Halloween in Notre Dame Stadium's student section as the Irish blasted the Baylor Bears, 27 to 3. 
In a fashion typical of the season, Notre Dame couldn't let fright night pass without scaring the garishly be­decked crowd by turning the ball over twice and squandering several scor­ing opportunities. "Ithink we all agree that we didn't play as well as we could, but we played well enough to win, which seems to be a trademark of this team," said Head Coach Bob Davie. 
Baylor started the game strongly when return man Martin Dossett took the opening kickoff 33 yards to the Baylor 43. For the next four minutes Baylor seesawed around midfield. The team from Waco, Texas., progressed to Notre Dame's 35-yard line; but several illegal procedure penalties, incomplete passes and a 14-yard sack 

by Patrick Downes 

by senior safety Benny Guilbeaux forced Baylor to punt afternine plays -only eight yards from where they began. 
On the following drive senior tailback Autry Denson made the first of two mistakes -but not before he· ran for 32 yards and was brought down by his facemask. (Add another 15 yar4s.) The cheers were short­lived, though. On the next play, how­ever, Denson lost just the third fumble of his career. The damage was not severe. Baylor stalled at midfield, and the Irish drove their way deep into Baylor territory. Denson had carries of 24 and 12 yards and fullbacks Jamie Spencer and Joey Goodspeed added 17 yards. The drive was stymied at the Baylor 15-yard line, and Irish kicker Jim Sanson came in to put the game's first three points on the board. 
The first quarter ended soon there­after, and the next quarter began with Denson's second big mistake. A steady drive and another Baylor face mask penalty, this time on fresh­man tailback Tony Fisher, brought the ball well into the Bears' terri­tory, but again, Denson turned the ball over. This time the culprit was poor communication between the coaches in the press box and the play-

y

B A l 0 R 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


ers on the field. On third and three, senior quarterback Jarious Jackson mistakenly called a halfback pass in the huddle, and not surprisingly, Baylor's defense was in a po­sition to pounce on the mistake. As Denson unloaded in Jackson's direction, three Baylor defenders planted themselves in the pass's path. Gary Baxter snatched the pass and returned it all the way to Notre Dame's nine-yard line, where a determined Denson finally caught up with him. Notre Dame's defense held, and Baylor was limited to a game-tying field goal. 
With the next drive, Denson started to make up for his mistakes. He carried the ball six times for 48 yards and a touchdown, well on his way to the career-high 189 yards he would tally that Halloween. "I owe all the credit to the offensive line and my fullbacks for their blocking all day," said Denson. "Those guys were getting me into the sec­ondary almost every time." On Notre Dame's next drive, the offensive line opened up a hole big enough for Denson to sprint for 37 yards -his longest run since the Michigan game, Another rush of seven yards and a touchdown pass to Malcolm Johnson that covered 24 yards put the Irish up by a 14­point margin. "The drive of the game might have been right before halftime," said Davie, "Wescoredandwere able to stay in rhythm." 


A largely uneventful second half began with a big event. Notre Dame, long plagued by an inability to come up with big plays, came up with the longest touchdown pass since Paul Failla threw an 80-yard strike to Derrick Mayes in 1993. This one was a 66­yard pass to Bobby Brown. After that, both defenses hunkered down for the rest of the game. Notre Dame reached Baylor territory only twice more. On the very next offensive series the Irish were stopped after three plays in the red zone after a botched punt snap by Baylor put them there. Then in the_, fourth quarter,~ the Irish ·were~ held to a field g goal after a 43­yard Jackson rush gave them a first down inside Baylor's five-yard line. "It was a bit frustrating offensively," Davie said. 



Defensively, it was a different story. Baylor's only points came when a turnover deposited the Bears inside the Irish 10-yard line. "We tried to come out and set an example by playing hard, playing physical and running to the ball," senior co-captain Kory Minor said, "We were fortunate that people were there to make key plays that we 
-' 
-' 
w 
m w 
ci 
cc 
0 
(!) 

needed throughout the game." Minor had seven tackles on the day and fellow co­captain Bobbie Howard led the team nine. The victory was the eighth straight home 
·After squashing Baylor, Notre Dame remained undefeated on •.·•···· :f>assinf Yards •. 
····j-J39Halloween Day ··• •·1'.~;;,;;•-::;;,~;,~.'.1,};;~,-;;::~;~.-;;'./)'ND:1· i33··•·· 
..-~~fJUig,win for the Irish and it kept them a perfect 14-0 in Halloween games. Also, the game lifted the Irish to 6-1 as they headed into the final month of the season. But Davie was not about to let the team become compla­cent after the easy victory. 
"After the game, we told the team to remember what you do inNovember," Davie said, "We have four games left, three on the road, so we are going to have to rely on . everybody." D 
.. . . fat Qu~rter .·..· , -..• ND: Sansori 32 FG ·· ·. 211dQuarter­BlJ: BryantJ8 FG.,:ND: Denson 2 run (Sanson PAT) ·Nri:M. iolinson24passfromrackson {Sanscm PAT) · . .3rd Quarter . .·ND: Browri66passfromJackson (San~6n ·· .PAT) 
4th Qu.arter . 

.·ND:Sanson21FG 
·-· . -. 

Post-game AP Rank: 13 · 







n a dream 
Denson catapulted fiom the front pages to the record books by becoming Notre Dame's all-time leading rusher 
by Christopher Hamilton 

e 1998 off-season found the Notre Dame Fighting Irish football program in an uncharacteristic state of disar­

ray. College football's most storied, and arguably classiest, team sustained a severe public relations blow over the summer after an unending sfream of bad publicity over some off-the-field incidents. Needless to say, it was an Irish critic's delight. 
With scrutiny intensifying late into the 
summer and a season-opening game against 
defending co-national champion Michigan, 
it appeared the team was a straying ship that 
could not be righted. Notre Dame desper­
ately needed a shot in the arm. 
To the relief of the millions who don the 
blue and gold on football Saturdays, they 
would not have to wait long for senior 
tailback Autry Denson to provide that boost. 
Exploding for a 58-yard scamper on the 
team's first offensive playofthe year, notto 
mention the re~t of his 162 yards and two 
touchdowns that afternoon against the Wol­
verines, Denson almost single-handedly 
revived the ailing Irish and put the media's 
attention back where it belonged: on the 
field. . Denson made a point of playing well in numerous big games in his three years as a starter, but if there was a defining game in his career, the Michigan contest would take top honors. Denson's 58-yard run was a career best, his 162 yards rushing was his second best (he would rush for 189 against · Baylor) and it was the most rushing yards 
Michigan's defense yielded to a single player 
in 28 contests. To top it all off, his stellar 
performance came against a defensive unit 
ranked number one in the country the year 
before. 
Throughout the rest of the 1998 cam­
paign, he continued to post impressive num­
bers.Then, on November 14 against Navy, 
the inevitable finally happened: Denson was 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

-
crowned Notre Dame's all-time leading rusher, surpassing former Irish great Allen Pinkett. Denson would go on to set the Irish rushing mark at 4,318 yards. 
The accolades rained down on Denson after he completed his final collegiate sea­son. He was awarded second team All­American status by the Associated Press and was an honorable mention All-Ameri­can selection by Football News. Denson also went on to win his third consecutive NotreDameNationalMonogramClubMVP award, which by team vote recognizes the squad's most valuable player. 
"He's a guy you somewhat take for granted," reflected Head Coach Bob Davie. "That's because he shows up every day with such a positive attitude and that raises the level of the people around him." 
Considering his tremendous success at tailback, it is hard to imagine that Notre Dame originally recruited him to bolster its secondary. "I thought he'd be one heck ofa defensive back," said Davie, who was the defensive coordinator when the Irish were courting Denson out of high school. "I was excited because we were getting a kid who was a great athlete out of high school, who we were committed to playing on defense." 
Denson was by no means a "sure-fire" recruit for the Irish, as he had at one time favored playing for in-state powerhouse Florida State. But after visiting Notre Dame on his recruiting trip, he became convinced that Notre Dame was definitely where he wanted to be. 
"They [the coaching staff] always talk about Notre Dame being a 40-year decision as opposed to being a four-year decision," said Denson, explaining his change ofheart. "My heart, at first, told me to go to Florida State. But my favorite school wasn't the best school for me and my interests." And so Denson chose to attend Notre Dame, even though he was not expected to compete at tailback, his' preferred position. 

But the star runningback hailing from1 Nova High School in Davie, Fla., could not l be kept out of the offensive backfield, and he switched permanently from comerback to tailback after the first game ofthe season. The change proved brilliant as he showed himself to be a capable backup to senior Randy Kinder by finis!ling his inaugural season with 695 yards rushing and eight touchdowns. Over the next three seasons, Denson es­tablished himself as Notre Dame's primary threat on offense, rushing for over 1,000 yards in each of those years. 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

But just as impressive as his statistics during his time at Notre Dame was the manner in which he conducted himself. He took a workman-like approach to the game without the arrogance found in many of today's top-flight college tailbacks. "I've never seen him get caught up in the hype," Davie said. "He's all about football and he's not a whole lot about the off-the-field things and the hype that comes with that. And that's what I respect the most about him. He isn't full of himself. He's very humble." 
Davie also praised Denson's leadership skills, even though the tailback is not known for being extremely vocal. "The number one thing about Autry Denson is that he's a leader by example because he loves to play so much, loves to compete," Davie said. "That is always the best sign of a leader. From a locker room standpoint, he doesn't 
. talk a whole lot, he's not necessarily a 'rah­rah' kind ofguy. But he goes outthere every day and competes hard and I know he has the respect of everyone in this program." Davie has always been impressed with· Denson's team-oriented nature. "He's a guy that came in and first played a position that he necessarily didn't want to play," said Davie. "But he played it." 
"Everything is 'team first' to him," Davie continued. He broke [Allen Pinkett's rush-ing record] in the first half, but he also fumbled in the first half. At halftime he was just devastated because he fumbled and it hurt our team. He was much more con­cerned about that fumble than he was about breaking that record. And I think that says a lot about him." 


Speaking of the all-time rushing mark, Denson says the record has not 'sunk in.' "Honestly, it really hasn't hit me yet," said Denson. "It's one of those things that after your playing days [professional and colle­
"'O 
~ 
m 
:D :D 
0 
:c 
)> :D 
0 
CJ) 
0 
z 

giate] are over, you'll be able to look back at and appreciate more." 
But Denson will take a lot more from Notre Dame than just his record. He'll take with him the experience needed to embark on a career in the NFL. "I'll remember the time with the guys more than anything. Football has a big influence on your life, but it plays a small part on who you are.... Doing things in the community, spending time with my teammates and being around the people on campus are the things I'll remember the most about Notre Dame." 
How does Denson hope people remember his career at Notre Dame? "I think the big­gest compliment anyone could give me is to say that I gave my all during my time here." 
Something which every Irish follower realizes is a huge understatement. 0 
SCHOLASTIC 27 
MAGAZINE 


by Corey Spinelli 
Agoal line stand saves the Irish from the Eagles, 
In a normal year, a top-20, 6-1 Notre Dame squad facing a struggling 3-5 team is little reason for worry among the Irish faithful. The Michigan State, Purdue and Army games, however, taught followers of Head Coach Bob Davie's second unit that no Saturday on the fall calendar could be taken for granted. The November 14 visit to Chesnut Hill, Mass., proved no different. Like the game in East Lansing, Mich., a hungry team fe~turing an outstanding tailback looked to throw a wrench in the Irish' s postseason possibilities. After watching points pile .up on the scoreboard for four quarters, the 44,500 ticketholders in Alumni Stadium witnessed the unlikeliest finish imaginable in a contest where the offenses combined to amass nearly 900 yards in total offense. With 1 :07 re­maining in the game, the Boston College offense stood on the Irish four yard line with four chances to enter the endzone and take a one-point lead with little time left on the clock. Until that point in the game, Eagle 
"ti

5 All-American tailback Mike Cloud had d shredded a porous Notre Dame defense for 
0 

g 140 yards and one touchdown on 24 carries. ~ The situation appeared so bleak for the Irish _~ that CBS commentator Sean McDonough ,i:-~ suggested that Davie allow the Eagles to iii score immediately and give J arious Jackson gJ a few seconds to try and answer back. But if ;gn, hope had run out, somebody forgot to tell 
n, . 
~ the 11 defenders wearing the blue and gold. ~ In the final minute ofplay, the Irish defense ili rose to the occasion, stuffing Cloud four 
C . 
consecutive times, secudrig Notre Dame's seventh victory and providing the most 
CLIPPED WINGS. Though Tony Driver stopped Cloud on this play, the first-team All­American racked up 143 rushing yards on the ground. 


B•O•S•T•O•N C•O•L•l•E•G•E 
28 SCHOlASTIC 
1998 FOOTBAll REVIEW
MAGAZINE 



memorable finish to a '98 game. 
Notre Dame took the opening kickoff and marched 69 yards on 11 plays for a touchdown. Jackson's passing efficiency highlighted the drive. Number. seven com­pleted two crucial third down attempts -a 13-yardertofullbackJamie Spenceron third­and-10 from the Irish 31 and an 11-yard strike to receiverMalcolm Johnson on third­and-three. He followed with a 19-yard toss 
to Johnson and a 12-yard run that led to a 
short-yardage score by Autry Denson. After holding the Eagle offense, the Irish 
traveled 44 yards to the home team's 36, witha23-yardJackson-to-Johnsonpass that gave Notre Dame prime field possession. 
The drive stalled, however, as another toss to Johnson fell incomplete. After a Hunter 
Smith punt, the momentum swung to Bos­ton College as quarterback Scott Mutryn began a dismantling of the Irish secondary thatwould continuefor four quarters. Mutryn completed an 18-yard pass to Cloud on a 
third-and-IO and later connected on a 51­yard bomb to Jermaine Walker. After an 11­
yardtouchdown scamperby Cloud, the game was knotted at seven. 
The Irish quickly responded with an im­pressive drive of their own. The six-play, 64-yard jaunt opened with a, 27-yard run by 
Denson and featured another third down conversion when Jackson's 20-yard throw 
found Johnson at the Eagle 18. A holding 
penalty brought the ball back to the 28, but a perfect pass across the middle split two 
Boston College defenders and lodged be­tween the legs of sophomore wideout Joey Getherall for six points. Jim Sanson's extra 
point put the visitors ahead 14-7 early in the second quarter._ 
The lead proved to be short lived, as the Eagle offense continued to exploit sopho­
morecomerBrockWilliamsfor large chunks ofyardage. Mutryn answered the Irish score with a57-yard drive that culminated in a 23­
yard touchdown pass to Anthony DiCosmo· on a play wh_ere Williams face-guarded the receiver in the endzone and failed to play the ball. After holding the Irish, the Eagles put three more-points on the board before 
the half courtesy of a 43-yard John Matich field goal. The kick was set up when Will­
iams once again failed to play the ball on a Mutryn toss to Walker in the endzone. The 
cornerback was flagged for pass interfer­
ence on Waiker and Matich split the up­rights to give Head Coach Bob O'Brien's squad a 17-14 halftime lead. 
True to form, the Irish continued their third-quarter domination of the Eagles by 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
outscoring the underdogs 10-0. After hold­ing the Eagles, the Irish relied on the block­ing of the offensive line and the legs of Denson and Spencer in a45-yardmarch that resulted in a 31-yard Sanson field goal. Denson had runs of nine, 11 and 13 yards and Spencer added a 10-yard carry on the drive. The anchor of the Irish defense then made one ofhis countless big plays to set up the next Irish score. After safety Benny Guilbeaux batted a dropped Mutryn pass, captain Bobbie Howard snatched the pig­skin out ofthe air andreturned the intercep­tion to the Eagle 11. Yet another, in a season of big third-down conversions·, followed when Jarious Jackson hit-you guessed it -Johnson on a perfectly executed 8-yard tiptoe catch for the touchdown. Notre Dame entered the fourth quarter with the ball, the momentum, a 24-17 lead and major bowl hopes on the line. No one could possibly have guessed the lengths required to pre­serve the latter. 
· Immediately after starting fullback Spen­cer was injured and removed from the game, Joey Goodspeed entered and promptly fumbled at the Irish 41. Matich's second field goal ofthe day pulled the Eagles within four points with 12:33 left to play. The Boston· College defense then raised their_ intensity_ and forced the Irish to face a des­perate third-and-22 at their own five yard-line. The next play defined the impact that Jackson has on a football game. Flushed from the pocket in his own endzone, the senior scrambled, stepped up as protection collapsed around him, and launched the football 70 yards downfield to a wide open Johnson, who hauled in the laser for a 68­yard gain. Four plays later, Denson found the opposite enc12;one on a two-yard run and Notre Dame led by 11 with 9:23 left in the game. 

The Eagles answered with a 9-play, 68­yard scoring drive oftheir own that used up only 3:25. Mutryn ran 15 yards for a first down on a third-and-12 and completed passes of 11 and 28 yards to DiCosmo before finding him again on a 6-yard touch­down toss. Ty Goode intercepted the con­version attempt and the Irish lead was trimmed to 31-26 with 5:54 left. The Irish went three-and-out, punted and Boston Col­lege had the ball back at their 23 with plenty oftime to mount a game-winning drive. On a second-and-26 at their own 30, Mutryn found Dennis Harding for 25 yards. The phenomenal Cloud then took the third-and­one carry 15 yards to the Irish 30. A 26-yard reception down the middle by tight-end Rob Tardio left the Eagles with a first-and-goal on the Notre Dame four with 1 :07 remain­ing. 
The first of the five critical instances that 

SCHOLASTIC 
29 
MAGAZINE 


.,, 
:i: 
~ 
() 
0 
C 
:D 
--i 
m 
(J) 
-< 
~ 
:i! 
m 0 
{D 
(J) 
m 
:D 
< 
m 
~ 
m..,, "" ~ 
(J) 
c 

BEAR HUG. Tony Driver wrapped up Mike Cloud on this play. The runningback would score only once, failing to score a second time 
as the clock ran out. 
led to the Irish's heroics came when a 
Boston College wide receiver lined up un­
covered by a Notre Dame defense that had 
only 10 men on the field. As O'Brien fran­
tically tried to get Mutryn to notice his 
open man, senior Guilbeaux astutely called 
the Irish's final timeout right before the 
ball was snapped, preventing an automatic 
score. On first down it appeared that Cloud 
could walk through a hole that had opened, 
but Howard immediately closed it and 
planted the tailback at the two on the next 
play. The Irish inside linebacker once again 
slammed Cloud to the turf at the one yard­
line. On third down, without any timeouts 
remaining, hopes of a follow up score by 
Notre Dame were dashed. With the clock 
rolling inside of20 seconds and the tension 
building, it became disturbingly apparent 
for Irish fans that Boston College would 
now have to be held twice from three feet 
away for Notre Dame to escape with a win. 
The AP First-Team All-American 
tailback plunged into the line for the third 
consecutive time, and it appeared that, fi­
nally, he was in. But nose guard Antwon 
Jones had undercut the Eagle center, allow­
ing inside linebacker Jimmy Friday to meet 
Cloud literally an inch from the white stripe 
of the endzone. In the battle of wills that 
followed, Friday miraculously stood his 
ground and, with 11 seconds on the clock, 
the Irish were somehow still alive. 
O'Brien called his final timeout and both 
30 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

the whole issue was 
teams gathered on their respective side­lines in an emotional moment. Trying to take advantage ofan offensive line that averages 6-5, 302 pounds, the Boston College coach de­cided to put the ball in the hands of his starforafourthtime. "He's my best guy and he's the guy that has to take it in when it counts," O'Brien said. Davie and de­fensive coordinator Greg Mattison fig­ured the Irish's best shot was to stack the line and make Mutryn throw. "In the back ofmy mind, I thought they might run the bootleg, but would they run the 

football or not, and the decision was to go all out goal-line defense, come after them and challenge them to throw it," Davie said. 
As the crowd noise reached deafening levels, Mutryn handed the ball to Cloud with the game's outcome hanging in the balance. Cloud picked his hole .over the inside left tackle but junior safety Deke Cooper, instructed to disregard the pass and play the inside run, darted through the open­ing and triumphantly slammed the Eagle behind the line of scrimmage. The amazing stand was complete. 
The Eagles and their fans, for all their posturing about the growing rivalry between the two teams, dropped to a measly 3-6 on the year and 2-7 against Notre Dame in the last IO years, (includingfourstraightlosses). The Irish left Boston that Saturday 7-1, three wins away from entering January as a top-10 team playing in a major bowl. 
"I don't know how we did it," said defen­sive lineman Brad Williams, "Itgoes all the way back to January and all the hard work we put in. It showed today that we have more heart than them. They played a great game, but we got it done at the end." After winning narrowly against Purdue, Army and now Boston College, the sense that someone was looking over the Irish perme­ated the team. "We definitely think that there's something special going on," Denson said. "Good teams find a way to win." 


Denson broke the career rushing record in 
Notre Dame's victory over Navy. 

otre Dame entered Jack Kent Cooke Stadium making a state­ment about the resurgence ofa dominating football program. 
They left the stadium making history. 
With a 30-0 victory over the Midship­men of Navy, Notre Dame recorded its first shutout in nearly two years, jumped into the top 10 for the first time since defeating Michigan and improved · its record to 8-1. Yet the biggest story of the game was the record-setting performance by Irish tailback Autry Denson. Early in the second quarter, Denson broke Allen Pinkett's Notre Dame record for the most yards rushing i,n a career. 
At the end~of a game in which he rushed for 107 yards, Autry had a career total of 4,192 yards rushing. The 100-yard rushing performance also broke Pinkett's record of twenty one 100::.yard games. 
"I told our team to let it sink in for a while that this is the all-time leading rusher at Notre Dame," Davie said. "That's a pretty big statement." 
Denson did not realize he had the record until someone informed him on the side­lines. After that, Denson proceeded to thank each offensive lineman. "I congratulated them all," Denson said. "The greatest thing about this record is it's a team goal. Only because of the team do.J have it." 
Denson may have stolen the show, but Notre Dame's defense also made a huge statement in shutting down the nation's lead­ing rushing offense. Navy rushed for only 137 yards, fumbled six times and commit­ted four turnovers. Quarterback Brian 
by Tom Repetto 


said, "especially a Wishbone team." 
The Irish started out well on offense, too. After Notre Dame and Navy both opened with unsuccessful drives, Notre Dame drove 63 yards on 13 plays to lead 7-0 in the first 
N A V ~ y 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


A PACKED HOUSE. Head Coach Bob Davie and players (from left to right) Jamie Spencer, Grant Irons and Raki Nelson rush onto the field at Jack Kent Cooke Stadium. The contest between Notre Dame and Navy was the first sellout at the two-year-old stadium. 
1!I I  quarter. Jarious Jackson completed passes  
to Joey Getherall, and fullback JamieSpen­ 
cerran the ball with authority. On third-and­ 
eight, Jackson made a screen pass to Spen­ 
cer, who rumbled away for 10 yards and a  
first down. Spencer capped off the drive  
with a 4-yard touchdown run, his second of  
the year.  
Penalties hurt the Irish in the scoring  
drive and throughout the game. The team  
was penalized nine times for 87 yards, many  
of the calls going against the offensive line  
for holding. "It got ridiculous there," senior  
32  SCHOLASTIC  
MAGAZINE  

tackle Mike Rosenthal said. "They were all called by one official. Sometimes they let you play. Tonight, they weren't letting us play." 
In the second quarter, the Irish marched on another long scoring drive. Early in the drive, Autry Denson made his record-break­ing run, a short draw that gained a few yards where most other backs would have been stopped behind the line ofscrimmage. After penalties pushed Notre Dame back to its own nine yard-line, Jarious Jackson ran 33 yards to pick up a critical first down. The Irish offense continued to march down the field behind Denson' s rushing.Jackson com­pleted a pass to Malcolm Johnson, putting the offense in the red zone. Soon after, Denson finished off the long drive with an 8-yard scoring run that made the score 14-0. 
Before halftime, Navy' started to show signs of desperation. Broadwater pitched the ball to wingback Steve Holley on a reverse, and Holley tossed the ball downfield for a 14-yard trick play. Navy's drive was stopped, however, when on fourth down, senior Benny Guilbeaux made a spectacular 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
one-handed interception. Navy's closest scoring chance the entire game was a sec­ond-quarter drive that ended in a missed field goal from 39 yards out. 
Irish quarterback Jarious Jackson contin­ued to provide consistently good play at the quarterback position. He completed his first 12 passes, two shy ofthe Notre Damerecord for consecutive passes completed. Against the third-worst passing defense in Division I-A, Jackson passed for 159 yards and a touchdown while rushing for 61 more yards. Regarding the 12 straight completions, Jack­son said, "I was so wrapped up in what was going on that I didn't notice there were so many in a row. I just wanted to keep the offense moving." 
After halftime, Notre Dame continued the third-qu·arter dominance that had been one ofthe hallmarks ofthe 1998 squad. Ten minutes into the half, the offense went 62 yards on seven plays. Raki Nelson caught an 18-yard pass from Jackson which brought the Irish to the Navy 18-yard line. On the next play, Denson ran 18 yards for his second touchdown of the game, and the Irish led 20 to Owhen the extra point sailed wide right. 
Later in the quarter, Navy was forced to punt the ball away. Getherall received the punt and ran 68 yards before beingtackled at the Navy 20. Getherall's longest punt return of the season set the Irish up for a quick scoring drive as Jackson connected with Johnson on a 16-yard touchdown pass. 
The linebacking core was especially 

dominant against Navy's offense. Bobbie 
Howard continued to play well as he led the 
team with nine tackles. Kory Minor added 
five tackles, including one for a loss. 
Grant Irons' forced fumble with three 

minutes left in the first half was a big play 
in maintaining the Irish momentum. It was 
also a big play for Irons, who has missed the 
last three games due to an injured nerve in 
his shoulder. "Iwas determined to get back," 
Irons said. "I wanted to be a part of this, 
especially with our defense really coming 
on." 
"I give credit to Coach Mattison for our 

defensive showing," said defensive tackle 
Brad Williams. "He had us lined up right in 
the proper schemes. This was definitely 
one of our better games." 
Mattison gave the credit to his players. 

"Theydid what the coaches told them to do, 
what we taught them to do," he said. "I'm 
proud of these kids." 
The victory was Notre Dame's 35th con­

secutive win over Navy, the longest such 
streakinNCAAhistory. After 1997's close 
victory by the Irish, Navy coach Charlie 
Weatherbie was thoroughly impressed with 
this year's Notre Dame squad. "This was 
the best team we have played all year," 
Weatherbie said. "They are playing with a .. · different.attitude this year." · 
With the historical feats and stellar plays, 

Notre Dame moved itself closer to a major 
bowl game., Ranked 10th in the AP, ESPN 
"I told our team to let it sink in for a while that this is the all-time leading rusher at Notre Dame. That's a pretty 
big statement." 
With the score 27-0 going into the final quarter, Notre Dame was en route to a significant victory. 
The defense held Navy scoreless for one more quarteras the Irish won 30-0. The Irish defense was especially impressive on fourth downs, as Notre Dame stopped Navy on three pivotal fourth down plays. Guilbeaux' s interception in the first lialf and linebacker Jimmy Friday's fourth-down tackle mid­way through the third quarter gave the Irish defense the momentum that helped com­plete the shutout. 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 


-Bob Davie 

and the all-important BCS rankings, Notre Dame put itself in prime position to go to a major postseason game for the first time since it lost to Florida State in the 1996 Orange Bowl. However, games against LSD and USC would test the strength of the team. 
This game could be remembered for the . dominating Irish defense and their over­whelming victory. But mostly, it will be remembered as the game in which the most prolific rusher in Notre Damehistory etched his name in the record books. D 
:::$~ 
{~;':,
.:.)~ 
',:'-',
~'-::~ 
·~',-<:_ 
; ~:•,'' 

\tt~;i\,:;,,··:,·,·,,-,;,c:i" 'Ws'-': 

The Irish came away with a big win and a big loss 
There were tears in the Notre Dame locker room following the thrilling 39-36 victory over the LSD Tigers. 
One could say tears ofjoy were in order. It was the final home game of many players' careers, the culmination of the first unde­feated home season since 1989, another notch in an eight-game winning streak and a victory in a game with three defensive touchdowns, three missed field goals and four failed extra points. The tears, however, were tears of sadness. In a game where th~ Irish rallied from a late'34-20 deficit, they lost the services ofquarterbackJarious Jack­son. The senior dropped back to take a safety while running down the clock ·when he injured his knee. So many things went right in the game for the Irish, including two 

l s u 
34 SCHOLASTIC 1998. FOOTBALL REVIEW 
MAGAZINE 
touchdowns by the defense,·a career day for Jackson and a last-minute offensive drive. But it's the tragic play that occurred with a mere three seconds left that Irish fans will remember. 
Things didn't start off well for the Irish, either. In the opening drive of the game, Jackson's first pass attempt was picked off by LSU safety Mark Roman andretumed53 yards for a touchdown. "We had practiced the coverage. I broke on the ball and it was there and I was able to make the play," Roman said. Despite the setback, Jackson stormed back. He drove the Irish down and with 9:53 left in the first quarter pitched to freshman David Givens on the option right. Givens finished thejob with a 22-yard scam­per into the ,endzone. 
LSU started off the second quarter by scoring a touchdown after 27 seconds. A six-minute drive ended when All-American running back Kevin Faulk scored from one yard. The extra point was blocked and the Irish were down by six. But on the following possession the team was forced to punt, the defense making the next touchdown for the Irish. Faulk fumbled on the ensuing drive and senior rush end Lamont Bryant ran the ball 13 yards for a touchdown. The Irish grabbed their first lead on Jim Sanson's particular quarterback Tyler and wide re­ceiver Abram Booty. 

Just 1:28 after Denson's score, Tyler con­nected with Booty for a 27-yard touchdown pass, but again the kick failed. Tyler and Booty then struck again. A mere two min­utes later, an 18-yard pass (and a rare con­verted point-after attempt) sent the Tigers up by a score of34-20. The 14-pointmargin with just a quarter-and-a-half left against a tough SEC defense nearly put the game out of reach. But the Irish fought back. 
The third quarter scoring closed with an Irish touchdown. Jackson led a quick 78­yard drive down the field which culminated in an eight-yard pass to wide receiver Malcolm Johnson for six points. Johnson capped off his banner fifth year by becom­ing the first Irish wide receiver to score in six successive games. More importantly, the score put the Irish down by seven as the fourth quarter began. 
The final quarter of the last home game of the season proved to be one of the most exciting in recent history. The Tigers started by driving methodically downfield. They were on their way to another score, inside the Irish red zone, when Irish linebacker Bobbie Howard picked off a Tyler pass and ran it 89 yards for a touchdown. The return by Howard was the longest interception return fora touchdown since 1975. "I was in the right place at the right time," Howard said. "I have to thank Tony Driver for his block on Herb Tyler. Without the block, I probably would have not made it to the endzone." Sanson missed the extra point, though, and the Irish were down by one. 
On the ensuing drive, the Tigers threat­ened again. The Irish defense stiffened, and LSU was stopped at the Irish 35. Jackson took over and marched down the field with runs of 14 and 12 yards and completions of 24 and 17 yards. With less than two minutes left, the Irish were inside the LSU red zone. On a third and six from the 10, Jackson dropped back and hit Raki Nelson on the game-winning touchdown with just 1:27 left in the game. "Every week, ie·s a new player who makes big plays," the wide receiver said. This week it happened to be Nelson, who was recuperating from an early season ankle injury. The two-point conver­sion failed but the Irish were up 39-34. The lead would stick. 
After losing quarterback Tyler to a pulled left hamstring, the Tigers were forced to play their last drive with back-up Craig 
extra point but it proved to be short-lived. 
On the following kickoff, Faulk showed why he is regarded as one of the best foot­ball players in the country. In an awesome display of speed, he ran through the kickoff team for an 88-yard touchdown. It was the first kickoff return for a score against a Notre Dame team since 1977. When asked about his mindset immediately following the fumble and right before the return, he said, "I was thinking the same things as I always do. I'm not the type of person to get down on myself. I want the ball and I know when I get it I can make the play." To compensate for the failed PAT, the Tigers went for two and quarterback Herb Tyler ran itsuccessfully. These were the lastpoints of the half, with the Irish down by seven. 
"We had trouble stopping LSU in the first half," Coach Bob Davie said. "We moved the ball but didn't take advantage of our opportunities. We told the team not to panic after we got down. I was really proud ofhow we came back after the opening touchdown." 
The third quarter saw each team gain 13 points. The Irish struck first when senior tailback Autry Denson capped off a drive with a three-yard run into the endzone. The kick by Sanson, however, failed. The next couple ofminutes belonged to the Tigers, in 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 


Something ·fishy·. 
Dbspitethe number of nail-bHersth~ football team played this sea~on,Notre Dame stu_dents proved they neede1 yet anqther way toentertain themselves during games. It's • common knowledge thatseniorshaveJoµg heldatradition ofthrowingmarsluriallows 
. ateach other_ acrossthe studentsection during halftime 1n a harmless manner. But this season thetradition took atum for thedisgusting. _.-_ _·-. · _· . _· < _ ___·-•·· ..•· _Several games infotlie ·season students beganhurling deadanimals~ includingafish;. an octopus :and a frog.The.frog report~dly la_c~rated tJ;te face ofa rn-yeru:-old girl and :flhother non-studerlt _suffered a faciai contusion .in_ the_ fray.]3ut the-·most serious .• probleIUs were caused; by students trying to iun _from the flying objects,whicJ;t: also _·. 
... inducleq cans,arid ~arshmallciws.• weighted With pennies and golftees. ,;People were .. ju,st jµmping otf.the staI1dsout of1he way, \Vhich_is a very serioussafety hazard/' said Chuck Hudey,-assistant dtrector ofNotre DameSecurity/Police.. ·• .. .. 
·.• This i,yasnbt th,efiJ:§t time securitytookaninterest inthe actions ofoverlyenthusiasti9 ·.-.• fans thi~ s_eaSOJ:1._ In Septernber tile c1lcol;tolcomn1ittee. oftheCainpus Life CotincHbegan 
examining.:theJootbalLticket distribution system. The investigation. ru:ose _from con,> . cerns .~x:press.e~bttJ;te.at.'1leti9 depart111e1:1tand.cainpt1s security oyer alcoholconsu111p~ ·_ · (ti9nandthe.s~fety of shident_s. duringthej a.rn.rush,y1hen people began dangerbusly · crnwdirig the ticketwindow, _.. ••• ._. ___ ._.. _ : < < ·. _.. __.· _·_ -·--. __ ·. _____ ·___ .___ ·_... _. •...._·· Follo\Viilg the. Bayl9r ga111e,.t,J;teadministrati6r1 stepped up prev~ntative'. mea~rires,·_·• __fC>rcing studer1~s toe11terthe.stadi~Il1-forthe LSUgamethrdugh Pate:E and performing•_· )earches. f9r.sontrab~u1d.. 'fheuniversity _threatened to corifisbate -theti.ckets _ofanyone· ·.·caughtinth.e a~t; \Varningtllat theyn1ighthaveto.forfeitalunmiticketpdvileges as \Ven, 
._...... 'fh~tpre~ts_.\Verea~eff~c,tivet~mpCJrary.solutiona11dthe punishments v,,eie: neyer enacte~, since·mosfstµde11ts· showed up at thf~SlJ game empty-harided: •~uto_necan .·_. ;orily.'VCJ_nder whatfhose cra,zy lq.dswillC()lll~ up with, ne?Ct.yea.r. . , , ..• 

., Allison Fashek ' 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
-~OR~IE BELL 

FAULK ATTACK. LSU's Kevin Faulk finished the day with 108 yards on the ground and an 88-yard kickoff return for a touchdown. · · 
Nall. He drove LSU deep into Irish terri­safety. "What we really wanted Jarious to tory, but was unable to come up with any do was go to the end line, use as much time, points. On third down, Nall nearly con­and hopefully the game would be over," nected with Booty in the endzone but the Davie s·aid. "But... because we actuaily had ball fell incomplete. "Craig threw a great _ someone who didn't line up correctly, we pass," Booty said. "It was supposed to be a weren't able to do that. It was unfortunate. post route. It went off the tip ofmy fingers. In my mind it wasn't so much the plan as it I just wasn't able to bring it in." On fourth was the execution." Jackson ran off five down from the 31 with eight yards to go for · seconds and took a safety but was badly a first down, Nall threw an incomplete pass injured in the process. He departed, not under immense pressure from freshman knowing that he had a tom MCL and would lineman Anthony Weaver. "It's the way be out nearly a month. the team plays," Weaver said. "We play The Irish were up 39-36 and had a free until the end ofthe game." With 25 seconds kick. Senior Hunter Smith squibbed the left, Notre Dame got the ball back. With kick and the Tigers pounced on it. Nall less than half a minute left and the Irish up threw a "Hail Mary" pass with no time on by five, the game seemed to be over. the clock from the Irish 46 that fell incom­
Davie determined that the risk ofa fumble plete, sealing the victory. 
was too great to try a hand-off, so for three On paper the game seemed perfect. 
consecutive plays he had Jackson take a Denson rushed for. 80 yards. The defense 
knee. Each time, LSU responded with an held Faulk to just 108 yards on 31 carries. 
immediate timeout, the last coming with But it was Jackson who was most impres­
eight seconds to play. Davie's plan was sive with a career-high 276 yards passing. 
that Jackson would take the snap and use as His career day included eight-of-10 passing 
much time as possible while taking a safety. on third down for 184 yards and he also ran 
"I was supposed to run out ofthe endzone," for 80 yards on 21 carries. Jackson engi­
Jackson said. "But I looked up for one neered the game-winning fourth quarter 
second to see where everybody was com­drive that sealed the victory. It was a banner 
ing from, and a guy just pretty much day for the senior, who rose to the challenge 
blindsided me. He ... hit me down on my against a fast and furious SEC defense. But 
knee at an angle." The hit was made by two it ended with torn ligaments and an uncer­
defenders, Arnold Miller, a senior line­tain future for an Irish offense that had a date 
backer, and Clarence LeBlanc, a strong with archrival USC just seven days away. . 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 



··.}/\·~:;,
' -,, ::c
-•a
--"'1 
.q 
>--00 
<:<55 
1

::_~....~ ....,.._v~ ~~~:t;*°O~''f~'v.r.l,f.V'o~-:,~~-~:=;~>~/(~!~f:_:'";11(,t\~:.°l;,~~f'.~{~~~~~;~~~;~i.~'f'::/l_~f/J{ ~:;·~~~!~!<~ 
. H {tR'0'i.lAN:BA:T;'rl1E¥Back1i.f ·'·~uarferback:Arnaz-~Battief(abc>ve ,"''"-lo' ,;ff 'f.;aJso'
'} :,,<-c-:;,i~ (,".,:'v-,~?'~~-1· ~•·-1 • ~ .•~'.{/,~ -1~, ),..,,t .,~';[1.",,,~ ......,..:.,_...,P,.,.,q,. '• •,);,•,,•~.'t,,f _. '~ , I ;:_ •. ~:• • ,.. .'! ,:::-;~-,;, fr' ;..:~l ~~ . ,'Jf'f~:,r~':f. ••.:-~,;.·.•,'71" ' 
Jki~~tHr~"YJ>..tU.tfilftlJID.9.[!§.lW].;J.12,st'a'gl!~~JL~a.~!!f,flft11_1jle5J!):{Q)Yer'lh ,._ @.rt~ts.:.~..PJ.!!Y·i'-:,D:H±-1 

;......._•.---;-_._-_] or all intents and purposes, the -= outcome ofNotre Dame's season d finale against traditional rival Southern California and, ulti­mately, any hope of a Bowl Championship bid, was decided a week earlier in the south endzone of Notre Dame Stadium. Bob Davie's unique approach to running out the clock versus LSU, regardless of its intent, failed miserably. Under orders to kill the remaining eight seconds left in the game by running around, in the endzone before step­ping out ofbounds for a safety, quarterback Jarious Jackson was senselessly left in a position to be blindsided by a Tiger de­fender while trying to follow his coach's directions. Instead ofbasking in the glow of his classmates final horrie victory, the infa­mous torn MCL forced the invaluable se­nior to limp through the tu'nnel to the locker room. The triumphant cheers in a raucous crowd quickly gave way to a foreboding silence. In the week leading up to the game that 
u 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

would determine the 9-1 Irish' s postseason destination, the team's worst fears became reality.Jackson was lost for at least a month, and any hopes of a win on the west coast rested on the inexperienced shoulders of quarterbacks Amaz Battle and Eric Chappell, who had thrown a grand total of one pass each in their careers. It didn't take an expert to forecast problems on the horizon for the Irish. Common sense dictates that the Tro­jans would stack nine defenders in the box, stifling Notre Dame's running game and daring the green arms of a third-string jun­ior and a freshman (sporting a newly healed broken collarbone) to beat them. Without their field general, the 9-1 Irish found them­selves nine-and-a-half point underdogs to the 7-4 home team. 
Though Notre Dame battled the odds in nearly every contest on the slate and had emerged victorious nine of 10 times, this game was different. No one had ever ac­cused this bunch of being a dominating force. Leadership, heart and togetherness 
>\ >JJ;) ,-. ~7 
\ -I_ C­
\ \'._-_ I < 

Irish losses 
were too great to overcome 
by Corey Spinelli 
played as important a role.as raw talent did 
in their success. More importantly, the of­
fense simply depended on Jackson as a two­
way threat due to his mobility, strong arm 
and accuracy, to constantly keep defenses 
on their heels. Winning without his pres­
ence would require 60 minutes of outstand­
ing defense and the Irish quarterbacks to 
complete passes down the field to open up 
the running game. It didn't happen. 
The Notre Dame defense left everything it had on the field, holding the Trojan of­fense, which enjoyed favorable .field posi­tion throughout the game, to only 10 points. They allowed just 314 yards on7 4 plays and caused two turnovers. It just wasn'tenough, as Battle and Chappell weren't ready to play in a road game with such large implications. The duo threw four interceptions and com­pleted just seven passes in 22 attempts. · Chappell, who started the game because, as a junior, he had 24 more months than Battle to acclimate himself with the Irish system and the college game, threw two picks in his 
r
~ 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 



first three attempts, and was promptly yanked in favor of the highly-touted fresh­man. The Irish didn't complete a pass until under five minutes were left in the third quarter. After the final zero flashed on the clock, the Trojan defense pitched the first shutout of an Irish squad since 1987, when a 10th-ranked Irish team dropped a 24-0 decision to the number-two Miami Hurri­canes in the Orange Bowl. 
In the first half, Greg Mattison's troops stopped Southern Cal quarterback Carson Palmer and his teammates on all seven of their possessions. On the Trojan's first pos­session, freshman phenom Tony Weaver blasted through the line to dump tailback Petros Papadakis for a loss on fourth-and­one from the Irish 


43. Two of Chap­pell' s only three throws headed di­rectly into coverage and landed squarely in the numbers of USC defenders, but the Notre Dame de­fense came up with two huge stops on both Trojan posses­sions. The first started at the Irish 24, but was thwarted by a Lamont Bryant 

l 
l sack that pushed the USC offense back 
I to the 30 and ended when Adam Abrams missed a 47-yard field goal. The crew from the Coliseum then marched to the Irish 29, only to commit a false start on a fourth-and-two that forced a punt. On the Trojans' next possession, South-~ em Cal pushed to ~ the Notre Dame 28, ~ only to falter cour-w ~ tesyofaJimmyFri-~ day sack and a Ty ~ Goode interception. ~ Since television re-~ plays failed to iden-~ tify the culprit, a ~ 


• a:
seemmglyphantom 5 block in the back g
..... call negated~
a. 
38 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
Goode's lengthy return that would have set the Irish offense up inside the USC 15. 
A more costly blown call then prevented Notre Dame from their best scoring oppor­tunity of the night. After an A'Jani Sanders blitz forced Palmer to rush a pass that line­backer Kory Minor intercepted and returned to the Trojan 14, the Irish appeared primed to break the scoreless deadlock. In Battle's first series of the game, the freshman faced a second-and-12 from the 16, made a strong run on an option play and carried two USC defenders with him past the first down marker to the three-yard line. Without the benefit of instant replay, the naked eye could see that Battle's knees were clearly down before the ball was wrenched from his hands on a hit by linebacker Zeke Moreno. Instead offirst-and-goal from nine feet out, however, the officials incorrectly ruled that number three lost control of the football before his knees hit the grass. The mistaken call turned the ball over to the Trojans at their 29 and the first half ended as it had begun, 0-0. 

The Irish's third quarter domination dur­ing the bulk ofthe season slowed in the LSU game and ended in the Coliseum. After outscoring their opponents by an astound­ing 81-3 in their first nine games, the Tigers put 13 on the board in the third and the Trojans posted their eventual total of10 in that quarter. Joey Getherall returned the second-half kickoff to the Southern Cal 40, but after three plays the Irish lost five yards and a 42-yard Hunter Smith punt gave first­year coach Paul Hackett's team the ball at their own two. Any momentum that Getherall' s return had given the Irish quickly evaporated when Palmer found standout receiver R. Jay Soward on third-and-10 from the two for a 44-yard pickup. They didn't score on that possession but, after forcing the stagnant Irish offense three-and­out, USC started their lone touchdown scor,. ing drive at the Trojan 36. The 5 play, 64­yard jaunt opened with a 25-yard pass to Soward and followed with Chad Morton carries of 11 and 21 yards before Palmer took itin on a naked bootleg from two yards out. After Notre Dame punted after three 
plays for the third straight time in the quar­ter (the offense amassed a total ofzero yards on these possessions), the Trojans began their second scoring possession at the Irish 
42. A pass interference call and a 19-yard Morton run later; Southern Cal enjoyed a first-and-goal from the visitors' eight. The defense again stiffen~d, and USC had. to settle for a 23-yardAbrams kick that, with 
5:04 left in the third quarter, would be the . game's final score. 
Notre Dame's defense held the Trojans on all four of their fourth quarter posses­sions, but the offense just could not answer the bell. Jim Colletto's unit gained 157 of their 214 yards in the final 20 minutes, but 
1998 FOOTBALL· REVIEW 

two ArnazBattleinterceptions and two tum:.. overs on downs sealed the Irish's fate. 
The magical run of eight games ended that night on a wet field under a cloudy sky far from South Bend. It ended helplessly, under circumstances that shoul~n't have been. The team played hard and the defense played more than well enough to win. But 




~f;~~~;~@~:~ 
seven men (the offensive line, tight end and fullbac~) cannot _block ~ine defenders. ,'.:7.'.;,:>::-1 ·use lrs:~>LY 

up~:~!:~r::g~~~;~.~::~!~~;;::: ·}({\:\}{;::!/{} ··:'r\4t~§l~~ii\f}};._;:._.::-:: ..... :··::}t\ 
: ND 217 i 
, .,f.1 .. • •, 




ROCODILE E A H s 


Georgia Tech's squad outran an Irish : i ; ' rally in the second· half 
M 
by Patrick Downes 
I

I , 
ichael Jordan has repeat­jerseys for the game -the first time they Fiesta Bowl) have muted any psychological edly proven that it's notthe have done so in four years -and lost in advantage that the green jerseys might have 
• I 
. I shoes. And after facing Jacksonville, Fla., 35-28 . provided. According to Head Coach Bob 
Georgia Tech in the Gator Despite several emotional big-game vic­him, some seniors, including Jarious Jack­
Bowl, the Irish have proven that it's not the tories with the jerseys, two consecutive son.and Autry Denson, had asked Davie for 
shirts, either. Notre Dame donned green green-clad losses (the other in the 1995 the opportunity to wear them. "It was about 



::;; 
::::,
_, 
<( 
0 
>z 
w 
~ 
I 
IJJ 
i!: 
u. 
0 >­
en 
w 
Ii: 
::::, 0 
0 
~ 
I 
n. 


RUNNING AWAY WITH IT. Even with their rarely-worn green jerseys, in the end, Notre Dame proved too slow for Dez White and the Ramblin' Wreck's speedy offense. · 

G • A • T • 0 • R B • 0 • w• L 
40 SCHOLASTIC 1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
MAGAZINE 

-
a bunch of seniors who wanted to do it and hadn't had a chance to do it," said Davie. "I'd make the same decision again because of these kids." 
Whatever the intention, the jerseys (with a little help from some inspired second-half offensive play) almost saw another luck-of­the-Irish comeback. 
Down 21-7 at the half, Notre Dame ­and senior tailback Autry Denson -came out charging. Denson, Notre Dame's all­time leading rusher, scored three touch­downs and amassed 130 yards at the Gator Bowl, gaining 59 of those yards (and one touchdown) on the opening drive of the second half. The Irish started the half on their own 20-yard line, and Denson imme­diately rumbled for a 19-yard gain. He fol­lowed that run with rushes of3, 11,5 and 15. Quarterback Jackson completed an eight­yard pass to Malcolm Johnson and added two nine-yard runs ofhis own before Denson finished the drive with a one-yard touch­down. 
And the spark was not extinguished. Geor­gia Tech senior Kofi Smith caught the ensu­ing kickoff but sophomore Tony Driver snatched the ball out of his arms, putting Notre Dame at Tech's 26-yard line. Three plays later the Irish sat on second and three from the four-yard line. Here the Yellow Jacket defense held tight -for a little while. It took five more plays (including a fourth-down conversion) for Jackson to score on a 2-yard option scamper. Smith would make up for his earlier mistake by blocking the point-after attempt, keeping the Irish one point behind, 
Georgia Tech gathered some momentum from the errorfor its next drive. With their typical offensive efficiency, the Yellow Jackets marched to the Notre Dame 38, when a sack by senior linebacker Bobbie Howard set them back to the 44. Undaunted, Georgia Tech quarterback Joe Hamilton unloaded on the next play and hit Jackson­ville native Dez White for a 44-yard touch­down pass. The extra point was good, and the Ramblin' Wreck was up 28 to 20. 
The Ii;ish were not finished, though.Jack­son and the offense responded with a poise that typified their critica_l late-game drives throughout the season. Despite a poor field position after the kickoff, Denson' s 15-yard rush on the second play began the drive with authority. 
A pass to junior tight end Jabari Holloway, an eight-yard quarterback draw and a 27­yard toss to junior split end Jay Johnson put the Irish at the Georgia Tech 28. Here the 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

Yell ow Jacket defense held the Irish to fourth down, and forced an incomplete pass. But when a Georgia Tech defensive line­man flipped Jackson off ofhis back after the play, a personal foul gave the Irish 15 yards, a first down and a chance to stay in the game. Georgia Tech Head Coach George O'Leary was livid at the penalty. "I can understand why he [the referee] called it," said the coach, "just not at that time." The Irish took advantage of the penalty -and tied the game -with a 1-yard touchdown run by Denson and a two-point conversion pass completed right down the middle to senior receiver Bobby Brown. 
But the shootout continued on the very next drive. Gator Bowl Co-MVP Joe Hamilton hit the other MVP, Dez White, for a 55-yard touchdown strike-his second of the day. These were the final points of the afternoon. "When you give up big plays and allow teams to drive on you, you're not go1ng to win games," said Davie. He added, "At some point you have to stop them. We just never did." 
Though the Irish made a game ofit in the second half, the first was another story. Georgia Tech's team speed and an offense that changed formations constantly kept the Irish defense off guard. "It was kind of like hitting a knuckleball," said Davie of the Ramblin' Wreck's dizzying array of offen­sive formations. 
After trading punts to start the game, Georgia Tech got the scoring started with an 87-yard drive that included a healthy mix of passing (four passes, 59 yards) and rushing (seven rushes, 28 yards). The Irish answered that drive with a 33-yard strike to Brown and four rushes, two to fullback Jamie Spen­cer and two to Denson, who scored from nine yards out. 
The rest of the half belonged to Georgia Tech. Two drawn-out 10 play drives left the Irish down 21 to 7. Offensively the Irish also struggled in the first half. Jackson's knee, injured at the end of the LSU game, was clearly not 100 percent, as the quarterback often avoided running the ball and suffered two first-half sacks. 
Davie couldn't help being disappointed at the loss. "This game is particularly tough because . . . these seniors will leave here without having [won 10 games] and without having won a bowl game," he said. 
But the coach was grateful for the seniors' contribution. "They [ the seniors] are part of this foundation that I think we have. Even though they are not going to be here, they 're going to be a part of it," he said. D 
' . 
• • i. 


42 SCHOLASTIC 1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
MAGAZINE 


"There has never been a group of young men who have represented this university, who have shown more heart, more dedication, who have worked harder, who have been more successful and will continue to be successful as they move 
Johri Cel'asa'ni:·hlocking oriented tight-. end clismissecl from th~ university after his · . 1,ophoinore· season, now plays under Gary Barnett at Northwestern. 
, Autry.'.benson: N:otre·Dame's franchise , · · .· . · ..·. · ·. . .· . playerforthreeyears.APSecondTeamAll~:<I riJaebru~ry of199~,these 25 l1igluchool seniorssign~d)e,ttefs .. American il1'98: With 4;318yards, is the,all-timeleadingrusher 
•·. . .. bofecina.mt~ne_.~otf.~thp..el.. a.g}r·o·.fiuo.~.·,Ntoo.utt1e·ed.Dbya1mn.ea:.•.nHye·r.::~.s.~in.brgi.e.:nlao.ty·k.s_t_J!:.!.:.: .in thehistory of the schooL Enough said: . . . . . 
r, JimrnyFf:iday: tw·o~year starter led Irisliwith 105 tackles last Qfthe,greatest hauls',iri modern.college footbaUhistory. ·.·· . . seascm andfinished:with 78 this year. Made unforgettable goal ·. •··.. BobbyBro:wn: two-year start~r, ied Irish in·teceptionsin '97 . line hit on fylike Cloud to help preserve· '98 victory over BC: wlth-'45 for 543 yards ahd six touchdowns, followed with. 13 Benny Guilbeaux: heady, physicalsafety who helped stabilize. catchesfor 286yarclsand one score this year in Notre Dame's more the Irish secoridary in his three years as starter. Made 172tackles· nin~oriented attack~ Eligible for fifth year. . . in career and led No_tre Dame in interc.eptions in both his sopho~ 
L'anfont Bryatit: t\Vo~ye.ar starter; aggressive pass rusher has· more and junior seasons before a torn MCL llgaiiist Michigan. , tallied 146tackles,·13 tackles for iosses ~nd 6.5 sacksin his career; State shortened his senior campaign by five gam~s. . ... '.Eligible for fifth year.. · ·· · · ·· · · 
.• .. . ·. . ...·. · c_ontimied 011 next page 

ook in any of the gameday programs sold outside the Stadium on football Saturdays and you will see this year's seniors cast in an ugly light. The group whose efforts have received nothing but praise from men like Father Malloy to George Steinbrenner have less-than-flattering head shots inside. The pictures were taken in August of 1996 and feature 
the freshly shaved heads of most of the 23 rookies who had just arrived in South Bend. Oddly enough, the act symbolized the beginning ofthe bonds of friendship that, four years later, are now unbreakable. 
"We knew that the seniors were going to do it eventually, so we just did it ourselves," fullback Jamie Spencer says. Coach Lou Holtz had decided to move the Irish's fall camp to Culver Military Academy, and workouts were grueling. These weeks served as the first of many trying times that the heavily lauded recruiting class would endure in their years at Notre Dame. "We had to stick 
forward." 

together as a class, because, being freshmen, we were at the bottom rungs of the ladder," Spencer says. "It might seem weird, but we gelled together instantly, and even though we came in from all over the country, it was as if we had known each other for a lbng time. We leaned on each other, learned together and suffered together during that time, and decided that no matter what happened in the 
Rev. E. William Beauchamp c.s.c. 
action that season, but those that did made an immediate impact. Kory Minor started every game, Hunter Smith handled the punting duties, Bobbie Howard successfully filled in at linebacker in only the second game of the season and a newly-converted tailback named Autry Denson showed flashes ofbrilliance with the football in his hands. 
future, we'd always be there for each other." 
The pact would serve them well during their often tumultuous stay under the gaze ofthe hottest spotlight in college sports. The '95 freshman unit included multiple USA Today First-Team All Ameri­cans, and every member of the group arrived with suitcases full of accolades. This was the group that was supposed to bring Holtz his second official national championship. In their four years, how­ever, the team would never escape a September undefeated and they would lose Lou Holtz, the man who recruited them, after only three semesters. How they dealt with losses both on and offthe field, how they endured a season with six losses and how they rededicated themselves and found success in their final year is what enabled each one of the remaining members of the Class of '99 to trium­phantly walk off their home turf for the last time with their golden helmets held high. 
In '95, a veteran-laden squad led the Irish through a 9-2 regular season and into the Orange Bowl. Few members of the class saw 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

In '96expectations were high, butan early season loss to the Ohio State Buckeyes thwarted any title hopes before the leaves had even fallen from the trees on campus. An embarrassing loss in the stadium to Air Force and a collapse in the Coliseum against Southern Cal ended the season before December. The Irish finished 8-3, and instead of playing in a major bowl, stayed home for the holidays. Even more damaging to the psyche of the then-sopho­more class was the departure ofthe man many ofthem had come to Notre Dame to play for. "CoachHoltz was the main reason we came here," Spencer says. "We saw a stable situation at the top and a program that had been extremely successful for his entire career. He drew us close to him, and made better players and better people out of all of us." 
The question ofhow to deal with the shakeup in the coaching department was foremost on the minds of the players as they returned from Christmas break. Rumors of multiple transfers per­meated the campus. "We all got together and talked about what to do," Spencer says. "A few players pointed out the fact that we had unfinished business to take care of, and everyone agreed that we'd remain here as a class and stick it out." 
The 7-6 season that followed under the first year ofBob Davie's reign resulted from a variety offactors. Adapting to anew coaching staff, key injuries at crucial positions, a glaring lack ofcontributors in the '98 senior class and an ·early season aversion to establishing the running game resulted in a shocking 1-4 start. Notre Dame would win six ofits final eight to set a foundation for the following season. 
"We realized that this was now our last shot at achieving our goals," Spencer says. "People were pointing a lot offingers at why we didn't win in '98, but it ultimately came down to us putting in gthe work and going out and doing the job on the football field. We ~ recommitted ourselves all o"."er again and followed Coach Marotti' s Ill strength program. The sky was the limit to what we could achieve 
r-, 
·"' ,... so we all put in the maximum hours in the off-season to prepare us 
ROSIE. Mike Rosenthal, Rosie to his friends and 
for the fall." · 

teammates, will likely exit the tunnels of NFL stadiums 
As if the losses in their junior year weren't bad enough, their 
next year. · 

program was pelted with criticism from all over the country as they 


prepared to battle the defending· national champion Michigan Wolverines in their home opener. An age discrimination suit brought against Davie and the university by former offensive line coach Joe Moore made the program's dirty laundry public. Then, a convict named Kim Dunbar was linked to the program and charged with giving valuable gifts to a number of!rish players, both former and current. 
With 15 seniors slated as starters as the season opened, it was readily apparent that th~ success of the '98 Fighting Irish rested squarely on the collective shoulders of the class with the great expectations. In their first chance to display their determination to the country, they shocked everyone but themselves and trounced the Maize and Blue. "We worked too long and hard in the off-season not to succeed,". Spencer says. "Everyone had assumed that the summer incidents had bothered us, but that was never the case. We were clearly focused on our goals and expected to beat Michigan." 
Following a loss the next week in East Lansing, critics wondered ifa repeat of '97 was in store, when the Irish won their home opener, stumbled.the next week and droppedfrom the rankings not long after. The seniors would notlet it happen. Before Jarious Jackson's injury, the Irish won eight consecutive games, pulling them within one win of both the top 10 and a possible Bowl Championship bid. In other words, they returned Notre Dame to national prominence. 
"We had a successful season, exceeded expectations and laid the. foundation for the future," Spencer says. "Our freshman year, the starters left everything out on the field, and we did that this season." Their coach agrees. "These seniors were unselfish," Davie said. 
"They didn't concern themselves with personal recognition. They didn't worry about all-star teams, they didn't spend a whole lot of time thinking about the NFL draft or the combine. This is truly a special senior class, and a pleasure to be around." 
At the 79th annual football banquet, Executive Vice President Rev. E. William Beauchamp took Davie's sentiments a step further. "We have had 100-some football teams atNotreDame," Beauchamp said. "There have been national championships and seasons marked by greatness. But I can say that there has never been a group of young men who have represented this university, who have shown more heart, more dedication, who have worked harder, who have been more successful and will continue to be successful as they move forward." 
And how do the Irish seniors feel about their time spent wearing the Blue and Gold? "Admittedly, it is disappointing that we didn't win a national championship after all that we expected to achieve here," Spencer says. "But Notre Dame makes you a man, it teaches you how to be accountable for yourself. We all could have gone to the schools with the glitz and the glamour and an easier chance at a ring, but the ring doesn't do anything for you when you hit the real world. I'd rather go 9-3 with a degree and the experience of Notre Dame." 
"As for my teammates, I'll remember being around quality people every day," Spencer says. "I'll remember guys with genuine intentions, different personalities with the same goal in common. We always put the team first, and as a result, there is a bond there that is unbreakable." 0 
"We leaned on each other, learned tog-ether and suffered 
together during that time,. and decided that no matter what 
happened in the future, we'd always be there for each other." . -Jamie Spencer 
,,;,i~s.if:;)1(1',iM'#ei1ei:~dk~.Ju~tiineck;riJuriestlm(~u;J
· ~owns··~·1;li;;;,~}••gbi.;i;,.,~~;r~•~·;,
I·\::· · 'ally.plagued the offensive guard' ~t Notre Danie. .• ••. ·· ·. ·-:··.} . ., ·. . score infouigames\iftet'.Marc Eclw¥ds: klle'6iri}t:iryi.n,'Q6. Lou ­..> ..•·. ;Tim RidcJer;. top-notch ·offensive. lineman who staite.d' hli 11 ·.. · -'ffohz's depllrtutf dte~tiytfl~uced;his touch~s}~s he ~irrri~d only ,,g!llties and logg~d '2:35 'i:riiiiute(as),' senio1:, Played.in ey~ry griri'le ... · 78 tfoies iiihlifinal t~p years uridei"Jim Col_l_ettqJSt~ep all 12 
. ' '.for the Irish as aJuiiior arid;sophonioie, b~tlQ.m.inutes bfaction ·. .. a.' .. .. n .. "o·····r·c .. o'.<r· .••. .... s ·1·u·.•n·
.:,,_:.'.g ....:sm.h.easnao·.$0;~n•.;.~es:..t··.ei_r.h·•.·e·n<s''.· ·. .. ... ·e····•.·d:.·.:.:_•••t· ...e,·.·.·t••·u:'..\e·'.·.: ,a•.:f·.;te·:·r· ·hi· ..1'.:o·r·. -s..e·a•.s·o··.n;::•.. 
. ' ..•· . · .. as .a. fres.hmah>i'qbbet{liiin of a fifth,Y~itl' ofeligipiJity. ' . :·. ' .·· ' r l' 

:ti. .boosting}1is;tareei·tot'.n to~J33. Threfyear ~orifributor is eligible··.·: : ::'c:,J~Jin)yagn~~: :playedjusrtfp ~~;:a halfmituites ih.· four• ·L fo1; afiftlYyeai:; ·::; ': · _.,, : : .··. . <> ·. ·.··. ( · , .·.. -},;Y.~a:r~ ,~fter s~ffering a major lmee injury> _ . . . . . . . . ..·.· : t .·. ·Hunter ~mith: fohr-year punter alfohandled'kickoffs in '98. · ),, .JerryWisne: strong offensiye lineman played 580 minutes•· t.~ i ; . B~asts .~\i1} ~y,al'd; tareer average ,011,174pu11ts;Jncluding the : .: ,:\an~' iiJ~.teo.,22 co~secutiye ga:mesJ1is' fin,al. two seasons before' 



fif~;Cl~¦i~:;;;r~~t;t1 '.~~~~~r~.~,~~'.~~;;;;i,1~;;;jJI; 

. 
. 

1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW SCHOLASTIC 
45 
MAGAZINE 



Scholastic chooses the players that pe,formed best 
against the Irish 
by Corey Spinelli 
Most Valuable Player Kevin Faulk, LSU The Tigers' Mr. Everything darted for 108 yards, a touchdown on the ground and ran a kickoff back 88-yards to paydirt. The AP First-Team All-American's quickness and big play ability opened up the passing game for Herb Tyler and kept the Tigers in the November shootout for four quarters. 
Coaches Head Coach: Bob Sutton, Army 
Michigan State's Nick Saban is the obvious choice, but he had more talent, faced a thin Irish defense, had the home field advantage and benefited from Jackson's shaky perfor­mance in his first road start. In contrast, Sutton kept an undermanned squad in the game until its final seconds and did so inside Notre Dame Stadium. 



Offensive Coordinator: Ralph Friedgen, Georgia Tech 
Took advantage ofhis month to prepare and basically moved the ball at will against Greg Mattison' s troops. The Yell ow Jackets con­tinually kept the Irish off balance, running for 194 yards and throwing for another 242 while scoring five touchdowns on the day. 
Defensive Coordinator: Chris Cosh, Michigan State 
The Spartan defense absolutely dominated the line of scrimmage against a top-notch Irish offensive front. Their pressure early 
on disrupted Jackson and forced him to make some rare bad decisions. 

Offense 
Quarterback: Drew Brees, Purdue 
The '99 Reisman Trophy candidate waltzed into Notre Dame Stadium and proceeded to pick the Irish secondary apart for nearly all of the game. The Boiler­maker connected on 24 of 36 passes for 261 yards and two touchdowns. His in­terception that led to the Irish' s winning score came only when a Purdue re~ ceiver tipped the throw into Tony Driver's hands. 

Runningbacks: Mike Cloud, Boston College 
The AP First-Team All-American ran for 143 yards on 28 carries, one score and caught three passes for 14 yards in the near miss. 
Sedrick Irvin, Michigan State 
The repeat All-Opponent offender scurried for 122 yards and one touchdown on 24 carries in the rout. The junior's early en­trance to the NFL will surely save Greg Mattison some sleepless nights next Sep­
'tember. 
Wide Receivers: Anthony DiCosmo, Boston College 
His eight catches for 140 yards included two touchdowns. The Eagle continually made the Irish. secondary look bad in their at­tempts to cover him. 
Dez White, Georgia Tech 
The Biletnikoff Award semifinalist hauled in two touchdown throws from Joe Hamilton and totaled 129 yards on four catches in the Jackets' victory. 
Tight Ends: Jerame Tuman, Michigan 
. The highly-decorated Wolverine senior and probable high NFL pick caught two balls and scored one touchdown in the season opener. 
Offensive Linemen: Grey Ruegamer, Arizona State 
Second-Team All-American lineman was one of the few consistent bright spots in a dismal Sun Devil season. 
Jon Jansen, Michigan 
Consensus First-Team All-American and Big Ten Offensive Lineman of the Year turned in a typically solid performance. 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW


46 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
Doug Brzezinski, Boston College 
Eagle All-America and First-team Big East performer helped clear the way for Cloud's big afternoon. 
Casey Jensen, Michigan State 
The 6-7, 297 pound junior helped keep the Irish front off of quarterback Bill Burke all night and let Irvin prance up and down the field for four quarters. 
Craig Page, Georgia Tech 
The nation's top center and Outland Trophy finalist ended his collegiate career in style by helping to pave the way for the Jacket win. 
Place-kicker: Travis Dorsch, Purdue 
Split the uprights three times in three tries, making kicks from 37, 40 and 47 yards. 
Punter: 
Rodney Williams, Georgia Tech 
First-team ACC punter had little chance to display his leg in the offensive showcase, but his three kicks pinned the Irish deep in their own territory. 

Defense 
Defensive Linemen: Chris Hovan, Boston College Before kickoff, the Eagle carefully applied his face paint, went out and wreaked havoc in the Irish backfield. 
Anthony McFarland, LSU 
One of the nation's best nose guards turned in another ~llar performance against the Irish, pressuring Jackson all afternoon and tallying four tackles, including one for a loss. 
Robaire Smith, Michigan State The giant S2artan was injured in the trounc­ing of the Irish, but not until the game was out ofreach. His early pressuring ofJackson precipitated Notre Dame's demise. 
Lin.ebackers: Chris Claiborne, USC 
The Trojan defender and Butkus Award finalist picked off ~ne pass and made 12 tackles in the victory, 
Sam Sword, Michigan 
The Wolverine All-American has solidified the middle of the Michigan defense for the past two seasons: 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 


_,
_, 
w 
ro w ci 
a: 
0 
(!) 

DOUBLE DUTY. Sedrick Irvin stays a safe distance from junior Lee Lafayette. The Michigan State tailback is one of two repeat performers on the All-Opponent team. The other is 
Michigan linebacker Sam Sword. 
Jesse Tarpin, Georgia Tech 
Second-team all-ACC performer totaled nine sacks and 13 other tackles for losses this year and continually pressured Jackson. 
Lyle Weaver, Army 
The sophomore made six tackles and was a main reason the undersized unit held the Irish rushing attack tojust 133 on the ground. 
Cornerbacks: Daylon McCutcheon, USC 
A semifinalist for the Jim Thorpe Award, the Trojan blanketed Notre Dame receivers all night in the Irish's loss. 
Jason Bostic, Georgia Tech 
The Jacket senior ended his <:areer on a high note by breaking up several Jackson passes in the second half of the Gator Bowl win. 
Safety: Mark.Roman, LSU 
The free safety returned a Jackson intercep­tion 53 yards for a touchdown and led the Tiger defense wit2h nine tackles on the day. 
Mitchell Freeman, Arizona State 
"Fright Night", the hard-hitting firsHeam Pac 10 safety notched seven tackles against the Irish, including one for a loss. 0 
SCHOLASTIC 47 
MAGAZINE 

(/) 
~ 
~ 
(/) 
z 
(/) 
<( 
LU 
(/) 
<( ~ 
_J 
:J 
: 0 
LU 
~ 
CX) 
°' 
i-­
°' 






Splinters 
RESULTS AND ATTENDANCE 

Sept. 5 MICHIGAN W 36-20 80,012 Sept. 12 at Mich. St. L 23-45 74,267 --PATs-­Sept. 26 PURDUE W 31-30 80,012 SCORING TD FG Kick Run Rec Pts INT. RET. No Yds Avg TD LP 
Oct. 3 STANFORD W 35-17 80,012 

Denson, A. 15 ---90 Total 12 261 21.8 2 89 Oct. 10 at Arizona St. W 28-9 73,501 Sanson, J. -11-15 31-36 --64 Opponents 11 189 17.2 2 59 Oct. 24 ARMY W 20-17 80,012 Johnson, M. 6 --1 38 
Oct. 31 BAYLOR W 27-3 80,012 Jackson, J. 3 ---18 
RECEIVING No Yds · Avg TD Long
Nov. 7 at BC W 31-26 44,500 Holloway, J. 2 . ---12 Johnson, M. 43 692 16.1 6 68Nov. 14 at Navy W 30-0 78,844 Nelson, R. 2 ---12 Holloway, J. 15 262 17.5' 2 51Nov. 21 LSU W 39-36 80,012 Spencer, J. 2 ---12 Brown, B. 13 286 22.0 1 66Nov. 28 at USC L 10-0 90,069 Givens, D. 1 ---6 Getherall, J. 13 197 15.2 1 40 
Sanders, A. 1 ---6 

Nelson,R. 11 217 19.7 2 35Jan. 1 G. Tech* L 35-28 70,791 Bryant, L. 1 ---6 Denson, A. 6 81 13.5 33 0
* Gator Bowl in Jacksonville, Fla. Howard, B. 1 ---6 Johnson, J. 4 69 17.3 0 29 
Total 39 11-15 31-36 -1 300 

Spencer, J. 4 38 9.5-0. 13 TEAM STATISTICS ND OPP Opponents 25 13-24 18-20 --213 
O'Leary, D. 3 32 10.7 1 16 FIRST DOWNS 217 220 
Sanson, J. 1 -5.0 -5.0 0 · 0 
Rushing 118 103 RUSHING· Att Yds Avg /G TD 68
LP Total 113 1869 16:5 13 
Passing 85 97 Denson, A. 251 1274 4.7 106.9 15 58 Penalty 14 20 Jackson, J. 113 576 3.9 44.1 3 43 
37 KICK RET. No Yds Avg TD LP
3rd Down Conv. 44% 40% Spencer, J. 54 260 4.7 23.3 2 Driver, T .. 23 512 22.3 0 404th Down Conv. 35% 33% Goodspeed 29 205 7.0 18.4 0 60 12 Levy, D. 7 163 · 23.3 . . 0 52 · TOTAL PLAYS 721 775 Fisher, T. 18 75 4.2 8.3 0 Getherall, J. 4 43 10.8 0 21 •
14 Givens, D. 2 21 10.5 0 11 TOTAL NET YARDS 4207 3819 Battle, A. 13 62 4.1 13.3 0 
Avg. per play 5.8 4.9 Chapell, E. 9 45 5.0 5.1 0 8 Payne, D. . 1 0 0.0 · 0 0Avg. per game 382.5 347.2 Givens, D. 4 35 6.5 2.4 1 22 Hebert, J. 1 13 13.0 0 · 13
RUSHING YARDAGE 2338 1560 Murray, J. 6 21 3.5 2.6 0 7 Goodspeed, J. 1 14 14.0 0 .· 14
Avg. per rush 4.6 3.5 Levy, D. 6 20 3.3 2.9 1 5 Total 39 . 766 19.6 . 0 52 .
Avg. per game 212.5 141.8 Total 507 2597 4.6 212.5 22 60 Opponents 45 862 19.2. 1 88
Rushing TDs 22 10 Opponents 445 1904 3.5 141.8 10 58 PASSING YARDAGE 1869 2259 Attempts 214 330 
~PA~SS=l~N'-=G~C=m-'-fp'----'-A=tt'--'Y'-=d=s_T.,__,D"'---"ln,.,.,t'---='-LP TACKLES: Howard 118, Friday 79, Coo-Completions 113 193 
Jackson, J. 104 188 1740 13 6 68 per 78, Driver 60, Minor 60, Sanders 58, Interceptions 11 12 Battle, A. 8 .· 20 134 o 2 40 Bryant 49, Harper 48, Bro.Williams 40, Percentage 53% 58% Chapell, E. o 4 o o 2 o Guilbeaux 38, Goode 35, Legree 33, Bra. 
Avg. per catch 16.5 11.7 

Total 113 214 1869 13 11 68 Williams 33, Irons 32, Weaver 28, Denman Avg. per game 169.9 205.4 
Opponents 193 330 2259 11 12 86 28, Ferrer 26, Jones 25, Thomas 15, Scott Passing TDs 13 11 13, Nicks 10, Lafayette 9, Harrison 8, Israel · FUMBLES-LOST 18-7 . 19-13 7, Boiman 6, Cbing 5, H. Smith 5, A. Wisne
PUNTING No Yds Avg Long Blkd

PENALTIES-YARDS 78-731 64-541 4, Holmes 4, J. Smith 3, Howard 3, Chappell 
Smith, H. 42 1750 41.7 79 1

TIME OF POSS. 30:18 29:42 2, Jackson 1, Spencer 1, Goodspeed 1,
Total 42 1750 41.7 79 1 

Denson 1, Dykes 1, Owens 1; Petitgout 1.
Opponents 46 1820 39.6 62 0 

SCORE BY OTR. l 2. J. 1 Tot. NOTRE DAME 61 73 94 72 300 SACKS: Minor 5-29, Bryant4-28, Denman 
INT. RET. No Yds Avg TD· LP 

OPPONENTS 58 78 26 5i 213 3-26, H?rper 3-26, Ferrer 2-13, Brad Will­
Sanders, A. 3 29 9.7 1 25 iams 2-7, Weaver 2-4., Friday 1-12, Howard 
Driver, T. 2 54 27.0 0 37 1-8, Irons 1-10, Jones 1-11, Harrisson 1-10, 
PUNT RETURNS No Yds Avg TD LP Howard, B. 2 100 50.0 1 89 Scott 1-0. · 
Getherall, J. 20 157 7.8 0 68 Cooper, D. 1 34 34.0 0 34 Denson, A. 4 40 10.0 0 13 Guilbeaux, B. 1 0 0.0 0 0 Total 24 197 8.2 0 68 Minor, K. 1 7 7.0 0 7 


Opponents 16 170 10.6 0 25 continued at top ofnext column 
48 SCHOLASTIC 1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
MAGAZINE 

Honors and Awards FS Deke Cooper 
•Compaq National Defensive Play of the Week vs. Boston College 
TB Autry Denson 
• Notre Dame National Monogram Club MVP Award 
• Chosen to participate in the Senior Bowl 
•
AP Second Team All-American 

• 
Doak Walker Award semifinalist 


•Football News Honorable Mention All-American 
SS Benny Guilbeaux 
• Chosen to participate in the Hula Bowl 
LB Bobbie Howard 
•
Nick Pietrosante Award (given to player who best personifies the characteristics of courage, loyalty, teamwork, dedication and pride) 

• 
Notre Dame Club of St Joseph Valley Knute Rockne Student­Athlete Award 


• USA-Florida postseason game and Hula Bowl participant 
WR Malcolm Johnson 
• Chosen to participate in the USA-Florida postseason game 
LB Kory Minor 
• Chosen to participate in the Senior Bowl 
OT Luke Petit.gout 
• Chosen to participate in the Senior Bowl 
OG TimRidder 
• State Farm/Mutual Radio Student-Athlete of the Year 
OT Mike Rosenthal 
• Walter Camp First Team All-American 
• AP Second Team All-American 
•FootballNews Second Team All-American 
• 
NotreDameLinemanofthe Year Award 

• 
Chosen to participate in the Senior Bowl 


PHunter Smith 
• Chosen to participate in the USA-Florida postseason game 
DE Anthony Weaver 
•Football News National All-Freshman team 
OG Jerry Wisne 
• Chosen to participate in the Senior Bowl 

.·--__,_ ··: ._"--·\,L\II-Scn0lastic-BI011ors· .> 
' ·,···,.;>,.',:. 
..·. ()ffe~~i~iPiiyerS:()i the Ye~r· 

..e.·en .•In ..:...·en ....·ra .. ..:.•.J··e'aa_c.·.·r··.k.•·•··•·.i.B _·..:...•.·.:.·DA....•.. "e······..Pe••·.·n,.·.·.·.·s.D.il·.·..•v· .. .•'.·.•.··~p.·.·.6.·....a..••··.•y:a .. ra.:,:o··.J··· ...•,·.·.'nt··.·.·.·h·r.·•eu·· ..•sY•.·•.·.-.·... ...9····n·.•o·.;.·'•b.·_··•.:b·.·.··.·1·.·.·.e•···.•·.....·:H·,...·•.·o·•····.·.·w...•.-air•·....:d·.·.•....•..:. :,·.1.· ..·.·.1.............. 
11. . . . . .. . ·. . . 
. Sp.eci~f Teains )?layer ofJheXe~r: ,Flunter§11ith. 
{J\s~iit~11i r<>~c~8~(tpe•f ~~r,:.::\::\:::\ : ,> ?. · ·. 
· Str~ngtfran,d•ConcliJioning,CpachMick.Marotti 
''.Offe~si~·e•Most~Underrat~d:Jani:ie Spencer:,:. 
.::nef;hsi¥e Most~U~derrate&'A\r~i Sander~;_ 
··.•-:···•·::.·:•····Do.· ...•.•~ ..n•?·s·.Sil;.vv:·.· ..•.·.-.·_,_::11 .. ..····.'.v.v·.'.·.•.ee····..dd·.··..·:.•·....• .....M.L·.··,··ama.·... :foonl.m.t·.•.··B·.·•·•·.J .•.YFa·•··n'···sto,-.·.··..•·.n···•·•..•·_.
..·····ef...ee·.··.·.·.n ...e.e·.·.··.-.:.·.M.·M•'·.·.oo·.·.'.ss·.,tt :·r··r·.·.·•·.oo .. ·.• .. .•. ...·.1 ... ... ..r••·.o .•
.... ..•.·mmi.·.:.pp· · .. 
1 

;·Mosi,i>oteiiti~I Offeiise: David Givens ·...·• . . "-M~~t'Potential ·Def eris~: Tony Weaver 
. Freshinari of tli~· Year: Tony Weaver , ­

':'sopli~fu6re\:.hffie'iea..t:••Jiib~i>}iqJI6way :. 
' :'.·':•··;·" 
.J6b11~b«for-~(1~~yarclg~i11.TI1lp1ayted:tb:atollbhdown ancti·•·. 
' •·' .· 

~e~lfi~~ l~tef~o_n:31;30,Iftile.offense qidn 'tcoh,vert that :., 
\ .. play,"ll)ey\vouJci h~ye:Jallen to 1-2-andwe might have seen a 
•· . repeafof.last )'e.~:J~·stead the pl~y.gavethe .• teain:.conficlehce, .. 
..· .. ,.. ·..:: '\swung the·inorneritupi. and.s~t the tone fo{multiplelate-game: ,.. ',tom~ersions~~S,.the pff~~seajlseason'.\·· ·:. . :·: _· '.k.\· ·'.. ·•··•.·· \·,pefen,siveJ>Iay .()f' theY~ar': Jimmy.Friday's· back-breaking·· : tlilifcl.ownstbrrofJylike..Cloud an inch shy ofthe goallirie ­
.>•~ith .the:ga111e:s qtitc:9me tangnigni th~'balance. ' , . . > ·..·•.·. 
· .... ' .,~·estl?lay:b~n:~fJh.e'Year:JacksorCs35~ymdtou~hdmvn;, .··•··... •··• : p~~si9Raki~eisoj:{$..ithe'third qii~t¢f 9fihe•Michigari game. • ; .·i :Jhe fir.~t pJay afi.ef a;'\,Volverine fumble gave theIrish a'23-l 3 i J .·· 1eac1; de\11itt(!c!JromithE:•.typically .conse~ative attack and fiiutlly<~iiow,e1.• th~t:JY11{~oll~tt9•wa.s·. willing to.. take:.c:hance~ .at key·.. ··• .• ' 
<His"°E:ntire'Broadca~tifrgCareer: Keith)atksdri;'.;}?.; :<·.. :...•·.,· , : : ,CareerfchievemenLA:wardfor )VearingaGreaf.Uniform'· .•.
t~tti~!lltif!f~;f~it~i;:t'f\;ftt1i~i~;f~t/~~4*:t1,~~½-;~;",1 
I 
0. 
z 
0 
;;;o 
(/), 
)>I 
z 
0 
~ 
.
;;;o 
0 
(/) 

1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


Irish Coach Bob Davie attempts to build a legacy with another 

solid recruiting class 
by Christopher Hamilton 
hile Irish fans grimace as 

Head Coach Bob Davie repeats 
that Notre Dame is not a na­tional championship-caliber team just yet, they can at least find solace in his impres­sive recruiting hauls, which look to put the Irish back among college football's upper­echelon teams. This year's effort is no dif­ferent. 
The experts are already proclaiming that Notre Dame is well on its way to having a top-five recruiting class, as the Irish have already received verbal commitments from 15 of the best players in the country. Notre Dame will probably allocate four to six more scholarships by February 3, when recruits are first officially allowed to sign letters of intent. 
The following is a look atthe 15 individu­als who have already pledged their alle­giance to Notre Dame's class of2003, lead­ing recruiting services such as PrepAmerica to declare Notre Dame as having the third­bes(batch ofrecruits in the nation. 
But first, a word of warning. While the recruiting rankings offer a source ofencour­agement, they should not be taken as gospel. It seems that every year Notre Dame wel­comes a top-IO recruiting class, yet the Irish have failed to finish in the top IO of the AP poll for the past five seasons. Some blame this perceived "overrating" ofNotre Dame's incoming classes on the recruiting services' shameless attempt to help boost magazine sales. 
Regardless, Irish supporters cannot help but feel excited about Davie's first two recruiting classes, and there is good reason to believe that his third go around will yield similar results. 



DEFENSE 
Headlining this year's recruiting haul is free safety and USA Today first-team prep All-American Gerome Sapp. The Houston native, who chose the Irish over Texas, is 
50 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

widely considered the best defensive back in the country and will likely contribute in the secondary next year. The soon-to-be Eagle Scout is noted for his extremely physi­cal playing style and tremendous speed. 
"It's where I really wanted to go," Sapp said, explaining why he chose Notre Dame instead of Texas. "It was a tough decision. ... I just felt more comfortable with Notre Dame. I feel it is where my heart is." 
Joining Sapp in the defensive backfield are Glenn Earl and Jason Beckstrom. Al­though they are less heralded than Sapp, both will fill crucial holes in the Irish sec­ondary. 
Earl, a first-team all-state selection from Naperville, Ill., provides a unique combina­tion of height and speed at the cornerback position, something the Irish have not seen for some time. He may also try out for wide receiver in the fall, a position he played in high school as well. Beckstrom, who hails from Jenks, Okla., was also recruited as a cornerback. Like Earl, he offers blistering speed, running the 100-meter in 10.48 sec­onds. 
Notre Dame's effort to enhance its defen­teamed through his senior year. Also ex­pected to be a force along the defensive front in future years is Molinaro. The Super Prep recruiting service lists him as the best defensive lineman in Pennsylvania and the 29th overall best player in the country, but there is some speculation that the 6'8", 245-pounder from Bethlehem, Pa., will de­velop into an offensive lineman. · 

Linebackers joining the fold so far are Justin Thomas and Pat Ryan. Named the 1998 Oklahoma Defensive Player of the Year, Thomas looks to add to the already talented Irish linebacker corps. 
Ryan, from Billings, Mont., was a power­ful presence on his high school team, guid­ing Billings West High to back-to-back state championships. During those years, Ryan was named the best player in the state. In his senior year he was credited with 194 tack­les, 11 sacks and causing nine fumbles. 

Thisyear Notre Dame is mainly targeting _ linemen on the offensive side of the ball, already receiving commitments from four 
"There was some pressure for me to stay in state.... But I had to go with my heart. And my heart said Notre Dame." 
sive line proved successful after it landed commitments from two of the position's brightest prospects, namely Jim Molinaro and Cedric Hilliard. 
Hilliard, an Arlington, Texas native, re­ceived USA Today first-team All-America honors after having a banner senior year. In fact, Hilliard was such a dominating force on the line that he was constantly double­

-Gerome Sapp 

highly sought-after players: Sean Milligan, Brennan Curtin, Neal Ambron and Ryan Gillis. Hailing from Norcross, Ga., Milligan is perhaps the most highly touted of this group, earning USA Today All-America second team honors. 
Curtin, who has a massive 6'8", 305­pound frame, is considered to be one of-!he top linemen from the Sunshine state. Spurn­
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
ing offers from Ohio State, Michigan and in-state Florida, Curtin committed to the Irish lastJune. Close in size to Curtin is the 6'8", 270-pound Neal Ambron. The Littleton, Colo. native, who seemed to be on every major program's wish list, is regarded as the best lineman from his state. Gillis, who is considered one of the top four ginia, was named the state's player of the year as a junior. Boasting explosive speed, Yura rushed for 2,548 yards on 277 carries (for an average of 9.2 yards per carry) in addition to 49 touchdowns. Because the 

. versatile player has also been a defensive back, Yura may still give him a look at that position in the fall. 
year he punted 39 times for a remarkable 48-yard average, which includes boots of 68, 61 and 60 yards. The USA Today first teamer is also a formidable place kicker with a state record 59-yard field goal as a sophomore . 
Hildbold, from Fairfax, Virginia, is a star in his own right. It has been reported that of 
Notre Dame is well on its way to having a top-five re­cruiting class, as the Irish have already received verbal commitments from 15 of the best players in the country. 
center prospects in the country, completes the quartet. Gillis helped lead national power DeMatha High School to a 12-0 record. 
The recent commitment of Gary Godsey means the Irish will have no shortage of talented tight ends in 1999, with Dan 0 'Leary, JabariHolloway, and John Owens on the squad. A huge target at 6'8", Godsey is praised for his athletic ability. 
The only other player on offense to com­mit to the Irish so far is runningback Chris Yura. Yura, from Morgantown, West Vir-


With punter Hunter Smith graduating and place kicker Jim Sanson entering his final 
. year of eligibility next year, Notre Dame sought heir-apparents. Nick Setta and Joey Hildbold will easily combine to form the best incoming haul ofkickers ofany team in the nation. 
Setta, from Lockport, III., is generally regarded as the top kicking prospect in the country, and his statistics explain why. This Hildbold' s 37 kickoffs this year, 21 resulted in touchbacks and 10 ended up on either the one or two yard-line. Considered a top five kicking prospect, Hildbold also holds a 40­yard punting average. 

f course, the Irish are also in the the hunt for a number of recruits at almost every other position, in­cluding quarterback, runningback and wide receiver. But no matter what happens, with the Class of 2003 the third-year Irish coach is adding to his foundation for the future. D 

THE 10TH ANNUAL NOTRE DAME 
STUDENT 



FESTIVAL 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45PM 
JA UARY 22 23 
$3 ADMISSION SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
SPECIAL ENCORE SHOWING MONDAY JAN.25 7:30 PM 
PRESENTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE 
www.nd.edu/~cothweb . 
"All right,this is my 
last idea .. 
tWO girls. ...and it's their first communion. ... well anyway, ho~ror film!" 

1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


LL. 


by Tim Bidder 
Before coming to this university I figured I would eventually leave with the memories of many great games, my mind littered with stories to tell my children. Butyears from now, ifyou ask me to recollect the games of the1998 season-'­the win over Michigan, the comeback against Purdue, the goal-line We were in it for each other, and stand against Boston Col­that is all thatmaltered. Michigan lege, remain­
ing undefeated 

and Michigan State both could have 
at home and 

made our season, but the strength of ·finishing 9-3 
-Iknow that 

this team did not allow either the big 
these memo­ries will be

win or the big loss to faze us. 
Tim Ridder is a senior who started all 12 games for Notre Dame at offensive guard this season."He is also the recipient ofthe 
State Farm/Westwood One Student-Athlete of the Year Award.. 
52 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
faint compared 

to the memo­ries of the friends I have made over the past four years . 
. Forus seniors, as for most, it has been a rough ride. Freshman year we came in and had a 16-day football camp at Camp Culver. At the time it seemed about as close to hell as we could get. There were no air conditioners, just heat and humidity. Arriving on campus we had to fight stereotypes about our aca­demic abilities as well as the insecurity every fresh­man feels. 
, Sophomore year we started offin decent shape, but we soon had another "learning experience" due to a major change in the coaching staff. It was the end of an era. Lou Holtz became an icon ofthe past, and Bob Davie the coach of the present. We faced a year full of transition. Coaches had to gain the trust of one another and the players had to learn to trust a new 
staff. It was almost like being freshmen all over again. We were placed in an unfamiliar environment with brand-new faces telling us they knew what the hell they were talking about. Because being 7-6 at Notre Dame is unacceptable to most, pressure mounted •on all sides . .q_'he trying times continued over the past winter and summer when the conditioning program tested our limits as individuals and purposely put strains on the team to draw us closer together. We 
reached our limits and did come closer together. 
The only constant in the transition of the last four 
years is the strength of character ofthe individuals in 
this class and those younger than us. This past season 
was a reward for the great people with whom I have 
grown. We were in.it for each other, and that is all that 
mattered.· Michigan and Michigan State both could 
have made our season, but the strength of this team 
did not allow either the big win or the big loss to faze 
us. Throughout this season you could say we were 
lucky, but luck has a tendency to be created by those 
who believe. We won at·Boston College ·because 
those who mattered believed it would happen. In the 
last couple of games we had a few problems which 
were out of our control, but we fought as hard as we 
could to succeed. We did not win them all, but we still 
had a successful season. 
9-3 is still a sub-par year according to those who 
write about and enjoy criticizing every intricate as­
pect of our program. But those who claim to know so 
much actually know little about us because this is the 
best Notre Dame team I have ever been around. Nine 
wins and three losses will end-up being some mean­
ingless number when I look back on this season. All 
that truly matters are the people who made a differ­
ence in helping this team succeed. , D 
1998 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
\{.•'\··. ... 









