AA^ll, well, there goes Roscoe—with a smile on his face— walking into the jaws of virus X. He spends all year long training and building up big muscles to make the team. And here he is fresh out of the shower plodding his way homeward, his hair glistening in the moonlight.
Come on over here, Roscoe, and let me explain some of the facts of life. The team needs you, son! And the best way to crump out on it is to wander around without a hat. Especially after a shower.
A hat, my friend, is as important to your health as an overcoat or a pair of shoes. Maybe more so. Your head needs warmth and protection. Let it get cold and the rest of you has to work like a horse warming it up. Nature is more concerned about your skull than any other part of your body.
So put on a hat and you’ll be doing yourself a double favor: you’ll look better and you’ll feel better, too!
"Wear a Hat—Iti at Healthy at lt& Handsome!*
These fine hat labels have published this advertisement in the interests of good grooming and good health of American men.'
DOBBS	CAVANAGH • KNOX^
BERG^ BYRON ® C&K || DUNLAP
Divisions of the Hat Corporation of America—Makers of Fine Hats for Men and Women
2
The Scholastic
Time you picked on a sports shirt your own size!
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty
Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey
Hot Buttered Rolls
$7.20
JOE NABICHTS RESTAURANT “Chicken in the Rough” 213 N. Main Open Sunday
Arrow Gabanaro... *6.50
•	in your exact collar size
•	your exact sleeve length
•	zvashable rayon gabardine
ARROW »»------------------------------------------► __SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS___
"The MEN’S Corner"
Home of Nationally Accepted Merchandise
Is Your Headquarters for Arrow Shirts
Rvsw s Katz I X. ro« mho I Vrouwcnw MAIN AT COLFAX
SOUTH BENO 7. INDIANA
Make GILBERTS your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Oct. 3, 1952
3
College Parade
IT WENT OUT WITH RACCOON COATS and rumble seats. And we say good riddance.
Today’s college man doesn't die a thousand deaths when the school loses the big game. And his clothes are no longer flashy, fancy and gaudy.
For his apparel, he looks to Manhattan® to reflect his quiet, sei f-assured manner ... his insistence
on quality, comfort and casualness.
Like this button-down Oxford with just the proper roll to the collar. Or this fine white pique with an eyelet tab collar with just the right degree of difference.
We understand the modern college man. We concentrate our efforts, not on fads, but on making a better shirt. Ask for Manhattan ... and you’ll see how true this is.
Two coeds were talking about their social affairs one afternoon over a cup of coffee in the beanery and one said in a confiding manner:
“Do you know Harry was wearing my picture over his heart in Korea and it stopped a bullet?”
“Yes,” murmured the other, “and I’m not at all surprised.”
■
Servant: “The doctor is here, Professor.”
Absent-minded Prof: “Dear me! I’m in bed! I can’t see hi . . . er . . . tell him I’m ill.”
■
It has been said that college is the fountain of knowledge where all go to drink.
■
A collegian sent his brother this telegram: “Flunked out. Am coming home. Prepare Papa.”
Two hours later he got this reply from his brother: “Papa prepared. Prepare yourself.”
■
Nurse: “I think that college boy in 312 is regaining consciousness.”
Doctor: “Yes, he tried to blow the foam off his medicine this morning.”
■
Prof: “A fool can ask more questions than a wise man can answer.”
Student: “No wonder so many of us flunk in our exams.”
■
Stranger on campus: “Say, son, can you tell me what school this is?”
Butch; “Sorry, I just play football here.”
■
Frosh: “I’m dancing with you tonight and suppose tomorrow you’ll be having a date with some other- fellow.”
Girl: “Yes, my foot doctor.”
“I shall now illustrate what I have in mind,” said the prof as he erased the blackboard.
■
“I had a swell hunch at the races the other day. It was the seventh day of the seventh month, my wife and I had been married exactly seven years, and it was the seventh race so I played horse number seven.”
“And he won?”
“No, he came in seventh.”
4
The Scholastic
By Mort Lu by
brains out long enough, we can all go to the booby hatch together.
By the tvay Bob . . . the darndest thing happened to me the other day . . . and (heh-heh) you might just find room for it in your column. . .
■
Bottom of the Week
. . . chop suey or meat loaf.
Top of the Week
A choice at lunchtime . . .
■
Shoehorn, Anyone?
We can recall the days when you could tell Suzie-Q that you didn’t have sufficient cabbage for the Saturday night melees at the Palais, and she accepted it as a fairly decent excuse. But last Saturday night we entered the great new era of the ninety cent dance. And you can rest assured that as soon as the damsels to the west get wind of the reduced tariff, the old “I’m almost broke” routine will be obsolete, but good.
Our black orchid of the week (very rare indeed, unless you know a florist with a spray gun or happen to be Brenda Starr’s boy friend) goes to the gents responsible for this anti-inflation maneuver. .
The next time she tells you she’s thirsty, chum, don’t tell her to go get a drink of water. Buy her a coke; you can afford it now.
■
Dinner Time Drama
We' have a request from Ziggy to beg the lads to refrain from bloodying-up his cutlery. It all started last week when Scaramouche graced the screen of the' Oliver and some of those hunters of good bargain entertainment found themselves profoundly influenced by the sword wielding of Stewart Granger. At meal time now you’ll find them leaping from table to table, brandishing butter knives, and shrieking en garde, touche and other suitable French phrases just like an Errol Flynn movie.
One freshman hobbled over to the infirmary the other day, maintaining that a junior had run him clean through the stomach. The eventual infirmary diagnosis, patiently arrived at, was that the' queer bloodless wound was really only a mole.
■
That’s Life
Last week’s Life magazine presented a pretty technicolor article on that clean-cut American sport of football. The Week predicts that Life is going to receive at least 3487 nasty letters concerning their flattering, pictorial presentation of the N.D. eleven. We are personally going to send the editors of
Life a singing telegram congratulating them on getting somebody’s name right, even if it was only one somebody.
After seeing those gaping apertures where most people have teeth, American dentists are getting a new lease on life after the recent ammoniated tooth paste scare.
■
An Open Letter
Dear Messrs. Voit, Werner, Dilen-schneider, and Finney:
One of these days we are going to stomp over to that musty little cellar of Farley hall, where the Scholastic is put together, and vent our journalistic rage. A cancerous growth of column space has transpired of late. Once over Lightly and Beating the Bush, as near-as we can reckon, cover two areas formerly treated in full by the Week; namely (a) something or other, and (b) things and stuff. Besides virtually crowding off our own territory, Robert Finney has the audacity to ask people to send him all the news tid-bits on the campus; and us banging our weary brains out just to get stuff to fill our second column!
Well let me warn you, my pretties. Any paraphrase, plagiarism, or simulation ecked from the scanty content of the Week and I’ll expose your expense fund or something.
(Note: Expense fund is a derogatory term occasionally used in presidential campaigns. For information write' the Democratic National Chairman or the Chicago Tribune.)
All jesting aside, kiddies. Welcome to the fold, and when we’ve all extracted the last chunk of things and stuff from the old place, and beat our
HIGH SCHOOL TEACHERS NEEDED
Once again the Confraternity of Christian .Doctrine turns to the Notre Dame student body for help in teaching Religion to the Catholic youth attending public high schools in the South Bend area.
Informal, but yet guided discussions are conducted weekly in the various South Bend parishes. The program for this semester will, consider the basic truths of our Religion as found in the Apostles' Creed, with special emphasis placed on application of “Religion” to daily life.
If you are interested in furthering this important apostolic work, please contact Bill Motzel, No. 7 Sorin Hall, for further information.
ON OR OFF CAMPUS?
No matter where you live, there's nothing like this beautiful 16" buffleather combination briefcase and bag for your books.
In Suntan or Ginger $10.95 plus tax Name or Initials Imprinted Free
Hans/- Ri ntzsch
Michigan at Colfax
NEED A CHEST, BOOKCASE, OR RECORD CABINET?
BUY IT UNPAINTED — SAVE MORE THAN HALF This is all assembled, smoothly sanded, and beautifully grained furniture WILLIAMS PAINT COMPANY
Phone 6-7346	755 S. Michigan	FREE Delivery
One Block North of Gilbert's
Oct. 3, 1952
TYPEWRITERS FOR RENT
OCTOBER 3
AVON (through Oct. 11)—Besides having Ann Blyth, World in His Arms (A-l) has Gregory Peck and a pretty fair yarn besides. Annie, as a Russian countess, and Peck, an American sea captain, are involved in a couple of just-in-the-nick-of-time rescues from the clutches of assorted villains. Especially recommended for lovers of the sea, the Pacific northwest, and seals.
COLFAX (through Oct. 8)—Faintly resembling the A. B. Guthrie novel of the same name, The Big Sky (A-2) concerns trading furs and avoiding Indians in the Great Northwest. Stars Kirk Douglas with some fine acting by Dewey Martin.
PALACE (through Oct. 8)—Untamed Frontier (A-2) has Joseph Cotton and Shelley Winters (this time as an ex-wine-swizzling dance hall girl) in a western about the homesteaders and the cattlemen. Co-pic is Fighting Rats (sic) of Tobruk.
OCTOBER 4
WSBT (960 on your radio dial) at 2 p.m.—Time to lay all work aside and sweat out another tough one as the still-Fighting Irish try to tame the Texas Longhorns.
WASHINGTON HALL is practically competing with the South Bend theaters. My Six Convicts was at the State just last week. Shows start at 6:15 and 8:45.
GRANADA (through Oct. 9)—Quo Vadis returns to town at regular prices (after hitting Wash. Hall this summer). The color spectacle about the Christians, the Romans, and the lions runs for two hours and 48 minutes, so don’t expect a cartoon.
PALAIS ROYALE—All it takes is 90 cents and a female (Editor's Note—Correction: The price was raised to a dollar while this was being written.) to get into the Student Senate’s second fall dance anytime before 11:30 p;m. Witching hour for the freshmen is midnight, while the upperclassmen can take an extra half-hour to say goodnight.
OCTOBER 9
COLFAX (through Oct. 22)—Bing Crosby plays a busy widower with two problem children and Jane Wyman is his gal friend in Just for You, a drama that has some songs, and some plot.
PALACE (through Oct. 14)—The Golden Hawk (B) is a swashbuckling saga of pirates (Sterling Hayden and Rhonda Fleming are two of them) in the Caribbean. Not very plausible, it at least has a lot of noise. With it is Rainbow Round My Shoulder (A-2), a simple musical about Hollywood’s version of Hollywood. Frankie Laine and Billy Daniels do most of the singing.
STATE (through Oct. 11)—Repeats on a couple of Humphrey
Bogart thrillers, High Sierra and To Have and Have Not.
All Makes—Large Selection Students Special Rates
3 Months for $8.75—
One Month, $3.50 Rental may be applied on Purchase. Sales Service all Machines Michiana’s Largest Dealer
SUPER SALES CO.
Phone: 66328	315 W. Monroe
South Bend, Ind.
HEALTH | SPOT |
SHOES
For Men Women Children
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS Welcome to
128 W. WASHINGTON
Continuous Quality
Continuous Price
•OHIM UNMt AUfWOOTY OP fNf COCA-COlA COMPANY BY
Coca-Cola Bottling Co. of South Bend
The Scholastic
Vol. 94 OCTOBER 3, 1952 No. 2
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE PATRICK C. CARRICO ................News
PETER K. CONNOLLY ....Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE ...............Features
JOHN F. SAND.....................Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass’t. Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY ............Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN ..............Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: A record enrollment caused an acute housing shortage at Notre Dame this year, but this was really not anything new. Things always look black and rooms are scarce in September in the new-semester confusion. Everybody gets settled sooner or later, mostly sooner. We are sure none of them has more trouble than our two heroes, Pat Stone and Dick Gerbacht, shown in their final abode on the shores of St. Joseph’s Lake. See pages 20 and 21 for a pictorial account of their trials and tribulations in finding lodging for the year. Needless to say, we portray a completely fictitious case. Nobody lives in pup tents here. Wall tents maybe, but not pup tents.
—Photo by Bob Huddleston
A Small Act by a Big Magazine
Because the magazine is distributed on Friday, making our deadline early in the week, this comment is a little late, but it is not going to be left unsaid. In other words, we feel it’s better late than never.
Said comment involves a very small act by a very big magazine, referring to “The Irish Look Tough Again” in the Sept. 26 issue of Life magazine.
The article is a beautiful layout, technically, which is typical of Life, with four pages of four-color pictures of Notre Dame football players, individuals and action shots. The text of the article contains brilliant, stirring phrases, also typical of Life. It also contains glaring inaccuracies, which we had thought were not typical of that magazine, for which we can see no possible excuse and no possible reason, other than childish amusement.
Of the four individual pictures which, together with the stadium shot, comprised the first two pages of the layout, only ohe has the correct caption — the other three are pictures of Notre Dame football players, but not the players whose names appear below the pictures. On the Scholastic such sloppiness and untruth almost carries with it the obligation of confession, and has caused small-scale head-rolling in times past. We thought the journalistic profession prided itself upon accuracy.
Also, if one looks closely at the picture in the lower left-hand comer, he will see that the player’s front teeth are not missing at all. They have been removed by a stroke of a brush. Dear editors, we know you wanted to have a pretty layout, but after all . . .
In the final analysis, even if the above-mentioned mistakes had not been made, what was the reason for that layout? Our conclusion must be that it was a slam either at Notre Dame or college football in general, or that it was only for humor’s sake. In either case it was bad taste.
The most galling aspect of the whole thing is that nothing can be done about it. You can’t fight city hall or big magazines. An explanation or retraction never is seen by as many people as those who read the article in question. Letters to the editors would bring some satisfaction, possibly, but would never get a two-page spread with four-color pictures.
Maybe we should be satisfied with just sending Life a letter apologizing for the fact that they could find only three Irish players out of 45 with teeth missing, and thanking them for their foresight in providing the photography editor with a brush so we wouldn’t miss out on that wonderful publicity.
Where Were You Last Sunday?
• In times past it was the custom after every football game, win, lose, or draw. In more recent years, when the words lose or draw never found use, it was more often spontaneous than planned. Then, in the very recent past, it was planned on special occasions, and more or less neglected at other times. This year the Blue Circle is campaigning for a return to the past tradition.
We’re speaking of the tradition of meeting the football team when it returns from a trip — any trip. For some twenty years the team was met by the students after nearly every football game, and only about 50 students showed up last Sunday when the team returned from Philadelphia. Looks rather bad, don’t you think?
After this keep your ears open for Blue Circle publicity on welcomings after each football trip. This is definitely not a school which cheers only after victories.
Oct. 3, 1952
Bolshevism:
An Introduction to
Notre
Soviet Communism
0^ PRESS. I •
Waldemar Gurian
Ferdinand A. Hermens
. olum
.oral Law tradi-uie great non-Chris ish Hindi* ' r em, uddhist.
The strong movem restore the mo-law bv
^he
'ti
Mi.
^th 9tJ^rs
3 tv
e.s
.uat has d oped to . toundations of American to the Natural Law princi-t began has been spear-otre Dam>- Natu *ne addresses del meetings hav monograph
V°lnm
°f tf 'he
a tv
^4' t/3
iflod ..

a>.-xr thv hr<>

So^
of
'h
'at
Professor Gurian's Bolshevism is an essential guide to the study of the implications of Communism as a secular religion. It is especially valuable because it illuminates so fully the basic factors which drive the Soviet regime to control and direct all aspects of life, and it traces the origins of the messianic mission self-imposed on the Soviet leaders. It is an essential study for understanding the strengths and weaknesses of the Soviet Ideology. — Philip E. Mosely, Professor of International Relations, Russian Institute, Columbia University.
7z?

. a brief, clear, and cogent analysis of both the theoretical and practical aspects of Leninism-Stalinism. . . It is the best treatment, and the briefest good treatment, of Bolshevism now available to the American Public. —Commonweal.

^4
a *
4 P 4 th
^tf^d f	p^t .
'*9- ; e Prnk to cn rOf>7
COZ,	J/} Jr	^0(1
*	or
ofp^ O^S/>^OC'
*
; £
Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy


The tragic effects of Proportional Representation between 1918 and 1950 is the main theme of this excellent and important volume. Professor Hermens, who has already written a volume in English and one in German on the subject, is a leading authority on P. R. He is thoroughly versed in political science but is no starry-eyed doctrinaire. On the contrary, his convincing conclusions rest on a careful analysis of election figures and on numerous interviews with important political leaders. — Sidney B. Fay in Current History.

JV 4t*-


Th
The Notre Dame
Cotillion Ducat Sales Start Tuesday
STAGE-SETTERS FOR ‘CAROLINA MOON’
Cotillion Committee Plans Three-Day Festivities
Stevenson Visit Here Expected in 3 Weeks
Democratic presidential nominee Ad-lai Stevenson is expected to visit both South Bend and Notre Dame in a campaign swing later this month, according to Paul Butler, Democratic chairman of St. Joseph County.
Butler has been notified by Wilson Wyatt, Stevenson’s campaign manager, that if possible, the Illinois governor will make a stop in South Bend. Confident that these tentative plans will be carried out, Butler is certain that Stevenson will also visit the University and deliver an address to the student body during his South Bend stop.
While the exact date of the tour has not been decided, Butler has speculated that it will be around October 23 or 24.
Stevenson begins an eastern tour in New York October 28, and Butler is of the opinion that he will leave his headquarters in Springfield, Ill., several days previous to his New York engagement, making numerous appearances along the way. Gary, South Bend, Notre Dame, and Fort Wayne would be included in this tour.
The University had extended invitations several weeks ago to both presidential candidates to make appearances here and to speak to the student body. Eisenhower, of course, has already accepted, having addressed incoming students on September- 15.
Stevenson has indicated to University officials that he would seek to arrange a visit here in his itinerary.
Juniors, Seniors Get Leftovers Wednesday
Sophomore Cotillion bid manager John O’Meara has announced that S6 ducats for the Oct. 24 “Carolina Moon” will go on sale Tuesday.
Tuesday’s sales, which will be conducted in the lobby of the Dining Hall from 11:30 a. m. to 1:30 p. m., and later from 5 to 7 p. m., will be open exclusively to members of the Sophomore class. Juniors and seniors may purchase remaining bids on the following days at the same time.
Three pleasure-packed days have been i arranged for those couples who will at- [ tend this year’s Cotillion.	’
A pre-game pep rally will touch off the week-end festivities early Friday evening. After the usual array of speakers and players appear in the Field House, the Cotillion goers will switch into their formal attire and head for the Palais Royale and the main feature of the Sophomore affair—the Cotillion itself.
Here they will dance from 9 to 1 to coast-to-coast television star Jimmy “dancing shoes” Palmer’s music. Added attraction slated for the night’s card will be the appearance of Jerry Mured’s	■
“Harmonicats” of “Peg O’ My Heart” fame.
Palmer and his orchestral troupe have '	•
made appearances at various big-time night spots throughout the country in !! the past two years—including Chicago - i and New York.
On Saturday afternoon the scene will	;
change to the special Cotillion section in the Notre Dame Stadium where the	•;
Irish will encountex- North Carolina’s	•
Tarheels.	11
The Navy Dx-ill hall will be the scene !■ of a post-game victory dance later on in the evening. Ted Gallaghan and his orchestra will provide Saturday night music.	d
On Sunday morning, the Cotillion (Continued on page 24)	i
p
I ! J
Oct. 3, 1952
Fr. Patrick Peyton to Dedicate Fatima Shrine And New Mission Band Headquarters Oct. 19
Rev. Patrick Peyton, C.S.C., who founded the Family Rosary Crusade for peace, will dedicate the new headquarters of the Holy Cross Mission Band on Oct. 19.
The headquarters will consist of a mission and retreat house, with a shrine dedicated to Our Lady of Fatima situated nearby. The ceremony will take place in the field near the new headquarters at the West entrance of the University grounds, opposite St. Mary’s College. '
Supervisor of the shrine’s construction and the erection of the headquarters is Rev. Charles Callahan, C.S.C., superior of the Mission Band. At present Father Callahan is living in Evanston, Ill., where his headquarters are temporarily located.
Statues representing the Blessed Virgin, the three Portuguese children: Lucy, Jacinta and Peter, will dominate the tableau, with two lambs at rest completing the setting of the shrine.
The shrine itself is constructed of a white limestone compound set back off the road in the field. Already considered impressive, though unfinished, the shrine will add to honor given to Our Lady by the Grotto and the Golden Dome.
Special ceremonies throughout October and May in coming years might pos
FATIMA SHRINE ON THE DIXIE HIGHWAY
To Be Joined by a Mission and a Retreat House
sibly center around the Fatima shrine.
With the retreat movement becoming more prominent all over the nation, it is expected that the mission house will be an aid in accommodating retreatants, though the number it will hold is not yet known. Father Callaghan will supervise retreats in the finished mission house as head retreat master.
Donations supplied the funds for the building project.
Fatima was the site in Portugal where Oui* Blessed Mother appeared to three peasant children tending animals grazing on a hillside. According to the children, a beautiful woman wearing shining garments hovered above a bush, and told them to recite the rosary devoutly in her honor every day.
Peace in the world and the conversion of Russia were the rewards promised if the Catholics of the world would pay her this homage.
However, a punishment was promised if her wishes were not acted upon. Lastly, Mary asked that the whole world be dedicated to her Immaculate Conception, which the Holy Father recently did.
The shrine is part of a bigger expansion program the Congregation of the Holy Cross is promoting. A new seminary addition is expected to reach completion in the near future.
Fr. Hesburgh Named Member Of Ford Scholarship Board
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of the University of Notre Dame, has been named a member of the Ford Motor Company Fund Scholarship Board.
The Board is composed of nine outstanding educators who advise the Fund on scholastic matters and select winners of the Fund’s annual scholarship competition among sons and daughters of Ford Motor Company employees.
Seventy college scholarships are awarded each year by the Fund. The 1951 and 1952 winners of the scholarship competition are now attending sixty different colleges and universities.
Seven of the recipients have chosen the University of Notre Dame and are presently enrolled in classes. They are: Forst Elliott Brown, Springfield, Kentucky; James Joseph Cenname, Chester, Pennsylvania; Philip Charles Chinn, Royal Oak, Michigan; Bernard Joseph LaLonde Dearborn, Michigan; William Raymond Matthews, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Donald Lee Morris, Memphis, Tennessee; and Robert George Nouhan, Detroit, Michigan.
The Ford Motor Company Fund is a non-profit corporation completely independent of the Ford Foundation. It was organized for educational, scientific and charitable purposes and is supported principally by contributions from the Ford Motor Company.
Moot Court Champions of '52 Enter Chicago Competition
David M. Thornton and Orlando N. Prosperi, winners of the third annual Moot Court competition held in June, 1952, will represent Notre Dame in the Seventh Federal Circuit Competition in Chicago in the latter part of November.
William J. Roche, who also participated in the final argument in June, is the alternate for the Notre Dame team in this competition sponsored by the Chicago Bar Association.
Question of the hypothetical case to be argued is: “Whether a state statute which denies to aliens ineligible for citizenship by naturalization the right to own land is a violation of the U.N. Charter or the ‘equal protection’ clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.”
Participants include law schools in the Seventh Federal Circuit, namely the Universities of Wisconsin, Marquette, Chicago, Northwestern, Chicago Kent, De Paul, Loyola of Chicago, Indiana, and Notre Dame.
New director of the Moot Court is
10
The Scholastic
David Thornton. The other newly selected officers are: Hugh Henry, executive director; William Nesbitt, junior division chancellor; Edward Burke, freshman division chancellor; and Abdallah Adelo, director of public relations. Mr. Robert E. Sullivan and Mr. Edward F. Barrett are the faculty advisors.
The Notre Dame Moot Court, with participation open to all students on a voluntary basis, was established in February, 1952. Throughout the year, in the imaginary Supreme Court of Hoynes, appellate cases are argued and the finalists for the June competition are determined by an elimination process.
Notre Dame’s 1950 winners were runners-up in the Seventh Federal Circuit competition and appeared in the National Finals in New York City. The 1951 winners won the championship of the Seventh Circuit competition and also appeared in the National Finals.
Applications for Fulbright Competition to End Oct. 31
Applications for the Fulbright Awards for 1953-54 must be made as soon as possible, according to Rev. Paul E. Beich-ner, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School. The competition, which opened on May 1, closes on Oct. 31.
These awards, which are United States government grants, are a part of the educational exchange program of the Department of State. The objectives of this program are to promote better understanding of the United States abroad, and to increase mutual understanding between our people and the people of other countries. Opportunities are available for American students to go to 20 participating foreign countries.
Because of the limited time, students interested in doing graduate work abroad are urged to take immediate action.
Basic requirements for applicants are United States citizenship, a college degree or its equivalent, knowledge of the language of the country where they are to study, and good health. However, allowances will be made for applicants intending to acquire language competence prior to taking up awards.
Residents of Indiana are also eligible for one of the two awards reserved for nomination by the Committees on State Fulbright Scholarships.
The scholarships cover all expenses for an unmarried student, including transportation, for one academic year of approximately nine months. There were at least two Notre Dame men selected for the 1952-1953 academic year.
Detailed information on scholarships may be secured at the Graduate School Office.
Election Preregistration Regulations Quoted For Various State Residents at Notre Dame
JOHN POWERS
Last Year’s Editor Goes to Town
Former Scholastic Staff Members Enter Careers
Five members of last year’s Scholastic editorial staff have spread their talents into the fields of either journalism or military life.
John Powers, former editor-in-chief of the Scholastic, is now a general news and police reporter for the South Bend Tribune. While editor of the campus news magazine, Powers acted as campus correspondent for the local paper, and covered last Spring’s mock Republican convention. He hails from Stewart Manor, N. Y., and is an ex-paratrooper.
Dick Cody, a Chicago product, is now an employe of the Notre Dame Foundation, assistant editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus, and a member of the Notre Dame Magazine staff. He was the Scholastic feature editor.
Past Advertising Manager Ronald Zier, of Glen Rock, N. J., and Jack Varley of Youngstown, Ohio, past sports editor, have enlisted in the Army and are members of the Tenth Infantry Division at Fort Riley, Kansas. They expect to go to Officers Candidate School in October after completion of their basic training.
Ex-Marine Jack Meaney, former associate editor, is now employed by a St. Paul, Minn., advertising firm. A native of Boston, he plans to marry Miss Kathleen Pull of St. Paul soon.
By IRV CARRIG
With presidential promises a dime a dozen and the Nov. 4 election date getting closer, officials of the Academy of Political Science have reminded students who are eligible to vote that the various states in which they reside require different preregistration procedures.
The following information has been furnished by the Academy of Political Science in conjunction with the Scholastic:
Alabama residents must request an official application for ballot from the Probate judge anytime between Oct. 13 and 27. The voted ballot must be returned to chairman of the county executive committee by election day.
Residents of California must request a ballot from the registrar of voters in the city and county of Los Angeles and city and county of San Francisco.
Delaware voters must request their ballots from the Department of Elections in Sussex and Kent Counties, from the Bureau of Registration in New Castle County (Wilmington) by mail before Oct. 30. Ballots must be received by the Department of Elections there by election day.
Georgia voting laws are unique in that 18 years is the minimum age required for voting in the national election. Ballots may be obtained from the registrar of the county by Oct. 23, enclosing -$0.26 for postage and sent by registered mail—ballot to be sworn before postmaster and returned by registered mail to reach precinct by Noy. 1.
Maine preregistration laws require that application for ballots be obtained from the county clerk and mailed on or before election day and be received before closing of polls.
Massachusetts applications for ballots must be submitted to city or town derk, or from the secretary of the commonwealth and returned by Nov. 2.
Minnesota residents must apply for ballots from County Auditor before Oct. 26 and return to same by Nov. 2.
Mississippi residents must request ballot from county or municipal registrar before Oct. 23 and returned by election day.
Registration in all Nebraska cities with a population of over 7,000 (except Omaha) must be submitted by mail through Oct. 22, or by affidavit on ballot envelope. Omaha residents must mail ballots to the office of election commis-(Continued on page 33)
Oct. 3, 1952
It
STUDENT SENATE IN EARLY SESSION
Dances Are Not To Be Operated at a Profit . . .
Senate Hikes Dance Price to $1 to Avoid Loss; Bi-weekly Talks by Rectors to Begin Monday
By BILL MOORE
After an extended discussion at its meeting last Monday evening, the Student Senate approved raising the admission price of the weekly dances from 90 cents to a dollar. It was decided to make the increase after hearing that the well-attended dance last Saturday lost some $30.
In the discussion on the increase, the Senate was reminded that the first of the victory dances are usually the most financially successful, and that eventually attendance at the dances will fall considerably below that necessary to meet costs. In approving the increase, the Senate restated its original aim that the dances were not to be operated at a profit for the Senate, but only to pay for themselves.
Considering its dance schedule, the Senate also decided to cancel the dance for the weekend of November 1st, because of the great number of students leaving campus for the Student trip, and the long holiday weekend.
During the dance discussion ' Floyd Blair, dance chairman, announced a waltz contest for tomorrow evening’s dance. A large trophy will be awarded the winning couple, who will be judged by several disc jockeys from the South Bend radio stations. Music for the evening will be provided by the new Notre Dame dance band of Don Gels, successor to Gene Hull.
The Senate also enthusiastically endorsed a plan of the University admni-
istration for bi-weekly talks by the hall rectors to their resident students. The Senate was reminded that these sessions, to be held on Monday evenings at seven o’clock, will give occasion to the students for bringing up hall matters with their hall councils and presidents. The meetings will begin this coming Monday.
The Senate later appropriated $35 to Father George Baldwin for prizes for his annual Fall Fishing Contest, to he held soon.
Al Marks was appointed chairman of the committee on bids for the flower and photo concessions which are granted each year by the Senate. Bids for these concessions may be made by any student interested. Information for anyone interested may be gotten from Al Marks, 233 Fisher Hall, preferably during the coming week. All bidders for the concessions will be given a chance to explain their plans for the proposed concession before the Student Senate, in the next several weeks, it was decided.
The Senate also set in motion plans for a WND discussion panel to be given weekly on matters of student interest. The panel, which will be begun later in the year, will be handled by the Speakers Bureau and the Senate.
Next week the Senate plans to hear from a representative of the Cheering Squad on introducing a flash-card system at football games, and to discuss a second blood donor drive on campus. It will also begin work on the new budget for the Senate.
Fort Wayne NFCCS Elects Desmond Veep
Notre Dame Junior Marshall Desmond was elected vice-president of the NFCCS Fort Wayne Region at a regional council meeting Sunday at Nazareth College, Kalamazoo, Mich. The election was necessitated by the resignation from that post of Carol Reuss of St. Mary of the Woods College.
To accept the new position, Desmond who is also NFCCS senior delegate and a member of the cabinet at Notre Dame, relinquished his post as regional treasurer. Susie Steigmeyer of St. Francis College was chosen to succeed him.	j
On the same day, a freshman orien- I tation program on NFCCS was initiated j with great success by Joe Conwell of	?
Notre Dame, president of the Speakers	j
Bureau on campus and chairman of the \ regional commission of forensics.	|
It was the duty of each of the five	]
speakers to explain a different phase of	!
NFCCS and to discuss how students could profit by engaging in the activities sponsored by the federation.
The speakers included Marshall Desmond, speaking on the overall structure of the NFCCS, Ron Mealy, on social action, John O’Connell, on religious activities, Don Carbone, speaking on the overseas service program and international affairs, and Joe Conwell, on student affairs.
The orientation was well attended and well received by over 100 girls from Nazareth Academy and College, as well as by representatives of the Newman Clubs of nearby Kalamazoo and Western Michigan College.
Presented in the form of a motion during the council meeting was a standing invitation to all student government presidents and newspaper editors of the various colleges to partake in the discussions and deliberations of the Fort Wayne Region Council.
This invitation was made in the hope of better acquainting these persons and the organizations which they represent with the aims, desires, and functions of the NFCCS.
Members of Sociology Dept.
Pursue Studies in Summer
Several members of the Department of Sociology were engaged in related activities during the Summer months.
In connection with his course in cultural anthropology, Dr. E. K. Francis did field work among the Pueblo Indians of the Upper Rio Grande Valley, in addition to attending the Pecos Conference at Santa Fe, N. M. During the coming year at ND he will continue his study
12
The Scholastic
of the nature of ethnic groups, under a grant-in-aid from the Social Science Research Council.
Dr. John Kane gained valuable experience for his course in industrial sociology through participation in the International Harvester Company’s program for faculty members. Making a study of non-segregation policies, he visited company plants in Memphis, Louisville, and Evansville. His Marriage and the Family was published in July and is being used already in courses at a large number of colleges.
Mr. John M. Martin, who assumed duties as director of curriculum in correctional administration this Fall, continued his research on vagrancy. He completed his courses for the Ph. D. degree in criminology at New York University in June.
Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C., head of the department, attended the national meeting of the American Sociological Society at Atlantic City, N. J., early in September.
Journalism Dept. Debuts '52 "Journalist" Today
Today the Department of Journalism’s experimental publication, The Journalist, made its 1952 debut. Appearing for the fifth consecutive year, the paper will run for a six week period.
Coming under the close scrutiny of class members, administration officials, and department heads, the publication’s circulation approximates 250 copies.
The technical work of printing the tabloid is done by the McClane Printing Company of South Bend.
Two staffs will produce The Journalist on alternating weeks, with the idle staff members designing their own magazine while the other crew puts out the tabloid.
The purpose of this paper, which is under the direction of Professor Edward Fisher, is to give seniors in the journalism course an opportunity to put into practice the principles and theories of writing, make-up, type selection, and photo placement which they learned as juniors.
An important feature of this tabloid style publication is that the practice of having a different staff edit each edition eliminates the possibility of anyone getting the same assignment twice. In this way the student becomes familiar with every phase of the subject.
Managing editor of the current edition is Tom Murphy. Other members of the staff of this week’s enterprise include Jack Hummel, city editor; Bob Zier, sports editor; Bill Londo, copy editor, and Father Reedy, assistant copy editor.
Tuberculosis League to Examine Students In Basement of Dining Hall Starting Monday
In cooperation with the St. Joseph County Tuberculosis League and the Indiana State Board of Health, the South Bend Chapter of the National Tuberculosis Association will conduct its annual chest x-ray service here on campus, commencing next Monday.
Students, lay and clerical, faculty members and their wives, vetville families and University employees are strongly urged to take advantage of this x-ray service, which is to be conducted in the basement of the Dining Hall.
Students are reminded that of the total number of 2,231 x-rays taken on campus last year, 24 results showed unfavorable reactions. Stress is to be placed on the fact that other irregularities besides tuberculosis often show up on the chest x-rays.
The National Association for Tuberculosis wishes also to lay emphasis on the importance of annual chest x-rays to reveal tuberculosis before it becomes too serious.
University employees and vetville families are requested to attempt to have their x-rays taken from 9:00 to 10:30 in the mornings, and from 2:00 to 4:00 in the afternoons, as these will be slack times for student x-rays. University employees will be given time off during the week to be x-rayed. There will be no charge for x-rays of children from vet
ZIER, MURPHY, LONDO, FATHER REEDY, AND HUMMEL Putting Together First Issue of ‘Journalist’
ville families.
Those unable to be x-rayed on campus may use the downtown facilities of the association during the week of October > 13, the schedule of which is given below. However, it is urged that all those who can do so, have their x-rays taken on campus. A confidential report will be sent to each person checked, within three or four weeks of the time the test was taken.
The schedule for the x-rays is as follows: Monday, Oct. 6; 2 to 6 p. m.; Tuesr-day, Oct. 7; 9 a. m. to 1 p. m., and -5 to 8 p. m.; Wednesday, Oct. 8; 10:30 a. m. to 2 p. m. and 5 to 7 p. m.; Thursday, Oct. 9; 8:30 a. m., to 1:00 p. m. and 2 to 3:30 p- m.; Friday, Oct. 10; 9 a. m. to 1 p. m. and 2 to 3 p. m. The above x-rays will be taken in the basement of the Dining Hall.
For those having x-rays taken downtown, the schedule is as follows. Monday, Oct. 13, at TB League, 319 South Main Street, 2 to 4 p. m. and 5 to 8:30 p. m.-Tuesday, October 14, same address, 9 to 11:30 a. m. and 12:30 to 5 p. m. Wednesday, Oct. 15, at St. Joseph Hospital, North St. Petei- Street, 1 to 3:30 p. m. Thursday, Oct. 16, at L. O- Gates, 202 Lincoln Way East, Mishawaka, 9:30 to 11:30 a. m. and 12:30 to 5 p. m. Friday, Oct. 17, at St. Mary’s College, Holy Cross, Ind., 9 to 12 a. m.
Oct. 3, 1952
New Era Begins for ND's University Theater As 14 St. Mary's Girls Try Out for First Play
A new era was begun in the theater at Notre Dame as 14 St. Mary’s girls tried out for parts in Comedy of Errors, the first show of the year for the University Theater. All the feminine leads will be played by SMC girls. .
James Nichols and Douglas Cole, both freshmen, have been tentatively chosen to play the male leads in the Shakespearean farce to be presented later this month.
They are cast as Antipholus of Ephesus and Antipholus of Syracuse, one of two sets of twins in the play. The complete cast for this first production by the University Theater was tentatively decided upon last Monday night.
John Tumpane, director of the play, has called on two first year men to handle the leads. The comedy leads, another set of twins, are Dromio of Ephesus, Gerald Godwin, and Dromio of Syracuse, Richard Lewis.
This is the first time in many a year that a SMC class has been allowed to cross the Dixie to take part in a University Theater production. This newly established principle is expected to continue through future productions.
Adriana, the wife of Antipholus of Ephesus, is Miss Sylvia Schneider. Mary Jo Bujarski is Luciana, the love interest.
Louise Warnicke has been picked for the femme comedy lead of Luce.
Comedy of Errors will run for four nights from Thursday, Oct. 23 through Sunday, Oct. 26.
It is a story of mistaken identity, involving two sets of twins. When Antipholus of Syracuse, along with his servant, Dromio, comes to Ephesus, he is, among other things mistaken for his brother by Adriana, his brother’s wife. Then the fun begins.
The play is a complete farce. The plot is so entangled that by the final scene even the directoi* may have trouble telling who’s who.
Costumes and the set are being designed by an old tinier at that sort of thing, Dick Byrnes. Many may remember the sets he produced for last year’s shows.
A unit set will be used to represent the town of Ephesus. The original play had many sets, but Byrnes and Mr. Tumpane have decided to try the unit, where all the scenes are contained on one.set.
With just about three weeks left to work in, Mr. Tumpane and his associates are holding rehearsals five nights a week. Others to be included in "the cast
MR. TUMPANE & MR. CASEY
With Help From West of the Dixie
are Joseph Gargan, Marilyn Beck, Jack Wilcox, Geraldine Krysko, Alex Petrillo, Walt Swift, Nancy O’Hearn, Tom Wageman, and Frank Pavalko.
Placement Office Registers Four Firms for Interviews
Mr. William R. Dooley, director of the placement office, stated this week that there are four companies already signed up to interview prospective graduates. He expects many more to sign up before the time for interviews starts.
Now receiving applications for placement assistance, Mr. Dooley urges anyone who is a graduate or who expects to receive a B.S. degree in January, 1953, to register at his office and pick up an information sheet.
Interviews will be held on the following dates: Oct. 20 to Dec. 12, inclusive, Jan. 8 to 20, inclusive, and Feb. 9 to March 26, inclusive.
In order to avoid unnecessary confus-sion and conserve everyone’s time, Mr. Dooley requests that students avoid arranging interviews on all Saturdays, Oct. 30-31, Nov. 3-4, Nov. 26-28, Dec. 5, and Dec. 8-10.
The four companies already signed to give interviews during the first week are Union Carbon and Carbide Corporation, Bendix Home Appliance Division of Av-co Manufacturing Company, General Motors Corporation, and the U. S. Naval Gun Factory.
Anyone interested in being interviewed by a representative of these companies
is asked to register at the Placement Office as soon as possible.
Mr. Dooley also urges students who are faced with the possibility of military service to register, as the majority of prospective employers are interviewing 1953 graduates for jobs which may entail a short training now and a steady job later if military service is necessary.
Two Firms Renew Graduate Fellowships for ND Students
Due to the increase of significant graduate work at the University of Notre Dame, a number of corporations are offering fellowships to graduate students. Two corporations have just renewed fellowships—one in metallurgy and one in chemistry. .
The Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation has just renewed for the fifth year the fellowship in metallurgy at Notre Dame. The total amount of the fellowship is $2,500—part of which will be used to cover the recipient’s living expenses, as well as tuition, fees, and supplies. Mr. Clifford Barker will be continued on that fellowship for the year 1952-1953.	-
The Eli Lilly & Company has also renewed the fellowship in chemistry at Notre Dame. This fellowship is under the direction of Dr. Charles C. Price, former head of the Department of Chemistry at Notre Dame, and Dr. Hennion.
The fellowship, amounting to $4,400, will cover the living expenses, tuition, fees, and supplies of Vernon Clare Wolff, Jr., and Eugene Gordon Teach. Mr. Wolff will study under the direction of Dr. Price, and Mr. Teach will be under the supervision of Dr. Hennion.
Glee Club Candidacy Tests Result in 75 New Members
Mr. Daniel Pedtke recently released the names of successful candidates for the Glee Club. Approximately 75 aspirants passed the vocal tests in which a near record of 115 students participated several weeks ago. The new members have joined with the veteran singers in practice sessions during the past week.
The quality shown in the tryouts was considered as being well above average. Test of range, quality, musicianship and experience were stressed at the tryouts.
Although the tryouts are closed, Mr. Pedtke stated that first tenors and second basses might still be able to get into the club if they contact him in the Music Hall before the end of next week.
The Scholastic
14
-of . . .
Your Student Government
What’s all this talk about constitutional revision, and the new student senate? Who thought up the student activity cards? What are the new executive cabinet commissions? What happened to the old Student Council? All these questions and lots more are being asked these days. Notre Dame’s student government has undergone a major overhauling in the last year, and the results of this work are now becoming apparent, but as yet, many of us aren’t up-to-date on just what has happened.
The best way to look at our new student government is to compare it with the old Student Council. There' were a lot of flaws in the organization of the Student Council. Constitutions had been drawn up in a hurry by a group which was too small to be really representative of all the campus interests. These faults in the council were implicitly recognized by students. “What good is the Student Council?” was a remark that was frequently heard.
A Constitution Is Born
When James Garvin was elected president of the Student Council a little more than a year ago, he recognized the need for a constitutional revision. He organized two groups to deal with this situation. First, the so-called ‘master plan committee’ worked out the theoretical problems involved in setting up a student government. Then in the second semester of last year, a constitutional revision committee got busy turning the ideas of the master plan committee into a working constitution. The results of the work of the two committees is the new ‘Constitution of the Student Senate of the University of Notre Dame.’ This constitution represents the thought of student leaders from almost all phases of campus life, and it shows every sign of being organizationally sound, as well. But let’s take a look at the constitution itself.
Aims of the Student Government
The constitution opens with a preamble which states the reasons why we need a student government here at Notre Dame. A large portion of the discussion in the revision committee centered around the preamble. That was only natural because this introduction to the Constitution contains the basic principles on which our student government will operate.
First of all, the preamble states that
By THOMAS F. FIELD, A.B. Senator
“the educational aims of a university can best be achieved by a cooperative effort of students, faculty members, and administrators.” Notice that the emphasis is immediately put on cooperation. No successful student government ever thought of itself as an officers corps designed to foment student revolt. Students, faculty members and administrators, the three major groups comprising any university, must do their best to get along with one another if the university as a whole is to have any success. Sometimes, we may feel that the administra-
Mr. Field’s article concerning the re-organization of Notre Dame’s student government is a welcome clarification of the functions of the newly-organized student senate. A recently-elected senator from the College of Arts and Letters, Field has been instrumental in developing this new concept of student government at Notre Dame. His greatest concern is whether or not the new program will be met by the active student participation which is so vital to the success of the system. It is Field’s firm belief that student government will be no better than the support behind it.—EDITOR.
tion isn’t cooperating fully with us. Doubtless the administration and faculty often feel the same way about us. Basically, however, we’re all interested in seeing Notre Dame turn out responsible, educated Christian leaders, and that’s the basic premise that makes cooperation not only possible, but absolutely necessary.
The next section of the preamble points out that the “proper development of extra-curricular life will result in the formation of leaders who can assume positions of responsibility in American society.” This may sound like a somewhat high-brow way of looking at extracurricular activities but the fact is that an important influence on the education of a college man is his extra-curricular activity. We all know that one of the first things an employer wants to know
about a college graduate is what extracurricular responsibilities he assumed during his college days. This area of student life is the particular responsibility of our student government. The new student senate has virtually complete control over all campus extra-curricular activities. It regulates not only the chartering of campus clubs, but their finances, activities, meetings, and elections. This power isn’t used too often, but it’s in the constitution just in case something goes wrong.
An Ear for Your Gripes
The next function of student government to be developed in the preamble is the “expression of crystalized student opinion to the administrative offices of the University.” This means simply that the student government is your representative. If you have a proposal you want to have adopted, or a gripe you want to air, the student senators are the people to whom to go. They are officially recognized by the administration as your representatives, and have the responsibility of seeing that your ideas are placed before the proper administrative authorities.
The preamble then goes on to point out other subsidiary functions of the Student Senate. It states, for example, that the Student Senate should be an active force in developing a knowledge of social responsibilities of the Christian college graduate, and it emphasizes that a student government can help to develop an understanding of the processes of democratic government.
Organizational Changes
The statements of the preamble have been concretized in the second section of the new constitution into a completely new organizational setup for our student government. The first big change from the old student council system is the establishment of separate legislative and executive bodies. The Student Council used to be both legislative and executive, that is, it had to carry out all the legislation which it passed. This kept the Student Council members so busy that they seldom had time to sit down and think out the well planned legislative programs which were necessary if they were to prove to administrative authorities that they actually could assume responsibility. Under the new constitution, the Student Senate is a strictly legislative.
(Continued on page 31)
Oct. 3, 1952
15
WND Becomes WNDU as Student Voice Joins Ranks of Intercollegiate Broadcasting
When WND, the “Student Voice of Notre Dame,” returns to the air this month, it will have a new name and will be situated in a new spot on the radio dial. A fourth letter has been added to the familiar call letters, making WNDU the student station. Less interference from local stations is expected at 640 kilocycles, the new spot on the dial.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, chose the new call ’ letters last week so that they could be registered with the Federal Communications Commission. Registration of the letters makes them available for any type of radio or television communications that Notre Dame might want to indulge in in the future. These call letters are now the exclusive property of the University.
No more three-letter calls are being ’ registered by the FCC, so the old WND call could not be used for any other operation than the carrier current system now in use.
The lower frequency, besides being on a clearer part of the dial, will allow the station to broadcast a stronger legal signal than was possible on the old 1230 kilocycle frequency.
Station Manager Bill Ryan announced the programming notes this week. The first of these was that a contract has been signed with the advertising agency of Batten, Barton, Durstine and Osborne, representing the American Tobacco Company and Lucky
jSuiaksgM
And what's your number, little man?
Strike cigarettes, for WNDU to broadcast daily a 15-minute news program at 7 p.m., and 15-minute sports and music show at 5:15 p.m. for Luckies. These programs will be in addition to WNDU’s usual coverage of news and sports.
The second note was that WNDU has become a member of the Intercollegiate Broadcasting System, an organization of over 100 college radio stations in all parts of the country. Association with this organization is expected to aid in improving both the programming and engineering services of the station. This move was another of the factors that contributed to the necessity of changing the call letters, since all stations in the ssytem must have their call registered with the FCC.
In the meantime, work has been progressing steadily on the new transmission system, and it is expected that the station will be able to return to the air in the very near future. The exact date will be announced in the Scholastic and in notices posted around the campus.
Modern Languages to Offer Six Foreign Films on Campus
The Department of Modern Languages is sponsoring a series of six foreign feature length films during the current semester.
Though offered primarily for their
educational value in providing the modern language students with valuable aural training in the foreign tongue and a certain insight to the customs and temperaments of other peoples, these films are open to other interested persons insofar as seating capacity permits.
Each of the films will have the sound track in a foreign language and subtitles in English. All showings will be in the Engineering Auditorium and will start promptly at 7:30 p.m. Admission will be 25 cents per person at the door.
The program will offer “Paisan” (Italian) on Oct. 8, and “God Needs Men” (French), starring Pierre Fres-nay, on Oct. 23. An animated color cartoon, entitled “Magic Horse” is the Russian selection slated for Nov. 5.
“Somewhere in Berlin” (German) and “Under the Paris Sky” (French) are to be shown on Dec. 10 and Jan. 7 respectively.
A Spanish film, the title of which is as yet not selected, is planned for Nov. 19.
Hall Elections System Undergoes Test Oct. 14
A completely revamped system of electing presidents and councils for each one of the fourteen residence halls as prescribed by the constitution of the new Student Senate will be set in motion on Oct. 14.
Election of the hall president gives the individual a voting seat in the Student Senate and also gives every student a more intimate and direct voice in Student government. The newly elected senator from each of the halls will accept his seat in the senate and take upon himself the responsibilities and duties of that office immediately after his election.
There will, be but one election in each hall. It will determine the members of the hall council as well as the president of that particular hall.
A plurality vote taken in each hall on election day will determine the four-representatives for the hall—the man receiving the highest number of votes on the first ballot automatically receiving the presidency, and the next three succeeding men becoming council members.
Unlike the procedure in the old Student Council form of government, the new method is more streamlined. Formerly, two elections were held. In the first election, four students were chosen to represent the particular hall, and the man receiving the largest number of votes on the second ballot of the second election automatically became the hall president.
16
The Scholastic
O'Brien Replaces Hope As ND Band Director
A new personality, Mr. Robert O’Brien, has come upon the Notre Dame scene to assume the post of band director. He replaces Mr. H. Lee Hope, now at Indiana University on a one to two-year leave of absence.
Mr. O’Brien obtained his A.B. in music from the University of Southern Illinois, and his M.A. from the University of Iowa. He plans to attend Colorado University later and study for his doctorate.
Practically, Mr. O’Brien has had experience working in music with public high schools, and several years’ experience working with a Navy band during the war.
He will direct the group of 110 musicians who compose the 1952-53 Notre Dame band. One-half of the members are new as a result of one of the largest turnovers in the band’s history. Innovations for this season include two drum majors.
Eight bagpipers, the novelty attraction added last year, will again be a part of half-time festivities this year.
First appearance of the year for the band will take place at the Pittsburgh game here, Oct. 11. The band will also travel to Cleveland for the Navy game on Nov. 1.
MARCHING BAND PREPARES FOR Pin GAME New Director, 110 Members, Eight Bagpipers
DeCrane Named National Debate Champ;
Sommer's Team Begins Drills for New Season
Travel Firm Offers Cash
Prizes for Poster Designs
Poster competition for designs on student tours to Europe, offering prizes of $50, $30, and $20, has recently been announced by Travel & Study Inc., of New York City. Open to all students, graduate and undergraduate, the closing date of the contest is October 25.
Designs should illustrate or suggest student travel to Europe and should be centered about a slogan of not more than six words. Last year’s prize-wining poster carried the caption: “You can’t hitchhike to Europe.”
A brochure describing the type of tours the poster is to announce may be consulted in the editorial office of the Scholastic. The poster should not be larger than 13^4x10 inches.
Those who are interested in the promotion of the company’s educational opportunities abroad for students should consult the brochure mentioned above and then write explaining why they think travel important and how they can effectively assist in this work. Further details may be obtained from Travel & Study Inc., 110 East 57th Street, New York 22, N. Y.
Oct. 3, 1952
Al DeCrane, senior Speech major from Cleveland, Ohio, was notified over the summer months that he has been named National Singles Debate Champion by Tau Kappa Alpha, an honorary speech society taking in the largest majority of the nation’s major speech and debating schools.
DeCrane won the title at the' society’s national meet held last Spring at Cleveland’s Case Institute of Technology.
The' championship was awarded on the basis of points received in five rounds of debate. A committee member stated that “DeCrane is probably the most interesting champion the society has ever had, because, although 150 points indicated a perfect score for the five rounds, the judges gave the star Notre Dame speaker over 170 points.” In three of the five rounds he received “better than perfect” scores, and was
Naval Interviews
Lt. Sires, U.S.N., will be in the Faculty Lounge of the Main Building from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday to interview seniors and graduate students interested in the Naval Officers Training Candidate Program.
given perfect scores in the other two ■ rounds.
Until his Sophomore year here DeCrane had never seen a debate. Then he joined Prof. Leonard Sommer’s debate team, and under his guidance DeCrane progressed from neophyte to national champion in less than two years.
Tau Kappa Alpha’s meet also decided their National Championship in Extemporaneous Speech, and DeCrane narrowly missed copping this honor also for Notre Dame—coming in second— a half point behind the winner.
At the team’s first meeting this year, Prof. Sommer told the new members that one of them might be slated for national honors, pointing out that the ; Irish Debaters have captured seven . national titles in the past eight years.
“Unlike some schools,” Sommer said, . V-“Notre Dame gives every member a -chance, regardless of class or experi- -ence. It is our practice to use every member somewhere, sometime, in the , i course of the year.”
The team’s new members are now \-
being instructed in the art of speaking - ’’Ai at the group’s meeting on Monday,; -^ Wednesday and Thursday in Room 330 Main Building, at 4:30 in the afternoon. V.
W-THE SCHOLm YEARS -1952
Text by DAN BOLAND—Illustrated by BOB FOWLER
Eighty-five years ago, on Sept. 7, 1867, a weekly publication called “The Scholastic Year” appeared on the Notre Dame campus. “The Scholastic Year”, only eight pages in length at that time, was the forerunner, the grandfather of the magazine you are now reading, and boasted complete news coverage for Notre Dame’s students.
“The Scholastic Year” stemmed from the efforts of the Rev. R. N. Gillespie, C.S.C. who was its founder and first editor. Father Gillespie felt the urgent need for a University publication—one that would give the parents a “good idea of the lives their children lead.” As a result, the first issue included the names and home towns of all the students enrolled at Notre Dame, and Father Gillespie solemnly promised that “In the future we shall give the date of the arrival of each student, so that parents may know the exact time of their arrival here, and see whether or not they have loitered along the way.” Autumn of 1867 saw 500 students enrolled at Notre Dame. Loiterers, if any, were never mentioned again.
Life at Notre Dame in 1867? A good question, and one that can be answered only by giving you Notre Dame as it was in the days when the University was entering its 24th year. Here, then, in'
tribute to 85 Scholastic years, are glimpses of Notre Dame from the first issues of “The Scholastic Year.”
Life on the Notre Dame campus centered around various clubs and societies that were formed for the mixed interests of the students and although the St. Edwards Literary Society was in full bloom at this time, the limelight was gained by an organization known as the Terpsichorean Club (Terpsichorean—“of or pertaining to a dancer”). That dancing was undoubtedly a popular pastime is evidenced when “Scholastic Year” wrote: “We are surpised that such an organization did not take place ere this, considering the number of students of the University that delight so much in ‘tripping on the light fantastic toe.’ Our friends are invited to join.”
There was, in those days, another group known as the Two Penny Club, whose activities consisted of nothing more than hiking. Evidence of restrictions at this early date are noted since the club leader, “resolved to take his club on a short promenade in the vicinity of Notre Dame,” found it necessary for the club to appoint “a committee of one to procure the permit necessary to the execution of the designed perambulation.” “Once this was accomplished and the perambulation got un-
derway, the members “crossed a field covered -with miscellaneous vegetation, climbed a fence nineteen rails high, double staked, with riders, and arrived at a towering hickory sapling two feet in diameter. A committee of one was appointed to elevate itself into the tree’s topmost branches and shower down the delicious nuts upon the heads of the expectant members.”
Then there were the Philharmonics, a glee club made up of local campus talent. They had an appreciative, loyal following, but none more appreciative or more loyal than the reporter who signed his story “A Distinguished Guest.” His account of the Philharmonics concert began with: “The Jolly Philharmonics— oh the jolly-jolly boys—made another grand display last night. Perhaps you didn’t hear it! We did—that’s so. The exhibition of vocalism last evening was for the benefit of the juniors and distinguished visitors, among whom we are numbered. Oh you doubt it do you? You need not, for we were there—everywhere and elsewhere. That’s for us.”
.... Athletics were also an integral part of University life. The following is the first account written about a football game played at Notre Dame and appeared in the Nov. 9, 1867 issue of “The Scholastic Year.”
“Foot-Ball is a very good exciting game, and can be hugely enjoyed by any one in heavy boots if he is not afraid of his shins, and if he could sleep next morning later than half-past five o’clock, to rest himself and to dream his battles o’er again.
“Last Wednesday, the 6th of November, about sixty or seventy boys of the Junior Department, accompanied by Bro. Florentius, proceeded to fallow field to have some fun kicking the ball, and, occasionally, each other’s shins. Arrived at the appointed place, Masters Raggio and Skelly were called upon to choose up,
18
The Scholastic
the latter getting the first choice. After all the boys present had been chosen, the ball was ‘bucked,’ as the term is, by Raggio, and then began a desperate struggle. No blood was shed, but many a poor fellow was to be seen picking himself up and vowing vengeance against the one that had tripped him up and down, but when the ball came around he would pitch in, utterly forgetting who had ‘brought him low.’ At one time an onlooker would observe the whole seventy in one conglomerated muddle, with the ball in the middle, all kicking with as much earnestness and nervousness as so many horses in fly time.
“Although the weather was very cold and disagreeable, all the boys had then-coats off and were even dripping with perspiration. We cannot tell which was the strongest side, as neither won the game, although we played from halfpast one o’clock until half-past five o’clock, when we had to return to the college.”
None of the members of the Two Penny Club were in the midst of the melee, for, as they themselves wrote in “The Scholastic Year” “The members of the Two Penny Club are not noted for their physical and muscular development; they are not aspirants to the honor of being classed among expert gymnasts. They admire the shape of a ball, and love to see it flying through the air—when at a respectable distance.”
“The Scholastic Year” was not confined to news and views of Notre Dame exclusively. It also recorded the activities at St. Mary’s and combined its reports to cover the common interests of both schools. As early as the first issue a St. Mary’s gathering was given considerable coverage in “The Scholastic Year.” “We regret,” the author of the story explained, “that we are obliged to go to press before receiving the account of the opening of classes at St. Mary’s.” Later in the story, and adding a touch of 19th century social apropos, the author continued: “The young ladies who charmed us with their playing on the Grand Piano, in the College Parlor, have given us an exalted notion of their attainments in the musical line.”
.... Christmas was spent at St. Mary’s and the occasion was greeted with a rousing editorial thanking the young ladies for the fine entertainment that prevailed there Christmas day. “We may say,” the editorial stated, “that everybody was pleased — we do this to settle at once our claim to having good taste, for everybody knows that everyone is always pleased with the • entertainments given at St. Mary’s.
And while the students of St. Mary’s and Notre Dame were roughing it in the midst of an Indiana winter, the Notre
Oct. 3, 1952
Dame Coronet Band was unveiled. The members of the band received their most stirring tribute from “The Scholastic Year” when a reporter wrote: “On Tuesday we were treated to excellent musical feats by the members of the coronet band. During the dinner of the Community, the band discoursed some most beautiful music in which the heavy brass of Messrs. Hoffman and Dickinson, especially toward the end of the meal, fully supplied the place of physical exercise, (so much recommended as an aid to digestion,) by the earthquakey vigor of its tones.
_______With the celebration of St. Patrick’s Day and Easter, the school year drew rapidly to a close. The few last flings of the Terpsichorean Club and. the Coronet band were overshadowed only by the exams and the publication, of the honor roll. After the latter, Notre Dame was void of the intelligent, frank, cheerful-looking students that had filled the college halls — all had departed, as “The Scholastic Year” had. predicted, “for one reason or another.”
Gone, too, are the days when room, board and tuition totaled §150.00 for a. five month semester.
This must be a horrible dream! Eighteen hours on a train, late for registration and locked out of all available residence halls. And now the faculty lounge! Watch television? The night watchman made us turn it off hours ago. Throw us out? He wouldn't dare!
So we’re a little late—so what? Here, see—one furnished apartment for $6.50. Not available? Well, let’s try this one on Kosciusko Street.
ABOVE: Twenty-two students here! The fruit cellar? Thanks, but we'll try something else that's listed.
LEFT: This was designed for comfortable living? Surely this isn’t an approved home. It is? This they should investigate!
Where
You
Living?
Photos by Bob Huddleston
it? relax calm you. deals
Off-campus you say? You don’t like
TOP: Let’s forget the list! CENTER: We should complain? A Reco Sporting Goods salesman sold us this solution on credit. RIGHT: The end of an eventful day.
There’s no plush living room to in? No frigidaire to raid? Well, down son, no one’s trying to hurt Let’s just say not everyone gets these' days.
The Notre Dame men pictured on these pages understand the situation. Never mention this business of selecting off-campus rooms to them — they pounded pavement for days looking for one. Who’s to blame? That’s right, they were late in arriving, and to make matters worse, they managed to mislay their off-campus permissions. By the time things were finally adjusted, well— judge for yourself.
life on the St. Mary’s porch ... a rare thing.—Walt Werner, Gerry Voit, Bubu Dilenschneider.
Watch for it, coming soon.
“A short column, it only seems long.”
Popcorn is Better than Ever
Connoisseurs of the local cinema have come’ to a startling realization. It is not movies that are better than ever, it is the popcorn. Why else do you think the kiddies always seem to enjoy movies more than anyone else.
Wait! Don’t rush off to prove it for yourself. South Bend’s popcorn production has reached a peak worthy of this great industry. Still there are degrees of perfection. We have a few words of advice for you on this important matter.
You all remember the childhood proverb, “All that glitters is not gold.” The rule holds for the flashy new Avon • theatre. A plush interior offers much to delight the senses. This, we believe, is to cover up their inexperience in the popcorn trade. Their product is still a bit salty.
Neither should you let mere size impress you. The Palace may offer you (ugh!) full length double features. More for your money, yes. Remember, though, that the very size demands a high output of popcorn. This definitely detracts from the quality.
Now if you really want to enjoy your popcorn, we suggest the Colfax. It’s a natural. This theatre has those long years of experience that are so necessary. Furthermore, its exclusive location just off South Bend’s Great White Way, gives that added atmosphere that is so fashionable. Let’s face it; it’s the place to go for good popcorn.
One final suggestion for an enterprising freshman of the Horatio Alger type. South Bend does not yet have a popcorn-easy.
The Plot Sickens
The foregoing review of popcorn was made necessary by the current plot-sterility in the movie industry. Aside from the who killed the guy? and boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl at the end plots, which recur with nauseating frequency, Hollywood has brought forth some stories on realistic themes. Notable' among these are Detective Story and Streetcar Named Objectionable in Part. These plots are supposed to show life as it really is, and so for ambitious writers who would like to dabble in realism, we offer the following themes:
Plot number one: Joe Roundheels, a hard working ditch digger from the wrong side of the tracks is in love with
Millie Highlife, but Millie can’t choose between Joe and Roger Wellined, the dental floss tycoon. Seeking to win her sympathy and thus the girl, Joe says to Millie: “I don’t deserve you, Millie, go with Roger. He’s steady, he’s dependable, he plays polo.” “You’re so right,” says Millie, “You don’t deserve me.” And so Millie marries Roger.
Plot number two: Nicky Spillguts private eye (No rank at all) stands against the wall in his office. “One slip and you die, Spillguts,” snarls the’ dangerous killer. Spillguts slips!
Plot number three: The whole town of Goldurn (silver was discovered there) is hushed as Stainless Randolph Co-operwayne strides down the main street looking for Cactus Murphy, the’ notorious killer. Murphy said he’d meet Randolph at low noon on the street. Stainless Randolph walks slowly, hands on guns, dust rising around his feet. Then suddenly a shot rings out and Cooper-wayne bites the dust. Cactus Murphy had snuck up behind him and shot him in the back, and the movie ends with crime running wild in Goldurn. Anyone can have these plots, don’t bother to ask.
Miss This
Speaking of cinema and we are, a stereotyped plot, masquerading as a movie called Jrist For You will soon be playing at a local theatre. If as yet you haven’t seen this picture, don’t. We warn you, it will be cheaper, and much more fun to just look at the posters and then run. Crosby and Wyman try hard, but regardless of their efforts Zero plus Zero still equal Zero. A parting salvo: our deepest sympathy for the men on campus in 1956, when Just For You hits Washington Hall.
Rest in Peace '
It is with great chagrin that the older students at Notre Dame lament the passing of (sniff) . . . the old guard shack at the circle . . . the rule requiring St. Mary’s girls to wear hats downtown, (what are they going to do for a mark of distinction) . . . one midnight a week for frosh . . . the gaping holes in the Cartier Field fence . . . Prof’s who give high (numerically) grades ... the all night lights plan . . . the on the hour class system . . . the exclusive senior halls . . . the big hole where “Fisher” wasn’t . . . the' soft bells that used to be in Sacred Heart church ... one hour for lunch . . . the exotic night
The Other Side
By Tom Foote
To add a little variety to this year’s publication as well as to satisfy our heretofore frustrated journalistic ambitions, we’ have decided to place our necks on the chopping block and make our debut in the world of cunning adjectives and first-hand analyses. It is our sincerest wish that you will bear with us in the Great Experiment, and while expecting a few rotten tomatoes in the course of the year, we shall be deeply gratified if we can contribute anything that might make you think or smile.
Now the’ first thing in the writing of a column concerns what is to be written about. This little problem, one that confronts every columnist a few minutes before his deadline, has been nicely solved by my fellow Scholastic columnists whom I deeply respect both as friends and authors and whom I do not wish to belittle in any way. (After all we must stick together for purposes of self-defense'.)
The Three Categories
Yet, as I was saying, whenever my colleagues get into a little deadline difficulty, they counter by (1) Lashing out in manly fury at the injustices (both real and imagined) of St. Marys, (2) Satirizing the' collegiate society which they voluntarily entered, or (3) Coming out with a brilliant expose in the latest starry-eyed idealism that their minds can conjure.
Obviously, a new column, then, to get printed (let alone read) must offer something in the way of relief from these time-honored cliches. To do this, we must get somewhat away from the conditions under which they have arisen. In other words, this column, as the name might indicate, if it indicates anything at all, will primarily concern itself with issues that are not necessarily a part of college life, but which a typical collegian will encounter in his drive for maturity and knowledge.
Purpose: To Make You Think
But, now hear this, we do not intend to establish any definite conclusions. The sole purpose of this column will be to analyze certain situations of life. There may even be time’s when you, the reader (if anyone has gotten this far) will be left in mid-air. If so, it is because our purpose as previously indicated, is to
(Continued on page 32)
22
The Scholastic
Srad SNotes
The Graduate Student Association welcomes its new members. This year’s membership enheartens the' old standbys. We’re now an all time high of 250.
Present executives are Leo St. Pierre, president, Ed Cochran, secretary, and Larry Monaco, treasurer. The divisional representatives are Bob Kane, Ed O’Connor and Walt Gray.
Activities for the current year began with an opening party Sept. 17, the last day of registration. Scheduled events were talks by Father Moore, retiring dean of the graduate school, and Father Beichner, who’s currently dean, as well as showing of a movie of the 1951 North Carolina-Notre Dame game. Refreshments were served (Mr. St. Pierre informed your reporter that to disclose the nature of the beverage served would be indiscreet), and cards were available for those inclined to play. Everyone went home with his shirt.
Father Moore was given life time membership in the' “gang.” St. Pierre thanked Father Moore for his previous interest and support. In recounting the history of the organization, St. Pierre mentioned the days when it consisted of only 11 men and Father Moore. We’re all agreed that we could use a lot more “boys” like Father Moore.
Fathei’ Beichner assured us of his interest and support in the future. We’re' looking forward to our association with him.
Mr. St. Pierre gave a running commentary on the football game. He succeeded in completely confusing those of us who weren’t in the know about football'. We appreciated his efforts none the less.
A stag party is in the offing for the near future. Members will be notified of the exact date’ of this event by mail. At this party a program of events for the present semester will be decided on. A debate is now in progress between the single and married grads on the matter of stag parties. Many of the single men want parties of a warmer social nature. Both groups should see that they are well represented for the determination of this controversial question.
A tough football contest for teams from the different departments is being arranged. Any prospective players can set their minds at ease; no games are as yet scheduled with the toothless bruisers of last week’s Life. Now’s the time to get your team in shape. Keep on the lookout for athletic notices.
—Joe Kelly
. . . For the Year’s Saddest Story
Under the heading, “saddest stories ever told,” are put forth many of the vicissitudes of modern life in the Midwest. Included usually is anything from losing a lot of money to being crossed up by a prof who gives a different test for the first time in twenty years.
I have a story I would like to enter in the competition, which should definitely rate among the saddest. It comes to me second-hand, but was told by a good friend whose truthfulness is respected, and so is beyond reasonable doubt. Anyway, even if it isn’t true it still makes a good story.
The tale was told by a Naval Academy midshipman and concerns another Academy man, who is a Catholic. This middie met a girl in his second class, or junior year, and dated her throughout that year. Let’s call them Jim and Margie, for the sake of calling them something. By the beginning of his first class year Jim decided that he was in love.
Margie was not a Catholic, so along
Sa Jldp, Me .
Don’t worry, we still have plenty of time to catch the last bus.
with popping the proposal Jim got Margie to promise to take instructions preparatory to entering the Catholic Church.
Well, Margie took to the instructions like the proverbial duck taking to water, and we guess Jim was one of the happiest guys in the world that year. They planned to be married right after Jim was graduated and commissioned, and they managed to be together just about every weekend during the year.
Then, just two short weeks before graduation and marriage, Margie came to see' Jim and her first words were, “Jim, there is something I have to tell you.” She proceeded to tell him that the instructions had had such an effect on her that she felt the only place for her was in a convent, and that she was going to enter a cloistered order the next week.
It is also reliably reported that Jim went to see the priest who had given Margie instructions, telling him that he would have made millions if he had gone into the insurance business.
—Bob Finney
Oct. 3, 1952
St. Mary’s Hosts Sophs Tonight
Tonight Notre Dame’s second yeai' men will journey across the Dixie to St. Mary’s for a Sophomore mixer. Tickets for the affair-, which will last from 8 to 10:30 p.m., were distributed here earlier in the week.
Maritain to Lecture Here
Jacques Maritain will lecture on each consecutive Friday in October to graduate students taking a special course in philosophy. Speaking under the' auspices of the Mediaeval Institute, he has chosen Art and Poetry as his general topic.
Listed on the University faculty as a visiting lecturer, he is coming from the Institute of Advanced Studies of Princeton University.
Father Murphy to Deliver Address
Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., VicePresident in Charge of Public Relations, will speak Sunday at Bellarmine College in Louisville, Ky. He will deliver his address at the ground-breaking ceremonies for the college’s new million-dollai- Administration Building. The college is in its third year of operation.
Organic Chemists End Lectures
Drs. D. H. Hey and J. H. Baxendale, two leading organic chemists in Britain, gave six lectures at Notre Dame on chemical radicals this week in the P. C. Reilly lecture series.
Dr. Hey, professor of organic chemistry at King’s College, London University, presented four lectures on “The Reactions of Free Radicals in Solution.” Dr. Baxendale, lecturer in organic chemistry at Manchester University, spoke' on “The Reactions of Benzenes with Hydrogen Peroxide” and “The Reactions of Iron Compounds with Hydrogen Peroxide.”
■
Criminology Lecture Here Thursday
Dr. J. P. Shaloo, associate professor of sociology at the' University of Pennsylvania, will speak here Thursday in Room 101 of the Law Building at 8 p.m.
A well-known criminologist, he will lecture on the “Employment Opportunities in the Field of Criminology.”
Campus Cigarette Agents Named
Representatives for Chesterfield cigarettes on the campus this year are J. Daniel Noe, Robert Kosydar, and Bill Kerwin. Concerned with the promotion of sales of Chesterfields here, the trio will attend a regional sales meeting at the Sherman Hotel in Chicago on Oct. 10. There they will discuss sales possibilities with representatives of the manufacturing firm.
Incoming Freshmen Ask Usual Questions: 'Who Polishes Dome?' and 'Why the Lines?'
As usual, the first week of campus life brought quite a few reactions from members of the incoming Freshman class.
Collared by Scholastic reporters, the flustered frosh had quite a few answers on the subject of “What were your first impressions of Notre Dame?”
Frank Cappellino of St. Ed’s caught the Irish spirit quickly, as he remarked: “I never saw so many people in so many lines in such a small place at the same time.
Jim Ort of St. Ed’s was not only impressed by the size of the campus, but also by the friendliness of those he met.
Howard’s Ed Vabervoor could only pin down his first impression to one of “organized confusion,” while Sam Kennel of Farley commented on the “homey atmosphere about the place.”
Pat Nazfoor of Farley had this to say: “I just saw the Golden Dome and I liked it.” Ray Snyder, Breen-Phillips, is wondering what to do with all the space in his room, while another BP man, John Collins, inquired as to “what holds Washington Hall together?”
“I was touched deeply by the spirit of Notre Dame, which is really unique,” remarked Steve Rogers of St. Ed’s. On his arrival to campus, John Brogan of Breen-Phillips was wondering; “Who polishes the Dome?”- Tom McCluhan nf St. Edward’s simply thought “the whole place is wonderful.”
“At my first sight of Notre Dame, I wondered how I was ever going to find my way around,” remarked Jim Tully of St. Ed’s. John Raub and Don Taggert, both of St. Ed’s, expressed their discour-agment at the old Irish institution of standing in lines.
A well justified feeling of minuteness overcame Henry Kirkendall of St. Ed’s,
Soph Cotillion
(Continued from page 9) crowd will bring the week-end to a close by attending 9 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church. After the Mass, those lucky enough to have tickets will attend a Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn, at.which several prominent campus personalities have been chosen as guest speakers.
The Cotillion's general chairman, Thomas McIntosh, has anounced that accommodations for the simultaneous purchase of hotel rooms, football tickets, and Communion Breakfast reservations will also be provided at the ticket counter in the Dining Hall.
while Breen-Phillip’s Gillis Gallant was primarily concerned with “when and what do we eat?” No comment.
John O’Rourke, also of Breen-Phillips, was happy to learn—contrary to early rumors—that “the rectors of our halls are human.” A man from Farley, Ray Terlezzi, liked the size and the attitude of the students he encountered. Ray appreciated the new opportunities offered on campus to Freshmen.
Don Walz of BP was solely impressed by the style of the buildings and the designs of the walks. “My first impression of Notre Dame,” commented Bill Weldon of St. Ed’s, “was one of awe at the immensity of the beautiful campus. This seems to be the sentiment of the entire Freshmen class.
Seniors Propose Jaunt To Spartan-Irish Game
Tentative plans have been announced for a Senior trip to the Michigan State-Irish football game at East Lansing Nov. 15.
While details for the proposed trip have not been formulated, Kerwin Fulton, senior class president, says that at least 300 tickets have been definitely procured for the trip.
Transportation will be by train, and it is hoped that some sort of entertainment will be provided before the return trip. In the event that both schools can get together and arrange entertainment, the train will delay its departure for South Bend; otherwise it will leave about an hour after the game.
Committeemen have not yet been announced, nor has advanced ticket sale started. Those interested are urged to watch bulletin boards and the Scholastic for further information.
24
The Scholastic
Leahymen Set to Lasso Longhorns
Penalties Thwart ND Attack As Bell Gives Penn 7-7 Tie
Last Saturday, the rough spots and mistakes which usually pop up in any team’s opening game cost the Irish a victory over Pennsylvania. Three times the Irish either scored or were knocking at the door only to be thwarted by a fumble' or a penalty.
Notre Dame’s lone score came quickly in the opening period with John Lattner, a standout all day, bucking over from the one. Menil Mavraides converted, and it was 7-0 Irish. N.D. continued to dominate the play in the first quarter, but a scoring pass from Guglielmi to Lattner was nullified by a penalty. Early in the second stanza another Irish march was halted on the six by Penn’s forward wall aided by another penalty.
From that moment until the closing minute's of play, most of the game was played in Notre Dame’s backyard as Penn dominated the offensive' action. The Irish defensive unit made' several spectacular stands only to have Penn ace, Ed Bell grab a long pass from Glen Adams for 65 yards and a score midway in the third period. The extra (Continued on page 33)	’
Unbeaten Texans Host Notre Dame in Austin As Irish Seek First Victory of '52 Campaign
By BOB FROLICHER
After a week of gruelling practice smoothing out the mistakes of the Quaker game, the Irish will invade the Cotton Bowl tomorrow confident that they can upset highly-touted Texas University. The Longhorns are given a slight edge on the basis of their two previous victories, the first in the season’s opener with Louisiana State 3514, and last week against North Carolina 28-7, one of Notre Dame’s future opponents.
I
Texas Hopes To Even Series
The clash between the two schools will only be the fourth of a series which started back in 1913. The last game was in 1934 at South Bend, where the Longhorns nipped;the Irish 7-6. However, Ed Price’s forces will be out for another win for two reasons: first, to even the series in which Notre Dame holds the edge two to one and also to improve their national prestige by dumping the Irish.
Coaches Ed Price and Frank Leahy both shared the same problems in spring practice and at the beginning of the fall season. The two squads were hit by graduation, and it became apparent that the vacancies would be difficult to replace. Gone from last year’s team who compiled an impressive 7-3 record with victories over such teams as Kentucky, Oklahoma, and T.C.U. are All-American Bobby Dillon who specialized as a safety man, middle' linebacker June Davis who received All-Conference recognition, and quarterback Dan Page.
Jones Man To Watch
However, after their first two games, it appears as if Coach Price has hit on the right combination which packs a one-two punch. The big headache as usual was who was going to play quarterback. A special type quarterback is needed to capably handle the split-T maneuvers of Texas, and it often happens that a good ball handler or runner
JACK WHELAN (17), SET TO STOP PENN’S ZIMMER Action in Initial Game, Fast and Furious
WHELAN PLAYING WHALE OF A BALLGAME
Irish Halfback Cuts Down Bill Deuber
Oct. 3, 1952
25
will have to be sacrificed to fill the slot. At first, Bunny Andrews, a returnee from last year’s squad who gained some notice as a passer was given the inside track, but up-and-coming T. Jones has taken over the spotlight with his exhibition in the two Texas’ wins and appears a cinch to hold it down. Andrews is considered the better passer of the two, but Jones holds the nod in deception.
Ed Kelley, up from the freshmen squad appears to answer the safetyman worries. All his talent will not be used to specialize as a defensive man, for he is also used as a second string back on offense. Jack Barton seems to have received the go sign for the middle linebacker spot vacated by Davis who held it for two years.
The Longhorn team is built around 20 returning lettermen, the biggest threat being fancy-stepping Gib Dawson an All-SWC left halfback. Dawson, besides leading the Southwest Conference scorers over the full season with 62 points, had the best ball-carrying average, 7.1, and ranked no. 2 in net yardage with 671. Dawson has all the possibilities of becoming All-American and greatly bolsters the Texas offense. Hard-hitting Richard Ochoa, a 195 lb. bone-crushing fullback was team runner-up to Dawson’s 4.6 rushing average' per try. Ochoa also had the league’s fourth best average 4.7, and ranked fifth in net yardage with 539, losing only two yards in his 116 carries. Phil Branch is his replacement. Jimmy Dan Pace, a 170 lb. speedster or Dean Smith will fill the right halfback post to round out a very stylish backfield.
The forward wall is headed by wingmen Tom Stolhandske and 190 lb. Gilmer Spring. Stolhandske is one of the nation’s greatest blocking ends and is a great receiver who is a terror on either offense or defense. They are ably supported by Bill Georges, and Sophomores Carlton Massey and Howard Moon. Charley Genthner, Buck Lansford and
GILMER SPRING
Pass catching end faces Irish
Cliff Polk are a devastating tackle trio, tipping the scales at 215, 215 and 205 respectively.
Harley Sewell, an all around doubleduty man and a possible All-American, heads the guard attack. The 6T" 220 lb. block-buster has received great praise from Coach Price as one of the best linemen he has seen in quite a while. Besides Sewell, Price has 204-lb. Stan Studer, and small but rugged Sonny Sewell, a 5'11" Senior. Center Bill McDonald rounds out a strong starting offensive line, tough enough to open up the holes for their speeding backs. A great majority of these fellows will be called on for double duty when their opposition is in possession of the ball.
Although plenty rough, the Longhorns ■will need some assistance from Sophomores. Carlton Massey, ineligible last year because of a transfer from Southwestern U. to Texas, is a standout end and is expected to see a lot of action. Tackles Jack Taylor and Lonnie Weir; Guards Bob Flinn and Don Miller;
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UP (Offense)
TEXAS	NOTRE DAME
Massey......LE......... Penza
Lensford ...LT............... Murphy Sewell _______________LG. Seaman
McDonald c. C._....  Schrader
Branch _____RG.... Alessand’i c.
Genthner ___RT.......... Bush
Stolhandske .RE________ Hunter
Jones _______QB...... Guglielmi Dawson .............LHB. Heap
Pace .......RHB...... Lattner
Ochoa c. ___FB........ Worden
KICKOFF TIME: 2 P.M. CST
Center Leighton Younder and Backs Bill Quinn, Larry Graham and Paul Parkinson are poison for any opponent so unfortunate to face them.
If all the players continue to live up to expectations the' Texas offense should be potent. The defensive squad lacks experience, but is deep enough in reserve strength to back it up. The Longhorn line is not expected to be as large as the one that cleared the way for top rushing honors in the Southwest Conference last year. Overall, the team will turn mostly to speed and agility.
Texas like Notre Dame faces a very rough schedule, meeting Oklahoma the following week before squaring off with all six SWC rivals. But as far as the Irish are concerned the Longhorns are' meeting their toughest opponent tomorrow afternoon, in a game which should give quite an insight on what to expect from Leahy’s lads the rest of the ’52 season.
GIB DAWSON
Star halfback leading ground gainer
Underclassmen Shine in Net Tourney as Favorites Falter
Although not yet completed, the annual fall tennis tournament has definitely established one pertinent fact . . . the underclassmen are loaded with tennis talent. The autumn clash which determines the campus champion, with the exception of previous monogram winners, is midway between the third and quarterfinal rounds. Thus far, three seeded players have been eliminated and the other “marked men” in the select eight have found it tough going against the younger players.
Tim Murphy, who last week whipped highly regarded Frank Lynch, has continued his winning ways and is a definite threat for the championship. Other young players who are worth watching are sophomore Dick Schmitt and Freshman John Stuhldreher. Schmitt upset third seeded Ron Mazzoli while Stuhldreher has defeated two good opponents with relative ease. The latter is the son of the famous Harry Stuhldreher who quarterbacked the immortal Four Horsemen. Both boys are regarded as excellent prospects by tennis coach Walter Langford.
Because of the tournament ruling which prohibits letter-winners from entering, this year’s tourney presents another interesting oddity. Wally Clarke, the defending champion, has returned to defend his title. Clarke, who was ineligible for varsity competition last spring, is one of the few champions who have ever had the chance to win the title more than once. If Clarke succeeds, he will be the first double winner in Notre Dame history.
26
The Scholastic
Future Foes of Irish Win Five Out of Nine
By JACK HEALY
While the Irish were busying themselves in Pennsylvania last week with their now celebrated goal line stands, the Notre Dame opponents of the future were banging heads in various and sundry parts of the country. Here’s how they fared.
Texas, who will play host to the Irish tomorrow in Austin, descended upon Chapel Hill and ran all over the North Carolina Tarheels to the tune of 28 to 7. The Texas quarterback, T. Jones, lead the Longhorns to their second straight victory of the season by being the key man in three of the four touchdown plays. He scored one himself, passed for another and pitched out to halfback Doueal Cameron for the third. The men from Chapel Hill rang up their sole touchdown on a desperation pass in the last sixty seconds of the game.
Middies Open Season Fast
At Baltimore Memorial Stadium, Md., Navy, after six years of hard luck finally opened it’s season with a win, blasting the young gentlemen of Yale, 31 to 0. The Middies, clinched the triumph with three touchdowns in the final period.
Notre Dame wasn’t the only big midwestern team to make the trip to Pennsylvania, Purdue also found itself in the land of the Quakers. And the Boilermakers, like the Irish, ended up reconciling themselves with a tie after failing to stop a 70 yard drive on the part of Penn State in the closing minutes of the last period.
From the opening kickoff it was a duel between the respective quarterbacks, Dale' Samuels of Purdue who connected with 14 out of 28 passes and Penn State’s Tony Rados who completed 17 out of 30. However, it was Rados who earned the hero role when he scored from the two yard line on a quarterback sneak, giving extra point specialist Bill Leonard the' opportunity to tie up the ballgame.
Spartans Rack Up 16th Straight
Michigan State sat back and watched Michigan engineer two quick touchdowns in the opening period before they finally got down to business and whipped the Wolverines, 27 to 13. After that first quarter scare Biggie Munn’s Spartans had very little' trouble in racking up their sixteenth consecutive victory.
The University of Pittsburgh had to come from behind twice to beat Iowa, (Continued on page 29)
GOLF MENTOR REV. G. HOLDERITH AWARDS TOURNEY TROPHIES
Tom Matey (c), Joe McInerney Cop First and Second Respectively
Tom Matey Wins Second Straight Golf Crown With Three-Under-Par 281; McInerney Second
Senior Tom Matey slammed a sizzling 67 and 69 in the final two rounds of the 22nd annual campus Open Golf Tourney to gain his second consecutive title with a 72-hole subpar total of 281. Matey, who will captain the Irish golfing squad in ’53, copped the championship last fall with the identical three-under-par score. Runner-up to Matey’s 281 was Joe McInerney, who wound up 17 strokes behind with 298.
Playing under- ideal weather conditions, the 60 tournament entries who started the 72-hole medal play dropped to 34 after the first 36-hole weekend, and only 23 finished the full 72 last weekend. Besides •Matey and "McInerney, Larry Eaton was the only other-contestant to break 300, as he registered 299. Last year’s runner-up, Joe Moresco, had to settle for ninth place this year as he stroked 306.
Matey, who connected for eight birdies and one eagle, has now become the third two-time winner in tournament history. Tom Sheehan won it twice in ’37-’38, and Tom Veech copped it in ’49, ’50. The record though is held by Winfield S. Day who won the championship four straight years from 1932 through 1935.
For the second year in a row play
ing under the USGA summer rules Matey, the Warren, O., whiz, has missed out by two strokes of duplicating Jack Fitzpatrick’s record of 279 set in 1944.
The individual scores of the finalists are as follows:
Tom Matey ....		70	75 67 69—281
Joe McInerney		73 77 73 75—298
Larry Eaton -		75 73 74 77—299
Paul Minnich -		73	72 80 76—301
Joe Springer ..		71 80 73 78—302
Jack Powers ....		81 72 76 75—304
Mike Doyle 			....77 77 74 76—304
Jim Terry 			74 78 76 77—305
Joe Moresco ....		76 76 76 78—306
John Foley ;			77 80 72 80—309
Owen - Sodetz ..		77 77 80 77—311
Jim Sugar 			.76	79 78 80—313
John Murnane		75 84 78 78—315
Tom Schweitz		83 78 76 79—316
John Bryan ....		80 76 80 81—317
Mike Valerio ..		......79 81 77 80—317
Bob Filipiak ....		.73 83 82 80—318
Rom Eitel 			79 75 85 81—320
Bob Falk 			71 81 83 78—321
Joe Mulfluer ....		75 80 83 85—323
Ed Gschwind ..		76 82 83 84—325
Marsh Kinney		83 82 78 82—325
Tom Kinsley ..		80 90 81 79—330
Oct. 3, 1952
27
By Jack Sand
Druze Eyes Texans
The eyes of Texas will be on the Fighting Irish when they invade Austin tomorrow, but for the past two weeks the eyes of Notre Dame in the person of End Coach Johnny Druze have been focused on the Longhorns. Last Saturday Druze took off for Chapel Hill to watch the cowboys paste a 28-7 licking on North Carolina. A week previous he saw the Texans rip LSD 35-13. On both occasions Johnny commented on the fine takeoff of the offensive line, and now considers Texas as a possible con.	tender for the number- one
team in the nation. He was especially impressed with guard Harley Sewell and end Tom Stolhandske, comparing the latter to former Irish All-American Leon Hart. Druze further noticed the Longhorns’ explosive backfield, with halfback Gib Dawson, who runs the hundred in S.7, and fullback Dick Ochoa whom he tabs as the finest blocking back since the days of Bronco Nagurski.
After leaving the Texas-Carolina fray on Saturday afternoon, Druze went to the same hotel in Chapel Hill
where the Longhorns were quartered. Upon entering he bumped into three tall, husky Texans, whereupon he asked them who they were playing next Saturday. After they had replied Notre Dame, Druze said, “Well, do you think you’ll win.” Immediately the monster in the middle drawled, saying, “Suh, we aim to beat the h . . . out of Notre Dame.”
Frosh Gridders Masquerade As New Eleven Each Week
By BILL NOONAN
Each week during the football season, a group of about 60 first year men report to Cartier Field with the unenviable task of acting as a testing machine for the Notre Dame varsity. Their job is to run through the plays of the next opponent on the schedule in order to give the Irish some idea of what to expect come Saturday. Last week they were Penn, this week it’s Texas and next week, the freshman team will try to make like the Pitt Panthers.
Coaching the aggregation is Babe Voor-de with ex-Irish stars, Dick Cotter, Bill Gaudreau, and Bob Lally as his assistants.
At the present time, the competition for what might be called regular positions is wide open, and it is too early to tell just who and what the frosh will give
Swimming Club
Those men interested in forming a swimming club are asked to turn in their names to Gil Burdick, swimming instructor, at the Rockne Memorial. Previous experience should also be noted listing events competed in and times done. This will be helpful in planning meets, which will be decided upon by the club after it is organized. If enough interest is shown, a meeting will be held in the very near future.
LIFE Can’t Be Beautiful
Last week’s issue of Life magazine, which portrayed Notre Dame’s toothless wonders, produced a double effect in the minds of the American people. First, it soured the appetite of all those loyal Irish fans, who know that whatever college or university you go to where football is played, you will always find four gridders without their front teeth. And second, it increased the appetite of all those who dislike Notre Dame. Whichever effect it caused, it was certainly a deliberate slap in Notre Dame’s face, since those same pictures were condemned by the Sports Publicity Department more than two months ago, in a letter written to Life telling them explicitly not to use any photographs of players with their teeth missing.
Student Spirit, Where Is It?
When the Notre Dame football team pulled up in front of the circle last Sunday, just five minutes earlier than expected, they were greeted by a handful of students, no more than usually wait at the bus stop on a busy Saturday night. What’s wrong anyway? Does the squad have to win 50-0 in order to draw a decent crowd and a little noise. Let’s all wake up and prove to the Irish that we’re behind them 100%, by getting out there Sunday when they arrive, win, lose, or another draw.
Prediction of the Week
Despite the hot Texas sun, and a noted Chicago Sports Columnist, Notre Dame should turn tomorrow’s aerial circus into an Irish carnival, with a 20-17 victory over the Longhorns.
to next year’s varsity contingent. However, it is sure that the outfit will be under the careful observation of Coach Leahy and his staff because from these men, the backbone of future Irish elevens will be formed.
Some of the outstanding line prospects are: Wayne Edwards, Ron Smessart and Don George at the ends; John Kegaly and Bob Lasch, tackles; Al Barlow and Tom Giek at guard and Jim Mense at center. In the hackfield, the injured Don Schaefer looks good at quarterback with Dick Fitzgerald, John Gaffney, Dick Keller, Joe Markowski, Joe Ormerod, Nick Raich, Dick Washington and George Wilson as other promising backs.
Fighting for the berths right along with the aboved mentioned are such men as Mike Regan, Bernie Giacalone, Gene Martell, Pat Nahfoor, Jack Dumas, John McMullen, George Nicula, Ray Lemek, Jim Schraeder, Jim Malme, Jerry Schoen, Pat Bisceglia, Dick Hendricks, Bernie Zajeski and Gene Kapish, brother of the former Irish lineman who graduated last June.
The Scholastic
28
ATTENTION CAMPUS BOWLERS
There will'be a meeting of the Kampus Keglers at 7:00 P.M., Thursday Oct. 9, in room 103 of the Law Bldg. All clubs interested in bowling this year must be present.
Grid, Diamond Squads Ready To Open Interhall Campaign
The season of bumps and bruises is already in full swing as the men from the different halls on campus prepare for theii- first interhall grid game.
Mr. Dominic Napolitano of the Physical Education Department, in charge of the program, announced that seven hall teams have been organized. The coaches for these seven halls, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Morrissey, Zahm, Farley, Breen-Phillips, and St. Edwards are Physical Education students, varsity athletes who have been injured, or students who have volunteered to coach. The coaches of the respective teams decide on the playing date. Teams are required to have three weeks of practice before their first game.
Mr. Napolitano strongly urges as many as possible to take advantage of this opportunity to participate in interhall football. He also mentioned the fact that equipment of the finest quality is issued to members of the hall teams with new equipment being purchased regularly through an established fund.
Last year eight teams participated with Cavanaugh, the Eastern League winner beating Morrissey, the Western division victor in the championship game by an 18-0 count. Twenty-two gold footballs were awarded to the winning team with the runnerup Morrissey outfit re. ceiving the same number of silver footballs.
Baseball
Baseball shares the campus sports spotlight with football next Monday when the annual fall Interhall Baseball tournament will get underway. Under the supervision of Ernie Szekely of the Physical Education Department, the tourney will be a double-elimination affair.
Eight teams representing seven of the student halls will be pitted against each other. Dillion Hall heads the list with two entries, while Farley, Sorin, Lyons, Morrissey, Howard, and Cavanaugh Halls each have one.
Games will be played on the two diamonds south of the tennis courts, with two games being held daily beginning at 3:45 p. m. A loss does not mean im
mediate elimination, since a team must lose twice to be completely eliminated.
Each team is allowed two practice sessions in preparation for the tourney. Seasonal conditions do not permit a longer practice session or a round robin schedule in which each team played every other team at least once.
Future Foes
(Continued from page 27)
26 to 14. Rudy Mattiola, Panther quarterback and only a sophomore, mixed his plays like a veteran, keeping the Hawkeyes defense constantly off balance. He hit his mark eight out of eleven times in the passing department, including a 54 yard touchdown pass in the third period which later proved to be the winning margin. This was the first time since 1949 that Pitt has whipped a Big Ten team.
Colorado Surprises, Ties Sooners
Oklahoma’s string of 26 consecutive victories in Big Seven Conference play went down the drain when Colorado’s one man team, Zack Taylor, ran, kicked and passed Colorado to a 21 to 21 stand off. Oklahoma was losing with five minutes remaining, and then marched 78 yards to knot the score'. The last time Oklahoma was tied was ’way back in 1947 when the Sooners and Kansas battled to a 13 to 13 deadlock.
U.S.C. greeted Northwestern with ' open aims, the key to the City of Los Angeles, and a 31 to 0 drubbing. Northwestern managed to hold the Trojans in check for three quarters, the only scoring at this time was a U.S.C. field goal, but in the last period the' dam broke and the Trojans rang up 28 points thereby crushing any hopes of a Northwestern victory over a Pacific Coast Conference team.
Harriers Open Season AtWhea+on Saturday
Coach Alex Wilson, who is starting his third season as head track mentor, will bring his cross-country cindermen to Illinois tomorrow for the Irish’s opening meet against Wheaton College. The Wilsonmen will try to duplicate last year’s initial performance against the Crusaders, when they gained a 25-32 triumph.
Led by Captain Harry Snyder, the Irish squad will most likely be composed of seniors George Helfenstein and Johnny O’Connor, juniors Jack Alexander and Bill Lenihan, and sopho
more Al Schoenig. Other probabilities are Bob Richardson, Dick De Schriver, Dick O’Keefe, Jim Hemon and Bob English.
Gil Dodds, Head Coach
Wheaton’s squad, under the tutelage of the famed “Flying Parson” Gil Dodds, will display a representative gang of harriers headed by six returning lettermen, plus two of the hottest track prospects ever to hit the Wheaton campus.
The six letter winners are Walt Steinkraus, Tom Wright, Taylor Mc-
ALEX WILSON
Track Coach Begins Third Season
Kenzie, Dave Cousins, Bob Stanhope, and Mendal Smith. But the boys who could really make things interesting for the Irish are newcomers Kikuo “Cookie” Moriya, foremost half-miler in Japan today, and Lowell Hawken-son, who ranked as the sixth halfmiler in the world in 1950 when he ran for the University of Texas. Moriya was also a member of Japan’s Olympic team, while Hawkenson claims a victory over Don Gehrmann, Wisconsin’s national track star.
1952 Cross-Country Schedule
Oct. 4—Wheaton at Wheaton
Oct. 25—Marquette at Notre Dame
Nov. 1—Michigan State at Notre Dame
Nov. 7—Indiana State Meet at Earlham
Nov. 14—Central Collegiate Conference at Chicago
Nov. 24—National Collegiate Meet at East Lansing •
Oct. 3, 1952
29
RO Units9 Program News
Army RO Enrollment Doubled
The new Branch General Anny ROTC program here at Notre Dame has doubled the enrollment of last year’s engineer corps through the procurement of 354 first year military science cadets.
Enrollment figures in the course total 573 for the coming semester, with a record 354 students beginning the four year course. There are 143 second year cadets, 70 third year men, and 6 senior cadet officers.
When the army opened operations at Notre Dame last year, only 179 students participated in the program. At the second semester milepost approximately 100 more men joined the engineering unit. The popularity of the unit increased so rapidly that the 573 total represents an increase of 285 men over last year.
The Branch General ROTC system which is in effect now at Notre Dame, is a four year course designed to prepare a man for any branch of the Army upon graduation. A six week summer camp is required after advanced training is begun in the final two years.
Two hours of class work and two hours of drill are required for the initial two years and four hours of class plus the two drill hours are assigned in the advanced courses.
■
Two Marine Programs Open Again
This fall, the Marine Corps Officer Procurement Program begins its second year at Notre Dame under the direction of Major Andrew M. Zimmer. Open to all college students, the program offers them definite deferment from military service during their years of college study. Membership in the program imposes no obligations on those who enroll during the school year.
College seniors and graduate students are eligible for the Officer Candidate Program, while other undergraduates may enter the - Platoon Leaders Class. Physical qualifications for both programs are similar to those required for the U. S. Naval Academy.
At present, enrollment at Notre Dame includes over 100 men. All those interested in either program are urged to contact Major Zimmer in the Navy Drill Hall for further details.
■
Three NRO Men to Vie for Annapolis
One of the outstanding features of the NROTC program at Notre Dame this year will be the nomination of three freshmen contract students to compete
for appointments to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Md.
At the end of the first semester, each of the 52 NROTC units operating in United States colleges and universities will choose three freshmen contract students to represent it in the national competitive examination. Those who are successful in the competition will be granted appointments to Annapolis. They must then be able to meet the regular entrance requirements and pass the necessary mental and physical tests before they can be actually admitted to the Academy. Those freshmen from Notre Dame who are nominated will represent what is believed to be the largest freshmen enrollment in any NROTC unit in the entire country, made up of 110 contract and 35 regular students.
New Aero Trainee System Adopted
The general program designed for this coming year’s AF ROTC is largely-centered on the additional responsibilities and authority invested in all cadet officers.
These responsibilities will give the commander an active part in organizing, operating, and controlling the cadet corps. All commanders will receive aid in their tasks from their staffs and supervision by detachment personnel. This is designed to give the cadet experience which will aid him when he receives his commission.
Under the present program of training, each cadet is given his choice of any of the five courses offered by the unit. These include: Flight Operations, Administration and Logistics, Comptrollership, Communications, and General Technology. It is believed that this program will be changed next year to a more general course with specialization continuing in Air Force schools after the cadet receives his commission.
The addition of 392 freshmen into the program has increased the total enrollment of this unit to the total of 954 cadets, the largest military unit on the campus.
This will be the first time that the entire corps will be in the new Air Force blue uniforms. Each cadet was accurately measured during the past year and was issued a complete uniform at the beginning of this semester.
Along with the strict military training of this unit, various social events are being planned. Extracurricular activities of this organization will include the Air Cadet Club, the Arnold Air Society, the AF ROTC Rifle Team,
the AF ROTC Drill Team and the unit’s newspaper, the Flying Irish, of which Pat Riley will hold the post of editor-in-chief with Jack Fink acting as associate editor. The Air Cadet Club has announced that Lou Basso will serve as its president during the coming year.	.
Fr. O'Brien Article Suggests Means for Easing Prejudice
Tensions now existing between members of different religious and racial groups can be eased by stressing the ideals we all hold in common as American citizens, according to an article, “Fulfilling the American Dream,” by the Rev. John A. O’Brien of the University of Notre Dame in the October issue of The Catholic Digest.
The article is a condensation of the pamphlet, The American Dream, published jointly by the National Conference of Christians and Jews and Our Sunday Visitor. A current best seller, the pamphlet has been widely quoted by columnists.
There is room in this country, Father O’Brien points out, for members of all faiths and races to dwell together in brotherhood, and the welfare of the nation demands that we do so.
Former President Herbert Hoover has recommended the booklet, declaring that “it renders a timely service to America at an hour when the need for national unity is so great.”
ND American Metal Group To Hear Address by Mitchell
Mr. John Mitchell will address the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals next Wednesday, at the chapter’s first meeting of the school year.
“Alloy Steels—Past, Present and Future” will be the subject discussed by Mr. Mitchell, who is assistant to the manager, Alloy Steels, United States Steel Company in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
This discourse will involve the past, present and future of constructional alloy steels, as related to the demand foi-raw materials, as well as the conservation steps that have been taken to circumvent critical shortages. The talk will deal with fifty-two years of experience, the present situation, and what might be expected upon return to normal periods, or upon recall to expand alloy steel production to near capacity.
Mr. Mitchell has served as Metallurgical Engineer at Alloy Steels, United States Steel Company, and its predecessors from 1936-1946. Since 1946 Mr. Mitchell has been the assistant to manager for Alloy. Steels.
30
The Scholastic
Your Student Government
(Continued from page 15)
body. The primary job of the senator is the' task of thinking, not the job of executing. This doesn’t mean that student senators must go around campus carrying an Aristotle text in one hand, and the complete works of St. Thomas Aquinas in the other. It simply means that the senators are expected to think deeply enough on student problems to propose well-planned, intelligent legislation for the executive cabinet to carry out.
The Functions of the Executive Cabinet
This executive cabinet is the other important section of the student government. It is responsible for executing all legislation originating in the Student Senate and for carrying on the ordinary day-to-day work of the student government. The membership of the executive cabinet has been established with action in mind. Cabinet members include the heads of all the student service organizations, the student senate officers, and financial and secretarial specialists, among others.
There have been many othei- changes in the student government besides the organization of separate legislative and executive bodies. First of all, the number of student representatives on the senate has been more than doubled. All the halls will now be represented in the Student Senate by the hall president. The president of each class is on the Student Senate. Each college has a stu* dent senator, as do the graduate students, the families in Vetville, and the off-campus students. The' Young Christian Students, together with the local chapter of the National Federation of Catholic College Students, and the' Blue Circle have non-voting representatives. This means that every studeht will have available a senate representative to whom he can bring his suggestions or gripes. It also means that the Student Senate will be too large and too diversified in its composition to become a cliquish group controlled by a few students.
The composition of the executive cabinet is almost as varied as that of the Student Senate. In addition to the personnel mentioned previously, the cabinet includes the' chairmen of the four new student government executive commissions. These commissions are the academic commission, the' social commission, the physical commission, and the spiritual commission. The commissions were established in the belief that student life' separates itself naturally into academic, social, physical and spiritual phases, and that there should be executive departments to handle legislation pertinent to
those four areas of student activity. These divisions are not cut and dried, of course, but they do represent a fairly distinct analysis of the everyday life of the student.
The Responsibilities of the Commissions
Each commission has a three fold responsibility. It is charged with the execution of the legislation of the Student Senate which concerns the area of activity of the specific commission. For example, a resolution concerning the availability of study facilities in the halls might be referred to the academic commission for action. Each commission has a second function, however, which is equally as important as the first. The commission is responsible for studying its particular area of student life and making recommendations to the student government as a result of these studies. For example, the academic commission intends this year to make a thorough study of the concert and lecture series so as to make recommendations which will lead to a better series in the future.
In addition to these functions, each commission is responsible for establishing and maintaining a ‘council of clubs.’ This council is to be composed of representatives of the clubs whose activities are related most closely to the work of the particular commission. All the geographical clubs, for example, together with the campus square dance group, the Kampus Keglers, and other clubs of a social nature will make up the council of clubs of the social commission.
The purpose of this council of clubs arrangement is not to bind all campus extra-curricular activities into a strait-jacketed organizational pattern. The council of clubs of each commission is designed to enable each club to indirectly influence the legislative and executive activity of the student government. In addition, these councils are intended to help the clubs themselves, by enabling them to co-ordinate some of their activities, and to exchange information regarding plans of each individual club.
These four executive commissions with
NEED MONEY?
We Offer You Excellent Profits
If you are an enterprising student with initiative and drive who would like to earn money in his leisure time, take this ad to your . Students’ Employment or Placement Bureau for further details.
THOMAS J. VALENTINO, INC.
150 WEST 46th St.,	New Yotk 18, N. Y.
their various bureaus and councils assume a very important place in the new student government set-up. In the coming year, their activities will directly or indirectly affect every student here at Notre Dame.
Another arm of the executive cabinet is the secretariat, which will be composed of the secretaries of the four classes. The secretariat is charged with handling paper work, correspondence, and publicity for the Student Senate. The Student Senate finance committee, composed of the treasurers of the four classes, is also attached to the executive cabinet, and is charged with the supervision of the Student Senate finances. They’ll make sure that the dollar you donated at registration doesn’t get ‘lost in transit/ There will also be a hall council committee, supervised by the vice president of the Student Senate, and the vice presidents of the classes. But there’s one important point we haven’t discussed yet: —what are the responsibilities and opportunities of the ordinary student under the new Student Senate system.
Student Participation Essential
One big responsibility of all students is the obligation to vote in student government elections. In a tightly organized community such as exists at Notre Dame, an efficient student government can’t help but affect the student body in numerous ways. That’s why your vote is important.
The next opportunity for all of us to vote for student senators isn’t far away. The elections for hall presidents will take place in about ten days. These posts assume additional importance this year since all the hall presidents will have seats on the' Student Senate. In November, the freshmen will be voting for their class officers. The college senators and the graduate school senator must run for re-election in December. And, of course, in May will come the regular class elections. This adds up to a lot of mimeograph paper under your door. It also adds up to a difficult job of picking capable men for these posts.
There’s another feature of the new con-
Oct. 3, 1952
31
stitution which demands the intelligent cooperation of the student body. That’s the provision for initiative and referendum. A petition bearing the signatures of 10% of the student body can introduce legislation into the student senate, or can force the student senate to conduct a referendum on a particular issue. Ten percent of the student body can also direct the student senate to conduct a plebiscite on any proposed constitutional revision. Ten percent of our student body means 540 students. That may seem like a lot of signatures but a person who is sincerely interested in a particular issue shouldn’t find it too difficult to make use of this section of the constitution. If the percentage had been set any lower, we’d be sure to find some wiseacres forcing
us to conduct a referendum on absurb issues.
A Chance for Everyone
But above all, each student has an obligation to help to carry out the work of the student government. As you can imagine, it’s going to take large numbers of students to operate the far-flung student government which has been outlined in this article. Right now the student government is in the process of organization. The committees, bureaus, councils, and commissions are beginning to take shape. Personnel are needed to staff these groups, particularly students who have an active interest in concretely serving Notre Dame through the medium of student government. If you feel that you
would like to assume a position of responsibility in Notre Dame’s new student government, speak to your hall senator, class officer, or college representative. Like Uncle Sam, they can always give you a job if you want one.
The coming year will be a difficult one for our student government. It will be a year of trial and error. But the formula for success is available. The new constitution provides a firm organizational basis for the growth of our student government, and competent personnel are available to begin the task of making this organization work. Students will be entrusted with as many responsibilities as they can effectively handle. It’s up to us to demonstrate that we can do a good job of aiding Notre Dame to train the Christian leaders of the future.
Ibu're an "Oxford mail whatever your school...
You don’t hove to be a professor to know that
Van Heusen Oxfords are your best shirt buy. You’ll rate solid "A’s” wherever you go on campus in either the traditional button-down collar or one of Van Heusen’s brand new collar styles. Graduate to these new Van Heusen Oxford Shirts today. In white, colors and muted stripes.
Van Heusen Oxford Shirt-mate Tie, SI.50
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP.. NEW YORK 1. N. Y.
The Other Side
(Continued on page 22) arouse mental stimulation on your part.
This should open up an entirely new vista in which to operate, and one we hope will supply enough material to avoid the afore-mentioned three capital sins.
Now there are undoubtedly some in the audience who may claim that all three have been broken already, and I suppose that if you want to be technical about it, they have. But then, this has only been an introduction, and we have the whole year in which to reform.
Chapter I—Elections and Crucial Eras
Speaking of reform, it so happens that this is an election year. As such it is a year of dodging issues, pulling punches, and straddling- fences in what has become the most exaggerated popularity contest in the world’s history.
There are many who decry this state of affairs, pointing out that with the world tottering on the brink of selfannihilation, we must pause, leaving things as they are for several crucial months, to determine' whether our next leader should be an extrovert or an introvert, a common man or a cultured man, an outspoken speaker or an eloquent one. But, I don’t agree with those who bemoan the idiosyncracies and procrastinations of an election year. Why? Because I don’t agree with them when they say that the era we are living in is the' most crucial in the history of mankind. More on this next week.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
The Scholastic
Irish Tie Penn
(Continued from page 25) point made it 7-7, and that was the ball game.
The last of the bad breaks befell Leahy’s lads late in the last quarter when the same Mr. Bell knocked the ball from John Lattner’s arms on the Penn 25 yard line' when the Irish back seemed on his way for a winning touchdown.
Voting Regulations
(Continued from page 11) sioners any time before election day.
. Nevadans must request ballots from the county clerk prior to Oct. 30 and voted ballot must reach the same office by Nov. 2.
New York veterans’ absentee registration and application for ballot must be submitted prior to Oct. 16. Students or teachers previously registered must request ballots from the Board of Elections in their respective boroughs.
North Carolina residents must apply for ballot to chairman of the county board of elections prior to Oct. 30, and must return same to county chairman by Nov. 2.
North Dakota registrations can be made on only two days—Oct. 19 and 26. Voted ballot must be received by county auditor by Nov. 2.
Ohio residents must request ballot from clerk of county board before Oct. 28 and voted ballot must be received by clerk of board by Oct. 29.
Oklahoma residents must request ballot from secretary of the county election board before Oct. 30 and voted ballot must be received by same official by Nov: 2.	-
Registration for South Dakota residents is to be mailed before Oct. 26 to city or county auditor, and voted ballot must be received at polling place by Nov. 2.
A $2 poll tax is required of Tennessee voters, while request for ballot must be submitted to county election commissioner prior to Oct. 13. Ballot must be received by Board of Republican County Election Commissioners before Oct. 28.
Ballot request of Texas residents must be made to county clerk between Oct. 13 and Oct. 25, and voted ballots must reach county clerk on or before Oct. 30.
Vermont and Virginia residents must request ballot from county clerk or regis-, trar prior to Oct. 28 and voted ballot i must be returned to same before Nov. 1. j West Virginia residents must request !	ballot from clerk of circuit court before
4	Oct. 23 and return same by Nov. 2.
Wisconsin residents must make request for ballot from board of election commis-1	sioners before Oct. 20.
A
|	Oct. 3, 1952
a N amazingly simple sh or thand, using A the regular alphabet, is explained in these four easy-to-understand lessons. Fine for school and office work. Si-50. FinelineCo.. 303,-68 Fifth Ave., NYC 16.
Look! Another man switched to Kentucky Club— the thoroughbred of pipe tobaccos
DO IT TODAY! SWITCH TO
KENTUCKY CLUB
Notice how much better your pipe tastes—how much fresher your mouth feels when you switch to Kentucky Club. Send for free catalog showing fine pipes and how to get them at big savings. Mail Pouch Tobacco Co., Wheeling, West Va. Dept. 39

By Paul Zalecki
To judge from some of the comments heard around campus last week-end, it seems that quite a few students were unhappy about Life's write-up of Notre Dame. Some felt that it was not entirely correct and did not like it. They did not like it all the more when they realized that to complain about it probably would be useless. To do that just would make the students appear to be soreheads.
This futility, however, does emphasize, in a small way, an interesting point, for it shows that the power of the press is not merely a euphonious phrase but a very real force. All too often we tend to regard this power in much the same way that we think of the phrase, “Founding Fathers” — as seme vague representation of American liberties, Constitutional guarantees, and way of life.
«
The Power of the Press
It is this . . . and much more. It is an almost unchallengeable right of the press to sway and to influence. Today it probably is more effective than ever, for its scope has been expanded to include the relatively recent developments of radio and television.
Now, do not misunderstand me. I am not trying to say that the press should express no opinion, utter no judgment, defend no issue. Besides being ridiculous, it would be silly for me to do so. All I am trying to do—probably in too many words—is show that the power of the press means something and that it ■can not be laughed off. .
Life's article is at best a minor illustration of how we may resent something written in a newspaper or magazine. It was no direct attack against the school. It was just an article which was not as accurate as it could have ~been. Nevertheless, we did not like it, and, in a way, we wanted to challenge it.
A more apt illustration of this power, perhaps, can be found in the* current •election campaigns. To an avid Democrat, the heavy favoritism shown the Republican nominees in the papers of this country is a very real cause for alarm. Well it might be, for he fully realizes what an effective role the press •can play when it wishes to.
The Democrats, however, are not alone in feeling the unfavorable attitude of numerous papers and magazines. As college students, we too have a very real reason to believe that they have been prejudicial against us.
The Problem of the Draft
The unfortunate necessity of a draft has created many problems. Those who have been drafted have frequently resented the deferments obtained by others. I can understand their view. What I can not understand, however, is the growing attitude that to attend college is somehow un-American.
Though the' average undergraduate may have some other reason for being in school—avoiding the draft, naturally, is one of them—the graduate student is a draft-dodger plain and simple; This view is nonsense. Nevertheless, it is dangerously true that the right to seek . an education has come to be regarded as un-patriotic—so much so, that at times we in college' find ourselves wondering if we are un-American, if we are un-patriotic.
20 DISCOUNT For Notre Dome Men SAVE on Cleaning and Pressing
Suits .............    $1.00	Sports Coats ...........52c
Topcoats ..............$1.00	Pants ..............    52c
Raincoats ............ $1.00	Sweaters ............   52c
Shirts Laundered — 3 for 65c
RUBIN CLEANERS 217 E. Jefferson	1st Corner Across the River
• ----On the Bus Line------
College Deferments Unfair?
Many an article about the draft has stated directly or indirectly, through insinuation or out-right, that college deferments are unfair. Just a few weeks ago a national magazine seemed to insinuate that one of the things wrong with the draft is deferments for those in college.	,
Statements such as these have had their effect, even upon us who are in college. They have had their effect in spite of the obvious need for college trained personnel. They have had their effect in spite of the importance which the armed forces themselves have placed upon college men.
This attitude and resentment against college students has grown and persisted. There is little which we can do to prevent it except show that, regardless of what may be said, we are not in college to avoid the' draft. If we are to expect any favorable reaction, however, we will have to produce and show our worth.
We definitely are in the spotlight. Any childishness on our part no longer is looked upon tolerantly as just a phase of life; on the contrary, as we all too well know, it is played up beyond its true' proportions. It is well for us to remember this and to act like college men, if we wish to remain college men.
Keep the faith.
The Scholastic
39 years of teaching experience!
Over a million delighted pupils! No other studio can match this record!
DANCE LESSONS COST LESS AT
BECAUSE YOU LEARN FASTER!
ft
Studios %
Air-Conditioned Copr. 1952—Arthur Inc.
CALL 2-S239 NOW ARTHUR MURRAY 120 E. WAYNE Xbove Copp Music Shop 10 A. M. to 10 P. M.
ARTHUR MURRAY'S
WELCOME
NOTRE DAME
STUDENTS
No wonder The Arthur Murray Way of learning to dance is recognized as the finest, most thorough, and inexpensive method in the country. The whole secret is in Arthur Murray’s basic discovery, "The Magic Step To Popularity.” This is the key step to all dances, and even a beginner can learn it in one lesson. And, because there is only this one master step to learn, you need fewer lessons arid thus save time and money. Come in now and have a free trial lesson while 2 for 1 rates are in effect.	.
1952 Champion
■ Goldblatt’s have priced this machine at !
J $64.50 (plus tart) especially for Notre !
>	Dame students. This advertisement must J
; . •
■	be presented' at time of purchase in order J
J	•	,	>
■	to enjoy this low price.	•
.5
When Seeking Entertainment You’ll Always Find
The Best At South Bend’s
COLFAX PALACE GRANADA STATE Theatres
Finger-Flight Model
*4	..
Luggage Type Carrying Case
Nationally Advertised at $92.50 Plus Tax
UNDERWOOD
PORTABLE
Regularly Sold At Goldblatt’s For $69.50 Plus Tax
64”


The typewriter with all the “big office machine"
features! Latest fingertip-controlled “see-set” margin and key-set tabulator. ‘Pius F.E.T.
Goldblatts
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Oct. 3, 1952
35
CHESTERFIELD
f IRST PREMIUM
OUAIIW CIGARETTl
TO OFFER BOTH REGULAR & KING-SIZE
LIGGETT A MYERS TOBACCO CO.
UGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
mu
Phi
Mi*
ASK YOUR DEALER
FOR CHESTERF ELD
EITHER WAY YOU
LIKE ’EM
CONTAINS TOBACCOS
OF BETTER QUALITY &
OTHER KING-SIZE
CIGARETTE
HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY





BOTH regular and king-size Chesterfields are premium quality cigarettes and come in the smart white pack.
BOTH contain only those proven ingredients that make Chesterfield the best possible smoke: the world’s best tobaccos, pure, more costly moistening agents (to keep them tasty and fresh), the best cigarette paper that money can buy—nothing else.
BOTH are much milder with an extraordinarily good taste and, from the report of a well-known research organization — no unpleasant after-taste.
BOTH are exactly the same in all respects. There is absolutely no difference except that king-size Chesterfield is larger—contains considerably more of the same tobaccos—enough more to give you a 21% longer smoke, yet costs very tittle more.
Buy CHESTERFIELD./WMilder
Copyright 1952, booin & MriU Tmacco Co.