CBS-TV, Fridays
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Uo.. t\ mston>Sa1em. N. C.
mis
Start smoking Camels yourself!
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are first in mildness, flavor and popularity! See how much pure pleasure a cigarette can give you!
•	■	•	0<=
Stan of the fabulous new TV program
'Ms-.
* &

ANNE JEFFREYS dreamed of being an opera star, studied long and hard. BOB STERLING could have been a pro athlete, but chose the long, hard pull of acting. Both eventually won good parts on stage, radio. TV. They met on a TV show... became Mr. & Mrs. in real life . . . and "Mr. and Mrs. Kerby” in TV’s brilliant new "Topper” program!
A^W- I changed to camels years AGO BECAUSE TO ME THEY TASTE BETTER AND ARE SO MILD. YOU TRY THEM, TOO?
"Sob: SO MANY FRIENDS SMOKE CAMELS, I TRIED THEM AND FOUND I LIKE THEM BETTER THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE.
MILDNESS and FLAVOR

than any othea cigaaette!
Dobbs Hats
Countess Mara Ties
Hays Gloves
Lighters
Pipes
Interwoven Hose
Arrow Shirts
Gilbert Gift Certificates
All Electric Shavers
Wilson Bros. Faultless Pajamas
Florsheim Shoes
Alligator Rainwear
Swank Cuff Links
Hickock Tie Clasps
Kings Men Shave Lotion'
Cashmere Sweaters
MacGregor Jackets
Grand Slam Golf Clubs
Paris Belts
Shoe Shine Boxes
Imported Gift Items for Men
Hand Carved Football Mascots
WHAT does
"One Man AtuMi&Lfr?
at Gilbert's
Hickey Freeman Clothes
Daniel
Ronson
Dunhill
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan
Take the Michigan Street Bus
Open Every Evening Till 9
Dec. 11, 1953
3
liliatif and Booh Shoa
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend

Well-Known Reindeer Tells All
NORTH POLE, ARCTIC. Looking very dapper for an 18-point buck with chalked muzzle and matching white tail assembly, Dasher, famous front-running reindeer for the S. Claus Parcel Service, stated today:
1.	Conditions on the northern tundra are pretty much the same as ever. No-o, TV hadn’t affected the grazing habits of the middle-class herds.
2.	That despite reports to the contrary, you don’t ever thoroughly adjust to sub-zero weather, regardless of the warm esteem people hold you in.
3.	Rumors of a reindeer strike for Christmas Eve are unfounded. Somebody’s got a termite in his antler.
When asked about the most popular Christmas gift down through the years he replied without hesitation: “Menswear by Manhattan, I’ve helped haul Mr. Claus’s sled, roe and buck, nigh unto forever ... so I ought to know nothing makes a man happier than shirts, sportshirts, ties, pajamas, beachwear or underwear labeled Manhattan. Don’t know whether it’s the live style that makes a man look and feel so good, whether it’s the traditional tailoring detail, or the array of fabrics, patterns and colors that are all so unmistakeably quality. I’ll admit one thing. I’ve kind of wished sometimes that Manhattan would make deerwear.”
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
Christmas Buying
AT
C^TMVBHIIBS
TAe/EATHER. Shop.
Ul Waat Waahiagtaa Ava.
All gifts initialed in gold, gift wrapped and mailed or delivered free of charge.
Shoe Rebuilding Zipper Service
Washington Shoe Shop
Right Away Service 116 W. Washington Ave. South Bend
Hat Cleaning Shoe Dyeing
GLASSES FITTED
SATISFACTORY OPTICAL SERVICE IN SOUTH BEND
FOR OVER 50 YEARS Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop. J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER Associates
228 So. Michigan St.
4
The Scholastic
Congratulations to the
1953 Fighting Irish
from the
NATIONAL MILK COMPANY
921 Louise Street	South Bend, Indiana
The Huddle
Congratulates the 1953 Notre Dame football squad
. ■ ■ STOP at the HUDDLE , ■ ■ for that little snack between classes
Dec. 11, 1953	5

MB
THE DU PONT
DIGEST

Production Supervision
Requires Knowledge of Materials, Machines, and Men
Wm W. Kinsley, M.S. in M.E., Penn. State 1949 (left), production supervisor in Du Pont textile fiber plant, is introduced to new operator by foreman.
Keeping production rolling in a modem industrial plant is a job that appeals to men trained in many branches of science and engineering. If you are looking for opportunities in this field, you won’t have to look far at Du Pont, where more than 1,500 members of the technical staff are engaged in production supervision.
To qualify, a man must be able to understand both the mechanical and chemical phases of production. In addition, he should be a good planner and, aboveall, haveaknack for working with others.
Production supervisors are responsible for care of plant facilities, supply of raw materials, supervision of operation and maintenance, cost and shipment of finished products, as well
as personnel relations, training and safety.
Since Du Pont makes over 1,200 products and product lines, it can offer many opportunities in a wide variety of operations to men interested in production supervision. In Du Pont’s Organic Chemicals Department, for example, most technicalmen start in plant development groups, where they gain a background in both the technical and economic aspects of manufacture. Those with interests and abilities in production may then transfer to that field to acquire further, and more detailed, experience. Advancement leads to jobs as Building Supervisor, Senior and Chief Supervisors, and Superintendent.
The responsibilities of these supervisory levels vary, depending upon
George B. Bradshaw, Jr., B.S. Ch. E., M.I.T., Asst. Supt., inspects a unit used in ammonia synthesis operation.
the men, the operation, and the products. .
For example, in manufacturing dyes, up to 50 different operations may be carried out. Production and maintenance must be carefully planned and scheduled so that all needs for finished product are met. Temperature, pressure, and quality of reactants must be carefully controlled to insure that each batch of dye will match previous batches exactly.
In making each color, from 6 to 10 different unit processes may be called upon. And, in the course of time, all the unit operations known to chemical engineering come into play. Obviously, production supervisors have excellent opportunities to use and expand their technical knowledge and ingenuity. Equally important, they can acquire background and varied experience that prepare them for advancement to responsible positions in management and administration.
ASK FOR "Chemical Engineers at DuPont.”Newillustrated booklet describes initial assignments, training and paths of promotion. Just send post card to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware. Also available: "Du Pont Company and the College Graduate” & "Mechanical Engineers at Du Pont.”
BETTHt THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
... THROUGH CHEABTW
Watch “Cavalcaia at Aaerica,” n TdevisiM
6
The Scholastic
ANOTHER GREAT NOTRE DIME TEAM--------------------------------------------------
December 11, 1953 Notre Dame, Ind.
To Our Readers:
When eleven members of Notre Dame’s 1953 pigskin squad lined up for the first whistle down in Norman, Oklahoma, earlier this Fall, they were opening up the sixtyfifth season of Irish competition in intercollegiate football.
And they were conscious of the fact too, that their predecessors—in the 64 seasons before them—had built a reputation for Notre Dame as one of the oldest and most consistently hard-to-beat football powers in’ the nation. They carried quite a number of impressive laurels into that first game with them:
Notre Dame teams had brought the National Championship back to South Bend seven different times—a feat no other school had equalled in the long history of collegiate football. Notre Dame teams had also won six Western Championship titles, and they had amassed a total of 17 undefeated seasons—ten of them, untied. They had established a record with modem college football’s longest string of unbeaten games at 39.
The Fighting Irish had also turned out more All-Americans than any other college or university in the nation. The prowess of Gipp, Crowley and Brown previewed the performances of the immortal four horsemen and their rampage that set the nation’s gridirons afire in the early 1920s. Since then, the roster has grown with the names of men like Carideo, Brill, Connor, Lujack, Fischer and Hart.
This year’s team has done it again—in performances and personalities.
They have plowed through a suicidal schedule with what we consider as a powerful precision that matches any previous team in Notre Dame’s history. At times, when the odds were stacked, they produced the stuff that has earned for them the national recognition which they justly deserve. Although not every one of them got All-American honors, every one of them played like it.
You’ve noticed, for example, that Notre Dame seldom shook one of its backs loose for long touchdown sprints this season; but they tore opposing teams to shreds with steady power plays and tricky tosses until they finally hit pay dirt. This is the story of teamwork . . . the story that always ends well.
Looking back, we can truthfully say that it has been another great season. Most people say that this year’s team will go down in the record books as one of our greatest. Only time will tell. One thing we do know, however, is that it was made up of the same stuff 64 teams before it had—the will to win.
We’re again reminded of the words former Irish captain Jack Alessandrini once said at a pep rally before a game with Pittsburgh: “We can’t be beat when we won’t be beat.” It’s the same principle that wins National Championships and molds All-Americans. As Knute Rockne put it: “I don’t want a man to go in there to die gamely—I want a man to go in there fighting to live!”
Notre Dame plays so hard—not because she hates to lose, but because she loves to win.
Editor, the Scholastic.
Dec. 11, 1953
7
Curses,
Foiled Again!
Scholastic
Vol. 95 December 11, 1953 No. 11
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Luharlie Chump was a scrawny Junior who never had any claim to fame on campus. Then, one day, it became known that he had become manager of the Fencing Team. Immediately he was surrounded by a group of incredulous students.
“How come you’re managing the Fencing Team?”, asked one of them.
“Well, it’s this way,” replied Charlie. “Last week I went down town and got a couple ®f Van Heusen VANDUROY Sport Shirts... for only §7.95 apiece. When I put on one of my rugged corduroy beauties, I looked so handsome that I was immediately surrounded by all the beautiful co-eds!”
"Is that a fact,” murmured one of his classmates.
"But then, all their boyfriends gathered ’round and said, 'Charlie, what would you do if we beat you up?’ So I looked ’em right in the eye and said, 'I’ll manage a defense!’ ”
“Gee, what happened?” asked a wide-eyed Freshman.
“Just then Angelo, coach of the Fencing Team, walked by. He said, 'You managa de fence. Atsa good, da teamsa need a manager!’ ”
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER ................  News
FRED C. ECKART ________________Copy
JOHN A. ADAMS ........Assistant Copy PAUL J. LaFRENIERE....Assistant Copy JOHN E. SLAVICK ..............Features ROBERT B. FROLICHER........ Sports
JERRY D. BAIER ---Advertising B. JERRY CAMPBELL ........Circulation BOB FOWLER--------Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE-----Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
SPECIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW STAFF CO-EDITORS: Bob Frolicher and Bill Noonan. GAMES: Ken Murphy, Bob O’Malley, Dave Davin, Pat Carrico, Jack Sand, Bill Noonan, Bob Ruhl, Eruin Alfonsus, Dave Kilkeary, Tom Welly. FEATURES: Phil Bolin, Pat Carrico, Paul Fullmer, John Slavick.
BIOGRAPHIES: Cliff Carlson. Dave Cohen, Dick Connelly. George Dailey, Tim Devereux, Jack Flynn, Jim Gibbons, Jim Mason, Jim McIntosh, Frank Newman, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan, Tom Quinn, Jim Schlegheck, Ray Walsh, Mike Ward.
PHOTOGRAPHY: Al Balmer, Bob Huddleston, Bob Mackey. Gerry TraBicanda. Dana Weithcrs, South Bend Tribune, Associated Press, United Press. ART: Al Balmer, Bob Fowler.
ADVERTISING: Jerry Baier.
Students!
SPECIAL RATES
RENT A BRAND NEW PORTABLE OR LATE MODEL STANDARD TYPEWRITER
AU makes of
Up to three months rental allowed on	Typewriters Rented,
purchase price if you decide to buy. Sold and Expertly Serviced.
SUPER SALES COMPANY
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
PHONE 6-6328	(Next to Sears) 315 W. MONROE ST.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. -Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Mattison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during _ vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185. Notre Dame, Indiana.
OUR COVER: From September to December, thousands of football fans focused their eyes on the 1953 Fighting Irish. In picturing but four members of this team we do not intend to distinguish them as the key men. This was a team which defied distinguishing. It was a great Notre Dame team ... a worthy addition to the glorious annals of the University’s football history.
8
The Scholastic
Fighting Irish Photographs/
""kWTURBOW \OPTOMETRIST
V Action shots of all games >/ Pictures of individual players
All photographs are standard news photos — 8x1 O-inch glossy prints
Only 75c each
Fill in the order form below and mail to:
— OPTICAL REPARS —
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated "Bring In The Pieces’* — EYES EXAMINED —
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone 4-5777
Department of Publications University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana
NO. OF PHOTOS	DESCRIPTION OF PHOTO	NO. OF PHOTOS	DESCRIPTION OF PHOTO
	Oklahoma game		Mavraides, g
	Purdue game		Schrader, c
	Pitt game	.		Lemek, g
	Georgia Tech game		Varrichione, t
	Navy game		Matz, e
	Penn game		
	North Carolina game	To: Department of Publications University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana Enclosed you will find $	for the 		 photos	checked. I am also enclosing an additional 25 cents to cover mailing costs. My name					 Address						 City and State		
	Iowa game		
	Southern California game		
-	Southern Methodist game		
	Coach Frank Leahy		
	Neil Worden, fb		
	John Lattner, hb		
	Joe Heap, hb		
	Ralph Guglielmi, qb		
	Penza, e (capt.)		
	Hunter, t		
The NEK’S Cmer —The home of nationally accepted merchandise.
Arrow Shirts , Florsheim & Roblee Shoes Campus Clothes Lee & Stetson Hats
MAIM AT COLFAX SOUTH BENO 7. INDIANA
WE ARE NEW “THE TWINS RESTAURANTS” Prop. by Brtuher and Suttr
Come and Try Our “Pizza and Spaghetti” The Real Italian Way We Also Have Home-Made Chili Just the Way Yon Like It!
713 E. LASALLE
Parker - Winterrowd thinks you are all---All Americans
Parker-WiHterrowd
1151/2-1171/2 No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen's
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVBtS EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING
BREEN’S Jeweler
. 325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
Dec. 11, 1953
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty
Vi Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey
Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.30
JOE BBICHT’S Restaurant “Chicken in the Rough”
213 N. Main Open Sunday
Max Adler Co.
... the new home of
Hathaway Shirts
in South Bend
For the mon who appreciates the finer things. See our dress and sport styles now . . . including the famous Hathaway Viyella washable sport shirts of wool and Egyptian cotton. Viyella Sport Shirts, $13.50. Hathaway Shirts from $5.95
There are always five expert barbers ready to serve you at Cyr's Barber Shop.
You can save time by calling for an appointment. Phone 3-0678.
Michigan at Washington — On the Corner
CYR’S
BARBER SHOP
Smith Bend’s Leading Barber Shop
100-102 S. Main St. W. E. Cyr, Prop.
10
The Scholastic
oniaoo
The All-Purpose Lounge Suit
Can be worn in the home, on the beach, for sports, motoring, TV-ing, or just plain COMFORTABLE loafing.
ideal for college man... business man ...professional man
The distinctively different, expertly tailored lounging suit of finest quality corduroy.
TWO-WAY ZIPPER FRONT CLOSING
Pays for itself in saving of business suits
Four luxurious colors
* Cardinal Red
* Mistral Blue
* Hunter Green
* Hickory Brown
ONLY
$39.95
with your initial on the pocket
For prompt delivery, mail your check or Money Order now to:
WINSTONIAN
4333 Ravenswood Ave.
Chicago 13, III.
WINSTONIAN, 4333 RAVENSWOOD AVE., CHICAGO 13, ILLINOIS
Please send me
WINSTONIAN (s) in .............  @	$39.95 ea.*
(give color) (In III. add 2% tax)
Chest meas............
Waist meas............
Length from back neck line (top of shirt collar) to
floor:.................
NAME...................................
STREET.................................
CITY..................................
INITIAL............ STATE....................................
*In ordering more than one, attach sheet showing above information on each.
Write For Information
1954
ALL-EXPENSE
Football
TOURS
Now open! Join now! Football Saving Club.
Save weekly for your 1954 vacation. Write to American Trust Co.. South Bend. Member F.D.I.C.
For 1954 Football Tour Write
Earl J. (Pete)
REDDEN
1671 Lincoln Way E. South Bend. Indiana
Notre Dame Tours
Since 1936
Dec. 11, 1953
11
B85
12

The Scholastic
Irish Nip Sooners. 28-21
By KEN MURPHY
Norman, Okla., Sept. 26—One-platoon football was back in business in 95 degree heat here this afternoon as the 65th bunch of Fighting Irish to represent the University of Notre Dame sweated out a 28-21 decision over their revenge-bent Oklahoma opponents in the season’s inaugural for both squads.
Trouble started early for Notre Dame when the Sooner kickoff squirmed from All-American Johnny Lattner’s grasp and out of bounds on the Irish four yard line. Quarterback Ralph Guglielmi almost engineered his mates out of the hole, but a fumble on the fourth play from scrimmage by fullback Neil Worden going over the middle gave the anxious Sooners the ball on the ND 23.
Oklahoma made the most of its opportunity, hitting pay dirt in eight plays. The Irish forward wall gave ground grudgingly, but couldn’t stop Larry Grigg’s desperation fourth-down shot from six inches out. Automatic Buddy Leake converted, and the Sooners had a 7-0 lead.
Worden, out to make up for his fumble, carried the ensuing kickoff 46 yards down to the OU 44. Halfback Joe Heap hit Lattner with a 16-yard pass, and the Irish were moving. But on the next play Heap got into the fumbling act, and Oklahoma recovered on their own 23.
Guglielmi Smacks Over for Second Irish Score.
The Sooners couldn’t stand prosperity, though, and fumbled right back, Irish center Jim Schrader staking claim to the ball on the Oklahoma 42. Guglielmi decided to switch the Irish attack to the air, and promptly lofted to Lattner on the Sooner 12. Heap and Worden moved the pigskin within striking distance on successive four yard bursts and Guglielmi bulleted one to Heap for the pay off. Guard “Minnie” Mavraides knotted it at 7-7 with six minutes left in the initial quarter.
The story the remainder of the quarter and the first five minutes of the second period was largely one of a personal duel—Lattner’s booming punts against Boydston’s quick kicks. Then, from deep in their own territory, Oklahoma suddenly struck. The Sooners went almost all the way on one lightning-like play, a long aerial from Leake to end Carl Allison, but Heap dragged the receiver down from behind on the Irish 18. Five plays later halfback Jack Ging sliced over tackle for five yards and the TD. Leake made it, 14-7.
The Irish evened matters again shortly before the first half ended when one of Boydston’s quick-kicks backfired. Tackle Frank Varrichione broke through the Oklahoma protective wall, and Captain Don Penza recovered the blocked kick on the Sooner nine. Lattner
Leake Breaks Through ND Defenses
and Tom McHugh took it down to the five, and Guglielmi, in two tries, carried across. There was one minute and a half to go when Mavraides tied it at 14-14.
The second half turned into a see-saw battle around midfield, with the heat and wind increasing steadily as the contest wore on. In the middle of the third period a Lattner punt ended up on the Sooner 20, and two plays later Notre Dame had taken the lead for the first time in the game. Guglielmi picked off a Leake pass on the Sooner 41 and then turned around and threw one himself, finding Heap downfield on the receiving end for the score. Mavraides again came through with the all-important extra point and it was ND-21, OU-14.
The Sooners took the kickoff and managed to run off two plays from scrimmage before Penza started getting in the way again. On the second play Leake fumbled and the Irish captain pounced on the ball on the Oklahoma 38.
With Heap and Worden doing the bulk of the lugging, the Irish increased their margin to 14 points in seven plays. Worden cut over the right side from the nine for the tally, and Mavraides converted with three minutes left in the quarter.
But with a little over five minutes left in the game, the feared Sooner “long strike” materialized as Merill Green ran one of Lattner’s punts back 60 yards for a touchdown. Leake’s perfect placement brought the Sooners up to a 28-21 deficit.
Oklahoma threatened to tie the game up with two minutes left on the scoreboard clock but Lattner came up with a game-saving interception on his own 32. Guglielmi ran out the clock, and the Irish had victory number one.
14
The Scholastic
Purdue’s Evans Fades To Pass as Leahymen Close In.
ND Bombs Purdue, 37-7
By BOB O’MALLEY
West Lafayette, Ind., Oct. 3—Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish competed with the blazing sun in burning up the turf of Purdue’s Ross-Ade Stadium this afternoon, and the Boilermakers’ victory plans collapsed under the weight of a 37-7 pasting by Coach Leahy’s poised warriors.
Thus the Irish added another to their long list of successes in this series with their Southern neighbors. The Boilermakers have been scalped no less than 18 times in the 25 game rivalry.
The partisan gathering of 49,135 likely considered a smooth young ballhandler by the name of Ralph Guglielmi the worst of all villains—and with good reason. The Irish quarterback picked holes in Purdue’s befuddled defenses and sent a horde of blue-shirted backs galloping in and out of those holes for 302 yards. Guglielmi connected with his receivers on seven of nine aerials for 99 more yards before retiring from the combat.
The Boilermakers took the opening kickoff, banged their heads against a brick wall for three plays, then punted. Brock’s kick fell short in Purdue territory, but the initial Irish drive toward the enemy goal was stymied. After regaining possession of the pigskin the Notre Dame offense again faltered, this time at the Purdue 22, and the Irish had to content themselves with a field goal by Minnie Mavraides midway in the first period.
Two plays later a Schmaling fumble was fielded by Joe Heap on the Purdue
29, and the Irish again moved toward the Purdue goal. Heap gained four, Lattner charged to the 14, then to the 11, from where Neil Worden carved out the final yardage. Mavraides added the point, making it 10-0 after ten minutes. The Notre Dame second team finished up the quarter; on the last play of that period Dick Fitzgerald rounded his own right end, reversed his field and finally was hauled down on the Purdue nine after a 46-yard dash.
Heap scored to open the second period but a clipping penalty nullified the play, and Purdue took over. Again the Boilermakers tangled with the Irish forward wall and came out second best. ND regained possession and once more smashed deep into the Boilermakers’ sagging defenses but a Guglielmi fumble on the Purdue 25 stopped the Irish bid. The Boilermakers then jolted the Irish out of their mid-game lethargy with a 75 yard air strike from Roy Evans to John Kerr. Evans’ conversion left Purdue with a mere 7-10 deficit.
Following that tally Purdue kicked off to John Lattner. The Irish AllAmerican grabbed the ball on the 14 and squirmed his way down the sidelines 86 yards for the touchdown with white-shirted Boilermakers strewn in his wake. Mavraides’ boot made it 17-7.
The sensational gallop took the heart out of Purdue. In the final minutes of the half, after the first of Tom Carey’s two interceptions, Notre Dame pounded out another six points. From the 32, Dick Washington bolted over
the right side, cut to his left, and scampered all the way to push ND into a 23-7 margin at the half.
Early in the third quarter the Boilermakers threatened to get back in the ball game. After an exchange of fumbles by Schmaling and Lattner, Purdue was seemingly stalled on its own 18 with third and seven. However, Schmaling suddenly steamed over the middle with a two man convoy, and only a defensive gem by Heap prevented the big fullback from going the distance. Heap grudgingly but wisely gave ground and slowed up the charge enough to allow Guglielmi to nab Schmaling from behind after a 45 yard journey to the ND 37. From here Evans passed to Brock who received it nicely at his hiding place on the Irish 10 and raced into the end zone—all to no avail, for a holding penalty set the Boilermakers back to their own 48.
A somewhat embarrassed Irish defense stiffened, and Don Penza speared Evans’ bobble on the Purdue 42. Heap made a fine catch of Guglielmi’s 31 yard toss on the 11. Lattner got six and then Guglielmi smashed over right guard for the final yards.
Minutes later, with the Boilermakers sputtering deep in their own territory, Eddie Neves’ fourth down kick traveled only to the Purdue 17. The wily Guglielmi caught the' staggering Boilermakers off guard with a seven yard pitch to Dan Shannon. Worden covered the remaining distance for the final score of the game with four minutes left in the third period. Mavraides added his fourth straight conversion.
From here on in Coach Leahy took
Lattner Leaves Tacklers Sprawling
advantage of the his reserves who offense, managed makers in check.
37-7 cushion to test though stalling on to hold the Boiler-
Dec. 11, 1953
Heap Stopped After Short Gain Over Middle
Stubborn Pitt Falls. 23-14
By DAVE DAVIN
for a safety, and Notre Dame trailed by five big points.
For almost the whole third period, the two lines could not seem to open any holes, and both teams were ground to a stand-still. Sophomore tackle Wayne Edmonds then jarred the pigskin out of the hands of Ford, and Notre Dame Captain Don Penza pounced on the loose ball. With first down on the Panther 25, All-American Johnny Lattner pitched a long pass to Joe Heap, his running-mate, who was finally dropped on the Pitt six. Joe Heap and Neil Worden dented the line to the one, from where Guglielmi sneaked across for the winning touchdown. Mavraides made his second try for the point good, putting Notre Dame in the lead, 16-14.
The green-clad second contingent took command in the fourth period, under the capable engineering of Tommy Carey. They marched the ball to the Pitt goal, but Sophomore Halfback Dick Washington fumbled, and Pittsburgh recovered in their own end zone.
Washington redeemed himself, returning Joe Zombek’s punt to the Panther 37. The burly halfback took a hand-
Notre Dame, Ind. Oct. 17—On this Indian Summer afternoon 57,998 fans in Notre Dame Stadium saw the “Fighting Irish” assume the role of animal trainer, take up the “whip” of the touchdown, and tame a snarling Pittsburgh Panther pack into very docile guests with a 23-14 beating.
At the outset, the contest had all the ear-marks of a repeat of last year’s Pitt victory. The host team received the kickoff, but failed to crack the stiff Panther defense. To' this, Pittsburgh replied with a quick, power-packed touchdown drive. Henry “Model T” Ford, fiery quarterback, dug for a precious 14 yards. Bobby Epps, senior Pitt fullback exploded over the right side of his line and was not dragged down until he had picked up 20 yards and another first down on Notre Dame’s 31. A few line crashes put the ball on the eight, and then it was Epps again, using his squat 198 pounds to drag two Irish defenders across the goal with him for the first score of the game. Paul Blanda, brother of the Chicago Bears George, split the uprights and Pitt led early in the first quarter, 7-0.
Notre Dame, their “Irish” aroused, took the ball 67 yards in a series of short; piston-like jabs by Lattner, Heap and “Bull” Worden and pin-point passes by Guglielmi to the Panther goal. Worden then crashed over for the tally. Menil Mavraides converted and the score was 7-7.
Undaunted, Pittsburgh came roaring back employing every device in the book to jump into the lead. Grabbing a long Guglielmi pass right out of the hands
of junior Paul Matz, Ford romped to the Irish nine yard line before being hauled down from behind. Then, Pitt sucker-shifted into the single wing drawing half the Notre Dame line offside. With first down and goal to go on the four, little Richie McCabe squirted across the chalk line for 6 points. Again Blanda’s toe was true and Pittsburgh led, 14-7.
In the third quarter, the Irish came to life displaying the form that won them number one National Honors since the season’s start.
Richie McCabe, while trying to run out of his own end zone, was nailed by Junior Irish Tackle Frank Varrichione
Panthers’ Di Pasquale Gets Nowhere As Array of Irishmen Move In
off from Carey and went for five more. Carey then hit Washington with a long aerial for 17 more yards, and the Irish were knocking at Pitt’s door.
Coach Frank Leahy, seeking insurance, recalled the first team, amidst mild protest from the crowd, which promptly proceeded to “ice” the affair.
After Lattner and Worden punched their way to the Pittsburgh nine, Guglielmi drifted back to pass, but spotting no receiver, outran the defense for the remaining yardage, and the final score. Mavraides made it three in a row, as the clock ticked off the final moments with the Panthers vainly trying to score again.
16
The Scholastic
Tech Streak Snapped by Irish Power
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 24.—Fiftyeight thousand frenzied partisans saw modem collegiate football’s longest unbeaten string come to a shattering halt at 3:57 CST today, when the destructive Notre Dame football machine collided head-on with a Georgia Tech steamroller at Intersection South Bend.
The Irish added the fourth step to their 1953 victory march in twisting the southerners’ victorious 31-game express into a rambling wreck with a four-touchdown punch, 27-14.
The Irish drew blood in the first four minutes of the initial period when fullback Neil Worden climaxed a downfield march with a seven-yard touchdown smash.
It all began when All-American halfback Johnny Lattner returned the opening kickoff from his own end-zone to the Notre Dame 20. Halfback Joe Heap followed up a series of line plays with a brilliant 33-yard sprint to the Tech 34. Lattner sprang loose on the next play for 15, and set up the series that produced Worden’s TD. Mavraides split the uprights to put the Irish ahead, 7-0, leaving coach Bobby Dodd’s pupils in a state of shock.
Another determined Irish bid was in the making at the opening of the second stanza with Notre Dame resting on the visitors’ 19-yard stripe, after a combination of Gugliehni’s passing and Lattner and Worden’s alternate line thrusts had brought the Irish from deep in their own homeland. But the drive fell short when Leahy ushered in his powerful—but shy—shock troops, and understudy fullback Tom McHugh fumbled to Tech’s Bobby Sherman on the seven.
The Yellow Jackets came out of the locker room for the second half fired up with the idea of making a ball game of it. Tech knotted the score after seven hectic minutes of razzle-dazzle play in the third period, but Notre Dame shattered Tech hopes by bouncing right back with two tallies within five minutes after their visitors had scored.
Georgia Tech picked up their first touchdown when Wade Mitchell intercepted Ralph Guglielmi’s aerial on his 30, and then generalled his troops into the Irish end zone 12 plays later. On fourth down, with three yards separating him from pay dirt, Mitchell sneaked across, and finished the task with a placement to tie up the ball game, 7-7.
Then the mighty Irish got down to business and unleashed a vicious combination of ground and aerial power to convince everybody they deserved the
By PATRICK CARRICO
nation’s top rating for the fourth week in a row.
The powerful South Benders uncovered a gridiron feast of bread-and-butter ball players for visiting AllAmerican pickers with a spectacular array of precision power plays that completely stunned the Yellow Jackets. They first ground out a 92-yard goalward march and then broke the visitors’ backs with a second lightning-fast counter punch that added 14 points to their* scoreboard slot.
Galloping Joe Heap grabbed Turner’s kickoff on his own nine and swept up the sidelines to the Notre Dame 44. Then “Bull” Worden rambled for seven; and Lattner marked off four more for a first-and-ten on the Tech 45. Worden cut through again for eight. Lattner broke over right side for six more, and the march was on.
Tricky tosser Ralph Gugliehni hit
Heap Smashes for Yardage as Tech Tacklers Close In
Matz for 14 yards on Tech’s nine. Worden rushed again, and Gugliehni hit Heap with a bullet pass in the end zone. Mavraides did the honors, and the score was Notre Dame 14, Georgia Tech 7.
Five plays later Notre Dame took advantage of a timely break to score their third touchdown. With their backs to the goal posts Tech attempted to punt. A faulty pass from center bobbled into the end zone, and massive Irish tackle Art Hunter pounced on it for the score. Mavraides’ placement made it 21-7.
The Georgians made a dramatic bid to stay in the running when Mitchell hit Teas with a 44-yard pass on the ND 10 and the latter went over standing up. Mitchell converted with 13 minutes remaining in the quarter.
The Irish put the contest on ice, however, when Johnny Lattner remembered it was his birthday and celebrated with a one-yard smash midway in the final period after Notre Dame had moved from their own 35.
Dec. 11, 1953
17
Greenshirts Romp Over Middies, 38-7
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 31.—Playing like National Champions for the fifth straight week, Notre Dame’s highly precisioned gridiron machine meshed its gears perfectly today as. they exploded with four touchdowns in the second quarter to pound out a surpris-ingly simple 38-7 victory over Navy.
The Irish played the entire contest ■without their inspirational leader, Coach Frank Leahy, who was confined to his home in Long Beach, Ind., where he watched the game on television. But what Notre Dame’s coach saw on the turf of the Stadium this afternoon must have been pretty good get well medicine. Assistant Coach Joe McArdle filled in capably for “the Master” as the Irish won their 22nd game from the Middies in the 27-year series.
Navy, though restricted to a stingy eight yards rushing in the first half, and 42 yards passing, gave all they had in the first quarter to hold the unbeaten Irish scoreless. But all they had wasn’t near enough in the second quarter as Notre Dame scored four times to lead 26-0 at the end of the first half.
With the collapse of Navy’s once powerful defense Coach McArdle cleaned the bench in the second half as second, third, and fourth stringers played the entire 30 minutes. With two minutes remaining in the final period the Middies scored their lone touchdown to avoid a whitewashing.
Over all Notre Dame chewed up 316 yards on the ground and 81 through the air, but it was not until the second
By JACK SAND period that they dented the goal line. At this juncture ND’s swift left half Joe Heap culminated a 66-yard march by scoring from the Navy one. Guard Menil Mavraides missed the point, and the Irish led, 6-0.
From this moment on the Middies wished they were back in the land where football is played‘just for the fun of it, as Captain Don Penza flopped on a Navy fumble on the Midshipmen’s 49. From here the Irish scored in two plays as quarterback Ralph Guglielmi threw a pair of long passes to Heap, the second going for a touchdown. Mavraides missed his second placement.
A few moments later, Guglielmi intercepted a Welsh-thrown aerial and galloped 47 yards for Notre Dame’s third score. The usually reliable Mavraides came through this time to give Notre Dame a comfortable 19-0 edge.
With five minutes left in the first half Notre Dame’s capable second team was substituted, but showed little mercy, as they drove 32 yards with fullback Tom McHugh smashing over center for Notre Dame’s fourth tally. Quarterback Don Schaefer, who directed the march, booted the extra point, and Notre Dame returned to their dressing room at intermission holding a commanding 26-0 lead.-',.-
Navy’s first venture into Notre Dame Stadium since 1937 was turned into a nightmare as the Irish scored again in the third period, this time- only once.
ND’s third quarterback Tom Carey, squirmed 27 yards on a keep-it play for the TD. McHugh’s extra-point try was wide.
Out in front 32-0 going into the fourth quarter, the Irish coaches tried to respect the traditionalism of the series by clearing the bench. But, the third team was not to be outdone. The tally was set up by end Gene Kapish who blocked a Navy punt which in turn was picked up by guard Ed Cook and returned to the Middie eight. Carey and fullback Nick Raich added a few chunks of yardage until Carey fired a three-yard pass to halfback Dick Keller in the end zone. The needless extra point was blocked.
Navy’s consolation touchdown came with 1:50 seconds left to play on a pass and lateral play with Navy fullback Dick Padberg doing the scoring honors. Harmon converted, the scoreboard read Notre Dame 38, Navy 7.
The Middies’ only advantage over the Irish was in the kicking department. Fullback Joe Gattuso punted four times for a 42-yard average, while Notre Dame kicked only twice for a 28-yard average. It was perhaps Navy’s worst offensive display of the year as they were held to a measly 35 yards rushing. In the second half the Middies took to the air against the reserves and completed most of their 13 passes, and picked up most of their .143-yards -gained during-this time.
The Irish, predominantly a groundgaining club, attempted only eight passes, completing two of them for touchdowns.
20
The Scholastic
Lattner Leads ND to Win Over Penn
Philadelphia, Pa., Nov. 7—An AllAmerican exhibition by All-American Johnny Lattner nullified Pennsylvania’s gallant upset bid on snow-fringed Franklin Field this afternoon as Notre Dame marched unsteadily to its sixth straight win of the season, 28-20.
A shivering but appreciative crowd of 69,071 saw the 21 year old Chicago senior do just about everything a football player- can do. He ran kicks back for huge amounts of yardage, smashed for first downs, caught passes, made key tackles and intercepted a Penn pass that seemed touchdown bound.
Lattner’s most spectacular contribution to ND’s cause came immediately after Penn stunned the crowd and the Irish by rambling down the field for seven points the first time they got their hands on the ball. With the crowd still buzzing their amazement over Penn’s drive, Lattner gathered in the ensuing Quaker kickoif on his own eight yard line, sped up the sidelines, received two nice blocks from Art Hunter and Don Penza on the 20, swivel-hipped his way out of the grasps of two would-be tacklers at the 40 and broke into the open towards the center of the field. Penn’s John Cannon missed a desperate lunge on the Red and Blue 25, and the ND halfback sauntered the rest of the way unchallenged.
The game started with an oddity as the Irish were penalized 15 yards when they were late, coming out on the field. When the kickoff finally was made by Penn, the nation’s No. 1 team could do no better than one first down and was forced to punt.
Penn took possession of the ball and 61 yards and seven plays later scored
By BILL NOONAN
the first touchdown of the game. Ed Gramigna, a daring signal-caller and effective passer all day, completed two passes in the drive which was capped by Walt Hynoski’s five yard burst into the end zone. Gramigna converted.
Penn quick-kicked after receiving the post-Lattnei- touchdown kickoff and the Irish promptly churned 68 yards for their second touchdown and a 14-7 lead. The march was one of short methodical punches at the Penn line, coupled with two Ralph Gugliehni passes, one to Penza, the other to Lattner who made a beauty of a catch on the Quaker six. On a third down keep play, Guglielmi sprung off tackle from the three for the tally. Minnie Mavraides split the uprights for the second straight time.
The greenshirts moved goalward again the next .time they had the ball. Penn, their attack completely bottled up, punted to Heap who handed off to Lattner. The deceptive Irish star again brought the crowd to its feet by bringing the ball back 38 yards before Hy-noski bumped him out of bounds on the Penn 36. In four plays, Guglielmi directed his team to the Penn three yard line as the period ended.
Coach Leahy sent in his second team at the start of the second quarter and Don Schaefer, reserve quarterback, sneaked over for the score on the first play for the third Irish TD. On a controversial play, Schaefer ran the extra point over for a 21-7 lead.
The second team almost engineered a touchdown of their own in the second quarter when it moved 53 yards only to have Schaefer fumble on the Penn two
yard line shortly before the half ended.
The second half started off almost exactly as did the first half. The Red and Blue took the kickoff and marched 67 yards in 12 plays for their second touchdown. The drive which took six minutes was climaxed by a beautiful seven yard pass on fourth down from Gramigna to Bob Felver. Here Gramigna missed what proved to be an important extra point, and Penn trailed 21-13.
Another spectacular Lattner run back and two plays from scrimmage and Notre Dame had regained their two touchdown lead. The incomparable Lattner almost duplicated his first quarter feat when he carried the Penn kickoff back 56 yards before being pushed into a snow bank on the Penn 26. After Lattner had picked up three, Guglielmi passed 11 yards to Heap who darted away from three Quakers for the remaining 12 yards and the score. Mavraides again converted, and the situation seemed well under control.
Eleven plays after Heap’s tally, Pennsylvania scored their third touchdown. Varaitis was the workhorse of the drive, but the highlight was a 41 yard pass play from Gramigna to Felver. Varaitis scored the touchdown from the one, and Gramigna converted.
Both teams threatened in the fourth quarter, the Irish led by Lattner, Heap, and Sam Palumbo, stopping three Penn assaults deep in their own territory. Lattnei- leaped high in the air to intercept a Gramigna pass on the goal line to end-the first of these threats.
The game ended with ND on Penn’s 15 after moving 55 yards in 11 plays following an interception by Heap.
Guglielmi Scores Second Irish Touchdown
Quaker Lineman Challenges ND’s Worden
Dec. 11, 1953
21
I
Heap Fights in Vain to Grab a Guglielmi Toss
Irish Toy With Tar Deels
By BOB RUHL
Chapel Hill, N. C., Nov. 14—Notre Dame’s high-powered machine drove to its seventh straight victory this afternoon by trampling North Carolina’s Tar Heels, 34-14 before 40,000 spectators at beautiful Kenan Stadium.
The Irish offense was spearheaded by their twin block-busting fullbacks, Neil Worden and Tom McHugh, who carved the Tar Heel line to shreds with brilliant driving sorties which accounted for four out of the five Irish touchdowns, each of the fullbacks scoring twice.
Irish Captain Don Penza won the toss and elected to receive. Halfback Johnny Lattner caught the opening kickoff on the Irish 18 and side-stepped his way to the 32 before being thrown out of bounds. On the first play from scrimmage Neil Worden blasted for a first down to the Notre Dame 46. Again, on the following play, quarterback Guglielmi elected to hand off to the stocky Worden wfio bulled his way through a wide gap .in the Carolina defense and caiTied to the Tar Heel 31 before being brought down.
Lattner and Worden traded running thrusts into the wilting Carolina forward wall to move the pigskin to the enemy 18. Left half Joe Heap skirted the left side of the Irish line before finally lateraling to Worden who sprinted into the. end zone untouched for the initial Irish- tally. Menil Mavraides
added the extra point, and Notre Dame was ahead, 7-0.
But the Tar Heels were in the mood for retaliation. After taking Mavraides’ kickoff and bringing the ball to their own 21, Lackey and Gravitte dented the Irish line for seven yards. Carolina’s signal-caller, Marshall Newman found a loose link in the Notre Dame hard-charging line and sent fullback Lackey through for 53 yards to the Irish 19. Two plays later, Newman passed to left end Frye who brought the ball to the 11.
The Irish line dug in for the coming assault and held the Tar Heels for four* downs, taking over on the five yard line.
The Leahymen moved the ball to the 24, but were forced to kick. Carolina punted right back, and the Irish again started to move. Lattner, Worden and Heap alternated on carrying the ball to the Tar Heel 48, from where Guglielmi completed two passes, one to Shannon on the 35, the other to Heap on the 22 as the quarter ended.
Coach Leahy substituted his second team at the start of the second quarter. After three plays failed to gain much yardage, r e s e r.v e quarterback Don Schaefer sprung Dick Fitzgerald through the Carolina line on a quickopener to the ten. On a series of keep-it plays, Schaefer bulled his way into the end zone for a 14-0 Irish lead.
After an exchange of punts, the Irish
took over again on their own 20. Halfback Dick Keller, who had been on the injured list most of the season, broke through a wide hole in the Tar Heel line for 77 yards, but a clipping penalty cut the run to 25 yards. Fitzgerald and Tom McHugh bore the brunt of the offense as it moved to the Carolina two on eight plays. Fullback McHugh tore through the Carolina right side to score the third Irish touchdown. Schaefer kicked his second straight conversion, and Notre Dame was ahead, 21-0.
After Irish end Walt Cabral kicked off, the Carolinians began to make their first real threat since the first period with the Irish third stringers in action. Long passed to Lackey on the 45, and the big Tar Heel fullback raced to the Irish 30. ■ Long blasted up the middle for eight more, and a pass interference penalty put the ball on the Irish 15. Newman spotted left end Newton clear in the end zone and tossed to him for the first Carolina score.
Taking the second kickoff, Carolina, spearheaded by Newman’s passes, moved to the Notre Dame 33. There, the Irish first team stiffened and took over.
Notre Dame’s backs continued to churn out large chunks of yardage, moving swiftly to the Irish 48. Worden again carried and this time found nothing in the way but a clear field. The chunky fullback broke through the middle of the Carolina defense and raced 52 yards for the score. Mavraides booted the extra point before the quarter ended, and it was ND 28; North Carolina, 7.
As soon as the fourth quarter started, Notre Dame backs McHugh, Fitzgerald and Keller pounded down to the Carolina three, but the Irish attack stalled here and they lost the ball on downs. The Tar Heels still found it impossible to drill holes in the Irish forward wall and punted to Notre Dame’s 43. The Irish again displayed their power as Fitzgerald and Schaefer blasted to the Carolina 44. The running attack continued on the march and moved down to the North Carolina two, before a penalty set them back five yards. Tom Carey broke away to the one, and Me Hugh banged through the tight Carolina line for the score. McHugh missed the extra point, leaving ND ahead, 34-7.
With the third Irish team again in action, North Carolina took possession after the kickoff and surged to the ND 40 behind brilliant running by Lackey and Newman. Halfback Ken Keller fought his way down to the Irish 17 before being caught from behind. Gravitte found Jeff Newton open in the end zone and threw to him for the second Carolina score as the game neared the final whistle.
The Scholastic
22
ND Ties Iowa in Final Seconds, 14-14
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 21—Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish, previously unbeaten in seven games, came from behind on two occasions today to gain a 14-14 tie with a rugged Iowa eleven. The capacity crowd of 56,478 fans saw the Irish knot the count at seven all in the last two seconds of the first half, and again in the last six seconds of the . final stanza to overcome a 14-7 deficit.
“Gug” Lets Fly Again
Iowa opened the scoring in the first period after nine minutes, 30 seconds had elapsed, as the Hawkeyes marched 71 yards in eight plays. George (Dusty) Rice intercepted a Guglielmi pass in Hawkeye territory and returned it to the 44, but a clipping penalty set the Iowan’s back to their 29.
After halfback Eddie Vincent’s short gain George (Binkey) Broeder broke loose and scampered to the Notre Dame 40 where he was downed by Joe Heap. Quarterback Lou Matykiewicz and Vincent picked up two yards apiece, and two seven yard gains by Broeder put the ball on the Irish 22. Rice’s ten yard dash moved the Hawks to the 12; from there Vincent lugged the pigskin into the end zone untouched. Jim Freeman’s boot was good, and the Hawkeyes led, 7-0.
Notre Dame threatened early in the second period, but failed to score. Gug-lielmi’s passes and the running of Heap and Lattner moved the ball to the Hawkeye eight yard line, but a Guglielmi pass to Capt. Don Penza was dropped in the end zone. Another pass attempt proved futile, as Iowa center Jerry Hilgenberg broke up the play and deflected the ball into the arms of team-
By ERWIN ALFONSUS
mate Bill Fenton to end the threat.
Finally, with the first half drawing to a close, Lattner returned a Broeder punt 25 yards to his own 41. Gugliel-mi’s long pass play to Heap carried the Irish to the Hawkeye 37. Lattner gained five yards, and Worden grabbed one of “Gug’s” five successive passes for a first down on the 25. Guglielmi’s pass to Heap was ruled complete on the 14, though the ball squirted out of the receiver’s arms.
With seconds remaining, Irish tackle Frank Varrichione let out a squeal, held his back, and fell to the ground. The officials ruled an “injured player’’ time out, and the clock was stopped with two seconds left in the half. The Irish had previously exhausted their allotted time-outs. That was all the time the Irish needed, however, for on the next play Guglielmi passed to end Dan Shannon for the score. Don Schaefer’s placement was good, and the half ended with the score tied, 7-7.
Iowa began their second touchdown march early in the fourth period when Broeder intercepted a Guglielmi pass to Lattnei- on the Iowa 48. Crashing line plays by Broeder and Rice moved the ball to the Notre Dame 42. Vincent advanced another nine yards, and after Broeder had been held without gain the Hawkeyes were penalized to their 38 for offside.
Garet Reichow, who had taken over at quarterback, beautifully faked a pass, but handed off to Broeder instead, and
Iowa’s Rice Scampers Through Hole in Irish Defense
before the stunned Irish defenders could recover, Broeder had moved to the Notre Dame 16 yard line.
Broeder then crashed through the Irish line for eight more yards, and, in three more drives, reached the six for a first down. Broeder picked up another yard, and Rice moved the ball to the four. From there Bob Stearnes, who had just come off the bench, took a pitchout from Reichow and passed into the end zone to Frank Gilliam, who snared the ball as he fell to the ground. Freeman’s conversion was good, and Iowa led 14-7 with two minutes and six seconds of playing time remaining.
Then, with possible defeat threatening them, the Irish juggernaut started its goalward march in a race against the clock. Fullback Neil Worden took the kickoff and returned it 21 yards to his own 42. Heap’s pass was deflected by Vincent, but he tried again. and hit • Lattner on the Hawkeye 46. Lattner advanced a Guglielmi pass to the Iowa 28, and Heap gathered in anothei- for eight yards.
Lattnei- again sneaked a Guglielmi aerial to put the ball within nine yards of paydirt, with but 32 seconds remaining. Two passes by “Gug” to Heap were broken up, but with six seconds left in the game, Guglielmi faded back to his left, seemingly to throw to the receiver on that side, but instead pitched to Shannon on the opposite side in the end zone. Shannon made the catch, and Schaefer’s second conversion was good to knot the count and the game at 14-14.
Dec. 11, 1953
23
Irish Stun Coast Fans; Trample Trojans
Los Angeles, Nov. 28—The Irish shillelagh came down hard on an upset-minded Southern California team today as Notre Dame bounced back from its tie with Iowa to trample the Trojans, 48-14 before 97,952 shirt-sleeved fans in the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum.
All-American John Lattner provided the spark that sent Notre Dame to its eighth victory of the year and eleventh game without a setback by scoring four touchdowns, for one of the most remarkable individual performances ever seen in the Memorial Coliseum. Lattner averaged 9.25 yards for the 17 times he carried, while Irish quarterback Ralph Guglielmi directed the Notre Dame attack with an uncanny selection of plays which constantly threw the Trojans off their feet, enabling the backs to catch tnem unaware. The hard running of fullback Neil Worden, who was second to Lattner in rushing for the day, and seatback Joe Heap added to the fury of the attack. The Irish forward wall played its best game of the season, continually opening huge holes in the Southern Cal defense.
From the moment Joe Heap rocketed 94 yards for a touchdown early in the first quarter the outcome was never in doubt for the Irish who were directed by Assistant Coach Joe McArdle in the absence of Coach Leahy who was resting at home on doctor’s orders.
Coach Jess Hill’s injury-ridden squad was snowed under by a flurry of Irish touchdowns that set a new scoring mark for- the series between the two schools and also was the highest Irish point total this season. Notre Dame ground out 336 yards by rushing and used only seven passes which were good for 41 yards. The play of halfback Lindon Crowe and tailback Desmond Koch gave the hometown crowd something to cheer about between Irish touchdowns.
The ball game got off to a firecracker start before 10 minutes had elapsed when Joe Heap gathered in a punt on the six, raced to his left sideline picked up three blockers and wheeled 94 hipswinging yards to a touchdown for the longest run of the year in the Coliseum. Five minutes later Notre Dame scored on nine plays covering 61 yards. A Guglielmi pass to Penza on the Trojan 14 set up the score; two plays later Lattner tallied, taking a pitchout from Guglielmi and skirting the left end for nine yards and his first score of the day. Guglielmi added the point and the Irish led, 13-0.
Early in the second period, with the
By DAVE KILKEARY
Notre Dame second team operating, Koch took a Schaefer punt on his own 27 and raced back 43 yards to the Notre Dame 31. Minutes latex- on third down and goal, on the Notre Dame five Southern Cal’s Koch took a pitchout and went wide around the Notre Dame left end to score, culminating a 30 yard march which took seven plays. Tsag-alakis’s kick was good, and the Trojans trailed by six.
Shortly before the first half the Trojans threatened to score again. Deep inside Notre Dame territory, tailback Bozanic faded to pass. The toss, touchdown bound, was grabbed out of the hands of Cal’s end Clarke by Irish guard Ray Lemek. The swift lineman fought his way to the Trojan 43 before being hauled down from behind.
Coach McArdle sent the Irish regulars back in, and they promptly widened the gap. Heap ran the kickoff out to the 33. Aftex- Lattnex- picked up a first down, Worden took a handoff from Guglielmi, hammered over the middle, cut sharply to the left, and raced 54 yards to the Southern California three. Worden, on a quick opener bolted ovex- the left side fox- the marker. The kick was true and the Irish pulled away, 20-7.
Midway in the third quarter, Hawthorne fumbled on his own 15, and Paul Matz fell on it fox- Notre Dame. Lattner moved to the 10. With second and five Guglielmi again pitched out to Lattner
Irish Seatback Heap Picks Up Steam on 94-yard Gallop
around the Trojan right side and he scored standing, Ray Lemek providing the vital block to shake Lattner loose. Two plays were needed for the score. Guglielmi converted and Notre Dame had a 27-7 lead.
Southern Cal came right back to score oxx six plays after the kickoff, going 64 yards. Aramis Dandoy picked up the final 13 yards fox- the tally. Notre Dame got this one back in short order, the power running of Neil Worden and the blocking of Art Hunter, highlighting a 61 yard drive to pay dirt. Lattnex- bulled ovex- right tackle fox- the score. Guglielmi made it 34-14.
In the waning moments of the third quarter- Aramis Dandoy, attempting to lateral, was nailed and fumbled. Pat Bisceglia fell on the ball in the end zone fox- the sixth Irish score. Again Guglielmi converted, and Notre Dame continued the rout, 41-14.
Southern California had a first down on the Irish 24 early in the fourth quarter, but Jim Controtto, trying to skirt the end, was trapped in his own backfield. Two Irish linemen knocked him loose from the ball, and Notre Dame recovered on theix- 35. Guglielmi blasted up to the 50, and on the next play Lattnex- thundered up the middle, cut and dodged four Southern Cal defenders who had good shots at him, and romped 50 yards fox- the final Irish marker. Jack Lee kicked the point, and the Irish had theix- eighth win of the campaign, 48-14.
24
The Scholastic
I
I
Guglielmi Vaults Over Lattner and Would-Be SMU Tackler
Leahymen Whip Ponies
By TOM WELLY
“The 1953 football team is the greatest Notre Dame ever had.” This postgame statement by Coach Frank Leahy summarizes the performance given by his undefeated Irish today as they crushed Southern Methodist, 40-14. A Mustang defense that led the nation for the majority of the ’53 campaign was no match for a mighty line and a collection of backs that ripped SMU for 302 yards rushing. Only a dangerous aerial game kept the Texans in the Notre Dame stadium.
Johnny Lattner and Neil Worden showed 55,522 amazed fans and a countless number of television viewers what an All-American looks like. The pair concluded their Notre Dame football careers with magnificent performances as they scored five touchdowns between them. Worden’s three scores gave him a three-year total of 29 touchdowns—a new Notre Dame record. Lattner, a unanimous choice as the outstanding college football player of the- year, gained 84 yards on the ground, scored twice and completed a 55-yard pass to Dan Shannon that set up the first Irish score.
The Lattner-Shannon aerial came early in the first period after the Mustangs could go nowhere on the opening series of downs. In familiar fashion Lattner started to circle his left end, but stopped suddenly and threw a perfect pass to Shannon who went all the way to the SMU four-yard line. Worden scored on the second play following an offside penalty which placed
the ball on the one. Menil Mavraides, senior guard, added the first of four placements to give the Irish a 7-0 lead.
The score stood until the second period when ND really went to work. After an 80-yard Irish drive was stopped by SMU on their own five, the visitors attempted to get some room to roam by throwing a pass on third down. Paul Matz’s rattling tackle shook the ball loose from Duane Nutt, and the alert Frank Varrichione fell on the ball for an Irish touchdown. Mavraides misfired on the conversion, and Notre Dame had a 13-0 lead.
A few minutes later, the Irish again headed goalward. They took an SMU punt to the Notre Dame 32. Five plays and 68 yards later they had their third touchdown. Guglielmi hit Lattner with a 23-yard scoring pass to climax the drive. The play was worked to perfection as there was not a defensive halfback within ten yards of Lattner when he gathered the pass in for the score. Mavraides made it 20-0. The score remained the same until the action-packed third quarter which saw three Irishmen and one Mustang cross the goal-line.
Notre Dame took the second-half kickoff and drove the length of the field in ten plays. Lattner scored on a wide sweep on fourth down from the five-yard line. A fine block by Worden that cut down the Mustangs’ defensive end, enabled Lattner to score untouched. Mavraides added the extra
point and Notre Dame had a 27-point lead.
An exchange of scoring opportunities saw the Irish fail to capitalize but not the Mustangs. They entered the scoring column from 44 yards out as Nutt passed to Doyle Nix for the touchdown. Ed Bernet’s kick made it 27-7.
The Irish struck back when Neil Worden climaxed a 63-yard drive by bucking over from the one. This drive featured the running of Don Schaefer and a 42-yard pass play from Guglielmi to Schaefer that took the ball all the way to the 10-yard line. Mavraides made his final try a good one for his 24th conversion of the season.
The final Irish tally followed a similar pattern. Again a Guglielmi pass set it up, and again Worden took it over. Ray Lemek provided the opportunity with an interception of a Nutt aerial. Guglielmi took full advantage of the opportunity as he passed to Shannon for 31 yards to the Mustang three. Worden scored and Notre Dame was leading 40-7. In an effort to add a score in his final football game, Art Hunter tried the extra-point but it blooped high and far to the left.
In the final stanza, Southern Methodist threw an all-out aerial attack at Notre Dame. Sam Stollenwerck, whose father was the first passer to gain fame with the Mustang Aerial Circuses of the past, started a circus of his own. It worked for one touchdown and many anxious moments for the Irish fans as he flooded the air with his tosses.
Six first-team members: Captain Don Penza, Johnny Lattner, Neil Worden, Art Hunter, Jim Schrader and Menil Mavraides along with nine other squad members played their final collegiate football game. They made it a good one.
Leahy and His Irish . . . The Best
23
Dec. 11, 1953
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish of 1953
Player Photos by Baqby Studios
First row (left to right): Fred Mongiolordi, Art Hunter, Tom McHugh, Rockne Morrissey, John Lattner, Bob Rigali, Art Nowack, Don Penza (captain), Neil Worden, Jim Schrader, Bob Martin, Paul Robst, Menil Mavraides, Armando Galardo, Joe Bush.
Second row: John Jarnot (manager), John Gaffney, Bob Taylor, Gene Kapish, Jim Mense, Dick Keller, Nick Raich, Ralph Guglielmi, Dan Shannon, Dick Frasor, Paul Matz, Tom Carey, Dick Szymanski, Joe Heap, Walt Cabral, Dan Hammer (manager).
Third row: Charlie Keller (manager), Wayne Edmonds, Leo Callaghan, Bill Trozzo, Bob Lasch, Ed Cook, Dick Hendricks, Ben Zajeski, Tony Pasquesi, Sam Palumbo, Don Bucci, Frank Varrichione, Pat Bisceglia, Jack Lee, Bob Ready.
Fourth row: Gene Martell, Joe Markowski, Don Schaefer, Jim Bigelow, Mike Regan, Bill Schellong, Dick Washington, Jack Dumas, Ray Lemek, John McMullan, George Nicula, Don George, John Kegaly, George Wilson.
Statistics of the Season
ND	TEAM	OPP.
317	.............. Points Scored ........--.... 139
206	.............. First Downs ...............  119
155	.......... First Downs—Rushing ............. 65
47	__________ First Downs—Passing ........  —	46
4	.......... First Downs—Penalties ........... 8
2881	.............. Yards Rushing ..........  —	1207
616	.............. Times Carried .............. 394
4.7	.............. Yards-per-try .........—.... 3.1
958 ............... Yards Passing ...........   1032
137	............ Passes Attempted ........-....	181
63	............ Passes Completed ...-.......... 66
.460	......... Completion Percentage ..........  365
17	.......... Passes Intercepted by ...........  7
166 ___________ Yards Int. Returned ...........   60
3839 ........... TOTAL OFFENSE .................. 2239
40	................. Punts ..................   59
1372	.............. Total Yards ..............  2157
34.3	............ Average Length ............   36.6
315	.......... Yards Punts Returned —........   273
37	................. Fumbles .................. 37
19	_________________ Ball Lost ............     22
SCORING
Worden 		TD 	 11	PA'. 0	r fg 0	Pts. 66
Lattner 			     9	0	0	54
Heap 			 7	0	0	42
Guglielmi ...		 6	5	0	41
Mavraides —		 0	24	1	27
McHugh 			 3	0	0	18
Schaefer 		2	6	0	18
Shannon 		2	0	0	12
Washington		 1	0	0	6
Hunter 					 1	0	0	6
Keller 					 1	0	0	6
Carey 							 1	0	0	6
Bisceglia	—.					 1	0	0	6
Varrichione			 1	0	0	6
Lee 			 0	1	0	1
				*2
* Safety against Pitt.				
	PUNTING ,			
	No.	Ydg.		A-up.
Lattner 				   29	1014		35.0
McHugh 			  6		189	31.5
Schaefer 			  4		138	34.0
Gaffney 					 1		33	33.0
	PASSES CAUGHT			
	NC		Yds.	TD
Heap 			  22		336	5
Lattner 			 14		204	1
Shannon 			  7		138	2
Penza 1					 7		113	0
Matz 			  5		61	0
Schaefer 				 1		42	0
Washington			 1		16	0
Kapish 			 1		15	0
George 				 1		14	0
Keller 			 2		8	1
Worden 			 1		8	0
PASS INTERCEPTIONS
	No.	Yds.	TD
Guglielmi 			 5	47	1
Tip tin w	—. —					 4	4	0
Tjpmftk	— 		2	67	0
Heap 			 2	2	0
Carey 					 2	0	0
Sch a pf at		-				 1	37	0
Szymanski 	;			 1	9 .	0
	RUSHING		
	TC	Yds.	Avg.
Worden 			   145	859	5.9
Lattner 					 134	651	4.9
McHugh 			 67	341	5.1
Heap 			     62	314	5.0
Fitzgerald 			254	4.5
Schaefer 	—		 23	100	4.8
Keller .	...		 15	91	6.1
Washington 					,	 18	78	4.3
Guglielmi 			 60	74	1.2
Carey 			 21	57	2.7
Raich 			 8	42	5.3
Rigali 			 4	11	2.8
Bigelow 				 1	6	6.0
Markowski 			 1	2	2.0
Galardo 			 1	1	1.0
	KICKOFF RETURNS		
	No.	Yds.	TD
Lattner 				   8	321	2
Worden 			 8	164	0
Heap 			 4	76	0
Guglielmi 				 2	15	0
McHugh 					 1	26	0
Keller 				 1	8	0
Shannon 							 1	3	0
Matz 			 1	2	0
Galardo 			 1	2	0
PUNT RETURNS
		No.			Yds.	TD
Heap 					7	143	1
Lattner 					.... .		10	103	0
Fitzgerald							4	36	0
Washington		...............		1	27	0
Schaefer ...				1	6	0
Guglielmi .	At-		 1 PASSING Com- Had Inter-			0	0
	tempted	pleted	cepted	Ya/rdage	TD	Pct.
Guglielmi ..	.....113	52	5	792	8	.460
Lattner 			..... 2	1	0	55	0	.500
Heap 			 6	4	1	48	0	.667
Schaefer ....		 8	3	1	39	0	.375
Carey 			 7	3	0	24	1	.429
Fitzgerald	.... 1	0	.0	0	0	.000
OPPONENTS’ FUMBLESRECOVERED
Penza (5), Hunter (3), Matz (2), Palumbo, Schrader, Lemek, Worden, Heap, Washington, Lattner, Mangialardi, Bisceglia, Varrichione, Shannon, and Mavraides.
BLOCKED PUNTS: Varrichione, Kapish.
28
The Scholastic
Captain.. •
Don Penza
DON PENZA, Notre Dame’s 1953 captain and first string right , end, was a fine, steady ball player this season, but more important than that, he was a leader and an inspiration to his teammates and to all those who were close to Notre Dame.
Don received comparatively little publicity during the year, but it’s exceedingly doubtful if anyone would deny the fact that he was one of the biggest reasons why the Irish were the best college football team in the nation. Extremely modest and self-demanding, Don always played the game to the hilt. He carried the great responsibility of being Notre Dame's captain with great dignity and honor.
Don is one of nine Penza children, six boys and three girls. The Penzas live in Kenosha, Wis. Don attended St. Catherine’s High school in Racine, Wis., where he played three years of varsity football and captained the team in his senior year.
In 1951, his sophomore year at Notre Dame, Don played second team offensive end behind Jim Mutscheller and Chet Ostrowski. He played enough, however, to earn a monogram. In 1952, Penza moved up to the first team offensive end position. Though most of Notre Dame’s pass plays go to the halfbacks, Don managed to prove himself a dependable receiver, nabbing several vital heaves. His diving catches in last year’s Navy and North Carolina games were particularly notable.
This season, Penza caught seven passes for 113 yards. Probably his best attribute, however, is his blocking. A blocker usually gets little or no credit but anyone who watched Penza closely this year could not help but notice the sharpness and precision of his blocks. One of his most noticeable blocks came in- the Penn game’ when he and Art Hunter helped to shake John Lattner loose on a 92-yard kickoff return.
Don led the team in the all-important department of recovering opponent’s fumbles with five, and at one time during the season, had a streak of seven straight wins of the pre-game toss of the coin.
Penza received mention on several All-American and all-sectional teams. He was named to the first string AllAmerican on the New York News’ team.
Moose Krause, ND’s athletic director, while speaking at the Champions Ball on Dec. 5, summed up the esteem in which Notre Dame holds its 1953 team and captain when he said, “Not only is this team the greatest Notre Dame team I’ve ever seen, but Don Penza is one of the greatest captains to ever represent Notre Dame in football.” -
Dec. 11, 1953
29
JIM SCHRADER held down the middle spot in the potent Notre Dame forward wall this season and won All-American recognition for his steady play. “Benjie” was an outstanding line-backer and was a member of the newly-invented defensive “I” formation. He saw ironman action in all of the games, switching from his offensive role last year. He is a senior in the College of Commerce, majoring in domestic marketing.
Jim Schrader
Neil Worden
NEIL WORDEN has gained well over a mile in rushing in his three years of varsity competition. According to unofficial records, he is the all-time Notre Dame scoring leader. The rugged fullback is one of the nation’s most underrated players, although he finally received All-American mention this season. “Bull” scored at least eight touchdowns in each season he played. Neil is a senior in physical education.
Art Hunter
ART HUNTER, a converted right tackle, who saw action as an end last season and as a center in his sophomore season, was a member of the Irish’s starting eleven this year. Art’s bruising line play, both on offense and defense, gained him a berth on several All-American first teams. His greatest thrill of the season was recovering a Georgia Tech fumble for a touchdown.
JOHN LATTNER, Notre Dame’s unanimous All-American choice and most-feared ballcarrier, again led his teammates. His scintillating touchdown runs on punt returns in the Purdue and Penn contests sparked the Irish to early leads in those games. Again his tremendous tackling, clever pass defense, and adequate punting paced the Irish. John is a senior accounting major.
John Lattner
THE------
TOM McHUGH was the most potent second string fullback in the country this year. He averaged some five yards a crack in backing up Neil Worden. McHugh led all carriers in the Navy contest and also starred by scoring two touchdowns in the North Carolina game. Chances are Tom would have been a starter on any other college team.
MENIL MAVRAIDES proved to be one of the most versatile Irish linemen. He held down the right guard post and anchored the middle of the line on defense. His 14 straight extra points early in the season set a modern Notre Dame record. “Minnie’s” speed enabled him to haul down many ball-carriers from behind. He is a political science Senior.
Menil Mavraides
JOE BUSH, a first string offensive tackle in 1952, was hindered by the switch to one-platoon football and didn’t see as much action this Fall. A sharp blocker and all-around classy ball player, Joe was particularly effective in the Navy game. He also played capably against Purdue and North Carolina. Joe is a senior, majoring in political science.
Joe Bush
BOB RIGALI, a reserve halfback, though hampered by an injured hip during part of the season, saw action in several games this season. The diminutive senior played in the closing minutes of Notre Dame’s 28-21 conquest of Oklahoma as well as the Purdue, Navy and North Carolina games. A business administration major, Bob plans to enter the Navy upon graduation.
30
The Scholastic
FRED MANGIALARDI, hampered by injuries incurred in his two previous years of varsity ball, performed at end this year for the Irish. He won a monogram at end as a sophomore. Fred is a senior- in the College of Arts and Letters with an economics major. He plans on earning a Law degree following service in the Navy. His best play this season was in the Southern Cal game.
Fred Mangialardi
Armando Galardo
ARMANDO GALARDO is a senior halfback in the College of Commerce. “Army” entered the Navy game in the final minutes and saw considerable defensive action in this period. He has been noted for his aggressive play. Although “Army” only saw limited action this season, he was a workhorse in daily practices. He is a finance major in the College of Commerce.
Bob Marlin
BOB MARTIN, smooth southpaw quarterback, saw limited action this year in the Navy and Southern California games. He directed the reserves in the final minutes and had them moving upfield at the final gun. He is a senior, majoring in sociology in the College of Arts and Letters. The signal-caller is from Davenport, Iowa, and is considering the possibility of playing pro football in Canada.
ART NOWACK, center from Rochester, N. Y., lends strength to the Irish reserve corps. Art is a member of the graduating senior group on the team and will see action with the Old Timers in the annual Spring classic. He saw limited action in the last period of the Navy battle. Art, majoring in physical education, plans to make a career of coaching after graduation.
Art Nowack
---------1953----------
Rockne Morrissey
ROCKNE MORRISSEY, a senior, specialized in defense before the switch to the one platoon. “Rock,” who played briefly in the Navy clash, saw limited action this season partly because of injuries suffered early in fall practice. Majoring in civil engineering, he followed in the footsteps of his father, Joseph Morrissey, who played quarterback under Knute Rockne.
FRANK VARRICHIONE is the second member of the potent Irish tackle combination. Another of Coach Leahy’s ironmen, Frank received the Associated Press “Lineman of the Week” award after his top performance in the Pitt game. He copped this all-around job by recovering a Pitt fumble in the end zone for a safety to insure the victory. He is majoring in political science.
Frank Varrichione

PAUL MATZ, first string defensive left end last year, earned his second monogram alternating at the starting end post with Dan Shannon this season. Matz, a junior in aeronautical engineering, is from Chicago’s Mt. Carmel high school. Matz added to his reputation as a top defensive specialist while coming along well on pass receiving. He is a constant threat to opposing passers.
DAN SHANNON, heralded by the familiar, “Here comes Shannon,” displayed his versatility this season by playing an unfamiliar- end position. A junior, Dan was the key player in the 14 to 14 tie against Iowa, catching two crucial touchdown passes with seconds remaining in each half. Shannon, who was an ace line backer in his first two seasons, showed he could go both ways in 1953.
Dec. 11, 1953
31
Ralph Guglielmi
RALPH GUGLIELMI came into his own this year as one of the nation’s slickest signal callers and ball handlers, as well as doing a top-notch job of passing. His two touchdown tosses saved the day in the Iowa game. On defense “Gug” proved to be a capable pass defender, especially in running an errant Navy toss back 47 yards for a score. Ralph is an Arts and Letters junior, majoring in sociology.
JACK LEE made his greatest contribution to the Notre Dame cause in the Iowa game when he replaced the' injured Mavrai-des at right guard. The diminutive guard’s fiery determination served him well in every game. His sterling defensive work at middle guard was particularly noteworthy. Jack played middle guard on 1952’s first string defensive' platoon. He is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters.
Jack Lee
JOE HEAP, junior speedster from New Orleans, was the favorite target of sharp-shooter Ralph Guglielmi. He has led all receivers for the past two years. Joe scored two touchdowns in both the Oklahoma and the Navy contests, and ran a punt back 94 yards against USC. His greatest day, however, was probably against Iowa. He is in the College of Commerce.
Joe Heap
Dick Szymanski
DICK SZYMANSKI is the center on the strong second string eleven. Shining on the first string defensive platoon last year, Dick, a junior, stepped in right behind senior Schrader this Fall. He saw action in nearly every Irish game this year; his interception of a pass against Penn broke up a Quaker bid for a touchdown. Dick is majoring in business administration.
---:--NOTRE------
SAM PALUMBO probably suffered more than any other Irish player because of the sudden return to the one-platoon system. At the end of last year, Sam was cited as a potential 1953 All-American defensively, but he had a hard time adapting himself to offensive play. However, “Sambo” saw a lot of action, and there was no better tackler or harder man to move on the Notre Dame team.
Sam Palumbo
Tom Carey
TOM CAREY, the smart little quarterback, a regular in 1952, was forced to stand in the shadow of the brilliant Ralph Guglielmi this year. Nevertheless, Tom often showed his sparkling initiative especially in his spectacular 30-yard touchdown run against Navy. A junior this year, Tom also showed his capable field generalship by spearheading the final touchdown drive against North Carolina.
Walt Cabral
WALT CABRAL, a junior end who hails from Hawaii, is majoring in Physical Education. He saw considerable service in the early games of the year until the Georgia Tech game when his left ankle was badly injured. Besides his regular end duties he did some of the kick-offs and tries for points after touchdowns. He saw limited action after his injury. Walt was principally a defensive end in 1951 and 1952.
BOB READY, a junior in the college of Arts and Letters hailing from Lowell, Mass., is a history major. Bob, a tackle, was outstanding particularly on defense this season. He displayed rugged . line play in the Navy, Purdue and North Carolina games. Bob won a monogram as first string defensive tackle last year, but this season he saw limited duty due to the conversion to the limited substitution.
Bob Ready
32
The Scholastic
Tony Pasquesi
TONY PASQUESI, a reserve right tackle, is a marketing major in the College of Commerce. He is a standout on defense, and proved to be a valuable asset in relieving the Irish starting forces. A junior who hails from Chicago and St. Philip’s High School, Tony saw action in the Irish’s victories over the Boilermakers of Purdue and the Midshipmen of Navy. He stands 6’3” and weighs 215 pounds.
JIM BIGELOW, a junior quarterback from Pittsburgh, saw action in the Irish’s 38-7 romp over Navy. He played halfback in this game and picked up six yards in his only carry. Jim, who played some great football for Shaler High, is majoring in Political Science. An exceptionally fine kicker, Jim did some of the punting in the important Michigan State game’ of last year.
Jim Bigelow
DON BUCCI, a junior business administration major in the College of Commerce, cracked through for a first down from his quarterback slot in the opening game against Oklahoma’s Sooners to feature his year’s play, which also included action against Purdue, North Carolina, and Navy. In high school, while earning two monograms, Don was elected captain of both the football and basketball teams.
Don Bucci
Dick Frasor
DICK FEASOR alternated'between guard and center this season. He saw game action at the guard position in the Oklahoma, Purdue, Pittsburgh, Navy, and North Carolina games. Not too big, his speed aided him greatly in line-backing chores on defense, while his rugged blocking enabled him to make the shift from the center slot. He is concentrating on business administration.
------DAME-------
ED COOK, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, is majoring in Physical Education. A guard, Ed recovered a blocked punt in the Navy game and raced 30 yards to the Middie three-yard line before being brought down. He also saw action against Purdue and North Carolina. Ed, who also can play center, hopes to become a coach after he leaves Notre Dame.
BOB TAYLOR, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, played both guard and tackle on this year’s team. He appeared in the line-up in both the Navy and the Purdue games. Bob hails from Pekin, Hl., and is majoring in economics. While in high school he was second in the state in wrestling. He hopes to enter business after serving in the Air Force.
Paul Robst
PAUL ROBST, reserve guard, is a junior, majoring in chemical engineering. A member of ND’s varsity for three years, Paul has shown himself to be a versatile performer in his brief stints of action. His hard tackles in the final minutes of this year’s Navy game were particularly noteworthy. He is a colonel in the campus AFROTC unit.
RAY LEMEK, a Commerce school sophomore, was the Irish first string left guard the entire season. Ray, along with Schrader and Worden, formed one of the best linebacking trios in the nation. He is the fastest lineman on the Irish squad and in the Southern Cal game he intercepted a pass in the end zone and ran it back 60 yards.
Dec. 11, 1953
33
DICK FITZGERALD is regarded as one of the best sophomore backfield prospects on the team. Possessed with an abundance of speed and power, Dick showed plenty of ability as a second string halfback in 1953. He averaged slightly better than five yards per carry in the first eight games. His most spectacular contribution was a 50-yard run in the Purdue game. Dick is a Commerce student.
Dick Fitzgerald
Pat Bisceglia
PAT BISCEGLIA, a hard-fighting sophomore guard, backed ’ up Ray Lemek in the Notre Dame forward wall. He played all but a few minutes in the Penn game after replacing the injured Lemek. His big moment though was recovering a USC fumble for a touchdown. At 24, Pat, a senior veteran, is the oldest member on the squad. He is in the Commerce school.
Wayne Edmonds
WAYNE EDMONDS played behind All-American Art Hunter at right tackle. He relieved Art in every game, although having only freshman experience. He especially enjoyed playing in the 23-14 victory over Pittsburgh, since his home is near the Steel city. Wayne is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters and figures prominently in the plans for the 1954 Fighting Irish.
DON SCHAEFER, a sophomore quarterback, is in the College of Commerce and hopes to major in marketing. His biggest moment this year was getting into the Pitt game, his first taste of college football. Don scored important touchdowns in the Penn and North Carolina contests, but his greatest contributions to the Irish season were his two clutch extra points in the deadlock with Iowa.
Don Schaefer
------FIGHTING-------
Dick Washingion
DICK WASHINGTON, flashy sophomore halfback, had his best day of the year against the Boilermakers when he broke through right tackle, reversed his field and scampered 31 yards for a touchdown. Dick, number two Irish right halfback, was Lattner’s capable replacement. Dick averaged around four yards a carry during the season. He is enrolled in the College of Commerce.
DICK KELLER, right halfback from Toledo, moved up to the second team post behind Johnny Lattner on the basis of his fine running in the last half of the season. He saw extensive action in the Navy and North Carolina contests. His 77-yard run from scrimmage in the North Carolina tussle that was called back was the longest of the year for the Irish. He is a sophomore in Arts and Letters.
Dick Keller
GENE KAPISH, sophomore end, played his best game against Navy when he blocked a punt that set up an eventual touchdown. He also saw action against Purdue, Pittsburgh, and North Carolina. His slashing defensive play has marked him for extensive assignments in next year’s plans. He is a student in the College of Commerce. His brother Bob was a monogram end in 1950.
Gene Kapish
Don George
DON GEORGE, a sophomore end, moved up to the number two flanker spot after Cabral suffered an ankle injury in the Tech game. Another of the promising sophs on this year’s varsity, Don saw action in almost every game this season and is expected to fit in well with next year’s plans. Enrolled in the College of Commerce, he hails from Dunbar, Pa.
34
The Scholastic
JIM MENSE, reserve center, lined up behind Schrader and Szymanski in the Irish pivot slot. He moved up rapidly after spring- practice and saw service in the Purdue, Navy, and North Carolina battles. His offensive play complemented the stout defensive work. Jim is a sophomore in the College of Commerce. He hails from Hamilton, Ohio and was a standout for the Hamilton Catholic eleven.
Jim Mense
George Nicula
GEORGE NICULA, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, was shifted from tackle to guard at the start of the season, and has seen action in most of the games. Though handicapped during part of the season by a knee injury, his speed and smashing blocks have kept him in the running. He considers the 27-14 defeat of Georgia Tech as his greatest sports thrill.
John Gaffney
JOHN GAFFNEY, a reserve fullback, has been plagued by bad luck all season. Suffering a pulled leg muscle- in his second game, the Chicago speedster, noted for shifty, powerful linebucks and alert pass defense, was sidelined for the' remainder of the season with the recurring injury. John is a sophomore in the College of Commerce, and plans to major in Business Administration.
DICK HENDRICKS, a sophomore halfback, considers playing in his first college game as the biggest thrill he experienced this year. He saw considerable action in the Purdue game. Dick, one of the many ND players who come from the state of Illinois, is a pre-med student in the College of Science. He prepped at Schlarman High in Danville, Ill., where he won foui’ football monograms.
Dick Hendricks
--------IRISH--------
GENE MARTELL is another of the promising tackle candidates developed during this season. He saw action for the first time in a Notre Dame uniform against Pittsburgh. He also performed well in the Navy and the North Carolina games. His capabilities on both offense and defense made him a valuable line replacement in backing up the first team this season. He is a soph in the Commerce school.
NICK RAICH is a reserve sophomore fullback from Milwaukee, Wis. Although Nick saw limited action this year, he proved his ability as a capable backfield replacement. During the latter stages of the Navy game, he capped a fine running day by uncorking two long, twisting runs. In all, he cracked the Middie defense for 34 yards in six cai-ries. Nick is a physical education major.
Nick Raich
BOB LASCH, six-foot-three tackle, saw action in the final quarter of the Navy game. He has gained considerable experience this season and should see more action next year. His offensive talent and hard tackling have made him a good bet in one-platoon football. He was an all-state seilection in Pennsylvania. Bob is in Arts and Letters, planning a career in commercial design.
Bob Lasch
Benedict Zajeski
BEN ZAJESKI, from Chicago, performed in both the Navy and Pittsburgh frays.- During the season, Big Ben was switched from end to a guard spot where he finished up the year. A second year man in the College of Engineering, Zajeski prepped at Mount Carmel where he merited six letters as a track and grid man. He played in the ’50 and ’51 Chicago city championship games.
Dec. 11, 1953
35
Head Coach Terry Brennan
The Freshmen Team
By PHIL BOLIN
Assistant Coach “Blackie” Johnston
Assistant Coach Dick Cotter
Although little credit is ever given to the Freshman football team, the young, scrappy first year men played an important role in the great success story of the 1953 Fighting Irish.
It was largely through their efforts of learning the opposing teams plays each week that the Varsity was so well groomed for the big games on Saturday.
According to Freshman Coach Terry Brennan, the 60 man squad was a typical Notre Dame Freshman team —big, fast, rugged and containing a great desire to play football for Notre Dame in future years.
Brennan also praised his four assistants, Blackie Johnston, Fran Paterra, John Powers and Dick Cotter, for the fine job they did in helping him tutor the huge batch of Freshmen.
Leading the brigade of tomorrow’s stars at end are: Paul Schramm, a 6'2", 217 pound converted tackle from Purcell High in Cincinnati where he won AllState honors; Bob Scannell, a South Bend boy who is six feet tall and tips the scale at 195; and George Kraft, 6'3", 193 pounder from Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio. All three boys are fine pass receivers and blockers and will be .in there fighting for varsity honors next year. Other promising flankmen are Jim Munro, a six foot, 200 pound converted fullback from Chicago; Lou Loncaric, 6'3", 190 pounder from Battle Creek, Michigan; Pete Noznesky, a Philadelphia boy who is six feet tall and weighs in at 180; and 6'3", 225 pound Mike Dovin from Chicago.
Filling out the tackle positions with a lot of weight are: Bob Mondron, a 6'3", 225 pounder from South Charleston, West Virginia; George Groble, 6'2", 220 pounder from Chicago; and Joe Bosse, 6'2", 220 pounder front Massachusetts. Other promising candidates are Bob Salvino, a 6'3", 215 pounder who hails from Chicago where he won All-State honors; and Joe Bihn, a six foot, 215 pounder from San Jose, California.
Holding down the commanding berths at the guard slots are: Pete McCabe, a 6'1", 215 pounder from Wilmette, Illinois; Tom Zervas, a six foot, 220 pounder from Lakewood, Ohio; Tom Cunningham, a California boy who weighs in at 215, and is six feet tall; and Ed Murphy, a 6'2", 220 pounder from Phoenix where he won All-State honors. Other guard prospects are:
Dick Lewis, a six foot, 200 pounder; 5'10", 200 pound Frank Stanitzek from Grand Rapids; Anthony Stockanes, a six foot, 190 pounder from Danville, Illinois; Jack King, a West Virginia boy who weighs 215 and stands six feet tall; and Joe Neuhoff from Dallas, Texas.
Moving to the center of the frosh line, Byron Beans holds down the number* one position. Beans, who comes from Ada, Oklahoma where he won All-State honors and played on a State Championship team for two years in a row, is 6'1" and tips the scales at 230. Following Beans is Lou Carabine, a 6'2", 215 pounder from Gary, Indiana who is the brother of the former ND safety man, Gene Carabine; Ed Sullivan, a 6 foot, 190 pounder from Pennsylvania; Bob Coyne from Joliet, Illinois who stands 6'1", and weighs 200 pounds; and Bernie Lyons, a 6'2", 212-pound Miami, Florida boy.
Shifting to the backfield, Paul Hornung from Louisville is number* one quarterback. Paul, who is a fine passer and an excellent punter, is 6'2" tall, and weighs in at 202. Following closely behind Hornung at quarterback are Jack Witucki, a six foot, 185 pounder from Tulsa and Bill Cooke, a 6-foot, 190 pounder from Texas who is also an excellent punter. Other quarterbacks who have looked good are: Pat Flood from Tucson and Jim McDonnell.
Running from the halfback slots are seven potential Irish stars led by Claude Chaney, a hard running 6'2", 190 pounder from Ohio; Sherrill Sipes, a speedy flash from Louisville; and Jim Morse and Gerald Gerami, a pair of fast, shifty scat backs from Michigan and Louisiana, respectively. Other topranking performers are: Buddy Ward, a slick 160 pounder from Van Dyke, Michigan; Dean Studer from Montana; Bill Rigali whose older brother Bob is a member of the varsity backfield; and Jim Gormley a 190 pounder from Indianapolis.
Running from the fullback slot is Frank Pinn a 5'10", 190 pounder from Chicago where he played under* Terry Brennan at Mt. Carmel and won AllState honors. Dave Kaiser, a speedy 6'1", 205 pounder from Michigan; Tom Hughes from Portland; and Frank Harrison, a shifty, hard runner from Dallas, are other fullbacks very much in the picture.
36
The Scholastic
JOHN DRUZE, end coach and chief scout, sees the Irish in action in only their final game of the season, for on every other Saturday he is in a foreign pressbox, scouting future opponents. Druze joined the Notre Dame coaching staff for a year in 1941, returning in 1945 after serving in the navy. He played end on the famous “Seven Blocks of Granite” during his college days at Fordham.
John Druze	Joe McArdle
JOE McARDLE, who handles the guards on the practice field, is stationed in the scoreboard during home games, where he watches the spacing of the team on the field. At games away from home, he keeps tab on the Irish defense from the pressbox. McArdle capably took over the head coaching assignment for the ailing Leahy in the Navy and USC games. He came to Notre Dame in 1941.
Bill Earley
BILL EARLEY, backfield coach for the Irish, has the task of keeping the substitutes ready for action on the sidelines during the games. A three-monogram winner, and a right halfback on Head Coach Leahy’s first two Irish elevens, Earley rejoined his Alma Mater as assistant backfield mentor and “B” squad coach in 1946, and was switched to full time varsity coaching the following year.
BOB McBRIDE, tackle coach, handles the phone connected with pressbox and scoreboard during Irish games, gathering information about both teams’ strength and weaknesses, and passing it on to Coach Leahy. He earned three monograms for the Irish, two as a guard, and the other as a tackle on the 1946 National Championship eleven. Bob joined Leahy’s staff in 1949.
Bob McBride
WALLY ZIEMBA handles the Irish centers and assists Druze with the scouting duties. Ziemba began his playing career at Notre Dame as a monogramwinning tackle, but was switched to center in 1941, and performed well enough to receive All-American mention at that position the folloxring year. After a brief stretch in the Marine Corps, he returned to Notre Dame as line coach.
John Lujack
Wally Ziemba
JOHN LUJACK, one of Notre Dame’s greatest All-Americans spends his Saturday afternoons in the pressbox, watching for weaknesses in the Irish offense. Lujack was an All-American quarterback in ’46 and ’47, and monogrammed in four sports in his freshman year to be one of four Notre' Dame men .to gain such a distinction. He started his coaching career at Notre Dame last year as a backfield tutor.
FRED MILLER, volunteercoach of the Irish, received his football training at Notre Dame under Knute Rockne, earning three monograms and captaining the 1928 squad. He divides his time between his job as president of the Miller High Life Brewing Co. and the Miller Lumber Co. of Milwaukee, and his voluntary coaching duties under his close friend and associate, Leahy.
38
Fred Miller
The Scholastic
Head Coach Frank Leahy
The 1953 season has been a rough one for Notre Dame’s head coach Frank Leahy, despite the fact that he again guided his Fighting Irish to the heights of college football. The coach was stricken with a severe muscular spasm between the halves of the Georgia Tech game on Oct. 24 which caused him to miss two of the six remaining games.
The illness, however, did not interfere with the Irish mastermind’s desire to coach his team. When sufficiently recovered from his attack, Leahy watched his team practice for Navy from his sick bed through the courtesy of WSBT-TV. The station arranged a special closed hookup between Cartier Field and the coach’s home. That Saturday he also used television to see his charges easily dispose of the Middies, 38-7.
The coach returned to the sidelines for the next three games but by order of his personal physician, he was forced to forego the trip to Los Angeles for the Southern California game. Again his “lads” came through for him,
In two seasons at BC, he directed the Eagles to 20 wins in 22 games and a 19-13 victory over Tennessee in the Sugar Bowl on Jan. 1, 1941.
A little over a month later, Notre Dame signed Leahy to guide the Irish in 1941. He succeeded Elmer Layden.
Leahy set a pattern for future years in his first season by leading the Irish through the schedule unbeaten. Only a 0-0 tie with Army in the mud at Yankee Stadium prevented a perfect record.
The 1942 season was similar to this year in that the coach was forced to miss several games because of illness. The Irish started slowly that season but recovered sufficiently to wind up with a 7-2-2 record.
Leahy gained his first National Championship in 1943, winning the first nine games on the schedule before losing to Great Lakes in the finale, 19-14, on a last-minute TD pass.
After two years in the navy, Leahy returned in 1946 with another National Championship team. A 0-0 tie with mighty Army in the so-called “Game of the Century” marred the record.
Leahy and the Irish made it two straight by gaining the championship again in 1947 with nary a challenge. In ’48, ND had to settle for second behind Michigan because of a 14-14 tie with Southern Cal on the final Saturday.
In 1949, Leahy had what many considered his greatest team. The Irish swept through nine opponents to walk away with the Championship.
The season of 1950 was the coach’s worst as ND won four, lost four and tied one. Notre Dame came back in 1951, however, with a young team and had a successful 7-2-1 season.
Notre Dame and Leahy were back in the national limelight in 1952 as the Irish rebounded from an early season tie with Penn and an upset by Pitt to whip some of the nation’s best teams.
Before this season, the majority of the sportswriters chose Notre Dame as the most likely team to win the National Championship. But the tie with Iowa upset the apple cart, and ND was forced to settle for second place behind Maryland.
stomping the Trojans, 48-14.
Coach Leahy has become an institution at Notre Dame similar to Knute Rockne. In fact, a check of the records will show a striking resemblance between Leahy’s career and that of Rockne’s.
In 11 seasons, Leahy-coached Notre Dame teams have won 87 games, lost. 11 and tied nine for an .888 percentage excluding ties. Rockne’s first 11 Notre Dame teams won 86, lost 12 and tied five for a percentage of .878.
Leahy started his football career at Notre Dame as a freshman in 1927. He saw brief varsity action at center in 1928 and was switched to tackle the following year. He played first string that season on an undefeated Rockne team. His playing days were cut short however when he injured his knee in the 1930 pre-season practice sessions. He did not play at all that year.
The following fall, Leahy was signed as line coach at Georgetown under the late Tommy Mills. Jim Crowley was so impressed with the play of Leahy’s linemen in the 1931 Michigan State game that he hired him in 1932. Leahy went along with Crowley to Fordham in ’33 where he stayed till 1939. During this stretch, Leahy, as line coach helped develop one of football’s all-time great defensive lines, the Seven Blocks of Granite.
After the 1938 season, Leahy was named head coach at Boston college.
Dec. 11, 1953
An Ideal Place to Stay When Visiting at Notre Dame
Indiana’s Newest and Finest
All Outside Rooms
Open To The Public
92 Baths
92 Rooms
V TERRACE DINING ROOM —Air Conditioned
V PRIVATE FUNCTION ROOMS — Air Conditioned
V BEAUTIFUL PATIO
V RADIO IN EVERY ROOM
V GOLF PRIVILEGES
V CIRCULATING ICE WATER
V LARGE PARKING AREA
Delicious Food
Delightful Drinks
Excellent facilities for Banquets, Dinners,
Luncheons, Meetings and Receptions
PROMPT ATTENTION WILL BE GIVEN YOUR RESERVATION REQUEST
OWNED AND OPERATED BY UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
ARMAND E. LYSAK
Manager
40
The Scholastic
Edward W. Krause
EDWARD W. KRAUSE, better known as “Moose,” is the boss man of Notre Dame sports. As Director of Athletics, one of his jobs is going around the country arranging the Irish schedule. His smoothness in public relations has proved an asset to Notre Dame time and time again.
Krause, who has been the athletic director since 1949, previously coached the Irish basketball squad, but in 1951 turned his full attention to the Directorship. Krause holds the distinction of being one of the few Fighting Irish to capture All-American honors in two major sports. During his four years at Notre Dame, Krause gained All-American and All-Midwest honors in football for the ’31, ’32, and ’33 campaigns, and also matched his prowess on the gridiron by being named All-American on the national cage squad for three years.
He appeared in every ND starting football lineup from the second game of the 1931 season till he graduated. Out of 540 possible minutes, “Moose” played 521.
After his graduation, “Moose” was appointed Athletic Director and coach of all sports at St. Mary’s College in Winona, Minnesota. After completing five successful years at the helm, he switched to a line coaching job at Holy Cross before returning to his Alma Mater in 1942 to serve as line coach. After the death of Irish basketball mentor George Keogan that winter, Krause was appointed to fill the vacancy.
He served with the Marines during the Second World War, and resumed his coaching chores in 1946. He helped Leahy as line coach when the Irish captured two straight National Championships.	'
BOB CAHILL, Notre Dame’s ticket manager, has one of the most demanding and nerve-racking positions on campus. Filling Notre Dame stadium to its 56,000-seat capacity, supplying Alumni with game ducats, handling fan demands for out-oftown games, is the seemingly endless job for Cahill and his staff of 14. He took over as ticket manager in 1941 after a seven-year stint as assistant to Elmer Layden, former athletic director and head football coach. Since 1941, Cahill has estimated that more than six million pasteboards have passed through his hands, a number substantially increased this year with a record ten virtual sellouts. Summer vacations are literally non-existent for the ND ticketman who begins his job in early June. Graduated from Notre Dame’s College of Commerce in 1934, he planned a career in foreign marketing, which goal he realized only for three years after he left the University, when he served as an officer in the U. S. Navy.
Bob Cahill
Herb Jones
HERB JONES directs a staff of more than 2,000 parking lot attendants, ushers, vendors, ticket takers and sellers, equipment buyers and athletic accountants as the ultimate authority regulating the business and financial affairs of the Athletic .Department. When snow storms in the East grounded flights out of the Midwest, and when 100-degree weather in the Southwest necessitated extra light jersies, it was Jones who secured transportation via rail and who stocked the. flimsy slipovers. These and similar jobs have been part of his every day routine at Notre Dame since the Rockne era. He is one of the best liked and most respected men in college athletic circles. Jones followed two brothers to Notre Dame. During his undergraduate days, he worked as secretary for Rockne, joining the Athletic Department as Assistant Business Manager upon his graduation in 1927. He held this position until 1940, when he assumed his present post.
42
The Scholastic
Charlie Callahan
CHARLIE CALLAHAN, Notre Dame’s Sports Publicity Director is one of the busiest men behind the success of the Fighting Irish. It is through Callahan’s arduous work that the leading publications receive all available information about Irish athletic squads, material which produces some of the greatest sports stars throughout the country. Another job of the Publicity Officd is the jurisdiction of the Notre Dame pressbox, considered one of the nation’s best. Every Saturday of home games, sportswriters, announcers, television men and other football enthusiasts crowd the box, and it is up to Callahan to have all necessary material available for these men. Every day a constant flow of mail streams in requesting pictures, all-time records, autographs and statistics, leaving the office with a job that requires accurate and handy files. Callahan, is ably assisted by his secretary Jo Papa and two students, assistant of sports publicity Jack Sand and Tom Welly.
Jack McAllister
JACK McAllister has been keeping Notre Dame teams outfitted since the days of Rockne. As Equipment Superintendent, “Mac” must fuss with many details connected with distributing gear to the players. It’s his job to see that the Irish equipment is always in tip-top condition. One of his most difficult operations is gathering and packing all this paraphernalia for the away games.
GENE PASZKIET is the man who takes care of the bumps and bruises the Irish suffer during the season. In his second year as Notre Dame trainer, Gene’s skillful treatment of injured players played an important part in keeping the Leahymen fit for their rugged ten-game schedule. Paszkiet, a 1950 ND graduate, is always first on the field when an injury occurs or ’ a time out is called.
Gene Paszkiet
Senior student managers, JOHN JARNOT, DAN HAMMER, and CHARLIE KELLER are the guardians of all equipment for the Fighting Irish. The work of these men and their assistants is one of the most important, yet least publicized student extra-curricular activities on campus. Seldom has a manager received credit in proportion to his numerous duties. Under the supervision of Jack McAllister, the managers, headed by Jarnot, keep the players informed about the away-from-home schedule, and other daily itineraries. They must be ready to jump at a moment’s notice and equip any
player from cleats to helmet. The “big brothers” must also keep a close count on class cuts, and a watchful eye around Cartier field during practice hours. The senior managers are aided throughout the season by many underclassmen who are members of the Managers’ Association. Jarnot, a journalism major from Buffalo, New York, served a stretch in the Army before' entering college. Hammer, a senior in the College of Commerce, calls East Cleveland, Ohio, his home, while Keller, hailing from Sea Girt, New Jersey, is a senior in the General Program.
Charlie Keller
John Jamot
Dan Hammer
Dec. 11, 1953
43
NOTRE DAME VICTORY MARCH MUSICAL POWDER BOXES
□ Small size $6.75
Plus postage & Insurance $7.25
O Medium size $7.50
Plus postage & Insurance $8.00
O Large size $8.50
Plus postage & Insurance $9.00
CRYSTAL CLEAR GLASSES
TO TOAST NOTRE DAME
At party time, reunion time, and many other occasions, your entertaining will be tops in graciousness; thanks to these superb Notre Dame glasses. The seal is permanent and they are made up in traditional colors.
SEND
□	6 oz. No. 1 Stem Champagne — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance $10.25
□	10 oz. No. 2 Pilsners — $7.50 Doz. plus postage and insurance $8.75
□	9 oz. No. 3 Stem Goblet — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance $10.25
□	3^2 oz. No. 4 Stem Cocktail—$9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance $10.25
□	3 oz. No. 5 Stem Wine — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance $10.25
□	14 oz. No. 6 Hi-Ball or Mint Julep $4.95 Doz. plus postage and insurance $6.20
□	7^2 oz. No. 7 Old Fashion — $4.75 Doz. plus postage and insurance $6.00
□	10 oz. N®. 8 Hi-Ball or Coke — $4.75 Doz. plus postage and insurance $6.00
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL
TROPHY STEIN
Here is a complete three piece set. The mug contains a large blue, ND, gold trimmed monogram with a football player handle. The miniature stein can be used as a cigarette container or as a novelty along with the “Letter Man.’’
Large Stein $4.25 □
Miniature Stein 1.50 □
Letter Man 1.50 □
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana
Name.................................
Address------------------------------
City and State----------------------- □ Remittance Enclosed □ Send C.O.D.
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
University of Notre Dame
Notre Dame, Indiana
Name............................
Address...............................
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana
Name.____..............................
Address................................
City and State......_......_...........
□ Remittance Enclosed □ Send C.O.D.
City and State..........................
□ Remittance Enclosed □ Send C.O.D.
The Scholastic
(Left) Notre Dame Band Assembles For Traditional ND; (Right) The Irish Pipers Strut Their Stuff Before Drum Major.
“Shake Down The Thunder • • •"
With the booming .of the bass drum, the click of the polished shoes, and the sparkling of the instruments, the pregame and between-half ceremonies of the Irish games vibrated with the music, marching and cheering of the units who help make football Saturdays at Notre Dame colorful and exciting. The pregame and half-time spots required prevailing high-pitched excitement that the teams provoked. Without these performances, the overflow throngs at the five ND home games would not have been nearly so impressed with their visit.
The high-stepping music-making of the marching band, combined with the acrobatic tricks of the cheerleaders, formed a highly potent potion for the football followers.
The Notre Dame music-makers, rolling out of the North runway 108 strong, feature the march-type music which has made them famous through the years. Preceded by the rollicking mascots, Shannon Mike and Pat, the unit is accompanied by the cheerleaders who lend their vocal talents to arousing the crowd. After the opening formation and salute, the band struts up field and brings the crowd to its feet with the world-famous Notre Dame Victory March. Drum Major Jerry Gatto, Parade Marshalls John Giambruno and Charles McCabe, and twirler Dave Novak then direct the members to the sidelines and await the signal to assemble for the gigantic half-time presentation.
For the second year, Director Robert F. O’Brien has led the Notre Dame
By PAUL FULLMER
“Tooting Irish.” This year, leading music authorities have tabbed the organization as “the best unit to represent Notre Dame in 20 years.” The band drilled five days a week during the marching season that included an extra date because of the additional home game. With the installation of the powerful lighting system in Cartier Field, one of the five two-hour practice sessions was held in the evening to
ND's Acrobatic Rabble Rousers Form a Victory Pyramid
assure perfect attendance in ironing out any kinks in the week’s show.
In the home opener with Pittsburgh, the band saluted the three Notre Dame men, George Gipp, Elmer Layden, and Knute Rockne, who were received into the Football Hall of Fame by Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune. In a lively show dedicated to these men, the immortal Four Horsemen also received the plaudits of the crowd. Featuring a Dixieland theme in the Georgia Tech contest, the bandsmen enlivened the proceedings with dances to accompany the melodies. The nautical show at the Navy game featured a musical cruise around the world, depicting stops at Hawaii, India, Parian Ireland, and then back to the U. S. and a salute to the United Nations.
Although the student trip was cancelled, the band traveled to Philadelphia for the Pennsylvania game. Through popular request the “warm” Dixieland show was repeated in the below-freezing, snow-packed stadium. The members hopped quite briskly to the Muskrat Ramble as the music echoed across Franklin field. In a salute to the Hawkeye state, for the Iowa game the band utilized Indian and square dances to complement the music. With a rendition of Turkey in the Straw, the band moved into their final Saturday. A Wild West show, featuring cowboys, guns, and ten-gallon hats climaxed the final home presentation.
The kilted Pipers, officially called the Irish Guard, paraded with the band again this year, but did not play their instruments. They carried silver sabers in the precision patterns. Their color-
Dec. 11, 1953
45
ful uniforms, bushy hats, and smart marching made them familiar figures in all band formations.
While the band kept things hopping before the game and between the halves, six men clad in the gold and blue of Notre Dame kept the spirits of the "Cheering Irish” in high gear whether the team was knocking on touchdown door or digging in for a goal line stand. The cheerleaders undergo competitive examinations early in the year for the coveted roles. They spend long hours in perfecting their many tumbling routines and varied cheers. Besides the home game chores, the cheerleaders traveled to the Purdue fracas to lend direction io the senior trip rooters. Pep rallies also demanded the time of these men.
Senior Ed Hannan led this year’s sideline brigade. Joe Saunders was the only junior among the unit. The brother combination of sophomore Bob Keegan and freshman Bill Keegan added a novel touch to the squad. Ed Hatch and Ed Healy, sophomore and freshman, respectively, rounded out the unit. Graduate student Neil Vasconcelles, last year’s leader, contributed his support to the aggregation when the situation required another member.
For the cheerleaders, the cage season also will mean further effort with considerably more games to be directed. Ten home games are on tap with tentative trips arranged for games in nearby Chicago and Milwaukee.
"The House of Jazz”
FOR RF.( ORIh TRY
RECORD BAR
''	■ L 'i' O'
JAZZ • DIXIELAND • POPULAR CLASSICAL • BLUES
4 12 Mich. >oiith Bend Ind.
DO YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING EARLY Ba j a Beautiful Boxer Pup to take hone Fawns and flashy Brindles Sired By Champion Clinaud’s Don Juan II. $75 & $100' See: MRS. WOODWARD.
Cafeteria Manager.
YOU!! BE MORE POPUIAR
if you join the fun at Arthur Murray’s today
You’ll have the time of your life learning to dance at Arthur Murray’s. There are student-teacher parties all the time and gay, get-together dances, too. It’s the new way, the Murray way, to learn to dance. It’s quicker and easier this way because you start right in dancing. You see, Arthur Murray has discovered a simple, basic step that anyone can master in almost no time. So don’t miss out on fun and popularity that should be yours. Come in or phone the studio now.
ARTHUR MURRAY
yoU*
120 E. Wayne 2-3339
NABICHT BROTHERS
Congratulations to the “Fighting Irish”
FRIDAY—Wonderful Selection of Seafoods SATURDAY—Steaks, Chicken, Seafood OPEN-WEEKDAYS: 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.
SATURDAYS: 11 A.M. to 12 P.M.
CLOSED SUNDAYS
South Bend’s Oldest Catering Family
Nabicht Brothers
Private Dining Rooms for Special Parties
1415 LINCOLN WAY WEST	2-3138
46
The Scholastic
Zke Koster
of the 1953 Fighting Irish
NO.	NAME		POS.	AGE	HT.	WT.	HOMETOWN	CLASS
2	**Carey, Thomas F. 		    .	QB	20	5-10	175	Chicago, Ill.		Jr-
							
3	**Guglielmi, Ralph V						QB	19	6-0	180	Columbus, Ohio 		Jr-
							
4	Bucci, Donald 		QB	20	6-0	180	Youngstown, Ohio			Jr.
6	Martin, Robert L. 		QB	21	6-2	185	Davenport, la.			Sr.
8	Bigelow, James 		QB	19	5-11	170	G lenshaw, Pit. 			Jr.
..9	Schaefer, Donald T. 			 _	QB-HB	19	5-11	185	Pittsburgh, Pa.		
							
14	**Lattner, John J. 		HB	20	6-1	190	Chicago, Ill.			Sr.
15	Callaghan, Leo 				HB	20	6-1	185	Passaic, N. J.			Jr.
16	Morrissey, Rockne J			HB	20	5-9	165	Cincinnati, Ohio			Sr.
29	Galardo, Armando 		HB	21	5-10	170	Watertown, N. Y.			Sr.
30	*McHugh, Thomas F. 		FB	20	6-1	195	Toledo, Ohio			Sr.
32	Fitzgerald, Richard 		HB	20	5-11	190	Chicago, Ill.			So.
33	* "Shannon, Daniel J			E	19	6-0	190	Chicago, Ill.			Jr.
34	Gaffney, John J. 				FB-HB	19	6-1	190	Chicago, Ill.			So.
37	Raich, Nicholas S. 		FB-HB	19	5-10	185	Milwaukee, Wis.			So.
38	Wilson, George A. 	.'		HB	19	5-11	185	Pbio in.	So.
							
40	Keller, Richard W			HB	18	6-0	175	Toledo, Ohio			So.
41	Washington, Richard M			HB	18	6-1	195	Vanderbilt, Pa.			So.
42	""Heap, Joseph L. 		HB	21	5-11	180	Abita Springs, La. 					Jr.
43	Markowski, Joseph 		FB	—	6-0	185	Hamilton, Ontario 			So.
45	Rigali, Robert J. 		HB	21	5-8	172	Oak Park, Ill.			Sr.
48	""Wcrden, Neil J. 		FB	21	5-11	185	Milwaukee, Wis.			Sr.
49	Hendricks, Richard J. 		HB	19	6-1	180	Danville, Ill.			So.
51	Mcnse, James J. 		C	18	5-11	205	Hamilton, Ohio 			So.
52	""Szymanski, Richard 		C-G	20	6-2	212	Toledo, Ohio			Jr.
53	* ’Schrader, James L. 				C	20	6-2	210	Carnegie, Pa. 			Sr.
							
54	Nowack, Arthur C			C	20	6-2	208	Rochester, N. Y. 			Sr.
56	Cook, Edward 	4	G	20	6-1	210	Philadelphia, Pa. 			Jr.
59	Regan, Michael J. 		E	18	6-2	202	Buffalo, N. Y. 			So.
60	**Varrichione, Frank 		T	21	6-0	205	Natick, Mass. 			Jr.
62	Bisceglia, Patrick G. 		G	22	5-10	190	Worcester, Mass.			So.
63	Frasor, Richard 		C	20	5-11	190	Blue Island, Ill. 			Jr.
65	""Lee, Jack 		G	21	5-11	190	Medford, Mass.			Jr.
66	Robst, Paul K. 		C-G	20	5-11	195	Chicago, IB.			— Jr.
67	""Palumbo, Samuel 		T	20	6-0	203	Cleveland, Ohio 			Jr.
68	Nakfoor, Patrick R. 		T	19	6-4	200	Lansing, Mich. 			So.
70	Martell, Eugene J. 		T	19	6-2	208	Midland, Pa.			So.
71	Taylor, Robert H. 		T-G	21	6-2	206	Pekin, Ill. 			Jr.
72	Lemek, Raymond E			T	18	6-1	207	Sioux City, la.- 			So.
73	""Bush, Joseph R.		T	20	6-3	203	Oak Park, III. 			Sr.
74	* "Ready, Robert 		T	20	6-3	212	Lowell, Mass.			Jr.
75	Pasquesi, Anthony L.		G-T	20	6-3	212	Chicago, Ill. 			Jr.
77	Nicula, George D. 		T	19	6-2	204	Warren, Ohio			So.
78	Kegaly, John A			T	19	6-3	207	Chicago, Ill.				So.
79	Lasch, Robert AV. .			—— —	—	- 	T	18	6-3	212	Clairton, Pa.			So.
					22G		
80	""Hunter, Arthur 		T	20	6-3		Akron, Ohio 			Sr.
81	George, Donald H. 		E	19	6-4	205	Dunbar, Pa. 			So.
82	Edmonds, Wayne 		E-T	19	6-0	195	Canonsburg, Pa.			So.
83	**Pcnza, Donald (Capt.) 		E	21	6-1	200	Kenosha, Wis.			Sr.
84	Zajcski, Benedict J. 		E	19	. 6-3	204	Chicago, Ill. 			So.
85	**Mavraides, Menil 		G	20	6-1	205	Lowell, Mass. 			ui— Sr.
86	""Mangialardi, Fred 		G-E	20	6-1	195	Chicago, Ill.			Sr.
87	Dumas, Jack 		E	18	6-3	190	Grand Rapids, Mich. 			So.
88	"Cabral, Walter K. 		E	20	6-3	205	Honolulu, Hawaii			Jr.
89	Kapish, Eugene A.		E	18	6-1	193	Barberton, Ohio 			So.
90	*Malz, Paul A. ..	—		-				E	19	6-1	191	Chicago, III. 			Jr.
							
* denotes monograms won in previous years.
Dec. 11, 1953
They Call Him
"Stadium Joe"
One of the oldest oldtimers on the Notre Dame campus, Joe Dierickx, who turned 68 on June 22, has been working as foreman and custodian of the Notre Dame stadium since the spring of 1931, just five months after the home of the Fighting Irish was completed in the fall of 1930.
“Stadium Joe,” as he is called, says he answers over a half a million questions to visitors every summer, and with Joe it has now become quite a routine. Ninety percent of the visitors say that the stadium is the best in the country, which is a boast that Joe likes to make.
Caring for the stadium is a year ’round job for Joe. During the football season he employs the help of seven assistants, while in the summertime he has about 10 or 12 students helping him.
Joe always keeps the playing field in the very best condition. He mows it twice a week and occasionally sods the midfield section which is always the most worn. To all those spectators who often wonder why the shades of grass differ every other five yards, Joe will tell you it’s because he mows them in opposite directions, so that the grass will lay from right to left and vice versa, thus causing the two-color effect.
Oddly enough, Joe never actually sees a home football game although of course he is inside the stadium. There is always some work for him to do, even during a game. Perhaps his roughest assignment during a game is to see that the electric systems of the announcer on the sidelines and those which connect the assistant coaches in the pressbox with the head coach on the field, are in perfect working order. At the same time there are some 66 phones in operation throughout the stadium, any one of which may need attention at one time or another.
Last but not least, Joe is the official trainer of ND Mascot, Clashmore Mike III, an Irish terrier with as much distinction as the Army mule or the Navy goat.
Italian Home Cooking Five Minutes from the Campus Pizza Spaghetti Ravioli	Chicken
Chops Steaks
CLOSED SUNDAYS
You're always welcome at .. . ROCCO'S 537 N. St. Louis, on the Bus Line
To: NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame, Indiana
Please send gift subscriptions to the following at $4.00 per subscription. I am enclosing $.........for..........
subscriptions.
□ I am also enclosing my own cards which I wish to have enclosed with your letter notifying the following of the gift subscriptions they will receive during the coming year.
The gift that will be welcomed joyously by that Notre Dame fan on your Christmas list
a subscription to the
Notre Dame Scholastic
Weekly Student News Magazine
of this slick, sprightly
- in national
social events, humor and features
.	T^lpasure for the rignuuo x
will be a continual source P
Each issue
every year in
sports,
whether teen-ager or oldster.
• •	• annual Football Review, a
Included in each subscnpuon ts the ann special edition that covers the enttre Irish gn
-	-11 rtnrt with the Christmas issue, and a
Your gift subscriptions wl	mailed to
letter notifying the recipients of you g	cards with
before Christmas. We will enclose your o«n Ch stm the letters if you send them to us with your or .
$4.00 for each one-year subscription
Fill in the Order Form below and mail it to ay.
Please send gift subscription to
Address .............................
City ................................
Please send gift subscription to
My name ..........................
Address ..........................
City .............................
Address ............................
City ...............................
48
The Scholastic

SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Microtomie
keeps pace with fie warH’s fastest Kiviif iuhsfries
"Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
Microtomie—the finest example of research in drawing pencils. Designed to stand the most rigid drafting room comparisons. Test them todayI
Only Microtomie offers you—
HI-DENSITY LEADS
lines are absolutely opaque Io SO actinic rays.
ABSOLUTELY UNIFORM	H
Every Microtomie of the same degree marking is identical.
NEW DUSK GRAY	H
Professional men acclaim it the best color for a drawing pencil.
BULL'S EYE DEGREE MARKING K Easier to read — easier to find — IM positive identification.
ALSO	E
Choice of holders and Microtomie leads in all degrees.
EBERHARD
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
FABER
’■ADE MARKS RE6. U. S. PAT. aFF.
HELP WANTED
MEN and WOMEN:
URGENT
We need representatives in your locale to help fill out an Organization for business surveys, polls, and public opinions. . . . Ideal part time work. . . . Choose your own hours. . . . Your nearest telephone may be your place of business for surveys not requiring the signatures of those interviewed. . . . Send $1 for administrative guarantee fee, application blank, questionnaire, plan of operation, and all details on how you may manage a survey group for us. . . . GARDEN STATE and NATIONAL SURVEYS, P. O. Box 83, Cedar Grove, New Jersey.
Here’s a sad cotton tale: poor Paul was in a stew about his hare until his paw wrote: "I ear you got a bun on because your girl left you. Now, lettuce look at the bre’r facts. To get in on the bunny huggin', smart rabbits foot it down to
any toilet goods counter for Wildroot Cream-Oil, America’s biggest-selling hare tonic. So fuzz thing tomorrow, invest 29^ in a bottle or handy tube. Contains soothing Lanolin. Nonalcoholic. Grooms the hare. Relieves annoying dryness. Removes' loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test." Sheedy tried Wildroot Cream-Oil and now he’s a jump ahead of every Tom, Dick and Harvey. So what’re you wait-
ingfur? Get Wildroor Cream-Oil today, and ask for Wildroot at your barber’s. You’re bound to like it!
woo»inmui» •hums gnuBS tucvti imsibuii

* of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N.Y.
SPAGHETTI RAVIOLI
CHICKEN STEAKS
We Cater to Banquets and Parties
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant
Open Sundays
610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
Dec. 11, 1953
49

director” or “directress” billfolds
•‘DIRECTRESS" in
•n<a Ta*
Others to
$ 5
$ 10
gleaming Cowhide. .......
Personal leather goods by Rolfs are always appreciated. Ihe "Director” for him—or— the •‘Directress” tor her—both have restores galore, t here’s the secret pocket, registration against loss.
spare key pockets and removable oass and photo-enclosures. Both billfolds are slim, smartly styled
"DIRECTOR" in * c
smooth Cowhide, 5
Others to
HansZ-Rintzsch Shop
/MICHIGAN AT COLFAX
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to Zb-Hour Service
309 S. MICHIGAN
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
CAMERAS
FOUNTAIN PENS
MITH’S m ilt hotq mr
B.&O.C.
(Big shirt oh campus)
128 W. Washington
NOTRE DAME f
STUDENTS I
§5.95
You’ll be a B.M.O.G. in this sport-. shirt by Manhattan. The style is right, the tailoring has a handsome, custom flair, and above all, it’s distinctive. Rayon-Gabardine in a variety of colors. Come in and see our complete line of Manhattan’s men’s apparel.
For the Best in Italian American Dishes For the Best of Service Eat at the . . . VOLCANO
PIZZA OUR SPECIALTY ________The__________
VOLCANO
RESTAURANT
219 No. Michigan
50
The Scholastic
ow silent is the night?
Watching the serenity of Christmas skies we are conscious of deep silence. Yet the stars are talking to us all the while—talking in radio waves that are full of meaning to scientists probing the depths of space.
The important discovery that some stars produce radio waves was made by a Bell Laboratories scientist while exploring atmospheric disturbances which might interfere with transoceanic telephone service. His discovery marked the birth of the fast-growing science of radio astronomy. It is telling us of mysterious lightless stars that broadcast radio waves, and it promises exciting revelations about vast regions of space concealed by clouds of cosmic dust.
And so from the probings and skills of Bell System scientists and engineers has come another tool to help man understand better the universe in which he lives. These men are a proud team—members of a still larger team engaged in research, engineering and administration and working on telephone problems in all parts of the country. We would like you to consider joining them.
There are employment opportunities with the companies that provide telephone service, with Western Electric, and with the Bell Laboratories. We need young men for the leaders in tomorrow’s Bell Telephone System. Check today with your Placement Officer for details.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
■
Copyright 1953, Liggett & Myexs Tobacco Co.