TAILORED OF MOORESVILLE TATTERTOOTH SPUN RAYON
McGregor takes grand Mooresville Tattertooth Spun Rayon Fabric, gives
it that distinctive McGregor tailoring—and brother, you have a shirt! It goes to business with a tie or checks in at the club with open collar. And
it stays smart and fresh through many tubbings because it’s Crown Tested!
GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. MICHIGAN STREET
2
LETTERS
TOWER
University of Detroit Livernois at McNichols Detroit, Mich. Joe Wilcox
Feature Editor
Notre Dame Scholastic
Sir:
Tidemen slaving away at their tidewriters read tense verbaged Notre Dame Scholastic (Feb. 7, 1947) of recent date; said editor Rabe, “I’ll buy that dream,” quickly sent for his prim, spin-sterish secretary, dictated keen analytical letter to author.
Request permission for reprint of item in Tide, section of University Yearbook.
Repercussions, from irate outraged local profs, left opinion divided on Dr. P. A. A.’s scientific status; editors feel situation needs clarification. :
W/T. Rabe Assistant Editorial Associate Board Committee Chairman.
Scholastic men are flattered at Tide & Tower's philosophical yen for their output, herewith grant permission to reprint, request a copy of Tide.
As to Dr. Ans to tie’s scientific status: Detroit’s irate pundits can allay their misgivings. He still is. At last account he had: (1) turned down the Nobel Prize, (2) turned down the chair of the department of philosophy, (3) turned doivn the covers, (k) gone to bed. Reason for his retiring was exhaustion after looking in vain for warehouse room for his prime matter. No warehouse would store something that wasn’t.
Feature Editor Wilcox dutifully bore him Tideman Rabe’s communication, zvas asked by his secretary what was the matter with Tide; interrupted Dr. Aristotle: “There is no matter with Tide. I have it all.”
—Feature Editor
Sir:
Reference: Letter to the Editor, Feb. 28, Dining Hall Attendants, Name Withheld.
The cheap attempt at ridicule in “Name Withheld’s” letter in reference to the dining hall attendants should be deplored by every thinking Notre Dame man. To the Scholastic’s outside readers, such a letter gives a poor impression of student mentality and the type of man that represents Notre Dame. To everyone on campus it reflects an individual whose egotistical air of self-superiority (Continued on Page 33)
For 25 per cent Discount on all Garments Cleaned and Pressed
Bring this Coupon in exchange for your Student Identification Card to
BERT CLEANERS AND DYERS
222 W. WASHINGTON 3-HOUR SERVICE PHONE 3-5488
— PRESSING WHILE YOU WAIT —
jbine
— and traditionally a good place to meet the' gang for delicious
Italian and American Food.
PHONE 3-0678 for Reservations
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan Street. Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
3
4
Review gm Oevunent ==■ ” -r r ..... fan	HaMick
Trumpets and Cymbals
Trumpets should blow and cymbals sound for a new release by Columbia. It is Handel’s Messiah. The Liverpool Philharmonic under the direction of Malcom Sargent plays the fine, full bodied, madrigal-like music. Isabel Baillie sings soprano, Gladys Ripley contralto, James Johnston tenor, Norman Walker basso. The Huddersfield Choral Society performs the elaborate choral portion.
It is a grand, impressive and beautiful work and Columbia gives it a just recording in its entirety. The voices and choir have the right church-like hollowness and the orchestra’s bass is solemn and organ-like. It costs a lot, but considering what you get for your money, it is cheap. Handel Messiah (2 vol., 36 sides) Columbia MM666, $23.63.
Specialized Recordings
Wanda Landowska plays Bach’s Goldberg Variations for harpsichord. Nearly two solid hours of fine, lace-like music played by a master of the instrument.
Bach Goldberg Variations Victor DM 1022, $7.30.
Robertson and Bartlett have recorded selections from the Virginal Book and entitled it an Elizabethan Suite. It would have been a better recording if done on less anachronistic instruments. Still the effect is somewhat achieved and pleasantly so.
Elizabethan Suite, played by Bartlett & Robertson, Columbia 256. $3.15.
❖
A Question of University Pride
Notre Dame needs a record Horary. Almost every university or college deserving of the name already possesses extensive collections. St. John’s (College
ville, Minn.), .small as it is, has an excellent selection.
The small collection in the Music Hall is not for general availability and the records used in the Cavanaugh Hall series are not for general distribution. We should have a collection that students could listen to, and check out, if they liked.
Mr. Byrne at the Library has declared his willingness to accept any gift proffered, both records and phonographs. But a problem arises from the fact there is no space suitable wherein to play records.
Every floor at the Library is filled, with the possible exception of the basement. If the University and students could become interested, surely some arrangement could be made with a minimum of expense. The best thing would be individual booths. Second best would be a central control room with perhaps fifteen or twenty turntables and individual earsets for listening. The latter plan is suggested, presuming the student isn’t allowed to handle the disc himself. The former is much better. Students aren’t all thumbs.
If anyone has a view as how to achieve this desirable addition, please drop this column a line.	•
Est.
1900
Glasses CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE
W. G. Eogardus—Dr. M. Mittennayer
OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street Closed Wednesday afternoons
Linda
I Tip My Hat My Last Goodbye Sonata
A Garden in the Rain
LATEST TUNES
Copp's Music Shop
122-24 E. Wayne SL
RADIOS
$47-35
N. D. Medals, $2.25
Gifts
Stationery
Toilet Articles
Book Store
Badin Hall
CCLLEDE PARADE
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS \ " -............... /
He’s lovely . . . he’s engaged . . . and he’s none other than that dapper gentleman of Alumni Hall, the holder of a record of eighty-nine consecutive midnights . . . Vince Scott. Vince is making the plunge with a local gal, come June and graduation. Says Mr. Scott: “After playing three years of football for Notre Dame, I have come to the conclusion that I am about ripe for an institution ... so I picked marriage.”
To top it off, he’s signed with the Buffalo Bisons.
❖
A marriage expert recently stated that engineers and other technically trained men are very poor marriage risks, due to their emotional immaturity and educational background. “Technical students,” he said, “get a very poor foundation in the field of human relations and must build their marriages on extremely narrow underpinnings.”
There you have it, engineers . . . we suggest you start sitting in on Father Hesburg’s marriage course.
4>
Walter Kiernan, in his column, One Man’s Opinion, said . . . “The crown prince of Saudi Arabia visited Princeton and became the first person to cross the campus in a loose, flowing robe without drawing a tvhistle.”
Hmph . . . happens here every blessed minute.
❖
The match situation around here has been drawing loud razzberries from the student body. Match-books sold in the Caf seem to be of the Yellow Dog variety—No Strike! They are all too reminiscent of those lend-lease Russian matches which were so (un) popular in the PX’s three or four years ago. Since there is only one brand sold locally, the old remedy seems to be to revert to the old Boy Scout two-stick method or else fall back on the trusty Zippo.
♦
Zounds! They’re after us again ... it isn’t bad enough that the higher-ups already delete and censor copy which touches on the subject matter of (1) CENSORED, (2) CENSORED, (3) CENSORED, or (4) CENSORED; now some ace berates us for penning derogatory (so he claims) remarks about the city of South Bend. Perhaps we will have to follow the popular trend and form the
SPCAFNFSJC, Society for the Prevention of Casting Aspersions on the Fair Name of the Flowei* of St. Joe County. The Chamber of Commerce, which doubtless put our critic up to his dastardly deed, will now present us with a good citizenship award. A solution to the problem is to have a mass meeting of all those students who have a good word to say in behalf of Notre Dame’s southern suburb next Monday night in the second phone booth in Washington Hall.
❖
An undernourished individual crawled up to chow line last night and said, “Cripes, I’m so hungry I could eat a horse.”
The joker in front of him countered with, “You’ve come to the right place, chum.”
❖
Another outstanding halfback enrolled at Notre Dame this semester, which brings ND’s backfield roster up to a mere forty-odd men.
We hear this lad really burned up the high school circles while playing for Aurora a few years back. Incidentally, he was captain of the Illinois All-State team the same year that Mike Swisto-wicz and Moose Fischer made the team. And believe it or not, he’s actually Irish; the name’s John O’Neil.
❖
ON THE HOME FRONT ...
Long Beach City College recently held their annual Hat Day, an event in which students design and wear hats, competing for a prize. A previous winner consisted of a luncheon plate on which was balanced beer and sandwiches. We may not think much of their hat designing, but their choice of a lunch was excellent.
The climax of this hectic post-war era which has seen athletes hop about from one college to another, came last week when a basketball star from the University of Kentucky picked up baggage and journeyed across the river to Xavier in Cincinnati. The hoopster claimed he was dissatisfied because of the fact that he didn’t get a chance to play with Kain-tuck, inasmuch as they are loaded with stars. Obviously, U. of K. authorities were dissatisified also. They withheld his credits for work performed at Lexing-(Continued on Page 7)
6
-	.	_ By John A. O'Connor
At the recent History Department forum where total war and universal conscription got kicked around among the profs and interested students, Col. Brown revealed that Ludendorff, the Prussian war lord of twenty years ago, said that complete total war could only be fought well by a people who knew what they were fighting for, were conscious of righteousness, values and liberty. A democracy, in other words. Well now, if total war* * is best fought by those who know, and if there is ever a possibility of total war coming to America (is there any doubt?), then we have a suggestion as how to best fight it. Draft all the college professors. Right now. They best know the things we stand for. According to Ludendorff they can best be regimented for the big clash. Haul in the nets!
❖
Advance advertisements of coming motion-pictures, whether in newspapers, magazines, or in film trailers, usually go too far* in knocking themselves out to lure the idolizing citizen into the boxoffice snare. Typical is the current billing of “The Jolson Story” as the saga of the “world’s greatest entertainer.” What trash! Jolson was a mimic, an imitator of darkies. He and Cantor belong in the cobwebby twenties along with Helen Morgan and Sophie Tucker. Holly-
COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from Page 6)
ton and presented the ex-basketeer with a bill for tuition amounting to $1100.00. Here is undoubtedly the start of a new trend in economic thought.
❖
WE QUOTE ...	,
Philosopher—a guy who thinks halitosis is better than no breath at all.
Bore—a person who has flat feats.
—King’s Crown
❖
Stude: “Have you a book called, Man, the Master of Women?”
Sales Girl: “Fiction department is on the other side, sir.”
—Technique (Georgia Tech) ❖
Dedicated to You Know Who:
“Those girls are so biased.”
“Yeah, buy us this and buy us that until you’re broke.”
—New Rochelle Tattler
wood is always trying to canonize one of their own little tailors. They are always patting themselves on the back with that “there’s no business like show business” stuff. When it comes to the title race for the “World’s Best Entertainer,” Jolson couldn’t even hold Bing Crosby’s toupee. Fa!
❖
The inside boys around the caf tables have a hot rumor that has been gaining momentum for some time. They whisper that a certain young Mr. Hearst is doodling with the idea of starting a newspaper in this town to compete with the Tribune. They suggest he is watching the newborn Merchants News with kitchy-koo interest. They even go farther. Rumors persist that a new radio station, affiliated with NBC, is due to set up operation in South Bend soon. Remember this is strictly rumor.
❖
Hooray for Father- Vince Powell of Brooklyn and his 125,000 CYO boys who withdrew from the Dodger Knothole club last week in protest to funny-man Lippy Leo Durocher’s recent conduct, which topped a long series of rowdy-acts by the mouthy Dodger pilot. The Larraine DayDurocher affair, in which the principals brazenly thumbed their noses at American laws as well as decent customs, might turn out to be the coup-de-grace for the theatrical Brooklyn buffoon.
♦
Just to show you who rates around here, radio station WHOT dropped their usual Saturday afternoon broadcast of the Metropolitan Opera from New York to carry the local maddening high school basketball tourney, which had all the town’s bobby-soxers in a frazzle by the weekend.
♦
We always knew that Johnny Lujack was fighting off fans like a hound-dog swatting fleas, but recent demands from across the Dixie have boosted the stock of Mr. Paul Limont. Seems one of the classiest chicks in the neighborhood is eager, and the go-between is wearing his knees out pleading with Mr. L. Give her a break Paul!
♦
Medical science met with a strange problem last week at the Infirmary and as usual whipped it. Seems a student was operated on to have three professors removed from his back.
CAMERAS AND PHOTOGRAPHIC
SUPPLIES
Plenty of ROLL FILM . in the five popular sizes
Ault's photo service in the Cafeteria
AULT’S
Camera Shop
Opposite the Courthouse ' 122 South Main St.
Phone 3-5041
STORE HOURS Tues.-Sat. — 8 a. m. to 5:30 p. m. Monday — open till 8:30 p. m.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-rays and ConsaltaGon Diseases and Surgery of Month and Jaws Telephone 4-5661
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend. Ind.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 Shetland Building Fhone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
•
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Shetland Building L. E. fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton. M. D.
•
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S. 623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bend. Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
7
Own Uta ZAiio/tfi-	.
TH£ nOTR£ DRmt SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victor us Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
John Defant, Editor
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
H. Smith Keel Frank Keenan

Bob Stock
REWRITE
Ed Snyder
Joe Doyle
NEWS STAFF
Jim Clemens, Editor
Shaun McDermott, Associate Editor
Bill Bradley Pete Reiner Vern Kelley George McCarthy
John Noonan Steve Valetich
Joe Herrington Lou Horning John Sullivan
Tom Murray
Phil Shea
John Waters
SPORTS STAFF
Joe Cheney, Editor
Pete Brown, Associate Editor
Dave Warner Jim Howard
Buzz Wright
Bob Leander John Krueger Bill Slavik
FEATURE STAFF
Joe Wilcox, Editor
Charles Carrol Carter Gerald Heberlein Bill Leavey John A. O'Connor Jerry Olwell Bob Vierhile Nicodemus
PHOTO CREDITS
Pages IS and 19 by John Brogan; Page 12, Gene Reynolds; Moreau Seminary feature by Seminary photographer. Cartoons on Pages 20 and 22 by John Krueger; Page 30 by Lou Lourd.
COVER
Photographs and design by John Brogan Arranged by Pat Weishapl
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C. _________________________Faculty Advisor
■Bob Kopf _____________Business Manager
Tom Gargan __________Circulation Manager
M. E. Varga___________________Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THIS SCHOLASTIC Is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office. Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
NSO
The current debate on whether Notre Dame should become a part of the proposed National Student Organization offers the individual student an opportunity for a great deal of constructive thought and action. The Student Council has made it mandatory for all campus clubs to consider this question and to submit official recommendations. In complying with this requirement the club’s official opinion will be a consensus of its individual members.
To facilitate discussion of this vital question, the Scholastic offers a number of considerations:
(1)	Catholic colleges, like individual Catholics, do not compose a group apart. While they have been blessed with a vision of Truth they are nevertheless members of the family of colleges;
(2)	The influence of these Catholic colleges, so valuable because of this contact with Truth, can never produce its maximum effect if directed from outside the medium it wishes to affect;
(3)	The threat, or even presence, of Communism inside NSO should not deter Notre Dame, or any other Catholic school, from participating in the work to be done. Were there not good to be accomplished or evil to overcome the function of the Catholic educational institution would be sharply limited;
(4)	Should the influence of any Communist group be strong enough to prevail upon NSO to act in any way contrary to Catholic principles, the means for Notre Dame et al. to make known and publicize its opposition are at hand in quantity, thus insuring against the possibility of scandal resulting from Catholic participation;
(5)	Finally, should the unlooked-for occur and anti-Christian strength militate against the possibility of any further good being done by Catholic elements within NSO, these colleges always have the alternative of withdrawing. In fact, this alternative, because of the unfavorable publicity attached to any mass retirement, might easily serve as a bulwark against such anti-Christian behavior on the part of the remaining members of NSO.—Frank Keenan
Books for Poland
One of the most worthwhile causes Scholastic has noted in recent months concerns one John Mroczkowski. A graduate student from the University of Cracow in Poland, Mroczkowski is attending Notre Dame on a scholarship granted by the University and is currently engaged in writing his doctoral thesis on the Medievalism of Chesterton. Upon completion of this task Mroczkowski will return to his native Poland and assume his duties as head of the department of English at the Catholic University of Lublin.
It is in this connection that Scholastic wishes to commend to the student body what it considers a most worthy project. As in all European nations, though to a far greater degree than in most, Poland suffers from an extreme lack of textbooks for use in what is left of her once imposing system of universities. In an unofficial capacity, as an individual, Mr. Mroczkowski is attempting to do something to alleviate this distressing situation at least in regard to his own impoverished English department. Every book written in English which Mr. Mroczkowski can bring back to Poland with him this summer will to a great degree aid in rebuilding one of Europe’s sorely-needed centers of Catholic higher education. Therefore, Scholastic earnestly clarions a call of attention to this work. For every Notre Dame man willing to sacrifice a volume or two from his scanty library, Mr. Mroczkowski can be located in the Graduate Student’s wing of St. Edward’s Hall, or books may be left at the Publications Office, 118 Main Building. —Frank Keenan
NOTICE TO "SCHOLASTIC" STAFF
"Dome” Editor John Walker requests all “Scholastic" staff members —reporters, artists, columnists, photographers. business staff — to meet in the "Dome" office in the basement of the Main Building Monday evening at 7:30 o'clock. Photographs for the Notre Dame annual will be taken at that time.
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for maflin* at special rate of postage. Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
VOL. 88, NO. 18
MARCH 7, 1947
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
L. F. Budenz Returns For Lecture
Former ND Professor Speaks At Drill Hall
Louis F. Budenz, former Communist editor who rejoined the Catholic Church in 1945, will inaugurate the 1947 South Bend Aquinas Lecture Series at 2:30 p. m., Sunday, March 9, when he speaks on the topic “In Two Camps.” He will speak in the Navy Drill Hall.
Because of the great interest in Mr. Budenz’ lecture, general admission tickets will be sold at the door of the Drill Hall prior to his lecture. Notre Dame students will be permitted to enter free of charge upon presentation of Dining Hall books.
Mr. Budenz will autograph 150 advance copies of his autobiography, This Is My Story, from 1 to 2:15 p. m. on the day of his lecture. The book will be published March 17, by Whittlesey House.
Mr. Budenz recently stepped into the limelight as star witness for a Congressional investigating committee by naming Gerhard Eisler as the No. 1 U. S. Communist and Soviet Russia’s key agent in this country. He named Eisler last October after completing a year of selfimposed silence begun when he returned to the Church.
The 53-year-old former Communist was born a Catholic and educated in parochial schools. He later drifted away from the Church and became an agnostic, later joining the Communist party. While a Communist he rose to the post of managing editor of the Communist Daily Worker and became a member of the party’s national committee which he served for six years. In this capacity he contributed many articles to the Daily Worker and The Communist, theoretical organ of the Communist party.
During his tenure of office on the committee, Mr. Budenz was awakened to the basic Communistic policy: namely, the sabotage of the American way of life. Despite much opposition he continued to advocate the thesis that the Catholic
church and Communism could be reconciled on basic tenets but learned after pressing the matter to the Political Committee that the Communists did not intend such a reconciliation but planned instead an attack on religion and Catholics in particular. In October, 1945, he
Man of the Hour—on Sunday afternoon
renounced the party and returned to the Church, being received back by the Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, who for years had been his severest critic. He had first contested Msgr. Sheen’s stand on Communism in the Dec. 25, 1936 Daily Worker, and had met the Msgr. in the following Spring. The boldness of the Monsignor in talking to him of the Blessed Virgin affected him deeply—Budenz compares that to St. Monica’s invitation to her son, St. Augustine, to return to her, nine years before his eventual conversion. The talk he had with Msgr. Sheen was just nine years prior to his re-entering the Church. Upon his conversion, he placed himself under a year of (Continued on page 24)
Committee Expects Large Prom Turnout
In the survey conducted last week by the Ticket Committee, well over 350 Juniors indicated a definite intention of attending the Prom on May 2. Assured of this number, especially encouraging since many members of the class were not polled, the Prom committee, under George Sullivan and John McCormick, is now proceeding with its plans, which had previously been indefinite.
One of the major developments of the week was that the Orchestra Committee, composed of Bill Bonivich, Bob McAvoy, Leo Nolan and Phil Lyons, has contacted a well-known band and hopes to have a contract signed within the next week. The committee in charge of Saturday afternoon entertainment has announced that it is planning to offer either a picnic or a Tea Dance.
Since so large a number of the Junior class is expected to attend the Prom, it has definitely been decided to hold it in the Rockne Memorial. The tickets, which will probably be placed bn sale within the next few weeks, will be at first reserved for the members of the Junior class. However, if circumstances permit, other students will be admitted, with Seniors having second priority.
—Shaun McDermott
Kmxmxm vets: FREE CHILI SUPPER Tuesday, March 11 7:30 p. m. St. James Parish Hall 117 North Lafayette Given by members of Vets Club Reservations by March 10 CaU 2-5943	3-9983
4-9656	4-4643
9
Vetville Inaugurates Weekly Newspaper
As most husbands do at least once, John V. Hupf, journalism major- from Pittsburgh, Pa., came home to his three-room apartment in Vetville one night last week wearing a sheepish grin from ear to ear. His wife asked what had happened, an explanation was clearly, in order. Blushing, John related that his face had reddened when a neighbor gave him a huge slap on the back after reading the first edition of the Vetville News, his new brain-child. His wife was consoled; so were her fellow citizens.
In Vetville, where anything is liable to happen and usually does, the newborn News was a welcome addition to the growing community. The pioneer edition was as unique as a tulip in January. On the front page, the readers were informed that a new organization to be known as “Baby Sitters, Inc.” was being formed to care for their offspring; that wives should beware of so-called solicitors; and that a get-together dance would be held on St. Patrick’s Day. There were no comics.
Evidently, the citizens of Vetville liked what they read. Mayor Patrick Haggerty, who has an unmistakable Irish monicker, expressed the profound belief the the new journal would soon out-dazzle the 80 - year - old Scholastic. Around the town the sentiments were much the same. Said Commerce senior Jack G. Holloway, residing in apartment 1A: “It’s a howling success.” Chirped his wife June: “It has everything but a society column.” Added their two-year-old daughter Jill: “What ith it all about, Mummy?”
Although the first edition had hit the street with watch-like precision, the News was not over-staffed. Besides Editor Hupf’s name there were only two other names and a lot of question marks. The two regulars on the staff were Phillip P. Munning of South Bend, assistant editor, and Mrs. Ralph H. Simon, wife of
THE WEEK WITH THE STUDENT COUNCIL
Last Monday night, at the regular weekly meeting the Student Council conducted the following items of business:
1.	Introduced new members: Jim Simon from the College of Engineering and Joe Doyle, representative of S'c. Edward’s Hall.
2.	Read, argued, discussed, questioned, debated, deleted from, added to, challenged and amended for two and one-half hours a new constitution. It was approved in its present form for publication to the student body for further review and suggestion. After this new constitution has been approved by the student body the Student Council will then put its stamp of approval on it and forward it to University officials for recognition.—John Noonan
10
a Commerce major from Vincennes, Ind., art editor.
According to tall, poker-faced, newsman Hupf the Ncivs was still in diapers. “When it grows up,” he drummed, “the News will include several weekly columns, helpful household hints, gossip, and a Family-of-the-Week feature. We plan to see it grow and grow, and maybe someday it will be printed instead of mimeographed.”
Correctional Work In Sociology Revived
The Curriculum in Correctional Administration which prepares for positions in the fields of probation, parole, and prison administration is to be revived in the Department of Sociology in the fall semester. This training, first given at Notre Dame in 1929 and later at Harvard, Ohio State, and Wisconsin, was dropped during the war. A revised curriculum for graduate students and a few qualified seniors is to be announced soon, also the appointment of a new director who will have charge of this training.
The new curriculum has been prepared in accordance with suggestions made by nationally known leaders in the correctional field. It will contain courses in psychology, mental hygiene, education, law, and basic social work, in addition to several advanced courses in criminology and penology. A sociology major will be a prerequiste. Graduate students will receive the degree of master of science in education upon completion of the required courses and internship. Internship training is being arranged with some of the outstanding probation and parole departments and with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. The new director will be a man who has wide experience in the crime field.
The Department of Sociology will continue to provide a general sociology major, both on an undergraduate and graduate basis. Further information will be made available on the Sociology bulletin board.
Concert Recitals Resume Mon., Mar. 10
The second in a series of academic recitals presented by the University Music Department will be given at Washington Hall, Monday, March 10, beginning at 8:15 p. m.
Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the department and director of the series, announced that the concert section of the program will be a two-piano demonstration by Father Gallagher and himself.
The Haydn Sonata Number 7 in D Major and the Suite for Two Pianos, Op. 15 of Anton Arensky will be the works performed. The lecture part of the program to be given by Mr. Pedtke, will consist of a description and a short, historical survey of the Suite as a musical form.
Mr. Pedtke also confided that the selection of the Haydn Sonata was made so as to establish a continuity between the previous Beethoven Sonata performance and the program proposed for Mar. 10. “The listeners will have an opportunity of applying to the Haydn work,” Mi-. Pedtke continued, “many of the remarks of Father Gallagher when he analyzed the Beethoven Sonata in the last concert.”
When questioned about the future concerts of the series, Mr. Pedtke stated that the original plan of having the concerts every two weeks was still thought to be practical but that due allowance would have to be made for the informal nature of an academic demonstration. Such concerts will have to be worked into the professional series scheduled by the University whenever there happens to be an open date. Consequently it is impossible to issue a complete schedule of performances.
The material of future concerts, however, is more definite. The next performance will be a demonstration on the oboe by Ralph Thorson, a pre-medical student at the University and an exceptional performer on this instrument. He will play Arias 19 and 26 from the first part of Bach’s St. Matthew Passion, and numbers 36, 69 and 75 from the second part of the same work. He will also play section four of Rimsky-Karsakoff’s Ca-priccio Espagnol. The lecture on this occasion will be given by Father Gallagher.
NOTICE TO VETS
All veterans who attended Loyola University in Chicago in the summer session of 1946, are requested to report to Mr. DeCook, in the Veterans Administration Guidance Center, Room 14, Main Building. Veterans concerned must make this report in order to receive their subsistence allowance.
TH£ Hu/nsnitf
JAMES BURNS 1 1	mil1W VARRtx fRUjfmjfl
The Spanish question is a difficult one for an American to cope with inasmuch as most of the information concerning the present state of affairs in Spain is vague and contradictory. In posing the question in last week’s column, we realized that many of the students would hesitate to give a direct answer concerning the worth of Franco’s government, but would insist upon qualifying their opinions. The results of the responses bore this out, particularly in the case of those who favored supporting the Franco regime. We received few unqualified answers substantiating Franco as a legitimate and representative voice of the Spanish people.
These few who gave uncompromising support to Franco did so because of theii’ belief that his is a legitimate government and as such should be allowed to continue and not be subjected to pressure and intervention on the part of any foreign power. This group voices the attitude that since he now does rule, ipso facto, he has the right to rule.
Most of the students who gave qualified support to Franco believe that he represents the lesser of two evils—fascism, tolerating Christianity, as opposed to Communism. They maintained that Franco is a very effective bulwark against the further spread of Communism in Western Europe: if Franco passes out of the picture, the Communistic element is certain to take control of Spain, and thus effect an encirclement of Central Europe. If there could be an assurance of open elections, free from the coercive activities of a minority Communistic element, thus achieving a government that would validly represent the majority, then this group would favor deposition of the present government. But in view of the improbability of any democratic movement possibly asserting itself at the present time, they feel that until there is hope for the patriotic and liberal Spaniard to find the means of bringing about a peaceful withdrawal of Franco, the abolition of The Falange, and the establishment of an interim or caretaker government, Franco represents the only present means of maintaining any semblance of order. Another opinion that some supported was that Spain cannot survive another civil war and that such conflict might precipitate world strife again. Therefore, for the
sake of expediency alone, we must avoid meddling in Spanish affairs and must allow Franco to continue. These students were aware of the evils in the present Spanish government but felt that the solution must be reached by peaceful ^means, that we must not intervene in any way but should allow the Spanish people to work out a problem, which, of course, is their own. They also argue that the fundamental cause of the Spanish dilemma is the fact that Spain never experienced an industrial revolution and that until such a time as a just and reasonable re-distribution of land is effected and industry, where possible, is subsidized, there can be no solution to the Spanish question. Removal of Franco would only usher in other governments of the same type. Reconstruction must start with Spain itself.
A minority of the students approached were definitely opposed to Franco. They refused to try to compromise with the existence of a totalitarian state in a western world committed to extending liberty to all peoples. They maintained that Franco embodies every aspect of that nihilistic philosophy that the Western democratic peoples spent five years in overthrowing at a great cost in lives and material. As evidence of the complete Fascistic character of the present Spanish government, they cited, figures concerning the amount and type of aid received by Franco from our recent enemies, Hitler and Mussolini. One student, in particular, cited a letter written by Franco to Hitler on Feb. 26, 1941, which reads:
“I stand ready at your side, entirely and decidedly at your disposal, united in a common historical destiny, desertion from which would mean my suicide and that of the
’ cause that I have led and represent . in "Spain.”
•These, people^ furthermore, do; not believe';-that there is any substantial or . reliable ^evidence of the possibility of the Communists : gaining,control of Spain, in the’event'that-Eranco is removed. They pointed’’out that-the results of the elections of 1936, prior to the insurrection of Franco’s Falangists showed that out of 483 deputies in the Popular Front Parliament, only 15 were Communists (and this was the time when France had
75). Also, they believe that aid from Russia was not prompted by any group within Spain, since Stalin acted on his initiative and sent aid to the Republicans only after Italy and Germany had actively intervened. Thus, they do not feel called upon to choose between the lesser of two evils since only one exists. They argue that the Fascistic Franquist regime was forced upon the Spanish people by the force of Moorish troops, principally, armed with Italian and German weapons, and transported from Morocco by Junkers Transports. They cannot conceive of any Christian group or nation supporting a government so openly allied with dictators who stood diametrically opposed to the Christian position of respecting the rights and integrity of the individual. They do not believe that Franco enjoys the support of the majority of the Spanish people— on the conti-ary, it is only by strict utilization of the Falange that Franco maintains his rule. Since, he represents government by coercion, slavery and oppression, he does not deserve any support or recognition by the democratic nations.
(It has been our practice to print percentage breakdowns of attitudes on the weekly question. However, the -scope of this week’s problem prevented us from compiling what we believed to be an accurate, authentic cross section of student opinion.)
Democracy's Dilemma
The question of what to do about Franco reveals a weakness in our position in the contest with Communism. The end of the war with Germany prompted our hasty withdrawal from the company of our former ally, Russia; but now we find ourselves in bed with nations and groups, which, while pretending to be democratic and to practise the philosophy of the Western world, are as opposed to our basic tenets and conception of right and wrong as the Communists. It is an unhappy situation and requires a. great deal of serious consideration by aU-
The question of next week is: “What do you propose as a means of settling current racial problems?” Please address all replies to The Humanist, Box 174, Notre Dame, Ind. By Monday evening, March 10, 1947.
LOST
On the evenin? of Feb. 15th. in Washington Hall, a library book entitled: "I Chose Freedom." by Victor Kravchenko. Please return to Boom 202. Morrissey Hall, or to library officials.
H
Cardinal to Visit Campus March 19
His Eminence, Cardinal Conrad von Preysing, Archbishop of Berlin, Germany, who won world-wide renown for his fearless attacks on Nazism during the Hitler regime, will address the student body of the University of Notre Dame on Wednesday, March 19, it has been announced by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame.
The Cardinal arrived in the United States by plane on February 13th to thank Americans for their generous contributions of food, clothing, medicines and other necessities to his war-stricken people. He is being accompanied by the Rev. Bernard Schwerdtfeger, his private secretary, and by the Rev. Paul F. Tanner, Assistant General Secretary of the National Catholic Welfare Conference at Washington, D. C.
Father Cavanaugh has appointed a special committee headed by the Rev Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., Director of Student Activities at Notre Dame, to make arrangements for the Cardinal’s visit to the University.
Father Strahan Addresses Liturgy Club Meeting
Speaking on “Drama and the Liturgy,” Father Speer Strahan, assistant professor of English at Notre Dame, addressed a large gathering in the Law auditorium last Thursday evening under the auspices of the University Liturgy Club.
During the course of his talk, Father Strahan traced the discovery and development of the drama within the liturgy, bringing to light a number of interesting points concering the liturgical ritual of the mediaeval church.
Defining drama as the representation of action with impersonation, Father Strahan explained how the Mass is not a true drama nor did it ever give rise to drama. However, Father Strahan pointed out that Roman liturgy was full of dramatic associations of the Midnight Mass of Christmas and the Holy Manger, and stated that in the solemn ceremonies of Palm Sunday and Holy Week we do closely approach drama.
Father Strahan is a graduate of Notre Dame, and holds degrees from Yale University and Catholic University, Washington, D. C. He has also studied abroad. He served as a chaplain in the army and was present during the bombing of Pearl Harbor. Father Strahan was later transferred to the European theatre and served with the 22nd Army Corps, and also with the 15th and 3rd Armies. At the war’s end he was stationed in Czechoslovakia. Since his return to Notre Dame, Father Strahan has been teaching English Literature.—John Waters
NEW VET CLUB OFFICERS START WORK
By ED SNYDER
With the smoke of campaign battle cleared Hank Keel and his Liberal Party buckled down to the business of tightening the organization of the Veterans Club and by the end of the week the new regime had come up with its committee organization and a report that planks of the party platform were already in operation.	'
Keel announced that an emergency loan fund for members of the group Ilas' already been started under the control of a budget committee made up of Treasurer John A. O’Connor, and George Welsch.
A “gripe” committee has been inaugurated with Secretary Gunnar Hald at the reins, assisted by Joe Wilcox. All “gripes” must be submitted in writing and will be held in strict confidence. The committee is at present rounding up a list of main “gripes” for presentation to the proper authorities.
Initial plans for sending a representative of the group to Washington as a lobbyist for veterans legislation have been formulated, the new president reports. He adds that an itinerary for the trip and a brief of matters to be taken up by the representative chosen are in the process of being completed by
Newly elected officers of the Vets-Liberal-Party—Back row: Bill Duggan, Bob Uhl, Gunnar Hald, Bill Hennessey; front row: Frank Keenan, Hm.fr Keel, pres.. Bob Traver.
vice-presidents Bill Hennessey and Bob ■ Uhl.
Uhl heads the Liaison committee, composed of Jim Clemens and John Defant. The task of this group is to establish contact with other local and national organizations, and make recommendations for the most effective utilization of the club.
Hennessey is in charge of the ways and means committee, whose task it is to coordinate the work of all the other committees and to prepare all proposals and requests that are to be presented to the Student Council or to the Administration. . Bill Duggan, first vice-president, has been named to lead the membership and attendance committee, which is composed of Joe Byrne, George Bresnahan, John Early, Dick Noland, and Dick Hyland. Duggan also heads the entertainment committee, made up of Chuck Ryan and Jim Kennedy.
Bob Tarver and Joe Doyle have been assigned to the constitutional committee, which will study the club’s rule sheet and make recommendations for amendments to the constitution.
The Waldron twins, Bob and Dick, will continue to handle the club’s publicity.
12
left wing houses a semi-private chapel erected to the memory of Brother Columba, Notre Dame's miracle man.
"My Day" at Moreau...
Students walking along the road by the laundry sometimes glance across St. Joseph’s Lake and notice an austere, yellow brick building almost hidden in the trees. Probably most of them pay no attention to it, but some wonder what it is and why it should be isolated from the rest of the campus.
The building among the trees is Moreau Seminary, the scholasticate for men studying to be Holy Cross priests. Just perceptibly Romanesque, the Seminary was built in the time when the Community, far from being affluent, built by rule of thumb, and until the last brick gave out. Allowing for a bit of justifiable sentiment, it might be said that in this instance the glory of the temple is within. The seminarians at Moreau are about halfway through their formation. They have been through the Postulate (the years in which the seminarians and the Community become acquainted) and the Novitiate (the “boot camp” for the religious life). When they finish their studies at Notre Dame, the seminarians have four years of theology between themselves and ordination. From here, now that the war is over, they might be sent to the Congregation’s theological house maintained on Via dei Cap-puccini in Rome where they attend the world-famed, cen-turied Gregorian University, or to Washington, D. C., where they pursue advance courses in impressive Doric-columned Holy Cross College, built on one of the highest spots above
the capital city and which sometimes is mistaken by befuddled outsiders for the Treasury Building.
In the fall of 1920 a group of twenty-three seminarians hauled their tranks and suitcases across a turnip field from the Novitiate (the present Community Infirmary) to the newly built Scholasticate. There was still much work to be done inside the building and on the grounds. Despite their best-laid plans architects often make mistakes. Too- late it was found out that no kitchen had been provided for. So a saltbox wing was added as an afterthought and ever since has struck all passersby as just that. Behind the house a barn and chicken coop were built, a garden was marked off, and in the spring, the seminarians turned to farming. In their spare time, they managed to grade the lawns, and plant a number of fruit trees which the Agricultural Department of the University generously sent over. Among those who sweated out that first year with pick and shovel, hammer and crowbar, were such well-known men on campus as Father Brennan, teacher of Logic; Father Cavanaugh, Dean of Arts and Letters; Father Muckenthaler, now teaching German; and Father Ward of the Philosophy Department.
Almost every Holy Cross man ordained in the American Province since 1928 spent some time at Moreau. True to the atmosphere of evangelical poverty all property is shared in. common. This extends to textbooks which fall into the cate-
' SAVAHAUSH HAil 13
READING ROOM
The community works on- the principle that the best way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
Seminarians wait on one another. Bro. DeSales is known iar and wide for his smile and his deep-dish apple pie.
gory of hand-me-downs. It is a point of honor not to erase the names of former owner's on fly leaves, and so a fairly accurate log is maintained from year to year of all those who pass through Moreau. Many a battered Juvenal besides its precious interlinear enshrines names that might make up a respectable ecclesiastical Who’s Who.
When Moreau was founded, the American Province of the Congregation changed its program for seminarians. Formerly, men who wanted to join the Community had to complete their college work as lay students. After graduation they made their novitiate, took vows, and went on to study Theology. The new arrangement permitted seminarians to get their college while living in a religious house specifically devoted to the study of Philosophy.
The men at Moreau come from all parts of the country— and even beyond it. Within the past few years there have been representatives from Maine to California, from Minnesota to Louisiana, from Canada and Panama. Some come to
The evening "rec" splits up about evenly between bridge and table tennis.
Moreau immediately after finishing their high school; others with college degrees, or after having given up fairly successful careers. Among them you will find ex-G.I’s, bank clerks, farmers, an ex-member of the Blackfriars Guild. About the only thing in their background which all have in common is their desire to be priests.
Life in a religious house of formation is well regimented. The seminarian’s day begins at 5:00 a.m. In accordance with an old monastic custom, one of the seminarians—the “Regulator”—wakes the rest of the house by walking through the corridors, ringing a bell. On each floor he pauses to intone “Benedicamus Domino.” Though at the crack of dawn the Regulator’s voice is no Wagnerian tenor, he does manage to get the seminarians up and doing. At 5:30 all go to the chapel for meditation. At 6:00 there is Mass; at 7:00 breakfast at which spoons are toned down so the reader may be heard. In common practice with all religious communities an edifying book is read during meals unless the reading is dispensed by the superior for some reason such as a holyday or the presence of a visitor. After breakfast most of the housework is done. Each man has his own detail—washing dishes in an antiquated dish machine affectionately known as the “Cadillac,” sweeping corridors, setting tables, and a dozen other homespun jobs that have to be done to keep a seminary in apple-pie order. Some of the detail such as tailoring and barbering calls for a protacted aprenticeship. For a while a fledgling barber can be a rather serious menace.
From 8:00 to 11:50 there are classes and study periods. Philosophy, speech, Latin and English classes are planned especially for seminarians, and most of them are taught at Moreau. Inasmuch as the majority of the seminarians will be teachers, the teaching staff is selected from a top-drawer faculty. Other classes are taken on the campus according to the regular University schedule.
At 3:50 p.m. a bell rings for general recreation. Everyone must be out of the house for at least an hour. In winter the seminarians get their exercise in playing handball, skating, and walking. Most of them, however, turn to basketball. Teams are unorthodox inasmuch as sides may at times include as many as ten men. In the fall a touch football league is started. It includes “publicity” campaigns, awards to the winning team, and culminates in the hotly contested “East-
14
The elegant main altar, of fine matched woods, and lofty, impressive reredos are hand-made products of the seminary carpenter shop.
Most seminarians have a keen ear for music. While the record collection leans heavily to classics, boogie-woogie is no unknown phenomenon.
West” game which, despite the gentlemanly rules of touch football, always ends up in a debacle of scraped shins.
In the spring two baseball teams are formed. The first team plays for keeps, and will take on any challengers. The second team plays for the fun of it, and tackles such mighty opponents as, for instance, the high school sophomores of Holy Cross Seminary. Some of the men prefer to spend their afternoon recreation tinkering around in the carpenter shop. A few years ago, two of the seminarians built the chapel’s main altar and three of the side altars. Last summer five or six of the men put up a combination garage, shop, and storeroom. Currently, the seminarians are engaged in laying down a creditable heating system for their gymnasium, which is often referred to as the “icebox.”
Recreation ends at 4:30 and is followed either by study or choir practice. Moreau is probably best known to outsiders through its choir, which provided part of the music for the movie “The Spirit of Notre Dame.” It also sang for the picture “Knute Rockne” and has been heard many times over national networks. Ever since its inception, the seminary has sung for liturgical ceremonies at Sacred Heart Church. What is not so well known, however, is that in reality there are two choirs: one composed of the top-flight voices heard at High Mass every Sunday; the other, consisting of the lesser vocal talents, none too decorously dubbed the “tin ears,” who are pressed into service for the marathon-like Tenebrae of Holy Week.
There is a fifteen minute period reserved for spiritual reading at 5:15 followed by a visit to the Blessed Sacrament. Supper comes at 6:00. Meals, while free from all fripperies, are still hearty enough to make many a campus resident sigh and wish he could eat at Moreau. Seminarians who envisage Foreign Mission service are encouraged to learn how to cook. When time permits, they train under the tolerant supervision of Brothers Andrew Corsini and DeSales who by now know that cooks, like Rome, are not made overnight. After supper the seminarians have a recreation period which continues until 7:30. Recreation is a lively, spread-out bull session, hardly a place for blue-noses. Politics, sports, campus news, classes, gripes about over-size assignments, and the future
are the common ingredients of rec room chatter. Most seminarians smoke. Since cigarettes are frowned upon, they resort . to pipes, and the current No. 1 favorite, Sir Walter Raleigh.
Pipes run the gamut from humble corn-cobs through precious connoisseur items to long handled Bavarian tubas principally smoked for long lasting effect. The seminarians’ code is— “study hard, pray hard, play hard”—to which each adds “and laugh hard.” In such a tightly-knit fabric as the Community no one can afford to be less than a good Joe;-
For two or three months each year the recreation period and most of the spare time left from the day are filled with plans for the annual play. In former years plays were put on at the University until somewhere in the 1920’s a provincial rescript forbade seminarians to assume feminine roles in public. However, the rescript does not apply to private performances. Most memorable of recent female impersonations were the two gentle murderesses of “Arsenic and Old Lace.” It is interesting to recall that “Journey’s End,” a frank indictment of war, had its mid-west premiere at Moreau. The
The seminary library, cramped for space, features mainly reference works, runs mostly to tomes on philosophy.
15
last few years the seminarians put on such histrionic jobs as “Shadow and Substance,” G. K. Chesterton’s “Magic,” and “The Hasty Heart.”
After the evening recreation comes night prayer and the Rosary. Somewhere in between rising and retiring, the seminarian is expected to have recited the Office of the Blessed Virgin. Up to lights-out at 10:00 the time is used for study or for reference work in the small but selectively-stocked library. If lights-out at 10:00 seems rather early, there is a realistic explanation. All the seminarians know that another day will begin at 5:00 a.m. with an inevitable though far from gentle-throated “Benedicamus Domino.”
ND Scientists Assist In Atomic Research
Scientists from the University of Notre Dame will participate in the Argonne National Laboratory for atomic research and development to be established in Du Page County, Illinois, 26 miles southwest of Chicago, according to Dr. Farrington Daniels, Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Laboratory.
The Argonne National Laboratory is the successor to the war-time Metallurgical Laboratory of the famous Manhattan Engineer District, which helped perfect the atom bomb. Dr. William Hamill, Professor of Chemistry at Notre Dame, conducted research for the Laboratory from September, 1946, to February 1, 1947, and Dr. Lawrence Powers, Professor of Biology, started a one year’s leave of absence from the University last September to participate in the program.
The Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C., head of the Department of Physics at Notre Dame, is directing the work of a group of brilliant young scientists at Notre Dame who have been actively engaged in atomic research for a number of years. Among them are Dr. Bernard Waldman, Professor of Physics at Notre Dame, who was associated with the Los Alamos (New Mexico) atomic energy project, and Dr. Carlo Wick, distinguished Italian physicist. Dr. Waldman also was one of four official government observers of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima.
Still another Notre Dame educator, Dr. Milton Burton, Professor of Chemistry, assisted in important research for the Manhattan Engineer District during the war. He was also an official observer at the Bikini atomic tests last summer for the United States Government.
The seminarians try to be as self-supporting as possible. That accounts for “ole dobbin" and one of the men out under the sun.
Name Hagerty Mayor Rupp Main Speaker As Vetsville Votes At Net Squad Dinner
Citizens of newly-incorporated Vetsville recently went to the polls, and the following resident veterans successfully trod the rolling logs: Patrick H. Hagerty, peruser of torts and law tomes from Toledo, O., who rode the crest in the mayoralty campaign, and these councilmen, Robert D. Hunt, sociology major from far-away Eldridge, Calif.; William F. Hooley, Portsmouth, O., commerce man; Leo M. Rumely, Jr., from Wilton, Conn., who also attends classes at the “Yacht Club”; Francis J. Romano, of Chicago; Vincent Charles Scully, Jr., of Highland Park, N. Y., and Earl E. Bushman, of Providence, R. I. The last three politicos are law students.
The housing project has been divided into six wards, from which these representatives were chosen. Big plans are envisioned by the mayor and city council, the foremost of which is the writing and adoption of a constitution for the little community, which now comprises 90 families, including the colony’s 80 babies. By the time the project is completed, however, (circa March 1) 117 families are expected to be in residence.
Mayor Hagerty has announced that tentative plans call for a recreation building for the citizens, and a cooperative food movement, to cut down on rapidly-sky-rocketing expenditures of these, or any other families.—Jack Miles
Announcement was made today by Tom Hynes, chairman of the 15th annual testimonial for the Irish court squad to be sponsored by the Villagers Tuesday, April 1, at the Indiana Club, that Adolph Rupp, head coach of the No. 1 ranking Kentucky Wildcats and one of the most popular after-dinner speakers in all sportsdom, will be main speaker* at the banquet.
The Wildcat mentor joins Bill Fox, sports writer of the Indianapolis News and dean of Indiana sports writers, as the principal attractions at the banquet. Fox, who reputedly knows more about Indiana basketball than any man extant and writes a daily column “Shootin’ ’em and Stoppin’ ’em,” to that effect, will be toastmaster, taking up where he left off at the 1944 football banquet.
Other drawing cards will be furnished in the persons of Johnny Wooden, former athletic director and basketball coach at South Bend Central High school and now cage mentor at Indiana State, and ever-popular Tony Hinkle, football and basketball brain at Butler.
Tickets for the banquet will go on sale, in limited quantity, in the basement of the cafeteria, on Monday from 12 to 1, continuing for the rest of the week. Thereafter, ducats may be purchased during the same period on Mondays, Tuesdays, and Thursdays until April 1.
16
Hold First of Three NSO Forums March 20; Campus Election to Follow Discussion .
By SHAUN McDEBMOTT
The first of a series of student forums, at which the proposed National Students’ Organization will be discussed, will be held in Washington Hall on March 20 at 7:30 p. m. Prior to that time, each campus club will have named its delegates and have drawn up resolutions regarding the advantages and need for the NSO.
In the following two meetings, the dates of which have not yet been set, the general principles, specific resolutions and proposals to be presented by the Notre Dame delegation to the constitutional convention next Summer’ will be discussed. Following this series of open forums, probably about the beginning of May, a campus-wide election will be held to determine the convention delegates and the program which they are to present.	.
Speaking at a meeting last Tuesday after-noon in Washington Hall, Bob Uhl, Cavanaugh Hall member of the Student Council, stated that Notre Dame should have the best plans and program to offer at the convention, claiming that many other schools look to Notre Dame for leadership and guidance.
Following Uhl on the program, Martin McLaughlin, graduate student in Political Science, answered the various criticisms which the NSO has met on the campus. He stated that the organization must be judged objectively by what it is, and not by what it might possibly become at some future time.
Objections voiced by the students: 1) Why participate in this organization— what can I get out of it?; 2) We might have to compromise our principles, faith and the name of the University; 3) We would be contaminated by Reds; 4) We would aid in setting up a “front” organization; 5) We already have our own Catholic organizations.
Answered McLaughlin: 1) Notre Dame students should ask “What can I give?” rather than “What can I get?”. With a well rounded education, there is a responsibility to impart this knowledge to others. 2) If this objection were valid, Catholics would have to withdraw from labor unions, politics and everything else, enclosing themselves in a cloister of a completely Catholic society. 3) Based on fear, the idea of contamination is a sad commentary on the individual’s background, which should have fortified him against such weaknesses. These other groups, though misdirected, are sincerely
trying to correct economic and social wrongs. 4) Without Catholic influence, the NSO would definitely become a “front” and therefore it should not be abandoned. 5) Contact with other organizations would strengthen and broaden the NFCCS.
The decision to be made, McLaughlin concluded, is the choice between indifference and responsibility, isolation and collaboration, past and present.
John Ready O’Connor, Student Council member from Zahm Hall, reported on the Chicago Conference of last December, outlining the proposed and tentative structure of the NSO and its possible aims. Power of the organization would mainly be in its regional committees, composed of representatives from the colleges of that section, with each school delegation determined by its enrollment. Also existing would be a National General Assembly and a National Executive Commission, whose function would be administrative and not policy-making. Among the proposed aims of the organization, which are in no way definite or binding, are improvement of educational facilities, raising of standards, extension of educational privileges, regardless of race or religion, support of student self-government and removing student publications from administrative censorship.
Wranglers to Accept Membership Applications
Breaking long-established precedents, Wranglers, campus honorary discussion society, will accept applications for new members during the week of March 7-14. Traditionally the club has held membership meetings only at the conclusion of the academic semester but in order to introduce new members to the methods of the club, mid-semester applications are now being accepted.
Al Sommer, political science major from Golf, Illinois, and chairman of the membership committee has announced that students should apply before noon, March 12. Other members of the committee are Bill Pfaff, Jack Fallon, and Ted Weber, Jr. Letters of application should be addressed to 408 Morrissey Hall.
At Tuesday’s meeting Jim Green, English major from Newfoundland, spoke on “An Outsider Looks at America,” evaluating American contemporary institutions.
Universal ND Night Centers In Denver
More than 24,000 alumni and former students of the University of Notre Dame will observe the twenty-fourth annual Universal Notre Dame Night in meetings of ninety-four Notre Dame alumni clubs throughout the world on Monday, April 14th, it was announced this week by James E. Armstrong, Executive Secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association.
The 1947 observance of Universal Notre Dame Night' will be centered in Denver, Colorado, where the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, will speak before the Notre Dame club of Denver and civic, religious and educational leaders in the Rocky Mountain area. Father Cavanaugh will be accompanied by other University officials for the occasion.
Universal Notre Dame Night is observed. annually by alumni and former students of Notre Dame throughout the world as a tribute to the spiritual, patriotic, academic, cultural as well as scientific achievements of the University of Notre Dame. Besides meetings in scores of cities and communities in the United States, other gatherings will be held on that date by Notre Dame alumni clubs in Hawaii, the Philippines, Mexico City, the Canal Zone and Bengal, India.
Plans are underway for a national radio network to broadcast the observance from Denver to other key cities throughout the United States. Robert A. Dick, Denver attorney, has been appointed General Chairman of the Denver Club’s ceremonies.
Conservative Comments As Leahy Shows Films
Football, Notre Dame’s most abundant commodity, was back on the market again this week. Although it was wrapped in a celluloid container, the game was still being sold by the same salesman—Frank Leahy.
Monday evening in the Notre Dame drill hall, before naval reservists from local divisions 9-48 and 9-49 and a small group of ex-army veterans, head football coach Frank Leahy gave a running account of two 1946 football games. Caustically, Mr. Leahy underlined the fact that last year’s team was above par in all departments. When asked how things looked for ’47, Mr. Leahy, with tongue in cheek, replied conservatively: “We’D see.”
Lieut. Commander J. F. Davis, local representative for the district director of the naval reserve, was in charge of the program.
17
TRACKMEN TO COMPETE IN CENTRAL COLLEGIATE MEET TOMORROW
ond and third. Tully eclipsed Keenan for ond the place position. John Smith won the R. S high hurdles in the record time of 7.3	Hun
seconds, and took second in the lows, be-	whe
ing edged out by R. Fraser. Bob Me- to j David captured third in the highs.	tanc
Terry Brennan was second in the pole Mid vault, and Ray Struble and Jim Miller i reco divided third with Vosberg of Michigan |] high State. In the shot put, Luke Higgins was | cish second and George Sullivan third. Sec- | thre
BENGAL BOUTS: Rom the bag..
Notre Dame trackmen will attempt to regain the victory road tomorrow at East Lansing, Michigan, where they will compete in the Central Collegiate Indoor Championship meet. The Irish, defending the title they captured last year, will also be trying to down the team which dealt them their first defeat of the indoor season here last Saturday.
The two strongest contenders for the crown besides N.D. are Drake and the Spartans of Michigan State. However, approximately twenty schools are scheduled to take part in the contests and individual honors to some schools entered in only a few events may sap the strength of the leaders. The Irish will be relying on strong individual performances for their points, but will be severely weakened by the loss of John Smith, who stretched a muscle in the low hurdle final of last week’s meet. There is a possibility that he may be in shape for this week’s contest, tut in all probability Smith will rest up for the Purdue Relays and the Chicago Relays coming within the next few weeks. Notre Dame may be able to corner some points in the mile relay and in the medley or two mile relays. Sinec those events do not pay off in relation to manpower employed, the strong emphasis will be on success in the distance and-middle distance runs, the 300 yard run, and the shot.
The local squad dropped a close contest to the Spartans last week, losing in the final event, the mile relay, on a heartbreaking baton fumble in the last lap. Going into the mile relay, Michigan State held a slight edge of three and two thirds points, giving the Irish a chance to win the meet with a victory in that event. The contest was close all the way, but several of the individual events which the local tracksters should have taken went to the Spartans, putting the decision on the showing of the mile relay squad. This climax made a thrilling meet, but put a terrible strain on the four men carrying the baton and Notre Dame hopes. It was the first dual contest the Irish ever lost to Michigan State.
Local superiority in the distances and middle distances was the factor that kept the Irish in the contest. Jim Murphy took the two-mile and Cornie Styers finished second in a brilliant final drive. The 440 was won by Dave Murphy in a new meet record time of :50.4. In a fight for second Ernie McCullough nosed out Fraser of the Spartans. N.D. captured second and third in the mile, Bill Leonard and Bill Tully, losing to Dianetti. The mighty Dianetti set a new indoor and gym mark in the 880 as he won in 1:54 9, leaving Tully and Larry Keenan to fight for sec-
By JOE <
The alumni of the University of Mich- foot igan sweated out head	football coach	ill ]
Fritz Crisler’s decision	to remain at	wer
Michigan after he was	tempted by a	in C
handsome salary at the	University of	the
California. Although the administration say: at Michigan would not admit that it gave han Crisler a better salary, it has been learn- gin, ed that jCrisler demanded and will re- Wei ceive a few of his proposed improvements in the athletic set-up. Just to give you an idea of what the Michigan coach ^ou demanded: 16 new tennis courts, 2 swim- It ming pools, an elaborate clubhouse to be plaj built on the golf course, a new hockey bavi arena, the biggest fieldhouse in the Big	San
9 with a seating capacity of at least	toss
24,000, and an enlargement of the foot- son ball stadium to seat 96,000 fans. Who’s ablj talking about de-emphasizing?	sigr
.	ceiv
♦	,
whe Allen M. Foster ..	.	like
Allen	M.	Foster of Louisville, Ken-	(an
tucky, presented Coach Leahy with the of : pictorial resume of the 1946 football sea- $75, son. This is the fifth consecutive year	Gre
that Mr. Foster, who has never seen a	whi
Notre Dame football team	in action,	has	Mu.>
come through	with his	masterful review	Car
of the year.	*	p
♦	Sla1
Cincinnati "Enquirer" Slightly Wrong . . .
Lou Smith, sports editor of the Cincinnati Enquirer, mentioned in his column a week or two ago that Frank Leahy would not be coaching this year’s
pla; Cai of 1 sat
BENGAL I
MCN., TUES
18
ond and third in the 60 yard dash went to R. Smith and Bennett respectively. Jack Hunter really gave the Irish their chance when he took second in the broad jump to pull the locals within striking distance for the mile relay. Johnson of Michigan State broke all indoor and gym records with his leap of 24'-5%". The high jump might easily be called the decisive event, as the Spartans swept all three places.
; the, P^edd
Jy JOE CHENEY—Scholastic Sports Editor
football team at Notre Dame because of ill health. 19 letters with the clipping were sent to this desk from fans living in Cincinnati asking us to deny or affirm the statement. Coach Leahy has this to say: “It’s not true. I feel fine and can hardly wait for spring practice to begin, in fact, I’m looking forward to it.” Well, that’s that.
❖
Tough Break for Musial . . .
It seems unfair to the star baseball players of the St. Louis Cardinals to have to sign those lousy contracts which Sam Breadon, owner of the Cardinals, toss at them year after year. This season the salaries have jumped considerably throughout both leagues. Musial signed for more than Dizzy Dean received back in the days of “Me and Paul” when Diz got $25,000. But with salaries like Feller’s $80,000, DiMaggio’s $42,500 (and he may not start the season because of an unhealed heel), Ted Williams’ $75,000, and the ancient gardener, Hank Greenberg, receiving the highest salary which he has ever gotten, I wonder how Musial really feels about playing for the Cards.
It was only a couple of years ago that Slats Marion, “Mr. Shortstop,” himself played every game of the season for the t Cards for $12,000 while Frank Crosetti I of the Yankees drew down $17,500 and I sat on the bench most of the season. ,	(Continued on Page 23)
EEELIMS es„ WED.
...to the body!
BASKETBALL SQUAD CLOSES SEASON AGAINST MARQUETTE TOMORROW
A short trip to Milwaukee tomorrow night for forty minutes of dribbling with Marquette is all that faces Coach Ed Krause’s basketball team before they hang up their uniforms for this season. This encounter will terminate a most successful season for the hardwood boys.
This will be the second game with the Hilltoppers this season. The first ended in an 87-61 triumph for Notre Dame. The Irish will go into the game the possessors of a new all-time season scoring record, having surpassed the ’45 team’s mark of 1,241 points. Every point they get in this game wil be gravy.
Last Friday night in the Chicago Stadium, Notre Dame met an embarrassing fate at the hands of DePaul. The chief torturer was Ed Mikan, who finally came to life and acted out the Mikan name. He accounted for 31 of his team’s 61 points in their 61-50 victory.
The game was a continuation of the wrestling match staged by the same two teams earlier this season in the old Gym. But the preventative measures employed in this game were a little bit more drastic than those of the previous game. At the insistence of the referee, Leo Barnhorst, Irish guard, and Andy Federinko, Demon forward, left the game. The two were caught in the act of exchanging love taps with closed fists, an unpardonable sin in collegiate athletics.
Also during the course of the game,
five men were told by the same referee to retire to the bench because of five personal fouls. They were John Brennan and Jim O’Halloran of Notre Dame, and Mikan, Leddy and Chuck Allen of DePaul.
For 39 minutes and 25 seconds of Saturday night’s game, it looked like the only thing that Notre Dame would gain for the weekend would be the Dr. Williams Memorial trophy for the football National Championship. But Kevin O’Shea changed the picture with 30 seconds to go by dropping in the game winning basket for a 55-53 decision over Northwestern.
Returning from his exile of the night before, Leo Barnhorst led the Irish with 19 points on nine baskets and one free throw. His efforts did not quite match those of Ben Schadler of Northwestern who got 27 points. For a while it looked as if Schadler would duplicate Mikan’s feat of the previous night.
The game was an uphill fight for Notre Dame all the way. Twice the Wildcats held an eight-point advantage, hut the Irish were to have their way and fought back both times. The two teams played a remarkably clean game as compared to the ND-DePaul battle of the previous night. No one was banished from the floor and there were only 27 personals as compared to 45 for the night before.—Pete Brown
1
IMItllCIM
BY JIM HOWARD
One of the most important reasons for Notre Dame’s overwhelming track victories this season is captain John Gelston Smith, hurdler extraordinary, who has paced his team in both home conquests. John had started the year with a series of new records which seem destined to fall soon before his own spikes.
The great hurdler from Park Ridge, Illinois, started his career of timber hopping at Main Township High School near Des Plaines, Illinois. John captured the difficult Chicago Suburban Conference title in his sophomore year. In his third season after again winning the conference championship, he took the Illinois State high and low hurdle crowns. Smith began his record breaking in 1941, his last scholastic year. He set a State mark of :14.1 in the high barriers, and lowered the low hurdle record to :21.9. A few weeks later in the Ohio State A. A. U. meet, he tied the National Interscholastic record of Joe Batiste in the highs as he ran the sticks in 14 seconds flat.
Smith entered the land of the Golden Dome in the fall of 1941. He was not eligible for regular collegiate competition, because the Western Conference rules had not been relaxed at that time. However, he appeared in several invitational meets, and added new laurels to his already impressive record. He took part in the Chicago Relays, Cleveland Knights of Columbus games, and the National A. A. U. in New York. At Cleveland, John established a world mark of :5.1 in the 45 yard lows. In the Nationals, he was beaten in both races by Champion Fred Wolcott of Rice.
When the Army and Smith exchanged greetings, John continued flying, this time as pilot of a B-24, affectionately titled, “Tail Heavy.” He participated in 17 sorties as a member of the 15th Air Force based in Italy. On one of these sorties, flack made both John and his plane a little heavier in the tail. Smith returned from his operations in the Italian area with the Air Medal with two clusters, the Distinguished Flying Cross, and a desire to do his flying closer to the ground.
John married Miss Jo Ann Stanton of Park Ridge on August 17, 1944, just previous to going overseas. The wedding was the culmination of a long romance begun when John first jumped over her fence. The Smiths are also parents of

Carey, a husky 11-month-old boy who fortunately, looks like his mother, according to his dad. At present they are inhabitants of the cardboard village, calling Apartment 6B home.
Smith returned to N.D. last March, but Army life had taken it’s toll, and he was far from the condition necessary for winning hurdle contests. He did well enough in spite of his poor shape and injured knee to win his monogram.
So far this year, John has set new marks in the highs and lows for the Purdue meet, and cracked the N.D. indoor record of :7.5 in the highs with a time :7.4. He established a new Irish indoor and fieldhouse record in the lows against Marquette and Michigan Normal as he cut the tape in :6.9. Smith prefers the highs, because he thinks he isn’t fast enough for the lows. His vanquished opponents think otherwise.
His ambitions include a law degree from Notre Dame (please note, Dean Manion), and a winning team here at N.D. this year. He would also enjoy having time to indulge in inland sailing, hunting, fishing and playing bridge. Track is John’s only competitive sport, although he enjoys golf with its more leisurely pace.
The tall, six foot, ideal hurdler is as flexible as an unbaked pretzel which is one of the reasons for his greatness. He believes Fred Wolcott the country’s best hurdler, and Bill Porter of Northwestern, the best in the mid-west. John, who is twenty-three years old has one more year
of competition left. Smith feels he will never regain his old prowess, but has already worked himself into top form. His peak, if reached, is one of those unusual ones that continues climbing. This season promises to be a path of shattered records for the captain of the track team, John Smith.
Howard Hall Champs; B-P, St. Edward's Tie
By Buzz Wright and Joe Doyle
Howard Hall emerged as the winners in the Western Division of the Interhall Basketball League thus becoming the only team in either division to close the regular season with an unblemished record. In the Eastern Division, however, Breen-Phillips and St. Ed’s are deadlocked for first and will play an elimination game to decide the winner of the league title on Friday, Mar 7 at 8 p.m.
Until the final week of play, both Lyons and Howard had perfect records and when they met in the final game, almost anything was expected to happen. But Howard took an early lead and could never he headed as they won handily, 42-27. In other games played in the last two weeks of play, Lyons topped Alumni 37-20, and also won over- Dillon in a close battle 26-24. Howard dusted Morrissey 37-17, and Dillon romped over Badin 36-24. In the battle for the gold-coast supremacy Alumni topped Dillon 49-34, and in the battle for the cellar Morrissey outlasted Badin 30-18.
Some red-hot games were played in the Eastern Division in the last weeks of play. Walsh surprised everyone by upsetting 40-35, Breen-Phillips who had won all other games handily, but then Walsh lost to a supposedly easy Zahm team, 34-30, St. Ed’s assured themselves of a tie for first with B-P by winning from Farley 38-29 and from Sorin by 47-24. After the upset B-P finished with two easy victims, Cavanaugh, by 48-40, and Farley, 53-33. Zahm finished with a .500 rating by disposing of Farley, 31-21, and then losing to Cavanaugh, 50-43. Cavanaugh topped Sorin in the only other game played.
In the Club league another playoff was necessitated when three teams tied for second place behind the KC’s. This playoff will be Thursday and Friday night of this week. In the other division, the Kentucky and Aesculapian teams will await the result of the playoff to determine when the round robin elimination will begin. Final games the past (Continued on page 28)
20
54 FIGHTERS READY FOR PRELIMS; FINALS FOLLOW ON ST. PAT'S DAY
4, 50 yard breast stroke; 5, Diving—low board; 6, 50 yard back stroke; 7, 100 yard free style; 8, 200 yard relay (4 men).	.
By PETE BROWN
Monday night the old Gym will be turned into a small edition of Madison Square Garden when the elimination bouts in the Bengal Bouts get under way. The elimination bouts will continue through Tuesday and Wednesday with the semi-finals on Thursday and the finals on the following Monday, St. Patrick’s Day.
Coach Dominic Napolitano assembled the contestants in the Rockne Memorial last Tuesday evening and gave them the rules under which they are to fight. He also announced the tentative pairings for the 145- and 155-lb. divisions.
The fights will be run under intercollegiate rules with a few minor variations. The referee has the power to stop the fight at any time if he thinks one of the contestants is taking too severe a beating. The rounds will be scored on a ten-point basis with aggressiveness, offense, defense and sportsmanship as the factors in point scoring.
The rule he stressed most was the awarding of a decision in a bout in which one or both of the contestants has received a severe cut. If the injury occurs in the first round and the injured fighter is unable to continue in the fight, the decision will be awarded to the other
The following lists according to divisions are complete, but again, they are dependent on the weighing-in ceremonies of Monday.
127-lb.: Bob Phillips, Tony Ortiz, Tom ing, Frank Debitetto, Jim Sullivan, Carleton Bey, and Ed Greenwell. 135-lb.: Dante Mercurio, Russ VanKeuren, Bob Henebry, Bob Pasquarella, Mike Conolly, R. Weber, and Rudy Trapano. 165-lb.: Frank Lombardo, Jim Engel, Pat Mulvihill, Terry Brennan, Tom Landig, Jim Carroll, George Ratterman, and Ed Sauve. 175-lb.: Paul Boulus, Paul Schef-ly, Bill Roemer, Tom Clementine, Dick Cotter, and Dick Gorman. Heavyweight: Jim Leary, Russ Skall, Jack Fallon, Gus Cifelli, and Ted Budyenkiewicz.
Interhall Swim Meet
Planned for March 20
Swimmers are rapidly preparing for the Interhall Swimming Meet which will be held on Thursday, March 20 at 7:30 p.m. There will be eight events in the competition:
1, 150 yard medley (3 men); 2, 200 yard free style; 3, 50 yard free style;
One man may enter two events in addition to one relay, and medals will be given to all winners. Interhall scoring will be on the basis of 5 points for 1st, 3 points for 2nd, and 1 point for 3rd in the individual events; in the relays 8, 6, and 4 points will be given for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd.
Evert Wins Squash Title; Handbail Race Still On
G. Evert of 146 Morrissey became the Squash Champion of the University when he defeated McGowen, an off-campus entry, in the finals of the singles tourney last week.
In the handball singles, the semi-finals have been reached, and in the lower bracket Debitetto beat Begley to assure himself-of a spot in the finals. In the upper bracket the winner of the Polk-Parise match will meet the winner of the Herber-Schaeffer match to decide who will met Debitetto for the University Singles Championship.
Handball doubles are also in the semifinals. Polk and Mitchell meet Dillon and O’Connor in the upper bracket, and in the lower division Begley and De Simon will play against Schaeffer and Debitetto.
fighter. If the injury takes place in the second or third round, the decision will be awarded to the fighter who is leading at that time on points, even if this man is the one who was injured. But if after a medical examination it is determined that the winner is unable to continue in the tournament, his opponent will be awarded his place.
At the meeting the following pairings were announced for Monday night’s bouts. These, however, are only tentative because the fighters do not hav§ to weigh in until Monday afternoon. The actual pairings can not be made until the fighting weight of each contestant is determined.
In the 145-lb. division these men are tentatively matched: Merritt Hoglund vs. Walter Evans; Jim King vs. Bob Conaty; Bob Satti vs. Jim Smith; J. Klockenkemper vs. Jim O’Brien; and Frank Fahey vs. Bob Lee.
The following matches were made in the 155-lb. class: Bill Hopke vs. Sars Quigley; Frank Cryan vs. Jim Driscoll; Art Seltzer vs. Jack Gaines; and Dick McGolderick vs. Don Fidler.
"There's the bell folks, and from what I hear this should be a pretty rough fight ... both these boys are dating the same St. Mary's girl.. .'*
21
IS1I<II<IN<
The loss of a ballplayer of Kevin O’Shea’s abilities would have effected a collapse for most college teams but not for Notre-Dame. Paul Gordon returned to the starting lineup to replace the brilliant Californian in the DePaul encounter and the Irish never looked better than in their rout of the Blue Demons. Gordy parted the meshes for eight points and played a leading part in tieing giant Eddie Mikan into a state of confusion.
The husky Scotch-Irishman from Baltimore was outstanding as a regular guard in the early season victory string, but an attack of flu kept him in the infirmary while the squad was dropping the Wisconsin fray at Madison. Then he was relegated to a substitute’s role because big John Brennan went three inches higher into the air and Coach Krause was in dire need of height. Nevertheless Paul rates as Notre Dame’s “sixth starter” and can be counted on for some rugged defensive play (ask the aforementioned Blue Demons) and timely buckets. The trophy case at Mt. St. Joseph High School was overloaded from additions acquired during Paul’s stay at the Monument City school. He starred for a baseball nine that copped the Maryland high school championship in his last two seasons; and won All-State honors in booting the soccer team to a state title in 1944, his senior year. The Mt. St. Joe basketbailers were tops in their conference in 1943 and 1944 with Paul winding up as an All-Maryland selection both years.
Gordy was at Notre Dame the fall after his graduation and while the grid-der were toiling away at Cartier Field, Paul was in the fieldhouse battling for a forward spot on Clem Crowe’s varsity quintet. In that 1944-45 season, he subbed for the clever Johnny Dee, appearing in 18 games and accounting for 65 points. That was at the same time Vince Boryla was adjusting the Irish record books, and Paul rates the All-American center as the best eager he has seen in action.
Paul easily won a monogram, but had little chance to wear his “ND” before donning the regalia of the U. S. Navy. Like many an outstanding grid or hardwood ace, he was sent to the Bainbridge Naval Station just outside of his home town. There Gordy was the big gun in a broadside that sank 28 of the 33 tough foes engaged by the Sailor five. Paul hit the hoop for 461 tallies, a total that placed him at the top of the list of Bainbridge’s basketball greats. Teammate
Paul
Bob Metcalfe, now a crack forward at Valparaiso, equalled this point aggregate and the two are co-sharers of the alltime station record.
After 18 months in service Paul returned to the College of Arts and Letters, looking foiward to a future Law course and more basketball. With two seasons left to play, he will help form the nucleus of some Irish quintets that should be among the best in the land.
Family Discussion Group Meets in K.C. Chambers
A Family Discussion Group, recently organized by Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., former Army chaplain and now rector of Farley Hall, will meet every other Wednesday night at 7:30 p.m. in the Knights of Columbus clubroom in the basement of Walsh Hall.
The group will discuss the various problems of family life and marriage. All students are invited to attend the discussion on the problems of family life and marriage. Questions on any phase of family life will be welcomed. According to plans, the meetings will last approximately one hour.
Cleveland Club Calls for Investigation of NSO
Calling for a more thorough investigation of the possible value of the National Students’ Organization, the Cleveland Club presented a resolution at the NSO meeting last Tuesday asking if this group could have any effect on the individual student here.
Read by William J. Braun of Badin Hall, vice-president of the club, the resolution stated in part: “It may be that NSO is destined to suffer the same fate at Notre Dame as the NFCCS, CSSCA, the Student Council and the Blue Circle, none of which have done any more than make the often repeated but never executed motion that the student be aided. After four brave attempts we are back where we started with no net gain, and perhaps a more confused idea as to the rights of the student.”
In consideration of the report on the tentative aim of the organization, the resolution considered it “very unlikely that the student here will be permitted to handle the responsibilities set out for him.”—Shaun McDermott
French, Australian Youths Seek ND Correspondence
Two more letters from foreign students desiring correspondence with Notre Dame men arrived in the Scholastic office this week. The epistles, relayed by the campus Young Christian Students organization, are from Jules Wacquez of Lille, France, and John Tunchien of Willoughby, New South Wales, Australia. A previous pen-pal request from Panos Kotsikos, Athens, Greece, was printed in the Scholastic two weeks ago.
Wacquez, the Frenchman, writes for the Federation of the The Students of the Catholic University of Lille. His letter reads, in part: “We feel sure that the scholars of Notre Dame University, so famous all over the world for their sportive achievements, will reply in a large way to the invitation of the French Students.”
The Australian, John Tunchien, likes sports and ND football in particular. “I was wondering,” says John, “if you could find me a pin friend [Aussy for pen-pal], boy or girl, about 18-19 years old.” Notre Dame men and SMC girls take note.
The complete addresses of the three correspondence seekers are:
Jules Wacquez, Federation des Etu-diants de la Catholique de Lille, 125 Rue Meurein, Lille, France.
John Tunchien, Commonwealth Bank, Willoughby, New So. Wales, Australia.
Panos Kotsikos, 35 Vatazi St., Neapolis F, Athens, Greece.
22
YOUR STUDENT COUNCIL
(This is the first of a series of articles calculated to make the student body better informed on Student Council activities and to farther parallel interests of the students and the Administration.)
Perhaps many are wondering what this column contains. Many are looking for infonnation . . . and that is exactly what they will get. . . information about the Student Council; what it is; where and how it operates; whom it represents; and its various activities.
The organization meets weekly in the Council Chamber in Badin Hall to solve any deserving student problem with which it is confronted. It is a means of educating the student to govern himself and submit to democratic authority.
Your Student Council is the only official body recognized by the Administration as representing the students. Please understand that it is a tool to be used by the student body and not a machine of the University officials. It has four primary purposes:
1.	To provide an effective channel of communication between the student body and the University authorities;
2.	To administer student activities, organizations, traditions and customs;
3.	To crystallize and make effective the opinions of the student body;
4.	To take all steps necessary to maintain and promote school spirit.
The council consists of twenty-two men; one representative from each residence hall, one representative from each of the five colleges, and two representatives from the Villager’s Club. With the exception of the college representatives all of these men are elected by the students themselves.
To make this a better Student Council and to further both the interests of the students and the interests of the University you should submit your opinions to your representative or mail them directly to the Student Council. The Student Council welcomes any opinions, pro or con, if they are sent directly to them and not through other channels.
Many students do not realize the benefits they receive from this organization. We would like to cite three examples:
1.	Army game weekend—How many of you know that it was the Student Council who obtained permission from the Director of Studies for the extra free day on the Monday following the game?
2.	Elections—How many of you know
that the members of the Student Council Elections Committee supervised the elections of class officers last Fall giving their time at the polls, counting the ballots and publicizing the results?
3.	Laundry—How many of you know that through the efforts of the Student Council the weekly pick-up of laundry was arranged.
These examples are cited to show what the Student Council can do when it receives a legitimate request through the proper channels.
—Student Council Publicity Committee
St. Mary’s President Lectures on Poetry
After a lapse of several years Notre Dame again welcomed Sister M. Made-leva, C.9.C., president of St. Mary’s College to the campus last Thursday evening.
The audience, composed of several hundred students, faculty members and visitors from neighboring communities, enthusiastically received Sister Made-leva’s 70 minute talk on “The Poet and the Philosopher.” This lecture was sponsored by the University of Notre Dame Concert and Lecture Series.
Opening her talk, Sister Madeleva expressed her happiness in returning to the school where she was once a student. She is a member of the alumnae having earned her master’s degree while studying here.
Sister Madeleva’s lecture was inspired by an essay on poetry from Jacques Mar-itain’s “Art and Scholasticism.” The purpose of her lecture was to reconcile “Maritain’s principles of poetry with my practice.” She did this by expertly applying to her poetry Maritain’s definition of poetry as the “divination of the spiritual in the things of sense.”
Taking six main points of the essay Sister Madeleva analyzed selected poems to illustrate the beauty of poetry in philosophy. That her poems are written from the philosophic point of view was clearly indicated.
She read poems inspired by her extensive travels abroad and at home. Captured scenes and moments at Oxford, in Ireland, California and other parts of the world where she taught and lectured were the inspiration for many of her famous poems.
An excellent lecturer, imbued with a quiet humor and conscious of God in poetry, Sister Madeleva marked her successful return to Notre Dame by a closing recitation of her poem “Candlelight.”
Wanted: 20 Musicians
Somewhere on this broad campus there are twenty musicians hiding behind their long hair. It is Rolf Scheurer’s job to ferret them out of their concealment and to place them where they belong—in the Notre Dame Symphony. Sorely needed by the orchestra are stringed instruments, cellos in particular. At the present time the orchestra is composed of thirty members, but fifty is the goal. If you have talent in this direction, contact Mr. Scheurer at his office, Room 25 of the Music Hall.
Although hampered somewhat by the orchestra’s limited membership, Conductor Scheurer has quite a few engagements on tap. The first public appearance of the symphony this semester was February 22 at the Washington Day exercises in Washington Hall. At present the orchestra is taking on the task of mastering the music of Gilbert and Sullivan for the production of “lolanthe” which will be produced by the music department. Then, of course, the symphony has its usual assignment of playing for the commencement exercises. If at all possible, the orchestra wants to stage its own concert during the latter part of this semester.
Mr. Scheurer, who directs the symphony, attended the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia. He was fortunate to be under the tutelage of Rosario Sca-lero while there. After his graduation in 1944, Mr. Scheurer came to Notre Dame. Besides handling the symphony, he teaches in the music department.
—Joe Herrington
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 19)
Stan Spence Still on Block ...
Stan Spence, a favorite with the baseball fans of Washington, is still number one on Clark Griffith’s trading block. Not too long ago we reported that he was heading for the Yankees to fill in the gap in right field if Tommy Heinrich was moved to first base. He may still end up with the New Yorkers providing the Cleveland deal involving Ken Keltner doesn’t go through. Cleveland seems to be knee deep in outfielders but the Cleveland sports writers claim Spence will be patroling the outer gardens for the Tribe before April 15th.
♦
Did You Know Department? ...
That George Connor, the 1947 football captain, was an incubator baby? George weighed three pounds at birth . . . but look at him now. Just goes to show you what beans and bacon can do for a fella!
23
Dr. Sliderule Cosine Would Bisect World
By JOE WILCOX
Both east and west bound trains were jam-packing into South Bend with congressmen, pressmen, U. N. delegates, pressure groups, curiosity seekers. Piling off trains aisle-deep with cohorts, their object was Notre Dame and its Dr. Sliderule Cosine. D.M.N.*, long a top-notch professor of mathematics and engineering by vocation, student of world affairs by avocation. Ex-one worlder Cosine had shuffled off his sheep’s clothing: he was a one-half worlder. The Cosine Solution for International Problems: divide the world into two separate pieces.
Bemused by the revolutionary suggestion, chary, wily, cynical commentators held fire, took the announcement with a grain of salt, summoned confreres, eventually decided the matter was worth investigating.
No shrinking violet, Dr. Cosine laid down the formula:
Ax=1t (XI 4- X2+ ...Xn = Ex— A A2 — Ex = E ( X + Ji1) nx -r Ex :. =xT = E x 12 = Ax 1T
The object: to get rid of the Eastern hemisphere where all the trouble always starts. Added advantage: the cleavage would be accomplished in the daytime, getting rid of night and permitting embryonic engineers to spend 24 hours in class.
Other mathematicians mulled over his formula, decided it worthy of an engineer, strained it with everything from addition to the differential calculus, could decide but one thing. Two and two were 17.19872. The ramifications of this discovery, coupled with their learned colleague’s hypothesis, they suggested, proved that engineers should have run the world long ago. “Practicality,” said one.
Adverse comment left Dr. Cosine ruffed but adamant. Sticking to his drawing board, he weathered a delegation of The Sons of St. Patrick, who wanted to get Eire out of the eastern hemisphere, move it to Boston; then heard the complaints of a delegation of irate Bostonians. Applause came from the World’s Greatest Newspaper, which wanted to know if everything east of Cleveland could go too. The Daily Worker sought the addition of the USSR to Oregon, proposed a modified formula to accomplish it.
More jolted was he by the timid suggestion of one Watts Alziss, an AB freshman with an average of 70.001, who quoted, “Let no man put asunder.” Dr.
♦Doctor of Mathematical Nonsense.
Cosine fixed Alziss with a withering glance.
“East is east, and west is west, and never the twain shall meet,” said he, or, as Macbeth said, “Now, o’er the one-half world!” Then Dr. Cosine avoided further questions, went off to his curtained sleep. U. N. delegates went home.
Commerce Forum Chooses Murphy As New Moderator
The Commerce Forum has resumed its bi-weekly discussions with the guidance of its new moderator, Mr. Murphy of the Commerce faculty. He replaced Mr. Smith, Ass’t. Dean, whose long years of service had made his name almost synonymous with the Forum.
The first paper delivered was that of John Toole who spoke on “America’s Foreign Policy” at the Feb. 12 meeting. He said, “America at present is floundering in the dilemma of no foreign policy. This cannot last, for at some time there must be a nuclear alliance among the U.S., Russia, and Great Britain. This alliance must be one of power, and the U.S. must remain powerful to make it work.”
On Feb. 26 Jack Alexander, president of the Forum, spoke on “The Tariff.” After giving a brief history of the tariff the president stated, “Tariff is either protective or revenue—never both. One attempting to do both will not work.”
As a remedy to our tariff troubles Mr. Alexander said, “Take the tariff out of politics, place it in the hands of economists through a board similar to the Federal Reserve Board. Then we will make headway on the tariff question.”
The officers of the Forum for this semester are: Jack Alexander, president; Paul Qualy, vice-president; John Ducato, publicity chairman; and John Mullen, secretary.—John Ducato
Vetville Residents Ask for Bus Route to Village
Mayor Patrick Haggerty of Vetville presented a petition, signed by approximately 1400 persons in that area, to the Northern Indiana* Transit Company on Monday of this week. The petition urged the establishment of a separate bus line to the veterans community.
Although no immediate decision was made by the Northern Indiana Transit Company, Mr. Watterson, president, and Mr. Hahn, traffic manager, were favorable to the proposal. They agreed to send traffic men out to Vetville to survey a possible route. It was understood that any new line would not be an extension of the present Notre Dame route.
Washington Tour on; All Plans Announced
Notre Dame amateur Political Scientists heard welcome news this week. The famed Washington Tour directed by Professor Paul C. Bartholomew was being revived.
Originated several years before the war by Dr. Bartholomew, groups of Notre Dame men have toured the nation’s Capital and the surrounding historic country during week-long Easter holidays. These groups have (1) attended White House and embassy receptions and Congressional committee hearings; (2) inspected the archives of the Department of State; (3) witnessed Congress in action and the Supreme Court in deliberation; (4) admired Washington’s famed cherry blossoms.
Added to this year’s tour, which leaves Notre Dame on Friday, April 4 and returns Wednesday morning, April 9, is a side-trip down the Chesapeake Bay to historic Tidewater Virginia.
The all-expense cost of the tour, $89.75, includes: round-trip rail fare in special car; all bus, rail, and boat transportation; all meals on diner, at hotel, and on steamer; hotel accommodations in Washington; breakfast Easter Sunday morning at the Franciscan Monastery, and luncheon in the Senate Restaurant; luncheon at beautiful colonial Williamsburg; stateroom on boat; all sightseeing and transfers in special buses, guides, lecturers and admission fees to grounds and buildings.
Reservations must be made by March 25th, and all N.D. men are eligible. For further information and reservations write, phone or see Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, 415 East Pokagon St., South Bend (Phone 4-1472) or Room 230, Social Science Bldg., (Phone 3-111, Ext. 354).—Frank Keenan.
BUDENZ
(Continued from page 9) self-imposed silence, and joined the faculty of the University of Notre Dame. He relinquished his post at Notre Dame last summer because of bad health, and returned east to join the faculty of Fordham University.
Mr. Budenz’ speech will be the first of five sponsored by the South Bend Aquinas Guild. Other speakers are: Rev. Joseph T. O’Callahan, S.J., hero chaplain of the carrier U.S.S. Ben Franklin; Clarence E. Manion, dean of the Notre Dame Law School; Rev. John S. Kennedy, of Hartford, Conn., writer and lecturer; and Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, noted speaker and writer.
24
Cartier Field
By ALVIN FEUER
It was back in 1899 that the University of Notre Dame, realizing the need for an athletic field, because of the growing popularity of sports, asked Mr. Warren Cartier, Class of ’87, for financial aid in constructing a stadium to care for the athletic needs of the school. Mr. Cartier responded enthusiastically to the cause by donating a sum, sufficient to purchase ten acres of land, and also volunteered to furnish materials for the fence and grandstand.
The first layout plan called for a kiteshaped track, enclosing a football field and baseball diamond. This was discarded however, in favor of a later design which provided that the gridiron and baseball field occupy the center of the plot, leaving room for a track on the outside. The field was finally laid out in 1900, and consisted of a quarter mile track with two parallel sides, 375 feet long, connected by semicircles, with a 220 yard straight away along one side. The football field was placed in the center, with the diamond located at one end of the gridiron. A grandstand to accommodate 500 people was placed behind the goal post, which was also home plate of the baseball field.
Another and larger football field was placed alongside the track, and a small grandstand was erected for it. When it was completed the new Cartier Field was rated one of the finest athletic fields in the country. As football became more and more popular the seating capacity of the stadium was increased; but it wasn’t long before a new amphitheatre was in demand. In 1930 the present stadium was opened and the sod of Cartier Field was transferred to the new gridiron.
Only Two Defeats on Cartier Sod
The history of Cartier Field was long and glorious. Such football masters as Rockne, Gipp, and “The Four Horsemen,” autographed their names with flashing cleats on the dull green turf. Some of the greatest dramas in the pigskin sport have been enacted on its soil; and their legends have etched the name of Notre Dame in flaming stars of victory beside the cold flame of hard fought defeats. Irish teams were vanquished only twice in the famous stadium. Wabash College was the offender in 1905 by the score of 5-0, and it wasn’t until twenty-three years later, in 1928, that the Irish were ever again beaten on their
home field. That time it was a very strong Carnegie. Tech team that turned the trick by clipping a brave but inexperienced Notre Dame squad 27-7. Cartier Field witnessed six Irish teams go undefeated and untied. Three of them under Rockne also rose to National Championships, and the stadium played an important part in building some of the greatest football elevens in the history of the sport.
Cartier Field performed its share in the rise of Notre Dame from an unknown school to a dominant factor on
N. D. STUDENT STUDIES EDUCATION ON STATE DEPARTMENT TOUR OF U. S.
By TOM MURRAY
Mr. Fernando Serpa, of Lima, Peru, who has just completed studies for his master’s degree in education here at the University left last week on a study tour of the United States under the auspices of the U. S. Department of State in conjunction with the Institute of International Education. On this tour he will visit the most outstanding vocational schools in this country and observe the various methods of education employed in them.
A few of the many schools he will visit on his ten-week tour are: the Lane Technical School, Chicago; Placer Junior College (mining school), Auburn, California; Chaffez Union Junior College (agriculture), Ontario, California; the United States School for the Indians, Santa Fe, New Mexico; Tuskegee Institute (Negro education), Tuskegee, Alabama; Alfred University (ceramics), Alfred, New York; Lowell Textile Institute, Lowell, Massachusetts; and Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston.
In view of the fact that these schools are varied and the most outstanding in their particular fields in the country, Mr. Serpa will obtain very extensive practical knowledge in the field of education. This together with the thorough training he has received here at the University will give him a most comprehensive knowledge of contemporary education, which he will use in his future work in Peru.
In his interview with a Scholastic
the American scene. Even today it is still playing a role in building new and more powerful football machines made of men who wish to strive for a perfection of mind and body, and who can acquire that perfection through the sports Notre Dame has to offer.
Cartier Field is still hearing footballs bounce within her walls, and seeing new faces with old determination; but whenever the cool November breezes start to whip about the campus, the spirit of the twenties grips the creaking wood fenced gridiron, and voices of a gone but not forgotten era call signals with the wind. The shadows of many hard fought games parade their moments in thrilling pageants, and relive a vibrant epoch of Notre Dame history that is still fresh and living within the deep earth of Cartier Field.
reporter, Mr. Serpa expressed the opinion that “the Department of Education here at the University has a really excellent faculty; the professsors have a very thorough understanding of the techniques, aims, and means of education here in the United States.” He added, “Throughout my period of studying here at Notre Dame, I have noticed an intense personal interest in the progress of each student by the professors of this department.”
“I want to take-this opportunity,” he continued, “to thank the members of the faculty of the Department of Education for everything they have done for me. In addition, I wish to express my sincere gratitude to Father Phillip Moore, dean of the Graduate School, and to his secretary, Mrs. Dorothy Jaroszewski, both of whom have always been so considerate and kind to me during my days at Notre Dame.”
Mr. Serpa will return to Notre Dame in May to receive his master’s degree at the Commencement Exercises, after which he will return to his home in Peru, where he hopes to work in the National Department of Education.
During the showing of “The Merchant of Venice,” recently at the University of Texas, some wiseacre, after the final curtain, stole the show with cries of “Author, Author.”
25
Everyone who has eaten a Dining Hall egg has some idea of the nature of eggshells as an item of diet. He who has inadvertently swallowed his cud of Red Man can tell what usually results when the stomach meets a piece of tobacco. In short, it has generally been conceded that eggshells and tobacco are not by nature constituted to fill a place in the daily diet of man.
There are those who think otherwise. There exists on the Notre Dame campus an organization which dines, happily and willingly, upon cigarettes, eggshells, and coke adorned with mustard, ketchup, show-yu sauce, and sundry condiments which are not generally found in the well-supplied pantry. It’s all for a cause: to make stronger stomachs. That, in a word, is the raison d’etre of N. D.’s zaniest society, The Order of the Green Knights.
The Green Knights are a strict monarchy, presided over by hulking, healthy Thomas J. Koney, who is His Majesty, the King. His heir apparent, barring ptomaine, is Robert B. James. The palace is also known as Zahm Hall.
Roney began his reign over the lotuseaters two years ago, as the result of a stag party in a Detroit basement. His Majesty, the Prince, and a few equally hardy compatriots conceived the notion that the human stomach is not as strong as it ought to be. Responsible for this sad state of affairs was a strictly orthodox diet. To the end of The Stronger Stomach, the little band of hardy men, and a few hardy Detroit women, will do or die for a stomach of iron.
Plied with an eggshell, His Majesty, the King, let down his hair and told all, even to his secret formula for the preparation of eggshells. Not that they can’t be eaten straight, with salt; they are when occasion demands. In solemn gathering, the King’s recipe is a must.
To prepare delicious, succulent eggshells is not an easy task. An eggshell must be treated with reverence and care before it becomes an item of food fit for a solemn gathering. It must first be carefully washed and salted well. Then it is placed in boiling water for 23 minutes, set in the refrigerator in one-fourth inch of vinegar, and left there for two days. Upon being taken out of the refrigerator, it must be kept at room tem
26
perature for two hours before being fit for King Roney.
Cigarettes are an especially choice item for the Knights. Well-plastered with jelly, mustard, or peanut butter, they are eaten with fried eggshells at midnight snacks. Society members wash the whole thing down with deep, satisfying draughts of tobacco juice. Favorite cigarette brands are Luckies, which are toasted, Chesterfields, which satisfy, and, of course, the doctor-preferred Camels. No Old Golds—the Knights want a treatment, not a treat.
At present, His Majesty rales subjects who are exclusively from Detroit. Most of them were at the original gathering, are intensively devoted to the improved stomach. His Majesty says that he hopes eventually to expand the organization to nation-wide proportions, is content now to limit membership to Detroit and Notre Dame.
The king had a word of caution for would-be-Knights. Cigars, he says, must be eschewed, not chewed. He insists that cigars were not good for one. The Prince, Pete Ahrens, Dick Moons, and Lou Janssen, other Knights present, heartily concurred; sighed one, “But there is nothing better than a toasted Lucky well spread with mustard.”
The Green Knights are firmly opposed to more than one meal a day. “Overeating, inadvisable elsewhere, is fatal at Notre Dame. Nothing can be worse for the stomach than more than one ND meal a day.”
The society carries on its ritual purely ■within the privacy of its own group, eats no dining hall eggshells. But royal permission has been secured to announce that demonstrations will be given, on appointment only, in the royal chambers at 139 Zahm. Various other members of the society are prepared, upon fee, to give courses in court etiquette.
•	—Joe Wilcox
President Gets Byrd Letter
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, is the recipient of an especially cacheted envelope used by the fourth Byrd expedition.
The envelope, one of only 200 printed for the expedition, contained a recent letter from Lee Van Atta, International News Service Correspondent with the expedition.	’
N.D. Delegation to Attend St. Francis Conference
Notre Dame will be represented at the annual regional meeting of the Third Order of St. Francis in Chicago on Sunday, March 9. Several members of the local fraternity will act as delegates to the conference, which is to be held at Alvernia high school.
According to Marion Craney, prefect of the Notre Dame fraternity, the program for the meeting includes several group discussions at the high school on Sunday afternoon. Marion went on to say that one of the discussions, entitled “Faith—a Supernatural Outlook,” will be led by Bill Bradley, a member of the Notre Dame delegation. All Third Order members present at the meeting will be invited to take part in the panels.
Since the War the Third Order has once more returned to the Notre Dame campus. It is now under the supervision of the Reverend Mark Hegener, O.F.M., of Chicago. Marion Craney, Ibo Fatigati, and Gerald Corrigan are prefect, viceprefect, and secretary-treasurer, respectively, of the fraternity here at Notre Dame.
Those interested in the Third Order are welcomed to the monthly meetings in the Sorin Hall chapel. Signs specifying the date and time of each meeting are placed beforehand in all of the residence halls on the campus. In addition a notice announcing the meetings may be found in the bulletin board at the Administration Building.—Bill Bradley
Professor Writes Article for 1947 Britannica
Richard Rockhill Vogt, professor of chemistry at the University, has been chosen to contribute an article on “Acetylene” for the new revised 1947 edition of the Encyclopedia, Britannica, according to a recent press announcement by Walter Yust, editor-in-chief of the huge reference work.
Articles by more than 4,000 distinguished scholars and other authorities from 62 countries and about 550 universities, colleges and other scientific, cultural and educational institutions appear in the 1947 Britannica. A revised printing of the reference work has been published each year since 1932 when the policy of continuous revision replaced the old “edition” system. Under the new policy, approximately 35,000 new or revised articles have been contributed by authorities in 30 major fields of human knowledge.
At Max AtU&t Sa.
Wear Your School Buckle
Genuine Bronze Buckle . . 1.50
Wide Leather Belt . ... 1.95
Individually designed for Notre Dame. Highly polished bronze buckle and wide top grain genuine leather belt. Buckle is curved to fit the body.
al Mcm A<U&&
ON THE CORNER... MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
27
Villagers Sponsor Post-Lenten Dance
South Bend’s first major post-Lenten dance will be held by the Notre Dame Villagers Club Monday, April 7, in the spacious Palais Royale ballroom. Dance officials have contracted Bob Strong and his fine band for the date, having been impressed with Strong’s music at the Victory Dance following the Southern California football game last fall.
General chairman Joe Casasanta has announced that the affair will be a sport dance, and that tickets will be $3.00, including tax. Tickets will go on sale in about a week, and may be purchased from any Villager.
Casasanta has selected the following committeemen to serve with him on planning the dance: Joe Hickey, head of the band committee, now completing arrangements with Bob Strong; Glenn Hulbert, Ed McCarthy, and John Bodie, who, as co-chairman of the club’s social committee, is an automatic member.
Dancing will be from 9 until 1. Even though the dance will take place during the Easter vacation, dance chairmen are counting on many students staying over the holidays, and to them a special invitation is extended.
Village Netmen Travel;
Tackle Benton Harbor KCs
The Notre Dame Villagers basketball team will travel to Benton Harbor Sunday to play the Knights of Columbus there at 2:30 p.m. (CST). The game is the Villagers’ ‘first on the road this season.
Coach Leo Couch has named these players to the traveling squad, which will leave Sunday morning by automobile: Dudley Birder, Louie O’Keefe, Ed McCarthy, Ed Ruetz, Bill (Zip) Roemer, Joe Roemer, Jim Zimmerman, Al Pace, John Bodie, and Bob Boger.
INTERHALL
(Continued from page 20) week saw the Aesculapians win from the Kentucky team 46-21 and claim a forfeit from the Married Vets. The Villagers also won from the Married Vets on a forfeit and lost to Kentucky 44-34. In the other division the KC’s beat Philadelphia 26-16 and Law 19-15. Philadelphia lost to the Rebels 38-36 but topped Law by 29-28. Then Law won over the Rebels by 34-28.
The Clergy appear to be the class of the Graduate School League as they
won three games, from Arts and Letters 71-30, from Chemistry 28-17, and from Physics 45-36. The Chemical Engineering team beat A&L 55-11 and the Engineering team won over Physics 29-19. This league will continue play throughout the month of March.
The writer of this column made the error of declaring Zahm the Lightweight Champ when the Morrissey team were actually the winners. Our apologies and congratulations to the fine Morrissey club who were undefeated in lightweight Play.
Final Standings (Heavyweight)
Eastern Division
W L
Breen-Phillips ........... 5	1
St. Edward’s ............. 5	1
Walsh .................... 4	2
Zahm ..................... 3	3
Cavanaugh ................ 2	4
Sorin ..................   1	5
Farley ................... 1	5
Western Division Howard ..................   5	0
Lyons...................... 4	1
Alumni ...................  3	2
Dillon...................... 2	3
Morrissey .................. 1	4
Badin....................... 0	5

PARKER-WINTERROWD, alert to all the special needs in styling and high quality, offers to “Notre Dame” men fabrics especially suited for college wear and after graduation.
We specialize in making beautiful lounge and university models from a very complete showing of flannels, gabardines, coverts, shetlands, etc.
OUR ADLER-ROCHESTER ready-to-wear suits, top coats, and slacks arriving daily.
PARKER -WINTERROWD, Inc.
115^4*117i4 North Main St.	Phone 3-6318	North of the Oliver Hotel

28
This Collegiate World
By Associated Collegiate Press
Those words such as “swell,” “wonderful,” “tops,” “super,” and “hubba hubba” are becoming shopworn and the Indiana Daily Student suggests another phrase to express approval and admiration. Hoagy Carmichael tells of it in his book, The Stardust Road as it was used by the late Bix Beiderbecke. He expressed pleasure by simply saying, “I am not a swan.”
Another phrase in that book which stumps everyone for a literal translation was the one invented by William (Monk) Moenkhaus for one of Hoagy’s new songs. It was just, “One by one a cow goes by.”
❖
Which brings to mind the joke of 1946: Did you know that the reason John L. was brought to trial was because he was contributing to the delinquency of miners?
❖
The amusing story is related of the young man who had never seen a fried fish ball until he went to Syracuse. Thinking they were doughnuts, he purchased one for himself and for his fe
male companion. Breaking one open, he sniffed suspiciously of the contents and then swiftly grabbed the young girl’s arm as she was about to indulge.
“Don’t eat that doughnut, Sally,” he ’ shakily warned her, “there’s something dead in it.”
N.D. Debaters Win Tournament Honors
Frank Finn and Sam Hazo of the Notre Dame Debate team won high honors in the 7th Annual Nebraska Invitation Debate and Discussion Tournament held at Lincoln, Nebraska, last weekend. Over' forty colleges and universities attended the tournament and over three hundred students participated in the various events. In the Extemporaneous Speech contest Frank Finn was awarded first place with the highest possible rating of “superior.” In the Discussion Speech contest Frank Finn and Sam Hazo tied for first place with “superior” ratings. And in the Debate Speech contest the two men, as a team, were awarded two ratings of “superior” and three ratings of “excellent” in the five rounds of debate. Both have been awarded plaques for their outstanding work in discussion and Frank Finn was presented with the first place medal for his work in extemporaneous speaking. Leonard Sommer of the
Notre Dame Speech Department accompanied the men on their trip.
On March 6th Frank Finn, Al Sommers, James Beymer and Tim Kelley left for Madison, Wisconsin, to participate in the Delta Sigma Rho Debate Tournament held at the University of Wisconsin. The Delta Sigma Rho is traditionally the largest debate tournament in the Middle West. The teams will also participate in exhibition debates with the University of Marquette at Milwaukee, Wisconsin. On March 10th, 11th, and 12th a team composed of James Beymer and Tim Kelley will compete in the 16th Annual Northwest Debate Tournament to be held in St. Paul, Minnesota. These same two men will also debate against Mundelein College in Chicago on March 13. Mr. Sommer will again accompany the men on their trip.
Meanwhile the debate-by-mail between Wichita’s all-girl team and the Notre Dame all-male team on the subject: “Resolved: Women Are More Intelligent Than Men.” (Notre Dame upholding the affirmative) continues to attract nationwide interest. A recent news broadcast over CBS mentioned that women the world over could now cease worrying about their intelligence because they were being championed by the Debate Team of Notre Dame!
JOAN CRAWFORD Star of “HUMORESQUE" A Warner Bros. Picture

Made by the revolutionary new “903” moisturizing process. Beneficial moisture penetrates every tobacco leaf—gives you a smoother, milder, better smoke! Get new Raleigh "903” Cigarettes today.
IheNewLAUNew

RAIHGH 903
29
FOR ALL OCCASIONS —Purchases gift wrapped free of charge.
BLOCK BROS.

COR MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
Excellence in glasses is a matter of precision every step of the way — from examination to the final adjustment of the RX to your eyes.
234 S. Mich. St. Ph. 2-4405
Ellsworth's
New!
Arrow Sport Shirts!
★ Well-fitting!
* Modestly Priced
* Equally smart with or without a tie!
You’ll like the smart good looks of these Arrows. Fine, spicy range of bold checks and contrasting plaids, as well as the more modest plain colors in soft blue, yellow, green or white. Small, medium, large or extra large.	•
4.50 to 6.75
Men’s Shop . . . Main Floor
This week’s club news was scarcer than nine-dollar bills. Obviously, the Lenten cloak had snuffed out most of the campus social lites. If the Wrangler’s club was still wrangling, the Press Club still pressing and the ASME Club still asmeing, we didn’t hear anything about it. So, in ordei* to keep this space from falling into the nicotine-stained hands of the cigarette advertisers, we decided to go on a tangent (bisected by women) this week. But, if someone should ask, we’ve given up club news for Lent.
❖
JUST A SLIP OF A THING:
Jerry Olwell, the old club-keeper who used to sell apples on this corner, went off the deep end a couple of weeks ago, prophesied that this country would soon be femalized to such an extent that every male would be wearing skirts before 1950. To the career* businesswoman, Jerry blustered forth with a boisterous “phooey” (Scholastic, Feb. 14). In my estimation, Jerry threw an old corpse into the water without making as much as a ripple. And here’s why:
Down through the ages great statesmen have gotten up (sometimes just to snatch a smoke) and proclaimed loudly that women were the roots of all evil. No doubt they were right. For history teaches us that behind every great man there was a woman (usually with a rolling pin or knife in her hand). Men have died, men have sacrificed, men have gone through unbearable torture so that women might live. And what did the women do? They just waited around for the old buck to kick off so they could cash in on his bank roll. Take the case of King Henry (I forgot his Roman numeral, but I am sure his friends called him Hank) of England. Henry went for his women hook, Jine and sceptre; in fact he went six times and only quit because he ran out of bait. Henry finally keeled over stone-dead when he got a whiff of his last wife’s halatosis (known as bad breath before Listerine). The day after Henry’s burial, she gave up eating onions, garlic and limburger.
Why, what is a woman anyway? Originally, she was nothing more than a rib out of a man, no more than a porterhouse steak at best (I’ll take two of them, well done on both sides). She has
more camouflage on her than an old German pillbox, enough paint to redecorate the inside of the Rock. She puts into operation (via a walk that closely resembles the tempo of a cocktail shaker) all the tricks she possesses as soon as she sights a man. When his will power goes ka-bowing, she leaves him brokenhearted, broken in spirit, and with a wallet to match his personality.
Jerry Olwell was as wet as the water in St. Mary’s Lake when he said he knew all there was to know about women. A man once asked me whether I thought I knew all the ins and outs of women. I told him that at the age of 17 I thought I did, but now at 23 I find that I know nothing about them. Plato (the Greek version of Will Rogers) said that the man who knows everything about women is dead.
4
ANOTHER AXE TO GRIND:
Two weeks ago the Vets Club cleaned house; it’s high time the New York (Met) Club followed suit. Representing one of the largest groups of students on the campus, the Met Club takes care of its members in the smallest way. Several members have aired their gripes, but to no avail. Right now, the club offers about as much as a honeymoon in Siberia. Since the start of the fall semester, the New Yorkers have held but one meeting, that to discuss plans for their Christmas formal.
If a club stagnates, it is as useless as a burnt match. If a club keeps plugging,
30
it grows. The Rebels, for- instance, started with six members and a supercharge of ambition; the club is now nearing the century mark in membership only because the officers found the right ingredients to offer their members: plenty of recreation, regular meetings. The Met Club might take note.
PLOW JOCKS WANTED:
What makes farmers hate farming? And what can be done about it?
Seemingly facetious, these questions are easily of equal rank with those being considered by the Allied Control Commission of the United Nations. For if something isn’t done, and soon at that, the number of farmers left to feed the nation will be smaller than the Eskimo population of Africa; so says farmerette Mrs. M. Newman, area Farm Bureau director. Mrs. Newman will answer these and other questions when she addresses the Rural Life Club tonight at 8 p. m. in the Law Auditorium. Bob Brezinski, Bob Wasson and Bob Dennon are in charge of the program.
OFF THE BILLBOARDS:
The Pre-Med Club, dubbed the Aescu-lapians for some unknown reason, was tossed an ambulance-full of sixty-four-dollar terms at their last meeting when Doctors Garold Stryker and Matt Weis poured forth a few thousand words on dermatology and obstetrics. Eugene Barnes, club president, introduced the speakers. . . . According to Done Kiene, Radio Club president, suggestions and scripts for Universal Notre Dame Night broadcast will be accepted with open arms. Should anyone have either, just bring them to 355 Alumni Hall. . . . The Rocky Mountain Club met last week, aired plans for a post-Lenten party. . . . The AICHE (Chemical Engineers) heard Mr. Henry Grubb of the Smith, Hinchman, Grylls Company speak on “A Chemical Engineer and Design” at their last meeting.
Hearst Fellowships Open to History Graduates
Applications for four- one-year graduate fellowships in American history, known as the Hearst Foundation Fellowships in American history, are now being accepted by the Graduate School at the University, it was announced this week by the Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School.
The Hearst Foundation Fellowships in American History were established last year from the income of a $100,000 gift presented to Notre Dame by the Hearst Foundation.
Recipients of the four fellowships will receive a stipend of $500 plus tuition and fees which total $1,000 for the schoolyear. The fellowships each are for a period of one schoolyear and may be renewed providing the work of the recipient is satisfactory.
Application for the fellowship is open to college graduates with proper recommendations and must be filed with the Dean of the Graduate School at the University before June 1.
AB Philosophy Setup Revamped for Sept.
A measure passed by the Academic Council of the University on Feb. 18 will revamp the courses in Philosophy that students in the College of Arts and Letters are required to take. The measure, which will take effect in September, also rearranges and substitutes subjects in the Department of Philosophy.
Students in the A.B. school will take these philosophy courses: Freshman year —Logic; Sophomore year—Introduction to Philosophy and Philosophic Psychology; Junior year—Metaphysics; Senior
For Appointment Phone 3-0678	CYR'S BARBER SHOP	5 Barbers Manicurist
	"South Bend's Leading Barber Shop"	
	SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT	
W. E. Cyr, Prop.	100-102 South Main Street	Chair No. 5
EVERY NIGHT IS NOTRE DAME NIGHT
a#
CLEMENTS GRILL 514 East LaSalle	.
STEAKS — CHOPS
SPECIAL LENTEN DISHES ON WEDNESDAYS AND FRIDAYS
year—Natural Theology and Ethics.
The following are the required subjects for the men majoring in Philosophy: Epistemology, Material Logic, Greek Philosophy, Cosmology, Mediaeval Philosophy, Modem Philosophy, and six hours of electives in Philosophy. •
•	—Joe Herrington
Specializing in the examination of the eyes
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
31
£tudje*tt ....
.... =3
Bill Lyman
and hurrying back to Farley for my mail, I fly to the Social Science Building for an eight o’clock class—then it’s the Biology Building at nine and back to Social Science at ten, home to Farley at eleven, and finally lunch.
PRINTS OF THE PAST 1912
Jan 27: The Scholastic branded habitual cigarette smokers as outright barbarians. . . . Feb. 12: The Varsity basketball team opened the season with a 26 to 12 victory over Lane Tech High School in Chicago. Most of the substitutes had a chance to play. . . . Feb. 20: The Senior class tradition of presenting a flag to the University every Washington’s Birthday continued again this year. Of course, attendance was voluntary. .. . Mar. 2: Despite the brilliant floor play and fine shooting of DePaul guard Frank Lyman, the Varsity basketball team managed to eke out a 58 to 11 victory. After the game, Lyman vowed that if he ever had a son, he’d send him to Notre Dame. . . . Mar. 18: St. Patrick’s Day was, as usual, a riotous holiday for the Irish. . . . Apr. 20: The Scholastic began a campaign for home rule in Ireland. . . . May 4: Plans for a School of Journalism were being completed last week. . . . Oct. 2: The Varsity football
DANCING every Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday
at the
COMING —Duke Ellington
eleven whipped a rather weak St. Viator team by a 116 to 7 score. Knute Rockne, Notre Dame’s non-Irish left end, was handicapped with a sprained knee allowing some explanation for the visitor’s seven points.	.
❖
PRINTS OF THE PRESENT Where Did This Come From?
Let us love and admire Army, Notre Dame is not worthy to stand; Curse and eliminate the Irish, The Cadets next fall will he the sole survivor. Let us therefore support the Black Knights, The Golden Domers will be finished then; To them alone a fitting punishment. The palm of victory awaits the Pointers.
A Farley Schedule
Across the dining table from me one night last week a thin, weary looking Farleyite was relating his schedule to the fellow next to him:
“I get up at 6:30 a.m., run down and make a check and dash off to the dining hall. After gulping down my breakfast
“Having hygiene at 1:15, Phy Ed at 2:15, and track for the rest of the afternoon, it takes my last ounce of strength to make the dining hall for dinner. But then, I can’t complain—you should see my roommate’s schedule.”
—Mac from Can.
Local Pet Peeve
Our cut-throat classmate who will always submit a voluminous report on an insignificant assignment, making our papers look puny.—Attentive Abie
❖
Tactless Talk
Don’t worry about that Prof. He never marks absences.—Jim McNulty, Lyons
highpric^p
GUAHANT[[D BY
THE MARLIN FIREARMS COMPANY fne Gum Smce 1870
32
Overheard in Dining Hall
First: “Hey, where did you get all that butter?”
Second: “Oh, I’ve been saving it all week for one slice of bread.”—Don Lee.
Overheard on Handball Courts
Kosikowski, speaking of his prowess at the game: “I got six points off Father Brennan the other day.”
—Ben Kruger, Zahm ❖
Simple, Isn't It?
Thanks to John L. Hoeck of Dillon, the real meaning of the first Print of the Present has been uncovered by dividing it with a line into two columns which read:
Let us love and admire Army, Notre Dame	is not worthy to stand;
Curse and eliminate the Irish, The Cadets next fall will be the sole survivor. Let us therefore support the Black Knights, The Golden Domers a fitting punishment, To them alone	will be finished then;
The palm of victory awaits the Pointers.
❖
Send or deliver contributions to THE STUDENT PRINTS, 124 Lyons Hall.
WILLIAMS, The Florist
219 W. Washington — Just west of the Oliver Hotel
Flowers
^>4 eu&uf, occaAlw,
TRUTHS MEN LIVE BY
the eagerly awaited second edition of JOHN A. O’BRIEN’S latest book
LIKE KIDS—NEED CASH?
The eighty families in Vetville with children below that stay-at-home-alone age are on the lookout for baby-sitters. They would be overjoyed to see a great big college man staying with their children once in awhile while Mom and Pop went out to do the town for a change.
How many students would be interested. Wouldn’t you like to get away from those four blank walls and study in a homey atmosphere for a change? Who knows, there might even be a “coke” or two in the ice box. A satisfactory wage scale could be worked out as soon as we get a representative number of students interested.
Anyone interested in keeping the babies company now and then, please leave your name and campus address in the Post Office, in care of John Hupf, Box 391.
LETTERS
(Continued from page 3)
is satisfied at the sacrifice of Christian charity. Many of the girls in the dining hall are earning money to attend school. Others, members of large families, are supporting those families by their work. “Name Withheld” should be thankful that his favored economic position enables him to get an education when such an opportunity is denied so many others less fortunate.
The Blue Circle
Scholastic regrets this interpretation of the letter; sincerely be-
Reviewers Praise It
JA Ready H&Wl
• The finest contribution to the philosophy of religion and of life which I’ve encountered in 50 years of reading.
William J. Bergin, C.S.V., Ph.D. Sheil School of Social Studies
• The best book to give those of inquiring mind and troubled heart.
Fulton Oursler, Senior Editor The Reader’s Digest
• If the Christian Faith is to be durable, it must satisfy not only the hunger of the heart, but the stern demands of the intellect. Here is a Christian and orthodox answer to the objections of Science, falsely so-called, and to much current Modernism . . . The book can be heartily recommended and is splendid reading.
The Presbyterian
• This book is a clear and forceful presentation of the basic truths of the Christian religion and will strengthen and deepen religious faith and enrich the moral life of all who read it.
Most Rev. Edwin V. O’Hara, D.D. Bishop of Kansas City
• The product of, bona-fide scholarship, deep, wide, varied, it will fascinate the man-in-the-street not less than the academic.
James M. Gillis, C.S.P., Author, Lecturer Editor of The Catholic World
• Bound to have a stabilizing and useful influence in American life.
Robert Andrews Millikan
Director, Caifornia Institute of Technology
Thomas More Book Club Selection
Father O’Brien — of Notre Dame's Department of Religion — well known scholar and author, needs no introduction at the University.
His latest book already enjoys high praise from many sources and is recommended reading by many Educators of note.
Buy your copy on Campus
ON SALE AT NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
or order from THE AVE MARIA PRESS, Notre Dame, Indiana
33
licves that the writer’s intention was not to ridicule dining hall employees and heartily agrees ivith the Blue Circle that such personnel are worthy of praise rather than ridicule.
Dear Sir:
Will someone please tell a bewildered freshman why the library at Notre Dame can’t stay open from 0800 to 2130 every day? As things stand now it is impossible to do three hours of work there at night, because it isn’t open that long. And how about Sunday night?
• Tom Auchler
243 Morrissey
Dear Editor:
As I shall not be here next winter a few suggestions to those responsible for indoor track are now appropriate.
Johnson of Michigan State cleared 24'-5" in the broad jump Saturday. The limit of the pit was twenty-four feet, so he landed “hard,” and injured his ankle so badly that his first jump was his last for that afternoon.
Foresight was more noticeably lacking in the shot put. Including “practice” shots it lasted from 1:15 to 2:30 p.m. Six times the shot landed in the East bleachers. Fortunately portion of the three lowest rows have this year been kept free of spectators. But why not shift locations of the “shot” and broad jump.
A jumper never landed in the lap of a spectator and would not if he were in the present location of Sullivan, Simmons and Higgins’ event.
Steve McDonald 454 Farley Hall
Dear Sir:
During the few years I have spent at Notre Dame, certain derogatory remarks appearing in the Scholastic have excited me with great concern. It is unfortunate to say that there are others in the capacity of “mind builders” on this campus who have tried with their narrow observations to formulate the convictions of students to an unequivocal condemnation of Colonel McCormick’s Chicago Tribune. The co-authors of the Humanist, with their references to the “world’s greatest newspaper” and the “tower,” are two of the present crop of writers chastising the colonel’s “baby.”
It has been said that the policy of the Tribune merely reflects fanaticism of a radical republican. So what! What is the purpose and effect of their fault-finding campaign waged against the Democratic party and Communism? The purpose and effect is just this: it involves merely a knowledge of our past political history to know that graft, blunders, incompet
34
ency and injurious foreign affiliation are found in doctrines of a political regime. The purpose of the Tribune is to expose these modes of corrupt politics. Among other purposes, the newspaper attempts to reveal individual Communists, Communist groups and others who conspire against the American government. The effect is obvious. Politicans know that while their shortcomings and mistakes come to light in the eyes of the American people they must strive toward goals that will make a better America. Vicious Communists learn to know that the Tribune is probably the greatest organized force that stands against them in America.
When Americans have contented themselves with the attitude that everything is going along fine, and nothing is the matter and all will work out for the best, then and at that time we may find ourselves in the depths of a tragic depression, or still worse, in another bloody world conflict. When the price we might pay is so dear, as we already know, why condemn one of our most treasured guarantees of democratic principles—freedom of the press, although radically utilized, to expose all that attempts to undermine and destroy our American way of life.
Donald T. Edwards 312 Walsh Hall
Headquarters
for
Sir:
That the Radio Club exists is a fact that nearly every student on the campus knows. Yet, stories, notices and broad-
ne modi** GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
NAME YOUR SPORT
SONNEBORN'S
has what it takes!
121 W. Colfax Avenue
Phone 3-3702
EXCLUSIVE
With Chisel Point “Van Dyke” leads, you get 20% longer lines of unvarying width...save 20% more time between sharpenings. These exclusive, pre-shaped, rectangular leads write with the same Microtomic smoothness as round HI-DENSITY** Van Dyke” leads.
CHISEL POINT LEADS
Chisel Point leads in degrees: 4B, 2B, HB, 2H,4H,6H.
Round leads from 9H to7B.
Save Time with VAN DYKE
Chisel Point Leads
EBERHARD FABER
casts not withstanding, it is doubtful whether the Administration is aware of its existence. Or so it would seem from the support it has given the club during the last few semesters.
Much criticism has been heard concerning the quality of the show aired weekly. This should be of no surprise to anyone who is aware of the sad state of the equipment currently used by the club. The radio apparatus has been termed obsolete and inefficient by engineers of station WSBT which has loaned it to the club. Actually, the club itself owns only two microphones, three stands and two pairs of earphones which were originally donated by local manufacturers, due largely to the scrounging of several club members. The control room utilizes the bandroom for its studio and the club, therefore, must share the room with the band, often with mutual inconvenience. Plans for new studios were submitted over five months ago and as yet no answer has been received from the Administration. Repeated requests for equipment which would have enabled the club to use the additional facilities of WHOT as well as WSBT have evidently also been shelved by the University Administration. Is it not strange to find the Administration which admittedly is trying to de-emphasize athletics' so unwilling to support an organization which could advertise the cultural achievements of the University to the general public?
Sometime ago a new campus radio station which would not need a FCC (Federal Communications Commission) license was described in a Scholastic feature story. Its advantages were pointed out clearly and advertising revenue would have easily covered operating costs. Again there has been no action on this project which has been under consideration for over a semester. The article also stated that there were as many as 60 members of the club. This is true in that sixty men turned up for the first meeting; as it is now, only about 12 men are actually engaged in any programs since the facilities do not warrant a larger staff. Small wonder then that the membership has decreased with succeeding meetings and only a handful of students have still enough interest left to attend them.
Perhaps it would be better if the Administration were to dissolve the club and employ such students as it needs for its radio work as members of the publicity staff. Such action would be more profitable to the students if not to the University which evidently does not care for free publicity by genuinely interested students.
John Peter Reiner 229 Zahm Hall
You’re the man most likely to
Succeed
Van Heusen scores top marks in the biggest subject—Style! Van Heusen Shirts show good taste all over, from collar to cuff. Smart, neat, comfortable collar fit— figure-flattering tailoring throughout. Style-sawy goes together with hard-to-get quality—Sanforized, laundry-and-laboratoiy tested fabrics give years of satisfaction. Graduate to Van Heusen today I Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1,N.Y., makers of Van Heusen Shirts, Ties, Pajamas, Collars, Sport Shirts.
... in Van Heusen Shirts and ties
Ifs Adler s for
VAN HEUSEN
MTK CORNHl... MKNKAN $


EAST TO SEE
theW^SoTHo1^

ALWAYS MILDER

I.HAYS
BETTER TASTING
COOLER SMOKING
v> JIESTERHELI)
RIGHT COMBINATION • WORLD'S BEST TOBACCOS ♦ PROPERLY AGED
Copyright 1947, Liggett & Mms Toucoo Co.