
Is God calling you? Doyoulmow? 
We heard the call and gave over our life in service to the 
. Church and the world in a more explicit way. And our life has not been the same since. We have found purpose, joy, and fulfillment. Christ invited and we answered. 
Is God calling you to join us? Come and see. 


features 
3 On Returning 
. ~ Solidarity Sunday 
Campus focuses on accepting gay 
community 

14 Four Loko Redefines ND Drinking Culture 
Alcoholic energy drink's popularity around campus affects students' health 
. 2~ Plaring to Win 
Men's Basketball team captains lead team to successful start of season 

35 ProcrastiNDationNation 
How to successfully avoid studying for finals 

sections Opinion News 4 Culture Ul 
.


Cover 18 Sports 24 Hutnor 31 
9 DECEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 1 
I was doing so well the first few issues. Ed notes would be finished with two nights of production left and I could focus on my main purpose around the Scholastic office: ordering food. Now, everyone else is putting the finishing touches on the few pages that are not complete and I am just beginning this. As with a lot ofwork lately, I am having trouble getting myself to start. What's worse is that this is the last issue of the semester, so I won't have 
-Scholastic as an excuse for not doing assignments anymore. 
The end ofthe semester also means the last chance to go out at Notre Dame in 2010 which means you will see more ugly sweaters than even Santa's elves could stomach. Assistant Culture Editor Kristy Cloetingh investigates·the latest drinking craze across college campuses and its ramifications for the ND party culture on p. 14. 
There comes a time, however, when sitting down to finish those papers becomes inevitable. With exams looming and staying under the covers becoming more appealing now that we're walking in a winter blizzard-land, doing anything even resembling studying is repellent. Once you've read Scholastic cover to cover (as ifyou don't do that every issue), flip back to p. 35 for staff writer Sarah Ceponis's suggestions for further procrastination. 
Which brings me to this issue's cover story: Motivation, not only for studying and achievements but the drives that cause students to engage in all they do. This issue, Associate Editor Clara Ritger delves into Notre Dame students' minds to see what drives them. 
Merry Christmas, Merry Christmas, Merry Christmas and Happy Holidays 
We will see you in the "spring" semester! To all of our staff going abroad, you will be missed. Be sure to read this month's Gipper column (p. 33) for a special holiday-themed installment. 
Thanks for a great semester, 
Erica Pepitone Editor-in-Chief 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 DECEMBER 2010 

ESSAY 


Like many New Jersey natives, I feel a special kinship with Bruce Springsteen. I may have never worked in a steel mill or driven Mary, Rosie or Wendy away on the back of my motorcycle, but I can relate to the feeling ofwanting to get out and experience other things (also known as "pulling out of here to win"). Not to mention, I can pull offa bandana around my forehead, a v-neck and a sleeveless denim shirt. · 
The idea is cliche for college students -wanting to backpack across Europe, road trip across the country, join the Peace Corps -but it is cliche for a reason. Case in point: I have not spent more than two and-half weeks at a time at home in almost two years. 
The maturation that comes with going away to college, trayelin_g to another country, providing your · own meals and learning the importance of separating the whites from the darks is an integral part of growing up. Stagnancy is a dangerous condition from which it is difficult to escape. What begins as convenience can easily become habit. Without ever leaving home, you run the risk of getting stuck -comfortable but developmentally arrested. Placing yourself against an unfamiliar background allows you to more clearly see yourself and how you fit into the world. 
There is, however, something to be said for being able to point to an empty patch of sidewalk and say that there was a bench .where you had your first kiss in front of the pet bakery back when it was a nail salon. Before it was the toy store. 

For running into people who know the names of your siblings and your cat. Who not only knew you back when you had headgear, but were actually willing to be seen with you. Poignant life events do not need to be relived because there is an implicit understanding between parties who experienced them together. 
And, yes, it is impossible to go back to the way things were. People move away and die. Shops close and the shoreline erodes despite the new sea grass planted since you were there last. You discover that you no longer have anything but a shared past in common with those whom you used to be close or that your old haunts now have new regulars who don't recognize you. The effect is disorienting and, at times, upsetting. 
Even if there ha·s not been much temporal distance, the ability to understand the place and, more importantly, yourself in the context of the world ages you. Most strikingly, you are not the same person, you were and therefore cari no longer see things the way you used to through older lenses. 
Returning home is like flipping through the pages of an old diary: funny and at times cringe-worthy, but ultimately illuminating. Though no one at college may know about the time you had to go to the hospital on Christmas Eve to have a ring sawed off your finger, you can bet your family and childhood friends will not allow you to forget it, even if it happened almost a decade ago. In teasing and keeping you in your place, they remind you of where you came from, which has a great bearing on who you are. 
Life chapters that seem far removed cast their shadows against concrete day­to-day dealings. Events and people we had forgotten, whether from distance, lack of mental rehearsal or desire to forget, resurface and color your perception of yourself and the life you currently lead. 
It does not, however, do to focus on the past or strive to return to a time and place that can never again be the way it was. Returning home is not for the sake of resting on any past accomplishments or living in the Glory Days, but to be reminded of a history of strength and growth. Home is a place where past struggles can be placed in the context of a life -there is perspective that is impossible to have in the thick of the mome~t. There is a collection of thousands of times when you were new and green and somehow floundered through. 
Home is not exclusive to the town in which you were born. It is where you grew up, whether that occurred at age 12 or 
22. No matter how long it has been since you've visited, melancholy and happiness are simultaneously experienced upon realizing what has radically changed and radically stayed the same. It is your hometown, the city in which you studied abroad and, eventually, Notre Dame -a place we will outgrow and return to as a marker of who we were and how far we have come. 0 

The views of this author are not necessarily the views ofScholastic Magazine. 
9 DECEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 3 4 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 DECEMBER 2010 



9_DECEMBER 2010 ISCHOLASTIC I5  
'­ -., -• •  ...  •  -, . ~ ~ L -' -------------------------------------­ 

_.· LeBron returns to Cleveland ;:-Witness the Quitness. 
=-Beatles on iTunes 
-Ew, I hate bugs. 

--~Qatar to host 2022 World Cup ~ ~Weekend tours to Iraq and Iran. 
. .  Wtldleaks  
~-=­ Making diplomacy look more like  
....  recess, one classified document at a  

=time. 
Britney Spears to release new :=-album 
.. Why:>

------. 
How to Combat Awkward Gender Relations at ND 
Catie Mohamed

Tired of the irritating, uncomfortable gender relations at Notre Dame? Want life to be normal like it would be at any other university in America, without parietals and rectors breathing down your necks as you try to get the number of the person you have been eyeing all night at a dorm party? Have no fear, Scholastic has come up with a few helpful suggestions for combating awkward gender relations at Notre Dame. Avoid the dining hall at popular times Don't want to run into that 
~ 

person you were really close to on Friday night? Avoid the dinirig hall 
~ 

during popular hours -especially 6:30 dinner -at all costs. Nothing screams awkward more than you holding a banana in the dining hall and running into that person you were with last weekend. 
9) Break parietals The rebel type? If so, break the most hated "golden ~ rule" of all dorms. Don't wait until next weekend to hang out with a 
'"--significant other of the opposite sex. Instead, extend your night with that person. Who cares if you are breaking the rules, you're doing it all for "love," right? Just know Scholastic won't pay for your ResLife. 
?) Be THAT guy or girl You know, the one who is constantly the only ,;;;J) girl in a group of 10 guys or the only guy in a group of girls. Be the 
· · one to break the mold and hang out with members of the opposite sex. Pretty soon you will be so close, with tl}at group that they won't even notice you're of another gender. Chances are alf the people ofyour gender_ will hate you out of jealousy, but who cares? You will be i~ th~ prime "friend zone" situation with those of the opposite.sex. · 
JJ1 Limit Your Vocabulary Girls: Don't you _ever say the words "date,". ~ "marriage," "walk around the lakes" or "Lyons Arch" around guys. If 
· you do, they will most definitely "lose your number" or have a "broken phone" any time you try to talk to them. Guys: Don't say the words "I have a girlfriend," "sex" or, if they're really innocent, "penis" around girls. You will scare them off-well, maybe not ALL girls. _ 
~ Receive Holy Orders Give up on gender relations all together and 
;;;Ji) become a priest or nun. The idea may seem cr~zy at first, but ifyou really 
.· . -think about it, you will be saving yourself many nights _ofstress involving 
the opposite sex. Also, becoming a priest or nun takes the uncomfortable out of gender relations as your slate is wiped clean, and you will have a group of automatic friends. 
6 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 DECEMBER 2010 


Student government hosts Whine Week 
Tommasino Dome/ an effort to improve their dialogue with students, Student
In 
Government hosted "Whine Week" from Nov. 8-12, stationing 
representatives in both dining halls, LaFortune and dorm hall council meetings. Originally intended to be a one-day event, the Senate-led initiative blossomed into a much larger and more comprehensive week for students to make suggestions and air grievances. 
Students were able to speak directly with their representatives or, if pressed for time, write them a note. "We hoped to catch a wide variety ofpeople and make i(convenient for themt student body Vice President Andrew Bell says. 
Over the course of five days, Whine Week representatives received a larger response than anticipated. Suggestions ranged from comically ridiculous roommate complaints to more serious food-or safety-related ideas. Returning quarter dogs to the price oftheir namesake was a popular complaint. An interesting suggestion, student body President Catherine Soler says, was immunity from parietal-related disciplinary action during fire alarms for the saf~ty of those afraid to leave a room during such an emergency for fear of being discovered. 
Not only was Whine Week successful for those involved in student. government, but it also served to help to raise awareness among students. "One of the great things is that each Senator is working with us," Soler says. 
For example, several students asked about the possibility of getting a Red Box movie rental machine in LaFortune, which is now being discussed with contacts from Red Box. But what many students do not know is that there is a large file cabinet containing hundreds ofmovies for free student rental in the Student Government office ofthe second floor in LaFortune. 
"We are really happy with the response from Whine Week," Soler says. ""This gave [students] the chance to realize that these are the people in their own dorms promoting them ... A lot of the things people whined about, many didn't know that there are already services on campus that they could go to. And we want everyone to know that we are still open to complaints. You can just email us." Student body Chief of Staff Nick Ruof says that although many of the ideas that surfaced during Whine Week may take a long time to implement, they are nonetheless being explored. "Some suggestions take time [to realize], but all are being considered," he says. 0 



How many times can you say you · partied during reading days? 


Turns out just because you don't go to class doesn't mean you won't receive a grade. 

There was only so much time left to drink Four Lokos. 

The midnight showing ofHarry Potter only happens eight times in a lifetime. 
5 "Call ofDuty," again. 
9 DECEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 7 


NEWS 

SOLiDARITYSUNDAY: FROM TOLE~ 
Caitlin Wilson 
Two months after a Rutgers University freshman committed suicide in response to his public outing, Notre Dame celebrated Solidarity Sunday, an annual event that recognizes and promotes inclusion of the gay, lesbian and bisexual community on campus (LGBTQ). Solidarity Sunday, which occurred on Sunday, Nov. 21, is sponsored by the Core Council, an advisory council to the Vice President of Student Affairs. Co-Chair of the Core Council Rachel Washington says that its dual role on campus is "to create a safe space for anyone to talk, for anyone different, and to educate campus about the issues of LGBTQ students." Each year on Solidarity Sunday, masses across campus include a special petition for inclusion. After mass, a volunteer reads a brief statement about Catholic teachings on inclusion and acceptance of diversity. Students also receive copies of"The Spirit oflnclusion," a statement written by a sub-committee of the Student Affairs portion of the Board of Trustees in 1997. This statement explains that Catholicism embraces diversity of all forms, saying, "We welcome all people, regardless of color, gender, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, social or economic class and nationality, for example, precisely because of God's calling to treat others as we desire to be treated." "In the 96-97 era, things were still pretty tense on campus, regarding the LGBTQ community. The students, as well as · the administration, were trying to come up with a wayofaddressingspecificissues," Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs and Co-Chair of the Core Council Sr. Sue Dunn says. "The Spirit of Inclusion" was the administration's response to this tension, as well as the creation of a Student Affairs standing committee to 
8 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 DECEMBER 2010 

discuss the issues ofLGBTQ students. 
The standing committee met monthly from 1996 until 2006, at which point the administration decided that issues of the LGBTQ community would be better served in a different setting. Following this decision, the Core Council was formed, which would "involve more students, some administrative departments and others," Dunn says. 
Today, the Core Council consists of eight students, at least half of whom identify as gay, lesbian or bisexual, as well as members from four administrative departments, including 
These events are a way of showing people they aren't alone. It's a way of promoting the 'We are ND' idea and creating that ND family for everyone. -Rachel Washington, Core Council Co-Chair 
Campus Ministry, Counseling, the Gender Relations Center and Student Affairs. 
Three semesters ago, the Coalition to the Core Council was formed. The Coalition consists of similarly-minded committees of Student Government, student organizations, and individuals who work to "co-sponsor Core Council programming and help with event publicity. 
This year's Solidarity Coffeehouse, held on the Thursday night before Solidarity Sunday, was the direct result of feedback from the Coalition. When students asked to extend the programming beyond Sunday, Washington asked the Core Council members to brainstorm possible events and the Coffeehouse was born. 
The Solidarity Coffeehouse, held in Geddes 
Hall, gave students the opportunity to casually 
talk about LGBTQ issues. The discussion was 
interspersed with dramatic readings of song 
lyrics, original poems, published poetry and 
portions of "The Spirit ofInclusion." Over 35 
students attended the event. For Washington, 
the event's success was its inclusiveness. 
''Anyone was welcome. It was very chill, the 
poems weren't even all about LGBTQ -it 
was more about solidarity," Washington says. 

The Core Council is most well known on 
campus for sponsoring special events like 
Solidarity Sunday and its larger counterpart, 
StaND Against Hate Week, which is held 
during the spring semester. These events are "a
.,­

way of showing people they 'aren't alone. And 
it's a way of promoting the 'We are ND' idea, 
and creating that ND family for everyone," 
Washington says. 

The Core Council also provides more 
concrete educational programming and 
support for the LGBTQ community 
throughout the year. It organizes the 
mandatoryCommUnityses~io,ns for freshmen, 
which promote "the type of atmosphere and 
mutual respect that we expect -in residence 
halls," Dunn says.· "Coffee and Conversation 
in the Como" provides monthly opportunities 
for students to meet and intei~ct with student 
members of the Core Council and their allies. 
Another monthly program, "Conversation 
in the Gold Room," provides a safe space for 
members of the LGBTQ community to talk 
with each other and to receive advice from the 
Counseling Center on a specific topic. More 
information about these events can be found 
at http://Corecouncil.nd.edu/current_events/ 
index.shtmL 

The Core Council actively works to let LGBTQ students know that they are not -alone, through the creation of safe spaces and events like Solidarity Sunday. Moreover, all 
1
l ' • l • .r • ' , ,/ • • • • ~ ~ ' • 

NEWS 



IANCETOACCEPTANCE 
the members of the Core Council try to be resources for students, providing information and support. Dunn says that with these resources and with active monitoring and support from allies, tragedies can be avoided. 
With this month's Solidarity Sunday, four years after the creation of the Core Council and 13 years after "The Spirit of Inclusion," students and administrators have an opportunity to assess the changes in attitudes on campus and to assess the work that still needs to be done. 
Both Washington and Dunn say that campus attitudes have changed but not enough. "The atmosphere on campus is much different than it was in 2001 in that people do feel more included, recognized and I think, accepted. We'd like people to get beyond tolerating differences, and to accepting differences," Dunn, who has.worked at Notre Dame since 2001, says. 
Washington, who identifies as bisexual, says that Notre Dame exists between tolerance and acceptance. "I think at one point that we were just tolerating, but we've moved a little bit toward accepting. But we're not there yet." 
Freshman Alex Coccia says that events like Solidarity Sunday and the mandatory freshman CommUnity meetings are "wonderful for raising awareness about tl1e difficulties that LGBTQ students face on this campus, but they do not solve the problems" of the LGBTQ community. Both national issues, such as the Rutgers student suicide, and local issues, such as last year's reappearance of the offensive "Gay? Go to Hell" t-shirts during StaND Against Hate week and the difficulty of getting permission to march for LGBTQ rights on campus, demonstrate the continued need for change. 
Washington says administrative change does occur but it occurs behind the scenes, where it is invisible to students. One such example is the President of Student Affairs' recent invitation to all Core Council members to personally discuss tl1eir problems with LGBTQ issues on campus. Nonetheless, Dunn says that it "gets very complicated," since the university needs to remain true to Catl10lic teachings. 
For many students, true acceptance requires 
For many students, true acceptance requires the university to include "sexual orientation" in its legal nondiscrimination clause. 
the university to include "sexual orientation" in its legal nondiscrimination clause. Although harassment on tl1e basis of"sexual orientation" is expressly prohibited by university guidelines, students since at least 1996 have claimed that this prohibition is not enough. 
''Acceptance must begin at the core of tl1e university and tl1at is with the administration. If it is made clear by the university that it not only does not tolerate harassment of LGBTQ students but also works towards the active inclusion of LGBTQ students, faculty and staff, and the education of all students, tl1en things will be changed for the better," Coccia says. 
Notre Dame has, however, resisted this movement. An open letter to tl1e Notre Dame community from the officers of the university in 1997 explained that Notre Dame will not include "sexual orientation" in its legal clause 
· due to its likelihood of being misinterpreted by the outside community. Catholic teaching promotes inclusion of individuals witl1 a homosexual orientation, but denounces homosexual activity, or any other extramarital sexual activity. Since harassment is already prohibited, the university wrote that this legal clause may lead people to believe that Notre Dame endorses or supports homosexual activity. 
Hastening this or any administrative change can be difficult, but Coccia says it is possible with student activism. Administrative change requires visibility ofstudent needs, Coccia says. He says that students need to work to make it "clear to the administration that we, the student body which the university is supposed to protect as its child, are not happy with the current policy." 
For Washington, however, adding "sexual orientation" to the nondiscrimination clause is not enough. Although the Core Council is helping, she says that LGBTQ students still do not feel accepted or included.· Washington says that Notre Dame students need to make it "more about human beings than about sexuality or any other label." She says by listening closely, using inclusive language and being willing to discuss LGBTQ issues, students can become allies to the LGBTQ community and make "people more willing to come out, and more willing to talk about their problems, which will eventually turn Notre Dame into an inclusive campus." 0 
Notre Dame students need to make it 11more about human beings than about sexuality or any other label." -Washington 
9 DECEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 


10 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 DECEMBER 2010 


the things we do 
9 DECEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC 111 


CULTURE 
December 
Countdown to Christmas 


Reading days begin! 

Need a study break? Check out the Don Carlo Opera in DPAC from 12:30 p.m. to 
4:30 p.m. or the Glee Club winter concert at 2:30, 6:00 and 8:30 p.m. Tickets for both shows are available online at DPAC's Web site. 
I 
Check out the men's and women's basketball teams 
today. The women play at 
2:00 p.m. in the JACC and : the men play at 8:30 p.m. j in the JACC. Go Irish! 
' --,-----·-·--------·-·--·----------, 
.......J nHockey vs. 
! 
Northern 
Michigan at 7:30 p.m. 
. ·········•·""••oo••••oo 
Third Sunday
[a 
in Advent 
Admiring the Christmas Decorations in O'Shag? Stop by the Snite to check out an exhibition of Fransisco de Goya's etchings. The artwork will be there until January 9. 


• 1
.. "Miracle on 34th Street" -' airs on ABC Family at 6 
\.........~:~:..................................:...... 

"Home Alone 2" is playing tonight on ABC Family at 8 p.m. Flip on the tube to watch one of the greatest Christmas movies of all time. 

... 
el 
Merry Christmas! 
The big day has finally arrived. Among things Notre Dame students love, including Harry Potter, relationships, coffee, claddaugh rings and North Face, Christmas is definitely at the top of the list. 
12 I SCHOLASTIC: I 9 DECEMBER 2010 


CULTURE 
Kristina C/oetingh 
This semester, it was almost impossible to avoid the chatter about the newest sensation in alcohol: Four Loko. An energy drink as well 
as the means to a quick buzz, Four Loko became immensely popular across campus. About six shots worth of alcohol and five or six cups ofcoffee's worth of caffeine per can, the drink contains a mixture of depressants and stimulants that has been linked to heart attacks. Yet students continued to drink it, even after the statistics were released. "Numbers are up across the board," Mara Trionfero of the University's Office of Alcohol and Drug Education says. "We are seeing much higher BACs -more over .2, which is very high. Students are drinking themselves sick." 
"The taste is terrible, but I think the appeal comes from the caffeine. Especially when I am feeling a little tired and do not want to go out as much, it is nice to get that jolt. It's a great pre-game drink," senior environmental science major Luke Stavole says. 
And perhaps that is part of the problem: With the alcohol content in a Four Loko, experts say it should not be a pre-game drink -it should be the only drink. So why do students feel compelled to drink so 
heavily? 
"For the most part, the mentality is that drinking is a stress relief. It's how many people blow off. steam," junior Program of Liberal Studies major James Stein 
says. 
This "work hard, play hard" mentality seems to dominate the Notre Dame social culture. The average Notre Dame student not only devotes a majority ofhis or her time to studies, but is also involved in countless organizations and service projects. 
With their time spread thin, students do not have time to drink during the week, therefore, all the drinking they are missing out . on between Sunday and Wednesday is crammed into Thursday, Friday and Saturday. "Having ,vorked all week, the weekend is_ the time to unwind," junior political science major Thomas Kenealy says. "While ND would like to think that it has a 'work hard, play hard' mentality, drinking is definitely compartmentalized to Thursday 
14 I SCHOLASTIC j 9 DECEMBER 2010 
through Saturday, which is not the same for my friends at various state schools," junior English and Film, Television and Theatre major Tara Duffy says. 
Due to recent off-campus arrests, most of the unwinding has been confined to an aspect of social life at Notre Dame -dorm drinking. Notre Dame students who are ofage are allowed to drink beer and wine in their dorm rooms. This drinking culture is so integrated into social life at the university that students pick and choose where to go on weekends depending on their moods. 
"Each hall has its own drinking culture," Trionfero says. "Because students are spending more time on­campus this semester, they are making safer choices," Ryan Hall rector Breyan Tornfolio says. "Students, or at least the women, are not getting as out-of-control on campus as off campus. Part of it, I think, comes from a threat of ResLife, as well as a respect for the hall staff," she says. 
Students use alcohol, and perhaps specifically Four Loko, as a means to "cut through the 'ND Awkward,"' senior history major Victoria McBride says. It seems students are learning to socialize through alcohol, using it as a means of "social lubric_ation," as one anonymous student says, in order to make it easier to talk to people they do not-know, especially during freshman year. "The down side to_ that is that often students end up with drinking h1~dciies rather than friends," Trionfero says. "Life is· awkward," junior FTT major Sean Leyes says, "and people try to use alcohol to avoid it rather than dealing with it. But awkward happens in real life, too, and alcohol isn't always there." 
Whether or not the amount of drinking at Notre Dame pales in comparison to that at other, bigger schools, it still affects the way that students form their social habits. "Though not_: ~s many students are failing out because they are majoring in partying, it doesn't mean everything is goo_d here," Trionfero says. "In college, you're creating habits you carry into adulthood." 0 


-+ 
CULTURE 




Campus Chat:t:er 
DEPARTMENT OF KNOWLEDGE 
Junior engineering major Olivia Colangelo can tell you about almost any subject, from Europe's capitals to the latest celebrity gossip. If you go on vacation with her, don't waste money on a tour guide because she probably knows more. 
Olivia claims she'll never use her vast store ofknowledge, but she's being modest. In November, she was one of only 15 students in the nation to make it onto Jeopa1·dy! College Championship. 
You might think that competing on such a fast-paced show would be terrifying, but Olivia, who has played trivia games throughout her life, says it's theraputic. 
"It's kind of relaxing, I guess. It's pretty nerve-wracking when you get up there, but just getting in a rhythm, listening to someone and buzzing is somehow relaxing to me, even though there's a lot of pressure,'' she says. 
Olivia says she has loved Jeopardy! for as long as she can remember, and her life has unfolded into a 'Rudy'-like saga leading up to the show. As Rudy admired the Fighting Irish, hoping someday to be on the team, Olivia watched the show religiously, wanting to join the ranks of Ken Jennings and Alex Trebek. As a child, she entertained herself on long car rides by studying maps and atlases, and she competed in the National Geography Bee in eighth grade. (Trebek even hosted the final rounds.) 
But Rudy only applied to Notre Dame four times, while Olivia tried out forJeopardy! nine times. Since 2006, when the show started offering online tryouts, she took every available test. This year, all of her geography bees and random knowledge paid off. She advanced to the second round of tryouts last spring, and at the beginning of the school year, Jeopardy! told her she made it on the show. 
While some students spent last fall training for the Chicago Marathon, Olivia followed an intense mental regimen. She. says that there is no point trying to learn everything that could be on the show because she has seen categories as ridiculous as "types of vultures." But despite her demanding engineering courses, she found time to watch Jeopardy! daily while practicing with a makeshift buzzer. She also had an excuse to play Sporcle and read Entertainment Weekly without feeling guilty. 
"Luckily, or not-so-luckily for my classes, I spend way too much time on Entertainment Weekly and watching E!," Olivia says. "I'm pretty confident in my pop culture knowledge. One of the questions was about 'Kourtney and Khloe Take Miami,' so all my El watching has paid off, I guess." 
But nothing prepared Olivia for college-aged guys with extensive knowledge ofAnne Hathaway. 
"We had a category about Anne Hathaway -the actress, not Shakespeare's wife,'' she says. "All my friends [couldn't believe] boys were beating me at Anne Hathaway questions because they were about 'The Princess Diaries' and 'The Devil Wears Prada,' and the boys got those. They got one about 'Bride Wars.' I knew the answers, but they were just buzzing in faster." 
161 SCHOLASTIC 19 DECEMBER 2010 
Olivia was born to answer her FinalJeopardy question, which asked the players to identify a company by its address. The company, luckily for Olivia, happened to be Heinz Ketchup, which is headquartered in her hometown of Pittsburgh. 
"I live 17 minutes from headquarters,'' she says. "When I'm in a random place and there's Heinz ketchup, I like to take a picture of it. In the past year I've found Heinz on a table on a pub in Windsor Castle, in a cafe across from Notre Dame in Paris and in a Burger King in Alicante, Spain." 
She also met some competitors on the show who are just as dedicated to trivia as she is. One contestant bought a Jeopardy! buzzer online to use while she practiced, and another was Olivia's long-lost friend from her junior high geography matches. 
"One of the other people was actually at the National Geography Bee with me when I was in eighth grade," she says. "He figured that out before we went and called the Jeopardy! offices, panicked that we wouldn't be allowed to compete with each other because we already knew each other." 
Although she didn't win, Olivia achieved her goai~ of answering Daily Double and Final Jeopardy questions and earning $15,000. 
"I was nervous because going in I wanted to answer FinalJeopardy right,'' she says. "When that question came up I was so relieved. I'm finished writing before [Trebek] finishes the question '-you can see that. I just had a huge smile on my face." 0 
-Claire Reising 
The views of this author are not necessarily the views of Scholastic Magazine. 




competent," Turner says. 
Interests students choose to pursue may have started in high school, but some interests may begin in college because certain opportunities did not previously exist. ".Motivation comes from personal needs, interests and goals and is also greatly influenced by opportunities provided in high school, in college, in a job, etc.," Turner says. "Some students will continue to pursue goals they experienced during high school whereas others will have found new opportunities here [at Notre Dame] that they had not either had or pursued in the past." 
There are not, however, students who are more motivated than others. "Motivation is not a personality trait. It changes from situation to situation, though each person will have enduring interests that appear to define their 'motivation,'" Turner says. 
The "Unmotivated" ­A Different Outlook on Learning 
"Attendance in class? Depends on ifI like 
the class. Otherwise I don't go ifI don't have 
to," senior biochemistry major Mike Attanasi 
says. 
He would classify himself as "unmotivated," 
but as Turner says, his motivations are simply different from those of others. He finds his fulfillment in the academic community provided by a university environment. "I came · to college to learn what I couldn't on my own. Plus, itis more fulfilling to be here than in the real world, reading on my own," Attanasi says. 
Attanasi uses his autonomy to focus on 
the material he enjoys, but recognizes that 
good grades often force him to change his 
preferred methods. "Nothingreally motivates 
me in the classes I hate -except good grades. 
Sometimes studying hard for a test that will raise my grade will make me appreciate the material more." 
It_is not that Attanasi is a bad student, he just does not find his pursuits meaningful in particular classes, so he chooses to put 
. more effort into the classes he does enjoy, like applied sciences. "I like classes that deal with the applied sciences because I plan to have a career there -not in the boring math computations of chemistry." 
Common Interests ­Notre Dame At-tracts and Fosters Particular Students 
Notre Dame students tend to be charitable leaders. "Notre Dame students are all so gifted, they want to share it,'' senior science pre-professional major David Zimmer, the 
20 II SCHOLASTIC~ 9 DECEMBER 2010 
I •: • • -' • ' ' /' • ' • • '; •,; • ' • 
Leprechaun, says. As,,the Scholastic October that attend the university," junior psychology help others. cover story "Engaging Minds" found, students major and President of Circle K Brooke Reid "I love football more than any person at the university tend to be less interested says. should," Smith says. "Coaching interhall in classroom research opportunities, and Being Catholic may have established the football these last two years has been my instead, focus their time on extracurricular value ofservice in some students from an early favorite experience at Notre Dame. If I had activities. age, but it certainly is not the only explanation put half the effort into homework as I did 
One such activity is community service. for students' unbridled enthusiasm for giving preparing for interhall games, my professors "I'm really motivated when I feel a lot of back. "I think that being Catholic is an would be a whole lot happier. But, football is gratitude; when I'm at Notre Dame, I'm underlying factor. I'm not sure it is what makes a lot more intrinsically motivating for me, reminded of how fortunate I am. It has made me feel a need to give back, but I'm sure that it so especially in the beginning of the season me want to give back so much more,". Student is why my family has always emphasized being in addition to spending a couple hours at Body President Catherine Soler, a junior charitable," Zimmer says. practices, I would spend an hour or two a day accounting major, says. Like many Notre drawing stuff up or game planning. I enjoyed Dame students, Soler sought her leadership Sports -Alfectina every minute ofit." position because it allows her to use her "Leading is very rewarding," he says.
Others 
strengths to help others. "I remember the first game I coached, 
"I definitely think people volunteer a lot everything went almost perfectly and I felt a more here than at other universities. Students Two interhall football leaders, seniors huge sense ofpride. Itwas also fun using a lot come here because they know that this is a Jordan Smith and Kayla Bishop, management of what I learned in my management classes service-oriented school, and they keep that and consulting and accounting majors, on the football field. I am able to use a lot of mentality alive. It is d~finitely a cycle of the respectively, are in leadership positions due the group dynamic, motivation and leadership NotreDame image and the kinds ofstudents to their enthusiasm for sports and ability to theories I picked up ih class. I love my players 
9 DECEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 21 



Students Wh Participate ino 
community 
service . 


l:J1:J;' 
•CC 
_Students who reported
d 
omgcommu · . 
that they wou//drty _service said 

celebrate successes with a team." 
"I have three little siblings. Growing up in the backyard teaching them everything ­being their mentor -has naturally led to my leadership role on the various sports teams," Bishop, an athlete and team captain for various sports in high school and college, says. 
She says she wanted to share her abilities with other because of her excitement for sports. Both she and Smith say they are motivated by feelings of competence they felt as they mastered their sports, the sense of community they feel when playing with their teams, and the autonomy they are able to exercise as leaders who reach out to assist others. "We have this amazing ability to affect people. I want to be the Leprechaun because I want to share the gifts I have, make new friends, expand my horizons. I want to open myself up to new possibilities," Zimmer says. 
A New PosslibliHcy­The Sou-ch Bend .Communli-cy 
Senior political science major and president of the College Democrats Eileen Flanagan seized hold ofan opportunity in 2008 during the Obama campaign· to volunteer in the 
22 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 DECEMBER 2010 
o rt even if the 
were not required to y 
South Bend community. She says it was the first time she stepped out of the comfort of the "Notre Dame bubble." 
"The reason I originally became involved [with the College Democrats] was because I wanted something that transcended the Notre Dame experience. I joined to volunteer with the Obama campaign efforts. We got to be intertwined with the community -but not in the typical volunteer structure that distinguishes social classes -i.e. 'I'm the 
~t .
0~e have this amazing ability to affect people. I want to be the Leprechaun because I want to share the gifts I have, 
make new friends, expand my horizons. I want to open myself up to new :t9' · possibilities. "/1 
-DAVID ZIMMER, LEPRECHAUN 
volunteer; you're the person in need of my assistance.' In politics, you're all on the same 
studentsw 
cited "he\ping 
others is 
important to me"/ I-' as their reason
•%for participati_ng in comui:nunity 
playing field. Every vote counts the same/' she says. 
Flanagan's passion for politics motivated her to stay involved in the community, a swing county for the state. "Here, politics matter," she says. "We [St. Joseph's County] have the ability to sway elections one way or the other. In California, where I'm from, it is very polarized [to the left]. Nothing is going to change, so campaigning there doesn't make a difference in the electoral college." 
St.Joseph's County, which voted Democrat in 2008, was affected by the efforts of the ND College Democrats, but the effect was mutual. 
"We went to knock on doors, and most ND students have never been to the west side of South Bend before. The poor, stigmatized neighborhoods were the ones I loved the most because -they were so grateful that we cared. Usually they were very well informed. They would invite you into their homes and offer you food. I was shocked by how quickly they opened their arms to us, and it fekvery good to .be acc'epted into their community," Flanagan says. 
Flanagan's· statements resemble Turner's comments about motivation. "Just knowing about people who aren't like you and learning to interact with them could be an accomplishmentin competence," Turner says. Additionally, Flanagan could have felt the 
_./ 
meaningfulness ofher actions and a rewarding sense of belonging in the community. 
"At Notre Dame, there is definitely a responsibility to interact with the community. The community was shaped around' this university from the moment it was built. You have this accidental J_Jower by virtue of being a student here, and there's an obligation to act upon it," Turner says. 
Leadership -A Form 
of Service 
Catherine Soler did not always know that she wanted to be a leader. Her passion for student government stems from her involvement in 
sports teams and National Honor Society, two 
high school extracurricular activities which taught her about teamwork and service. "I've always been really interested in 
service. It's tangible and involves teamwork," 
she says. 
"Student government encapsulates me and 
gives me the opportunity to serve people. 
People are unaware that it is a role of servant leadership and making sacrifices." 
Although other universities offer tangible 
forms of compensation for student government representatives, Notre Dame does not. Soler says, however, bei~g involved in something she loves is enough compensation. 
I 
"I feel like w~ get so much more out of it than we put in it," she says. "The thought of asking for something to compensate me for my tim~ as student body president never crossed my mind. Just knowing that I'm able to use my passions to the benefit of others is rewarding enough."0 
Service -A Genuine Concern for -che Communi-cy 
In a recent Scholastic survey, 94.3 percent of the students who reported that they did community service said that t~ey would do it even if they were not required to for graduate· school applications, ResLife or a class requirement. Of the 430 students surveyed, 294 students reported participating in community service -68.4 percent of the population. This percentage is significantly higher than the national average, which in 2006 had volunteering at 30.2 percent of all college students. While some may jump to the conclusion that this percentage is correlated with the university's Catholic identity, 51.7 percent of students surveyed said that their participation in community service was not religiously based, compared to 43.8 percent who said it was and 4.5 percent who were unsure. 
Soler says she feels positive about students' charitable actions. "We're surrounded by a lot of really incredible people here. It's a cosmic, contagious effect," she says. Accordingly, students' answers overwhelmingly indicated intrinsic motivation. Twenty point one percent of students surveyed chose the answer "helping others is important to me," and on the whole, 60.9 percent of students chose either or both "helping others is important to me" and "I like the good feeling I get when I do it." 
"People here feel like they have a responsibility as someone who is blessed to give back to the community. Your morals and how you were brought up play a big role in the mindset that you should always help people," Reid says. 
Reid has volunteered with the Kiwanis organization since the seventh grade. "I like doing it -it is just one of those things that I have always done," she says. She identifies the Golden Rule as a source ofher motivation for participating in community service. "Do unto others as you would have them do u~to you. Ifl see something that upsets me, then I want to fix itfor others. I put myselfin the shoes of the people I help." 
Reid's reflection on a recent Circle K event matched the findings of the survey. "I have a habit of being involved in service, but so does a lot of the Notre Dame student population," she says. "We recently had over 115 people show up at our project at 8:30 
a.m. on a Saturday. Granted, you have your resume builders and ResLife volunteers, but that doesn't cover everyone." 
On the whole, the numbers do prove Reid's statements to be true -Notre Dame students tend to be selfless, especially compared to other universities. On the admissions Web site, the university recognizes that Notre Dame students are a unique breed. "Students admitted to Notre Dame build strong extracurricular records and are dedicated, passionate leaders in their communities and are evaluated positively by their guidance counselors and teachers." 
Zimmer, as a transfer student, is happy with the opportunities he has had in life and at Notre Dame. He recognizes that his personal experience reflects the larger population. "Being the Leprechaun has opened me up to different opportunities, but as Notre Dame students we choose to take advantage of those kinds of opportunities." 
24 I SCHOLASTIC ] 9 DECEMBER 2010 9 DECEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 


SPORTS 
Irish Eyes On: SERGEANT TIM 


McCARTHY
Madeline Stone
Sergeant Tun McCarthy's public service announcements and witty one-liners have been an essential part of the Notre Dame home football game experience for the past 51 years. With the words "May I have your attention please," Notre Dame Staclium becomes silent as fans anticipate McCarthy's statement. \Vb.at began as an effort to reduce traffic accidents after games has evolved into a tradition ofsafety-related humor. Although Sergeant McCarthy has retired from the Indiana State Police, he continues to give his signature safety announcements at every home game. In "May I Have Your Attention Please," a book that he co-authored with friend and Notre Dame Stadium announcer Mike Collins, the pair gives a behind-the-scenes look at Notre Dame football games and share the memories they have gathered over the years. 
We all look forward to your one-liners at the beginning ofthe fourth quarter. How did the tradition with the jokes start? 
·when I first started doing [the traffic safety announcements], I thought it went pretty well, but I felt that the people weren't listen..u1g to it ... they weren't really too concerned with listening to a police officer telling them to behave themselves after a Notre Dame home football game. Next season, I thought I'd do something to attract more attention to it, so I thought of using these quips. The first line I did was, "The automobile replaced the horse, but the driver should stay on the wagon." There was a bit of hesitation after I gave the quip, and there were a lot of groans and a lot of boos -x especially a lot of boos from the students -but I thought I'd try it again and see what happened ... and as the season went on, I started feeling comfortable with them because it was obvious people were starting to listen just to see what the quip was. I'm sure they didn't remember the serious part of the message word-for-word, but they remembered the quip and connected it with their driving. It was a gimmick that worked. 
Did you ever expect the announcements to be such a hit? 
No, not in my wildest imagination. I never thought I'd be here this long. ·when I first did it, it was 1960, and I've been doing it ever since, so that's an awfully long time. I never dreamed that I would still be doing it. I left the state police to serve as sheriff for Porter County, but I stayed on because it was fun, and I really enjoyed doing it. 
Do you think the jokes have helped to getyour message across? 
I think it helps quite a bit because people will think about the quip on the drive home, but still it brings up the point about them driving home safely. Really, the point isn't to be a humorist or a comedian or anything like that. The idea is just to have some sort ofa routine where people will listen to the message, and these quips have worked. 
Where do you get the inspiration for your jokes? 
At that time, I was involved in a radio show called Signal 10, a program that was produced by WGN Radio in Chicago. It involved me carrying a tape recorder and recording conversations between myself and traffic violators that I stopped. The point was to show some of the nonsensical and foolish excuses people give for violating traffic laws. It became quite a show and ran for 13 years. There was another show on WGN at the same time where a police officer would fly over Chicago and report traffic conditions. My friend Len Baldy was on that show, and one time I was listening to him, and he gave a quip. He did it just to break up the monotony of the program. He gave me half a dozen of them, and later I came up with the idea ofusing them at the Non·e Dame games ... I look for plays on words throughout the year. If I hear or think of something, I'll jot it down and file 

it away. At the beginning of the season, I'll put them together and come up with some sort of quip. 
What is the best part about doing the announcements? The best part, I think, is the excitement to it. The first time I did it, I was very nervous. They told me to be professional, to be articulate and not to flub any words because they'll laugh you right out of the stadium. I didn't mess up any ofthe words the first few times, but I was nervous. 
You're retired now, but you still do the announcements at every home game. What do you think is so special about Notre Dame? What keeps you coming back after all this time? 
I've always been a Notre Dame football fan, and I think the game is very exciting. There's nothing greater, than a Notre Dame home football game weekend ... I just enjoyed it, and I still enjoy it. vVhat impressed me about Notre Dame as I spent more and more time here was how well this university runs, how good they are at everything they do, and the enthusiasm and loyalty ofthe student body. 
What was the most memorable game for you? 
My favorite game was Coach Dan Devine's Green Jersey Game when they played USC in 1977. I think that was the greatest game ever here. The students were all built up for that game; they brought out the Trojan horse. I'll never forget -I was standing in the press box, outside where they used to have all the cameras. I was up there way before the game started, and there was a cameraman there, and he said, "Hey, is it always like this? The noise?" It was his first time at Notre Daine Stadium, and he had never heard noise like that ... this was before the game even started, and I told him the cheering was for the band. I told him to wait for theteam to come out ifhe wanted to hear noise. That was when.the team came out in their sparkling green je_rseys, and that stadium went absolutely berserk -the noise was deafening. USC was supposed to beat Notre Dame that game, and Notre Dame took them to the cleaners. 
The Irish finished 7-5 this season, their first winning season since 2006. Do you think that the glory days ofNotre Dame football are returning? 
I always laugh when I hear comments like that. There was a time when Notre Dame seemed like they couldn't get any worse, and you know what happened? Theyfound a coach that they thought might be good at Notre Dame, and his name was Ara Parseghian. They won two national championships with him. So all this talk that Notre Dame will never be as good as they used to be, that's just nonsense. We were going to encl up having just a terrible season, and look what happened at the last three games. vVhen they get out there, they play their hearts out. 
26 I SCHOLASTIC I9 DECEMBER 201O 
,. · 1 . . ' . . / . . . . 
' l • •' I • , • '>' • • > ~ I 
,l ' • , • • . 
SPORTS 


Survey Says . •• 
Brian Kaneb " 
Lily 
! "Teenage
! South Dining !To join a new New York
RODGERS ! Dream" by Katy 
: Hall 
Track & Field 
Lian 
: Reckers, OSIER \ especially :club.
! Perry. 
\ Tie between : "Stereo Love" =c II h
: b Ed d M : a
: y war aya :often 
: Pizza Toscana. : & "Fader" by : ·
Fencing 
\ The Temper. \ 
City 
. : Turkey or 
ome more: . . B 1 .
: vts1t e_gmm : agam. 
When I heard the Basilisca bells 
"Pride and play the alma Prejudice"
mater as the sun began to rise. 
\ Running around : with my friends j"The Departed"\ in a lightning : storm. 
Time Travel 
Matt Formica 
December 5, 2004 
he 2004 women's national championship soccer game 
came down.to penalty kicks, after the 1-1 stalemate 
forced the game into a no score overtime. UCLA scored first, but Notre Dame tied it in the 74th minute when junior forward Katie Thorlakson drilled a penalty kick into the lower left of the net after being taken down in the box. But with just a few minutes remaining in regulation, UCLA earned a penalty kick of its own and had an opportunity to take a late lead. That's when junior goalkeeper Erika Bohn, who had not faced a penalty kick all season, came up with a clutch save to preserve the tie. "It was a pressure situation, but I just went with my gut," Bohn said. "After I .saved it, I knew we weren't going to lose." Bohn blocked two more penalty kicks during the shootout, and sophomore midfielder Jill Krivacek made the winning shot for the Irish, which marked the first time a women's soccer title game had been decided in such a fashion. The Irish finished the season with a nearly flawless 24-1-1 record. Bohn was fittingly honored as the College Cup's most outstanding defensive player, and Thorlakson earned the same honor for offense. "I'm not a very' emotional person on the outside, but as soon as the whistle blew, I just started crying," Thorlakson said. "It means everything to me because you play with these people every day." 0 
T
9 DECEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 27 





PARENTS: SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 
/ 

Serving the Not:u~:~:di!::~~~ SCH O LASTIC 
---------I 
IO ISSUES 35 DOLLARS 
First Class or Foreign Subscribers: add 15 dollars. 
PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST. NAME:----------------­ADDRESS:--------------­
National Pacemaker Award Winner 
I 
SEND THIS FORM AND $35.00 PAYMENT TO: SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 315 LAFORTUNE STUDENTCENTER NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
OR 
ORDER ONLiNE AT 
HTTPS://MARKETPLACE.ND.EDU/ STUDENTSHOPI 


9 DECEMBER 2010 ISCHOLASTIC I31 . . . --------­
. • ---------~•' ~---=---J ~~---L-.L_."L_ -> 
2010-2011
-----i--------------------------'--.....:..______ The Core Council for Ga . Lesbian,· Bisexual ~ Questioning SiY.d~-=s__ ii------1-----~Pr,._,o,:,:,.,:V'-,!.lid,!!,.:,e~s'----'i~n.:.;..:fo.._.r_,_m.,_,=-at_.__,_io""-'n'-'-',__,e=duc.ation. pn_d....,t...eJ5_0JJC..~~s.,_·_·.______ Contact-Sr. Sue Dunn, OP. dunn.S'¼@ncl.e~dy, l-~tSJ>.:.=-0__ 
. . 
fp.Chtl Wo.Shinyon rw{)..5hin.1.end..e.cw. 


HUMOR 

Ho, ho, ho my tiny, frosted Giplings! I sincerely hope that the hypothermia and frostbite aren't keeping your spirits down in this most wonderful of seasons. IfI know my dedicated Domers, not one of you let the subzero temperatures prevent you from participating in each and every one of your culminating classes this week. As the semester draws to a close, some of you are snuggling up in cozy corners of Hesburgh, nestling your rosy noses into psychology books, and asking Santa for a whole big string of Ns this year. 
But surely, you're not all snow angels. No, no, not at all! Gipp knows better than that. If you think Santa is the only one you need to look out for, then think again, little ones! The only difference is, of course, ifyou misbehave, it'll be public exposure and not a lump of coal from Father Gipp. 
So sit back, pull that official ND Bookstore Snuggie up to your chinny chin chin, a~d let ol' Gipp spin you a classic winter tale ... 
'Twas the first n~ght of winter, in an off-campus house. The band kids were dancing and just getting doused. Four freshmen crept out to the front lawn with care, In hopes that an untapped keg still would be there. 
As others were passing out, 10 to each bed, Visions of stolen beer danced in their heads. The cab driver helped out for $10 more, A trifling fee for their unlikely score! 
In Library Circle, they made such a clatter, Some strangers dashed out to see what was the matter! Quick straight to the cab, they all flew like a flash, To assist in a most discreet, drunkenly dash. 
The moon on the rim of the just-stolen kegger Gave the feeling of triumph to each proud bootlegger. When what to their glazed-over eyes should appear, But a miniature sleigh, and eight tiny reindeer! 
Just kidding, of course, you naive little tots! But they did see the lights of their dorm 'cross the lot. More rapid than golf carts they flew to their home, As they whistled, and shouted, and ran past the Dome. 
"Now Keystone! Now Natty! Now Anheuser Busch! On Bud Light! On Miller! On all off-brand slush! To the top of the dorm! To that quad in our hall! Now haul this keg! Lift this keg! Pull this keg, all!" 
Quietly up to the top floor they sneaked, Wincing with fear as the elevator creaked. The contraband goods were hidden with care, In the quad of some juniors who were not even there! 
And then, in a twinkling, they heard in the hall, An RA's soft footsteps, making that night's last crawl. To the staircase they hurried, to their freedom they ran, But one lonely straggler was caught by the Man. 
"Look bro, you seem chill, so I'll tell you what's up," Said the foolish young convict, that rattlebrained pup! The rector was woken, and the whole tale was told. He could not believe his young men were so bold! 
And what made matters worse, what bothered him most ­His gents had not stolen a tap from their hosts! How could they expect to unlock their great prize Without the one key that would let them inside? 
He said not a word, but looked down at his group, And used only his eyes to chastise the young troupe. And laying his fingers aside of his nose, And giving a nod, up the chimney he rose! 
Just kidding, again! Of course that's not true! But he did give a lecture or two to the crew. . And they heard him exclaim, as they fled from his sight, "Get a tap next time, lads, and do this thing right!" 
Ah, the joy of a classic Christmas tale. It warms my heart so very much. As you finish up finals and flock home for hibernation, don't forget to be good to Old Saint Gipp. And when I say "be good," of course, I mean be bad. Be very, very bad. 
Happy Non-Denominational Holidays! 
The Gipper 

TfPTHeg;PP 
@ 0 © @ at gipper@nd.edu 
9 DECEMBER 2010 ISCHOLASTIC I33 

the.sllb!)ar ~llalit}'pfstore~~()llght·puniptin. .· differ~~ce.·.··~·e·tw'(!enipale and·• f!a/e•.. J?eople< >iifat(!r,.~e ,venttoan9ther.fa1I1ily•. ga~hei-ing.........•.. ')vci~ldas~rrie/'frey9upkay?You l~okreally .··. at. a ~bteL··1v1y thirdan?··finar.need~b spew·./ < .·••i:iale:l'·Iwoµld respo11d, '!0h;J've ahvays been/ •··· carrieinthe·.hoteldobby, ~h~ch,Juc:ky.for.Ill~, .• i.i• this ~hite!,,.Jfo~eyer,_as rnyfrienclinformed.·•. ·.··•... was setyp like a.·maze an~ hid110 bathrooms: ii•.·.. •.• . me;.CCTch~re'.si:1 differ<!nC~ bet.ween11orII1aL ••.tater,~hf!11rwas.retelling-tfos story,;i11 three .. ·.··•·· 
•..·paleand cold,Jifefoss;Y-oldenwrt pale'.'' ' ....·. CJf rnysibHngs askeciIUe/"Did ymratleastfind .•... 
·•··•···•···•...• Th~.··nert•.·1e.ai-ningmo_111ents•.carrii.·•during· aplant.?.Or>.Vltatab.011tallousekeeping.ca_rt?"'· ·.. the••· first 'I'han¥~givjng feast,-rhiclrtfQ' ·•.·.1, a~l1an1ed, ha9•·w•t#ll .theI11,''Acfually,•no; all·.·.•.· ·.. Iio.u.Id find :wa~ th~fl~orin frontof my"feet...'.'..:·. 
" ._ ..... '· . ' ., ... '·--··-. 
.•...•.···•·Thereinlie•~JewII10relessori.s:·.011e/always •. •.·.·· 

' ­
. . , . . 
' ,• • '' • I • • ~ , t , 
HUMOR 
0 
Sarah Ceponis 
Finals time is almos~ upon us, and that means 'tis the season. No, not the season to be jolly. Students of Notre Dame, 'tis the season to procrastinate. , If you are saying to yourself, "Not I!" (i.e. freshmen who spent the past three weeks making study guides for every class, including Contemporary Topics), I envy your ambition and drive, but don't be so quick to think that you are above the procrastination fray. The very fact that you are holding this magazine in your hands means you have torn your eyes away from that chemistry book, so you, too, my hard-working friend, are procrastinating. Well done. Read on. For those of you who read the title and felt as though you had instantly found a new word to describe your greatest academic strength, I hope I do not have to convince you to read more. You're probably looking for something unproductive to do, so you have come to the right place. Here is a compilation, from top-notch procrastimasters all across campus, of the top 10 ways to accomplish nothing. 
JSwing by the bookstore, too, for And now if you're finally some early Christmas shopping. going to crack open that
5
You're wasting time, so why not computer, be sure to foray waste money? · into the vast wasteland that 
. :.. \ 
, Why:'are you even at the library?·-. isYouTube. OrSporcle. Or(2·Af.leasf CoMo has _free popcorn. 
StumbleUpon. Or ND's :f!ead that way,. but as you walk very own Graduation . a~ross campus, be sure to stop at Progress System to try 
.the grotto. Have you rioticed that out the GPA calculator . ·it's 'always crowc!,ed this time of and contemplate exactly I year? Even prayer becomes a way to how little you can do and \· P.rocrastinate. still get by. 
\ ______ . ·;.....·------· · ............. ·-<.. 
____________...... /
6Eventually;· head back to your darm and spend at least 30 minutes in the hall ,,,,,,..,. complaining loudly about I . finals. (Or quietly, if you {7I(you are female, throw open your door and get fined for being loud. Or i · announce that you are going to watch "Love ·loudly, ifyou want to journey \ _ Actually.I' In less than five minutes, half ofthe 8Ifyou are male, turn up the backto LaFun and the ATM \ · dorm will be in your room. · volume as you play "Halo" 
' ,,______________________________,: · or "Call of Duty." In less
to pay said fine.) than five minutes, half of the dorm will be in your
ID And if you are really room. starting to feel like you might start working, just open your computer and Google "the top 10 ways to procrastinate." The possibilities are endless. 0 

9 DECEMBER 2010 I SCHOLASTIC I 35 
EXIT INTERVIEW 



PROFESSOR JOHN KENNEDY 
Josh Flynt
MarketingProfessorJohn]. Kennedyis one ofthe university's longest-tenured faculty members. He arrived as a department chair in 1963 and has taught at Notre Dame for nearly 50 years. He completed his undergraduate studies in engineering at the Newark College of Engineering and he earned an MBA and Ph.D. from The Ohio State University. A father offive, Professor Kennedy and his wife also raised three of his brother's children following his untimely passing. Five are graduates ofNotre Dame. 
What is your favorite thing about teaching at Noti·e Dame? 
I've been very fortunate throughout my life. It's been an interesting journey; I've had a lot ofluck and a wide variety ofexperiences. On the completion of my tour ofduty as an Air Force officer, I had a range ofoptions in industry, government and academia. The academic choice was between Notre Dame and Harvard. I chose Notre Dame because ofits values. My wife and I are Irish Catholic, so that was a factor, too. Compared to other options, Notre Dame had warmth, a family feeling, a personal touch. Itwas compassionate but still rigorous, demanding yet pragmatic. In short, it had a soul. It was, in my mind, more than an education institution. It had a global influence. One could "live the good life" and looking back, one might conclude that one had made a difference. At that time, I worked for a board ofgenerals and admirals. I asked them which I should choose. Theysaid, "No question-go to Notre Dame." I've been here since 1963 and I am still enjoying it. It's a privilege to be with so many bright young minds and memorable q>lleagues. I always remember my students long after they forget me. 
Ifyou were not a professor, what wouldyou be doing? 
I have had a host of life's possible adventures; I have tried and will try as many more as my time on this planet allows. Cosmology and the origins of existence are ofinterest to me, as is entrepreneurship. I have also served with our government with four presidential administrations in a range of capacities and committees. But, at the end of the day, being a husband and a father of a large family was and is my greatest blessing and joy. 
What was the most useful thing you learned in college? 
I learned self-discipline and how to think about thinking. I also learned the importance ofdaily exercise and a balanced life. I was involved in a rigorous engineering program, but I also studied the humanities. The humanities are the path to a sense of personal well-being. They help one to develop an inner peace and joy and the friendship of the humanities helps a lot during the tough times. Ifyou learn to appreciate art, music and literature, 
36 ISCHOLASTIC I9 DECEMBER 2010 
it will give you access to alternative realities. It is a journey you can take by yourself once you have mastered the how. In college, students need to learn life's survival skills. They need to be able to look in the mirror and understand who they are looking at. They must discover their limitations, how to succeed and how easy it is to fail. If they are lucky, they may also discover what they are good at. Most importantly, they will discover the true values oflife and the meaning of a "life well lived." 
Ifyou could 011/y have one book, which wouldyou choose? 
"The Story of Civilization" by [vVill] Durant or a similar equivalent. This 10-volume set provides a broad view of where we have been and what we are about. It provides a glimpse of most religions, philosophies, kings, emperors, wars and sundry world stage personages. One needs such a broad perspective, so I try to read often about a wide variety ofsubjects and disciplines. Biographies are insights into others' journeys. 
Why should students want to study marketing? 
I don't think they necessarily should. The key is to find a passion and then to match it to one's natural gifts. Stay flexible. Get on life's stage and be ready for life's opportunities. People need two sets ofskills: One for survival and the other for personal enrichment. But, if students study business at the undergraduate level, marketing can be a good choice ifit matches their skill set. Marketing is important because it impacts economic well-being. Properly executed marketing can address and partially resolve a range of the world's ills. Much of the world's power is now in the hands of global corporations. The world yearns for men and women of character and personal dignity. Marketing is indigenous in that world. 
What are the most challenging issues college studentsface today? 
Students today are confronted with a deterioration of society's moral and social structure. Many ofthe foundations ofour beliefs about birth, life and death are routinely being dismissed. And they live in a world ofincreasingly rapid change: technological, social and biological. There are fewer and fewer "certainties." For example, the physics I studied as a graduate student are no longer "true." The cast keeps changing. 
How has the evolution oftechnology influencedyour class and teaching throughout the years? 
Little is the same! The~e has been enormous change. Technology has changed the student-faculty relationship. Email, for example, can facilitate one-on-one mentoring for students who seek it. The accessibility of information on the Web can make each student a genius. They just have to understand the potential. The computer enables scholarly pursuit -and can light a fire into scholarly passion. Universities are still in a quandary on how to handle the potentials of the new technological options. 
Ifyou could invite four people to dinne1; who wouldyou choose and why? 
The first person I would invite would be Christ, to have a religious dialogue and maybe try to talk my way into heaven. I would love to talk to Einstein to have a scientific discussion and ask him what he thought about quantum theory based on the new developments that have emerged. I think Alexander the Great would make for an interesting leadership and philosophical conversation. Would his intriguing vision for one humanity, one common world and way of life ever have been possible? Then finally, MarkTwain because he would make for an engaging and witty companion for a grog or two. 
,, 'I • , I , ,
: . ,• . , -.... " ' , / . ' . -,, ' . 
J 








