— Cbe —
Dotrc Dame Scholastic
•DISCe-QVASI-SeniPGR-VICTVRWS- • VIVG-QVASI-CRAS’MORITV/RVSr
Vol. XL.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, June 8, 1907.	■ •	• No. 34.
THE REVEREND JOHN TALBOT SMITH, NEW YORK CITY. Commencement Orator.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
570
The Varsity. ‘
WESLEY J. DONAHUE, ’07.
J_JEROES tried, my hearties, Are these of whom we sing;
They’ve swept the West from Champaign to Purdue.
Here’s to the infield peerless, Here’s to the outfield fearless, The Varsity ’07 N. D. U.
’Tis the hour, my hearties, To sing a song of praise;
Let's sing it then as 'neath the Gold and Blue All flushed, with victory beaming, .	We saw our colors streaming,
The Varsitj' ’07, N. D. U.
Other teams, my hearties, Have fought for Notre Dame, Teams that nobly bore the Gold and Blue;
But when shall fade the glory That we’ll tell in song and story Of the Varsity ’07 N. D. U. ?
Each one of us, my hearties, Has felt a thrill of joy As loud we shouted for our heroes true, Then let us raise our voices While each glad heart rejoices, The Varsity ’07 N. D. U.
Around our team, my hearties, May fondest memories twine.
Oh let us lieep their glory ever new, And may the song we’re singing Down the ages go a-ringing, The Varsity ’07 N. D. U.	.
■The Varsity for 1907.
Notre Dame lays equal claim with Illinois to the Western Championship. The Gold and Blue lost one game to the Illinois school and won one; Minnesota won a game from Notre Dame, which makes two games lost out of a schedule of twenty-five games. Illinois played just about half as many games ’ as Notre Dame and lost one. Michigan, the holder of the Western Championship, went down to defeat before Capt. Waldorf and his men, and Illinois did not play Michigan. There is no question about the state honors-
this year as Notre Dame went through the state schools without losing a game, defeating Indiana, Wabash and Purdue in both games, giving them a clear title to the State Championship. ’
Captain Waldorf proved to be one of the best captains Notre Dame ever had, and under the coaching of Lou Criger the team that represented us this year was one of the best, if not the best, ever turned out of the school. Individually, some of the men may have fallen below the stars of former years, and at the same time there were men on this year’s team which were the best we have ever had. Curtis was undoubtedly the best catcher Notre' Dame ever turned out. He has Ijeen offered a position with two big league teams, but the chances are that he will not accept either of them as he is a junior law man and will finish school in another year. Dubuc was also offered a berth with the big leaguers, but he too will in all probability return and will not consider the offer this season. “Dreams” Scanlon gives promise of being even better than his brother who is now pitching for the Brooklyn National league. Scanlon was the dark horse of the year. Early in the season he showed nothing wonderful, but before the season was over he had proved that he was one of the best college pitchers in the country. Fara-baugh on first base played a beautiful game and was the steady spot in the infield.
Compared with last year’s team there is some room for discussion. As a whole, the team did not hit as well, yet hit at the right time this year. Brogan on third base fell far below the game he put up last season, as last year he hit over three hundred and played a brilliant game throughout the season. Perce and Waldorf were both better this year than last. Bonnan hit better, but did not field as well. McKee in centre-field was not the hitter that the famous “Jerry ” Sheehan was, but played a better game in the field. On short, Kuepping gave Shea a run for his money and was a better hitter, but was not so fast a fielder. Boyle had a tough job cut out for him when he was asked to fill in McNemey’s place on second base, but he surely made a gallant effort and played a good game the whole season. Jimmy Cooke did not get much of a-chance this year as Curtis caught every
Top row, reading from left to right — Cook, F. Scanlon, Perce, McKee, R. Scanlon, Draper (Mgr ) Middle row — Brogan, Dubuc, Waldorf (Capt.), Farabaugh, Curtis.
Bottom row—Boyle, Bannon, Koepping.
THE WESTERN CHAMPIONS.
572	NOTRe, DAME SCHOLASTIC.
game but the last one, yet in the one Jimmy did catch he showed the best form he has shown since he made the team.
The Schedule..
Apr. 11—Notre Dame at South Bend. Notre Dame, 6; South Bend, 4; Perce, Pitcher.
Apr. 15—South Bend at Notre Dame. Notre Dame, 9; South Bend, .1; Scanlon, Picther.
Apr. 16—Notre Dame at South Bend. Notre Dame, 7; South Bend, 6; Scanlon, Pitcher.
April 17—Notre Dame at South Bend.
Notre Dame, 4; South Bend, 3. Scanlon, pitcher.
April 20—Hillsdale College at Notre Dame.
Notre Dame, 11; Hillsdale, 3; Perce, pitcher.
April 22—Notre Dame at. South Bend;
South Bend, 2; Notre Dame, 0 ; Scanlon, pitcher.	•
April 24—Notre Dame at Urbana, Illinois.
Notre Dame, 6; Illinois, 4; Dubuc, pitcher.
April 26—Wisconsin University at Notre Notre Dame, 7; Wisconsin, 4; “Waldorf, pitcher.	.
April 27—Knox College at Notre Dame.
Notre Dame, 3; Knox, 1;. Perce pitcher.
April 30-^Knox College at Galesburg.
Notre Dame, 9; Knox, 4; Scanlon, pitcher.
May 1—Monmouth College at Monmouth.
N. D., 2; Monmouth, 0; Waldorf, pitcher.
May 2—St. Thomas at St. Paul. Notre Dame, 7; St. Thomas, 1.
May 4—Minnesota Univ, at Minneapolis.
Notre Dame 5;. Minnesota 0.
May 7—Michigan Agricultural at Notre Dame, 1; M. A. C., 0; Waldorf, pitcher.
May 8—Albion College at .Notre Dame.
Notre Dame, 6; Albion, 4.	.
May 9—Indiana at Notre Dame. Notre Dame, 6; Indiana, 0; Scanlon, pitcher. .
May 14—Nebraska Univ, at Notre Dame.
Notre Dame, 4; Nebraska, 0;. Dubuc,pitch May 15—Oberlin at Notre Dame. Notre.
Dame, 5; Oberlin 0; . Waldorf, pitcher.
May 16—Indiana Univ, at Bloomington.
Notre Dame, 3; Indiana, 1. Scanlon, pitcher.
May 17—Wabash College at Crawfordsville. Notre Dame, 6; Wabash, 0
May 18—Purdue UniversityatLafayette..
Notre Dame, 6; Purdue, 2. Waldorf, pitcher.
May 21—Michigan Univ, at Notre Dame.
Notre Dame, 5; Michigan, 4; Dubuc, pitcher.
May 23—Illinois Univ, at Notre Dame.
Illinois, 1; Notre Dame, 0. Scanlon, pitcher.
May 25—Purdue Univ, at South Bend. Notre Dame, 6; Purdue, 3; Waldorf, pitcher.
May 28—St. Viateur’s College at Notre Dame. Notre Dame, 6; ' St. Viateur’s, 0. Scanlon, pitcher.
May 30—Minnesota Univ, at South Bend. Minnesota, 2; Notre Dame, 1; Dubuc, pitcher
May 30—Wabash Univ, at South Bend. Notre Dame, 7; Wabash, 1.
May 31—Beloit College at Notre Dame.
Notre Dame; 6; Beloit .0.	.	’
	Averages	for 1907.	
Batting	. -	Fielding	
Curtis......		356%	’ Perce			1000%
Dubuc......		350	Curtis.		..990
Bonnan...	.....293	Dubuc		..974
Kuepping.		278	Waldorf.....	..974
Waldorf...		265	Farabaugh	.-.973
Farabaug	h,..227	Bonnan.....	..895
McKee		.....213	Boyle		.,892
Boyle		.....195	Brogan		..863
Brogan....	.....173	McKee		..861
Perce		.....094	. Kuepping..	..860
Scanlon...		066	Scanlon		..915
Cooke			000	Cooke		..915
G. A. Farabaugh (First Base).			
Farabaugh started his baseball career at Notre Dame as a catcher. Then he went to the outfield, and this year came to first base. And on -the. way past, let it, be known, that at last he found his home for on first base he was a wonder. A high ball is the only way one could be got past him. His work on first base marks him as one of the best college first basemen in the country. Coupled with his fielding, Farabaugh was a good hitter, and his timely hits won many games for the Varsity.
Harry Curtis (Catcher).
Curtis was so good it’s hard to get started on him. He was the best back stop Notre Dame ever had, and is undoubtedly one of the best stops in the country. He has had several major league offers, which’ is a good indication of his - worth. _His throw to the bases was perfect. He could get eveiything a pitcher had and could stop anything that a pitcher could throw. As a hitter he was sure. Hitting with men on bases was his favorite occupation. He will finish school next year.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
573
W. A. Draper (Manager).
Much of the success of both track and baseball teams was due to Manager Draper. What Draper did for the football team he also accomplished for the baseball men. He gave us one of the best schedules that any college team could have. On it we had six of the Big Nine besides all the lesser lights in the West. Early in the season he had arranged an Eastern trip, but owing to a disagreement about examinations the trip fell through. It is to be regretted by all Notre Dame men that the team did not take this trip, as we believe the East would have been as easy, if not easier, to conquer, than the West. Draper v ill finish next year, and the students will be glad to see the famous athlete controlling athletics here again?
William Perce.
“Big” Bill finishes this year. For the past three years he had been one of the mainstays of the pitching staff. The past season he was bigger and better than ever. Perfect control is his strong point. A goou head, steady as a clock, a good out-fielder and a good man on bases, coupled with a great arm, made him a most valuable man for the team. During the last part of the season Perce’s arm was sore and he did not work, but he has done his share well.
John Dubuc (Pitcher).
A pitcher, an outfielder and a great hitter mark Dubuc as the most valuable man on the team. He could take his turn in the box, pitch a four-hit game and drive in the winning runs with a two-bagger, or he could go in the outfield; play a perfect game and continue driving in runs. He was everything a baseball player ought to be, and v as as srood as a man can be, and that is all we can say about him.	.
> Scanlon (Pitcher). •	.
“Dreams” was the big find. As a pitcher he was one of the best on the - staffgood control, wonderful steam and great curves. He suffered the only defeat of the season at the hands of Illinois, but the game he pitched would win ninety-nine out of every hundred. In another year, he will be a most valuable man, and right now is one of the best college pitchers in the country.	'
Capt. Waldorf (Pitcher).
A* better baseball captain Notre Dame never had than “Bumper” Waldorf. No man ever got along with his team with the ease with which Waldorf handled them. When he had fault to find with the work, he did it in such a way that the offender
574
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
was glad to try harder and the sting of reprimand was not felt. His work in the box places him among the best. This season he had better control than usual, his control formerly being his weak spot. He has a world of steam and a good head, can play any position in the outfield and this season fielded and batted in the first division. But the best thing one can say of him is the manner in which he handled his team.
John Brogan (Third Base).
This is Brogan’s second vear. Last season Brogan was one of the. best hitters playingcollege baseball, but this season his hitting dropped off a little. His work in the field was almost perfect. He has the surest arm on the team, and every ball that he throws to first base goes straight on a line to the glove. He made his share of “boots,” but played a good steady game, was a good man on bases and had a good baseball head.
McKee (Centre-Field).
“Sure” McKee was the centre-field gardener. In the field he was like a basket, O	7
could hit right or left handed, was the fastest man on the team on bases, had a great eye and was one of the hardest men in the country to pitch to. He was a good man in a pinch, and his pinch hits were a feature of several games. His two-bagger in the Purdue game settled the State Championship for Notre Dame.
Douglas Bonnan (Left Field).
This was Bonnie’s second year. A prettier fielder never played at Notre Dame than the little left-fielder on the Varsity this year. He had the best arm in the outfield, was the first hitter up, always on base, a good base runner, runs baseball from left field clear around, a good hitter, an infielder of no mean ability, and a man who would grace any baseball team.
Hugh 'Boyle,
one of the midgets, like Kuepping, was fast, could cover lots of ground and throw from any position ; he'was a fast man on bases and a fair hitter. In another year he will be a great second baseman and a most valuable man :for • the team.
Otto Kuepping, the other midget, played a great game on short, was fast and had a great arm, could cover enough ground for ten men and could throw from any position, was a good hitter, and could hit the ball as hard as any man on the team. He and Boyle in another year will make a pair hard to beat around second.
Cooke (Utility Man).
Jimmie played a couple of games on first base and caught the last game of the season. He is a good all-around man and puts up a very creditable game behind the bat.
The Track Team.
The track team this year was better than usual; the work of Smithson, Keefe, Scales, Wood, Moriarty, Keach and Cripe was first class, and although thev failed to win the State Meet the showing this year was better than Notre Dame has made in several. Smithson was the star of the collection of track men and his all-around work was wonderful. In the indoor meets he broke the world’s record twice, in the forty-yard low hurdles, and although the record will not stand, occasioned by the timers being local men, he nevertheless has the satisfaction of knowing that he can repeat the performance and hang the record to his belt. In the State Meet he made a new state record in the high hurdles, and in the conference meet he equalled the world’s record and broke the conference record, going over the high sticks in 15 1-5 seconds. During the greater part of the track season Smithson was out of condition, the trouble being caused by^ a game leg which he hurt early in the winter and which was never right after that. He is undoubtedly one of the best high hurdlers in the country, and with proper conditions and in shape he looks to be the most likely mail to defeat the famous Garrels of Michigan. A meeting between the two men would very likely cause a new -world’s record to be hung up in the. high hurdles, as neither man has been pushed this year and both men have - done 15 1-5. Smithson can do 10 fiat in the
Top row, reading from right to left —McGannon (Asst. Mgr.), Keach Moriarty, McDonough, Woods, O’Leary, Draper (Mgr.) Middle row —Graham, Schmid, Scales, Keefe (Capt.), Smithson, Duffey, Miller.
Bottom Row — Washburn, Rath, Cripe.
576
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Forest Smithson (Captain-elect), hundred, a.nd only for the fact that after the hurdles in the Conference Meet his leg got worse on him he would undoubtedly have been, some place near the front in the dash, and might have won it. He has a record of 22 flat in the 220-yard dash, can do a quarter close to 50; puts the shot1 around thirty-eight feet, throws the discus over a 110, is good in the high and broad jumps; in fact, there is nothing that he can not do and do well. He would have the best . chance in the world to win the all-around championship held at Jamestown this summer, and although not definitely settled yet he may enter the games there, and if he -does he looks like a sure yvinher.
Moriarty. This was Moriarty’s first year in track work, and liis showing in the State Meet in the pole vault was exceptionally good. He did snot vault in the indoor meets, and never went out until the team was outside. In the State Meet he did 10 feet and 7 inches in the pole vault, and in another year will make a most valuable man.	.	•	.
John Scales. This is; Scales’ third year and like Keefe he has become faster year by year. He annexed a good, many points in the indoor meets this year, and ‘ again like Keefe he was in poor condition most of the time. When the State Meet came around Scales was out of the running before he started as he had a bad leg which never got right during the last part of the season. Scales’ best events are the high hurdles and high jump.
Woods. This is the first year that Woods has done anything in track and he looks to have the makings of a great weight man. He puts the shot close to 40 feet, throws the discus and the hammer, the former 115 and the latter close to 130 feet. In another year Woods ought to be one of the best weight men in the State.
James J. Keefe (Captain).
Keefe finishes school this year; he has been on the track team his entire four years, and each year has been better. This
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5.77
season lie won the half and the quarter in the State Meet, and in the indoor meets he always won his share of points. Keefe was handicapped this year by class work, and was able to give but a small amount of his time to training, hence was never in very good condition. He has a record of 52 2-5 in the quarter and one of 2.02 1-5 in the half-mile.
Keach. Keach was another of the out-of-condition men. There wasn’t more than two weeks of the entire season that Keach was in shape. AVhen he was, he was good for points in the 100-yard dash.and in the 220, but poor condition kept him outside of the'money in the State Meet and greatly affected his work in the indoor meets.
Cripe. Cripe’s best work was done indoors. In the indoor meet he showed great promise and looked like a sure winner in the quarter in most any company, but for some reason his outdoor work did not show as well as was expected. Cripe is young at the game, and like Woods and Moriartv will make a valuable man for next year's team.
O’Leary in the sprints, Schmidt in the middle-distance runs, Washburn in the distance events and McDonough in the high jump, did well for first-year men, and will make good meh for next year. Red Boyle, of baseball fame, showed ability as a pole vaulter and broad jumper in the indoor meets, but gave up track for baseball.
Tne Football Outlook.
The outlook for a good football team next fall is very promising. With Manager Draper back, Barry as coach and Bracken assistant, the managing end of it will be all right. With Callicrate as captain, Curtis, Eggeman, Bonnan, Burdick, Miller, Dolan, Scanlon, Munson,.Mertes, Hutzell, Henning and Doyle of this year’s squad there should be something doing. Then there are many other good men who failed to score last fall who should show up well next season. Many’of’ the “Scrubs” will be out again and the- fight - for positions will be keen. We predict, a.great team for next season and on the side a hard run for the champion
ship. And sb as a "final word to the rooters we can look ahead and guarantee them a good team.	.
Captain D. Caleicrate.
The most daring and-reckless man in the West will captain the football squad next fall. This will be Callicrate’s third year on the Varsity, and already he is looked on by critics to be one of the best men in the West. Fast, heady and devoid of fear, the South Bend man is a worthv successor to the fight-
ing Bracken. We predict a most glorious season for him next fall. Callicrate is 21. years old, and will graduate next June from the civil engineering department.
Coach Tom Barry.
The man who worked such v onders with the Varsity football team is booked to fill the same position next fall. Next year Barry ought to turn out a State Championship team. He missed the mark just a notch this year, and with most of the old men back we should be able to figure on a winner. As a player Barry won the admiration of all his men last season, while as a man he won their hearts, and the harmony
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
seen during the whole season was due much to him. He will be welcomed back by every athlete and side-liner.
R. L. Bracken (Asst. Coach).
“Peggy” has been appointed to assist Coach Barry next fall in turning out the machine. He has played on the Varsity for three years, filling the positions of half-back and quarter. Last season he captained our bunch of fighters and was a great success.
Our Last Game.
Notre Dame, 6; Beloit, 0.
The Varsity with a most original line-up closed the season last Friday by defeating Beloit by the score of 6 to 0. By an action of the faculty Brogan was out of the game, Bonnan holding down third base. Curtis sat on the bench for the first time this year, and “Jimmie’’ Cooke did the heavy work behind the bat. Captain Waldorf was the left gardener, and "“Bill” Perce was in right and Dubuc in centre, as McKee was out of the game with a lame ankle. “ Dreams (( Scanlon was in the box and allowed the little Badgers three lonely hits and so far apart that they only counted on the score book. Cooke catching the first game he has caught this season put up a great game behind the bat.
The Varsity started scoring in the first inning, Bonnan led off. \\ ith a hit, Waldorf got hit and both men scored on Dubuc’s single. A few minutes later the star, pinchhitter, pitcher, outfielder and all-around man, scored on a ball hit to Dunhan who in attempting to catch Dubuc at the plate hit him in the back. In the third Boyle scored Waldorf and Dubuc with a single, and in the sixth Boyle scored on Perce’s hit. The visitors got one man to third on a most funny idea of baseball. In the fifth Dunhan hit for a base. Charters laid down a bunt and went out, advancing Dunhan a base. Rann followed with another bunt and -went out, putting Dunhan on third with two out and a pitcher up next who promptly rolled an easy one to Boyle, and the side went out.
The Score.
Notre Danie	R	II P A	E
Bonnan, 3b.	1	110	0
Waldorf, 1. f.	2	110	0
Farabaugh lb.	0	011 0	1
Dubuc, c. f.	2	2 2 0	0
Kuepping, ss.	0	13 2	1
Bovle, 2'».	1	2 10	0
Perce, r. f.	0	110	0
Scanlon, p.	0	0 0 4	1
Cooke, c.	0	0 7 0	0
Totals The Score.	6	S27 6	3
Beloit	R	H P A	E
Arnold, 2b.	0	0 2 2	2
Armun, ss.	0	0 2 4	2
Glegham, c.	0	.18 1	0
Kundsan, 1. f.	0	Oil	0
McPhul, lb.	0	0 7 0	0
Dunhan, 3b.	0	111	1
Charters, r. f.	0	0 2 0	0
Rann, c. f.	0	0 CF 1	0
Lieu, p.	0	112	0
Totals	0	3 2412	5
Two base hit—Lieu. Struck outby Lieu, S. Umpire—Tindill.	-By	Scanlon.	
NOTRE TAME SCHOLASTIC
579
Holy Cross the Victor.
In the final debate for the Inter-Hall Championship, Holy Cross Hall, represented by Messrs. Wenninger, Hebert and Mathis, was victorious. The debate was held Friday evening, May 31, in Washington Hall. A large crowd was present representing all the halls. A close and interesting; contest was expected, for both of the contesting teams had been twice victorious. Mr. Farabaugh called the meeting to order bv reading the question for debate: “Resolved that public utilities should be owned and operated by the city.” Mr. Mathis opened the debate for Holy Cross, upholding the affirmative of the question. In a clear, logical manner he showed that private ownership of public utilities spells many grave evils, and that
ful reasoning and easy presentation held his audience without a break. ■ .
Mr. Riley was the second speaker for the negative, continuing Mr. Diener’s line of reasoning. Mr. Wenninger closed the affirmative constructive speeches. By citing the experience of British and American cities in municipalizing their water, gas, electric lightning plants and street railways, he showed that municipal ownership was practicable. Mr. Wenninger was the most polished speaker on the Holy Cross team, and his work was of a very high order.
Mr. Cull closed for the negative. Great things were expected of Cull by his hallmates and they were not disappointed. In a powerful speech he showed that the remedy for existing evils was regulation, not municipal ownership; regulation as embodied in the Chicago street' railway
Debating Team.
ordinances. When he concluded the hopes of the St. Joseph’s Hall men were high.
The rebuttals were excellent. Riley did thie best work of the evening for the negative. Hebert took up the rebuttals like a veteran. Cull continued very effectively, but most of his arguments were met by Mr. Mathis, the first speaker. Diener closed for St. Joseph’s Hall and Wenninger for Holy Cross.
In the interval between the last rebuttals and the rendering of the judges’ decision, the walls re-echoed with hall yells. Mr. Farabaugh then announced the judges’ decision which was two to one for Holy Cross. Holy Cross has thus an undisputed cl aim to the interhall debating championship.
All in all the interhall debating for ’06-’07 has been most successful. The men representing the halls showing much ability.
.	Holy Cross
the political corruption inseparable from private ownership makes any sort of regulation short of municipal ownership impracticable. Mr. Mathis’ delivery v as clear and forceful at all times.
Mr. Diener, opening for St. Joseph’s Hall, outlined the stand of the negative, maintaining that municipal ownership would only change the form of corruption existing to-day, that the resulting corruption would be worse than what we now have. He then cited numerous cases of political corruption and failure under municipal ownership of public utilities. Mr. Diener’s earnestness was always in evidence.
Mr. Hebert continued for Holy Cross. He spent his time in showing that Municipal Ownership would remedy all the evils now existing under private ownership. His care-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
.! ntered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame. Indiana.
Notre Dame, Indiana, June 8, 1907.
Board of Editors.
EDWARD F. O’FLYNN, '07.
THOMAS E. BURKE, ’07
WESLEY J. DONAHUE, ’07
WILLIAM A. BOLGER, ’07
ROBERT L. BRACKEN, ’OS
LOUIS M. KELLEY, ’07 . JVM. E-CUNNINGHAM, ’07
FRANCIS T. MAHER
WILLIAM LENNARTZ
PATRICK
LEO J.
WILLIAM
M. MALLOY, ’07
COONTZ,’ ’07
MOLONEY, ’07
VARNUM A. PARRISH.
ROBERT A. KASPER,
’OS
’OS
’09
Purdue and Notre Dame have always been the best of friends, but the Catholics showed that their feeling for Purdue is genuine. Such a banquet as was given our team by them goes far ahead of an exhaustible amount of tailring and writing. We take off our hats to you, Notre Dame.—Purdue Exponent.
- Corpus Christi.
- • Despite a threatening sky and a blustering wind, the annual Corpus Christi procession was carried out with all the pomp and splendor that has attended similar religious functions in the past on last Sunday • afternoon. All Saturday preparations were being made and when the morning came it found the University ready.
. The students’ Mass in the - morning was
- celebrated -by the Very Reverend Gilbert _.
JAMES J. OUINLAN, ’OS
IGNATIUS E. MCNAMEE, ’09
—With this issue the ’07 members of the
Francais, Superior-General of Holy Cross, assisted by the Reverend J. French and the Reverend G. Marr as deacon and subdeacon " respectively/ The vested chanters from the
Novitiate, assisted by our regular students’ . choir, rendered Gregorian music for the feast. Plain’ Chant at Notre Dame is an innovation of ‘Some six weeks’ standing.
The solemn. Corpus Christi procession was
Scholastic staff resign the quill and shears .made about the. grounds in the late after-to the new administration. It is none of noon. At least a thousand people were in
their intentions at this farewell hour to offer associates and successors the unripe fruit of journalistic experience. Indeed it is their wish to retire with what they trust has been characteristic modesty. To a borrowed phrase from an esteemed contemporary they would subscribe, and in it couch their parting wish: Long may the old weekly continue “foremost in making college journalism the literature of‘studenttalk and student-like expression,’ not only in light and jovial matters but also in solid literary work.” All good fortune be yours, Editors of ’OS. -. -
’—The banquet tendered the Purdue base-, ball team by the students of Notre Dame last Saturday was a demonstration of the possi-. bilities in the way of intimate friendships' which may exist: among rival'athletic teams.
line, and the lawns were covered with several hundred visitors who came to witness the ceremony. St. Edward’s Hall left the church at the head of the procession, followed by Carroll, St. Joseph, Holy Cross, Brownson, Corby and Sorin, then came a long line of acolytes and novices, most of the priests at Notre Dame, the celebrant and assistants and lastly the Brothers of the Community.
Repositories had been erected, at Sorin. and Science Halls and at the head of the stairway to the Main Building, and as the procession wound its way round the quadrangle, Benediction was given from each of these altars; the final one being given in the church.
Before the Blessed Sacrament was exposed Father French delivered an earnest and timely sermon on the nature of /-the feast: and its proper observance.	* - -
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Art Exhibit.
Prof. Worden’s students have on exhibitin the studio their year’s work. The productions show much labor and progress on the part of the students, and the exhibit is a credit to the department. Noteworthy are the pictures by Frank Olston of Carroll who, with McKenna of Sorin, rank first. Edward Peil of Carroll has some good bits and J. Lynch of Corby has done some exceptionally good work in charcoal. Mach-alinski of Dujarie, also deserves mention for his attempts in this line. Balensiefer of St. Joseph seems to carry away the honors in pen work with John Slick as next man,
Other pen work by Gira, Sheehan, Babbit Rangel, Mann, Baradat and B. Amadeus is very creditable. Wallen has a remarkable piece in charcoal and the productions of B. Mann and Portilla are good. In the biological students’ comer Wenninger has a fine plate, and there too is seen some good detail work by Mangan, Crost, Gyer and Werder. This work under the microscope'has been very successful this year. Altogether the Art Department shows up well this year, and Prof. Worden is to be complimented. The productions show much advancement. It will repay every student to take a trip up to the studio during the days of exhibit.
Commencement Exercises.
Commencement Exercises open Sunday. Rev. Francis C. Kelley, President of Church Extension Society of the United States, will deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon. Father Kelley is a prominent lecturer and will be remembered by the students for his masterly speech on “The Yankee Volunteer.”
Rev. John Talbot Smith, who will deliver the Commencement Oration, is a writer and literary man of national reputation. He was bom in Saratoga, New York, 1855, and received his education at St.. Michael’s College, Toronto, Canada. Mt. St. Mary’s College, Emmettsburg, Maryland, has conferred on him the Degree of LL. D. Dr. Smith was for four years the editor of the New
York Catholic Review, and at present fills the chair of dramatic editor of Donahue's Magazine. He has spent much time and study in literary pursuits and is the author of a number of works, among them being “A Woman of Culture,” “Solitary Island,” “His Honor the Mayor,”-“Saranac,” “The Closed .Road,” “The Man Who Vanished,” and “Chaplain Sermons.” .	•
Tuesday evening the Commencement Hop will be held in Place Hall, South Bend.
SUNDAY, JUNE 9
8:00 a. m.....................Solemn High Mass
The Reverend - John Cavanaugh, President, Celebrant
Baccalaureate Sermon
By the Reverend Francis C. Kelley, President of the Church Extension Society of the United States , 2:00 p. Ji......Solemn Benediction and Te Deum
G:30 P. ji..Concert on Campus by University Band
JIONDAY, TUESDAY, JUNE 10—11 8:00 a. ji. to 6:00 p. ji...General Examinations 6:30 p. ji..................Concert on Campus by University Band
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 12	-
8:30 a. ji...Closing Exercises at St. Edward’s Hall
12 ji..............-........................Dinner
6:00 p. ji..................................i.Supper
6:30 p. ji...Concert on Campus by University Band
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 12
Commencement Exercises in Washington Hall .
Selection from “ Carmen” ...t.......George Bizet
University Orchestra •
Bachelor Orations.—The Religious Crisis inRrance
I.—Oration................The. Historic Preparation
Edward Francis O’Flynn (Mont.),History, Economics. “Until the Dawn”............................Lamoihe
University Double Quartette
William H. Molony
John A. Devers
William F. Cunningham
Francis X. Wenninger
II.—Oration...............
Wesley J. Donahue Thomas- E. Burke-Louis M.. Kelly Paul A. Miller . ..The Present Situation
Patrick Mervan Malloy (Iowa), Law.
Piano—Concerto -No. 1, Opus 11...:..;	Chopin a. Allegro Maestoso b. Romance .	.	' :
c. Rondo *	,	.
Joseph Porfirio Gallart (Cuba) Civil Engineering III.—Oration...........What Shall the Future Be?
■ Wesley James Donahue (Illinois), Letters ' March—American Life.............^..G. D. Barnard ’
University Orchestra	.	•
Address to the Graduates by .	....
The Rev. John Talbot Smith, New York City. . . ', . - - <	‘ **- -
THURSDAY, JUNE 13.8:00 A. . JI.	r
Home, Sweet Home—The University Double Quartette p . Class Poem—Thomas Edmund Burke (Illinois), Classics ?, ..
Valedictory—Robert A. Kasper, (Ill.), History .and - -Econom. Conferring of Degrees Awarding of Honors Announcements by the President of the' Universitv ’
582	NOTRE DAME
Corby Entertains.
Last Monday the men of Corby gave their farewell program. It was under the direction of the Literary and Debating Society, and was, to say the least, a grand success. The decorations, rivalling, if not surpassing, anything seen at Notre Dame, were very artistic and reflected much credit on the original decorators. The program, which consisted in orations, speeches, recitations, songs and musical numbers was carried out without a hitch, and every number was received with great applause. Especially to be complimented are the men composing the orchestra. Corby’s musical men dispensed the sweet strains during the evening from behind a bank of palms. The fact that the men were together but a few times before the event adds further glory to their achievements that night. It was one of the big hits of the evening. We sav. one of them, because there were so many other numbers on the program that brought forth our admiration and appreciation, among these being Mr. Elton Crepeau’s singing, Dr. De Launney’s speech, and the quartette. Then with McNally and Hilton, Corby showed the cream of Inter-Hall literary associations.
Others to lend brilliancy and talent to the occasion were Metcalf, Roan, AIcAleenan and Hutchins. Mr. Clarence O’Brien, Pres, of the. society, in one of his characteristic addresses, following a selection by the orchestra opened the program. The committee in charge left nothing undone to make the affair the most brilliant event of, its kind in Notre Dame annals.
The interest manifested by the members in making everything not only agreeable but immensely enjoyable for the guests was the subject of much comment. Corby men are right good fellows and royal hosts. After the program delicious, refreshments were served, and here again the Corby men did their reputation justice. Then cigars were passed, and Pres. Cavanaugh, the honored guest, addressed the society in his masterly way. In answer to a determined applause Colonel William Hoynes spoke to the men. After Col. Hoynes finished, the grand hop began,, and the party broke up in the early
SCNOEAST/C.
hours. As the men left for their respective halls “Good Night, Corby,” was sung, and the spirit of the song must have more than assured the hosts that their entertainment was the grandest success ever held at Notre Dame and that it can not be soon forgotten by those who had the honor of being present. So passed the farewell program of Corby. It was a great success, and much credit is due the men and Director, William C. O’Brien, who has been the promoter of the most congenial body of men in the
The Inter'Hall Oratorical Contest.
On Friday evening, June 7, Air-. George Finnegan, of Holy Cross, won first place in ; the Inter-hall Oratorical’Contest. This contest was the first of the kind held at , | Notre Dame in recent years, in so much as 1 only men below Sophomore standing were i | eligible. That it was a wholesome thing -to reawaken a lively interest in oratory	|
among the lower classmen bv the institu-	’
tion of a junior oratorical contest wras ! most satisfactorily demonstrated by the ' quality of the orations delivered on Friday ! evening. The contestants were: Mr. Leo Conlin of. St. Joseph’s Hall, Air. Edward Carville of Brownson Hall, Air. George Finnegan of Holy Cross Hall, and Air. Otto Schmid of Corby Hall. These men were picked as the champions of their । respective halls in preliminaries held several | weeks before.	,
Air. Conlin of St. Joseph’s Hall spoke first. His subject, Father Sorin, was recognized by all as being especially deserving of the highest eulogies. Mr. Conlin had an excellent stage presence, but his oration itself was thought by many to be scarcely worthy of its subject.
Mr. Edward Carville, the second speaker, told, the story—old and oft repeated, but ‘ ever beautiful—of the Maid of Rouen. Mr. | Carville had a few unpleasant mannerisms of = f gesture, but in the general character of his g delivery he easily excelled his competitors. . Mr. George Finnegan of Holy. Cross Hall chose for his subject Saul of Tarsus. Though not so good in delivery as, Mr;	s *
Carville, it was* apparent to all that his	I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	583
oration was in very .truth, an oration, and more than an elegant piece of description or a story nicely told. Mr. Finnegan owes his victory to his excellent manuscript which was unanimously awarded first place by the judges.	.
Mr. Otto Schmid of Corby Hall was the last speaker. His subject, Thomas a Becket, was one well calculated to win in anv contest. Though Air. Schmid’s delivery was not so easy as that of the other speakers, his enunciation was clear and forcible, and his oration full of excellent passages. His honest efforts well deserved the second place which was awarded him.
By decision of the judges, Mr. Carville was given third place, and Mr. Conlin fourth place. Mr. Finnegan will receive the gold medal, the prize of the victor, on the third day of the commencement exercises when the other medals for scholastic honors are awarded.
The judges of both composition and delivery were: Mr. Jerome Green, professor at Notre Dame; Mr. Vitus Jones of South Bend, Indiana; and Mr. George O’Brien also' of South Bend. Mr. O’Brien and Mr. Jones are old “grads” of Notre Dame, o
LAW DEPARTMENT.
Statement of Facts;
The law students have tried an unusually large number of cases in the Moot Court since the beginning of the current academic year. Recently, however, work in this line has slackened on account ^of the more pressing claims of other duties, such as the finishing of theses, reviewing for examination, preparing for daily recitations, etc. Consequently it has been deemed advisable to adjourn Court until September. The following statements of facts, together with others recently published, will then be among the first docketed for trial.
Carrington v. Bradley.
Henry D. Arnold; Richard B. Bradley and Eugene Carrington are residents of South Bend. They are respectively engaged in business-on Main, Washington, and. Michigan Streets. On the 5th of November, 1905,
Arnold loaned 125 shares of Stock of .the South Bend & Mishawaka Rapid Transit Company to Bradley, who had occasion to use the same temporally as a collateral. Arnold received as security for the return of the stock Bradley’s promissory note for $7500. The note is couched in the words and figures following, to wit:
“$7500. South Bend, Ind., Nov. 5,1905.
“On demand I promise to pay to the order of Henry D. Arnold seven thousand five hundred dollars with interest at the first National Bank of South Bend. Value received.
“Richard D. Bradley.”
On or about February 7th, 1906, Arnold endorsed and transferred the note to Carrington, who called on Bradley the following day and demanded payment. Bradley expressed surprise that the note had passed out of Arnold’s possession and declined to pay it. February 10th he offered and made a tender of the stock to Arnold, dcmading at the time the return of his note. As Arnold had parted with it, he could do no more than refuse compliance with the demand. This he did, adding: “Youwould better call on Carrington and settle with him. This experience may do you much good. He took your note in due course of ! business and paid me full value for it.. He may throw off or remit the interest if you are prompt and reasonable with him. It is not always safe, you know, to give a full-fledged negotiable note under such circumstances. In the same situation you would yourself probably do as I did?’ February 17th Carrington informed Bradley that he would sue on the note in case of default in paying the same. Bradley made no answer to this threat,. and Carrington, thinking that it would be paid during the summer, vainly waited until the present time before commencing, suit. He seeks to recover the . face value of it, with legal interest—6 per cent.
Black v/Mich. Cent. RR. Co.
In the summer of 1906' Daniel Black, the plaintiff, was in the. employ of the Michigan Central RR. Company, working in the capacity of brakeman. He was required to work in the main on freight trains. While engaged in the performance, of his. duties about 2 o’clock a. m. September 2 9 th,; he-received'suddenly the danger
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5$4
signal from the cab of the locomotive-engine o	o
ahead, directing him to apply the brakes with all possible speed. The train was at the time about two and a half miles north of Notre Dame station, and running at a speed of 15 miles an hour. Black hastened as quickly as he could along the tops of the cars, stopping a moment here and there to tighten the brakes as he passed. While thus at work he came in contact with a low bridge crossing the track, and was swept off the car on which he happened to be, and precipitated into a deep ditch or trench at the side of the railroad. He -was thus severely stunned, bruised and injured. When found soon afterward by the other members of the train crew he was unconscious and apparently dead. The conductor, engineer and another brakeman picked him up and carried him to the caboose in rear of the- train. There he soon rallied, and the others returned to their respective places. His right leg was so badly crushed as to necessitate amputation, while two of his ribs were fractured and the thumb and forefinger of his left hand broken and rendered useless.
The bridge that struck him spanned the track about four feet above the tops of the freight cars.
It appears, however, that he knew previously of its existence and location. In fact, he had several times noticed it in passing and escaped injury by stooping as the cars passed under it. Yet it was so dark when he was injured that he could hardly descry it a car’s length away, and he says that he did not see or think of it until it struck and swept him off the car. When he received the signal he was lying down on one of the rear cars, with a view to avoiding danger.
He was taken to St. Joseph’s Hospital in South Bend on the 30th of September. The following day, not only his leg, but also the injured thumb and finger, were amputated. Three months elapsed before he was well enough to leave the hospital. He then called on. the proper reprer sentatives of the company and demanded $5,000 for the injuries sustained. The matter was taken under advisement for a week, and at the end of that time they declined to pay him the sum asked or any part of it.
In .view of the. facts above narrated he now institutes suit against the company, claiming as damages $18,coo. .
Obituary.
—Paul Rebillot,,graduate. C. E., ’03, died Thursday/at his .home in Louisville, Ohio. An excellent character, Mr. Rebillot made a
deep impression on all who knew him. The University extends its sincere sympathy to the bereaved relatives.
■ Personals.
—Francis McKeever, ’04, Dan Murphy, ’ 95, and ex-Mayor Dunne have formed a partnership for the practice of law.
Local Items.
—Library books should be returned by the first of next week.	.	.
. —Mr. Max Adler presented a set of Dickens’ works in fifteen volumes to the Lemonnier Library. The Library is very grateful to Mr. Adler for his beautiful gift, o	o
—General examinations begin to-night, o	o
Classes reciting from 5:30 to 6:30 will be examined this evening at 7:30 o’clock. Other examinations on • Monday and Tuesday at the usual hours. Examinations close Tuesday afternoon at 2:30. No special examinations will be given. -
—In a recent Y.-M. C. A. meet, held under the auspices of the South Bend Association, one of our star relay men, Clarence Cripe, entered the six-mile race and finished second. For over five miles Cripe led and ran a pretty finish. This, is the longest race he has been in this year, and his showing was exceptionally, good.	.
—The graduates are requested to assemble in the Law Room of Sorin Hall at 7:45 a. m. sharp Sunday morning, and proceed to the church. The graduates are to take rank according to the Time of establishment of the various courses.
1.	Classics ;
2.	Letters
,3. .History and Economies
4.	Biology
5.	Law
6.	Civil Engineering	•
■ 7. Electrical Engineering , .	.
S. Short Electrical Engineering
7.	Pharmacy
In the church they are to take seats on the epistle side.