NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, March 4, 1899.
Vol. XXXII. I
No. 22.
A Day Dreamer’s Query.
PAUL JEROME RAGAN, ’97.
XJTXJi OW many shall I name the days
I ve l°St ’n dreaming;
How give account for ill-spent years ' Now gone beyond redeeming?
What answer shall I make for all
The precious time I’m losing,—
These golden hours that hold for me
■No task but worthless musing?
’Tis true some dreamers never die, But live in cherished memory, .
Yet these were men whose dreams have made
The world-s great wealth of poetry.
But I, when longing I look back, My life was nought but seeming;
I’ve lived; yes lived—and that is all;
My days were idle dreaming.	'
Art Schools.
ELIZA ALLEN STARR.
DREAM of many years seems likely to be fulfilled—no less than, the establishing and successful carrying'on of art schools in our Catholic educational institutions;
and by an art school we mean not a mere “art department,” where drawing and painting are taught irrespective of method or the development of the pupil’s capacity, merely as a recreation, like embroidery, to result in certain ornamentations of walls or table furnishings, which require copying only. These so-called “art departments” have been the disgrace of ,, , our convent and monastic schools, eliciting . at .the World’s Columbian Exposition in 1893 - comments anything than complimentary, and this alongside of a literary and scientific excellence which, was truly admirable. Although we
could have counted on the thumb and fingers \ : "" of one hand those institutions which, sent genuine work, either in mechanical drawing '. T or artistic drawing, in charcoal, pen and ink,:	■.;	r
elementary studies, water or oil painting, yet	- :	~
these few were carefully noted by the exam- , .	.
iners and loudly praised; while the rods, we .	'	■
may say miles, of copies in oil and water . . colors and crayon were passed over with a ,	.
courteous silence which was astonishing under . -the circumstances. Some of the schools sent mixed contributions; i. e., some work from	Y
life or nature and many copies, thus throwing .	\ -
discredit upon even their genuine work. “If - . they could do so well from nature, why not stick to- it?” every one said.	'
It has remained for some notable institution -	-
to set an example which would show .the • possibility of a thorough art education in our	'
Catholic academies and colleges; whereas it - -	- ...
has always seemed to us that these academies	-
and colleges were the very places which / would naturally, almost of themselves,, become ,	_
centers of education. Why they have not been .	. •
so we leave to others to answer.’ We are more
. interested in successes than failures, and are .	_ J
now ready to record the work actually accom-	, j
plished in two institutions which may be .	.	1
called twins, inasmuch as they were founded	'..M
and for many years presided over by one *	'
hand, head and heart. We must be allowed .. .... 1 to go back fully thirty years to the time. ♦	..
when Mother Angela called us to Saint Mary’s	. /
to teach some of her novices and.to overlook. • . s. > the academy classes two days each week, as-	,A <
there was a gap caused, if we remember, by . / . * the death of an art Sister-. This was before- -	' -'AA
the-fire of 1871. The summer after, the. fire we spent part of our vacation at .Saint Mary’s at which time Mother Angela announced that "■ .	<
the old methods were to be given up and A.-y.Y? the art department placed upon the foundation . .< of artistic methods. The following winter	:
found us in full possession of her novices, the A jA T Y ■
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
382 kJ
academv bein? under the direction of the o
Sisters. Of our novices we may say never have we had, never do we expect to have, such pupils. There was not the deviation of a line from the prescribed course of study, any more than in the class of Latin grammar or of math-o
matics, and the capacity of these novices responded in a way to show not only how - favorable were their surroundings, but how stimulating. All the motives which had ever kindled the slumbering genius of any religious painter was at hand, but certain conditions were needed which time alone could supply.
From that time not only were the fundamental principles of art studied at St. Mary’s, but they were carried far and wide, wherever the Order of the Holy Cross had academic or parochial schools. The four years we spent at Saint Mary’s, devoted to the art education of her novices, were years of untold consolation artistically, as well as spiritually, and our frequent visits have assured us that while there might be an ebb and flow of the stream, the fountain head was active, and the experience gained by the Sisters in the course of their teaching, as well as their acquaintance with pictures in the different cities to which they were called, would fell, in time, upon the capacity of the religious to carry on a true “art school.”
Meanwhile Notre Dame was building her church, and the windows were in. themselves an education, when Signor Gregori was literally “imported” from Rome and domiciled in the university buildings of Notre Dame. He came, bringing with him the piety of a born Italian, as well as the artistic inheritance of his country, the sense of harmonious coloring, the charm of groupings caught from familiarity with all the best of Italy’s masterpieces. This was one of Father Sorin’s strokes of grand intelligence, those “ shots from the long bow ” which have told so magnificently upon the progress of his Congregation. The walls of the new church, the ceiling, blossomed into untold beauty under the hands of Signor Gregori. .The unique altars and sanctuary lamp came also; all these marvels of artistic and symbolical art harmonizing with' the Gothic arches and transepts, giving to the eyes, as one enters the middle . portal, a succession of; glorious conceptions such; as might delight any one familiar with \ the triumphs of art in the basilicas of the old
. world; so that when Father-General Edward to the present day; and this, not only for Sorin lay on his bier, it was as if he had been painting, butv sculptures of such artistic value laid in the mausoleum of an emperor'rather as to inspire a true love for true arid noble
than in the monastic church of an order which had come to American shores only shortly beyond fifty years before. All .this could not but kindle the imaginations of those who came within the radius of such achievements.
.Meanwhile St. Mary’s had erected a church— not Gothic, but of a Romanesque architecture, reminding one of the beautiful Church of St. Agnes on the Piazza Navona in Rome, and by the time the walls were ready her Windows were ready also—glorious exponents of the sacred history of Jesus and Mary. Attached as it really is to the facsimileof the holy house of Loretto, from plans brought by Father Gillespie and erected at the cost of his own and Mother Angela’s mother, Mrs. Phelan, the scene of the Annunciation makes the altarpiece, and from this radiate the details of the succeeding story. A Sister of the Holy Cross executed, almost to the last one, the Stations of the Cross before her early and deeply lamented death, and thus the convent church at Saint Mary’s became another inspiration to Sisters and pupils. And still, meanwhile, the studio had become, plural instead of singular, one room leading into another. The treasures collected by Mother Angela on every trip to Europe, especially the Arundel chromos, were framed and arranged.as carefully as in any art institute in the land—engravings, lithographs, everything which would educate the eye' in form or color, and the studios themselves were furnished with every appliance in the way of blocks, architectural forms, casts from the antique, even to the lay figure, needed for the proper study from still life, while from the windows stretched landscapes in all directions favorable to sketching, and flowers from field or grove or hothouse supplied floral studies.
Still the crowning - point had not been reached, and this came, only when Father Zahm began to send those beautiful reproductions from the old masters which we have referred to in a previous article. Two of these, “The Immaculate Conception” and “A Holy Family from Murillo,” are in the sanctuary of the convent. Church of Our Lady of Loretto; the others are disposed in different parts of the convent in a way to make the Sisters and pupils perfectly familiar with their transcendent beauties of composition arid of colors; masterpieces which have influenced the civil-, ization of the world from their first existence
to the present day; and this, not only for
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
forms: and all without violating one rule of monastic or conventual asceticism.
To say that the Sisters had been equipped by study and piactice and experience in teaching to utilize such resources, is saying a great deal; but the pupils’ work, as seen in their exhibition room, shows that their teachers are thus equipped, and it only remains for the pupils of Saint Mary’s Academy and for their parents toz appreciate these privileges to bring students from far and near to practise in this art school, which was one of Mother Angela’s ; dreams as well as of our own. Teachers can not make great pupils; can not change rosebuds of fashion into angels of contemplation; but any girl at St. Mary’s comes under influences which would make her another Margaret Van Eyck or Sabina von Steinbach or Sister Plautilla, if she .has the capacity and the mind to become any one of these.
But what of Notre Dame? While artistic .studies were encouraged, and while certain students under Signor Gregori gained what entitled them to go abroad for full culture, we .can not say that the true foundations for an art school were laid there before Mr. Ackerman revised the course of study and brought in, not only a full course of mechanical and manual training exercises, all the drawing being from the actual objects, but architectural forms and the studies from the antique. Mr. Ackerman is from a family .which has given artists of note to the world, while he is himself devoted, to teaching and to teaching on those lines which made the studies of a Leonardo da Vinci and a Murillo, both of whomT were masters of drawing without being merely anatomically correct; both had imaginations, and used their opportunities in, original, not merely academic ways.
- It was just at this point that a former student of Notre Dame, of Signor Gregori himself, was seen by Father Zahm in Paris, afterward in Rome, and it needed only the setting forth of his rare adaptability to the organizing of an ■ .art school to decide Father Morrissey, President of Notre Dame University, to recall him to Notre Dame as to his Alma. Mater, and to so place him as to inaugurate, in its full sense, an art school which would be a glory not only to'Notre Dame, but prove to us in these United States of America the possibility of . making our Catholic educational establish' ments not only centers of science, of literature, of music, but of art We shall give the briefest outline possible of this artist, placed so con-
383 . ; /
spicuously before American Catholics and of ..	'
such of the American public as are interested - ; in education in its highest sense.	. ' T
Jobson Emilien Paradis was born at St. \
John’s, Ontario, Canada, of French-Canadian * parents. He began his classical studies at .
Ottawa College; studied six. months at the Ottawa Art School, came to Notre. Dame to study under Signor Gregori, completed his . classical course at Notre Dame, and worked , two years with Signor Gregori; then went to \ Paris, passed the examination, was admitted as a student at the “ Ecole Nationale des Beaux -Art”; studied four years in Gerome’s life class, . ’ receiving criticism at the same time from Bou-	. : ~
guereau, Bonnat and Moreau. -He followed the very superior courses given at the school on perspective, anatomy, archaeology, esthetics, .	< '
history of art, literature, by the most compe- , tent and eminent men in France. The summer f' of 1894 was spent in Normandy, where he 1 * made studies of the s,ea and of mariners, and - . became so fond of nature and of- life movement that on returning to Paris he.found the school uninteresting and exclusive; in fact, ’ narrow, with its uninteresting studies from the nude model. He became anxious to produce original work, and exhibited that same year . . nine drawings and sketches at the salon (Champ : de Mars). At this time he received the degree	z
of A. M. from Notre Dame University, after	.
which he had the exceptional opportunity of	.
associating with recognized artists, “and got,” as he expresses it, “more good out of these ~ . associations than out of all the severe and vapid criticisms of the masters.” Subsequent, years he exhibited studies of animals, land- ' . scapes and street scenes; also some illustra- .	'
tions for Edgar Poe’s stories. He studied-animals at the Jardin des Plantes (zoological . gardens) under Fremict, and sketched a great	*
deal in the.streets of Paris, so full of life and ‘ T character. He, moreover, made frequent visits to the Louvre, made copies of Raphael, Murillo, -	.
Rembrandt, Leonardo da Vinci, Titian, Rubens,	. :
Delacroix and others; travelled through Belgium, studied Flemish painters at home, saw . galleries at Brussels, Antwerp, Gand, Bruges;. ' ... enjoying Rubens, who, with Delacroix of the . .. French school, is the greatest painter, -Mr. < Paradis considers, of life and movement. He .	. ’ .
was next called to Rome for some copies of J .A the Italian masters; and “was never so strongly .... . J ; impressed,”he says,“as on entering theSistine .	~
chapel, that colossal production of Michael . : \ ' Angelo.” He retufned to r Paris, spent one year c
I
Rai
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
3$4 ‘
there, painting portraits and decorations for a house in New York. After studying seven years abroad he came through London, making visits to the National gallery and the British Museum, to Notre Dame, with a strong wish in his heart that with his great love for art, the experience gained while abroad, and with the best models O	1
to be had (casts bought in Paris at the Ecole Nationale), to organize at Notre Dame a good and thorough school of drawing and painting; and who will say that Mr. Paradis does not come fully equipped for his work? Who will say that Notre Dame University, with all that it already possesses, will not give a local habitation and all the surroundings and incentives for a true school of art, Christian art, under so trained a master, his own soul steeped in the traditions of piety, his own imagination fed at the fountains from which have drunk, generation after generation, age after age, those who have made art not only the handmaid of religion, but one of its deepest inspirations?
In fact, when we put all the environments of. Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame before our mind’s eye, we say with a premeditated assurance, that to no art institute or academy can we look so surely as to these twin institutions for the highest results of piety and of technique, or to results so satisfactory to those who regard art as one of the noblest factors of a Christian civilization.— The New World.
Bread upon the Waters.
JOHN WESTMORLAND, *01.
“-Yes, it is a fine old place, and I am very much, attached to it.”
The speaker was Col. Peterson, a Virginia gentleman of the old school, and the words were in reply to a remark, concerning the Colonel’s. home, that was .volunteered by a young-man who had been the Colonel’s guest at dinner, and who now was enjoying with his host an evening smoke before the large open fire. .
“ My getting the place was the result, of a curious'chain of events,” mused the Colonel, as -he- slowly puffed his cigar. “ My uncle,
:Major Peterson, was the oldest of his family, spot where the ; papers were buried. But I and he inherited the place from my grand- eased him by telling him that Aunt Sarah _	_	would remember? So he cautioned me, again
and again, to find her and secure.the will so as at the close of 'the Revolution. .	to prevent his blackguard of a sori from get-
“ My father. and mother died when I was ting the place. That night he died.
fatherp Captain Peterson,-' who had served in the Continental Army and who built the house
a boy, and I always made my home with my uncle, the Major. He had a son, George Washington Peterson, a big, strapping fellow, and one of the meanest rascals that ever lived. Washington and his father never got along very well, and finally, about a year after I came here, their difficulties reached a crisis. The boy forged his father’s check for a pretty heavy amount. They had a fierce quarrel right here in this room. Washington, I believe, during the dispute, actually struck his father, and it ended in my uncle cursing him and ordering a niggar to put him off the place.
“The next day my uncle rode to town, and that night, after he returned, he called me into his library and showed me a paper, saying that it was his will, which he had made that day, and that he had left the place to me. He said that from then on I must feel that I was his son. Well, from that day on I did feel that I was his son, and he seemed to feel that he was my father. We became deeply attached to each other. No word was ever heard of the disinherited, and the old man’s life was very peaceful.	.
“When the war started I organized a company and went into a Virginia regiment. I heard often, from my uncle while I was in the service, and I visited home several times. When Grant’s campaign against Lee was well under way and I was on duty at an outstanding post, I received word that my uncle was in Richmond and very ill. The brigade commander gave me a five days’ leave. I went to see my uncle and found him dying. He was worrying a great deal about his will. It seems that a short time before, when the Yankee soldiers began to override the country, he got a notion into his head to bury his valuable papers, and, putting them into a strong box, he buried them out there in the grounds.’ The only person, with him was, a slave woman we called' Aunt Sarah, and 'consequently he and Aunt Sarah vvere the only persons that knew the hiding-place. The will was among the papers. My uncle had been taken ill suddenly, and in his hurried departure for Richmond he had neglected to dig up the papers and bring
them with him. By the time I saw him his
mind was too far gone to remember the exact

- *
HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

“ When the war was over I returned here and looked everywhere for Aunt Sarah. She had disappeared; gone North, the other slaves said. Before I had time to look far for her my uncle’s son came on the scene. He was a middle-aged, drunken lout who still was abus-• ing his father’s memory; and, as you may imagine, he was not very choice in his language to me. But he was his father’s only child; the will could not be produced, even the witnesses .to it could not be found. The law declared that Major Peterson had died intestate, and his son inherited the property.
“Washington did 'not stay long about here after the dispute was settled. I asked him to let me rent the place, but he replied that he would sooner burn it down than let me live in it. There was no one else to rent it, and it finally ended in his allowing some tenants that worked the farm to use the house.
“Well, sir, in ’76 I went up to Philadelphia to see the Centennial. One day I started to go out to Bryn Mawr to see a friend that lived out there. I had to take a suburban train, and it was' very crowded. At one of the first stations out of the city, a lady got aboard the train. She was followed by an old darky ' woman who was carrying a child. Some man gave his seat to the lady, but the poor old nurse stood patiently in the aisle, holding the child. She was near my seat, and I saw that ’ she was old and her burden a heavy one. I was only going a short distance out, so I got up, and said: ■
“‘Aunty, you may have this seat?’
“The old woman was very deeply touched by my kindness, and as she finally, deprecat-ingly, took the seat, she remarked:
‘“Yo mus had a culled mammy raise yo, sur, yo so polite.’
“‘Yes, Aunty,’ I answered, ‘I did have a colored mammy, and what’s more she looked very much like you.’
“A sudden light came over her face, and she ' fairly shrieked out:
“ ‘ De-Lawd be blest if it ain’t Marse Charles! ’ “Well, it was ‘Marse Charles,’ and .it was Aunt Sarah. When I came home from Phila-, delphia, Aunt Sarah came with me, and before long the title to the old place was in my name. 7 “I had followed the scriptural instruction . that May, and with profit. I threw my bread upon the waters, and it came back to me.
. “Yes, it does sound like a romance, but that is the way it worked out. Have another cigar, - Mr. Brownson.”	<
Vs-
Sleep.
FRi\NK F. DUKETTE.
“Sleep is a reconciling, .	.
A rest that peace begets;—	'. - '
Doth not the sun rise smiling .	.
When fair at ev’n he sets?” « »- - -
At the close of an eventful day, after the confusion of its many duties, night comes and is appreciated. The refreshed mental vigor,, of ? . the morning has lost much of its cunning by. noon; it.gradually follows the sun’s course/ and with his setting requires rest. Fatigue is inevitable where force has been expended; weariness unavoidable, though'it .be but the . result of continued idleness. The power of the platform has been nursed in sleep, and the eloquent speaker that rules the assembly ? reaches his conclusion, dismisses the audience, and soon loses himself in slumber. The laugh- . ing baby has had his nap; the crying baby is in need of one. From birth until death-


one-third of man’s time is passed in this unconscious state; for man is a creature whose early life is beset with milk-bottles and forced . naps, and .whose later life is a prolonged . struggle to ensnare those naps that were the afflictions of childhood.
Instances may be found where persons have subsisted for a considerable time without food, ?.' but none where they lived long without rest. Men have died from the lack of sleep, though 7 madly imploring it while on the bed of a king? . Sleep lingers about that time a day when the ? landscape fades on the sight; when the. air is . hushed and the weak-eyed bat circles his flight. J It is a staunch hut that protects from chill, ‘ blistering winds and driving rain; or those
“ Soothing groves, gilt lawn between,
And flowery beds that slumberous influence kest, From poppies breathed, and beds of pleasant green,' Where never yet was creeping creature seen.” , , 7
Macbeth murdered sleep, and sleep in turn . wrought Macbeth’s 'murder. The absence of the death of each day’s life is the presence of	.
the long night that has no .dawn. Sleep has	:
been described as the wealth of the poor man,' an indifferent judge between the high and low, j ? . ; the prisoner’s release,'sore labor’s bath, and '? the balm of hurt minds. There are two gates L of sleep, says Virgil, of horn the one, by which ?: . true dreams gd forth; of ivory the other, by which the false. • .	• v ’’?'?7;??‘7
. Though invincible in the strength of morn-?? ,}? ing the weary body craves the night with its

a?
•fj:



OS
386
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
chamber deaf to noise and its sweet bed with smooth pillows dressed. Before-consciousness

dreamland covers the
is lost and the film of
eyes, a state of partial sensibility is experienced, likened to a flock of sheep that leisurely pass by one. after one; the sound of rain and bees murmuring; the fall of rivers, winds and seas; smooth fields, white sheets of water and the pure sky.
Extremely cultured minds are often nervous and irritable, hence it is that the poets have so frequently and beautifully written of sleep. What a blessing that “death’s counterfeit” by its absence taught them its worth. In one of his most pleasing poems, Keats links sleep with poetry, and nothing but his Tife-devotion to the latter made him speak more ardently of poetry than sleep. He asks:
“ What is more gentle than a wind in summer? ’ More tranquil, than a musk-rose blowing In a green island, far from all men’s knowing?
.	" More secret than a nest of nightingales?
More full of vision than a high romance?”
And answers with this apostrophe:
“Sleep, soft closer of our eyes!
Low murmurer of tender lullabies!..
Light hoverer around our happy pillows.
Wreaths of poppy buds and weeping willows! . Silent entangler of a beauty’s tresses!
Most happy listener!” '
Shakspere’s Julius Cassar’s knowledge of human nature was faultless when he desired fat men about him—
“ Sleek-headed men, and such as sleep o’nights.” Again Shakspere is at his best when he says:
“Where unbruised youth.with unstuff’d brain .
Doth couch his limbs, there sleep doth reign."
Jnsomnia was very prevalent back in the , merry times of Chaucer. Occasionally some . slight indisposition appeared to disturb the poet’s slumber. Maybe it was his luxurious board as squire of Edward IIL, or as commis-. sioner to ltaly. No son of a vintner, however, should have found fault so long as he could ? Sleep. day out of countenance and make the night
light”	•
Still England’s first poet complained:
' ■ “As L lay in bed sleep full unmete ;
r >. - Was unto me, but why that I’n might ' \;
V-.'-' ; Rest. I/ne wist, for there’n. as earthly wight,
’ <■=;	(As. I-suppose) .had.more, of ■ heartis ese, ,.
. , v Than I, for I <n’ ad sickness nor disease.” -
; More than a few modern poets have carried extensive: accounts with insolvent sleep, if.
/! “Sorrow's heaviness7doth.heavier/grow!	..
. For debt that bankrupt isleep doth'sorrow ovye.” ifEdye’s? Adaptation .as a favorite: themefor
poetic effusion is closely seconded by numerous tributes to sleep. Many of these offerings are complimentary and not a few decidedly unflattering. Though Shakspere writes:
. . . Sleep doth kill those pretty eyes , And give a soft, attachment to thy senses As an infant’s, empty of all thought.”
Patrick Proctor Alexander in the following appears greatly in need of that prescription:
“Come to me now! O come! benignest sleep!
And fold me up, as evening doth a flower, From my vain self, and vain things which have power
Upon my soul to make me smile or weep, ■ And when thou comest, O like death, be deep!
No dreamy boon have I of thee to crave, More than may come to him that in his grave
Is heedless of the night winds how they weep.”
It is in youth that boyish fancies are calmed to sleep by the gurgling eaves, and security is felt in the unbroken sound made by mother’s rocking-chair. - That time when most frightful and indescribable shapes flit about the bed, and ample protection is found under the covers t so fondly tucked by a parent’s hand. The , age when a boy, though timid and with head covered, is sure to pass on unharmed to dreamless slumber. Again, if is the time of life when days seems ages and sleepy eyes are nightly closed by song. Little wonder then that the x lullabies of childhood are deeply fixed on the impressionable mind of youth. For fears of the black night were at once dispelled by the sound of mother’s voice. When she sang how brave one felt. It is her spirit that whispers:-—
“ So sweet is rest when the day. grows late, . But.ah! not best; ■
Better thy drowsy head’s dear weight Upon my breast. .	‘
Shadows that pass are the long day’s charms. .	-
How should I weep. .	.
When at evening-tide in my own glad arms ' '	.. Thoubest asleep?” .	.
Surely the state of sleep is not exaggerated. The unpoetical mind finds little trouble in sleeping whenever he will, but his more metrical brother vainly craves that balm only to be found in those vast cool cisterns of mid- . night air. Is it any wonder a hew poem results? Sleep is a. matter of.untroubled mind'and sin
less heart/ It is insured by a certain weariness and a good conscience, hot T>y excessive fatigue. ‘All the sweet drowsy syrups in the. world can not . medicine sleep to the guilty / soul. Nor, in this prosaic life of ours, is rest always found,— f	.
. . _	“ Where cloudlets ' slowly creep, /	• - .	;
:.	' And ^sobbing winds forget to grieve,..
. r . And: quiet waters gently heave . .
-.	", ’ Asif they rocked the" ship to' sleep”. < . ..	■


NOTRE DAME, SCHOLASTIC.

Varsity Verse.
Evolution in the Atmosphere.
Tv
RONDELETTES.
S.‘ I- ’
N two score years from now
Who knows where all of us will be?
In two score years from now The strongest form may have to -bow. Like autumn leaves life’s joys will flee Before the blasts of eternity, , In two' score years from now.
'	11.
What matters it, indeed,	'
How long life’s flame yet light our eyes?
What matters it, indeed, .
. If soon or late from toil we’re freed?
The fairest flower often dies
When first its fragrant scents arise. . . What matters it, indeed?
J. A. N.
THE HONEY BEE.
Soon we’ll hear the humming bee Softly as he flies
In among the roses, seeking For his golden prize.
Soon we’ll see him flying hiveward With his treasured gain,
Then he’ll store it and return	"
To the flowered lane.
How he works and hums all day, With what care he takes Honey from the souls of flowers— . For my buckwheat cakes.
.	W. H. T.
POETRY ELEVATES.	’	,
The night was dreary, starless, cold, .	'
And weary was my soul;
I sat and read some songs of old To calm my weary soul.
I read and read with keenest joy, ‘ Yet weary was my soul,
- But still I read, just as a boy
Who knows not of. his soul.	.
When I was done, ’twas midnight time, > Then happy was my soul;	" .
For spirit dwells in thoughtful rime .
And happy makes the soul. .
• '	’	- M. A. S. '
THE CLOCK.	-
Talking, talking all the day, With a never-ending clatter; .
-	, Yet you know not what you,say,	.
Talking, talking all the day.
You’re a woman in your way. .	-
Will you ever cease your chatter? ‘ : , Talking, talking all the day
•	. With a never-ending clatter. ;
'	/	. P.E.F.
A CATASTROPHE.
Our Willie studied chemistry He’ll study it no more.
' What Willie took for H2O ' . Was H2 S04
W/H.T
J. W. FORBING, PH. C. (B. S., I900).
N. R. GIBSON, PH. G. (1900).
The large amount of carbon dioxide in the' atmosphere of the Carboniferous Age would ? permit, as research and experiment have shown, . of only the lowest forms of life. Plant,life, on f the contrary, owing to this condition of the ; f. atmosphere, and the temperature and fertility of the soil, was rendered more luxuriant and;. productive. Geology and chemistry tell us . that through the decomposition of this vegetable matter were formed the immense bogs of peat which eventually produced the so-called coal deposits of to-day. ,	‘	•
It is a familiar fact that, plant life was a great factor in purifying the primitive atmosphere. This purification ' was brought about . by the extraction and decomposition of the atmospheric carbonic acid gas, the .released . carbon atoms forming the beautiful and complex flora', the character of which is disclosed , by their fossil remains imbedded in the primeval strata of the globe.	;
As the carbon atoms were extracted to be- , come the principal constituent of plants, so were those of oxygen liberated to become the / active ingredient of the atmosphere. By- this . process the atmosphere was rendered suitable for the higher forms of life which were to follow.	•	~
As carbon dioxide was necessary for the fpr- . < mation or growth of plant life,-so was oxygen ■ of the utmost importance for the maintenance of animal life. The animal, by means of ,its, breathing organs, the lungs, inhales,the atmos- ; pheric oxygen, which enters into, combination -with the waste carbon of the body, and again forms carbon dioxide.: Hence, it is the function of animal life as an oxidizing process, and, of / plant life as a reducing process, to keep up a , continuous cycle of atmospheric regeneration.
Now as coal (a compound the greatest percentage of which is carbon) is the result of the extraction of. carbon . dioxide from the air through the operation of plant life, and contains the carbon of the primitive atmosphere,: it represents, therefore;, approximately; the . amount of that gas in the .atmosphere pre- ? vious to the Carboniferous Age. , From Le Conte’s calculations on- the present amount -of coal on the earth, we deduce the following formula fpr the composition by weight ofthe


<■


£



i
A
I
388	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
atmosphere previous to the coal formation (assuming nitrogen to have remained constant).
Nitrogen.....................77	per	cent
Oxygen.......................22	per	cent
Carbon Dioxide................1	per	cent
An atmosphere of the above percentage would represent a pressure of 14.82 lbs., differing .12 lbs. to the square inch from the present pressure, and equalling, approximately, 48,000,000,000,000 tons of carbon dioxide to . „	1,342,000,000,000,000 tons of oxygen. Whether
or not animal life could maintain itself for an indefinite period in an.atmosphere of the above ' percentage of carbon dioxide, is a question.
.	According to Berzelius, ordinary air containing
. .	of its volume of carbon dioxide can be
breathed withoutproducing any serious effects;
'	■ yet from Mr. Angus Smith’s later experiments
-	it appears that when air contains only 0.2 per
cent of this gas its effect on lowering the action of the pulse is rendered evident if the respiration be continued for about one hour.
In comparatively but few years coal, owing to the ever-increasing consumption, will have . been exhausted; in other words, converted .into carbon dioxide. Now the question presents itself, will the present vegetable kingdom absorb the enormous surplus of this gas; will the so-called cycle of atmospheric regeneration still continue unaltered? Our calculated amount of carbon dixoide, due to the burning of coal, represents but a small fraction, according to Lord Kelvin’s figures, of the total amount of this gas which is continually being evolved through the combustion of such - organic substances as peat, coal, woo'd and gas.
That vegetation is on the decrease is an , undeniable fact. Civilization removes the forests. Farmers exhaust the land. Poor. city |	government permits the waste of many by-
products which would serve as excellent fer'	■ tilizing compounds, and thus economically
~ restore the plant ingredients again to the soil.
- •	With the decrease of plant life and the
-	increase of animal life, the cycle of atmos-
§	pheric regeneration becomes an impossibility.
.	Instead of our present oxygenated atmosphere
.	we will have substituted an atmosphere of
. carbon dioxide. According to the evolution I	'	theory, this displacement of oxygen would
.	-	bring about a complete change in the organ-
*	ization of the 'animal. . In place of lungs for
breathing oxygen, we would-have to supply, -	/. ; ourselves with organs which could, in some
-/■'y?.' way, decompose ithfe carbon dioxide, of we . ?	. ? would have to ^change to some highly organ-
ized form of plant. The prospect of either alternative not being very pleasant, man must look for some means of preserving his bodily identity. Engineers- realize that the present sources of energy, due to combustion, are not without limit, and are seeking for new sources of power. Chemists should speculate on the possibility of manufacturing an atmosphere. With improved electrical appliances, sand (silicon dioxide) might be used as a source of oxygen. Improved apparatus and new compounds might be substituted for plant life as a factor of atmospheric purification.
As another alternative, we might discontinue the burning of carbon compounds, and have recourse to other sources for energy. President Lee Mees, of the Rose Polytechnic Institute says, that “.power, can be obtained from water, wind, and perhaps from solar radiant energy. The energy in the Niagara Falls amounts to nearly 3,000,000 horsepower. The energy of the tides might be directed to the use of man.”
The Parlor Match.
THOMAS J. DILLON, I9OO.
He looked strangely out of place in that luxurious Pullman car; he surely ought to be riding second-class. The conductor was on the point of telling him so, but his ticket showed that he had paid for his privilege.
He was old and weather-beaten; his tattered Stetson hat appeared as though it had withstood the rains and winds of many seasons. The coat bore like evidences of long service. The faded blue of his overalls was in harmony with the plush on the seats. Evidently a miner on his way East to enjoy the returns of many years of hardship. So thought two well-dressed, talkative drummers. When the news agent came through the car on his tour of robbery, the old man bought a cigar, and in payment tendered a bill of a large denomination. After a somewhat lengthy inspection of his cigar, the -old man retired to the smoking compartment in the rear'of the car.. .	.	.
The two commercial travellers, alert for fun and. material'.for stories, followed him. The. railroad furnishes matches to those that wish to smoke. To prevent the matches from being scratched on the woodwork; they are so made that they can only be, lighted by scratching them on the box. .• v .

*
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
When the commercial travellers entered the smoking room they found the old man vainly endeavoring to light one of these matches in the time-honored way, i. e.~, on his overalls. .. Here was good fun. For a time both were silent, but there was a look of supreme enjoy-
ment on their faces.
Neither dared look at
the other for fear of bursting into laughter.
Finally, one of them could no longer.
“ I say, Pardner, you can’t of matches that way.”
“Pardner” took no notice
stand the strain
light those .kind
of the informa-
tion, but continued doggedly to scratch away, in a very lively manner, only stopping when the match broke or when the head was entirely worn away. At the rate he was going . it was very evident that he would have to wear an overcoat to be at all presentable.
By this time there were several persons in the smoking compartment, each enjoying the old man’s exhibition.
“That’s a new kind of a match.they’ve gotten out. You won’t light it that way in a thousand years. You’ve got to scratch it on the box.”
The old man laid his cigar on the window-sill and carefully placed a broken match beside it.
“Young man, I was lighting matches when your mother was bragging about - your first tooth. I’ve been lighting them ever since. I’ve, lit them on the Black Hills; I’ve lit them . on Pike’s Peak; I’ve lit them in Lower California, and I think I know how it is done.”
“That’s, all right, old man, you may have lighted matches in Kamchatka, for all I know; but I’ll put up one hundred dollars that you can’t light that match that way in a week.”
The old man’s obstinacy angered the travelling man, and SlOO is no small sum.
“ I’m nigh on to sixty years, my friend, and I’ve never in my life overlooked a bet or took water from any man. Put up. The brakeman’ll hold the money.”
The money was soon in the brakeman’s hands.
“ Now young man,kindly hand me a match.”
The old man took the match, gazed at it for a time as if calculating his chances. Putting, the cigar in his mouth he drew the match along the leg of his overalls and camly lit
the cigar. . .	'
The travelling man gasped; handed over the money, and
the brakeman the old man .
counted it, made it into, a roll, and put it into his pocket. He had taken the precaution to sew a piece of emery paper to his overalls before setting out on his. journey. . =
- Books and Magazines.
—The Literary Digest, without question, is the . best publication of its kind in America. Its title does not express the broadness of its

digest. There are departments of Arts, Religion, Science, Education, Politics — indeed, all the important happenings of the day receive ‘ mention in the Digest, and its pages reflect the best thought of the world. We know of no. other publication that of itself so well enables one to keep abreast with the thought of the times as does the Digest. Further, it is published weekly, and, consequently, its “ happenings of the day” are not happenings of a .. month before.	.
—In Harper’s March number there is an abundance of- good verse. Arthur Springer’s three stories in metre are some of the best verses we have seen in the latest issues of . the magazines. Sarah Piatt’s “ Heart’s-Ease over Henry Heine” is also very good. Of the stories, that of Sarah Barnwell Elliott, entitled “Without the Courts” is perhaps the best. Brander Matthew’s article “ On the Steps of the City Hall ” does not strike me as being a story, but rather in the nature of a study. It is not so good as Mr. Matthews usually writes. The rest of the articles are varying in interest, ■ but all instructive and pleasing.	.• .
—The Ladies' Home Journal is interesting to everyone, but to ladies it must be doubly so. Aside from its value as a literary magazine, it has an up-to-date and pleasing manner of . keeping its readers in touch with all the latest styles of dress and fashion. The pages devoted "
to giving pictures of the “Prettiest Country Homes in America” are very good and "will give one a fair idea of what styles of architecture find most favor with the upper classes of society. The page with photographs of fireplaces and mantels is also useful to show the taste of the fashionable people as exhibited in the arrangement and* settings of furniture in their drawing-rooms The editorial page is entirely taken up in paying a beautiful, tribute to the late Mrs. Mallon who for more than ten years wrote for the Journal. Readers of that magazine will remember her as the author of . the “Ruth Ashmore” articles, given in the . form and nature of side-talks with girls. The * ' tribute paid to Mrs. Mallon in no way exag- *; gerates her great personal worth. Nor is there anything lacking therein.
i

39°
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
mw scHtwsm
Notre Dame, Marell 4, 1899.
jSubltsfjrl) cbcrn 5 at urban buring Ecrnt iEimc at S. Snifacrsitg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address:	THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Board of Editors.
SHERMAN RAYMOND JOHN J.
PAUL J. STEELE, ’97; O’MALLEY, ’98; DOWD, ’99;
RAGAN, ’97;
THOMAS A. MEDLEY, ’98;
EDWARD C. BROWN, ’99;
• JULIUS NIEUWLAND, ’99;
JAMES F. MURPHY, ’99;
LOUIS T. WEADOCK, ’99;
LOUIS C. M. REED, I9OO;
JOHN F.-FENNESSEY, EUGENE A. DELANEY, JAMES J. TRAHEY, JOSEPH F. DUANE,
’99;
’99;
’99;
’99;
jungle, and in his stories we find characters, such as Private Mulvany, that are-as unique and consistent in their acts and words, as perfect in creation as those of Dickens. The verse of Mr. Kipling is in a class by itself—a class, we may add, that finds much favor with the public. Smooth running, simple and commonplace in subject-matter, it reaches many persons that would be unable to appreciate poetry of a high grade. Mr. Kipling’s latest works indicate that he is gaining rather than losing strength in his literary endeavors, and his readers live in hopes of receiving from him work cleverer and better than any he has hitherto accomplished. Small wonder is it then that thousands of persons whom, through the influence of his pen, he has made his friends, should be solicitous in watching for his recovery.	•
MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, 99; FRANCIS O’SHAUGHNESSY, ’oo; THOMAS J. DILLON, I9OO;
ST. JOHN O’SULLIVAN, I9OO.
F. X. MCCOLLUM,
H. P. BARRY,	r Reporters.
HENRY S. FINK,	)
—In this edition, the Scholastic does itself the honor of reprinting from The New World Miss Starr’s article on Art Schools. We feel highly complimented by the notice she has taken of our Art Department, since so great an art critic as Miss Starr is highly fitted to
—Whatever may be the resolutions taken for the season of Lent by the students, it is certain that they will be very materially aided in keeping them, if the course of Lenten sermons continues to be so, instructive and thorough as the first two were. Last week Rev. J. W. Clarke of St. Patrick’s Church in South Bend, a man well known for his force and earnestness in pulpit oratory, opened the series with a sermon that was telling and impressive in many ways. He kept his listeners thoroughly engrossed in his subject, and delivered his words in such a manner as to produce lasting effects. Last Wednesday Father French mounted the pulpit, and of his sermon we need not speak.
—As we go to press, the world—at least the American world—of readers is rejoicing over the news that our most popular writer is . recovering from a severe attack of pneumonia.
speak in an intelligent manner on artists and their work, and we know that persons familiar with her labors in the cause of art, will feel sure that she made a just and appreciative • review of the work at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
" It is particularly gratifying to us to have her speak in praise of. our Art School, since it is only in recent years, and through the efforts of our Reverend President incumbent, Father Morrissey, that this department has been put ’ on the high footing that it now occupies. The more common class of persons may not realize what an amount of work it takes to build up and equip a studio with casts and models for doing good work, in drawing and sketching. They forget, too, that it is no easy task to secure instructors capable of educating pupils along the right lines in order to insure success in their work. However, persons that have given this subject any deep, study, and persons 'that are interested in the development of true art, will not' fail to know what obstacles our President has had; to confront in order to •
Mr. Rudyard Kipling may not be classed
1 among the. great authors; his. works may not make the Art Department at Notre Dame what ......................... •	-	....... js Now that it is-successful, and that it has received the approval'and encouragement of Miss Starr, a lady thoroughly, familiar with fine art, we have reason to expect even greater things than have been accomplished in the past.
possess the ’ intrinsic worth that will make
’ them last for centuries dr even for many years; . yet it would be, a severe loss to- readers if he were to die now-when he may be said to be - at his best. We have all read his tales of the
a
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
391
The New Gymnasium at Notre Dame University.
The Faculty and students of Notre Dame University are united in the determination to bind the pursuit of knowledge and the practice of athletics together much as they were in the days when Pindar sang. Athletics is come to be a recognized department in the curricula of Notre Dame. To be sure, it is held subordinate to morals and the attainments of the mind, but its functions are positive,—insistent. In order to encourage physical culture and insure robust manhood, a gymnasium, original in its plan and modern in its equipment, was in building during the past year. The structure is completed, and the preparations that are being made for its fitting dedication .	o	o
are interesting not only to Catholic colleges, but to the great State Universities of the- central West. ’
The formal dedication • will take place March 11. The nature of the exercises will . emphasize the position that Notre Dame will hold in the future concerning the o
relations of intellectual activity to physical - culture.. During the afternoon athletics contests, running, jumping, hurdling, pole vaulting and shot putting will obtain between the students of Notre Dame and students repre-
are no posts or pillars in the room. A fine track, thirteen laps to a mile, is. next the . walls. This track has been carefully surveyed .
senting the Universities of Chicago, Michigan and graded; the. curves are .mathematically correct. Professional bicyclists, that have tried
and Illinois. No student shall be allowed to
enter the athletic contests average in class .work is above.
The building that is to
unless his general
75 per centum or
be dedicated with
these interesting and instructive ceremonies is unique among gymnasia. It Js< one of the largest college gymnasia in the United States
■ that is devoted, solely to athletics.- The dimensions of the building are 110x225 feet. The
. intention of the designers, who are members of * the athletic faculty of Notre Dame, was to . plan a building suitable for all kinds of sports;, to. provide some form of athletics, for every student.. Among the games beneficial to. and
engaged in by American college students are -baseball, football, track athletics, basket-ball, bicycle riding, tennis, gymnastics and handball. The Notre Dame gymnasium provides for the practice of all these. The building is properly in two sections, with a. handball alley adjacent to the track room. -The; first section is two stories high. The lower floor contains the office of the instructor:in , athletics, the office of the drill master, two large dressing rooms, a training room, six shower baths, bath tubs and lockers. The second story is a large room 40x100 feet. * This room is fitted up with the most improved physical apparatus, furnished by A.IG. Spalding and Company. The room is devoted “ entirely to gymnastics under the supervision . -of a competent physical director.	j
The remainder of the building is occupied by the track room. This room was ever the.


important consideration in the building of the gymnasium. The room is 169x100 feet with walls ' 25 feethigh. The roof is supported by semicircular iron trusses, ten in number, which rest upon the side walls. Light is admitted through
skylights of translucent glass. The floor, of the room is dirt, clay and cinders. There
it, declare it to be unsurpassed by any indoor, track in the country. A gallery with a seating : capacity of 700 persons depends from the west wall. It is entered through passages leading from the physical culture room.
Adjacent to the eastern wall of the track room is the hand-ball alley. It is the only regulation college alley , in the country. The walls are cement. A gallery .with a capacity , . of 300 persons overlooks the, alley. During the recreation hour of an afternoon everybody at Notre Dame goes to the. gymnasium, to exercise or to look on. In the physical, culture room the.director is conducting classes through ;

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
392
graded gymnastics; in the track room a regulation outdoor baseball diamond is laid out, and the candidates for positions on the ’99 Varsity are at work; at the same time track and field athletics, such as jumping, running and vaulting are in progress, and at the east end a baseball batting cage 70x18 feet is suspended from girders. Hand-ball enthusiasts occupy the alley, and streams of spectators wander from one athletic event to another. It is safe to say that no other college gymnasium in the country, presents such varied games during the recreation period as that at Notre Dame.
The athletic management is excellent. The faculty advisory board has jurisdiction in all matters pertaining to finances and the amateur standing of athletes. The President of the University is chairman of this board. The students’ athletic association elects a committee, whose chairman is appointed by the President. This student committee elects the managers of the different teams, and requires to be informed at its weekly meetings of all negotiations that are undergoing with other institutions. At the head of all athletic instruction and coaching is the Instructor in Athletics, who is a member of the Faculty, and is directly responsible to the President of the University in all matters relating to the athletic department.
During the afternoon of March 11 students representing three of the great Western Universities will struggle for supremacy in eleven ' track and field events. These are: 40-yard dash, 220-yard dash, 440-yard run, 880-yard run, I mile run, 40-yard high hurdles, pole vault, . shot put; running broad jump, running high jump and mile relay race. Competing teams will- be limited to ten men,'to be entered in such manner as the respective captains may decide. There will be a first and second prize in each event.
The building of the Notre Dame gymnasium has roused a great deal I of interest . throughout the Middle West in matters pertaining to athletic supremacy of college students. . course, has just reached That, stage of adoles- -The Faculty of Notre Dame realizes the cerice when to him all the glories of the world iinportant part that athletics plays in the col- seem of the past. He will hold like notions /. ■ lege work of the future/March 11 will empha- when he becoihes very old and enters into second childhood. Between these two periods; however,- there will come rational maturity.
>Then, I feel sure- Mr. Westmorland’s notions about genius will be-modified, and his ideas
- size their position; but at the same time it will emphatically; declare that scholarship is the fundameritaL condition' of /all participation in / athletics, arid, that no student may represent Notre Dame in the lists unless he is fitted, to
represent heir in ’ the class-room.

A Demurrer to the Reply.
Mr. Westmorland is a good deal like a jackrabbit—he is hard to corner. You think that you know just where he stands, but when you go after him he suddenly bobs up in a most unexpected place.
In his article on genius, Mr. Westmorland announced for his proposition that the older the world grows, the scarcer become the geniuses. When I controvert this statement, he answers that I did not read his article intelligently, that the point I selected to controvert really had nothing to do with the case, but that some other statement was the important proposition. When I suggest to him that half a dozen propositions, each contradicting the others, tend to make his position indefinite and illogical, he replies that entitling his article “Some Notions about Genius’’gave him full license to be as contradictory and illogical as he pleased. Perhaps it did.
Mri Westmorland says that the question he really asked'was: “Why does not the world to-day produce a literary genius”? If this was all that he wished to. know, then why on earth did he consume two columns talking about the utter lack, for the last two centuries, of all sorts of geniuses? If Mr. Westmorland knows what he is driving, at he should endeavor to impart that'knowledge to his readers.
■ The trouble with Mr. Westmorland seems to be that' he has not fully determined just’ what proposition he wishes to prove. If he has decided on any position he has certainly failed signally in making that proposition clear. His original article was a muddle of uncertain and contradictory: statements..
In view of this fact, it will be impossible for us ever to join issues. I therefore suggest that we cease'this arguing at cross purposes, and bring this controversy to an end.
Before having done with my adversary I will say to him, frankly, that he has proven himself a very, interesting young man. He, of
i
upon, many subjects, doubtless, will be sensible and sound;Law ’99.
I

■'4
'i-
Sblkh VAME SCHOLASTIC.
393
A
Exchanges.
Personal.
The exchange man of the expresses the fear that the “ man has the la grippe”—the
Niagara Index
Scholastic s ex.-italics are our
own — and, incidently, he asks us why. our neighbor, the Chimes, has failed, for so long a time, to make its appearance in the Index “sanctum.” He adds, referring to the Chimes: “ Remind them of our fraternal anxiety.” The Chimes may be pleased to know that it is missed by the Index man. But I am inclined to think that it will resent his assumption of fraternal anxiety. For, I am sure, neither the Chimes nor anj7 of its editors would consent to be even a sister to a man that was guilty of such a combination as “the la grippe.”
' * * .
The Boston College Stylus and the Holy Cross Ptirplc seem to have their press work done at the same establishment. Their appearance is strikingly similar. There is also marked similarity in their contents. Each of the two papers gives the leading place in nearly every issue to lengthy and very uninteresting “ Reminiscences.” These “ Reminiscences ” are illustrated bv numerous half-tone engravings of. alumni, and are interspersed with letters from the old Boys, telling how Jim Dolan, or some one else, used to land in “jug,” or some such
undesirable place. Following the “ Reminiscences” there usually is a poem, written upon the occasion of somebody doing something; then comes a learned, article on the problems of life, or the reasons for studying the classics. As a rule, there is a second poem, about a storm at sea and a shipwrecked mariner. The sea, of course, turns out to be the sea of life, and the mariner some poor sinner. Turning from this heavy feast of reason, we ask for the wine and cigars, and are given some Society Notes.
Now, the preparation of magazines of this sort may require a good deal of. labor; but to my mind it is misdirected labor. A college paper is supposed to, be prepared by college men for college men. The papers in question
are prepared by college men, but one ..would imagine, from the character of the work, that on February 9 to Miss- Esther King PickeriH’ « the readers whose -tastes are consulted -were a Indianapolis “ To -the brave .belong the lot of Christian Temperance,Association old' fair-'’, :Mr. .Brennan, who, by the way, >s< thj; ; ladies. In short, these papers are too staid and ,.Notre/Dame, and they , all join with -tht.,/ solemn. They lack live; modern spirit.'.Some Scholastic in sending ',: him heartiest?, good?,; light verse, and a little fiction should be given wishes. Mr. and'Mrs. Brennan will be at home-; A a place in the Stylus and Purple.	at 430 .Capitol Ave. North, Indianapolis: .
—Mrs. E. J. Quinlan of Chicago spent a.day , of last, week at Notre Dame. •	' '
—Mr. James Coll, student, ’89—’90, is -a sue-' ' cessful dentist in Philadelphia.	-
— Mrs. Gibson of Chicago was recently the . guest of her son of St. Edward’s Hall.
—Mr. Charles Piquette, B. S., ’98, is studying medicine at the University of Michigam
—Mrs. Baackus of Toledo was the guest for the past week of her son of (Carroll Hall. . /
—Mr. Geo. C. Richardson of Leavenworth, . Kansas, was a recent visitor at the University..
—Mrs. L. Rotchford of Chicago was at ; Notre Dame last week visiting her son' of St. Edward’s Hall.	«- . ■ „
—Mr. Casper, of the Durand Casper Co. of Chicago, was a recent visitor at Notre Dame, the guest of his sons.	'	'•
—Mr. Joseph V. Sullivan, A. B., ’97, is report-, ing for the Chicago Press Association, and is thoroughly enamored of his work.
—Mr.X.James Elitch of San Jose,California, was the guest last week of his brother, Mr. Charles Elitch of Brownson Hall. '	/ „
—Mrs. Gentle and the Misses Taylor of ’ Benton Harbor, Mich., spent a day at Notre Dame, the guests of Mr/Frank Dukette. :
—Rev. Charles S. Lane, Assistant.Pastor of- = Grace Methodist Episcopal. Church of South , Bend, was a visitor at the University last week..
—Mrs. O’Donnell and her daughter, Mrs. < W. E. Dee, of Chicago, were at the University . -last week. Mrs. Dee entered her son in St< Edward’s Hall.	.	J
—Miss Cooney of Toledo has been a very, welcome visitor at Notre Dame during the past week. She has been the guest of her uncle, the Rev. Father Cooney.	'
—Rev. S. Clement Burger, A. B., ’91, who for. several years'has been assistant pastor of the, ? Church at Lancaster, Pa., is now pastor of the . Church of the Immaculate Conception at New ; Oxford, Pa.	‘	; -
—Mr. E. Frank James, who was known’as one of the finest tenor singers at Notre Dame, . during the years of ’94 and ’95, is at present s making a great hit as first tenor and director of the Rush Medical vocal quartette.. 1
—Mr. Edward E. Brennan,' Litt. B., ’97, .left A the ranks of the volunteer army only to' join f the ranks of the Benedicts. He was married
t

i
394
NOTAE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—Dogma Examination Monday morning. Prepare well.
—Hayes.—“That fellow seems to think that because he drives the bakery wagon he is college bred.” ‘
—The annual banquet of the boat club that was postponed last fall will be given next Thursday afternoon.
—Admiral Sampson.—“Eggs are 60 cents a dozen.”
Admiral Shley.—“I wonder if shells will
, go up.”
'	; —After Baer had listened to Baldwin’s voice
vibrating melodiously about 2:30 p. m. the other day, he said: “That man is a howling success.”
. —Since Sylvester has left us for a few days Scheubert is not so attentive to the picture .above his heart. Constancy, old man, is a cardinal virtue.
’ —Students desiring to enter the Oratorical Contest should start to .work at once, as they % will be required to present copies of their orations on April 1.
’	—The biography of Mr. Treetops is not
completed, so we will ask our readers to hold t	their breath for another week until we have
this great work ready for them.
—Prof.—“Yes, they use electricity to ring all the bells around the. College.”
- Ralph (innocently).— “Professor, do they use electricity on the belles at St. Mary’s?
—Bro. Hugh received the additional circus seats Thursday morning. However, it is yet - feared that there will not be seats enough for use in the gymnasium to accommodate visitors at the March meet.
.	—Eggeman.—“What do you.think of that
association of ideas?”
Leo Belgium.—“It. comes .in real useful during examinations, but it might as well have been called an intefswopping of ideas.”
'	—Since his chauncies began to sprout with ,
thorough Illinois vigor, Ahern is seriously, thinking of becoming a utilitarian. Collars ;	; are a nuisance, he says.. Now it is his intention
to stretch a string from one chauiicey to the other, and attach Jus tie to the string.
—The society of antiquarians are very desir, bus to receive all the curiosities which have . seen service in the late war. Gibbons and
.	Pim’s rough-rider hats, Maloney’s red tie and
. .	Brown’s military coat would be very accept-
- „ . able, if these gentlemen could be induced to part With them.	.
—The students all express their sympathy .for Mr. John Meyers whose illness has neces-/ ? t sitated his, leaving, school. Especially his ■	" fellow law brothers' are sorry to lose a man

whose standing among them was indeed credit- ■ able. The Scholastic hopes that Mr. Meyers	|
will recover health rapidly and be able to	|
resume his studies at an early period.	|
. —In Sorin Hall there dwells a man,	|
You know him well, if not you can
Inquire from the students there, And they will introduce the fair And smiling visaged Monahan. He is a. little stouter than His whiskered friend; who, like the ram, Have goateed chins to wave in air In Sorin Hall.
—Very Rev. Father Provincial has enriched the Lemonnier Library with the following works: Storia della Litteratura Italiana, Tira-boschia, 16 vols.; Annali d’ltalia, Muratori, 31 vols; Virgil,---------; Evolution, Le Conte; Gospel of Christianity, Davies; Santo Thomas de Aquino, Padre Valero; War and Peace, Abp. Ireland; Proceedings of the Fith Annual Meeting of Liberal Congress of Religion, and several religious and scientific pamphlets.
—The programme for the opening meeting of the Oratorical class was very interesting, and commanded close attention. The class promises to be one of the most instructive in the college curriculum, if the students keep up their end. To have a person’s name appear on the programme and then not be present is an insult to the society, and every member should be conspicuous in strongly disapproving of an absence unless a very worthy excuse is given.
—These few rimes were found in the notebook of an individual who had written 2000 lines:	.
“I take a ‘skive’
When our prefects sleep.	-
Where maidens thrive .
I take this skive,	■
.	And there I strive ’
To be good and sweet, •	j
'	' Where I skive	"
. • . While our prefects sleep.
“But when they wake
My. ‘ reck ’ days cease, With ire they quake When they awake And-firmly break
=	My time and peace;
. .. When.they awake < .
My. ‘ reck’’ days cease. ”
—We would like to have our readers understand that whqn a person is mentioned in a ludicrous manner, or when any “ roasting,” as the expression goes, is done in the local columns, it is never done through malice. So do not be too irritable when your doings are mentioned in these columns. Your name or reputation will never be impaired by anything that, .may be said through these means. Then for charity’s sake do^ not misinterpret the remarks of bur plodding reporters. .They have their own troubles.	.\
—As a result of the practice that is done by the students bof ;the various departments, we may expect : some -interesting races when it
. r ■ _ 1 - * : . ' .
i	NOTRE DAME
i ~
;	comes to a contest for prizes. The Varsity men
i	will have their glory; there are others too.
i Thursday afternoon, when the Carroll Hall ■ boys had the gymnasium to themselves, it.was observed that Tom Murray and Joe Mulcare -are quite speedy in the forty-yard dash. A close contest may be expected when these two and Joe Clyne toe the line together. There are others whom the Scholastic may think fit to mention in the near future.
—We are doomed to disappoint our readers again. We hoped to throw some light on the great question of the difference between “ Battle axe” and “Piper Heidsic,” and for that purpose had secured the services of a great genius known as Louis Tabac Weadock. Unfortunately, Mr. Weadock is at present suffering from a malady known as “ Haven’t a Bit,” or “Just Out,” as some men call it,and can not write for us this week. He informs us, moreover, that his acquaintance with “Piper” is so limited that he does not feel able to deal with that subject.	■ .
—It appears that all efforts to produce a college song are futile. The remark has been made that modesty is the only barrier keeping many from giving us the needed poetry. Be assured that any student wishing to submit the words can keep his name from this or other journals_by informing the editor. And if perchance some one might think there was not enough credit attached to it, let him also speak to our affable editor, and he shall receive what is generally termed a " puff.” At all events, let some one undertake the work. What will “ Baldy” do if he has no new song to while away those beautiful spring afternoons?
'	—Preliminaries to decide who will be the
men to represent Notre Dame.in the Intercollegiate debate with the University of Indianapolis, are being held now. At the first one last Wednesday night there was a large audience, and the men that took part in the debate showed by their speeches that they had been making earnest preparations. Judging from the frequency with which candidates for ' the team are seen in the library, it is safe to predict that the fight for the finals will be a hard one. There are twenty-eight men trying, and every one is determined to win or else make the man that beats him show conclusively that he has a better right to the place. We are surely going to have a strong a team. Last Wednesday, .Messrs. H. P. Barry, Brucker and Ahern were the successful' men.
—Baseball practice is been carried on in a lively manner at present. Under the guidance of Powers the men are doing good work, and the' prospects for a “crack” team are very
' - gratifying. The spacious court in the new gym. affords excellent facilities for in-door practice, ■ and the men are almost as well off there as they would be on the out-door diamond.
. • Powers will certainly do all he can to get the
SCHOLASTIC.	.	395
boys in good shape before he is called to his summer work with the Louisville team, after he leaves, the team will be in condition to work by themselves. Manager Paul Ragan is arranging a good schedule, and no doubt if his efforts in getting games are successful the students may look forward to one of the best baseball seasons in Notre Dame’s history.
—Local prophets who have anything to say, regarding Notre Dame’s future in athletics would do well to take note of the performances of the Minims. It would seem that there is excellent material among them for a fast track , and field team; and, what is better still, the little fellows are making an effort to develop that material. One thing which is especially noteworthy is that they are trying to do things according to “ form.” Among those who have made a good showing so far are Walter Blanch-field, John Ervin, Oscar Fleischer, Wallace Hall, Grover Strong, Bryan Taylor and Robert Williams.i Blanchfield does well for his age in short distance running and in the broad jump. Taylor has attracted-the attention of the larger boys by his correct way of doing the hurdles and by. his neat, easy vaulting. Williams, besides being a fast sprinter, is good in the high jump. We shall keep track of the Minims, and from time to time tell what they J are doing, in athletics.	•
—The games on March ir, will eclipse all other athletic carnivals held at Notre Dame this year. The Universities of Illinois and Chicago will match strength with Notre Dame, and each team will endeavor to hang a new . banner in its trophy room. We will not be presumptuous and say Notre Dame will,come out first, but we may feel positive that we will follow as a close second. No doubt, there are-many among us that have high hopes of our pinning the banner among our.own collection, but we leave this to our energetic athletes who will decide the question one week hence. We can rely on them. They will do their best to bring the victory into our own hands.. The students in general have a corresponding duty to perform, and that duty consists in Tending your college spirit, your highest enthusiasm ■ entirely to the events. There should be no time during the course of the meeting when the interest may wane. It is very encouraging to the contestants to hear the cheers and yells of anxious friends spurring them on to victory; ‘ so we hope that every student will contribute . his share to making, the meet a grand success.
. —Weather Report.—The chairman of the Weather Bureau announces the following idio- -syncrasies for. the coming week:	.	, .
Sunday.—Pretty cold wave from the exterior.	/
Monday.— Pretty colder wave from the South. . - -	. -	:
Tuesday.—No more signs of snow than -yesterday.
Wednesday!—A brand new wind-storm cut ;
396	' NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
'	on the bias; will be decorated in soft snow
a la iceberg- with trimmings of frosted hailstones.	«
Thursday.—A cross between a blizzard and a .sou’wester. Everybody drinking ice-water— after.
.	Friday.—Fair. A warm wave will extend
nearly to St. Louis, and that’s as far as good - weather is supposed .to go.	,
* Saturday.—Promises fair for Sunday-school picnics in the United States and Canada. A ,	whirlpool in the Missouri Valley threatens to
wash off lingtning-rods. Farmers are notified to pin tissue-paper on all windows facing the East, as a terrific wind may be expected from that direction if Congress gets to work this week.
—New copies of the following works have ’ lately been secured for the Lemonnier Library: Impressions of Russia, Brandes ;' Ave Roma Immortalis, 2 volumes, Crawford; Scrapbook of French Revolution, Latimer; History for Ready Reference in 5 vols., Larned; 2 vols.
.	of John L. Stoddard’s Lectures; Pastels in
Prose, Merrill; Literary Studies, 3 volumes, Bajehot; Dante’s Divine Comedy, Carlyle; Aristotle’s Treatise on Rhetoric, Buckley; Morley’s English Men of Letters Series; John . Dryden, Saintsbury; Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Trail.; Edward Gibbon, Morrison; Thomas ■ Carlyle, Nicholl; Francis Bacon, Church; John Milton, Pattison; Richard Bently, Jebb; Sir . Walter Scott, Hutton; Thomas B. Macaulay, Morrison; Jonathan Swift, Stephen; Daniel Defoe, Minto; Charles Dickens, Ward; Henry .	Fielding, Dobson ; Geoffrey Chaucer, Ward ;
’ Joseph Addison, Courthope; Richard Brinsley Sheridan, Oliphant; Percy Bysshe Shelley, - _ Symonds; Alexander Pope, Stephen; Thomas Gray, Gosse; Nathaniel Hawthorne, James;. John Lock, Fowler; William Cowper, Smith; Sir Philip Sydney, Symonds; David Hume, . Huxley; William Wordsworth, Myers; John Bunyan, Froude; Edmond Spenser, Church;
. William M Thackeray, Trollope; Laurence Sterne, Trail; Walter Savage Landor, Colvin;
. Charles Lamb, Ainger ; Lord Bryon, Nicholl; Oliver Goldsmith, Black; John Keats, Colvin; Robert Southey, Dowden; Thomas De Quincy, .	- Mason; Samuel Johnson, Stephen; Edmund
/ Burke, Morley; Robert Burns, Sfiairp; Thiers, De Remusat; Thoughts of Novalis, Hope;
. Montesquieu, Sorel; Turgot, Say; Madame de .	. Se vigne, Boissier; Madame de Stael, Sorel;
George Sand, Caro; Bernardin de St. Pierre, Barine; Victor Cousin, Simon; Lucian’s Diar ' logues, Williams; French Dramatists of the J; J -19th Century, Mathews; Virginibus'Puerisque, • .	Stevenson; Membires arid Portraits, Stevenson;
•; ; - Eminent Authors of the-igttii Century, Brandes;
William Shakspere, 2 vols., Brandes; Sonnets \ _ of Milton, Pattison; Sonnets5 of 1 Shakspere, L . Dowden Scotts's Poems, Chambers; Poetical '- J-;;—,	Worksof Bryant;. Light of Asia, Arnold; Come-
dies of Goldoni, Zimmern; Personal Sketches of Recent Authors, Griswold; Etymological Dictionary of the English Language, Skeat; Wisdom and Destiny, Marterlinck; Modern Italian Poets Howells; Philosophy of Literature, Brother Azarias; Talks with Mr. Gladstone, Tollemache.
The Pie—A tragedy.—By Sheltey’s Rock.
Scene: — Dining room; ringing of bell; shuffling of feet; medley of voices; licking of chops—various comments on the excellence of the pie.
Shaunessie (from the end of the table in a bassetto voice).—“Keep your eye on the chef, Tom. Look, he’s close to the President’s table. An entire lemon cream pie is left. I got a ■ peep at it a moment ago. The cream is as thick as the foam along the seashore.”
Delunne.—“Yes, I see it. He has taken it off the table,—the-rep ! No, no, he’s putting it into the stand. We’lL charge on it, Marty, after he leaves the table.”
Shaunessie.—“He’s leaving the table. Now is our chance. There he goes over toward the . window. My kingdom for the pie.” (Electric lights go out. Light thunder;- occasional flickering of gas lights.' Nearly everybody has left the refectory except Hayes, Crumley, McNulty, Fitzwilliains and a few other conspirators who are located near the door, ready to give assistance if necessary.)
Hayes, ‘the Black Prince’ is keeping his eye on Delunne and Marty. “Can’t somebody sneak up behind him and use an ax. Mac, you’ve got the largest stomach, do something for your share.”
Fitz.—“I wish my leg wasn’t sore.”
Mac.—“ Get out.”	.
Shaunessie.—“Stand between me and the
Black Prince, Tom.”	.
Delunne—“I am: Hurry up, old man—he’s looking in this direction. Why in heavens . don’t you hurry up!”
Shaunessie (Reaching into the stand and rattling a few dishes).—“I’ve got her Tom, she’s a peach.”
Delunne (Under his breath).—“Stick her under your , coat—quick—he’s trying to head us off.”
Delunne and Shaunessie strike out diagonally across the refectory. The Black Prince tries to head them off. Shaunessie stops at the end of a table and begins to examine a glass. The conspirators: close in? Mac holds the door open., There is . a. rubbing and bustling;, the Black Prince is conquered. Shaunessie starts off at a bee line for the door, the conspirators closebehind. The door is passed—His Highness is chagrined.	;
Conspirators in a chorus — “ The pie, Marty, the pie!” (Marty opens his coat; his vest , is covered with lemon and cream—in disgust he -drops the pie. onto the floor. All in strong disgust).—“You ought to be hanged.”
