·· RULING IN LAWSUIT FILED BY STUDENT ATHLETE CALLS INTO QUESTION THE JURISDICTION OF DULAC 


Interested in WR/TING 
DESIG·N or PHOTOGRAPHY 
?
• 



SCHOLaSTIC 
w a n t s y O U 
Come work with us. No high-school journalism experience is required. 
stop by our office in the basement of 
SOUTH DINING HALL 
or email us at 


SCHOLAST@ND.EDU 
TABLE OF CONTENTS PHOTO 
JARED MARX 

Il::l.UlBfil_ ):fABLE 0F·CONTENTS  ,  
»  A Share in the Community by Stephanie Rubino  7  
»  Domers Step the Irish Line by Sheila Flynn  12  
»  Patriot Games by Jared Marx  13  
»  Filling the Big Shoes by David Murray  23  
»  Eyes on the Prize byGerard Meskill  26  
»  Good Vibrations by Entertainment Staff  28  
»  What Though the Odds by Sheila Flynn  32  
From the Editor ND Notebook Campus Watch Splinters  2 4 20 21  Out of Bounds Week in Distortion Calendar Final Word  33 34 35 36  

Trashed, b~t not Wasted 



I 
oa· II 
by Mariah Quinn : .-. , . _· 
A look into_ Notre qahi"e•s_continuing effort~ to .. inqrease_ recycling on campus. · . _ ­
IJeop~rdy! CoHege Championship 1Q by Andrew Nerlinger . _ 
. Not~e.D_ame senior reiate·s his Je~pardy experience. , . 


An Apology and a Defense 
Three weeks ago, in the "Campus Watch by the Gipper" column of the 11 Octo­ber 2001 issue, there was a poem that attacked a university administrator. Given the anonymous nature of the column and the personal nature of the attack, this was unjust, and I regret it. The commentary should have attacked the policy, not the man whose job it is to enforce it. While I maintain the validity of the point that the anonymous author of the column was attempting to make, the poem violated the spirit of the Gipper, and that of Scholastic, too. This year, the administration has undeniably stepped up efforts to crack down on student tailgating. Students have been cited by the Notre Dame Security-Police De­partment as well as by plainclothed excise police. The decision to restrict student participation in tailgates this year has been a great source of frustration for the stu­dent body. This was the impetus behind the Gipper's comments. The student response should not come as a surprise to the administration. The decision to break up student tailgates after years of tolerating them -with minimal problems -constitutes the destruction of a relatively innocent Notre Dame tradi­tion. If the university believes that students, whatever their age, deserve the right to· consume alcohol in their rooms, it follows that the same policy should apply to reasonable consumption at private, peaceful tailgate parties. This situation should be differentiated from large groups of drunk, out-of-control students who take away from others' enjoyment and are justly disciplined. Students' frustration has been heightened by the way the decision has been carried out. I've heard numerous primary and secondary accounts of students being treated inappropriately by those giving citations. These reports range from condescension to downright verbal harassment. Admittedly, these are unsubstantiated allegations, but the sheer number lends credibility to the stories. So, the university has decided to end a beloved student tradition, and it has carried it out in a manner harsher than necessary. This is unjust. I ask the administration to carefully reassess its position on student tailgating. Has students' behavior been bad enough to warrant the end of the tradition? Can the worst cases be addressed without punishing all? At the very least, the process by which the decision is being enforced must be reformed to be fair to the students who sacrifice much to attend this school. I apologizefor the personal nature ofthe attack, but I defend its motives, and I believe that the university should reconsider its approach to regulating student tailgating. 
Jim Smithwick: An Update 
When our 27 September issue went to press, Jim Smithwick was listed as pre­sumed dead in official inforrpation provided to Scholastic. This report has since been retracted. Jim's wife, Bonnie Smithwick, was lost in the attacks, but Jim him­
selfbas survived. Ou, thoughts continue to be wHh the Smithwick 7n. 
e,_Griffin, Edito, 
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
Vol. 143, No. 05 • 01 NOV 2001 



SCHOLaSTIC 
7 Editor In Chief
IMichael P. Griffin 
1
!Managing Editor 
MatlhewBarr 
Associate Editor 
Jessica L. Daues 
I Executive Editor Sarah Childress 
I News Matthew C. Ziegler, editor Jeffrey Drocco, assistant Katie Freddoso, assistant 
Campus Life Jacklyn D. Kiefer, editor Kristin A. Kramer, assistant 
Sports 
Gerard J. Meskill, editor 
David Murray, assistant 
Entertainment. 
Kathleen Corte, editor 
Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant 
Departments . 
Cristin E. Fenzel, editor 
Design 
Crissy Manary, editor Jessica A. Chamberlain, assistant 
Brendan Condon 
Nick Dalley 
Eric l:loversberger 
Ryan Greenberg 
Beth Murphy 
Photography 
Katherine A. Foster, editor 
Graphic Arts 
Michael M. delaRosa, editor 
Maryn Necel 
Copy 
Adam M. Aroian, editor 
Jennifer L. Wahoske, assistant 
Cecilia Hadley 
Distribution 
, Fellsia Johns, manager 
I i, iJessica Advertising B. Polish, manager 
1 1Kyle Zuaro, assistant 
•I lonllne i iJamie L. Moran, manager 
j j Marketing , U Kristen D'Arcy, manager 
Disce Quasi Semper Vict11rus Vive Quasi Cras Morit11ms 

Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and prlnled at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is Copyright© 2001. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either In whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must Include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letlers for space. Katie Freddoso may be belligerent, but she writes good articles. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back Issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed In Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



THERE IS A WAY. 


Eric Schimmel, C.S.C. 2002 Ordination Class 

www.nd.edu/f'vvocation 

I Questionable Camouflage? ~ University policy keeps ROTC, others out of uniform 
MATTHEWZIEGLER 
There's a rumor running around campus _ that ROTC students have been banned from wearing their battle fatigues, or BDUs, in certain areas ofthe university grounds. The rumor canies more weight than most because forcement of these rules because of com­plaints. "We would've done it anyway," he says, but "it wasn't something we noticed" before objections were registered. 
The complaints, it seems, focused on the Army's cadence runs around campus and on their use of rubber weapons, both of which 

it comes straight from the powers that be at ... some students con_sid_ered threateping. "It's a 
the ROTC. 
But Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for Student Affairs, says this is untrue, that no regulations have been set regarding where and when students can wear camouflage. He says that the recent stir comes down to an ages-old ban on unsanctioned congregation: ROTC have aroused administrative attention not be­cause of what they wear, but where they meet. 
"There's a time and a place for everything," Kirk says. He points out that no group, from the Ultimate Frisbee team to Fisher Hall, is allowed to use university grounds without permission. In effect, he claims, ROTC is sirn­ply being asked to keep its gatherings within its allocated space. 
Kirk does say, however, that the administration's attention' was drawn to en-little different when you see 20 guys running at you in camouflage than when they're wear­ing athletic shorts," Kirk says. Such activities are not conduc~ve to the "good order" that Kirk's office tries to maintain. 
Sean Lyons, a senior in the Army ROTC and the student leader of the Army Ranger program, which has been particularly affected by the ordinance, regrets that these rules have suddenly surfaced. "It's upsetting for us, es­pecially seniors, because we've been spend­ing years doing this and there's never been a problem, and suddenly we' re being told, 'You can't do this, you can't do this.'" 
Most of these directives are passed on to ROTC students by their cadre, which com­prisesofficersandenlistedmenseparatefrom the university who govern on-campus ROTC activity. The administration approached them this year and told them of the university's poli­cies. Somehow, according to Kirk, a lapse of communication occurred at this juncture: "My hope was_that this would've been com­municated to [the students] correctly," he says; adding that he is "disappointed that [it] was not." 
Lyons, whose Rangers have trained for the last six weeks in jeans and T-shirts, agrees. D 


Ten Questions 
with North Quad's comatose canine ... 


Ifyou're at allfamiliarwith the No 1th Quad landscape, you've likely come across Farle)\ the Pekinese that hangs around outside Farley Hall. Scholastic, with the assistance ofFarley Rector Sister Carrine Etheridge, found that Farley has a lot to say about campus events. Maybe she's not such a comatose canine af­ter all. 
We hope you don't mind us asking, Farley, but a lot of people just want to know-are you a boy or a girl? 
Oh, I'm definitely a girl. Like Sister C says, we don't break parietals here in Farley Hall. 


What's your favorite North Quad activity? 
Looking pitiful and begging for food from the kids that are coming from Grab 'n' Go. 
Oh, and when I take my walk, I like to dump on Zahm -doesn't everybody? 
Take us through a typical day in your life at Notre Dame. 
I wake up, take my first pit stop, snooze, get dog biscuits from the housekeepers, snooze, have lunch, snooze, take a walk, snooze, have dinner and then snooze until 10 o'clock, when I really spring to life. I'm in training to be a parietals dog so that I can sniff out those who are breaking parietals. I'm al­ready pretty good at barking at the boys that come here. 
Sources tell us that you were spotted frol­icking in Stonehenge a few weeks ago. Do you have any comment? 

~--~~~-,,------'Y..•E.D'J)_µ,..,,.,_,.-t-...,..-!I · @ir.l~Qj~~~l~@Jl(@tJ@§ l!EFlif3;§~ . •·: 
.J 


ii~~==~~~~~~~~L::11~!::~~~========:=::=::::::~ffl~:::::,~~-:•.~T~~~§~·;_~~~•}~-~~-~~-•~~-.~lf@ffi~•~®~\?J~ltm~ii.;!:3~::;-t1:~s=!!§:;f=·~··#¥¥=.i •.-.•.•. :__ :j~~-•@m:•· 



. . . . . l'Fire alarms are currently out of order. Ifyou see a fire, call ''91'1.". ' ,' 
> 
-sign on door of Decio Faculty Hall 
> 
"That c_lass was .so boring. Atthe end, when the prof asked if ·we had any questions, I just wan'ted to raise my hand and ask if anyone had gotten nine down. on the crossword." 
-overheard student 

"Why are we doing this? To be candid: I don't really know." -lab professor, regarding a four-hour lab 
> 

> 
"Why am I the Madonna? Sometimes I want to be the whore!" -overheard female student about boys at ND 
> 
"Have you ever seen that movie Rudy? That guy went to my school." -overheard student in South Dining Hall 
The Zahm guys taught me how to do that. I saw them naked in there and I thought, "What the heck?" It's a great way to cool off. 
When it comes to bragging rights, who rules this Quad -you or the squirrels? 
My one goal in life is to get a squirrel; I would have total fulfillment if!could get one. Ijustcan'tfigureoutwhere they go when they climb those trees. 
Do you like a burger or a brat at your Saturday morning tailgate? 
I'm pretty indiscriminate. I'll take anything that comes my way, but Burger King is my favorite. 

You seem to have a few canine friends 
around campus. Any romantic attach­ments? 
Well, there's a new little dog in Siegfried that I like to visit, but that's more a maternal thing, and any rumors about me acting horny around that dog are absolutely untrue. Father Tom's dog Honey is a little intimidating, but then, that's how the guys from Stanford are. My favorite friend is Corbette, a white Westie, who lives at Holy Cross Hall. 
How's life in Farley Hall? 
Sometimes I get to take field trips when guys borrow me for picking up girls, or when Sister Carrine uses me as a chaperone for a couple who is getting too intense-.. she knows I'll tell her what happened when Igethom~. 
'.l 
1103 Years Ago Stuck up 
The following local news item appeared in the October 1, 1898 issue ofthe Notre Dame Scholastic: 
A great deal ofexcitement was caused one day last week by a football getting fast in the top of pne of th_ose large_ poplar trees. . .. Fitzwilliams and Pim both [threw I their hats up there, and they stayed there, too. Van Hee wanted to take offhis shoes and throw them, but it was deemed advisable by the Board of Health not to permit the other students to be subjected to so much danger justfor that one football . ... Donahoe was just coming from the store with a dollar's worth ofcigars, and in the excitement he let them fly into the air. ... Things were coming to a precarious situa­tion when Burke happened along, threw his soft smile at the ball and all was over. The ball and hats came down. ... Donahoe says his cigars didn't, and he thinks there will be a large crop on the tree next yea,: 
Perhaps I should try a "soft smile" on my perpetually stuck dorm-room window. 
-Cristin Fenzel 
Tell us about your various ensembles. 
I bear the indignity of being dressed up pretty well. I wear my cheerleader uniform to the Farley Hall football games and my Irish football jersey for home games. For our luau, I wore a grass skirt and a lei and walnuts be­cause Sister C said that coconuts wouldn't work. I'm thinking of a Santa Claus suit for Christmas because I want to go to the Christ­mas formal. 
You don't have any malicious intentions, doyou, when you stretchyourleash across 
tlie sidewalk everyone is walking down at lunchtime? 
I'm trying to trip those athletes coming back from the dining hall with the double Grab 'n' 
Gos, · ....:... Kristin Kramer 
SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 5 




~ Judgment Calls 
fl Opinions and observations 
COPS ON TOLL ROAD 
They lay in wait for us to come back, then they hit us with fines. Can't they catch speeders legitimately? 
t 
FIRE IN DEBARTOLO 
Electrical fires cancel class and midterms -sure it wasn't arson? 
t 
SOUP RELOCATION AT 
NDH 
It's great -soup and salad 
together the way they should be. 
Plus, no more harried soup 
searches. 
t 
CHEAP GAS 
Prices lower than U93's radio frequency? Cool. 

TORNADOES 
Mother nature strikes again ­with more vigor than usual. 
THE CD REVIEW 



Billy and Liza 
It's About Time 
LABEL: Sci-Fidelity RELEASE DATE: 18 SEPT 2001 
Story by Joanne Davidson Photo courtesy of Billy and Liza 

Fans of folk and jam alike have anxiously music while seeming to have a fabulous awaited the collaboration of String time doing so. Cheese Incident member Billy Nershi and Perhaps the best song on the album is Zuba member Liza Oxnard. The duo is "Barstool," a song to which almost every notorious in musical circles for their college student can relate. In this catchy amazing ability to work together, but the tune, Nershi details an evening in which enjoyment of this album will not be lim­he calls a girl after spend­ited to fans alone. Wit.h It's About Time, ing a few hours at a bar. 
If you like·
these two pranksters f.ollow a raucous This comical listening ex­
Rusted 
musical path, exploring bluegrass twang perience entices the lis­
Root ... 
and folksy ballads that will appeal to al­tener to grab a friend and most all listeners. enter a euphoric dancing You'll love 
The album opens with a fast-paced frenzy. Billy and bluegrass tune "Ten Miles to Tulsa." Prior to this collabora­Liza. Nershi's eloquent lyrics open the tion, many wondered if listener's ears to the life of a traveler on Nershi's newfound musi­the road looking for something better, "a cal fame would dominate life without a care." This opening song the album. However, paves the path for a free-spirited musical Nershi and Oxnard team up perfectly for experience. an unforgettable folk collaboration. Lis­
Oxnard carries much of the album with tenable, fun and energetic, it's truly about her sweet, quiet voice. In "The City Goes time for this adventurous musical en­By," she proves her diversity and strength deavor. . as a musician. Nershi is superior in terms of lyrics, but It's About Time does an ex-· cellent job of showcasing the musical strengths of both artists. "Smile" clearly The views expresse,d in this column are not illustrates their ability to make stellar necessarily those of,Scholastic. 



I Domelights

I 
Source: Professor David Klein, data collected since Spring 1994. 
COMPILED BY CRISTIN FENZEL Most recent results tabulated in October 2001. 

Just how Irish is Notre Dame, anyway? Since Spring 1994, sociology professor David Klein has been surveying students about their ethnic heritage by asking them to provide him with their family trees. Of these, 62 percent indicated at least one member of their family tree is an Irish immigrant. He has found that most students' ancestral immigrants are great-grandparents or great-great-grandparents who came to the United States during the 19th century. Here are the most common countries of origin for students' ancestors, ranked according to the responses to Klein's survey: 
1. Ireland  7. Native American  
2. Germany  7. Former Czechoslovakia  
3. Great Britain  8. Canada  
4. Italy  9. Former USSR  
5. France  10. Africa  
5. Poland  10. Sweden  
6. Other Northwest Europe  11. Mexico  
(Belgium, Netherlands, Denmark)  12. Austria  

6 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 






A Share in the Community 
ND students work to distribute campus food surplus 
STEPHANIERUBINO

"They throw all this food away," says 
Nichole Paulding, a student em­
ployee at Allegro, Tomassito's and Burger King. "I finally asked one ofthe full­time employees why they didn't donate it to a homeless shelter. She said that once it was opened they couldn't send it anywhere be­cause of liabilities for the university. I just wonder if there is anything else they can do about it." 

shelters. Though the volume varies daily, pans of hot food such as meat, casseroles, vegetables and pasta are donated as they be­come available. 
Unfortunately, the liability issues that have concerned some students mean that not all the leftover food can be transported to shel­ters. "Once food has been set out on the lines, you can't donate it," Poklinkowskisays. "It's an important safety issue." Once a food item has been exposed to air, the possibility of ally help us keep up with our demands. We save thousands of dollars ... which allows us to increase our other services to the hun­dreds of homeless we assist every day." 
Hundreds more people are served at the Hope Rescue Mission and Life Treatment Center, rounding out the large population that depends on the centers for their daily meals. Although Food Share is valuable, its obscurity hurts its effective1_1ess. Due to the lack of student knowledge, there is a fre-
KATE FOSTER quent lack of volunteers. 



Paulding shares the dis­may of many students who see literally thousands of pounds -and dollars -of food wasted each year in on-campus restaurants and dining halls. In any given week during the academic year, North Dining Hall alone overproduces from $1,300 to $2,200 worth of food; South Dining Hall is . left with $2,500 to $3,000 worth of leftovers weekly. 
This is an important con­cern for Notre Dame Food Services. Although manag­ers continually evaluate 

LOAD IT UP ND students deliver dining-hall leftovers -food that would otherwise 
numbers and product con­go to waste-:-to help feed the guests at the Hope Rescue Mission. 


sumption, accurately esti­mating the amount of food needed is diffi­cult because various campus events cause attendance levels to fluctuate daily. Left­overs are guaranteed, and leftover food items cannot be presented as an encore for students. 
Dining-hall managers Barry Bowles and Mark Poklinkowski were faced with find­ing an alternate use for the excess. Fortu­nately, students have stepped forward, and, in conjunction with the dining halls, have developed the Food Share program. The pro­gram works to provide the South Bend Cen­ter for the Homeless, the Hope Rescue Mis­sion and the Life Treatment Center with the extra food produced daily. 
The process begins after dinner every Sunday night when members of the Food Share Program use university-supplied vans to deliver pans of leftover food to the three bacteria and food-borne illnesses is greatly increased. To avoid contamination, Indiana health codes prohibit such donations. This means that all breads or rolls set out and any pans ofprepared food that have been served 

· cannot be sent. 
Despite this limitation, nearly 50 percent of the surplus food is donated to the shel­ters. The amount of leftovers varies, but NDH and SDH combined average a total of 12 to 20 pans ofusable food daily. The food donations are especially important to the everyday workings of the South Bend Cen­
.· ter for the Homeless, which feeds nearly 200 underprivileged citizens a day. "The center relies heavily on this food to keep costs do~n," says center representative Tammy Oehm. "We serve around 400 meals per day, and the contributions from Notre Dame re-The program often lacks stu­dents to help transport the items, and, compounding the problem, participation in the program declines as the year progresses. "Some­times they only pick up once or twice a week [in the spring]," Poklinkowski says. "Leftovers are put in the fridge and the morning man~ger will call over to the center to see ifthey can pick it up." This places the bur­den of the food on the shel­ters, and often the leftover pickup cannot be arranged. 
Despite these setbacks, Food Share has a positive impact on both Notre Dame 
and the surrounding community. "I think it is great that we are doing something with the food that is left over," says sophomore dining-hall student manager Francisco Ramirez. "I am glad to hear that the food is being used and not being thrown away like I had originally believed." 
Hopefully, as awareness about the is­sue increases, even more surplus food will become availabie to those who need it, and concerned students like Paulding will no longer have to watch food go to waste. . 
lfyou are interested in participating in the Food Share program, contact the Center for Social Concems at 1-5293. 
_:__ L~1cy Marinangeli colltributed to this story_. 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 7 





j. 
! 

Trashed, but not Wasted 
Notre Dame looks to build upon past successes in recycling 
MARIAHQUINN 

The blue recycling containers are ubiquitous in the dorms, in the din-ing halls and in classrooms. Yet despite the abundance of recycling­friendly symbols on campus, recycling at Notre Dame has received mixed reviews. In 1990, a voluntary recycling program was founded by a group of students called Recyclin' Irish. The program was based in the residence halls and relied on ve­hicles from the Center ofSocial Concerns to pick up the recyclables. It became in­stitutionalized in 1993. "Students come and students go, the program has to con­tinue," says Alan Bigger, director of waste management at Notre Dame. To­day, there are two trucks devoted to re­cycling, recycling containers across cam­pus and a full-time employee assigned to the recycling program. The amount of material that is recycled has risen steadily since the inception of the program in the 1990-91 school year. That year, 132,982 pounds of material were recycled, focusing on aluminum cans, newspapers, glass and plastic. By the school year of 2000-01, .the amount of recycled material weighed in at 13.5 million pounds, and the program had ex­panded to include such materials as cor­rugated cardboard, ash from the power plant and wood. Recycling has since become a Hoosier institution. Indiana law sets recycling goals for each of the solid-waste districts into which the state is divided. Since the inception of statewide recycling, there have been two mandated goals: Recy­cling 35 percent of the solid-waste stream by January 1, 1996 and 50 percent by January 1, 2001. Notre Dame has ex­ceeded both of those goals; in the 2000­01 school year, the university recycled 58.23 percent of its total waste stream. "Our goal, we think, is realistically to shoot for, in the near future, 60 percent, and just try to get better each year," Big­ger says. " We may not be the best in the world at doing it, but we definitely are above the average pack. I think we do 
8 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
very well considering the resources that we have." 
Oflate, the recycling markets have been very soft, economically speaking. Three years ago, recycled corrugate.d cardboard brought in approximately $100 per ton. Today, according to Bigger,_ little or .no money is generated from recycled card­
. board. Recycled paper products, for the most part, are also not revenue-generat­ing. However, the returns, minimal as they may be, are put baclf into the recycling program and used towards purchase of materials to promote it. For example, the small blue plastic recycling containers found in every dorm room were bought using proceeds from the program. 
Many of the recyclables go to paper mills in Michigan and surrounding states, where they are. used to make cereal boxes . 
and other cardboard materials. What the 
recyclables are used for depends on the 
quality of the product; the more pure the 
·substance, the higher grade·mate'riai.:it will"°· 
be used to produce. 
The types of material that are recycled 
do not remain static. Bigger notes that "we h~ve to.adapt to what the flow finds," cit­ing computer components as a new area for recycli_ng. Printer cartridges are now recycled, something that would have not been considered 10 years ago, for lack of volume and market. "We're initiative­driven by those things that are environ­mentally driven and [by] our ability to re­cycle," Bigger says. "There are probably . avenues to recycle most anything if you are willing to take the time to find the av­
enue." 
.Contamination of recycled material is 
the major problem for the program. It re­sults from the mixing of non-recyclable materials with the recyclables. Paper ­mixed, white or newspaper -is most of­ten contaminated by food. Ifthe material has too many reject commodities mixed in, it is either trashed or downgraded. Downgrading lowers the worth of the recyclables. "It's all based on percentage of reject material, usually two percent, so it's very easy to violate [the standard]," Bigger says. David Prenkowski, director of Notre Dame Food Services, points to contamination of newspapers in the din­ing halls as a major problem, calling the student recycling of newspapers in t.he dining halls "marginally acceptable." There is a high level of contamination from food, and Prenkowski says it is "de­moralizing" to find more garbage and contaminated material in the recycling bins than recyclable material. "Why bother [recycling] if nobody cares?" he asks. Bigger acknowledges that "con­tamination is probably our No. 1 issue." 
Notre Dame relies on a "sort at the source" method of recycling. People must take it upon themselves to re­cycle; therefore, there i.s no ready way to combat contamination other than requesting that people recycle more carefully. "Recycling really starts at the desk or in the room," Bigger says. "Some places are very good at it, oth­ers are not." He and Prenkowski feel that more care needs to be taken for the amount of recycled material to rise. Big­ger says: "If we went around nearly any building, we could take the trash and throw it on the floor, and we could sort it out, and we'd probably find that 80 percent of that is recyclable. We can do better. But are we getting better? The good news is yes, we are." 
Other forms of recycling also are in use on campus. Rather than being thrown out, surplus furniture is donated to local aid and salvation organizations. Also, the uni­versity has begun industrial recycling. When the old bookstore was torn down, two million pounds of material were re­cycled, and when new roads are built on campus, components from the old roads are used. And as business communication has moved from a paper-based system into electronic realm, the amount of office waste paper has been cut down. In addi­tion, all of the paper products used ~-t the university meet the guidelines of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for pre­and post-consumer waste content. 
Greater control over the inflow of ma­terials also has helped cut down on waste production. "I think there is a great aware­ness of the need to minimize incoming waste and max1m1ze outgoing recyclables," Bigger says. The university requires that packing materials brought 

~~e went around nearly any ~_!3J1ffding, we could take the trash and 
sort it out, and we'd probably find that 80 percent of that is recyclable. We can do better. " 

into the system be recyclable. Some materials come in wrapped in blan­

kets, which can be reused, unlike much disposable material. 
In an effort to introduce and improve campus participation with the recycling programs, the campus environmental group Students for Environmental Action is looking to keep the Notre Dame cam­pus better informed. Group president Erich Eschmann says: "We are in the pro­cess of organizing a rotating schedule of volunteers to assist in the ·sorting of recy­clable material. Additionally, we are 
· working ... to design and distribute a.Ii in­formational pamphlet in an effort to edu­cate the Notre Dame community as to what is recyclable on campus and how to go about recycling it." Several new initiatives have been put into place in an effort to expand the recy­cling program. During the 2000 school year, the university began a highly suc­cessful program of recycling the fly ash produced by the power plant; in the very next school year, 9.9 million pounds the ash were recycled. In Food Services, Prenkowski estimates that 95 percent of the cardboard brought into the system is recycled, thus cutting the volume of trash produced by 50 percent. SEA has spear­headed an effort to encourage students to buy mesh bags to be used for Grab 'n' Go to cut back on the use of paper bags, and the group is also planning an Earth Week event. Eschmann says that the group "will invite exciting and informative speakers as well as host an outdoor music and in­formation festival." Without a recycling program, Notre Dame would be sending out double the amount of garbage that it does. "Recy­cling tends to go unnoticed," Bigger says. "If we didn't recycle, we'd really be in a world of hurt." But despite new initia­tives, both Prenkowski and Bigger agree that_there needs to be a greater commit­ment towards recycling from faculty, staff and students. "Ifevery student in the room would take it upon themselves once a week to take the items to the recycling 
··. containers in the dorms, I think that we'd s'ee'a remarkable increase [in recycling]," Bigger says. D 
" 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 9 




ANDREWNERLINGER 

"From the University of Cah.·fornia at 
Los Angeles, this is Jeopardy!" 

Jonny Gilbert's famous introduc­tion echoed throughout the basketball arena, and the crowd of 4,000 cheered as UCLA's band marched in front of the set playing the Jeopardy theme. We were introduced one by one, but I could hear nothing above the noise. All of a sudden, Alex Trebek stepped out from behind the set and stepped up to his podium. Eventually, the noise died down, and I began to play for real the game with which I had played along on televi­sion for so long. 
From October 5 through 8, I had the op­portunity to go to UCLA to participate in the Jeopardy College Tournament. This ex­perience was both incredibly enjoyable and remarkably surreal. • 
The route to appedring on Jeopardy be­gan this summer, when I signed up online to go to a tryout in Baltimore. About 3,000 people signed up online, but only half were invited to a tryout. I received a call from Jeopardy telling me to show up at the Balti­more Marriot on August 5 at 1 p.m. if I wanted to try out. 
There were about 150 people at the try­out, many of whom had come from places as far away as Florida and North Caro­lina. When it was time to begin, we were ushered into a large room with two tele­vision monitors at the front. We immedi­ately began the qualifying test, which con­sisted of 50 old Jeopardy questions that were flashed on the screen at eight-sec­ond intervals and were read aloud on tape. When we were done, the coordinators left for 15 minutes to grade the tests. Mean­while, all the Jeopardy fanatics and their discussions about whether Alex Trebek should have shaved off his mustache kept me entertained. 
After what seemed like an hour, the co­
. ordinators returned and read out the names of the 15 people who had passed the test. Those who did not pass were immediately asked to leave without even a parting.gift. Those who passed -for the college try­outs, the top 15 or so -were asked to stay for another hour. We were asked to provide five stories about ourselves, and we also had to participate in a practice version of the game show and answer personal questions. 
While I'm not sure why I was chosen to go, I think an imp'ortant factor was that, out of 150 people trying out for television, I was the only one who showed up in a suit -or 



10 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
even a tie! However it happened, one Mon­day morning, while I was asleep in my loft, I heard a banging on the door. It was the FedEx delivery man. I drew a little line where my name was supposed to go and looked at who had sent the package. When I finally opened it, I started yelling and jumping down the hallway: All expenses paid to Los Angeles. 
My hotel in Los Angeles was the Beverly Hills Hilton. Let's just say that it was a step up from the rooms in St. Edward's Hall. Af­ter a Friday night spent sight-seeing and star-watching (we waved to Harrison Ford as he sat at a light in his convertible Mercedes with a twentysomething girl at his side, and we saw Dennis Rodman with a scantily clad female at a cafe), my Jeop­ardy experience began Saturday morning at 
9:30 in the hotel lobby. 
The 15 contestants were rounded up and immediately loaded onto a little bus that took us to the UCLA campus. Upon arrival at the arena, we were ushered into a little room with couches and a television. Appar­ently, we were sequestered there to preserve the integrity of the quiz show, even to the point that the videos we were allowed to watch were picked by the question-writers because they contained no material that would appear on the show. 
While we waited for filming to begin, each of us had our makeup done. We sat around nervously making conversation with the soon-to-be enemies. We stayed in that little room for about five hours, and it re­ally seemed as though we were in The Shin­ing. Finally, though, we got to go into the arena and do a practice round on the actual stage. 
Now, on television the Jeopardy set ap­pears small and simple, just a bunch of monitors stacked up, but that couldn't be farther from the truth. It was as if we were in fantasyland: The set was so huge and complex that it seemed imaginary. It was difficult to be nervous because the entire experience was so surreal. 
After a few minutes of looking around, we had our practice round. I wished my practice categories were the ones for the real game: I had mathematics (I'm a math ma­jor) and college sports in the first set of cat­egories. 
After the practice round, we were ready to play Jeopardy for real. I was chosen ~not at random ­to go first, and I com­peted against young women from Stanford and Brown. I won't reveal how I did-because I'm not supposed to say anything to the press (although if you ask me, I'll tell you all about it), but I had an incredible time during the show. I ac­tually laughed during the introduction be­cause it was so odd to be asked questions by Trebek. 
One thing that most people don't know about playing Jeopardy is that it is hard to get the buzzer right. Ifyou have ever won­dered why the contestants press the button so much, it is because players aren't allowed to ring in until Trebek is done reading the question. When this occurs actually is de­termined by a stage manager, who lights up a row of lights on the side of the question board that you can't see on television. Ifyou ring in too early, you are locked out for a fraction of a second, so this makes timing on the buzzer just as important to the game as knowing the questions to the answers. 

All through the weekend, I felt like a ce­lebrity. We did photo shoots and had dinner with the producers. We hung out in Beverly Hills and Hollywood. The other contestants and I celebrated after taping by going out on the Sunset Strip. I met Merv Griffin, who informed me that he's a -big Irish fan, and Trebek kept giving me Notre Dame vs. Pitts­burgh updates during commer­cial breaks. I even had the rare opportunity to correct him 
on the air when he gave some wrong infor­mation about Notre Dame's heritage! 
I ended up with a great trip to Los Ange­les and the chance to be on Jeopardy. I even came home with some prize money. I am still involved with the show: I will play at Jeopardy.com, where former contestants play against the public. It was a great expe­rience, and I encourage any underclassmen to consider trying out for Jeopai·dy next summer. 0 
College Jeopardy will air on November 7 at 7:30 p.m. on CBS. 

NERLINGER'S PARENTS experienced some of the 
NERLINGER HUNG OUT WITH JEOPARDY STAFF too. He 

excitement of appearing on Jeopardy along with 
appears with the Clue Crew, who travel around the world 
filming video clues and promoting Jeopardy.
him, including exploring the Jeopardy set. 


SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 11 


Domers Step the Irish Line 
Notre Dame students tour the globe with Riverdance troupes in their spare time 

SHEILAFLYNN 

The next time you are trying to do the Irish jig at a home game and are fall­ing off the bleachers, keep an eye out 

for someone with unusually good balance and poise: You just might be standing next to a professional. 
Fittingly, Notre Dame, home ofthe Fight­ing Irish, has Irish step dancers in its fam­ily. Among their ranks are senior Caitlin Allen and sophomore Paul Cusick, both of whom have danced on Broadway with the internationally acclaimed show Riverdance before coming to Notre Dame. 
Being cast in Riverdance is far from a simple feat. Thousands of danc­ers in the United States, Ireland and the British Common­wealth dedicate hours to practice each day. They travel to com­petitions called feises (FESHes) every weekend and prepare rigorously for re­gional, national and world championships. The Riverdance show scours the United States, England, Ire­i. land, Canada, Scot­I land and Australia 

when selecting its 

cast, and hundreds ofchampion dancers tum 
out for each audition. 

But Cusick and Allen weren'tjust hope­ful contenders among the masses; instead, Riverdance actually contacted them. Cusick, a resident ofStanford Hall and native ofPly­mouth, Mich., became the first American male to win first place in the All-Irelands in 1997, and he placed first in the World Cham­pionships in 1998. Later. that year he re­ceived a phone call from Riverdance offi­. cials inviting him to audition. After dancing at the tryouts held at the National Champi­onships in Orlando, Fla., he was asked to 
join the European troupe. He deferred from Notre Dame for a year to start a nine-month tour with the group in August 1999, which began and ended in Germany and made stops in 12 other European countries. 
"I looked at it this way," Cusick says. "When else am I going to be able to tour Eu­rope, do something I love and get paid?" Along with the other members of the Riverdance troupe, which includes Russian and Spanish dancers, tappers, musicians and singers, Cusickperfonnedeightshows perweek, 
\ 
usually in arenas for audiences ofbetween 5,000 and 6,000 people. At the age of18, he was one 
JENNIFER GAISSER-SADLER of the youngest en­tertainers; the aver­age age was around 22. 
Allen, a resident assistant in Pasquerilla East, also was the baby of the Riverdance company when she joined the tour.• In January 1997, dur­ing her senior year of high school in Westchester, N.Y., Riverdance invited her to audition in Boston. She already had gained early ac­ceptance into Notre Dame, but the Riverdance craze had just started, and 
Allen, along with the rest of the Irish dancing world, was a diehard fan of the show. "When I saw it the first time, I was absolutely obsessed," she says. "I wanted nothing to do with anything except Riverdance." 
Still, Allen was aware of the fierce com­petition, and, as far as she and the rest of the dancers auditioning in Boston knew, the show was only looking for one new girl. "I didn't count on doing Riverdance," she admits. "I never really even consid­ered it, to be honest." So when she re­ceived a phone call in June from the male Riverdance lead, she was flabbergasted. 
"Caitlin? This is Colin Dunne," he told her. "I was wondering if you'd like to join my show." 
Allen hung up the phone and announced to her parents -who were sitting behind her at the kitchen table, their heads in their hands in disbelief -that she was postpon­ing Notre Dame for a year to tour the United States with the Lee Riverdance Company. (Each Riverdance troupe is named after a different river in Ireland.) And she did ex­actly that, touring North America from July 1997 until August 1998. 
But neither Cusick nor Allen ended their Riverdance careers when they became full­fledged Darners. Both have spent the past two summers in New York, dancing in Riverdance -The Show on Broadway in the Gershwin Theater. In addition, Riverdance calls them when other dancers are sick or injured and then flies them to lo­cations all over the country. During her freshman year at Notre Dame, Allen spent eight weekends running home from class on Fridays to jump into a waiting taxi at PE which took her to Chicago, where she per­formed until Sunday, when another taxi de­livered her back to campus. 
The pair also has performed together while here in Indiana; last year they danced at the house of Athletic Director Kevin White during a birthday party for his wife. Allen teaches classes at The World Irish Dancing Academy in South Bend, while Cusick instructs dancers on weekends at the O'Hare School of Irish Dance in Michigan and Chicago. Though both enjoy teaching and have a strong passion for dancing, they intend to pursue other careers after gradua­tion. Cusick plans to attend law school, and Allen is currently applying for marketing po­sitions. Yet both plan to keep dancing a main part of their lives, just as it has been since Allen was four and Cusick was five. 
"I definitely want to either judge or teach," says Cusick, "but I don't really know right now." Either way, he and Allen already have enjoyed tremendous success in the Irish dancing world, and the student body is lucky to include such talented individuals -es­pecially when the band strikes up the jig during football season. D 


12 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 





Patriot Games 
ROTC students gain field experience -right here in Indiana 
JAREDMARX 
Fatigue-clad and face-painted men and women duck for cover behind the rocks and bushes. The tension is high, and soon the first pops of the M-16s are heard in the otherwise pristine wooded setting. They are quickly followed by the whirring and the booms ofartillery fire. Two likewise-camouflaged men lie on their bel­lies within a crudely constructed outpost made from branches and leaves, trying to fend off their attackers. The defense is val­iant, but the attack is unremitting, and soon the outpost has been taken. No, this is not Afghanistan. This was a scene at LeMans Academy, 30 minutes out­side South Bend, where 79 Notre Dame Army ROTC cadets spent September 29 in fall field-training exercises. On a day that started for most cadets at 4:45 a.m., this simulated attack on a bunker was only one ofa number of training exercises that ROTC students went through before the day ended. With differing responsibilities for cadets based on their class level, these exercises, held twice a year, are intended to provide the basic skills for cadets' future service with the United States Army. "This is kind oflike kindergarten," says Major Gary Massapollo, one of Notre Dame ROTC's full-time in­structors. "These are the building blocks for everything else they will do." But if this is kindergarten, one would hate to see high school. Other exercises during the day include land navigation, in which freshmen must effectively use a compass and map to find a series of preset markers scat­tered throughout the fields and woods of LeMans. Upperclassmen join the freshmen for simulated reconnaissance and patrol mis­sions. Sophomores and juniors participate in attacks on bunkers defended by seniors as well as in ambushes of similar targets. In each oithe exercises; the emphasis is :Jearning. When students who have com­pleted ROTC graduate from Notre Dame, their leadership is tested very quickly, as nearly all are entrusted with the direct com­mand of a number of soldiers after only a very brief period of additional training. Given this, the army leadership appears to be very serious about preparing cadets. 
"Come here with an open mind," says Lt. Col. John Arata, addressing a group of ca­dets who have just completed a reconnais­sance mission on Saturday morning. "Come ready to share. Come ready to learn. Leave your tender hearts at home." Seated on fallen trees or on the ground, the eight or nine members of the squad discuss with Arata what went well and what went poorly dur­ing the exercise while refreshing themselves with water and trail mix. This time, the les­son is to make sure all members of the group are fully aware of the group's orders. "What's the teaching point?" Arata asks. "Disseminate information, so that anyone can be a leader." 
Later on that day, Arata prepares the same group of cadets for a bunker assault. Armed with M-16s mounted with a sophisticated laser-tag system that signals when a cadet has been shot, they organize themselves to attack effectively and remove a small de­fensive installment -in reality, not much more than a tree fort -manned by two Army ROTC seniors. The attack is ulti­mately successful, but not without several casualties. The reality of armed service and war might seem years and miles away for these students, but this is a less-than-pleas­ant reminder of what that reality actually entails. 
Lt. Col. David Mosinski is Notre Dame ROTC's commanding officer, and he is very 
One of Notre Dame's older and more-sto­ried associations, ROTC has offered schol­arships to students at Notre Dame in return for military service since before World War IL Prior to 1918 and dating back nearly to the university's founding, military training was compulsory for most students attend­ing Notre Dame. In recent years, there has been an increasingly vocal questioning of the place and operation of a military institu­tion on the campus of a Catholic university. Says Massapollo in response: "We welcome the free exchange of information. It's what we're defending." 
Around four o'clock that afternoon, Blackhawk helicopters sound over campus. The cadets are returning from a long day of training, a day that finally is over save for the march back to the ROTC building and some weapons cleaning. For freshmen, it has been a unique experience, and for upper­classmen, their leadership skills have been tested anew. Tomorrow they can return to being normal Notre Dame students. D 
READY, AIM, FIRE A cadet lines up a shot during ROTC's fall field-training exercises. 
positive about Notre Dame graduates' level_-.(<:. of preparation for military service. "The · , ;· -r: ; strengths of our program come from an _oµt-'3·~~lt,I~ ­standing cadre and the facilities at Notre' .• t\!£; Dame," he says, "but most of all f~6m _tht.\.., ~.,:..,,._. Notre Dame student." BenJamml' ~-~••1{' Baughman,~ senior ~my R~TS ~~~etr'. .. i ::i.0.-<~ notes that his expenence with ·other. ;1,i .· ·•. · "° ROTC students across the country has confirmed this feeling. "One thing I .,. noticed atcamp was thatwe'.wet~c.;;1(/:@(. 
more flexible and could adjust ::% quickly," he says of his experi-'' <:/'.. ence at the training camp, . 'Lt:t1, which all ROTC students are · -,_.c-,· ,•. '> 
~:::::s::i::;::t ...511! 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 13 




---. ·--------. -----------­
--···-.... ,-~-...------·--· 
.u--_ ·d•·.··g-··m,--e•·-.n-·t-·--· ·-------,---_ -,­
----J' 

. . . .· . .· . . .. . . . . . : . .• .· ' '
J

··---·---------------------···--· ---------.------~----· · · ---by Katie Freddoso · · · 
da 

.. . du Lac's authority _ 
-· . . . -. .· . 
. . .. .--. ..:.: . --.. : ,_·. 
n the soccer field, Monica Gonzalez always seems to 'be in the right place at the right time.' This has ,made her a star defensive player for both the Notre Dame 

w,omen's soccer team and the lv.lexican National Team. Offthe field, _·. howevel', she has found herseff embroiled in a1awsuit ~ith the uni­versity over a drug-related incident in which she claims she was just 
. . . . . . . . . . 

iri the wrong place at the wrong time. Her-case brings up a host of issues that not only challenge the jurisdiction ·of du Lac but also 
----·-~---·----------·-­
-----·-··-·---·-------·----­
-. 







In the spring semester of2001, Gonzalez was studying abroad at the Universidad de las Americas (UDLA) in Puebla, Mexico. On April 23, Gonzalez went to the grocery store with Gerardo Vallejo, the brother of one of her teammates on the Mexican National team, and one of his roommates. They purchased a few bottles of wine, and, on the way back to the university, Vallejo met up with a drug dealer to buy some marijuana. He tossed the bag of drugs to Gonzalez, who claims that she imme­diately gave it back to him. Later that evening, when UDLA officials found the marijuana in Vallejo's room, he claimed that it belonged to Gonzalez. He went to her and convinced her to take responsibility for the incident, saying that since he had been in trouble with the university before, the offense would mean expulsion for him. 
Gonzalez says that Vallejo told her just to play dumb and she would get off with a light punishment: "He said, 'There's a week left in school. Say that you're a foreign student, you're a girl, and you were out in the ... market and somebody just gave it to you.' " After she had lied in the hearing, however, Albert Le May, a Notre Dame professor and the director of the Mexico program, pointed out to Gonzalez the possibility that she could be expelled for the offense and advised her to tell the truth. Le May helped her go to UDLA officials to recant her confession and obtain a second hearing. She went to Vallejo and convinced him to confess that the drugs were his. (He was subsequently expelled from the university.) UDLA granted Gonzalez a sec­ond hearing on the basis of this retraction. 
At Gonzalez's second hearing, she was found guilty of pur­chasing the drugs and of bringing the alcohol (the bottles of wine that she had purchased earlier at the grocery store) into the dorm, a violation of UDLA's housing regulations. She was suspended from attending UDLA for the summer session of2001 and was told that she would be placed on disciplinary probation during any future enrollment at UDLA. But she was not plan­ning to return to UDLA the next year, as she was returning to Notre Dame for her fifth year in order to play soccer. 
Then, on June 1, 2001, Notre Dame's Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH) notified Gonzalez that it had received 


a report ofthe incident from UDLA, which she had had to sign before leaving Mexico in order to receive her grades. At that time, ORLH re­quested that Gonzalez send them a summary of her version of the facts of the case. On August 13, ORLH formally charged her with violating the university drug policy as outlined in du Lac. The policy states that "Possession or use of any controlled substance . . . is a serious violation ... Providing for others, by sale or 
· · otherwise; marijuana oflliiy" ·other illicit drug, is a serious violation ..." The penalty for both violations is either "disciplinary suspension or permanent dismissal" from the uni­. versity. ORLH based its charges on translations of reports of both hear­ings that had taken place in Mexico and on her written statement. 
16 SCHOLASTICCOVERSTORY 
At the August 24 hear­ing, Gonzalez denied pay­ing for the marijuana, but this claim was contra­dicted by the testimony of Prof. Le May, who had attended the hearings in Mexico. Le May stated that he recalled her telling him that she had loaned Vallejo money. (Gonzalez claims that Le May was mistaken in this portion of his testimony.) On Sep­tember 14, ORLH found Gonzalez guilty ofviolat­ing the university's drug policy. The decision was based on Gonzalez's 
statements, Prof. Le May's testimony and the UDLA report. ORLH placed Gonzalez on disciplinary probation for the Fall 2001 semester. As a consequence of this probation, she would not be eligible to play soccer, which was the only reason she had returned to Notre Dame for a fifth year. 
At this point, Gonzalez wanted to appeal to the Rev. Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, but, according to du Lac, a student can appeal to Poorman only in the case of procedural defect or new evidence. But in Gonzalez's case, nei­ther was applicable, so she decided to seek legal counsel. Double Domer Charles P. Rice ('85, '88) took her case. · 
Rice was convinced that what he construed to be unfairness in the Mexican hearings qualified as a procedural defect, since the hearings formed the basis for the initiation of the ORLH's charges against Gonzalez. The proceedings in Mexico had been conducted entirely in Spanish, a language that Gonzalez, who is from Texas, says that she does not speak fluently, despite her participation on the Mexican national team. (Because Mexico allows any third-generation Mexican tQ play on its national team, 


April 23: UDLA officials find marijuana in room of Gonzalez's friend, Gonzalez takes the blame Aug. 24: Reslife Hearing Sept. 14: Gonzalez is found guilty of violating drug policy and is suspended from the soccer team 
·Sept. 19: Appeal presented to Rev. Poorman Sept. 25: Rev. Poorman denies appeal Sept. 26: Gonzalez files lawsuit against ND and obtains temporary restraining order, ·· allowing her to play soccer Oct. 23: Superior Court finds in Gonzalez's favor, preliminary injunction granted against Reslife ruling 
. the team.ts composed of mostly 
American players, many of 
whom speak little Spanish.) 
The report on the proceedings 
that Gonzalez had signed was 
also in Spanish, so she claims that 
she did not realize the errors it 
contained when she approved it. 
"I wasn't given a translation 
when I signed the report from 
Mexico," she says, "so there were 
some facts in there that were not 
correct." Most striking is the 
report's claim that Gonzalez had· 
paid for the drugs, an allegation 
that she has refuted all along. 
"Notre Dame ... read that [I had 
paid for the drugs] off of a report 
that I did not have a chance to 
correct and change" due to the 
fact that it was in a foreign lan­
guage. 


Adding to the alleged unfairness 
was too great for the incident in question. of the hearings, Gonzalez was not (This argument was not made in the appeal permitted to call witnesses to tes­letter to Poorman, because university policy tify on her behalf at the UDLA's forbids that severity of punishment be men­hearings. "[On the day the incident tioned in the appeal of an ORLH decision.) occurred,] there was another guy in "This is a kid who came back [to Notre the car with us," she recalls. "I kept Dame] for her fifth year -she could have telling the committee [to] go ask graduated last year -and hung around to [Vallejo's] roommate -he was play this season of soccer," he says. "It is there, he knows exactly whose just such a severe punishment for her, and a money it was, whose idea it was ... severe punishment for her above and beyond but they didn't allow me to see that how they'd punish the general student body witness." UDLA also refused to at large," since most students have less at drug test Monica, despite her re­stake than an opportunity for a career in pro­peated requests thatthey do so. fessional athletics." He argued further that 
These allegedly unfair circum­the university's decision was devastating to stances of the proceedings in Gonzalez because it left her with little op­Mexico, which Rice claims are se­portunity to pursue her career. rious defects, were included in a Hoye, on the other hand, contended that 
lengthy written appeal to Poorman on September 19. Also included in the appeal was Gonzalez's claim that Le May's testimony at her ORLH hearing had been mistaken. According to Gonzalez, "he made a statement about how I'd loaned [Vallejo] money" but failed to clarify that she had lent him the money only for groceries. In fact, Gonzalez claims that she paid for the grocer­ies with her credit card and did not even have any cash with her on the day the incident took place. Gonzalez says that when Le May realized his error, he actually went back to members of the committee to correct his testimony, but they refused to acknowl­edge anything he said outside of the hearing. Le May was not available for comment; 
On September, 25, Poorman denied Gonzalez's appeal. Gonzalez says she was disappointed that his letter listed no rea­sons for his decision to uphold ORLH's findings, nor did it an­swer the issues cited in her appeal. "It seemed to me as if their decision was made beforehand," she says. Poorman has declined to comment on this situation "for reasons related to confidenti­ality." The day after receiving notice of Poorman's decision, Gonzalez filed a lawsuit against Notre Dame and obtained a temporary restraining order obliging the university to allow her to play soccer. 
Deputy General Counsel Bill Hoye and Counsel Timothy Flanagan, representing the university in this case, later argued for the dissolution of this restraining order, claiming that Rice did not give the university enough advance notice that he was seeking the order. Hoye and Flanagan also claimed that Gonzalez does indeed speak Spanish fluently. On these grounds, they con­test Rice's claim that the Mexican hearings that played a key role in ORLH's case against Gonzalez were essentially unfair. 
In the bench trial that followed, Rice and Hoye disputed vari­ous points before Judge William T. Means of the St. Joseph Superior Court, including those regarding the court's jurisdic­tion over university proceedings and disciplinary actions and the necessity ofGonzalez's obtaining an injunction against the university so that she could continue to compete on the Notre Dame women's soccer team. 
Rice argued that, based on the complaints listed in the ap­peal, the court ought to intervene and reverse ORLH's finding. In addition, Rice claimed that the severity of the punishment 
"Gonzalez is a pre-season all-American soc­cer player, a member ofthe Mexican National -~ Team, and among the mostsuccessful women's soccer student­a>OC athletes in the history of Notre Dame's nationally renowned e; ~ women's soccer program ... She has accomplished more in her ~,:: intercollegiate soccer career than most other women's soccer 
ffijg players in the nation ever will. If she is denied the opportunity .s::.U to play in a portion of her final season, there is no evidence ... 0 I that her future in soccer or her career prospects will be adversely ::a,; effected, much less 'irreparably harmed.' " 5i e> Additionally, Hoye argued that that the ORLH hearing had E.S! been conducted properly and that the case was not a matter for ~"tti the intervention ofcivil authorities, but rather for the university "2-ej to deal with as a private institution. He cited numerous prece­
~ dents in which courts had ruled not to interfere with university a>_ disciplinary proceedings. ~ 5i On October 23, Means found in Gonzalez's favor, granting a>-g her a preliminary injunction that allows her to continue playing :in soccer until a trial can be held to determine whether a perma­
"C"'cij nent injunction will be necessary. ffi ffi Means determined that "when discipline of a student is im­:i..:-aj posed by a panel which has no jurisdiction to do so it is a Court's 
~ O'> duty to intervene to prevent it." In addition, he noted that the 0~ possibility of winning a national championship would cause=~ Gonzalez "irreparable or great harm." aj.~ Means's seven-page ruling raises issues ofconsistency in uni­E § versity policy and further calls into question the extent of du ~ a. Lac's authority. Essentially, he found that "the Office of Resi­·2~ dence Life and Housing lacks any jurisdiction to discipline ::::, 6,' Monica for this violation." He determined that du Lac lacks a ~ clear jurisdiction over students who are studying abroad and ffi S: that to punish Gonzalez for the same violation for which sheii;_g had been punished by UDLA "smacks of constituting double :-g jeopardy." 
.s::::.O 
g 6," Inconsistent Enforcement 
(/).Q 
In his ruling, Means points out what he believes to be an in­
--c
en c: consistency between the way Gonzalez's case was handled and 
.2.ca 
the way the university enforces Indiana state law with regard to 
.!:!? 
underage drinking: "I am ... somewhat disturbed by the fact 
.::!:::: 
that a single isolated incident occurring hundreds ofmiles away 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY .17 
(1) . 

from Notre Dame at another university in a foreign country .!= athletes that they're which incident consisted of rather tenuous facts constituting the :C::: essentially giving a violation (i.e., the contraband was actually found in another ~ m pass to on this stuff, 
student's room) could form the basis of such severe punish->~ ment destroying a student's final year of athletic competition at 1iijg Notre Dame while it is commonly known that under age use of g_o
1

alcohol by the students in the dorms at Notre Dame has been "t:J largely winked at over many years." JB=: • Notre Dame Director of Public Relations and Information 
m1n 

, Dennis Moore denies the implications of this statement. He cites ~-m the recent crackdown on student tailgating as a demonstration .s:::: :i.. of the university's "strenuous efforts to discourage underage 3: cal drinking and enforce university rules with respect to underage ~ drinking." Furthermore, he claims that the university alcohol ~"E­policy "make[s] it clear to students that they are responsible for .!!:!":s: abiding by Indiana law." ~~ Within the residence halls themselves, Moore notes that they ca C "are students' homes, so things there are handled differently -:S"i than outside [the dorms] ... There's definitely a pastoral di-g I mension to the way problems are dealt with in the residence -~ halls, and that's intentional." Moore observes that the pendu-i 0 lum on alcohol policy enforcement swings back and forth as -;' the policy is re-examined every few years, and over the past e.2:: three or four years, there has been a swing in the direction of ~ a:::::n stricter enforcement of Indiana law. · a,.9 Nevertheless, the fact remains that under the current policy, ma:::::n underage students can drink with veritable impunity as long a~ :S·g they do so behind closed doors. This fact is not lost on Means, S'D> whose remark reflects the perception within the South Bend ffi e community of the blind eye that the university seems to have ,__.-<1> turned toward its drinking problem in the past. af~ In addition, Moore points out the difference between mari-~~ ... juana and alcohol in the eyes of the law. "Alcohol is legal," he c:ni says. "It's not regarded as a totally banned, illegal substance, ~ UJ and marijuana is." On these grounds, the university holds that o ~ any offense involving marijuana or any illegal drug must be 0,S regarded as more serious than an alcohol policy violation. -"t:J 
"t:J m
a, a, 

Double Standards "g1n 
One of the key points in Rice's case was his allegation that 8:~ quired to undergo drug testing, but it wouldn't be fair then, since the university had violated Title IX. He claims that "the univer-UJ E they're forced to undergo drug testing, that when something is sity has in the past had male athletes who have been tested posi-~ ~ revealed in one of those drug tests, they are then subject to Stu­tive for THC, which would be an indication that you have used m-dent Affairs." In other words, because student-athletes would , , marijuana. There was a lacrosse player who was suspended for ;"5i be at more risk of getting caught using illegal drugs than the ' i one game, [and] there were two football players who tested O "2 average student, their records are kept from the OSA in order to 
. positive ... [The university] did not punish them, instead they .S:::: 5_ make the system m~re fair for them. ,; i said, 'We're going to give you-wink, wink-aretest,"'which 3:_ It follows from this system that student-athletes are not sub­:: they subsequently passed. · mg ject to du Lac as long as the Athletic Department is handling 
', Rice made his claims based on these three specific instances. ~"t:J i' After the trial, he subpoenaed the documentation for these cases 15..:CS !• from the university to prepare for the next stage of litigation, G>'>: 
m ... 

,1 but as of Tuesday morning, he has received no response. The ~-~ " names of the athletes in question are not being released to the :i.. Cl) \: , press at this time. ~.2:: ii j On the basis of this alleged special treatment, Rice argues m§ 
' and they're holding female athletes to a higher standard." Rice cited this dis­parity as the basis of 
1
a Title IX com­plaint. "For the life of 
1 
me," he says, "I 
couldn't figure out 
why, why [the uni­versity] decided ... to go after this Academic All-American soc­cer player, when they've got far more serious stuff that occurs with other male athletic students, and it sure seemed to me that it smacked of a double standard." 
Gonzalez remarks: "I want to think that they [the university] do everything just based on facts, and I feel like they just got some of their facts confused, and when it came down to taking my word, they didn't ... I don't want to think that Notre Dame holds a different standard for female athletes opposed to male athletes;·but the fact that this has happened in other cases, where guys test positive for drugs and get away with it, it makes you wonder." 
Moore denies these allegations. "We have a pretty strict drug policy, and it's uniformly enforced," he says. The university's drug testing policy for student-athletes is that after one positive test for steroids or illegal drugs, a student-athlete is suspended from competition until he or she tests clean. A second positive test means expulsion from athletic competition at the univer­sity. All drug testing, he points out, is handled by Health Ser­vices. They keep the records and notify the Athletic Depart­ment when an athlete tests positive. They do not, however, no­tify the Office of Student Affairs (OSA), of which ORLH is a branch. 
Moore explains that the reason OSA is not notified of posi­tive test results is that "stud~nt-athletes are the only ones re­
l
the drug testing. Thus it seems that drug policy in du Lac some­how does not apply to the Athletic Department. Moore admits that this is one interpretation of the situation, but he claims that the Athletic Department and OSA are "two separate systems, and the reason that they don't interfaces [that] athletes are the only_people who have to undergo mandatory drug testing ...But athletes are still subject to du Lac in any other circumstance." 

· that "if the university is aware of someone using drugs, that is tn a, Although a positive test for the Athletic Department will not :! ; · as serious if not n_iore serious than. the allegation which they ;E. get a ~tudent~athlete i~to _tr~uble with O~A, a positi~e test ~or i! 1 have accused Momca of ... because it's actually the same disci-a, OSA m relation to a d1sc1plmary case will count as first stnke ii I plinary policy" that deals with use, possession and provision of m with the Athletic Department. In this way, the university pun-
i: l drugs as equal offenses. Rice claims that the university has "male 'f=. ishes student-athletes who get into trouble with OSA (as in 
!i ......................,-... ,_, __.,,..,_ -.. . ..,...,._,_,______, ·--....,,... ___ , ... -------·----------·---·---.------... ---..,-...............---------··-------------·--·----· i!·--·. ···1-s-·s:-CHOLAsTICco,/eR-STORV . -·--·•····· ···-···-· ··----·-....,.,._ :___ :·.:--. :-·;.::~,;: ..:---;----:-::~--=-=-:____::-= =.;:':_·-::~::::~--:-,;.:::-_-----:::::.=':..-:::: ~-::-~:_::_::.:.-.::-~ _;;-:;:.;:-_-~-:..:--:-:.~_-:..--::_-_~ ----· ·----~-----:-;:;::.•--=..----~.:.~~-­

while. they are away. According 

to week, and ifI can play the next game, I get the go­to Moore, "any time a student 
ahead." is involved in a disciplinary 
Gonzalez has been paying for her legal expenses matter ... [involving] civil au­
out of her own pocket, but she claims that regardless thorities in the U.S. or abroad 
of whether the university appeals, she has no plans ... [the university is] always 
to sue for money. "I don't really want [money] to going to look at that." In such 
become an issue, I just really want justice to be done cases, the university does not 
here.... It's worth the cost -I mean, what kind of simply accept the decision of 
cost can you put on your last college season, on win­the civil authorities involved, 
ning the national championship?" D but rather it conducts its own in-
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 19 

Gonzalez's case), but not those who test positive for illegal sub­stance abuse under the Athletic Department. 
In making this distinction between Res Life and Athletic De­partment policies, the university is acknowledging that the two departments operate on different standards. In the instances where Rice is alleging special treatment, Moore says that since the Athletic Department handled them, the cases would not have been reported to the OSA and thus the sort of disciplinary ac­tion to which Gonzalez was subject under the ORLH would not have been applicable in those cases. 
Hoye answered the Title IX charge by arguing that Gonzalez's case must be compared with others handled by the same de­partment-ORLH -and not the Athletic Department. He then cited figures from the past five years that demonstrate that fe­male students involved in cases of "use, possession or provi­sion of marijuana" are not held to higher standards than male students involved in such cases. In fact, Hoye's figures demon­strate that "the women in the group under study were, in fact, far more likely than men to receive the lesser sanction of disci­plinary probation (which is precisely what Ms. Gonzalez re­ceived)." The university thus attempts to show that if the court accepts this distinction between Athletic Department and ORLH, then there is clearly no discrimination against Gonzalez on the basis of gender. 
Limitations on the Jurisdiction of du Lac 
Means based his ruling against the university primarily on his determination that "[t]here is no provision contained in du Lac that specifically grants any jurisdiction to the [ORLH] to conduct an administrative hearing for an incident occurring at a university in a foreign country -except for the language: 'Re­sponsible behavior is expected of Notre Dame students wher­ever they may be' which is too ambiguous to be enforceable since ambiguities are strictly construed against Notre Dame as preparer of du Lac . ... du Lac contains no provisions providing for a disciplinary hearing to be conducted by [ORLH] for a stu­dent attending another university in a foreign country." 
Means further cites the opening line of du Lac: "'This book­let contains the codes, rules, regulations and policies which es­tablish the parameters for students life at Notre Dame.' (em­phasis supplied)." He interprets this to mean that any student studying abroad, and perhaps even students at home on break, would be outside of the jurisdiction of du Lac. 
The university disagrees with such a narrow interpretation of du Lac. The university clearly thought that the "Responsible Behavior" clause extended du Lac's jurisdiction to all students, including those studying abroad, despite the fact that they do not sign any contract commit­ting them to abide by du Lac 
en dependent hearing according to the procedures outlined in du 5:~ Lac. 
...J Cl.) Moore says that he found the ruling "a little odd in that the 
0:2 judge took that one phrase-atNotreDame-and took that to ~ mean that only somebody on campus at the time something hap­>-E pens [is subject to du Lac]. There was also some language [in ~-ca the ruling] that indicated that [the judge] was looking at going Cl.)•-on an international studies program as a case where you with­tiS: draw from Notre Dame -you're not a student here during that "5 ~ time and then you 're re-admitted -[but] for all our programs, S::::"'C that's not true. You remain a Notre Dame student, you're con­8-=; sidered to be enrolled here, you're paying tuition to us ... As far Cl.) I as we're concerned, while [Monica is in Mexico], she is attend­
.C :;;,. ing Notre Dame -she's not here on campus, but she is attend­.S.;:: ing Notre Dame, which would be the case for anyone who is in g>§ one of our international studies programs or in our Washington, "i: o DC, program." Nevertheless, the university plans "to make [the mo 'Responsible Behavior' clause] more explicit, as a result of this .S:::: §, [case]." These changes will likely take place next year. 
>,­
:... Cl,)
.~.e Double Jeopardy 
a.ca In addition to the issue of du Lac's authority, Means found ·c:; c that "to permit Monica to be punished a second time for the.!!?·;:_ same offense for which she was disciplined at [UDLA] in the "'C::: country of Mexico was clearly fundamentally unfair and akin 
~·~ to double jeopardy." .E ~ The university, however, claims that as a private institution, CSE: it has the right to hold its own hearing independent of those .=: :::S conducted in Mexico. Moore points out that "this is something :-2 mthat happens routinely here and other places and in society at 
~,S large." He cites instances such as last year's bar raids, where 
a.g underage students were subject to both civil and university pun­s:: ro ishments. He also notes that private companies can impose pen­.2 Cl alties on their employees if they get into trouble with the law -~-= outside of work. "These are all instances of two different insti­e-g tutions punishing [a person] for the same offense." He also re­c.JB marks that the university "does not expect this to set-a prece­g1a dent [ with regards to double jeopardy]." 
U) "E: When asked to comment on the issue ofdouble jeopardy, Rice s:::: Cl.) simply remarked that "the university is entitled to its opinion
·--c
,S :::S [on this issue], but the judge's opinion is the only one that s::::-counts."
coo 
oca 
u :... What Next? 
cao 
The university has not yet decided on a course of action, but 
......­
it has until November 22 to appeal Judge Means's preliminary 
-5 
injunction. For now, Gonzalez gets what she wanted in the first place: She continues to compete with the Notre Dame women's soccer team. "I'm just going sort of week 

I
I 
I 



. 



S2 
CJ) 
z 
:J 
w 
N 
<{
:c 
CJ) 
w 
...J 

Sophomore Alicia Salas has proven to be a versatile player for the women's tennis team, 
·which finished last season withthe Big East cham­pionship title and a No. 10 national ranking. Salas finished her debut season with an impressive 16­4 overall singles record. Beginning the year with a strong showing in the Georgia Invitational, she will be integral to the success ofthe Irish this season. 

I decided to come to Notre Dame because: I was looking for a good school with a strong tennis program, and Notre Dame had both of these things. I loved it when I visited here ­it was a perfect fit. 
My most memorable experience with the tennis team has been: 
winning the Big East Championship 
last year. The whole team 
experience, winning and celebrating 
with my teammates, was incredible. 
The team's goals for this season are: to maintain a top-10 ranking and win the Big East championship. 
My most memorable experience at Notre Dame thus far: was my recruiting trip. It was the weekend of the USC game two years ago. Even though it was raining and we were losing, everyone stayed and Notre Dame came back to win. The school spirit and pride I saw that weekend was just awesome. 
Although I play both singles and doubles, I prefer: singles, definitely. I have been playing singles all my life, and I'm much more accustomed to it. But I still enjoy doubles because it . helps me improve my game. A combo 
of both is good. 
I started playing tennis: when I was five years old. First, I just hit around with my parents, then in group lessons and with an athletic club. I entered some local tournaments, and it all built from there. 
My favorite type offootwear, other than tennis shoes, is: my Reefs. I wear them everywhere. I would wear them all winter if I could. 
The part of Colorado that I miss the most is: the sunsets on the mountains. 
Venus or Serena?: Serena. I like her because she is competitive, but not overly confident. I like to root for the little sister. 
-Mark Overman 
Jerry's Jabber 
The Irish men's cross­
country team claimed its third Big East title in seven 
years, defeating No. 14 
Villanova 49-52 last Friday. 
Luke Watson led the scoring, placing second in 
the event to the overall winner, Connecticut's Dan Wilson. Todd Mobley and Marc Striowski also finished in the top 10 .... The women's cross­country team placed fourth at the Big East Championships last Friday. Junior Jen Handley placed seventh at the meet, leading the Irish scoring. The three schools that defeated Notre Dame -Georgetown, Boston College and Providence ­are all ranked in the top 
10.... Notre Dame football fell short at Boston College last Saturday, 21-17. QB Carlyle Holiday rushed for 109 yards and threw two touchdowns before being sidelined by injury . The Irish controlled the football for nearly 20 
minutes more than the 
Eagles in the loss.... 
F Amanda Guertin 
scored the game-winning goal in No. 8 women's soccer 2-1 overtime victory over No. 23 Michigan. The win completed a 13-2-1 regu-lar season. The team faces St. John's in the first round of the Big East championships Sunday at Alumni Field.... Notre Dame hockey fell short last Saturday in its quest for the first regular­season win of the year, tying Northwestern 3-3 on the road. The Irish are o­4-2 in competition this season. D 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 21 




. '' --' ­
~ ~ ' ' . ,. 
l _•--• • 
· THE ·, · .·, ·-­
RANT 


!flltif111~iifI 

Thought the Irish might be back on track? Wrong. After a loss to Boston College, the team is 3-4, with little hope of redemption at th~ hands of Tennessee, Stanford and Purdue. Is the quest for a bowl berth completely hopeless? Sadly, that answer is yes. 

Just when you may have thought that Notre Dame's pendulum of fortune had swung back in favor of the Irish, another crushing defeat last Saturday sent Bob Davie and crew reeling back on their heels. After dropping the first three games ofthe season and becoming the first Notre Dame football team to open a season 0-3, the Irish evened their record with hard­fought wins over Pittsburgh, West Vir­ginia and archrival USC. Confronted with 
SPORT: FOOTBALL OPPONENT:TENNESSEE WHERE: NOTRE DAME STADIUM WHEN: SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 
2:30 PM 
the first opportunity since the season's 
opener to have a winning record, Notre 
Dame surrendered a fourth-quarter touch­
down, losing by four at Boston College. Don't expect the Irish to have another opportunity this year to bat above .500. 
In fact, all indications point to the Irish suffering their second seven-loss season in three years. On Saturday, Notre Dame (3-4) faces No. 7 Tennessee (5-1), whose lone blemish was a two-point defeat against Georgia at the beginning of this month. All five ofTennessee's wins have come against major opponents. In their 
season opener, the Volunteers crushed a 
Syracuse team that knocked off No. 12 
Virginia Tech last week. The Volunteers also defeated Arkansas, then-14th-ranked LSU, Alabama andfou Holtz' s then-14th­
ranked South Carolrna. Even at home, the 
Irish have virtually no chance to defeat 
such an opponent. 
After a week off, Notre Dame hosts Navy (0-7) in the last winnable game of the year. The Midshipmen have won just one game in the last two years, a 30-28 victory against Army to conclude the 2000 campaign. Nevertheless, Irish fans should not look for a blowout victory in the annual contest. The :fylidshipmen have lost each of their last four games by 10 points or fewer. With Notre Dame and Army as the final two contests on Navy's sched­ule, expect them to play their best football of the yearon November 17. Notre Dame's 
37 consecutive victories against Navy will only add further incentive for the Mid­shipmen to fight the Irish throughout the 
contest. However, the Irish should still 
pull out the victory. 
Things will get worse when the Irish hit the road for the final two games of the year. On November 24, the Irish take on No. 10 Stanford (5~1). Last Saturday, the Cardinal knocked off a top-five team for the second consecutive week, defeating UCLA 38-28. In the previous week, Stanford defeated Oregon 49-42. These facts alone make the Cardinal a formi­dable foe for the Irish, but an analysis of Notre Dame's recent road performances make the prognosis even bleaker for Davie's squad. The Irish have not de­feated a ranked team on the road since 1997, when Notre Dame bested No. 11 Louisiana State 24-6 in Baton Rouge. The chances of this Irish squad snapping that streak against the Cardinal are not very good. 
The Irish conclude the season with a contest in West Lafayette against No. 20 Purdue (5-1). Notre Dame originally was scheduled to play the Boilermakers on September 15, but the terrorist strikes against the United States moved the con­test back to December L Had the Irish 
', 
faced Purdue on the original schedule date, they might have been able to catch the Boilermakers in transition as they were breaking in Brandon Hance, who replaced brew Brees at quarterback. However, Hance has since developed into a very capable quarterback, leading the Boiler­makers to victory in all of their contests save a 24-10 defeat at No. 6 Michigan. The hostile environment that visiting teams face in West Lafayette, combined with Notre Dame's past troubles on the road, does not bode well for the Irish in the season finale. Furthermore, the Irish have had great troubles with heavy pass­ing offenses, which is what Purdue's of­fense is geared toward, both historically and presently. The Irish are likely to lose this ·contest as -well. 
This means that Notre Dame will finish 4-7, its worst record since a 2-7 season in 1963. It also means that the Irish will not be eligible for a bowl game for the second time in three years. So for those of you who thought that Notre Dame's three con­secutive wins over weak opponents would spring the Irish back into contention, brace yourselves_. The worst is yet to come. D 
With Carlyle Holiday's The Irish offense, already With wins over South · status for the game ques­severely crippled by injuries· Carolina, Syracuse and tionable, the Irish offense to Tony Fisher, Julius Jones LSU, Tennessee deserves has its work cut out against .. and Holiday, will go up its top-10 ranking. This No. 7 Tennessee. Unless against the toughest de­Saturday, though, the Irish the Vols suffer a complete fense they have faced this play their hearts out in a breakdown, they take this season. Tennessee wins its classic, proving their one easily, winning 44-17. 14th consecutive non-· talent, and win 18-17. 
conference game, 31-13._ -Gerard Meskill -David Murray -Michael Griffin Sports Editor · Assistant Sports Editor Editor in Chief 
22 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 


SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 
For the first time in four years, the Irish men's basketball team will take the floor without No. 3. After receiving countless honors and awards in his Notre Dame career, star forward Troy Murphy decided to forego his final year of college eligibility and enter the NBA draft, where he was selected by the Golden State Warriors in the first round. The departure of·last year's leading scorer and rebounder leaves a huge va­cancy in the lineup and has many so­called experts referring to this season as a rebuilding year. However, coach Mike Brey is confident that his team still has enough talent to fill the void and defend its Big East, West Division title. It appears that there is life after Troy Murphy. Many critics and Irish faithful were not sure whether Brey could keep Notre Dame basketball on the rise last season after the departure of coach Matt Doherty. Brey, who had previously lead Delaware to several NCAA Tournament berths, was confident he could guide the talented Irish squad to a simi­lar result. The team responded by earning its first Big East regular-season title and winning 20 contests, including an eight­game conference winning streak, the long­est in its six-year Big East history. 
Brey sees no reason why the Irish can­not enjoy more success this season. "I think when you talk to people in the bas­ketball world, they think our goals are different in that we don't have anything left and we're rebuilding because we lost Troy and Martin [Ingelsby]," he says. "You talk to our three captains and Matt Carroll and our veterans, and I don't think our goals have changed at all. We want to get back into the NCAA Tournament. We feel we can be just as competitive in the West Division of the Big East, a division that we won last year." 
Many uninformed spectators who have watched Irish basketball progress rapidly over the past few years have come to iden­tify Notre Dame with-?roy Murphy. They have become accustomed to Murphy scor­ing and rebounding in double figures ev­ery night, often appearing to carry his team on his back. The truth, however, is . that Murphy had the assistance of some incredibly skilled teammates throughout his collegiate career -teammates who are capable of continuing Notre Dame's run without him. "Not having Troy will give everyone else on the team a chance to be more involved. offensively," says Carroll, a junior and third-year starter. "I think our team will be more balanced without him and not as predictable. Each game, we could have a new leading scorer depending on who we play." 
Murphy's absence will mean more shots for excellent marksmen like Carroll and se­nior tri-captain David Graves. Despite be­ing a reserve for much of last year, Graves was the third-leading scorer for the Irish, averaging 13.8 points per game and shoot­ing 42.4 percent from the field. Carroll av­eraged 12.4 points per game and led the team in three pointers and three-point field-goal percentage. For the team to succeed, Graves needs to be more consistent and eliminate the dry spells that plagued him at times last year, and Carroll needs to be slightly more aggressive offensively. Both players should benefit from an increased number of scor­ing opportunities. 
In forwards Harold Swanagan and Ryan Humphrey, the Irish have veterans with the ability to make up for the loss of Murphy's rebounding. Humphrey, a fifth­year senior tri-captain who began his Irish career last year after transferring from Oklahoma, averaged 14.1 points and 9.0 rebounds last season. He was second only to Murphy in both categories. Huriphrey also lead the Irish in field-goal percent­age at 50.5 percent, a direct result of his offensive rebounding put-backs and his ability to finish on fast breaks in an elec­trifying fashion. Swanagan averaged only 



4.1 points and 3.4 rebounds, but he did so playing a mere 15 .1 minutes per game. He is best known as a blue-collar player who does the little things well, but it will be important for him to improve in the statistical categories overall this season. 
Though Murphy's departure has re­ceived the majority of attention from most experts, replacing Ingelsby also will be crucial to Notre Dame's success this sea­son. Ingelsby lead the team with 6.4 as­sists per game, but many people forget his role in breaking through full-court pres­sure and distributing the ball to the open man without causing turnovers. In a sense, the x factor on this squad is the key new­comer who will replace Ingelsby: point guard Chris Thomas. 
Extremely high expectations have been placed on Thomas to produce this season. A McDonald's and Parade All-American, he was named Indiana's Mr. Basketball in 2001 after averaging 23.3 points and 
5.7 assists in his senior year at Indianapo­lis' Pike High School. Thomas is aware of the pressure placed on him: "[I ani.] excited to have the opportunity to perform right away for this veteran team,"he says. He is expected not only to be the quarter­back of the offense, taking care of the bas­ketball and distributing it as Ingelsby did, but also to provide some scoring punch. "He should be able to handle what coach Brey wants of him," Carroll says, "be­cause he is very talented and mature for a freshman." Brey regards Thomas as a "specialtalent" and feels that his transi­tion to the Irish will be aided by the vet­erans on the team, but he also is quick to point out that it still might take some time for Thomas to become completely com­fortable in his new role. "We all have to rememberthat he is yo·ung," he says, "and to be patient with his development." 
Unlike last season, the Irish have a number of reserves who should see sig­nificant playing time. Sophomore Chris Markwood, who missed all of last season after having· knee. surgery, will play be­hind Thomas at the point. Torrian Jones, another sophomore, can play point guard as well, although he will be used most fre­quently atthe wing in place of Carroll or Graves. Brey calls Jones "a slashing ath­lete who is a heck of a defender and much improved from his freshman year." Jun­ior Jere Macura will be the primary sub 
· on the front line. Sophomore center Tom Timmermans, who showed some promise in very limited playing time last year, will be brought in mainly for de­
fensive and rebounding pur­poses, as will freshman for­ward Jordan Cornette. It will be important for these five bench players to gain as much experience as possible early in the season so they can build consistency by the time the Irish begin their tough Big East schedule. 
One of the biggest weak­nesses for the Irish this year is the size and depth of their front 
line, which may have an impact on their rebounding. Without the 6-foot-11 Murphy, their starting front-line players, Humphrey and Swanagan, are a mere 6-foot­8 and 6-foot-7 respectively. Macura is 6­foot-9, but he has generally been a perim­eter player in his first two seasons. The 6­foot-11 Timmermans, Notre Dame's only true center, and the 6-foot-9 Cornette have al­most no college experience between them. "I think our perimeter really has to help us," Brey says. "Humphrey and Swanagan are such very good offensive rebounders. We need them to chase defensive boards just as hard." 
From the first day of practice last season, Brey's emphasis has been on good defense leading to easy baskets on offense. He feels that his lineup this season is more capable of following this strategy. "I think we've be­come a little faster of a team defensively and offensively, and I'm hoping we can get some more easy baskets to make up for Troy's loss," Brey says. "The biggest strength that I've seen is that we are better defensively. We are quicker. Our system has been in for a year now, so our guys know what our points of emphasis are. I think the biggest thing that we've learned [from last year] is to grasp how we have to help each other on the defensive end and must have a presence of stopping people from Day 1." Thomas echoes his coach's thoughts. "I think our strength will be our ability to pressure the ball and get more offense from our defen­sive pressure," he says. 
The Irish will be tested with a formi­dable schedule this season. Their Big East foes, tough and talented as usual, will be focusing more than usual this year on tak­ing down the defending West Division champions. Some of the non-conference opponents on the calendar this year also might cause some serious problems for Notre Dame. After two weeks of what 

should be relatively stress-free games, the Irish will take on DePaul, Indiana and Mi­ami of Ohio, all on the road. "That's one heck of a week right there before exams," Brey says, "and I think we'll find out a lot about our basketball team." Another difficult week will be in mid-January, when the Irish play at Syracuse before coming home to take on Kentucky and Georgetown. All three games will be na­tionally televised, and thus they will play a key role in impressing the experts and journalists across the country. 
Last year, Notre Dame was ranked in the top 25 to begin the season, and they proved their worth. The Irish hoopsters find themselves unranked to begin this year, but it does not faze them. "It doesn't matter," Swanagan says. "I want people to think we are not that good so we can show everyone what we are made of. I like being the underdog." 
Carroll agrees: "What matters is where we finish at the end of the season." 
Will Notre Dame produce another suc­cessful season? Despite losing two key players, their goals have not changed. For the three captains, Humphrey, Graves and Swanagan, this year will be the last chance to prove that the Irish belong among the elite teams in college basket­ball. "We definitely want to hang another [championship] banner in the JACC," Thomas says. "We have the same goals but different motivations. Itis the last year for our captains, and they want to go out on top." D 


SCHOLASTICSPORTS 25 

I 

I,_·
J
Iii.:,' 
. \: 
GERARDMESKILL Watson, clearing the stage for Mobley to win Mobley also credits the longer summer his first collegiate race. And while the rest break for giving him the opportunity to for­
Armed with a potent balance of ex­of the collegiate running world got its first tify his abilities. ''This summer, as compared perience and youth, the 2001 men's look at the new Mobley, his coach, Joe Piane, to the summer before my freshman year, I cross-country team was unwilling to expected such a performance from the Irish did a much better job of putting in mileage 
settle for anything less than complete suc­sophomore. and sticking with my coach's plan," he says. cess. "To be candid, [Mobley's breakout] "The summer before my freshman year was 
Of course, some things make all the dif­wasn't a great surprise," he says. "He had a one of the shortest summers I had as far as ference. "It depends on what you determine marvelous summer of training -a very, training, as it started in the middle of June. as successful," says sophomore harrier Todd very good summer oftraining -and he got This time the summer started in the middle Mobley. "I think we have a chance to win a taste of it last year gding to the NCAAs. ofMay, so that's an extra month right there. [the national championship]. For us to be ... Last year he scored 75 points at the Ijust was more focused and had much more 
NCAAs. This motivation to just get out there and run ev­year, I would ery day and to follow the plan." expect him to On September 24, two weeks after they score at least 50 romped the competition at Valparaiso, the points less, so Irish capitalized on their first opportunity of that's a big im­the year to show what the full squad could pact." do when they hosted the National Catholic 
Mobley is Invitational. Running in packs, the Irish trio quick to credit of Shay, Watson and Mobley domin_ated the his teammates field, taking the top three places, respec­for playing a tively. Seniors Striowski and Pat Conway crucial role in finished close behind in fifth and eighth. The his own rapid overall meet victory was Shay's fourth at the improvement. event; he is the only runner in the 21-year "The leadership history of the meet to achieve that feat. The of [Shay and Irish scored just 19 points, four shy ofa per­Watson] defi­fect team finish. The second-place team, nitely has been Marquette; scored 80 points. The other eight one of the most teams in the meet all tallied triple-digit important scores. things as far as The following week, the Irish harriers my develop­made the short road trip to Kalamazoo, ment is con­Mich. to compete in the Central Colle­cerned," he giate Championships. Since the field was says. "The not up to par with the then-fourth-ranked coach tells you Irish, Piane opted to rest his top athletes

team will be
successful, I think the minimum is what to do out on a dis­and send in his "B" squad. The strategy that we want to be a podium team. tance run, but he's not out was to use the meet to determine which
different in
For that to happen is more or less there with you. Guys like runners would fill the seventh and eighth the same thing as trying to win it, Ryan and Luke and Marc slots on the team.
two weeks." 
except we might fall short ... from Striowski are out there Piane;s runners, however, made such a our goal." -Coach setting the pace and mak­·venture nearly impossible. The compet­
Mobley hastens to add that he ing sure that you don't ing Irish filled their temporary roles ad-was a part ofcreating such success. .Joe Piane just slack off and go . mirab!y, capturing seven of the top 10 In the season's opening meet, the through the motions. places in the meet and scoring 22 points Valparaiso Invitational, the fifth-They make sure you give en route to Notre Dame's third consecu­
ranked Irish rolled to a 36-point victory over it a good honest try every time. They make tive landslide victory. John Keane, Sean Valparaiso. Notre Dame competed without you stay focused, and that's just tremendous Zanderson ·and Kevin Samok all crossed its top two runners, Ryan Shay and Luke as far as development." the line within a few seconds of each
I 
26 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 



other, placing second, third and fourth, respectively. The rest of the Irish followed close behind; the last Notre Dame athlete finished 13th. Piane's decision-making was a tough task. "There were so many guys that were pretty much in the same boat," he says. "The two that stood out from that meet to me were John Keane and Sean Zanderson. They both ran ex­ceptionally well." 
After the "B" team's victory over the rest of the region's "A" teams, the Irish returned home for the annual Notre Dame Invita­tional. Watson won the meet for the second consecutive year, becoming the first runner to do so since Cleveland State's Marc Hunter in 1978. Shay finished 17 seconds later to take second place, while Mobley followed close behind and placed third. Striowski made a bid for the fourth spot but fell to Utah State's Mitch Zandel at the finish line. 
Zanderson, who took 17th, capped the scor­ing for the Irish. Notre Dame won the meet over Utah State, 28-47. 
The Irish victory at the Notre Dame In­vitational concluded an undefeated regu­lar season. Going into the Pre-National meet, the Irish knew that success would depend on the depth that had led them to their earlier successes. "In cross country, the deepest team usually wins the meet," Watson says. "Having a great fifth man is key to a successful team. The fifth man always scores the most points in a race, and so his role is crucial. If the top guy on the team runs 20 seconds faster, he'll beat maybe three more guys. If the fifth man runs 20 seconds faster, he can beat 30 more guys." 
On the day of the Pre-National in Greenville, S.C., the Irish depth was tested more than they would have liked. Shay was sidelined with an injury to his Achilles ten­don, and a severe cold forced Conway to drop out. Despite these two key losses, the Irish managed to place second in the meet, falling to top-ranked Colorado 62-172. While the score suggests a blowout, some think that had the Irish been at full strength, the outcome would have been different. 
"If both Ryan and Pat had been in top form, I think we would have won," Mobley says. "Colorado has another good runner that suffered an injury in that race, so they wouldn't have been in top form. If for argument's sake you say that Shay finishes right around where Watson did, and Conway finished 25th, we would have won the meet." Watson placed fourth in the race, followed by Striowski and Mobley, who placed 12th and 14th, respectively. 
The Irish got a week off before resum­ing the championship season with a trip to renowned Van Cortlandt Park in Bronx, 
N.Y. for the Big East Championship. The Irish toppled No. 14 Villanova and No. 8 Providence to claim the title, securing a three-point victory. Notre Dame overcame an impressive showing of fourth-, fifth-, sixth-and seventh-place finishes of sec­ond-place Villanova by capitalizing on a weak 30th-place finish by the Wildcats' fifth man. Watson placed second, Mobley eighth, Striowski ninth and Shay 11th. Zanderson closed the door with an unex­pected 19th-place finish. Shay, despite his appearance in the race, still was visibly struggling from his injury. "He is just a warrior to go out there and finish as high as he did," Piane says. "He definitely took one for the team today." 
The finish leaves the Irish confident that they will achieve success at the National Championship meet on November 19. "This team will be different in· two weeks," Piane says. "Once we get Shay and Conway back to full strength we will be able to do some very good things." 
The Irish hope that "very good things" equals a national championship, which they now feel is within their reach. Mobley says: "If [Shay and Conway] are in top form and everyone is confident and believes that they have a chance, then it can happen." D 
ury to hisAchrnes ·.· 
s forthe finish r l.(neir left .. ·.. 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 27 

Scholastic's army of entertainment writer Notre Dame music scene and tells you groups are worth your while 
0 n Thursday nights, they're packing in the crowds at LaFor­tune. On weekends, you might find them jamming in the basement at a house party or taking the stage at a South Berid bar. Or maybe you've heard their music echoing up and down North Quad on a warm afternoon. They might be large bands, complete with trumpets and trombones -or solo artists onstage with only their guitars -but Notre Dame's campus · performers are making their presence known, both on and off campus. · Not sure whom to look for among the crowd? Scholastic introduces some of the best-known faces: 
___g_~§CHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 



~~i1~.~~aro;1~,:;~~~,~~~~ 
"It's why you draw rock bands' names in your noteboo;ks ..'. during class and spend° your ·eni:ir_e· adolescence pl~ying" . , ai_r guitar in front ofyol'.il'. IllllT~~ '}'~s'iffve ~tc>pped!.-:?: •,• .. 
"You can't wait to play the neihliow;Jhat;s_w9atrock<} music is," he continues. "It's very, very ~pb'r:taj!(ap.cfvery, _ very ridiculous."· .• •-•·-: .-_-_. •· ·->:./,/ i'L:\{\:iC/ ·,: ___ _ 
Although it might sound like dialogu~_frb~Alniq_si':Fa~ L: ­
1;;i:::t!e~f~i'
Ferrell and fell~w.;bab.d member Joe Madia~en:imQrs!d · 
to pull off thef'nastl¢stguitar sofos,sin~e\ranl-Jaleri~''. -­
Theba~d.forfu.edJast:year afteimembers''gtadfrations -· ; foic~d th~. ~reaktip/c,f. 'ca~pus. barid Dpc BrowrL--Today,, Lester c_oinpriscis::Firrell,"Iv1adiil. (guitar),'~yan)~•1urray 
;1fffltiilflj
.· •.· frbihWe~zer tp Led:iepp~lin, the band IS. nbt afraid to ­
. ·. play with yarious sq1.mdsa11d styles. Lester als6}~gµ~arly -._--. _perfoifms. origiµal '$,qrigs, • iricl~ding "StatioriW~gQn'1.and 
2l!!llttiiltiii&J.··.· 
. When the set was.-over; the audience-::Wanted·•more,. but -·the baI1~clid:ii9tM}~';inythingp;epart{4/rii~£ d~~ided to .. play 1'Teenage))Ii:t~ag;"as·ohi:they had thrO\\ln out eight 
1rionths earlier._) J•, ·> :: . -_·_•· .· ·. ·. : : . 
"We hi{ frp~ri~ht.h<np hitches or ariything," Alvarez says: "Everyope 1qv.e~ it,. [they]_ were singing along and getting into it" : ' ·-: _· -.-· 
. The band; whicti.iplaris :fo recorda CD in the spring, -.. wtll perform at.B~nchwanners"on November 2 with the -Skainmunists and;No Redeeming Qualities to benefit the 
Leukemia and Lyrilph,bma Society. To join an e-mail list for upcoming perforriiances, contact Tim Ferrell at tferrell@nd.edu. · 
-Kim Zigich and Kathleen Corte 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 


Luke Mueller  
~ith the fluffy sounds ofpop music pervading the mod~  
empsyche; music fans and critics have found littletaleflt  
or.inspiration on TV orradio. Butsinger/songwrite~Luke  
Mueller believes that "if you look hard enough, you can  
find it." .  
Although Mueller turns to the classic tunes of Bmce  
Springsteen and Bob Dylan for inspiration, it actually was  
contemporary music that started his musical career. The  
emotional rock of Pearl Jam and the mellow sounds of  
Ben Harper led Mueller to pick up a guitar three years ago  
and to teach himself to play.  
Despite the laborious demands that come with being a  
senior biology major, Mueller also finds the time to write  
his own songs. "I believe that songwriters have a·respon­ 
sibility to say something through their music," he says. "If  
you can reach someone with your music, then it is all the  
more worthwhile."  
Mueller's own works are inspired by personalexperi­ 
ences. "The lyrics come from the heart," he says. Listen­ 
ing to him perform "Without You," a new song that has  
been popular with on-campus crowds, makes it clear that  
he really does feel these lyrics deeply. The gentle picking  
ofthe guitar blends perfectly with Mueller's smooth vocal  
style as he sings: "Ofall the innocence you've lost/You've  
already paid the cost./ Please forgive me for all I do with­ 
out you."  
Another song, "No More Turning Away," tells the tale  
of a homeless man. The tune begins with feverish strum­ 
ming and intense vocals, until Mueller turns it down a notch  
with a finger-picking interlude accompanied by soft hum­ 
ming. He picks up the pace again with a climactic ending  
thaAtlbthegs forhcompassion for his homeless protagonist.  i  
ough e would like to begin recording his own mu- I·•  
sic soon, for now the best place to catch Mueller's act is at  
AcoustiCafe onThursday nights. When you can't stand to  
hear another pop song, count on Mueller forthe songwriting  
style of Bob Dylan and the emotional vocals of Eddie  

... 
.Althqugh its name suggests a militantregime' forcing ska upon the world througheardrum-shattering trumpet blasts, · these guys want none of that. They justwant to play music and have a good time. . . 
Though this might be a common goal among ska bands, there is nothing cookie cutter about the Skammunists them­selves. Peter Balogh (vocals and guitar) and Chris Giese (trumpet) are the two ska-listening and -loving membern of the band. Bassist Brian Cullen says the band "is not generic ska." Singer/saxophonist Sean Brooks describes typical ska as "fun, happy, party music" and describes the Skammunists' sound as "more jazzy, more complicated" than your mn-of-the-mill ska band. 
Two members come from the Notre Dame marching band: Mike Zodda (trumpet), a metal fan, and Omar Arizpe (trombone), who likes jazz. If this is not variety enough, IUSB student Matt Morgan (drums) shakes up the Skarnmunists' sound with his passion for underground and nontraditional beats, giving the group a modem edge. 
"Fate brought us together," Brooks says, Actually, Balogh and high-school buddy (and former Skarinnunists member)Dan Crowley came to Notre.Dame durir1gtl1eir 
.....freshman.·ye'.1f·.with t~e;clesirt;t0sfart a. s~a band. They inef Giese, who invited Brooks. tcfjoin in aswelLBalogh · recmited roommate Zodda, lab partner Arzipe and sum­mer-school buddy Morgan. The sound of Cullen's bass resounding though Fisher Hall led Arzipe to invite him to join the band, too. Whether it was fate or a Skammunists evolution ofwho­knows-who and a mutual love of playing and performing, the seven individual pieces come together and complete a ·crowd-pleasing Skammunists puzzle. The band's audience­tailored live shows burst with energy and are growing in popularity. It's come a long way from performing to visit­ing families at a SMC coffee shop for more than 200 fans at a packed Turtle Creek apartment this September. Its self4itled CD, released last month, boasts six origi­nal tracks with an overall ska feel. The song "Sell Out Girl" highlights the band's ska talent and exposes its fun­loving attitude and sense of humor. However, the Skammunists' varied musical influences ofrock and jazz stand out in "Take a Walk" and "Love Song in G-Minor." The tousled "What About Me" shows that Metallica; the Red Hot Chili Peppers and Notre Dame's marching band can all come together and play something people can skank (dance) to -which is, in fact, what the Skammunists do best. Check out the Skammunists on the Web at www.skarnmunists.com. To purchase the group's self-titled CD for $5, contact Mike Zodda at mike@skarnmunists.com. 
-Alexandra Gierak 
N~~ a rrius1c~l g~nre, and Station One probably manages to encompass it. ''We're a funky reggae band that likes to jam," says sopho­
. ·more druinmer Peter Miller. ''We try to mix the best elements of different styles, including reggae, alternative rock, funk, jazz and ska, and combine them into one sound." 
Along with Miller, the current incarnation of the band in­cludes sophomores Lawrence Santiago (vocals, guitar), Mike Maimone (keyboard) and David Miller (lead guitar), as well as freshman Lee Elsey (bass). "We've been together for a while," Miller says. "All the current sophomores formed a band last year called Island Boys, which later changed to Housebound. This year we started anew.band with a differ-'-. ent bass player_.[Elsey], This year' we've already played two shows as Station Orie. Lasfyear we played several shows at parties and campus eyents, indudingNazz/' , , , 
, , Just ,f.\S the group's namf an,d memb~rs;have varied sin~e , : its inception, Station One's music also has evolved, and the group stilLis ~iarching fot its definipg style. '1We do a lC>t of _ 
the SatJJ.e staj;fthatwe_di4fast ye#; iµcluding origin~! re,ggae,, ··_ -_ 
altetiiative/and funk,'' Miller says. Its perfoi:mances' inchide , . c_oversof ~veryone fromBob Marley to Sublime, R~d Hot . ·Chili Peppers to Steve l\.1iller-; ~ven Blink-182; ''We basi­cally play ;what we like and have fun playing_ all styles of music," Milletsays. '.'Right now we are working on several originals and trying to narrow down _to a specific sound.'': 
Although the group isn't qui~ sµre what that souncli~;yit; '. ', it's never been uncertain about its desire to play ~ 'seVeraL members decided to perform together at ND before they ev'en moved in as freshmen. ''David and I met Lawrence whenwe­were prospective students visifuig ND, and that's wh~f~e· 
decided to fonn a band at ND ifwe all ended up coming h~re," Miller says'. .. ·. _. · -_ . . ', . . -,_ , , <.:~ •. Their plans·became_,reality ~hep::the·guys.·pulled:',i.n_,.the ,-. final two members from differenfcofuets 6fNI>. "Lawt~ri.ce ­picked up Mike at Zahmand weJoµnd Lee:on the ufrini~te. ­field andtolclhim to play.bass for:u~,''MWer~ays. ,:_-}( .· . Once the group was corilpleteitl;Ie guy~ qui¢kly deterniinaj: •. ­
their individual roles in the bancL ''David is a recorde{and .-. -piano prodigy turned pµnk:rocJ.c·guitarisLwim brin~sJhe ­-harder sound }o our b~dtMil.le1{~ays. ·~~ is the'pfilpO > . 
prodigy thatadds a.litd~jaiiiii'awrence is the R&B siilger/ •• --­
iilt•!t~ti~~~,•· ·• 
·" Me,.I'm just,the cINmm~r. a11d th_ere for' nibral suppd1t;". · he_adds.)),i.:_;-··-· :,:::> · '.\\y:::; ,·.'"'.:--< '_· __ ·:/_­. With men;ibers' roles clearly defiiied and an apparent)itjrin:. : • 
, , dan¢e oftalept'.b11 th.irrh.~ds;s'i~p9)fb11e is readYio ac:ijj~ve ·.•·., 



What Though the Odds 
_Amazing recovery fueled by the Notre Dame spirit 
SHEILAFLYNN ery and recommended that Jones be placed Holtz wasn't the only celebrity to endorse 
in an institution. Connelly took it upon him­the book. Hesburgh, hockey star WayneAutumn football weekends provided self to visit one such institution and observe Gretzsky and the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce an escape for a young Jim Connelly. it firsthand. ''That was the turning point," also provided back-cover blurbs of the On Saturday afternoons, he could he says. "I could not let any person be put work. 
briefly forget about his life in the projects in there. It's really [a] warehousing of Today; Connelly lives in a house on the edge ofa Pennsylvania factory town, his alcoholic people." of the Notre Dame campus with his wife and father and his family's frequent evictions. Connelly threw himself wholeheartedly nine-year-old daughter, but he and Jones still He could listen to Notre Dame games on the into re-teaching Jones how to live an inde­speak daily. Every year, on the anniversary of radio with his mother, an avid Irish fan, and pendent, "normal" life. He enlisted doctors, the accident, they celebrate Jones' life. dream ofa bright future in a different world. therapists, friends, family members and neigh­Although not completely recovered, Jones 
"My identification with success in life was bors to help himrebuilcpones' life and all through Notre Dame," says Connelly, the confidence. Together, 'Connelly and co-founder of Integrated Communications his group ofcaretakers soon disproved Services and chairman ofthe company. Al­doctors' predictions that Jones would though he never played football or even at­never regain a significant portion of tended Notre Dame, Connelly has achieved her damaged faculties. She improved a level of success here: his inspirational rapidly, moving into her own Manhat­novel One More Sunset has been endorsed tan Beach, Calif. apartment, taking by both Lou Holtz and the Rev. Theodore care ofherself, going for walks, shop­
M. Hesburgh. The success story at the heart ping and making new friends. ofOne More Sunset is not, however, the story One of those new friends was pub­of Connelly's rise to economic success. licist Paula Sarcona. Jones encoun­Rather, itis the story ofthe amazing recovery tered Sarcona while walking on the ofhis close friend, Donna Jones, who suffered beach and quickly befriended her. In a severe head injury in a 1985 accident. the end, it was Sarcona who suggested 
Connelly and Jones, a salesperson for that Connelly write a book and who Eastman Kodak, met on a business trip in the acted as the· driving force behind its early 1980s. Jones' ambition and determina­publication. tion as she climbed the sales ladder at Kodak After deciding that all the rev­impressed Connelly. In her, Connelly saw the enues from book sales would be opportunity to repay some debts ofhis own. channeled into a trust fund for Jones, 
"A lot ofpeople helped me," Connelly ~ays work immediately began on the pub­of his own experience as a young lication and marketing of the book. businessperson. ''Whenever I asked them how For the foreword, Connelly con­I could pay them back, they said, 'You'll have tacted an old friend: Lou Holtz. the same opportunity to help another person Connelly had been introduced to someday.'" Holtz at the 1968 Notre Dame vs. 
After the trip, Connelly and Jones stayed USC football game, and the two had in touch and, as Jones looked to Connelly for become close friends. Holtz had ex-business advice, they became good friends as perienced directly the trauma of medical has made more progress than anyone ever well as business partners. "Donna was crisis when his wife battled cancer, and, af-expected-and continues to improve, "leam­Kodak's 13th-ranked salesperson nationally ter meeting and speaking with Jones, he ing, reading, growing, retaining and sharing when I met her," Connelly says. ''Together, agreed to contribute to the book. "After read-new information." we gother to No. 1." ing this book, I couldn't possibly say no," _ Once Connelly used the Notre Dame im­
But Jones' bright future clouded on April Holtz writes. "As in our own search for an--. age is inspiration for his own dreams in life. 8, 1985, when she crashed while swers, I feel one of the valuable aspects of He kept that spirit when he helped Jones snowmobiling in Montana. Three hours this book is that it will give all of us a better' succeed in business, and, moreover, when passed before a helicopter arrived at the scene understanding ofthe emotions and concerns he helped her start the road back to recov­of the accident, and Jones sank into a 48-day · an individual and their family experiences ery. In One More Sunset, Connelly shows coma. When she finally awoke, doctors ex­when they suffer a disability, injury or ill-that the spirit of the Irish is not limited to pressed little hope for any significant recov-ness." life under the Golden Dome. D 

32 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 


\ 
·Trippy Trivia 

008 went on a road trip, and all I got was this lousy quiz 
Mine was good. I went on a road trip to Connecticut, New York and Boston with my friends Angela and Kassie. How was yours? 
No, wait! The traditional, obligatory fall-break summary just won't cut it this time. I'd have to leave out all the wacky details, and those were what made my trip truly fun and memorable. So I've devised a new method for reporting break-time stories. If you really want to know what I did last week, you're going to have to take my Fall Break Quiz. Some questions have more than one correct answer. Tum your magazine upside down ( or stand on your head) to find out how you did. 
And you thought you were through with stuff like this .until finals. 
1. On the first night of our trip, we stayed at a hotel in: (a)Rome. 
(b) 
Liverpool. 

(c) 
Verona. 

(d) 
Geneva. 

(e) 
Lima. 



2. At Sardi's restaurant, located in the heart of New York City's theater district, we: 
(a) 
Drew stick figures of ourselves on our napkins and snuck them in among the caricatures that line the restaurant's walls. 

(b) 
Executed an intricate plan to gain support for our new musical, Manhattan Melodies. . 

(c) 
Drank martinis with Howard McGillin, who recently took over the title role in The Phantoin ofthe Opera. 

(d) 
Ate cheesecake. 



3. After lunch at Sardi's, we saw the Broadway musical: 
(a) 
Sesame Street. 

(b) 
21 Jump Street. (c) 42nd Street. 

(d) 
Nightmare on Elm Street. 



4. On our way to Avalon, a Boston club, Angela delighted us 
with a belch that won first prize for: 
(a) 
Duration. 

(b) 
Resonance. 

(c) 
Volume. 

(d) 
Style. 

(e) 
Odor. 

(J) 
Liquidity. . 



5. What did Raphael, a long-haired, Brazilian Don Juan, 
ask Angela while they were dancing? 
(a) 
Do you smoke? 

(b) 
Do you.smoke pot? 

(c) 
Do you have any pot? 


(d) 
Do you know where I can buy pot? 

(e) 
All of the above. 


6. Apparently, the hottest new way to get a girl to dance with you at a club is to: 
a) 
Make eye contact. 

b) 
Apply a vise-like grip to any and all accessible limbs, and hold on as if your life depended on it. 

c) 
Rapidly shake and/or repeatedly bump your butt up against her until, weak with laughter, she consents. 

d) 
Grab her arms, thrust them in the air, and flail them about for several minutes. 


7. While walking down fashionable Newbury Street on our last day in Boston, Kassie encountered a drove of: 
(a) 
Snooty shoppers. 

(b) 
Exceptionally friendly dogs. 

(c) 
French schoolchildren. 

(d) 
Pirates, one riding a 10-foot tall bicycle, and one pirate's bride, raiding the posh shops and shouting, "What do we want? Booty! When do we want it? Now!" 


·asua:, JaAau paapu! IHM SJapuo.M. ·a:,uappu!o:, u 1snfSUM. i!Urql uaaM.OIIUH :llp lnlp pll'B 'aJaM. UI:llp JO ITU lOU 1nlp pandaJ aq 'uaaM.OIIUH JOJ S'BM. S!lp J! pll'B 'Sluapms aJaM. ,falp J! pa}{sn aqs uattM. ·Uiaquo auo 01 pa){I'Bl uaAa a1ssn)I ·isauoH (p) "l ·Ja1suUQaddnd mu pll'B ,fog -<loog 'll'BW sndo1:>Q su UM.OU}{ aum:,aq AnnmuaAa sanb!uq:>al asalp JO sJofaAJnd aq.1 (p) pll'B (.?) '(q) ·9 ··· dn uaA!il aAnq p1noM. aq '(q) uoµsanb Ol ..ON,, paJaM.SU'B aqs 1a:gn 1nlp )fll!lp p,no.x_ (a)-~ ·iCpms aA!suaixa JO SJ"BaA JO 1:mprud alp S! ll ·wa1siCs gu11u1-q:,1aq 'alp pauii!sap 1n:,µ:,auuo;::> UIOJJ spuaµJ 1aq JO auo pun a1ssn)I (q) ·v '1a1aaM.S l3UrqlOU s,a1aq1 'aUI :l}{!I sa!}{llnf .<nM.pnrug 1ot1 ·13upunp dm gll!Z'BW'B pun JaUIUI!Ig 'zing JO Jyuq u pll'B 1noq ll'B All'B:>1snq S! 1aa.11s puzt; (.?) "£ "UlJUlJlfU'OW .JJ[DJ., SJ.Jddnw .Jlf.L ll! l!Ull:l)I JOJ sn U:l}{l?lS!llI aA,UOA '(q) pa}{:>!d UOAJI (p) ·z; ·ssaU!Z'BI ilU!UIUu--<lp s,nll'B!PUI samqs .<puamddn 11-naM sn }{JO.X. M.aN a1n1sdn ll! a.m' sa:1u1d asalp JO tsa1 au ·suoµ:,nmu pll'B Slll'BmntsaJ pawatp-sapnag JO P!OAap A{guµu!oddns!P SUM. ll ·asn:JUJAS JO :lP!SlUO 1snf paln:>OI 'asmo:> JO ··.x.·N '1ood.JaAn (q) "I SJ:lA\Sll\f 
Angela 'Zawada and Kassie Murphy provided much inspiration and material for this column during our trek back to school. 


SCH0LASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 33 


Aliens from Outer Maine 
How I tried a new thing and failed miserably 
MARYSPEARS 

0 ver the summer, my mother has her birthday, and, so,_ in a fit of largesse (though not without some trepidation on my part), my father and I decide to take her to Ruth's 
Chris, an upscale steakhouse. On our excursion, I first notice that my trepidation is well-founded when, upon entering the restaurant, the lovely vocal sty lings ofMiss Screeching Baby meet us. Further complications arise when the host, a genial guy eager to serve us dead mammals, seats us right next to 
I'm not a strong person. On good days I have a small problem open­ing a child-proof cap without assistance. I cannot pry the tail from its shell. 
Right now, all the ardent lobster fans out there are laughing at me, andin a very insulting manner, too. "You silly child!" they say, wiping away their tears. "All you have to do is stick a knife in between where the second and third lumbar vertebrae would be ifit were human, then simultaneously push and pull while stabbing the meat with your fork, knock over your water glass, emit a steady stream ofexpletives (some 
in Romanian) and pray to the lobster's 

the lobster tank. It is an elegantly dis-Lord Satan for the safe release of its guised lobster tank, situated in a large raff meat." To which I would reply, "Oh. dark wood cabinet, but it is without a Well, I did everything except knock doubt a lobster tank. over the water glass -couldn't Satan 
Lobsters are the ugliest creatures make an exception?" ever to evolve from a single-celled or-The answer to this is, ofcourse, that ganism. Even ifyou don't count those · Satan only makes exceptions if you claws that are easily as large as my have a Visa: He'll take your soul, but head, you still have to deal with those he won't take American Express. little mutant reject claws, as well as So, naturally, I fail to unlock the those creepy alien eyes and the dis­magic ofmy lobster tail and lean back turbing overabundance of legs. All in in my chair in defeat. However, being all, if I had to pick an animal to drop who I am, I simply cannot let the thing live into boiling water, it would be a relish its victory, so I give it a final, lobster. petulant stab. 
Anyway, so there we are, by the lob­The crustacean was retaliating by ster tank, and my dad announces _that skittering off my plate, headed for the he intends to eat the tail ofone ofthese floor at a speed ofroughly fifteen miles monsters. Not to be outdone, I stub­per nanosecond, when I, in a rare mo­bornly announce that I, too, will eat a ment of good reflexes, reach out and Demon Tail. snag it with one hand. 
Doubts about my dinner choice im­My parents obviously do not grasp mediately present themselves when the magnitude ofthis occurrence. They our waiter, another disturbingly ge­are too busy trying to figure out nial guy, prepares to fish a pair ofthe whether they should slam their faces unlucky creatures out of the tank. into their palms and moan or laugh After much deliberation, he selects hysterically. Eventually, they opt for 

the large one in the corner who hasn't moved all night. Rumors of his death prove slightly exaggerated, though, as it immediately develops an intense hatred ofthe lobster scoop. Another lobster, a slightly smaller one, appears to have sui­cidal tendencies: He refuses to even acknowledge the lobster scoop. I find myself taking pity on him and hoping he likes hot baths. 
Both are extracted from the tank. They wiggle their beady eyes at us. The water glints on their exoskeletons. 
I'm starting to find the thought ofraw cow appealing. 
After getting a nice long chance_to fully appreciate Miss Baby's vocal range, we receive our dinner. Mom has taken the high road, opting for steak. Dad and I are faced with our creatures. Dad dives right in. I experience technical difficulties right off the bat. (Bet you_ didn't see that corning.) 
34 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 
trying their best to laugh with a stern look on their faces. 
Dad, in penance for not having done so earlier, demonstrates how to take the shell off. What you have to do is -stay with me here ­flip it upside down. · 
That's it. 
By this time, I'm so bitter that all I can do is glare at the damn thing. I eventually take a few bites; discover that it tastes like butter, and . retreat to my cheesy potatoes. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is my I Tried A New Thing ~tory. This is why people don't listen to you when you tell them to try new things. 
Fear of the unknown? Whatever. We're all just secretly terrified of dropping a lobster tail on the floor. D 


EDITOR'S CHOICE 
Music, Please 
The man that hath no music in himself, Nor is not mov 'd with concord ofsweet sounds, Is fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils; The motions ofhis spirit are dull as night, And his affections dark as Erebus: Let no such man be trusted. 
-William Shakespeare 
Get out and show the world just how trustworthy you are: Support your campus musical groups! The ND Glee Club per­forms this Thursday and Friday. Students are encouraged to attend Thursday's free performance. Tickets to Friday's perfor­mance are $3. Next week, allow the ND Symphony Orchestra to entertain you with works by Bizet, Dvorak and Rimsky­Korsakov. Also, check out the ND Chorale and Chamber Orchestra on November 14. They will perform Bach's Magnificat as well as music by Monteverdi, Palestrina and Schubert. 
-Cristin Fenzel 
SPORTS 
• 
Thu 01 Basketball: ND men vs. Interna­tional Select (exhib.), 7:30 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Sat 03 Football: ND vs. Tennessee, 


2:30 PM, Stadium. 

• Sat 03 Soccer: ND men vs. Syracuse, 
7:30 PM, Alumni Field. 
• Sun 04 Soccer: ND women vs. St. John's, 
1:00 PM, Alumni Field. 
• Tue 06 Basketball: ND women vs. Ohio Girl's Basketball Magazine (exhib.), 7:30 

PM, Joyce Center. 
• 
Thu 08 Basketball: ND men vs. EA Sports All-Stars (exhib.), 7:30 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Fri 09 Volleyball: ND VS. St. John's, 7:00 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Fri 09 and Sat 10 Hockey: ND vs. Ferris State, 7:05 PM, Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 

• 
Sun 11 Volleyball: ND vs. Seton Hall, 

2:00 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Tue 13 Basketball: ND women vs. Christian Brothers (exhib.), 7:00 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Wed 14 Volleyball: ND vs. Illinois State, 


7:00 PM, Joyce Center. 
LECTURES 
• 
Thu 01 "Underwriting Masculinity: The Law, Dowry and Property in North India," 4:00 PM, 223 DeBartolo. 

• 
Fri 02 "What Can We Learn About the Ontology of Space and Time from the Theory of Relativity?" 3:00 PM, 220 Malloy. 

• 
Fri 09 "Promotion, Memorabilia, Primary Sources: Reading Mexican Movie Posters form the Golden Age," 


1:45 PM, C103 Hesburgh Center. 
• Tue 13 "Italy's Other Voices: The Literary Tradition of Dialect," 7:00 PM, C100 Hesburgh Center. 
CINEMA 
• 
Thu 01 Malena, 7:00 PM, Audito­rium, Hesburgh Library. 

• 
Mon 05 Salt of the Earth, 4:00 PM, C100 Hesburgh Center. 


• Tue 06 Nostlaghia, 7:00 and 9:00 PM, Montgomery Theater, LaFor­tune. 
• 
Fri 09 Human Wrongs, 3:00 PM, Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. 

• 
Fri 09 Brava Gente Brasileira (A Brave New Land), 7:00 PM, Audito­rium, Hesburgh Center. 

• 
Tue 13 Pelle the Conqueror, 7:00 and 9:00 PM, Montgomery Theater, LaFortune. 


THE ARTS 
• 
Thurs 01 and Fri 02 Notre Dame Glee Club Fall Concert, 8:00 PM, Washington Hall. 

• 
Thu 08 Notre Dame.Symphony Orchestra Fall Concert, 8:00 PM, Washington Hall. 


• Thu 08, Fri 09 and Sat 10 A Midsummer Night's Dream, 7:30 PM, Riley High School. 
• Wed 14 Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra Fall Concert, 
8:00 PM, Basilica. 

THE WEEKENDER What: Stephen Kovacevich, piano, performs music by Schubert and two Beethoven piano concertos. When: Sunday, November 11, 3:00 PM. Where: Symphony Center, 220 South Michigan Avenue, Chicago. Cheapest Seats: $15 For Tickets: Visit the Chicago Symphony Orchestra's Web site (www.cso.org) or call 888-294-3550. 
Post your event in Scholastic's Coming Distractions. 
Get the recognition your event deserves. E-mail your submissions to Cristin Fenzel at cfenzel@nd.edu. 
All submissions are subject to Scholastic approval. 
SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 35 
by Peter Balogh and 

Down-home Tunes 
Matt Morgan 

There is so much amazing music out there, but it is fly­ing so far below the main­stream radio radar that the average listener ... never will have a chance to hear it. 
ND sophomore Peter Balogh and IUSB student Matt Morgan are members ofthe Skammunists, a campus ska band. 

Any of you who are familiar with Total Re­quest Live, the top 40 or any music broad cast on local stations such as U93 know what 
mainstream music is. Mainstream music can be rock, pop, rap, alternative or any of the other genres and sub-genres. Some ofyou might be fine blaring the latest No. 1 hit in your car stereos at full blast, and that's fine, but you should be in­formed that there is other music out there, and it 
is good! 

Let us fill you in on a little secret about how the music gets from mainstream "band'si' to you. Ra­dio station DJs in Los Angeles and New York are paid pretty decent sums of money by major record labels to put these new hot bands' latest singles 
in rotation on their station, until everyone in the 
surrounding area has heard the song at least 30 times, like it or not. In turn, radio stations across 
the country (even stations in smaller towns like 
South Bend) hop on the bandwagon of what's "hot" in New York and Los Angeles, and they start playing these hot new bands until people finally are convinced that they have to own 
their record because 
they can't get that one song out of their head. 
This is exactly how the 
recording industry has worked for the last 25 years. This is music as a product -some­

thing that can be sold on commercials and QVC. we know all of us have been victims of consum­ing this music as a product at one point in time or another. Don't get us wrong, there are some pretty good bands out there who are making a good sum of.money at what they're doing, but when music is created and released with the direct intent of big ~ash return, there is something wrong. 
Music as an art form still does exist! At a fam­ily gathering this summer, a relative said, "Noth­ing good was recorded after 1974, as far as I'm concerned." The next few hours of the visit were spent playing him various bands from the '70s 'and beyond. Even though the relative's taste seemed to reside in The Velvet Under­ground-and-Jimi Hendrix era, he ~ventually re­tracted his statement. 
There is so much amazing music out there, but 
it is flying so far below the mainstream radio ra­
dar that the average listener or consumer never 
will have a chance to hear it. There are bands in 
this very town doing some pretty incredible 
things. When we say incredible, we mean it. These 
bands are original, creative and offer something 
that mainstream music does not. Most of these 
bands will never be seen on MTV or VHl, they 
probably will never get radio airplay in the South 
Bend area, and ·chances are, unless you are friends 
with an indie-rocker, you won't ever know they 
exist. So, as amazing as it might seem, South Bend 
does have a music scene. Xt isn't quite Seattle or 
Los Angeles, but it is pretty impress1ve for a little 
Midwestern city. Local bands such as Clark, Space 
and Noise Productions, Sgt. Kabuki Band, The 
Nervous Set, Don't Shoot ... I'm With God, The 
Rutabega -as well as ND's own Skammunists, 
Station One and Lester -are. all major players 
of an ever-expanding groul' of talented young 
people doing pretty cool things. These bands all 
vary in style, performance and musical influence, 
but they all have one thing in common: Their in­
spiration comes from an inherent desire to express 
themselves, not the generic quest for rock star­
dom and a spot on MTV's Cribs .. 
So, what can you do to get your paws and ears 
on some of these juicy underground tunes? Hit 
up a local rock show at Higher Grounds coffee 
shop in downtown Sou!h Bend. Venture off cam­
pus to one of the Orbit Music stores and ask a 
clerk what's good. Buy a copy of the magazine 
The Big Takeover. Hit up the Internet and 
download some random songs by bands you've 
never heard of. Who knows? You might find 
something you like. There are tons of indepen­
dent record labels that could use your support a 
whole lot more than RCA and Columbia, and, 
chances are, the bands that they put out are 20 
times better than a_majority of the stuff you see 
on MTV.· 
Local labels like Patsy Presents (www. 
patsypresents.com), Plinko Pi:oductions (www.plinkomanor.com) and Web sites like Actioriattackhelicopter.com and Temporary structures.com can all point you in the right direc­tion. in your quest for what's hot in Indiana right · now. Actively seek out good music! Becol_lle a mu­sic snob and brag to your friends about how you can't believe that they've never heard of the stuff that you listen to. You might be surprised at how cool you'll feel to have the insider hookup. . 
36 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 








