THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
VOL. 79	JULY 30, 1943	NO. 4

Lawyers1 Ball Tomorrow Night Service Center Opens New Location Weekly Entertainment for Trainees Dining Hall Doldrums
Football Practice Under Way Interhall Baseball Starts
tomorrow Night Lawyers will put aside their books
APPOINTED
NAVY
B Y
THE
U .
S .
Official Distributors of
REGULATION UNIFORMS
for Commissioned Officers of the U. S. Navy
Commissioned Officers’ Service Blue, $40 Commissioned Officers’ Raincoat-Overcoat (with removable wool lining) $37.50
Wf MODERN GILBERT'S "OuA A4a4A
813 - 817 S. Michigan St.
In South Bend TAXI FREE to The Modern Gilbert* s
2
THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame; Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
NOW UNDER
ONE ROOF!
Mart
Gosiuetuesit StoAeA
F. J. PEQUIGNEY, Editor
Robert O’Toole........Managing	Editor
Dick Ames...............Campus	Editor
James Schaeffer.........Admin.	Editor
Bill Carey..............Sports	Editor
John Matmiller............Circulation
Charles Renaud Staff Photographer Rev. C. M. Carey.....Faculty Advisor
BRUGGNER'S
Features
The Week..........JWm.	Talbot and
(James Cunningham On The Campus...........Bud Ohman
Pressbox Splinters...Bill Waddington The Ears Have It.....Vail Pischke
,r „	f J. A. Flanagan, H. D. Hart, J.
.....(D. Schwendeman, J. E. Taylor
V-12 ..................Joseph Plante
N.R.O.T.C.....H. Gilligan, J. D. Usina Marines ......Don	Wilson
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 313 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p. m.
NEWS CENTER ~	CIGAR STORE
127 West	Vs	IIO North
Washington	Main Street
In the J. M. S. Building
Pay a, Vud
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or • from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
SOUThshorE
3
BY BILL TALBOT AND JIM CUNNINGHAM
TOP OF THE WEEK
The necks turn to- leather.
CHANGING SCENE
It wasn’t many months ago that we used to turn on the radio just to have something to occupy our minds while we studied. Then came the V-12 and educational deferments, the radio fibble is quashed, and the dust blown off the books. The fever reached a climax Monday night in tumble down Washington Hall when a prominent campus figure adroitly informed us “How To Study,” following a demand for such a lecture. We’ll start going to bed at night since we won’t be getting our sleep in class any more. Profs are actually going to be taken up on their, “Now if there’s anything you don’t understand, don’t be afraid to raise your hand—” But more earth shaking than this, students are going to start using the library. Who invented these wars, anyway?
PLEASANT DREAMS
Things-We-Like-To-Dream-A bout Dept.: A V-12 drum and bugle corps that plays makes-you-want-to-march music; A new calisthenics program which would require everyone to awaken at 0800, stretch the muscles vigorously while in a prone position, perform one healthy breather, and do a strenuous roll over to the other side of the bed; The substitution of a marbles’ tournament for the obstacle course; two desserts.
MUST WE HAVE SUCH DEPARTMENT
Women. The tender, lovely young things that keep us happy with their letters and broke with their habits. As father said when another girl was bom into the family: “Ah, another mouth to buy cigarettes for.” Sunday comes to the campus and the ODT is foiled again. Girls visit men on the campus. Some men travel to see girls. The cam
pus scene is heartrending. Sophomores spend happy hours trying to get their hall, their girl, the Dome and Father Sorin’s statue into one picture. The men of Notre Dame whisper sweet nothings: “I sure wish Frank was around so I could introduce you to him but he’s in Washington seeing Donald Nelson about a new football.” “I never have time to meet any of the South Bend girls.” “The food here is terrible. I’ve only gained 14 pounds this month.”
Ode to Badin Hall
It looks very old, both outside and in— The decks are of wood and worn very thin;
The paint on the bulkhedds has started to fade,
The plaster’s no longer on full dress parade.
The ladders are creaky, a bit shaky too; The water at reveille tastes like warm glue,
But don’t be downhearted, don't get forlorn,
You won’t, get to wishing you never were born.
The dust may be heavy, the hall may be old,
But there’s a spirit at Badin that’s spun of fine gold;
It’s the home of the Fourth, the best gang of them all
And every last one of us loves Badin Hall.
—George Zimmerman
* W4 WO4
“You’d do better to stay at Hoopnholler Junior College. I don’t think you’d like St. Mary’s.” The day usually ends in a train station where Mary Ann promises to write every day and Our Hero forks over, his last $1.50 N. D. key. Last Sunday a train had to make a special stop in Goshen to let out one of the Romeos who let twelve cars of the New York Central pull out of South Bend with him.
OFF-CAMPUS LIFE
It’s a great thing to be free and not have to get up at 6:45 for check. It’s a wonderful life to be out every night. Of course if you have an 8 o’clock class you might have to get up at six to beat the .other three boarders to the bathroom. Then there’s a bus that has to be caught and stood up on. If you’re frugal with your bucks you might be able to afford to eat breakfast, but this will probably necessitate getting up at 5:30. But then living off-campus you don’t have to eat in the dining hall. And not eating in the dining hall is the dream of every upper-classman. When meal time comes just hop in the Caf line and pick out your own. The line might be a little long, and you might have to wait. But what’s a little waiting; just think of the marines and their uniforms. Besides the line never stretches farther than the post office. And it’s so much fun spending twenty dollars a week on food. Carrying all your notes and books around is one nuisance of the envied life, but this is only a little thing. There’s all the fun of the raincoat riddle. (The only question Alexander McQueen can’t answer). It’s a mess transporting a raincoat around on a hot day, but with Indiana weather being what it is, it’s almost 50-50 you’ll get stranded in a rain by afternoon. The best system in the morning is to flip a coin and if it stands on end, leave your coat home.
THE WEASEL ROVES
Weasel Eye, our special correspondent to the East Dining Hall’s butter counter, reports that even Punjab himself couldn’t make butter and meat disappear as fast as the dining hall staff when the legion of forgotten civilians approaches. Says Weasel, “I guess nobody cares about puttin’ meat on the bones of civies. After all the army or navy’s going to fatten them up later on.” He also reports a dream he had the other night in which he saw 500 un-uniformed (sic) students carrying on their shoulders a giant box containing thousands of little red and blue stamps with numbers on them. The students seemed to be tearing the stamps out of books and throwing them in the box and finally the box was carried into South Bend and laid at the feet of a tall man who was. called the Great White Wholesale Grocer , and he looked at the box and said, “Eight thousand a week will buy a powerful lot of extra.”
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
- Sloane’s Linament.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.	.
VOL. 79
JULY 30, 1943
NO. 4
Lawyers Frolic Tomorrow
All Students and Trainees Invited to Ball at Indiana Club
BY DICK AMES
That air of serious thought and legal stiffness has been absent in the Law Building for the last week, and the long haired barristers are slicking themselves up and putting away the books in preparation for their annual Law Ball, to be held with all proper formality in the Indiana Club tomorrow night, from nine until 12.
Quoting several popular cases which have taken place in recent years, that of Dorsey vs. the American public, and Miller vs. Henry the hep-cat, the lawyers are confident of good material to back up their claims of ushering in the current social season with all the trimmings to which it is entitled.
Committees have worked out all the details with typical parliamentary pre
cision. Hal Hunter, as president of the Law Club, kept his eyes on all the dealings, but Tom Mitchell, general chairman of the festivities, wielded the gavel. Other committeemen who helped iron out the fine points were: Jack Barry, house; Jim Kane, decorations; Vail Pischke, publicity; Don Hummer, music; Charles Boynton, tickets.
There isn’t going to be any doubt about the lawyers getting dates for this dance, either. They regard the usual custom of asking a girl if she’d like to go as a little outdated. They’ve suspended all writs of habeas corpus and anything else that they think might come in their way, and have decided to subpoena any and all sweet young things that come in sight. Forms have been
printed for the purpose. The boys had a touch of pessimism at the last minute though, and included at the bottom of the form a slip that was to be torn off by the prospective guest and returned with the information whether she would obey the law or not; as yet there has been no definite punishment drawn up in case she should decide not to accept. However, the death penalty has been hinted by some of the lads who aren’t quite sure of the reply they’re going to get.
The Notre Dame colors are blended in the bright programs. The covers are of blue paper and a gold pencil is attached for those who want to get autographs of the famous advocates of the future.
(Continued on page 23)
The Lawyers Are Jovial as Ball Nears
5
Henry Scott Delights Students; Offers Variety
BY JAMES SCHAEFFER
Before a. wildly enthusiastic audience of servicemen and civilians, Henry Scott, pianist-humorist, appeared last Monday night in the Navy Drill Hall. His reception was one of the most rabid ever seen on the campus and his versatility in the classics, swing, boogiewoogie, and satire had the audience begging for encores.
The audience would not leave the hall until Scott played four encores, and they were still unsatisfied. His first offering was a series of impressions of famous swing pianists. His imitations of Eddy Duchin’s antics started the evening off riotously. Scott’s boogie-woogie version of “Kitten on the Keys” satisfied the swing fans in the crowd and then to demonstrate his wide talents Scott played beautiful renditions of Liszt’s “Second Hungarian Rhapsody” and Scarlatti’s “Pastoral.”
At intervals in the program he presented clever imitations and pantomimes, among which was his conception of a young man sewing a button on his coat and also his impression of the “Little Boy Genius Grows Up.” Both received uproarious receptions.
Scott emphasized that all music needs a rich academic background, including budding swing musicians. Never letting his very popular humor dominate the show, he showed his versatility with “All the Things You Are” and then with an original composition of his own called “Hands, Fists, Arms, and Elbows,” using all those parts of the body in demonstrating the essentials of swing.
The Rockne Memorial Swimming Pool
After suddenly jumping up from the piano and giving a perfect imitation of a penguin, Scott finished with an audience participation number in which he put on a pair of mittens while playing and played the entire number with the mittens.
Throughout the program he introduced bits of information about things musical which aided in giving the program audience appeal and interest, apart from his vital and magical personality.
The tremendous reception at the end brought Scott back four times, during which he played several swing medleys including “Alexander’s Ragtime Band” and “Dark Town Strutters Ball,” and boogie-woogie as well as sweet music and a classic.	।
Many Activities in Rockne
Navy swimming classes in the pool at the Rockne Memorial are now being run through from eight until five o’clock daily, which gives the civilian students little opportunity to make use of its facilities. Most of the civies athletic energies are consumed in the running of the obstacle course, and those who are in further quest of exercise can make use of the lake for a cooling plunge.
The handball (and basketball courts, usually crowded with sports enthusiasts during’ the school year, are dark and unused. The authorities would remind the students that these rooms, and the light and heavy apparatus rooms as well,
are at their disposal every afternoon.
The busy spot in the Rock these days is the golf shop, where sweltering followers of the ancient and honorable game are prone to sit around and tell about those long putts that just missed going in. The soda fountain (it never closes) is kept busy turning out sodas and shakes to cool the parched throats that find their way to the oasis.
Weekly Entertainment
Offered Students, Trainees
A Sunday afternoon series of entertainments will be offered to Midshipmen and students of the University, both -civilian and military, by the administration and the faculty of the University, according to the announcement made recently by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of Notre Dame.
The University, recognizing that the intensive programs of the Navy keep many of its personnel from the musical, literary, and art outlets that they previously enjoyed, has appointed a committee consisting of Prof. Frank O’Malley, Prof Cecil Birder and Mr. Paul Byrne. These men have arranged a series of six Sunday afternoon hours, to be supplemented by two features of the University lecture and concert series, arranged by Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C.
The first number in the series, a recital by Henry Scott, was presented last Monday night in the Navy Drill Hall.
The Sunday afternoon series will be opened with a musical program by Prof. Daniel Pedtke, at 4 o’clock Sunday afternoon, August 1, in the lounge of the Rockne Memorial. Mr. Pedtke is arranging a program which will contain both interest and variety.
On August 8, in the Rockne lounge at 4 o’clock, Prof. Richard Sullivan, popular teacher and author of many short stories, will give a talk on current literature. Prof. Sullivan’s first novel Summer After Summer is to be followed in November by a second novel, Dark Continent.	.
Tuesday evening, August 17, in Washington Hall, the University will present its second outside program, when the Weicher trio, a group of outstanding musicians, will appear.
On Sunday afternoon, August 22, those interested will be guests at a special exhibit in the Art Galleries of the University, under the direction of Rev. John Bednar, C.S.C., and Mr. Paul Byrne.
Sunday afteroon, August 29, again in .	- (Continued on.page 23)
6
Dining Hall Doldrums _________________________tznckm^
By Dick Ames
It is little short of amazing how many, and how often, Dining Hall customers appear at Mr. Connolly’s board. Last week we caught him in a reminiscent, and sad mood, and queried him on his present misfortunes.
In oui* humble opinion, Mr. Connolly is the most tragic figure on the campus today; and the reason for it is that he is a meat eater himself. He loves meat eaters. But the point that should be remembered in thinking of him is that all his customers are governed by points. This strict rationing of points applies to both civilians and trainees. And so Mr. Connolly feels sorry for the customers and for himself, and begs them to recall his generosity in the good old days, when he handed out half a cow and a peck of potatoes to every man on Saturday night, and never once forced them to eat the horns and tails.
No wonder he smiles: He gets Butter
We have . obtained, from another source, a list of statistics on an average day’s consumption in the hall. We found these on the cuff of the third cook in the soup division, but they were sworn to be true and we present them as such: 12,600 bottles of milk, 6,692 lbs. of meat, 225 lbs. of butter, 400 lbs. of sugar, 700 lbs. of lard, 8,C00 slices of ice cream, 200 gals, of tomato juice, 300 lbs. of navy beans, 200 loaves of white bread, 200 loaves of rye bread, and 7,200 sweet rolls go down the hatch every time one of those average days comes along. However, it doesn’t take much figuring to satisfy one’s self that these figures tell the true story, if we remember the number of trainees and students, almost 4,000, who eat in the dining halls each day. The individual patron may want to think the matter over for a while before believing. Since the Scholastic does not
take part in any controversial questions, we suggest that the student body elect some brilliant man from the science school, whose duty it ■will be to take a day off and count the items as they pour over the counter. Alphonse, the Abascus Kid, with the 98 average in engineering is the person we humbly suggest for the job.
And those short young fellows whom you’ve seen wandering about as if looking for the nearest nursery are the dining halls answer to the man-power problem; and despite their tender years, make it possible for business to continue.
Without venturing too far into alien territory, we venture to suggest that Maestro Connolly runs the best beanery on the campus.
Glee Club Holds Practice,
First Concert August 13
After many difficulties because of varied schedules and programs, the Glee Club has finally decided upon its schedule ’ of rehearsals. There are five rehearsals per week at the following* times:
6:30 P.M. Monday and Wednesday
1:15 P.M. Thursday and Friday
l:C0 P.M. Saturday.
The required rehearsals which all members must attend are the two evening- rehearsals on Monday and Wednesday, and the Saturday aftei-noon rehearsal.
The Glee Club’s first concert will be Friday, August 13th. A big indoor concert is planned for a later date.
The Club is composed of marines V-12, N.R.O.T.C., and Civilian students. About ninety per cent are new members. The Club has a membership of about sixty.
Plenary Indulgence
Rev. William T. Craddick, C.S.C.. prefect of religion, announced today that students may gain a plenary indulgence for a soul in purgatory every time they visit a church from Sunday noon to Monday midnight. August 1 and 2. Tihs indulgence is dependent on the saying of six "Our Father's," six "Hail Mary’s," and six "Glory Be’s—“ for the intentions of the Holy Father.
The. Sacred Heart Church will be open late on Monday evening to enable students and servicemen to take advantage of this religious opportunity.
7
Campus News
Service Men's Center Moved to Palais
Final plans were completed during the past week for the moving of the Service Men’s Center from its former cramped space into the more centrally located and elaborate Palais Royals.
Yesterday was the opening night for the new Center, but because of the shortage of time it was impossible to have a very extravagant opening; however, a gala celebration to note the change is being planned for sometime in September.
The first planned entertainment to be held for the service men in the Palais will be a tea dance, which will take place tomorrow afternoon from 2:30 until 5:30, and this will be followed by another daytime affair Sunday, from 1:30 until 4:30.
The increased responsibilities of the larger establishment have made it necessary for the staff to increase in size. New volunteers were welcomed at a meeting held last Monday, at which plans were made for the weekend activities, as well as assignments of duties. ■
The balcony of the Palais receives the most duty during the week, for the main ballroom is too large for the usual entertaining done, between the weekends. It has been fitted out as a game room, and with the soda fountain close by and the old Galley Bar kitchen moved in close, it has already become a favorite spot for lounging sailors, soldiers and the marines. The Pirate’s Den, the men’s lounge, is fitted out with desks and easy chairs where they can escape from the feminine world if they wish to do so.
Quite a bit of redecorating has been and will be done in the Center, new furniture, drapes and rugs, etc. The biggest development of all will be the air conditioning of the entire building.
A bigger and better program for service men is going to be worked out for the future, and the Scholastic will keep all the men at Notre Dame notified of these things in advance. So keep your eyes on Center notes in coming issues, and don’t miss any of the good times that are on the way.
Department of History
Announces Essay Awards
The Department of History wishes to announce the subjects for the Monsignor Francis A. O’Brien and Father Charles O’Donnell-Charles Phillips history prizes for the semester ending October, 1943.
The subject for the Monsignor Francis A. O’Brien Prize is:
“The Life of Father Edward Frederick Sorin, C.S.C., Founder of the University of Notre Dame.”
The value of the prize is the income from §1,000. Ordinarily this amounts to a sum of over $30.
The subject for the Father Charles O’Donnell-Charles Phillips prize is:
“The Growth of American Imperialism in the Pacific.” The value of the prize is 350.
The prize essays must be submitted on , or before September 30, 1943. The essays must be typed on regular thesis paper, according to the general rules for historical essays.
Memorial Flag Placed in Sacred Heart Church
A new gold star service flag was placed in the, sanctuary of Sacred Heart Church to commemorate the memory of Notre Dame alumni who have died during the present war. Fifty-two gold stars have already been placed on ths flag. The stars are in the form of a Notre Dame Monogram. Each of these represents a Notre Dame man who died serving “God, country, and Notre Dame.”
The two most recent additions to the flag represent Lt. Floyd Grazier, ex. ’39, who was killed in June of this year when his plane crashed into a lake near Columbia, South Carolina, and Ensign Henry B. Caudill, Jr., A.V.N., U.S.N.R.. a member of the class of 1941. Ensign Caudill died when his plane crashed thirtesn miles from the Melbourne Air Station on June 2.
Notre Dame is justly proud of these men and all the rest of her alumni who are serving in the armed forces, now numbering over 3200, one-third of all Notre Dame lay graduates.
First Outdoor Band Concert
The band is giving the first of a series of summer concerts tonight. The concert will begin at 7:00 o’clock (1900).
The program will consist of: The Secret Marriage Overture.......Cimorosa
Mardi Gras, from “Mississippi Suite'".Grofe In a Monastery Garden.................;................Ketelbey Victor Herbert Favorites Fiesta—Paso Doble--------------------Caneva and McAllister
Dark Eyes--------------------Russian folk song
Midnight in Paris.....----Conrad and Migison
Various marches, etc.
The series of concerts for the Summer is as follows: July 30 (tonight), Band; August 6, Band; August 13, Glee Club and Orchestra; August 20, Band; August 27, Band; Sept. 3, Band; Sept. 10, Glee Club and Orchestra; Sept. 17, Band.
From Now on There Will be Room for Hundreds at the New Center
S
lx
ADMINISTRATION
~3
Dr. James Reyniers Edits
Bacteriology Anthology
Micrurgical and Germ-Free Techniques is the title of a new book edited by Dr. Janies A. Reyniers, director of bacteriology laboratories at Notre Dame.
The volume contains contributions from more than 17 outstanding bacteriologists of America, but deals prin-
Dr. James A. Reyniers
cipally with ten years of progress in this new field made by Dr. Reyniers and his associates at Notre Dame.
Contributors include Prof. P. C. Trexler of the Notre Dame laboratories, the late Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., ■ former dean of science at Notre Dame, and Dr. A. S. Giordano, of the South Bend medical laboratories. Robert F. Ervin, of the Notre Dame department of biology, assisted in the editing.
Processes of obtaining and rearing germ-free guinea pigs, mice, rabbits, chickens, and small monkeys are described as carried out at Notre Dame. The use of these germ-free animals have been found valuable in questions involving nutrition, the origin of antibodies, the development of natural immunity to infection or toxic agents, old age phenomena and the development of dental caries, among other things.
Four Notre Dame alumni and seven special lecturers at the University are .

included in Paul Sheehan’s With a Merry Heart, an anthology of humor by Catholic writers just released. The compiler and editor is Paul Phelan, professor of English at the University of Santa Clara, Santa Clara, Calif.
Included in the anthology is an episode from the work of Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., Patch of Askeaton Days, which appeared in serial form in The Ave Mana and which is to be published in book form. Father Carroll formerly was vice-president of Notre Dame and is editor of The Ave Maria.
Norbert Engels, professor of English at Notre Dame, contributes “Life Without a Garage,” which originally appeared in the Columbia magazine. Mr. Phelan also selected “Birds of a Feather,” a sketch from God In. A?i Irish Kitchen, travelogue written by Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., professor of philosophy at Notre Dame. George Shuster, an alumnus of Notre Dame now president of Hunter College in New York City, is represented in the anthology by a selection entitled “Brother Flo and Dr. Seal,” from Brother Flo, a pseudo biography.
Father Trahey Announces New Draft Regulations
' All students having draft difficulties or questions regarding their status in the draft are urged to consult Father James D. Trahey, C.S.C., University Administrative Assistant and the armed services representative on the campus. Father Trahey’s office is 12-B in the Engineering Building.
Father Trahey announced that Lieut. Evans of the Chicago Naval Officer Procurement Board will interview and speak to all Engineering civilian students and physics, math, Chemistry and electronics majors next week regarding the Navy SV-7 program. The exact date will be announced in a special bulletin.
He also warned all pre-med, science, and engineering students to see the deans of their colleges in regard to a deferment upon their receiving their classification. The latest Selective Service directive, not necessarily binding on local boards, provides that all such students be given a 24 month 2-B classification in order to complete their studies. The deferment is dependent upon a cer
tification from the dean’ of the college and would run from the date of such certification.	„
Father John Burke, C.S.C., Explains Food Situation
In a letter released to civilian students during the past week, the University, through the Prefect of Discipline, Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., explained the reasons for the food situation.
Recognizing that civilian complaints about food are legitimate, Father Burke pointed out that under strict OPA regulations, the University is allowed less
Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C.
than five points a day per student for all rationed foods. In addition, the University has been unable to supplement the menus with non-rationea items, as many of these goods are not available on the market due to the general shortage. .
Moveover, greatly increased food costs have reduced the quantity of food and the shortage of experienced labor has palced an. added burden on the dining halls.	.	•
Noting that “things will get worse before they get better,” Father Burke announced that for the present there will be three meatless days a week with fish and poultry as substitutes.	,
Also because of the lack of vital ration points the University requests that civilian students refrain from patronizing the cafeteria, other-than the soda fountain which will continue to operate normally.
The office of the Prefect of Discipline will gladly receive all reasonable and practical suggestions.
9-
Know Your Ships
Identification of Ships of the United States Navy
BY ENSIGN J. F. CLARK
AIRCRAFT CARRIER
Throughout Naval history no type of ship has altered sea warfare as much as the aircraft carrier. Its rise to nautical prominence is unequalled.
Today, aircraft carriers, originally created as nothing more than floating airdromes, are as much a part of the fleer as are any other Naval vessels. By means of increased armor and improved antiaircraft guns their vulnerability has been reduced, and they no longer are defenseless targets.
The carrier is a large ship (comparable in size to the battleship) with a full length flat deck on which planes can land and take off. The “island” or superstructure on the starboard side of the ship constitutes the only break in this immense deck. Below the flight deck is the hanger deck where the airplanes are stored. These two decks are connected by elevators which permit the rapid movement of the planes. The engine rooms, repair shops, living quarters and magazines are located below the hanger deck.
The complement of a ship of the Saratoga class can accommodate two squadrons of heavy planes for combining the functions of scouting, heavy bombing, and torpedo carrying, and, in addition, two squadrons of fighting planes. All carriers stow many disassembled reserve
planes which in some cases amount to as many as three times their normal complement.
Modern carriers are armored, but so lightly that this protection is at minimum effectiveness. The armor usually consists of a belt around the vitals and light armor over control stations and gun positions. In addition to antiaircraft guns which encircle the ship, carriers are equipped with one or two main batteries (5 to 8 inches).
The fact that aircraft carriers must move along a straight line to enable their aircraft to land and take-off makes them particularly vulnerable to torpc-
Commerce Forum
The Board of Directors of The Commerce Forum invites the submission of applications for membership from qualified Navy. Marine, and Civilian students enrolled in the College of Commerce, who are interested in participating actively in the affairs of the Forum.
The Forum is especially concerned with the discussion of current business and industria problems. All interested students are asked to apply ■ personally at a meeting with the present officers and members at a time and place to be announced on all the Bulletin Boards in the near future.
does. For this reason, it is essential that they be constantly screened by both antiaircraft and antisubmarine vessels. One needs only to remember our Enterprise at Santa Cruz and Great Britain’s Illustrious in the Mediterranean to realize that our carriers, though lightly armored and lightly gunned are capable of withstanding terrific aerial attack and fighting on to deal stunning blows to the enemy in return.
" I he Grotto of Our Lady,"
A Notre Dame Tradition
For years one of the staunchest Notre Dame traditions has been a daily visit to the Grotto, located below the Sacred
The Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes
The U. S. S. Saratoga
—Official Navy Photo
Heart Church on the lake. There many a Notre Dame man has found solace and comfort in prayer before Our Blessed Mother.
The Grotto itself is. a replica of the Grotto at Lourdes, France. This original Grotto is now the subject of the movie, “Song of Bernadette”. The movie is taken from the book by Franz Werfel. Werfel describes the magnificent story of the Lourdes Grotto which has brought both spiritual and physical relief to suffering multitudes.
The Notre Dame Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes is one of the most important religious shrines on the campus, and is an object of extreme beauty. It is surrounded by trees and shrubbery and overlooking attractive St. Mary’s Lake.
10
On The Campus
BY A. J. OHMAN
We would like to bring to your attention small but mighty “Hal” Hunter. We discovered him thumbing through a dusty volume in the Law library. At the time Hal was in hiding from his wife, a nurse in South Bend, whom he married last year.
Hal gave his first lusty squeal on June 5, 1921, in New Madrid, Mo. It was in this town that Hunter went to high school. There he was prominent as an athlete.
Hunter first set foot on the Notre Dame campus in September of 1939. He skipped innocently to the Arts and Letters College and enrolled as a politics major. At the end of three years he signed into the Law school and, if all goes well, he should graduate in June of 1944.
Last semester the Law Club selected Hunter to act as their treasurer. This semester he is president of the Law Club.
Having completed two years of law, Hal can now be found almost any time searching for knowledge in the Law Library.
The defense rests its case.
One of the best liked officers in the NROTC Crowley is able to hand out demerits and have the offender believe that he is doing him a favor.
“Tex,” is running true to Navy form, he has three girls in every port, Palais Royale, Walgreens, etc. Women, however, are not Crowley’s chief interest. He plays an excellent game of golf and tennis and dabbles at bit with football.
Frank came to Notre Dame in September of ’42. He thinks his major is foreign commerce but due to the Navy courses he would not care to bet. Crowley was made an officer in the R.O.T.C. when he arrived at Notre Dame. Experience was desired when this particular unit was formed and Tex, having four years of R.O.T.C. while attending North Dallas High school, was well qualified.
Last ’ semester we found Mr. Crowley heading the N.R.O.T.C. Ball and acting as Battery officer during the second cruise of the R.O.T.C. aboard the U. S. S. Wilmette.
Tex was born in Dallas, Texas, and
though he does not wear a Steetson and boots he swears it’s the greatest place in the nation.
In 101 Alumni we find Roswell Bigelow, putting pennies into what his roommates call the “swear box,” recounting sea stories to inland sailors, and wishing he had taken physics before coming to Notre Dame.
Roswell was born in Keene, N. H. He went to high school in New London, Connecticut. In March of 1941 he caught a whiff of salt air and joined the Navy. Almost before he knew it, he was in training at New Port, R. I. At the end of four months the Navy Dept, decided that Roswell should see the West coast. With his duffle bag on his shoulder and sorrow in his heart Bigelow dropped anchor at the Yeoman’s school in San Diego. After serving four months at Yeoman’s school Roswell boarded a ship and sailed merrily for Pearl Harbor. Upon arrival he was stationed aboard the U. S. S. Pennsylvania, Flag Ship of the Commander in Chief of the Pacific Fleet. Within two months after Roswell’s arrival the ship was moved ashore. This however did not take place until after that fatal day, Dec. 7.
Bigelow was recommended by his commanding officer for training in the V-12. Though he desires to be an English major Roswell is at present taking Basic Engineering.
Midshipman B. R. Heitman is one of the few men on this base who really knows the true meaning of the phrase,
B. R. Heitman
“War is hell!” Before he was sent to Notre Dame Heitman was with the Atlantic amphibious forces as a Ph. M. 2/c. He was among the first of the United States troops which invaded Africa. His record speaks for itself.
“I was stationed aboard a troop , transport, U.S.S. Joseph Hewes, assigned to the Atlantic Amphibious Forces. In October, a convoy of more than (censored) ships left for Africa. At midnight in early November a barrage was put down on Casablanca
Harbor and vicinity. My ship was located near French Morocco and after a four-hour exchange of fire and bombing of enemy installations, the first wave of troops were sent ashore.
Being a part of the medical beach party, I was also in the first wave. It took about 35 minutes to get past the breakers to the beach and we were continually under machine gun and 37 mm. fire. Several boats were blown to bits and some of the men in my boat were hit. After reaching the dunes we dug in and consolidated our positions. The Army boys went forward while the medical party set up a first aid station. Later in the day, French bombers attacked, hitting our positions with bombs and machine gun fire. One first aid station was hit squarely killing everyone.
“After the third days of this, the fighting in our area subsided and a few of us' returned to our ship to get food and rest. This was Armistice Day, Nov. 11. At 2000, our ship was hit by a torpedo and immediately settled. We evacuated 31 casualties and just had time to slide into the water before the stern disappeared. The ship-sunk in 36 minutes. After swimming around for half an hour a boat brought me to another ship, the Tasker H. Bliss. The next afternoon, it too, was torpedoed, being hit twice amidships. The boilers blew up and the oil caught fire in about 15 minutes. Luckily, I was topside at the time and got into the water quickly. I was finally picked up by the ship that brought me back.”
UNIVERSITY SEEKS WAR RECORDS
Catholic heroes of World War II will find the University making every effort to assemble and preserve their records.
Notre Dame has accumulated throughout its hundred years a rich collection of American Catholic historical matters, so outstanding that it has long been designated the Catholic Archives of America. The record of Catholic heroes of the present world war is a logical addition to this collection.
The failure of any agency to make this effort during World War I has caused a serious loss to the history of the Church in America.
A number of Notre Dame’s own alumni have already lost their lives, and others have won decorations for heroism already in this war, and are making a fitting beginning to the new collection.
Father McAvoy urges anyone who possesses such data on Catholic heroes of World War II to deposit it at Notre Dame now, while interest is intense and before the pressure or new or post-war problems causes it to.be lost. He has in-
EDITORIAL
In Reply to a Previous Editorial "What Are We Fighting For"
Now H
-	—	I_
By G. R. Clay
“Blueberry pie,” the marine said. That’s certainly part of it. That is what the radio announcers and movie producers keep telling us to fight for. For the right to go down to the corner drug store and order a banana split; for the right to take our girls to the county fair, hot dogs, etc., football games, etc.: work, eat, pray, raise children, etc., etc. In other words, we’re fighting for everything that sits on the shelves of our memories, like peach preserves, to brandy with time. And that makes sense, as far as it goes. But it doesn’t go far enough.
It doesn’t go far enough, because the system which manufactured valentines for us also printed -mortgages. It made Scotch highballs, but it also sold arsenic. It built the Empire State building, but not high enough to keep some from jumping off it. How about the people— and they are not a few, or we wouldn’t be fighting at all—who didn’t fill their hungry gullets with blueberry pie? Not just the slumbred Americans: I mean Englishmen, too, and Frenchmen arid Ethiopians and Germans and Russians and Peruvians and the people who live in a country called Luxembourg or roam the Polish Corridor.
And there’s one more point I would like to make. If we’re fighting for blueberry pic—if that is our chief claim to victory—then it is no claim at all. Be-. cause the Germans are fighting for good old pumpernickle and beer; the Japs are fighting for good old bird’s nest pudding; and the Italians are fighting for good old spagetti fiorenzn Are the things we love any better than the. things they' love? No. The things people really love are pretty much the same, all over the world. It’s the impersonal, not the personal objectives, that are. better on, . this continent than in Europe. And by impersonal ! merely mean; the system— political set-up—within which,people of a nation are allowed to strive for and enjoy the personal things.	? .
One of the troubles with America and Europe after the last war was that their people were so almighty glad to . taste their pie once more that , they let the impersonal objectives go. That was
12
Since our chattel- in these columns occasionally admits of many possible interpretations, we feel it proper to remind readers that we entertain malice towards. none: that we are more than ready to apologize to anyone who might have interpreted our gossip in an unfavorable light. Certainly, at no time, did we mean to give offense.
First Battalion
Triple exposure—or, What can you expact?
Instruction plus book learnin’ proved inadequate in the case of Mid’n. Henry Craft last Sunday, so he proceeded to turn 317 into a D. C. (3) experimental lab. Blessed with a convenient three-foot tub Memphis opened all valves and flooded the quarter deck to a two inch depth of pure lake water (density—1.013) and began taking soundings. Hoowever, he failed to make certain about the water tightness of the compartment so Mid’n. Paul A. M. Bremieker and Mid’n. Strabo Claggett secured all gear and prepared to aban- . don 217. Complete estimates of the total damage are not yet available, but at the last count Craft was still trying to get- the D.C. department to assume all responsibility—and demerits.
Ambitious men in Section 8 have been trying to get Mid’n. Jack Cavness to publish his meth-ods on “the art of getting out of being put on report.” He batted 1.000 after four trips to the plate, but hit a foul ball last week and came, up with the jack pot. Incidentally, when he says good night to his Arizona princess outside of Lyons Annex each night, he ought to keep behind an elm.
It has been said that food maketh. a strong fighting man, but “we have not yet begun to , fight.” We sometimes wonder where they get the meat to make the stew; certainly it wasn’t last .
night’s sirloin.’ '	. .
Henry Cabot Lodge’s profession: dishing out pie to make people forget the war was not over.	.
This is the same war, and there’s still ' the same job to do. Not that any of . us has much of an idea how we’re supposed to do it. It’s going to take ; fabulous sums of money (and I . don’t mean Alcoa’s or DuPont’s or Standard Oil’s money); tremendous" cooperation; unbelievable voluntary sacrifice. But . one thing we can be sure of: if we are ; , ever going to make a beginning, America, as a nation, is going to bake a lot fewer pies and start thinking about some less tasty but more world-nourishing ties.
_to swallow after the armistice of World: ’ War II.	.	-
It has been confirmed that Mid’n. R. E. Brian comes from a long line of seafaring men, many of whom have had their, names permanently recorded: Uncle Galley, for example. Is Uncle John also a leave on that tree?
And so another week has passed and with it we carry on with the infamous battle cry of Section 6: “Lafayette we were there.”
Second Battalion	i
Seen roaming the decks: Ensign Hardy and ; aide looking for two Lutherans and one Moham- ; medan to go on a picnic next Saturday afternoon. I
The most popular book seen in Chicago this t week-end was “W.C. & D.C.” One out of every three Midshipmen had one tucked under his left .arm. with a fair damsel under the right. Won”t the Damage Control Dept, realize that the Lord -created Sunday, as a day of rest?
Ensign Welles (sp) sadly commenting on the fact that two Harvard men placed 2nd and 3rd on the recent physical strength-through-joy test, while the only Dartmouth man in the Company ! was 4th from last.
Behind closed. doors: Ensign Kubish giving a Midshipman a very serious man-to-man talk about the pitfalls of marriage, and personally- against it. Incidentally Mr. Kubish is not married.
Crime of the week: Without warning or even
the howlers two ,Lieut. Commdrs.
Captain’s . inspection last Saturday.
. casualty list’ is expected to keep working overtime.-
composed the The resulting Chief Quinn
Sections 25, 26, 27 and- 28 are - classroom building houses a G.O.P.
convinced the party conven-
tion or else a. clique of attache’s to the “7-come-ll .' Handshake” fraternity. . At any rate, the weekly shaking down - for tree assignments bestows un-
• courted attention upon. Company 7 men.
‘Hogan’s Alley”—North wing of Morrissey Hall.
Third Battalion

1 - “We are the hollow, men.”.O well-remembered phrase. And how pointedly significant it is to us now.’For we. were on the “Strength-Tree!’’. You laugh ?. -And- well you may. Hoist by dur own , petard!
It was a seemingly clever stratagem—to permit ourself margin for improvement.. But we reckoned ; not with the demoniacal • Navy methods.-.And for this -lapse, ?if: for nothing else, we deserve this
: self-mortification.'	"

r.

tear This!
I_____________
Now we must drag our beaten hulk exposed to' the cutting imprecations of those we once called friends. Stung incessantly by the vitriolic taunts of those who once held us in high esteem we possess the unwelcomed sanctity of a leper.
It preys on us this stigma—we are but an empty framework. What good to beat our breast? What is done is done."
Now ain't that too damn bad! I	'
The “Howard Hall Better Business Men’s Association” is pleased . to announce the unanimous election of Silent Hank Seestedt as president. In his inaugural address at the daily dinner-meeting. Hank said, quote—water—unquote. Words that will live forever in the hearts of HHBBMA’ers!
The HHBBMA is an organization of midshipmen who meet at dinner and cocktail hour to discuss matters of enlightenment to the membership. According to the Muttering Pestry Officer, Slick Shanover, the roll includes “Roomie” Sherwood. Seaton (one c). “S. N. J.” Sherley, Bee Jay Simms (temporarily on restricted probation for excess absenteeism), “Britannica” Shambrour and “Toughy” Sharkey. Members claim the high initiation requirements make it the most exclusive group in the regiment. Their motto: “Don’t give us the business—full speed ahead I”
GOB HUMOR
You can tell an apprentice seaman by his look of great alarm.	,
You can tell a petty officer by the chevies on . his arm.
I You can tell a lieutenant by his manners, dress and such	'	. .
You can also tell an ensign, but you sure can’t tell him much.	. -	.
Rumor, well founded in fact, has it that the ' S’s are leaving. The fact is brought home to us as we observe their week of fun and frolic; such frolicing, that is, as may be done before 2145. Indeed, this seems to take the form of a constant parade of ' strolling feet , crunching the gravel . on the walk between Howard and Badin. May we . in - passing point out that ■ this approaches the last straw? The endless marching of the V-12’s : beneath our windows after hours was bad enough, but add to this the .increased volume of crunch, made by the'S’s and we have a source of prime distraction, which if continued, will have the still hardworking G’s on the east side of Howard , - screaming for the straight-jackets.
Yet if-the'truth-were known, the average G is'.probably a'bit? green around the edges. Envy . has reared its ugly, head in more than one-bosom. And so we ask. ourselves rhetoricallyif we would change places , with these carefree warriors. . It is a question to be pondered.-	-
• At.no. time, however, have.we harbored feelings : -of gripe- or-grudge,. They -have been' the-best of . comrades,; have worked stren^pusly. for their free-; dom. and .‘deserve their , reward. We in turn salute, them,' wish - them '. Godspeed, and give them our best wishes to. carry'.with them forever. .	-
The whole proceeding is, however, disturbed by a somber undercurrent of apprehension^ .What, we ask, is to happen to our already slightly unbalanced watch bill .schedule? The loss of some SO men cannot be viewed with complete detachment. Can it be that our watch duties are to be doubled for the next few weeks until a new group have been indoctrinated ? At present writing, this seems the only conclusion. Yet it is one that we view, with no enthusiasm. The prospect of a doubled number of 24 hour watches is contemplated from the gloomy and embracing shadow of a very tall tree. For the time being we have our fingers tightly, and hopefully crossed.
- One of the incidents of the week which drew forth comparatively little remark was the “strength” test. Comment' upon the results could not avoid the use of cliches, so we shall skip it. More important from our standpoint was the fact that forty or fifty of the men were not, for one reason or another, present at the tests. The procedure followed to fill in the vacancies makes us ponder again on the wisdom of the directing authority, or authorities, handling these activities. Monday, within an hour after- noon chow, these 50 odd men were marched over to the east drill field, and there, under the blazing sun, with their stomachs still full of food, were ordered to demonstrate their ’ physical power. The result was inevitable. -Nearly a dozen • men left their lunches on the field, and at least an equal number had ; to be helped back to the barracks. Even those not so violently affected enjoyed a general indisposition for the rest of the day. Let us give three cheers for the forehanded direction which made this happy conclusion possible.
Fourth Battalion
We have now been here two months and most of us should be well up on the “knack” of things . but young “Gerry” Sweeney, part time - Section -leader of 41, threw a new one. on us when he- -used the phraseology “None wan absent. Sir-”-Must have been the Marine influence.
■ William “Buffalo Bill” Thompson came in- the- . other Sunday . looking like' a .burnt potato. His . answer. was, “Been : playing golf : all day.” \ Unh-huh.	. ‘ .	'	. • . ‘	‘ -	-
There was a little difficulty' in-room . 220 over ' the time - .these two \ roommates wanted to be awakened.’ Jack Thompson; wanted to get up . at 4:30, but his. roommate, - “Don-’ Thompson didn’t want to. Well,' Jack, - it’s-.all right for':“Ghost” writers to-prowl about at that, time, but, for .the love of Pete let. your poor old “roomy” rest his weary bones in-peace? He needs it.' " ' : - .-
•-J. C. Taylor, just came in with the latest “hot tip.’? He . says that , they . are’ going to reviye the
. • G.C.O. and? make us all honorary . members. The . reason,.he says,, is that everyone here so zealously , supports “Arbor Day” (that’s the day for planting trees).' .	. '
MEET YOUR OFFICERS
Ensign E. L. Austin, Commanding Officer of the 2nd Battn., is a typical Hoosier gentleman. Soft spoken and with a friendly grin, he knows exactly what he wants and expects from every Midshipman; and the record of the 2nd Battn. proves that he is getting results. Since he had' to go through practically the same training that we are subject to, he knows and understands all of our pet peeves, our likes and our dislikes. As a matter of fact he says that our .indoctrination program was a snap compared to the one that he had to go through. When he graduated from Indiana University in 1942 with • a J.D. degree he intended to .practice law; but like everyone else he had to change his plans because of the war. He came to Notre Dame for his indoc. training only, and then was sent to Abbot Hall for his Midshipman course. Graduating in October 1942 he was sent back to Notre Dame where he was first an instructor in Navigation; then he was assigned Kis present job, Commanding Officer of the Second Battn. Like every officer on the base he wants active duty. He hopes that he will be detached to a battleship in September but he has been hoping for such an assignment ever since he graduated from Abbot Hall.
Mr. Austin was greatly concerned about what the fellows thought of the discipline, the classes and how they were conducted here at Notre Dame. He said the principle reason that this class of Midshipmen were below the previous classes in academic marks is because the -- present V-7 program is the stiffest ever given. The reason, for this, he explained, is that in previous classes too many men were commissioned and knew very little about the job which they had to perform. The prime objective now is to train us . so we will be a credit to the Navy as qualified officers, and rate high among the men whom “we are to lead.” Mr. Austin says that the biggest per cent of us will be sent to advance training schools and only a very small per cent will be sent directly to active duty upon •completion of this course.
Marine Corps News
The "Scholastic" regrets the absence of Marine Corps news in its pages, this week. This absence is due to the failure of Marine reporters to cover assignments. The “Scholastic" will welcome both copy and suggestions from the men -in Zahm and Cavanaugh Halls.
13
Notre Dame Sports
Sixty Candidates Report for Gridiron Practice
BY BILL CAREY
Hampshire. Milt is the second Notre Dame alumnus on the Big Green staff. Earle Brown, Notre Dame end of a few years back, and more recently head basketball mentor at Harvard University, is at present the big chief of the Indian Tribe.
One of Notre Dame’s greatest fullbacks, and the pride of Thompsonville, Conn., Moose was the first back to cap-
The 1943 model of the Irish “T”
rattled onto the sod of the Stadium for
the first time last Monday. About 60
Coach Leahy
candidates answered the call and spent the afternoon watching an exhibition by members of last year’s eleven.
Coach Frank Leahy explained the position of football in the service set up and out
lined his plans for summer practice. The first few weeks will be spent in drilling new men from other universities in the intricate play of the Notre Dame “T” formation. Few, if any, of the newcomers have had any experience with the style of play made famous by the Chicago Bears. For this reason workouts— to be taken in shorts— will stress
general conditioning, fundamentals and backfield timing.
The great majority of the group was comprised of men enlisted in the Navy V-12 and Marine programs on campus. There were also a number of July entry freshmen reporting for the first time.
Coach Leahy spoke as follows:
“We have waited until now to begin our drills because we wanted each and every one of you men to become solidly entrenched academically before adding other activities to your already crowded schedule. Most of you are off to a fairly good start scholastically speaking. Keep striving diligently to maintain a high class mark in all subjects. Otherwise we shall recommend that you discontinue football.
- “Realizing with absolute certainty that competitive sports in general, and football in particular, are so advantageous for all men preparing for military assignments, we hope sincerely that all of you can continue on. as football aspirants.	■	,
“We receive mail almost daily from young boys now on. Uncle Sam’s teams whom we’ve been privileged to coach in the past few years. Invariably each boy states that Lhe finest preparation he. ever received for his all important task of 14	; :	;
defeating the Nazis and Japs, was his training on the gridiron.
“The government is spending a vast sum of money and lots of time on all V-12 trainees. We intend to cooperate with them 100 per cent and we want to assure you at this time that we are more interested in helping you achieve the objective for which you were sent here, than we are in developing an outstanding football team. Sports and everything else are secondary. We have every reason to believe, however, that you will find time for competitive sports and your regular class work.”
"Moose" Piepul to Join
Dartmouth Coaching Staff
Milton John (Moose) Piepul, Captain of the 1940 Irish juggernaut, was recently named assistant coach of football at Dartmouth College, Hanover, New
Revive Interhall Diamond Competition
At long last campus interest has awakened from its musty slumber, and action has been taken to form interhall baseball and softball teams. ■
Credit for the revival, though claimed by many, must go to the old men of Sorin. Casting away the comfort of their front porch couches, they kidnapped a batting cage from Cartier and started softball practice on Chern Hall Field. After their play attained the desired mellow glow, a challenge was flaunted to the campus. Those wishing to answer will find the occupants of 109 Sorin only too happy to comply. At present the Sorinites are frothing for lack of oppo. sition..	' . - ’
The NROTC, however, has the most complete and efficient intra-floor schedule. It’s tops on campus.
Down in the Brownson and Carroll locker rooms, baseball equipment has . been taken down from locker tops and
"Moose" Piepul
tain an Irish eleven in thirteen years. His play in the seasons from 1938 to 1940 highlighted N.D. play. In his senior year he received widespread AllAmerican mention.
Milt left his position as Athletic Director of Cathedral High School, in Indianapolis to. assume his new duties.
squads formed. At present only the NROTC threatens to take the championship from under the Dome.
The religious at Dujarie and at Breen-Phillips also have fielded top flight clubs. The next move is up to the students.
The La Raza Club is at present polishing up its soccer play and is anxious to meet all comers. The South American lads have been, practicing regularly on the field in rear of the Law and Engineering Buildings.
Tennis and golf tournaments are planned in the near future. There has also been mention of an informal interhall track meet? Volley ball and swimming will be other activities on the . summer program.
:	The University’s interhall system has
in the past been considered one of the best among-American colleges. Let us
. hope' that the Notre Dame men of today will not let this tradition die. .
""" 1.......
Pressbox Splinters
BY BILL WADDINGTON
“Slip” Madigan’s Iowa football club is holding their summer session from seven to nine in the evening in order to avoid the hot sun.... The Big Nine rules allow four weeks of summer practice — the fall session legally starts Sept. 1. . . . Julius Franks, allstar nominee and last season’s choice for all conference
Bill Waddington g'uard> will again be available to Coach Fritz Crisler and the Wolverine eleven as a pre-dental student— . Texas A. & M. has only 1200 civilian students as compared with 7,000 in other years.... Coach Homer Norton has to work with a squad of men in which none has ever seen a minute of play on the Aggie’s home field.... Sid Luckman, Chicago Bears’ famed brainster, helped Clark Shaughnessy install the “T” formation at Pitt this summer.... Sid also thought that there is'a good chance of his not playing pro football this season.
Eighty candidates greeted Coach Elmer Burnham at Purdue, 30 of which have had former collegiate experience... The majority of this contingent are Navy V-12 men.... The University of Iowa’s “I” club is conducting a drive to raise funds for the Nile Kinnick Memorial Scholarship.... The scholarship will enable the needy to obtain college education.... Alex Agase, Illinois’ outstanding guard of last season, is practicing with the Boilermaker squad.
Charley Boot, former Cub hurler and present manager, of the Hollywood Stars, is convinced that he can still pitch the caliber of ball needed in the majors.... “Sure, I’d like to get back with a big league club. I’d like to show some of those wise guys like Jimmy Wilson and Jim Gallagher that I can still pitch winning ball up there”.... Charley recently passed the 44 year mark....
When^.the Southeastern conference opens .for competition this year, they won’t have the perennial power of the league since Tennessee has dropped foot-balLfor the duration. Seven members of^the conference have curtailed their gridiron activity._Bo McMillin of Indiana got his first-look of what he’ll have to work with this fall when the pigskin candidates reported for their initial practice last Wednesday.... In all, there
are 189 colleges that have dropped football with many more anticipated by curtain time this fall.... Strict army “no playing rule” and a lack of civilians has been the major cause_____
Ahmet M. Gokbora of Istanbul, Turkey has reported for football at Iowa... He’s a champion amateur boxer weighing 182 .... He knows nothing about the game but is willing to learn.... Cecil Isbell, Purdue’s star back of ’35, ’36, and ’37, has been signed to take over the backfield coaching duties of his former alma mater— . He replaces Mel Taube, who is on leave of absence with the United States Naval Reserve... All but Indiana and Iowa in the Big Nine have naval personnel stationed on the campus.... Army officials are very much against the traditional Army - Navy game_______ Only a presidential O.K. after a lot of talking by the Navy-got the contest through last year.... It’ll probably go through as a casualty on this year’s war list when all is said and done.
At Sheppard Field, Texas, the entire ball club is made up of left-handers, including the manager and the bat boy.... How about that double-play combination?.... “Red” Rolfe, former Yankee hotsacker and present basketball mentor at Yale has been issued three good N. Y. U. eagers by the V-12 set-up.-... The season ticket sales of the Detroit Lions are already up 25 per cent—is it due to Gus Dorais or not?
Evanston telephone wires are increasingly hot with requests for football season tickets for the Wildcats’ home games .... The Phillie-Pitt pro football squad will practice nights due to the dozen members that are employed in the “steel city’s” industrial plants.__ Indiana’s annually good cage squad have been contented with second place for the past five years in the Big Ten conference._ They captured the N.C.A:A. title in 1940, however.
Notre Dame Alumnus
Publishes New Book
Colonel Charles Sweeny, who attended Notre Dame in 1898-1899, is the author of Moment of Truth, a recent book which presents an unusual and informative viewpoint of the war and the events surrounding it.
Colonel Sweeny, a “professional soldier,” gives a startling indictment of
America’s complacency in his plea for total war. The book is one such as will bring much discussion and no doubt will be the subject of much controversy inasmuch as Sweeny has the soldier’s frankness and candor. It is a book, however, that will make many people stop and think, no matter what their reactions be to what he says.
The book begins with a scoring of America’s attitude as they approached the war. He adopts pessimism as his keynote and states that soldiers should not and cannot have the emotional and sentimental state of mind that the American public holds toward war.
Sweeny makes it clear that he detests the Germans and Japs but also points out his admiration of their military prowess, and their understanding of what war really means. He tells America, too, that it must make war its national industry and throw everything else in to discard until our aims have been achieved.
His knowledge and grasp of things military are a tribute to his extensive career and obvious intelligence. Sweeny makes many surprising announcements about the war and the approach to it and the military analyses make the Moment of Truth vital from this point alone.
The author attended .West Point after Notre Dame and started his professional career soon after in the Mexican Revolution of 1910-11. On the outbreak of the first World War he enlisted in the French Army, rising from private to captain, and was attached to the. staff of Marshall Joffre as aide-de-camp. He was promoted to the rank of major upon transferring to the American Army. After the war Major Sweeny organized and commanded the American Flying Squadron which served with the French Forces in Morocco against Abd-el-Krim. He had further North African experience in 1928-29 when he served as an assistant chief of a mission to study North Africa as a base of operations in the event of a general European War. This was not his first military mission for he had been a member of the one sent to Poland in 1919 under the command of General Weygand.
For the ten years preceding this war Col. Sweeny lectured frequently at the Ecole de Guerre in Paris on Tactical and Strategical subjects. After the fall of France he was appointed commander of the First Foreign Division to be formed with the' regiments of the Foreign Legion. In 1940, Colonel Sweeny organized and commanded the First Eagle . Squadron in England.
15
10 Magazines, Catholic Books Printed In Modern Ave Maria Press Building
JOE WILCOX
Back of the Biology Building, and viewed only by the inhabitants of that outpost of civilization, Breen - Phillips, though slightly visible to a few who dwell in Zahm, is situated one of the newest and most modern buildings on the Notre Dame campus.
The Ave Maria Press building, unfortunately seen only by those above mentioned gentlemen and a few brave gentry who dare to. face the perils of the long trek into the unknown, is the successor of the Civil War structure which housed The Ave Maria Press until January, 1941. The new building was the result of the combined efforts of Rev. William T. Craddick, C.S C., now prefect of religion; Brother M. Casimir, C.S.C., secretary of
The Ave Maria Press; and the Reverend Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., Provincial of Holy Cross Congregation. The architectural work was done by McGinnis and Walsh, of Boston, Mass., and construction by Thomas L. Hickey, of South Bend.
The predecessor of the new building was a two story structure built to print The Ave Maria, one of the pioneer Catholic magazines in the United States. For 75 years this building served The Ave Maria and its gradually expanding press. It was a conglomeration of criss-cross departments, built so that it was necessary for one department to do the same thing as the next, thus complicating the picture. As the years passed it became
increasingly apparent that such an arrangement could not efficiently serve the growing Ave Maria Press.
Accordingly, the new Ave Maria Press building was built on the rotation plan, which means that no department duplicates the work of another department. This plan required a careful layout of the 20,700 square ft. of space. It allows work to flow through the various departments in an orderly fashion and precludes any duplication at all.
After being cast on one of the five Intertype machines in the composing- room, copy is prcofread by two Sisters and, having' been corrected, is taken to the press room. This room contains a Webster-Nesbit system of air-conditioning which allows for the relative humidity which is necessary for keeping the paper in the best condition. The old plant had no humidifier, and when it was too dry.it was necessary to throw water on the floor to increase humidity. This procedure was hardly conducive to maximum efficiency, and it was complicated by the fact that it was often too wet. Therefore
"Scholastic" in the Making—Composing Room
the humidifiers were installed and the paper is kept in an excellent state of preservation.	’
Looking in the Press Room one can see the Miehle “Double 0” which can fold sheets at the rate of 325 feet a minute— a 50 per cent improvement over- earlier models—and can handle sheets up to 22 by 28 inches. The Miehle No. 41, a new machine acquired only a short time before the war, had a very limited output because it was only recently perfected and its production was halted with the war. Thus The Ave Maria Press has one of the few built. It is a single color-automatic feed and chain delivery, and will take sheets up to 28 by 40 inches. It is a masterpiece of construction and its chain drive feature is a great improvement in presses. The Miehle V-50 Vertical is perhaps the most remarkable of all. It will make 5,000 impressions per hour on
Air View of Ave Maria Building
Book Store
The Press Room
16
sheets ranging from 3 x 5 to 14 x 20 inches. It has stepped up production to a new high.
From the press room, where the work is printed and folded, it is taken to the binding room, where it is stitched. Then it is conveyed to the trimming and mailing room, which is adjacent. Here it is trimmed and mailed to the subscribers, of which The Ave Maria alone has over 45,000. If the work is a book it is sent to the binders.
Paper for the use of the press is kept in storerooms which are also humidified. Over 6,500 pounds of paper a month go into The Ave Maria presses.
The entire .plant is well heated, well lighted, and artificial light is unnecessary during the day. It has a staff of 56, of
which 21 are Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross. The offices are laid out in the most effective manner and are
The Bindery
manned by experts. In charge is Brother M. Casimir, C.S.C.
Some of the publications that roll off the presses are The Ave’Maria, first love of the Press, Alumnus, Annals of Our Lady of Lourdes, Scrip, The Catalyzer, The Review of Politics, The American Midland Naturalist, Santa Maria, Religious Survey, University of Notre Dame Catalogues, as well as Scholastic. It also prints a large number of books by Catholic authors, many of which are bcok forms of the serials which run in The Ave Maria. Now on the presses is Brother Andre of Mount Royal, by Katherine Burton, author of Sorrow Built A Bridge, a book dealing with the story of a famous Canadian religious Brother whose miracles are famous the world over.
। b>^—nj——na^— an—»»na-
•nt^— an—»au—
•au—nu^—tm—sb-
Pioneering in Aviation at Notre Dame
Zahm Brothers Experiment
The Notre Dame Scholastic was the medium of some of the most outstanding pioneer contributions to the science of aeronautical engineering.
Albert F. Zahm a graduate of the University in the Class of 1883 and for a decade thereafter a member of the graduate school and the University faculty, is heralded today as one of the great scientists in this field. He holds the Guggenheim Chair of Aeronautics in the Library of Congress and has for a half century been recognized as a leader in his. field of science.
During his undergraduate days and while he taught at ’Notre Dame, the Scholastic carried accounts and illustrations of his experiments with birds and with models, from which he derived some of the earliest practical applications of flying principles to heavier than air machines.
On August 1, 2, 3, and 4, 1893, just 50 years ago, Prof. Zahm called the first International Conference on Aerial Navigation ever held in this country. It assembled in Chicago during the Columbian Exposition there, with 0. Chanute as chairman, and Dr. Zahm as secretary.
The Notre Dame scientist read two vital papers . at that Conference, from which stemmed a confidence and an advance of scientific knowledge that led to ‘the successful flight of the Wrights at Kitty Hawk a decade later, the first .flight of man after, centuries of dream- . ing and experiment.
Dr. Zahm had built his equipment largely at Notre Dame, in the labora-
. tories of Science Hall. He flew gliders from the roofs of that building and other familiar heights. He constructed here a small wind tunnel, forerunner of his first, and the world’s first major wind tunnel which he later built at Catholic University. .
His classmates and faculty members joined in his experiments, although his own vision of successful flying was shared by few. He launched gliders of varying sizes, including a man-carrying model. He proposed the release of a model of this latter type from a balloon, but the finances of the University^ and himself were not adequate, and this experiment was not performed until years later at Santa Clara, with, however, the anticipated highly valuable results.
Dr. Zahm has subsequently taught at Catholic University, and was director for many ’years of the aerodynamic laboratories of the United States Navy, most effectively during World War I. His inventions have been outstanding contributions to the science of aeronautics in the half century since the first Conference.
It was in Chicago that , the aeronautical scientists of- the world achieved a status that no .longer bore the onus of eccentricity that had plagued their , earlier efforts. Dr. Zahm and Chanute' had agreed ahead of time to eliminate the cranks and avoid the bizarre proposals that had thrown other efforts into dis- . repute. It was also in the Chicago conference, that American scientists decided to leave the well developed. science of balloons to the Europeans who had done
well with it, and to concentrate in this country on- the flying machine. Dr. Zahm, at that early date, predicted the construction of all-steel- machines, with multiple passenger possibilities.
And during all these years, the distinguished scientist has been an outstanding Catholic layman, receiving the Laetare Medal from Notre Dame in 1925, and the Mendel Medal from Villanova in 1930. His brother was the distinguished priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Rev. Dr.. John A. Zahm, C.S.C., himself a scientist of fame, an author, and a traveler. The East mural in the University cafeteria commemorates Father Zahm’s trips to South America, and his books on that country were among the early recognitions of a need for Latin American understanding in this country.
Notre Dame laboratories have cradled many significant developments of science in this country. Here, in the chemistry laboratories, Father Nieuwland worked with the acetylene reactions that produced many contributions to progress, including the basic formulae for synthetic rubber. In the physics laboratories, Prof. Jerome Greene built the first wireless mechanism to successfully send a message in this country.	;
And as America’s air power paves the way for a world victory for the United Nations it magnifies the significance of the work done in the science and engineering laboratories of Notre Daine in the ’80s and ’90s by Albert F. Zahm, pioneer scientist in the field of aeronautics.	. ’' ?
. 17-

team has met both naval and military R.O.T.C.’s, and as a result, has carried a full schedule. Meets this year should be even more numerous, with little time for breathers in between.
All-American Hoop Ace in Marine Training Ranks
By Jack Conron
A glance at the records established by Phillip show clearly why he was regarded as one of the all-time cage greats of this country. In 12 conference games he dumped in 25-5 points to set a new Big Ten scoring mark.
Lt- (jg) A. E. Coryn, officer in charge, ; called the team together at a recent meeting, at which plans were outlined for the coming season. It was agreed that activities during the summer would be confined almost entirely to practice, depending upon the . class schedules of the 13 members.
•Inconspicuous among the 700 Marine trainees on the campus is one of the nation’s most highly touted athletes, Andy Phillip. Followers of basketball need no introduction to the Illinois “Whiz Kid” who garnered just about all the Big Ten cage honors handed out last winter.
Right now he is grooming himself for a spot on the Notre Dame baseball team. A right hander, Andy will be one of
Coach Jake Kline’s mainstays during the forthcoming season.
During the past baseball season Andy recorded eight wins against three defeats in Big Ten competition. In addi-- tion to his hurling prowess he also managed to bat .382, good for second place on the Illinois roster. When not on the mound, the cage star occupied a spot in the field.
A native of Granite City, Ill., Andy entered the Marines last October. Because of his military experience at Illinois he has been named a squad leader in the first platoon of Marine Co. F.
18
It-is only fair to point out that this total was poured through the hoop while opponents made every effort to stop his drive for conference honors.
His big night on the hardwood came against Chicago when he racked up 40 points to post an individual scoring record.
Perhaps his greatest achievement was his walkaway with Big T6n all-time scoring honors. In his two years of com- -petition Andy scored 414 points. The previous record was 396 points established over a three year period. The new titleholder posted his total in 27 games.
Recognition of his outstanding achievements came at the end of the season when he was named to the all-American cage quintet.
A senior, Andy will be missing when, the cage season rolls around but when he returns to Illinois to complete his competition he will undoubtedly round out his basketball career in a fashion . that will place him among cage immortals.
Alan Guard to Captain
N.R.O.T.C. Rifle Team
Upon official recommendation from the . University in the form of minor letter awards for the members of last year’s varsity, the Naval R.O.T.C. rifle team, has achieved the singular distinction of being the first naval organization to represent Notre Dame in intercollegiate competition.	'
Alan H. Guard, a junior, has . been elected to captain the squad for the coming semester. In addition to Guard, , the letter winners announced include: Fin-elli, Zenicker, Seghers, Belmont, Mahar, Harlan, Lamb and Moore.
Present plans indicate that the team will continue to function as an N. R. O. T.C. team, scheduling other naval units in its regular matches. In the. past the
The purchase of. several pieces of equipment was suggested to increase the efficiency . of the team, with shooting jackets and five new rifles heading the list. A spotting scope to check accuracy of shots has been donated.
The team members expect this to be their best year so far, principally because of their two years of experience. They feel that with constant practice this summer they .will develop a high scoring squad.
First Battalion Sports
With the completion of the first round of intramural play one team from the First Battalion looks like a sure winner of the regimental championship. Rolling through all competition, the First Company “A”, Softball team has only two ties to niar an otherwise perfect record.
Last week Captain R. A. Adams club easily defeated Company 9, and was held to a scoreless tie by a surprisingly strong Fourth Company team.
Another strong Lyons baseball club is the Third Company ten, which is trailing . the leaders by a narrow margin. Both the Second and Fourth Company teams are a little spotty, but are capable of upsetting the leaders at any time.
Company Three still leads in B soft-ball with a strong infield, good hitting, and excellent pitching. The former battalion leaders, Company One, suffered another setback last week at the hands of Company Nine, but came back to take the fourth company in an 11 to 9 wild hitting contest.
George Ceithaml’s strong Second Company football team has-fully recovered
. > (Continued on. page 23)
N.R.O.T.C. Teams Form New Softball League
By Joe Fahey
Don’t be surprised to see half of the occupants of the U. S. S. Walsh hanging out of the windows after supper in the future. Those windows are the bleacher seats to view the biggest softball doings on the campus. The N.R.O.T.C., through the efforts of Jack Houghteling, has led the halls in sponsoring and equipping the intrahall softball competition. ’ It is a well planned program which should be ‘ an incentive to all other halls.
Here’s the setup. The R.O.T.C. boys, feeling the need to devote a little of their spare time to competitive athletics, organized the Walsh Athletic Association. Jack Houghteling was named president to organize and outline a sports program . for the unit. Jack’s committee first attempted to organize a four team softball loop. The idea was to have each deck (floor to you) sponsor one team. This seemed to meet with the general approval of the boys for over 120 names were submitted for entry on the teams. Ordinarily, providing equipment for such a large number of contestants would be a problem, but again the R.O.T.C. was equal to the occasion. Every member in the unit paid a one dollar membership •
fee in the Athletic Association, and out of this fund the necessaary equipment was purchased. The team of each deck elected a captain to lead them through the current campaign. Those chosen were Frank Beaudine, Don Hummer, Bill Klem, and Charles (Bud) Seghers.
The league, though a few practice games have already been played, officially opened Tuesday, July 27 and games will be played thereafter each Tuesday and Thursday until late in September. Each team will play 18 games all of which. are governed by a strict set of rules which cover- playing. time, pass balls, stolen bases, and other controversial issues. At the completion of the schedule a medal will be presented by the Association to the winning team. At present the First deck looks like the favorite but it is expected that the Fourth will be breathing hot on its neck . right down to the wire. The bats of Captain Beaudine and Al Bohn should be the main factors in pushing the First to victory. The league also boasts a few good pitchers in Dan Hecht, Bud Capro, and Captain Seghers who serves them up , for the Fourth. But no matter how you look at it, it is expected to be a hot race right down to the finale. If the league promises to be successful the Association also hopes to provide golf and tennis tournaments and to sponsor dances.


Williams the Florist
for anyone ANYWHERE
Flowers .say so much for so little. .
FLOWERS WIRED
a

Williams the Florist
West of the Oliver Hotel Phone 3-5149



PARKER-WINTERROWD
115% N. MAIN ST. — UPSTAIRS — NORTH OF OLIVER HOTEL
Oldest GadaM.
. EACH AND EVERY GARMENT TAILORED TO YOUR MEASUREMENTS
ALL GARMENTS MEASURED AND FITTED IN OUR OWN FITTING ROOM ’
ENSIGN SUITS
SERGE. 16 OZ. -ELASTIQUE, 16 OZ. WHIPCORD. 16 OZ. WIDE WALE SERGE,
.	.	38.00
.	.	47.00
.	.	47;OO	-
16 OZ. 47.00
WHITE TWILLS AND
KHAKI GABARDINES -
WHITES, TWO FOR 25.00
KHAKI .	.	.	17.00
THE NEW GRAY, including BUTTONS .	17.00
Custom Tailored to Your Measurements
RAINCOATS
SERGE .	.	42.00
ELASTIQUE .	42.00
WHIPCORD .	42.00
ALL ACCESSORIES AT REASONABLE PRICES
I9
BOOKSTORE
is
SERVING SERVICE MEN
Navy, Marines and N. D. Students:
Have your insignia on your correspondence
When you want to remember THE FOLKS AT HOME Let us suggest souvenirs.
ATTENTION:
Watch for the miniature Notre Dame Rings for girls.
Also
SOAPS
TOILET ARTICLES
FOUNTAIN PENS
SUPPLIES
> NOTRE DAME
► BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall •
THE EARS HAVE IT
By Vail W. Pischke =^==^==^=====^==1^
Democracy, however you may choose to define it, is necessarily demonstrated within our “Freedoms Of.” Freedom of Speech, Religion, etc., are essential parts of our American way of living, and nowhere better illustrated than in the private use of Radio in our country. It’s an industry which preaches democracy twenty-four hours a day— sometimes forcefully, sometimes violently, or sometimes casually, subtlely or intellectually, but always there in one form or another. For example, our Chicago Round-Table discussions have aroused the intellectual interests of the country by its weekly professor-guests and their learned opinions on contro
versial subjects. The value of this show is beyond question to CBS officials and their public, but there is another show which is much more aggressive—a show which defies all radio codes requiring written scripts, perfectly timed shows, or at least extemporaneous preparation. This show is the “Town Hall” program, aired coast-to-coast and locally heard over WLS on Tuesday evenings at 8:00. Its director conducts the program like a debating organization, plus audience participation. This latter' qualification is where the dynamite comes in, for after the pro and con guests have given their views on the subject the audience is invited to join in, not merely by asking questions, but by “speaking their piece” over the mike, if they wish to. Sometimes this policy gets the director of the show in hot water and he literally has to gag, slug, tackle, and use other very uncultured means to end the radical’s too-radical-for-the-air point of view. Two weeks ago this very thing happened—all we could hear was a muffling sound, followed by the emcee’s forced giggle. Three weeks ago a fella who had been heckling the speaker’s opinions for ten or fifteen minutes was asked to come up on the platform to express his contra view. He balked at the offer so the emcee took a special mike down to him! He had little to say, but at least he got his gripe out in the open—he expressed his opinion on the same grounds and air time that : the “expert speakers” had... All .of which
is another way of demonstrating de-. . .. mocracy in radio—and in a very practical way.	.	.
STUFF ’N SECH: Beat the band -may take Red Skelton’s spot, if the army takes up the comic’s option. . . Stan
SERVICE MEN
You are always
at the Navy Canteen
Make your Canteen your Club
Regulation Haberdashery Candy Cigarettes Coca-Cola Gum Cigars
Zero Deck of the Dining Hall
20
Kenton’s music will be for Bob Hope in the fall. . . Fred Allen is through with radio for at least a full year, on doctor’s orders. . . They say John Charles Thomas (only one guy) made his debut at 4 and his first line was: “I am a little sensitive plant”. . . The old custom of manufacturers sending samples of theii' products to radio performers who mentioned them on the air was taken up by the public after a Jimmy Durante Broadcast. . . The Great Schnozzola mentioned that he had a half. interestin a potato, and listeners sent in enough potatoes to feed Jimmy and the whole cast for the rest of the summer. . . Anne Nichols has been asked by the OWI to pen two “Abie’s Irish Rose” scripts for overseas broadcast to the Armed Forces. . . Dinah Shore’s disc
Library Demands Show Definite Trend in War
BY AL LESMEZ
It took the service men several weeks to find the main library; only a handful trickled in the first two weeks, and even fewer came the third week. But with the beginning of exacting homework assignments which definitely required library aid and research, a general clientele began to make use of the more than 250,000 volumes which our complete library system contains.
Ever since the war began, the library has tended toward the technical and scientific. Books on aviation, electronics,
The Main Library
synthetics, international policies and autobiographies have come in ever increasing numbers. Always, however, the library has managed to have a rich assortment of modern fiction. Best sellers and popular novels have always been in high demand by the student body.
But the library, along with the other facilities of the University, has undergone a noticeable change since the coming of the services to the campus. The taste for novels has momentarily ceased; the appetite is for the military. Apparently the trainees have decided to learn
of “Murder, He Says” is one of the six current most popular records with America’s college students according to a survey by Esquire Magazine. . . . Kay Kyser is working in three films at the same time in order- to make time to entertain the boys in service overseas. . . . Burns and Allen are scheduled to return to CBS again next season.
LOCAL LOCALE: Last week’s campus radio try-outs for WSBT’s shows aired from ND’s WND (involved, isn’t it?) brought over fifty new men into the local radioites ranks. . . The first meeting will be held on Tuesday, August 3rd, at 3:15 in the Radio Studio (3rd floor, 'Engineering Building). Watch for the announcement of the campus show’s schedule next week.
as much as possible about their respective services.
Daily the library is swamped by requests for such books as The Naval Official Guide, Naval Customs and Traditions, Laymen’s Guide to Naval Strategy, and the Army-Navy Guide.
Popular are the romanticized, but true stories of high adventure and cold bravery found in such books as Life Out There by Sergeant Johnny Bartek, Mitchell—Pioneer of Air Power by Isaac Don Levine, The War at Sea by Gilbert Cant, Combined Operation (the official
story of the Commandos), and Guadalcanal Diary.
But the trend to the military is not complete. There are still many who ask for Random Harvest (the favorite right now), The Robe by Douglas, Saroyan’s The Human Comedy, and Gideon Planish by Sinclair Lewis, along with numerous other modern novels which, though not quite as new, are just as popular.
The latest count shows that there are 600 new members to the library, in spite of the slow beginning library circulation had this semester.
FOR ALL EVENTS Make Your Barber Headquarters
CYR'S
SOUTH BEND'S LEADING BARBER SHOP
100 South Main Street (Across from the Courthouse) 8-6 Week Days 8-7 Saturdays
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at • South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF
RECEDING HAIRLINE. FREE EXAMINATIONTREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
21
V-12 NEWS
By Joe Plante
It is rumored that Co. E is considered the best drilled and best disciplined company of seamen in the V-12 program. All we can say is that not every company can boast of an “Admiral.” Anyway, as the saying goes—tell it to the Marines.
Has anyone ever tried to explain the sound resembling the crying of a baby coming from Dillon Hall last Friday noon???
Here’s one for the books. Two V-12 seamen were seen sleeping soundly in a local bowling alley while waiting for an open alley. Too much obstacle course we guess. Some one reports that the Cozy Coffin Co. donated material and plans for the course.
In case you see some swell looking uniforms around, the N.R.O.T.C. is inside of them. What will the seamen do in South Bend with so many gallant looking uniforms competing.
The question of the week is “When do we get paid?” and how much will there be left of the fifty dollars when we see it. Some say, it’ll happen around August Sth—but who knows.
Comm. William Howell
Heads Naval Units
By D. H. Pickett, Jr.
As executive officer of the V-12 and N.R.O.T.C. units on the Notre Dame campus, Commander William Howell has seen this school become one of the leading midwest naval schools.
Upon graduation from Annapolis in 1933, he was assigned to the U. S. S. Trenton, a light cruiser stationed on the West coast. For five years he remained aboard this ship. In 1938 he was assigned to the U. S. S. Dorsey, a high speed target towing and mine sweeping destroyer. It was while aboard her that a 5-inch projectile whistled between the bridge and the first stack. Such incidents as this one made life aboard the Dorsey interesting. His next duty was aboard the U. S. S. Louisville, a heavy cruiser. On her he did considerable cruising, traveling more than 50,000 miles in a year’s time.
. In September of 1941, he was ordered from Honolulu to Notre Dame to aid in establishing the N.R.O.T.C. unit and to become one of its instructors. And since,
22
he has seen the inauguration of the Indoctrination school and the birth of the Midshipmens’ school, the additions of V-12 and the Marine Corps Reserve.
Achievement and discipline are evident in him—but there is more, an intangible impression of standards, loyalties and a code which is not easily put into words but which is instantly felt. It is a placid determination to do perfectly what must be done perfectly, namely the task of instilling the code of a gentleman and that of an officer of the Navy of the United States into the hearts of each man that comes undei' his supervision.
DO YOU DIG IT?
Submitted by Joe vander Werff University of Washington
SEND US YOUR SLANG AND GET $10 IF WE USE IT
Address: College Dept., Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N. Y.
Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island City, N.Y. Bottled locally by Franchised Bottlers.
An insistent loyalty is the keynote to the trust that men have in him. Strict justice, though bitter medicine to the naval student at times, is for his own good and for the good of the victorious end toward which he is striving.
Rat Trap	J
Father Bernard Hubbard, Santa Clara J university’s Glacier Priest, who lectured at Notre Dame last year, thinks it would be a mistake to force the Japanese out of Kiska right now since Kiska is “a J rat trap.”
LAWYERS FROLIC TOMORROW (Continued from page 5)
A warning is hereby issued that no girl should put anything into writing, however. Remember how foolish you felt the last time someone sued you for breach of promise?
Marty Ross and his ten piece orchestra will keep everyone well supplied with music, and any of you who have heard him know that there’ll be plenty of quality to go with the quantity.
Bids for the dance are three of the usual depreciated American dollars, and the Law Club invites every student, Marine, V-12, V-7 and N.R.O.T.C. man to purchase one and tag along for the fun before they spend all their money on something foolish, like text books or a solid dinner in the Caf.
One o’clock permissions have been granted to all those going to the dance, and there’s even a slim hope that if you could get a car (which is just some more of the Scholastic’s lame humor) you might be able to get permission through the usual channels to use it.
Patrons for the dance will be Dean Manion, Mrs. L. Ashbrook, Mr. and Mrs.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
Campus Centenary Publications
Notre Dame—100 Years $4.00
Collected Poems of
Chares L. O’Donnell $2.50
. . . at the Bookstore
Rollison, Mr. and Mrs. E. Richter, and Mr. Paul Fenlon.
So whereas, tomorrow night’s doings are going to be something no one will want to miss, the Law Club is expecting to see every Notre Dame man somewhere in their Conga line.
WEEKLY ENTERTAINMENT (Continued from page 6) the Rockne Memorial lounge, at 4 o’clock, Navy men in particular will be interested in a lecture on personal experience in the Orient by Prof. T. Bowyer Campbell, with emphasis on the Japanese.
On Sunday, Sept. 5, in the Rockne lounge at 4 o’clock, of equal interest to Navy men, and to students of art and architecture, Prof. Frank Montana will display and comment on a very unusual collection of colored photographic slides made by him in the various countries of the Mediterranean while a Beaux Arts student. Many of the places presented are current news. Some of the buildings have been involved in news of the Mediterranean conflict.
The first semester series of these Sunday afternoon hours will close on Sept. 12, at 4 o’clock, in Sacred Heart Church, with a special musical program of general interest, details of which are not yet completed.
The University believes that the midshipmen, particularly, and many of the students of V-12 and the civilian departments, will enjoy these opportunities to meet with professors and discuss subjects not included in the present intensified programs.
The committee hopes to keep the meetings informal, and to encourage discussion afterward within the particular fields, to further interest and entertain those participating.
Details, or any necessary changes, will be announced in the SCHOLASTIC from week to week.
FIRST BATTALION SPORTS (Continued from page 18) from its setback by the first company club to take two games last week and win the first round with only one defeat and one tie. The First Company gridmen are close behind with one defeat and two ties; and Company Three is in third place with two defeats.
Company Three still holds the lead in nucom but the Second Company is not far behind. Both the Fourth and First Company teams are still looking rm-impressive.
Following a suggestion made by Lt. A. P. Brown, new athletic director, last week, the men from Lyons are organizing a tennis team. Competition is expected to get underway this week.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. DJJ.S. CYRIL F. ROSE, DJJ.S. ' PETER J. ROSE, DJJ.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
. DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend. Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building:
1». E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton, MJD.
Notre Dame
HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES CANDY
TOBACCO PIPES
23
■ Maa, Adlel Co-.
South Bend's Quality Store since 1913-
FOR NAVY MEN — Store Open Saturday 'til 9 P. M.; Sunday all day
NAVY MEN
We are appointed by the U. S. Navy as official distributors of Navy Officers’ Uniforms
PRICES ESTABLISHED BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM, $40 — OVERCOAT, $50 RAINCOAT WITH REMOVABLE WOOL LINING, $37.50 NAVY CAP WITH DEVICE, $10.50
SEE THE NEW SLATE GREY WORK UNIFORMS — $15.38 UP
Dunhill
Made to Measure
NAVAL UNIFORMS
Expertly tailored and styled to your individual measurements
KNOX
KNOX OFFICER'S CAP
Premier Quality with 3 covers
S1850

MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER . . Michigan at Washington
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from doivntown bus terminal.