Notre Dame Scholastic.
I>is<ee quasi semper victurus; vivo quasi eras morituins.
Vol. XV. '	• NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 29, 18S2.	No. 33.
The Bells of Lynn.
HEARD AT NAHANT.
O Curfew of the setting sun! O Bells of Lynn 1
O requiem of the dying day! 0 Bells of Lynn!
From the dark belfries of yon cloud-cathedral wafted, Your sounds aerial seem to float, 0 Bells of Lynn!
Borne on the evening wind, across the crimson twilight, O’er land and sea they rise and fall, 0 Bells of Lynn!
The fisherman in his boat, far put beyond the headland, Listens, and leisurely rows ashore, O Bells of Lynn!
Over the shining sands the wandering cattle homeward
• Follow each-other at your call, O. Bells of Lynn!
The distant lighthouse hears, and with his flaming signal Answers you, passing the watchword on, O BellsofLynn!
And down the darkening coast run the tumultuous singers, And clap their hands, and shout to you, O Bells of Lynn! ’Till from the shuddering sea, with your wild incantations, Ye summon up the spectral moon, O Bells of Lynn!
And startled at the sight, like the weird woman of Eudor, Ye cry aloud, and then are still, O Bells of Lynn!
Longfellow.
Pietro Angelo Secchi, S. J.
The same Church that protected, in the early datyn of Clnistianity the newly-born arts and sciences, that cherished a Michael Angelo and Leonardo da Vinci, and from whose religious orders have come the greatest lights in the progress of their times, and still protects, in this century of culture and progress, literature, art and science,—now cherishes a Newman and a Mivart, and from her priesthood come scientists of whom the worldmay well feel proud.	'
Reggio, a quaint old city near Modena, in northern Italy, numbers among its most illustrious sons * Father Pietro Angelo Secchi, of the Society of Jesus, who was born there, of respectable parents, June 29, 1818. At an early age he was sent to the Jesuits’ school in his native place, where he gained a thorough knowledge of the literature of his country and became distinguished in the study of Greek and Latin. On November 3d, 1833, at the age of 15, Angelo Secchi entered the Society of Jesus, and studied mathematics under the famed Father Francisco de Vico. Soon, afterwards he was sent to Rome to study philosophy at the Roman College, and was for a year'Professor of Grammar
in the same institution. At this period, while teaching mathematics and physics in the college of-Nobles, Father Secchi manifested that wonderful talent- which in aftei* life made him so famous. From 1841 to 1843 he occupied the chair of physics in the Jesuit College at Loreto, and in the following year returned to Rome to commence his theological studies.
Three years later, when the Pope was forced to leave Rome, and the Jesuits were expelled, Father Secchi repaired to Stonyhurst, England, where, in 1847, he was ordained priest. In November of the next year he came to Georgetown College, D. C., where he lectured on mathematics and physics, and began studying astronomy. During his stay he became acquainted with many of the leading American scientists, such as Captain Maury, then director of the Naval Observatory, and Prof. Henry, the celebrated sage of the . Smithsonian Institute. With the latter, Father Secchi was on terms of the most intimate friendship, aiding him in his experiments on the temperature of the various regions of the sun. This intimacy did much to foster in the young priest a • love for original research, the experiments in the Smithonian laboratory directing his steps in the direction in which he has attained such brilliant. . results. From Captain Maury he received ideas on nautical meteorology which he ever afterwards -maintained in Europe. While at the college, he wrote his “ Researches on Electrical Rheometry,” which were published in the third volume of the “ Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.” For . which Father Secchi made all the apparatus, as many of then! were very costly. Though still a novelty, the spectroscope was then bringing forth every day new wonders, and the learned Italian hastened to apply it to solar physics.
By this time peace had been re-established in Rome and the Jesuits recalled. As Father de Vico, the director of the Roman Observatory, had . < died in London while returning, Father Secchi was appointed in September, 1849, to take his place, and in 1850 he set out for the Holy City. His first duty was to remodel and refit the old observatory. But through the generosity of Pope Pius IX he was enabled to erect, in 1852, a new one over the Church of St. Ignatius, and to equip .. it with all the requirements needed to study astronomy in its latest developments.
Father Secchi was an unceasing worker.. Assisted by an able staff, he daily collected together numer
504	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ous observations, which he discussed with a rare accuracy and precision, and subjected them to all the tests afforded by modern science. Every day he carefully photographed and minutely examined the sun’s surface. The results of his labors are contained in many interesting works, besides which he wrote over 300 memoirs and articles for different learned societies in Europe. The results of his most ardent labors, however, are given in his great work on the sun, which was written in French, a language that the learned Jesuit spoke with native fluency. In this book he treats of the Sun’s structure, its place among the heavenly bodies, and its influence over them. He ‘ shows that the sun’s heat is decreasing i° in every 4,000 years, and that it is maintained by the constant gravitation of the gaseous mass towards the centre. The part relating to the solar spots is especially interesting. .
In 1846-7, Father Secchi wrote on electric magnetism and the transmission of signals. Ten years later he built at the expense of the Papal-treasury a magnetic observatory to find the relation between the sun-spots and the magnetic disturbances on the earth, and found that the years of greater sun-spots were also the years of greater disturbances.
During four years Father, Secchi experimented with the earth currents on a telegraph wire 31 miles in length, and observed that they really exist, have a fixed direction, and are greatly increased in intensity by magnetic storms.
Father Secchi observed the total eclipse of the sun, July 1S, 1S65, from the Mediterranean coast of Spain, where he. made a fine photographic record of its various phases and proved that the’ flame-like protuberances were real. He watched the corona of the eclipse of December, 1870, from Argosta, and found that different spectra could be obtained from its different regions. In 1863, Father Secchi founded the Society of Italian Spec-troscopists. He established, through the liberality of the Pope, a system of meteorological observatories in the Papal States, and soon afterwards constructed the meteorograph, for which he received, at the Paris Exhibition of 1867 the “great prize” from the hands of Napoleon HI, the. decoration of officer of the Legion of Honor, and from the Emperor of Brazil the title of the Grand Dignitary of the Golden Rose. From 1862 up to his death he published a monthly Meteorological Bulletin” devoted to the advancement of science in Italy. Besides being a great astronomer and physicist, Father Secchi was a good mathematician and engineer. He was commissioned by Pius IX to continue the trigonometrical survey of the Papal. States, begun in T751 by the learned Father Bosco-vich, and also to correct the measurements made on an arc of a meridian. As an engineer he supplied Rome with water from Frosinone, a distance of 48 miles, and placed refracting light-houses in the harbors of the Papal States.
Father Secchi was a voluminous writer. Nearly every topic in science, especially ;in astronomy, has been treated by his masterly pen. He was a per
fect master, of his subjects, and expressed his ideas with elegance and precision. At an early date he wrote valuable works on the Rings of Saturn, the planets Mars, Venus, and Uranus, and also on the Nebulae, the Asteroids, and the Moon. His most important wdrksj however, were written in after life, and are: The Unity of Physical Forces, A Physical Picture of the Solar System, The Sun, and The Stars.	.	■
Many societies and governments sought the assistance of this gifted Jesuit, who was a member of nearly every learned society in Europe, including the Royal Society, of England, the Paris Academy of Science, the Royal Irish Academy, the Imperial Academy of St. Petersburg, and the Nuovi Lyn-cei, of Italy. When Rome was taken by the Italian Government, and the Jesuits were again expelled, Father Secchi was allowed to retain his place and to lecture on astronomy in the ecclesiastical schools. But when Pope Pius IX wished to send him to the International Congress relating to the Metre, winch was held in Paris in 1873, Father Secchi was admitted only as a representative of the science of astronomy and not of the Pope. In 1875 the government sent him on a scientific mission to Sicily.	.	.
In 1877 Father Secchi’s health became so af- • fected as to prevent him from doing active work, and in the fall of the same year he* was taken with a painful illness. Though suffering acute bodily pains, his mind remained unimpaired, and he retained to the last his energy in scientific researches, especially in those connected with his life-work, the sun. Every day, his assistants went to his room and discussed with him the results of . the day’s observations. After a short and painful illness, Father Angelo Secchi died at Rome, in the bloom of his manhood, Tuesday evening, Feb. 26, 1878.	;
, In his private life, Father Secchi was simple, retiring, and beloved by all who knew him. When led to converse on his favorite subjects he became eloquent and forcible. May his bright example induce others to continue in the course that he so successfully commenced. •	.
Robert M. Anderson, ’83.
Spontaneous Generation.
ABSTRACT OF A PAPER READ BEFORE THE NOTRE DAME SCIENTIFIC ASSOCIATION. •
Whether all the life of the earth sprang from some mere spark in the dim beginning, or whether all its diversity on land, in sea and air, sprang into perfect existence, each after its kind, or whether the origination of life is still within the compass of nature, are questions as fascinating as they are difficult to answer.	•
The doctrine that certain forms of animal life spring directly from nature without haying parents, is an ancient speculation. Long ages before Christ, Aristotle, the Greek philosopher,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
taught that eels and also some kinds of fish originated from the slime and mud at the bottom of rivers. Shell-fish were supposed to be without parental origin, and caterpillars the spontaneous product of the leaves on which they fed. Indeed, spontaneous generation was regarded in ancient " times as one of the regular and natural methods for the production of living forms.
1	The celebrated physiologist Dr. Wm. Harvey,
'* the discoverer of the circulation of the blood, first propounded the modern view, expressed in the maxim, “No life without antecedent life.” He maintained that all living beings proceed from cggs, but exactly what he meant by eggs, whether they were always derived from parental organisms, or originated in other ways, is unknown.
The greatest change of opinion on this subject was introduced by Francesco Redi, in 1668. He exposed fresh meat in summer weather, in widemouthed bottles which were protected by pieces of paper fastened over their necks. In bottles thus secured np maggots were produced, notwithstanding the putrefaction of the meat went on as usual; while in other bottles, unprotected, maggots swarmed in abundance at the accustomed time. It was evident, therefore, that their origin was due to something introduced from without, and it soon appeared that they were the progeny of flesh-flies, < which, attracted by the odor of the meat, hovered over it and deposited their eggs upon its surface. These eggs hatched into maggots, and after a certain time were transformed into insects like their parents.
Soon the microscope appeared, bringing into view many minute forms of life unknown before, and dividing the scientific world into two hostile camps. The multiplicity, variety, and small forms of these newly-discovered animals rendered it impossible, at first, to determine their mode of origin, and so, in regard to many of them, the idea of • spontaneous generation was again adopted. This was especially the case with the class called Infusoria, that is, microscopic animals living in water, or in water containing vegetable infusions. Inves-' tigations on this point were now-taken up afresh; experimenters boiled the watery infusion to destroy the vitality of any germs which might exist in it, and afterwards kept it, with a supply of air, in sealed flasks. If, now, living forms made their apI pearance, they must be attributed to spontaneous generation; if not, they-must be considered as de-| pendent on the introduction of germs. These experiments were tried by different observers with different results, according to the extent of precautions adopted; but the general conclusion, derived particularly from the experiments of Spallanzani, in 1775, was that a boiling of a few minutes p destroyed all the more highly-organized infusoria, and if the boiling were prolonged for half an hour it effectually prevented the appearance of any form of life whatever.
In the modern renewal of the question of spontaneous generation, another element has had its in*	fluence, that is the idea of evolution as accounting
1	for the present existence of organic life uppn the
earth. It is assumed that there was once a period in the history of the earth when, from its elevated temperature and the combination of chemical elements, life could not possibly exist upon it; that as living beings afterwards appeared, they must necessarily have originated by the spontaneous organization of inanimate materials; and that the primitive and imperfect structures have gradually, by modification and descent, given rise to all the forms of life now on the earth. The question concerning the infusoria, which had been regarded for some years as settled, was re-opened in 1858, by M. Pouchet. His views were upheld by many other eminent experimenters, among whom were the celebrated naturalists Mantegazza and Bastian. They were opposed by others of equal reputation, amongst whom were Pasteur aed Tyndall, and the weight of the discussion turned for a time on the dissemination of germs in the atmosphere as the supposed source of life in organic infusions. The bearing of the experiments which ensued was as follows: If it were the constituent gasses of the atmosphere alone which excited the spontaneous growth of living forms, then the production of these forms should follow with the same readiness in all localities, because the gaseous condition of the atmosphere is everywhere the same. But if, in order' to produce life, the atmosphere must bring with it the organic germs, then the locality might make a difference in the result; for these particles would naturally vary in abundance in different regions. Investigation showed that there was a very considerable difference, according to the place where the air was admitted.
But now a new difficulty began to be appreciated. It had not before been disputed that a boiling tem- ■ perature would destroy the vitality of all infusoria and their germs. This gradually began to be doubted, the more so as it was observed that the time during which the boiling was continued had an influence on the subsequent appearance of life in the infusion. Jeffries Wyman, in 1867, showed that in infusions of a certain kind the minute forms known as bacteria might appear even after boiling; that the longer the boiling was continued the fewer the instances in which they developed; and that they never made their appearance in infusions which had been boiled for five or six hours continuously. But Dr. Bastian’s experiments, which seem to have been conducted with much precaution, force upon him the conclusion that several organisms are products of the direct development of newborn specks of matter. He sealed hermetically the flasks containing the infusion, and produced above it almost a vacuum. After this the flasks were subjected to a heat of almost 4000 Fahr. Then,-being left a few days under favorable circumstances, and examined, they were found to contain living creatures.
The only way of escaping these experiments seemed to be by asserting that although the organisms which are produced in the flask are killed by a temperature much below that to which the flasks were subjected, yet, the germs from which they have been produced are not §p killed. Accord’
5o6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
ing to Dr. Bastian, to avoid admitting that these animals originate of themselves, we must assume that the germs of bacteria possess different physical' properties from themselves, and that they are uninjured by an exposure of four hours to a temperature of 3000 Fahr. But a single experiment which proves that organic infusions protected from g;erms from without do not give birth to infusoria is worth ten experiments to establish the contrary opinion; for as far as science has advanced, it is absolutely known that at some period in the ’ cycle of development the lowliest organisms are dependent for their propagation upon genetic products. Manifestly, then, it must be weighty and even irresistible evidence that will induce one to conclude that Nature’s otherwise universal method is changed in this outmost part of organized beings. Mere reasoning could never accomplish this; it must be undisputed fact. But no such facts as these are before us at all, and as we are dealing with organisms so minute as to elude all but the last optical instruments, and of whose development nothing is known from actual observation, we cannot conclude, upon the conflicting testimony of boiled infusions, yielding often, even in the same hands, uncertain results, and in different hands conflicting ones, that organic nature, whose method of reproduction is the same as far as certain science goes, changes her method in this uncertain region.
Charles McDermott.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—M. Claudio Jannet publishes in La Reforme Sociale a’ study on Le Socialisme Scientifque et les faits economiques aux Etats Unis.
—Rev. Dr. Bellesheim, a learned priest of Cologne, is said to be engaged on a history of the Church in Scotland after the Reformation.
—John Owen, Longfellow’s first publisher, and . his life-long friend, died last week at Cambridge, Mass. He is said to have been engaged in writing a life of the lamented poet.
. —A volume of poems by Mrs. Mary E. Blake (“Marie”) is announced by Messrs. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. Mrs. Blake is the wife of a respected physician of Boston.
. —The centenary of Metastasio, whom Rousseau declared to be the only poet of the human heart, whom Schlegel pronounced the Racine of Italy, and whom Voltaire compared with Corneille, was observed in Rome, on the 12th ult.
■ —Mr. Morley, the professor of English literature at University College, London, is revising his work on “English Writers.” The new version is to comprise a full and complete history of Eng-: lish literature from the earliest- time to our own day. Mr. Morley hopes to finish his undertaking in about ten years.
' —Mr. T. Oldham Barlow has made great progress with his plate reproducing Millais’s magnificent portrait of Cardinal Newman seated in
the deep rosy-red robes of his dignity,' with the biretta , on ' his knee aiid held' with both hands. ■This portrait will be at the London Academy Exhibition next month, and will be one of. the memorable pictures of the year.— The Athenceum. -
—Messrs. Putnam, of New York, make the announcement of several valuable works, including Lieutenant-Commander Gprringe’s “ Egyptian Obelisks: Their History and Characteristics.” (The removal and setting up of the Central Park obelisk will naturally be minutely described); “Our Merchant Marine : its Rise, Progress and •Decline,” by David A. Wells; and S. S. Cox’s “ From Pole to Pyramid.”	,
—Count Geza Zichy, the one-armed Hungarian pianist, has accepted an invitation from the Prince of Wales to appear in several concerts in London during the forthcoming season. The Count, who is now in his 33d year, lost his right arm when a boy, by an accident, but. his musical performances on the pianoforte, with his left hand only, are truly wonderful. He performs only for charitable purposes, and he. has earned and distributed $80,000 during the last two years.—H.T. Sun.	-
—“I met in Chicago,” said Oscar Wilde recently, “ a young sculptor whom we would love and be so proud of if he were in Europe—a Mr. Donohue. He reminded me of the old Italian stories of the struggle of genius. Born of poolpeople, he, felt a desire to create beauty. Seeing some workmen modelling a cornice one day, he begged some clay of them and went home and began to model. A man who saw what was in him gave him money, for a year in Paris. He went and has come back. The way I found him was, he sent me a little bass-relief of a seated girl illustrating a verse of my poem, ‘ Requiescat ’! I went and saw him; found him in a bare little room at the top of a great building, and in the centre was a statuette of the young Sophocles, leading the dance and the song after the battle of Salamis— a piece of the highest artistic beauty and perfect workmanship, waiting there in the clay to be cast into bronze.. It .was by far the best -piece of sculpture I have seen in America. Meanwhile the artist starves upon a radish and a crust—the stoic’s fare, perhaps; but he will win in- the end, and trouble .is light if one is an artist. A man is not successful because the world praises him, but because his .work is good.” .	•
Books and Periodicals.
- —We have received from the publishers, Brown &. Holland, of Chicago, the first number of the Shorthand News^ a neat little magazine of 20 pages, devoted to the interests of phonography—of shorthand writers of all schools. ' The News - contains much that is interesting both, in long-hand and stenographic matter. The publishers use the Ben Pitman method, we believe, but the magazine will be cosmopolitan. . The .price of subscription is $2 a year.	’	'


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5°7
-—The North American Review for May opens with an essay from Carl Schurz, treating of .“Party Schisms and Future Problems,” in which many well-considered observations are presented that cannot fail to interest in the highest degree that large and growing class of citizens who refuse to be influenced by obsolete party cries. “ Days with Longfellow,” by Samuel Ward, an intimate friend of the poet’s, contains some interesting personal reminiscences extending over a period of forty-five years. In an article entitled “ What does Revelation Reveal ? ” Elizabeth Stuart Phelps proves that the objections urged against the Bible by modern unbelievers are based upon a misconception of the true intent and scope of the Sacred Volume.' Had the writer gone a step farther she might have shown beyond the possibility of a doubt that the Bible has been placed Jn a false position, and one, therefore, of the greatest disadvantage, by those who would be its friends. Catholics, while claiming that those who wrote the sacred hooks possessed illumination from above, and that therefore all their teachings of a religious character are free from error, have never claimed that the sacred writings were dictated wholly or in part by God, nor that the Bible was ever intended as a code of law and morals for the Church. Verbal inspiration with us is altogether out of the question. Lieut. Commander- Gorringe’s article on “ The Navy,” in this number of the Review, is well calculated to excite attention. His facts and figures seriously damage the credit of the present Bureau System of conducting the navy. W. H. Mallock gives the first of a series of “ Conversations with a Solitary in which he seeks to put the advocates of democracy and modern progress on the defensive. Gail Hamilton contributes a paper entitled “ The Spent Bullet,” in which the scientific and religious features of the Garfield-Guiteau tragedy are reviewed.	•
—The Catholic World for May opens with an able article from the pen of Most Rev. M. A.. Corrigan, D. D., on “ Recent Attacks on the Cath-lic Code of Morals.” “ La 'Morale des J esuites ” of M. Paul Bert, and its eulogist in Harper's Monthly, although handled with gloves, appear in a sadly battered condition; the learned Archbishop having pitted against them, not Catholics, but nonCatholics of various shades of belief or unbelief. M. Paul Bert’s man of straw, whom he affected to believe was the great theologian Gury, has been torn to pieces, and the genuine Gury comes in calm dignity to witness the defeat of the unconscionable scheme plotted for his downfall. Mr. Hugh P. McElrone contributes to this number of The Catholic World a brief—altogether too brief —memoir of the late Bishop Lynch, of Charleston. The Rev. A. F. Hewit’s paper on “ The Roman Primacy in the Third Century,” takes up Tertul-lian and the Montanists—an interesting subject, one which few can handle to advantage, but upon which the erudite Father throws much light. The defection of the severely moral, the ascetic, the great Tertullian, who, as St. Vincent -of Lerins says, “ overthrew the blasphemous opinions of
Marcion, Apellio, Praxeas,. and Hermogenes, of Jews, Gentiles, Gnostics, and many others, with his many and great volumes, as it had been with thunderbolts,” is truly a sad event, and one which has a counterpart in our own day in the person of the aged Dollinger. Mr. T. R. G. Harsard contributes a readable paper on “Lourdes in Winter”; Wm. Francis Dennehey, one on the Irish Parliament of 1781-2, which* with the aid of the Volunteers, gave Ireland a home trade and some measure of freedom. The poetry'of the number is from the pens of Richard Storrs Willis and William Livingston. Those who' are fond of light literature will not be disappointed in “Stella’s Discipline,” by F. X. L., and “The Story of a Portionless Girl,” by Mary H. A. Allies.
College Gossip.
—The statue of the late Prof. Silliman, now be- r ing modelled by Prof. John F. Weir,-will''be V placed on the college campus at Yale.—Harvard Herald.	.
—Athens is the paradise of -printers and sign painters. Think of physicians and other professional men, who have to have signs and a certain amount of printing done, with -names like Anag- * nostaker and Tzannetopoulos.
—The case of Gonzaga College (Washingtoh) against Douglas—as to the validity of the original -will of the late William Ford, was decided in the Circuit Court, last week, the jury finding against the will last propounded, thus sustaining the will made in 1864, which constituted the college heir to the property therein named.— Catholic Mirror. ~ . —An example of stem military discipline is re- . ported from Dresden. At a late final examination ; of the Saxon corps of Cadets it was discovered that several candidates for commissions had availed themselves of prohibited assistance in doing their natural philosophy pkpers. The delinquents were instantly sent back and ordered to enter the army . as privates.
—We learn of several other college papers existing in England besides the one mentioned last week: St. Rededs College Gazette, established in 1879; Fronde's Silvulce, published in the interests of the Salford Catholic Grammar School, and es- ’ tablished in the same year; dsw; Downside Review; the Amceba, which first appeared in March, 1880;	*
and the Oscotian, the organ, of Oscott College. "
Since writing the above, a copy of the Harvard . Herald contained the following item:
“Contrary to the general impression, there are many . students’ journals in England published at the different ' schools and colleges, though none, we believe, at Oxford -or Cambridge. The names of some of these papers are:	-
The Bathonian, Durham University Journal, Efsomian, Excelsior, Mill Hill, Merchant Company's Schools’ Maga- , zine, Pelican, Queen's College Magazine, Reftonian, Rossa- -Han, School Magazine, Sydneian, Taylorian, Thistle, Ton-bridgian, Ulula, Manchester Grammar School Magazine, the Ladies' College Magazine, Cheltenham, wcAOur Mag- '-J azine, published at the North London Collegiate School for Girls.”	.	\:
508
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the stamp of scholarship of a high order and an -eminently practical mind. It is a matter for congratulation that he is to favor us on Commencement Day.
Notre Dame, April 39, 1883.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called* to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.	’
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, . 50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
.Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending ns notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed •
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—On the evening of Friday, April 21st, Judge T. G. Turner, of South Bend, favored the students with a reading of his new manuscript play, in five acts, entitled “ The Cripple.” The characters and-incidents of the drama are drawn entirely from domestic life; and' its tone and teachings, without being dismal or dogmatic, are calculated, not only to interest, but likewise to convey a useful moral lesson. The venerable Judge’s explanation of the reasons which had led to the writing of the play is as creditable to his heart as the work itself is to his literary taste.. The reading, which occupied fully an hour and a half, was listened to with great attention, and at its close the Judge was tendered a unanimous vote of thanks.
-—We are glad to learn that the Right Rev. Francis Silas Chatard, D. D., Bishop of Vincennes, this State, has consented to deliver the Oration at Notre Dame on Commencement Day. Dr. Chatard is a Baltimorean by birth, and received his early training in this country. His later studies were prosecuted abroad, and it is to his credit and that of the United States that amid the galaxy of learned men at Rome he was chosen as Rector of the American College there, which position he held until his appointment to the bishopric of Vincennes. Dr. Chatard’s contributions to the American Catholic Quarterly Review and dther periodicals bear
.—A large and appreciative audience assembled in the Rotunda, last Wednesday night, to enjoy a soiree musicale given by the pupils of the Academy of Music, under the direction of Prof. Paul. The programme was a most excellent one, and was so well carried out that not even the smallest Minim showed the least sign of ennui. That the musical department of Notre Dame is in a most flourishing condition was evident to all who had the good fortune to be present at that entertainment. The rendition of the following selections of classic and light modern music drew forth rounds of applause.
PROGRAMME.
PART I.	•
Eldora Quickstep, “Faust”............N.	D. U. C. B.
Wedding March, (Mendelssohn)... .University Orchestra Solo—Old Folks at Home, (S. C. Foster). ..Mr. E. Fenlon 6th Air. Varie (C. De Beriot) Prof. Paul and G. Schaefer Solo de Concerte (on flute).D. Saviers, accompanied ........................................................by B. Basil (Overture)—Mid-Summer Nights’ Dream, (Mendelssohn) ..............................N.	D. String Quartette.
PART 11.
Grand Selection “ Olivette” (Andrau):.N. D. U. C.B.
(Overture)—Lustspiel (Keler Bela) University Orchestra Solo (on piano)—Fantasie Brilliante “Norma” (S. Smith) ...................................W.	A. O’Connor Duo Concertante—Piano and Violin (C. De Beriot and Os-
borne)..............Prof. Paul and J. Friedman
(By Request) “Sanctiis" from Gounod’s “MesseSolemnelle" :...............-.................Corby	Glee Club
President Walsh complimented the young gentlemen for the proficiency exhibited in the evening’s performance, and attributed the success of the entertainment to the indefatigable exertions of B. Basil, B. Leopold, Prof. Paul, and the other members of the musical faculties. *
—The seance of the Notre Dame Scientific Association, was, according to announcement, held last Saturday evening in Phelan Hall, and, as it was the first entertainment of the kind given by the students during the year, it naturally attracted a large crowd. From preparations that had been making for some weeks previous, all were led to expect something unusually good, but no one, we fancy, ever anticipated anything so excellent and so successful as what was actually given. ■
The first thing on the programme was an able introductory essay by Mr. M. E. Donahue, on the “ Triumphs of Science.” After briefly stating the object of the Scientific Association, Mr. Donahue gave a short and interesting review of the progress of science in its various departments during the last hundred years, and showed what wonderful changes had been effected in the social and political -conditions of mankind by modern inventions and discoveries.	■
The next thing in order—in many respects the most interesting, as it w’as something new and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
original—was a lecture on “ The Steam Engine,” by Mr. Albert F. Zahm. Mr. Zahm’s lecture was illustrated by a large number of novel and striking experiments, all of which were successful and dexterously performed. What served in no slight degree to enhance the interest of Mr. Zahm’s effort was the fact that many of the apparatus used in his illustrations were designed and constructed by himself. Judging from some of the specimens of his work, he seems possessed of an inventor’s ingenuity as well as an inventor’s patience. After a brief introduction, Mr. Zahm proceeded to a historical development of the steam engine, and Exhibited working models of many of the various types of steam motors that have been made, from the simple aeolipile of Hero of Alexandria, to the most perfect-forms of reciprocal and rotary engines. He spoke of the work done, and the'progress made by such men as Porta, Branca, Savery, Somersett, De-saguiliers, Papin, Newcomen, Brighton, Smeaton, Watt, Stephenson, Murdoch, and Fulton, showing by skilfully-prepared models what advance each had made on the investigations and experiments of his predecessor. As an experimental illustration of the growth of the steam engine, Mr. Zahm’s lecture was all that could be desired, and the marked attention which his audience gave to all he said and did, and the hearty applause which he received on concluding, ought to convince him that the ef-forts he had made to interest and instruct were fully appreciated.
A lecture on the “ Physical Properties of the Air,” by Mr. Eugene C. Orrick, concluded the evening’s entertainment. Mr. Orrick’s lecture was, like the preceding one, essentially experimental from beginning to end. After briefly stating some of the most striking properties of the atmosphere, he at once proceeded to their experimental illustration, and did so with such skill and facility that he never allowed the interest in what he said to flag, even for an instant. Mr. Orrick showed clearly that he was perfectly familiar with his subject in all its details, not only in matters of fact and theory, but also in the manipulation of even the most complicated forms of apparatus. However, among, the instruments used, we do not iiiclude his S^ermafhilus tredecim-lineatus^ as this particular object seemed to have ideas of its own, diametrically opposed to those of the experimenter. Whether through a humane feeling, that we know is not foreign to Mr. Orrick’s nature, or through fear of some secret agent of Mr. Berg, we cannot say, but at all events, the wishes—if it can be said to have wishes—of Sj>ermaj>hilus tredecim-line-atus finally prevailed.
At the conclusion of the evening’s entertainment, Rev. President Walsh complimented the young lecturers on their success, and expressed a hope that he would soon see other members of the Scientific Association appear in the same role. He said that it was the determination of the authorities to.devote more attention than ever to the Collegiate department, and that no expense would be spared to give students in the more advanced classes every facility for the successful prosecution of their
studies. Rev. Father Zahm, under whose direction the evening’s seance was given, may well feel proud of the success of his students on their first appearance in public as experimental lecturers. With Rev. President Walsh, we, too, hope to see, not one, but many entertainments like that of Saturday evening.
It should be said further to the praise of the young gentlemen that they were entirely unaided in their experiments, though, in every respect, their entertainment was creditable alike to themselves and the Association of which they were the representatives. We hope the other societies will imitate the example of energy and enterprise that has been set them.
Exchanges.
—The College Message for April has a nicely-written article on Longfellow. The poet’s praises are in every mouth and flow from every pen.
—The Georgetown College yournaliox April is above the average, both in poetry and prose. “ Cold is the Year” is a choice morsel of mixed verse and L.’s “Thoughts on Longfellow” one of the finest tributes that we have seen paid the American laureate by the college press.
—The Niagara Index has, among other note-, worthy articles, a good one on “ Ideal Christian Music ”; a fault is that it is cut rather short with the hateful “To be continued” appended. “Philos” wants to know “Are we Sluggards?” We can’t answer the question, and so let it pass to the next.
:—The Badger^ from the University of Wisconsin, is a bright, spicy little sheet. It is terribly afraid of the Land League, which, it thinks, was foolish in rejecting Premier Gladstone’s Land Bill. Perhaps it was. The Exchange Notes in The Badger are considerably mixed irp, but are interesting, nevertheless.
—The Beacon for April the 15th wants no Salu-tatories—it denounces Salutatories, and makes them a penal offence. This is a sign of progress in the right direction. The editors of some papers indulge largely in Salutatories, and, by the way, these same editors think it an imperative duty to map out the course to be pursued, not by themselves, but by the rest of the college press, which of course the college press chooses not to follow.
—The College Courier has changed editors. The old editors are thoughtful. Among the particular instructions given the incoming board, the office furniture—a three-legged stool, a corkless ink-jug, and a fifteen-year old quill pen—figure conspicuously. The essays in this number seem to be .well written, but in one of them we notice the oft-exploded slander that the Catholic Church in early times persecuted men of science. Is Monmouth in the backwoods, and will it ever see the light? Be this as it may, the Courier editors get out a creditable paper.
—We have received the first issue of a new Catholic weekly edited and published by the Hop,
5io	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .
John Hyde and Joseph W. S. Norris, at Bay City, Michigan. The brevity of life of. new papers is proverbial, but after carefully reading The Catholic Chronicle we feel confident that it has come to stay; if it does not meet with abundant support, then it has come into existence in the wrong place, that is certain. The Chronicle is ably and thorough!}7 edited. The business-men of Bay City, we are glad to observe, have already given it a handsome support in the way of advertising— and not a single quack medicine ad. among the number, which is to the credit of the publishers. We wish the new paper the abundant success it deserves.
—The American. Art Journal of April the 15th presents a condensed review, with portrait, of Wilhelm Langhans, the great German musical encyclopaedist, suggestions in regard to training the chorus singers for the Handel festival in May, and editorials on various art subjects. The portraits on exhibition at the National Academy are criticized at length' by one who is evidently a good judge of works of art. Among those specially mentioned are Healy’s portrait of Cardinal McCloskey an d Prof. J. F. Weir’s portrait of the Theological Faculty of Yale College. Healy’s portrait is considered the best extant of the American Cardinal. Mr. Eastman Johnson’s work is favorably noticed, as is also a bust portrait by Miss Emily Sartain, of Philadelphia, which is said to be strong in modelling, careful in its technique, and full of what the French call chic. Music, both at home and abroad, receives, as usual, much attention in The Art Journal; “ Trinculo’s” London notes, “Zerlinka’s” Vienna Letter, and correspondence from various countries, keep the readers of The American Art Journal posted on art events abroad, although, very properly, home news receives the first place.
—Taking up a back number of The Vblante, from the University of Chicago, we find in it an excellent editorial urging the necessity of a reform in spelling—a matter to which we have more than once called attention. We have pointed out a few of the common difficulties met with in our present systemless system of orthography, and also the remedy that may be applied as soon as united action can be obtained. The editorial in The Volante says:_
“ The following strong statements are made by two eminent English educators: ‘There is no measure which would so powerfully and rapidly promote the education of the masses as the adoption of a simplei- method of spelling. ‘ This grand stumbling-block to the rapid march of human intellect is by no means irremediable.’ Nor are these assertions without foundation. It is estimated that English-speaking children spend from two to four years in learning to read as well as a Russian peasant can read at the end of one month, and what is still worse, fourteen per cent, of our population never learn to read at dll. Again, the majority of our children never advance beyond the primary grades; yet, here at least, one-third of their time is spent in trying to learn to spell, for no one has ever yet succeeded in mastering English orthography. In the light of these facts, it is easy to explain the oft-repeated truth that tire German lad of a dozen years is greatly in advance of an American scholar, of the same age, in general knowledge.
“ We believe that an improvement in our spelling is not
only in tire highest degree desirable, but is also practicable-It is not our province here to take up the many objections which have been urged against any change. They have all been so ably and fully met that we have but to refer the reader to any of the many discussions of the subject. One of the strongest proofs, however, of the feasibility of reform is the fact that such journals as the Chicago Tribune are adopting and successfully using a modified spelling.”
The modified spelling is not confined to daily papers, such as the Chicago Tribune, the Toledo Blade, the Utica Morning Herald, the Springfield Republican, etc., but is also used by such a model family paper as The Home Journal, of New York, formerly edited by N. Parker Willis and George P. Morris, by the Independent, by the Princeton Review, etc., etc. Among the distinguished scholars in this country who favor it, and use it in private correspondence, are President Porter, of Yale College, President Barnard, of Columbia, Profs. Sumner and Whitney of Yale, Prof. Hitchcock, of Dartmouth College, Prof. Marsh, of Lafayette College, and many others. So that it has even now if not a large, at least a very respectable following. All the foregoing use such spelling as files ofiy, sfere,fonetic, etc., and some of them, like Prof. Whitney, take the pure fonetic spelling throughout, and spell “cat” with a k,—kat—instead of see-eh-tee, nat instead of gnat, and tho, thru, plow, tuf, instead of though, through, plough, tough. This method of spelling would prevent thousands of anomalies such as occur in words like demagogical and chronological in which the g is pronounced hard in one place and soft in an exactly similar one. It is surprising that the influence of such learned linguists as Prof. W. D. Whitney, Professor of Sanskrit and Comparative Philology at Yale, and Prof. Max Muller, of Oxford, has not had greater effect.
Personal.
—R. B. Norris (Com’s), ’75, is an agent for his father’s firm, and is succeeding “ admirably well.”
—We regret to learn that our good and gifted friend, Maurice F. Egan, is ill. We hope next week’s Freeman will show that he is at his post again, fully recovered.
—The Rev. Father Quillet, rector of the Cathedral, St. John, N. B., has been a welcome guest at the College. The reverend gentleman is travelling in search of health.
—The Rev. John Oechtering, of Fort Wayne, is spending a few days at Mishawaka. He visited . the College, last week, in company with his reverend cousin. It is always a pleasure to see them.
—We rejoice to learn that there is an improvement in the condition of the Rev. Ernest Van Dyke, of St. Aloysius’ Pro-Cathedral, Detroit, who has been confined to his house for some months past. It is hoped by all his friends here that he will soon be well enough to pay us a visit.
—Among the visitors this week were: Mr. C* Schaefer, Riverdale, Ill.; Mr. C. Schaefer, Jr., Niles, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. Steis, Winamac, Ind.;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	511
Mr. and Mrs. Guthrie, Carroll, Iowa; Mr. James Gaul, Calumet, Mich.; Mr. Charles Pick, Miss Nellie McGrath, and Miss Grace Taylor, Chicago.
—The South Bend Register says of Prof. T. A. Dailey, of Goliad College, Texas: “According to the Goliad (Texas) Guard, Prof. T. A. Dailey has developed into a star actor. The amateurs of the place recently produced the drama of c Esmeralda,’ with Prof. Dailey as Old Man Rogers, and the paper says the character was admirably sustained. Prof. Dailey got his dramatic as well as his literary training at Notre Dame.”
—We deeply sympathize with Mr. Juan C. Armijo, Jr., of the Senior department, and his bereaved relatives, in the death of Don Ambrosio Armijo, one of the oldest, best-known and most respected citizens of Albuquerque, New Mexico, which sad event occurred at that place on the 10th inst. This makes the second death in the family of Mr. Armijo since his stay at Notre Dame, and in both instances the deceased were beloved uncles,—the first being Manuel Antonio Otero, of Valencia. Don Ambrosio Armijo was as highly respected as he was widely known, and his death is deeply mourned. The entire press of New Mexico testifies to his noble qualities of mind and heart; His generosity to the poor was proverbial. —Requiescat in face.
Local Items.
^-Woodman, spare that tree!
—Ask  ------about that $1.50.
—That new fence is highly picturesque.
—“ Tell the treasurer to collect his fees.”
-—The new boat-house is just where it oughtn’t to be.
—The evening out-door recreations are very enjoyable.
—A number of locals are crowded out this week, as usual.
—The customary May devotions will begin tomorrow evening.
—There was extra half-day “ rec.” on Tuesday, a beautiful summer day.
—It is passing strange that so many Juniors prefer the study-hall to the campus during recreation hours.
—B. Isidore is much improved in health. We are glad to see him back at his old post in the College.
— The “Ave Maria ” received a list of subscribers this week from Australia, and another from Honolulu.
—^uercus was a bad one, a very bad one-Sorry to be obliged to allude to it. Don’t let it happen again.
—The members of the Scientific Association are indebted to Mr. Frank Rettig for valuable assistance last week.
—Work on the new Music Hall is progressing
rapidly. If the weather continues favorable it will soon be completed. .
—The “ little Philopatrians ” are preparing something fine for next week, but what it is is not known. Their secrets are their own.
—Master Friedman, of the Junior department, deserves much credit for his piano playing at the musicale, on Wednesday evening.
—We are requested to announce that there will be a meeting of the resident alumni to-morrow, at 1 o’clock, in the President’s parlor.
—The Boston Pilot of last week had a complimentary notice of Mr. William Arnold’s essay, “ The Ptolemaic and Copemician Theories.”
—Our assistant weather-prophet has himself been “under the weather.” North winds favor no one, but blow alike on the wise and otherwise.
—The Junior Euglossians return a unanimous vote of thanks to Brother Marcelliiius, frofter sflendidum, finque convivium, gallinagimim Californiensium.
—A large number. of fine trees have been planted in the grounds of the Novitiate by the Rev. Master of Novices and his young subordinates. Blessings on the man who plants a tree, and— ' —The Notre Dame Scholastic of April 1st is very attractive; it contains a veiy fine article on “ The Mound Builders,” by Robert M. Anderson. —Sawyer's Universal Penman, Ottowa, Canada.
'—The Mignon Club reunion to-night, in Washington Hall, promises to be one of the most enjoyable events of the season. All the members of the Facuity are expected to be present without further invitation.
—The members of the Scientific Association return their best thanks to the Noteman Rotary Pump and Engine Co., Toledo, Ohio, for the loan of a rotary engine for last Saturday’s exhibition. It was, certainly, one of the most interesting motors shown during the evening, and the manner in which it worked excited the surprise and admiration of everyone.	■
—The' 14th regular meeting of the Thespian Association took place April 23d. After the business exercises were concluded, Messrs. G. Clarke, M. Burns, and J. Solon delivered speeches. R. Anderson then read a well-written essay on the “Falls of Minnehaha.” Selections from Shakespeare were given by E. Orrick, M. Healy, J. P. O’Neill, J. Solon and W. S. Cleary. Mr. G.' E. Clarke closed the exercises of the evening with the recitation of “Erin’s Flag,” by Father Ryan.
—The 27th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association was held Monday evening. Masters J. Whelan, F. Kengel, W. Jeannott, and F. Louis presented themselves for membership, and were unanimously elected. Selections in vocal music were given by H. Foote, E. Bailey, A. Campau,J. Devine, H. Snee,J. Gallagher, and L. Gibert. Then followed declamations by E. Wile, L. Gibert, H. Metz, M. Wilbur, W. Ayers, E. Murphy, G. Tourtillotte, W. Muhlke,-
512	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
J. Kahman, W. Hannavin, F. Fishel, E. Howard, W. M. Graham, G. Buchanan, J. Flynn, J. Livingston, E. Drendel, F. Ryan, and H. Kitz. A well-written criticism on the exercises of the previous meeting was read by H. Richmond. F. Lund closed the exercises with a patriotic speech.
—The 21st regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Saturday, April 22d. Master J. W. Guthrie presented an essay on the works of Cardinal Wiseman. W. H. McCarthy gave an interesting account of the life and works of Achbishop Hughes. Master L. Florman read a document on Major Andre. Essays on Benjamin Franklin, Aaron Burr, William Prescott and James. Monroe, were given respectively by C. Murdock, G. Schaefer, Wm. Johnston and T. Hurley. Declamations then followed; those worthy of special mention were the “ Strange Chord,” by C. Rose; “Famine in Ireland,” by E. Fishel; and “ The Day is Done,” by A. Coghlin. H. Porter gave a fair criticism on the exercises of the previous meeting. . The following were appointed public readers for the ensuing week: H. Porter, G. J. Rho-dius, N. Ewing, P. Archer, J. Grever, W. Johnston, C. Porter, A. Browne, H. Sells, G. Castanedo, J. Guthrie, E. Fishel, J. Heffernan and W. Mahon.
—The improvements constantly in progress at Notre Dame furnish employment to a large force of workmen. The college building, notwithstanding its immensity, is found too small for the accommodation of the increasing number of students, and additions are being made to it in accordance with the original plans. The foundations for the new Minims’ Hall are laid, the corner-stone being blessed by Father Sorin previous to his departure for Europe. The building will be erected at . once. The new Music Hall, which is to be one of the finest in the State, will be completed about the 12 th of June, when it will be dedicated with the production of a Shakspearian play, by Prof. Lyons. The work of painting the scenery begins next week. The hall, with all modern improvements and conveniences, will have a seating capacity of 1,200. Prof. Gregori, the famous artist, is still at work ornamenting the walls of the large hallway in the college building with historical portraits. A great amount of labor and expense is also brought into requisition this spring towards beautifying the grounds of the University.—South-Bend Tribune.
Roll of Honor. -
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Arnold, Bailey, Bryant, Browne, Bell, Cullin, Clements, Carroll, Christian, Conway, G. Clarke, T. Clarke, Cleary, Dorsey, Donegan, Drury, F. Ewing, Fitzgerrell, Flannery, E, Fenlon, T. Fenlon, Jarrell, Fleming, J. Falvey, M. Falvey, Fishburne, Gallagher, Gray, Golonski, Grever, Healy, Johnson, Kinsella, Kerndt, Kavanaugh, Livingston Larkin, Lipmann, Murphy, McErlain, Minnis, Marlett, McCarthy, McDermott,' McIntyre, McDevitt; Morse, W. McGorrisk, Ma^pn, Nash, Noble, O’Reilly,
O’Connor, O’Rourke, Orrick, Otis, Peery, Pierson, Pillars, Ryan, Rasche, Saviers, Steiger, Solon, W. Smith, E. Smitii, C. Smith, Steis, Sturla, Thompson, Tracy, Vander Hayclen, White, Walsh, Yrisarri, Zettler, Zahm, McEniry, Bolton.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Archer, Ayers, Browne, Bacon, Bailey, Barron, Buchanan, Brewster, Barnard, Boone, Bowers, Castanedo, Campau, Colyar, J. M. Courtney, Coghlin, Devine, Deschamps, Dolan, Devitt, Drendel, Danielson, Droste, Echlin, Ewing, Ed Fishel, Flynn, Fisher, Fred Fishel, Freyer-muth, Fendrick, French, M. Foote, H. Foote, Friedman, Gibert, Graham, Grever, Gerlach, A. Gall, Guthrie, Hoffman, Hess, Hibbeler, Hurley, Howard, Hanavin, Hefter-nan, Halligan, Jeannot, Johnston, Johnson, Jones, Kelly, Kolars, Kitz, Katz, Livingston, Lund, Laumann, Lewis, McGordon, Metz, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, McPhillips, Meyer, Murdock, Orchard, Osborn, Powell, C. Porter, H. Porter, Peery, Quill, Ryan, Richmond, Rose, Rhodius, J. C. Ruppe, V. Rivaud, L. Rivaud, Ryon, Smith, Smeeth, Tappan, Taylor, Taggart, Williams, Wilbur, Yrisarri, Zaehnle, Zeigler, Gallagher.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adams, Ackerman, Berthelet, Beall, Campau, Cummings, Chirhart, Curran, Dirksmeyer, J. Devereux, Devitt, W. Devine, A. Devine, Frain, Fehr, Graham, A. Kelly, J. J. McGrath, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, Mc-Cawley, Nash, Nester, Norfolk, F. Otis, A. Otis, Piatt, Papin, G. Price, E. Price, Pick, Rose, Roberts, Roper, Studebaker, Schmitz, Tong, Thomas, Whitney, Winsor.
Glass Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.	'
Messrs. Echlin, Jos. Courtney, Gibert, Castanedo, Campau, Kolars, A. Browne, Snee, D. Smith, Graham, Gilbert, Zaehnle, Jones, Kahman, Hibbeler, Taylor, Schaefer, Lund, Livingston, Deschamps, F. Fishel, Metz, Tourtil-lotte, Howard, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, Kengel, Rosenheim, Warner, Grever, Richmond, Devitt, S. Murdock, McCarthy, Freyermuth, Zeigler, Gerlach, Kitz, Rose, Rhodius J. Ruppe, Murphy, E. Gall, Friedman, Fendrick, Hanavin, Guthrie, Heffernan, Sells, Barron, Farrelly, Schmitt, Drendel, Ryan, Brewster, H. Foote, Katz, Florman, L. Rivaud, J. V. O’Donnell, Vernier, Baca, Johnson, O’Reilly, Eager, Sturla, Otis, Orrick, Christian, Concan-non, Steiger, Marlett, Drury, Gray, Meyer, J. Murphy, Thompson, Schiml, Bell, W. Schofield, Kuhn, Connor, M. Healy, Delaney, Zettler, Saviers, Bolton, Fleming, Millett, . Kerndt, Armijo, Anderson, Wheatly, Treon, Burns, Kuntsman, McCarthy, Kinsella, Steis, M. Falvey, Ruger, Grever, Henoch, Ryon, E. Fenlon, Donegan, McDevitt, Morse, E. McGorrisk, McIntyre, West, White, E. Fishel.
List of Excellence.
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS AND SPECIAL .	BRANCHES.
German—Messrs. Jos. Ruppe, Healy, Otis, Jos. Court- . ney; French—Messrs. Castanedo, Bolton; Spanish—C. Echlin; Music—Messrs. Donegan, H. Foote; Elocution— Messrs. McCarthy, Clarke, Healy, Otis, Cleary, Steis, Fishel, T- Fenlon, E. Fenlon, Coghlin, Guthrie, Rhodius, Johnson, Browne, Johnston, Gray, Orrick, Tinley, O’Neill, Solon, Eaton, Zahm-, Rose, Flynn, Castanedo, Burns, J. Browne, Grever, Ewing; Telegraphy-^-,-; Phonography—Messrs. Grever, Kolars, Guthrie, J. Ruppe, Connor, Christian,
'	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Hynes, Berthelet, O’Connor, Prindiville, Welch, Nash, Norfolk, Chaves, F. Otis, A. Otis, J. Devereux, Coad, Thomas, Garrity, D. W. Pripdivifie, Roberts, E. Price.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
513
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—At the regular Academic reunion, Rev. Father Shortis presiding, the reading was Rosa Mystica, Vol. VIII, No. IV. The contents, etc., will appear next week.
—Two magnificent specimens of the cactus plant were received from Bernalillo, New Mexico; one weighing 120 lbs, the other, 170. Will Mr. Otero accept grateful acknowledgments?
—On the morning of his departure for Europe Very Rev. Father General said his Mass in the Chapel of Loretto. On Monday, according to his custom, he also offered Mass there, and spoke on the Gospel of Low Sunday, the refrain, “ Peace be to you! ” a wish expressed by divine lips, coming from the Sacred Heart, constituting the theme. He closed by saying: “ To-day, at Mass, I place you all under the patronage of Mary, the guardian of holy peace.”
“Lives of Great Men all remind us we can make our Lives Sublime.”

If an inordinate curiosity, a vain wish to enlarge the fund of information, be the aim of study, the scholar will fall far below the standard of true education. The legacy left us by the great and good of the past has been for a higher purpose. We are to receive and profit of their suggestions, not simply to, parrot-like, echo their thoughts.
A modern idea of an educated man has been expressed, “ One who has learned a few more words than his neighbor.” In this definition we see a fair value set upon those who when they finish at school look upon their education as “ complete.”
Not so with the true scholar. He has but commenced a work which will not end with life, but which will be commensurate with eternity. He studies that he may become not only wiser, but better. He searches ancient and modern literature in order to increase, not only his own advantages, but the wisdom and consequently the happiness of those who shall hereaftei’ look up to him for example and encouragement. From this we infer the province of biography. It is not merely an interesting, but a profitable, not to say an indispensable study. In this field the possibilities of the human mind appear. We dwell upon}them. Virtue is not only admired, but we see that it is attainable. The soul is cheered, invigorated, and roused to action. Particularly is this true of youth. No field of intellectual investigation is foreign to its claim. Science, Art, History; every profession, every condition of life are represented. Countless are the names we might bring forward, names calculated to excite a noble emulation, and to fill the generous heart with a desire to join the ever-augmenting ranks.
We might cite Copernicus, at once ecclesiastic and scientist, whose name is identified with astronomy; Galileo, who invented the telescope; or his.amiable pupil, Torricelli, who constructed the first barometer, but who seriously regretted that his great master had not carried his experiments a little farther and so have secured the honor of the discovery which, by accident, had fallen to the pupil rather than to the master. What admirable disinterestedness! what grateful affection! what a rebuke to the self-seeking and ambitious!
The consideration of mechanical discoveries leads us to Leonardo da Vinci. He was not only a great poet, musician and painter, but was largely skilled in useful science. He was, to use the words of Mrs. Jameson, “the miracle of that age of miracles,” the fifteenth century. Everyone may not be aware of the fact that the renowned artist whose pencil gave to the world the famous picture of “ The Last Supper ” which was painted on the walls of the Dominican monastery of Santa Maria della Grazia, in Milan, was also the first to invent and construct canal locks.
As we mention Leonardo, the figure, the name and the fame of Michael Angelo, the architect of St. Peter’s, appear. To convey an idea of the grandeur of his genius, we need but quote the exclamation of a distinguished personage, uttered in -contemplation of his Apollo Belvedere, “How great must be the Being who created the genius who produced such a form as this!”
In his turn, Michael Angelo suggests Raphael, the angelic painter of the Madonna of San Sisto, and the immortal Transfiguration; Raphael, who died so young, and who, dying, answered the benignant message of his Holiness, Pope Leo X, in these prophetic words : “Tell Raphael,” said Leo, “ that Rome will not be Rome without him.” The gasping lips of the artist, white with the chill of death, replied: “Tell Leo, that Rome shall never be without me.” And so it has proved. His works are as fondly cherished to-day in the Eternal City as they were bn that memorable Good Friday when he died. To pass from the domain of art and science, how many examples do w’e .behold in the records of history! a Constantine the Great liberating the entire Christian world from its thraldom of centuries; a Godfrey de Bouillon conquering the Turk at the gates of Jerusalem! Proclaimed there king of the Holy City, he refuses to wear a “crown of gold, where the Saviour of the world had worn a crown of thorns.”
In the world of Theology we may cite the, great Doctors of the Church : St. Jerome, in the third century, to whom we are indebted for valuable translations of the Scriptures, and the refutation of many dangerous heresies. A little later on, we may add the names of St. Ambrose and St. Augustine, of whom, in the Te Deum., we have a joint memorial, coming down like a melodius echo from the primitive Church. The centuries glide onward, and we see St. Gregory VII binding the audacious arm of sacrilege; and St. Thomas of Aquin shaming and awing into silence the voice of shallow sophistry.
TEE NOTRE DAME SCITOLASTtC.
So on and on we go, gathering food for thought ' and virtuous action, till we come down to our own times. How the bright examples rush upon us! Lacordaire, “the slave of duty Pius the Ninth, whose Pontificate was made the most eventful on record, by the definition of two most important Dogmas, that of the Immaculate Conception and of Papal Infallibiltiy.
In the literary world we have a Faber, a Newman, a Manning, and the Irish patriot, Daniel O’Connell, who, in his last will, bequeathed “his body to Ireland, his heart to Rome, and his soul to God.”
In the reform of morals, we have the ^reat Father Matthew, whose name shall go down to the latest ages as the “ Apostle of Temperance.” ’
We have named the mechanical arts; as we hear the steam engine shout like some fierce warrior of old, defying the battle strife, we call to mind one of our own land, who was scoffed at and mocked for the vagaries of his mind, but who finally gave to the world one of its most astonishing inventions —the application of steam power to travel and manufacture. We allude to Robert Fulton.
“ Great poet in action, unflinching and brave, Thou hast uttered thine Iliad in steam, on the wave. Each city that stands in the land of the free Shall appear as a monument soaring to thee,
And science shall cherish thy fame
When the lightnings shall leap from the skies to the wire, When the iron-roads shake beneath houses of fire,	•
Then to thee, pioneer, shall the world sound a lyre
And continents echo thy name.”
We see that our own land has given great men to teach us their lessons in art and science, but she is not without examples in a more noble sphere. The martyrs of the early Church, as well as the saints, have imparted to us their instructions, but the glorious army continues its conquests.
It has been said that the very ground we walk on has been watered with the blood of missionaries and martyrs. They speak to us in the waving of the trees beneath which they discoursed of heaven to the aborigines; in the consecration of our shrines, our fields and our avenues. May we learn the lessons taught us with loving, reverent hearts, so that, like them, we may leave behind us holy “foot-prints on the sands of time.”
.	c. h:
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, COR. RECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Claffey, Cavenor, Galen, Hanbury, Walsh, Clarke, Feehan, Bland, M. Campbell, Edie Call, R. Fishburne, Heneberry, L. Lancaster, A. Nash, Maude Price, Ave Price, Rasche, Simms, H. Van Patten, L. Van Patten, Wall, Butts, Etta Call, M. Chirhart, M. Fishburne, Leydon, McGordon, Mowry, Owens, Margaret Price, Mary Price, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, A. Richardson, M. Richardson, Thompson, Thomann, Sawyer, Wallace, Adderly, Behler, Clifford, L. English, M. Fleming, Mulligan, Metzger, Newton, Reutlinger, M. H. Ryan, Wagner, A. Watson, H. Castanedo, B. English, Eldridge, Green, Ives, H. Hicks, N. Hicks, Mulvey, Northrop, M. Watson, ad Tablet—Misses Dillon, Wiley, Beal, C. Campbell, Chris-
chellis, Donnelly, McKenna, H. Nash, Shickey, Black, M-Casey, Coryell, Hackett, Keenan, McCoy, Papin, Rosing, Rulison, Waters, Fenlon, Harrigan, Gavan, Pampell, Parker.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Ginz, C. Lancaster, Ramsey, Spangler, Semmes, Clarke, Chirhart, Considine, Coogan, Dillon, Heneberry, Martin, O’Neill, Robertson, Mosher, A-English, Krick, Condron, Chaves, Richmond, Mary Otis, Best, ad Tablet—Misses Casey, M. Morgan, Paquette, A. Wright, Fehr, F. Castanedo, Ewing, Hibbins, B. Hackett, McGrath, Welch, Sullivan, Coyne, Mattes, Otero, Robinson, Schmidt, Rodgers. .
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	• ' '
Misses N. Brown, Campeau, Rigney, Sawyer, Haney, Burtis, McGrath, Martha Otis, McKenna, J. English, A. English.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED FOR THE MONTH - OF APRIL.
Special Course—Miss Galen.
Graduating Class—Miss Fendrick.
ist Class—Miss M. Campbell. -.	.
2D Div.—Misses Hackett and Wiley.
2D Class—Misses Beal, J. Reilly.
2D Div.—Misses Bland, Coryell, Donnelly, J. Henberry, Maude Price.	.
3D Class—Misses Barlow, Chrischellis, M. English, Ryan, Wallace.
2D Div.—Misses Maude Casey, Claffey, L. Fox, Fenlon, Keenan, Leydon, Ave Price, A. McGordon.
4TH Class—Misses C. Campbell, A. Dillon, Garrity, Rosing, Shickey, H. Van Patten.	.
2D Div.—-Misses Behler, Casey, M. Ducey, L. English, Fleming, Feehan, M. Fishburne, Ginz, A. Gavan, Lancaster, Morgan, N. McGordon, Margaret Price, A. Rulison, Simms, Todd, L. Van Patten, Vander Hayden, Wagner.
5TH Class—Misses Adderly, E. Call, Ducey, Dillon, L. Lancaster, McKenna, A. Nash, Reutlinger, Ramsey, Rasche, Robertson, M. A. Ryan, Thompson, Waters.
2D Div.—Misses M. Chirhart, M. Clarke, F. Castanedo, A. Clarke, Fehr, H. Hicks, B. Legnard, Metzger, Northcote, Newton, E. Papin, V. Reilly, L. Williams.
6th Class—Misses Black, E. Call, Coogan, B. English, Fisk, Hibbins, B. Hackett, McCoy, Mulvey, H. Nash, G. O’Neill, Owens, Smith, Thomann, A. Watson, Wall, -M. Wilkins.	:
2D Div.—Misses M. Chaves, Davenport, R. Fishburne, Heneberry, Krick, Martin, Mosher, Mattes, Otero, Pease, Richmond, M. Richardson, A. Richardson, E. Wright.
7TH Class—Misses Coyne, Condron, De Hart, Eager, Eldridge, Green, Harrigan, Mulligan, Otis, Rodgers, K. Sawyer, Schmidt, M. Watson, A. Wright.	•
8th Class—Misses Browne, M. Barry, Alice Sawyer.
9TH Class—Misses Best, Ives, and Welch.
ioth Class—Misses S. Campau, Agnes English, J. English.
'	ORGAN.
- Miss Claffey.	•
.	GUITAR.
Miss Chrischellis.	-
HARP.
Miss Galen.	'
Sth Class—Misses L. Coryell, Dillon, N. Keenan, M. Price.
6th Class—Misses E. Hicks and Otero.
HARMONY. ’	.
Misses Fendrick and H. Hackett
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
2D Class—Miss Hackett.
2D Div.—Miss J. Reilly.
3d Class—Misses H. Hackett, Wallace, Coryell, Reutlinger.
4TH Class—Misses Fenlon, Rasche, Waters, Wall, Campbell, Beal, Maude Casey, M. H. Ryan, M. Ducey, K. Ducey, Mary Casey, Robertson, Ramsey, M. Fishburne, M. A. Ryan, Rulison, Simms.
5TH Class—Misses B. English, A. Nash, II. Van Patten, Gavan, L. Van Patten.	.	.