THE NCTKE DAME
SCUOLflSTK
GYM TEAM HAVING BUSY SEASON
In This Issue:
NEWS
White Hussars Tonight . . . Bengal Battlers Ready for Prelims . . . U. Theatre to Present Vaudeville Skits . . . The Week . . . College Parade.
SPORTS
Bengal Prelims and Semi-finals This Week . . . C.C.C. Meet Tomorrow . . . Cagers Close at Detroit . . . Splinters . . . Introducing.
March 11.1938
Press Lord by
FORREST DAVIS
ROY W. HOWARD
tactics « fhem, rea j
rtnageddon
PHILLIPS, U. S. ARMY Family, The Command and General Staff School

0KBWHIS8WS BARON
ThefforatioAl^er"Stoiy ofUmt
Globetrotting Millionaire Reporter
At 55, he’s part owner, editor and ambassador-at-large of the Scripps-Howard newspaper system and its world-wide news service, United Press—but he’s still “Roy” to the help. As a kid, he delivered papers. Today he plays host to kings, chides presidents, swaps the time of day with dictators and emperors. What’s he like? Can he really make and destroy administrations? Why did he flip a coin for $10,000 and haggle over a quarter? Turn to page 5 of your Post this week for the story-book story of Roy W. Howard, and his rise from paper boy to plutocrat.
Do you KNOW what the next war will be like? The fighting in Spain has shown terrorism from the air to be futile. But how effective are tanks? Cavalry? Artillery? Anti-aircraft defenses? Why is the U. S- developing the Flying Fortress? For an expert’s analysis of — Spain, and what we have learned from
Preview of Ai by major
Al SO , lX KN0W NE” BY ™E T00CH 0F MER WAKU!" said •"■UV Moses Applejohn, who recovered from a head wound to find that the girl who had cared for him had disappeared, no one knew where. Years later, his neighbors on Rosy Ridge saw the strange end of the story. The Woman With Kind Hands, by MacKinlay Kantor...PLUS
stories, articles, editorials and cartoons; and the second part of Rose Wider Lane’s new pioneer novel. Free Land
ffofywoodcalhng St Moritz:
"gwritfM *
KUME SKI CHAMP 1
Young Geoff McNair, movie talent scout for Apex, combed the Alps for a new screen ski sensation. By the time he signed up Suzi Larsen, Apex had switched its production plans, turned to historical films... leaving Geoff higher and drier than an Alp, and wondering how to square himself with Suzi.
A Million on Skis Ay ARTHUR TUCKERMAN
THE SATURDAY EVENING
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z188
Vol. 71	March II, 1938	No. 19
ENGLISH AUTHOR TO LECTURE MONDAY
By T. C Ferneding
Major James Strachey Barnes, eminent lecturer, journalist, linguist and world traveler, will speak in Washington Hall Monday, March 14. The subject of his address will be “The War of Ideas in Europe.”
Major Barnes is particularly interested and well-informed on the contrasts between the British and Italian imperialist methods and ideals, having spent the past several months making a tour of Europe and Ethiopia gathering first-hand information. After interviewing several of England’s leading statesmen during his journey through Europe, he stopped off in Italy where he talked with Mussolini and Count Galeazzo Ciano, Italy’s young foreign minister.
Being an Englishman of independent views, which cut across the usual party alignments, and whose purpose it is to expose the underlying realities of any situation, Major Barnes is also the author of a number of books including the much debated auto-biographies, “Half a Life” and “Half a Life Left.” These books contain the personal experiences of Mr. Barnes in Albania, where he was once a strong candidate for the throne, and as an observer of Italian campaigns in Abyssinia. French and Italian are familiar languages to him. For two years he was secretary general of an independent historical society in Switzerland, founded for the purpose of studying Fascism and other modern movements of ideas. In this capacity he produced two books on the philosophy of Fascism.
Born in Simla, India, in 1892, the son of Sir Hugh Barnes, one time Governor of Burma, Major Barnes is the grandson of the late Sir John Strachey, who was one of England’s greatest statesmen in India. Mr. Barnes was brought up as a child in Italy and educated at Eton and Cambridge.
Included among the many important positions now held by Major Barnes are: Commander of the Order of the Crown of Italy, Privy Chamberlain of Cape and Sword of the Pope, Member of the Royal Institute of International Affairs, of the Institute of Journalists and of the Air League of the British Empire.
WHITE HUSSARS RETURN TO CAMPUS TONIGHT; PROGRAM WELL RECEIVED LAST YEAR
By Vernon Sneider
The White Hussars, nationally famous symphonic and operatic octette under the direction of Herbert Pertrie, will present a program tonight in Washington Hall at 8:00 o’clock. The group is composed of some of the outstanding instrumentalists in the country—all having been soloists with various operatic _____________________________________ or military band groups. Mr. Pertrie the organizer of the Hussars, was
Rev. John Kelley Welcomes Brother Vincentians.
Vincentians Hast at Quarterly Meet
•
Last Sunday morning, March 6, the St. Vincent de Paul Society of Notre Dame was host at a communion breakfast held in the St. Joseph Church in South Bend. A combined meeting of the St. Vincent de Paul conference was the occasion for the event. Approximately 65 persons were in attendance.
A shoit talk was given by Rev. John C. Kelley, C.S.C., who spoke on “The Value of Young Men in St. Vincent de Paul Conferences.” Mr. Paul Butler, South Bend attorney, addressed he group on “The Interpretation of the Vincentian Service Bureau.”
Mr. John Hiss, president of the Particular Council, presided over the meeting which was attended by members of the St. Vincent de Paul Conference. Included in this organization are the following councils: Notre Dame, and the parishes of Christ the King, Our Lady of Hungary, Holy Cross, St. Matthew’s, St. Patrick, and St. Joseph.
trumpet soloist with John Phillip Sousa’s Naval Battalion band. He spent several years studying under Max Schlossberg of the New York Philharmonic, and Edward Llewllyn of the Chicago Symphony.
Mr. Pertrie will play several solos during the program and accompanied by Mr. Bailey and Mr. Anoe will make up the famous Hussar trumpet trio. Among the other soloists on the program are: Kai de Vermond, bass; Maryn Proesel, harp; Homer Phillips, trombone; and Blanche Elaine Frye, pianist. Miss Frye, also soprano soloist, was featured at the English Village during the Century of Progress in Chicago.
The Hussars are noted for their showmanship. They dress in the white and gold uniforms of the Hungarian cavalry, and it is from this they derive their name—the White Hussars.
This is their second appearance at the University; their first concert last March was well received by the student body. Upperclassmen well remember the brilliant performance given by Miss Frye in her role of soprano soloist.
The program to be presented includes vocal numbers from Faust, Carmen, Madam Butterfly, Tosca. Instrumental selections, both solo and ensemble, will consist of numbers from William Tell, Rose Marie, Tales of Hoffman, a group of Victor Herbert selections, Listz’ Second Hungarian Rhapsody, and a few popular compositions.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
BENGAL PRELIMS TO OPEN THREE DAY SIEGE MONDAY; A. A. U. MEN TO OFFICIATE
By Donald A. Foskett
Seventy-five potential champions, competing for eight titles, turned the corner this week, and headed down the aisles that lead into the big squared circle in the center of the floor of the Notre Dame fieldhouse. After several weeks of tri-weekly boxing classes held under the direction of Mr. Dominic
Napolitano, of the Department of Physical Education, these boys have now reached the “tapering-off” stage, whence they apply the last few finishing touches prior to entering the ring in search of fame and glory.
First step in the actual hostilities will be taken on this Monday evening, the first night of the preliminary bouts, when the initial group of hopeful novices will battle each other for the right to fight in the semi-finals. Tuesday evening will see the second group reduced to the required number, while Wednesday night brings up at last the all-important semi-finals. There will be an admission of ten cents charged for the bouts on the three above-mentioned nights.
According to Boss Charlie Callahan, promoted of this year’s Scho-LASTic-sponsored “greatest show on earth” the 1938 crop of mittmen is one of he best-trained and best-conditioned lots of athletes ever to compete for the coveted blue and gold sweaters. This is due in great part to the rigid training rules and physical requirements demanded by the promoters this year, especially the two-week training period required of all entries.
In carrying through their policy of producing the best in the Bengal . Bouts of 1938, the promoters have secured for officials those men who conducted the widely-publicized News-Times Golden Glove Bouts in South Bend. These men are, of course, registered A.A.U. officials and are recognized as among the best in their profession. They will not only officiate at the “big night” on Friday, but will run off the preliminaries • earlier in the week.
A request was issued from the Scholastic office early this week, for students to buy tickets to Friday night’s fistic festival before the day of the finals to make it easier for both customers and promoters to avoid a last minute rush for admissions. Representatives of the Scholastic are now in the midst of a sales campaign which will have covered each and every room on the campus by the first of next week. Tickets may be obtained from any of the Scholastic staff members at any time. The price of admission will be twenty-five cents.
Of course one of the chief attrac-(Continued on Page 22)
Promoter Callahan Run ’em on, Charlie.
A. S. M. Members Hear Chemists1 Talks
•
Two specialists in the field of chemistry, C. 0. Thieme and G. P. Halliwell, addressed the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society of Metals Wednesday evening on the subject of “Manganese Bronze.” The technical session was held in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, following a dinner in the University dining hall at 6:45.
Mr. Thieme was a chemist with the Ohio Brass Company, Mansfield, Ohio, for two years, after which he served for ten years as chief chemist and research metallurgist with the Michigan Smelting and Refining Company, Detroit. He has been with the H. Kramer & Company since 1928. He has contributed numerous papers, dealing with problems on non-ferrous metallurgy, to the technical press.
Dr. Halliwell is a graduate of Worcester Polytechnic Institute. After serving three years as chemist with the Bridgeport Brass Company he completed graduate work at Yale University. After serving for ten years as metallurgist with Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Corporation he went to Carnegie Institute of Technology, where he was assistant professorof metallurgy from 1930 to 1936. Since 1936 he has also been with H. Kramer & Company.
The technical program included illustrated discussions of the relations (Continued on Page 22)
STATE CREDIT PLAN FOR MUSIC SCHOOL
•
An announcement of special interest to those students who are interested in music, was reaffirmed this week by Prof. Daniel Pedtke, head of the Department of Music. Academic credit will be given for courses taken in music to the extent of three semester hours. This credit is given for any course in the school, including instruction in voice, as well as piano and other string and wind instruments.
Reorganization of the department will enable all types of students to be accommodated from tyro to very advanced musician.
There is a special fee required of those students enrolled in any regular course (including the instruction courses) in the music school. This fee varies according to the type of instruction given: the fee covers the use of the studios for practice. Freshmen and sophomores are permitted to take certain courses in music although no credit is allowed.
Those interested in taking any of these courses next year are urged to contact Mr. Pedtke as soon as possible. It is hoped that a number of the students will take advantage of the opportunity to acquire a cultural knowledge of music and obtain credit at the same time.
Sheehan Gives Trophy
Mr. William Sheehan, ’24, of South Bend, has donated a trophy to the Bengal Boxing Tournament with the specification that it be given to the man showing the best sportsmanship in the Bouts. This, of course, includes the preliminaries, so that even if a man is eliminated in the first round, he will have had a chance at the trophy.
“Bill” Sheehan is well known about the campus as the proprietor of “The Huddle,” sponsor of the football excursion to Southern California games on the coast, several times a judge of the Bengal Bouts, and many other activities.
Disputation Attracts
The Third Annual Philosophical Disputation was held last night in Washington Hall. The subject of this year’s consideration was “The Natural Law.” General chairman was William P. Mahoney, president of the Schoolmen, campus philosophical organization. Formal Defender of the proposition was Edward McDonough. Jerome Ledvina, William Botzum, Frederick Crollard, James Blunt, and Thomas Kavanaugh constituted the group of formal objectors.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
SKIT CONTEST FOR SHOW CLOSES
•
Maestro James Quinn, chairman of the 1938 Monogram Absurdities, announced the close of the “skit contest” late this week. Mr. Quinn and his colleagues! have selected nine or ten of the numerous skits received during the cointest.
The committee on skits declared that the contributions were for the most part meritorious, making the
Maestro James Quinn Keeps campus in suspense.
selections of the best nine or ten very difficult. The authors of the winning skits will be notified within a few days of their success and the cash prizes which were promised will be awarded.
Mr. Quinn, a former manager, claims to be very well acquainted with the members of the Monogram club and has assured the Scholastic that he will do all possible to select his cast appropriately.
The heroes of the gridiron, diamond, and cinder paths, have already gone into training for the rehearsals which will commence next week.
A special committee has been appointed to rewrite the various skits in order that they might be blended into a uniform and continuous program. The individual skits, however, will not be changed any more than is necessary. This work will be undertaken by committeemen, Arthur Mulhern, Philip McHugh, John Solon, and Edward Fullen.
The music for the entire program will be presented by the “Modem-eers,” Notre Dame’s own student “swing-crew.”
Chairman Quinn has indicated that he has a very important announcement to make, but that he must necessarily wait until next week before he can reveal his “news” officially. Rumor has it that the “news” will concern outside participation in the “Absurdities.”
J. MONOHAN NAMED CHAIRMAN OF ANNUAL VILLAGERS BASKETBALL BANQUET
The annual banquet in honor of the basketball team in charge of the Villagers club will take place this year at the Columbia Athletic Club on March 22, according to an announcement made yesterday by John Monohan, general chairman of the affair. A list of speakers has been arranged and
Bohen Advocates Peace At Pound Table Meet
•
The regular weekly meeting of the Round Table Monday night was featured by a paper on world peace presented by Thomas Bohen. In the paper which was entitled “Can America Stay Out of War.” Bohen stated that we cannot expect present efforts for peace to have immediate effect but they must be considered in regard to their long time objectives.
In admitting the idealism of many of his proposals he insisted that some one had to initiate such a program and that it might just as well be this generation as any other.
The platform advocated by Bohen as a means of keeping the United States out of war contained six distinct steps. “1) Economic cooperation of all nations. 2) Establishment of an effective world court. 3) Establishment of a world state. 4) Use of present neutrality legislation to keep us out of any immediate war. 5) Nationalization of the munition industries. 6) And education of the common people to a realization that war is the greatest of all evils.”
In the discussion following the reading of the paper many of these points were severely criticized. Each of these criticisms was taken in turn by the speaker who gave his opinions on the subject and what he felt to be the correct answer.
The meeting was brought to a close by a talk by Dr. Francis McMahon, assistant professor of philosophy. Dr. McMahon gave a very interesting and illuminating survey of what is already being done by organizations working for definite peace programs. Prof. William H. Downey, faculty advisor of the club, also attended and participated in the discussion.
Neumann to give Paper
George J. Neumann will present a paper on “The Maritime Commission” at a meeting of the commerce forum discussion group next Tuesday night.
James C. Walsh was the speaker at the group’s last meeting. He spoke on “The United States Gold Policies.” His talk incited a very animated discussion among the members.
, several others have been contacted, definite announcement on these others will be made next week. Rev. Wendell Corcoran, C.S.C., pastor of St. Joseph church in South Bend will be one of the featured speakers. Tim Galvin of Hammond will act as toastmaster.
Various newspaper men who have, been in close touch with the team throughout the season will also appear on the program. Representatives of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, the Chicago Tribune, the Chicago Daily Nezus, and the Indianapolis Star will be among those present to give their views and pay their respects to this greatest of all Notre Dame basketball teams.
Ticket sale is under the direction of Alexis Coquillard and his committee. The price of the dinner is a dollar and a half. Tickets may be obtained from any member of the Villagers. The event will get under way at 6:30 p.m., March 22.
One of the features of the evening will be the awarding of an autographed basketball, carrying the names of every member of the 1937-38 squad. The ball will be awarded as a door prize.
Committee chairmen appointed by Paul Howard, president of the club, are as follows: John Monohan, general chairman; Don Hickey, arrangements; Alexis Coquillard, tickets; Tom Marker, publicity and DiAk Ga-rab, decorations.
Met Club Sacrifices I?J
Following the suggestion of the Prefect of Religion that everyone should undertake some form of sacrifice during Lent, the Metropolitan Club, by a unanimous vote of none, proposed to adhere to the following practices: Meetings once a week, smokers every other week, talks by the president, minutes to be read at every meeting, and the establishment of the Metropolitan Club Scholarship fund for the help of needy club members.
Plans for the winter sports carnival are rapidly taking shape. With the next snow fall, the finals in the ski contest will be held on the steps of the Main Building. The date of the next meeting will be posted on the bulletin boards. Good resolution No. 1 (Meetings once a week) was broken immediately — there was no meeting this week.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
VARSITY DEBATERS FACE BUSY WEEK AFTER SO-SO EARLY SEASON SEND-OFF
By Robert A. Sheppard
The debate season is in full swing. With ten varsity engagements last week, three this week, and one next week. Coach William J. Coyne and the eight members of his squad have plenty to do. The record to date for all this activity is 15 wins and seven losses.
Fitch and Albert Funk, members of the affirmative team of the “A” squad will journey to East Lansing, Mich., to meet the Michigan State negative team. As in past debates the question is: “Resolved that the national labor relations board should be empowered to enforce arbitration of all industrial disputes.”
On Friday and Saturday of last week members of the “A” squad participated in the invitational debating tournament held at the University of Iowa. The affirmative team composed of Fitch and Funk defeated the Universities of Chicago, South Dakota, and Creighton. They were defeated by Iowa and Carleton. The negative team of Mulligan and Osborn defeated the University of Missouri but in turn were beaten by Kansas, Texas, and Iowa State Teachers’ College.
Two Notre Dame men stood out at this tournament. Both Thomas Mulligan and Frank Fitch were ranked among the upper 25 per cent of the individual debaters.
In the non-decision debates on Wednesday afternoon with Western State Teachers’ College the affirmative team of Frank Parks and George Williams made their first campus appearance. These “B” squad men qualified for debate keys by their participation in this engagement. The negative team of Mulligan and Osborn also took part in this meeting.
Last night the first home decision debate was held in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. This debate pitted the Notre Dame affirmative of Mulligan and Osborn against the negative team of Michigan State. Prof. L. N. Winch, debate coach of Purdue, acted as judge.
Cameramen Reorganize
Notre Dame’s own CCC, the Campus Camera Club, has just undergone a period of rejuvenation. Phil North has been chosen president; John Starkie is the vice-president and head of the snapshot committee; and Bud Gudengauf is the chairman of the entertainment committee.
Starkie urges all members to turn in prints for the Scholastic picture-of-the-month contest as soon as possible. These pictures can depict anything pertaining to the school whether taken on the campus or away from the campus.
Next Thursday night, March 17, Frank
Coach Coyne
One argument after another.
Freshman Elections To Be Held Tuesday
•
John R. Kelley, treasurer of the Student Activities Council has announced the postponement of the freshmen election date to Tuesday afternoon, March 15. The elections were scheduled for Thursday, March 10, but due to the Commerce Forum trip to Chicago at that time it was necessary to delay the date of elections.
Mr. Kelley announced the results of the primary elections which were held during the past few weeks. For president of the freshman class, Robert Sagau received 156 votes while his nearest opponent, William Hennessey totaled 111 votes.
In the race for vice-president, William Bryar led with 153 votes and William Mulvey was very close behind with 151.
Gordon Love and William Sturm will compete for the title of secretary of the Freshman class.
Homer Ferguson succeeded in his campaign for treasurer, to defeat William Wilson by 147 votes to 100 votes.
The balloting time for the final elections will be from 1 p.m. until 4 p.m. in Carroll Hall Rec. Tuesday, March 15.
PENA WORKS SHOWN IN LIBRARY DISPLAY
•
An outstanding collection of water color paintings by the contemporary Mexican artist, Alfonso Pena were exhibited in the University library last Wednesday and Thursday. The artist took his native Mexico with its peon life as the theme in most of the 20 pointings exhibited, catching the various episodes in the life of the peon as well as his colorful surroundings.
The paintings show that a great deal of thought was devoted to composition and technique. As a result, they are very individualistic in style. Unlike the paintings of Rivera and Orozco which capture the sombre life of Mexico, Senor Pena’s work colorfully illustrates the brighter and more hopeful side of the peon’s life. Among the 20 paintings on exhibition, three of them, “Tranguis,” (Indian Market), “La Viga Canal” and “Fiesta in Tehuantepec” are well suited for development into larger murals.
Senor Pena was awarded a gold medal last summer at the Paris exposition for a mural sketch. He recently had his paintings exhibited in Chicago where they were favorably received. After speaking, the artist left Notre Dame to return to Mexico after an absence of almost three years. He has been commissioned by the Mexican government to paint a large mural in fresco in one of the large armories just outside Mexico City. This type of painting is in keeping with the Mexican governments plan to educate the peon-soldier by means of pictorial studies of soldier life.
Senor Pena was the guest of Professor Pedro de Landero, and at the professor’s request, addressed the Spanish club concerning interesting phases of Mexican life. His talk was followed by brief interpretations of some of his more serious paintings, including one allegorical study.
Add to Easter Tour
' An optional tour of Philadelphia has been added to the fifth bi-annual tour of Washington, D. C., sponsored by Professor Paul C. Bartholomew of the Department of Politics. The side excursion will cover such historical points as Independence Hall, the Betsy Ross House, and the United States Mint.
The rate for this trip, covering all necessary expenses, is $6.10. This rate, like that for the Washington tour, is tentative on a minimum number of students attending, making it necessary that students planning to make the tours file their intention with Professor Bartholomew as soon as possible.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
Music Notes _____________ __________________/
By Paul R. Locher
“Rhapsody in Blue” is inseparably linked with the late George Gershwin and although he wrote other successful compositions, in the popular mind his fame centers about a single movement from this rhapsody. The rest of the composition is seldom heard, but on Sunday night the Ford Symphony will present the number in its entirety. The Ford program will also include a Strauss waltz, Rossini’s Overture to “The Barber of Seville,” and “Molly on the Shore.” Percy Grainger, who is responsible for the brilliant arrangements of such numbers as “Molly on the Shore” and “Country Gardens” has made a study of preserving these old English folk tunes for future generations, with the aid of the phonograph. Jose Iturbi, equally accomplished as conductor of the Ford Symphony earlier in the year, returns as concert pianist to play Haydn’s “Concei-to in D Major,” in addition to “Rhapsody in Blue.”
A program thus designed to meet the more popular taste deserves, for that reason, a great measure of commendation. Many who would turn the dial from Toscanini’s symphonic music, as being beyond their appreciation, will be listening to the Ford hour to hear Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in Blue.” They will undoubtedly linger to hear selections from Strauss and Grainger, and finding in these number* satisfaction and enjoyment, will be apt to turn to the Ford hour again on Sunday night.
Other programs which are doing much to popularize good music include “The Magic Key” hour with Frank Black and guest stars on Sunday afternoon, Victor Bay’s concert orchestra in “Essays in Music” on Thursday, the “Cities Service” hour at eight on Friday, Marek Weber’s orchestra at ten on Monday, and Andre Kostelanetz with Lawrence Tibbets on Wednesday evening.
This same group will enjoy the more familiar operatic arias which are featured in recent motion pictures. In this connection, an enthusiastic palm is given for the marvellously clear and sparkling voice of Helen Jepson singing a portion of “La Traviata” and Tostelli’s “Serenade,” in the Goldwyn Follies, and for Charles Kullman in the same scene. The stupidity of direction in exploiting Kirsten Flagstad as another vaudeville attraction in “The Big Broadcast of 1938” is self-evident. Mrme. Flagstad, who is credited as being a splendid dramatic actress, is displayed awkwardly brandishing a spear against a crude backdrop, while attempting to entrance her audience with a scene from “Die
GHOSTS OF "VODVIL" TO TAKE ON NEW LIFE IN DRAMA GROUP'S ST. PAT'S PROGRAM
Washington Hall will resound to the clatter of Irish jigs and the “lilt of Irish laughter” on next Thursday evening at 8 o’clock as Professor Thomas Mills, director of the University Theatre, brings to Notre Dame something new in the way of a Saint Patrick’s Day observance. Thursday’s unique
Southern Weaver “In the south, suh, we . . .”
Weaver's 'Agin it, Suh1 And Wranglers For
The honor of the deep south was defended at the meeting of the Wranglers, held Wednesday, March 9, in the seminar room of the Law Building. Robert C. Weaver, sophomore lawyer, emulated Louisiana’s vociferous Senator Ellander in a long filibuster against the Anti-Lynching bill. .
Members of the group from below the Mason-Dixon line: Pierre de la Vergne, New Orleans; and Frank Brame, Alexandria, La., were the sole supporters of Weaver, who is from South Coshocton, Ohio.
Seldom has a Wrangler meeting produced so heated an argument as that which developed after Weaver finished his speech. Ordinary humanity was appealed to, racial differences were cited, southern chivalry was attacked, and a good time was had by all. The only concrete result was Weaver’s firm entrenchment as the Wrangler’s chief and most qualified “rehasher.”
Walkure.” Even the veriest tyro will resent such treatment.
Those who heard Lily Pons sing the mad scene from “Lucia de Lam-mermoor” in her last picture, will again hear her in that role on Saturday afternoon, in the weekly operatic broadcast from the Metropolitan. It was as Lucia only a few years ago, that Miss Pons, then an obscure singer from a small French opera house, scored her initial success.
presentation, in the second of a series “ to be produced by the University
Theatre this semester, will be a vaudeville show of a type closely resembling the “Monogram Absurdities,” annual musical show of the Notre Dame Monogram Club.
The performance will be built chiefly around songs, jigs and dances, and the inevitable Irish jokes and humorous stories.
Entertainment of this type was extremely popular on the campus a few years ago when a student dramatic organization known as “The Linnets” produced a number of musical shows throughout the year. It was founded by the Rev. Charles McAllister, C. S. C., who used to organize and supervise the various technical details of the productions. The Linnets existed as a group for a number of years, and when finally disbanded in 1935, had a number of notable accomplishments to their credit. Their last two presentations were the well-remembered “Thanks For the Blow” and “Music’s the Thing.”
The participants in the show have not been announced.
Hit Neutrality Act
President Crowley of the Propellor club opened the meeting held last week in the Seminar room of the Law building with the reading of a letter of appreciation to the port of the club at Annapolis.
Mr. Ted Fraser delivered a discourse on the “Neutrality Act.” This act was passed in 1937 and give certain powers and duties to the president in wartime. The prime purpose of the act was to hit at munitions makers.
Fraser pointed out that although the act would isolate the United States during a major conflict, presumably in Europe or in the Orient, there would always be the danger of humanitarian meddlings on the part of American societies which would draw the United States closer and inevitably into the morass of war.
The “Neutrality Act” is partly mandatory and partly discretionary and suffers in this respect. Moreover the embargo on arms in wartime is a bad feature in many respects as it allows other nations to step in and gain control of warring countries by giving them arms.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
FR. MOORE LECTURES ON AQUINAS
•
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., professor of the History of Philosophy and editor of Publications in Mediaeval Studies gave a lecture Tuesday night in Washington Hall on the subject, “St. Thomas in Major Conflict.”
Father’ Moore discussed the oral battles of St. Thomas and Siger of Brabant on certain philosophical interpretations of the works of Aristotle. Aristotle’s works arrived in Western Europe in the late 12th and early 13th centuries.
“After this arrival of Aristotle’s works in the West,” Father Moore pointed out, “there developed two schools of thought concerning them. One of these was the Latin-Averro-ism group which accepted the doctrines of the Greek philosopher without question. Siger was the chief i’ep-resentative of this group.”
“But another school, that oF the Christian Aristotelianism, developed also and this was headed by Saint Thomas Aquinas and. St. Albertus Magnus. These two men accepted the teachings of Aristotle that they thought to be true but they did not hesitate to discard any that they knew to be false. Siger and Saint Thomas engaged in several vital controversies about the doctrines of Aristotle.”
Issue Scholarship Call
Announcement of scholarships now available to those students desiring to pursue graduate courses in the social work curriculum of the University will be sent out next week for official posting. Any senior in the College of Arts and Letters is eligible for one of these scholarships provided that he maintains a good scholastic and disciplinary record. A major in sociology is not required.
The bulletin is sent to other universities and to all the Directors of Catholic Charity bureaus throughout the country. Two types of scholarships are open: the Knights of Columbus scholarships in Group Work; and the University scholarships, to which are attached sendee requirements of an academic nature in Social Case Work.
Seniors interested in talking over the opportunities in the field of social service are asked to interview Rev. John O’Connell, C.S.C., for an immediate consultation.
Thirty-two students at the University of Nebraska are working their way through school by scraping bones of prehistoric animals for the university museum.
/---------------
Man About the Campus
And this week he’s a man who lives up to his name — Francis Edward Bright. But it’s that name which plagues him more than anything else in life. He hates those “He’s so bright his mother calls him son” cracks!
Those gentlemen of Walsh who see him first thing in the morning fear for his life when he sleepily descends the 90 steps from his fourth floor penthouse. He honestly admits he doesn’t remember things until after 10:00 a.m. Intimates report that that come light-out time, Bright brightens up and is rarin’ to go!
Frank must have been wide awake during the political season last year, however, for the fancy stationery announces that he is the New Jersey Club’s first man, President Bright. Attributes his success to having read every — yes, every — book in the Franklin (N.J.) High School library!
His actions are not all political, though, for our hero is a popular socialite in several states—New York, Pennsylvania, Indiana, and of course, New Jersey, to mention only a few. In fact, to a lovely little pair of blond twins he blushingly responds to the affectionate title, “February” (F.E.B.)
Francis - Edward Bright is known as a master at the so-called art of satire. His cynical attitude on most sacred events and emotions of this life are well-known about the campus. If you want to subject yourself to a tirade of sarcastic remarks just tell him sometime that most girls think he’s cute. Incidentally, they really do!
At present, February is a first year lawyer and still maintains a maxima cum laude average! Attributes this
FIGHTING IRISH
TAKE TO PING-PONG!
•
Notre Dame’s first ping-pong “team” made its first intercollegiate appearance last Saturday afternoon in Brownson Rec when it met the representative of the University of Illinois, to settle another branch of athletic rivalry between the two schools.
The match was settled rather decisively by the Illinois boys much to the consternation of the Irish team. The pit-pat boys from Illinois swept through the matches in such a swift fashion as to leave “Deacon” Anton, Paul Nowak, John O’Connor, and their other teammates breathless. The final outcome of the match saw the Illini eke out a 24 to 1 win. The lone match was won by that portly Irishman, Anton, who was the champ of Howard Hall last year.
Notre Dame cohorts are banding together to investigate the appointment of the team members. Feeling was high on the campus this week over the disgrace brought to Notre Dam in such a great field of athletic endeavor.
Feb. ’Catalyzer1 Issued
The February issue of the Catalyzer, the monthly publication of the Chemistry department, was featured by an article submitted by Mr. Fen-dall Froning, B.S., ’37, and entitled “Some New Engineering Developments.”
Mr. Froning emphasized the fact that engineering as a profession is relatively new, and that there are unlimited possibilities for future advancement. As soon as the scientific method of engineering was utilized for practical purposes, growth in all branches of modem science bolted ahead with amazing alacrity.
Because the engineer is ultimately linked with both industry and business, and his problems are of an economic nature, he must, in order to reach the peak of his profession, know how to “do with one dollar what any fool can do with two.”
Engineering education today is changing somewhat from the essence of professional training, and bordering more on the problems of social science.
J. W. Mehring, editor of the Catalyzer in an editorial conveyed the good wishes of the Catalyzer to the retiring officers of the Chemists’ club, and at the same time flayed the lack of interest shown by students to constructive campus clubs.
scholastic success to being able to clap erasers better than the other fellows.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
KNIGHTS MAKE PLANS FOR ANNIVERSARY
•
Elaborate plans for the celebration of the Knights of Columbus Founder’s Week are being completed by the members and officers of the Notre Dame Council. In connection with the nation-wide event, the Notre Dame council is also celebrating its 28th anniversary as a representative council of the Knights of Columbus.
Faithful Navigator O’Connell To expand the fleet.
These programs will be officially inaugurated with an exemplification of the First Degree on a class of 22 candidates on Tuesday, March 22. On Sunday, March 27, the entire council will attend a Communion breakfast immediately following the 8:30 Mass.
The first week’s celebration will be concluded with a one act play depicting the story of the original founders of the Knights on Tuesday, March 29. The anniversary program will continue with a social meeting on Tuesday, April 5 and another exemplification of the first degree on April 12. This special program will be concluded on Sunday, May 1 with the conferring of the major degrees on a class of 56 candidates.
Grand Knight James L. Quinn will complete the appointments of the various committees to take charge of the program at a later date. C. Richard Jenney, senior in the College of Commerce, will be in charge of the membership, assisted by Edmund R. Haggar and George Foss. Lecturer William Branigan will be in charge of the social program as a part of his lecturer's hour. Fred J. Crollard will direct the one act play, assisted by Robert P. Leonard, Edward J. Grogan, Fred Honerkamp and William Costello.
A new membership campaign will be inaugurated by Martin J. O’Connell, faithful navigator of the Fourth Degree. This advanced section of the council recently recognized the admittance of six new members: George Foss, John J. Murphy, Al Pharceny, Luke F. Kelly, F. D. Kelley and Robert Le Mire.
THE WEEK
By Harold
Double feature—almost.
Very few of the people who filled Washington Hall last night realized how close they came to seeing a double feature. A catastrophe of cataclysmic possibilities was averted only by the eagle-eye of Vince DeCoursey, the Scholastic’s News Editor.
The third annual philosophical disputation was scheduled for Washington Hall at eight o’clock on March 10th. Someone slipped along the line, and on the same night, at the same time, in the same hall, the gym team of the Department of Physical Education was scheduled for their annual one night campus stand of tumbles, drills, pyramids, and Indian club work. “Ye ed” saw the conflict when he was making up the news calendar for last week’s Scholastic. Forgetting hat and coat, he dashed over to the authorities in charge of such things and breathlessly told them of the slip. The gym team exhibition was immediately changed to “the near future,” and what would have been a wow of a story turned out to be just a close call and a short paragraph here.
One philosopher, it was reported to us, was quoted as saying that he would have met the situation by having his boys enter into the spirit of the evening. The philosopher, so we are told, was going to have the boys prance out wearing shorts and T-shirts, and have them deliver their orations from the top of a wobbly pyramid.
Drama.
At this rather late date we would like to extend our congratulations to the University Theatre players, Mr. Mills, the producer, and Mr. Kelly, the stage director, for the three plays so ably presented on March 3rd. It was the first time in four years we have ever seen a student production in which none of the actors forgot lines. That in itself is something. On the whole, we thought the acting was good, the directing professional; and the staging, especially for the third play, “The Other Side,” excellent.
Back stage notes: The uniform Arnold wore was borrowed from a S.B. policeman who blows a whistle at Colfax and Michigan; the statue used as a prop in the second play was borrowed from the art department, and no one seems to know whether it was a likeness of Garibaldi or Lincoln ; the machine that made the noise when the electric juice was turned on for the off-stage electric chair was
A. Williams
—of all things—Mr. Kelly’s vacuum cleaner.
Final game.
Our colleague columnist comments on the Marquette game and the final home appearance of probably the best basketball team most of us will ever see, so we’U proceed to something that has us puzzled to no end. We noticed that a great many students, including a large bloc in the senior section—yes, we realize that this doesn’t mean that most of these were seniors (rather the contrary)— stood during the first part of the “Hike Song” and then, after they heard half of the refrain, sat down somewhat doubtfully. The only conclusion we can draw is that they do not know the difference between the “Hike Song” and the “Victory March.” Come to think of it, we noticed a great many students do the same thing during the football season. Of course, this isn’t of very much importance, but we just thought we’d mention it.
Oh yes. Despite the presence of two all-American for three years, and three other excellent players, we still think Adolph was, is, and will continue to be, the best shot in the gym.
•
Prefect.
Once upon a time there was a prefect who took his job seriously. He ruled with an iron hand, saw every G-man picture that came to town in the hope of getting new ideas, practiced jiujitsu in his spare time, and talked out of the corner of his mouth. By his own admission he was tough. The boys on his floor decided there was just one touch missing, and they did their best to add it. They signed his name to one of those newspaper clip coupons and sent the coupon off to the Post-Toasty Company (or whatever breakfast cereal it was) along with four box tops and ten cents to cover mailing costs. Before it stopped raining, the prefect received a tidy little package containing a whistle, a G-man badge, a policeman’s billy, a pair of handcuffs, a secret code book, and the best wishes of the Post-Toasty Company. We understand the prefect hasn’t yet used the whistle, the badge, the billy, the handcuffs, and, as far as can be ascertained from a safe distance, the code book, but then we also understand that he hasn’t been talking out of the corner of his mouth so much either.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
College Parade
By John A. Callaghan
Purty Purtry
Pm through with all women, They cheat and they lie, They prey on the males till The day that they die.
They tease us, torment us and Drive us to sin,
Say—who is that blonde that Just now came in?
—Swiped.
Add Daffinitions
Cauliflower — a cabbage with a college education.
Coat of Arms—a shroud for the family skeleton.
Committee—a group of men who keep minutes and waste hours.
Detour—the roughest distance between two points.
Diplomat—a man who remembers a woman’s birthday and forgets her age.
Filibuster—a senator throwing his brain out of gear and giving his tongue free wheeling.
Flirt—a hit and run lover.
Gold Digger—one who uses the males to defraud.
Hash—the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things •which have been.
Horse Sense—just stable thinking.
Old Maid—an unclaimed blessing of uncertain years.
—Cribbed.
—o—
Worsejokeieverheard
“Poor Danny, he died from drinking shellac.”
“Well, at least he had a fine finish.”
From the Bengal Bouts
Hopeful (after workout): Nappy, have I done him any damage?
Nappy: No, but keep swinging. The draft might give him a cold.
—0—	.
After College What?
According to a survey by Bruce Bliven, Jr., the 1937 college graduate’s life ambitions are: (a) world travel, (b) listening to a swing band. By interviewing fellow graduates from coast to coast he learned that they believe in working as little as possible, getting paid as much as possible, retiring as early as possible and spending the rest of their lives listening to Benny Goodman records.
In regard to the much publicized “red menace” on college campuses, Bliven found his interviewees were (1) not radicals, liberals or progressives, (2) not Communists or Fascists, (3) were, instead, conservative, critical and hardheaded.
PATRICIANS HEAR OF PROUD PARASITE
“Even in early Greek days the parasite was known as a sponger, and, indeed, prided himself on his
Patrician John Deane
He listened in astonishment.
profession,” John Heintzleman, a freshman in the College of Arts and Letters, told the Patricians last Monday night.
Speaking on “The Parasite in Greek and Roman Drama,'* he related that the parasite was a professional loafer, who existed without working and on the generosity of his friends, or, in fact, anyone who was foolish enough to pay for his meals.
The parasite, according to the speaker, was introduced into Greek drama about 50(F B.C. It is not certain just what his function was, but it is the general opinion that he served as comic-relief when the plot grew too intense. Heintzleman said, “Although some have thought that he was a satire on a certain social type of the day, it is generally accepted that his presence was for a purely humorous purpose.
“It is interesting to note that though the parasite was always speaking of eating, nay, gorging, never in any of the plays does he actually do so. He is always talking of it, but never acting. Perhaps it is a further instant of the delicacy of the Greeks. It is funny to hear a man continually speak of the meals he is going to eat, but there is nothing funny in watching some one gorge himself.”
At the meeting held in the seminar room of the Law Building, John Deane, president of the group, introduced Tom Wall who read a short report concerning the classical journals in the University Library. Deane announced that the next speaker will be Paul Helmuth. His subject will be “The Construction of the Church of San Sofia.”
( Calendar )
\/
Friday, March 11
Adoration,, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; Benediction and services; Stations in all hall chapels; Meeting, Scholastic, editorial staff 6:30, general staff 7:00 p.m.; Musical program, Washington Hall, White Hussars,. 8:00 p.m.; Basketball, varsity vs. Detroit U. at Detroit; Track, C.C.C. meet, field house.
Saturday, March 12
Adoration, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.; Benediction and services; Track, C.C.C. meet, field house; Movie, Washington Hall, “Big City,” cartoon, and news, first show for freshmen only, 6:40, second show, 8:20.
Sunday, March 13
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6, 7, 8:30 and 10 a.m.; Services and Benediction, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.; Meeting, Vincentians, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh Hall, 11:00 a.m.
Monday, March 14
Adoration, Sacred Heart church, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; Services and Benediction; Meeting, Round Table, Rose Marie Tea Room; Start of Bengal Bout prelims, field house, 8:00 p.m.; Lecture, Washington Hall, Major James S. Barnes, “The War of Ideas in Europe,” 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday, March 15
Adoration, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; Services and Benediction; Freshmen elections, Carroll Rec, 1:00 to 4:00 p.m.; Commerce Forum Discussion Group meeting; Bengal Bout prelims, field house, 8:00 p.m.; Meeting Knights of Columbus, Walsh Hall; Meeting, C. S. M. C., Badin Rec. 7:45 p.m.
Wednesday, March 16
Adoration, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 a.m. to end of services; Sermon and Benediction, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.; Final night of Bengal prelims, field house, 8:00 p.m.; Meeting, Bookmen.
Thursday, March 17
Adoration, Sacred Heart church, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; Services and Benediction; Vaudeville show by drama club, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.; Meeting, Wranglers, Seminar room, Law building, 7:45 p.m.; Debate, varsity vs. Michigan State, at Lansing, Mich.
Students at the University of Kansas City are such sleepy-heads that Dean G. Bartie had to enlist the aid of the student council to keep them awake in the university “browsing room.”
Now, Dean Bartie has decided to install benches and straight backed chairs instead of the present overstuffed furniture. The reason—he caught the student councillors asleep!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
II
1 IN THE JUGGLER VEIN h
Miah Friends
A bit of satire on President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s “Fireside Chats” is going the rounds of the senior halls. Done best in the manner of Shaw & Lee by Rigo DiBrienza and Hal Wardell we think it worth the printing. The script: “Miah friends, and you ah miah friends, as I sit be-foah my fiahside tins evening my thoughts wander to the dreadful Sino-Japanese Wah. To America I say—Americah hates wah! My son Frank, at Hahvahd, hates wah! Sistie and Buzzie hate wah! My son James, who is a cuhnal in the Marine Coah, hates wah!” Chorus: “Jimmie likes insurance!”
“On the subject of wah, I have constructed a syllogism. It follows:
“Some wahs ah unjust.
“This is SOME WAH!
“Ergo: This wah is unjust.”
Intellectual Snob
“Paper, fellows?” asked a newsboy, no more than twelve, of three freshmen in a booth in Walgreen’s. One of the frosh took a paper and while he fumbled for the pennies another condescendingly said, “Attaboy, kid, sell papers, do anything, and some day you’ll get to the top—why even Lincoln had to start from the bottom.” “Gimme my three cents,” said the boy. He got it and then scornfully, “What do any of you guys know about Lincoln anyway? I’ll bet you a dime there isn’t one of you can recite the Gettysburgh address.” The challenge was repeated from booths around by fellow students and there was no backing out for the three, now miserable, frosh. They fumbled out a few opening words but couldn’t go on. Dimes changed hands amid laughter and shortly three freshmen left Walgreen’s.
Theatre Scoop
In the life of every man there comes a time when a curious quirk of the mind makes it refuse to register the passage of time. Such happened to Bob Daley last Saturday night. Suddenly he dashed out of the room and then across the campus to Washington Hall where he zipped up the stairs past a few stragglers who were coming out. He had arrived just in time! There wasn’t another student seated as yet. Stretching his arms out on either side, to save seats for chums, he blissfully awaited the start of the show. The
lights finally blinked off but then came on again and a voice was heard from the balcony, “Wait a minute— what’s that fellow doing down there?” Bob looked up and a smiling projector operator asked, “What are you waiting for, Bud—the second show just ended.” It took a little argument and the comparison of a couple of watches to convince Bob that he had slipped up on the time somewhere. Incidentally, he arrived back at the hall just in time to prevent his being checked out.
Double Fare
Gene Dolan (No. 87 on the graduation list) handed a downtown streetcar conductor a transfer the other day. The conductor looked at the transfer and then barked at Gene, now seated in the middle of the car, “Hey, you! What’s the idea? Is this a transfer?” and he waved a piece of paper in the air. The paper was a little personal note • and then, ironically, Gene couldn’t find the transfer. (This is all on the assumption that he had one in the first place). Pink
“Frankly—it stinks!”
eared he then had to drag himself up to the front of the car and drop another token into the slot.
Here and There
Gilbert Seldes, in a recent work, bemoans the lack of use of food as a means of torture. One way of putting your friends on the rack, he advises, is to cook two meals. The delicious odor of the best of the meals will put your guests into a happy, anticipatory mood. Then you serve the other, only second-rate, and watch them squirm. Maybe that chef in our kitchen doesn’t read Seldes but if so then he’s way ahead of him . . . Jack Lungren is going to Columbia Med. school next year. He met a girl in New York, while on the N.Y.U. basketball trip, and a Southern accent, the Stork Club, and a verified report that the girl lives on Park Avenue sent him back here in a daze. “I think I’ll go to Columbia,” says Jack, “because of its location . . . and ... er ... so forth.” . . . Question of the week: “What’s your rank number for graduation?”
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C_________Faculty Adviser
EUGENE F. VASLETT................Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA PRA.......................Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
Harold Williams__________________________________The IV eef(
John Callaghan College Parade
John F. Clifford__________________Splinters from the Press Box
Thomas Healy_____________________________In the Juggler Vein
News Staff
Vincent DeCoursey______________________________News	Editor
George Haithcock______________________Assistant News Editor
Frederick Sisk_______________________________Graham	Starr
Robert Sheppard Vernon	Sneider
Joseph Miller--------------------------------Thomas	Marker
James Dempsey----------------------------------John	Kohn
William C. Fay----------------------------Fructuoso	Barreda
James Gorman-------------------------------Richard Anton
James Hufnagel
Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitchell------------------------------Sports Editor
Frederick Digby-----------------------Assistant Sports Editor
Nick Lamberto----------------------------Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe-----------------------William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson---------------------------Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan------------------------------Ed Brennan
Eddie Huff
.	Art Staff
George Elmore------------------------------------Art Editor
Tom Powers---------------------------------------Ed Kort
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City— Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
Vol. 71
March II, 1938
No. 19
Snapping Out?
A FEW WEEKS ago an editorial appeared on this page that severely criticized city and state clubs on the campus.
In so many words it showed the true nature of the campus organizations accusing them of sponsoring merely social events and of being absolutely useless on the local scene. Then it suggested a few possible reforms.
The following week news began to filter in from these organizations. Clubs came out with programs for the rest of the year. The Boston Club heard Professor Fagan as guest speaker at one of their meetings. The Met Club, blessings on their little hearts, had an affair in the Sorin Dining hall. That, although social, was really an astounding feat for the New Yorkers. And so they came, programs were formulated, and advice given.
•Now we are sitting back and looking for what is going to happen next. If history means anything, programs will be thrown in the nearest waste paper basket, speakers will be forgotten and back the boys will go to the mad social whirl of smokers, moving pictures, bowling tournaments, and thrilling ping pong games. If history does repeat itself, then, the clubs should be discontinued and Christmas dances, the only functions the club members are really interested in should be handed over to the alumni. Students on this campus can derive their social pleasures with their friends, they don’t have to be led
socially by a club. That is common knowledge. Well known also is the fact that students do have to be led into any activity requiring a little thought.
Club presidents will say, “Aw, what can be done around here? There are plenty of intellectual clubs on this campus already.”
Certainly there are plenty of intellectual clubs. But there are also plenty of fields into which a club can enter. As suggested by Professor Fagan, radio presents a perfect field of operations. Stories of the club’s home town, the history of the club, an amateur glee club, all these and more lie in the radio field and could be accomplished too, if any president had the incentive to try it. Then there is debating. Imagine, if possible, a debate between the Chicago and Met clubs on city government.
Even though presidents would be very doubtful as to the success of such a program we feel that it would elicit a gratifying amount of co-operation from the members. And if it doesn’t? Then forget about your club. Fellows can buy a pack of cigarettes in the “caf,” see a movie in Washington hall, get in a pick-up basketball game in the gym and worry about deficits without the aid of a city or state club.
On the Road
FOR AS long a time as the automobile has existed University officials have never once frowned upon the more or less economical practice of hitch-hiking. During this period many states have seen fit to eradicate this method of transportation through statutory enactment carrying with it penalties of fines or imprisonment. Consequently, the University’s tolerance as to hitch-hiking has been a benevolent gesture by understanding and liberal administrations. Whether this tolerance will continue in the future as it has done in the past must, of course, depend upon the use to which students put the practice. And indications of recent weeks point irrevocably to the fact that all is not well between some hitch-hikers and the University officials.
Last week the office of the Prefect of Discipline was the. recipient of a letter from a prominent South Bend business man relating an incident of the road which condemns the courtesy shown to autoists by some of those students who practice hitch-hiking. Not only does it condemn the courtesy of those who economize their transportation expenses, but it condemns the courtesy of all those who attend this University, and indicts Catholic education as a whole in the matter of etiquette. No doubt those who are discourteous to motorists are in the minority, but one incident piled upon another makes an awfully bad impression.
The Scholastic appeals to those who hitch-hike in the name of all that is decent and courteous to conduct themselves upon the road in a manner befitting. Catholic gentlemen. They owe it to the University, to their fellow students, and to those who in the generosity of the moment give them the aid they seek. The much-harassed autoist has found giving such gracious aid a hazardous occupation what with all the legal liability he entails when he does so. For these reasons and to prevent official University action concerning hitch-hiking, those who practice it are asked to show some concern to the motoring public by rendering the customary courtesies and amenities.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Any Day-
Any Hour
Paul R. Locher
“MUITE an early bird, aren’t you? 'cv I’ll be with you in just a minute. Just have a seat, and take a look at some of the magazines. No, we don’t keep Fortune in the shop. You’ll find Liberty there somewhere. It’ll just be a minute.”
“Well, there, I’m all set. ‘Another day, another dollar,’ that’s my motto. A senior here the other day had a good one to say about that. He said his motto was ‘Another day, another zero/ so long as Prof. Hoyer kept on throwng daily quizzes in Social Path, whatever course that is. School wasn’t as complicated when I went years ago. Of course, I didn’t get to college, but we had some mighty good studies in our day too. We had a teacher in algebra that was a whizz!
“Have a seat, Mike. The other fellows will be along here in a minute. Good game you put up last night. I didn’t see it, but this announcer at WSBT sure made it sound interesting. He’s the same fellow that puts out this Morning Bugle program. You must have heard it at some time or other. You can send in for request numbers. My niece is always sending in to have them play her favorite number. I can’t think off-hand what it is. I ought to know though; she plays it with one hand on the piano from morning till night. It’s the same name as that girl who works over in the employment office. That’s right, ‘Marie’s’ the name of the piece.
“Want your hair cut rather short. Just as you say. I’m here to do it the way you want it. Just leave it to me.
“Good-morning, Sam. Hi, Al. Say, Sam, Mike want a hair-cut? He doesn’t need anything else. He had a close - enough shave last night against Pittsburgh. Ha-ha, get it?
“They’re starting to come in now. Just have a seat, fellow. Take a look at the magazines for a minute.
“You’re right. I get to know a lot of the fellows. All of them come in here time and time again while they’re in school. Even if you don’t
get to know them by name you’ll recognize their face.
“Get yourself a number. It won’t be very long. There are just a few ahead of you. As I was saying, you get to know them all as time goes on. It’s tough though, trying to place them when they come back after being graduated for a few years. Funny how it is—some of them come back pretty famous, but they’ll remember you. Quite a thrill to have Harry Stuhldreher call out, ‘Hi, Bill, old fellow. Looks like old times seeing you around.’ Of course, a lot of them you know you’ll never see again, and then you read in the paper or the Alumni magazine that they’ve died leaving a wife and several grown children. But that’s life. Didn’t you ever get a funny feeling when you see the daily bulletin come out with an announcement of ‘Mass in the big church for the next one of us to die?’ Every time I read that, I can’t help but get a shiver going down my back. You wonder which one of us it’s going to be next, and when it happens, you think how little that fellow knew when he knelt there praying that it was going to be for him. But then a fellow like you doesn’t think of such things when you’re so young. Wait until you’re old like me. Then you’ll realize what it means.
“Al! Where’s Al, Sam? This fellow wants his dress shoes he left here last night. Big time at St. Mary’s tonight, eh, Dick? Remember the girl back home.
“Get yourself a number. It won’t be long. There are just a few ahead of you. Take a look at a magazine there.
“What was I saying, now. St. Mary’s? That’s right. You should have been here last year when they had a beauty over at the Academy— their high school. Thejr called her the ‘Texas Bombshell,’ because she came from Texas and had platinum blonde hair. She used to be asked to all the dances, and it made the college girls furious. The Scholastic put in Caf Smoke once that she was the kind of girl which made the col
lege girls wish they had picked Vassar. Pretty good, don’t you think, or don’t you?
“Here comes Beinor, the All-American. Have a number, Joe. It won’t be long. He’s a great fellow. You don’t hear so much about football just now with the basketball season on, but it’s football that gets them. Sure, I knew Marchie Schwartz. Marchie was a great fellow. So he comes from your section of the country— used to take your cousin out once in a while, eh? That’s great. Marchie’s out in Creighton just now; doesn’t get back so often any more.
“Look at that fellow over there in the next chair prick up his ears'when I mentioned Schwartz. He was here when Schwartz was playing his last year of football—takes pride in the fact that he’s been a student around here almost longer than anybody. Don’t know if that’s so much to be proud of. A lot of fellows are here on the five-year plan, but it’s pretty bad when you started here in 1931 and haven’t even a degree yet.
“Have you noticed, even though he isn’t looking this way, he seem to be taking in everything we say, just as though he was making a note of it so he could repeat it. You run across some people with funny manners around here, is all I can say.
“Well, we’re all through now. Will you have your hair wet or dry? Sure, I’ll put a little oil on it, but you ought to have some of this hair tonic with it. It makes your scalp feet great, and is good for it too. •
“There you go. All set for your week-end now. No, that’s the right change. The scalp treatment is twenty-five cents extra. I asked you if you wanted some of the hair tonic, and you said, ‘yes.’ I’m sorry if you didn’t realize it was extra. So long. Come again. Next.”
“Hi, Jim, going over to class? Judas, which way did the Indians go ? Reminds me of the old joke about the fellow who cut himself out of barber college. Some cut-up! eh what?”
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Week in Sports
wat—— *	————igu
TWELVE TEAMS HERE FOR ANNUAL C.C.C. MEET; NICKMEN FAVORED TO RETAIN TITLE
Notre Dame plays host tonight and tomorrow afternoon to the twelve other middle western schools competing in the 12th annual Central Collegiate Conference indoor track and field meet. Notre Dame will be a very impolite host if it lives up to expectations, for it is the favorite to win once more the cham-
pionship it retains from last year.
Drake, the team which surprised every one with a 52-52 tie over the Irish in a dual meet two weeks ago, makes the strongest bid to upset the dope when the finals are run off tomorrow. Michigan State with a large squad of 34 men, and Pittsburgh with the championship mile relay team of last week’s I.C.4.A. Meet and Olympic meter champion Johnny Woodruff will also make strong bids for the title.
An unusual proportion of last year’s place winners are eligible to compete again in this year’s meet. Al Tolmich of Wayne University, who won the hurdles and the dash, and Charles Socolofsky of Kansas State, who won the shot put, are the only 1937 champions not returning. Two colored boys from Pittsburgh, Art Thomas in the 440, and Johnny Woodruff in the 880, will defend their titles in these events, while the two little fellows of the meet, Greg Rice of Notre Dame, and Bill Feiler of Drake, will compete again for their mile and two-mile championships. The other two winners of last year’s meet who will appear tomorrow are Chick Eivens of Drake in the pole vault, and Eddie Burke of Marquette in the high jump.
Bill Faymonville of Notre Dame who placed second in the shot put last year, is favored to win tomorrow, but he will get tough competition from Allan Dillon of Drake, John Bazyk of Pittsburgh, Captain John Hayward of Grinnell, and his own teammate, Ed Beinor. Although the 1936 winner and three of the five place -Runners from last year are returning in the 60-yard dash, Bill. Clifford of Notre Dame, who has consistently turned in times of :6.2 and :6.3 this year, is the favorite. Bill Smith of Drake, ineligible last year, is the returning 1936 winner, while Wilbur Greer of Michigan State, Bill Bryant of Western State, and George Robinson of Drake, are the men who placed second, fourth, and fifth, respectively, last year.
With Al Tolmich lacking, the hur-(Continued on Page 20)
C. C. C. Champ Rice
Meet record holder seeks to repeat.
Handballers Tryout'
During the past week Father Thomas Brennan, coach of the varsity handball team, held an elifnina-tion tourney in which 30 members of his squad contested for the six open berths on the varsity team. The following gentlemen were victorious: Metrailer, Joe Race, of Bengal fame, Trentacoste, “Bunn y” McCormick, and the Clifford boys — John and Jerry.	’
These men shall not be permitted to rest on their laurels as Father Brennan has announced that any member of the squad can challenge
FENCERS MEET CINCY IN LAST HOME BOUTS
•
With his strongest team in several years, Doctor C. M. Hutchings, coach of the Cincinnati Fencers, brings his Bearcat aggregation to Notre Dame tomorrow evening, seeking his first victory over the Irish in five seasons.
Headed by Captain Steve Young, star foil and epee fencer who has been registering consistent wins for the Bears, . Cincinnati promises a hard battle for the swordsmen of Notre Dame. Besides Young, the Bearcats’ roster contains the names of Warner Goshorme and John Griffith, foil and epee fencers, G. Weisman and Charles Burch, who will match their prowess against Captain Zerbst and Scarlata of the Irish, and finally, Howard Fanciers and Howell McCowen.
Coach de Landero, fearing the letdown of his regular men, has been diligently preparing a few of his Sophomores to step in, to re-enforce the regulars. The Irish coach believes that his boys have a very good chance to come out of the match on top, provided that Zerbst and Scarlata, who showed considerable lapse last week, return to form. Mr. de Landero lays great concern in the hope that his foil and epee men will continue to improve, and put up a stout battle against the Bearcats’ foil and epee men, who have been a constant thorn in the side to every one of Cincinnati’s opponents this year, scoring most of their team’s points regularly.
The match tomorrow evening will be the end of the trail for several of Notre Dame’s most successful fencers. Making their final appearance on the home mat will be Capt. Jack Zerbst, Vic Mercado, and the colorful Pierre de la Vergne, seniors, who have been the mainstays of the Blue and Gold all season.
them and they must defend their positions at least once a week. Harris and Bradley are expected to be the most troublesome of the lot.
Any student who plays a fairly good game of handball is eligible to try out for the team. Father Brennan is very anxious to look over this year’s crop of Freshman handballers in particular and would be pleased if they would report to him as soon as possible in order that he will have plenty of replacements for the-many varsity men who will graduate in June.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
[ Brushing Up
BENGAL PRELIMS START MONDAY; ENTRIES CLOSE TODAY; FIGHTERS TAPER OFF
By Nick Lamberto
Clipped or Snipped:
Louisiana State has a .two-year-old tiger mascot named Mike whose father and mother were in Clyde Beatty’s act . . . too bad Huey Long isn’t still around—then Mike could’ve performed in LSU’s 3-ring circus.
Harry Thomas, one of the run-of-the-mill heavyweight contenders, seems to be a glutton for punishment: he takes a shellacking from Schmeling last month and then signs to meet Louis, the champ, on April 1. If Thomas wins from Louis on April Fool’s Day, he must give Louis a rematch within 30 days. If he wins both bouts from Louis (just a supposition), he must fight Schmeling in June for the title. Incidentally Thomas was born Harry Pontius at Remsen, Iowa, (probably will be renamed Punchiust Pilate after the Louis fight).
Bert McGrane, sports reporter for the Des Moines 'Register, had this to say about Pete Sheehan’s disqualification after winning the 440 in the recent Drake-Notre Dame track meet: “The Irish runner had finished first in the 440-yard run only to be disqualified when the judges ruled he had fouled Kohl and Horstemeier of Drake on the first run. Jamming on that curve in a tight and fast race is almost unavoidable.” Yet the judges put the blame on one runner when the track itself is at fault.
Mistaken Identity: Frank R. King, a Tri Delt coed at Alabama U, spurned a bona fide appointment to the U. S. Naval Academy. A namesake of her father, Comm. King who was killed in service, she was thought to be his son by naval authorities.
Squibs and Such: The St. Thomas college eagers (Scranton, Pa.) averaged 42 points per game in twelve home contests . . . the Tommies accumulated a 502 point total. Poo Poo Purdue won another conference cage title (ho hum) . . . Northwestern’s sudden drop from first to third in conference standings was little short of astounding.
Joe Dudzick, Canisius’ 6' 10" basketball center, specializes in knocking down long shots before they hit the hoop or the bangboard . . . the trick requires accurate timing and the performer must avoid breaking the rules by not touching the rim or net or putting his hand over the hoop opening while a shot is being made —the penalty for violation is two points whether a basket was scored or not.
Wisconsin boxing addicts call Art and Jim Walsh “the Badgers unbeaten boxing twins” . . . Art weighs
(Continued on Page 23)
By Charles Callahan
The Bengal Bouts! The Bengal Bouts! The Bengal Bouts! You have heard so much about them that by now you can be experiencing but one of two natural reactions: either you’re tired of hearing us blow off about ’em, or if
you’re a real sport fan, you can hardly
SEEKS ELUSIVE CROWN
Vincs Dollard
Third try may be successful.
BENGAL NOTICE
Entries for the Bengal Bouts will be received as late as 5 p.m. this afternoon in the apparatus room of the gymnasium, as posted this week. Late entries will be received by Gene Vaslett in room 237 Walsh Hall, or by Napolitano.
All entrants must weigh in Monday afternoon at 12:30-1:15 in the locker room of the gym. A one-pound allowance will be made in each class.
Pairings for the bouts will be posted Monday afternoon, and the first preliminary will begin at eight sharp. All entrants must have doctor’s certificates before they may fight.
wait for March 18, to come. We hope , “yo all” (and we mean by “yo all”— * the seniors graduating, the 1,795 who can come back next year, and the provisionalists) are real sport fans.
Over in the exercise room the blistering pace set by Coach Napolitano for the Bengaleers has reached the tapering off stage. Monday will see the culmination of weeks of intensive effort. The weighing in will take place from 12:30 to 1:15. The pairings for the preliminaries will be announced at 3:30 o’clock! The first bout will go on at eight sharp. Many bouts will be held on Monday, and again on Tuesday. If necessary more eliminations tussles will occur on Wednesday. St. Patrick’s Day, Thursday the 17th, comes next but contrary to custom a few sons of Erin will do no celebrating that day. These few will be the survivors of the “prelims.” They’ll rest on the good St. Patrick’s birthday, but on Friday, the 18th, ‘shure’ there’ll be no resting.
Strong Field for Prelims
Looking very good in the 142 lb. division is Paul Purcell. He’s a lad who is more or less bound to get to the finals as there has been a Purcell in the Bengal finals every year since 1934. Jim McNamara, Indianapolis representative to the Notre Dame fisticuff world, lost a decision in the preliminaries a year back. However, he’s an improved boy this season and is going to add plenty of warmth to the action in the welterweight class. “Bucky” Ryan, who went to the semifinals in the heavy division last March, still possesses a good left hand and is still very hard to hit. He may box his way into the championship. Al Horman is still another veteran in the overweight group. His boxing is better this year, and against all heavyweight rivals during the workout period, Al looked good.
Bob Schorsch is still another topnotch heavyweight. He and Dahar have worked out frequently and neither has had too great an edge on the other at any time. From what we’ve seen the show this year will be worth the price of admission on the strength of the heavyweight class alone. One weight lower, in the 175 lb. division, among the standouts is Lloyd Harbert. He lost a close decision in his first fight a year ago.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
MARQUETTE WHIPPED BY IRISH CAGERS
By Mark J. Mitchell
Eugene Edwin Gormley does not look like a good runner. He does not run like a good runner. But he is a good runner all the same. For he has been one of Nick’s mainstays in the two mile almost two years now. His time of 9:35 for the two mile is really remarkable when you consider that the man never saw a spiked shoe until coming to Notre Dame. And a third place last year in the indoor C.I.C. meet is a tribute to any
track man’s ability.
Gene did play basketball in high school. But he never went out for track. Delavan, Wisconsin is his birthplace, and the Delavan High school missed having a very good distance man on her track squad when she neglected to probe the possibilities of the Gormley speed.
However, Gene came to Notre Dame to try following the footsteps of his uncle, Father George Gormley, ’04, who was a well known half-miler in his day. He always had a secret ambition to try his luck on the cinders, and when he saw Nick’s hill-and-dalers circling the lake, he joined them. Anyone will tell you that that is the hard way to break into track. But Gene did it, and even won a minor letter in cross country before that was eliminated from the list of recognized sports.
Then Nick brought him along far enough to enter him in regular competition last year. Gene gave an exceptionally
good account of himself, placing in most
of the dual meets as well as the C.I.C. meet previously mentioned. At the end of the season he had enough points for a letter. It was a long way to come in three years, but Gene made it with something to spare.
The principal thing Gormley has in common with the rest of the track squad is a great admiration and affection for Nick. “Nick is the best in the country” seems to be the theme of every track man, as well as a good many other students. And they really mean it.
Gene is majoring in Physical Education, intending, if possible, to coach and teach when he finishes college. He acquired the nickname “Beaver” last year when Nick accused him of a tendency to take it easy—“In fact,” said Nick, “the only time you run, Gormley, is when you hear that bell ring for dinner.” This, of course, is a slight exaggeration. But it is true that certain sounds have an effect on Gene’s running. Chief among these is the gun which is fired to indicate the last lap. For Gormley has great stamina, and as attested by the fact that in one race last year passed eight men in the last lap.
Tomorrow afternoon will see Gene trying for another place in the C.C.C. two mile, and everyone is hoping that he will get it. For not only is the quiet, unassuming Irish lad well-liked by others, but Nick and Notre Dame will need every point they can possibly get, if they are to retain the Central Intercollegiate Championship.
"Pick-up-Sticks"
Senior gentlemen of Walsh are seriously considering the matter of a petition to Elmer F. Layden, Director of Athletics, that he grant recognition to the Walsh “pick-up-sticks” team as official University champions. Further, they demand that a schedule of meets be arranged immediately so that they may represent the University on the field of honor before they depart these hallowed halls. In short, the Senior gentlemen of Walsh are sore pressed to find something to do.
The Notre Dame netmen revenged one of their three defeats of the current season when they defeated the Marquette Hilltoppers 39 to 28 last Friday night. Interest, however, centered not so much on the revenge or the victory, but on the nine members of one of the greatest basketball teams in Irish history who were playing their last game on the home court.
Paul Nowak, Johnny Moir, Tommy Wukovits, Captain Ray Meyer, Mike Crowe, Jimmy Carson, Tommy Jordan, Johnny O’Connor, and Lyman Shields, the first three regulars, the last six reserves, saw service for the last time in the fieldhouse. During the past three years of playing together they have won 61 games, lost but eight, and have tied one—a spectacular record.
This victory with which their careers ended was a much desired one, for Marquette is one of the few teams that have beaten the Irish. The first half of the game saw the Irish and the Hilltoppers battling nip and tuck. Marquette’s slow offensive attack clicked to put them ahead of the Irish for a while, but the local team finished with a spurt and took the lead at the half, 16 to 15.
The second half was all Notre Dame. Their close defensive play forced the Hilltoppers to shoot long and halted their offensive attack. Meanwhile the Irish sharpshooters began to hit in rapid fashion and soon ran up 14 more points to Marquette’s three, making the total 30 to 18. In this second half the Irish demonstrated the form that has made them national champions. With the game well tucked away, Coach Keog-an began making substitutions, and before the whistle blew he had used 14 men. The Hilltoppers closed up the gap a bit in the last part of the second half, but were still on the short end of the score by 11 points at the end of the game.
Paul Nowak played one of the best games of his spectacular career. His floor work was outstanding, and he scored repeatedly, running up a total of 15 points. Johnny Moir, who has been named among the all-Americans since he started as a regular in 1935 and who has set a new Notre Dame scoring record during his three years on the squad, followed Nowak in points scored with 11. Tommy Wukovits, also a consistent performer for three years, scored seven points, all in the first half.
The players were given a tremendous ovation at the end of the game by the capacity crowd of 5,500 people.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
IRISH SENIORS CLOSE CAREERS IN DETROIT TONIGHT; TITANS HAVE GOOD TEAM
A veteran-studded Notre Dame basketball team travels to Detroit tomorrow night, to meet the Titans and wind up one of Coach George Keogan’s most brilliant seasons. Some of the biggest names in basketball, including, Moir, Nowak, Jordan, Meyer, Crowe, and Wukovits, will don the Gold and Blue for
the last time.
The University of Detroit sends a vastly underrated squad against the Irish. Prior to the Detroit-John Carroll game in Cleveland this year, the Carroll News, a student newspaper ran the following story under a headline titled, “Warm Up Against Detroit”: “Next Saturday night in the St. Ignatius Gym the Streaks meet Detroit. This year’s Detroit team, from all reports, is not so strong. The game will serve as a barometer of what Carroll will do against
Cage Coach Keogan Laments end of Moir-Nowak era.
stronger opponents.” And Detroit, boasting one of the best teams in the history of the university, defeated John Carroll College, 43 to 41. This miscalculation might have been due to the strange Detroit set-up.
Lloyd Brazil, University of Detroit mentor, lays claim to having a very unique basketball squad this year. Not only are 9 of his 12 men sophomores, but of the entire squad not one hails from the State of Indiana. “I think we have got something there,” says the Titan coach, “because every squad roster I’ve seen from Maine to California carries at least one Hoosier basketball player.”
The starting lineup for the Red and White will find Captain Chet Laske and Ernie Kolibar at forward, Charles Buchholz and Edwin O’Donnell as guards, and Bob Calihan in the pivot post.
Captain Laske was moved from the center position to give Bob Calihan a chance to use his long legs at center. Laske’s hook shot is better than last year, when he led the Titans in scoring. Bruce, a six-footer from Detroit High, has a good shooting eye that has chalked up points for Detroit this
RAPID PROGRESS IN INDOOR TOURNEYS
•
The Winter Sports competition has started clicking and every day one may see coming from the field house or any of the recs, groups of worn out athletes, some with the broad grin of success and others with the thoughtful look of philosophical defeat. They show just another round in the championship play of one of the winter tourneys.
The most advanced of the sports is the bowling which has completed the qualifying round. Of the 275 bowlers registered 32 qualified, all with scores better than 450. The qualifying round was paced by High-man Tinney with a three game score of 527. Competition should be particularly keen with such other outstanding pinmen as Ted Trefzer, Marty O’Connel and Ray Schorr. Match play started last Wednesday and for the next week the alleys in Walsh will be kept busy with the rollings of these champions.
The billiard artists have begun their play in Brownson Rec and with over 70 entries a good two weeks more will be needed to decide the No. 1 cueman of the campus.
The two handball courts in the field house are kept busy day and night with 50 or more hopeful striving for victory at the four wall sport.
The large number of ping pong entries keep both Carroll and Brownson Recs resounding with the rapid fire of the paddle pounders. About 40 pairings were made for each rec, but by tomorrow the first round will be completed and the number of contestants greatly reduced. The schedule for the doubles play has been posted in the recs.
year. Buchholz, another six-footer, shoots as well with his left hand as he does with his right, and has shown great style in handling rebounds. Ernie Kolibar and Roger Kayes, a four letter man round out the squad as fast all-around performers.
Notre Dame beat the Titans, 36-18, last year. This year? Well, there’s a lot of Irish All-American material that will want to win this last game.
RICE, FRANCIS WIN ILLINOIS EVENTS
•
Track Coach John P. Nicholson brought his skeleton squad of 14 men back from the Illinois Relays last Saturday, reasonably satisfied with most of the results of the meet. In the five relay events, for which the meet is named, the Irish had little success, entering two, placing in only one. The shuttle-hurdle teams of Lawrence, Reidy, Else, and Mahoney finished third behind Michigan and Emporia Teachers. The Irish medley relay group of Hester, Francis, Sheehan, and Rice, was withdrawn by Coach Nicholson after Hester, on the first half-mile leg, was caught in a bad jam and left in the ruck far behind Indiana and Michigan, the eventual winners. Sheehan was then entered in the individual 300-yard dash, Francis in the 1000-yard run, and Rice in the 1500-meter run.
In these individual events, of which there were ten, Notre Dame’s entries came through brilliantly. With Indiana’s stars all concentrating on the relays, Rice and Francis easily took their events, the former doing 4:01.5 for the 1500 meters, the latter doing 2:16 (a new meet record) for the 1000 yards. Bill Clifford tied the meet record in one of his early heats in the 75-yard dash, then got a bad start in the finals but made up a three-yard deficit in the last 20 yards to win in :07.7 seconds. Bill Faymon-vill made his best toss of the indoor season in the shot put, bettering 47 feet to take second behind Big Ten Champion William Watson of Michigan, a consistent 50-foot man. Pete Sheehan found the 300 too short a race, and failed to place. He is a strong striding runner, but no sprinter, and the 300 is just a long sprint.
Ted Leonas, sophomore high jumper, did as well as could be expected, failing to place because of the extreme excellence of the competition. He was beaten out by steady six-foot-four-inch jumpers. Sophomore pole vaulter John Dean cleared 13 feet to get into a triple tie for third—his best work of the year. Dan Gibbs was the only disappointment, failing to clear 12 feet 6 inches. On his first attempt at that height, he went over the bar, but failed to push his pole away properly. It teetered straight up, then fell forward, knocking the bar over. This bit of bad luck unfortunately “got his goat,” and he tightened up miserably on his last two tries.
Indiana’s middle - distance men cleaned up in the relays, winning the two-mile, the medley, and the mile team race, and finishing third in the mile relay behind Ohio State and Michigan. Michigan took first in the (Con tinned on Page 23)
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By John F. Clifford THE GREATEST TEAM . . .
If we were asked to write a story for the Detroit papers tomorrow morning on the Notre Dame-Detroit basketball game, the lead -would run something like this: “Playing their last game of basketball for the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame and ending three of the most spectacular careers known to modern basketball, Johnny Moir, Paul Nowak, and Tommy Wukovits . . . etc, etc.” That’s the only way such a story could be -written. No matter what the outcome of the game, no matter how close the score, Moir, Nowak, and Wukovits -would grab the spotlight in view of their past performances as forward, center, and guard, respectively, on the last three Notre Dame teams.
When speaking of Notre Dame’s Golden Era of Basketball (1935-38), these players cannot and should not be mentioned singularly. Taken individually, Moir oi- Nowak or Wukovits are good; taken collectively as the fastest breaking deadliest shooting, and sharpest passing trio in the game today, these men are phenomenal 1 If Moir had no Nowak or Wukovits for the past three seasons to feed him for fast breaks under the basket, Notre Dame would be just another team. And if Nowak and Wukovits had no Moir to capitalize on their bullet-like passes, Coach George Keogan would have a team that could pass the pants off any team in the country—but maybe not out-score them. They have been playing together now for four years. In this their last appearance as a senior unit of the Irish basketball quintet, which for three years has won and retained supremacy over national court circles, they must be considered together.
Let’s look at the record . . . Moir- and Nowak teamed up on the 1935-36 squad for the first time. Wukovits -was George Ireland’s helpmate that year, but saw much action. In this period the trio ganged up on the opposition for a total of 477 points: Moh' 260, Nowak 161, and Wukovits 56. The team scored 1053 points, smashing all existing records for total number of points for the season. They beat Syracuse, Penn, Pitt, Marquette, NYU, Purdue, and Illinois in the course of their 22 victories. Moir and Nowak, sophomores, made the All-American team, by virtue of their fine play throughout the country. The following year Moir, Nowak, and Wukovits began their co-operative movement to make them the immortal trio of Notre Dame basketball, just as the Four Horsemen of Irish gridiron lore became football’s greatest unit.
Once rolling, they moved fast. During the 1936-37 season the Big Three played a large part in pushing up the total score to 873 points . . . Moir making a mere 290, and Giz and Tommy dropping and feeding them from all over the floor. Again Moir and Nowak made the All-American, acclaimed nationwide to be the greatest ever. To date they are responsible for over sixty per cent of the 963 points scored this season. They have participated in 61 victories for a percentage rating of .871 during their varsity careers. An imposing record—of the shatter-proof variety.
To George Keogan, their coach during four years of the severest basketball competition in the country, goes the credit of assembling the greatest threesome of basketball—Moir, Nowak, and Wukovits—who, in selling out the New York Garden for three consecutive years, moved into the same select class as Sonja Henie, Joe Louis, and the National Horse Show.
V
LIFE OF A BENGAL BOXER
Monday night begins the preliminary bouts for the finals of the seventh annual Bengal Boxing Show. These prelims have in the past produced some of the best fighting of the whole show, and have revealed that good fighters have been eliminated by rugged, clever boxers who packed just a bit more ummph in their mitts. There is one kid out there this year—Slim Thompson by name—whose exploits along the Bengal line are now almost traditional with the prelims. Slim started his boxing career at Notre Dame way back in ’35, at a time when Max Marek was the drawing card for the Bouts and fullbacks didn’t have to hash. Slim punched through one bout in the prelims that year, but was beaten in the next. The following year he managed to get to the semifinals, only to be eliminated. Last year Slim achieved the glorious distinction of reaching the finals, but here, too, he got the wrong end of a decision. Now Slim is fighting for a win—that one that pays off, and expects to get it. He’ll be tussling in the 147 lb. division this year. You can’t miss him: he’s the lad with the wind-mill wind-up—but what a wallop!
SWORDSMEN IN WIN OVER WISCONSIN
Notre Dame’s swordsmen engaged in a little foreign entanglement last Saturday when they sallied forth to take the Badgers on their own battle field 14% to 12%. The score was knotted at the conclusion of the foil and sabre matches but once again the Irish showed their superiority in the epee bouts, and as a result, emerged the victor.
Notre Dame’s first loss in foils was to Sylvester by Mercado, 5 to 3. De la Vergne’s 5-4 victory over Schiff was supplanted by Leising’s loss to Zeisig, 2-5. Mercado came back and tied the score as he defeated Schiff, 5-4. De la Vergne defeated Zeisig by an identical score and the Irish took possession of the lead. Sylvester handed Leiseing, of the visitors, his second defeat, 5-1. Mercado won the next battle from Zeisig 5-3, but Sylvester defeated de la Vergne, 5-1, to tie the count at 4-4. McEneamey, substituting for Leising, subdued Schiff, 5-3, thus giving the Irish the margin in the foils.
Captain Zerbst’s string of victories was broken rather abruptly by Kaftan, Badger captain, 5-3. Batterman dropped Scarlata, Irish sabreman, by a like score. The remaining matches in this division ended as follows: Gavan oyer Carlin, 5-4; Zerbst lost to Batterman, 4-5; Scarlata defeated Carlin, 5-3; Gavan was shut out by Kafman, 0-5; Zerbst whitewashed Carlin, 5-0; Scarlata lost to Kaftan, 0-5; and Gavan nosed out Batterman to once again tie the meet at nine up.
Graham opened up the epee by drawing blood on Alberts, 3-2. Nowa-kowchi nosed out Colgan 3-2. McEn-earney over Hauboldt cleared the way for Colgan’s recovery in taking Alberts, 3-1. Nowakowchi, Wisconsin’s number one epee man, won his second match, this time over Graham, 3-1. Supplementing Colgan’s lead in netting a 3-0 win over Hauboldt was McEnearney’s gift of 3-2 over Alberts giving the decisive fourteenth point to the Irish. Graham added the half point by tieing Hauboldt; Mc-Enearney conceded Nowakowchi his third victory, 2-3, to set the final tally at 14% to 12% in favor of the Blue and Gold.
The Badgers captain, Kaftan, seemed to be in top form as he won his matches quickly and easily. Capt. Zerbst and Scarlata’s off-day was somewhat compensated for by Mc-Eneamey’s splendid showing in epee and foil which gave him three victories and scoring honors for the Irish. •
£ £
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
MASTODON RACE HAS FAMILY TROUBLES
By "Joe Jab"
Dear Mark:
It is just like I was afraid of. You remember my telling you last week that Mgr. “You-Can’t Rob-Us” Ko-valcik was threatening to leave “One-Horse” Race? Well, it’s like I said; it rilly happened. The Mgr. and the “Racehorse” have rilly split.
It happens like this:
Mgr. Kovalcik is worried kinda about the “Racehorse’s” condition. When “One-Horse” ambled back from that little week-end stay in Chi he was not the same old “Our Boy.” He was a changed man. The Mgr. noted this and tried to exhilarate the “Racehorse” back into ready condition by tellin’ him that he might resign as his Mgr.
You know that the “Racehorse” is pretty tough to handle; so he ups on his high horse and picks hisself a new mgr. And WHAT a mgr. he picks. It seems that he met up with a startlin’ blonde gal in Chi. Even if we are his part owner, he ignores our ownership in him and tells us that the B.G. will be his mgr. by proxy. Our only answer was, “Yeah, she’s blonde by ‘proxy’ too.”
This new mgr., the blonde gal, “Our ex-Boy” Race tells us, is Madame Conchita Cowalska.” Imagine what a headline headache she will make. Already she is nostalgia to us. We tell the “Racehorse” to do something in the form of trainin’, and he says, “The Mme. is my mgr. She’ll tell me what to do.” And you can bet your boots that she will.
This makes it kind of easier for us anyway; now we’ll have more time to get around with “Punch ’em Paul” Kell. The “One-horse” Race was gettin’ kind of pop-offish anyway. He feels that he has the rastlin’ title sewed up for another year.
“Killer” Kell is different though. He’s stickin’ with his old buddy and mgr., Adam Stup, whom we call “Stoop.” The “Killer” minds his own business and goes on about the trainin’ grind like he knows he can get the title. But the best part of him is, you don’t have to hear from him just how good he is. He’s got the stuff and you can see it without his telling you.
It seems that the “Racehorse” warmed up immediately in the prefight practices, whereas “Punch ’em Paul” has been workin’ up to gradual condition. With the bout only a week off now, it looks like Kell will be a very serious threat to the “Racehorse” who used to be “Our Boy.”
It’s going to be some battle, and you can bet your doughnuts on the judgment of,
Your demon reporter.
“JOE JAB.”
WALSH LIGHTS, HEAVIES WIN CAGE CROWNS; KENNEDY, MERKING STAR FOR GENTLEMEN
The “Gentlemen of Walsh” scored a clean sweep in the Interhall basketball league finals by snatching the championship crowns in the two weight divisions of the double-group cage tournament. Victory smiles gleamed Sunday morning when the Walsh heavies tumbled Carroll Hall 27-20, and the lightweights
GYM SQUAD BUSY AS SEASON ADVANCES
That brain is mightier than brawn was demonstrated once again as Notre Dame Gymnastic team, Coach Scannell directing, fell before the metaphysics of the philosophy disputation and as a result of conflict (cf. The Week) will present their program in Washington Hall March 22.
But far from being idle in the meantime the gym team has formed more pyramids and tossed more Indian clubs per minute than any kindred organization in the history of the activity on campus. March 8, the gentle people of La Paz, Ind., rubbed startled eyes before finally deciding that such large gentlemen could actually do such things so easily.
And then again this Monday, Montpelier, Ohio townspeople will stare at and comment on the smallness of Andy Puplis “for such a wonderful football player” etc. A final exhibition at Fort Wayne, Ind. on March 20 will close the season of the gymnasts.
But for the students on the campus the gym team will be at its sterling best. Captain Bob Sullivan and his mighty men will put on a good show. The “mighty men” include: Richard Ames, Ed Broscoe, Hugh Bums, Mike Corgan, Gene Ely, Phil Galletta, Don Hennessey, William Kerr, Joe Ku-harich, Pat McCarty, Joe McKeon, Andy Puplis, Joe Schulz, Joe Stmad, Phil Walker and Lou Zontini.
Further announcement of the program will be made in the Scholastic next week. It is hoped that this year’s show will be better attended than that of last year.	-
Interhall Volleyball
Interhall volleyball, the latest addition to the calendar of interhall sports, will get under way next week. This activity is not new to the campus, but it was previously confined to the Physical Education group. This year, for the first time, play will be open to all halls. A number
„ managed to edge out an 18-16 deci-f sion over the slim Brownson basket-eers, in the final curtain act.
Maurey Kennedy, the key man of the burly Walsh giants, ran wild over the Carroll opposition in sinking baskets from every angle to register a total of 16 points. Coach O’Hara sent in the football personnell of McCarty, Puplis, Arboit, and O’Reilly, to complete the massacre and pile up the score in the final minutes of the fray.
Lights Also Win
In the lightweight division, Coach Joe DiMatteo used nine men to provide the tightest game of the tournament. Paced by Timmerman and Merking, et al, the Walsh simon-pures of the light brigade manipulated a rough-and-tumble combination to score the deciding basket in the dying seconds of the heated contest. The final gun left the Brownson eagers with a two point deficit.
The Walsh heavies beat Dillon 3716 earlier in the day to gain the championship of Group II, thus providing the challenging advance into the final playoff. In the lightweight schedule the twin halls, Brownson and Carroll, played off the tie for the Group I finale, Brownson swamping their arch-rivals to the tune of 40-12.
Members of the championship teams will receive gold medals for surviving the eight-game contest. Runners-up in the final playoffs are to be presented with silver medals. A total of 27 men in the two divisions have been named as recipients of the medals, Walsh hall holding the campus monopoly on the gold and silver bullion.
of teams have already been formed, and it is expected that the league will prove an excellent means of filling the gap between the interhall basketball season and the interhall baseball and softball season.
Games will be played following night prayer, with one game scheduled on the apparatus gymnasium floor each evening.
Play in the league -will be under the direction of Mr. Handy, and any hall not entered should see him at once.
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Quotable Quotes
“What Shakespeare did for the English language in Elizabethan days, American slang is doing today. It is constantly enriching the language with new words and expressions.” Professor G. S. Browne of the faculty of education at the University of Melbourne, says the Americans are doing most of the work in adding new words to the English tongue. The English themselves, he thinks, have done little.
“My conception of a liberal education is the development and expansion of native intelligence.” Lawrence A. Downs, president of the Illinois Central Railroad, speaks at at DePauw University conference on “Business and the Liberal Arts College.”
“In the last few decades college courses hav been subdivided . . . (until) the present day student, to learn about all the aspects of a given field, would have to spend at least one-fourth of his college time on the subject.” Karl R. Douglas, professor of education at the University of Minnesota, offers a 5-point education plan to enable the college student to get a well-rounded education.
TOBIN says:
T IRISH MIXTURE
O
B CORKTOWN
I
COOKIE JAR
are blended to suit the taste of pipe smokers who like quality tobacco. We stand back of this claim.
MclNERNY & COMPANY CIGAR STORE
110 North Main Street
Lunch	Billiards
CARBURETOR
U. S. Pat. No. 2,082,106
YELULBOLE
UPDRAFT
New way of burning tobacco — better, cooler, cleaner. Carburetor-Action cools smoke. Keeps bottom of bowl absolutely dry. Treated with honey. Get the genuine.
All students interested in submitting for publication in the Scholastic short stories, poems, familiar essays, essays in historical or literary criticism, are invited to bring manuscripts to the Scholastic offices in the Ave Maria Building, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday evenings between 7 and 8 o’clock; or to room 328 Main Building, mornings from 9 to 11 or evenings from 8 to 9 o’clock.
____________________________________/
Dean Guy Stanton, acting president of the University of Minnesota, has no time for hobbies. Besides his administrative duties he is editor of Harper’s history series—a group of textbooks, editor-in-chief of Compton’s 16 volumes of Pictured Encyclopedia, and has won a diploma for distinguished service to science from Sigma Xi. So what chance has stampcollecting?
C.C.C. MEET
(Continued from Page U)
dies seem to be the most wide-open races of the afternoon, and Jim Tulin of Drake, Bob Shurilla of Marquette, Ken Ryden of Pittsburgh, and Captain Bill Mahoney and Bob Lawrence of Notre Dame, are all potential place winners. To retain his championship Chick Eivens will probably have to better the 12 feet 6 inch jump with which he won last year, for the Notre Dame trio of Dan Gibbs, Hal Langton, and John Dean have all cleared at least 13 feet.
Eddie Burke, world indoor record holder in the high jump, was beaten by Ted Leonas, Notre Dame sophomore, in a dual meet early this season. The results of their second meeting tomorrow should be interesting, and Ross Wellwood of Wayne who placed third last year, Pete Bennett of Pitt who was fifth, and Charles Drewyour of Michigan Normal who was hurt last year, should add to the fun.
Ait Thomas will not find the de
fence of his quarter mile title particularly easy going against the competition afforded by Herman “Killer” Carr of Marquette, Harry Kohl of Drake, and Pete Sheehan of Notre Dame. Johnny Francis, who set a new Notre Dame indoor record of 1:55.4 at Indiana three weeks ago, should give Johnny Woodruff a battle in the half mile. He and Greg Rice are favored in the mile, although Ken Waite of Michigan State, second last year, and Captain Fred Padgett of Drake, are both dangerous.
The two mile looms as a duel between Greg Rice and Bill Feiler. Rice won in the dual meet at Drake two weeks ago, but Feiler was forced to drop out of that race because he was bothered by a sore toe. Feiler beat Rice when he placed second to Lash in the C.I.C. outdoor meet last spring, but Rice returned the compliment two weeks later when he followed Feiler’s pace for almost eight laps and then passed him on the home stretch to win the N.C.A.A. two mile with a new record of 9:14.2. Although Gerard Boss of Michigan State, Gene Gormley of Notre Dame, Ford Hess of Western State, and Captain Padgett of Drake, all of whom placed in that order last year are back, Steve Szumachowski is expected to sneak in with a few points for the Irish.
Forum Trip Success
Members of the Commerce Forum returned to the campus last night completely satisfied with their brief exploration of Chicago’s financial district.
The large group was met in Chicago by AI Smith, ’32, a former president of the Commerce Forum. Debonaire Mr. Smith, the youngest member of the Chicago Board of Trade, conducted the visitors through the Board of Trade building.
After witnessing a few early transactions in the business center, the group visited the Chicago Federal Reserve Bank. A side-trip was undertaken by some who preferred to inspect the Continental Illinois Bank and Trust Co.
Armour’s Packing Plant was the next point of interest for the visiting gentlemen of the Commerce Forum. The “do as you please” attitude was taken by prexy Brosius to the sightseeing group for a few hours. The trip as a whole was considered as a substitute for all commerce classes and as an educational holiday for the Commerce Forum gents.
You are urged to purchase your ticket for the Bengal Bouts early. Any SCHOLASTIC reporter will be glad to accommodate you.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
Letters to the Editor
6 Lyons Hall Notre Dame, Ind. Febraury 26, 1938
Editor of the Scholastic
Notre Dame, Ind.
Dear Sir:
This letter has been a long time coming, bnt finally I have been annoyed to the letter-writing stage—an advanced stage of “disgruntlitis.” The cause, of course, is our moviehouse manners.
Once upon a time it was a source of annoyance to go to a show in Washington Hall only to find that I had seen it before. However with the current trend of blatancy infecting our movies, I now look forward to seeing a movie for the second time. For now—when loud peals of boyish laughter blot out the dialog for periods of time largely incompatible with the humor evoking them—I can smile smugly to myself because I know what the actors are saying anyhow.
Sometimes when I am seeing a show for the first time and such hiatuses destroy the continuity of the show, I calmly reflect that after it is all over I will be none the worse for having missed a few lines. But at other times this philosophical mood deserts me and a strange anger wells up in my heart against these carefree youths—an unreasoning anger, I am sorry to say, that is as spontaneous as their thoughtless shouts.
Of course I don’t mean to imply that a large percentage of our students are yokels—yokels very often have good manners. I will not even insinuate that they have a distorted sense of humor. Suffice to say that there is only one place where I am ashamed of being a student of Notre Dame—where I would hesitate to take a friend or relative.
In conclusion I wish to say that I entertain no hopes of this letter doing any good. The type of individual
who causes such annoyances is the type who will say “He must be referring to George the Bun-Grabber.” Why did I write this letter? Partly to express my thoughts on the subject; partly in the hope that one day there will arise within the student body a degree of good manners commensurable with their state in life.
Sincerely yours,
Arthur A. Baum.
Cracow Club Listens
The regular meeting of the Cracow Club was addressed by Mr. Frank Czyzewski Tuesday night. The speaker was welcomed to the club by President Snaidowski.
Mr. Czyzewski’s discourse was of unusual interest to the club as he is in charge of the Polish Hour broadcast over radio station WSBT and acts as the program’s master of ceremonies. His experiences in his work and the humorous incidents which often arise in the studio helped to make the speaker’s discussion entertaining.
Following the speaker’s address and the business meeting the semi-fiaul rounds of the ping-pong and pool tournaments were completed. The final round is scheduled to be completed at the next meeting.
RADIO LOG
Friday: 8:00-8:15, Sports Review; 8:30-9:00, Little Jamboree.
Sunday 11:00-11:15, St. Mary’s Musical Program.
Monday: 4:30-4:45, Student Sessions; 7:45-8:00, Faculty Talks.
Tuesday: 4:30-4:45, Miniature Theatre.
Wednesday: 4:30-4:45, Journey Without Maps.
Thursday: 4:30-4:45, Periscope; 7:15-7:30, Music of the Nations; 7:45-8:00, Music Hour.
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
420 Associates Bldg.
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
ECONOMY
FOR THE COMMON PEEPUL"
• Economy means a lot when you’re talking about travel—it means real dollars and cents in your pocket. And you can easily figure those savings by the low South Shore Line fares ... just add up ALL the. costs of travelling by highway, including the extras. And then remember, too, how much easier it is to GO by South Shore ... no traffic, no driving, no parking, straight through to your destination. It’s the fast, thrifty way to travel.
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4*8211
The Safest Most Dependable Way to Chicago
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE A SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

228 South Michigan St.
South Bend, Ind.
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WISEST $1 YOB EVER SPENT
HEW SHAPES & FINISHES	k4E<
MED! CU has only Pal'd filter combining moisture-proof Cellophane exterior and 66 Baffle absorbent mesh screen interior; resulting in greatest scientific pipe smoking invention ever known. Keeps juices in filter, out of mouth.
BENGAL PRELIMS START (Continued from Page Ji)
ions on Friday night -will be the long-anticipated “battle of the mastodons” between Joe “One Horse” Race and Paul “Killer” Kell. Race will be remembered for the sterling battle he put on last year with John Fogel—a battle which was the equal of even the Connors-Tancredi tussles of two and three years ago. With “One-Horse” -well primed for the fray and “Killer” determined to put his best fist forward to prove that tackles always were and always will be tougher and nastier than guards, somebody is bound to be in for a busy evening.
Thus, with a field of boxers unsurpassed in Bengal history, a set of officials that are second to none in this district, and a guarantee of innumerable side-splits from the efforts of two old hands at this rough-tough comedy business, the Bengal Bouts of 1938 loom up as the equal of the greatest in a long line of wonderful shows. Which is really saying something after last year’s battles.
CHEMISTS SPEAK TO A.S.M.
(Continued from Page U)
between chemical composition, micro-structure and mechanical pi-operties of various classes of manganese bronzes. These alloys are aiphateia or beta bronzes of high tensile strength, containing varying amounts of aluminum, tin or iron and manganese. The discussion included the susceptibility of manganese bronzes to thermal treatment and the possible inter-penetration of tin during babbitting processes.
The two addresses were followed by the presentation of a sound film illustrating features of the manufacture of non-ferrous alloys.
The next meeting of the society on April 13 will be addressed by Dr. Kent R. Van Horn, of Aluminum Research Laboratories, Aluminum Company of America.
1—-A specially woven soft collar for long wear.
2—Mitoga shaped-to-fit.
3—Sanforized-Shrunk—for permanent fit.
4—Authentic style.
5—All this for only $2.
ARROIP SHIRTS
A new shirt if one ever shrinks.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
Intelligent service
Reliability
34 years' experience are our endorsements.
i
PATRONIZE SCHOLASTIC ADVERTISERS
Optometrists Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street
South Bend, Indiana
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	23
BRUSHING UP
(Continued from Page 15)
in at 115 and Jim at 125. Lawson Little drove a golf ball over the Golden Gate International Exposition’s “Tower of the Sun” . . . the tower is 248 feet high—Little’s second drive cleared the topmost boom by an estimated 52 feet, or 300 feet above the ground. Pittsburgh’s Panhers turned down the Rose Bowl bid because they figured the game would
interfere with spring practice. Indiana’s Big Three of basketball (Notre Dame, Purdue, and Indiana) placed five men on the all-state team.
ILLINOIS RELAYS
(Continued from Page 17) shuttle-hurdles, second in the medley and mile, and fourth in the two-mile. In the individual events, however, the Irish were outstanding, taking three firsts, while Michigan took two—in
the high hurdles and shot-put—and tied with Ohio State for first in the pole vault.
There was no official team-scoring, kept but Michigan made the best all around showing, with Indiana second, Ohio State third, and Notre Dame fourth. Coach Nicholson, pointing for the Central Conference meet tonight and tomorrow, refused to enter the Relays with the idea of fighting for top team honors, so left half his squad to work out at home.
by MAX HOME, *39. MMblfsa
Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
- • ??