COLLEGE PARADE
Back of a Medal
FIRE was raging through a Virginia village at midnight. A telephone workman sped there from his home... found the central office in danger.
Relieving the girl operator, he handled all calls... summoned help from nearby towns . . . ’til buildings on both sides collapsed and the telephone building caught fire. Quickly he disconnected the small switchboard______moved it to safety •.. improvised a telephone station in a field.
In 20 minutes he re-established communication. Next
morning, the rescued switchboard was installed in new quarters . . . telephone service was resumed as usual.
That telephone man received the Vail Medal... one of several awarded each year to Bell System employees for public service. Devotion to duty • . . day by day as well as in emergencies ... has given America the world’s finest telephone system.
outstanding
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
By Robert L. Grogan
The United States held second place among the nations represented among the foreign students at German colleges during the 1934-35 season with 365 students. All the other runner up nations are located close to Germany, Poland leading the entire group with 393 students. France, England and Italy are conspicuous by their absence among the leaders.
The Tulane Hullabaloo prints these figures as indicative of several things; mainly, the strong anti-German feeling among her stronger European neighbors, and secondly, the surprising number of American students seeking foreign education despite the depression.
—o—
—Dog’s Life? A dog trotted into a University of North Dakota classroom and wagged his tail so pleadingly that the professor let him stay. But the lecture on the workings of Congress was not half over when the professor looked up to find the doggone dog gone.—Indiana Daily Student.
—o—
A University of Missouri student’s definition of a skeleton claims that it is a stack of bones with the people scraped off.
—o—
At a mass meeting held in the interest of world peace at Tulane University, Dr. Mack Swearingen, history professor at Tulane, contended that “nobody wins wars.” Dr. Swearingen said, “Victor and vanquished lose in the economic collapse and moral degradation following every war. Manufacturers think they profit, but their profits are spurious. The same is true of labor and wages, because high wages are accompanied by evermounting high prices culminating in economic disaster.”
Quoting a recent article in Harpers Dr. Swearingen gave the following reasons why ‘Men Like War.’:
1.	Closer association between fellow men united in a common purpose.
2.	Service in a cause far greater than any individual enterprise.
3.	Freedom from economic worries.
4.	Adventure.
As for- Dr. Swearingen’s proof that nobody wins wars, Mr. Morgan seems to be deriving great pleasure from his ‘spurious profits,’ secondly, it is not a proper conclusion that labor loses more than the benefits of its higher wages simply because prices rise. Despite the weakness of his arguments, Dr. Swearingen’s point that nobody wins wars is true to a greater extent
(Continued on Page 3)
The Scholastic
Two
MILD . . . LIGHT . . . FOR PIPES . . . CIGARETTES
★ CORN COB PIPE CLUB OF VIRGINIA *
Back on the air ... Crossroads fun, frolic and old-time music. , Every Saturday Night at 10:30 (Eastern Standard Time) over coast-to-coast NBC Red Network, direct from Richmond, Va.
CALENDAR
Friday, January 10
Scholastic staff meeting, Editorial staff 6:30 p.m., General staff 7:00 p.m., Editorial offices; Basketball, Notre Dame versus Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
Saturday, January 11
Varsity Track, intrasquad meet in gymnasium, 2:00 p.m.; Movie, “Hap-
piness Ahead,” with Dick Powell, 6:45 and 8:30 p.m.
Sunday, January 12
Student Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a.m.; Meeting of the officers of Knight of Columbus, 10:30 a.m., Walsh hall clubrooms; Basketball, Interhall practice games, morning and afternoon.
Monday, January 1.;
Meeting, Economic Round Table, South Bend, 6:00 p.m.; Broadcast from University station over WSBT, 3:15 p.m.; Football banquet, University dining halls, 6:30 p.m.
Tuesday, January 14
Basketball, Notre Dame.vs. Marquette in Notre Dame gymnasium, at 8:00 p.m.; Meeting of the Italian Club, Carroll hall recreation room; Broadcast from campus radio station over WSBT, 7:30 p.m.
Wednesday, January 15
Meeting, campus radio group, Engineering building, 6:30 p.m.; Meeting, Charles Phillips Cracow Club, Law bldg., 6:30 p.m.
Thursday, January hl
Radio broadcast from University station over WSBT, '3:15 p.m. by Jack Robinson, program of sports comment.
COLLEGE PARADE (Continued from Page 2)
than is usually believed. Even substantial land grants may prove to be white elephants to the victor in war.
As for the arguments put forth in HarpeFs as to why men like war, each probably bears some influence in drawing men into war, but each could be satisfied in some more peaceful manner. Furthermore, war can hardly be considered a ‘cause far greater than any individual enterprise.’.There are many more peaceful methods of saitsfying the urge for adventure than going to war.
January 10, 1936
Three
THE GROTTO — Inspiration of Notre Dame Men
Four
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
E Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"! at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXIX	January 10, 1936	No. 12’
JOHN B. KENNEDY WILL SPEAK AT BANQUET
By Harold A. Williams
Leslie Donates Rare
Manuscript To School
Mr. Shane Leslie, internationally famous Irish writer and lecturer who gave special lectures on Swift and Shakespeare here last year, presented the University with a Christmas present in the form of an Elizabethan manuscript.
The manuscript is entitled: “A rejoinder to the reply of a pretended Catholick who desired satisfaction in three particulars and promised thereupon to become a Protestant.”
It was taken from the Phillipps Collection of Sir Thomas Phillipps (1792-1872), antiquary and bibliophile, and was formerly in the Dering Collection of Heneage Dering (16551750), antiquary and divine.
The manuscript was probably written in the first half of the 17th Century, certainly after 1610. Mr. Leslie’s gift will be placed in the University’s library.
CLEVELAND DANCE
The Notre Dame Cleveland Club’s dance was held at Guild Hall, Saturday, December 28. Two hundred and fifty couples danced to the music of John Beljon’s orchestra at the breakfast formal. The dance was sponsored by the Notre Dame Cleveland Alumni Association.
John B. Kennedy, formerly of Collier’s and radio commentator, has been chosen by the program committee as the principal speaker for the 16th annual testimonial dinner to the Notre Dame football team, it was announced Wednesday.
The dinner, which is sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, will be given next Monday evening, Jan. 17, at 7 o’clock, in the University east dining hall. The affair has been limited to 1,000; only a few tickets remain unsold. Frank J. Donovan, ’28, is general chairman.
j Brown Will Be Toastmaster
As in former years, the speakers’ table will be occupied by many celebrities. Warren Brown, sports editor and columnist of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, will be toastmaster. Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune, will also speak. The Rev. Michael Moriarity, director of the Catholic Charities for the diocese of Cleveland, will again be back. Father Moriarty will be remembered as the man who almost stole the show from Will Rogers last year. Eddie Dowling, Broadway entertainer, will also be present. Jack Ledden, of the South Bend Tribune, and Jim Costin, of the South Bend News-Times, will be present along with other newspaper men from all sections of the country. George W. Freyermuth,
mayor of South Bend, will speak in behalf of the city.
University Officials on. Program
University and alumni officials who will appear on the program are the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice president and chairman of the athletic board; Elmer Layden, director of athletics and head football coach; Francis Jones, president of the St. Joseph Valley Alumni club; and Bernard Voll, president of the national Notre Dame alumni association.
Football coaches who have promised to be present are Francis Schmidt of Ohio State, Lynn Waldorf, coach of Northwestern, Clark Shaughnessy, coach of Chicago, Charlie Bachman of Michigan State, and Jimmy Phelan of the University of Washington.
A football autographed by members of the Notre' Dame varsity football team will be awarded as door prize. The University band; cut to 35 pieces for the occasion, will play under the direction of Professor Joseph Casa-santa.
Arrangements have been made to pay special tribute to the late Will Rogers, Knute Rockne, Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., former president of the University, and Joseph Sullivan, captain-elect of the 1935 football team, who died last year.
Scene at the Speakers’ Table During Last Year’s Football Dinner.
Five
January 10, 1936
SECOND ISSUE OF "SCRIP" ANNOUNCED,-WILL BE PUBLISHED ON JANUARY 24
Knights Hear Cusack On European Travels
More Manuscripts Solicited
Scrip, campus literary quarterly, will make its second appearance under the editorship of Maurice Tom-bragel on Friday, Jan. 24,
Editor Tombragel announced this week that very little of the actual content of Scrip has been definitely
Editor Maurice Tombragel Wants new contributors.
decided. He expects, however, that many contributions from campus writers will be presented before the dead-line, which has been set for Jan. 20.
“There has been a distinct feeling of apathy on the part of students toward Scrip,” Editor Tombragel said. “We feel that the standards of the publications are high, that material used is representative, the principal fault with Scrip as a campus organ is the fact that so few students avail themselves of the opportunity of submitting manuscripts.”
Two prizes are offered annually for the writers in Scrip. A $25 award for the best prose contribution, and an equal award for the best work in poetry.
It is expected that there will be no important change in the format of Scrip with its second appearance of the year. The use of illustrations, done for the first issue by Hugo Mel-chione, will probably be continued.
Tombragel voiced the hope this week that the second appearance of Scrip would contain new names in the campus literary field.
“The sketches by Freshmen in our first issue drew many favorable comments,” he said, “proving that the work of first and second year men is more than acceptable.”
Manuscripts may be submitted to Maurice Tombragel at 502 Morrissey hall.	.	'
Six.
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL
Guest of honor at the St. Vincent de Paul meeting held last night in the Faculty Dining Hall was Dr. Charles T. Baillee, South Bend minister, who spoke briefly on “Social Conditions in South Bend.” Mr. Francis Flynn, professor of sociology at Notre Dame, offered a valuation of the work of the society from a professional standpoint.
Plans for the year were proposed, which include an enlarged program calling for greater financing, more publicity, and an increase in the secretarial staff. The meeting was one of the few informal ones held during the year. Present besides the members were the faculty advisory board: Rev. John Kelly, C.S.C., Prof. Francis Flynn, Prof. Thomas Madden, Prof. Francis McMahon, Prof. Earl Langwell, Mr. Eli Abraham, and Mr. Edward Cleary. Joseph Drolla, president of the society presided at the meeting.
A special feature of the session was the St. Vincent de Paul broadcast over the Notre Dame station to which the members Jistened. This was the first of a series of three broadcasts to be made every Thursday night at 9:15 by the St. Vincent de Paul for three weeks.
ALUMNUS ISSUE
Enlarged by the addition of 16-page supplement containing all the speeches delivered at the Special Convocation on Philippine Day, the Notre Dame Alummis will make its regular appearance this week.
The Alumnus also contains pictures of President Roosevelt receiving his degree, Carlos P. Romulo, and the various other dignitaries who were the guests of the University for the impressive ceremonies of Dec. 9.
The regular issue contains the account of the successful Old Timers reunion, held the week-end of the Southern California football game. The thanks of the alumni and of the University are expressed for several recent gifts to the school.
The issue is rounded out with a complete record of alumni activities, club notes, and correspondence from members of the alumni organization.
SLEEP AND LEARN
Go ahead and sleep. A CCNY professor of philosophy is quoted as saying those who sleep in class learn more.
At their last meeting, Thursday, January 9, the Knights of Columbus were addressed by Howard Cusack, senior class president, who related some of the more interesting incidents encountered by him on his numerous trips to Europe. From his experiences and accurate observations Cusack drew excerpts which kept the Knights enrapt for a brief period last night.
. The business portion of last evening’s meeting was brief but impor-
Lecturer Edward McNally Keeps knights entertained.
tant. The meeting was held on Thursday rather than Monday, the regular meeting night, in order to gain time for the current membership committee activities. The exemplification of the second and third degrees has been postponed until after the final exams. In the meantime the Knights are urged to continue their efforts to contribute a candidate for the coming initiation.
Lecturer Edward McNally took advantage of the shortened business meeting to offer an excellent Lecturer’s hour consisting of Cusack’s presentation of his European experiences supplemented by other entertainment and refreshments.
The early meeting occasioned printing of the first of the supplements to the Santa Maria, council publication. The new supplement is a news bulletin the purpose of which is the circulation of council announcements and news between issues of the publication.
PHILADELPHIA CLUB
One hundred and fifty couples danced to the music of Howard Lan-nin’s band at the annual Philadelphia Club Yuletide dance. The affair was held at the Hotel Ritz-Carlton in Philadelphia on the evening of December 27. The dance hours proper were from ten to two featured by an intermission dinner during which “shorts”
The Scholastic
Met Club Revival Plans
Handed Campus Group
CAMPUS BROADCASTING STATION TO CARRY ADDITIONAL PROGRAMS
Reorganization of the Metropolitan club, which lost its charter a year ago in a mad campus political scramble, has been thrown squarely into the hands of the campus group, it was revealed by the S.A.C., this week.
Perusal of the records sent to Robert Cavanaugh, S.A.C. chairman of campus clubs, by Andrew Maffei, president of the Met club during last year’s turbulent session and now a student at St. John’s Law, Brooklyn, indicate that the campus organization
ESSAY CONTEST . . .
A total of 526 students in colleges and universities throughout the coun- ' try including Notre Dame are entered to date in the second annual Panhellenic Essay Contest, Mrs. A. Barton Hepburn, president of the Panhellenic House Association in New York City, announced last week.
Entrants are registered from 141 different colleges and universities located in every section of the United States, including such institutions as: Stanford University on the West coast, Rollins College in Florida, Southern Methodist University in the Southwest, Notre Dame in the middle west and Wellesley in the New England states. The Essay Contest, according to Mrs. Hepburn, was announced the first week in November and this total of 526 entrants has been enrolled since that time.
To Be Divided Into Ten Parts
By Gregory Byrnes
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., faculty director of the local radio studio, has announced that beginning in February the campus organization will undertake a much more ambitious series of broadcasts. The increase in the
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C. Asks student support.
Ex-President Andrew Maffei Gone but not forgotten.
can reorganize the defunct club upon liquidation of a $164.18 debt.
Cavanaugh made it clear that if responsible members of the Met club desired reorganization it would be first necessary to eradicate the debt now outstanding. He suggesetd, however, that the Met club with practically two hundred students eligible for admission could very easily and at a small charge begin the New Year right with a clean slate.
All preliminary activity in reference to reorganization of the club was carried on under the instigation of Andrew Maffei. Through his efforts a debt of $119.50 to the Yonker’s Crochet and Embroidery Co. has been loaned to the Met club until it is again on its feet. He also had the Roosevelt hotel bill reduced from $100 to $75.
According to letters from ex-President Maffei the matter of re-organization is up to the campus group. Efforts of Maffei to interest local New Yorkers to hold a holiday affair in cooperation with the New York alumni group headed by Edward Tighe, for the purpose of alleviation of the club debt, were met with absolute silence on the part of campus leaders.
While the files of the S.A.C. were supposed to disclose antagonistic letters from Maffei, in reality the correspondence shows that he manifested the only active interest for the revival of the defunct organization.
Cavanaugh told the Scholastic that the S.A.C. would welcome suggestions on the part of student leaders for reorganization, and that the S. A. C. would patiently mark time until (Continued on Page 23)
January 10, 1936
As a result of the interest aroused by the first annual Essay Contest, sponsored by the Panhellenic House Association, in which the 20 national women’s fraternities are represented on the Board of Directors, the second competition on the general subject “Why I Should See New York,” is open to all undergraduates in the colleges and universities of the country. Professors of the English, History, Commerce and Education departments of these colleges and universities have received personal information about the contest. Entry blanks are available from the Panhellenic House Association, 3 Mitchell Place, New York City.
The prizes of the second annual Panhellenic Essay Contest are as follows: First prize, $100 in cash, plus a week's stay and entertainment provided by the Panhellenic House Association at the Beekman Tower Hotel, its headquarters; or transportation to and from New York, plus a week’s stay and entertainment; Second prize, $25, plus a week-end stay; and Third prize, $15, plus a week-end stay.
DID YOU KNOW?
New Jersey is one of the few states in the Union which has neither a medical nor a dental school.
Spinach is the fastest-selling vegetable in the student cafeteria at Georgia’s Emory University.
Harvard has started a course for stammerers.
The Cotton Textile Institute of North Carolina plans to build roads of cotton in the near future.
time available makes possible the presentation of a program of broadcasts covering all the various departments of the University. It is planned to have the various faculty members in each department organize and direct the students so that the greatest number of each will have an opportunity to present programs dealing with subjects relating to their various fields. The series will be made up of two 15-minute broadcasts each day, with the exception of Saturday and Sunday, and will extend over the next 16 weeks.
The new series of programs is to be divided into ten parts as follows:
1)	“The History of Music”: In this series Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., will discuss the history of church music using the Moreau choir to illustrate the various phases of its development and Professor W. L. Groom, of -the Music Department will discuss the history of secular music using the talent of the students in the department to illustrate, his lectures. '
2)	The department of English will present “The Readers’ Spotlight” in which interesting highlights in the lives of well-known literary personalities will be featured. It is planned to treat particularly the many well-known authors who have been residents of Indiana such as Booth Tarkington, Lew Wallace, Meredith Nicholson, and George Ade.
3)	The department of Science will conduct a series entitled “Science At Work” in which the various divisions of pure and applied science will be (Continued on Page 23)
Seven
Campus Opinion Favors
Intercollegiate Boxing
Editorial note: This is the tenth in a series of snapshot interviews with students about campus topics. This week the question is: Do you think that Notre Dame should have intercollegiate boxing?
Bud Marcy, Walsh: “Notre Dame should have inter-collegiate boxing. We have a collection of men here who are more than qualified for it. There are five C.Y.O; champions one of whom is a Golden Gloves champion. In the Golden Gloves bouts the best talent in the country is assembled. All of the above men have had experience in the Golden Gloves bouts.”
James A. Byrne, Jr., Sorin: “Notre Dame should have inter-collegiate boxing. It provides students with an opportunity to engage in a competitive sport wherein they are more nearly a physical match for their opponents. If Notre Dame were to participate in inter-collegiate boxing in an organized way, with a competent coach, I think that that sport would have the hearty support of the students and friends of the University.”
Thomas J. Vicars, Walsh: “Why not give it a try? It has been inaugurated at many other leading universities and has proven a success.
. Notre Dame has had many good boxers in the past who could have displayed their skill to good advantage, if the sport had had inter-collegiate rating here.”
—o—
Frank Murray, Walsh Hall: “They have quite a few boys in the school from the C.Y.O. that are already experienced in boxing. This should offer a good nucleus around which could be built a good team.”
Paul Eluding, Freshman Hall: "I think Notre Dame should sponsor intercollegiate boxing. One of the advantages would be that it would en-
Frank Murray
Favors intercollegiate boxing. able the football men to keep in shape.”
Edward Matingly, Lyons Hall: “I think that the Bengal boxing bouts are sufficient. Intercollegiate boxing, in my estimation, would spoil the high (Continued on Page 9)
Eight
Arthur Vincent Kerns, senior class secretary, the man with the lovely curly hair . . . Rooms in 423 Walsh with the best looking man on the campus, Jack DeGarmo . . . (Neither marcel their locks) . . . Hails from Saginaw, Mich., home of the world’s
— KR.ofoc.forc - 3a -
largest beanery ... At least so he claims . . . But then -he also thinks he’s “hot-stuff” with the gals . . . Also supposes he can yodel and panics Walsh inmates with his weird emissions. ...
Was a prefect in Carroll and tried to put Lee Moorman to bed last year. . . . Now carries the U. S. Mail to and from Alumni Hall and boasts of never missing a delivery . . . Also claims he can name half the Junior dates to the coming Prom . . . Also carries Scholastics every week and neigh-. bor Moran’s Law cases every night.
At one time played centei' in football and received the ignoble title of “Ostrich” because of his head-burying activities ... Name used to denote his finicky action in relation to a certain couple of the opposite sex who were trailing him. ...
He now follows a Marie at home. . . . When he gets out he wants to follow advertising . . . Majors in Economics and pracices economy by wearing DeGarmo’s clothes. ...
COLLEGIANA
The pioneer spirit is not yet dead in New England. Sixty-five co-eds are out for the rifle team at the University of Vermont.
A bell cast by Paul (Here Come the British) Revere used to wake students at Colby College in Maine.
Lecture On Karl Marx Given By Prof. Hollis
Man in the Marxian theory is an economic animal, Professor Christopher Hollis told his audience in Washington hall last night when he continued his series of lectures with a . talk on Karl Marx.
“The capitalist system in Marx’ view,” the speaker said, “means a society in which the means of production and distribution are the effective property of a few men, who produce their goods by hiring the propertyless majority to compete against one another to sell them in the markets of the world.”
Mr. Hollis went on to point out the inherent contradiction in this point of view by showing that in order to • sell his goods in competition the producer must produce cheaply, and in so doing would tend to pay low wages. But if all producers paid low wages there would not be sufficient purchasing power in the world markets to buy the goods produced.
“It is quite true,” Mr. Hollis said, “that Marx’ prophecy of the impossibility of improving the lot of the worker without a communist revolution has been proved false. But it is important to understand that it was not Marx himself who first made that prophecy. It was the capitalist philosophers themselves such as Malthus.
“When a gentleman such as Mr. DuPont claims that the Mai-xian view of society is in direct antagonism to the Jeffersonian view of society he is perfectly correct. What he neglects to point out is that Marx went to some pains to show that people like Mr. DuPont had a highly important function to perform in destroying the Jeffersonian society in order to make room for the Marxian society to take its place.”
MOVIE SCHEDULE
Following is the January movie schedule for Washington Hall as an-
nounced by the director of the entertainment program:
January 11 — “Happiness Ahead,” featuring Dick Powell..
January 18 — “Scrooge,” with Sir Seymour Hicks.
January 24 — “Alice Adams,” featuring Katherine Hepburn.
The Scholastic
Dillon To Debate Sorin
For Hall Championship
The Dillon Hall victory over Morrissey in the Interhall Debating tournament last Monday evening in the Law Building auditorium placed the frosh outfit in the finalist class along with Sorin. The affirmative Dillon team was awarded the decision on the question, “Resolved: Congress should have the power to override a decision of the Supreme Court by a two-thirds majority.” The Reverend Joseph A. Muckenthaler, C.S.C., was the presiding judge at the debate.
The finals for the Lemmer Interhall Debating trophy will be held at St. Mary’s college next Monday evening between representative squads from the two halls.
FROM OTHER CAMPI
What is believed to be the only picture in existence of the famous South Carolina Radical Legislature has been presented to the history department of the University of South Carolina. The Radical Legislature was composed of both white and Negro members, and ruled briefly during the post Civil War period.
When physical education was made non-compulsory at the University of California, enrollment in the department jumped 1800.
The typical Harvard man is “an indifferent old maggot with a funny accent,” says the university’s alumni bulletin.
Dime novels got their start toward popularity as Sunday school literature, according to Frank K. Walter, University of Minnesota librarian.
Averaging a full point higher in their grades than their non-working fellows are students receiving NYA assistance.
CAMPUS OPINION (Continued from Page 8)
interest that is already manifested here in the sport.”
Joe Ryan, St. Edward’s Hall: “I tliink that it would be a popular sport at Notre Dame because a number of the fellows are interested in the manly art of self-defense.”
Burton McEnearney, Freshman Hall: “I think that Notre Dame should be represented in intercollegiate boxing because she has enough talent to make a presentable showing.”
Robert Reilly, Badin Hall: “Boxing provides winter interest; it gives the fellows something to do during the months that are otherwise dull. I think that boxing would be a great step forward in our sports curriculum.”
January 10, 1936
Chemical Foundation To
Establish Fellowships
By Lindsay Phoebus
Establishment of a chemical research fund totalling §52,000 has been announced by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University.
’ The Chemical Foundation of New York, through Francis P. Garvan, its president, has given ten current fel-
Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C. Outstanding Catholic Scientist.
lowships for the doctorate in chemistry at Notre Dame. The fellowships are worth §2,700 each and run for three years. Under their terms the student will receive board, room, tuition, and laboratory fees each year. Five fellowships will be awarded in 1936 and the remainder in the Fall of 1937.
Several Gifts Received
Another gift of §10,000 from the same source •will be used to purchase books for the chemistry library. In addition to the above, Father O’Hara also acknowledged a gift of §10,000 from Mr. Garvan for the establishment of the Julius A. Nieuwland fund for chemical and allied science research. This fund has been increased to §15,600 by an anonymous benefaction.
Notre Dame’s chemical school came into national prominence through the work of Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., in the development of synthetic rubber, which has recently been placed in large scale production.
Father Nieuwland’s discoveries have drawn much attention from the scientific press of the country and have done much to stimulate further research on the campus.
CHAIN LETTER
Baker University hopes to build a stadium with the help of—a penny • chain letter!
"Scholastic" Reviews First Theatre Group Production
Ed Note: We inaugurate a new note this year in criticisms of {he University Theatre productions. Instead of the usual, sugar-coated, plaudit throwing reviews which in the past followed every performance, good, bad, or indifferent, we offer an impartial review of the play. We present the following, keeping in mind the limitations and possibilities of the drama on the campus.
“The World Waits,” first production of the school year by .the University Theatre group, was presented in Washington Hall on Saturday and Sunday evenings, Dec. 14 and 15.
Mechanically the production lived up to the usual tenor of campus dramatics, but much interest was lost by the apparently unwise choice of a vehicle. The play, almost entirely devoid of action, leaned too heavily on dialogue of a strained, shouting tempo. After two acts, the audience obviously tired of the sustained tension of constant bickering, and the. play sagged to an end.
Actors Unconvincing
The actors, especially those assigned to the leading roles, were for the most part, rather unconvincing. Joe Mansfield, as Captain Hartley, did a rather accurate and convincing job in the first act, but seemed to stiffen appreciably in the later acts and gave a wooden performance. He was particularly unimpressive during the revolt of his expedition, the transition from leader to fallen leader was mechanically done and showed very little feeling for the part.
Dick Baker, as Ken Brice, played an important role, seemed to sag as the play progressed. He lost confidence after forgetting his lines on two occasions during the initial performance and never seemed to get back into his role. His performance, on the whole, was rather more convincing than was Mansfield’s.
The best acting of the show was done by the supporting cast. John Brassel, as the high-strung neurotic, was very impressive. His portrayal of Eddie Royce was strongly done and convincing. The part was a rather difficult one, though relatively unimportant in the culmination of the plot.
Frank Carrol, as correspondent of the expedition turned in a neatly done performance. Along with Jack Scott, the radio operator, he did much to bolster the play and carry the dragging story through. Others in minor roles who acquitted themselves well were Bill Ellis, George McDermott, (Continued on Page 10) •
Nine
NINETEEN THIRTY-FIVE IN RETROSPECT
AS GLEANED FROM "SCHOLASTIC" HEADLINES
By Anthony F. O’Boyle
From Files Of
The Scholastic
81
In a spirit of journalistic retrospection we offer you the year of 1935 as it was on the campus of Notre Dame, and as it was depicted for you in the columns of your Scholastic. The year that just passed was in all respects a great one for the University of Notre Dame adding innumerably more wreaths of glory upon the
National Headlines During the Past Year.
brow of Our Lady of the Golden Dome.
The first important item on the 1935 calendar of this publication was Father O’Hara Asks For Educational Fair Play. This plea of the President of the University was made at a dinner of the Sportsmanship Brotherhood in New York. Immediately after that we come across Father Nieuw-land Awarded William H. Nichols Medal For Chemistry. The initial sorting headlines were Revised A. A. Constitution Puts Irish Athletes On Strict Diet and Joe Sullivan Elected Captain of the 1935 Football Squad. In the middle of the first month of the then New Year we find that Prominent Aeronautical Leaders Attend Notre Dame Conference and that Will Rogers Is The Principal Speaker At Annual Football Banquet For Team and Coaches.
In the first February issue we see that Three Notre Dame Students Win Public Affairs Internship Prize. Once again in the same issue the Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C. Wins American Institute Medal. The opening of the indoor track season found that the
Irish Win Dual Meet With Chicago Maroons. A short time afterward came the announcement that the University would Inaugurate Senes Of Weekly Radio Broadcasts from Campus Station. Debating came to life on the campus as the Wranglers Sponsor I. C. O. Contest and Varsity Debaters Defeat Stanford University. The track
team continued its successful way when the cindermen Set Back Hawkeye Threat. One of the more amusing tales of the season, although at the time it seemed mighty near being tragic, will be remembered in the caption Pitt Five Conquers in Stop-watch Battle.	'
Debating again came to the fore in March with the announcement that Notre Dame Debating Schedule Lists Intersectional Meets. The social season was brought into prominence as the Juniors and Their Guests Dance To The Music of Bestor’s Orchestra. The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., left the University to Study European Education. Ninth C.I.C. Indoor Track Games To Start In Notre Dame Fieldhouse was the chief topic of campus conversation during the second week of March. The sport made famous by the pen of Dumas and Sabatini was called to the admiring attention of the student body when the Scholastic printed Fencing Squad Chalks up Seven Wins In Second Year Of Existence. The campus was plunged into the deepest mourning when it
(Continued on Page 22)
January 16, 1897—“Notwithstanding the fact that there was no ice on the lake during the holidays, students from all part of the country who went home report excellent skating. The climate here is all wrong or something.”
December 5, 1896—“One of the pleasing features of the address from the Minims on President’s day was the omission of the two little chaps in white gloves, who, year after year, stood on either side of the speaker and bowed with him at the proper places. This departure from a custom that was trying on the two auxiliaries and also on the audience was deeply appreciated.”
March 20, 1897 — “Rain on ‘rec’ days as usual.”
September 16, 1882—“The College has the largest Graduating Class since ’74. There are eight in the Classical Course and four in Scientific.”
September 30, 1882—“A concrete side-walk between the Printing Office and the College would be a thing of beauty and utility.”
February 4, 1899—“Sunday was so cold that Brucker said the atmosphere was actually freezing in his room, that it was congealing, and he moved about with great difficulty. He uttered a few mild exclamations; but before the sound was a foot away, every syllable was frozen tight, and remained visible in the air, as if suspended.
UNIVERSITY THEATRE
(Continued from Page 9)
John LaDucca, and William McVay.
The comedy was handled, stiffly in spots, by John Gorman, and Patrick Donnelly, although they showed signs of nervousness and a newness to the stage they performed creditably. Ralph Capone did Jenks, the cook, in an altogether satisfying manner.
The University Theatre expects to present three more plays during the year. While no definite selections have as yet been made, it is expected, that “Journey’s End” will be the next vehicle, and will be staged sometime during the winter.	.
Ten
The Scholastic
*
Alumni Office Requests
Photographs For Survey
The Alumni Office, which recently inaugurated a student history survey, is rapidly cataloging those undergraduates who reported before Christmas. At the time the freshmen and the transfer students filled out the “Survey” they were requested to send to the Alumni Office an inexpensive snapshot of themselves. Those individual snapshots along with the information obtained at the interview are extremely necessary to the completion of the venture.
Mr. James Armstrong, Alumni Secretary, asks those who have not as yet complied with this request to do so as soon as possible. For anyone who does not already have such a snapshot the suggestion is made that he stop in at one of the local Five and Ten Cent stores during the course of the week and secure the picture.
This is the first year that such a survey has been attempted. In the succeeding years a similar survey is to be conducted relative to the new students until the Alumni Office has a complete record, verbal and visual, of all the students in attendance at the University. With the present “Student’s History Survey” nearing completion, the University would appreciate the further cooperation of those who have not as yet forwarded an individual snapshot of themselves.
These snapshots may be mailed to the Alumni Office or they may be brought in at the students’ convenience. If they are sent through the mails it is important that full names be written on the back to facilitate ready identification of the pictures.
CHICAGO DANCE
Five hundred couples gathered in the Medinah Athletic Club at Chicago on the evening of Decembei- 27 for the annual Notre Dame Christmas Formal. Jack Russell’s orchestra played for the greatest crowd to attend the Formal in years.
Alumni members of the club constituted a large part of the crowd, attracted to the dance by the generous publicity of the Chicago papers.
James O’Keefe and Edward Dunn shared chairmanship of the successful dance, which netted the club treasury §305.00, the largest profit evei' made on a Chicago club dance. Other members of the dance committee were: Hank Pojman, Paul Rubly, Jack Anton, Frank Higgins and Bill Steinkemper.
An extensive program of activities is being planned for the coming year by the Chicago organization. Meetings in the future will be held in the Lay Faculty dining halls, following the plan inaugurated at the last regular session.
January 10, 1936
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
Along conies a new year, and with it, of course, the cursed necessity of making a lot of resolutions. The fact that most resolutions are usually broken as soon as they are made almost resolved us against making any at all. But since in doing so we would have made a resolution anyway, we decided that it might be just as well
to follow it up with a few others; so here goes. It’s hereby resolved: 1. that during the year 1936 we shall neither sing, hum, nor whistle “The Music Goes ’Round and Around.” The tune reminds us too much of New Year’s eve with the attendant headache and—well we won’t compromise ourselves by further confession; 2. that from now until June we won’t have a thing to say about the queer Indiana weather. (We still can’t help but wonder, though, why the end of every Christmas vacation must be punctuated by a healthy blizzard). If that last remark constitutes a breaking of our last resolution, who cares! 3. that never again will we antagonize any campus group the way we did the law seniors with our non compos mentis observations in this department. If it weren’t that the lawyers are a gentle lot, there’s no telling what punishment they would have inflicted upon us with those canes. Those are our resolutions, and though an overwhelming majority may clamor that we ought also to resolve to throw in the sponge as a colmunist, we refuse to oblige. After all, if we quit now, we won’t be invited to the publications' banquet next semester.
After ye ancient English fashion, sundry of the local student body, just before the holidays, assumed the responsibility of serenading each of the halls on the campus with Christmas carols. They even invaded the sacred precincts of St. Mary’s where the grateful girls and their superiors invited the carolers in. Instead of being regaled with the invigorating contents of the nut-brown bowl, as were the
old time singers of merrie England, we’ll bet our Notre Dame song birds got nothing more potent than cookies and milk. Anyway, an interesting and very worthwhile custom has been .originated. Here’s hoping it becomes a tradition.
As a result of the efforts of Bob Burke and Joe Foley, Notre Dame is at last well on its way toward establishing itself as one of the so-called “snow colleges.” Taking advantage of the opportunities provided by the recent snow fall, these two sons of the south devoted their skilled and gifted hands to the task of building a huge snow man. The success of their efforts can be gauged by the fact that the unanimous opinion of all is that the figure represents either George Washington or Jimmy Durante. At any rate, the monument gives the campus an air of being in the midst of a winter carnival similar to those held by Dartmouth, Vermont, and the rest of those eastern “snow colleges.” All we need now is a ski team and a couple of mountains.
Depend upon a Notre Dame man for always getting into the queer spots. Take “Chick” Maloney for instance. Not any Notre Damer before this can claim to have been guilty of any offense remotely as heinous as that of which “Chick” can be accused. Indeed, in the old days a man of Maloney’s ilk would have got the water cure. No punishment could be too severe for a fellow who during the holidays acted as a judge at a women’s style show in Chicago’s largest department store. The fact that the board of judges was made up en-« tirely of college men is no excuse.
Don’t be surprised if even during this winter season, certain among us appear with coats of mid-summer tan! After his sojourn in Florida these past few weeks, Don Sebastian Bonet has returned to the fold plus a crimson sun burn. And Sal Costa, fresh from his attendance at the society debut of a southern belle in Atlanta, Georgia, has the slightest suggestion of a tan. How he got it when even most of the country below the Mason-Dixon line is smothered with more snow than Indiana usually experiences all year, is somewhat of a mystery to us. We suspect surreptitious use of sun-ray lamps.
Eleven
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAFSMOKE
And so begins another year during which time the Funny Fellows will bring bigger and better names to the fore . . . President Julie Rocca (who is handicapped by having Joe Wade as a roomie) states that the Jersey Club dance was “financially and socially a huge success.”
Moran, Hufnagel and Goldman (the editorial ‘we’) met in New York and each paid a terrific sum to see the musical comedy “Jubilee.”. . , Charles
“He’s trying to decide whether or not to give the boys a choice on their final.”
Callahan a soph from Boston was called upon to sing the “Victory March” at that city’s dance. He claims stage fright caused him to forget the words—others hold different opinions. . . JACK DEANE, Carroll’s sort of fancy free lad, reports’ in with the first leap year proposal and it came a bit early at that because Catherine mistook Christmas Eve for New Year’s Eve.	'
Joe Rotondo desires to be informed of any news concerning boys from Columbus because he is now functioning as a campus correspondent for papers of that city. He will accept only the news that’s fit to print (Caf Smoke takes care of the other stuff.) . . . We are willing to wager that each Senior was seen at least once in
the recent convocation news reels by some sweet soul back home. . . Delving into past history Caf Smoke with pleasure reports that the Marion, Ind. high school annual, the Cactus (1934) selected Badin’s dimpled darling, Jack Hooper, as the handsomest man ever.
Fred Crollard, soph from Washington was the house guest of Phill Curry, of the Pittsburgh Currys, and fell fast and furious for a little Skibo from Carnegie Tech. . . Those boys
who look exceptionally fatigued must have gone home and come back by Charlie Clark’s bus. . . the orchestra, the Ohio State-Notre Dame movies and President Connie Byrne all made the Philly dance another huge success.
John Moloney and his Buffalonians kinda went to town with a football banquet and a dance (Moloney will tell you how they went over). . . Bob Burke and Joe Foley and a Snowman (what more could any girl want than a snowman).
For some reason or other holiday stories aren’t so plentiful this year. Perhaps Mallett, Rich or Roosevelt can give forth an explanation. . . . Here’s good luck for the New Year and don’t forget to patronize Caf Smoke, the column for you and your, troubles. . .	’
Ye Vicious Circle
Birthday School-days College-days
Holidays
Commencement-day
Wedding-day
Birthday-birthday-birthday.
A man may “walk a mile for a Camel,” but why waste energy when Old Golds gives one “young ideas,” or Luckies provide such close friendship or Chesterfields ‘satisfy.’ Or do you smoke cigars?
Pome
Hesitation Trepidation Interrogation Information Investigation Confirmation Jubilation Graduation.
To the Highest Bidder
(with respect to Warren Brown)
“The deadline for bids was made yesterday, gentlemen. Since then the committee has gone over all of them very carefully to eliminate the possibility of error. Some 4,350 were received, all in all. And the winning bid—”
“What was it? Who won?” queried an anxious reporter, no longer to remain silent.
“The winning bid was made by Alex Popopopolous, of Hooey University, and he, fellow sports writers, is the man we are to make the All-American quarterback for 1935. Further, in order to cause no hard feelings between other bidders, their coaches, their parents, and Congress those who did not receive All - American first team recognition will be awarded places oh the honorable mention list. If you men will kindly wake up I will adjourn the meeting.”	.
Drama
At last she entered the gorgeous room. Ah! there he was, tall and handsome. She sank into a chair and leaned back gazing at the beautiful surroundings. He approached; her heart beat swiftly. He bent over and looked into her lovely countenance. His knee momentarily touched hers. Her mouth was open in awe. At last leaning closer he spoke, “I’m sorry Mrs. Katz but your tonsils must be extracted.”	>
Speaking of depressions, we’re always under the weather in Indiana.
Twelve
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C..............^.Faculty Adviser JOHN S. MORAN...........................l...Editor-rn-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST......................Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei_______________________________The Week
Irwin L. Goldman____________________________In the Juggler Vein
William V. Ellis_________________________________A rt Editor
■	News Staff	.
'Paul Foley______________________________________News Editor
Robert L. Grogan______________._________Assistant News Editor
Clifford F. Brown_______________________Anthony O'Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus_______________•_____________Gregory Byrnes
Joseph Ratigan________________________________Louis DaPra
John A. Gillespie___________________________Bertram Smith
Harold A. Williams____________________________John Hurley
Robert F. Ervin
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker____________________________Co-Sports Editor
James A. Waldron____________________________Co-Sports Editor
John Cackley____________________________James M. McMullen
Eugene Vaslett______________________________Michael Crowe
Allen Bride______________________________________Arch Gott
John Glanzner
William R. Dooley, ’26____________________________Business Manager
- Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest •
January 10, 1936
THE MOUNTAIN THAT CAN'T BE HIDDEN
^1'HE Met Club and its deficit are with us again.
To forestall those few critics who claim The Scholastic kept the issue alive last year merely for its sensational value, we hasten to add that the reopening of the -case could no longer be honestly delayed. On page seven will be found a complete story of the efforts attempted to date in the solution of the organization’s muddled affairs. The question must be faced squarely for it is already a year since the club incurred the deficit which led to its disruption and caused subsequent wrangling among interested students.
That group which declared the issue should be completely ignored failed to understand the significance of the deficit. In the first place a total debt of §408.68 cannot be brushed aside with a mere word. The prevalent attitude among students who would formerly have been members of the Met Club seems to be one of indifference since they cannot be held personally responsible. This attitude is understandable. They had little or no hand in the accumulation of the deficit. However, the debt was incurred in the name of the Metropolitan Club, an organization composed of Notre Dame students living in New York City and its immediate vicinity. While this deficit remains unpaid, the name and reputation of the University are under a cloud in New York, which has always been an enthusiastic and generous host to “The Fighting Irish.”
But apart from the abstract ill effects of the issue, January 10, 1936
there remain also the goods and services which were ordered, used, but never paid for. Ethics demand that some sustained, earnest effort be made to compensate for these items. The debt should not be passed on from year to year till ultimately students not yet in school will suffer by being prevented from organizing a New York Club.
The members of the class of 1935 who were primarily responsible for the accumulation of the debt have graduated. They tried, but were unable to meet the issue. The time is ripe for immediate action on the debt. Andrew Maffei, president of the club last year, has informed the S.A.C. that the Hotel Roosevelt has agreed to reduce its debt from §100 to §75, and the Yonkers Crochet and Embroidery Company, which furnished the favors, has arranged its bill of §119.50 as a loan to the club to be paid when the group reorganizes. Likewise, a bill of §125 owed to the Lido Country Club for the 1934 summer dance can be paid off after reorganization since it is held on a personal note by James McDevitt, chaii-man of the affair. Referring to the group’s budget, we see that, unless other circumstances intervene, a debt of only §164.18 stands in the way of reorganization and eventual payment of other outstanding claims. .
There must be close to 150 students in school who are eligible for, and -would welcome an active New York Campus Club. Add to this group the large number of Notre Dame graduates in New York City and vicinity who want to see the campus group settle its muddled affairs and cooperate with the alumni organization. Again we repeat, the time is ripe for action. In this preliminary editorial we appeal particularly to members of the Senior Class who were formerly active in the club’s affairs—Ed Hammer, Howie Cusak, Jack Skelly, Jim Sherry and a few others. We refuse to believe that the debt cannot be paid off. With this in mind we shall, in the future, open our columns and editorial page only to helpful, constructive suggestions. Furthermore, we pledge ourselves to keep the issue alive till student indifference or smugness force us to throw up the editorial sponge.—J. S. M.
- . • •
REWARD FOR THE GLEE CLUB
HE Glee Club is the only organization on the campus,
musical or otherwise, that practices every day. Following their noon meal the members give from a half hour to forty minutes of their time, and seldom is anyone absent. We suggest a suitable reward for this group, since during the past two years this cooperation has gone unrewarded, with the exception of a few minor trips to nearby points. Efforts have been made on the part of the director and the officers to secure Christmas and Easter trips but to no avail.
The members enjoy the work and will always recall their experiences with the club. Nevertheless a little token of appreciation will enhance these future remembrances. We suggest, as a token of this appreciation, an attractive key for each member. As far as future clubs are concerned, it would be more profitable for both the University and the members, if the former could in some way assist the club in obtaining engagements for Christmas and Easter trips.
For many years the Glee Club has been a hard working, praiseworthy organization. Its concerts have been received with much applause. These performers have endeared Notre Dame both to the nation and’to the local community.—I. L. G.
T h i r t e en
ATHLETICS
NOTRE DAME NET MEN INVADE PANTHER LAIR
KEOGANITES SEEK TO REGAIN EARLY SEASON FORM AGAINST PITTSBURGH
Marquette Quintet To Perform Here Tuesday
Marty Peters On First Five
By Gene Vaslett
A black Panther has been preying upon Irish basketball teams for the past three years with noteworthy success. The Panther is going to try and prey upon the Irish tonight but observers say that the black one is not attempting it with his customary con-
Don “Red” Allen To start tonight at guard.
Panthers could not lose but this year with the two stars retired the local eagers are anticipating a victory.
Notre Dame-Pittsburgh games have always been of the highest caliber basketball. Several times during the last few years they have held the national spotlight as basketball fans awaited the outcome to determine which team would be handed national recognition. In the 1933-34 season the Irish traveled to Pittsburgh with slate clean of defeats only to return with their records tarnished and hopes of a great season dimmed. Last year in early March the Panthers came to South Bend with a great team and one defeat of the Irish already to their credit. The Notre Dame eagers played inspired basketball for 40 minutes and were leading the Panthers at the time the game was supposed to end. Everyone knows the story of the “stopped stop-watch” and the extra ten minutes played by the two teams and how the Panthers forged ahead by sheer man power to win the prolonged contest.
However, these events occurred when the Pitt “jinx”- held sway over the Irish. Since then it has evidently been overcome and Irish teams in all branches of sports have surged over Pitt combinations to victories. Only the basketball team has yet to register a victory over Pittsburgh and it looks like tonight will be the night for the Irish to turn the trick.
Tuesday night the great Irish basketball team which has been startling the fans with the fighting brand of ball it has been displaying, ■will again dash out on the home floor, this time against the ever dangerous Marquette University. A capacity crowd is expected to view what promises to be a rip-roarin’ affair. ,
In the preceding season Notre Dame played the Hilltoppers from Milwaukee twice and managed to garner an even break in the two efforts. The first contest was played at Notre Dame early in the season and when the evening was over every spectator looked just as worn out as the players. The lead had see-sawed back and forth during the whole of the game neither team having much of an advantage at any part. By bottling up Marquette’s brilliant captain, Ray Morstadt, most of the time, the Keoganmen scraped through with a 23-20 win. Marty Peters went great guns that night with twelve points, or more than half the total score of his own team.
Later on March 1, Notre Dame took a jaunt up to Milwaukee where they met the Jesuits for the second time. Probably because of a huge home crowd and a faultless defense, Marquette dribbled all over the place and trimmed the Irish soundly 36-21. That night the Notre Dame hoopsters had lost the Morstadt combination and the Hilltopper captain playing his (Continued on Page 20)
fidence. This year the Panther of Pitt is noticeably weaker as compared to past seasons but nevertheless presents a strong line up that will try to upset the Notre Dame eagers who are favored to defeat them for the first time in four years.
The Pittsburghers have lost Claire Cribbs, All-American forward, and Skippy Hughes, stellar scoring mate of Cribbs for the past three years, while at the same time Notre Dame has gained Meyer, Moir and Nowak, a trio that is rapidly threatening the reputation of the immortal Krause, Voegele, and Crowe, combination of a few years ago. While Cribbs and Hughes played against the Irish the
At Opening of Marquette Game in 1935
Fourteen
The Scholastic
Purdue Trims Irish; TRACK TEAM STARTS STRENUOUS N-D-Wildcats Deadlock WORKOUTS AS SEASON NEARS OPENER
Hitting a tartar in Purdue, Notre Dame smacked the percentage for a drop in their past three vacation contests by losing to the Boilermakers 54-40, tieing Northwestern after a much-debated argument 20 to 20, and
John De Mots
He doubles for Peters.
bowling over Minnesota in the last few minutes 29-27.
On Dec. 23, Purdue administered the initial defeat to the Irish in the Jefferson High school before 5,000 spectators. The Boilermakers, who are usually considered the top-notch-ers in Conference cage circles and generally rank first in the Big Ten, were extremely “hot” in their engagement with Keogan’s five. Purdue was later barely nosed out by N. Y. U. in Madison Square Garden, 43-41. The half-time count found Notre Dame trailing 29-22, which from then one was in the Boilermakers favor—the final tally, 54 to 40.
The Northwestern setto was similar to a great degree to the famous 27-25 “long count” with Pitt, here, last winter in the local fieldhouse. Previously in the season, the Irish had swamped the Purple by a 40-29 score. Notre Dame grabbed the lead early in the first period and held it until two minutes before the finish. Tunkle’s field goal in the waning seconds of play gave his team a 20-18 advantage. Johnny Ford then hooked a bucket in from mid-court for the last registering of the evening. Although the official scorers conceded Northwestern a 20-19 victory, nevertheless the news papermen’s count of 20-all was finally accepted as authentic.
Notre Dame	B F	P	Purdue B F P
Meyer, f ....	.... 2 2	4	Kessler, f .... 4 2 0
Moir, f 		... 3 2	2	Young, f 	 5 0 4
Hopkins, f ..	.... 0 2	1	Lines, f 	 13 2
Crowe, f 		... 0 0	1	Mangas, c .... 0 0 0
Nowak, c ....	.... 3 2	4	Elliot, c 	 2 11
Peters, c 		... 0 0	3	Seward, g .... 110
DeMots, c ....	... 0 0	1	Malaska. g.... 3 4 1
Wade, g —	... 1 0	3	Smith, c 	 0 0 0
Ireland, g ....	... 1 3	1	Dormey, e .... 14 3
Ford, f 		... 4 0	1	Lambert, f.... 2 10
Jordan, g ....	_. 0 1	0	Bruce, f 	 0	0 0
	—	■ ■	. —
	14 12	21	19 16 11
(Continued on Page 17)
MONOGRAM WINNERS ARE NOW UNDERGOING SEMI-ANNUAL "HAZING WEEK"
To some it might be thought of as the Finchley season but as far as the Monogram Club is concerned it’s just another “haze week” of initiation ceremonies. Many individuals may be seen strolling, or perhaps running would be more appropriate, about the campus attired in black derby, black bow tie, and one white plus one black shoe.
It may be well to inform those people no.t in the “know,” that although an athlete will be fortunate to win the coveted major sport N.D. he is not eligible to wear the insignia while in school, unless having undergone the stipulations prescribed by President Mike Layden and his cohorts.
A free song fest is held for interested spectators after noon chow, in front of the dining hall. Although the listener would not exactly anive at the conclusion that the “choir” was a potential group of Martini’s, nevertheless they do very well on ad lib choruses, especially after having no rehearsals. Each man is required to memorize a modern song, and croon when called upon, even if it is nothing more than the current hit craze ‘The Music Goes Around and Around.’
The candidates are ordered up out of bed at 5:45 every morning to attend Mass and receive Holy Communion. A trip to the lake, at a very early hour, is also on the daily routine and provides quite a bit of amusement for the onlookers.
Although Easter is a few months (Continued on Page 18)
The Derby Boys a Year Ago
"Nick" Seeks Pole Vaulter
By AI Bride
In an effort to counteract the . Christmas holidays and the New’ Year’s celebration the Notre Dame track men have buckled .down to immediate practice for the forthcoming • indoor season.
As a whole the squad has had little time to get into shape and practice for the most-part consists in jogging around the track. The conditioning was interrupted by the vacation, and-now the home-town stiffness must be worked out before serious competition can be undertaken.
Saturday Coach Nicholson will have an intrasquad meet to determine just the condition of the squad as well as. individual performances. In this meet the stop watch will be the judge and , will tell the thinlies just where they stand, and how far they will have to go to reach top performance.
It is too early to tell much about the team as a whole, about each event, or even about the individual members. From the veterans returning from last year it seems that the distance department will be in capable hands. Leo McFarlane will lead the two milers, and after his successful cross country season it is expected that he will be good for many points. He will be ably supported by Arch Gott, Herb Kenyon, Karl, and others -who show promise.
In the mile John Francis is expected to turn in some good times to prove his sickness really handicapped the Irish last season. Francis was the most consistent member of the cross country team, and is in condition for a season of stiff indoor competition. McKenna, veteran miler, (Continued on Page 20)
January 10, 1936.
Fifteen
Minnesota Five Loses
INTRODUCING
To Notre Dame 29-27
By Cy Stroker
He’s a quiet'lad is George Ireland, Notre Dame’s star guard but when it comes to playing basketball there is no man more dangerous for Irish opponents. George is playing his last year on Coach Keogan’s speed team after two previous seasons of strenuous work at the guard post. He is the only man on the squad who has started every game for Notre Dame since his sophomore year, a record to be proud of.
George was born in the hotbed of strong Wisconsin teams, — Madison, and received all of his early education at Campion Academy. At that school he was a member of the football, basketball, and track teams and was the star player on the, —you guessed it, the basketball team. In his ath-lectic activities he played side by side with Dick Pfefferle and Ed Dunn, other famous Notre Dame athletes. He competed in the National Basketball tourney in Chicago four years, in 1929, 1930, 1931, 1932. At these games he played against other Irish court luminaries including Don Allen, Johnny Ford, Joe Voegele, Marty Peters, and Ed Krause. In 1932 George won the Lockland trophy given to the most valuable player.
Ireland came to Notre Dame in 1932 and was eligible for the basketball varsity the next year. He started in the first game of that season and won himself a permanent berth on the local quintet, scoring four points and breaking up the Kalamazoo offensive with the greatest of ease. For the rest of that year he played at the guard position regularly pairing up with Leo Crowe and Johnny Jordan. Last year George continued the work of the previous season by playing in every game and this year he ranks among the highest as the most valuable basketball player for Notre Dame.
Campus Sporting Shorts
“Whitey” Hause who is playing forward on the University of Pennsylvania basketball five attended Notre Dame in. the first semester of his freshman year before transferring to the Quaker school. Hause earned a monogram in football the past season serving as a center.
George Keogan, Notre Dame basketball coach,' has been appointed a member of the National Collegiate Athletic Association committee which will select an American Olympic basketball gaurd. Keogan was notified of his appointment last Wednesday
Aside from his work on the basketball court George’s life is a quiet one. He is a senior in the Arts and Letters college and is majoring in Journalism. As might have been expected he intends to do newspaper work when he graduates in June. But there is one big interest in life for George Ireland, one that has made him famous at Notre Dame, and that interest is basketball.
by Dr. Walter Meanwell, director of athletics at University of Wisconsin. ‘ The .Irish mentor will be the representative of District 5 which includes Michigan, Illinois, Indiana and Ohio.
Louis Alaman, drum major and senior in college of Commerce, will compete this Sunday for the Metropolitan A.C. in the Chicago Tribune’s Silver Skates Derby. While home for the Christmas holidays Alaman won a trophy for speed skating in a meet held at Madison Square Garden, New York City.	.
Notre Dame’s high scoring quintet emerged victorious by a 29-27 score over a powerful Minnesota net team last Saturday night at Minneapolis. The game featured a second half rally which brought the Irish into the lead after the Gophers had held the Notre Dame second team to six points
John Ford
No revelation to Henry.
throughout the first half. Keogan’s first team, composed mostly of seniors, started the game but Minnesota proved to be more than a match for them.
The starting seniors could not maintain the pace in their tilt with Minnesota, and were forced to give way at intermission to Keogan’s first string line-up, after being held to six free throws. With Nowak, who played only 15 minutes of the issue, carrying off individual high scoring honors with 10 points, the Irish soon grabbed a 15-14 lead and maintained it for the balance of the night. Johnny Moir also was outstanding as he crashed through with a trio of double-deckers, and two snow-birdies. Ed Jones, making his initial appearance at the pivot position, and Baker at a forward post looked impressive for the Gophers.
The game was one of the most thrilling that Notre Dame has played to date with the Irish eagers following the trail of the football team with its second half spurt. The contest marked What might be called a comeback for Notre Dame after the Purdue and Northwestern games. The sophomores who played so well in this game as in previous ones, will no doubt be the bulwark of the Irish basketball drive for the rest of the season.
Notre Dame	B F P	Minnesota B F P
Hopkins, f ....	0 4 2	Roscoe, f .... 1 1 3
Ford, f 		0 0 ,2	Baker, f 	 3 12
Peters, c 		0 0 1	Jones, c 	 0 2 4
Wade, g 		Oil	Halverson, g 1 2 1
Ireland, g 		0 10	Seeback, g .... 10 4
Demots. c 		0 0 0	Barnum, f .... 2 2 0
Nowak, c 		3 4 4	Wallbloom, c 0 0 0
Meyer,.- f 		0 11	King, f	 0 0 1
Moir, f 		3 2 1	Nash, f	 10 0
Allen, g 		0 0 1	Manley, g .... 0 11
Jordan, g ■	.-.	10 3			
-Wukowitz. g ..	10 2	9 9 16
8 13 18
Sixteen ”
The Scholastic
SIDE SHOTS
NOTRE DAME COURT FIVES HAVE TAKEN PART IN THEIR SHARE OF WEIRD BASKETBALL GAMES
By Gene Vaslett
The Metropolitan Association of the A.A.U. has achieved another step in its advancement toward improving amateur basketball in that section by obtaining from John J. O’Brien, president of the American League, a promise that none of the clubs will attempt to sign college players until they have finished school. Now the A.A.U. hopes to persuade the Eastern League, another professional basketball circuit, to follow the American’s lead. If the Eastern falls in line, much of the outside playing done by college
and club stars quietly in Connecticut, New Jersey and Pennsylvania "will be checked.
Ned Irish, the Mike Jacobs of the basketball world, has announced that most of the intersectional contests to be played at the Madison Square Garden will have at least one official from the habitat of the visiting team.
Frank Lane, of Cincinnati, who officiated the Notre Dame-N.Y.U. contest last year, was on hand again for N.Y.U. and Kentucky, with Jack Murray, who made the decision that aroused a storm of controversy after that contest, as his partner. Pat Kennedy and Mike Kearns of Indianapolis will work the Notre Dame and N.Y.U. game.
The energetic Ned Irish has now introduced his double-header basketball games into the city of Philadelphia. Villanova met Westminister while Temple met St. Joseph’s in the first of these basketball treats. . . . Dr. Forrest C. (Phog) Allen has celebrated his 25th anniversary as a basketball coach . . . N.Y.U. has a real veteran team with only one first stringer missing from the team which lost one game in two years. .
HOLIDAY GAMES
(Continued from Page 15)
Notre Dame B F P
Meyer, f _____ 12 1
Moir, f ______ 3 0 2
Hopkins, f .... 0 0 0
Nowak, c ..2__2 12
Peters, c ____- 0 0 0
Wade, g ______ 0 0 0
Ireland, g --- 111
Ford, f ______ 10 1
8 4 8
Northwestern B F P McMickael, f 2 1 0 Tunkle, f .... 2 0 1 Blume, c____ Oil Nagode, g .... 0 0 1 Smith, g ___ 1 0 0 Bender, f .... 10 3 Vance, f ___ 3 0 2
Mercer, g .... 0 0 0
9 2 8
Officials are reputed to be the bane of the average basketball coach’s existence but poor Coach Keogan being more than an average basketball coach has to put up with more than the average “banes of existences.” Basketball officials haunt him, but not only is he worried by them, but timekeepers and score-keepers as well have recently joined the ranks of Coach Keogan’s pet peeves.
It was only a few weeks ago that official scorers joined the ranks of the “haunters,” when the Keoganites were playing Northwestern in Chicago on New Year’s Eve. The game had been closely played and neither team could gain much edge on the other. When the final whistle had blown Keogan dolefully turned his eyes toward the score board and read what he thought to be the final score, 20-19, in favor of Northwestern, He turned away in disgust but was suddenly electrified by a disturbance among the pressmen covering the game. It seems a general consensus among the journalists, experts at scoring basketball games, had pro-■ duced the fact that all had tabulated the same score, 20-20, an even break. Coach Keogan Jiurriedly inspected all the score pads and found that the only one showing a Northwestern edge in the scoring was the official score-book. Kept, incidentally, by the Notre Dame student manager, Bill Gillespie, George rushed to the offi-
Bill Gillespie
Now—a famous short count.
cials but they could do nothing about it, the teams had left the floor, the game was officially over and it looked as though it would be charged up as a Northwestern victory. The Notre Dame coach continued his protests, however, and a special committee was appointed to determine just who had won or tied this basketball .game The decision was in favor* of a tie but Keogan received little consolation in that, he wanted the game played over but Big Ten rules held that a conference could participate in only a specified number of games during the season and Northwestern’s quota was
full. What Keogan said to Gillespie is not known and in all probability will never be published.	’
This freak game, however, is a mere nonentity as compared to the disaster that overtook the Keoganites last season in their game with Pittsburgh at the local fieldhouse. Once more it was a Notre Dame man who
Coach George Keogan .4 holiday slump—his jinx.
was the more or less innocent cause. It must be a bit disheartening to . Coach Keogan to know that the only ones who are responsible for such incidents are members of the school that supports his team. This man was a graduate, an ex-manager, it seems that a manager is always involved in disasters of an athletic measure. This man, visiting the school, was given the honor of keeping time for the Pitt-Notre Dame game. Well versed in this department, supreme confidence was placed in the ex-manager’s execution of the job. The game progressed and the Irish played inspired basketball and spectators looked foi-ward to the downfall of the Panther “jinx” that was in full sway over Notre Dame teams. The last period rolled around and the Irish forged ahead to a substantial lead, but as the quarter wore on, and it seemed like an incredibly long one, Notre Dame men began to weaken and moved more slowly. Claire Cribbs, Panther star, collapsed with fatigue, an out of the ordinary thing for Cribbs who was an All-American basketball player. Then Pittsburgh moved into the lead and when the game ended after that nightmarish last half Pitt was the winner, conquerors once more of Notre Dame.
The players barely dragged themselves off the court and spectators marvelled at the intensity of play that had caused such a telling effect upon the stamina of the well conditioned basketball players of Pitt and Notre Dame. Then the thunder-(Continued on Page 20)
-January 10, 1936
Seventeen
SCHOLASTIC SCRIBE COMPILES AN ALL
FENCING ...
"ALL-AMERICAN" FROM ALL STAR TEAMS
By Jim Waldron
CONSENSUS ALL-AMERIGAN TEAM First Team
Wayne Millner_______EE________ Notre Dame Edwin Widseth _________________LT_ Minnesota
John Weller LG------------------- Princeton
Gomer Jones _________-C_________ Ohio State
Paul Tangora__________RG_______ Northwestern
Lawrence Lutz _______RT--------- California
James Moscrip -------RE----------- Stanford
Bobby Wilson _______.QB ... Southern Methodist Bill Shakespeare LH____________ Notre Dame Jay Berwanger__________________RH- Chicago
Bobby Grayson FB------------------ Stanford
Second Team	Third Team
G. Tinsley, L.S .....LE  M. Wendt, O.S. Dick Smith, Minn LT  Spain, So. Meth. J. C. Wetzel, So. M__LG— Michaels, Vil. No. D. Lester, T.C.U.____G______ Gilbert, Auburn D. Wagner, Mich. S—.RG Wilkenson, Minn. C. Wasicek. Colgate—-RT  Reynolds, Stan. Gil Lea. Princeton__________.RE.... Bill Shuler, Army Riley Smith, Ala QB— Sandback, Prince. S. Baugh, T.C.U_____________LH_ Simmons, Iowa Monk Meyer, Army.—RH___________ McCauley. Rice S. Beise, Minn FB.... Constable, Prince.
Selection made from the following All-American teams:
Central Press—53 captains from leading univerrities.
Collyer's Selection—52 coaches of the leading universities.
Lawrence Perry. United Press. Campus Sport Writers, David J. Walsh, Associated Press, Fritz Crisler, Michael J. Foster, Variety —theater magazine, Bill Cunningham, Stan Lomax.
New-York Times—Andy Kero of Colgate, Dan McGugin of Vanderbilt. James Phelan of Washington, Gus Dorais of Detroit.
Christy Walsh’s AIl-America Board. Tom Thorp, Bill Corum, New York Sun, Hearst Consensus Team.
Collier's—picked by Grantland Rice.
Each yeai- after another football season with its color, crowds, and thrills has been written into the record books, the so-called gridiron experts provide debating material for the winter by picking their All-Amer-
Wayne Vernal Millner A product of Salem, Mass.
ica teams. No matter how reputable or fine a student of the game the writer may be, some star will be overlooked and his followers launch a campaign of protest. To help preserve peace, at least on the campus, The Scholastic, every year, collects as many of these “real” selections as possible and then picks a consensus All-America team.
In selecting the members of this team, each player is rated on a pointsystem in the following manner: five points are given to the men who make the first team, three for second, two for third, and one for honorable men-
Eighteen
tion. From over one hundred players mentioned on these selections, three teams were picked.
Final ratings for backfield men found four men who were outstanding: Bobby Wilson of Southern Methodist, Bobby Grayson of Stanford, Jay Berwanger of Chicago, and Bill Shakespeare of Notre Dame. Because Wilson and Shakespeare were both halfbacks, the speedy little Wilson was moved to the quarterback post. With his elusiveness and speed he makes an ideal safety man. It would be hard to find two better-equipped men for the halfback positions than Bill, “The Bard,” and Berwanger. Both of these men are triple-threat players in every sense of the word; they can pass, run, and kick, not to mention blocking and tackling. The Stanford powerhouse, Bobby Grayson, was a populai* choice for fullback.
Berwanger Unanimous Choice
The whole first team, with the exception of Tangora at right guard, were quite a few points above their nearest rivals. Jay Berwanger, the Chicago star, was picked on every team with Big Ed Widseth of Minnesota close behind. Wayne Millner, Notre Dame’s great end, was far and away the most popular choice at left end. Wetzel of Southern Methodist, Wagner of Michigan State, and Tangora of Northwestern staged a race at right guard with the Wildcat star winning out.
It is significant to note that while undefeated Princeton tied with Minnesota in placing four men on the three teams selected, Coach Fritz Crisler of the Tigers disagreed with the selectors. Jake Weller of Princeton ranked behind Widseth and Berwanger as a popular choice, and yet his own coach placed him on his second team behind a teammate, Montgomery. Gil Lea, Tiger end, who is on the second consensus team, only made second club All-Eastern on the Associated Press selection. Pepper Constable, captain and fullback of Old Nassau, was only honorable mention on this same selection and yet the consensus finds him ranking just behind Grayson and Beise as a fullback.
A final resume finds the “Fighting Irish” of Notre Dame and Stanford awarded two positions, and Minnesota, Princeton, Ohio State, Northwestern, California, Southern Methodist, and Chicago with one apiece. Sectionally, Weller is the only Eastern man while the Mid-west captured six places.
Although the entire fencing schedule has not as yet been released, Coach Pedro de Landero announces that it ■will be ready for publication as soon as Coach Elmer F. Layden and the Athletic Board officially
Coach Pedro de Landero Coached only undefeated team in ’35.
stamp their approval of it. That the card will be extremely tough is well-known, and only teams capable of providing Notre Dame major competition will be encouraged.
The Irish mentor has stated that there will be two freshmen tournaments, the foil and sabers, respectively, held from March 30 until April 4. The winners of both affairs will go to Chicago on April 16, to compete in the Illinois Fencers League Tournament for Novices. Last year Carlos de Landero captured second place in the junior championship. It is primarily for high school boys, and gives the beginner an excellent chance for practice.
The varsity has been hard at work for the past few months in preparation for their coming engagements, and exhibit a marked improvement.
MONOGRAM CLUB
(Continued from Page 15)
away, nevertheless the egg dyeing vogue seems to be extremely popular pastime for the present. The victims may be observed obtaining autographs from the “persecuters” on a shining piece of hen-fruit. There is the possibility that the egg might be 'accidentally’ dropped and hence a new one would have to be secured.
The final ritual occurs Sunday afternoon in the gymnasium, after which the new members are permitted to don their monogram sweaters. Wally Fromhart is the chairman in charge of the various duties prefixed to the different candidates. These rites are conducted semi - annually, with the next appearing immediately following spring vacation. A total of seventeen men are on this week’s list; among them being last year’s track aspirants and the ’35 football pig-skiners. It’s an extremely tough week, but Rome, too, wasn’t built in a day.
The Scholastic
IF
IdNTEPS
FROM TUG
XPRESS BOX
3
By Joe Prendergast
THE LONG 20 COUNT
The Notre Dame basketball teams seem to be the “chosen ones” in so far as freak court games go. Last season George Keogan’s fighting gladiators were the hibernating agents for that weird and unprecedented 53 minute net conflict with the University of Pittsburgh and more recently we find that on the past New Year’s eve the Irish and the Northwestern Wildcats tangled in another
strange and unbelievable game. In the more recent encounter the final score, which by the way is the official one, read 20 to 20.
Bill Gillespie, basketball manager for the Keoganites, gave your correspondent his story of the conflict and the reasons for the fantastic ending. Bill was the boy at the score book.
In the last quarter, one of the Northwestern players called for a time out. Manager Gillespie proceeded to mark the time out down in the score book. This was the third time out for the Wildcats in that half, another would mean a foul being called on the Evanston quintet. Later in the quarter, Gillespie happened to check with the Northwestern scorekeeper on something or other and noticed that he had the Wildcats marked down for two time outs in that quarter whereas he, Gillespie, had them down for three. An argument ensued with finally one of the officials being called over to settle it. While the official was talking to the scorekeepers the other official .called a foul on one of the Northwestern players and Meyers shot the foul and made it good. Both of the scorekeepers completely missed seeing this foul made partly because of the heated argument and partly because the official who was standing in front of them, trying to settle the dispute, obscured the view. So when the quarrel was settled and the two managers got back to watching the game, the ball was in play and they thought that no scoring had taken place.
This is the foul shot that the news-(Continued on Page 21)
January 10, 1936
PRACTICE FOR INTERHALL BASKETBALL TO BEGIN ON SUNDAY, JANUARY 12
By Mike Crowe
FROM THE RECORDS
TWENTY-FIVE YEARS AGO
“Our prospects in baseball and track athletics have brightened considerably of late, and especially so in track athletics. Of last year’s team but four men of prominence — Corcoran, Eggeman, Murphy and Glynn — are missing. Their places may be hard to fill, but there are several new men whose work gives great promise.
“The baseball outlook while not so bright as that of the track team, is improving day by day. The men have been weeded down to twenty-four and practice has begun in earnest. Captain Lynch. is resolved to have no ‘drones’ and every afternoon he puts his men through the fastest kind of work. The result of this training may be seen in the great improvement that has been shown during the past week.”	J. P. O’Reilly.
—o—
ELEVEN YEARS AGO
“Rose Bowl, Pasadena, Jan. 1.— Notre Dame, the team that makes no mistakes, beat Stanford, 27 to 10, before 60,000 people here today because the team had the brains to counteract and stave off plunging Stanford attack, and the speed to take advantage of every opportunity that the game afforded. Notre Dame, in victory, looked every inch a champion and Stanford, in defeat, earned almost as much glory as if she had won.”
“Despite the handicap of having to open the basketball season without the services of Captain Noble Kizer and Clem Crowe, who with several other promising eagers were occupied with football duties, the Notre Dame basketball team, coached by George Keogan, picked up a fair start toward another record year. The Irish cage team has suffered three defeats in eight starts, losing to Minnesota in an early season tilt and more recently to Butler and Franklin, two of the leading basketball teams in the country.”
—o—
SIX YEARS AGO
“Notre Dame wins a smashing victory in the final balloting of the country’s leading sports writers engaged in selecting the championship football (Continued on Page 23)
Now that the Christmas holiday is but a vague memory and students are back to their daily routines, attention is being centered on interhall basketball. Practice for positions on the various hall teams will get under way Sunday, January 12. The regular league schedule will begin, as in past years, with the opening of the second semester. Since basketball is rapidly becoming a popular winter sport here at Notre Dame, the inter-
John Scannell Heads Interhall Department
hall league this season promises'to be the best since the introduction of league basketball years ago.
Semester examinations make it impossible to begin league competition before the second semester. However, this year an- attractive practice schedule has been arranged. It follows:
Sunday, January 12, at 8:30 a.m., Freshman; 9:30 a.m., Badin; 10:30 a.m., Sorin; 1:30 p.m., Corby; 2:30 p.m., Off-campus; 3:30 p.m., Walsh.
Monday, January 13, at 8:00 p.m., Alumni; 9:00 p.m., St. Ed’s.
Wednesday, January 15, at 8:00 p.m., Morrissey; 9:00 p.m., Lyons.
Thursday, January 16, at 8:00 p.m., Howard; 9:00 p.m., Dillon.
Friday, January 17, at 8:00 p.m., Brownson; 9:00 p.m., Carroll.
The first practice scrimmage schedule will be Sunday, January 19. 8:30 a.m., Freshman vs. St. Ed’s; 9:30 a.m., Morrissey vs. Brownson; 10:30 a.m., Sorin vs. Carroll; 1:30 p.m., Lyons vs. Howard; 2:30 p.m., Walsh vs. Off-campus; 3:30 p.m., Badin ys. Dillon; Monday, January 20, at 8:00 p.m., Corby vs. Alumni.
The second practice scrimmage schedule will be Sunday, January 26. 8:30 a.m., Dillon vs. Freshman; 9:30 a.m., Howard vs. Badin; 10:30 a.m., St. Ed’s vs. Sorin; 1:30 p.m., Off-campus vs. Walsh; 2:30 p.m., Alumni vs. Lyons; 3:30 p.m., Brownson vs. Morrissey; Monday, January 27, at 8:00 p.m., Carroll vs. Corby.
The heavyweights will have their practice sessions on the varsity basketball floor and the lightweights in the apparatus room.
Nineteen
MARQUETTE GAME (Continued from Page 14)
ON DOWN THE LINE
Moynihan Resigns
Position at Texas U.
last game for his school, dropped in 20 points. Marty Peters again starred for Notre Dame but it was a dreary night for the Blue and Gold.
Marquette this season has not shown that the usual strength is present. Last week the Hilltoppers took a beating from Northwestern 37 to 15, fading quickly after a good start. But it seems as if that football axiom that “they all point for the Irish” seems to hold good in basketball as well and the game -will probably be plenty close. Day by day this sport of hoops becomes more difficult to figure out and it seems to merit the title of the real “game of upsets.” All of which is a roundabout way of saying that Coach Keogan will send his team on the floor fully prepared for a tough battle which they will no doubt find.
We wish to take this opportunity once more to ask the students to kindly refrain from smoking while at the games because it surely is hard enough for the players to see the ball without having to play through a thick haze of throat-gripping smoke. Give the team a break and they’ll do their very best for you!
TRACK TEAM (Continued from Page 15)
is again back to hold the niche he filled in last year. Hennessy is another miler that is expected to worry the opposition.
In the sprints Jordan, Boyle, Frawley, and other promising speedsters are gradually rounding into shape, and will soon be trying for that added second or two.
Bernard, Rubly and Parsons will carry on from where they left off last season in the quarter mile. In the 880 Ducasa, Cavanaugh and Shields will fight off all newcomers in an attempt to keep their starting . positions.
In the running broad jump Captain George Meagher seems to be a surefire point getter. Jordan will take time out from the sprints to help Meagher.	.
Murphy will be greatly missed in the high jump, but English, Quinlan and others will try to fill his shoes. Elser is expected to try his hand at throwing his body over the bar.
Elser will again probably dominate the shot putters, with Michuta and other strong-armers tossing the iron ball around for a few stray points.'
After the meet Saturday Nicholson will make the boys get down to serious work, and from then on until the-first meet in February the fieldhouse will be a busy place.
Twenty
By James A. Waldron
DID YOU KNOW:
JAMES J. BRADDOCK, the heavyweight champion, doesn’t like' the cracks JACK DEMPSEY has been making about seeking a “white hope.” • JIM is one man who thinks that he can beat JOE LOUIS . . . COACH DANA X. BIBLE, of NEBRASKA, claims that HUB RAND OUR of PITT, was a better player than JAY BER-WANGER of Chicago. This is quite
a tribute when one considers that BERWANGER was named on every all-America team. Not to be outdone in handing out compliments, JOCK SUTHERLAND of the PITT club, came out with the story that LLOYD CARDELL of the HUSKERS was the best back he had seen in two years. . . . Football fans of SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY gloomily contemplate graduation day as an occasion that will riddle the ranks of the FLYING CIRCUS. The entire first team line and most of the backfield led by the great BOBBY WILSON will receive their sheepskins this year . . . The OLYMPIC hockey team is three-quarters recruited from the present QUADRANGULAR COLLEGE LEAGUE . . . SOUTHERN METHODIST won the toss in the ROSE BOWL game and elected to kick off, a strange choice for a team that is offensively strong.
THOSE BIG-HEARTED PANTHERS:
When PITTSBURGH defeated TULANE on New Year’s Eve, the game turned into a burlesque with the PANTHERS deliberately giving the ball to TULANE and then making no effort to prevent scores. The gesture met with bitter resentment on the part of the TULANE players and they countered by refusing to take advantage of the “silver platter” op-poi-tunities handed them . . . OLD DOC CARLSON must be getting old, giving away • points. Probably he’s saving them for NOTRE DAME tonight!
TOUGH ON THE BOOKMAKERS:
It’s as tough picking basketball winners on a comparative score basis, as it is to try to name them in any other branch of sport. For example, N.Y.U. walloped CALIFORNIA . . .
Tim Moynihan, All-American center' at Notre Dame in 1929, today confirmed a report that he had resigned his position as line coach at Texas university and said he was seeking the head coaching position at Oklahoma A. & M.
Reports from Oklahoma City declared that Moynihan was being considered for the job as head coach.
Moynihan had been assistant to Jack Chevigny, former Notre Dame star and backfield coach, at Texas since 1934.
FREAK NET GAMES (Continued from Page 17)
bolt struck. Spanberger, the timekeeper, discovered that his watch had stopped for fully ten minutes of the last half and the game should have been over when the Irish were leading, 25-27. At the hands of Keogan one expensive stop watch went crashing to the floor of the fieldhouse and Spanberger received the full wrath of the coach. Nothing could be done about the game and it went into the books as a Pitt victory.
With such disappointments behind him Coach Keogan must consider the officials of the game as friendly angels rather than enemies and now probably pays much more attention to the men who keep time and score his games than to the officials. In all likelihood a double check will be placed upon the managers who tabulate such things and the double check will probably not be another manager but some outsider who will have an unbiased opinion on such matters.
CALIFORNIA downed TEMPLE . . . PURDUE barely beat CALIFORNIA and N.Y.U. was fortunate to nose out the BOILERMAKERS . . . Then TEMPLE came along and sank PURDUE.
- 1
A PRINCETON SCHOLARSHIP?
Up in MOOSE JAW, SASKATCHEWAN, a fifteen-year-old boy is the toast of the hockey enthusiasts of the town. When other members of his team failed to appear for their game with the RANGERS, champions of the MIDGET division of the CITY CHURCH LEAGUE, NORMAN LARSON took on the opposition all alone. He won the game, 20 to 5. Now the RANGERS are protesting the game, claiming it by default.
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 19)
paper scribes had down in their books and the one that led to the eventual tie. There was only about three minutes left to play when this happened so the managers did not notice their error until the game was over and the teams had left the floor. When the affair was over the official scorers gave Northwestern credit for the win, 20 to 19, but five or six of the pressmen who had kept their own tally sheet had the final count as 20 to 20. By the time everything was straightened out, the teams were already dressed and the spectators had left the gym, so there was nothing left to do but let it ride as an official tie.
There follows a bit from the New York “Herald Tribune” relative to the tie score. It was written by Everett B. Morris in his Basketball Rebounds column:
“It might be a good idea for Middle Western basketball coaches to give their scorers examinations in simple arithmetic before the season begins. Then they would lessen the likelihood of such incidents as the Northwestern - Notre Dame ruckus wherein the correct score was 20-all, but 20-19 for Northwestern in the official book because the lad in charge overlooked a free throw made by one of the Irish. Or, they might follow
the example of Nat Holman at C.C.-N.Y.__ He has learned better than to trust undergraduates with timing and scoring. These essentials are under the supervision of Arthur Taft, a member of the C.C.N.Y. faculty who has been the Beavers’ chief timer and scorers for thirteen years.”
MORE NETTING
Pittsburgh plays host to Notre Dame this evening in the Smoky town. The Irish haven’t knocked off Doc Carlson’s boys since 1932 on their home floor, since Johnny Baldwin, the cleverest court guard Coach Keogan has had in a long time, captained a scrappy irrepressible ball five that just wouldn’t give in to the Panthers. Man for man this year’s team and squad is superior to that ’32 team and this year’s Panther crew is one of the weakest-Doc Carlson has had in many a year, so if Coach Keogan can get his boys working together on and off the court they should coast through to a close but merited win.
Marty Peters has been working with the first team all week at a forward post, teaming with Moir. Nowak has been at center, and Wade and Red Allen, who has plenty of the old Irish fight, have been holding down the guard berths. Tins is the lineup that will more than likely start the conflict. Peters has been rapidly regaining his real form, and if this
outfit can click as they are capable of clicking, George’s uneasiness should be appeased.
SLIVERS FROM THE BENCH
Spots Manning is telling tbe story of the editor of the Kansas City “Star” who bet $1,000 against $200 that Ohio State would lick Notre Dame in their now historic encounter. In the last quarter while Notre Dame was making that grand comeback, the editor, who had wagered against the Irish, began to root vociferously for them to pull the game out of the hole. His companion asked him what the idea was of cheering for the team which he had - bet against. He answered that if Notre Dame won that ball game, the story alone was worth more than $1,000. The next day the account of the game graced the favored spot on page one in large bold type . . . The all “AllAmerican” team has been -compiled by Jim Waldron, of our sports staff, and will be found in this issue. He has chosen approximately 20 of the leading “All - Americans” and by a system of votes has reached the mythical all-star eleven. Both Wayne Millner and Bill Shakespeare made the first team ... A hockey league under the control of the interhall department, could very easily be organized at this moment if some action was taken.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians .	228 S. Michigan St.
South Bend, Indiana
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS 222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
▼ ,
REASONABLE DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
▼
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
Twenty-two
SCHOLASTIC HEADLINES
(Continued from Page 10).
read the story Joe Sullivan Dies in New York After Illness Of Two Months. Boxing, always a prime favorite at the home of the "Fighting Irish,” came into its own as Champions Battle Way to Finals in the Annual Bengal Bouts.
Laetare Medal Awarded
In early April we read that Frank H. Spearman, Noted Azithor, Receives Laetare Medal For 1935. Once more, within a fortnight this - time, the school was in mourning as Hundreds Mourn Death of Rev. John Cavanaugh.
The closing issues of the final semester contained such interesting reading matter as Father O’Hara Announces Plans For Extension of Curriculum, Notre Dame is Host At Annual Convention of French Teachers, Irish Golfers Bag Five Wins Since Opening Schedule, Seniors Dance To The Music of “Little Jack” Little, Notre Dame Tennis Team Shows Winning Form, and finally Bishop Noll Will Celebrate opening of Tenth Episcopacy Anniversary.
John F. Cushing Killed
With the reopening of the school year in September the Scholastic began its sixty-ninth complete year as a campus publication with the headlines that Solemn High Mass Inaugurates Ninety-Second School Year. The gridiron came into its own -as Irish Football Team Downs Kansas In Season Opener. Within a few weeks the campus was once more made sad by the news that John F. Cushing, ’06, Donor of Engineering Building, killed in Air Crash. Radio was brought to the attention of the students under the headline Scholastic To Sponsor Series of Broadcasts from Campus Studio. The Varsity gave the press the right to print Tartans Succumb To Irish Athletes After Bitter Struggle and the “B” team came into the spotlight when it came from behind to defeat Niagara. The social season of the current semester was announced with the headline Cotillion Inaugurates 1935 Social Season. The Laydenmen contributed Irish Smother Wisconsin Outburst To Win Third Gridiron' Contest 27-0. In the closing weeks of October we had Etienne Gilson, Noted Philosopher, Returns For Short Lecture Series. A three year football jinx was shattered as Notre Dame Downs Pittsburgh 9-6. The next encounter on the gridiron found that Notre Dame Makes It Five Straight At the Expense Of The MidShipmen, 14-0. Other headlines tells of the sensational victory over Ohio State. The proverbial fly in the ointment appeared when the Wildcats Trim Notre Dame For The First
Time in Thirty-Four Long Years, 14 to 7 made the front pages of every section in the land. In the East Notre Dame Ties Army, 6-6. The following week the gridiron season closed as Notre Dame Ends Season With Impressive Victory Over Trojans. The Scholastic press closed the year with one of the most important events in the history of Notre Dame with the headline Roosevelt, Romulo Honored By University.
RADIO TALENT
A file of student radio talent is being compiled for the purpose of producing well balanced programs by the students in the Notre Dame Studio. The interviews are being held in Room 1, Washington Hall, in charge of Prof. Groom, who was formerly general manager of Station WKBH and coached hundreds of aspirants for radio audition.
The classifications being considered at present are as follows: Violin, piano, piano jazz, accompanying, organ, readers, voice tenor, baritone, choral ensembles, e.g. duo, trio, quartet etc., instrumental ensembles, miscellaneous instruments, e.g. harmonica, guitar, trumpet, clarinet, etc. and dramatic sketches.
Students of all classes are urged to take advantage of these interviews and if possible classify for radio performance.
RADIO QUARTERLY
Talks, a quarterly digest designed to preserve a representative group of the speeches, debates and symposiums which are heard over teh radio each day, is to be published soon by the Columbia Broadcasting System.
' The first issue, which will be distributed in January, consists of 60 pages and contains nine talks, two symposiums and a debate. Among the famous names represented are those of Bernard Shaw, Gilbert K. Chesterton, Admiral Wm. S. Sims, Newton D. Baker and Raymond Gram Swing.
Talks, which is subtitled, “A Quarterly Digest of Addresses of Diversified Interest Broadcast over the Columbia Network,” has a foreword by William S. Paley, president of the organization, which explains its purpose
LEARNING AT FIFTY
Vanderbilt Phi Psis and Betas had a private war recently with eggs, (old), mud balls and garden hose.
You can teach an old dog new tricks, । say Stanford University psychologists. Age has little to do with learning, and one can learn almost as easily at 50 as at 20.
Seven members of the Williams College football team are on the dean’s list of high ranking scholars.
The. Scholastic
Scholarship To Be Given In Eddie Cantor Contest
A four year scholarship at any American university or college, with all expenses paid, is to be awarded by Eddie Cantor, famous radio and screen personality, to the person who submits the best letter on the subject: “How Can America Stay Out of War?”
Plans for the ’ competition were made public on Sunday, Jan. 7 when Cantor disclosed that he has set aside $5,000 for the purpose.
The subject matter of the contest was suggested by Newton D. Baker, former secretary of war.
The judges who will give the final verdict are: Robert M. Hutchins, president of the University of Chicago; Frederick Bertrand Robinson, president of the College of the City of New York; Ray Lyman Wilbur, president of Leland Stanford University and Henry Noble MacCracken, president of Vassar College.
/ The competition has no commercial or advertising connection, the award is to be given solely on the basis of the letter, which must be confined to 500 words.
The competition will close Saturday, February 22. The judges’ award will be announced by Cantor on Sunday, April 5. All letters are to be addressed to Eddie Cantor, General Postoffice, Box 99, New York City.
MET CLUB
(Continued from Page 7)
local members would ask for re-organization.
The debt outstanding as shown by Maffei’s record is:
Roosevelt hotel .....$75.00
Hibberd Printing .... 89.18
$164.18
In addition the Met club has another debt amounting to $244.50:
Lido country club....$125.00
Yonker’s Crochet .. 119.50
$244.50
yONKER'S BILL REDUCED
The Lido Country club, the Met’s most ancient debt, is secured by a personal note held by James McDevitt. Th&\Yonker’s Crochet and Embroidery Co. bill was reduced from $165.00 by assessments paid by Joseph Bittner, Anthony Camperlengo, John Gerrits, Louis Grosso, Joseph Hilbert, Thomas Hughes, Paul Krause, Andrew Maffei, George McGovern, William Murtha, Robert Rogers, Francis Sinnott, and Alfred Weil. This debt does not have to be liquidated until the club is back on its feet, and it is understood that the alumni group will aid in that matter.
January 10, 1936
FROM THE RECORDS
(Continued from Page 19)
team of 1930 for the Albert Russel Erskine award. For the second successive year, Rockne’s team captures the national gridiron title, according to the announcement by W. O. Mc-Geehan, chairman of the Erskine Committee of Award. The Irish tallied 261 votes out of 275 possible. The presentation of the cup was made on January 2nd.”
“Staging a brilliant rally in the closing minutes of the game, Notre Dame copped a close decision from Ohio State University Tuesday night by a 27 to 24 score. Norb Crowe played a leading role in the Blue and Gold’s come-back with a brace of field goals, while Newbold and De Cook contributed one each in the last four minutes.”
RADIO STATION
(Continued from Page 7)
presented in an interesting manner by means of story and drama.
4)	The department of Speech, in a program entitled “The Speech We Use,” will present not only the essential rules for effective speaking but also some of the history of speech and of the words of which it is composed.
5)	“Hoosier History” is the title of the program to be conducted under the direction of the department of History of the University. Indiana is particularly rich in history and it is expected that these stories and dramas will be particularly popular.
6)	“Headline Personalities,” which is to be presented by the Journalism department, is to be a human interest program dealing with the success stories of those who occupy prominent places in the world of today.
7)	The department of Law will present a series of programs designed to bring to the radio audience a better knowledge of the various types of cases and the procedure of the many different courts in which they are tried. The Moot court, long a popular feature of the study of law, will be broadcast by the students in this de. partment.
8)	Joe Boland will conduct a series entitled “Athletics” which will deal
ANNUALS •> BOOKLETS
PRINTED OR ENGRAVED
INVITATIONS DANCE PROGRAMS STATIONERY ANNOUNCEMENTS
McCLAVE PRINTING CO.
GRAPHIC ARTS CRAFTSMEN 4-7361 435 E. LASALLE. SOUTH BEND
-—pl
not merely with football but with all the various sports and the benefits to be derived from each.
9)	Those interested in dramatics will have an opportunity for radio experience in the presentation of the series called “The Stories of Great Lives” which, as the title indicates, will be dramatized biography.
10)	The remaining programs will feature various aspects of Philosophy Art and Architecture, and the Classics.

AHAPPY NIWYIAR
“Again the days roll into weeks, the weeks into months, and the months into a new year! We know you have used the South Shore Line during the past year and we hope you will ride it more often in 1936. The South Shore Line has always been (unofficially, of course) the “Notre Dame Line,” and we appreciate your patronage.”
(Signed) C. W. Veach, City Passenger Agent
P. S. Call me any time you want information on rates or train times. Phone number is 3-3111.
Twenty-three
HR. PAUL BYRNE, LIBRARY,
NOTRE DAME, IND.