June 5, 1931
941
COMMENT
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Man’s last hours are the most important of his life. In them he can save his soul or lose it. It does not matter whether he has lived a good life or a bad one, his last hours can change it completely. His last hours, therefore, are most significant.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
EMIL L. TELFEL—Editor-In-Chief
Assistant Managing Editor Neil C. Hurley
Managing Editor John E. Bergan
Associate Editors
Assistant Managing Editor John A. Kiener
Edward E. Brennan-Austin Boyle John Pick
James J. Kearney
James Carmody William W. Corr
Edward R. Brennan-Paul J. Hallinan-Lloyd Teske
We are told that a university student’s last semester is as important as the others, if not more so. And professors are told that their last class is just as important as their first. Comment, however, takes issue with this. We wonder just exactly how important this last semester is.
The Week Richard J. O’Donnell
Make-up Editor Walter V. Beesley
College Parade Daniel C. Williams
Music and Drama Frank E. Seward
Feature Editor
Walter Johnson-
Canipus Clubs W. Leslie Raddatz
Nezus Staff
William C. Karl, News Editor Edmund Stephan, Assistant News Editor
According ot the present system of awarding honors, the student works seven semesters and his average for those semesters decides whether he is to he graduated with honors or not, or it decides the honor he is to be awarded, if any. After- the seventh semester the senior has no incentive to do his best work. “Why should I try for anything better than a passing grade? I am being graduated with honors, anyway.” Or, “No matter how much I raise my average I won’t be graduated with honors or higher honors.” His efforts during the eighth semester are of no avail. The world praises or condemns him on seven semesters. He may be only a fraction of a point from a cum laude, a magna cum Imide, or a maxima cum laude, at the end of the seventh semester, but he cannot obtain honors or higher honors during his eighth semester. It does not seem fair to the student who raises his general average; and the student who lets down during the eighth semester does not deserve to rest on the laurels of seven semesters.
John Conley Myron Crawford Richard Molique William Knox Walter Kennedy
Cleve Carey
James E. McFeely, Jr. Edmund Moriarty
Anthony R. Schreiner F. Granger Weil James Colvin-John Rusnak
Joseph Degnan-Lawrence Dunda Lawrence Prybylski William Blind J. Don Sullivan
Sports Staff
Henry B. Asman, Sports Editor
James Kearns Joseph Kurth George Belting
T. Edward Carey Irving B. Halper Harry Burchell
Business Staff
John R. Blanda, Local Circulation Mgr. Andrew McGuan, Foreign Circulation Mgr.
Frederick Bauer
Raymond J. Naber
J. Albert Smith
John P. Hess
Daniel E. Brennan-
James H. Rorke, Advertising Manager
JOHN F. STOECKLEY—Graduate Manager of Publications Merle Baldwin, Publications Office Manager
Vol. LXIV
JUNE 5, 1931
No. 30
The Week—Richard J. O’Donnell.
942
University Theatre Players Charm Audience—James K. Collins_ Glances At Magazines—Edward R. Brennan_____________________ A Man About the Campus—Emil L. Telfel______________________ A Man You Know—Walter Johnson______________________________
Valedictory of the Class of 1931—Richard R. Baker_ Class Poem-----'__________________________________
The 1931 Class Oration—William L. O’Malley________ Winners of Medals and Prizes______________________
Commencement Program______
Editor’s Page_____________
Activities of the Year____
944
945
946
947
948
949
950
951
952
953
954
Why give numerical grades for the eighth semester? Since the marks mean nothing toward honors, and the average for seven semesters is the published average, why not have only two grades: pass and fail? We wonder whether one’s university education terminates after seven semesters, and if the eighth semester is for taking life easy until commencement.
—J. E. D.
Athletes Have Successful Year.
961
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 191", authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.

0,
942
The Scholastic
Glimpses of the 1930 Commencement
June 5, 1931
943
♦ THE WEEK ♦
I T would be the easiest thing in the world to become sentimental over the writing of this column for the last time. The doing of a work such as this becomes a part of one’s regular college routine, just like going to classes, indulging in bull session orgies, or complaining about the food and the weather. The idea of relinquishing’ it, there-therefore, is not exactly a pleasant one. A bit of soft music, and a few melancholy tollings from the church tower, and this writer would be crying into his typewriter, to paraphrase the old expression. But apparently sentiment is out of fashion at college commencements. Graduates smoke cigarettes and joke with one another as they parade, clad in cap and gown, to the exercises which will disband the class which has functioned as a unit for the past four’ years. Though there may be sad emotions in a few senior hearts, it is considered passe to betray them. Parting is apparently as happy an event as the original meeting. The last view of the campus is not seen through misty eyes. The past is bright in one’s memory, but the future is brighter, so away with all weeping and lamenting ! Since this is the hard-hearted attitude of our present college generation, we do not feel radical enough to attempt to act contrary to it. So our farewell is a cheery one.
CaMPUS racketeers have missed out on a sure-fire proposition over this week-end. It’s strange that no enterprising student has taken steps to capitalize on the usual ignorance among seniors of facts, historical and otherwise, connected with the institution that has harbored them during the past four years. Now is the time when that ignorance becomes most painful. Now is the time when Notre Dame men should be able to recite as glibly as any tour conductor a string of facts and data concerning the University from the date of its founding up to the present. If we had not been busy during the past week indexing and answering letters seeking our services in the journalistic and the literary worlds, we should have done something to assist seniors who are being constantly bewildered by questions from interested and curious week-end guests. How about a “Handy Handbook” guaranteed to contain all the answers to all the queries, whether they pertain to the candy store or the new stadium, the number of books in the library or the last name of Albert? Herb Georgio ought to be able to make a concession out of that next year. We hereby donate him the idea, free of charge.
'l'HERE is something about a vacated residence hall that gives this columnist the shudders. Lyons, or Corby, or Freshman, during the course of the school year is a building emanating spirited life, youthful zest and vi-brance. It seems to pulsate with the vitality of its youthful inhabitants. But when these leave for the summer, with all their belongings, the place is left dreary, desolate, a mere bony structure with its living flesh and blood torn from it. The bleak corridors_ are as forlorn as the narrow canyons of a large city street before daybreak. The rooms are but cells with no trace of the personality that once filled them, excepting perhaps a scribbled name on the wall, or a torn remnant of an old decoration.
A HE University Theatre has once more come to the fore in its final production of the year, “The Merchant of Venice.” In spite of the fact that the first performance began on Mountain Time and the night being that before the examination, a very successful showing was made. Miss Julia Huff is a much improved actress and gave a very fine interpretation of her part, while the acting of Mrs. Rosemary Hay and Harry Merdzinski was highly commendable. We wonder’ if Jessica could have passed the “old man’s” shekels through her window in something better than a collegiate looking juvenile trunk. And what a contrast in height she was to her lover, the blushing Bill Blind, as Lorenzo. John Ryan, as Balthazar, managed to keep a poker face despite the hilarity it provoked, which after all is something when one recognizes the laugh of a pal. Who ever would have thought it possible that such a dignified person as Joe McCabe could get Ed Phelan, his old decrepit father, all hot and bothered with his shouting. A word must be said of the hardworking, sweating property men who so efficiently tore in and out of the stage door when a change of scenery was required.
EvERY year there is a little group of exiles who stay on here after all others have made broad tracks for home. They are here for one reason or another— love, failure, disillusionment, or for- lazy relaxation without the infernal bells of the school term. They are a languid lot, smoking endless cigarettes, telling endless tales, and their main occupation is, so it seems, getting a deep tan. You can see them, if you happen to drop in on the place some time during the summer, lying motionless on the dock in the sun, brown as so many Indians, and not even having to hunt their food; or they may be slouching around the town as though they were sons of the mayor.
A. ND now for the last paragraph of the last column. As usual, the editor is calling persistently and insistently foi’ a sufficient number of lines of lines to fill out the page. We’ll miss the old slave driver in the months to come. We’ll miss having him dash into the room on Wednesday evenings, filling the air with weeping and gnashing of teeth as he damns out’ habitual procrastination. It’s doubtful that this column would have been in print once this year had not Emil constantly been cracking the whip over his sweating assistant. For the next few years he will probably be doing the sweating instead of the whipping, and the idea of that should bring some smiles of satisfaction to the faces of those who have slaved under him during the past year. But they all hate to see him leave. He has done his job well; he has paved the way for those who are to follow him, and he has given the students a real organ for the expression of their opinion. These facts are generally recognized, and this in itself is the greatest recompense he has received for his labors of the past year. If his success at Notre Dame is any indication of what the future holds for him, he can follow Mr. Brisbane’s advice, and just ignore the depression.
944
UNIVERSITY THEATRE PLAYERS CHARM
AUDIENCE WITH “MERCHANT OF VENICE’’
The Scholastic
“JUGGLER” ISSUES FINAL COMMENCEMENT NUMBER
Merdzinski, Walsh, Mrs. Hay, Miss Huff, McCabe, Phelan, Bierne Star in Performance
Funny Fellow Closes Season With Successful Issue.
By James K. Collins
The University Players presented “The Merchant of Venice” last night in Washington hall in a manner which made one doubt that rehearsals for the production have been held for only a few weeks. The players spoke their lines and acted their parts as if they had diagnosed each scene and then worked it out for many months.
The general confusion and sieges of stage-fright so prevalent to campus first nights in the past were almost entirely lacking. The new players acted well, and the older players assumed an ah- of naturalness which carried to the audience so well that, at times, they forgot they were watching anything as unreal as a play some three hundred years old.
This writer does not know which student has been selected as the campus personality for the week but our vote goes to none other than the scheming Shylock, Harry Merdzinski.
Harry played the jester part in “Twelfth Night” very well, as the old miser in “The Ghost of Sir Thomas Sloop” he was excellent, but he reached his height as Shylock. Harry needs to bow to no character actor on the campus at present, and few, if any, of other times. He had his opportunity Sunday night to finish his four years of steady work, and carried it off as few could.
William Walsh, making his debut in the character of Antonio, gave a surprisingly good performance. His was a difficult role for a newcomer, but his fine work belied his inexperience. James O’Shaughnessy, likewise appearing for the first time, gave a good impersonation of Gratiano, the suitor of fair Nerissa. Other new men who stood out were Joseph McCabe, of Scrip fame, as Launcelot Gobbo, William Blind as Lorenzo, Thomas Mc-Kevitt as Salarino, Frank Denny as Salanio, Philip Airey as Tubal, John E. Ryan as Balthazar, and Joseph Carroll as the Duke of Venice.
Mrs. Rosemary Hay, whose acting had the finish and polish of a professional, as the charming Portia, injected a new sparkle into the performance whenever the Shakesperian monotony of men players discussing irrelevant things seemed to drag.
Miss Charlette Mourer played the part of Jessica, and played it excellently. The University theatre is fortunate in having such accomplished players as these to assist in its presentations.
Miss Julia Huff, long a favorite in campus dramatics, gave her usual excellent performance, in the character of Nerissa. .
Bierne, without his Malvolian staff and assurance, was not as well received as previously. His part did not call for the type of acting he has shown himself to be capable of, but he showed himself adept to handle the part assigned him in this production.
In all, Professor Frank Kelly is to be commended on the work of his pupils and associates. It was a performance truly creditable of University men. The success of it was another big ' step in dispelling the criticism which has come to the University for its steadfast approval of Shakesperian dramas. -
The appearance of the University string ensemble, under the direction of Professor Richard Seidel, was in keeping with the rest of the evening’s program. This organization brought a touch of the old world into Washington hall which was needed to fill out the presentation.
The scenery used was designed by Professor Francis Kervick’s class in design. The designs were carried out by students in Professor Sessler’s art classes, under the direction of Professor Sessler and a professional ‘ artist. Professor Kelly was assisted in the stage management by Fred Eisenmann, George Higgins, and Philip Airey.	’
The Funny Fellow brought his season to a close with the annual Commencement Number of the Juggler which appeared on the campus Tuesday night. The issue was a fitting climax to a successful season. The gag men and artists contributed some of their best work in this, their final appearance. Bill Walsh produced his first cover and centerspread. Joe Lopker’s full page drawing of a girl was well above average. The Conboy-Sullivan combination produced a good crack about Amos ’n Andy. Joe Dempsey’s Valedictory Address was keen satire. Don Sullivan’s crazy poems and humorous paragraphs helped to keep each page a lively one.
Art Editor Bill O’Brien, Art Kane, and John Kuhn made their final appearance on the Juggler. Graduating gag men include Editor Jack Dempsey, Austin Boyle, Pat Murray, Bob Sullivan, and Frank Seward. These men have done much in the past to make the Juggler a success and then-loss will be keenly felt. However, there is a wealth of remaining artists and associate editors upon whom next year’s editor, Bob Gorman, can rely.
Editor-in-chief John E. Dempsey seems to have tried hard to make his final production a worthy one. Hampered by examinations which prevented any of his aides from spending much time on the publication,, he nevertheless produced an issue which is truly funny. On the whole the Commencement Number is a fine production. The pages are, to quote the graduate manager of publications, “fairly dripping with satire.” Wit and humor abound. There are some very clever quips hidden in the longer paragraphs. The satires are well worth reading. Several short jokes are exceedingly funny. The humorous poetry and satirical verse are good. From cover to cover the issue is covered with humorous material of every description. You will get a laugh out of every line and every drawing. If you have not already purchased a copy of the Commencement Number of the. Juggler by all, means do so at once.
June 5,1931
945
ADDRESS OF WELCOME
By John F. Saunders President, Senior Class ’31
Reverend Fathers, members of the faculty, and friends:
We, the class of nineteen hundred and thirty-one, welcome you today to our Commencement ceremonies, the eighty-seventh Notre Dame commencement.
Notre Dame Commencement ceremonies are paradoxically ever both sad and happy. Today we are sad in that we must depart from the friendly fellowship of Notre Dame; most regretful also that we must depart her religious atmosphere and saintly protection. Happy for having gained the end or goal of our ambition.
Today more than at any other-previous time we feel a debt of gratitude due our Creator for having given us true Christian parents; parents who saw fit to enroll us at Notre Dame that we might receive the proper guidance and example. To you who have worked so hard and sacrificed so much that we might be given this education, we express our gratitude and admit our indebtedness.
I believe it was Lowell who said: “Example- whether for emulation or avoidance is never so poignant as when presented to us in a striking personality.” We are thankful to you of the faculty who through your great teaching, wise and holy example have taught us to accept life with the trustfulness of youth, but to survey it with
. the sagacity of mellow age.
We who greet you today have witnessed the evolution of a part at least, of the material and cultural building program of the University. The first class to sit as freshmen in the new dining hall, we were significantly the first class to sit as seniors in the new stadium.
College, we are told, simply prepares us for after life. We leave Notre Dame prepared for life, tutored in the Church of Christ and strengthened in His faith. I might by way of borrowing a line from Chesterton, that great modern master of paradox, summarize our greeting to the waiting world as:
Queen of Death and Life undying, Those about to live—salute Thee—
I wish at this time to express my gratitude to my fellow classmates of nineteen hundred and thirty-one for having given me the great honor to convey to you in their behalf a most sincere and hearty welcome.
Glances at the Magazines
In the May Bookman George N. Shuster, associate editor of the Commonweal, and former professor of English at Notre Dame, writes a critical essay entitled “Paul Bourget and Reality.” It is an appreciation of the work of the dean of French novelists.
Incidentally, Mr. Shuster has been in Germany recently collecting material for a book.
Also in Bookman, Dorothea Lawrance Mann has an essay on “J. B. Priestley: Servant of the Comic Spirit.” Priestley served during the entire war as an officer in the British army in France. Yet his essential sanity was preserved, and “we find in him no feeling of belonging to a broken generation, of bewilderment and confusion at being left in the the world when so many of his generation were killed.” After the war he attended Cambridge university and began to write. He was only twenty-five years old. He is thirty-six now, and already author of eighteen books. He is the only man of his age to write two biographies for the English Men of Letters Series. Several of his books are concerned with humor in English literature.
His greatest success was his novel, The Good Companions. So phenomenal was its sale that the furor aroused by Dicken’s Picwick Papers was recalled. Because of certain superficial similarities, such as humor, wealth and variety of charac-
SCRIBBLERS
Professor Rufus W. Rauch and Camille S. McCole were the guests of honor at the annual Scribbler banquet held last week at the Oldenburg inn. Both men are members of the English department of the University, and Mr. Rauch is also chairman of the board of publications. Louis A. Brennan, president-elect of the Scribblers, was toastmaster.
After the seniors had made their farewells, Mr. Rauch in a short but excellent talk praised the Scribblers and pointed out that such a club is very much in harmony with the idea and purpose of a university. He urged the members to keep alive the impressive literary traditions of the University and to co-operate with
ter, and originality of nomenclature, people jumped to the conclusion that . Priestley was another Dickens. Miss Mann argues that a great writer suffers by such comparison, because readers will look for Dickensian qualities, and be disappointed not to find them, and at the same time miss the originality of Mr. Priestley’s own work. For, she says, the difference between Dickens and Priestley is the difference between the Victorian age and our own, between comedy and humor. To achieve humor Dickens burlesqued his characters out of all proportion. But Priestley is a realist. He gives us humor by letting his characters appear as they really are. He never exaggerates. The methods of the two writers are very dissimilar.
George Spalding’s prize-winning story appears in the June issue of the Ladies’ Home Journal.
The spring quarterly issue of the Yale Review contains an essay, “Two Revolutions in the American Press,” in which he says that the American press is the first free from political control in the history of the world, a poem by John Masefield, a short story by Sherwood Anderson, two articles on the new Russian literature by Maxim Gorky and Prince D. S. Mirsky, and an essay by Henry Seidel Canby, “Thoreau and the Machine Age,” in which he makes a plea for a less mechanical, more rational mode of living.
END YEAR
Scrip, the literary quarterly of Notre Dame, by contributing extensively to the magazine. He also gave special praise to George M. Spalding for winning the Ladies’ Home Journal short story contest this year.
Mr. McCole very excellently and aptly summed up what he might tell the Scribblers, ideas which might be of some worth, but, he said, the only way to achieve success in the literary world is to submit just as much material to magazines as possible and not to be discouraged by rejection slips. In formal conversation after his speech, Mr. McCole mentioned several helpful hints concerning publishers and magazines, bits of advice the worth of which he has proved by his own experience in writing.
I
946
The Scholastic ।
FINAL EXERCISES TOMORROW
I	.
Bishop Gannon to Give Baccalaureate
Sermon; McDonald Commencement Address
Rt. Rev. John F. Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne, Is Celebrant
of Solemn High Mass.
The Right Reverend John Mark Gannon, D.D., Bishop of Erie, Pa., will preach the baccalaureate sermon to the graduates of the class of 1931 and their guests at the solemn pontifical Mass to be celebrated tomorrow morning, June 7, in Sacred Heart church. Bishop Gannon is an honorary alumnus of Notre Dame, having received the degree of Doctor of Literature from the University in 1927. This is but one of the many that have been conferred upon him in the course of his brilliant career- as a scholar in this country and in Europe. St. Bonaventure’s ’ college, in New York, was the scene of Bishop Gannon’s undergraduate studies, and he received his A.B. there in 1877. In 1900 the degree of S.T.B. was conferred upon him by Catholic university, and the following year he received an S.T.L. from the same institution. At Appoli-nare university, in Rome, Bishop Gannon studied for two years to earn the degree of Doctor of Divinity. He also has an honorary LL.D, from Duquesne university. Before becoming bishop of the Erie diocese, he was pastor of several churches in various Pennsylvania towns.
A Man About the Campus
It is very fitting that the Man About the Campus for the Commencement Number of the Scholastic should be John E. Saunders, seniorclass president, scholar, and gentleman. For Saunders is the president of the class that is graduating tomorrow, and his career—no other word will express it better—at Notre Dame has been one worthy of all the honor that can be bestowed upon him.
Jack (to become familiar for the moment) started his rapid rise to campus fame in his freshman year, . when he became a manager. But not just an ordinary freshman manager, if you please. He met visiting teams and saw to it that everything possible
The celebrant of the solemn pontifical Mass will be the Right Reverend John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, Indiana. Bishop Noll is well known to the students of the University, and has been for several years past. He received the degree of LL.D, from Notre Dame in 1915, and has made frequent visits to the campus since then. He became Bishop of Fort Wayne in 1925. Our Sunday Visitor, the popular Catholic weekly publication, was founded by him.
Angus D. McDonald, of New York, will deliver the Commencement address. Mr. McDonald was once a student at Notre Dame, and though he did not receive a degree from the University, he was prominent on the campus as a scholar- and an athlete. He won monograms in football and baseball, and was captain of the basketball team for two years. Since leaving Notre Dame he has worked consistently, and with splendid success in the railroad industry. Today he is president of the Southern Pacific railroad, a position which he attained only after many years of arduous labor and admirable striving. Mr. McDonald has been very active in various Catholic undertakings, and in recognition of this Pope Pius XI recently bestowed upon him a Knighthood in the Order of Malta.
was done for their comfort and convenience. In other words, he was a sort of Grover Whalen, without that gentleman’s flair for publicity.
In his sophomore year Jack merely continued what he had started the year before. His smile and gentlemanly, courteous manner still charmed visiting teams, and he still kept going to the meetings of the Boston club and the Spanish club.
By the time his junior year rolled around Jack was in full stride. His activities multiplied so fast that he was associated with management of projects international in scope. He continued to meet visiting teams. As a personal assistant to Rockne he per
formed many difficult tasks. His able management of his duties led to his appointment to the position of assistant conductor to Rockne on the lat-
ter’s European tour. Just for old time’s sake Jack was also elected treasurer of the junior class.
John F. Saunders
The final year of Jack’s college career found him in the position of president of the senior class, in which capacity he did much to insure the success of the Senior ball. He was associate manager of football and manager of the stadium. As stadium manager he was in complete control. He hired and discharged the men and had control of a personnel which numbered from 700 to 800 men. He made all important football trips, including two to the Pacific coast.. In addition, the Student Rockne Memorial committee and aided in the collection of $850, which far exceeded their fondest hopes.
When this writer asked him for a few words to preserve for posterity in the pages of the Scholastic, Jack was at first reticent, but your correspondent’s winning personality thaxyed him out. Just listen to this. Jack is speaking: “I wish to thank the class for its fine cooperation. It was a great one to meet and work with. The men in this year’s class are the best I have ever seen for fine type of manhood. I am awfully sorry to leave . . .” his voice trailed off. He smiled at your correspondent ■ with a rather wistful, crooked smile.
Your correspondent also smiled back, eyes blinking. So long Jack, good luck!



June 5, 1931
947
A Man You Know
Even today, in our most sophisticated newspapers, an airplane crash receives headlines and a prominent position among the other- stories. To some, however, the wreckage of a plane means no more than another murder to the average Chicago citizen. In reminiscing about his war-experiences, Dr. Leo F. Kuntz, head of the School of Education, tells of this immunity, this hardness, if you will, to what others consider catas-trophies. When one has seen his friends killed, even in training camps, and day after day those fatal “Jen-nys” crashing, he finds it rather difficult to become worked up over what, to us, is a disaster. On sight, especially, stands out in his memory: at Roosevelt field, a pile of wrecked planes over a mile long and as high as a two-story building. That was ten years ago, however, and Dr. Kuntz assures us that such things are better-forgotten.
When I learned that the Man You Know of this week was also an Ohioan, interviewing him took on an added enjoyment. Tiffin is Dr. Kuntz’s home, and there, after several years in the country, he entered Heidelberg academy in that city. A three-year course completed, he stepped across the street to Heidelberg university and there began the freshman year of what proved to be an extended and much broken up college career.
A transfer of St. John’s college in Toledo had just been arranged, and his sophomore term began when the war broke out. Dr. Kuntz enlisted immediately, and was sent to Camp Grant in Illinois for preliminary training.
Then, having decided on aviation, he was transferred to Kelley field, Texas, and later to Camp Vail in New Jersey, where he joined the 122nd Aerial squadron. The original 122nd (happy thought) had been sunk by a submarine at the beginning of the war, and the whole personnel lost. Its replacement squadron was primarily a laboratory group, detailed to test and experiment with new electrical equipment, particularly wireless.
While still at Camp Vail the squadron received that first false report of the Armistice. This was not confirmed, however, and orders were received to report to Roosevelt field,
Long Island, for immediate embark-ment to Europe. Thus it was with mingled joy and sorrow that the aviators learned, on arriving in New York, that the Armistice had actually been signed.
Dr. Leo F. Kuntz
Mustered out of the army in 1919, Dr. Kuntz returned to St. John’s, where he received the degree of bach-eloi- of science in 1922. After one year of teaching in Cleveland, in 1923, he was successful in a Knights of Columbus competitive examination, and won a scholarship to Catholic university. At Washington he first became interested in the subject of education and majored in it to attain his degrees of M.A. and Ph.D., the latter in 1926. Three years at Loyola university, in New Orleans, followed, and then Dr. Kuntz accepted the post which he now occupies at Notre Dame. His work as head of the School of Education has been of the finest.
The number of routine duties which his office involves makes hobbies even less than a secondary consideration. Nevertheless he does find time for some tennis and handball, as well as a few evenings of bridge. Too, he is an enthusiastic athletic fan, and seldom misses either foobtall, baseball or basketball games. He is also a staunch member of the Knights of Columbus, having transferred from Marquette Council No. 1437, New Orleans, to the local council. A Knights of Columbus fellowship key dangles from his watchchain. Only men who have held K. of C. scholarships are entitled to wear them.
Internal combustion engines are Dr.
SPECTATORS’HOLD DINNER
Fr. Miltner Speaks At Club’s Annual Farewell Banquet.
The annual banquet of the Spectators was held last week at Varesio’s tavern with twenty-four guests present. Past president Alfred Stepan acted as toastmaster and called upon, each of the departing members for a short address. Charles H. Miltner, Austin Boyle, William C. Karl, Daniel C. Williams, Emil L. Telfel, Ramon G. Smith, and Richard J. O’Donnell were the seniors who responded, each choosing as the general tenor of his talk the fine friendships which the organization had afforded and the many benefits derived from it.
Edmund Stephan, the newly elected chairman, extended the good wishes of the club to the graduates, expressing the hope that the new men would continue to uphold the high standards set by those who had gone before. Louis Hasley, post-graduate student and charter member, then gave a brief resume of the founding of the club, its history, and its purpose and ideals as expressed by the originators. The Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C., moderator of the club, spoke to the outgoing men on what a college education means. “It’s fundamental purpose,” he said “is to act as a seeding time for life. It is the springtime of our existence during which we sow the seeds of habit and mold the future character of the man.” Father Miltner, in closing, spoke of the many pleasant acquaintances he had made among the members of the graduating class and expressed his sincere wishes for a successful future.
A novelty at the banquet this yeai-was the presence of the pewter tankards which were recently accepted as the armorial ensign of the organization. These tankards, the first to appear on this campus, are of English pattern, having the seal of the Spectators’ club and the name of the member engraved on the face. Regret was expressed at the banquet that under existing conditions it was possible to use the steins only in an ornamental capacity.
Kuntz’s specialty, however. This is probably an interest held over from his aviation days, and the tendency is developed and satisfied through the medium of his automobile, the engine of which, he proudly asserts, is always in perfect condition.
948
1
The Scholastic
VALEDICTORY OF THE CLASS OF 1931
THE EVILS OF INTELLECTUAL SPECIALIZATION
Reverend President, members of the faculty, fathers and mothers, friends, and fellow classmates:
We, the members of the class of 1931, are at the commencement of life. At this time we celebrate the completion of our years of training in prepartion for the respective vocations for which each one of us feels that he, according to his talents and capabilities, has been chosen. I say “commencement” of life because, for most of us at least, life in the sense of the activities of the social and economic world is still relatively foreign, and like Hamlet we are admittedly a little fearful of flying to those ills we know not of.
While at Notre Dame we have lived in comparative seclusion from the outside world of affairs. Most of us have been free from the cares involved in procuring a material livelihood, free from the struggles and worries incurred by trying to achieve a place in the various fields of human labor, free from the task of attempting to find our way through the intricacies of the complex social life of today. In short, we have been an al-, most complete community unto ourselves—a community wherein these complications have been minimized to the smallest possible degree of distraction, and where the greatest possible simplicity in living has been realized.
Contemporary educators have criticized this theory of collegiate seclusion on the grounds that it leads to impracticability and incompetence in the student when he finally comes in contact with the world from which he has lived apart. “The school should not be a preparation for living, but life itself,” are the words of the most prominent and influential of these . educational theorists. Many schools have adopted this policy and as a consequence there is an almost universal aversion from the formal elements of knowledge as a proper object of study. In keeping with the dominant scientific spirit of the times, the immediately practical holds the . center of the educational stage; students are thrown on their own resources and without sufficient preknowledge guidance they are supposed to work out the various problems of real life presented to them. .
This plan of premature self-direction seems to us to be directly at variance with the traditional law of
By RICHARD R. BAKER
knowledge first and practice later. We believe that a man must know the theories of activity and conduct before he can intelligently put them into practice, and that the idea of looking upon pure knowledge as worthless because it has no immediate utility is a rather irrational one.
But the lack of a great amount of personal experience with what a certain educational observer has called “reality” does not mean that we are blanketed entirely in the shrouds of ignorance. The general trend of affairs in the world today is so manifestly evident that even though its meaning may be somewhat obscure, its essential characteristics are inescapable for anyone with only a fair degree of intelligence.
In the relatively short length of time in which we have been members of society, there have been almost incredible changes in practically every branch of human activity. We have seen in the economic world the vast alterations wrought by the high development of machinery and by the intense r industrialization of production; we have been witness to the numerous transformations in the political maps of Europe and the other continents, resulting from the Great War and from the subsequent attempts to stabilize law and government in those countries where the old forms were found to be unadaptable in the new conditions; we have looked with dismay at the increasing disregard for constituted authority in the home, in the schools, in the state, and even in the hitherto unquestioned realm of the Divine Authority; we are presented with an art and a literature that seems to have definitely 'divorced itself from most of the aesthetic standards of tradition; and we have to deal with a general philosophy that, for the first time in the history of thought, refuses to acknowledge even the fundamental principles of truth and of goodness.
All these recent changes in the ideals and standards of the world seem to have at least one common characteristic. Each of them apparently has resulted to a large extent from an excessive specialization of interests, a narrowing of outlook, and
increasingly restricted perspective on the essential conditions and relations which really exist in man and in his works.
It would be absurd on the part of anyone to condemn the almost miraculous achievements in the material order which have been brought about by the intensive application of science in commerce and in industry. The glories of the so-called Scientific Age are known and acknowledged as such by every one. But along with the great practical benefits realized by applied science, there has evolved a psychological tendency on the part of the modem mind to visualize all things in the isolated and restricted manner that has proved to be of such great value in the specialized field of science. It is hard to say whether such a monistic spirit is a cause or an effect of the era of scientific progress, but in either case, its existence and its universal influence can hardly be denied.
In the fine arts we see our modernistic and futuristic impressionists who have so completely devoted themselves to a rather vague presentation of the art matter that they have practically forgotten the equally important side of form and technique. The contemporary imagist poet has specialized in sound to the absolute disregard of sense, and we have as a result a conglomeration of words that please perhaps the auditory nerve, but which convey the barest meaning to the mind of the reader. In fiction the evil effects of specialization are most obvious. Due in a large way to the materialistic psychology of Freud and of the Behaviorists, our writers have blinded themselves to the concept of man as possessing an intellect to comprehend his actions and a will to execute them, and have specialized on his animal nature as a machine that is led about blindly by every whim of each of its parts. The immortal epic of man conquering the elements of nature by his will power and sheer strength of character has degenerated into a best-seller wherein is monotonously and morbidly related the- successive reactions of an intellectual or moral pervert to the varied objects of his environment that happen to stimulate his nervous system.
Our political philosophy is characterized by a short-sightedness that
•	(Continued on Page 970)	.
June 5,1931
949
.................................          """................................................................................................................................................                                            i
lunniitiHiniiiiiil
CLASS POEM
The Arena
Causa Nostrae Laetitiae
(Dedicated to the University of Notre Dame, Indiana.)
There uprose a golden giant
On the gilded house of Nero	•
Even his far-flung flaming shadozv and his image swollen large
Looking dozvn on the dry whirlpool	.
Of the round Arena spinning
As a chariot-wheel goes spinning; and the chariots at the charge.
And the molten monstrous visage
Sazv the pageants, sazv the torments, Dozvn the golden dust zmdazzled saw the gladiators go,
Heard the cry in the closed desert, Te salutant morituri,
As the slaves of doom went stumbling, shuddering, to the shades below.
“Lord of Life, of lyres and laughter, Those about to die salute thee,	'
At thy godlike fancy feeding men with bread and beasts with men, But for us the Fates point deathward In a thousand thumbs thrust downward,
And the Dog of Hell is roaring through the lions in their den.”
I have seen, where a strange country
Opened its secret plains abozit me,	,
One great golden dmie stand lonely with its golden image, one
Seen afar, in strange fulfilment,
Through the sunlit Indian summer
That Apocalyptic portent that has clothed her zvith the Sun.
She too looks on the Arena, Sees the gladiators in grapple,
She whose names are Seven Sorrows and the Cause of All Our Joy,
Sees the pit that stank zvith slaughter Scoured to make the courts of morning For the cheers of jesting kindred and the scampering of a boy.
“Queen of Death and deadly weeping
■	Those about to live salute thee,
Youth untroubled; youth untortured; hateless war and harmless mirth
'	And the New Lord’s larger largesse
Holier bread and happier circus,	.
Since the Queen of Sevenfold Sorroiu has brought joy upon the earth.”
Bums above the broad arena
Where the whirling centuries circle,
Bzims the Szvn-clothed on the summit, golden-sheeted, golden-shod,
Like a sun-burst on the mountains,
Like the flames upon the forest
Of the sunbeams of the szvord-blades of the Gladiators of God.
And I sazv them shock the whirlwind
Of the world of dust and dazzle:
And thrice they stamped, a thunderclap; and thrice the sand-zvheel swirled;
.	And thrice they cried like thunder
. On Our Lady of the Victories, The Mother of the Master of the Masterers of the World.
“Queen of Death and Life undying	.
Those about to live salute thee;
Not the crazvlers with the cattle; looking deathzvard zvith the swine, Bzit the shout upon the mountains '
Of the men that live for ever
‘	Who are free of all things living bzit a Child; and He zvas thine.”
—G. K. Chesterton.
950
The Scholastic
THE CLASS ORATION
!
Tomorrow, fellow-classmates, we will be graduated from Notre Dame. We will receive our degrees, the stamp of approval of our University, indicating that our college days are over, and that our ultimate scholastic goal has been attained. After four years of preparation for the business or profession we have chosen, we are leaving Notre Dame. Leaving the classrooms and the corridors, the chapels and the church, the priests and professors, and the lakes and familiar haunts, all of which formed an integral part of our education and made our days here at Notre Dame happy ones. The commencement exercises tomorrow mark the end of our life at Notre Dame.
“Commencement!” How properly these last exercises of our college career are named. The last ceremony tomorrow means all the word “commencement” implies. It means first of all that our group existence at Notre Dame is ended. That we are losing the fortifying influence that living together as one big family has given to each of us. Thus far there has always been some fostering hand shaping and moulding our lives. In the grades perhaps it was some saintly nun. In high school a loving priest or brother. At college the priests and professors of Notre Dame. Tomorrow means the end of all this. It means that we are on our own. It means the beginning of our individual existence; the starting of the work that until this time we have been preparing for. We have truly finished to begin.
It is fitting that we stop for a moment and consider how we are prepared to start out in life. Fellowclassmates, we are unusually well equipped for life; we have been given an exceptional opportunity. Few indeed, of those who enter the grade school, ever enter high school; fewer still ever enter college. We who are being graduated from Notre Dame today, therefore, represent an exceptional fullness of opportunity.
Who are we that we should be so generously endowed? What have we done to merit the inestimable advantage of a college education, and that moreover at Notre Dame? Why should we be singled out to be the beneficiaries of this wonderful gift? In vain we look within ourselves for the cause of this beneficence. We must
By William LO’Malley
William Lee O’Malley
Class Orator
look elsewhere. We must look to our parents, our college, our country, and our church. They together have given us this opportunity, and it is to God and them that we should be grateful for this blessing.
We are here today, therefore, as debtors. First of all we are debtors to our parents. Were it not for their sacrifice and forethought, it is safe to say, we would not be numbered among this graduating class. Before we were able to think they dreamed of this day. Tomorrow their dream becomes a reality. But who can tell what pains, and tears, and sacrifices were spent in its realization?
Again, we are debtors to our college. To our college we are indebted for the thorough Christian education that is ours. For the creation of Notre Dame which is our heritage. For the memory of her great men: her Sorin, her Corby, her Walsh, her Morrissey, and for the inspiration and encouragement which they have given to us. We are indebted also to the priests and lay professors who have loved us, labored for us, and have given themselves to us. What a privilege to have known and associated with the character builders of Notre Dame! What a pleasure to have sat at the feet of her scholars! For all these things, and countless others, we are indebted to Notre Dame.
We are indebted, moreover, to our country, the government and Constitution of which secures and guaran
tees to us our right to religious and educational freedom, and makes possible, therefore, the priceless opportunity for the training which Notre Dame had afforded us.
Finally, fellow classmates, but in truth first and last, we are indebted to ■ our Church. She has taught us the truth. Through the agency of Notre Dame she has set forth the eternal and immutable principles of the one true religion and has demonstrated how by strict adherence to them we can attain the ideals which they teach. Through the Catholic church we have come to know the plentitude of life on earth.
We start out in the life which lies before us, therefore, as debtors. Debtors not only to our parents, but heavy debtors to the institutions of church and country which have made possible for us this education of the highest kind. Nothing is more natural than that the class of ’31 be grateful for this unusual opportunity. We are grateful. But how shall we express our gratitude? Our only question can be: How can we make good this debt?
We can repay our Church by undeflecting loyalty to the principles of our religion. By being decent, self-respecting, God-fearing men. By living up to the ideals and standards of the Church, and by making our individual lives correspond with the opportunity we have been given. In this wise we will cause our demeanor in our private, our business and our professional life to cast a favorable reflection on the Church, and, incidentally, we will prove oui’ gratitude to the Church for the contribution she has made to our education.
As for repaying our debt to country, there never was time when a creditor was in such dire need of the very thing which a debtor has to offer in satisfaction of an obligation. Surely there is need for Christianity in our country today. In politics Christian principles are daily losing ground. In business the Christian principle of a living wage is altogether forgotten. The professions, too, have deteriorated for want of sound Christian ethics. But we can remind the world of its need and we can supply it. Enlightened with a thorough Christian education we can, by carrying its principles into business, professional and public life, do a real service to our country. More
*
June 5, 1931
951
than the mere private duty of decent lives is required of us. There is over and above this private duty the civic duty of taking active steps to perpetuate the institutions that have given us the opportunity of a college education. Only when we have performed these duties can we be satisfied that we have paid our obligation to country.
Let us never forget the tribute that is owing to our college. Notre Dame has made out- lives worthwhile. She has made us recognize the beauty and truth of Catholic teaching. She has given us a background of Christian living and Christian ideals. She has made us cleaner in soul and in body, warmer of heart, keener of intellect. We can repay Notre Dame by unswerving loyalty to the ideals which she has instilled into our hearts, by supporting’ and championing those ideals throughout our lives.
Finally, fellow-classmates, we are here as debtors to our parents. Dull indeed and ungrateful would be the heart that would fail to appreciate this. Our parents, perhaps by bitter experience, learned that preparation for life is important. And believing that we could be best fitted for life at Notre Dame, they accordingly advised us to come here. We know now that • their advice was right, for we have been helped even more than they dared hope. Those same loving parents, fellow classmates, have assem-'bled from all over the country to be with us today. To them this day means only happiness, for they see in our graduation some return for their ceaseless and untiring efforts in our behalf. What is more natural than that we feel deep gratitude for the opportunity they have given us. We can repay our parents and demonstrate our gratitude for the opportunity they have given to us by loyalty to the ideals of Church, country, and Notre Dame. For just as surely as loyalty to Church, country, and Notre Dame will bring lasting success and glory to us, so our good fortune will bring satisfaction and honor to our loving parents.
Gathered here together, then, fellow classmates, these are the thoughts that are uppermost in our minds— that though this is the end it also is the beginning; that though we count ourselves rich indeed, we know ourselves to be debtors. To the payment of our debt we will devote oui- whole lives. To the payment of our debt we pledge ourselves today for the honor of our faith, our country, our college, and all those who are dear to us.
Winners of Medals and Prizes
Medals and prizes were awarded to distinguished members of the graduating class this morning at 10:00 a. m. in Washington hall, as part of the Class day exercises. The following is a complete list of the awards:
The Breen medal for excellence in oratory, presented by the honorable, the late William P. Breen, of the class of 1877. is awarded to Mr. Francis James McGreal, Chicago, Ill.
The Meehan gold medal, the gift of the late Mrs. Eleanor Meehan, of Covington, Kentucky, for the senior- who writes the best essay in English, is awarded to Rev. Francis B. Thornton. Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin.
The Martin McCue medal, presented by Mr. Warren Antoine Cartier, C.E., of the class 1887, for the best record in all subjects prescribed in the civil engineering program, is awarded to Mr. Paul Joseph Cushing, Chicago, Ill.
The Electrical Engineering medal, presented by Dr. Jose Angel Caparo, Sc.D., of the class of 1908, in memory of his father, for the best record in all courses prescribed in the four-year electrical engineering program, is awarded to Mr. Edward Arthur Coomes, Indianapolis, Ind.
The Dockweiler medal for philosophy, founded in memory of his deceased father, by Mr. Isidore Dockweiler, of Los Angeles, California, for the best essay on some philosophical subject. senior year, is awarded to Mr. Richard D. Murray, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind.
The Lehn and Fink medal for pharmacy, awarded annually by Lehn & Fink, wholesale and manufacturing chemists, New York City, to promote the advancement of pharmacy, for the senior in pharmacy who has the highest general average in his work, is awarded to
• Mr. Karl William Scherer, Rochester, N. Y.
The Monsignior F. A. O'Brien prize was founded in 1917, by a gift of one thousand dollars from Mr. Edwin O. Wood, of Flint, Michigan, in honor of Right Reverend Monsignior F. A. O'Brien, D.D., of Kalamazoo, Mich., for special study and distinction in an historical subject: the income from this fund, amounting to sixty dollars, is awarded to Mr. Patrick R. Duffy, C.S.C., Notre Dame. Ind.
The Meyers burse, thirty dollai-s in gold, founded in 1920, by a gift of five hundred dollars from Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Meyers, of Paducah, Kentucky, as a memorial to their deceased son, J. Sinnott Meyers, of the class of 1920, is awarded to Mr. George Adolphe Jackaboice. Grand Rapids, Mich.
The William Mtichell memorial award for playwriting, fifty dollars, founded in 1928 by a gift of one thousand fifty dollars from Mr. Joseph V. Mitchell, in honor of his son, is awarded to Mr. Ronald Herman Zudeck, Buffalo, New York.
The South Bend Watch Company has made Permanent arrangements to offer annually a full jeweled, fourteen carat gold watch to the senior student in each of the five colleges who has made the best academic record for four years in the college from which he is graduated. The watches are awarded as follows: In the College of Arts and Letters, to Mr. Mr. Bernard E. Ransing, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind.; in the College of Science, to Mr. Yvo Thomas Oester, Aurora, Ill.; in the College of Engineering, to Mr. Alexander Anselmus Pe-trauskas, Cicero, III.: in the College of Commerce, to Mr. Arthur James McGee, Utica. New York: in the College of Law, to Mr. William Lee O’Malley, Chicago, Ill.
Two money prizes have been offered for distribution among the monogram men who have achieved the highest academic excellence. The first is a prize of one hundred and twenty-five dollars, given by Mr. Francis Earl Hering, of South Bend, Indiana, A.B., 1891 : LL.B., 1902. a member of the baseball team of 1896-97, and captain of the football team during the same year. The second is a prize of one hundred dollars, donated by Mr. Leroy Joseph Keach, of Indianapolis, Indiana, LL.B.. 1908, captain of the track team of 1908. The prizes have been combined and are awarded as follows:
A prize of seventy-five dollars to the sophomore monogram man wtih the best average
for the freshman and sophomore years, to Mr. Charles Joseph Jaskwich, Kenosha. Wis.
A prize of seventy-five dollars to the junior monogram man with the best class average for the freshman, sophomore and junior years, to Mr. Henry Clay Johnson, Kent, Ohio.
A prize of seventy-five dollars to the senior monogram man with the best average for the freshman, sophomore, junior and senior years, to Mr. John Matthew Mahoney. Chicago. Ill.
A number of public spirited citizens of the city of South Bend have cooperated in the establishment <?f money prizes of fifty dollars each and twenty-five dollars each. The prizes are for members of the senior class anti are awarded as follows:
Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. Albert Russel Erskine, president of the Studebaker Corporation. for excellence in machine design, to Mr. Maurice Douglas Mulrey. Indianapolis. Ind.
Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. Miles W. O’Brien, of the South Bend Lathe Works. South Bend. Indiana, for excellence in mechanical drawing, to Mr. Catl August Gaenns-len. Green River, Wyoming.
Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. John J. O'Brien, of the South Bend Lathe Works. South Bend. Ind., for excellence in shopwork, to Mr. Arthur Edward Coomes, Indianapolis. Ind.
Fifty dollars, offered by the South Bend Tribune, to the student in the School of Journalism having the highest general excellence in journalism, to Mr. John Otto Weibler. Riverside, Ill.
Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. George L. O’Brien, of the O’Brien Varnish Company, South Bend, Ind., for excellence in chemistry, to Mr. Romeo Paul Allard. Franklin. N. H.
Twenty-five dollars, offered by Mr. Gallitzen A. Farabaugh, attorney-at-law. for high legal scholastic achievement in the College of Law, to Mr. Vernon John Freed, Mishawaka. Ind.
Fifty dollars, offered by a public spirited citizen of South Bend who is interested in the Law school, is divided into two prizes of twenty-five dollars each.
The prize of twenty-five dollars, offered for high legal scholastic achievement in the College of Law, is awarded to Mr. Thomas William Callahan. East Chicago. Ind.
The prize of twenty-five dollars, offered for high legal scholastic achievement in the College of Law, to Mr. Kenneth Joseph Konop, South Bend. Ind.
The Hoynes award, established in January, 1926, by a gift from William James Hoynes, LL.D.. dean emeritus of the College of Law. the income from which, amounting to one hundred dollars, is awarded to the member of the graduating class in the program leading to the degree of bachelor of laws, who has the highest average in scholastic grades, application, deportment and achievement, together with fitting qualifications for-admission to the bar and to the practice of law. This prize is awarded to Mr. John Matthew Mahoney, Chh cago, RI.
Mr. Byron V. Kanaley. Chicago. III.. A.B. 1904, member of the baseball team during the years 1902. 1903. 1904 : member of the debating team during his four years in college, has made arrangements to offer an annual prize of two hundred dollars to the senior monogram athlete who has been adjudged most exemplary as a student and as a leader of men. This prize is awarded to Mr. Frank Fred Carideo, Mt. Vernon, N. Y.
Fifty dollars, offered annually by the Notre .Dame Club of Chicago, to the student who graduates w’ith the highest scholastic average for the last three years of the college course in which he is graduated, is awarded to Mr. Paul Joseph Cushing, Chicago, Ill.
The Architectural medal, presented by the American Institute of Architects, to each of the member schools of the Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture, to be awarded to the student graduate who has the highest average for the entire course, is presented to Mr. John Conrad Riedel!, Paris, Ill.
For additional prizes, the American Institute offers two copies of Henry Adams’ book. St. Michel and Chartres. The books are awarded as follows:
The second prize to Mr. Joseph Brown. Central Falls, Rhode Island.
The third prize to Mr. John Henry Hanson, Fond du Lac, Wis.
952
The- Scholastic
Eighty-Seventh Annual Commencement
University of Notre Dame
Central Standard Time
FRIDAY, JUNE 5
Alumni Registration, All Day, Alumni Office, Administration Building.
12:45 P. M.
6:30 P. M.
8:00 P. M.
President’s Address to the Class of 1931.
Reunion Dinners (by individual arrangement).
University Theatre Presentation, “The Merchant of Venice”—Washington Hall.
The University Golf Course will be open to Alumni all day.
The University Band will give a Concert at 6:30 p. m. on the Campus.
SATURDAY, JUNE 6
Alumni Registration, Alumni Office.
8:00 A. M.
9:30 A. M.
10 :00 A. M.
12:00 M.
1:30 P. M.
3:00 P. M.
6:00 P. M.
8:00 P. M.
Solemn Requiem Mass for Knute K. Rockne.
Last Visit of the Class of ’31, Sacred Heart Church (private).
Class Day Exercises and Award of Honors, Washington hall.
Luncheon of Law Alumni, Faculty Dining Room. Col. William J. Hoynes, Honorary Chairman. Hon. Thomas F. Konop, Honorary Chairman. Prof. Clarence Manion, Executive Chairman.
Council of Local Alumni Club Representatives.
Baseball, Michigan State vs. Notre Dame.
Annual Alumni Banquet, East Dining Hall.
Musical Club’s Presentation, Washington Hall.
The Studebaker Band will give a Concert at 7:00 p. m., on the Campus.
The University Golf Course will be open all day. .
c

8:30 A. M.
9:00 A. M.
11:00 A. M.
12:00 M.
1:30 P. M.
2:00 P. M.
4:30 P.M.
SUNDAY JUNE 7
Academic Procession, Main Building to Sacred Heart Church. •
Solemn Pontifical Mass, Sacred Heart Church.
Celebrant, Rt Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., LL.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne.
Baccalaureate, Rt. Rev. John M. Gannon, D.D., D.C.L., LL.D., Bishop of Erie.
Music, Moreau Seminary Choir.
(Mass will be followed by the blessing of the Senior flag.)
Senior Flag Raising Exercises, Main Quadrangle.
Monogram Luncheon, Lay Faculty Dining Room. ’
Showing of Rockne Films, Washington Hall. .
Annual Alumni Meeting, Washington Hall.
Awarding of Degrees, University Gymnasium.
Commencement Address, Angus D. McDonald, ’00.


B
iimuinimuiimmniuiimiuiMuiitt
June 5,1931
953
EDITOR’/ PAGE
FOUR GREAT YEARS
Four great years! -Tonight, as we sit at our windows and look out over the dusk-shaded campus, we realize it with a poignant rush of memories. The campus is very still; a faint breeze stirs the lush green leaves of the trees, so that they seem to whisper softly and gently —“Do you remember? Do you remember?” Yes, we do remember—many things. We remember great talks, full of whirling arguments; and the high, white idealism of youth; we remember flaming words burning on ,the pages of books; we remember certain professors, wise and understanding, who guided and inspired; we remember blue nights studded with silver stars, nights so beautiful that the glory and wonder of them caught at your throat; we. re- . member the exaltation that comes of deeds done, and done surpassing well; we remember the tall white candles burning on the high altars of God; we remember great friendships ; we remember many, many things.
Most of us came to college for one purpose: to ask and receive, to seek and find, and get from it all that it had to offer. In that purpose we think we have succeeded. A spirit restless and dissatisfied has driven us on to get out of life something more than mere vegetative existence. We have a hunger in us that will not be denied. It is rather hard to define this hunger; we might call it an intense desire “to see life steadily and see it whole.” We believed that college would satisfy this hunger; but the hunger has intensified instead. Yet we realize that in the increased intentensity there is satisfaction. To have the hunger completely satisfied would mean intellectual and spiritual death.
College is the growing time, the molding time. It is the period when young men should dream dreams, and see great visions. The soul should be opened to new vistas of truth and beauty. The college man should be in the world, and yet not of the world. Ideals should be inculcated in him that will endure down the long march of days. He should be imbued with a magnificent courage that sustains him in the dark hours when the world, tiger-like, is at his throat. His imagination should be sharpened to a point where it can count itself “king, of infinite space.”
These are generalities, you say. Yes, but if what we are trying to tell you could be minutely dissected and specifically catalogued they would not be what they are. Can you dissect the delicate beauty of a sonnet, the thunder and surge of the surf, the white blaze of self-effacing exaltation that causes men to spit themselves on bayonets ? Of course you can’t. Neither can we analyze and set down specifically the intangible yet very real values that college has given us. We can only say that for four years we have lived intimately with the best and the noblest that has been thought, said, and done by man. We have been greatly aided in our onward march to the gleaming goal of complete living. We have accumulated a fund of knowledge that has sharpened our minds to see all things in their true perspective. The cultural heritage of centuries has been set before us to take and keep; we have taken advantage of the opportunities offered us to the best of our various abilities. Our intellects, our emotions, our imaginations, have been seared by the white fire of the truth and beauty that is the esence of great history, great philosophy, great literature. The mighty trumpets of Shakespeare’s lines, the surge and thunder of Homer, the clear, steady radiance of scholastic philosophy, the magnificent sweep and panorama of history—all these and more have been ours. They will always be ours along with the more tangible beauties of college life. They cannot be taken from us.
So—we sit at our windows and look out over the campus, now entirely darkened by the blueblackness of a June night, and memories rush back. We are leaving Notre Dame, but Notre Dame will never leave us. We remember the words of a group of graduates of another country and another time .. . “We will be scattered. Next year we, too, will be missing. The old haunts will know us no more; for us no longer will the college bell toll; others will sit in our places. But if we' have loved our alma mater and given her of our best, we will know her secret, though we cannot tell it. To such as us she gives herself, to become a part of us, and we join the thousands and thousands who ‘have caught the sacred fire into their souls as they passed through and passed out’—to carry it perhaps to the ends of the earth.”
954	The Scholastic
ACTIVITIES OF THE YEAR
Campus Organizations In All Fields Have Had Brilliant And Successful Seasons During The Past Academic Year
By Paul J. Hallinan
THE “SCHOLASTIC
Emil L. Telfel
Editor of the “Scholastic”
The editor of the Dome has a few privileges. Not the least of them is the right to write of his rival, the Scholastic. So when Emil L. (“Brutally Frank”) Telfel, whose blushing-violet modesty forbade him writing this article himself, asked me to do it, I did so with keen anticipation. Gentlemen, Emil has turned out an excellent Scholastic, easily the best seen at Notre Dame in year, and Mr. Telfel deserves a pretty autographed bottle of hair remover for his brilliant editorial efforts.
Knowing full well that the Scholastic’s shy editorial board will “blue pencil” my enthusiastic praise of the magazine, and will substitute less glowing phrases, I will render undiluted to Emil the tribute that is Emil’s. Every number—all.-30 of them, including this one—has had a snap, a brimming effervescent quality of elan vital that has startled jaded junior and jarred sophomore sophisticates. The editorials, the news-coverage, the make-up, the departments —everything was done splendidly.
The staff members deserve much credit, but Telfel himself is responsible for the glowing personality of the
sheet, as well as the occasional misplays. For there were a few misplays, but usually they were sincere, whole-hearted ones that gave everybody a chance to call everyone else a name.
The departments: Dick O’Donnell’s Week was clever, vigorous, at times prompt, and always worthwhile. Dan Williams’ College Parade (at times “kidding” the serious, again seriously mocking the “kidders”), was always a page to be reckoned with. Les Rad-datz’s Campus Clubs page was a sophisticated hotbed of choice coals for club members to place under the executive chairs of the officers. The Wink, conducted by Austin Boyle for the first half of the year and by Ed. R. Brennan for the second half, was a conglomeration of fun, — funny verse, funny prose, funny philosophy. Brennan doubled with his Glances at the Magazines, a new feature dealing with periodicals, up-to-date, representative, interesting. John Pick’s scholarly, readable Book Reviews were carefully selected criticisms. Other columns included: Comment, by Walt Beesley; Campus Opinions, by Mike Crawford; A Man You Know and A Man About the Campus, by Ed. E. Brennan, and Frank Seward’s Music and Drama column.
Remarkable about these departments is the fact that Mr. Telfel is himself responsible for bringing then* authors to the front of the campus editorial stage. A year ago all were good but for the most part undiscovered.
The editorial policy has been a vigorous weapon in the hands of men who in by far the majority of cases used it intelligently. Praising for the sake of praising was ruled out; but so was condemning for the sake of condemning. “Why Hello Week?” “Undergraduate Politics,” “Enough Is Too Much,” “A Bad Mistake,” “Static,” and “Obituary” were written with a decidedly destructive point in the mind of the writer. On the other hand, "Side Shows or Circus?”, “Antidote For Lethargy,” “This Is For You,” “Three Campus Clubs,” “It’s Been Noted,” “That ‘Catholic Stuff’,” and “Holiday” were of a pronounced constructive nature. The best explan
ation of the policy was in an editorial, headed: “Our Editorial Attitude,” which said, “The Scholastic is not just having a lot of fun, but we are eager to see worthwhile institutions flourish, to help silly and imbalanced customs to an early grave, and principally to banish the halo and the sacred robes which have for many years surrounded so many of these institutions.”
On March 31 eight men edited the first Scholastic extra to appear in many a year. The occasion was the sudden death of Mr. Rockne in an airplane tragedy. An editorial, “Mr. Rockne Is Dead,” several pictures of the coach, an account of his life, and of his associates were included. It was published in four fours after the accident,—a dignified, accurate piece of journalism.
Capable Mr. Neil Hurley succeeds Mr. Telfel. If the newspaper plans are carried through, it will be pleasant to say that the Scholastic as a news-magazine spent a splendid last year.
THE “JUGGLER
By J. Donald Sullivan
John E. Dempsey
Editor of the “Juggler”
John E. Dempsey, editor of the Juggler, announced several new poli
’	June 5, 1931
i	------------
955
cies at the beginning of this year. Chief among them was the ultimatum that all future drawings must be suited to the joke. Another was that high class art work would be encouraged and reproduced in color processes whenever possible. The wisdom of these policies is very evident. The quality of the publication is highei-than ever before, and the Juggler is more beautiful and more humorous.
In past years Juggler art work has become famous. The efforts of Juggler artists reached a climax this year when the National Association of College Comics awarded first prize to the Juggler for the finest art work. Too much credit cannot be given to such sterling artists as Art Editor Bill O’Brien with his collegiate figures, Joe Lopker with his beautiful pastels and figures, Art Becvar with his finished style, Frank Conboy with his sophisticated cartoons, and Bill Walsh, Art Kane and John Kuhn with their excellent work. O’Brien is a master at expressions. His cartoons are much in demand on exchange. Conboy, too, is popular. The editor of the Oklahoma Whirlwind wrote to find if he could subsidize Conboy and put him to work on his publication. Nothing need be said about Joe Lopker ; he is already famous.
In humor, too, the Juggler is not lacking. The Juggler has received exchange requests for seven covers, fourteen full pages, twelve half pages and twenty-five other drawings. It is impossible to keep track of the written work which has appeared in professional and college publications. This list has been characterized by College Humor as “The most impressive exchange we have ever seen.” Such men as the Dempsey brothers, Jack and Joe; the Sullivans, Don and Spike; Austin Boyle, John Murphy, Pat Murray, Frank Seward, and Bob Gorman have furnished excellent gags and humorous articles.
The Freshman Number opened the season with a great success. Don Sullivan, Jack Dempsey, and Charles Hanna furnished numerous gags for some very successful cartoons. O’Brien’s “Darling, Swear Foi- Mrs. Vanderbladder” was easily the outstanding drawing. Arthur Becvar showed talent in his art work. The number was well received. It was followed by the Football Number and the Christmas Number. Joe Lopker’s tearful girl was the best art work of the Football Number. In it we have Lopker at his best. Frank Conboy
made his debut in this issue and displayed that humorous style of drawing which has since become famous. The guest artists were the Four Horsemen of 1924. The Christmas Number was a triumph. The cover by Lopker created a sensation in college circles. Murphy and Becvar were appointed to the editorial and art staffs. The feature artist was Gilbert K. Chesterton, who contributed to the Juggler the only drawing he has contributed to an American publication. The outstanding written work was a fanciful account of the Army game.
The Racketeer Number opened the spring season with the proverbial “bang.” This number was very humorous, though not elaborate. A feature was Austin Boyle’s “Interview With Al Capone.” The Broadway Number had as its guest star Mr. George M. Cohen. In this number came the announcement that Don Sullivan and Frank Conboy were appointed to the staff for their excellent work. The Charter Number marked ’ the formation of the Funny Fellows society, an honorary and alumni organization of Juggler men. Alfred E. Smith is a member of the society. The McElroy brothers, Walter Layne and Joe McNamara, were oustanding among the old-timers.
The annual Girls’ Number was a landmark in college comic production. In addition to the process reproduction of Avic Mac’s pastel cover, the issue included the May cover of College Humor in colors. This was the art prize won by the Juggler. Bill Walsh was added to the art staff and Bob Sullivan to the literary staff. The poetry submitted by the girls was of fine quality and full of subtle humor.
The Juggler closed the season with the Commencement Number, in which the Funny Fellow made his final appearance before his Notre Dame public. Joe Dempsey’s “Valedictoi;y Address” was keen satire. Bill Walsh rendered his first cover and centerspread which were excellent pieces of work. The number climaxed a successful season.
Bob Gorman, next year’s editor, has had a high standard set for him, and will have some fine ideals to carry through next year. Dempsey has brought the Juggler to a degree of perfection which will be difficult to uphold, but Gorman is well fitted to steer the magazine on toward even higher peaks.
By Leslie Raddatz
Paul J. Hallinan
Editor of the "Dome”
“Hallinan’s Yearbook Is Craftsmanlike Product,” headlined the Scholastic when the 1931 Dome appeared on the campus. After a few weeks of looking at the book our opinion had not changed. Well handled Irish theme, good views section, better junior pictures than have appeared in the Dome for many a year, a hall section that will be well nigh impossible to better next year, well done sports and activities sections, clever satire: all unite to make the Dome of 1931 a craftsmanlike job.
Innovations put into this year’s book by Editor Paul J. Hallinan include the junior section mentioned above, short parodies describing each of the campus halls, rosters of each of the campus clubs, the elimination of the usual meaningless “blurb” about each football player, and a more complete dance section.
The Dome has been described in letters sent to prospective advertisers as “Notre Dame’s largest and most expensive publication.” It is certainly that. . But it is easy for an editor with a large amount of money to spend to let his book become gaudy. Gaudy the Dome of 1931 surely is not. Its black and silver cover and its quietly handled theme all reflect the dignity befitting a yearbook. If one thing stands out above all the others in this year’s Dome it is good taste. Not that the Dome is colorless, dead; quite the opposite is true. Editor
956
The Scholastic
Hallinan has relied more upon clever page arrangement to make his book attractive than upon garishly colored pictures. One glance at the Dome shows that his decision was wise.
The 1931 Dome contained more printed matter than has any Dome for many years. All of the writing was well done, easily read. Such campus writers as John Pick, Cleve Carey,' Neil Hurley, Charles Hanna, Joseph Dempsey, Henry Asman, and Donald Sullivan contributed to the various sections. John E. Dempsey, Myron Crawford, James Collins, Austin Boyle, John Kiener, Frank Seward, Cleve Carey, and Leslie Raddatz contributed signed essays on different phases of university life.
Of prime assistance to Editor Hallinan were Neil Hurley, athletics editor; James Collins, campus editor; Myron Crawford, university editor; James Dubbs, managing editor; Leslie Raddatz, organizations editor; Thomas Monahan, photographic editor; Cleve Carey, assistant campus editor, and Austin Boyle, satire editor.
THE SPECTATORS
By John Pick
Alfred C. Stepan
President of the Spectators
Youth and optimism form a combination hard to beat and when to these are added a fair share of ability, and not a little hard work, success is inevitable.
Every Thursday evening Spectators met to hear two of their members
give papers on “current events and developments in the arts, sciences, philosophy, sociology, politics, religion, and like fields”—a rather large order, and the president of the organization, Alfred Stepan, often found it difficult to restrain and hold the members within the limits set down in the constitution of the club. To the president, indeed, goes the credit for maintaining a semblance of decorum and parliamentary order at these weekly meetings.
This year’s talks have ranged from discussions of Debussy and Picasso to explanations of the progress of drilling wells and cures for the effects of •the famous black November stock crash. Rather than being of a dis-cussional nature, the topics were conducive of heated controversy and mordant attack. There were no milk-and-water discussions. Especially were pseudo-intellectualism, five-foot bookshelf culture, Durantian Hollywood philosophy, and any variety of dilletante knowledge, open to acrimonious attack. Comprehensive as well as particular information on each subject was insisted upon.
The club was fortunate this year in having an exceptionally well balanced unit of members. Each spectator was particularly interested in some one field; each had live ideas and theories of their favorite subjects. All were anxious to comment—sometimes logically, sometimes cynically, and sometimes learnedly. Louis Hasley, graduate member of the Spectators, studying for an advanced degree, attended a number of the meetings; the club gained by his incisive evaluations and his keen insight. The following members will graduate this year: President Alfred Stepan, Secretary Timothy Benitz, John Hickey, Emil L. Telfel, Richard J. O’Donnell, Charles H. Miltner, Austin Boyle, William C. Karl, and Ramon G. Smith. Thaddeus Xelowski, newly elected secretary; Edmund Stephan, next year’s president; John Pick, Robert J. Flint, Kenneth Kreps, and Nicholas Kalmes will form the nucleus of the club for 1931-32, along with the following se- . lected in the May elections: Daniel Rolfs, Frank Fallon, William C. Blind, William Dreux, James Shea, James Danehy, and Paul Hallinan.
Altogether- the Spectators have had a very active existence — and we haven’t mentioned the pewter tankards with the club’s insignia, or the banquet at Varesio’s which formed a grand finale for an eminently successful year.
By William W. Corr
Louis A. Brennan
Editor of “Scrip”
One of the most outstanding years in literary circles at Notre Dame was concluded this week with the final issue of Scrip, literary quarterly of the University. This “lusty baby” of the family of Notre Dame publications was the recipient of praise from no less an authority than Edward J. O’Brien, editor of The Best Short Stories series. Mr. O’Brien wrote praising the magazine and singling out for special mention the masterful story by Louis A. Brennan, editor-in-chief, “A Realist Looks at Christmas.”
The board of editors was headed by Louis' A. Brennan, of Portsmouth, Ohio, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters. The other members of the board were Joseph McCabe and Philip de Roulet. The stark realism of McCabe’s stories was offset by the excellent descriptive narrative of Brennan’s writings. The chief other contributor was George M. Spalding, the Kentucky youth who won the $500 first prize in the Ladies’ Home Journal short story contest. The famous “Gibby” stories of this author were always a favorite on the campus.
The poets for the magazine were the Reverend Francis B. Thornton, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, and Joseph Carroll, a freshman but nevertheless a very mature author. The poems of these two men were always a source of delight to the students. The one contribution of Morris Hull was a long ballad, “Typhoon,” which was favorably commented upon in many circles. Cornelius Laskowski,
June 5, 19-31
957
C.S.C., was also another contributor who deserves commendation for his excellent contributions to the poetry section.
Some longer essays appeared during the year. The Reverend Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., of the department of philosophy, contributed one on “Humanism,” while Joseph Carroll wrote about Walter de la Mare. The final issue saw William J. Leen of the department of philosophy in print with an article about his native Ireland.
The writings of Frank Seward were confined to a play that was remarkable for its excellent characterizations. Louis Heitger, last year’s chairman of the editorial board, contributed a play and several book reviews. Francis X. Nulty also contributed book reviews.
The editor for next year will be Joseph A. McCabe. He will have as his assistant Francis J. O’Malley. The associate members of the board will be Louis A. Brennan, Francis X. Nulty, and John J. Cooper.
S ENGINEERS’ CLUBS ?
By William C. Karl
Paul Enright
President of the Engineers’ Club
The oldest engineering organization on the campus is the Engineers’ club, numbering some two hundred and fifty paid members. Its activities this year have been decidedly more marked than in past years, due to the efforts of an energetic chairman who decreed that meetings should be held every month without exception.
The successful wholesale initiation of one hundred and fifty freshmen . was the first activity—one which attracted much attention to a usually quiet gymnasium. In keeping with
the purpose of the organization, namely the abstaining from lectures of a technical nature, it was decided at the beginning of the year to secure speakers from as many different representative professions and fields of endeavor* as possible. Among those included were the fields of commerce, education, law, theology, literature, and finance. „
The activities of the year closed with a very successful picnic held under the direction of the clubs’ officers, Paul Enright, William Karl, Harold Stelzer, and Daniel Egan.
THE A. S. M. E.
The Notre Dame branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers is the youngest of the professional engineering societies on the campus, being founded in 1929. It is one of 110 similar branches scattered throughout the country which endeavor to keep in constant contact with the developments in their chosen sphere through the medium of inspection trips, talks by prominent engineers, frequent meetings and student papers. The outstanding events of the year were the inspection trip to Muscles Shoals, Alabama, the visit of Roy V. Wright, national president, the inspection of the Western Electric plant in Chicago and of the Twin Branch power station, and fifteen meetings at which subjects of technical interest were discussed. Joseph O’Hora, William Karl, Frank Murray, Maurice Mulrey, and William Lyons were the officers.
THE A. I. E. E.	•
This organization, the Notre Dame branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, performs practically the same function in its department as the A. S. M. E. does in mechanical engineering. Some seventeen years have elapsed since its establishment and today it is considered the most active engineering organization at Notre Dame, for which Dr. Joseph Caparo is chieflly responsible. Meetings have been held every two weeks with clock-like regularity, which has resulted in a very successful year.
Chairman Earl Brieger points with some justifiable pride to the Bell laboratories’ exhibit given in Washington hall under the auspices of the local branch, to the many prominent speakers brought to the campus, and to the fifty student papers presented during the year, as the work accomplished with the aid of his fellow officers.
UNIVERSITY THEATRE
By Edmund C. Stephan
Professor Frank Kelly
Director of the University Theatre
When one turns his attention at present to the work of the University theatre during the past school year he realizes that that organization, passing through gradual stages of development, has finally gotten on its feet, as it were, and is now making rather large strides toward a highly ambitious goal.
With the theater’s first performance of Shakespeare’s “Twelfth Night” last December the inevitable result that follows from poor setting equipment and fresh dramatic talent was apparent. Possibilities and potentialities in several of the actors were revealed at that time, however, and gave an impetus to further work. The acting at that time, for instance, of Roger Beirne, Harry Merdzinski, and J. Edward Phelan was particularly commendable.
On March 25 and 26, Richard Sullivan’s 1930 Mitchell award play, “The Ghost of Thomas Sloop,” was given by the University theater with considerable success. The diligent work of Professor Frank Kelly was beginning to show results. The play, a rather fantastic melodrama with a simple moral, scored a decided hit with the students. Hany Merdzinski, as Thomas Sloop, gave a splendid depiction of the miserly old character, while the work of Roger Beirne, John Sullivan, John Perone, Philip Airey, Miss Julia Huff, and John Ryan was quite praiseworthy.
The final production of the Uni-
958
The Scholastic
A'
versity theatre will be given tonight in Washington hall. Shakespeare’s “Merchant of Venice” will be presented for the second time within a week by the disciples of Mr. Kelly. The first performance was staged in a delightful manner, had some outstanding acting by Mrs. Rosemary Hay of St. Mary’s college, by Miss Julia Huff of South Bend, and by the Notre Dame talent, Messrs. Beirne, Merdzinski (who plays Shylock superbly) , McCabe, Phelan, McEvitt, Blind, O’Shaughnessy, and Denny.
The University theatre has labored many long hours this year but you will agree on seeing the final production that the time spent has by no means been in vain. The group should be heartily congratulated for its perseverance and confidence.
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
By Henry B. Asman
WlLLIAM V. GADEK
President, Academy of Science
The Notre Dame Academy of Science completed its sixth year of uninterrupted activity on May 18, 1931, with its fifty-ninth regular meeting. The Academy was organized in September, 1926, to promote interest in all branches of science and to diffuse scientific knowledge among the members and the general student body of the University. To be an active member in the Academy, one must be an honor student in the College of Science, must have at least a sophomore rating and a scholastic average of at least 85 percent.
During the past year the Academy of Science enjoyed a membership of
some forty-two men. Elections were held at the first regular meeting and William V. Gadek, Perth Amboy, N. J., was elected president. Lawrence M. Zell, Little Rock, Ark., was chosen for the office of vice-president, and Timothy Sullivan, Dixon, Illinois, for secretary. The executive committee was composed of Joseph W. Raymond, Johnstown, Pa.; John Papera, Newark, N. J., and Vincent M. Whelan, Grantwood, N. J. The Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, is moderator of the Academy.
Papers read by the various members and by visiting lecturers at meetings throughout the year, were interesting as well as instructive. That the activity of the members was not limited to this, however, is evidenced by the amount of research, experimental, and inventive work done by them during the past school year. One member invented a new micro-manipulator for single cell isolations as well as a new method for the mounting of Microarthropodia for microscopic examination. This latter* method allows the specimen to be permanently stored in the museum and still be available at all times for study.
Another member recently invented • a method for the permanent preservation of bacterial cultures and has arranged these in the form of a bacteriological key.
On the taxonomic side, the mammals of St. Joseph county have been collected and classified, and the skins deposited in the University museum in Science hall. At the present time, more than 100 skins and ninety-eight skulls have been so deposited.
Two members of the Academy have contributed a total of approximately 450 microscopic slides to the perma-' nent collection of the department of biology.
The Academy of Science edited one issue of the Catalyzer, monthly publication of the department of chemistry, during the course of the year and in it was contained much data of importance on the historical, biographical, and strictly technical phases of biology.	'
The insignia of the Academy, a key bearing the monogram of the University, with the inscription “Academy of Science” below the monogram, was awarded to 12 members by the the president of the University upon the fulfillment of the regulations set forth in the constitution of the organization.
THE WRANGLERS
By Neil C. Hurley
<
J. Edward Phelan President of the Wranglers
The room is heavy with curly smoke. Sixteen men are sitting tensely in their seats, listening quietly. Another is talking, rapidly and with fire. His enthusiasm seems to be kindled to white heat as he continues with his speech. His eyes flame as the words flow easily and quickly.
It is the meeting night of the Wranglers. It might be any one of the weekly gatherings, for the procedure is the same. A speaker, sincere in his convictions, has the platform, and fifteen critical dissenters, ready to pounce upon his arguments should he make a mis-step or should he become too radical in his views, are his audience.
Arguing, debating, wrangling, expostulating, demanding, and criticizing with verbal lashings, the Wranglers meet each week in the seminar room of the Law building.
Capable J. Edward Phelan, suave senior, manager of the Glee club, and honor student, is the president. To him goes the credit—and there is, in truth, a great deal of credit—for an excellent year, a year that has probably surpassed any proceeding year, a year that is noted for success and loyalty to Wrangler ideals and traditions.
The year began with interhall debating, admirably handled by Frank Noll. Fifty-seven candidates for team positions, representing the four freshmen halls, competed for the Lemmer trophy. Howard hall triumphed after a close season and were presented
4
4.
June 5, ,1931

with the symbol of victory at a banquet.
But lest this become too statistical, it might be well merely to indicate that the Wranglers of Notre Dame, scholars and gentlemen, striving for ideals, completed a year of success.
The meetings were filled with talks on subjects ranging from world depression and the future of the world to freedom of the press and the decline of the drama. They were fine talks, admirably handled, sincerely spoken, and rendered with traditional fire, vigor, and enthusiasm.
Recently, four men were elected to membership, chosen from a list of eighteen applicants. These four are William Darrow, James Boyle, Donald McIntosh, and Arthur Sandusky. They have already taken their- chairs, passed their baptismal fire, and have been promised their official charm.
Yet with the election of new members, the Wranglers lose five older men. J. Edward Phelan, capable president; Frank Noll, Tim Benitz, James Keating, and William O’Malley will leave, graduated with honors from Notre Dame.
* THE SCRIBBLERS
By James M. Carmody
Emil L. Telfel
President of the Scribblers
The Scribblers completed a most successful year last week with a banquet at the Oldenburg inn. During the course of the affair the new members were inducted into the organization, and the plans for the coming year were formulated.
The club is perhaps the most active one of the literary organizations on the campus. It is made up of members who have proved their literary
ability through publication in the literary quarterly, Scrip, or by approval of literary efforts submitted to the members in general. The members have contributed most of the material for the quarterly, and number among the members the winner of the annual short-story contest and the prize for playwriting. The Scribblers sponsor a story contest each year, as well as a poetry contest. This year the story contest was won by Joseph McCabe, editor-elect of Scrip, and the poetry contest by Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C. One of the members, George Spalding, was the recipient of a $500 prize for the best short-story entered in a contest sponsored by a leading periodical.
The purpose of the Scribblers is to discover and develop the campus literary-minded, and to provide a medium for the discussion and criticism of that work, and of such literary problems which may refer to university students in general. As representing the best writers in the university, this club is necessarily exclusive, and conditions for membership are strict.
To replace the outgoing officers, who are: Emil L. Telfel, president; Louis A. Brennan, secretary and treasurer, the Scribblers have promoted Brennan to head the organization, and have chosen Francis X. Nulty as secretarytreasurer. Joseph A. McCabe was elected to the office of vice-president, a new position created this year. The new president is the outgoing editor of Scrip, and the new secretary is at present on the board of that publication.
With the addition of the new members the Scribblers expect that next year will be a lively and constructive one. They expect to contribute work to a tentative Intercollegiate Poetry association, which the University has already been invited to join, and which includes such colleges and universities as Princeton, Harvard, and Northwestern in the middle west.
The graduating members of the Scribblers are Emil L. Telfel, Richard J. O’Donnell, Louis A. Hasley, Frank E. Seward, George M. Spalding, Louis C. Heitger, and John E. Dempsey. Returning next year are Louis A. Brennan, Joseph A. McCabe, Francis X. Nulty, Francis J. O’Malley, John J. Cooper, and Joseph Carroll. The new members elected this year are Joseph Maxwell, Joseph Grogan, John Pick, James M. Carmody, Roger Beirne, and Joseph Willis. .
959
Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta
Director of the Glee Club
The activities of the musical organizations on the campus have this year included a wider' field within their scope than ever before. Not content with giving concerts, they have performed on many special occasions not directly connected with the campus. Joseph Casasanta, head of the department of music, is responsible for the very commendable movement which is slowly bringing Notre Dame into prominence in musical circles.
THE GLEE CLUB
Few students on the campus are not familiar with the concerts given by the Glee club, but not quite so many are aware that it holds rehearsals every day for the better part of an hour. Perhaps it was ignorance of this fact which caused two hundred candidates to appear at the first tryout. Whatever the cause was, it was evident that the number was far too large, and as in formei- years, Director Joseph Casasanta was compelled to cut the number to sixty, after a tryout had been given each of the applicants.
Diligent practice was begun imme- ■ diately for the intended tour of the East, which it became necessary to cancel owing to the untimely death of Coach Rockne.
The first public appearance of the club was made at a broadcast during the Armour hour over the N. B. C. chain. The same day a second chain
960
broadcast was made over station WMAQ. Then followed the concerts at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s college, the program at the St. Joseph Valley Alumni banquet on Universal Notre Dame Night, the concert at Mishawaka High school during Music week, the appearance at the St. Joseph hospital nurses’ commencement, a concert for the South Bend B. P. O. E., and the final presentation to be made Saturday of the Commencement weekend. Particular mention should be made of J. Edward Phelan, business manager, for his work in connection with the proposed spring tour and of S. Jerome Roach for the very fine renditions of his solos. .
THE BAND
For the first time in many years the band has performed at seven football games in one season. This at the very outset of the year meant constant drill for the eighty men selected from a group of twice that number. While formations were practiced for every home game, factors for which the organization was not to blame, decreed that at only two of these contests were they to be used. Blistered feet were the mute evidence of the long march from the Union station to the gymnasium upon the team’s victorious return from California. “The Victory March” must have been played fifty times that afternoon, it seemed. Cardinal Hayes was welcomed in fitting manner despite the downpour'of rain which somewhat disarranged the usually natty uniforms. The colorful pep meetings before the games were led as in former years by the sound of clarinet and trumpet while the basketball games at home were considerably enlivened at the •halves by “On the Mall,” “Semper Fidelis,” and other numbers.
Universal Pictures, Inc., have recently taken sound pictures of the band marching on the field, the release of which should once more bring Henry Tholen and his men before the public eye.
One thought strikes fear into the hearts of the band personnel as no other—the long anticipated, annual seven mile march at the Blossom Festival. This year the fates harkened kindly to the prayers for rain. .
THE ORCHESTRA
The orchestra this year succeeded in securing a permanent engagement to play nightly at Nobile’s restaurant
in South Bend, thus leaving little time ' for other engagements. Between times, however, the Jugglers have succeeded in filling engagements for the Monogram dance, the “Blue and Gold Revue,” the nurses’ of St. Joseph hospital senior hall, the Musical Organization’s Formal, and the American Legion dance.
Every man in the orchestra can perform on at least two instruments, and as a partial result of this versatility, five members will sail for the Orient this summer as the personnel of a ship’s orchestra.
THE STRING ENSEMBLE
This recent creation in Notre Dame musical circles is the outcome of an attempt to form a symphony, to which attempt the students responded rather half-heartedly. As a string ensemble it has been a success, due entirely to the intense interest shown by Mr. Richard Seidel, who has unselfishly given his time toward that end with the hope that in the future his ambition for a symphony will be realized.
The first concert, given several weeks ago, was very enthusiastically received by the small group interested in music at Notre Dame, while' performances during the intermissions of the “Merchant of Venice” were said to have added much to the enjoyment of the production by the audience.
The annual formal dinner ,dance of the musical organizations was held on last Thursday evening in the Oliver hotel with a large number of couples in attendance. Music for the affair was furnished by the Jugglers.
Rockefeller Hall Passes
The old building between Livingston’s campus shop and the physical education building is being demolished. Workmen have been tearing down the foundations and hauling away the old brick during the past week. As yet nothing definite has been announced, but it is expected that the space will be left clear and that no new.building will be erected there in the near future.
One of the oldest structures on the campus, the uses of this building have been sundry. In days gone by it was ironically known as “Rockefeller Hall.” It has served as a living quarters, a storage place; a menagerie, and during the war as a mess kitchen for soldiers camped near the University.
The Scholastic
CHICAGO CLUB TO STAGE JUNE DANCE ON MONDAY
Final plans have been made for the Chicago club’s formal dance which will be held Monday evening, June 8, in the Balloon and Gold rooms of the Congress hotel. Dancing will be from nine until two.
Frank J. Holland, general chairman of the affair, has announced that two of the foremost orchestras of the Chicago vicinity will play for the affair. The bands engaged are: “Tweet” Hogan’s, who made a real hit with Notre Dame men at the Knights of Columbus ball held last February, and Jimmy Garrigan’s orchestra, which played to a capacity crowd at the Lawyers’ ball in April.
Decorations resplendent of a summer garden will be in effect according to Walter Kelly, decorations chairman. Every indication shows that this affair which was postponed from the Easter season, owing to the death of Coach Rockne, will be the most outstanding in the annals of the “Windy City” organization.
Club Officers Entertained
The officers of the Italian club were entertained at an informal dinner last Monday evening at the home of Professor Pasquale Pirchio of the Italian department. Those present were Leo Schiavone, president of the club; Adam Sferra, vice-president; William C. Blind, treasurer, and Sal A. Bon-tempo, secretary. The men in charge of the special departments of the club, John Papera and Anthony Pugl liese, were also present.
The guest of honor was Samuel Fortunato, president of the Italian club at St. John’s college, Annapolis, Maryland, who is visiting on the campus.
Music Societies Hold Dance
One hundred and’fifty couples attended the spring dance of the Notre Dame Music societies Wednesday evening in the Rotary room of the Oliver hotel. The Jugglers, under the direction of Walter Stewart, furnished the music. J. Edward Phelan handled the arrangements for the affair.
June 5, 1931
961
♦ SPCKTS ♦
Athletes Have Successful Year
Championships In Football, Golf and Track Constitute the Best Records
Fair Seasons In Cross-country, Basketball, Baseball, and Tennis; Interhall Popular.
By Henry B. Asman
It is the custom in the Commencement Number of the Scholastic, to summarize the year in athletics. Considerable difficulty was experienced in doing that this year, and the biggest difficulty was in attempting to condense our stories to fit the allotted space.
That the year was a success need not be said. But with all of the success, Notre Dame suffered a loss that she will never regain. The death of Knute K. Rockne dealt a severe blow to athletics at the University, but the Fighting Irish have demonstrated already their ability and determination to “Carry On.” The men who have taken part in varsity track, baseball, golf, and tennis, have combined their efforts to show that they can and will keep Notre Dame at the peak of collegiate athletics.
And so we present a resume of these seasons as well as those of football, basketball/ cross-country, and that most important branch of the University athletic program — interhall. There is much more that could be said but space does .not permit.
FOOTBALL
By T. Edward Carey
When the last team ever coached by Knute Rockne trotted off the gridiron of the Los Angeles Coliseum last December, after crushing Southern California in the most amazing upset in modern football history, they completed the greatest season that a Notre Dame team has ever had and set a record that no other team has ever equalled. Notre Dame won ten
Captain Tom Conley
Stellar End
consecutive games in the fall of 1930 from ten of the best football teams from every section of the country; the best in the south, the best in the east, the champions of the Western Conference, the pride of the Pacific coast—all fell before the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame.
The Rockets proved their fighting heart in the very first game when the Mustangs of Southern Methodist invaded South Bend. The uncanny passing of the Texans gave them a 14 to 14 tie with but three minutes left to play; but Carideo turned on the power -
and with two passes Notre Dame placed the ball on the two-yard line for Schwartz to carry over. The game was on!
Navy came west the next week to dedicate the new stadium. The stadium was Rockne’s dream; the boys couldn’t lose that game. Savoldi scored three touchdowns during the twenty minutes that the first team played, a substitute back added another, and Notre Dame won 26 to 2.
Next came Carnegie Tech, the only team ever to beat Notre Dame on the sod of old Cartier. They were confident of stopping the Fighting Irish but received such an unmerciful drubbing that they were nothing but “cannon-fodder” for the rest of the season. Schwartz’s passing gave Notre Dame a 20 to 6 victory.
Seventy thousand people saw Notre Dame trample Pittsburgh, 3-5 to 19, in the fourth game. Marchmont Schwartz averaged 13 yards per try; Savoldi scored two touchdowns. Pitt scored only when Notre Dame’s varsity went to the showers. Indiana battled gamely but fell, 27 to 0. Eighty thousand people sat awed as Marty Brill, who once couldn’t make the grade at Pennsylvania, came back as a Notre Dame star and helped to crush his former mates, 60 to 20. Notre Dame played perfect football that day. Again the opponents did their scoring against Notre Dame substitutes.
Drake’s stubborn Bulldogs gave Notre Dame a real battle and a lamentable battering before falling, 28 to 7.
The classic of the century, the Notre Dame-Northwestern game, was one of the hardest fought football games ever played. The plunging Wildcat backs, who won for Northwestern the Big Ten championship, had Notre Dame on the defensive for three and a half of the four quarters, but when the pay-off came the Wildcats didn’t have the stuff, and Schwartz ran through their whole team for a touchdown. A pass, Schwartz to Carideo, put the ball in position for a second touchdown. Final score: 14 to 0.
The undefeated Army team was the next victim, losing 7 to 6 in a sea of mud at Soldier field, Chicago. Schwartz again broke up the game,
962
The Scholastic
dashing 54 yards for a touchdown. Army scored on a blocked punt.
Then came Southern California— leading scorers of the nation, football idols of the west. Confident that they could beat this battered band from Notre Dame, they fell, harder than all the rest, and Knute Rockne’s team won the national championship. Savoldi was gone; Moon Mullins was on the bench with injuries; Bucky O’Connor, a second string halfback, was at full, and Notre Dame’s backfield was an unknown quantity—to everyone but Rockne. O’Connor scored two touchdowns, one on an eighty yard run, and the Notre Dame offensive, different than anything that the football world had ever seen before, totally demoralized the Trojans. The Fighting Irish had complete control at all times, and scored their four touchdowns and 27 points with astonishing ease.
The praises of this wonder team have been sung far and wide. Their deeds cannot be summarized in a few paragraphs. Theirs is a story of courage, of sacrifice, of crystalized perfection of football strategy and execution. They were Rockne’s greatest masterpiece, and in them the character of Knute Rockne lived. No praise can be higher.
BASKETBALL
By James S. Kearns
Notre Dame’s basketball team of 1930-31 met with fair success. Considering the handicaps under which the team started the year, the record of twelve victories and eight defeats was highly creditable. As Coach Keogan faced the prospects of a hard twenty-game schedule, he was without the services of such stars as Donovan, Smith, McCarthy, Kizer and Busch of his last year’s quintet. In the shoes of these men were five comparatively green basketeers as the season opened.
Kalamazoo college dropped the opener to the Keoganites, 26 to 15, as Ray DeCook led the inexperienced Blue and Gold with eleven points. Northwestern followed on the schedule and produced Joe Reiff in the final minutes to walk away with a 44 to 29 win. Purdue also measured the Notre Dame squad, 34 to 22, mainly through the efforts of all-American Wooden.
The eagers returned to the home court for the last pre-Christmas game
to trim Penn rather handily, 31 to 19, and looked impressive in the victory. Newbold and DeCook led the way in the point-getting. Notre Dame split the next two games, beating Illinois
Joey Gavin
Honorary Captain 1930-31
Wesleyan, 24 to 17, and dropping a heartbreaker to Northwestern, 20 to 17. Burns and Jaskwich appeared in this game to hold the great Reiff in check till the final minute.
Next came the longest winning streak of the year. Ohio State lost, 27 to 24; Wabash went down, 29 to 19, before the shooting of DeCook, and Marquette fell in front of the best attack the Notre Dame five had mustered thus far, 30 to 23. The return game ■with Penn made it four in a row as Notre Dame snatched a 21 to 20 thriller on Newbold’s last second shot.
Pitt came to Notre Dame to win an overtime encounter by a 28 to 20 margin. Indiana was beaten, 25 to 20, and then Pitt .repeated at home, 35 to 32, in another extra period game. Notre Dame won the last two home tilts of the year by downing Wabash,
RniDEircK	Ornes ?
PHONk 3-4041	PHONB 2-1067 I
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas !
Dentist i ;'	I
I
|	702 J. M. S. Building	|
|	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA	|
j Cor. Main and Washington i
Buy Your Kodak Film
and have them DEVELOPED at the NEWS STAND in the
Notre Dame Cafeteria
A
When in town visit our store with a complete line of Photographic Supplies.
A
SCHILLING’S Photo Supply
329 S. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend, Indiana
June 5, 1931
963
18 to 17, in a ragged game, and Butler, 27 to 19, in the best game of the year. Baldwin, Gavin, and Crowe were leading the attack here.
An eastern tour gave the Blue and Gold an even break as they conquered Army, 26 to 25, DeCook and Baldwin starring, and lost to Syracuse, 28 to 23, in an overtime game. Baldwin was out of this game on account of sickness. The final victory of the season came at Marquette where Joey Gavin, stellar forward, bagged eleven points to lead the way to a 26 to 25 win.
Butler rallied in the final period of the return game at Indianapolis to overcome the efforts of Gavin and Crowe and won. 20 to 15. Iowa closed the year by surprising with a six-point, 23 to 17, decision over the favored Notre Dame five.
Totals for the season showed that Notre Dame outscored her opponents, 485 to 476. Ray DeCook and Bill Newbold,. center and forward respectively, took individual scoring honors with 131 and 93 markers for the year.
At the annual testimonial dinner held in the spring, Joey Gavin, midget marvel, was chosen honorary captain for the season. Norb Crowe, a forward, was picked to lead the team for the 1931-’32 season. All of the first two teams with the exception of Gavin will return for next year, and one of the greatest of Notre Dame teams should result.
TRACK
By Edmund Moriarty
The 1931 track season, recently concluded with the C. I. C. meet, at Milwaukee, found Coach John P. Nicholson’s. Blue and Gold team in performances that at times were very satisfactory, yet sometimes rather disappointing. The showing of the men outdoors was a source of keen disappointment at times, although the erratic performances cannot be wholly accredited to Coach Nicholson and his men, since obstacles that arose proved impossible to overcome. Throughout the whole season the squad was hampered by injuries and sickness to stars, and then to climax these physical difficulties, two prominent members of the team were dismissed because of a disagreement.
The indoor season was weathered
SUIT SALE
Every suit in the house in this sale
Society Brand and other makes
$25	To $30
Suits	Suits
$19.90	$22.50
To $40 To $50
Suits	Suits
$32.50	$42.50
Beautiful white and stripe flannel trousers
Adler Brothers
The Scholastic
964
much more favorably than the outdoor season. The Blue and Gold squad recorded dual meet victories over Butler and Iowa State, and retained their C.I.C. indoor title for the fifth consecutive time. Coach Harry Gill’s “Fighting Illini” were the only ones to defeat the local tracksters in a dual meet, and they recorded their win only by a slim margin in an exceptionally close meet. To top off this success, Alex Wilson journeyed to New York for the famous Millrose games and returned
WHERE
NOTRE DAME
MEN MEET
“Always in the Crowd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili Hot Tamales
Ice Cream Candy
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 N. Michigan St.
with a sensational victory in the famous “Millrose 600” safely tucked away.
Wisconsin officially opened the outdoor season for Notre Dame, and barely managed to eke out a two-
Johnnie O’Brien
Captain of the Track Team
point victory in a meet that hinged on the final event of the program. On the following Saturdays the “Fighting Irish” journeyed to Des Moines for the Drake relays, and to Columbus for the Ohio relays. The men disappointed in these two classics, although a few stars such as McCormick, Johnson, Darling and Hoffman managed to show well in the individual events. The next meet was held against the Midshipmen of the Naval academy, and it was in this meet that Notre Dame rose to her greatest heights during the season. The Blue and Gold completely outclassed the Navy lads, and returned to their stronghold with an overwhelming victory to their credit.
The meet with Navy concluded the dual competition for the year, and the following weekends found Notre
Dame defending her Indiana State and C.I.C. titles. In the former, Coach Nicholson’s men nosed out Indiana for the championship by a scant four points. At Milwaukee, in the C.I.C. meet, Notre Dame was again returned the champion, but was forced to win three out of the.last four events on the program to retain her title.
Graduation will take an almost irreparable toll in the Blue and Gold ranks this year when Captain Johnnie O’Brien, Ralph Johnson, Ken Fishleigh, Fred Reiman, “Marty” Brill, Kirby Shaeffer, Joe Quigley, Carl Cronin, Roy Bailie, and Al Tuohy will have hung up their spikes for the last time in collegiate competition. Coach Nicholson should be stimulated ■ in his efforts next year though by the return of Captain-elect Bill McCormick, Charley Kelly, Fred MacBeth, Ed. Gough, Laurie Vejar, Chauncey Branfort, Gene Howery, Bob Darling, Alex Wilson, Brant Little, Jack Scanlon, and Regis Kuhn, all of whom have been consistent point winners in the season just recently concluded.

BASEBALL
By James E. McFeely, Jr.
Losing but one game in the nine that' were played on Cartier field, Coach George Keogan’s ball tossers are now loping down the stretch toward the finish of a very interesting season. With but one contest left to play, that with Michigan State here as a part of the Commencement program, Notre Dame’s stick artists have demonstrated that baseball should be retained at the University by winning eight out of the twelve contests played before enthusiastic crowds.
Two of the contests were in the form of practice tilts, but from these workouts Notre Dame brushed up on the weaker points in commendable style. Mishawaka Indestructos were the first to fall before the onslaughts of the Fighting Irish aggregation. Officially opening the season on April 16, Wisconsin, last year’s Big Ten champions, dropped in from a trip south and took an 8-7 defeat at the hands of Lisicki and Palt, the latter entering the game in the fifth to let the Badgers down with two hits during the remainder of the contest.
June 5, 1931
965
Another practice session found the Indiana Recreation outfit pitted against the home lads, Sullivan clouting a homer with the bases loaded to bring the final score to 7-2. Mannix went the route for the locals, and, although giving up 11 hits, kept them well scattered.
Meeting Notre Dame on Cartier field with a splendid early season record behind him, Hillsdale went down by a 6-1 count. Smith, Hillsdale’s so-called “invincible” hurler, took a lacing in the first frame when Coach Keogan’s lads got to him for five runs. In a game replete with errors on the part of Iowa, Notre Dame ganged up behind Lisicki to win handily on the home lot, 10-4.
Upon beginning the travelling for the season, Notre Dame dropped the first game in six starts to Northwestern at Evanston. Kruft and Fyfe, of the opposition, were successful in keeping the losers down to four hits and won, 7-5, for the Purple. The Wildcats pushed across six runs in the fourth frame.
“Baseball Week,” which was ballyhooed as an outstanding date on the baseball card, was given a splendid reception when the rainy Hyades vexed Indiana sport lovers, only two of the four scheduled contests being played. Purdue’s game at Notre Dame was rained out. Hosei university, of Hosei, Japan, played headsup ball to win 4-1, and the second game was called off because of a downpour. Suzuki allowed Notre Dame only three hits. Navy’s appearance here ended the week, Palt pitching a win after the Middies had scored twice in the first. The score of this contest was 5-2.
Wisconsin returned the favor granted them early in April by winning a tight game, by a 2-1 score through dint of five errors and erratic baserunning. Sullivan came back into batting form against Northwestern when the Fighting Irish evened the series by winning 4-3 behind Palt’s steady pitching in a downpour on Cartier field. Winning their first game in nine starts, Iowa broke through-to nip the Notre Dame lads at Iowa City, in which contest Palt, Lisicki, and Mannix pitched, but all in vain, the final score standing at 8-1.
Two big innings at Lafayette gave Notre Dame a win over the Purdue Boilennakers recently, Lisicki, Mannix and Palt, again doing the hurling. The Big Ten team was credited
with four errors, and the winners committed five misplays, winning in spite of this by a 10-7 count. Michigan State’s contest at East Lansing was rained out last Saturday.
Captain Dennis O’Keefe
Third Baseman
Throughout the season Robert Balfe, senior baseball manager, devoted a great amount of time to his work, capably assisting Coach George Keo-gan in rounding the Fighting Irish squad into shape. He deserves more than a word of praise.
GOLF
By T. Edwakd Carey
Notre Dame golfers won all of the eight matches on their 1931 schedule to complete their second successive undefeated season. Captain Fran Beaupre and his brilliant contingent of par-shatterers swept through every match and the Indiana State tournament without ever once being in difficulty. The eight matches against Valparaiso, Michigan State, Univer
sity of Detroit, Loyola, Iowa, and Pittsburgh were all won by lopsided scores, and the state tournament was a walk-away for the Notre Dame boys.
The season opened at Valparaiso, where Russ Beaupre broke the course record to lead his teammates to a 17-1 victory. Michigan State was next, falling 17%-%, with Moller and the Beaupres taking low scoring honors. Detroit furnished stiff competition but fell, 15-6.
Fran Beaupre evened things up in
IF YOU'RE HAVING YOUR FORTUNE TOLD
And the Cards Say You' re Going On a Long Journey
Phone the South Shore Line ticket agent, 3-3111, and have him make reservations for you. He’ll probably arrange it so you can have a few hours between trains to look around Chi-cago—and you won’t object to that.

Every hour on-the-hour to Michigan City, Gary, Hammond, Chicago.
966
The Scholastic ---------------
the family competition during the next week when he broke the Biltmore course record at Barrington, to lead his mates in an 18-0 victory over Loyola of Chicago.
Iowa was next to fall, losing to the Blue and Gold, 11%-6%, with Larry Moller under par to win scoring honors. Notre Dame won another in their return meet with Michigan State, winning this time by a score of 17%-%.
Pittsburgh, headed by the brilliant Sam Parks, was the next to invade
HELLO MEN!
Smith’s Cafeteria 111 East Jefferson Boulevard
Notre Dame. They lost, 14%-3%, but Parks handed Fran Beaupre his first defeat of the year when he won a great match on the eighteenth green.
The Indiana State Collegiate tournament was next on the program, and the Notre Dame boys swept through to an easy victory. Larry Mollei- won the individual crown, when his teammate, Louis O’Shea, faltered on the seventeenth hole of the final round. Bill Redmond, also of Notre Dame, the defending title-holder, finished fourth. Notre Dame took five of the first six places in the individual tourney.
Detroit lost their second match to Notre Dame in a return contest, 13 %-4%. Captain McFawn of Detroit gave Fran Beaupre his second reverse in the singles matches, when Beaupre blew a short putt on the seventeenth green to lose two down. Beaupre had previously beaten McFawn at Detroit.
With this great record behind them, Notre Dame has now turned expectantly towards the national intercollegiate tournament at Olympia fields, Chicago. Last year they placed fourth as a team and Larry Moller was runner-up to Dunlap of Princeton in the individual tourney, besides copping medallist honors and being elected to the presidency of the Intercollegiate Golf association. Larry graduates this year and would like to take this highest undergraduate prize before he. quits collegiate competition.
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
TENNIS
The Home of Quality
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame
By George Belting
Although tennis at Notre Dame has not enjoyed the publicity of some of the other athletics it is nevertheless rapidly growing and demanding the attention and support of the entire student body. This year’s group of racqueteers under the- leadership of Matthew O’Brien did a great deal to further the tennis interests at Notre Dame. The team was composed of Captain Matt O’Brien, Bill Reaume, Bob Kendall, Mike O’Brien, Joe Borda, Pat Mangan, and Frank Sullivan.
Notre Dame’s 1931 schedule was, perhaps, one of the toughest ever arranged for Blue and Gold netmen. On April 18, they opened their seven match card, and lost a tough battle to Indiana State Teachers’ college, '
6-3. The Hoosier’s team was composed of a group of veterans that last year won the Indiana state championship. Mike O’Brien and Frank Sullivan were the only team to come through for Notre Dame. Matt O’Brien and Bob Kendall teamed up and lost a heart-breaking match. Bill Reaume and Joe Borda also met disaster.
Western State Teahers’ college of •Kalamazoo, Mich., was the next team to take the measure of the local outfit. After a gruelling battle, which was nip and tuck all the way through, the Michigan men finally eked out a 4-3 victory. “Skinny” Byrum, a South Bend boy and holder of the Michigan State and Intercollegiate championships, played an important role in the Teachers’ victory.
Manager Tom Ashe filled an open date on May 1, and scheduled a match with Manchester college, Indiana. This match proved to be the. turning point for the locals and they shook off the jinx that had been trailing them since the season’s opener. The Notre Dame racqueteers had little difficulty in downing the Manchester aggregation, 6-1. Captain Matt O’Brien was the star of this match. Mike O’Brien, the “Tampa sensation,” was the outstanding player of the afternoon of May 2, when the Blue and Gold racquet wielders bucked up against Armour Tech. The Leeper Park asphalt courts were the scene of Notre Dame’s second victory. The score was 5-2.
One of the most important intercollegiate tournaments of the year was held at the Chicago Town and Tennis club May 16—the Central Conference meet. The Rockne memorial trophies were awarded to the winners of the singles and doubles macthes respectively. Tatom of Grinnell, and Byrum and Sorenson, of Michigan State Teachers’ college, were the victors. Notre Dame’s entrants, Kendall and Reaume, were not so fortunate, being forced out of the competition in the second round.
Loyola university of Chicago was Notre -Dame’s third consecutive victim, the locals garnering 5 points to the Chicagoans’ 2. Bob Kendall was best for the Blue and Gold, holding his opponent scoreless. Bill Reaume edged Swikstra out of a gruelling match, 6-4, 5-7, 7-5. Lady Fate failed to smile on the local outfit May 22, and they received their first shutout of the year. Captain Bert Reil and his Northwestern, Wildcats were responsible for the Blue and Gold’s decisive 9-0 defeat.
June 5,1931
967
The final meet of the year, scheduled to be played on the new University asphalt courts with Michigan State offering the opposition, was called off last Saturday because of rain. And so the season closed. The records show three victories against two defeats—not bad for a comparatively green team.
C R 0 S S - C 0 U N T R Y
By John S. Rusnak
The 1930 cross-country season proved, a bit contrary to a pre-season opinion of Coach John P. Nicholson, to be a fairly successful one. The team opposed just about the best that
can be found in the middle-west, including Butler, Iowa, Indiana, Michigan State, Northwestern, Illinois, and Wisconsin in a quadrangular meet held at Evanston.
Butler college, of Indianapolis, was the first to test the strength of Notre Dame men, the locals losing this first contest by a slim margin of 25-31. In the quadrangular meet, held the following week, Notre Dame took third place, which was doing well with the inexperienced Blue and Gold team that made the trip. Illinois and Wisconsin were previously considered strong contenders for the Big Ten conference championship in crosscountry. Gene Howery, the most valuable man on the squad, took individual honors in the four-pointed meet by taking the lead at the start
and finishing far ahead of the field of starters, which numbered close to fifty harriers.
Michigan State’s cross-country team lost to Notre Dame for the first time in four years. The individual honors, however, was conceded to the brilliant Clark Chamberlain, who led the Green and White into first place about a quarter of a mile ahead of Gene Howrey. Indiana university sent about the most well balanced group of harriers competing against Notre Dame and took the latter, not altogether surprisingly, to a defeat of 21-36. Indiana has had some of the best cross-country teams in the Big Ten and are at present holders of the Big Ten championship. The final meet of the year was marked by a win from Iowa, 21-36. Iowa’s hills and
great for
a late snack!
BEFORE you go to bed, eat a bowl of crisp Kellogg’s Com Flakes and milk or cream. Delicious—and so easy to digest you’ll sleep like a million dollars.
Dietitians say that crisp cereals are just the treat for a late snack. So much better than hot, heavy foods. So remember Kellogg’s when you drop in at the campus restaurant around bedtime. Extra delicious with sliced bananas.
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALL-BRAN, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — the coffee that lets you sleep.
CORN FLAKES
%
Ton’ll tnjty Kellogg’s Slambtr Mame, broadcast over WJZ and associated stations of the N. B. C. every Sanday evening at 10.30 E. S. T. Also KFI Los Angeles, KOMO Seattle at 10.00. and KOA Denver at 10.30.

CORN Rakes

968
The Scholastic
to New Haven
. . .the FAVORITE pipe tobacco of college men is—
WHEREVER college men pause to load their pipes you’ll see the familiar blue tin of Edgeworth!
At California, at Yale, at Williams and Cornell... in America’s leading colleges and universities you will find Edgeworth the favorite smoking tobacco of the college man.
College men everywhere respond to the appeal of pipes—packed with cool, slow-burning Edgeworth. Be guided by their choice. Try Edgeworth yourself. Taste its rich natural savor that is enhanced immeasurably by Edgeworth’s distinctive eleventh process.
You will find Edgeworth at your nearest tobacco shop—15^ the tin. Or, for generous free sample, address Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edge worth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —“Ready-Rubbed” and “Plug Slice.” All sizes, 15,1 pocket package to pound humidor tin.
winding paths seemed meat for the Blue and Gold men.
Cross-country at Notre Dame is fast growing to be one of the top-notch minor sports. The interest is being maintained because of its great and helpful influence to those interested in keeping fit and also to those interested in running indoor track. It is a big help in bring a track man into shape. Cross-country running develops courage and self-confidence in the runner. It is a great builder of men, because, as Knute Rockne often said, it requires “intestinal fortitude” to stick it out over the longer route.
INTERHALL
By Irving B. Halper
FOOTBALL
A long pass from Law into the arms of the waiting Jane gave Walsh hall a much deserved victory over Lyons by a score of 6 to 0, and the interhall football championship for 1930. The battle waged back and forth for more than three quarters and was anybody’s game until the sprightly Mr. Jane leaped high in the air and snagged that pass. Previous to their victory over Lyons, Walsh, led by Bob Law, Jane, Captain Ben Mikes, “Mac” McCarthy, and Mike Crawford, had taken into camp How-
I
Phone 3-1254
Drs. Singler & Probst
DENTISTS
405 Associates Bldg. South Bend, Indiana
♦
I
^Illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllilllllllllllilllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllim
16th UNIVERSITY CRUISE]
|	AROUND THE WORLD	g
= Combine standard, systematic university courses with the educational	s
= advantages of directed travel. Visits to 33 countries supplement =	•
= courses in Art, History, Literature, Government, Economics, etc., s
5 under a faculty from Yale, U. of So. California, etc. Credit for courses	=
= on previous Cruises given by leading universities.	=
= Sails October 6,1931 to Europe, Near East, Orient, in splendid =	_
g HAMBURG-AMERICAN "S.S. RESOLUTE”. Catalogue.	f
| UNIVERSITY TRAVEL ASSOCIATION |
1	66 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, N. Y.	=	|
f'liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiium
• ■ &
■. .• - . .. .. ...________________________________. _#■
ard and Off-Campus in games that were not decided until the final whistle blew.
TRACK
Amassing a total of 33 points, the tracksters from Freshman hall won the interhall track championship. Howard hall, with 23 points, and Off-Campus with 16, followed in order. Rudy Obergfall, big middle distance man, was high point man of the meet by virtue of first places in the 440 and half mile. Three new records were set. Ray Cusick soared 11 feet, 4 inches to set a new record in the pole vault; Charlie Finkel, also of the Off-Campus team, broke the shot put record with a heave of 42 feet; and Bill DuPuy set a new mark in the 65-yard low hurdle event by going over the sticks in :07.4.
BASKETBALL
Dropping but one game in the entire season, and that to Carroll, Sorin hall, coached by the able John O’Brien, copped the interhall heavyweight championship. * The seniors really won the title a week or so before the end of the season when, led by the little hut mighty Mike Teders, they defeated Off-Campus in a rough fray, 19 to 16. Othei- men besides Teders who starred for Sorin throughout the cage year were Bernie Leahy, Marchy Schwartz, Ed Mahon, Ken Fishleigh, George Vik, and Fred Reiman. Off-Campus won the lightweight title.
SWIMMING
After much delay the finals of the interhall swimming were held late in April and resulted in a triple tie for first place. Freshman, Howard, and Lyons were the halls that tied at 16 points apiece. Moore of Freshman, who is a free-style star, was the individual high point scorer of the meet.
BASEBALL
St. Edward’s added their name to the list of interhall champions when they annexed the baseball crown.
June 5,1931
.1—4.
969
Serve at (oJalqreerM
208 N. Michigan Street
Pebeco Tooth Paste
29c
Palmolive	01 c
35c Shaving Cream “ A
Pinaud’s	7QC
$1.25 Vegetal .... <
May we extend our Best Wishes for a happy and prosperous future to the Class of 1931
Christy Razor and 1 blade
8C
Mennen’s 25c Talcum
15c
CIGARETTES
Chesterfields )	6 Tins
F 50 Cigarettes
Lachy Strikes >	a a
Camels . . j
are the equal of any 75c ball you’ve ever had. They’re lively, well-balanced, and they’re practically cut-proof. They’re the greatest Golf Ball value we know of at 45c each. Three for $1^5.
Peau-Doux Golf Balls.... 33. (3 for 90c)
Two stores for your convenience — down town and on the campus
Right reserved to limit quantites
You're Always Welcome at Walgreen's
970
The Scholastic
Winners of Group I, they met and conquered Freshman, the best in Group IL Victory came only after a hard fight, however, for Freshman, headed by pitcher Larkin, did well and the final score was 7 to 4. Laurie Vejar, shortstop, was the big gun behind many of St. Edward’s victories; Goldstein prior to the time he hurt his leg was the league’s best twirler, while Len Bice, Red Tobin, Leo Keating, and Sabby Addonizio all starred at one time or another.
GOLF
Howard, led by John Montedonico, their number one man, won the interhall golf title in an interesting match with Morrissey. The final score of 11 to 7 doesn’t tell the closeness of the match. Montedonico and Cagney won the first foursome from O’Brien and Bansbach, of Morrissey, by a score of 7% to 1%, but it took an 80 by Montedonico and an 81 by Cagney to do the trick. Morrissey won the second foursome when Sullivan and Melchione beat Powell and Veeneman of Howard. Their victory of 5% to 3% wasn’t enough to tie the match, however, and Howard was declared the winner.
1931 CLASS VALEDICTORY
(Continued from Page 948)
actually looks upon the civil state as the ultimate end of human society. With the state as the master of man instead of his guardian, individual liberties are falling into a precarious position and it is inevitable that the worst crimes of injustice will be perpetrated in the name of the “welfare” of the state. The natural rights of the individual are steadily approaching complete obscurity in the eyes of our “state-specialists,” and the democratic ideal is steadily giving way to one of state absolutism.
That narrow thing called Nationalism is displacing religion as the driving urge in the hearts of the people. Man finds it ingrained in his very nature to apply his finei- emotions in the worship of some being higher than himself; and so with the rejection of the all-embracing warmth of religion, he now has substituted the provincial coldness of Nationalism, that excessive patriotism which has plunged more states into the devastations of •war within the last century than has any other factor.
An old form of short-sightedness of
intellectual specialization is now becoming more and more manifest from the sufferings due to the present economic depression. Our disciples of Big Business and Mass Production have for so long a time confined themselves to a careful consideration of their own excessive profits to the disregard of the welfare of their economic dependents, that the latter are now unable to buy the products of their industrial dictators, and the vicious circle of a selfish philosophy of distribution is enclosing both employer and employee.
FORDHAM UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW NEW YORK
Case System—Three-Year Course
CO-EDUCATIONAL
College Degree or Two Years of College Work with Good Grades Required
Transcript of Record Necessary in AU Cases.
Morning, Early Afternoon and Evening Classes.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
CHARLES P. DAVIS, Registrar 233 Broadway, New York
“—■—"—“—»—■—■—“—•—“—-—"—"——■—-——<f>
I your i I EYES
Have them examined every
QCCASIONALLY we hear someone boast of the extreme long life of his glasses—as though it were something of which to be proud.
Our eyes are changing constantly, and the best experience proves that the ophthalmic correction provided by lenses usually requires changing every eighteen months to two years. To wear glasses longer than that means that the eyes are being forced to adjust themselves to the glasses, instead of the glasses being an aid to the eyes.
L(MI$$e£8
102 W. Washington St.
2221-2 S. Michigan St.
f«luiniiiiniitiiiiiiiiiiinii»itniiitmiiiimiimuiitiiiinn«iiuiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiihitiiiniiiiHiiiiiiii^| I NEW YORK JOBBER I I CLEANS UP I
Men’s $6 Golf Shoes
$2.99
| Built in the good looking, practical styles we i | know real golfers like best. ..Moccasin types and in | j blacks and whites, with grocord rubber or rivited I | leather soles.	|
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly—U. S. ARMY STORE 330 South Michigan Street
laaaaaaaimiattmmiMaaaamttiamattumMiattttBaiimttimaumtmMaaamaaMUiBMMmuul
971
June 5, 1931
Present standards (or rather the lack of them) in religion and morality, however, furnish an example of specialization in its worst form. It is hardly necessary to point out the disastrous state of affairs which the narrowness of an unbalanced outlook has brought about by its divorce of morality from religion. With the the practical denial of an Infinite Being as the ultimate end of man’s existence, a code of ethics becomes impossible, and the inevitable result is the refusal to recognize an objective standard of morality, with the concentration in the individual as the only form of right conduct.
Today there is a great hue and cry over the loss of standards in public morality, the disruption of the values of life, the abandonment of law and principle, and the resulting chaotic condition of things in general. But what else can be expected? Order is impossible without conformity to law, and in a world in which both the individual and the State have confined themselves to the narrowness of Self, how can personnel and international anarchy be prevented?
During our years of preparation - and training at Notre Dame, we have been under the constant influence of a philosophy that is renowned for its
principles of moderation, its balanced completeness, and of a religion whose very name means universality. Trained here in this school, we have seen how the conclusions of this highly synthetic philosophy, arrived at in the purely speculative order, are to be
The South Bend Clearing House Banks Invite Your Patronage
CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS BANK FIRST NATIONAL BANK INDIANA TRUST COMPANY
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS BANK ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST COMPANY AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY UNION TRUST COMPANY CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK
applied logically in practical life, in order that the evils resulting from the excesses of narrowness and shortsightedness may be averted. Through the training received here, we have learned to recognize that the general bankruptcy which characterizes the
—RKO PALACE—
STARTING SATURDAY
RICHARD DIX
The immortal star of “Cimarron”
JACKIE COOPER
The youngster that thrilled you in “Skippy”
in
Donovan’s Kid
A startling picture full of romance, thrills and action. Dix in a powerful role that will sweep you with its mighty drama —It’s Real Life!	.
If you liked “Cimarron” you will want to see this picture.
Pat Patterson Pathe Sound News
Organ Presentation	Comedy—Cartoon '
FACTORY FRESH I
SMOKES |
Your favorite cigar, smoking tobacco and cigarettes : are kept at their best in correctly moistened air by = .a humidifier. Our rapid turnover of stock at our | cigar departments insures you factory freshness. j 40c POCKET PACK OF 50 CIGARETTES....28c f 15c packages of 20.......................2	for 25c j
Carton of 200—............$1.19 j
All 20c Cigarettes, 2 for 35c.  3	for 50c 1
All 15c Smoking Tobacco.-.......2	for 25c :
5c Cigars  6 for 25c 10c Cigars 3 for 25c : 7c Cigars 4 for 25c 13c Cigars 3 for 30c =
15c Cigars.4	for 50c	=
Corner Michigan and Colfax
lamaaaaaMaaaamaaaMtMMaaaaaaataaaaaaaaMaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaasiaaaaaaiiiaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiMiQ
972
The Scholastic
intellectual, moral, artistic, political, and economic life of today has its roots in that negative sort of specialization which so closely resembles monomania. At Notre Dame we have been taught to view the things of life in all their universal implications and relations. We have been warned against that monistic outlook which leads to so much one-sidedness and unbalance in the pursuits of life. We have been shown the proper value of the things of this world, and their proportionate relation to the things that are to come in the next. We have learned that to see life truly is to see it wholly. From the perspective of eternity we are able to evaluate the things of this world in their proper dimension and contingent relation. We realize that in this light, and in this light alone, are we able to attain that universality of outlook, that grasp of true standards and principles, which mark the man of right reason and intelligence. As Chesterton says: “The size of a man is measured by the height of his ideals, the depth of his convictions, and the breadth of his concerns and interests.”
And so equipped with these few but powerful tools, we are going forth to carve our places in the society of men. Our hearts are filled with gratitude, gratitude to the Kind Providence which first directed our steps to Notre Dame; gratitude to our loving- parents and friends who have made such an occasion as this materially possible; gratitude to our many teachers and friends among the faculty who have striven to instill in us the moral and intellectual virtues befitting Catholic gentlemen of culture.
We bid farewell to our Alma Mater, and we pray that as alumni of the University of our Lady, we will never be found wanting in the three-fold trust that is shared by each of us— our duty to God, to country and to Notre Dame.
Office 3-6978 . Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
NINE TRACKMEN TO BE
ENTERED IN NATIONALS
Coach John P. Nicholson announced a few days ago that Notre Dame would be represented by nine men in the National Intercollegiates, at Chicago, today and tomorrow. Captain Johnnie O’Brien will lead the delegation and will compete in the high hurdles. Roy Bailie is entered in the
Talk to file folks at Rome!
College life presents many perplexing problems; problems that could be -answered by Dad or Mother in short order if they were near. But a letter is so slow . . . and so hard to write ex-acdy as one feels .. .
Talk to the folks at home ... by telephone!
Telephone toll calls are quick, satisfactory, and economical. Make it a habit to call home at least once a week.
Indiana Bell Telephone Company
low hurdles, Johnson in the polevault, Darling in the high jump, Hoffman in the weight events, Captainelect Bill McCormick in the sprints, Kelly in the quarter-mile, Wilson in the quarter and half, and Little in the mile and possibly the half. There is also a possibility that Gene Howrey, who has been at the physical education camp, will run in the two-mile event.