
This book is aei <©
£^935 the Iiibrarj
MARCH I3r 1936
3
NhIII NOTRE DAME
Scholastic
i
Volume Sixty-nine

’36
j >
*
1
8 j
i
I ?
^E y
'I 1
£ i
I a
Number Nineteen
Two	-	SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS. MARCH 20	The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O’Boyle
This came to us by way of the Ohio State Lantern. We thought you might like it, that is if your face doesn’t turn red.—
' “The father visited his son at the university, took advantage of his stay to coax the lad downtown to have his picture taken. The photographer, ever seeking to please, suggested the bright son stand with his right hand placed caressingly on his father’s shoulder.
“Heck,” said the old gentleman, “It would be a lot more appropriate if he stood with his hand in my pocket.”
—o—
A discussion of “cribbing” from the angle of “how-it-is-done, who-does-it, and what-to-do-about-it” was recently featured in two issues of the Syracuse Daily Orange. Several faculty and administrative members were quizzed on the subject and, while they all admitted that the condition existed, they were at the same time unable to agree on the amount of cheating that was actually committed, who were the most consistent ' offenders, or what preventive measures could be adapted to check the practice.
Four professors decided that the men were the worse culprits and only one pointed the accusing finger at the women. In general, however, they all agreed that “as many good students as poor students crib.” One faculty member was convinced that Juniors and Seniors were the most consistent cribbers while another was equally positive that the first year students were the worst offenders. The professors who were interviewed admitted that frequently through fear of a failing grade and the possibility of “flunking out” a student might resort to copying, while other students justified their action because their instructor made excessive demands for memory work. An entirely different aspect of the question came to the surface when one professor pointed out that the crowded conditions of classrooms actually promoted the practice of “cribbing.”
Vice-Chancellor Graham of Syracuse was of the opinion that “since the administrators can do nothing to curb cribbing, it is up to the students themselves to solve the problem.” Other members of that school’s faculty believed that individual cases demanded individual treatment but, Dean Spencer flatly told his interviewer that “when a student cheats in the School of Journalism, either he gets-out of the school or I do.”
. March I 3, 19 3 6 - SEE YOU
THE KEN I
A NEW ARROW COLLAR
' FOR YOUNG MEN
T
I HERE are times when the occasion calls for a white starched collar—whether it be a House Party weekend, a trip to the city, or an important Saturday evening date... . The Kent is a new style Arrow collar with wide spread and square corner points. It is set off particularly well when worn with a colored shirt.	25c
ARROW COLLARS
MAX ADLER
6 4 The Big Store on the Corner*
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors.
AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
Three
The
BENGAL BOUTS
FRIDAY, MARCH 20
Student Ticket, 25c
General Admission, 35c
The Bengal Squad of 1935
8 Championship Bouts
Also
Cy Conner vs. Nick Tancredi
A Wrestling Circus
NOTRE DAME FIELD HOUSE
8:00 P. M.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
t Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"] at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918. J
Volume LXIX	March 13, 1936	No. 19
FIRST ANNUAL MUSIC WEEK PLANS ANNOUNCED
Paul Mallon, Columnist, To Speak Here Tonight
PHILHARMONIC ORCHESTRA TO PERFORM;
GLEE CLUB TO OPEN FESTIVAL MARCH 22
The colorful story of “News Behind the News” will be heard from Paul Mallon, famous Washington correspondent and columnist, when he speaks tonight at the Press Club dinner in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall.
Columnist Paul Mallon “News Behind The News.”
Mallon attended Notre Dame in 1922, leaving to enter newspaper work. He progressed in journalism rapidly and was soon graduated from the New York newspaper field to work for the United Press. After doing general reportorial work for that organization, especially corresponding from Washington, Mallon was appointed head of the United Press Washington Bureau.
It was in this capacity that he first attracted wide public attention by his reporting of a Congressional investigation. Shortly after that Mallon began his daily column of interesting side-lights and information on Washington affairs. This feature is now syndicated to a large number of daily papers and appears locally in the South Bend Tribune.
Music Week, presenting three outstanding features to student music enthusiasts, will be celebrated on the campus from March 22 to March 29, under the combined direction of Professor Joseph Casasanta, head of the Department of Music, and Rev. William Carey, C.S.C., director of entertainments.
The first feature to be presented will be the campus debut of the Uni-versity Glee club on Sunday, March 22. The forty voice unit has been drilling under the direction of Prof. Casasanta and, according to critics, is one of the finest choral groups to be developed here in the past few years. Several new soloists will be heard with the club. The repertoire, as usual, wil be varied to include liturgical, light classical and strictly popular music.
Moreau Choir to Perform
The famed Moreau Choir, directed by Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., will offer the second attraction on Tuesday, March 24. The Moreau organization has achieved success in many public concerts both locally and over the air, and will be a feature of the program. Father Connerton, with the choir, recently gave a series of broadcasts over the campus station in which the development and technique of Gregorian chant were explained and demonstrated. The series drew much favorable comment from radio listeners.
The featured program of the Music Week series will be a concert by the well known Little Philharmonic orchestra, conducted by George H. Shapiro, whose work with the new type orchestral unit has received much attention from musicians and music lovers.
The Little Philharmonic is not in any sense a reduced full orchestra but is a carefully evolved complete musical organization capable of giv
ing every kaleidoscopic color to the great masterpieces.
•Fourteen pieces are used by the orchestra and each instrumentalist is a thoroughly trained and experienced
Professor Joseph Casasanta
Head. Department of Music.
musician, most of whom have appeared for several years in America and Europe with large philharmonic groups.
The conductor, Shapiro, studied under such masters as Hans Richter and Arthur Nikisch. He has conducted orchestras in the European music centers of Munich, Leipzig, Brussells, and London. He was for a time associate conductor with Sir Henry Wood and Sir Landon Ronald of the Royal Albert Hall orchestra.
An added feature which was to have been included in the Music Week series, the Salvi Harp Ensemble, has been changed to April 1, when they will give a campus concert.
March 13, 1936
SEE
YOU AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
Five
BENGAL BOUTS OFFICIALS ANNOUNCED,-ELIMINATION BOUTS SET FOR TUESDAY
Debaters Place Second In Midwestern Tourney
Mr. Lloyd, Honorary Judge
By Paul Foley
Six officials who will handle the Fifth Annual Bengal Bouts to be held next Friday night, March 20, were
Tom Conley
He'll ring the gong on March 20.
selected this week in addition to those already named.
Mr. Frank Lloyd, comptroller of the University, will act as Honorary Judge of the bouts. Mr. Lloyd has been instrumental in the success of the show for the past several seasons.
Tom Conley and Chet Grant, both members of the University coaching staff will again time the bouts. They will be in charge of all the eight championship matches. Both men handled the watch last year and were highly praised by the referee and the judges for their work.
William Sheehan and Eugene “Scrap” Young have been appointed judges of the bouts. They are both registered A.A.U. boxing officials and have had extensive experience in the difficult job of judging fighters. Bill Cerney will take the center of the ring between rounds to act as announcer of the bouts.
The elimination bouts are to be held Tuesday evening in the boxing room of the gymnasium. There will be a ten cent admission charge for those attending the elimination fights.
An autographed football bearing the names of this year’s varsity football team has been donated by Athletic Director Elmer Layden and will
Six
Bengal Attraction
The Bengal Bouts continue to draw talent from the corners of the campus. Bushels have been lifted and glaring lights revealed. And all for the price of twenty-five cents, two times and a nickel the fourth part of a dollar!
Campion Academy in Prairie du Chien, Wis., gave us many athletic greats. Now another artist has agreed to display his tough muscles and iron skull to the crowd. He is Jim Hack, of Alumni Hall, and he will exihibit the correct shadow-boxing technique.
Jim has frequented the training camps of many fistic big names and this constant association has acquainted him with the popular methods of shadow-boxing. His footwork is a thing of beauty and grace, his punches are accurate and lethal. In fact he’s so good he doesn’t even need a shadow.
Last week’s contributor to Joe Prendergast’s column, Hans Brinker the Terrible Skate, will project his personality some way or other into the ring on March 20. It’s not clear year whether he will fight Connor, or Tancredi, or both, or Bill Cerney, or whether he will challenge the house, a la John L. Sullivan. At any rate, hold your stubs and don’t sass your neighbor he might be the Terrible Skate.
MONOGRAM CLUB
The final date for handing in skits for the annual Monogram Absurdities is March 15. All entries must be in the hands of Secretary Paul Rubly, 409 Walsh, not later than the 15th in order to be eligible for the fifteen dollars in prizes.
COLLEGIATE BITS
Wesleyan University students are fighting the formation of an American Student Union chapter on the campus.
Thirty-one Columbia students were made ill recently when contaminated ice-cream made a mysterious appearance in John Jay Hall dining rooms.
be awarded as a door prize at the bouts next Friday.
Among the well known figures in the sport world who have already made reservations to attend the bouts are James S. Kearns, sports writer for the Chicago Daily News, and Earl Seibert, stellar hockey player with the Chicago Blackhawks.
By Louis Da Pra
With the negative team winning all its five debates and the affirmative team winning two, the University’s debating squad, coached by Professor William Coyne of the Speech department, scored heavily in the Midwestern Invitational Debate tournament held in Iowa City, March 6-7, and sponsored by the University of Iowa.
Robert Burke
He did plenty of talking.
The negative, upheld by Robert J. Schmelzle and Richard Meier, defeated representatives of the University of Nebraska, Iowa II, Minnesota girls, Louisiana State, and South Dakota.
The affirmative team, composed of Robert Burke and John Marbach, defeated Creighton and Iowa State Teachers’ College and lost to Oklahoma, Carleton, and Kansas. The coaches of the fifteen entrants were the judges of the debate, each coach judging five contests.
The question debated was: “Resolved, that Congress should have the power to override by a two-thirds majority vote decisions of the Supreme Court declaring laws passed by Congress unconstitutional.”
Although no official team winner was announced, in the field of fifteen entrants the Notre Dame debate squad with a total of seven victories placed second to the University of Iowa, which won eight victories.
Texas, Nebraska, Minnesota, Notre Dame, Iowa State Teachers’ College, Oklahoma, Creighton, Carleton, Kansas, Wabash, Iowa, Chicago, South Dakota, Denver, and Louisiana State were represented in the tourney.
Richard Meier, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters and a second year man on the varsity debate squad, won the distinction of being named in the upper bracket of debaters for superior style, delivery, and debating technique.
(Continued on Page 13)
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
The Scholastic
Shane Leslie To Return
For Two Special Courses
MARTIN, DRAY, TANSEY AND RYAN ARE WINNERS IN FROSH ELECTIONS
Shane Leslie, Irish author and lecturer, will rejoin the University’s faculty in June for the summer school session and will remain for six weeks of the Fall semester, it was announced this week by the Bev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies.
For the summer school Mr. Leslie will offer two courses. One will be “A Study of Jonathan Swift” and the other, “Introduction to Greek Drama.” Father Carrico said that the two special courses for graduate students to be given by Mr. Leslie during the six week session have not yet been • selected.
Mr. Leslie was a member of the University’s faculty during the second semester last year. He lectured in special courses to advanced undergraduates and graduate students on “Jonathan Swift” and “The Hamlet of Shakespeare.” He also delivered a series of 12 public lectures in Washington Hall on a wide range of topics.
Professor Leslie at present lives in Glaslough, Ireland, but has visited the United States frequently during the past few years in the course of his lecture tours. His education was received at Eton, King’s College, the University of Paris, and Cambridge. Mr. Leslie is the author of many reviews, biographies, dramas, and several novels. In addition to this, he has written translations of Plato and several Greek anthologies.
KENTUCKY CLUB
At the regular meeting of the Kentucky Club on Thursday evening, March 5, Professor John M. Cooney, Head of the Department of Journalism, spoke to the members on some of the earlier aspects of their home state.
Professor Cooney, a native Kentuckian, carried his audience through the state’s progress from the time of the Civil War to the beginning of the last great world conflict. He also traced the history and development of the last great world conflict. He also showed the history and development of some of the larger cities from their settlement stage to the present day.
The form sheets poijit to a winner — March 20.	>
Rejoins Faculty
Shane Leslie
BAND
As the conclusion of its winter concert season, the University band will perform at the C. I. C. track meet tomorrow afternoon in the local fieldhouse.
Starting next week, the band will begin preparation for its spring concerts. The number of performances will depend entirely on the weather, since the concerts are to be given out of doors. These concerts are to commence in the early part of May.
During the basketball season the band has given the student body some excellent entertainment, judging by the applause received. The 75 men who played for games on the local court practiced on an average, four hours a week.
ITALIAN CLUB
Professor Francis E. McMahon, of the Department of Philosophy, was the principal speaker at the Italian Club banquet held Thursday, March 4, in the Sunny Italy Bestaurant. Dr. McMahon spoke on “The Influence of St. Thomas on Italy and Dante.”
Other speakers included the Bev. Arthur Hope, C.S.C., who discussed his experiences in Italy, and Daniel J. O’Brien, vice-president of the club, who gave a short account of his study of the Italian language. Professor Pasquale Pirchio, the Bev. Michael Moriarity, and Ugo M. Schilke were guests at the gathering.
The next meeting of the club will be held Thursday evening, March 19, at 7:45 in Carroll Bec Hall.
Straight Party Ticket Wins
By Harold A. Williams
For the first time in three years a a straight party ticket was voted into office by the Freshman class when Peter Martin, of Detroit, Mich., was elected president; Joseph Dray, of New Haven, Conn., vice president; James Tansey, of New Haven, Conn., secretary, and Daniel Byan, of Chicago, Ill., treasurer, in the annual class elections.	-
The election, first of this year’s political card, was held Tuesday, March 10, in Carroll “Bec” from nine to five. The voting was conducted by the S. A. C. under the direction of Ed Donoghue, S.A.C. election chairman.
The winning party, composed of a representative from each Freshman hall, had no trouble in defeating the opposing faction which was made up entirely of Brownson Hall candidates. The campaign managers for the allhall party were Jack Mulderig, Charles Englehart and Jack Dyer.
The final tabulation of ballots was as follows: President—Martin of Dillon 194, Gottsacker of Brownson 149; Vice President—Dray of Freshman 226, Duffy of Brownson 118; Secretary—Tansey of Brownson 263, Wilson of Brownson 91; Treasurer— Byan of St. Ed’s 248, Donnelly of Brownson 109. There were 71 more votes cast this year as compared to last year’s election.
The election was run off smoothly; no challenging of votes was made by either party. The only irregularity was the misspelling of one candidate’s name on the ballot, and a misplacement of names in the President and Vice President column of the ticket. The best campaign story circulated election day was that one candidate (who was not elected) had some friends write his name on the back of every Eeligious Bulletin for free advertising before they were distributed on the eve of the election in one of the Freshman halls.
You Can’t Miss On The Bengal Bouts — March 20.
March I 3, I 93o
SEE YOU AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
S ev e n
Man About The Campus
Cy ‘Ya-Ya’ Conner, West Springfield, Mass.’ gift to the Phy-Ed school . . . Stabbed George Wentworth for tearing corner off home town paper . . . Fanatic on Springfield. . .
Kids follow him in the streets at home. . . Started campus craze tor •wrestler haircuts. . . . Let’s it grow now to give Tancredi a chance for a hold. . . Long hair also makes him look like a senior.
His man ‘Friday’ Commisa picks
out Esquire styles for him. . . Lives in his ‘Garage’ in Walsh with Phil Walker. . . Sleeps with his feet out of the end of bed. . .
Took friends to Chi. to see pal Seibert play for Blackhawks. . . On arriving it was found he was playing in Detroit. . . At a recent faculty exhibition he grabbed Prof. Davis’ shoe and chased Tancredi up the aisle. . . Runs around barefooted in summer to toughen feet. . .
A Wheeler in Northampton calls him ‘Little Tossie’. . . She picks Nick .... Cy claims he’ll make Nick change from sax to harp. . .
Joseph George as Cy is known by the elite hauled down the highest mark ever given by one of the Phy-Ed profs. . . He is still trying to explain it to his girl. . . . Around 9:30 his nose can smell out anything that can be digested. . . Canvasses Walsh at that time for hand-outs. . .
Still the only man on the campus that held a hall at bay single handed . . . Last year Alumni Hallers had to use the fire hose to rout him. . . Some present seniors still remember Cy’s swings with the iron scraper mat used in the fray. . .	.
Put on a bout with Nick down at the K.C. . . was so realistic that men •climbed in the ring to stop it. . . .
POSTPONE INITIAL PRESENTATION OF MUSICAL COMEDY TILL APRIL
“Tune In” the musical comedy scheduled to be presented March 28 and 29 in Washington Hall has been indefinitely postponed. Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the show, told The Scholastic this week that the delay in presentation is occasioned by a necessary reorganization of the cast.
The principals have been diligently rehearsing the two act musical play since the beginning of the semester and the show would have been ready for presentation in a few weeks. Because of changes in the cast, however, as well as the proximity of the Easter holidays to the originally scheduled dates, Professor Casasanta announced that the show would be given in all probability, late in April.
The orchestra, totaling 14 pieces is rapidly rounding into shape and is rehearsing regularly with the cast. The regular Saturday rehearsal will be held tomorrow at which time the cast will be reorganized and parts re-assigned to new members. The entire Glee Club will also rehearse with the principals.
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
The Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, addressed the Academy of Science on the subject, “The Holy Land,” at the last regular meeting of the organization Monday night. The talk consisted chiefly in comments illustrated by pictures taken by Father Wenninger during a trip through the Holy Land in 1927. He traced his trip from Venice, through Alexandria and into the Holy Land. He also outlined the scenes in the life of our Lord from Bethlehem to Calvary. Among the more interesting descriptions were those of Bethlehem, Jerusalem, and Calvary.
Two proposed amendments to the Constitution of the Academy were read for the first time. One is designed to raise the requirements for membership and the other to reduce the allowed number of absences.
John F. Bray, senior pre-med was appointed to fill a vacancy in the executive committee the remainder of the term.
FOR KEEN SCRAPS and doubleedged fun remember The Bengal Bouts — MARCH 20.
Man About The Campus
Nicholas Joseph Tancredi, Mechanicville, N. Y. delivery boy. . . Father runs a grocery store. . . Sent out 55 applications for a job and acording to the answers will stick to his father’s business. . . Drove Badin crazy with his sax. . . Used to have a band.
Was campused seven months last year. . . Ted Daly approached record but was disqualified when his brother ■was found pinch hitting for him. . . Nick quit school in frosh year but Millner persuaded him to stick. . . .
His reason was that he had seen Cy around the campus. . .
Is a sleight of hand artist and is practicing some tricks for coming Bengal bouts. . . Eleanor will be an interested spectator. . . . Roomie Ed Kennedy affectionately calls him ‘Be ginners Ender’. . . Promises to come through for his backers next Friday night. . . . Sorin sub to the man is back of—Connors! . . .
Nick keeps in condition falling do-wn the curving stairs leading to the Sorin sub. . . . Also by chasing Stillwagon out of the room. . . Furnishes cigarettes for the sub boys even during Lent. . .
Known as ‘Father John’ by the fellow phi edders. . . Has something to do with a hair remedy. . . Nick has the bushiest hair in these parts. . .
Most embarrassing moment in his life occurred last year when his head was rudely ducked in the water bucket by the redoubtable Conner from Massachusetts.'. . Swears vengeance.
Once got his girl at home a job in his father’s store and she promptly brought suit. J. Claimed she was not receiving NRA; wages. . . Nick still gnashes his teeth at the mention of the affair. . . Eis father gave her the job to please Nick!. . .
Eight
SEE YOU AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
The Scholastic
Commerce Forum Survey Reveals N. D. Favorites
By Gregory Byrnes
Such debatable questions as the preferred brands of clothes, the most popular cigarettes, and the favorite magazines have been settled by the survey conducted by the Commerce Forum to determine the buying habits of Notre Dame men. The questionnaires, prepared under professorial direction, were distributed to the men of the University according to the numbers registered in each of the colleges. The information made available by this survey will be used in the research work of the Forum in its study of the effect of advertising on the buying habits of the public.
Advertising Brings Results
In the matter of dentifrices 529 Notre Dame men prefer Dr. Lyon’s Tooth Powder as compared with 214 who use Colgate’s, and 184 who like Ipana. As to tooth brushes, Dr. West’s leads by a large margin. Hart, Schaffner & Marx will be glad to know that of the Beau Brummels of the campus, 216 of them prefer their clothes as compared with 109 who chose Kuppenheimer. Arrow Mitoga shirts were almost five times as popular as any other brand, due no doubt, to the fact that the people who make them utilize the advertising columns of The Scholastic. In the matter of hats the results were: Stetson 361, Dobbs 184, and Mallory 85. Flor-sheim shoes led the field, with Bostonians second.
Camels Most Popular
In the matter of smoking preferences, Camels led the cigarette parade. The figures were as follows: Camels 463, Chesterfield 238, Lucky Strike 108, Philip Morris 97, and Old Gold 31. Kaywoodie had a 2-1 lead over Yello Bole when it came to pipes, and in the matter of pipe tobacco Sir Walter Raleigh was as far ahead of Brigg’s. Gillette Safety Razors and Gillette Blue Blades were overwhelming favorites, as were Vaseline Hair Tonics and William’s Shaving Cream. When travelling the majority of the men prefer Hartman trunks and Gladstone bags. Despite the morning bells Westclox alarm clocks guide the destinies of 367 men. In the matter of watches Elgin led the field with 367, as compared with 138 for Hamilton and 87 for Bulova. In fountain pens 381 chose Parker and 246 Shaeffer. In typewriters Royal led the field with 247; Underwood drew 183 and Remington 167.
(Continued on Page 13)
CHOIR CONTINUES BROADCASTS RADIO GROUP ISSUES CALL FOR NEW MEMBERS
The fourth in a series of programs based on the history, development and technique of the Gregorian Chant will be broadcast from the campus studios on Monday night March 16 at 7:30 pun.
The programs are arranged and presented by Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., director of the Moreau Sem-
Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C. Director, Moreau Choir
inary choir. Father Connerton, in the previous three presentations has sketched the history of the Chant and other liturgical music, demonstrating the various points in his talks by use of the choir.
During the past .week the Radio Group issued a call for new men. Approximately 45 men appeared at Tuesday’s meeting to try out for positions relating to the new series of programs now being broadcast from the campus studios. It is planned to enlarge the scope of these broadcasts so that every one of the men will be given a chance to broadcast.
This meeting was featured by the adoption of a new plan of procedure under which there will be conducted a radio clinic wherein each man will be given an assignment to deliver over the studio microphones and be judged by the rest of the group. Charts are being prepared upon which each man’s performance is to be checked. At the close of the clinic each man will be given his own charts in order that he may have a better idea of his own faults and an opportunity to correct them. The positions are still open and every one interested is invited to attend the meeting next Tuesday evening.
Doyle Announces Cast For Shakespearian Play
Selection of the cast for the Globe version of Shakespeare’s “The Comedy of Errors,” tentatively scheduled for March 17, was announced Monday by Professor A. L. Doyle, director of the University theatre. It may be necessary to postpone production of the play because of the recent illness of Mr. Doyle and of Professor Frank Kelly, who is in charge of backstage effects.
John LaDuca of “The World Waits” fame will portray one of the leading character in the play, the Duke of Ephesus. George McDermott was assigned another of the principal roles . that of Aegeon, a merchant. The parts of Antipholus of Ephesus and Antipholus of Syracuse, twin brothers who do not know of each other’s existence, will be played by Jack Scott and Frank Balser.
Students In Feminine Roles
John Brassel, a veteran of the local stage, will portray the character, Luciana, one of the four feminine roles. The other three feminine parts will be enacted by Bob Siegfried as Amelia, William Waters as Adviana, and John McAlpine as the innkeeper. This is the first time in many years that feminine dramatic roles in local stage productions have been taken by the students.
Dromio of Ephesus will be characterized by John McGrath, while Bill Ellis will play the part of Dromio of Syracuse. Bill McVay has the role of Angelo, a goldsmith.
Others in the production are Frank Carroll and Maurice Quinn as merchants, Mike Shannon as an officer, George Morris as Pinch, a conjurer, and Eugene Dolan as the page.
“The Comedy of Errors,” as revised for the Globe theatre players, condenses the action of the play so that it can be presented in about 37 minutes. As a result, instead of the customary performance on two separate evenings, the production will be presented twice in the same evening.
RADIO CALENDAR
Monday, March 16
4:30, “Readers’ Spotlight”; 7:00, Faculty Lecture (WSBT-WIND) by Father Keller; 7:30, “History of Church Music” by Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C. and the Moreau Choir.
Tuesday, March 17
4:30, “The Speech We Use”; 7:30, “Headline Personalities.”
Wednesday, March 18
4:30, “Stories of the Classics,” by the Patricians; 7:30, “You The Defendant.” (Law Program).
Thursday, March 19
4:30, “Athletics in Education” by Joe Boland; 7:30, “Stories of Great Lives.”
March 13, 1936
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
Nine
COLORFUL COLLEGIATE CONVERSATION
CALLED CRITERION OF COMING CHATTER
By John Hurley
“What league is lie playing ball in?”—Are you going across the road today?”—“Yeah, Toni’s the best”— “You bet! He’s always in there pitching”—“He’s right behind the eight ball.”
These particles of conversation were not taken from one of Gertrude Stein’s latest puzzles but from the drone of talking around the cigar stand in the “caf.” They are meaningless phrases except to those initiated in college life. For college men have a language all their own.
At West Point and Annapolis, America’s - future generals and ad-
Gil
“Listen Stooge, if ya don’t learn how to speak the language, you’ll find yourself behind the eight ball.”
mirals speak a tongue which the rest of the country cannot understand. Gangsters with their “rods, molls, and flatfoots” have their own technical terms. Similarly the college man has his peculiar phrases of expression.
Imagine for a moment some visitor to the Notre Dame campus being accosted with a “Hey, Stooge! Butts . on that.” Do you think that the visitor would know just what his student friend was talking about? Or perhaps our visitor would be greeted with the salutation, “What’s the dope?” A greeting such as this might conjure in his mind anything from a drugstore to a race track sheet, when it was only meant foi' a friendly sort of a “hello.”
If a student is successful in ’ an examination he boasts, to , his “pals” that he “hit it right on the nose.” If he fails a test, he “busts it.” If the girl friend finds a new heart throb,
her old flame is said to be “blown off.”
Baseball terms in particular are being applied to other fields by the Notre Dame “guys.” No student has difficulties but rather he has “two strikes on him,” or “he’s in a tough spot.” A fellow never shows ability but he may have a “lot on the ball.” A shout of “slugger” will cause a dozen fellows to turn their heads and holler, “Yeah, what d’ ya want?”
Perhaps this strange language is the cause of the long faces worn by professors of the English department as they wander about the campus. These students of the famous works of English literature must feel a little regret at the way the language is being abused.
However, it’s only a part of college life. Upon graduation students will again return to the proper use of the language. • No more will St. Mary’s be the school “across the lake”; no more will a predicted victory be spoken of as “in the bag”; no longer will a cultured fellow-collegian be a “smooth egg.”
Other students will come along and take bur places. Other “college guys” will discard our slang and replace it with new and equally atrocious phrases and expressions. The monikers, “Streaky,” Scoop,” and “Flash,” will fall, into oblivion to be substituted by different, appropriate nicknames. Perhaps even the circular motion in the air with the fingers will no longer mean that the fellow is a bit “touched in the head.” Perish the thought.
So “you guys” don’t worry about your murderous use of the English language. It isn’t a mark of ignorance, but. an indication of vitality and originality. It isn’t peculiar to Notre Dame alone, but is common on every college campus. Don’t forget entirely the language as Webster used it or you’ll need an interpreter at Easter. So look over the dictionary in preparation for vacation, and in the meantime “Abyssinia.”
No foul balls at the Bengal Bouts.
Knights of Columbus
Hold Breakfast Sunday
The Knights of Columbus will hold their fourth Communion breakfast of the school year next Sunday in the Faculty Dining Hall. Henry Dendler, chairman of the breakfast, announced that the speaker of the occasion has not been definitely selected.
The Knights will occupy the pews to the right of the main aisle in Sacred Heart Church at the eight o’clock mass Sunday. After receiving Holy Communion in a group, they will proceed to the Faculty Dining Hall for breakfast.
The next regular council meeting will be held Monday night in Walsh Hall. At this time, many important plans for the Spring activities will be discussed. Lecturer Edward T. McNally promises an interesting Lecturer’s Hour for the occasion.
The bowling teams are meeting every Tuesday night at the Jefferson Plaza. Chairman August Church announced that the spirit of rivalry is increasing with each meeting. He expects to send a representative team to the state finals at Gary next month.
GLEE CLUB
The University Glee Club, under the direction of Prof. Joseph J. Casa-santa, will give its first formal concert at St. Hedwidge’s Parish hall, Sunday evening, March 15 at 8:00 o’clock. This concert is being held under the auspices of the Parent-Teachers’ Association of South Bend, and the regular travelling personnel of the club, consisting of 40 men will take part.
The soloists already chosen are: John F. Ryan, second tenor; George A. Miller, second bass; Francis X. Schaefer, first bass; Joseph T. Pawlowski, second bass; and George Bel-temacchi, first tenor. The last two men are new in their positions this year.
At the concert Sunday, fifteen new men will be making their first formal appearance as members of the club.
EASTER DANCE
The St. Mary’s College club of Chicago wil hold an Easter dance on April 14 at the Drake Hotel. Notre Dame guests are particularly invited to attend.
Duke University plans for a centennial celebration in 1938 include construction of two new buildings, enlargement of the library to millionbook capacity, and founding of 100 scholarships.
Ten
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
The Scholastic
Catholic Press Exposition To Be Held at Vatican City
THE WEEK
By Gregory Byrnes
Under the personal sponsorship of His Holiness, Pope Pius XI, the first world-wide exposition of the Catholic Press will be held in the Vatican City this summer. All ten of the Notre Dame publications will be represented iin the American section of the exhibition. William R. Dooley, Business Manager of The Scholastic, has been named a member of the United States Committee in charge of school publications. Fifty-four nations have been invited to participate and a special building in the Vatican City is being remodelled to accommodate the extensive display.
Some idea of the importance of the display may be gleaned from the personal interest which the Holy Fathei' manifested recently in an address to an assemblage of Catholic journalists. He said, in part: “You are my voice, for few indeed would be the number of the Children of our Common Father that would hear my wishes or thoughts without the aid of the Catholic Press.”
American Section Important
There is to be on display every type of Catholic publication from almost every country in the world. Not only newspapers but also periodicals devoted to all the manifold phases of Catholic thought and action, whether they be literary, scientific, educational, or political will be included in this first international exhibition. Judging from the extensive accommodation provided, the American section is expected to play an important part.
The exposition is being arranged by the Observatore Romano, the official news organ of the Vatican City, on the occasion of its 75th anniversary. Count Guiseppe Dalia Torre, editor of the Observatore, is president of the executive committee. It is the purpose of the* exposition to illustrate in a tangible way the heroic part which the Catholic Press plays in the stimulation of Catholic thought and action throughout the world. It is hoped that the enterprise will at the same time promote an increased interest in Catholic publications, solicit assistance for the continuance of the work, and bring home to the world the true importance of the press in the work of the Church.
Among the Notre Dame publications that are to be represented are The Scholastic, Dome, Scrip, Laiv-yer, Catalyzer, Santa Maria, the Religious Bulletin, the Student and Alumni Religious Surveys, as well as the Ave Maria, The American Midland Naturalist, and the Alumnus.
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
If anybody greeted you with a “Happy St. Thomas Aquinas Anniversary to you,” last Saturday, he must have been a member of the Philosophers’ Club. All local philosophers were in high fettle that day. Naturally, they had to celebrate the anniversary of their patron saint in some appropriate fashion; so their organization held a stag party out at the Oldenberg Inn.
•
Dean Konop of the Law School, driving to the University, picked up several students on the way out. Soon their conversation turned to automobiles.	'
“By the way,” quoth the Dean, I’ve
“Scootin' up my ivay?”
had this car only five years, and did you notice that it’s already travelled all of fifty-five thousand miles?”
One of the students pursed his lips disparagingly and after a pause said, “Yeah, that’s pretty good, but did you ever think how many miles that would be on a scooter?”
Have you acquired the pernicious habit of talking so much that at meal time you don’t have an opportunity to get a mouthful of food in edgewise? Do you even find it difficult to stop talking in your sleep? And do your friends don ear muffs every time you open your maw? Then you’d better consult a specialist, or at least someone who has successfully learned to eradicate a similar condition. You might, for instance, see a. certain gentleman from Sorin who has regained all his friends by refraining from conversation at lunch and at dinner.
•
Somebody, of course, would have to find a challenge in our little state
ment of last week about making St. Patrick’s Day an event of more significance to Notre Dame than it has been previously. As a result, we’ve been asked to make a few practical suggestions of our own. Well, we started this thing, so it’s no doubt necessary that we finish it once and for all. What say the day be made an occasion for driving all the reptiles off the campus? And how about starting with Goldman?
O
What some people won’t worry about! Now a lot of the boys are on edge for fear that the United States will soon become involved in a European war. Jim Levi and Charlie Hughes are especially positive in asserting that they just won’t be soldiers. They don’t want to be this cannon fodder all the pacifist writers are screaming about.
In recognition of our comment about Washington Hall last Friday, its ghost sent us the following letter:
“Dear Week:
“It’s rarely that a spirit gets an opportunity to communicate with the inhabitants of the physical world, but when a ghost finds among your people a champion of his cause, no matter how unimportant, all barriers are lowered, and he is free to convey his thanks to the benefactor. Consequently, I’m taking advantage of this chance to tell you how grateful I am for what you said in my behalf last week. Of course, nothing that you or anyone else could possibly do will save Washington Hall from the same fate recently visited upon the Phy Ed Building. Still it was nice of you to remember me in your column, and I’d like to be able to show my appreciation by doing a favor for you some time. Is there someone in particular whom you’d like me to haunt for. you?
“Sincerely,
“Gulliver Ghost.”
Some bosom enemies of ours had better not get too tough with us hereafter.
Jack Skelly has been more than slightly perplexed at all these time changes being made lately in the middle west. It’s his opinion that if all this meddling with daylight saving time isn’t soon stopped, they’ll have us getting up for chapel at midnight.
March 13, 1936
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
Eleven
CALENDAR
Friday, March 13
Track, C.I.C. Meet, afternoon and evening, gymnasium; “Scholastic of the Air” broadcast from campus studio over WSBT, 3:15 p.m. Press Club Banquet featuring Paul Mallon, Faculty Dining Hall.
Saturday, March 14
Track, C.I.C. Meet, afternoon, gymnasium; Fencing, Cincinnati vs. Notre Dame, gymnasium; Movie, “Big Broadcast,” with Popeye comedy, Washington Hall.
Sunday, March 15
Student Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a.m., Sacred Heart Church; Knights of Columbus Communion Breakfast, Faculty Dining Hall; In
terhall basketball games, 9:00 a.m. and 1:30 p.m., gymnasium.
Monday, March 16
Meeting, Knights of Columbus, Walsh Hall, 7:45 p.m.
Tuesday, March 17
Bengal Boxers weighing in 4:00 to 6:00 p.m., gymnasium; Bengal Bout eliminations, 8:00 p.m., gymnasium.
Wednesday, March 18
Bengal Bout eliminations continued, 8:00 p.m., gymnasium.
New Union College eligibility rules allow any student, no matter what his grades, to participate in one extracurricular activity.
Annapolis expects increased enrollment. Legislation now pending would allow each Congressman five, instead of four appointments.
AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
DEBATING TEAM
(Continued from Page 6)
In the after-dinner speech contest conducted as part of the tourney, the University was represented by Robert Burke, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters from Louisville, Kentucky. Tharp, of Texas with a satirical denunciation of a G.O.P. defender, was declared the winner.
On Monday, March 9, Robert Schmelzle and Richard Meier engaged in a no-decision contest with the University of Creighton affirmative team before the Omaha Chamber of Commerce.
Tonight the Notre Dame affirmative upheld by Robert Burke and John Heywood, will meet the University of Buffalo negative squad at St. Mary’s College. Judge of the debate is Professor W. Cunningham, debate coach at Northwestern University.
The Scholastic
Twelve
SEE you
0 o La
Burke and Heywood will journey to East Lansing next Tuesray, March 17, to meet Michigan State. On Thursday, March 19, Schmelzle and Meier will uphold the Notre Dame negative against Michigan State here at 4:00 p.m.
Four more debates, including an intersectional debate with the University of Alabama here, remain on the Notre Dame schedule.
COMMERCE SURVEY
(Continued from Page 9)
There are almost five times as many Philcos in the school as any other make of radio.
In answer to the question: “If you could have but one magazine which one would you prefer?” Readers’ Digest led Collier’s by 16 votes. Incidentally seven men chose the Scho-
March 13, 1936
LASTiC. When asked what magazines they read regularly the men answered as follows: Collier’s 384, Saturday Evening Post 193, Readers’ Digest 191, Time 97, Esquire 92, and American 88.
When asked whether or not they read magazine advertisements 242 men replied “Always,” 280 said “Usually,” and 43 said “Never.” Twenty-five per cent of the men said they read the ads through and 60% said they read them just far enough to get the message. The basic advertising appeals were rated in the following order: Quality, Style, Price. Durability, Health, Guarantee, New Merchandise, Recommendation, and Affection. 349 men said they carried insurance, and 158 said they did not. 289 men intended to buy more insurance when they graduate, 137 were undecided, and 26 replied in the negative.
SEE YOU AT THE
POLITICS TRIP
Three days in Washington observing the activities of governmental units in action and viewing the historic scenes of the nation’s capital, have been arranged for the fourth “Notre Dame to Washington” trip. The group will leave the campus on April 11 under the personal supervision of Professor Paul Bartholomew of the Department of Politics.
The tour has been arranged on an all-expense basis with one price covering trainfare, meals on the train and at the hotel in Washington, local accommodations and transportation in and around Washington. Price, S35.
Further information can be had from Prof. Bartholomew on Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 10:50 in room 117 Main building, at 3:05 in room 327 Main building, or on the other days of the week at 11:50 in room 110 of the Commerce building.
Thirteen
BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAFSMOKE
JACK WALSH, of Alumni, had the west hall in the aisles Sunday night with his golfing shirt. It was white, but outside of that, normality gave it a wide berth. You know how a shoe laces up? Well, that’s the way his shirt was brought together at the throat. The sleeves were quarter ’ength, and he wore no tie. When he took his topcoat off, the laughter began; napkins were waved, and the implications were shameful. So Jack donned his coat, for the rest of the
There’s a man on the campus who owns an undeserved prize. Yes, you, “SPOTS” MANNING. But his ruse was so clever that he should be allowed to keep the medal anyhow. Spots entered the two mile run in the interhall track meet. We didn’t say he ran two miles; w’e said he entered the two mile run. At the fifth lap he ducked into the apparatus room and rested on a mat until the next to last lap. Then he sidled on to the dirt and ripped around the remaining laps to finish second. Vigilant officiating, eh what? . . .
Famous Springs
Hot — — fever — board Can — be far behind ? — hats
Whis------- (poetic)
— field (take your choice) Don’t — that again — practice.
77 was once a popular number at Illinois, but not half so popular as it is at Notre Dame.
A bird in the hand is worth two at the head of the table.
SAM MINELLA, of Howard, answered the phone the other day. A lady at the other end queried “How much are your cube steaks a pound?” (Click—wrong number) . . . Professor Staunton in an absent-minded moment walked into the bookstore to inquire if he had received any mail.
HARRY “BOOKSTORE” BOISVERT met a girl whose father is an undertaker — a fact about which Harry boasts a great deal . . . SEBASTIAN BONET and RICHARD BAKER earned theii’ red suspenders last Saturday when they extinguished what Sabby termed a “tremendous forest fire.” The delectable prize was three beers. . . . The Funny Fellows.
Lament
Some girls are blondes and some brunettes,
Some are beautiful and wise,
Some, they say, are clever, too—
But I guess they go with other* guys.
Then there was the professor’s secretary who, during the summer, got a job grading roadbeds.
The fellow who invented college class-room seats was certainly a wideawake American.
Russian Lullaby
In Vladivostok
The Russians leer
If you change your sock More than once a year.
Where’d I throw him?
Where’d Conner go?
meal. He swears that he wore it only because the laundry demanded 73 cents for his wash. He couldn’t or wouldn’t pay it—hence the new style. He had no clean shirts, had to borrow the new style from his roommate, BILL FOLEY. . . .
Looks like JOE PRENDERGAST started something when he informed the campus population that BILL MAHONEY never had a date or took a girl out in his life. JOHNNY MOIR wants it known that he has never been to St. Mary’s. That means a boycott of over a year and a half. Such abstinence! ...
CLARK REYNOLDS has announced his candidacy for President of the Junior Class. He may be an early bird, but we’ll bet that no matter who’s elected, the band for next year’s Junior Prom won’t be known until the night before the big dance. Seems to be something of a tradition.
“Whaddya mean calling Taneredi ‘blubber1?
Drama
“I saw you going by the Prefect of Discipline’s Office yesterday.”
“Going by?”
“Yes.”
“Then it wasn’t me.”
In the long run, sprinters aren’t so good in the long run.
In Indiana they have wet seasons, ■ and dry days.
Fable
Once upon a time a student walked into the Library, asked for a book and found that it was neither:
Out
In the bindery
Missing
On reference
On the Index,
But was in, and the student walked away with it after a mere fifteen minutes of signing cards and waiting.
Hear tbe crowd roar at the Bouts, Friday evening.
Fo urteen
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C_________________Faculty Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN______________________________Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST......................Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei_______________________________The Weefe
Irwin L. Goldman---------------------------In the Juggler Vein
News Staff
Paul Foley---------------------------------------News Editor
Robert L. Grogan-----------------------Assistant News Editor
John A. Gillespie_____________________________Eeature Editor
Clifford F. Brown___________________________________Anthony	O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus____________________________Gregory Byrnes
Harold A. Williams John	Hurley
Louis Da Pra-----------------------------------------Albert	Torribio
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker---------------------------Co-Sports Editor
James A. Waldron---------------------------Co-Sports Editor
Eugene Vaslett------------------L______Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley---------------------------James M. McMullen
Allan Bride--------------------------------------Arch Gott
Michael Crowe
Art Staff
William V. Ellis_________________________________Art Editor
Francis Kroeger----------------------------Daniel Sherrod
William R. Dooley, ’26____________________Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
March 13, 1936
HITLER AND HEIDELBERG
IN snubbing Hitler by refusing an invitation to attend the celebration of Heidelberg University’s 550th anniversary, Oxford and other leading English colleges have again directed the world’s attention to the oppression of German universities. Previously, when Professor Albert Einstein was exiled from the Fatherland, the foreign press raised its voice against the Nazi government for hounding and exiling university professors who did not take kindly to the regimentation in education.
Regarding the domination of Heidelberg by Hitler and his Nazi policies, one eastern college paper declares that forty out of sixty professors have been deprived of their places on the faculty because they opposed the new regime. If these figures are correct, it would seem that the professors had little choice. They had either to accept an ultra-modem philosophy which violated their religious beliefs, their rights to liberty, and their consciences, or else get out. It is to the credit of the German universities that so many professors refused to grovel servilly before Hitler and preferred instead the loss of their positions, and even exile.
The celebration of Heidelberg’s anniversary this June will strike an incongruous note, for it will not be commemorating the real Heidelberg, but rather a Nazi propaganda school which came into existence but a few years ago when academic freedom passed in Germany. We do not declare for unlimited academic freedom, in Germany or any other country, for a nation has a right to guard itself from slanders, calumnies, and unlawful attacks. But some measure of academic freedom
March 13, 1936
is necessary to protect the rights of the people and to safeguard the liberty of the nation. Were Hitler’s dicta confined only to political teachings, the world would merely shrug its shoulders and think little more of the plight of the German universities. However, when a new moral creed is forced on these institutions, when Jews are baited and hounded, when Catholics, as well as Protestants, are restricted in the exercise of religious liberty, it is hardly possible for the faculties of the universities to remain silent.
The English universities were perfectly within their rights in declining the invitation to the celebration. The old and the new Heidelberg are worlds apart as far as aims, ideals, and methods are concerned. Proof of this is found in an extract from the New York Times which quotes The Movement, the official organ of the National Socialist Student League, as bitterly attacking the old Heidelberg. The article, directed against the university, said, in part that: “The despicable sentimental cheap student type you present is gone. Such vicious characters may have been regarded in the period of racial degeneration as representative of the academic coming generation. Now such madness must come to an end.”
The writer of this bigoted nonsense evidently regards as “cheap” any student who dares think for himself and who refuses to swallow Nazi philosophy and propaganda. As for references to “vicious characters,” “racial degeneration,” we merely add that they fit the Nazi regime better than any adjectives we could coin for the occasion.
Finally, if “. . . such madness must come to an end,” why invite foreign universities to assist at the celebration since those invited stand firmly and staunchly for just this “madness”? Let Hitler limit his invitations to those who believe, with him, in despotism, tyranny, race oppression, and academic slavery. The English universities are to be commended for refusing to assist at the sad rites over the corpse of a once free, once flourishing seat of learning.
NO INFLATION HERE
DESPITE all that President Roosevelt and the present Congress have done to raise prices, we point to one local instance in which their efforts have been futile. We refer to student tickets for the fifth annual Bengal Bouts which, as in past years, are still priced at twenty-five cents.
We can suggest two very good reasons for not missing the Bouts. In the first place, this year’s sparkling card will be one of the best to appear in the local fieldhouse. We promise you a gala evening, and we guarantee that the Bouts will be all we have advertised them to be — “The Year’s Entertainment Bargain.” For the price of a matinee downtown you cannot afford to pass up this opportunity to see your hall mates slug it out to determine the all-university boxing champs.
Secondly, the proceeds from the show will go to the support of the Notre Dame graduates laboring in the Bengal Missions. Help these men who once walked the same campus, lived in the same rooms, sat in the same seats you now occupy. They deserve your wholehearted support. Attend the Bengal Bouts next Friday and enjoy a great evening while doing your bit for charity.
Fifteen
SEE YOU AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
ATHLETICS
NOTRE DAME HOST TO C. I. C. TRACK CARNIVAL
PITTSBURGH, 1935 WINNERS OVER NOTRE DAME, IS BRINGING STRONG SQUAD TO LOCAL MEET
IRISH AND MICHIGAN NORMAL LINE UP AS FOREMOST TITLE THREATS
By Cy Stroker
The biggest yearly event in the Irish track season is the Central Intercollegiate Conference meet, the 1936 edition of which takes place tonight and tomorrow afternoon in the Notre Dame fieldhouse. The meet is open to all mid-western college teams with the exclusion of those in the Big Ten conference. From as far east as Pittsburgh and as far west as Kansas stars of the cinder path are flocking to Notre Dame to do battle with each other and Coach Nicholson’s Irish. The qualifying contests and the finals in the shot put will be run off tonight and all other finals will take place tomorrow afternoon.	.
Many champions of last year’s meet are returning to try to set new marks in their respective events. In the pole vault Lloyd Siebert of North Central college, who topped 13 feet, five inches last year will be hotly pressed by Hawthorne of Michigan Normal. From Michigan Normal comes Abie Rosenkrantz to improve his gymnasium record in the 880 of 1 minute, 55.1 seconds. Our own Don Elser is expected to break his meet record in the shot put which he established last year by heaving the lead 47 feet, 7% inches. In the relay event Pitt’s champion team returns intact except for the substitution of Thomas for Kiger.
Coach John Nicholson Nick throws his annual party.
Nick's Relay Team Clinches Another Track Win For Irish
Notre Dame’s flashy mile - relay quartet staged a brilliant finish last Saturday in the fieldhouse, when they speeded under the tape to give the Irish a 54-50 decision over Illinois in the last indoor dual meet of the season. It was the second time this year that Rubly, Parsons, Sheehan, and Bernard checked in on the final event to preserve the tracksters’ unmarred schedule.
The affair was featured by the shattering of three meet records while tying one, two gym marks, and one Notre Dame record, in the course of the afternoon. Don Elser broke three of the day’s record, when he heaved the shot 49 feet, 2 inches to win his specialty.
Captain George Meagher won the broad jump with a leap of 23 feet 5 inches, and, in addition, smashed his former feat of two years ago by one-quarter of an inch. John Francis clipped four-tenths of a second from the old mark of 1:57,9, as he streaked in for a first in the 880-yard run. Gaines, of Illinois, came dangerously close to passing Francis in the last lap, Jmt the latter had enough “reserve” to stay in front.
Jack Frawley tied the meet record when he stepped over the 65-yard low hurdles in 7.4 seconds, to share the figures reached by Portman, of the Illini, in 1934. Mike Layden, although not placing, served a warning to future opponents that he is slowly (Continued on Page 23)
James Parsons
Other returning performers who were principal point winers last year are Waite of Washington U., Jordan of Notre Dame, and Phillips of Marquette in the 60 yard dash; Waite and Mike Layden in the low hurdles; Jessel of Marquette and Bernard of Notre Dame in the 440; Beckett, captain of the Marquette squad in the 880; Daly of Detroit and Gardner of Michigan State in the mile run; Cuff of Marquette in the high jump; and Elliot of Marquette in the shot put.-
This is the tenth year that the - (Continued on Page 22)
John Michuta
Sixteen
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
The Scholastic
Bengal Entries Include Many Prominent Names
BOXING PRELIMINARIES TAKE PLACE ON NEXT TUES. AND WED. EVENINGS
The University boxing room has been the scene of bristling activity during the past week as the large squad of boxing aspirants got in some valuable workouts for the Bengal preliminaries which will take place on Tuesday and Wednesday evenings in the boxing room.
Of the heavier men who are working out daily, Babe Marshall and Broscoe seem to shape up as two of
Top to bottom: Richter, Goro, Ken-neally and Noto.
the best. Then there is that old reliable of Bengal Bouts, Lou Purcell, who will be battling in the preliminaries in order to gain his third University title. Lou, is the brother of Phil Purcell, last year’s co-titleholder of the light heavyweight crown. Tom Mulligan is another lad who will bear watching. Tom hails from Chicago, and is president of the sophomore class. At the present time, Tom is troubled with a bad right hand, and is uncertain whether it will be in perfect shape for the preliminaries. Tom is no novice in the squared arena, having fought in amateur bouts during his high school days in Chicago.
There are the four talented and outstanding C.Y.O. leather - tossers
■also from the Windy City: Johnny Noto, Phil Kenneally, Walter Richter and Joe Goro. These four boys have ability, color, and are without a doubt a quartet of boxers which the University will be proud of. It will be the first experience in the local Bengal Bouts for any of the four, and they each have the title as their goal. Coach Frank Schiavone, who has been handling the training grinds of the men entered in the bouts, claims that any one of the four* fighters mentioned above has an excellent chance of copping the championship.
There are many of the past performers in the Bengal show who are working out but who for lack of time have not signified their intention of participating. Harry Marr, a hardhitting boxer from Boston, comes in (Continued on Page 22)
For this year’s annual Bengal Boxing Show there will be a charge of ten cents admission fee to the preliminaries which will be run off Tuesday and Wednesday, March 17 and 18.
COACH DE LANDERO'S FENCERS CAPTURE WIN OVER WILDCATS
The Notre Dame fencing team kept its slate clean by defeating the Wildcats of Northwestern Friday night, by the score of 10 to 7, thus chalking up its 14th consecutive victory.
With the score of 7-2 in their favor* the Irish Co-captains Carlos de Lan-doro and Kehoe went out to clinch the meet in the sabre event, which they did. Carlos won both of his bouts against Psiharis and Steven, and Kehoe won from Steven while losing to Psiharis.
Co-captain Kehoe led the scorers for the Irish, winning his three foil bouts and one in sabre while losing but one. Telmo de Landero contributed three points, winning his three bouts in foil. Co-captain C. de Landero added two more oints, winning his two sabrep bouts for two more victories in his record. In one of them he defeated Psiharis who was the winner of the Junior Sabre championship at Chicago last year in the Illinois Fencers League tournament. On that occasion he scored the only point against the Irish captain.
This week-end the Irish will attempt to stretch their winning streak when they meet the Cincinnati Bears Saturday evening at 7:30 in the gym.
Lively Action in Boxing Program of 1935.
Entries In All Eight-Classes
By James A. Waldron
On next Tuesday, March 17, the preliminary bouts for the Bengal Boxing Show to be held on March 20, will be conducted in the Boxing Room. If all the battles can’t be run off on Tuesday, the preliminaries will be continued on Wednesday, March 18. All contestants in the bouts must weigh in on Tuesday afternoon, between the hours of 4 and 6, in the varsity locker room. The weighing-in procedure will be supervised in order to alleviate any possibility of one man being over the weight limit of his division. Adhering to the amateur ruling, there will be only a one-pound leeway in each division. If a candidate doesn’t get in under this limit, he will be forced to fight in a heavier class.
The card this year will again feature the eight championship bouts in the regular classes from the spe,edy bantamweights up to the husky heavyweights. The winners and runnersup will be awarded sweaters signifying the honors which they have won. These divisions sweaters are the bantamweight, 118 lbs.; featherweight, 126 lbs.; lightweight, 135 lbs.; junior welterweight, 142 lbs.; welterweight, 147 lbs.; middleweight, 160 lbs.; light heavyweight, 175 lbs.; and heavyweight, over 175 lbs. classes. Each bout consists of three two-minute rounds, and there are no draw decisions.
All candidates must undergo a physical examination before *hey can officially enter into competition. Either Dr. McMeel or his assistant will be on hand to examine all contestants at 7:15 on Tuesday evening in the Boxing Room.
March 13, 193 6
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS. MARCH 20
Seventeen
INTRODUCING
By Cy Stroker
It is becoming common knowledge that, as far as the Notre Dame track team goes, anything is liable to happen. The Irish may be scheduled to take the worst trimming of the season from a team like Illinois, and then turn around and emerge victorious. Don Elser was known to be a good man in one event, the shot put. But all of a sudden he becomes a contender for decathalon honors. So the show goes on, with Coach Nick, the principal magician, pulling surprises out of his hat with all the gusto of a master of legerdemain. One of his latest tricks, which may. or may not prove that the hand is quicker than the eye, is his develop-men of Jack Frawley, a good 60 and 220 yard runner into a record breaking low hurdles man.
Jack has been running the sprints and middle distances since he was that high. Back in Birmingham, Alabama, suh, where he was born 23 years ago, he was a member of the track team of Phillips high school, and made quite a name for himself in that part of Dixie as a sprinter. He also played fullback on the football team, using his running ability to good advantage. But all this time he avoided the hurdles because he thought that the only way to be good in track was to specialize.
He came to Notre Dame in 1932 and entered the freshman track meet • that was held that fall. The events that earned his name were the 60
yard dash, the broad jump, high jump, and relay race. Of these he won the first two, and was a member of the quartet that won the relay. In his freshman year, too, he entered the interhall track meet, and once again showed his prowess in the sprints. In the spring of 1933 he reported for track and displayed such ability that he was promptly made a member of the varsity in his sophomore year. His first race was in the Marquette meet of that year, and one of his opponents was none other than Ralph Metcalfe who was then in the height of his college career. Such an opponent in his first race would prove too much for most every man. but Jack managed to place third in the event. His performance in that meet assured him a regular berth on the varsity, and he continued to run the 60 throughout the indoor season. In outdoor track he added the 220 to his list and later joined the relay squad.
Now that he is nearing the end of his career, Frawley can look back on the meets he has been in. Among the track stars whom he faced in competition are Metcalfe, Owens, Greeves, and Collier. He will run against the last named again in the state meet. To -win his event in this meet is now his great track ambition. Jack’s best time in the 60 yard dash is 6.4, two-tenths of a second slower than the Notre Dame record. In the low hurdles it is 7.4 missing the record Irish time by the same margin. Besides bing a track man, Frawley is a senior in the commerce school where he is majoring in business administration. He intends to leave his room in Corby this summer and head for New York where his pronounced southern accent ■will blend with the Bronx style of speaking.
FRESHMAN TRACK
In conformance with Western Conference rules, to avoid losing a year of eligibility freshmen are not run in actual competition. Therefore a system of postal meets has been devised which in effect is this: The freshman squad of each school participating runs in its own home field house. The best times are taken in each event, recorded, and forwarded to the opposing school. From a comparison of the times, the winners are determined, and points are awarded on the same basis as in a regular dual meet. Notre Dame has had three pis-tal meets to date, against Wisconsin, Iowa, and Indiana. Wisconsin and Iowa were victorious, though not by large scores, and the result of the Indiana meet, held last Friday, has not
Two Victories On Road Trip Terminates Court Schedule
Notre Dame concluded the most successful season that has been experienced by a Gold and Blue quintet, since basketball was included in the Irish athletic program, by defeating Marquette, 37-34, in Milwaukee Sat-
John Ford
urday night, and scoring a 51-28 victory over Detroit in the auto city, on Tuesday.
The Irish were trailing by eight points midway in the last half in the Marquette game, 29-21 when Rubado and Eirich were ejected because of four personals. Wade, Meyer and Moir combined to narrow the mark to 31-27 and then Tommy Wukovits tied it up with a field goal. Moir, Ford and Wukovits proceeded to put the contest “on ice” for Notre Dame.
Detroit Contest
The Irish climaxed their season, on Tuesday night, with a lopsided win over the University of Detroit, at the Naval Armory in Detroit. Moir scored a total of 12 points, while Nowak also emulated his teammates feat.
Marty Peters
It marked the final game that coCaptains Johnny Ford and Marty Peters, Johnny Hopkins, Frank Wade, and George Ireland would be playing under the Irish colors. The tilt attracted more than 4,000 spectators in the
spacious Armory. Laske led the Titans on offensive by registering an
even dozen points.
Notre Dame (51) G F T
Moir, f ______ 5 2 12
Ford, f ______ 10 2
Nowak, c _____ 6 0 12
Ireland, g ___2 0 4
Wukovits, g.... 2 4 8
Wade, g ______ 2 15
Hopkins, f .... 113
Peters, c ____ 0 0 0
Jordan, g ____ 0 0 0
Crowe, f _____ 11 3
Sweeney, g — 1 0 2
Detroit (28) G F T Cavanaugh, f 1 2 4 Kolibar, f.... 113 Lukasz'icz, f 0 1 1 Laske, c ----- 3 6 12
Bleach, g .... 2 15 Lauer, g ----- 113
Skover, g .... 0 0 0 Kerwin, g — 0 0 0 Huerth, f .... 0 0 0
8 12 28
21 9 51
(Continued on Page 22)
Eighteen
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
The Scholastic
Help! Help! Wrestlers
Raise Havoc in Training
NINETEEN GAME SCHEDULE FOR JAKE KLINE'S BASEBALL TOSSERS THIS COMING SPRING
By Gene Vaslett
The boys up on the fourth floor of Walsh are having their troubles — again. Cy Conner, the terrible behemoth, is on another one of his annual rampages, and his poor neighbors are receiving the full benefit of the wrath of a strong man wronged. The reason? It seems that Don Elser has had the temerity to offer 10-1 odds on that Tancredi fellow to throw the pride of West Springfield, Mass., clear out of the ring when the two Collosi meet in the Bengal Bouts, Friday night.
Elser bases his odds on the fact that Conner has been studying too much for the past few months in an effort to maintain his average of 41.5%, and Don holds that when a man starts to study he’s on his way down and can’t give a man like Nick Tancredi, who hasn’t cracked a book yet, any sort of a fight. So over in . Sorin we have Don Elser offering
10-1 odds on Tancredi, and as a result up on the fourth floor of Walsh we have Cy Conner ripping beds apart.
A neighbor of Cy’s has this to say about the muscle man’s latest debacle, “Last year before the Bengal Bouts the two of them (Conner and Tancredi) lived in the same hall, and it was pretty bad, but then they contented themselves with only pulling the radiators apart and tossing them through the windows. But now this Conner guy is going around twisting everybody’s beds up in knots. We didn’t mind his throwing radiators around last year; it was pretty warm at the time, but this business of twisting oui- beds up, puts us in a sort of embarrassing position. It’s no fun sleeping on the floor, especially a Walsh floor. We’ve got only a few more months here (we hope) and it would be nice if we could spend them in comfort.”
Conner,however, offers no apology. “That’s the risk they took when they signed up to live on the same floor with me,” he told us. “Besides, twisting beds strengthens my hands, and next Friday night I don’t plan to fool with Tancredi; I’m just going to tear him apart in the first few minutes.” Conner would make no statement about the odds offered by Elser, but
March 13, 193 6	SEE
Baseball Schedule
April 16—Toledo at N.D.
April 18—Chicago at N.D.
April 22—Purdue at N.D.
April 25-Illinois at N.D.
April 30-Mich. State at Lansing
May 1—Toledo at Toledo
May 2—Ohio State at Columbus
May 5—Chicago at Chicago
May 6—Wisconsin at Madison
May 7—Northwestern at Evanston
May 11—Louisiana Poly tech at N.D.
May 12 — Louisiana Poly tech at N.D.
May 13—Western State Normal at N.D.
May 16---Ohio State at N.D.
May 20---Purdue at Lafayette
May 21---Indiana at Bloomington
May 23—Western State at Kalamazoo	■	-
May 29---Iowa at N. D.
June 5—Pending
June 6---Michigan State at N.D.
a maniacal gleam flared in his eyes when we brought the subject up, and we decided it was better to leave that touchy point alone.
In the sub of Sorin the camp of the wild Italian from the East is' seething with activity. There is no twisting of beds over there, and when one approaches the sub, only the dull bump of a head being socked against a wall is heard. The head happens to be attached to the torso of the Tancredi menace, and why he socks his head against the wall only Tancredi knows. Some say to strengthen his neck muscles, but his trainer whispered that Nick is going to butt Conner out of the fieldhouse in the manner of a goat, and that’s the why of the head bumping process.
This week consternation momentarily gripped the Tancredi camp when it was reported that Conner was letting his hair grow. “What?” screamed Tancredi, “he’s never done that before; what’ll I do ? I never had to contend with his hair last year, and I’m not ready for it now.” A wise camp follower whispered something into the terrible Tancredi’s ear and the wrestler looked at his massive hands and smiled as he flexed them. “He may have long hair when he enters the ring,” he said meaningly, “but maybe he won’t have any when he’s carried out.” Did I ever show you my double hair twist?” Tancredi started to advance on one of the onlookers who promptly set a new sprint record for the distance from
(Continued on Page 22)
The Notre Dame baseball team is working to the tune of full speed ahead in the attempt to get into good condition for the strenuous schedule that confronts them in the coming
Frank Gaul
Gaul divided into three parts— Football, Hockey, Baseball.
season. Each afternoon in the gym the infield has been vrorking out with plenty of the old zip that goes to make up a swell ball club. Coach Kline believes that his charges are coming rapidly, and he is waiting for the weather to warm up a bit more before he orders them outside. There is a large crowd of pitchers unlimbering but none has really extended himself as yet, waiting for the mild sun next month. Capt. Frankie Gaul, veteran catcher, has been doing most of the backstopping. The outfielders have been working outside for a few days shagging flies over in Cartier Field and trying to perfect their judgment on those long tosses to home plate.
The baseball diamond will be greatly improved inasmuch as the University sponsored many beneficial improvements. One of the main features is the repacking with clay of the base lines. This clay will not be so badly affected by rain as the sand that has previously been used. Some of the Irish batsmen have expressed the wish that the center and left field fences be moved in a little closer to the home plate, but from latest reports these hitters will be doomed to disappointment. The fences will remain where they are.
No casualties have been observed yet by Coach Kline, and he is hoping that his good fortune will last him through the season. Once outdoors, Kline will go to work with renewed vigor in his attempt to shape a formidable team from some material which is excellent but which is for the greater part an unknown quantity. Meanwhile the boys will continue to bat the ball around, eagerly awaiting the opener with Toledo on April 16.
you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
Nineteen
BROWNSON SINKS BADIN'S HOPEFULS CORBY AND SORIN WIN IN HALL TILTS
S.A.C Swimming Meet Has Large List of Entries
Badin Coach Protests Game
By Al Bride
The leaders in the interhall league again supplied the fireworks in last week’s contests. With only two more
John Gillespie
A feature writer features.
weeks to go there are still at least two teams in every league that have a chance to cop the title, and the next two sessions should produce some lively contests.
For the first time since the season started there was a definite leader in the heavyweight division of Group I. The two undefeated teams, Brownson and Badin, met in a torrid contest that ended with the dorm boys the winners by the slim margin of one point. The Brownson lads jumped off to a quick start and at the half had a commanding lead of ten points, the score being 15-5. Badin, paced by Schwartz, went on a scoring spree that fell short by a lone point. The
Established 30 Years lemdn™|b OPTOMETRISTS 222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
▼
It is our aim to give you everything that is expected in a good pair of glasses.
▼
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
last few minutes of the contest, exciting as they were, were no more exciting than the argument after the game regarding a certain play in the first half. The Badin coach made an official protest.
In the lightweight division of the same group the Brownson boys also have command. They won handily and chalked up their fifth win against no defeats. Pesit took the honors for the winners.
The heavyweight division of Group II is still tied and is likely to remain so until the final week when the two leaders, Corby and Sorin meet in the deciding contest. Sorin again had an easy time in winning, running up an impressive score against Lyons. Wentworth was the high point man, accounting for eighteen of his team’s total. Elser, Prendergast, Crotty, and Waldron all were impressive for the winners.
The other team that has yet to meet defeat, Corby, also coasted to an easy victory over the seniors from Howard. In this contest Wilke, Joyce, and Tomaschko paced the winners.
Morrissey bested Alumni in another struggle in this group. Alumni had tough luck with many of its shots. Bill Foley and Jack Gillespie were best for the losers, while Kelley starred for the winners.
In the lightweight division the undefeated Walsh aggregation had a day of rest and still are undefeated. Alumni also kept their slate clean with a close victory over the second year men from Morrissey. This game passed into overtime before Cormier dropped in the bucket that earned the decision for the gold coasters. Nienaber played a steady game for the winners.
NOTHINGELSEHASfTSFUVOR ' A&o l»pml YtHo Boh $1.50
Paul Doyle, University breast stroke champion, and John Glanzner, back stroke champion, have volunteered to help the Rev. Julian Sigmar in preparing for the annual swimming meet sponsored by the Students’ Activities Council, to be held in the South Bend natatorium March 30 at 8:00 p.m. Father Sig-
Paul Doyle
In the swim of things along St. Joe.
mar and the two champions will be on hand three nights a week, on Monday, Wednesday and Friday evenings, to give diving and swimming instruction to all those interested in the meet.
The 120 yard events have been changed to 100 yards, according to Chuck Boyle, S. A. C. man in charge of the meet.
Many entries have been received by the chairman. All those who plan to compete should get in touch immediately with Chuck Boyle, in Sorin Hall, or with Father Sigmar at the natatorium on any of the three nights each week. With the short time remaining, it is necessary to get entries registered, so that the contestants may practice for their events.
Prizes and medals will go to the winners, and a very complete program has been arranged. Free style stars will find 60 yard, 100 yard and 220 yard races, as well as one leg of the three man relay of 180 yards. In this relay the other two'men will swim 60 yards breast stroke and 60 yards back stroke. The 360 yard three man relay race and the 40 yard underwater swim will complete the swimming events.
Low board and high board dives will each include four required dives. In the low board event there will also be three optional dives from the four which are required, and in the high board four optional ones.
Charles Boyle can be found in Sorin sub for further information on the meet, as well as to receive entries.
But I like my roommate because he can tie a bow tie.
Twenty
SEE you, AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
The Scholastic
PROCRASTINATION	you on our waiting list.
Why sit you here idle, when the XIth OLYMPICS are being held August 1 to 16 at Berlin? While this event is garlanded with Festivals of Munich and Bayreuth, with shows innumerable, and wreathed in the most hospitable smiles and low fares throughout Germany........While in England a new King reigns and the Henley Royal Regatta and the Cowes Royal Regatta draw people from the far ends of the world?
Your brothers and sisters are already booked, many with their cars, on the special student sailings—college orchestras aboard:
June 14 and July 1	June 21.and July 8
Bremen • Europa
These are the Lloyd Fliers of 4^ Days across the ocean F
STUDENT SPECIAL JUNE 27, 5 P. M.
111 m hue cOBH< plymouth
CHERBOURG, BREMEN
JUNE 20, JULY 18
to GALWAY, COBH,	11A M11M
SOUTHAMPTON, BREMEN
Hapag “famous four” to franco, England, Germany
JUNE 18	JUNE 25	JULY 2	JULY 9
Deutschland * Dew yorh • Hamburg • Hansa
JUNE 5, JULY 4 and AUG. 29
m. 5. St. Louis
to IRELAND, ENGLAND, GERMANY
Last Sailings to XIth Olympics
JULY 23	JULY 24
Dew yarh • • • Europa
------------------EDUCATIONAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT-------------------
Whether you want to Travel to Study or merely Study to Travel this department is at your beck and call—ready to tell you all about Summer Courses, Junior Year at leading Universities, Post Graduate work and pleasure, even hiking, canoeing or using the "old bus" throughout Europe.
a Hamburg-American Line • north German (loyb «
Educational Service Department, 57 Broadway, New York, N.Y.	Ihsib
Your Local Travel Agent, our authorized representative, will also serve you at no additional cost.
STUDENT SAILING INFORMATION AT 420 HOWARD AND 127 DILLON HALLS
•	March 20
THE BENGAL BOUTS
The Year's Entertainment Bargain
.. —	—Student Ticket, 25c = ■= -^=
GLG TRACK CARNIVAL (Continued from Page 16)
meet will have ben staged and out of the preceding nine years, Notre Dame has won six times. Winners of the other three meets are Michigan Normal, Michigan State, and Pittsburgh. This year Notre Dame stands a good chance of winning the meet as it has already defeated several of the stiffest competitors in dual meets. The teams competing in the meet are Notre Dame, Marquette, Pittsburgh, Michigan State, Michigan Normal, Butler, Detroit, North Central, Grin-nel, Illinois State Teachers, Western State, and Kansas State Teachers.
The meet takes on additional importance this year in view of the fact that winners in the events are automatically made eligible for the semifinals of the Olympic tryouts. This year also, points will be awarded for the first five places instead of the usual four. As a measure of the quality of the meet, all of the returning champions except Elser are record holders in their respective events. Then, too, the marks set in last year’s meet were better than those made in the Big Ten indoor meet in seven out of nine events. Although the Big Ten meets are held on a faster track, the C. I. C. marks this year are expected to compare favorably with those made on the speedier track.
HELP! HELP! WRESTLERS (Continued from Page 19)
Tennis Squad Prepares For Intensive Net Campaign J
With the warm weather comes ten- ! nis, and with tennis comes Notre i Dame’s hope for a successful season. Soon the Blue and Gold court aspir- : ants will start practice for a heavy schedule and principally in preparation for the opening match against ' Illinois on April 18.	•	■
The returning lettermen are: Capt. ' Joe Waldron, Joe McNulty, Joe Pren- j dergast, and George Cannon, seniors, ! and Bill Fallon, a junior. McNulty J won the fall tournament beating Wal- , dron in the finals.
Those without letters trying out for the squad are: George Feeley, Jim Waldron, brother of the captain, Eddie Kilrain, winner of the fresh- , man tournament last year, and Bud Verveat.
The schedule has not been completed as yet, but besides the opening meet with Illinois, Notre Dame will compete against Bradley, Indiana, ■ Northwestern, Ohio State, Michigan : State, Western State Teachers, Chi- ' cago, and Detroit. Some of these teams will be played twice. North- | western will offer the stoutest opposi- < tion, presenting such stars as Don Leavens, former holder of the national junior title, and the two Ball brothers. Chicago is another strong opponent, Bickal being the best player.
COURT SCHEDULE ENDS
(Continued from Page 18)
Notre Dame	(37)			Marquette		(34)	
	G	F	p		G	F	p
Moir, f 		.... 5	1	4	McMahon. -	f 3	2	2
Meyer, f 		9	0	9	Sokody, f	... 2	2	1
Ford, f 		.... 0	2	3	Vysitka, f	... 0	0	2
Nowak, e ..	... 4	1	2	Eirich, c ..	... 5	4	4
Peters, c —.	.... 0	1	0	Ehrig, c ..		2	0	0
Ireland, g -	„. 0	0	0	Wolfe, g ..	... 0	0	0
Wukovits, g-		2	0	2	Rubado, g	... 0	1	4
Wade. «•			9	2	2	O’Keefe, g.	.. 0	0	0
	—	—.	—	Cofone, g	... 0	0	1
	15	7	15	Rasmussen,	g o	1	1
					12	10	15
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
Sorin sub to the taxi-stand. Your correspondent wisely left as things began to get rough.
Such was the set-up this past week. Sorin being shaken to the rafters by the head of Tancredi, and the fourth floor of Walsh being thrown into a shambles by the hands of Conner. If each man can ruin a-hall by himself, what will happen to the fieldhouse when they both meet under the same roof next Friday? We’re afraid to even think about it.
. BOXING ENTRIES
(Continued from Page 17)
. this category. Harry is one of the finest boxers on the campus, but because of football duties and a dif-fficult class schedule Harry is not decided as yet whether to enter the bouts, but if he does you can count on him to be among the leaders. At the present time as this article is being written there has been received a total of 60 entries in the show. The drawings and pairings will be made by Frank Schiavone and Jim Waldron after all the entries have been received. The preliminaries will be held next Tuesday and Wednesday evenings in the boxing room of the gym, so be there early. An admission charge of ten cents will be charged for entrance to the preliminaries.
Twenty-two
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS. MARCH 20	. The Scholastic
PREPARING FOR THE BENGAL BOUTS
James Fox and Walter Gafney—Freshman boxing enthusiasts.
ILLINOIS TRACK MEET .
(Continued from Page 16)
rounding into shape for the hurdles. Layden has been giving his injured knee, which was a result of the past . football campaign, a much-needed rest.
The pole vault was split into a three-way tie, as McCarthy, Mitizia and Hackett could go no higher than 12 feet 6 inches. The visitors registered a clean sweep in the 60-yard high hurdles with three men taking places.
The entire proceeds was turned over to the Olympic fund to help defray the cost of sending the American track and field squad to Berlin this summer. The victory was the fourth consecutive triumph for Coach Nicholson and his proteges, during the indoor season.
MILE RUN — Won by Francis (Notre Dame) ; McGraw (Illinois), second: McKenna (Notre Dame), third. Time, 4 minutes 30.9 seconds.
SHOT PUT—Won by Elser (Notre Dame) : Michuta (Notre Dame). second: Levicki, (Notre Dame), third. Distance, 49 ft. 2 in. (New Notre Dame indoor, gymnasium and meet record. Old indoor record 48 ft. 9% in.,
GLASSES Properly FITTED
—— FINEST V ■ BRIAR
■ MONEY CAN BUY
MNHEIIltD OF VALUE
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St.
' South Bend, Indiana
Elser. 1935; old gym record 48 ft. 8% in.. Elser 1936. Old meet record 48 ft. 6 in.. Cook, Illinois. 1934.)	•
60-YARD DASH—Won by Grieve (Illinois) : J o r d a n (Notre Dame), second; Clifford (Notre Dame), third. Time, 6.3 seconds.
POLE VAULT — McCarthy (Notre Dame), Mitizia (Illinois), and Hackett (Illinois) tied for the first three places. Height 12 ft.. 6 in.
440-YARD DASH—Won by Spears (Illinois) ; Bernard (Notre Dame), second; Cullinan (Illinois). third. Time 51.4 seconds.
60-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Robinson (Illinois) ; Huntley (Illinois), second : Cullinan (Illinois), third. Time 7.8 seconds.
TWO-MILE RUN—Won by O’Connell (Illinois) ; McFarlane (Notre Dame), second: Gott (Notre Dame), third. Time, 9 minutes 46.4 seconds.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Meagher (Notre Dame) : Boyle (Notre Dame), second; Brunton (Illinois), third. Distance 23 feet 5% in.
SOMETHING WONDERFUL GOES 0~N INSIDE
tobacco.
RECOMMENDED BY
NOVEL 0 STANDARD SHAPES
MILLIONS
OFUSERS
FILTER-COOLED faa/nA. MEDICO (PATENTED)
This simple appearing yet amazing absorbent filter invention with Cellophane exterior and cooling mesh screen interiorkceps juices and flakes in Filter and out of mouth.
Prevents tongue bite, raw mouth, wet heel, bad odor, frequent expectoration. No breaking in. Improves thetasteand
The Pipe
(New gym record. Old mark 23 feet 5V> in.. Meagher 1934.)	“
880-YARD RUN—Won by Francis (Notre Dame) ; Gaines (Illinois), second ; Cavanaugh (Notre Dame), third. Time 1 minute 57.5 seconds. (New meet record. Old record 1:57.9 by Ponzer of Illinois 1925.)
65-YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Frawley (Notre Dame) ; Cullinan (Illinois), second; Wright (Illinois), third. Time. 7.4 seconds. (Ties meet record set by Portman of Illinois in 1934.)
HIGH JUMP—Yager. Spurlock, and Avery, all _ of Illinois, tied for first three places. Height, 5 feet 10 inches.
MILE RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (Rub-ly. Sheehan. Parsons, Bernard). Time 3 minutes 24.6 seconds.
It’s No Secret!
. . . The cheapest and quickest way to Chicago is Via SOUTH SHORE LINE
Now it can be told! Actual comparison of the cost of driving an auto between South Bend and Chicago as against South Shore Line riding proves “hands down” • that the latter is much cheaper. 2 cents per mile . . . that’s South Shore Line cost! From 4 to 8 cents a mile . . . that’s auto .
. cost! Get the South Shore Line habit and you’ll be money ahead. It’s faster and safer, too.
5OUthnsehor[
March 13, 1936
SEE you AT THE BENGAL BOUTS, MARCH 20
Twen t y -1 Ht e e