Vol. XXII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, January 26, 1889.	No. 21/
.	A Scheme of Life.
BY THE LATE ATT1E O’BRIEN.
• [These verses were found in an unfinished state in the author’s journal, and are now published for the first time. They marked a turning-point in her life—when she had renounced certain hopes and expectations, and made up her mind to a life of literary work and domestic usefulness, all for others.]	a
’	j. ’
Up and seize the living present, • Stand not with divided mind—
Casting longing looks before thee. And regretful looks behind. '
11.	'
From the past forever parted,
Use its lessons, try once more:
Faint not listless, weary hearted:
Use with hope thy new-found lore.
in.
Seek no future earth can give thee, Carve not out a fancied fate;
Those who dream away the present Find a future all too late.
IV.
Strive! Achieve what life was meant for—
•• Independence won by, worth; 'T ' Noble thoughts and noble actions -
Shall from honest souls spring forth.
v.
Float not on Life’s changing currents, Seek the pearls beneath its tide;
Use thy gifts of mind and body— Work and fame go side by side.
•	VI.
Do not yield to sad repinings, Seek no more a kindred mind;
For all true hearts are self-reliant. They find their kin in all mankind.
' VII.
Then up and seize the living present, And tread the path by thousands trod;
Be kind, be true, be energetic.
But past and future leave to God.	.
•	—Ave Maria.
The Rise and Progress of the English Language.
BY JOHN BATTELLE MEAGHER, ’89.
The English language, “our mother tongue,” is a tongue formed from the many. It combines the melody, sonorousness and harmony of the Latin with the strength, tenderness and simplicity of the Teutonic. We are also indebted for many words to the Celts, the Greeks and the French. To study the growth of our language, through its successive stages' of development to its present stage of perfection, necessitates our going back to the time when the savage struggled with the beast for supremacy in the Isle of Britain; when.the language lived only on the tongue and in the ear of bard and savage. The earliest literature of all nations finds expression in crude verse: “The father of metre is rhythm, and the father of rhythm, God.” During the primitive ages of the history of man, the people follow a nomadic life; they know not mart of trade, commerce of the seas, nor the guile of politicians. Being emotional they never harangue their hearers in logical prose, but exhort them in chant or song.
The North American Indian in his prayer to the Great Spirit, or in his address to the tribe, uses bold figures, sublime language, and the music of his numbers flows in soft melody. A pastoral life in the wilderness of uncultivated nature makes of the savage a poet and musician. As he advances and comes in contact with the refining influences of civilization, he casts aside the naive simplicity of nature and becomes bas bleu, critic and philosopher. ’ Poetry, by its musical cadence, admits of an oral transfer that carries through many centuries the songs and ballads of primeval antiquity.
342	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
English prose can look no farther back than Alfred for its true parentage; but to trace the progress of our language through the different epochs of its growth, we must go back to the time when Caesar and his Roman legions first cruised in English waters, to the time when the blessing of a bard was supposed to secure man from nakedness and hunger—liis curse to bring fatalities upon man and beast.
The Celts, of whom Ossian sings, “Thev went forth to war, but they always fell,” are the first inhabitants of Britain with whom we have anything in common. They were a brave and energetic people, warlike and savage; their country a wilderness; their possessions, arms and cattle. Those of each tribe were subject to a chief who, calling them together, conferred with them on matters pertaining to their general welfare. In time of war a dumb messenger,running from hamlet to hamlet carrying aloft the cran-tara, summoned the warriors. The priests of the Celtic tribe were the Druids who. in obscure caves and hidden glens, taught their disciples the doctrine *of the transmigration of souls. At noon and night they paid homage to their gods, sacrificing captive'and criminal, the innocent and fair.
A new era was soon to begin for the Celts: they were to fall; though able to resist Caesar, they bowed before Claudius. The Romans.came in ship of sail fully equipped with the trappings of war. Defeating the Celts, their chief, Carac-tacus, was made captive, their country a Roman, province, and their people paid tribute to Rome.
The effect of this conquest on the language is not perceptible. Although there are in the English language many Latin idioms and words, they have been grafted into our tongue during three principal periods. The first, in the 13th century which followed an age devoted to classical learning; the second, in the 16th century when there was a revival of enthusiasm for antiquity; the third, in the 18th century when Johnson, “ who loved to coin in the Roman mint,” was the dictator of prose style. But the words introduced at this conquest were thrown aside by the Saxons who followed the Romans, and who-implanted their own tongue. / ,
-It being necessary to quell the revolt of. provinces near Rome, the authorities called in their legions from the far distant provinces of Britain. The Celts, deprived of the protection of Rome, were placed in desperate straits being open:to the-assaults of,the Picts and the Scots. , Unable to protect themselves, they sought, protection elsewhere, crying: “The barbarians drive, us to the sea, and the sea drives us; back again.” .In . this: extremity with pledges of land and pay
they sought the aid of the Germanic tribe of Jutes.
“ Then sad relief from the bleak coast that hears The German Ocean roar, deep-blooming, strong And yellow-haired, the blue-eyed Saxon came.”
The fame of the Jute adventurers brought many others; and finally, the invaders reaching a large number, they turned against the Celts whom they were to protect, and made of them subjects. From Holstein and Friesland came the Saxons who founded Sussex, Wessex and Essex; from Sleswick in a series of descents came the Angles who founded Anglia, North-thumberland, and Mercia.
The once puissant Celtic race had ruled hill and glen, but their tents and banners now fade away from the landscape, and their cran-tara moulders in the dust. The country now was called Angle-land, the land of the Angles or English.
From the blending together of the kindred dialects of the Jutes, the Angles, and the Saxons is derived the Anglo-Saxon tongue, which is called original English. It is essentially the speech of the practical active life of business, of the street, market and farm; its percentage in modern English is about five-eighths, and in the vocabulary of conversation about four-fifths. The words first lisped by the child are Anglo-Saxon as are those words expressive of strongest feeling: as home, hearth, fireside, life, death, man, wife, love, hate, hope, fear, gladness and sorrow.
Ere the cycle of many centuries. the Anglo-Saxons were in turn’to feel the oppression and the iron hand of conquest and conqueror. In 1066, in the single battle of Hastings, the Normans, under Duke William, overcame the Anglo-Saxon race and subjugated England. With the new regime came the introduction of feudalism, chivalry, aqdthe French tongue which was made the language of the court and belles-lettres. The language- introduced by the Norman invaders was known as the Langue’d Oil in distinction from the Langue’d Oc, and the both were the result of the decomposition of the classical Latin. .	/	.
The English language, being excluded from literature and the circle of the court it became a mark of degradation; and finding only an oral life amongst the peasants, it became divided into numerous dialects, the principal being the . Northern, the Midland, and the Southern. The English bard arid gleeman were displaced by the Norman trouveres and troubadours who with the aid of song and ballad wielded potent influence oyer English thought and language. As late as.the middle of the 14th century.it was said-.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOeAsTiC.
“children in scole agenst the usage and manir of air other nations, beeth compelled for to leave hire owne language, and for to construe hir lessons in Frensche, and so they haveth sethe Normans came first into England.” The two races lived long in the relationship of lord and menial, but the marriage of Henry I to a Saxon princess led to harmony, peace, and the restoration of the Saxon dynasty. The differences existing between the two peoples were now forgotten, and their languages began to coalesce that they might have one speech common to all. English shortly afterwards became the language of courtier and peasant, of poet and bard; its use became universal. The new tongue differed from the old English the Normans had refused to.use; its sound had softened, its appearance had changed; “it was English still in root and sap, but saturated with words of the Norman tongue.” Hallam accounts for the transformation in the following manner: (i) by contracting/ dr otherwise modifying the pronunciation and orthography; (2) by omitting many inflections, especially of the noun, and consequently making more use of articles, and auxiliaries; (3) by the introduction of French derivatives. It was during the reign of Edward HI, when chivalry was in its most blooming efflorescence, when the court of the king was a dream of loveliness, beauty and wealth that Chaucer, “the star of a misty morning,” was born. .The nation having waged and resisted war successfully, it tended to unite firmly the two elements that formed the English people and the English language. The language now but awaited the master-hand and necromancy of Chaucer, who with wonderful skill released it from the Babylonish confusion into which it had fallen, dropping words superannuated and uncouth, he softened its churlish nature by introducing words of Romance fancy. The manuscript of, Chaucer appears to the novice written in Anglo-Saxon interspersed with the characters of many tongues, so combined as to appear a garment of whole cloth but of many colors; as Swinburne says: “A French or Italian tongue speaking with a Teutonic accent through English lips.” While he yet lived he saw his efforts rewarded by a statute decreed in 1362 which ordered English, to be used in courts of law because “the. French tongue is much unknown.” A little later children in the grammar schools “leaveth Frensche and construeth and lerneth in Englische.”
In 1483 Henry V, in a letter to a craft of brewers, recommended the tongue; saying: /1 The Eng; lish tongue hath in modern days begun to be hbnorably enlarged and adorned; arid for the
343
better understanding of the people, the common idiom should be exercised in writing.” o
About twenty years later, there appeared in Arnold’s chronicle the interesting ballad of the “Nut Brown Maid.” This ballad shows a modern cast of phrase and arrangement, and a diminution of obsolete English,, marking the commencement of a new era. The next most important epoch in the growth of our language is called in literature “the golden age”—the day of Queen Elizabeth; “full were they of poets as the summer days are of birds.”
Shakspeare passing the wand of his genius over the language of his predecessors made it obsolete; and, with another move of qenius, he established a vocabulary that is still current in our day. Of the fifteen thousand words used by Shakspeare, not more than five or six hundred have become obsolete, or changed their meaning. Sir Philip Sidney, “A belated butterfly frozen on the leaf,” writing at this time, says:. “English is void of those cumbersome differences of cases, genders, moods, and tenses, which. I think, was a piece of the tower of Babylon’s curse.” .	-
The closing of this century, ere.Shakspeare had retired to the quiet of Avon, saw the English language freed from the organic action of development, constitutionally fixed, unfettered and many-voiced. From now on the work lay in enlarging the vocabulary, and this was done either by coining new words, or introducing foreign ones. The great work of development had been accomplished, and Milton and all his successors have found a language. that in every manner is suitable for the expression of their thoughts. Their work is not in the vineyard, but at the wine-press; they need not make a language, but they must invent a style, or improve upon a literary diction, that their works may live with the language, and answer adsum to immortality.
Of our modern poets none have been so sue cessful in purism as Tennyson; he has restored many old Saxon words, and gives us a presentation of that fine old English which Eirierson calls “a stern and dreadful language.” “He is a purifier of our tongue; a resistant to-the novelties of slang and affectation; intruded upon our literature by the mixture of races and the extension of English-speaking colonies to every clime and continent of the world.”
In 1553 Mulcastor wrote: “The English tung cannot prove fairer than it is at this day.” Reading over the. manuscripts of his day arid a perusal of--the authors since his time lead us to the conclusion that the tongue of Tennyson
344
THE NOtRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and Newman is much fairer. Still we doubt much the ability of the future celebrities and inmortals of literature to improve on thatwealth and compass, that clearness and simplicity, that elegance and exactness, that rich and varied music of the English language which has made English literature the crowning point of the works of man.
The Yellowstone Park.
BY PROF. A. F. ZAHM.
VI.—(Concluded.) Mammoth Hot Springs.
At last the moon became clouded, and we decided to postpone our rambles until next day. though in many respects it is much more pleasant by moonlight. We now had a mile to walk over this dangerous region, and were obliged to proceed slowly because all about our feet were hot springs and gaping fissures in the earth. As we were going down the slope a long distance apart, the young man suddenly set up a terrific shriek. I called to him, but received no answer. As he was not to be seen, 1 hastened along the path towards him. and presently found him near one of the springs muttering some wild ejaculations. He said he had stepped on the edge of the crust, and when his foot entered the hot water, it scared him awfully and sent the cold chills along his back. This is a property of hot water not mentioned in the guide-book. It says distinctly that such occurrences make one’s hair stand on end. But in this case it was wrong again, because this fellow’s hair always stands on an end.
VII.—Natural History of Hot Springs.
There are more than ten thousand thermal springs in the Park, some three thousand of which have been located and named. It is by all means the greatest collection to be found in this country, if not in the world. Almost every other state and territory of the great West is well supplied with immense hot springs of many kinds, but none that can equal these in magnitude, variety and artistic beauty; nor arc any of them geysers, unless perhaps some of California’s turbulent springs may rank as such. In the southeastern part of that state, in the section known as the Colorado Desert is a small region remarkable for its volcanic activity. It measures about one-fourth of a square mile, is covered with a soft, muddy soil, through which steam and water rise with loud hissing and roaring, casting mud frequently to the height of 100 feet. Some
of the springs boil furiously, and at times eject water twenty or thirty feet. Remarkable mud volcanoes likewise occur, and mud caldrons many feet in diameter constantly bubbling and sputtering.
Hot springs arc invariably accredited with extraordinary medicinal properties, creating, therefore, about them shortly, magnificent hotels, baths, and the other conveniences of health resorts. The great springs of Arkansas, New Mexico, Colorado and Utah are too well known to be spoken of here. Such resorts seem to have been well patronized at all times and in every part of the world. The extent of their occurrence is thus detailed by Mr. Roberts:
“Thermal springs, as those arc called whos.e mean annual temperature exceeds that of the locality in which they are found, are distributed at random over the entire world. In New Zealand and Mexico, in South America and Europe, in Asia, Africa and America, they find their way to the earth’s surface, no matter how high or how low the elevation. In India thermal springs exist at an altitude of sixteen thousand feet; in France and Germany they are less than a thousand feet above the ocean level. Latitude does not affect them. Their temperature is as great under the Arctic circles as under the equator. The reputation of their waters for medicinal and bathing purposes was known to the ancients as well as to ourselves. Pliny discusses them, and the Romans erected temples over them. The baths of Diocletian were famous for the statuary with which they were adorned; and Italy to-day shows many a ruin of the gorgeously decorated buildings where the rich and poor used to gather to bathe in the healing waters."
The great thermal springs of Iceland, of Asia Minor, and NewZealand rival ours in magnitude, form and beauty of incrustation. In the latter country there is a lake of 120 acres whose temperature remains constantly at about 78° from the influx of hot springs. On one side of this lake is an immense spring measuring 60x80 feet, and filled to the brim with beautiful blue water which by constantly overflowing has built up an embankment of brilliant white terraces and scalloped basins like those of the Mammoth Hot Springs. The geysers of New Zealand too are said to surpass those of Iceland, though far inferior to the huge monsters of the Firehole V alley.
Both in number and extent the extinct thermal springs of the world far surpass the active ones. This may be judged from their remains. In many places they have built up large tablelands which are now over-grown with plants and trees many score years old. In Iceland the deposit is about 100 feet thick and covers more than a square mile; in parts of the Yellowstone Park the formation measures fully two hundred feet in depth; about the baths of San Vignone, Italy, it has a thickness of-250 feet, and at San
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
345
Filipo strata have been found having a depth of 328 feet. “St. Peter’s and all the principal buildings of Rome,” says Dr. Peale, “are constructed of travertine (or calcareous tufa); and Hieropolis the deposit rises one hundred feet above the plain, and has a width of six hundred feet, and upon this the city stands.”
The rate at which the deposit accumulates has been estimated for various springs. At San Vignone the pipe which supplies the baths is yearly coated inside with an incrustation six inches thick, which is about the same as that observed at the Mammoth Hot Springs. The laws governing this deposit are of great interest to us as they throw much light on the problems of formation and change both of springs and geysers. We know, for instance, why the geyser tubes are verticle, why so many of the cones and basins are so perfectly round and level. If they were not level the water would overflow
Liberty Cab.
the lower side, and thus build up the margin at that place until the overflow should be equal on all sides. The building would then continue uniformly all around; and since the surface of quiet water is perfectly level, the top of the basin’s rim must be level, and thus growing upwards make the walls of the tube within perfectly verticle. The form of the outside walls of the cone would evidently depend upon the quantity of flow. If the flow were very great the cone would be verv broad and rough; symmetrical, of course, if the land were level, but very long and one-sided in case the land sloped considerably. A very beautiful, smooth, symmetrical cone would, like a pretty face in man, indicate gentleness of action. The less the flow, therefore, the narrower and more pointed the cone, so that we might not be astonished to see one as sharp as a church spire, standing like a gigantic stalagmite. Structures something
of this nature may indeed be seen occasionally in the park. Beautiful, round, symmetrical cones, “Pyramids,” as they are called, of 50 or 60 degrees are found rather abundantly. The “ Orange Geyser” or more properly Orange Spring, is a good illustration of this gentle breeding. If there had ever been any turbulence or eruptions here they should be recorded below in a board rough deposit hideous and ugly as battle wrecks usually are. But the best example of all is the “Liberty Cap” shown in the cut. It measures fifty feet in height, and was probably a century building yet always working quietly, gently and at length died away, leaving this magnificent monument to its peaceful and venerable life most worthy the name of liberty.' We thus see that geysers, as well as human faces, write and reveal their own history if we could but read it.
These laws of deposit are of especial interest for another reason: they are absolutely essential to the explanation of geyser tubes and caverns without which the great eruptions were impossible. All geysers, so far as known, were originally violent hot springs gushing out from the natural surface of the earth. Thev might hiss and roar and splash as much as they liked, but could not send up a column of water for want of tube. Most springs never get a tube, and therefore though possessing copious heat they can never become geysers. Those, however, which hold silica in solution by gradually depositing it on all sides, build up a tube to match their capacity and strength. This deposit can be made only on the margins of the spring where the water cools or evaporates. The hot water of the centre fortunately cannot deposit; otherwise the tube and spring should be filled' up. As this process continues at its slow rate, of about six inches a year, the tube deepens and the steam now encumbered rises with more and more difficulty upheaving the superincumbent water: at first with immense steaming and boiling over like a kettle; then year by year growing more violent as the tube deepens, and throwing the water with a constant roar and filling the air with an immense column of vapor. Finally the tube becomes so deep that the steam cannot escape so fast as it is formed, and the whole, body of water is uplifted into the air and the spring becomes a geyser. One other thing is to be noted. The water at the bottom of the tube being under pressure boils at a much higher temperature than water at the surface. As a consequence when this bottom water is lifted up in the tube a part of it bursts into steam which hurls up the remaining water with the violence of a boiler explosion thus emptying the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tube. The spring then remains quiet or only steams until it has time to again fill up with boiling water, when another eruption occurs. As a rule, the filling requires far more time than the eruption. The ratio of these two periods is evidently a function of many variables. Short tubes should operate more frequently than long ones. For a tube of uniform diameter the time of heating would vary nearly as the depth. A geyser of large contents not supplied with a proportionally large spring below may require many days for heating; or, again, if supplied from a steam vent containing insufficient water, it may require very long to fill, owing to too O	3	o
rapid evaporation; or indeed may not be filled with a solid body of water at all, the whole being swept out as an enormous cloud of vapor (see cut). The ideal geyser should have an enormous smooth straight tube running verticallv into the ground to a great depth and terminating beneath in a large cavern supplied with a strong flow of water a little above the boiling point for that depth. Such a geyser would fill in the shortest possible time an enormous column to the maximum height, and for the greatest length of time.
•: Since describing the “Saw-Mill” I have succeeded in constructing
an artificial geyser which may be of interest to the reader. It consists of a vertical tube twenty feet high into the bottom of which hot water enters from a boiler. ’ The pressure for this length of tube may be anything above eight pounds per square inch, but preferably only a little ’ more than the pressure at the bottom of the geyser tube. The water is turned into the tube slowly, thus filling it in about one minute, so that it begins to just boil over at the top. The ebulition is at first gentle, like that of a quiet hot spring, but in a few seconds grows very turbulent, causing the water to surge up some inches in the tube and consequently to partly flash into steam from top to bottom, whereupon the whole body of water is upheaved and blown violently into the air with a. great cloud of vapor. It imitates the action of
The Giant Geyser.
Old Faithful with wonderful minuteness, filling slowly with repeated groans, boiling over and surging at the top with two or three ineffectual efforts at eruption, and finally with a complete upheaval discharging all the water and steam high above the mouth of the tube. But the strangest feature of the little geyser is its regularity of action in which respect also it imitates Old Faithful perfectly. You may observe the tube attentively and see no water nor any sign of action until within a few seconds of eruption though by timing it with a watch you may predict the time of its appearance very nearly. The supply of water maybe regulated so as to cause an eruption once every half minute, every forty seconds, or only once a minute at pleasure, and, once set, the eruptions will continue indefinitely without any attention just as they do in nature. Of course the intervals between- each performance and the duration of the play are longer for larger geysers. There seems to be no limitto the possible magnitude of artificial geysers, and it would be easy to estimate the expense of operating one in a city park that should riyal the giants of the Yellowstone. Who will be the first enterprising citizen to consider this? (conclusion next week.)
The Uses of Literature.
BY H. P. BRELSFORD, ’91.
Give me a book that I may revel in the imagery of the . ages; that I may while away the tedium of the hour. Give me a book that I may ponder the pages of wisdom, and imbibe inspiration from the lore of the past. Yes; for while we do not, with Matthew Arnold, place literature above God, yet we are eager to declare ourselves fully sensible of its importance; for literature is crystallized thought.
To a degree, the literature of every age bears the impress of the ideas that dominated that epoch. Hence literature is history. But not alone does it tell of deeds upon field, or in council, it does more: it brings to us the measure of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	347
man’s soul, gauges his culture, and mirrors himself. Literature, however, is not done with a spiritless transcript of the past; it has an identity of its own; it admonishes while it relates, and from the experience of the past warns of the pitfalls of the future.
Secure in the possession of literature, we oft-times fail to consider its importance. It means culture, and culture is responsible for the development of mankind. Its importance suggests the query: How may a knowledge of literature best be obtained? We answer, only by labor. A knowledge of literature is not at the bestowal of fortune’s fickle goddess; it can come, does come, only to the persevering student. If you would know literature, read. Its history, as we have said, is the story of man’s progress to his present state. Man lived long ere literature had a name; but before its advent he was unworthy to bear the image of his God. Its origin is as obscure as that of language itself. How long man spoke before he wrote is likewise but conjecture. Far back through the maze of the ages we catch a glimpse of Thebes, of Nineveh, of Babylon. Farther than that the mental vision may not penetrate, and the human mind cannot know. Of the literature of those ages in which Thebes flourished and Nimrod’s city was, and in which Nineveh teemed with millions ere she fell, we know only enough to aggravate our ignorance. But we know that the dusky sun of Egypt faced Osiris, fortified with an earnest perusal of “The Book of the Dead.” We know that the mighty Persian monarch, Asshur-burnipal, established. a library in which the volumes were tablets of clay; while the literature of ancient Medea and Persia comes down to us in the sacred text of their “Avesta”; and the “Vedas” and “Precepts of Confucius” tell us all we know concerning the early literature of India and of China.
But if our knowledge of the literature of Egypt, Assyria and IndiaJs as limited as it is valueless, it is not so with that which, later on, distinguished Greece. It was in the prime of Athens that literature first robed herself in the dignity of a science.
“The Book of the Dead” and the “Avesta” are to-day held as curious mementos of distant ages; but the literature of Greece still exists as a model, and is still cherished as a priceless heritage. So, too, with Rome, that faithful disciple of Grecian letters: Virgil and Cicero are still read and still appreciated, though the gems of their genius are embalmed in a language that lives no more.
When the ruthless hordes of the North tram
pled beneath their barbaric feet the culture of Europe, literature did not die. Far to the West, ’ in the little Isle where dwelt the Celts, the spark of literature was fanned into renewed vigor by Celtic genius; and the race of the unconquered Irishman of to-day, was the race that fostered literature through that dark time when she had no other dwelling-place. Then, when Chaucer grasped his poet pen, began another epoch, and its fruits remain in the English literature of the present.
We have in the foregoing briefly defined literature, as well as mentioned a few of the benefits accruing from its study. We have spoken of the best method of obtaining a knowledge of it, and given an epitome of its history. The consideration of these points naturally leads us to speak of the essentials of good literature.
The first requisite is one concerning which there can be no dispute—it must tend to elevate rather than to degrade; for, knowing the influence of literature in the better development of man, we cannot but fear its power when exerted to his debasement. With the exception of this one unvarying essential, no arbitrary rule can be given as to the essentials of a good literature.
Man should read with a definite purpose; and hence the standards of literature among different readers must be as various as are human aims—as different as are human tastes. Noble is the lineage of literature: her kings are the uncrowned monarchs, whose sceptre was their pen; her peers are the peers of song.
But, as in a landscape the towering peaks hide from view the lesser hills, so in literature the great names of the past obscure those of lesser note. And in an article brief as this must needs be, we can only mention those of the past without whom literature would be but a name.
Homer, blind Homer, whose darkened vision only shut out sordid scenes from a mind in which they had no place; Virgil, Horace, Cicero, immortal triad, as long as tongue shall speak your praises shall be sung; Ximenes, diplomat and translator; and Ariosto and Tasso with genius as brilliant as their Italia’s skies; Corneille, Racine, Lafontaine—not France, but the world, bows at your shrine; Germania boasts of Goethe, and of Schiller, her best beloved; then with mention of Chaucer, Shakspeare, greatest of the great; and, last, of Tennyson, we have done. So much for the great names of literature.
At this point a thought naturally suggests itself as to the influence of literature upon the history of the world; but the limits of this article forbid the development of this point as fully as we could wish. Suffice it to say that
348
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
literature is not alone an effect, but ofttimes a cause; that not alone does it reflect history, but more; it was potent in the making of it. .
In this article, however, it is our purpose more particularly to treat of the utilitarian qualities <of literature. They are many; we can mention but few.
One of the most important—important in its influence upon history—is its power of fostering and, indeed, of begetting patriotism. And to patriotism, or the lack of it, may be ascribed many of the vicissitudes of which history makes mention; much of the disintegration, or cohesion of peoples and of states.
■ As a civilizer, literature holds first rank. Marked is the difference between man without a literature and man affected by its influence. It is all the difference between man in the rude garb of savageiy, and man in the habiliments of the civilized present.
It is literature that has rebuked the ignoble, and immortalized the great; that has chastened man’s passions, cultured his taste and broadened his mind. It is literature that has beaten back the onslaught of rapine and of ruin that ever follows from the license of man’s baser self. Then, too, the human mind is peculiarly susceptible to the influence of example, and it is in this regard that the use of literature is particularly apparent. It brings to us the heroic deeds, the noble sacrifices of the past, and presents them for our emulation. It paints for us pictures of all that is best—pictures in which great thoughts are painted with the brush of fancy, and colored with a diction of beauty.
But perhaps that function of literature in which .we see its power most fully illustrated is that of its influence upon morals. When Hellenic glory induced luxury and indolence, it was Aristophanes who ridiculed the sensuality and rebuked the folly of Greece; and he that pointed • out the dangers of sensual indulgence. When Henry VIII arrogated to himself unlimited power both of Church and of State, it was the "Utopia” of More that exposed the sophistry of his spiritual usurpation, and the fallacy of the doctrine that the king can do no wrong. And if Voltaire and Diderot precipitated the horrors of a so-called "reign of reason” in France, it was none the less Mrs. Stowe who'wakened the dormant intelligence of America to action—an intelligence that demanded and achieved the freedom of the slave.	.
Though literature beguiles while it instructs, it is not a tawdry ornament of tinsel and gilt, but a mighty factor, a potent force; not alone a source of diversion, but a springof instruction
as well; and in this age in which the value of a thing is measured by its practical use, we would, perhaps, do well to close with a few words upon the practical use of literature to an intelligent man.	•
The well-being of man in this world—to say nothing of the next—depends largely, if not wholly, upon his character. In the better development of man’s character two things are of prime importance: those with whom he associates, and that which he reads. And of the two, the latter is of more importance; because there is a weight and dignity to the printed page, that serves more deeply to inculcate that which it teaches.
Man may choose his friends; man may select his books; hence, man may determine his own character. If he is. sordid, coarse, and narrowminded, he may read that which will elevate, ennoble and refine. If he is unpractical and chimerical, he may read that which will instil acumen and teach caution. And, lastly, that which is of infinitely greater import than all, he may provide for the welfare of his soul; he may strengthen a weakening faith; he may subdue a rebellious heart; he may conquer a wayward mind—all with literature!
College Gossip.
—The freshman class at Oxford numbers 652. At Cambridge there are 862 freshmen.
—Philadelphia has a large training school for colored teachers, and its head is Miss Fanny J. Coffin, one of the most notable colored women in the country. She is a graduate of the Rhode Island State Normal School and Oberlin College, and has taught since 1S65.
—A teacher of Brooklyn recently published a little volume upon "English as She Is Taught,” and by answers given in good faith by pupils and selected at random from a mass of examinations showed how ridiculously the methods used in the schools failed to enlighten young minds. The lady publishes a second compilation of definitions as actually given by grammar scholars in whose minds no proper foundation was laid. Brooklyn public schools are typical of the system everywhere. Some of the definitions are the following: o • -
, “ Stability.is the taking care of a stable.” .
“ Stability is stables in general.”
“A mosquito is the child of white and black parents.”
“ Obelisk, one of the marks of punctuation."
“ Ironical, something very hard.” .
: “ Tocsin, something to do with getting drunk."
. “ A phoenix is one who sifts ashes.”
“ Ventilation is letting in contaminated air.’” •
“A rehearsal is what they have at a funeral.”
■ “An incendiary is when you go round preaching and singing hims.”	-	.
"Expostulation is to have the small-pox.”
“ A turbot is a kind of rhetorical style.”
... " The boy was cursory when he ran to catch the train.” "A critic is something to put your feet onto.”. .
“ Cannibal is two brothers that killed themselves in the bible.” ■	? .	. - '	-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	349
MW scHMsic.
^ublisfjeU t&erg Saturtag tiuring Ecrm Emit at N. J3. tHnibersitg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, January 26, 1889.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, arid others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has entered upon the twenty-second year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their good conduct.	”
Students should take it; parents should take it; and above all,
■ Old Students should take it.
” Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication,as,usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printea.

—The public debate given by the Philodemics, on Thursday evening, was one of the most enjoyable entertainments of the year. The question proposed was one that bids fair to become a leading topic of the day, and its proper treatment required no little amount of innate talent and rhetorical acquirements on the part of the debaters. It reflects great credit, therefore, upon all who took part to say that their efforts provided ah agreeable and instructive couple of hours to all present.
The interest shown—not to speak of the individual benefit to be derived—should encour-age.the members of the society to appear more frequently in such reunions. We hope too that the other literary societies of the University will be stimulated by the good example given, and provide a series of similar entertainments during the coming session. The senior class especially should not allow the year to close without appearing in a body and conducting a number of class exercises. There is plenty of good material among the graduates, and. they could give an entertainment in every way creditable to themselves- and interesting to their, auditors.
The Philodemic Debate.
Should the Right of Suffrage be Restricted by Educational and Property Qualtfica-TIONS?
On Thursday evening the first public debate of the season was given in Washington Hall by members of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Society. Rt. Rev. Dr. Dwenger, Bishop of Ft. Wayne, on a visit to the University, was present, together ■ k with a large audience composed of members of the Faculty and students. The exercises, which were agreeably interspersed with vocal music under the direction of Prof. Liscombe, were very interesting. The speakers showed careful preparation in defending the sides which they took in answering the question proposed for discussion ; they displayed good command of language, and the ability to put their arguments iii the most forcible manner, so that the attention and interest of the audience were retained throughout. We regret that our limited space prevents ■ us from publishing the speeches entire, but we hope the abstracts herewith given will at least enable the reader to see the drift of each speaker’s reasoning and the manner in which his arguments were presented.	*
Mr. T. Goebel, as President of the debate, made a concise and able introductory speech, welcoming the audience to the exercises and setting forth the nature of the question to be discussed.	.
The first speaker on the affirmative side of the question,	.
•	MR. H. P. BRELSFORD,	.
began by stating that the subject under discussion was: Before the right to vote is bestowed upon a person in the United States it shall first be determined that said person possesses education to a certain degree'and property to a certain extent. The question, said the speaker, is of peculiar and timely interest to the people of the United States. To the serf of Russia and to the peasant of Germany this question would mean nothing; but to the people of a government such as ours—a government founded upon the principle of individual rights, and developed upon the plan of personal liberty—the subject is one of the greatest import And why? Because the very freedom of action secured by our Constitution opens the way for abuses; and that such abuses exist, no one at all familiar with contemporary history can deny.
The speaker then referred to the corrupt buying and selling of votes of which both the great political parties were guilty during the late campaign. It was this open corruption that brought home to every patriotic citizen the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
question of preserving the purity of the ballot, and made it a sacred duty of the legislator to provide a remedy for existing evils. Now the plan embodied in the resolution under discussion presented the best and most effectual remedy.
It proposes, first, to make the possession of a certain amount of education essential to the privilege of suffrage. Education is a moral force; it tends to ennoble man, and it instils into him a deep sense of the obligations of citizenship and the responsibilities of a voter. It reveals to him his own best interests, so that with a vote universally intelligent we should see no more the spectacle of corruption, bribery and fraud that thrive upon ignorance.
The American voter has submitted to his arbitrament questions of the greatest importance, the decisions of which affect the present and future well-being of a great countrv, and with an unintelligent vote there is reason for apprehensions. And not only does a purchasable vote defeat the ends of good government and jeopardize the interests of the nation, but more: it tends to perpetuate and augment its baneful influence by the insidious power of an example that lessens the respect of the young voter for the ballot which he sees abused.
The speaker then considered an objection that might be made that this theorv of universal education was impossible of realization. This he denied, and maintained that it might be ac complished by means of compulsory laws which were in successful operation and with good results in some states and in other countries.
The property qualification was a second safeguard to the ballot. The required amount of property should be made so small as to be within the reach of every industrious and economical man. There should be no false sentiment in regard to this—no specious plea that such a qualification would strike at the spirit of liberty. The class of men who are not landholders and who have no material interest in the welfare of the government is precisely that class which constitutes the “floating vote” of the country— a class that looks upon its vote as a commodity to be sold to the highest bidder. Of such a class are those who would substitute anarchy for government; who would remove social inequality by the destruction of the social fabric; who would seek prosperity through devastation and ruin. If a man is a property-holder he feels a personal interest in the welfare of his state, and realizes that he is an integral part of his government; and so when he votes, he will vote for his own interest which is that of the State. A nation is truly prosperous and powerful when her domain is divided to the greatest possible extent among her people—and the plan proposed would tend to bring about this great desideratum, and remedy existing evils..
The speaker concluded with an eloquent por-„ trayal of the glorious future awaiting our country, the secure possession of which depended upon, a pure, , an intelligent ’ and. an educated vote.
~ The first speaker on the negative.
HR. E. CHACON, in opening for his side, paid a tribute to the ingenious and brilliant appeal of his opponent, and said as -he was not-the possessor of those persuasive arts, his hardest task would be, perhaps, to undo the prejudice that had been created and not to show the fallacy of his opponent’s reasoning. His efforts would be directed towards securing the former effect, and he would therefore repeat the question under consideration and give it due and weighty discussion.
Is an educational and property qualification necessary for popular suffrage? What is suffrage? It is the inherent prerogative of the people by which they signify their will at the ballot-box. It is the noblest of political rights which a man can enjoy. It is the clear fountain of true democracy wherein the sovereign authority, born in the people and flowing from the people, is reflected. Therefore, the affirmation of the question considered directly contradicts the spirit of suffrage as understood under the Constitution.
It may be said that the people in their sovereign capacity may restrict the franchise; that, as the case may be, each generation, each state and each community may, by majority vote, limit the franchise for political or municipal purposes. In matters exercised undei- the Constitution, this may be true; but, as to a power which forms its very essence, the case altogether changes. It is alleged that the general government may modify the elective franchise. The speaker understood by this that Congress has the power to prescribe the manner of voting; it may prohibitwomen from voting; it may prescribe the age that must be attained before suffrage can be exercised. But, although Congress has these powers, still it cannot discriminate on account of color, race or financial state. Now, there would be discrimination in prohibiting a man from voting, simply because he happened to be a little more ignorant than his neighbor; it would be discrimination to deprive a man of the right of suffrage simply because he has not the same amount of property his comrade has. Where then would be our boasted liberties, and the rights and privileges secured to us at such great sacrifices?
The speaker developed this argument at length with logical reasoning and in eloquent language. He then proceeded to consider the meaning of this so-called educational and property qualification. Did it mean that every man, who expects the benefit of suffrage, must attend a course "of lectures in the different branches of humanities? It could not mean that. It must mean that a voter should have a sufficient knowledge of reading and writing that he may be able to understand the Constitution. The speaker showed that theoretically this would be a delightful scheme; but it could never be realized in actual life. And he reasoned from the fact that the great commercial life of the nation embraced
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
both the ignorant and the educated. He showed, too, that circumstances may be such as to prevent the possession of either the educational or the property qualification and still the voter could not be justly deprived of that protection which the ballot gave him.
It is dangerous, therefore, to make any attempt to restrict the franchise in the manner proposed. If frauds are committed, let not misguided patriotism resort to such radical means as were suggested. If we place our prejudice before sound reason we are in a wrong path; and it is prejudice to set up the prevention of fraud as an excuse for depriving the people of their liberties. Sad will be the day when an American citizen shall have to moan for liberty under the unjust restriction of property and education; sad will be the hour when the Republic shall have exchanged its halo of liberty for the unnatural splendor of a crownless monarchy; for then the sons of Washington will remember that if they cannot live for liberty they can die for it; and tragedies, worse than those of the French Revolution, will darken forever the clear records of American history.
The second speaker on the affirmative,
MR. WILLIAM LARKIN,
said that the measure proposed tends to the suppression of great political evils—evils that arise from poverty and ignorance and threaten the ruin of our government. All will admit that the welfare of a government depends on the intelligence and industry of the people. This is particularly true of a republican form of government, wherein the people are supreme, and therefore in view of the great interests at stake they should be intelligent and educated. It is a fact that many are Republicans or Democrats simply because their fathers were such, and in the exercise of the suffrage, they are led blindly by party prejudice. The speaker brought forward well-known examples in confirmation of this.
The ignorant man. with the right of suffrage, is vested with great power for evil. This is inevitably the result when the right of suffrage is given to paupers and men knowing little or nothing about our institutions and form of government. It is said that such men possess an equal power for good. This sounds very well in theory; but the hard practical facts of experience prove that their influence is great for evil, but for good, it is naught. The speaker then brought forward several practical illustrations to sustain his argument.
It is alleged that this amendment creates an inequality, and is, therefore, opposed to our Constitution under which all men are equal. This is a specious objection. In the course of time an inequality does arise; but this measure does not create that inequality, and our recognition of it has nothing to do with the question at issue. We intrust a man with an office because he has the ability to discharge its duties and realize its responsibilities. So, too, in re
gard to those in whose hands lie the interests of the country; it should be looked to that they know the extent and importance of the powers vested in them, and know how to use those powers to the best advantage. And certainly one unable to read and understand the Constitution of the United States is not capable of performing his duties as a citizen—he is not fit to have in his control the interests of his fellowcitizens.
It is sentimentally urged that many are not to blame for their ignorance. But, certainly, the rudiments of knowledge are within the reach of -everyone. And if there are some feeble-minded or overworked, shall we sacrifice for them our own interests and the welfare of the government? One of the great causes of the evils that threaten us lies in the fact that the great mass of voters depend for information upon, or are led by, interested office-seekers and prejudiced partisans. The educational and property restriction would remove this cause. It would disqualify ignorant people who do not know how to use rightly the power vested in them— who are a constant danger to our State—and ’ would place the care of the country in the hands of intelligent, educated men who are interested in the administration of the government.
It is said, too, that all male citizens, in time of war, are compelled to take up arms in defence of the government, therefore in time of peace, all should equally enjoy the privileges of citizenship. All .men under the protection of the government are insured security of life and property, in return for this protection every man owes certain duties to his country, among which are aid and support in time of danger. The one possessing no property can offer no return to the government for his protection in time of peace. Hence in time of war, when the safety, or life of the nation is threatened, it is but right that he should contribute his own share to protect her from all attacks. This is but a return of service and cannot apply to the case under discussion.
Moreover, this measure would take the right of suffrage from communists, anarchists, socialists—whose cry is: “No government!” and who are composed of reckless, desperate characters. • They threaten to become a power in politics and may well be feared because having the right of suffrage they are capable of inflicting great harm. -
Truly, concluded the speaker, under the proposed amendment ours would be the ideal government. In splendor, it would rank with ancient Athens; in power, the might of Rome would pale before its magnificence; in true beneficence to its people it would yield the. palm to no nation under the sun. With such a bright and glorious future before us shall we wantonly abandon the only means of attaining such a brilliant result? You answer “certainly not”; and in that answer we hear the voice in which the wisdom of twenty centuries gives assent. .
352	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The second speaker on the negative, and the one closing the debate, was
MR. VINCENT E. MORRISON.
Before entering directly upon his argument he referred in eloquent terms to the great contrast between,our own and those countries, in which the government was placed in the hands of one man, who, as often happened, might be weak-minded, led blindly by flatterers, and an oppressor of the people. Here in the United States the citizen is king; he not onlv enforces the law, but also makes it, changes it, and, when necessary, interprets it through his representative. And all these powers of the citizen are exercised through that great institution of American liberty—the ballot-box. It is important, then, that every man should have his voice heard, and that no man should be restricted or coerced into voting contrary to his principles or convictions.
The speaker referred to the importance and dignity of the American ballot as exemplified in the value of each individual vote. At present there is no property oj- educational qualification necessary for suffrage—the only requirement being that the voter shall be either a native or a naturalized citizen. The first great principles of this Republic are liberty and equality; and when the Constitution was drawn up and adopted it was intended that this Government should be strictly a government by the people and for the ’ people', arid that every citizen should be entitled to his vote whether he had property or not.
It is well known that there are citizens in this country who cannot write their names, and yet are respectable men, have very good ideas about government, and are capable of casting their votes in an intelligent manner; others again there are who come to this country and are well educated in some foreign tongue, but are unable to write or speak in English; there are those, too, who are vety poor and have been obliged to go to work when quite young in order to earn their living, or to support their families and have been thus deprived of any schooling; in a word, through some unavoidable circumstance, or misfortune, a great mass of the people are denied the advantages of education. It would, certainly, seem very wrong to deprive these men of their sacred rights as American citizens. .
In regard to the property qualification: There are a great many educated citizens who possess no property. The great body of the American people belong to the laboring class. Among them there are many who rent the houses or rooms in which they live, and who, through low wages or great expenses, are unable to acquire property. Failures, too, are of frequent occurrence by which possessions are suddenly swept away. Now, who will say thatsuch circumstances should disfranchise any man?
Again, the enactment of a law requiring property qualification, would augment the number of civil officers and increase taxation; while, at the same time, greater opportunities would
be afforded for the corruption, bribery a nd fraud, which it was sought to remove.
It is alleged that the ignorant man has an immense power for evil in the. exercise of the suffrage. Why has he not an equal power for good? Facts will show that the power is used for good much more than for evil. It is also argued that the proposed qualifications would deprive anarchists, nihilists, and all of that ilk, of the right of suffrage. But the fact that men of these sentiments actually possess the qualifications, are educated and have property, shows how futile the law would be.
The speaker, in conclusion, made an eloquent plea for the rights of the poor. The ballot is the most powerful weapon the poor man has to-day. No one can deny that the tendency of the social organism is to make the rich, richer, and the poor, poorer. The poor man needs the ballot for self-protection, and Christian civilization demands that it should not be taken from him.	‘
On the" conclusion of the debate, Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger made a few remarks expressive of the pleasure which the exercises of the evening had afforded him. The speakers merit great praise fortheir efforts, and it is hoped that similar public meetings will be held at more frequent intervals during the coming session.
Personal.
—B. Becker, ’87, is enjoying a very lucrative law practice in Milwaukee.
—W. Bingham, (Prep.) ’87, smiles on his old friends from the box office of Baker’s Theatre in Chicago.
—George Rhodius, (Com’l) ’81, is passing a few days at Notre Dame to the great delight of his many friends.
—M. Mulkern, ’88, has accepted a position in the corps engaged in the Geological Survey of the Pacific Coast.
—Rev. T. F. Galligan, Rector of St. Patrick’s Church, Chicago, was a welcome visitor to the University during the week.
—Among the welcome visitors to Notre Dame during the week were Rev. Fathers W. J. Dalton and James Phelan of Kansas City, Mo.
—S. T. Murdock, ’87, visited the College during the week, and met with a hearty welcome. Sam is president of a Natural Gas Co. with a well near Lafayette, Ind.
—Rev. D. E. Hudson, C. S. C., Editor of the Ave Maria, lectured at Kalamazoo, Mich., on last Wednesday evening, under the auspices of the Young Men’s Catholic Society of that city.
—Notre Dame was honored during the week by a visit from Rt. Rev. Dr. Dwenger, Bishop of Ft. Wayne, who arrived on Wednesday even-
THE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC.
ing, and was the guest of the University until Friday noon. It was the first visit of the Rt. Rev. Bishop since his return from Europe last month, and he received a hearty greeting from the Faculty and students. On his arrival at the College he was met in the Rotunda by the students, in whose behalf an address of welcome was read by Mr. P. Dwyer. The Bishop feelingly responded, expressing the .pleasure he felt in meeting the students, and relating many interesting incidents relative to his late tour through Europe. The visit of the Bishop, ex-• pressive of his kind interest in our Alma. Mater, was the source of much pleasure to us all at Notre Dame, and we hope that amid the cares of his high office he will still find time to visit us often.
Local Items.
—The debate was a success.
—Who are to debate next?
—Let the good work go on.
—Examinations are in progress.
—The “Grads” attended “Monte Cristo” on Monday night.
—Hear Williams in the “Sleeping Car” if you want to enjoy a hearty laugh.
—Skating on St. Joseph’s Lake was enjoyed to some extent during the week. .
—The Sergeant-Major of Company “A” is equipping himself with a moustache.
' —The classes in literature are engaged in writing parodies and paraphrasing other efforts in that line. *
—Let the entertainments be many and varied during the coming term—i. e., dramatic, musical and literary.
—Lost.—A diamond scarf-pin. The finder will please leave it at the office of the Rev. Prefect of Discipline.
—The classes in gymnastics, assisted by squads from the three military companies, will give an exhibition in a few weeks.
—Several new Minims have swelled the ranks of the princes. The latest arrival is Master Ashton Boyle, of Kearney, Neb.
—The Class of ’90 have subscribed a very liberal fund for the reading-room, and their generosity is deserving of many thanks.
—Mr. Williams’ interpretation of the play of “Julius Caesar” is a work of art; and to see and hear him is part of a liberal education.
—The entertainment by Mr. A. Williams, the great elocutionist and dramatic reader, will be given next Tuesday evening, the 29th inst.
—An electric bell has been placed in Sorin Hall. Its force is wonderful: it can raise and dress a sleepy student and almost raise the dead.
—Candidates for captains of the baseball nines are already in the field, and electioneering material is being circulated among the hungry voters.
—The subjects of the essays given to the Class in Criticism to be ready on March 1, are: “Hawthorne and Poe”; “The Beauty of the Parables.”
—Our office is adorned with an elegant calendar for 1889 from the enterprising firm of Allen, Lane & Scott, the leading stationers and printers of Philadelphia.
—Two new portals have been erected, on the east and south sides of the cuisine. The one to the south is quite medieval in its architecture . and suggestive of piety.
—Thanks are returned by the students to Rev. President Walsh for his liberal donation of money to be used for literary purposes in the reading-room of Sorin Hall.
—The musical selections by the vocal Quartette—Prof. Liscombe, Messrs. R. Sullivan, W. Leahy and W. Roberts—formed a most pleasing feature of the exercises in connection with the Philodemic debate on Thursday evening.
—The Juniors’ skating rink, on their campus, is a thing of beauty and a joy—while the present spell of winter weather lasts. They are indebted to the kind efforts of Bro. Hugh for the means of enjoying the best of all winter sports.
—The students of Sorin Hall return their sincere thanks to the Rev. Editor of the Ave Maria for the donation of his valuable journal to the reading-room. The Scholastic also will be kept on file in that home of literature, art and refinement.
—The Total Separation Society held a meeting in the smoking-room the other evening. Resolutions of condolence with Wocky Bocky and the Tall Boy Chieftains of the defeated and fallen tribe of Red Ducks were passed, after which the hours were whiled away in dance and song.
—The Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association held its regular meeting in St. Edward’s Hall on Monday, Jan. 14, at which cpmpositions were read by the following members: M. Elkin, C. Koester, J. Kane, J. Dempsey, F. Toolen and V. Kehoe. R. Powell, W. Marr and F. Roberts were admitted to membership.
—Very Rev. Father General visited St. Edward’s Hall last Tuesday during the hour of penmanship. He examined several of the copybooks and praised the Minims for the care and neatness they displayed. He gave them some practical lessons on position and the proper method of holding the pen.
—Mr. Brelsford stood .first in the late “battle of the essays ” in the Class of English Literature, though closely pressed by Messrs. Cavanagh, Tewksbury, Chacon and Hummer. The subjects for the great essay for March i, in the Literature Class, are “The Beauties of Every-Day Life”; and “The Influence of Humane Education on the Prevention of Crime,”—which means that the tenderness which St. Francis d’Assisi had for animals has great influence on civilization, .
354	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—On Tuesday evening, Jan. 22. the Carnoy Microscopical Society held a meeting in the University Science Hall. The past history and the present condition of this organization were briefly reviewed by the Rev. President, who gave expression to hopeful ideas as to the future scope and extent of its work.
The method of using reflected light as a means of investigation and observation occupied the attention of the members during the early part of the meeting. Then the polariscope (which is essentially an accessory to the microscope,)-was employed in the' examination of some beautiful crystals. The use of the polariscope, as a method of illumination, affords the most striking variety of colors imaginable. It is often of service to the microscopist in examining objects having a crystalline nature, besides it is a means of pleasant and profitable study.
The Rev. President encouraged microscopical research in all the branches of science, and furthermore expressed his desire to have some of the members contribute something in the line of original work at the next meeting.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger visited the "palace” last Thursday and entertained the Minims with a brief discription of his European tour. He said he remembered them at Lourdes, Loreto, the Tombs of the Apostles, and the other hallowed shrines that he visited. This last trip to Europe, though partly for his health,, was principally to make a pilgrimage of-thanksgiving for the rare blessing Almighty God has bestowed on the diocese. He took occasion to exhort the Minims to gratitude first to God and then to their parents, and to all from whom they receive favors. He drew their attention to their bright, beautiful hall, to the home comforts which they enjoy here; adding that, after all he has seen, he did not know of any. boys who should be happier than the Minims; but he wished to see them happy, for there is no department of the University in which he is so much interested. He pleasantly alluded to the time he was a Minim, and to the many improvements made in St. Edward’s Hall since then. He then visited the Chapel of St. John the Evangelist, for the first time, and was very much pleased to find that some of the older Minims assist at Mass every morning. He has granted permission to have the Blessed Sacrament kept constantly in the chapel. The Minims, and all at St. Edward’s Hall, return him profound thanks for the exceptional privilege which will bring new blessings on the house and all connected with it, besides, instilling into the tender minds of the Minims reverence for our Divine Lord in the Sacrament of His Love.
On Friday morning the Bishop said Mass in the chapel, at which all the Minims attended. He made a short but most touching address to his youthful auditors on the extraordinary privilege of having the Blessed Sacrament in the house.with them. They do indeed realize.that
God has been very visibly blessing St. Edward’s Hall, but this last favor is the crowning of all J	o
His blessings, o
i	Roll of Honor.
1		
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
’	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
I Messrs. Ahlrichs, Amador, Alvarez, Akin, Albright, Brennan, Blackman, Brewer, Bunker, Bretz. Burns, Burger, Barnes, Becker. H. P. Brannick, Burke, Beckman, Brelsford, Barret, Chute, T. Coady, P. Coady, Carney, Cavanagh, D. Cartier, Crabb, Crooker, Cooney, S. Campbell, G. Cooke, Chacon, Cusack, W. Campbell, Dacey, Draper, Dore, Dougherty, Dwyer, Darroch, Fitzgerald, Fisk, Finckh, Fehr, Franklin, Grange, Goebel, Giblin, Gallardo, J. Galen, Garfias, Jno. J. Gallagher, Jno. D. Gallagher, Goben, Hill, Hepburn. Healy, Hayes, Hacket, Hughes, Herman, M. j. Howard, Hoover, E. Howard; Hummer, F. Jewett, Karasynski, Kinsella,* Kenny, Kehoe, Kohlmann, J. Kelly, Knoblauch, Lane, Lahey, Les-ner, Lozana, Lappin, E. Larkin, W. Larkin, Landgraff, F. Long, Melady, McNally, H. McAlister, Mackey, Mc-Auliff, McGinnity, V. Morrison, W. Morrison, J. Meagher, Major, Jno. McCarthy, Mattes, J. McCarthy, L. Meagher, - W. Meagher, R. Newton, Nations, O’Flaherty, O’Shea, O’Connor, O’Donnell, Ohlwine, W. O’Brien, F. O’Brien, C. Paquette, L. Paquette,J Prichard, Prudhomme, Robinson, Reynolds, Rorke, Roberts, Rothert, Schmitz, J. B. Sullivan, Steiger, Springer, Stephenson, H. Smith, G. Soden, C. Soden, Toner, Tiernan, Woods, Webb, Zinn. Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, J. Allen, W.’ Allen, A’arons, Ayer. Bates, Beaudry, Bradley, Boyd, Blumenthal, Bearinger, Brady, Bryan, Berry, Bronson, Baltes, Brown, T. Cleary, S. Cleary, Cunningham, Crandall, Ciarcoschi, Chute, Connelly, Chacon, Covert, Cauthorn, Clendenin, Collins, F. Connors, J. Connors, N. Davis, D’Arcy, Daniels, Darroch, Dempsey, Erlenborn, Ernest, Elder, Falvey, P: Fleming, C. Fleming, Frei,' C. Fitzgerald, J. Fitzgerald; Greene, P. Healy, J. Healy, R. Healy, Hoerr, Hartman, Hannin, Hoffman, Heard,- Hammond, Hughes, Heller, Hesse, Hinkley, Hennessy, Hanrahan, Halthusen, Ibold, Johnson, Jackson, Krembes, King, W. Kutsche, Kearns, A. Kutsche, Lenhoff, Mahon, Maher, Maurus, McIvers, McCartney, Malone, J. McIntosh, L. McIntosh, McPhee, McCarthy, Merz, Morrison, Mackey, J. Mooney, Monarch, A. Neef, F. Neef, Nester, Noe, Neal, W. P. O’Brian, O’Neill, O’Brien, O’Mara, Populorum, Pecheux, Prichard, F. Peck, Quinlan, S. Rose, I. Rose, Riedinger, Reinhard, Rowsey, E. Roth, C. Schillo, Sheehan, Sullivan, Spalding, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, Schultze, Sutter, Towne, Talbot, Tetart, Walsh, Weitzel; F. Wile, Wilbanks, Wil-lien, Wood, Young.	o-
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Bates, Blake, Barbour, Bruel, T. Burns, J. Burns, E. Bryan, Bearinger, Brown, Connelly, Cornell, W. Crawford, A. Crawford, Cohn, Creedon, C. Connor, W. Connor, Crandall, Crane, Downing, Durand, J. Dungan, Jas. Dungan, Dorsey, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, Doherty, Dench, E. Elkin, M. Elkin, G. Evers, F. Evers, Eckler, E. Falvey, Foster, Fanning, Grant, Greene, Goodwillie, Gregg, Goodman, Girardin, Hendry, Hagus, Hamilton, Hinds, Hill, Henneberry, Jolins, Jonquet, Kane, Kroolman, Keeler, Kehoe, Lansing, Levi, Livingston, Londoner, Lonergan, J. Marre, A. Marre, Maternes, Minor, McPhee, Mattas, McDaneld, McDonnell, McGuire, Mooney, C.McCarthy, J.McCarthy. Miller, W. Nichols, C.Nichols,' Neenan, O’Neill, Oppenheimer, Plautz, L. Paul, C.Paul, Powell, Quill, Ricksecker, Roberts, Rea, Seerey, -Seidensticker, Stone, Steineman, Toolen, Thornton, Trujillo, Taylor, Witkowsky, Wever, R. Webb,-Washburne, Wilcox, Wilson.
* Omitted for-the last three weeks by mistake.
j--Omitted last week by mistake. - ’	. ■

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	355
St. Mapy’S fl@adeffiY-
The Beauties of Nature.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Miss Sylvia Brewer has kindly presented several engravings to the studio, of which department she is a painstaking pupil.
—Rev. Father Zahm, on last Thursday, tested the knowledge of the graduates in geology, and expressed himself as pleased with the result.
—The music classes are still under examination; both vocal and instrumental pupils show marked improvement since the opening of the session.
—The French and German classes were examined on Wednesday and Thursday by Very Rev.FatherGeneral, Rev. Fathers L’Etourneau, Saulnier and Stoffel.
—Rev. Father French's sermon on last Sunday was most interesting, and could not but awaken a tender love for that Name above all names—the holy Name of Jesus.
—Miss Jennie Currier has been appointed Secretary of St. Catherine’s Literary Society, in place of Miss Julia Bloom whose health necessitated her remaining home for the present.
—The Children of Mary are still favored every Monday morning by Very Rev. Father General who seems to take pleasure in the inculcation of those virtues which should mark all true sodalists. His last instruction was relative to the life and death of St. Agnes, the child martyr.
—Among the late visitors at St. Mary’s were: Mr. and Mrs. M. J. McNamara, Denver, Col.; Mrs. W. Orr, Mrs. G. Winslow, Mr. and Mrs. H. W. Heyt. Rev. T. F. Galligan, Chicago; L. De Montcourt, Cairo, Ill.; Mrs. A. Shrock, Goshen, Ind.; G. C. Noble. Pueble, Col.; Mrs. C. Violeet, Kewanna. Ind.; A. Levy, Archibald, Iowa.
—The semi-annual examination in Christian Doctrine was held on Sunday last. The Graduating and First Senior classes were examined by Very Rev. Father General and the Rev. President of the University. Rev. Father Morrissey presided at the Second and Third Senior classes; Rev. Father Zahm and L’Etourneau, the Preparatory and Junior classes.'
—On Tuesday evening Rev. Father Zahm gave a most interesting lecture on Astronomy, illustrating his remarks by excellent stereoscopic views. The motion of the heavenly bodies, the power of the moon over the tides, eclipses, comets, etc., were the subjects of the most instructive views. The entertainment closed with observations on bodies other than heavenly, accompanied with illustrations, striking in more than one sense of the word. The “stars” seemed familiar to the audience, and while- all return thanks to Rev. Father Zahm for the pleasure afforded by his visits, he is earnestly exhorted to leave “Kodak” at home, or give timely notice when it is around. ,
“ Morn waked by the circling hours, with rosy hand Unbarred the gates of light,”
and slowly ascending the orient, the great ruler of the day may be seen wending his way through the heavens. The violet and buttercup, whose eyelids nature closed with the day, raise their drooping heads and smile beneficently to receive once more their welcome lord. The mountain tops are gilded by his golden light, and he “kisses the waving grass and flowers in the valley.” It is noon, and he rides high in the heavens; gladly he wheels downward to the western horizon, and at last vanishes from view. Night falls and the weary toiler is seen plodding his way homeward; the beauty of Nature does not end with the day, although the blinds are drawn as if there were nothing worth looking at out-of-doors. What can be more beau-o
tiful than to watch how,
“ Silently, one by one, in the infinite meadows of heaven Blossom the lovely' stars, the forget-me-nots of the angels.”
The great dome of the sky, studded with stars of various colors and different degrees of brilliancy, presents one of the most sublime spectacles in nature. Some shine with a changing and twinkling light; others beam upon us more constantly and tranquilly, while many just tremble into sight, ‘Tike a wave that, struggling to reach some far-off land, dies as it touches the shore.” The silence that is in the-starry heavens awakens the better nature within us. Those far-away lights speak significantly to us, could * we but interpret their message. Instinctively a feeling of awe and reverence mingled with a thought of God takes possession of us. As we gaze upon the broad expanse of the sky, we are more and more humbled, and the soul asserts its immortality more strongly than ever before.
The moon with its train casts its light far and wide. Bursting forth from behind some whitecapped cloud, it journeys in its calm glory over its azure path.
“ How beautiful is nisfhtI
A dewy freshness fills the silent air:
No mist obscures, nor cloud, nor speck, nor strain Breaks the serene of Heaven;
In full-orbed glory, yonder moon divine, • Rolls through the dark blue depths,
Like the rounded ocean girded with the sky.’’
From the time of the creation, the magnificence of the morning and evening skies has excited the admiration of every nation, and yet it is wonderful how few people seem to derive any pleasure from its beauty. It seems.
05
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
strange, too, how a person can be sad and gloomy when, as a rule, nature is in a pleasant mood. How rapidly she changes! Each day gives us a succession of glorious pictures in never-ending variety. Many are the hues and changes of the sky, and ere we can note the description of a part, it is gone, and colors more brilliant and delicate than the former ones have danced into view.	-
To Ruskin we are indebted for making us see more vividly so many glorious sky pictures; for he tells us that the entire heaven, from the zenith to the horizon, is but a sea of color and of fire, in which all the colors of the imagination, and those for which we have no name and which can only be conceived while they are visible, are represented. He wonders why it is that so few people appreciate the sky, and says that Nature has chosen this one of her works above all others for the purpose of talking to and teaching mankind. As a mother’s sole delight is to please her child, so nature deals with us; she is always producing some work or scene for our perpetual pleasure and instruction.
It is nature whose alluring charm exiles the artist from his home and friends, makes him a wanderer in distant lands, beckons him to sunny Italy that he may reproduce upon the canvas the works of the Creator. Not alone on one nation, upon one class, of people does nature bestow her gifts, but upon all alike. The poor and the lowly share with their more fortunate neighbors the marvels of creation. •
The great ocean sprang into existence at 'the word of the Almighty. Confidingly it lies between the continents and rolls in vast billows over its bed. There is both music and terror in its roar, and it speaks in language unmistakable of the power of the Creator. As a word of kindness dropped into the heart~of one who is broken down with care and grief gladdens the sorrower, so to the weary traveller in the great Sahara of life do the beauties of nature appear, dispelling anxiety and cheering the wanderer.
There are many persons in this world who find no pleasure or beauty in nature; who spend their time in murmuring, indifferent to their surroundings; if theywould only heed the invitation of Bryant and “go forth into the open sky and list to nature’s teachings,” standing, as it were, on the footstool of God, listening to the music of the brooks, they would see extended before them a panorama of beauty reflecting, as in a mirror, the perfection of Him at whose fiat they sprang into existence.
Angela Hammond,
■	.	First Senior Class. '
Roll of Honor.
[For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment and observance of rules.]	~
•	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	-
Misses Ansbach, Ash, Bub, Burton, Beschameng, J. Bogner. Butler, Brewer, Barron, Bush, Beck, AI. B. Clifford, Coll, Campeau, Cleaveland, Currier, Caren, Clarke, Compagne.AI. Clifford,Connell,Crabbe, Donnelly, Ducey, AI. Davis, Dempsey, Dority, Dorsey, AI. De Montcourt, I. De Montcourt, Flannery, Fitzpatrick, Fursman, J. Fox, L. Fox, Geer, Grace, AI. Gibson, N. Gibson, A. Gordon, Harriman, Hertzog, Hammond, Harlen, M. Homer, I. Horner, Hurff, Healy, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hamilton, Hepburn, Hagus, Hannes, Huber, Haight, Haney, Hubbard, Irwin, Johnson, Kingsbury, C. Keeney, A. Keeney, Koepplinger, Koopman, Barber, Ledwith, Meehan, McNamara, Moran, N. Morse, Moore, Marley, C. Morse, McCarthy, Nester,‘Nacey, Nichols, Prudhomme, Papin, Piper, Paul, Penburthy, Parker, Quill, Quinn, Reidinger, Roberts, Renfrow, Rend, Smith, Spurgeon, Schrock, H. Studebaker, Schiltz, Taylor, Thayer, Van Horn, Van Mourick, Van Riper, Wehr, Waterbury, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Barry, E. Burns, Burdick, A. Cooper, Campbell. Daly, Dempsey, Dolan, Erpelding, Ernest, Farwell, Goke,Graves, Hull, Johns, Kloth, Kelso, Lauth, McHugh, Miller, M. McPhee, Northam, Patrick, Pugsley, Patier, Quealey, Reeves, Regan, Rose, A. Rowley, Rinehart, M. Scherrer, Sweeney, M. Schoellkopf, I. Schoellkopf, I. • Stapleton, Soper.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Burns, Crandall, L. McHugh, Moore, Palmer, S. Scherrer.
SCHOOL OF ART AND DESIGN.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.	’
Graduating Class—Miss A. Gordon.
ELEMENTARY PERSPECTIVE.
2D Class—Misses S. Brewer, Stapleton, 1. Horner, M.
Piper, E. Nicholas, M. Schiltz, E. Coll.
3D Class—Misses K. Hurley, M._Fitzpatrick, N. Davis,
S.	Crane, N. Simpson, M. Campbell, A. Hammond, B. 1 Bloom, S. Dempsey, B. Kingsbury, AI. Miller, H. Pugsley, L. Ernest, A. Wurzburg, V. Wilkinson, B. Wagner, N.
Linneen, M. Scherrer, F. Francis, L. Hubbard.
WORKING IN CRAYON.
Misses N. Morse, S. Crane, AI. Hull.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
Misses G. Clarke, J. Cleaveland.
OIL PAINTING. .
Misses G. Wehr, J. Robinson, A. Regan, I. Bub, M. Burton, A. Grace, H. Lawrence, E. Barber.
General Drawing.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses T. Haney, AI. Jungblut, J. Bogner, AI, Geer, C. Keeney, N. Paul, J. Currier, E. Balch, C. Dorsey, J. Fox, L. Hagus, D. Davis, M. Clifford, A. Van Riper, D. Spurgeon, A. Ash, B. Crabbe, A. Koopman,U. Bush, K.Quealey, AL Clore, K. McCarthy, O. Butler, J. Connell, S. Hamilton, H. Nacy, M. De Montcourt, A. Schrock, L. Haight, L. I Parker, L. Fox.	’	•	.	|
• JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	|
Alisses A. Thirds, F. Kahn, R. Campbell, A. Graves, | AL AlcPhee, C. Daly, AI. AIcHugh, A. Cooper, E. Cooper,	|
F. Palmer, A. Rowley, AL Dexter, AI. Smyth, P. Griffith,	|
L. AIcHugh, M. Davis, E. Regan, J. Smyth, K. Smyth,	-1
E. Kaspar, AL Scherrer, K. Aloore, L. Dolan, C. Kloth,	|
_M. Bums, L. Dreyer, E. Quealey.	]