SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Entertainment reviews and previews and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of
events. In depth sports coverage.
Read one for the Gipper! CampusWatch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campus.
News articles and Campus Life stories that let you know what’s happening on campus. Remember: If you see news happening... you’re probably reading Scholastic!
If you don’t have time to write home every week, let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription!
Please send years of Scholastic to:
Name:________________________________________________________
A d d ress:__________________________________________________
City:. State:ZIP code:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager
Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
CONTENTS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
co m
ro

NEWS
3	Letter
4	Clinton: In Line With the Mission of a Catholic University?
CAMPUS LIFE
6	Notre Dame Kicks the Smoking Habit SPORTS
9	Slaying the Spartans
11	Down and Dirty ENTERTAINMENT
15	Out Of Bounds
16	Faith No More and Helmet
17	The Drovers DEPARTMENTS
2	Editor’s Notes
18	On Other Campuses
19	Campus Watch
20	Final Word
Cover artwork by Jake Frost
Bi

SEPTEMBER 17, 1992
EDITOR'S NOTES
Vol. 134, No.3
Soptem ber17, 1992
Disce Quasi Semper Victuals Vive Quasi Cras Moritanis
Founded 1867;
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Patricia K. Doyle ?X
MANAGING EDITOR
Margaret S. Konny :
EXECUTIVEEDITOR
David J.; Holsinger : 1
CAMPUS LIFE
Editor: Mollie Mudd
:SPORTS^:?z Editor: Jim KuSer
ENTERTAINMENT-
-Editor: :J. Bradley. Keck
In This Issue
This week’s cover story focuses on the new smoking policy. Copy Editor Chris Blanford and Campus Life Editor Mollie Mudd examine the new smoking policy and also take a look at students’ reactions to these new rules.
In News, Executive Editor Dave Holsinger recaps Clinton’s speech, and takes a look at how Clinton’s views fit in with those of Notre Dame as a Catholic university. In Sports, Brad Keck previews the Michigan State Spartans upcoming game against Notre Dame this weekend and E. Rommel Nash brings us up to date on this year’s rugby team. As usual, you will find Coming Distractions, On Other Campuses, CampusWatch and Final Word.
Last Call For Cartoonists
Anyone who is interested in being a weekly cartoonist for Scholastic should submit three samples of his or her artwork to 303 LaFortune by Friday, September 18 at5p.m. (Yes, that is tomorrow.)
Patricia Doyle Editor in Chief

^PHOTOGRAPHY -JlEdijgrVKen Qsgood:
;ff': '* -ff: V 'ffvff'-ffi :gEdiftrfsChris BJanford' J
■ : :'3 < 7 ' s: ’" : i" - :i C';-.", ' -.	' •• •> 7 < ■ : ff'-ff
iJaSENiQRiSTAEF.WRITERSj-.?
$iiMaricelleRuiz-Calderon, JennyTate, -JHeidi-LauraToboni 'ff' :ffff : ffl
■ ff ffffffffffffffffff
OrheOBBiiibihil idhotinwi^^
,v	.m. j:'	i i- -	ff ffff

IjGRAPHICT^ pManagerTJ^
:-Managdr:.Chin;Wahg;
.:^^ag;er:^dii"RiIey.:
?? /z J - > f- *7' 1: p r" JZ .-iff '• M's.-'"'' "* v- -x v'z "'	A <" ' z
■prOtBliliw
ff
:feManager:::Blebn;Sheiley
x,	', r , :; /aw-* *.
{DlSTRiBUTION MANAG^^
Bill Rhqmberg
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is$25.00fyear and backissuesare available at $1,25 /copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Noire Dime, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicilied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1992 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in tNiole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name,address and phone number. University students should include their year in . schoolandcollege. Faculiymembersshouldincludetheirdepariment, AU letters must be signed. Nimes will be withheld upon request in certain instances.	.
Scholar ic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit far copy fitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space. Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to:	,
.	. The Editor
’ Scholastic	■
LaFortune Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
2
SCHOLASTIC
LETTER
Dear Editor:
An open letter of thanks to the Notre Dame community:
Notre Dame’s quads and halls echo with great Democratic voices. We would like to discuss three of those public servants and their visions in this letter.
In 1935, upon the University’s bestowal of an honorary degree, Franklin Roosevelt spoke of “the great torch of liberty of human thought,” and the “liberty of human conscience.” That, he said, we must “never lower,” its light we must, “never permit, if we can help it... to grow dim.” We must seek instead to, “increase that light, that its rays may extend the farther, that its glory may be seen even from afar.” Then, nearly three decades later, in 1961, another Democrat urged us toward the unity which comes with service. Upon naming the recipient of the prestigious Laetare medal for 1961, Rev. Theodore Hesburgh remarked that John F. Kennedy stood as a “landmark for the place of young [people] in our times, as a symbol of the new energy, vision and dedicated service of youth to the public welfare.”
Kennedy’s call to service, like Roosevelt’s call for liberty, is well-heardbyus,especiallyatNotreDame. Thankfully, wearestill likely to be appalled by “voices of intolerance,” voices far too often raised these days, preaching division and even “cultural war.” As has always been its tradition, the Notre Dame community still seeks, as a whole, to practice the ordinary virtues of tolerance and honest scrutiny, and wants little to do with war.
Another great Democrat spoke recently here at Notre Dame, and he spoke with confidence and courage, knowing that he could be heard. We have been honored as a community to host Governor Bill Clinton. He spoke to us lastFriday of the necessity of respecting “the. reflection of God’s image in every man and woman.” “We must,” he said, “value their freedom, not just their political freedom, but their freedom of conscience in matters of philosophy and family and faith.” Governor Clinton also spoke to us of his commitment to “the
idea that, as President Kennedy said, here on earth, God’s work must truly be our own.” He spoke of life, family and service, and called upon us to find a renewed sense of community, to begin pulling together our fraying social fabric while always appreciating the “wonderful diversity of the American tapestry.”
Here he knew he could be heard, and many among the Governor’s audience are taking up his call. As Notre Dame College Democrats, we simply want to thank you for hearing his message and encourage you to action. We wish to thank the multitudes of students who rose to this occasion and graciously welcomed Governor Clinton. The Clinton staff consideredNotreDame’s substantial support oneof the governor’s most encouraging events during the campaign to this date. For this you should be both proud and energized in the Democratic effort being waged this year at Notre Dame.
As in 1932, we do face troubled times. But we also see another governor, relatively unknown even a year ago, a governor speaking of a failed Republican administration, of a hollow man, a new Hoover; we see a governor holding forth a hand of hope in the midst of growing despair. Roosevelt’s words, Kennedy’s ideals — these live on in Bill Clinton. As the Notre Dame College Democrats we again thank you for the gracious reception you offered him on September 11, and invite you to join in what is really more than a political campaign: join us in what Franklin Delano Roosevelt said was “a call to arms, a crusade ... to restore America to its own people.”
Andrew Holmgren
President, Notre Dame College Democrats
Andrew Runkle
Vice-President, Notre Dame College Democrats
Chris Setti
Vice-President, Notre Dame College Democrats
Wesley Kirkpatrick
Clinton/Gore Campaign Coordinator, UND
SEPTEMBER 17, 1992
3
B
NEWS COMMENTARY
CLINTON:
In Line With the Mission of a Catholic University?
by David J. Holsinger
On Friday, September 11, Governor Bill Clinton of Arkansas became the ib latest in a long line of presidential candi-dates to address the students and faculty of the University of Notre Dame. University president Monk Malloy invited both Gover-j nor Clinton and his opponent, President George Bush, in keeping with a long-stand-i ing tradition begun by former Notre Dame i president Father Theodore Hesburgh. The ' first candidates to speak here were Dwight Eisenhower and his opponent, Adlai ! Stevenson, in 1952. Since then, at least one of the presidential candidates has spoken here during every campaign year.
Student interest in this event ran high. A | line began to form outside Stepan Center | around midnight preceding the event. Ap-j proximately 2,000 students were allowed inside Stepan Center, and at least that many i heard the address broadcast on loudspeakers outside the building.
It was apparent, however, that student motivations for attending Clinton’s speech were mixed. Although most simply wanted [ to hear the candidate’s views,, there were alsoa sizable number of protesters on hand. Those people who entered the area around Stepan Center were besieged with pro-Bush and anti-abortion materials, and hecklers disrupted (or attempted to disrupt) the speech more than once. Clinton managed to neutralize the opening shouting match both by directly addressing the hecklers and by making his policy statements.
I One would certainly expect the issue of 4
abortion to come up in any campaign’s policy address at Notre Dame. A survey conducted last year by the American Council on Education found that 37 percent of students in Notre Dame’s class of 1995 described themselves as politically conser
vative, nearly 11 percent higher than the national average. Notre Dame’s Catholic nature also ensures that groups protesting legal abortion enjoy widespread support. It was only natural, then, that Governor
Clinton found some resistance to his platform. Clinton came, not to address this extremely volatile issue, however, but to propose a new program of community service.
Clinton’s choice of Notre Dame as the backdrop to propose his community service program
was ideal: former university president Theodore Hesburgh was one of the key
players in theg formation of the Peace Corps under President
Students began waiting In line at midnight the night before89 Clinton's appearance.
s’
tn

John
F.
Kennedy. Also present at Clinton’s address was Penn
sylvania Senator Harris Wofford, a former Notre Dame law professor, who, like Hesburgh, was instrumental in establishing the Peace Corps.
On a campus where an estimated 70 percent of students take part in some kind of
community service work every year, a proposal giving, young people a chance to be of service to both the less fortunate and to their country as a whole should strike a chord. Theresponseat Clinton’s address seemed to
say that it did. In his address, Clinton suggested a national program which would allow students to pay back college loans by serving their , communities for two years after graduation . Theonly other comparable
SCHOLASTIC
government programs currently in effect that would provide such a means of financing an education through any type of service are the G.I. Bill and ROTC.
The new program proposed by the Democratic candidate is definitely innovative. It serves first as proof of his commitment to education, in essence guaranteeing college, tuition to all those who need it, and second it provides a means for students to serve
their country other than in the military. This is both logical and badly needed as the size of the military continues to be reduced. ROTC students are finding it more difficult to be given a commission after graduation, but there is the same amount of demand for this kind of government assistance. Clinton’s program would also allow students who object to ROTC on ethical grounds to pay off their loans with service.
Unlike the Peace Corps, this program offers a chance for service work in the United States instead of abroad. The emphasis on service at home also complements Governor Clinton’s plan to provide assistance to the homeless and the disadvantaged. As he said during his speech, “A new sense of community is not just a moral imperative but a practical necessity.”
The influence of Catholic teaching on the Democratic candidate was apparent. Quoting frequently from both the Bible and from the Bishops’ Pastoral Letters, the Arkansas governor’s speech was heavily laden with the moral urgency of service to one’s neighbor. During his speech, Clinton frequently spoke of his contact with Catholic social teaching while he was a student at Georgetown. He commented, “I was then and remain today deeply drawn to the Catholic social mission, to the idea that as President Kennedy said, ‘here on earth God’s work must truly be our own.’”
In the same vein, Clinton repeatedly referred to religion as a positive motivation for creating change in society. On this topic, he commented, “Our religious traditions teach us more than... ‘thou shaltnots,’ important as they are. In our role as citizens, we should see ourselves not only as our brothers’ and sisters’ keepers, but we must also be our brothers’and sisters’helpers.”
In keeping with the issue of community which permeated his speech, Clinton also addressed the buzzword issue of “family
values.” Like all of those currently debating on this topic, Clinton went heavy on the one-liners but still hammered out his positions in no uncertain terms. His major line: “I want an America that does more than talk about family values; I want an America that values families.”
But the biggest applause given to Clinton came to his answer to those anti-abortion protesters who had shouted, “What about the
babies?” and “Respect life!” throughout the speech. Clinton said that he. wanted to “reach out and help the children that are living,” a statement which elicited thunderous applause from the crowd on hand.
The reaction of many Notre Dame students seems to have been dominated by Catholic teaching on abortion.
Many students share the view that since abortion is not in line with the Catholic faith, any candidate espousing pro-choice views should be kept from office. Even much of
the campus media seems to agree with this standpoint, as evidenced by the opening paragraph of a news article in The Observer, which remarked that “Bill Clinton’s Friday speech at Notre Dame was marked [by] prochoice references directly opposite thatfsic) of the Catholic Church.”
Governor Clinton, though, seems to have provided decisive evidence that his policies
are in line with Catholic teaching. One has only to try to understand his statements in the light of a positive, active role for religion as
a means of motivation in society. Rather than concentrating on restricting behavior to prevent wrongdoing, Clinton is trying to encourage Christian behavior in society by implementing social service as well as socially just economic policies. His policies on the family are certainly in line with the letter of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, which he quoted in his speech. Specifically, Clinton quoted this line: “No
government can love a child, and no policy can substitute for a family’s care. But government can either support or undermine families.”
The candidate seems to have quite eloquently answered those who accuse him of acting contrary to Christian teaching, and he answered some of his harshest critics on their own turf. A turf, one might add, which has had an incredible history of supporting positive social change. Notre Dame’s role as a center of Catholic social thought seems to have been Governor Clinton’s reason for
unveiling his plan for social action here. David J. Holsinger is the 1992-1993 Executive Editor of Scholas tic.
SEPTEMBER 17, 1992
_____CAMPUS LIFE__
Notre Dame
Kicks the
.	■	■	.	. ■ ■.	.	■ i
Smoking Habit
New policies send smokers outside
By Chris Blanford and Mollie Mudd
The smoking habit is an addiction.” “It is my business that you’re smok
ing. Not only because of the nuisance value, but there is also a possible health risk.”
“I don’t think it’s fair to make the people whodon’tsmokewalk through smoke-filled areas.”
“If I don’t want to sit near a whole bunch rights of smok-of smokers, it’s my choice to leave.” ers end and the
While 1992 marks the end of Notre Dame’s sesquicentennial year, it also marks the first year a campus-wide smoking policy has gone into effect
The policy as written inDuLac states that smoking is harmful not only to smokers but also to thosearound them. Thus the smoking policy is “out of concern for the health, safety and well-being of the members of the campus community.”
“I think the new policy is a move in the direction that the whole U.S. is taking,” Peter Rausch, a non-smoking graduate student, said. “People are shying away from smoking — it’s a sign of the times.”
“It is an experiment that seems to be working,” Pete Dedman, senior smoker,
said.
“The new policy is a sign of a facist movement that has been fermenting on this campus for several years now and one that is about to explode across the midwest univer
sity system,” said Matt Janchar, senior, non-smoker.
Students are questioning the fairness and the practicality, as well as the benefits and appropriateness, of the new policy.
An important question that arises, however, is one of rights: Where do the
rights of those around them begin?
“Eugene,” an "open-minded non-smoker," argues that second-hand smoke is a matter of consent “If one person is smoking near a whole bunch of non-smokers, they can tell them not to smoke around them,” he said.
“Most Notre
Dame students are pretty courteous about not smoking near
Students enjoy the sunny afternoon while smoking their cigarettes on Fieldhouse Mall.
non-smokers,” Rausch said. His roommate, Joe Quinn, a senior, said, “I won’t smoke
around people that I know don’t like it”
In regards to smokers, Matt Arnone, junior said, “as a society, we’re beginning to
believe more and more that you have rights as a smoker, as an individual,butnot to take your noxious habit and enforce it onus.”
“They affect many more people than themselves. If they were carrying around a loud stereo, they would be asked to turn down the volume. This is a little more annoying than a loud stereo,” he said.
“Smoking is a matter of personal freedom and choice but it should be regulated in public places so that non-smokers are not infringed upon,” Nathan Cuka, a freshman non-smoker said.
SCHOLASTIC
B
Cuirendy smokers can only smoke outside and in specially designated non-smoking areas. DuLac lists these areas as private offices not open to the public but by invitation, dorm rooms (when a roommate has given prior consent), some apartments in graduate housing, some hotel rooms in the Morris Inn and smoking lounges. There are ■ however no smoking lounges for students to be found on campus.
“You can’t smoke in thebuildings but you can smoke outside. Now in a month and a half when it becomes 25 degrees below zero, that’s not going to hold a lot of water,” said “Eugene.”
“It would be fine if they would make a place for us to smoke indoors where it is warm,” DavidPowell, asenior smoker, said.
Smoking outside has become a bonding experience. “Everyone is smoking together and bumming cigarettes off of one another because they do not sell them on campus anymore,” Dedman said.	.
The policy is “causing dissonance within the smoking community,” Powell said. There are so many smokers, too many for the
low supply of cigarettes. “My friend takes orders from on-campus students then makes a cigarette run for them,” Dedman said.
“The system is pretty inconvienent. There are just no lounges for students or faculty,” an anonymous graduate student said.
The smokers said they noticed a drastic decrease in the patronage of the Huddle and Waddick’s since they are no longer allowed to relax and have a cigarette there between classes or during meals.
Smokers argue for the installation of smoking lounges on campus, this could be solved. But some smokers argue that the social interaction between smokers has been stifiled by the policy, especially in the LaFortune Student Center.
“Our student center is for non-smoking students only,” said Bridget Riordan, a sophomore smoker.
“It was a unity thing. All the students who came there kind of became friends. The smoking policy almost disrupts that because no one who smokes goes there any more,” said Danielle Cantono, a sophomore smoker.
“They said ‘no smoking except in designated areas’ but there are no designated areas in LaFortune, so a lot of friends sit outside and smoke. When it’s wintertime there will be nowhere to go for them,” she said.
Dedman said that the smokers are going to have to be inventive and resourceful when the cold weather comes.
Junior Ron Mnieckowski argues that it is easier for a non-smoker to avoid smoking rooms than the cluster of cigarette butts that decorate every building entrance.
On the back steps of La Fortune, Powell said, “I lodge symbolic protest votes by throwing my butts there.”
Smokers and non-smokers agree that there should be a place indoors on campus where people can smoke. The difference between the two is what sort of place should be created.
“First, smoking is dangerous. Second, sidestream smoke is worse than firsthand smoke,” said Chad Smock, a first-year nonsmoker. “I think they should have a room that is not a public room,... a room that non
Ten reasons not to smoke
1.	Bad breath.
2.	Stained teeth.
3.	Gum disease and tooth loss.
4.	Lowered sense of taste and smell.
5.	Cancer.
6.	Shortness of breath and emphysema.
7.	Heart Disease.
8.	Lingering odor.
9.	Sidestream smoke is dangerous for people around the smoker.
10.	Nausea and dizziness.
Materidlfor^ Education^
1
• A umni Room
• One s de of Huddle
•Side room of North
• La Fortune s
• Sorin Room
• Oak Room
Wish List
Ten tips for quitting smoking
Throw away all cigarettes and smoking paraphenalia, such as matches and lighters.
Smokers Lounge
• Allegro
Dining Holl
basement lounge
• CSC dining room
• Dooley Room
2.	Tell friends that you are trying to stop smoking and get encouragement from them.
3.	Before smoking a cigarette, think about why you are smoking it for a few seconds.
4.	Substitute celery, carrots, sugarless gum or other low-calorie replacements for cigarettes.
5.	Set a time of the day not to smoke.
6.	If possible, immediately brush your teeth after a meal to put a fresh taste in your mouth.
7.	Make a list of reasons to stop smoking and post it where you will see it daily.
8.	When you’re stressed, try deep breathing or relaxation exercises instead of smoking.
9.	When you’re relaxing or alone, try to keep your hands busy with a crossword puzzle or odd jobs.
10.	Save the money that would have gone towards cigarettes to buy yourself something.
v
J
SEPTEMBER 17, 1992
smokers are not going to have to walk through, sit in or eat in.”
Many smokers would prefer a more social smoking area. “Perhaps if they had one side of LaFortune on top for smoking and one side non-smoking,” said'Cantono.
“I’d be happy if they just give us a closet tosmokein,”jokesRiordan. “It’salmostas if we are outcasts because we have to go outside and sneak around practically just to smoke a cigarette,” she said.
In any case there should be more spoken exchange both between students and between the students and the administration.
“If there’s two people and one smoked and one did not, then there would be a dialogue, and they would work it out so both would be happy,” said Riordan.
Arnone recommends “self-enforcement” whenever non-smokers do not wish to be smoked around. “If somebody is smoking, and it bugs you,... you should exercise your right not to have this toxic smoke blown in your face,” he suggests.
Dialogue between the student body and the administration is especially important. Many students feel that the smoking policy
ignored student input, just like spending for the undergraduate studies and the conversion of Pangbom to a female dorm.
“There are a lot of other problems on campus, illegal ones like drugs and alcohol that are important. Smoking isjust an easier problem to get at,” an anonymous second-year graduate student said. “The cigarette butts all over the ground do not give out a. more positive image of the university,” the grad student said.
Some students are upset, in addition, over the abruptness of the change. “You’re used to one way of life and then all of a sudden, it's like ‘Forget it,”’ said Cahtono.
University visitors and alumni smokers are restricted too. “They’re not just going to all come when it’s nice out, and they’re not going to be able to smoke anywhere,” said Cantono.
“I think no. smoking in the stadium is a little too much,” Quinn said. “How can you tell an alum that he cannot smoke in an open-air stadium after he has been coming here for years and has paid for a ticket?” Quinn said.
In two years the Environmental Issue Committee will review the current smoking
policy to decide whether it will be amended or whether the university should be completely “smoke-free.”
Instead of changing buildings, there would be only one obvious solution: smokers would have to stop smoking.
According to DuLac, the university, through Human Resources, will provide smoking cessation programs to all in the campus community who desire them.
Many smokers doubt that this will completely eliminate smoking. “I think that you are going to deter some people, but some people are still going to smoke,” said Cantono.
“Laszlo,” a senior smoker, wonders if the university can afford to treat all the smokers for their addictio’ns.
“There are just too many people here who smoke and too many who don’t hate smokers that we heed such an extreme policy,” said Mnieckowski.
Most of the students interviewed said that they were not trying to quit because of this new policy, however. A few, like Powell, admitted, “I’m always trying to quit.” □
SCHOLASTIC
SPORTS
S laying th e
Spartans
A week after losing to Central Michigan, Michigan State must regroup toplay Notre Dame.
i
By J. Bradley Keck
Michigan State Sports Information • ' .
After finishing 3-8-1 overeall and tied for sixth in the Big Ten with a conference record of 3-5 in 1991, Head Coach George Perles has been struck by of speculation and controversy.
I n just two years Michigan State football has gone from the top ranks of college football to the cellar of the Big Ten. This Saturday Notre Dame travels to East Lansing to compete with the team that, in years past, was one of the Irish’s most formidable opponents. But now, on the heels of a disappointing loss to the Central Michigan Chippewas, the Michigan State squad musthope that they can turn around their faltering program and stand up to the Fighting Irish.
In 1990 the Spartans had an impressive season that was marked with exceptional performances by a number of underclassmen. As a sophomore, Tico Duckett led all State running backs with 1,394 total yards in only 257 carries and 11 touchdowns. Courtney Hawkins, a junior, played in only seven games due to an injury shortened season but still managed to have an amazing season. Againstthe Irish,he hadsevengrabsforatotalof94 yards. The Spartans also had five other sophomores besides Duckett that were lettermen in the 1990 season. Toby Heaton, the starting left guard; Mitch Lyons, the number one tight end this year; and William Reese, the anchor of the defensive line, were all among the letter winners in the 1990 season. Michigan State finished 8-3-1 in 1990 but lost the three contests to Notre • Dame, Illinois and Iowa by a total of only eight points. It looked to be State’s year going into 1991.
Looks, though, can be deceiving. The Spartan’s high hopes and expectations turned into a nightmare as soon as they took the field in 1991. Michigan State opened the season at home against Central Michigan. Many thought that State was padding its schedule by picking up the Chippewas, who were lowly members of the mediocre Mid-American Conference. In oneof the biggestupsets to darken the skies of EastLansing, . Central Michigan rolled over the Spartans 20-3. Michigan S tate, one of the best teams in the nation on paper, had its dreams of a National Championship blown away by the Chippewas’storm.
From that point on State could not take back control of its game. They reeled to one of the worst seasons in their history stumbling to a 3-8 record. Along the way , the Irish annihilated Michigan S tate 49-10 while rushing for arecord 650 yards. Big Ten doghouse mates Purdue and Northwestern also
SEPTEMBER 17, 1992
defeated the decaying Spartans last season.
Expectations were high again for this season due to the return of the workhorse Duckett, now looking for his third straight 1,000-yard-plus campaign, and 42 other letter winners, including 14 starters. The
team this year has an amazing amount of returning experience on the offensive line, in the secondary and in the backfield. They prepared to play Central Michigan again, at home, to start the 1992 season. . Like the previous season, . Michigan State had what it thought was a team ready to compete with anyone, especially CMU.
“They’ll [CMU] come in here a little more confident than last year because they beat us,” said Michigan State coach George Perles before the game. “They played well last year and deserved to win. But that the good thing about sports. There’s always next year. Now, next year is here and we have a chance to be a better team.”
Yes* next year is a new season and, yes, that is a good thing about sports programs. For Michigan State, however, the new year picked up right where the previous one had left off. The nightmare continues. Central Michigan upset the Spartans for the second year in a row at Spartan Stadium. Joe
Youngblood in his first year as starting quar-
terback for CMU went airborne, shredding year we learned that anyone could lose on
the supposedly formidable State secondary for 163 yards on 17 completions in 23 attempts. In the end the Chippewas outran, outdefended and outscored the Spartans
again 24-20. The football community was yet again surprised.
“Michigan State plays very physical football,” said Irish head coach Lou Holtz. “I was really shocked that Central Michigan beat them again because I really thought they’d come back strong from last season.”
Coach Perlas himself almost could not believe that his football team might be heading downhill once again this season. They had seemed once again to have a top caliber pigskin program and a new outlook due to the lessons of last year.
Michigan State Sports Information
Quarterback Jim Miller will be calling the shots on offense. He will look for All-Everythlng running back Tico Duckett to take some
pressure off his shoulders.
‘This loss hurtmore than last year’s. Last
any given day,” said Perlas. “This year I thought that we would be ready, that we had learned our lesson.”
Michigan State had better learn some les
sons in a hurry, because this week they are facing the seventh-ranked University of Notre Dame. The Irish are not lead by a rookie quarterback like CMU’s Youngblood, but by a two-year starter and All-American candidate in Rick Mirer. Unless the Spartans can tighten up the leaks in
their sinking ship they might be drowned in violent Irish offense. Last year Notre Dame went wild against the helpless Spartans — rushing for 448 yards, passing for217 yards and having a landmark day. Reggie Brooks scored his first ND touchdown, Oscar
McBride caught his first pass as a Domer, Ray Zellers carried the ball for the first time, Mirer threw three touchdown passes for the first time in his career, and this game was the first time the Irish scored as many as 49 points against the Spartans since 1898. After Notre Dame’s performance last week, tying the University of Michigan, it looks as if the Irish may add more firsts and impressive numbers against Michigan State this year.
Notre Dame has an arsenal of firepower that greatly overshadows that of Central Michigan. They are also ready to avoid last week’s deadlock fiasco by looking to crush any opposing team. The Irish have no easy task though. Duckett still prowls the Spartan backfield and the experience of the team has not disappeared. Quarterback Jim Miller is still a tested veteran, with a 59.4 percent completion rating and 1,368 yards in the air last season. Michigan State also knows that they must turn their program
around. They must win every game.
“The game with Notre Dame is a big deal for our season,” said Perlas earlier this week.
So it is and so must the Irish be wary. But in comparing the two teams and their first contests of the season it looks as if Notre
Dame has the opportunity to set some more records at the expense of the falling Spartans of Michigan State. In a contest that may easily become a rout, the Irish must punish Michigan State early, demonstrating that nothing has changed since their last meeting.	□
10
SCHOLASTIC
DOWN and
DIRTY
Despite losing its home opener to Michigan, the Notre Dame rugby team is determined to be the best in the Midwest.
By E. Rommel Nash
No! It’s not football without pads. Despite this popular belief, it really does have rules. That crazy looking pile up in the middle of the field is supposed to be that way. It even has a name: scrum. We’re talking about the mysterious game called rugby, invented at the Rugby School in England in the 1820's. The game came about as an accident when a young student picked up the ball with his hands during a game of soccer, thus causing mayhem to occur. In a game described as something between soccer and American football, the players do, in fact, wear rugby shirts as part of their very limited equipment.
Today, rugby has grown to be the largest non-varsity intercollegiate sport in the country. The Notre Dame rugby club began in 1961 and has had a reputation of.being primarily a social club. Many probations have passed since that first team took the Notre Dame campus by storm 31 years ago, and today’s rugby club maintains athletic prowess on the field along with the club’s social history.
Last year’s team compiled an impressive record, with only one loss to a collegiate team. That loss occurred at the Midwest Rugby Tournament. In the first round, Notre Dame took on the University of Wisconsin at Whitewater. The team went
Nick Spangler
Dan McNieve (center) sets a maul, Jeff Lyman (right) strips it and Mark Babka (left) seals it as Michigan players close in hot pursuit..
on to win that match and then to face Miami of Ohio in the second round. After defeating the Miami team, Notre Dame advanced to the Midwest Final Four at Bowling Green State University over Easter weekend. Notre
Dame opened with a match against Big Ten rival Penn State. Unfortunately, the luck of the Irish did not shine that Saturday morning as Notre Dame fell victim to the Nittany (continued on page 14)
SEPTEMBER 17, 1992
11
Magazine, 303 LaF drtune, or call 239-7569.
Thursday 17
Movie: "Naked Gun 2 1/2," 8:00 and 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Conference: "The Changing Distribution of Income in an Open U.S. Economy," 8:30 a.m. & 1:45 p.m., Room 100-104 Center for Continuting Education.
Lecture: "Gender, Ethnicity and the Temptation of American Invented Traditions," 4 p.m., Hesburgh Library Auditorium. .
Lecture: "Latin America in the New World Order," 4:15 p.m., Hesburgh Center Auditorium.
Colloquium: "Philosophy at Work in the Genesis of Modem Cosmology: E.A.
Milne and the Snares of Ontology," 4:15 p.m., 131 Decio.
Golf: Men's Golf at University of Cincinnati Invitational.
Friday 18
Movie: "Final Analysis," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Roadside Prophets," 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Folk Dancing: 7:30 p.in., Club House, Saint Mary's College.
Conference: "The Changing Distribution in an Open U.S. Economy," 8:30 a.m. & 1:30 p.m., Room 100-104 CCE.
Workshop: "Gender, Ethnicity and the Temptation of American Invented Traditions," 11:00 a.m., Foster Room. Lecture: "The Problems and Paradoxes of Assisted Suicide," 12:00 pm., Law School Courtroom.
Tennis: Notre Dame Men/Tom Fallon Invitational.
Golf: Meris Golf at University of Cincinnati Invitational.
Saturday 19 !
Movie: "Final Analysis," 8:00 & 10:30 p;m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Roadside Prophets," 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Symposium: "The Question Concerning Art and Technology," 8:00 a.m., Sriite.
Football: Notre Dame at Michigan State, 3:35 p.m. EDT, Spartan Stadium.
Golf: Notre Dame Women at Tennessee
Tech Vandy Golf Classic.'
Golf: Notre Dame Men at University of Cincinnati Invitational.
si
1
Ii
For More Information Call
LaFortune Information Desk: 239-8128
Senior Class: 239-5136
Student Union Board: 239-7757
Junior Class: 239-5117
Snite Film Series Hot Line: 239-7361
Sophomore Class: 239-5225
ND News Line: 239-5110
JACC Ticket Information: 239-7354
Notre Dame MenuLine: 283-FOOD
Weekend Wheels Schedule:
283-FRED

Touch Four
Dial 239-25004 then press x 2101 formovieinfo, x 2114 for the music line x 2112 for concert info. ’ ; x 2117:for theatre info. ■' x 2525 for college events,
x 1600 for local weather
x 1603 for national weather
x 1903 for movie reviews
x 1300 for local sports info.
x1301 for TV sports events
x 1303 for national sports report
x 1213 for world hews

Sunday
20
Soccer: Notre Dame Men vs. LaSalle, 1:00 p.m., Alumni Field.
Soccer: Notre Dame Women vs.
Dayton, 3:00 p.m., Alumni Field.
Softball: Notre Dame Classic, 9:00 uh.
Golf: Notre Dame Women at Tennessee Tech Vandy Golf Classic
Monday
21
ilm: "Ballet Mechanique" and "Le irasier Ardent," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2. 'ilm: "Abbott and Costello Meet Franken-tein," 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
’ennis: Notre Dame Men/Tom Fallon ivitational'
Tuesday
Film: "And God Created Woman," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Film: "Day of Wrath," 9:00 pm., Snite, $2.
Wednesday 23
Free Cookout: Class of 1993,7:00 p.m., Senior Bar.
TOUCH FOUR
COMING SOON...
Senior Class Cruise, Sept. 24 Tickets on Sale Now at the LaFortune Information Desk, $25 includes everything
Movie Theatres:
K
73
The Droverswill be appearing at Club Shenanigans on Saturday, September 19. Contact Ticketmaster for ticket information.
Scottsdale Theatre:
291-4583
University Park Cinema East: 277-7336	■
Town & Country Theatre: ?
259-9090
100. Center Cinema I&U: . 259-0414
University Park Cinema West:
277-0441	/

Forum I &II Cinema: ' 277-1522 .
(continued from page 11) Lions. The next morning, on Easter Sunday, the Irish went on to beat Bowling Green to take third in the Midwest. Penn State, who went on to win the Midwest title, was the only collegiate team that Notre Dame had lost to in the past two years.
This year’s team plans to improve on its prior performances by winning the Midwest title and proceeding to the National Tournament Championships. In order to do this, however, the team is going to have to fill a few positions vacated due to graduation on the A-side (starting team). Some of the most critical players lost were Mike Moore, the team’s scrum half, and front row players. With the movement of players from last year’s B -side, including seniors Todd Broski and Justin Politi and sophomores Matt Meko and Brian Hitz, the transition to A-side should not be a major problem.
“Our emphasis will be on refining our A-side,” said Dan McNieve, a fourth year player and first at-large team council member. “However, we are also looking to improve our B and C players in order to invest in the future of the rugby program at Notre
SPORTS
Dame.”
This year’s season got off to a grueling start. The Irish opened up against the University of Michigan’s college and club side team this past Sunday. The Wolverines led 6-0 at half and increased their margin to 24-0 by the end of the game. Notre Dame played with its college side but knows that it has a lot of work ahead if it expects to be invited back to the Midwest Tournament this year.
The Notre Dame rugby team’s next opponent is a rematch with last year’s Final Four opponent Bowling Green. Both times the Irish played Bowling Green last year were grudge matches with the Irish coming out on top. However, the rugby team is not overlooking them in the least and expects a hard fought game on September 19. After Bowling Green, the Irish return home the following Sunday, September 27, to take on the Michigan State Spartans. The rugby team then travels on October 3 to the Chicago Area Rugby Football Union (CARFU) Tournament, which it has won the past two years while amassing a 96-6 combined score total against three different
teams lastyear. The weekend of October 10, j the Irish again return to Chicago to play a i perennial powerhouse men’s club, the Chicago Lions. The last match of the regular season is at home against another men’s club comprised of former Notre Dame players, the Old Boys of Fort Wayne Men’s Club on October 24.
“Our goal is to win the Midwest,” said fourth year player and team council presi- ; dent Mark Babka. “To do this we’re going to play with an intense, physical style that is ' going to knock our opposition out of synch.” \
“It’s going to take some grit and guts,” j concurred Jeff Lyman, a fourth year player ! and team council treasurer. “But we have the 1 fortitude it takes to get the job done.” -	;
Joining McNieve, Babka, Lyman, Broski, Politi, Meko and Hitz are key members council vice-president Rich Huftalen, ball boy Eric Marsh and jersey boy Joe Burke.
The Notre Dame rugby team is on the | brink of great success. Fan support is greatly j appreciated. The Notre Dame rugby field, । the Colonel John Stephen’s pitch, is located | behind Stepan Center. Games generally , start around noon.	□
■ 1
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
John Coyle: Coyle, a senior captain from Howell, NJ, assisted the i : Notre Dame men’s cross country team in its defeat over Georgetown at the Burke Memorial golf course this past weekend. Coyle ;j displayedhisall-Americanskillwithasecondplacefinishmthefive V; mile race. The Irish, currently ranked 6th in the nation, defeated the Hoyas 31-24.
Molly Stark: Stark, a junior from Scottsdale, AZ, lead the Notre Dame women's volleyball team to an incredible comeback last weekend in game three against Ohio at the JACC in the MCC-MAC Challenge. By serving six consecutive points, Stark was able to lead the Irish to an eventual 16-14 win over the Bobcats.
SCHOLASTIC j
REVIEW & PREVIEW
by J. Bradley Keck
Hi Axl." In a few moments Guns ‘n Roses should be knocking at my door with a film crew to demand an explanation for my insolence.
How We Doing?
Howie Mandell had a date at the Naval Academy last week. He was really happy to be preforming in front of the enthusiastic Midshipmen (Midshippersons?). But on the heels of the Tailhook fiasco, Mandell was not met with the expected fervor. At some point in his show he made some lewd remarks and invited the women in the audience to come on stage in order to partake in some sexual activity. The Academy has now undertaken an internal review in order to determine if the show was excessively profane and vulgar. The Navy had already paid Mandell around $40,000 for his concert I enjoy to see my tax dollars going for a performance that is then deemed obscene. Luckily we did not have those problems when Mandell came to Notre Dame. We only paid around $30,000, but did not have to worry about setting up an internal investigation after the show—no one went, so no one complained.
Hair Tales
Billy Ray. Cyrus, coming soon to Notre Dame’s JACC, has picked up a new member for his entourage. Cyrus has hired a new body guard to protect just one part of his body. Come on, get your mind out of the gutter! The new guard was hired to protect Cyrus’ ponytail. Reports are that overzealous fans have been trying to touch
and cut off his famous locks. The price of fame is phenomenal. I just wish that Cyrus would not have gone to all that trouble. I was planning to take a snip at his hair in the hopes of hanging it behind my bar.
Woodstock II — Living oh Love or $25 million
John Roberts, one of the organizers of the original Woodstock, is at it again. He is planing a Woodstock 25th Anniversary concert in Bethel, New York. He hopes to attract 250,000 people to the two day event set for August 1994. The cost of this extravaganza is preliminarily setat$100 a pop. That is a big amount of cash for the commemoration of the era when love, peace and rock and roll were all one needed to live.
Up and Coming
September 22 Bob Marley’s home video
biography and 78 song boxed set of 4 CD’s ($49.89)... Also Garth Brooks The Chase
1.Sugaryes.’/• ■'' ? -A'
2.;Helmet^.^
3. Velocity G^	T. > /
4.SonicYouth----Z)irly...^
Vanous-r-:
Vaselines^
7. They Might BeGi^tSr^.^^
;9.Screaming Trees—-Svveer
and Michael Bolton’s Timelesson the22nd. These CDs are the highest priced to date at $ 16.98 ($ 10.70 wholesale) in what seems to be the start of an industry-wide price hike.. . At the movies Friday: Singles starring Bridget Fonda, Campbell Scott and Matt Dillon. The movie, touted as the “love story of the '90s,” looks like a type of Melrose Place on the silver screen. Soundtrack for this movie features songs by Pearl Jam, Alice in Chains and Soundgarden. Also, in Husbands and Wives, Woody Allen falls in love with Juliette Lewis in this one as wifeMia Farrow looks on. Art does indeed reflect life.... Faith No More and Helmet at the Aragon Ballroom on Saturday. . . Friday, the final show of the U2, Public Enemy (yeah boy!) and B.A.D.II tour at the World Music Theater. . . Tonight at Club Shenanigans in South Bend, The Drovers.
SEPTEMBER 17, 1992 ..
15
ENTERTAINMENT
! j ! I
HELMET
This Weekend in Chicago
by Dave Holsinger
HP hose of you budding moshers who A were heaving your bodies into the air all through last week’s They Might Be Giants sho w might want to take in a real thrash/ mosh experience in this weekend. That is, if you didn’t spend all of your money on t-shirts at the U2 shows. As a cynic, this reviewer has to wonder if the Domers at those U2 shows will be body-passing and moshing just like they do at every concert on this campus. Can someone explain this bizarre trend to me? Anyhow, get some use out of those newfound slam dancing talents and check out the titanic double bill at Chicago’s Aragon Ballroom on Saturday, September 19. San Francisco’s art-metal heroes Faith No More andNew York’s “next big thing,” Helmet, will be teaming up to hurt a few eardrums.
Although the new releases from both bands show tremendous development and are selling briskly, it is Helmet’s Meantime that is currently causing critics in alternative circles to lose their composure. This conservatory-trained New York quartet was the object of a major-label bidding war which resulted in a seven-figure contract with
fledgling Interscope Records (home of Primus, among others).
Why the hype about these guys? The members of Helmet are musical innovators of the first order, basing their music on tight, fast, syncopated rhythms which could only have come from years of conservatory practice. Stop-and-go grooves turn into frantic, churning rhythms which somehow modulate into melodic choruses. This band is capable of stopping and turning on a dime —the songs are not so much melodic as they are rhythmic constructions. Although the largely rhythmic nature of the music may start to seem repetitive, one can’t help to be overwhelmed by the technical and emotional power of this band’s music. The prime example of Helmet’s form is the single released before their album, “Unsung,” which is bound to impress any listener with its precise grooves and bitterly accurate lyrics about false motivation. Every song on the new album is of nearly the same caliber: the combination of punk energy and musicianship simply can’tbe mimicked by anyone else, although the imitators are sure to come.
Prior to major label success, Helmet’s first album, Strap It On, was the rage of college
radio geeks everywhere, and their latest release has seen impressive commercial success. Meantime has even seen some success on our own campus, showing no tendency whatsoever for dropping out of WVFI’s Top Ten. Prepare to be amazed by what this band will become.
In the meantime (pardon the blatant reference to the previously reviewed album), Faith No More has spent some serious time and effort trying to break out of the formula which had become expected after becoming victims of heavy rotation on MTV. Even though the single “MidLife Crisis” resembles its predecessor “Epic” in feel as well as in lyrical content, it somehow manages to avert formula. Angel Dust is an extremely well-planned infusion of new ideas into Faith No More’s craft: common elements in style prevent the album from turning incoherent, but the band has brought in more than enough new ideas to invigorate the bland songwriting of The Real Thing. Singer Mike Patton changes himself into a new character for each song, from the old, drunken hick on “RV” to a psychotic drug dealer on “Crack Hitler.” Two tracks especially mark the change away from restrictive song structures. “Malpractice” incorporates part of a Shostakovich string quartet, and “Jizzlobber” uses dissonance as well as elements of industrial music to create a truly frightening piece. This band has definitely grown beyond the “we’re so funkmetal” days of “Epic.”
At press time, tickets for Saturday’s show were still available. Call Ticketmaster at (312) 559-1212 for tickets or show up at the Aragon Ballroom before showtime. Prepare to leave impressed and with your ears hurting.	q
16	SCHOLASTIC
ENTERTAINMENT
TONIGHT AT CLUB SHENANIGAN'S
by J. Bradley Keck
YTTho are The Drovers, you might ask? W Well,justlookattheirname,itholds the. answers. Drover is an Irish term first used to describe those who herded sheep on the rolling hills of Ireland. Soon though, a drover also began denote one who moves people. A drover is one who can move people with their song, one who can make othersdance.
The Drovers achieve just what their name implies. Through a unique combination of Irish roots music and rock, The Drovers set forth an altemativestyleof music that is both soft on the ear and compelling for the feet.
The Drovers came together hurriedly in 1988 to play at a Chicago bar on St. Patrick’s Day. Soon after, they were creating their own songs and developing a following. Ron Howard saw them play one weekend and invited them to appear in his film Backdraft. They were an up-and-coming band with the new Irish sound. But don’t let the bands Irish musical background fool you — their heart is driven by good old rock and roll.
“Our music isn’t really that traditional. It’s traditional based, and instead of playing blues, we play jigs and reels,” said the bands founder Sean Cleland.
“We don’t play Irish music,” echoes singer-bassist Dave Callahan. “What we play is really a kind of roots-rock. Only the roots are drawn from our Irish-American heritage.”
Within the group that heritage is ex
SEPTEMBER 17, 1992
tremely strong. Three of the six band members were bom in Ireland and all are of Irish descent. Kathleen Keane, who plays accordion, flute whistles and vocals, has been playing traditional Irish music since childhood and is an award winning Irish step dancer. Cleland, who plays fiddle, and Jackie Moran, who plays drums and bodhran, also bring a high level of the Irish tradition to The Drovers.
This influence from the Emerald Isle mixed with pure American rock leads to an

g|g>^^;N|<>NST£^
eerie sound. The Drovers released their first CD, World of Monsters, this summer and it has proved to be a extremely different sounding album. All of The Drovers’ songs contain a stiff guitar and bass edge wrapped around the whirling Irish rhythms. The vocals have a ethereal quality that moves dreamily between male to female leads. The
melodic quality of their music at times is reminiscent of groups like Edie Brickell and the New Bohemians or the Indigo Girls.
Their Irish slant, though, is what makes their tunes so original and danceable. The group, due to these roots, have been called “Chicago’s answer to the Pogues.” This title does not entirely fit By listening to just one track, any listener can see that The Drovers are not a modem folk band. The music they present, like rap or soul, is an outgrowth, from an ethnic experience, not a strict reflection of that heritage.
“We want to figure out some sort of new thing that doesn’t dilute the past, yet at the same timeisn’tgoingtostickusinto playing for folk music enthusiasts,” said Cleland.
To achieve this goal The Drovers have stayed well outside of the confines of the music industry. They have their own record label, Tantrum Records and their own publicity company, Ratfish Arts. By taking control of all the facets of their production The Drovers hope to avoid being placed in any particular musical category.
“We want complete control over the way that we’re presented,” stresses Callahan.
So far this attitude has proven to be successful. They have a truly individual sound, an 11 songCDandagro wingnumber of fans from across the country. If you enjoy music that is fresh, that is easy to listen to, and that just might bring you to your feet, The Drovers would just love for a few Fighting Irishmen to jig over to Club Shenanigans for their show tonight.	□
17
ON OTHER CAMPUSES
News of the bizzarre from the nation’s universities
Descriptions of how the work was created as well as an invitation to touch the art accompanies each work. There was no mention of whether or not any of Marcia Kaplan’s works that were featured at Saint Mary’s will be included in the exhibit.
No Cheeseburgers In Paradise
Bats In The Belfry
At the University of Auburn in Alabama repairs to the main administration building have come to a halt. According to The Chronicle of Higher Education, this $l-million project will have to wait until scientists determine the destiny of a colony of bats discovered inside the building. Many of the bats living in the building’s attic are part of a threatened species in Alabama. They are beneficial to humans because they feed on many different insects. Despite efforts to resume construction, rumors prevail that the filming for Batman III: The Penguin Goes South for the Winter is scheduled to start in late S eptember.
See Me, Feel Me
A travelling exibit is currently on display in the Community Arts Center in Altoona, PA. According to The Weekly Collegian, the exibihit, entitled Art Through Touch, provides visitors an opportunity both see and touch two- and three-dimensional artwork.
Students at the University of Kansas have been expressing their awareness of meatless diets. According to the Daily Kansan, more and more students have been turning vegetarian. While some people simply do not like the taste of meat, others are drawn to' being vegetarians because they feel it may help them lose weight Dietitians from the health center are providing students with health and safety tips on eating vegetarian. Perhaps University Food Services can provide the UK cooks with the recipes for meatless cheeseburgers and meatless baked zid.
Are These Courses Open To Domers?
At Penn State, students are being offered courses in construction technology this fall. Students may take non-credit courses in the evening that will familiarize them with the technical areas of building contruction. Students who complete all eight, thirty-hour courses receive a certificate in Contruction Technology, said The Weekly Collegian. Are any courses offered in water drainage systems, and if so, may Notre Dame students enroll before the next thunderstorm?	□
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!!
.SUBWAY*
• SR 23 At Ironwood
• US 31 N (By North Village Mall)
18
SCHOLASTIC
NEWS COMMENTARY
CampusWatch
THEGIPP
FAILS ENGLISH
In last week’s issue, the Gipp made a comment on the shoddy spelling exhibited by representatives of Northwestern University oil their football scoreboard. Early this week, the Gipp received a rather disheartening piece of mail. An individual who refused to reveal her/his identity sent the Gipp the following note: “Was it cute or unintentional that you put an English error in the squib on p. 7 mocking Northwestern for twom’sin coming? ‘It’s’ is a contraction for ‘it is. ’ Correct wouldbe without the apostrophe.” The Gipp stands humbled and admits his error. Normally, the Gipp is a stickler for that kind of thing, but even the best of us make mistakes. The same individual pointed out a few flaws in the “On Other Campuses” column. If this person would like to reveal her/his identity, Scholastic may be willing to hire a new copy editor. The only clue we have to this person’s identity is scrawly, professor-like handwriting and an envelope with the Internal Revenue Service as a return address. Scholastic also received an anonymous phone call reporting a spelling error on page 11; apparently the word "unfortunately" was not spelled conectly.
DeBARTOLO SOLUTIONS
In other mail, the Gipp has received.a few interesting'suggestions for eliminating the traffic through the north entrance to the new DeBartolo classroom building. Students have suggested installing inflatable rescue slides like those found on airplanes on the second and third floors, as well as using the
SEPTEMBER 17, 1992
newly discovered “midget windows” on the first floor. It seems that there is a set of windows set along the ground on the first floor which only come up to a height of about three feet. Obviously, the designers of this amazing new building wouldn’t have put these there for no reason, so they must have been designed as alternate exits. Rope ladders thrown from the roof were also suggested by several students as a means of escaping the confines of the new classroom building.
HUH?
The Gipp was rather confused when he saw the following brochure published by the same administration that tells students that
it’s illegal to eat in the Library. The brochure, entitled “Visitor’s Guide to Dining at Notre Dame,” tells those visitors looking to find sustenance that they might be able to partake of nourishment at the Hesburgh Library. Anyone with a logical explanation for this brochure wins a bottle of Grape Nehi (to be consumed somewhere besides the library, unless the explanation is extremely
convincing).
BEWARE!
Scholastic's photographers noticed this rather questionable piece of plumbing inside the new DeBartolo building. The Gipp thought that all of the radiation on our campus was supposed to be concentrated in the evil-looking mirrored building near the library. Apparently he was wrong. Butwhat is the purpose of the radiation supply? Are we just the lab rats of some twisted biology experiment?
19
FINAL WORD
Liberation of All Women
Only in growth, reform and change, paradoxically enough, is true security to be found.” —- Anne Morrow Lindbergh
Nine o’clock and the J ACC is stirring with enthusiasm as hundreds of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students roam around signing up for the many clubs and community service projects that we, as part of the “Notre Dame Family” are known for partaking in. I sit at the Feminist Forum table as students, mostly women, filter back and forth from the table. I began to get excited and feel like our voice is finally being heard as I look at the large number of people that have signed up. It was at that moment that four young men walked by rather suspiciously, pointed, sneered and began to laugh. Saying comments such as “Look at that—FeministForum—they must be joking! ” About five minutes later another group of guys walks by, but this time there is a young woman with them. She is obviously with them but is lagging behind. They all look over at the Feminist Forum sign. The young men look as if they are just about ready to break out laughing. The woman begins to walk towards the table. I think to myself, “Yes, she is brave (for lack of a better word) and is going stick up for something she believes in: the equality of women.” The guys began to make rude comments about how Feminist Forum is for a bunch of women who don’t shave their legs. It was with this stereotypical comment that the girl started backing away and began to laugh with them.
Although these are just two incidents, I have put up with these rude sexist comments every day in classes^ walking down the quad, in the dining halls—everywhere—not just from men, but from women, too, who sit and condone this behavior. Although the comments may not always be directed towards me, the anger and frustration that builds up in me is just the same as if they were. I take pride in the fact that I am a woman, and as a woman I feel that it is my obligation to the rest of the human race to fight for woman’s rights. Little did I know that two little pins on my back pack stating “Another woman for peace” and “Men of equality respect women’s equality,” worn so often back in my home town of Amherst, Mass, with little comment except for of course,’’Where did you get those pins”, could cause so much chaos on the campus of the University of Notre Dame. Coming here as a freshman I was told of all the community service projects, the Center For Social Concerns, The World Peace Action Group, and many other organizations. I guess it was my own misconception that women’s rights groups would be present and active. Little did I know that I was to be the one to
get a group that was given $25 from the CCC (Club Coordination Council) last year off the ground. I think it would benefit students as well as faculty (of whom we have several as members) to join FeministForum. The group gives people a sense of the deepest moral concerns. I am saying this not as just a feminist but as a human being.The purpose of Feminist Forum is to create a forum for the discussion of issues of feminism and gender concerning the Notre Dame and St. Mary’s community and the world-at-large. The goal is to present relevant and interesting topics, thereby stimulating discussion and raising consciousness of gender concerns.
Possible discussions for this year include “Everything you always wanted to know about Feminism but were afraid to ask,” “Women in Sexuality,” “Abortion Through the Feminist Eye,” “Violence Against Women,” “Women: Career or Family?,” “Beauty Myth vs. Girl Culture,” “The Invisible Lesbian at ND #2,” “Black Feminism,” “Paganism,” “Take BacktheNightMarch,”“TheRepresentationofGenderinthe Media,” and “Gender and Academia.” Guest speakers are expected, including such figures as Nayomi Wolf, Susan Faludi and Gloria S teinem. We are also looking into different service projects. This will further stimulate the group and hopefully encourage the participation of new members.
The name “FeministForum,” although surprising to some, does not mean that men are not welcome. Certainly they are. Feminism, to me, means several things: the radical notion that women are people, and “a firm commitment to gender equality, a painful awareness that such equality is far from achieved and a continuing desire to work towards such equality” (Janet A. Kourany et. al.). Anyone intrigued by these claims is welcome in the forum.
Although Feminist Forum is a relatively new organization (in its third year), it is much needed for Notre Dame students as well as those from St. Mary’s. A major focus of the Forum is to encourage diversity in the university community and to serve as aplace of free speech, thus welcoming a spectrum of opinions on feminism.
Anyone interested in the particulars may contact Tonya Callahan at 283-2878.
“I am a feminist, and if I live I fight, and if I fight, I contribute to the liberation of all women. And so victory is bom; even in the darkest hour.” — Anon.
20
SCHOLASTIC

J U$E&To,ti7R. AS0UTA MoWi M5T SEMESTER.
J AU, To Von VUVt A (SiRuWjEUD ?
/SuruJA'C, IT’S BASlCAUbY MT duty as VouR Roommate to FiATi A MWcT®ABe‘' IA THE T»6-&o<5K'' A»» SET Vein up Fo^ThE SfK ^EKT ^6cK.
Dj«r AAPPSKEP? T>n> &H£ HA^efo 1?EJO|>4 the Circus? ma m RA ‘
J TJuJUO ?>ifT. ST SEtMS PRETTY JHAILOU "TO ASITOHT
ComE-OM JACK ( "SE SERIOUS !
A^t^ap, it’s tior uKe you're
Jt'j a DjublE STANDARD.
J 3Wt EXPecr WOKE>)
If you are interested in being a Scholastic cartoonist, please submit three (3) samples of your work to 303 LaFortune by Friday, September 18 at 5 p.m.
Former Governer of New Mexico
TONEY ANAYA
"What it Means to be
an Hispanic Role Model"
Tuesday, September 29 at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium
STUDENT UNION BOARD
Admission is Free