DRESS RIGHT . . .
There’s nothing quite like the assured confident feeling a man gets from looking his best. And, when he looks his best, he’s most likely to do his best. The Campus Shop has the clothes, for dress or leisure wear, that will give you this confident, assured feeling. . . . Why not drop in soon and look them over?
PAY ONE-THIRD IN APRIL ...
PAY ONE-THIRD IN MAY . . . '	PAY ONE-THIRD IN JUNE
CHARGE IT THE
CAMPUS SHOP WAY . . .
U'	■
Every Notre Dame man has a charge account at the Campus Shop. Get whatever you need, when you need it, and charge it on your account, the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in April . . . »>
one-third in May . . . one-third in June.
‘	Naturally, there is no interest or carrying
5*	charge. .
► . - .
(-^GILBERT'S ) X^ampiis^ho|^7	s
■	■	On the Campus—Notre Dame	/	•
J<mtuttyl6,1959 < • -•
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!” and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek”)
Scholastic
■ —
Vol. 100 January 16, 1959 No. 11
THE DATING SEASON
========= 4 ,
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus	,
I have recently returned from a tour of 950,000 American colleges where I made a survey of undergraduate dating customs and sold Zorro whips. I have tabulated my findings and I am now prepared to tell you the simple secret of successful dating.
The simple secret is simply this: A date is successful when the man knows how to treat the girl.
And how does a girl like to be treated? If you want to know, read and remember these four cardinal rules of dating:
1.	A girl likes to be treated with resped.
When you call for your girl, do not drive up in front of the sorority house and yell, “Hey, fat lady!” Get out of your car. Walk respectfully to the door. Knock respectfully. When your girl comes out, tug your forelock and say respectfully, “Good evening, Your Honor.” Then offer her a Marlboro, for what greater respect can you show your girl than to offer Marlboro with its fine flavor and
new improved filter? It will indicate immediately that you respect her taste,
respect her discernment, respect her in
telligence. So, good buddies, before going out on a date, always remember to buy some Marlboros, now7 available in soft pack or flip-top box at your friendly vending machine.
2.	A girl likes a good listener.
Do not monopolize the conversation. Let her talk while you listen attentively.
Make sure, however, that she herself is not a good listener. I recollect a date I had once with a coed named Greensleeves Sigafoos, a lovely girl, but unfortunately a listener, not a talker. I too was a listener so we just sat all night long, each with his hand cupped over his ear,
straining to catch a word, not talking hour after hour until finally a policeman came by and arrested us both for vagrancy. I did a year and a day. She got by with a suspended sentence because she was the sole support of her aged housemother.
3.	A girl likes to be taken to nice places.
By “nice” places I do not mean expensive places. A girl does not demand luxury. All she asks is a place that is pleasant and gracious. The Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, for example. Or Mount Rushmore. Or the Taj Mahal. Or the Bureau
of Weights and Measures. Find places like these to take your girl. In no circumstances must you take her to an oilcracking plant.
4.	A girl likes a man to be well-informed.
Come prepared with a few7 interesting facts that you can drop casually into the conversation. Like this: “Did you know, Snookiepuss, that when cattle, sheep, camels, goats, antelopes, and other members of the cud-chewing family get up,
they always get up hind legs first?” Or this: “Are you aware, Hotlips, that corn
grows faster at night?” Or this: “By the
way, Loverhead, Oslo did not become the capital of Norway till July 11,1924.”
If you can slip enough of these nuggets into the conversation before dinner, your date will grow too torpid to eat. Some men save up to a half-million dollars a year this way •	@ 1958, Max Shulman
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of ’ < postage. Authorized June 23, 1918.
BOB SEDLACK
Editor
LOU STETTLER
Associate Editor	..
RON BLUBAUGH.____________News	Editor
WALT RUDGE________________Copy	Editor
JIM YOCH.-------------Features	Editor
TEDDY THOMPSON__________Sports	Editor |
PETER HASBROOK-------Business Manager , CONRAD SUSKI.--------Circulation
BOB FANCHER___________________Photography
DAVE SOMMER___________________Photography
LYN RELPH__________________Assistant	News
ROY RUBELI.________________Assistant	News
BOB MARUYAMA_______________Assistant	Copy
CHAS RIECK_________________Assistant	Copy
FRANK DUDA_______________Assistant Features
JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER..._Ass’t Features CHUCK MILLER_____________Assistant Features
TOM ROSE__________________Assistant Sports ,
BOB SCHAEFER--------------Assistant Sports yi
BOB HORN._________________Assistant Business 1
FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C—Moderator '
BUSINESS STAFF: Tom Carey, Bernie Dobranski, f Jim Keough, Roger McMahon.	'
NEWS STAFF: Rich Burke. Jim Byrne, Wade Clarke, Bill Galvin, John Hoey, Tom Marciniak, Charles Tausche, Tom Weiss.
SPORTS STAFF: William Cary, Dick Ciccone, j Dick Corso, Jay Kilroy, Jim Lee, Pat O’Connor, Tim O’Reilly, William Reagan, Gieorge Voris.
A
Member of Catholic School Press Association and	I
Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for no-	i,
tional advertising by National Advertising Service, A , I Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.	*
To the list of things girls like, add Philip Morris Cigarettes. Girls, men—everybody, in fact, likes mild, natural Philip Morris, co-sponsors with Marlboro of this column,
4
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at die University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $5.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Scholastic
3SE

terry
J *
j On the morning of Monday, January 5, 1959, at a small Ik community in northern Indiana, a strange phenomenon oc-M curred: approximately six thousand! students and a few K hundred teachers converged on half a dozen class buildings M for the resumption of regular classes following Christmas j| ' vacation.
1 Actually, there’s nothing at all strange about this phe-j nomenon, a daily occurrence eight months of every year — nothing strange, that is, unless you’d been reading the I daily newspapers (including the Catholic press) during the previous two weeks. But as a matter of fact, everyone had „ been reading the newspapers; not only that, it seemed as though everyone had been writing letters of protest. The furor was so great, we feel, that many people wondered whether classes would ever resume. Just for the record, 4 they did resume and are continuing with amazing regularity. But why the furor and doubt? — because Terry Brennan, the head football coach at the University of Notre Io Dame, had been replaced.
There undoubtedly will be a number of our non-campus readers who will object to the use of “replaced” to describe the situation. All right, Terry was fired. We prefer to use “replaced” in the hope of relegating the whole controversy to its proper perspective.
In general, the feeling on campus, among the students, i	is that Terry did not do as good a job with his material as
I	he should have done. For this reason he was and should
I* have been replaced. At last report there have been no lynching of University officials, no rocks thrown, not even I an interesting fist fight over the matter on campus. • Indifference? No, we think not. Perhaps we (and the girls of St. Mary’s who heard over and over again the same vaca-W	tion question, “What’s going on at Notre Dame?”) are
A	just sick and tired of hearing about it and would much
K’ rather talk of something more interesting, say, the Mardi ■ Gras or semester exams.
Q Why all the commotion? First of all, the sentimentalists * were shocked that a Catholic institution could fire a man with a wife and children on Christmas Eve. Actually, this wasn’t the case at all; if the timing was poor, which many people will deny, it was only poor ex post facto in that the general public had its heartstrings twanged.
This, however, does not seem to be the main objection to Terry’s replacement. In the plethora of anguished cries there is a more insidious and, if left unanswered, a more pernicious criticism: Notre Dame is football-mad, she does not educate. This criticism is false and generally unsubstantiated. Many of the supporters who have rushed to our defense are almost as noisy and inane in answering this particular criticism as are our. critics in making it. As we see it, Notre Dame, in becoming a great educational institution, must attain a perfect balance between football, which admittedly helps bring in the funds so necessary for academic progress, and the academic life.
• The period of the late 1950’s is one of change and, like
January 16, 1959
any period of change, is apt to be somewhat unstable. Notre Dame is making, we feel, a sincere effort to attain that perfect balance of academic and athletic. This balance is close to being realized on campus.
If we are to believe the newspapers (which perhaps we should not do since the situation has there been blown out of recognizable proportions) the situation off campus remains blighted by the dark ages. The Great Firing has been exaggerated to the extent of quoting a fictitious character who, after the firing has been discussed, concludes, “Well, I won’t send my son to Notre Dame.” That’s fine. If his son is as short-righted and as narrow-minded as his father he probably wouldn’t fit in very well anyway.
Anyone who knows the history of Notre Dame is cognizant of the fact that from Father Sorin on down the University has not been run by idealists. This is not to say that the administrators have not been men of ideals; they have, in fact, often been men of the highest ideals. They have not been idealistic dreamers who have sat around thinking, “Well, this would be an improvement if only we could figure out a way of accomplishing it.” They have been men who figured out a method and then applied it. Perhaps it is because their methods have been carried out so well that their present success is so envied and criticized.
Football, obviously, is one of these methods — a method of improving Notre Dame in toto. The real trouble is that there are many short-sighted individuals such as the fellow mentioned, who cannot see beyond football.
Sure, it’s easier to raise money for academic advancement (a horribly vague term which includes many concrete things such as a new library and a new auditorium) by “selling” a winning football team. So what! This is not a case of end justifying means because there is nothing inherently wrong with football. It can be and has been made wrong by those who make it an end in itself. We believe that those who have perverted football in this manner are, in most cases, outride the University. It is they who have made us, the students of Notre Dame, disgusted, not with the replacement itself, but with the whole mess conjured up by the words, “Great Firing.”
The replacement of a football coach can only “set Notre Dame back twenty (or thirty or forty, depending cm which paper you happened to read) years” if the standlards of a football-mad portion of the public are accepted by the majority. We can only hope and pray that this is but a small percentage of the entire public and that our real friends (the ones who save the pennant-waving type of loyalty for crisp autumn afternoons) continue to support and have faith in Notre Dame as an educational institution of real importance in the future. There have been definite signs that just such a Notre Dame is possible. The last few years have seen encouraging strides in this direction. If this aspect is forgotten, as it seems to have been, then Notre Dame has been permanently harmed; if it is remembered, Notre Dame has only replaced a football coach; classes will continue.—R.S.
5
Nave a WORLD of FUN! TrwetH/ith IITA
Unbelievable Low Cost
■■^Europe
60 Dm* nSL *m* $645
W Orient
43-65 Day*
$998
unOf I Atony fours include SE£*W	col/rje crrdit
XPFHD **^T1AIso low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $549 up and Around the World $1798 up.
Ask Your Travel Agent
26th Year
k 332 Se. Michigan Ave. iK.fhicago 4, HA 7-2557
In his second cover for the Scholastic Tom McGee has stayed up late o’ nights trying to figure out an insoluble maze for this issue. He’s worked so hard in fact that he was forced to deprive a few fair damsels at SMC of his company this past week.
The dejected student carrying a leftover pennant is faced with this seemingly impossible problem. Cheer up though, several generations of graduates have found the path. In other words, lots of luck.
KODL (CROSSWORD
ACROSS
1. Greek god
5. Fraternal follower of Chi
8. Not the same as reshopped
10.	Woman-hater’s affliction
11.	Nell's on the hook
12.	Trade Last (abbr.)
13.	Slippery customer
15. Willie says, “________Kool”
20. Big tree of Big 3
23. See how wonderfully ________Kools are
26. A he and a she
28.	By way of
29.	Tea makes Sue fat
30.	Kool—America’s most refreshing—
33.	Priceofafifofum
34.	Willie’s milieu
35.	Kind of ling
37. She
Lizes
in defense 39. Phooey 42. Pronouncements from the docti 46. Test in chemistry 48. So your gal’s done you wrong 60. What becomes of a fraulein 61. Caviar containers 62. It starts tenderly 63. Lachrymose ending 64. An old, old story
DOWN
1.	Shape holders
2.	Pull up a pony
3.	Oh, to be Latin
4.	Girly garment sounds dishonest
5.	Curious way to get loose from a clinch
6.	Enraptured
7.	Love story doesn’t sound like work
9. Used the eye approach
14.	It’s evil to do it backward
15.	How sex begins
16.	What gal BA’s go on to become
17.	French egg
18.	On which Dad asked Mom
19.	Rockette without rock
20.	And so on
21.	Oahu-type necking
22.	Guy who makes time with a gal you can’t
24.	This is to be tied
25.	A Waller
27. Any guy whose name you don’t know
31.	Southern fellow
32.	This is soft when down
36.	This hooey is off the bottom
37.	How their scents travel
38.	A little ground
40.	Kind of ran
41.	Switch from 	to Kools
43.	She’s mostly decor
44.	Stepped on
45.	Giri from Annapolis
47. He’s nothing on a date
31
a
N
a
i
BBS
ne
olainlxlsWn
a o
tBMSNVlGDy
33
The Scholastic
dBS
1GDM MsaU of. S4OH uiQ4j.
Nl
EE
EEI
□□EEanEE
vi
3
3
.cSIrtL JQVUX QL H9HON3 fiQA 3aW4
3. S
s 3
No. 13
_3 a 3
d. V
3, a
a v
19
27
28
ARE YOU KODL ENOUGH TO KRACK THIS?"
37
46
50
52
8
10
20	21	22 1
26		
30		
SWITCH
• As cool and clean as a breath of fresh air.
• Finest leaf tobacco
40
48
51
53
29
35
32
FROM
KODL
mild refreshing menthol—
and the world’s most thoroughly tested filter! • With every puff your mouth feels clean, your throat refreshed!
Qmeiicos Mosh Wkehing Qgcudfe
... ALSO REGULAR SIZE KOOL WITHOUT FILTER!
C1959. Brown ti Williamson Tobacco Coro.
KGDL
MKBMOtmOL KING-SIZC


Dear Editor:
G. P. Scarpia, in his adulatory praise of Mr. Daniel Pedtke’s part in the recent performances of Bach’s Magnificat and Kodaly’s Te Deum, has made some flagrant omissions. (Scholastic, Dec. 12, 1958). No acknowledgment is given Mr. Germano who prepared the St. Mary’s Glee Club. He makes no mention of Dr. Biondo of Notre Dame who rehearsed the Per Musica Orchestra and made the necessary arrangements with the musicians’ union for the orchestra’s appearance.
A performance of this scope and excellence is the work of many competent people; praise for its success should not be confined to the efforts of one individual. On the whole, it seems that some responsible, clear-headed music criticism would be more appropriate than the emotional, subjective flights of fancy which the Scholastic’s pseudonymous reviewer (whether he be one or many is irrelevant) has been launching.
Dave Christian, 203 Pangboi-n Dear Editor:
The observations made on the Who’s Who selection in your editorial of December 12, 1958 were quite accurate. The present method of selection by a junior board leaves much to be desired. If the purpose of the Who’s Who is to provide recognition to “the seniors and graduate students who have most distinguished themselves by scholarship and/or extracurricular activities,” then there have been some glaring omissions from the Class of 1959.
Some of the top seniors scholastically have been ignored. Though they were not active in Student Government or the Blue Circle, they did partake and lead in other less glamorous (but nonetheless worthy) objectives. Unfortunately it seems that these men are known only to their fellow seniors and to underclassmen not on the selection board. No doubt the juniors did the best they could. However, they are handicapped because it is virtually impossible for each of them to personally know thirty-four upperclassmen who not only deserve recognition but would also be representative of the various elements at Notre Dame.
Perhaps an advisory committee of faculty members and impartial seniors could work in conjunction with the juniors. This committee could go over the list of nominations and make recommendations for ten or twelve candidates who might otherwise be entirely overlooked. Of course the final selections would be left to the junior board.
I am not advocating that future Who’s Whos contain only Rhodes Scholars and budding Einsteins. That certainly would not be representative of our University either. But if recognition is to be made, let it be in as fair a manner as possible.
Vito S. Nigrelli, 425 Walsh
January 16, 1959
COMMENTARY
CARDINAL O’HARA: We have received a few letters from non-campus readers wondering why the Scholastic did not have more about Cardinal O’Hara who was recently elevated to that position by Pope John XXIII. It wasn’t that Notre Dame (and, of course, the whole Holy Cross Order) was not very proud of the great honoi* bestowed upon this former president but rather that we were so effectively “scooped” by Fr. Boarman in his religious bulletins that we were afraid any more about the first “red hat” of the Congregatio a Sancta Cruce would be unnecessarily repetitious. We are concerned primarily with the interests of the students and we felt that enough had been made of the fact on campus.	•
FATHER HANLEY: In our last regular issue of the Scholastic we referred to your fellow Dominican, Father Francis Nealy, as a “distinguished professor of religion and theology.” We were sorry to hear that you felt slighted, the slight was unintentional and we offer our apologies.
SIGN OF THE TIMES: Who says these are times of unrest? The mother of a friend of ours fell asleep with the radio on. When the station came on the air early in the a.m. with a triumphal blast of the National Anthem she awoke with a start and cried, “My God, we’re at war.”
PLAYERS, INC.: At the end of last Friday night’s performance of Oedipus Rex the business manager (who doubled as Creon) stepped out and thanked the Notre Dame audience for its loyal support of Players, Inc. each year for the last ten years since its inception at Catholic University in Washington, D. C. The pleasure has been all ours. We have been pleased with their productions and hope to see them again next year.
STUDENT FORUM: It was good to see that the Student Forum Program is continuing and is making substantial progress. The method of exposition by a duet of faculty members proved superior to the previous faculty-student panel plan. It formulated the problem and the crucial issues more clearly. This led to a more incisive, objective and pertinent discussion. The general levity with which the problem was approached produced an atmosphere more beneficial to an evaluation of the issues than did the somewhat strained emotional fervor which permeated the first forum; but'when this levity was taken to task, it was undoubtedly a misguided and disrespectful sense of humor which brought forth the quip that the Student Forum was really an audition for the Jack Paar show. Let us hope that levity and' not frivolity will prevail in the future.
JUNIOR McCLELLAN COMMITTEE: The Student Senate has lately been engrossed in an all out attempt to control the Campus Club organization (seepage 14). This attempt is noble — but let us hope that something substantial comes of it, that is something more than just a long report. Actually one abuse which the committee has already started to remedy is the practice which enables a club to field an athletic team composed of players who not only do not belong to the club but also who belong to another club. The submission by the clubs of membership scrolls should enable the Senate to erradicate this ill. More serious is the fault which, even before the hearings, the investigators seemed to feel existed in the financial records of the Chicago Club for last year. This club was the only one with which the committee was seriously interested in further investigation. Whether the club is guilty or not, some preventative program should be initiated to preclude the possibility of graft. Also in the air is some sort of financial aid program to the underprivileged clubs. Such aid has become necessary because the administration has become increasingly reluctant to grant permissions for “smokers” which have been the major source of income for the smaller clubs. Whether an aid plan would be worth the effort is quite doubtful.
ON THE LIGHTER SIDE: While the investigators were busily scrutinizing the financial records of the geographical clubs, they met with a few insuperable irregularities. One club had no records; while two clubs did not even appear to be investigated. (They will shortly be investigated by the Student Court and assessed for their misdemeanors.) The financial records for last year for one group were not kept; but the graft hunters were forced to dismiss the possibility of foul dealings when informed that the treasurer for last year has just entered the religious life. Among the numerous checks audited by the committee, there was one made out to “Cash” for a hundred dollars on May 23, 1958.
•	7
‘ THEY SAID IT COULDN’T BE DONE-BUT L‘M DID IT!
Dont settle for one without the other!
©1959 Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company
They said it couldn’t
</ be done...
They said nobody could do it but

VMis
in tar
More
“THEY SAID you couldn’t have a cigarette with both low tar and more taste, too. But KM did it,” says TV’s Jack Lescoulie.	.
LOW TAR: KM’s patented filtering process adds extra filter fibers electrostatically, crosswise to the stream of smoke... makes KM truly low in tar.
MORE TASTE: KM’s rich mixture of slow-burning tobaccos brings you more exciting flavor than any other cigarette.
LIVE MODERN-CHANGE TO MODERN EM
Magnified diagram shows extra filter fibers added crosswise to the stream of smoke in L&M's patented Miracle Tip.
---------------- —
। a literary event, with i critical introduction
by CHARLES BOWEN
Every now and then a work is produced of such luminous greatness that the critic is thankfully relieved of the task of carping and can concentrate on ! the more desirable duty of appreciation, j	(For, as someone in a recent issue of
; this very journal was pleased to point । out, when you’ve gotta extol you’ve got* ta extol.) We are glad to announce | such a shining occurrence, and here, ■ apud nos, on our own campus.
! We ask you to consider the name Mara vin Mousepack. Speak it, sound it, roll it around on your tongue. For one day that name will be as well known as Shakespeare, as Milton, as Howard R.
• Garis or Laura Lee Hope. Perhaps our enthusiasm may arouse surprise — but wait until you hear the story of this astonishing young man.
Did he begin, like most undergraduate writers, with the Scholastic? With the Juggler? With the Sunday Visitor? Far from it. He burst upon our eyes, from f ” total obscurity, as the author of a prize-winning drama! No one suspected the quiet-spoken junior (he majors in Business Ethics) of any literary activity. (In fact, his English II instructor, ( when queried, seemed surprised to hear ' that he was literate.)
But there can be no doubt of it. The facts are in, the news is out. A new „ play by Marvin Mousepack has won the annual Greek Drama Award and captured first prize at the Dionysian Festival (held this year at the Apollo Quick ! Lunch, in Dearborn, Mich.) The play is described as “a tragicomedy of the Notre Dame Dining Hall, with overtones of cometragedy.” Actually, it introduces > several new features into the Greek tragic tradition, helping to prove the old truism that every classic is a revolution.
While retaining the traditional chorus and hero, it includes elements of the medieval mystery play, the Shakespearian drama, and the modern musical comedy. The influence of contemporary realism is seen in the fact that everything on the stage, including sets, properties, and actors, is covered with a I thick layer of soot and grease. (“. . . . symbolizing,” as the author points out, “not only the barrenness of modern civilization, but also the general messiness of everything ever.”) And yet there r is room for hope in the universe of Mr. ! Mousepack. For the end of the play sees love triumphant and spring returning to the parched earth, while in the background an invisible choir of monks chants a plainsong arrangement of The i Wasteland. (“I’m an unabashed roman-। tic,” cheerfully admits Mr. Mousepack,
? lanuary 16, 1959
brushing a lock of hair out of his blue eye with a lanky, graceful hand.)
We are proud to include for your consideration a portion of the first authorized translation, done by the playwright’s roommate (“My best friend and severest critic”). Here, then, is the first act of:
OEDIPUS RETCHED or
Please Don’t Eat the Chuck Wagon Steak
Cast of Characters: (Appearing) Gregory Grubstake, a poorbuthonest student plate scraper
Hanna Hotski, a sensitive girl who is forced by her avaricious father to wait on the head table.
Foul Flintheart, an enigmatic character with a moustache who appears at odd intervals to shout meaningless orders to no one in particular.
George Washington Furd, a deus ex ma-china.
Gourmets, Gouimands, Checkers, Grab Girls,
Ladies, Gentlemen, and Retainers. Curtain: The stage is dark. Light from an undefined source grows sloivly and objects begin to take shape: Tables, chairs, a loudspeaker, through which music is playing softly, saltshakers, sugar jars, silver bowls of 1000 Islands Dressing. Suddenly the Victor Herbert selections are interrupted right in the middle of “My Little Gypsy Sweetheart” and a voice from the speaker is heard: VOICE: Come, muse, and sing of doom;
Of death, sing, muse, and also of life. There is despair in thy song, but also the seeds of hope; there is cowardice, but also the seeds of courage; there is cauliflower, but also the seeds of grapefruit.
(Lights up. GREGORY is seen sitting in an attitude of despair at the table. GOURMETS and GOURMANDS enter rear. While GREOGRY is speaking they pass by stage right and receive helpings of breaded veal cutlets, mashed potatoes, applesauce, salad, ice cream, and beverage, and sit at the tables.) GREGORY: (sobbing cosmically) An-
other day! Another dinner! Another $1.42! Again must I greasily grub, groaning. Ah! What a treadmill! When will I ever be free? There is a monstrous unfairness in this scheme, methinks. There sit your pre-meds and PFA’s, who have nothing to do but eat, and here am I, who might, but for this bondage, be fulfilling myself: My soul thirsts —I must have more paperbacks, more Bartok records, must attend
the Concert and Lecture Series and the Festival of the Arts! But here am I, aye, I am here. Here. Here! GOURMETS AND GOURMANDS:
Hear, hear! Poor lad! It seems to us that you have uncovered Some Basic Issues.
GOURMETS: (Strophe).
Shall a man, for mere money, be forced to forego all that life, all that art can offer, And bury his elbows in the slop! It seems a cosmic mystery.
GOURMANDS: (Antistrophe).
A mystery, a mystery, It seems a cosmic mystery. Hi de ho and fiddle de dee, It seems a cosmic mysteree.
(Dance of Checkers and Grub Girls.) FOUL FLINTHEART: (Entering left)
All right! Everybody back to work! (Exit right.)
HANNA: (Rising from the orchestra pit.) And what of me? What of the woman? For men must work, and women must weep, but I have to do both. (Turns dramatically toward audience.) Have you any idea how those men eat? The other day I dropped my powder puff on the table and before I could pick it up somebody had eaten it and I have several bites on my left aim as a result and the doctor says I’ll never play the piano or pass the physical to get into Smith either and I have varicose veins at 17 and I feel a cold coming on and Presley records are going up to $4.98 the first of the month.
GOURMETS and GOURMANDS: A good point, young lady. It is our professional opinion that this place is lousy with basic issues.
GOURMETS: (Strophe)
Is this necessary? Is this civilization? Is this dynamic conservatism? Is this America?
GOURMANDS: (Antistrophe) Shall they, wasting in despair Die because a profit’s fair? Come, Mr. Flintheart, face us if you can, And justify the ways of Furd to Man.
There is a rumbling and a flash of lightning. Furd is lowered from above, enthroned on a cranberry-sauce crate. Waving his trident, on which is impaled a pork chop, he fires everyone.
A general rout, during which GOURMETS fight GOURMANDS, GRUB GIRLS dance with CHECKERS, and LADIES drop GENTLEMEN into RETAINERS.	_
Curtain.
9
HOTEL PICK-OLIVER
Sunday is a day to relax and enjoy dinner with your gid or with other students. Try our BUFFET DINNER this Sunday being served from 12-9 p.m. $2.25 per person.

“as much as you can eat”
• Big car bills stealing • your room rent?
RAMBLER AMERICAN STATION WAGON •
• You’ve seen the others grow in size and price— a now see how much more you can save with e Rambler. Hundreds on first cost. New gas econ-_ omy. Top resale. Earnest parking. Personalized * Comfort: sectional sofa front seats glide back * and forth individually. Go Rambler 6 or V-8.
See the Compact
59 Rambler
Save more than ever on first cost, gas, upkeep
$500 Its ttto otter ieadiag _ low-nricsd wiiORS. Rasid om - * a coMporisoa of poMittod •
:SEE YOUR RAMBLER DEALER TODAY AND SAVE
10
The Scholastic
. WINTER BALL ‘SNOWS' KNIGHTS
IN SOUTH BEND CLUB TONIGHT
Father Hesburgh Crowns Rulers of Double Monarchy; Seasonal Dance Spotlights Gene Bertoncini's Sextet
| The Notre Dame Knights of Columbus | will hold their annual K. of C. Ball in | South Bend tonight. The North Michi-54 gan street Knights’ Club will be the f scene of the fourth annual ball.
' Popular Gene Bertoncini and his Lettermen will provide the music for the » occasion as 150 couples dance to his
1	sextet from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. The fifth
'	year architect will be music-master of
> the dance which is the highlight of the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus social : calendar.
1 >> Two Queens Selected
Presiding as queens of the ball will be Miss Frances Rufe from Dylestown, Pa., and Miss Sharon Plotner of Logansport, Ind. Miss Rufe, a student at Saint Mary’s College, Notre Dame, will be escorted by her fiance, Pat Gorman, the general chairman of the dance. Miss ; Plotner will be escorted by Tom Medland, executive chairman of the K. of C. Ball.
Elaborate seasonal decorations will
SHARON PLOTNER “Winter Fantasy" queen
bring out the theme of the January ball, aptly entitled, “Winter Fantasy.” A white fence will surround the dance floor, which will be cluttered with snow-piled trees.
Gene Bertoncini will conduct his Lettermen from atop a bandstand, supported upon a snow-bank. A gate in the fence will serve as an entrance to the white winter setting.
The cimax of the evening’s activities will be the crowning of the two queens by the president of the University, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.
Bookmarks for Favors
White bookmarks will serve as favors for the winter ball. The suede novelties, with K. of C. emblems, will be fitted into the program for the dance.
Honored guests for “Winter Fantasy” include Edward Rademaker, State Deputy of the Indiana Knights of Columbus Council, and several Grand Knights and District Deputies around the state.
Chaperones for the evening include: Dr. and Mrs. Leo Kuntz. Dr. Kuntz is a professor at the University. Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Miller will also be honored at the ball. Mr. Miller is a South Bend businessman. Mr. and Mrs. Sylvester Gorman and Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Medland, parents of the chairmen, will also be present as chaperones.
Pat Gorman, the general chairman of the dance, is a fourth year business administration major in the College of Commerce from Philadelphia. The executive chairman, Tom Medland, a junior from Logansport, Ind., is a mechanical engineering major.
Master of Ceremonies Chuck Sawicki,, of West Lafayette, Ind., is a junior history major also serving as refreshment chairman. Joe Jansen, junior mechanical engineer from Kokomo, Ind., is the ticket chairman. Business manager for the evening , is Ken Bourgon, a junior history major.
A junior mechanical engineer from Buffalo, N. Y., Tony Liotti, is in charge of decorations for the ball. Publicity is being handled by Bill Bittner, a senior marketing major from Pittsburgh, Pa.
FRANCES RUFE
. . . and the second queen
$12,000 Fund Planned By Scholarship Group
Bill Scheckler, chairman of the Scholarship Fund Improvement Committee, announced this week that the committee hopes to receive about $12,000 from Mardi Gras profits in order to improve its newly formed scholarship program. This would be an increase of $3,000 over last year’s funds.
The Scholarship Improvement Committee was set up last spring, when the Student Senate, acting as a representative of the student body, allocated $9,000 from Mardi Gras profits to the University in an attempt to show student interest in the lack of adequate funds for scholarship. $6,000 was divided among three freshman students and the remaining $3,000 was given to upperclassmen.
The three freshmen, who are the first to receive the benefits of the Scholarship Fund for the entire four years, are: Neal Cline, a mathematics major from Whittier, Calif.; Paul Couture, an engineering student-from Kenmare, N. Y.; and Albert Sonntag, an engineering student from Affton, Miss. .
They will receive $500 a year for four years, upon maintaining an 85 average in their studies. They were selected because of their excellent work in high school, their interest in student activities in their high schools, and their need of extra funds to enable them to go to Notre Dame.
The Committee hopes that their funds will continue to grow as the students realize the need for scholarship funds. Previously there were only ten unrestricted scholarships available to Notre Dame students. This number has* increased by nearly 50% since the Committee was formed last year.
January 16, 1959
ii
JOHN FAZIO AND JOE GEARY
Recently announced WSND department heads
Albright Names John Fazio Chief Announcer; Joseph Geary Appointed Station News Editor
Warren Albright, station manager of radio station WSND, has announced the appointment of John Fazio as chief announcer of the station and Joe Geary as the station’s news editor. '
John is a senior in the College of Commerce majoring in the department of business organization and management. He hails from Chicago and has been a member of the station staff for the past three years. Previous to his recent appointment John had been record libra-
Sixth Trophy Captured By School Debate Team
The Notre Dame debate team captured its sixth trophy of the season here by defeating Marquette University. It was the first dual meet of the debating year and was held just before the Christmas vacation.
Appearing before a capacity audience in the LaFortune Student Center amphitheater, the teams argued the proposition, “Resolved: That the further development of nuclear weapons be prohibited by international agreement.” At stake was the rotating Coffey-Martzell debate trophy. Marquette upheld the affirmative position while Notre Dame took the negative.
Representing the University were Bob Dempsey, president of the debate team, a senior from New Ulm, Minn, and Gerald Goudreau a junior from Cleveland, Ohio.
Future plans include the Miami University Tournament, on January 29, to which Gerald Goudreau and Jay Whitney will be salt. Other tournaments will be held at Washington, Brooklyn, New York, Chicago, and Mobile. .
rian and assistant public relations director at WSND.
Fazio will stress good strong voices, easy-going style, and pleasant personality among the members of the announcing staff. He will announce soon three or four new appointments to the staff as a result of recent auditions.
The new director of the news department is a junior in AB engineering who resides in Stevensville, Mich., while away from campus. He has been on the news staff for about a year and has also participated in the freshman advisory committee while at Notre Dame. Recently, Joe inaugurated a sub-department to the news staff consisting of five campus news reporters whose job it is to gather and write up the news here on campus.
At present the news department handles virtually all the news shows on WSND and also produces two weekly shows. One is, “Notre Dame This Week,” which reviews the week’s activities. It is designed to give a more complete coverage to events that are noteworthy.
The second production is “Round Table.” In this show, Ron Blubaugh, Scholastic news editor, and Bruce Babbitt, Senate secretary, engage in a panel discussion of controversial issues with Joe Geary. The show is sponsored by Max Adler.
As head of the news department, Joe will allocate the news shifts and will enlarge the department until it is capable of handling all news coverage of both campus and worldwide items.
Students may look forward to a new concept in news broadcasting. This new and expanded approach will be initiated next semester.
Quarterly Sets Dates | For Special Releases |
I
The twentieth anniversary of The Review of Politics is being marked by three | special issues. The editors of the quar- 3 terly published by the University issued j? a double-sized volume in October and have prepared for January release an L equally large edition containing articles ’■? written solely by Notre Dame faculty j members. The editors are also compiling J The Review of Politics Reader, a collection of the most notable essays appearing in the journal since its inception.
The 20-year-old review was sent to a few hundred readers in its first issue, January 1939. Since then its circulation ’ has steadily Climbed and now numbers more than 2,000 subscribers throughout 4 the world, including the U.S.S.R. In Europe the Review is well-known and regarded as “the most scholarly Catholic voice in America.”
For each issue the board of editors , choose five articles from 25 or 30 usually I submitted. Very seldom are contributors | paid, indicating the respect gained from 1 the appearance of an article in the Re- I view, said Fr. McAvoy, the editor. |
Among those instrumental in the 1 founding of the Review, the most promi- 4 nent were John Cardinal O’Hara, C.S.C., ; and the late Dr. Waldemar Gurian. The > Philadelphia prelate, then president of 5 the University, felt the school should have a cultural quarterly. To political V scientist Gurian he gave the job of gath- I ering learned articles and solving other | problems of a fledgling publication. ; Gurian, who had joined the University ’ faculty after fleeing Nazi Germany, . served as editor of the Review until his death in 1954.
AEC Gives $52,550 Subsidy * For School Atomic Program
M. J. Goglia, dean of the College of 1 Engineering, recently announced the receipt of a grant of $52,550 from the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission. The grant will help to expand the Univer- 4 sity’s nuclear technology program.
This grant will be used to install in the nuclear engineering laboratory a type of atomic reactor known as a sub-critical exponential graphite assembly. The fund also provides for the purchase of laboratory instruments and other equipment.	4
The AEC grant is the second awarded to the University under terms of a Congressional program created to stimulate educational and research activity in the field of nuclear technology. An earlier grant was used to purchase instruments for the laboratory.
The nuclear engineering sequence is * under the direction of Dr. Marcel K. Newman, head of the department of mechanical engineering. Instruction in nuclear technology has been offered in the engineering school since 1955. Forty-three students are currently enrolled in five nuclear engineering courses.
12
The Scholastic
PROFESSOR RAYMOND GUTSCHICK
Holding rock on display at new building
Expanding Geology Labs and Staff Relocated; : Renovated Convent Made New Headquarters
j One of Notre Dame’s newest and most |	rapidly expanding departments, the
|	geology department of the science school,
| moved into new quarters over the | Christmas vacation. The change was originally intended for the break be-I' tween semesters, but was moved up be-I cause of new cracks which appeared un, der the department’s old quarters in k the Administration Building.
J The geology department, which is ' celebrating its tenth anniversary, is now i housed in the old convent, which is loll cated to the rear of Sacred Heart Church | and adjacent to the laundry.
i Appearing the same as always on the !•' outside, the new home of the geology iy department has been completely reno-I	vated on the inside. The old convent,
!	built in the 1850’s, housed the nuns
studying at Notre Dame until last year ; when they moved to another convent.
f The geology department’s old quarters ; on the third floor of the Main Building, which were used since 1949, had become increasingly crowded as the department expanded. The department was not only crowded for space, but it was unable to use much of the equipment it has acquired. It was even forced to use a (room in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center, which further hindered the department.
. Moving the department was also deemed necessary because of the weakened condition	of	the Administration
I	Building caused	by	the heavy rocks and
I	other equipment	in	the department’s old
S	location.
The spacious new building, which has been in the planning stage for five years, includes three classrooms, five
J January 16, 1959
laboratories, a work shop, and ample office space. Also housed in the new location is the department’s library containing some 6,000 volumes, a collection of nine tons of maps, and an undetermined quantity of rocks, fossils, and mineral specimens.
A $50,000 budget was allowed for the renovation of the old convent, but the building program fell! under this amount. Several members of the department helped design the new quarters.
Containing four times as much floor space as the department’s old quarters, the new geology building will allow the department to display more of its accumulated collections of specimens which have up to now been kept in storage. .
The department itself was formed in 1947 when the University engaged Dr. Andrew McAlpin to start a geology program in a small cubicle of the Biology Building. In 1948, Dr. Raymond Gutschick joined the staff, 'and a year later Dr. Erhard Winkler became a member of the department. The two other members of the present faculty are Rev. Michael Murphy, C.S.C. and William Fairley, who is working towards his doctorate.
It is hoped that the relocation of the department into better quarters will help to increase the enrollment of students taking geology. The department, has, however, increased considerably in size in its relatively short existence.
. In 1948 there were only five geology majors, but their present number exceeds 40. In the present semester ?there are some 350 to 400 students taking geology courses at the University. In
Festival Collections Lag Behind Previous Marks
The first collections for this year’s Mardi Gras raffle are running behind those of last year. The total by hall is as follows:
Hall	Am’t % of Quota
B-P .............. 835	31.9
Pangbom .......... 674	30.6
Farley ........... 966	30.5
Keenan ........... 788	25.5
Howard ........... 458	24.8
St. Ed’s ......... 325	23.4
Zahm ............. 743	22.4
Fisher............ 408	21.9
Morr.............. 712	19.4
Cav. ............. 588	17.6
Lyons .’.......... 420	16.7
Stanford ......... 435	14.9
Walsh ............ 260	12.9
Sorin............. 175	10.0
Badin ............ 130	8.8
Dillon ........... 360	8.2
Alumni ........... 265	8.1
Brian Foley, head of publicity for the Mardi Gras, wishes to emphasize the importance of this money received from the sale of the chances. The funds are used to support the Student Scholarship Fund, the Student Center, and the Campus Charity Chest. Any remaining funds will be used for partial scholarships to deserving upperclassmen. The next collection date is Wed., Jan. 21.
Next Week to See Publication Of Two Campus Quarterlies
Two undergraduate publications, the Tech Review and the Juggler, will be appearing on the campus within the next few days.
Tuesday’s issue of the Tech Review will feature an article on electric analog computers by Dick Sapp. A feature on the recently initiated Engineering Honor Society, by Jim Keegan, will also appear.
The Juggler will have a feature on the Philosophy of Auden by Tom Hoberg who is the president of the Bookmen. Also an article by Joe McDonnell on recent Mexican art in this second issue.
Deadlines for the next issues of both publications have been announced. Final acceptance date for stories that will appear in the March issue of the Tech Review is February first. The Juggler will accept articles up to February 15.
the spring semester the department is offering nearly 20 courses to students.'
The department can boast of more than 60 alumni, the first of whom graduated in 1950. Students from Notre Dame’s geology department have been accepted for graduate work and scholarships in major geological institutions.
The current department head is.-Dr. Gutschick, who' was appointed “to* "his present position in 1956.
13
Senate
Investigations
by Tom Cahill
Recently there has been a good bit of discussion about the Student Government investigation of campus clubs. Herewith we will attempt to present the events leading to this investigation, the results, and a general discussion of the entire campus club problem.
Several years ago the campus clubs were grouped under the authority of the then newly established SG. Some may find fault with this arrangement claiming that SG has no business interfering with campus clubs. This position, however, is one more prompted by petty jealousy and disdain of sensible authority than by intelligent reasoning.
SG was established to care for those areas of student endeavor where students as students can rightfully exercise authority. Now, it is very possible that the title, “SG,” is a misnomer for one could honestly question whether SG truly governs in the strict sense of the word. Yet in an organized society there must be some central agency which coordinates and regulates for the common good. Thus it is with SG and it only follows that campus clubs should come under some type of ordered system.
In the past several years SG has attempted to accomplish some form of coordination among the campus clubs. It might be said, however, that most of these attempts have ended in antagonistic and inadequate penal moves. Each year new rules are laid down, rewritten
SENATE ROBING CHI CLUB
policies are enacted, and powerless self governing boards created. And each year the clubs become more confused, disillusioned, and sometimes openly hostile to SG. This is only to be expected.
In truth then, it can be stated that SG has fallen down on its job.' Unfortunately SG has minimized the campus club problem to the extent of simply assigning an already disinterested party to the task of regulating the campus clubs. He is left alone and the bulk of SG moves on through the rest of the year sincerely convinced it has solved the problem. Until just recently SG has not faced the fact that more is needed than a few meaningless rules. Progressive and positive thinking is necessary. Clubs can and need to be helped both financially and physically through the facilities available to SG.
The campus club system is a most important part of our student life. Be the club large or small, each one can contribute a great deal to the whole picture that is student life. At the present time some clubs, to varying degrees, do exert a positive and truly good influence. But they fall far short of realizing the potential that is theirs.
The fault for this situation does not rest entirely with the SG. A good share of the fault lies with the individual club members. It is their obligation to elect competent officers. Unfortunately many
campus club elections fall into the category of popularity contests. As a result Joe Good Guy rises to a position of responsibility but is ignorant, or, at least appears to be, of said responsibilities. Either of two things happen; the club drifts aimlessly for the rest of the year or Joe Good Guy uses the club to his own personal advantage to the detriment of its membership. Thus it is up to the members of each club to take elections and the club as a whole seriously.
This year SG decided to make a concerted effort to correct the situation in which the campus clubs found themselves. It was necessary, therefore, for SG to determine the needs of campus clubs and the sensible rules that were needed to insure the proper operation of the clubs. As a result of this and pressure brought to bear by members of several clubs an investigation was launched into the operations of the campus clubs. In particular it appeared that the so-called geographical clubs were most in need of help.
Thus on January 7 and 8 some 30 clubs were called before a board composed of Dennis Shaul, John Hayward, Bill Graham, Edward Butler, and myself as chairman. The board was encouraged to see the general high quality of this year’s campus club officers. Further it can be stated that the majority of the clubs have kept excellent financial records of unquestionable integrity. In only a few of the cases did we find evidence of laxity and in only one case did we find really questionable records.
In regard to the possible discovery of some form of financial graft the board had three avenues of action open to it. It could impose a probationary period during which the operations of the offending club would be under the close scrutiny of the Student Court. The board could recommend action by the Student Court itself and the club could be fined a maximum of fifty dollars and its charter for operation both on and off campus revoked. Finally, had there been real evidence of serious mishandling of club funds the board could recommend action by the Dean of Students office. As was stated however, it was not necessary to impose any of the above penalties with the possible exception of one case still under consideration.
Although the emphasis of the investigation was largely financial, the purpose and result were not. Through the action of the investigation we have made club members and officers more cognizant of the responsibilities that are concurrent with the prestige of the club offices. We are now assured that good records are and will be kept. Finally we have determined more exactly how SG can help the clubs in a positive way and what sensible and workable regulations are absolutely necessary.
If anyone reading this article could have been in on the board of inquiry he would have rapidly come to the realization that it was entirely possible for a dub to arrange their records in
. (Continued on Page 17)
The Scholastic
14
’ “Scarpia...
before Bad!”
(Tosca, Act III, 1)
“The truth sticks in our throats with all the sauces it is served with: it will never go down until we take it without any sauce at all.”
George Bernard Shaw preface to Saint Joan
Each time I meet Brahms I silently shudder. This is also true of my meetings with Chopin. And Bach. . And Purcell. Perhaps it is because of the circumstances that follow each meeting.
Take Brahms for instance. Just the other day I met him. He was clearly visible, and looked exceptionally well. I remarked to my friends that I thought Brahms never looked better. Immediately my friends took deep offense. They were sure that he had taken a definite turn for the worse. I was sure that he hadn’t.
And Chopin. He was quite badly off the last time I saw him. Had a terrible shortness of breath. Again I told my friends. Again they were sure I wasn’t sure.
I met Bach over at Saint Mary’s last month. He had gained weight, I admit, but if nothing else, he looked remarkably like Bach. Kodaly was with him, and I distinctly remember his saying that he intended to come over to Notre Dame. One of the music faculty was going to give him a tour de force. Do you know that no one would believe me. I almost resorted to using a pseudonym.
Henry Purcell was going through the Art Gallery in O’Shaughnessy when I met him. After I had congratulated him on his forthcoming tricentennial, he showed me his latest medallion (straight from the Queen) and I commented on how well he kept it polished. Again my friends took offense. It certainly was anything but polished. And where in the realm of daring did I get the audacity to disagree with them?
It really is becoming quite disconcerting. I’m beginning to wonder if I’ll ever be able to look my friends in the face again. That’s why I shudder. I’m afraid I’ll give another one of those opinions. At any rate, I have enough to keep me busy. Debussy called me last week. He wants me to meet him in
Washington Hall Tuesday I could hardly wait to see him. :; Hadn’t really gotten a good look at him- since Walter Gieseking passed away. Will -tell you how he looked next week. -	....
At the Movies
AVON	'
Around the World in 80 Days: (Jan. 16-23). As really great as this movie is, and it is just that: great, I can’t help wishing, somewhat fervently, that it would . . .would, oh how shall I say? Leave? Depart? For I am sick of it, and my supply of adjectives barren.
COLFAX
The Inn of the Sixth Happiness: (Jan. 16-23). Ingrid Bergman and Curt Jurgens exude sixth happinesses all over northern Wales, which in the movie is really supposed to be northern China but isn’t. Because it’s really northern Wales. Miss Bergman (?) comes off very, very well as a foot inspector. CinemaScope and color.
GRANADA
The Roots of Heaven: (Jan. 16-21). Errol Flynn, Juliette Greco, Trevor Howard, Orson Welles and Eddie Albert are featured in this truly impressive production. The film has been produced on a vast scale, against an unbelievably magnificent background of vast African plains, populated by, of all things, huge numbers of elephants. Vast elephants, of course, which in a sense, become the symbolic protagonists in this story of man’s inhumanity and of one man’s valiant, if fruitless effort, to turn human nature into a better path. CinemaScope - Deluxe Color.
The Old Man and the Sea: (Jan. 22-29). Spencer Tracy, Felipe Pazos, and Harry Bellaver featured. Adapted from Hemingway’s classic of the same name. The plot, based on an actual incident, is simplicity itself. An old Cuban fisherman has not caught a fish for nearly three months. Only a little boy still has faith in the Old Man. Has no beginning, and lacks an end in the conventional sense. Excellent. Warner Color.
PALACE
The Tunnel of Love: (Jan. 16-21). Richard Widmark-Doris Day. Pokes an amused finger at some of the fads, fancies and foibles of suburban society. Produced on the New York stage. Spicy adult concoction. B Legion of Decency Rating. Sexy. CinemaScope.
I Want to Live: (Jan. 22). Who doesn’t? Emerges as an engrossing, stark and brutally honest telling. Susan Hayward, in the leading role, gives the finest pei-formance of her career as Barbara Graham, prostitute and perjurer with a code. Strong material, but certainly worth a tisket. Or a tas-ket, for that matter.
RIVER PARK
Me and the Colonel: (Jan. 16 & 17). There is in this picture care, a lot of money, and quality. Stars Danny Kaye, Curt Jurgens, Nicole Maurey, and Francoise Rosay. Particularly does it star Kaye (Kay Star no relation), whose aplomb and wit amuse, whose objectivity and compassion force admiration: he is the eternal fugitive, the Wandering Jew. Metrocolor - CinemaScope.
Co-Feature.- The Flaming Frontier. In the electrifying tradition of: “The Return of the 4th Cousin of the 2nd Son of Cochise,” “Gone With the Sioux,” and “I Was a Teen-Age Apache.” Bruce Bennet, Jim Davis, and Chief Ruptured Eagle.
Damn Yankees: (Jan. 18-21). Title adapted from the ubiquitous moan of the same phrasing which rises yearly from either Flatbush or Milwaukee (as doth smoke from a pyre). Charming musical comedy star Gwen Verdon effects a charming musical comedy. Technicolor.
Co-Feature.- Union Station. A William Holden-Barry Fitzgerald railroad detective suspenseroo.	•
This Angry Age: (Jan. 22). Extremely ycnedetner, although a bit lirdnet.
Co-Feature: Thunder Road. Equally tclum.
STATE
Tonka: (Jan. 16-23). The age-old sympathy-stirring tale of a boy and his horse, akin to the “boy and his dog” theme, is here told once again. Walter Disney does it. Again. Sal Mineo. Technicolor.
WASHINGTON HALL
No Time for Sergeants: (Jan. 17). Andy Griffith, Myron McCormick, and Nick Adams dispatch with immense verve and gusto a screen version of the tremendously successful and hilarious Broadway goody. Of the same name. And the dish ran away with the spoon.
—Lecil Starkloff
January 16, 1959
J
AX AGNOSTIC’S
CHRISTMAS
by Mm Rose
“Europe makes a great commotion over Christmas and well it should; Christmas and its ceremonies and rites are deeply rooted in the psychological character of the majority of a people who wage war, as Swift says 'whether flesh is bread and bread is flesh.’ ... In the Middle Ages and during other time periods, religious festivals and activities have always played an important role in the social and economic vitality of the populace. The stability, endurance and universality of this particular feast is a curious fact considered in the light of the transigence of most customs, but the phenomena is easily explained and reconciled. . .”
* * ♦
The narrow cobblestone street seemed to wind endlessly through the ancient city and he shivered from the harsh, cutting cold of the wind from the sea. Pulling his collar- closer about him, he shuffled awkwardly in the boots foreign to his sensitive feet through the light layer of new-fallen snow. A few moments ago, his feet had sounded on the well-swept wooden floor of the Inn, usually filled with laughing students, where the owner had politely indicated, in the innocuous way only a European can, his desire to close his place and evict his solitary, slightly drunken customer.
Houses and small shops sat solidly on the foundations of centuries, and remote, private windows high above the street radiated their warm light and retained their intimate sounds within, like glass-enclosed tombs of life. Some of the shops left lights burning expectantly in their decorated windows because it was Christmas Eve, though tomorrow evening, the windows would be dark to save the expensive electricity. His new friends at the university had returned to their homes for the Christmas holidays, and although they had invited him to spend his vacation with them, he argued that he must study and finish his lab work to “get the jump” on those who’d be relaxing and enjoying their festival. But, for some reason, he found himself unable to study; and after too many cups of coffee from the cafe below, and after the filled ashtrays, and especially after the tankards of Lowenbrau he’d hastily consumed at the deserted Inn, he knew he needed a walk in the oxygen-rich air of the cold night.
16
People passed him on the street shouting their phrased greetings at him and he politely replied, because Americans, especially students, should create the correct impression; but many of these shabbily dressed misfits were obviously drunk as they carried their pathetic packages to their kind, to fulfill their part in the multitudinous set of interrelated kindred obligations and duties. One man, also obviously a habitual drunkard, his features probably the sad culmination of a once dignified line of European noblemen, begged him in a thick provincial accent for money for his children’s Christmas presents. But when one was watching pennies for a flight to Marseilles in the spring, one couldn’t carry this “good neighbor” thing too far, and the man went away. European beggars only ask once; it’s to their credit, he thought as he turned the corner.
At home for Christmas Eve, his parents would be having a quiet cocktail party for their close friends, including all the new vice-presidents with their young, attractive wives. What fun it was to watch them in their conversations with his father, the blood-thirsty mob in their well-tailored suits; and at midnight, father always proposed a toast to “peace on earth and prosperity for all” and the presents would be exchanged. If they could only see him wandering the cold streets of this foreign country? True, they had wired him money for a week in a warmer climate, but he’d only meet another girl and not want to leave quite that early to return to the university. But the long vacation at Spring was not far off and an evening or two of loneliness could be drowned in good, thick beer; though even the admission of a pang of loneliness was for him a weakness and a defeat, for such flaws and sentimentality were for women and fools.
About midnight, the solitary passers and the carolers on the dark streets had virtually disappeared; but as though somewhere a huge door had been opened, the streets were suddenly crowded with the chattering, child-like people who laughed their gay greetings to each other. Where could all these people be going at this hour? But he smiled to himself as he remembered the reason; he must be growing feeble for forgetting the midnight religious services.
It was too cold to walk any farther
and his melancholia (he could not deny its presence) would only deepen; the beer made him feel quite tired, though he would insist that he was not drunk, and he fell in with the press of the crowd surging toward the Square where the cathedral’s gothic spires disappeared somewhere upward in the grayness of the occasionally sky-cracked overcast.
The church was rather shabby as cathedrals go; he had traveled and seen the very best of all the architectural masterpieces of Europe, but the church was warm and now he needed the shelter and the warmth. On the altar, decorated with a hundred feeble, flickering candles creating the wavering darkness on the walls and ceiling, the priests had begun the service he had seen before when he had once studied religions. More people, simple townspeople with a scattering of the better dressed bourgeois entered the crowded church, forcing him along the aisle toward the front; and his fingers drunkenly searched for support along the damp walls, and he nearly tumbled into the dark niches where life-size stations of the Crucifixion seemed caught in mute, frozen horror. Once, he did stumble against a statue and found his support against a woman’s cold, shrouded, marble knee and he laughed to himself: he had after all found a woman for the vacation.
The choir sang tolerably well, but how long had they been singing the same damn Latin song? When it got right down to it, how did all these people here really know for certain if this was actually the accurate day of the anniversary of the birth of Christ? Probably some papal fiat to accommodate a commercial holiday in Italy had caused the designation; they didn’t know, not a one of them, even if today was actually the correct day to celebrate. And another thing, they certainly weren’t celebrating very well — they ought to pass out the wine or at least some Lowenbrau, if they wanted a real celebration.
Leaning against the base of one of the last stations, he suddenly looked up to see Christ’s marbled face from the Cross, and the face seemed not pained or insulted at the outrage the bunch of Jews below had committed; He seemed resigned and sorrowful but more than that, the etched lines of the face seemed to indicate a forgiveness. . . That’s right! He had said, “For this I have come into the world.” Forgiving. . .
The Scholastic
I
what a queer mixture this ceremony was; the people were joyfully celebrating the arrival of Christ, when in this neglected niche, Christ hung from his cross, with a drunken, disbelieving student who alone kept the reminding vigil •in the darkness while the world was white with happiness.
As the bells signaled the section of > the ceremony called the Consecration, he knelt on the worn, wet stones of the aisle •with the rest of them; and for some reason, he desperately hoped that * something would happen to him; that he would be rudely shoved prostrate on the puddled floor in an incontestable proof of the reality of their Consecration. But nothing happened, and the pathetic, discordant bells echoed in his heart as he । peered at the people around him, their I eyes closed to him and to everything. He felt utterly alone in the church; only he was here in this temple of himself: The sturdy Gothic columns arched high in the weaving sky, like huge, white, sepulchral ribs heaving in uncontrolled mo-
tion as a sweet, inundating warmness flowed around him seeping higher; the pulsing, frothy blood from somewhere drowned him in a death; and he submitted himself to the overpowering warmth, a warmth more intense than a woman’s fevered, ultimate love embrace, yet more subtle and lasting than the mind’s most perfect recognition of reality. The people jostled him as they melted forward for their God because they believed; and he wanted to slash at them with a knife because they were so benignly and docilely ignorant of their gift. His stomach gathered, rolling upward like a clenching throat — he was going to be sick — he could not breathe, and thick, sweet clouds of incense smothered his very breath within him. Relinquishing his grip at the base of the cross, he forced his way toward the back of the Cathedral, pushing through the silent, hands-clasped crowd, shouldering the heavy, ancient door until he sprawled across the wide, stone steps outside where his thin vomit violated the innocence of the still-falling, white-fresh snowfall.
Later, tears still ran from his burning eyes as he trod the deserted streets of the city to his room, but the tears were, of course, the natural and logical result of his violent sickness, for he had to admit that he had, in fact, been drunk. As he walked, a crucifix in a neglected roadside shrine reminded him of the evening, and he knew that this conventional symbol one often sees, particular-• ly in Europe, would remind him of the curious time he had drunkenly wandered into a Cathedral on a Christmas Eve during his student days. It would make a good story to tell at Christmas back home. . . .
Senate Investigations
(Continued from Page 14) such a way as to make it appear that everything was fully accounted for. The point here is that we were not out to find something wrong but rather trusted in the good faith of the officers of the clubs. For instance, a club could claim for the record that it had an attendance of two hundred couples whereas, in reality, it had an attendance of four hundred couples. The difference could, conceivably, be pocketed by the officers. We are convinced that such was not the case and sincerely hope that we are correct in this assumption. It is up to the club member who knows the situation first hand to demand full and completely substantiated records. SG must trust in the integrity of the duly elected officers.
In summation it should be said that SG will take action this year to make campus clubs a more beneficial pari of student life. We hope that they can become an almost self-governing unit, divorced of Senate interference, yet retaining strong representative ties with SG through the student affairs commission. Financial aid will be given and organizational help offered in an attempt to mold the campus clubs into a major contributor to the student scene.
WINTER CARNIVAL
A GOOD PRINCE IS HARD TO FIND
—by DIANE WIESE
The show could have been as effectively titled Men Are No Damn Good, A St. Mary’s Girl Always Gets Her Man???? or, If the Shoe Fits, Suffer. Any reference to people, places and events was purely intentional.
From between the folds of the curtain first peeked the head of a white rabbit, later determined to be the narrator. Her job was to introduce the characters to the audience and to ad lib during scene changes. She outlined the plot —that of the eternal triangle which had turned into “more of a lop-sided polygon” or, the more the meirier. The main characters were four — Cinderella from Barat Ville, Rapunsel from Academy Hill, Sleeping Beauty from Rosary Mont, and Snow White of the Woods.
Scene I opened with Cinderella coming out of the fireplace, holding a lantern and a large pushbroom. She wore (well not much actually) a flour sack and one huge combat boot. Her plight was that even though she had the biggest feet in the whole kingdom, Prince Charming had not succeeded in finding her. Her step-mother and step-sisters completed the cozy family group.
Between scenes, as the white rabbit was talking, Red Riding Hood kept asking for directions to her Grandmother’s house.	■
Scene II took place at Academy Hill. Rapunsel was seen standing in the middle of the stage with hair coiled around her feet (thanks to a glorified Badminton net). She had let it grow long so the Prince could climb up the tower.
Rapunsel heard a call from whom she thought was the Prince, but was disappointed to find Red R. H. still looking for her Grandma’s house.
Rapunsel decided to go along with Red and drag the Prince from the palace.
Scene III opened with 7 dwarfs standing around a coffin marked “This End Up” from which Snow White-of-the-Woods eventually emerged. Besides a small complaint of rigor mortis, she seemed in fine spirits. But she, too, began to wonder what had happened to Prince Charming and also headed for the palace.
Scene IV revealed Sleeping Beauty— long red flannels and all, frantically trying to chip off her mud pack — her beauty sleep, had been 50 years too long and Witch Hazel and Little Itch succeeded in persuading her that she had better have a little prince hunt soon.
Scene V was a dance—a dream of the four meeting at the palace. It began as a ballet and, at the appearance of the Prince turned into a vamp dance for which they shunned their flowing robes (however, they had other clothes underneath). The Prince rejected them all and
(Continued on page 24)
January 16, 1959
17
I-----------------------------------------------1
A Campus-to-Career Case History	I
“I wanted a job I could grow with —and I’ve got it"
H. James Cornelius graduated from Swarthmore College in 1954 with a B. S. in Electrical Engineering. He’s been “growing” ever since with the Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania.
After an initial 44-week inter-departmental training course, Jim was made Facility Engineer in charge of the fastgrowing Norristown-Pottstown area. In that capacity, he engineered over half a million dollars’ worth of carrier systems and cable facilities between major switching centers.
Today, he is one of 50 young engineers from the Bell Telephone Companies chosen to attend a special Operating Engineers Training Program at Bell Lab
oratories. This 19-month course of study —with full pay—deals with advanced techniques and new concepts in electronics which signal a new era in telephony. It involves both classroom theory and practical laboratory applications.
When Jim and his colleagues return to their companies, they’ll review major engineering projects. This will assure the best use of equipment for current engineering, as well as for expected new developments in communications.
“I wanted a job I could grow with,” says Jim, “and I’ve got it. I can’t think of a better place than the telephone company for an engineering graduate to find a promising future.”
Many young men like Jim Cornelius are finding rewarding careers with the Bell Telephone Companies.
BELL.
TELEPHONE COMPANIES
Look into opportunities for you. Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus. And read the Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------1
The Scholastic
it
PiciiM
HAWKINS' RETURN EXPECTED TO BOOST IRISH
Notre Dame’s basketball squad will renew a long-standing rivalry tomorrow afternoon when they go against Loyola of Chicago in the Irish Fieldhouse. The game will feature the return of Tom Hawkins to the regular line-up after a two-week absence due to an ankle injury suffered in the North Carolina game, January 3.
Loyola, coached by George Ireland, a former teammate of Irish Coach John
TULLY SCREENS FOR GRANEY
! Centers collaborate against Detroit I
Jordan at Notre Dame, will be a good \ test for the Irish. Three veterans, Paul I Sheedy, Eon Schwingen, both guards, - and Al Norville, a forward, are back i. i from last year’s line-up.
V- . In addition they have Clarence Red, a ! sophomore center, who has been impressive in his first year of regular competition. He scored over 30 points against > Western Michigan and managed to dump in 20 against Mike Moran of Marquette.
The Irish, in six games over the Christmas holidays, defeated Indiana and Louisville, but they lost to North i Carolina twice, Purdue, and Northwest' ern.
In the opening game of the Bluegrass j Festival in Louisville, Ky., Notre Dame, | led by Hawkins’ 29 points, dropped a ’ close contest to the Tar Heels, 81-77. I On the following night they defeated the I host team, Louisville, 61-53.
On December 26 in the Hoosier Classic at Indianapolis, Ind., Notre Dame rolled over Indiana, 73-67, with Hawkins dumping in 31 points and Mike Graney contributing 21 more. Purdue subdued the Irish, 74-59, the next night, as the Green hit poorly from the field.
Northwestern on New Year’s Eve in Evanston, Ill., then defeated Notre Dame for the second time this season, 102-67. The Wildcats hit 58 per cent of their shots in the first half and nevei- were in danger.
In the second North Carolina game, which the Irish dropped, 69-54, Don McGann, junior guard, suffered a broken collar bone and was lost to the team for at least a month.
Notre Dame lost a close battle to Butler January 6 in the Fieldhouse by a score of 62-60. Sophomore center John Tully, starting his first game as Hawkins’ replacement, was impressive as he dumped in 18 points in the losing effort.
The Irish jumped out to an early 25-6 lead only to lose it shortly after halftime as their shots wouldn’t drop. Butler took a 51-43 lead, and Notre Dame could not catch up.
Last Saturday the Irish won their fourth game of the season with a 73-62 conquest of Detroit. With five players scoring eleven points or better, Notre Dame presented its most balanced scoring attack of the season.
Bob Bradtke was high man with 17 points while Mike Graney, playing in the second half for Tully, bucketed 14. Tully contributed twelve during his time in the game. Tom Reinhart, a senior, also scored twelve while Crosby came across with eleven counters.
Ahead 43-29 at the half, it looked as if the Irish might collapse again at the start of the second half as they missed
BRADTKE DRIVES AROUND DETROIT DEFENDERS
Junior guard Bob Bradtke (11) makes use of Bill Crosby’s screen to drive around Detroit’s John Belohvalek (21) and Ray Albee (15). Bradtke accounted for 17 points in the contest as the Irish snapped a four-game losing streak by downing the Titans, 73-62.
WSND SPORTS “ON THE ROAD” Jan. 24—Illinois at Chicago, 8 p.m. Feb. 14—Kentucky at Chicago, 8 p.m.
Feb. 16—Butler at Indianapolis, 7:15 p.m.
Feb. 24—Marquette at Milwaukee, 8 p.m.
Presented by ' GILBERT’S
shot after shot. Detroit hit five straight points before the Green found the range and pulled ahead by 18 points to assure the victory.	'
As of yet Jordan has not been able to obtain any consistency in shooting from the team and has juggled the lineup considerably seeking the right combination.
Jordan has also come up with a zone defense in his efforts to improve the Irish performance, the first time in his coaching career he has used such a defense. By this means he said he hopes to slow down the opposing teams and prevent them from driving through for easy baskets, something Notre Dame opponents have been able to do this season.
In spite of the team’s record, Jordan is optimistic and positive of coming improvement. He hopes to find the scoring punch among some of the younger players, giving them a chance to develop for next season.
January 16, 1959
19
Selection of Two Kuhoridi Aides Announced;
Devore and Daddio Join New Coaching Staff
Notre Dame’s new football coach, Joe Kuharich, has announced his first two appointments on his coaching staff. He will retain Hugh Devore as freshman coach, and Bill Daddio,. formerly of Purdue, will be Kuharich’s assistant coach.
Kuharich, a Notre Dame graduate and an outstanding guard on the 1936-37-38 teams under Elmer Layden, comes to the Irish scene with a wealth of football experience.
Following graduation he played professional football for the Chicago Cardinals. After the war, he coached the University of San Francisco from 1947-al, raising the school to a major football power. In 1952 he returned to the Cardinals as head coach, where he remained until 1954, when he was hired by the Washington Redskins as head coach. He was with the Redskins until his recent hiring by Notre Dame.
He was named Professional Coach of the Year in 1955 while with the Redskins. Also, Kuharich has coached the North squad for the last three years in the annual Senior Bowl game at Mobile, Ala.
Last week Kuharich was on the campus, and the first two members of the coaching staff were announced through Athletic Director Edward W. Krause.
Bill Daddio, assistant coach at Purdue for the past five seasons and a long-time friend of Kuharich’s, is the new assistant coach. Daddio was an All-American end at Pittsburgh in 1936-37-38 and worked one season with Kuharich as a coach for the Chicago Cardinals in 1951.
The remaining positions on the new coaching staff have not yet been an-
.....tiiitiiitiiini.................................................................................................iitmiinim...................aaaaaaa.....
Kampus Keglero
CLASSIC
LaSalle Hotel  ............36-12
Palais Royale  ............33-15
Jerry Cangiano, 216-192-189 — 597;
Frank Prebenda, 166-181-234—581; Len LeRose, 225; Ted Nekic, 217; Jim Coker, 212; Denny Panozzo, 209; Larry Naymick, 208; Tom Jablonski, 203; Chuck LeRose, 202; Chuck Ahern, 200.
Averages: Ted Nekic, 193; RayGrub-be, 187; Denny Panozzo, 179; Pat Heenan, 179.
KAMPUS KEGLER—RED
Detroit Club “A” ___________ 37-11
Holy Rollers “A” ________ 36%-ll%
Frank Ryder, 137-200-222—559; John Curran, 158-191-207 — 556; Bob Miller, 245; Burke Reilly, 231; Bolander, 212.
Averages: Earl Mossner, 175; Pat Heenan, 174; John Curran, 174.
KAMPUS KEGLER—WHITE
St. Louis Club___________________33-15
Holy Rollers “B”_________________ 32-16
T. Rafferty, 175-189-205 — 569; Tom Tafelski, 185-179-184 — 548; P. McMahon, 205; John Nanovic, 200.
Averages: Fred Hoey, 169; Jerry Albers, 168; Bob Kriner, 164.
nounced, but Krause has indicated the announcement will come soon.
Kuharich, now back at his present home in Arlington, Va., making arrangements to move to South Bend, will formally move into his office in Breen-Phillips hall on February 1 and begin plans for spring practice.
Hugh Devore was hired a year ago as freshman coach and will be retained in that capacity. Devore, a former star Notre Dame end, also has had plenty of coaching experience. He was head coach of the Philadelphia Eagles in 1956-57 before coming to Notre Dame.
JOE KUHARICH
New head football coach
KAMPUS KEGLER—BLUE North-West Motor Service__38-10 Detroit Club “B”__________33-15
Ray Grubbe, 212-234-220 — 666; Jim DeBernardi, 208-211-164—583; Lou Romano, 219; Don Mars, 214; Mike Bentley, 212; Tom Jablonski, 211.
Averages: Ray Grubbe, 183; Tom Jablonski, 183; Fred Vida, 180.
KAMPUS KEGLER—YELLOW Cleveland Club “B”  .... 31-17
Cleveland Club “A”  .... 30-18
John Rizner, 222-187-188—597; Denny Panozzo, 190-172-187—549; Dave Weber 202; Frank Prantil, 198.
Averages: Ted Nekic, 188; Jim Flannery, 179; Frank Mullen, 173.
KAMPUS KEGLER — GREEN
Jokers ------------------------ 26-14
Fighting Five ----------------- 24-16
Timber jacks __________________ 24-16
Strikers 24-16
Fr. Brennan, 172-191-174—542; Fr. Baxter, 153-170-192—515; Bill Agres-ta, 191; Bob Rose, 183.
Averages: Fr. Shea, 184; Fr. Baxter, 167; Fr. Brennan, 165.
—Ed Silliman
Fencer Win Skein 20; Week-end Slate Full
This afternoon the Notre Dame fenc- < ing team travels to Oberlin, Ohio, where they will meet Oberlin College in their second meet of the year.
Tomorrow the fencers move on to Cleveland where they will meet the fencing teams of Case Tech, Fenn, and Western Reserve. Coach Walter Langford expects Case and Fenn to give his 4 swordsmen a good test.
Last Friday Langford’s team notched their 20th victory in a row, the longest winning streak in Notre Dame fencing history. Last year’s squad went undefeated in 16 meets, and they also won the last three meets of the 1957 season. A In their first meet of the 1959 campaign the fencers hosted Detroit University. Notre Dame led 10-8 entering the final division of competition, the foil. ND men took all nine bouts in this event to win the match by an eleven-point margin, 19-8.
Detroit had the edge in the sabre division, taking five of nine bouts. Senior and Co-Captain Joe Klein had a 1-2 record in the sabre for the Irish. The other two starters, Pat Green and Tom Lee, both seniors, notched 2-1 and 0-2 records, respectively.
The epee division, which is scored by means of an electrical apparatus, was 4 captured by the Irish, 6-3. Senior CoCaptain Jim Jock notched three victories against no defeats.
The foil division is the Irish stronghold again this year as they proved by taking all nine bouts from the Titans. Senior John Lauerman, junior Jerry Johnson, and Jim Russomano, who is Langford’s only returning All-American, each tallied twice in the victory column. x A team victory for the meet was assured when Johnson won ND’s 14th bout.
Coach Langford summed up his team’s victory thusly, “It was a close meet before we entered foil competition. We are strongest in foil and unfortunately for Detroit, they are at their weakest in this division. I am not satisfied with our ~ showing in sabre and in the epee. We’ll stress them in practice before our next meet.”
The remaining shcedule for the Irish fencers is as follows:
Jan. 16—Oberlin at Oberlin, Ohio
Jan. 17—Case, Fenn, and Western Reserve at Cleveland
Jan. 31—Buffalo and Indiana. Tech at Notre Dame
Feb. 6—Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado
Feb. 7—Iowa and Indiana at Iowa City Feb. 14—Chicago and Wayne State at
Chicago	*
Feb. 21—Michigan State and Ohio State at Notre Dame
Feb. 28—Wisconsin and Illinois at Madison
Mar. 20-21 — N.CAA. Fencing Championships at U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
20
The Scholastic
Interhall and Interclub Cagers Now in League Competition
Notre Dame Interclub and Interhall . basketball leagues have begun another season of competitive basketball.
The Interclub League, under the direction of Dick Chapura, is composed of 43 teams. Director Chapura has divided these 43 teams into six groups. Each team in the first group, consisting of eight teams, will play seven games. Each 4 of the other five groups has seven teams competing in six-game schedules.
Thus far, only ten games have been played. Chapura stated that the Columbus, Ohio, team was very impressive in its opening game, and the Rochester, N. Y., squad displayed good shooting ■ability in its first outing. He added that V the Monogram Club, the Met Club, with its usual good squad, the always potent Cincinnati Club, and the Army ROTC team will also prove to be tough tests for any opponents.
The Interhall League is undei* the direction of Bill Echard. There are approximately 55 teams entered in the ► basketball competition. The Interhall League is divided into eight groups. Each group consists of seven teams. At the conclusion of the schedule, there will be a tournament among the group winners. The winner of this tournament will be the interhall basketball champion.
TIME OUT
Tankers Seek First Win
Against Ohio February 7
Notre Dame’s varsity swimming team, in its first season of varsity competition, dropped its second meet of the season last Saturday to North Central College by a 54-32 count. The Irish tankers have * only a tie in their opening meet on the positive side of the season’s record.
The swimmers are idle until February 7 when they take on the University of Ohio in a dual meet in the Rockne Memorial pool.
In last Saturday’s meet the tankers were battling the North Central squad on even terms going into the last three events of the day. With the score 31-30, the Irish swimmers were outdistanced in each of the remaining events 8-1, 8-1, and 7-0 in the relay.
The Irish were able to gather only three first places while North Central • took first in ten events. The main strong points in Notre Dame’s scoring centered in the 200-yd. backstroke, the diving event, and the 50-yd. freestyle. In the former two events the Irish outscored the opposition 8-1, and in the latter* they ran up a 6-3 margin.
Top individual point-getters for the Notre Dame tankmen were Bill Cronin, first in the 50-yd. freestyle and second in the 100-yd. freestyle,. Paul Chestnut and Jim Garrity, firsts in the diving and 20-yd. backstroke events respectively, and Dick Katis, Jim Carroll, and Tony Haske, all who placed second in their respective events.
January 16, 1959
It is certainly probable that sometime in the future Notre Dame will not be financially dependent on “big-time” college football, but it still is today. The income from Notre Dame’s intercollegiate football program finances all the other sports at the University as far as I can ascertain. It is obvious then that a serious reduction in the income from football would result in the forced abandonment of the rest of Notre Dame’s intercollegiate sports program.
There are many idealists both here at the University and outside it who feel that football, as well as all other sports, should be not the business it is now but purely an athletic outlet for the students. This column will not try to decide the merit or lack of it in this statement. It rather merely assumes as a basis the fact that Notre Dame at present needs, “big business” football.
Inasmuch as football here is a business and necessarily so from a 6mm-cial standpoint (whether this is the way it should be or not), those who have concerned themselves with the recent firing of Head Football Coach Terry Brennan must remember that Brennan had a job to do. Whether or not he should be retained by the University depends on how well it feds he is accomplishing his job.
Obviously, the five-man faculty board which recommended Brennan’s release looked at his record and concluded that he had not done as well as he should have. What I mean by “as well” is this: He had not performed his job as a FOOTBALL COACH as well as he should have.
WRONG BASIS
This is one of the two points on which the newspapers around the country, in their practically unanimous denouncement of Brennan’s release, have been carried away by their own emotionalism. The newspapers have argued against Brennan’s dismissal on the grounds of his character, personality, and integrity. I doubt that any of the backers of the dismissal base their arguments on the lack of these attributes in Brennan. The release was based on an evaluation of his ability' as a football coach, not cm an evaluation of his character.
Just as the University would tend to release the head of any academic department if he were not measuring up to the University’s high academic standards, it reserves the right to release the football coach for-the same reason if the faculty board feels the situation warrants such action. While the football coach is more publicized than any head of an academic department here, he still must perform up to the expectations of his employer.
ACADEMIC EMPHASIS
The second and more poignant point on which the newspapers and magazines, although not as many, have taken what is in my mind an unreasonable stand is the diminution of emphasis on the academic. Some publications have concluded that the release of one football coach and the replacement of him by another leads inexorably to a drop in the academic emphasis and ideals at Notre Dame.
Academic standards at the University need not drop because of the change in coaches. Academic standards do not depend on how many games a football team wins but rather on the emphasis on the academic life of the students and the faculty. A desire to win football games is not incompatible with this emphasis.	.
Most of the newspapers and magazines that have expressed an opinion on this matter have brought up the fact that Brennan compiled a 32-18 record in his five years here. It is also true that he had a 6-4 record against major opposition in his last season.
Last year it was different. Newspapers have claimed that a 6-4 record against major opposition is creditable enough for any school; many schools would be more than satisfied with this record. It is significant that Notre Dame was satisfied apparently with Brennan’s 2-8 record two years ago. Father Hesburgh endorsed him enthusiastically at that time.
Brennan was not released because he compiled a 6-4 record in itself. He was released because he compiled a 6-4 record when the faculty board felt he should have done better with the material he had. I feel the same way.—T.T.

^KWTURBOW
\OPTOME TRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS EYES EXAMINED CONTACT LENSES 207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel	Phone CE 4-5777
HAVE BUSES . . . WILL TRAVEL . . .
•
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types Contact ED SILLIMAN, Campus Bep.
263 Dillon	Ext. 631
CHARTER A —
Ca^cLLruaX Buju±
AQIIVAS LBW ui BMKSRV
New Catholic Books’ Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
WORMSER
BRINGS YOU THE AUTHENTIC NEW BOWLER
LIGHT . . . TRIM . . . SMART AND ONLY . . .
$7.95
Complete style selection $5.45 to $9.45 WORMSER HATTERS TO MEN 216 S. MICHIGAN ST.
NEXT TO THE STATE
Cindermen Open Indoor Season February 7; Wilson: 'Prospects Good, Sophs Hold Key*
Notre Dame’s track team, under the direction of Coach Alex Wilson, has been working out daily since early November in preparing for the opening of the indoor track season. The season opens with the annual Michigan State Relays at East Lansing on February 7.
The cindermen will follow the visit to East Lansing with eight other meets during the indoor season. Three of the meets are scheduled during February and five during March. Some of the high-points should be the IC4A meet in New York on February 28, the Milwaukee Relays on March 7, the Cleveland Knights of Columbus Relays on March 20, and the Chicago Relays on March 28.
The Irish should have their share of standout performers. Among these are Ron Gregory, Tom Reichert, and Steve Dornbach. Gregory i-ecently finished second in the mile run to the veteran Phil Coleman in a meet during the Christmas holidays in Chicago. He has been timed in 4:08 in practice. Reichert has a height of 13 feet, ten inches in the pole vault. Dornbach, the team captain, has turned in some fine times in his specialty, the hurdles. Other members of the team who can be counted on for good pei*formances are Jerry Fitzpatrick in the sprints, Dan Rorke and Chris Monahan in the half mile, and Dick Mon-jeau in the high jump.
The Wilsonmen will rely heavily on
Tyler Jr.'s Basketball Picks
TONIGHT
Holy Cross over Colgate
TOMORROW
Akron U. over Kent State
Miami (Ohio) over Bowling Green Wyoming over Brigham Young Pittsburgh over Bucknell St. Bonaventure over Canisius Cincinnati over Drake Vanderbilt over Georgia Tech Indiana over Iowa Kansas State over Missouri Kentucky over Tennessee LaSalle over Temple
St. Louis U. over Louisville Notre Dame over Loyola Minnesota over Purdue Auburn over Alabama
North Carolina State over Wake Forest
Northwestern over Ohio State St. Joseph’s over St. John’s
LAST ISSUE
Basketball
17 right, 3 wrong, 85 per cent
Bowl Games
Three right, none wrong, one tie, 100 per cent
sophomores, and Coach Wilson himself says, “You never can tell where you are going with sophomores.” However the prospects for a successful season are good.
The Irish will be strengthened further during the outdoor season by the presence of Mike Morando and Ken Scar-borough. Morando holds the school record for the javelin, and Scarborough is the leading man in the discus. Both of these events are not held in indoor com-petition because of a lack of space. The squad lost another veteran weightman when football player Frank Geremia decided to forego his final season of eligi- > bility to play in the Senior Bowl game. The complete schedule for the 1959 season follows:
INDOOR SEASON	‘
Feb. 7—Michigan State Relays—there
Feb. 14—Marquette—here
Feb. 19—Purdue—here
Feb. 28—IC4A—New York
March 7—CCC—Chicago
March 9—Milwaukee Relays
March 14—Iowa—here
March 20—Cleveland Knights of Columbus Relays
March 28—Chicago Relays	!
OUTDOOR SEASON	’
April 3-4—Texas Relays
April 18—Ohio State—there
April 24-25—Drake Relays
May 2—Army—there
May 9—Missouri—there
May 13—Indiana State Meet—Indiana
May 16—Michigan State—here June 6—CCC—Milwaukee
June 13—NCAA Meet—Nebraska	,
Sailors Tie for Second In Sugar Bowl Regatta
The Notre Dame sailing team tied with Spring Hill College for second place -4 in the Sugar Bowl Regatta in New Orleans during Christmas vacation. Alabama, aided by an early lead in the first race, had no trouble winning the regatta.
Mickey Pavia skippered and Tim Sharon crewed for the Irish. In this race the Notre Dame entry used a different type boat from that they were '< accustomed to using during the regular season, but they still performed credit- | ably.	i
Conditions for the race were poor. | The wind was slight, and gusts often I threw skippers off their course. This had > a definite bearing on the outcome of the ’ race.
Notre Dame received a second place plaque along with tickets to the Sugar Bowl football game between Louisiana State University and Clemson University. Also, the Irish received an invitation to attend the regatta again next year.
News Briefs
John M. Pearce, alumnus of Notre Dame and former vice president and general manager of the Hoover Electronics Company, has been named manager of Electronics Requirements of the Martin Company. The appointment was announced by George M. Bunker, president of the company.
Harold E. Ellithom, also a graduate of the University, has been named as the assistant treasurer of the National Electronics Conference for 1959. The NEC is the nation’s leading forum of electronic research, development, and application. Over 10,000 registrants are expected at this, its fifteenth annual meeting.
“Portrait of a Young Girl,” an 18th-century painting by French artist Jean Baptiste Greuze (1725-1805), has been presented to the University Gallery, it was announced recently by curator James Key Reeve.
Donors of the work are Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Wisenberger, New York City collectors.
Reeve said that the newly acquired painting will be hung in the Notre Dame Gallery early in January.
Two art exhibitions of unusual interest are open at the University Gallery. Forty-three works of art, which were acquired by the University during 1958 are being exhibited for the first time on campus. Included in the show are sculpture, paintings, water colors, prints, and porcelains.
Also on view are 20 serigraphs on loan from the Western Serigraph Institute in California.
definition of the proportion in the minds of the white people.
An attorney and three businessmen have been elected to the board of directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association.
They are W. Edmund Shea, attorney from Dayton, Ohio; James J. Byrne, president of tiie Byrne Plywood Co., from Royal Oak, Mich.; Paul J. Cushing, president of the Hydraulic Dredging Co., Ltd., from Oakland, Calif.; and Walter L. Fleming, Jr., vice-president of Fleming and Sons, Inc., paper manufacturer from Dallas, Tex.
The new board members were elected in nationwide balloting among Notre Dame’s 27,000 alumni. They will be installed at the winter meeting of the twelve-man board at the Morris Inn from January 16-18.
Dr. Alfred Marshak, a biologist doing cancer research at the University, has been awarded a federal grant of $36,200. The grant from the National Cancer Institute of the National Institutes of Health will support his project during the current school year.
Dr. Marshak’s studies during the past 18 years have given indications that some type of relationship exists between the nucleic acids and malignant cancer. A cancer researcher for 25 years, Dr. Marshak joined Notre Dame’s biology department last September. Previously he had been associated with the Marine Biology Laboratory, Cape Cod, Mass.; New York University Medical School, and the United States Public Health Service.
A Carpenter Without His Hammer—
EUROPE
Dubfia to the Irtm Cartam; Africa to Swedes. You’re accompanied sot herded aro—d. Ctl> lege groups. Abo shorter trips 9S5-913M.
EUROPE SUMMER TOURS 255 Sequoia (Box 6)	Ehsadeaa, CeL
G. Washington, famous father, says: "Makes your hair look real George!”
Just a little bit of Wildraat and...WOW!
The exhibit of recent Notre Dame acquisitions ranges from the late Gothic period to contemporary modem. An interesting feature of this exhibit is the personal china service presented to Admiral Perry, by the ' people of Japan.
The Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus annually contributes nearly $800 to the national K. of C. Catholic Advertising Program. The program is designed to explain for all people various points of Catholic doctrine. Since its be. ginning, the Religious Information Bureau has handled over three million inquiries about the faith and has handled over 300,000 enrollments for religious instruction.
* In a report to the American Catholic B Sociological Society, Rev. James F. Mul-downey, S.J., declared that open resistance to school desegregation rarely appears among high school students “independent of adult encouragement.”
The study was based on five unidentified , communities of five different states which had compulsory racial segregation in their public schools prior to the 1954 decision.
Father Muldowney disclosed that community size and population distribution “do not seem to be significant determinants” in bringing about peaceful school desegregation. Even the actual Negro to white proportion is a less important factor than the
— or a surgeon without his scalpel — is something like a student without his book. For books are the basic tools of the student’s trade. Nothing has ever replaced the professor in the classroom, and -nothing has ever replaced the main tool of teaching and learning—the book. You may forget, but your books won’t. At 4:00 a.m. before your exams, your professors are getting their much needed rest. But your books are working with you —that is—if you have your own books.
Presumably you are in college because you want to learn. Your books are your tools. Don’t be like the carpenter with a borrowed hammer who must finish his work at the convenience of
the man who owns a hammer!
Penny for penny, page for page, books are the best
“buy’* of your college career. We have then. Come inspect them, and buy your own books today.
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
January 16, 1959
Senate Investigations* »lr.
by’Jack Stewart
The conference room was silent. Smoke as thick as the silence hung over the grim figures, and flash bulbs cut the gray air. The senators and cabinet members put on their for-publication smiles, then lapsed back into their grim frowning, determined appearance and waited for proceedings to begin.
Outside the closed session there was a different picture. The camel-hair of the overcoats was darkened by the perspiration of the restless figures, and they all talked nervously to one another. They tried to cover their alarm by careful avoidance of what troubled them, making meaningless quips about the club, the track, and the temperature in Miami. They shuffled their feet, and transferred their heavy financial volumes from palm to perspiring palm. And there was reason for their dread.
The hardest crew of senators and committeemen this reporter has ever seen* was about to commence with their straight-faced investigation of the financial records of Notre Dame’s organizations. The organization presidents and treasurers filed nervously into the conference room, hardly able to keep their cigars lit for the perspiration that slid from their foreheads and lips, to face the debacle. Reporters leaned anxiously forward and photographers snapped pictures as quickly as they could replace their flashbulbs. It was a night to remember for the investigating committee, but one not easily forgotten by the brains behind the campus clubs — definitely one of the strongest blows struck for justice in this decade.
Chairman - Senator Molehill set the mood of the hearing by his quick and disarming questions. (Example, “What is the name of your club?”) Backed up by the ominous partnership of the aforementioned examiners who were stern and at times searing in their unrelenting questions. Chairman Molehill etched his name in the annals of justice.
The hearing began with Molehill saying he would entertain a motion to begin; Grayhound alertly made the motion and Haywire, with equal alacrity and alertness, seconded. A vote followed and it was unanimous; 4-0 in favor of commencement. Next Molehill, with characteristic analytical skill determined his move. He said he would entertain a motion to take seats; Sawall cautiously made the motion but it died for lack of
*Samuel Molehill, William Grayhound, Benny Sawall, Edward Valet and Johnathan Haywire.
a second. This somewhat confounded and hampered the procedure, but being as the janitor had not provided an adequate number- of chairs, the resultant recess was avoided. And Molehill’s chief concern was with getting down to facts, not with procedures.
All the examiners, on a signal from Molehill, lighted cigarettes with the exception of Haywire who was chewing. A short recess followed for the purpose of obtaining a receptacle for Haywire’s well-aimed shots.
Again the hearing was underway, and on another signal from Molehill, frowns suddenly and simultaneously appeared on the faces of all the examiners. The Florida club was up first. There was a slight pause to consult Robert’s Rules of Order and it was determined that parliamentary procedure might be parted with for reasons of expediency—so that questions might be asked.
Molehill’s first disarming question caught the Florida club’s president napping:
Molehill: “What is the name of your club?”
Winter Carnival
(Continued from page 17) left them forsaken at the end of the dance.
The last scene was the real meeting at the palace. Our four friends had just gotten into a juicy argument when the trumpeteer announced the Prince of Natre Dome—but much to then- dismay, Red R. H. appeared instead and they disgustedly pushed her away as the real Prince appeared, wearing an inter-castle football shirt. When he took pity on poor Red R. H. sobbing in the corner, he was pulled back by the other girls. Then in an O’Henry-like ending, Red shunned her cape, revealing a black slinky dress' and a basket of goodies which consisted of champagne and caviar. When the Prince said she wasn’t on his reading list, she answered, “I’m from across the Dixie, baby, right in your own backyard.”
Amid the anguished cries of the other four, she led him away.
They each told their plight to the tune of Blues in the Night, accompanied by The Sterlings, who had also played for the vamp dance.
The finale song was a half-hearted assurance that Someday Your Prince Will Come — or, if at first you don’t succeed — try, try again.
Club President: “Come to think of it, we really haven’t voted on it.”
Molehill: “Well, let’s call it the Florida club.”
This established an advantage for the examiners and Molehill was applauded for his quick-thinking in avoiding another unnecessary recess (to vote on the name of the Florida club).
Sawall asked the president to produce the roster of the club names. This was
4
1
*5 >
in connection with the basketball team, in the attempt to establish that all men ; playing for the club were bonafide, dues- c paying members. Sure enough, George Mikan had paid his first semester dues! The club was clear on this point.
Grayhound then asked the treasurer ’ to turn over the financial records. The treasurer agreed and then began to fumble in his briefcase. Absentmindedly he had left them in his room! But Mole- ' y
hill, always a champion of expediency, suggested that he run over and get them during the coffee break, which was now long overdue. Molehill was carried out "■' of the room on the shoulders of the
other senators amid wild cheers and the glare of flashbulbs.
When they reconvened, the Florida club books were found to be in order; Grayhound was somewhat suspicious concerning a $2,000 expenditure for charity, but the treasurer explained it was for the California missions and Grayhound apologized.
The Chicago club, next in the line of victims, was found to be equally innocent but for a $1,500 check written to petty cash immediately preceding the Christmas holidays and a check (for an undisclosed amount) to Heat, Haiwick, Hitchell’s Chicago office for STRAIGHTENING OF THE BOOKS. Haywire cleared the issue by making a motion that from here on petty cash expenditure could not exceed $1,000 and the Senators voted with the rapidity for which they have long been famous. ’
Molehill called for a roll call vote plainly because one had not been taken that night, and, after all, roll call votes are important. The outcome was: Grayhound and Sawall for, Haywire against and Valet abstaining. (Next semester’s Senate will concern itself with finding an issue on which the preceding roll call vote might possibly have been made. Time did not permit it just then.)
Molehill next entertained an adjournment motion, but not before signaling for the confident smile the Senators usu
ally wear after an evening of such important accomplishment. Sawall missed the signal but was cuffed to attention by U Valet and promptly smiled broadly. Pen- ■ cils were removed from behind the Sen- ■ ator’s ears by the recording secretary, I and the motion for adjournment was ■ seconded and passed (3-0 and one ab- I stainer, that being Haywire who had A passed out as a result of swallowing too j large a chaw of his ever-present Mail ’ Pouch.) The loud cheers and a “He’s a I, man” for Molehill indicated to the over- j flow crowd that another successful night > of the Senate activity had come to an : end. Summing Up: Student Government I scores again.	■
24
The Scholastic -
4
1
'5 V

Freshman Elect Hall Officers During Election December 11
Five new senators were elected at the freshman elections, held December 11. Vince Micucci, an engineering major from Jamaica, N. Y., was elected in Keenan Hall; Jim Pottmyer, an engineering major from Oklahoma City in St. Edward’s Hall.
John Lamont, an engineering major from Chicago was elected in Stanford Hall; Josef Echelle, a Liberal Arts student from Mansfield, Ohio, in Farley Hall; and Bob Biolchini, a Liberal Arts student from Detroit in Breen-Philips Hall.
Other officers elected were: Keenan Hall — Joe Della Maria, president; Jim Kyan, vice-president; Gary Townsend, Secretary; Ken Kupper, treasurer.
St. Edward’s Hall — Steve Weiland, president; Bill Stackpoole, vice-president; Vince Hatt, secretary; Thomas Quinn, treasurer.
Stanford Hall — Mike O’Connor, president; Jim DeBow, vice-president; Joe Ba'listrieri, secretary; Charles Sla-dek, treasurer.
Farley Hall — Mike Hartnett, president; Dan Koenig, vice-president; Dennis Seeney, secretary; Joe Arno, treasurer.
Breen-Phillips Hall — Ben Salvaty, president; Chris Buckley, vice-president; Jim McCabe, treasurer; John Sevier, secretary.
Also elected in special elections were Jay Jones, as engineering senator and Dick Ciccone, as senator of Zahm Hall.
The elections were held under the sponsorship of the Blue Circle Service Society, Bill Stehle, chairman.
N. D. Graduate Finishes 'United Nations Special'
Virgil M. Exner, Jr., graduate of the University has recently completed a fully self-designed sports car whose planning was done here at Notre Dame.
The car, which is called the “United Nations Special” has a Simca chassis and radiator, a steering wheel by Nardi, a Volkswagen gasoline tank, a British steering system and universal joint, and a Judson supercharger.
Exner was awarded Notre Dame’s Jacques Gold Medal in 1956 for his undergraduate thesis which was required for his bachelor’s degree in fine arts. For his thesis he designed a completely original sports car to be built on the chassis of a 1950 Simca, a French car.
JUNIOR WEEK END
Applications for reservations in the Morris Inn for Junior Parents Week End in March should not be sent in by the parents before they receive the letter of invitation and then only on the supplied application card. The invitations and cards will be sent out about the first of February.
Gray Seeks Recognition Of China Against Norling
A heated debate over1 recognition of Red China featured the second student forum of the year. Mr. Walter Gray took the position for recognition of the Communist republic, and Mr. Bernard Norling took the negative side. The moderator was George Clements.
Mr. Gray said that “our so-called foreign policy” has caused us to lose prestige, in international circles.
Recognition of Red China, said the professor, does not imply friendship or approval of her government, but merely recognizes it as being the de facto power in control of the land area called China.
We have been defending a “myth” based on sentimentality, he said, which has caused innumerable hardships to our allies. At present China constitutes no threat, and it will take 25 years for her to become a strong industrial power.
Mr. Norling insisted that Red China does constitute a very real threat to us. She is ruled by a communist government whose avowed purpose is to rule the world.
“We are always at war with the Communist Empire,” he said, “and there is no need to comfort an implacable enemy when we do not have to.”
A lively discussion followed the opening statements of the two history department professors.
After a few infelicitous remarks by the discussion leader, the forum was called to a halt after two hours.
Shaul Consoles Sad Senators Over Lack of Graft Scandals
Any Confidential Magazine reporters covering the Senate meeting last Monday went away disappointed when no campus club scandals were reported by chief investigator Tom Cahill. Student body President Dennis Shaul made the following points, commenting on the attitude of those who seemed disappointed that no scandals were dredged up: 1) the Senate didn’t go into the investigation expecting to find graft; 2) every year the clubs should be investigated to keep them on their toes; 3) the Senate must find a way to check on activities held off campus, including dances, and 4) small clubs could be helped greatly by student government in organizing activities.
Junior class President Ed Butler precipitated a searching discussion of the minor sports policy when he introduced a motion which, as passed, made minor sports (sailing, soccer, etc.) the responsibility of the Administration. If accepted by the University Council, this will take the Senate off the financial “hook” for minor sports.
Debate centered on the problem of who should take primary responsibility for the minor sports program: the University (including the athletic department) or the Senate.
— Jim Byrne
DIAMONDS - JEWBRY
J. TRETHEWEY
•
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
•
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	JALS. Bldg.
MAKE FAY’S JEWHBIS YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS
See our magnificent selection of Transistor Radios. Choose from such famous names as:
PHILCO MOTOROLA BULOVA
Prices from $19.95
111 SO. MICHIGAN ST.
Classified Advertising
Enjoy an Irish Terrier Puppy. Same brand as the Notre Dame Football team mascot. The only lowe money can buy. Where else can you get six to twelve years of devotion loyalty and companionship but from one of Relieves Irish Terrien. Shipped express or by air express. Write Kelley’s Kennel, Huntley, Illinois. Prices from $75 to $150.
■ January 16, 1959
Back Paqe
the cloth curtain<
by BOB GHELARDI
A
Having been requested to manufacture an interesting article, I find among my possibilities only one subject that I can scientifically discuss with real enthusiasm. It is a subject that has often threatened to become a professional interest with me, as it has with many who will read this, and more important, as it will for some who have now not the shadow of a suspicion of its impending significance in their own lives. The subject of religious vocations is, of course, a delicate and personal one, but I don’t wish to proselytize; I only want to offer my reflections to those who are considering a religious vocation, and to those who are acute enough to suspect the significance the Church in America is going to have within the next halfcentury.
I was in direct contact with the “religious” life for a period of about six months — only long enough to fling open a few doors but yet long enough to assure myself of some things that most people sorely need assurance of. First of all, there is definitely an effect on the personality. For the first time in one’s life one is literally thrown in with a cross-section of human fauna and asked to live with it in peace and fraternal affection.
One is likely to meet anything — a jet pilot, a successful lawyer, a timid high school grad, a hick, an All-American, a Navy medic, a Princeton professor, an amateur rock-n-roller, or a renegade politician, all going more or less in the same direction at their individual velocities, using the most astonishing variety of propellants — intellectual ardour, missionary zeal, guesses, empiricism, extraordinary pessimism, extraordinary optimism, terrific spiritual agitation, deep repose, irresponsibility. All this is combined with devotion which proves in the long run a strong and the only possible cohesive force. One is tempted to approach such a conglomeration with a defensive superior attitude, but one learns, under the lacerations of frequent contradiction, to appreciate the prodigious range of human possibilities. This is probably the reason why so many exseminarians eventually achieve prominence in labor relations; they learn to spurn the duller material and social rewards in life; they acquire a firm and uncompromising desire to liberate the finer potential in mankind; they can deal lovingly with man in the mass because
they have learned to love man in particular. This is not necessarily an indication of great heroism; it probably comes inevitably from any sustained contact with the rich, intense inner life of the Church. A response to an intimation of a vocation, then, does not doom one if eventually the decision is made to drop out; infinitely more is gained than was put in, not least among the benefits being the deep repose of a developing spiritual life.
The spiritual life of the aspirant is aided greatly by reading, and this gives him the opportunity to sample for the first time the tremendous area of spiritual writing. If he is typical he expects to wrestle with an armful of noxious gases and is surprised by the solidity he finds, as if some supernaturally intuitive being had penetrated his soul and organized his deepest confused thoughts before his face. Some of the works to be found in this field are human documents that rival the greatest fiction for depth, variety and interest; e.g. Guar-dini’s The Lord, Daniel-Roups’ Jesus and His Times, St. Theresa’s autobiography, St. John of the Cross’ mystical works, the books of Father Raymond of Geth-semani — especially You. These are things that nobody has time for in everyday life—concealed pearls of great price, of lifetime value. What I mean to show by this is that entry into the religious life does not “cut you off,” as has been so often suggested to me; rather life on the other side of the fence is much more intense than had been supposed, and if one decides to return again to the other side, he comes over with renewed confidence and powerful weapons, and not at all as “good for nothing.”
Jacques Maritain, in his Reflections On America, stated the opinion that if the Church is to have another golden age, a renaissance, it will originate in the United States. The Church is advancing by leaps and bounds in both quantity and quality. It is becoming very rich and need no longer confine itself to the assimilation of waves of immigrants; it can branch into teaching and its own missionary activity. Not since the Middle Ages has there been a comparable opportunity to develop an organized system of higher Catholic education for the instruction of millions. Un-, fortunately, even in spite of the pressure being put on it from outside, it seems to me, the American clergy is
still not sufficiently aware of the necessities. There is too great a slowness in advancing to meet the exploding need. Seminarians and priests (I mean not only the order represented at Notre Dame) feel, and are allowed to feel, that t-the intellectual life is almost second best to direct pastoral activity. The old American predilection for action and hustle and bustle seems to push it aside. It is not merely a question of money, but of outlook and imagination. “Direct” activity is by no means unnecessary; in some parts of America it doesn’t even f exist. Yet the greatest gains in the future in our sophisticated society will be made in the intellectual world; the Church must arm. The recent furor about the firing of a coach might indicate that there is a confusion of values in certain corners, maybe not. But no- v body is confused by the fact that nothing ” short of a transformation is necessary, and quickly. Here, then, is a need for large imagination. A tremendous boil of activity is preparing, and lucky are the ones who will be in it. There will be plenty of resistance, (probably even a healthy restraining resistance) in religious orders — from what we might as well call “reactionary groups,” the ultraconservative, but the pressure is going to be on them. Even more than the medieval clergy, the American clergy is going to possess enormous power and , freedom: the power of initiating a renaissance, the freedom of almost illimitable knowledge (knowledge that has almost enslaved the Secular world to- 4 day) if only the imagination of the clergy will rise to the occasion. In consequence, I believe, nowhere in our society is there a greater opportunity for , men of imagination, daring and devotion than in the religious intellectual life. Let us have no doubts: it is not the “divine plan” that the fabulous I wealth of knowledge and techniques at ; the disposal of man should be ascetically repudiated or spurned; it is to be ascetically appreciated and employed. A man with a religious vocation today is lucky: he has the greatest challenges and the greatest opportunities, to say nothing of the company.	!
Of course, these are the more external aspects of the religious life, but often the ones that most interest or* most worry observers, and the ones that are least understood by many. As for the deeper aspects, there is nothing left but to try to find out.
26
The Scholastic
Our roots go deep in the growing areas served by Americas second largest telephone system
GENERAL) S’
SYSTEM
GENERAL TELEPHONE
America is building big out where the grass roots grow.
New industries, new businesses, and new homes are springing up where there’s elbowroom. And these are the areas where General Telephone is a citizen of long standing.
From a small beginning, Gen Tel has grown with the countryside. Today our 1,745 exchanges in 30 states provide modern service for 3,359,000 telephones. Our lines carry 119 million conversations each week. And we’re adding 750 new phones every day.
It takes a pair of seven-league boots to keep up with the growing communities in Gen Tel territory. That’s why Gen Tel is investing almost $200 million this year in the new facilities required to meet the ever-increasing demand for more and better telephone service. America’s big promise is in Gen Tel territory. And Gen Tel is doing its part to meet it.
In judging a modern filter cigarette
ITS WHATS UP FRONT
THAT COUNTS

Nc® SU
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.
ITHASNT
"Winston has got it," says Garry Moore, "because Winston's got a secret! It's Filter-Blend —fine, mild tobaccos specially processed for filter smoking!"
America's best-selling filter cigarette!


IF IT HASNT GOT IT
“A cigarette without flavor is like a world without women. Who wants it?” says the star of Winston’s television hit, “I’ve Got a Secret!”. “After all, if you don’t get flavor . . . you’re missing the whole idea of smoking!
“Winston has got flavor I Because up ahead of Winston’s pure modern filter is ]Filter-Blend]—a Winston exclusive! This secret — [Filter-Blend] — is what makes Winston America’s best -tasting filter cigarette. Try Winston!”

WINSTON TASTES GOOD
LIKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD I