THE CORDUROY VESTED SUIT
Tailored by h.i.s
$2950
Here’s the suit that will carry you through the school year in more ways, more style than you ever thought possible. Natural shouldered jacket lined with striking Londontown print. The corduroy vest reverses to velvety imported cotton suede cloth. The post-grad slacks are trim and tapered. See them soon. In popular colors.
On the Campus—Notre Dame
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS
V3	¥3
IN JANUARY IN FEBRUARY
No Carrying Charge
SHOP WAY
V3 IN MARCH
THE PUREBRED NATURAL SHOULDER SPORT JACKETS
$4250	$50
and upward
Our good looking sport jackets include handsome tweeds, shetlands, cheviots and classic blazers. We invite you to see them soon. The Campus Shop’s distinctive collection of sportswear also includes odd vests and trousers, jackets, sweaters and Ivy' sport shirts.
GILBERT'S ^ampu^^hop
On the Campus—Notre Dame
3
On Campus to Mman
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf’, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis", etc.)
THE GIRL I LEFT BEHIND ME
It happens every day. A young man goes off to college, leaving his home town sweetheart with vows of eternal love, and then he finds that he has outgrown her. What, in such cases, is the honorable thing to do?
Well sir, you can do what Rock Siga-foos did.
When Rock left Cut and Shoot, Pa., he said to his sweetheart, a simple country lass named Tess d’ Urbevilles, “My dear, though I am far away in college, I will love you always. I will never look at another girl. If I do, may my eyeballs parch and wither, may my viscera writhe like adders, may the moths get my new tweed jacket!”
Then he clutched Tess to his bosom and planted a final kiss upon her fragrant young skull and went away, meaning with all his heart to be faithful.
But on the very first day of college he met a coed named Fata Morgana, a girl of such sophistication, such poise, such savoir-faire as Rock had never beheld. She spoke knowingly of Franz Kafka, she hummed Mozart, she smoked Marl-boros. Now, Rock didn’t know Franz Kafka from Pancho Villa, or Mozart from James K. Polk, but Marlboros he knew full well. He knew that anyone ■who
smoked Marlboros was modern and advanced and as studded with brains as a ham with cloves. Good sense tells you that you can’t beat Marlboro’s exclusive selectrate filter, and you never could beat Marlboro’s fine flavor. This Rock knew.
So all day he followed Fata around campus and listened to her talk about Franz Kafka, and then in the evening he went back to the dormitory and found this letter from his home town sweetheart Tess:
Dear Rock,
Us kids had a keen time yesterday. We went down to the pond and caught
* * *
Marlboro, in the king-size soft pack and famous flip-top box, is sold and enjoyed in all 50 States. And king-size unfiltered Philip Morris Commander, made of superb natural tobaccos, is also available wherever you travel.
some frogs. I caught the most of anybody. Then we hitched rides on trucks and did lots of nutsy stuff like that. Well, I must close now because I got to whitewash the fence.
Your friend,
Tess
P.S. ...I can do my Hula Hoop 3,000 times.
Well sir, Rock thought about Tess and then he thought about Fata and then a great sadness fell upon him. Suddenly he knew he had outgrown young, innocent Tess; his heart now belonged to smart, sophisticated Fata.
Rock, being above all things honorable, returned forthwith to his home town and walked up to Tess and looked her

in the eye and said manlily, “I do not love you any more. I love a girl named Fata Morgana. You can hit me in the stomach with all your might if you like.”
“That’s okay, hey,” said Tess amiably. “I don’t love you neither. I found a new boy.”
“What is his name?” asked Rock.
“Franz Kafka,” said Tess.
“A splendid fellow,” said Rock and shook Tess’s hand, and they have remained good friends to this day. In fact, Rock and Fata often double-date with Franz and Tess and have heaps of fun. Franz can do the Hula Hoop 6,000 times.
© 1961 Max Shulman
GLANCES
“News and Notes” reports on campus events of varying degrees of significance . . . page 9.
Visitors to the Notre Dame Law School this weekend will be treated to courtroom drama as the Moot Court finals entertain the case of Green vs. Black . . . page 10.
Art Graham, Scholastic Senate reporter, returns this week with a report on the opening meeting of the Buckley administration . . . page 11.
A student volunteer service, helping with jobs at the local Children’s Hospital, is now past the planning stage . . . page 12.
“In and Around Town," spotlights the local entertainment of the week . . . page 13.
A new columnist with a new column “Kibitzer’s Comer” views the bridge world, with a jaudiced eye . . . page 13.
One stodgy cynic’s reply to last week’s article on spirit, “Beyond Spirit” brings hitherto unconsidered factors to the arena of discussion . . . page 14.
See the folks up at WSND, live, running a radio station; a pictorial saga . . . page 15.
Will we continue our so far unbeaten season with an overwhelming victory (or even just an ordinary victory) over Purdue tomorrow? Read about our chances in “Purdue Review" . . . page 19.
Vigorous Angelo Dabiero, prominent halfback for Notre Dame, has an article all to himself . . . page 20.
Bill Cary, mild-mannered sports editor, hopes for invulnerability from attack this week as “Cary Calls ’Em” . . . page 21.
Dick Meece, a vocal leader of a vilified minority at the recent NSA congress, speaks his mind on representation ... page 25.
The SCHOLASTIC >J entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC , is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185,, Notre Dame, Indiana. AH unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
4
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
THOMAS WEISS
associate editor
MICHAEL ZWETTLER
news editor
JOHN McCABE
features editor
THOMAS HOOBLER
sports editor	'
WILLIAM CARY
copy editor PHILIP LARRABEE
art editor
THOMAS HANSEN Patrick Saxe Robert Sainovsky
layout editor
STEVEN PODLAS
business manager JOHN WARD . Robert Buckley
GaMunettiasuf'
A NEGATIVE ANALYSIS: For perhaps too long a time American college students have been continually urged to develop an “awareness” of problems of national and international concern. Most campuses have seen the formation of political clubs representing almost every degree of deviation from center. Positions have been formulated by these student groups, which, for breadth of purpose and complexity of statement, rival the profoundest pronouncements of the great political philosophers of the Christian West.
One cannot, of course, condemn the rise of undergraduate “awareness.” Nor can one take particular exception to the articulation of such awareness through student political groups. However, when such groups, often involving some of the ablest students on a campus, project positions which, for them, are simply irrelevant or impracticable — then they become nothing but corrals for deracinated activists.
There’s NSA, for example. Reading this week’s article on the NSA convention last summer, we began to have some misgivings about the organization from a number of points of view. We must admit to a certain native suspicion of student organizations whose names are as non-committal as their abrevia-tions. But we cannot suppress the vision of a small band of vocal students making speeches, passing majority resolutions, making arrangements for next year’s convention, and, inevitably, “studying the problem of ... ” and never confronting it. This is not to say that NSA is completely worthless. Doubtless it is peerless as a parliamentary training course, and may even have some political influence.
But we wonder whether it has any claim to a blanket membership status in all its member schools. Whatever benefits may accrue to the members of the University’s NSA delegation, it is very hard to see what services the student body at large receives for its head tax. Indeed, that it makes resolutions only in areas outside its jurisdiction hints at its basic ineffectiveness in affairs it might be able to handle. If there is to be an NSA, there is no reason why it should be allowed to drape itself in mock solemnity and pose as a sort of Prime Mover of studenthood. Probably the root of the trouble is that NSA really doesn’t claim to have any particular responsibilities beyond the comfortably vague one of “representation." And perhaps the student body should fittingly limit its support of the organization to “moral.”
CHEERS! Though basically something of a Steve Senior (see Scholastic, Sept. 29, 1961, p. 25) sort, we found ourselves almost willing to raise a half-hearted cheer at last Saturday’s game. But the cheer leaders were much too engrossed in the activity on the field to be interested in anything so mundane as leading a cheer. Thus, a priceless moment of nonapathetic involvement was lost forever. Perhaps another time...
SO THERE: It is our considered opinion (though we may be classed irrevocably outgroup for expressing it) that the newly gilded dome is a rather impressive sight. Particularly at night.
circulation manager
JAMES CREAGAN C-
faculty advisor
DONALD COSTELLO
The Scholastic, in pursuing a somewhat different editorial policy, seeks to represent a larger portion of the Notre Dame community. With this object in mind, we will welcome longer articles on subjects pertinent and impertinent, as well as shorter "Repercussions,” from both students and faculty. All letters and manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 425 Walsh Hall.
5
^kWTURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES
INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington — Phone CE 4-5777
COVER
This week's cover shows the color of the campus this time of year and the familiar objects that project much of this color. The design and execution is following the art department policy of modern simplicity.
— Tom Hansen
SUMMER
JOBS
IN
EUROPE
WRITE TO: AMERICAN STUDENT INFORMATION SERVICE, 22, AVE. DE LA LIBERTE, LUXEMBOURG
M skin bracer.
> M . W a » * a «o»	* |
iiasi«
Is this the only reason for using Mennen Skin Bracer?
Skin Bracer’s rugged, long-lasting aroma is an obvious attribute. But is it everything?
After all, Menthol-Iced Skin Bracer is the after-shave lotion that cools rather than burns. It helps heal shaving nicks and scrapes. Helps prevent blemishes. Conditions your skin.
Aren’t these sound, scientific virtues more important than the purely emotional effect Skin Bracer has on women? In that case, buy a bottle. And— have fun.
IN THE NEW NOH-SUP FLASK
The Scholastic
REPERCUSSIONS
IN PRAISE OF SPIRIT Editor:
It was indeed a source of great encouragement to see the fine article in your first issue this year: “Beyond Myth: A New Approach to Spirit” by Messrs. Della Maria and Sanderson. It is indeed a work of reflection and keen perception, and it manifests a fine understanding of the principles of Christianity as informing forces in our daily lives. I look forward to more articles of this same caliber— well written, sensitively realistic. My congratulations to the authors of the articles, and to the editors who published it.
Joseph H. Maguire
POINT
Editor:
As Peter Clark said, responsibility has become the rallying cry of Notre Dame’s Student Government. But Student Government should not have the monopoly of responsibility. Each member of the Notre Dame community should share in this responsibility. I was glad to see in the same issue the article by Wade Clarke. I was impressed by his forthright stand against the Neo-Fascist Young Americans for Freedom. It is refreshing to see someone point up the irresponsibility and the basic egocentric outlook of Y.A.F. members. In these times of international crisis and internal social change, Y.A.F. members must realize that the twentieth century is here and the twenty-first is rapidly aproaching. This country has no room for such gross irresponsibility as the Y.A.F. has demonstrated in the past. I believe that here at Notre Dame we can cultivate responsibility which will help us face the changing world, not hide from it.
Michael John Tichon
318 Lyons
COUNTERPOINT
Editor:
It is unfortunate that Wade Clarke has cheapened some fine insights with rhetorical gimmicks devised to sway the unthinking student.
William F. Buckley and Jack Kerouac are contemporaries, but to imply that the movements in which they are involved are merely different expressions of the ignorant and the socially misfit is ridiculous.
Wade Clarke reminds one of the neo-positivist who cannot find essential differences between the various Christian “sects.” Arguing on the level of phenomena, Clarke equates (Continued on page 17)
Pre-Broadway Premiere
One Night Only Nov. 7 Morris Civic Auditorium
“A SHORT HAPPY LIFE"
A Play byA.EHOTCHNER
Also Starring
MMARTIH
' HRRVEY LEMBECK KEIRDULLEA and
SALOME JEWS
Directed by FRANK CORSARO
Production Lighted and Designed by JO MIELZINER
Choreography by MATT MATTOX
Music by BERNARDO SEGALL costumes by TNEONI VrALDREDGE
Tour Management: Columbia Artists Management, Inc.
"A SHORT HAPPY LIFE" STARRING ROD STEIGER OPENS ON BROADWAY, NOV. 30, AMBASSADOR THEATRE. SEE THE ORIGINAL BROADWAY CAST BEFORE ITS BROADWAY PREMIERE.
TICKETS: Orch., Main	Floor,	Mezz...................$4.50
1st Bal.,	Box	Seats...................   $3.50
2nd Bal...................................$2.50
3rd Bal...................................$1.50
ON SALE NOW: Morris Civic Auditorium, South Bend Office Engineers, South Bend Judd’s Drugs, Elkhart, Goshen
MAIL ORDERS: Write to BOX 2117, Fine Arts Assn., South Bend
October 6, 1961
7

Quality is the key to success at Western Electric
Admittedly, our standards are high at Western Electric. But engineering graduates who can meet them, and who decide to join us, will begin their careers at one of the best times in the history of the company. For plentiful opportunities await them in both engineering and management.
As we enter a new era of communications, Western Electric engineers are carrying forward assignments that affect the whole art of telephony from electronic devices to high-speed sound transmission. And, in the management category alone, several thousand supervisory jobs will be available to W.E. people within the next 10 years. Many of these new managers will come from the class of '62.
Now’s the time for you to start thinking seriously about the general work area that interests you at Western Electric, the manufacturing and supply unit of the Bell Telephone System. Then when our representative comes to your campus, you’ll be prepared to discuss career directions that will help make the interview profitable.
After a man joins Western Electric, he will
find many programs that will aid him in exploring the exciting course of his career — while advancing just as fast as his abilities allow. And he’ll be secure in the knowledge that he is growing with a company dedicated to helping America set the pace in improving communications for a rapidly growing world.
Challenging opportunities exist now at Western Electric for electrical, mechanical, industrial, and chemical engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, and business majors. All qualified applicants will receive careful consideration for employment without regard to race, creed, color or national origin. For more information about Western Electric, write College Relations, Western Electric Company, Room 6106, 222 Broadway, New York 38, New York. And be sure to arrange for a Western Electric interview when our college representatives visit your campus.
Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, III.; Kearny, N. J.; Baltimore, Md.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale, Pa.; Winston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla. Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J. Teletype Corporation, Skokie, III., and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric distribution centers In 33 cities and Installation headquarters In 16 cities. General headquarters: 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.
8
The Scholastic
CORPS CHOOSE CHIEFS
With the commencement of the academic year came the appointment of seniors Jack Clark, Al Smith and Terence Corrigan as cadet commanders of the Notre Dame AROTC, NROTC and AFROTC units for 1961-1962.
Lt. Col. Clark intends to bring about a general shaping up of AROTC with better appearance, and better marching. A native of Dayton, O., Clark has had much experience in administrative matters as a senator in the student government and as a member of the Student Administration and Faculty Committee. A Dean’s List English major, Clark has command of 1,100 cadets, including 450 freshmen.
With the assistance of his staff, Clark hopes to make the new Summer Camp Training Program more successful. Preparations will also be
LIMELITERS
Tickets go on sale at 3 p.m., Friday, Oct. 6 in the Fieldhouse for the Oct. 20 performance of the Limeliters..
made for the many social events which will be held by such groups as the Sorin Cadet Club.
A finance major in the college of commerce, Capt. Al Smith of Indianapolis, Indiana, has command of some 420 midshipmen, of whom 159 are freshmen. Smith, a member of the Navy’s contract program, has seen service of the Tri-Military Council and as vice-president of the Indianapolis Club.
One of Smith’s first tasks is preparing the battalion for pre-game ceremonies at the Notre Dame-Navy contest. The corps will render honor to the colors, as well as pay tribute to the visiting midshipmen. Plans are also being made for a Navy Ball, which will be the first at Notre Dame.
Smith intends more emphasis to be placed upon the advisor program, in which each new midshipman is assigned and upper class supervisor. The advisor aids the freshman in acclimating himself to college life in general and to the Navy program in particular.
Hailing from Cristobal, Panama Canal Zone, where his father works for the U. S. government, Terry Cor
rigan commands the AFROTC unit. Lt. Col. Corrigan, a married student majoring in finance, hopes to study law after graduation. He is a former drill commander and representative in the Tri-Military Council.
This year, it is the duty of the AFROTC to make preparations for such campus-wide events as the Military Ball and the Presidential Review. This is the big job for Corrigan’s command, which numbers 120 freshmen and 150 upperclassmen.
The AFROTC rotation system, under which juniors take command of the various units, will receive increased emphasis. This year plans are being made for changes in the disciplinary codes and their administration.
SERIES LECTURES NAMED
Student government Academic Commissioner John V. Forrest has announced the schedule of Notre Dame’s Distinguished Lecture Series for this fall. Speakers will include the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University; Senator John Tower (R, Tex.); Edwin O’Conner, author of The Last Hurrah and The Edge of Sadness; Malcolm Wilson, lieutenant governor of New York; and Stanley Teele, dean of the Harvard Business School. There will also be a debate entitled, “Palestine—Arab or Jewish?”
Scheduled for presentation in the spring are ex-President Harry Truman; Paul Butler, former chairman of the Democratic National Committee; Dr. Dietrich von Hildebrand, philosopher; Senator Barry Goldwater (R., Ariz.); John P. Elder, dean of the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Letters; a program on the House Un-American Activities Committee and a program on the Selective Service System.
JUNIOR LEADERS FORGE ON
Not to be outdone by the everactive Student Senate, Junior Class President Kevin Hart and his duly elected colleagues Messrs. John Hildebrand, Ronald Saldino and William Rogers have forged into that tanta-lizingly ambiguous field of junior class plans, vintage 1961. Covering the junior’s social, athletic and cultural life, their extensive program calls for but one essential ingredient —support.
Heading an impressive calendar of events is the Junior Class Mixer-Party tonight at eight in the LaFortune Student Center, featuring Larry & the Kinksmen and representatives from nine girls colleges. Other events being planned include transportation to and from the Michigan State game on Oct. 21, and a bridge party hosted by St. Mary’s.
A six-man touch football league, bowling and billiard tournaments, plus the regular interhall activities will be the core of the fall athletic program. The interhall bicycle races initiated a year ago by the Howard Hall dwellers are scheduled for reinstatement, this season on the main Quad.
On the intellectual side, the Academic Commission will sponsor quality movies every third week, and an occasional lecture of a practical nature pursuing such topics as how to fulfill one’s military obligation or how to choose graduate school.
Off-campus students, often neglected in the past, will have the attention of a new Off-Campus Commission. They will be provided with advance publicity for all campus events and special ticket sales. The class also hopes to begin a “hall adoption plan” through which students living off-campus would be integrated with a hall’s activities if they so desire.
IRC GROUP SPONSORS LECTURE
Prof. Eugene Burdick, co-author of The Ugly American, will be in South Bend on Tuesday, Oct. 10, to present the opening lecture for this year’s Program of the South Bend International Relations Council. He will speak on “The Ugly American and the dilemna of Foreign Aid,” at 8:00 P.M. in the O’Laughlin Auditorium of St. Mary’s College. Students may purchase tickets for $1.00 for the five lectures. Tickets may be purchased at the door or from Professors William D’Antonio, Ernest Eliel, or Walter Gray. General Admission is $4.00 for five lectures.
KODAK ANNOUNCES GRANT
The Eastman Kodak Company has given Notre Dame a grant of $7,200 as part of its annual aid-to-education program. The grant comes from almost $1 million in grants, fellowship awards, and special contributions being offered by Kodak this year to 58 colleges and universities.
The grants are based on the number of a school’s graduates who joined Kodak five years ago and are presently employed by the company. This year’s grant is due to J. R. Andrews
October 6, 1961
9
(’56), E. L. Kintner (’50), and J. T. Kofron, Jr. (’52). Notre Dame has received $30,900 from Kodak since 1955.
GREEN VERSUS BLACK;
MOOT COURT DECIDES
LIBRARY EXTENDS HOURS
Beginning next Monday the main library closing hours will be extended to 11:30 p.m. Sunday through Friday. Although no books may be charged out or in after ten, as before, all other facilities are to be available. According to Victor Shaefer, director of libraries, the change was instigated as a result of a Student Senate resolution and will serve as a testing ground for the proposed longer extension in hours to be effectuated in the new Memorial Library.
DANCE TROUPE TICKETS OFFERED
Indrani and her troupe of classical Indian dancers are being presented in Washington Hall at the University of Notre Dame next Thursday at 8:30 p.m., sponsored by the Artists’ Series and the International Commission of the Notre Dame Student Government.
Tickets are $1 and may be bought at the Washington Hall box office next Wednesday from 4 to 7 p.m., as well as the evening of the performance.
SCRIBBLERS REBORN
Prospective authors will be glad to learn of the resurrection of an organization absent from the campus since 1936 — the Scribblers’ Creative Writing Club. Membership will be limited to twenty sophomores and upperclassmen. Admission will be based on a letter of application, an example of a work of short fiction, poetry or drama, and an interview. These will be solicited in the near future. The club, moderated by Prof. Richard Sullivan, will function primarily as an outlet for the best in student creative writing.
CONTROVERSY
Each year the University of Notre Dame Debate Team sponsors a weekly radio program over WSND—“Controversy.” The programs are planned in order to discuss timely and controversial topics which are of immediate interest to the students of Notre Dame. Next Tuesday, Mr. Stephen Kertesz, professor of political science, will discuss current issues concerning the United Nations and answer pertinent questions. In the following three weeks, other issues relating to international problems will be discussed. Next Tuesday and on every Tuesday thereafter, these shows may be heard starting at 7:30 in the evening and ending at 7:55, over WSND.
Four Notre Dame student lawyers will argue their cases before the highest court in the land, the U. S. Supreme Court, tonight as they litigate the case of Richard Black vs. John Green. The court and the case will both be fictitious, of course, but the competition for the prizes of $250 and $150 will be real.
At this time last fall, then second year law students, Michael M. Kelly, Norman H. Stark, Joseph P. Albright and Louis N. Roberts were among the qualified students invited to participate in the Law School’s Twelfth Annual Moot Court Program.
NORMAN STARK, MICHAEL KELLY, JOSEPH ALBRIGHT, AND LOUIS ROBERTS
Four rounds of eliminations later, they now stand ready to present their cases before a bench of three distinguished jurists.
Judging the finalists on written briefs and oral arguments will be the Hon. William O. Douglas, United States Supreme Court; the Hon. William H. Hastie, U. S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit; and the Hon. J. Skelly Wright, U. S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana. This marks the sixth consecutive year a member of the U. S. Supreme Court has been attracted to the Notre Dame Moot Court.
The competition will be conducted in appellate advocacy, a legal term meaning that the case has already been tried in a lower court and one of the parties has appealed the verdict. In tonight’s action, the South American country of Nirvana has seized and nationalized the coffee
plantation of Richard Black, a U. S. citizen.
John Green, also an American, purchased from Nirvana some of the coffee produced on Black’s plantation. Black therefore sued Green for $640,000 damages and the attachment of the coffee on the grounds • that he (Black) is still the rightful owner. A District Court originally ■ ruled for Black but a Court of Appeals reversed the decision. The case now rests before the Supreme Court with such complicating principles as a U. S. treaty guaranteeing Nirvana’s internal sovereignty. Counsels Kelly
and Stark will argue for the petitioner, Richard Black, and Counsels Albright and Roberts will handle the respondent’s case.
Kelly and Albright are Notre Dame graduates, Stark graduated from Gannon University, and Roberts received his degree from the U. S.. Military Academy.
The competition will begin at 7:45 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. In addition to the cash prizes donated by A. Harold Weber, ’22, and the Notre Dame Law Association, the two top men will receive the Dean’s Award and the right to represent the Law School in the national competition next month.
Kevin M. Lyons, assisted by James A. Goethals and Peter O. Kelly, *s the student director of the Moot Court, and Prof. Conrad Kellenberg is the faculty advisor.
—Ken Arnold
10
The Scholastic
Q^akam
ECONOMY'S THE BYWORD
Chirs Buckley, student body president called for “mature, responsible action and an exertion of leadership” at the first Senate meeting last Thursday night. A skeleton staff of officers, commissioners, stay senators and the three class presidents gave reports and voted on some matters of policy.
Buckley welcomed everyone back, asked
the senators to become familiar with parliamentary procedure, and announced that Father McCarragher and Father Hoffman would be working with the Senate. Father Hoffman will be attending the Senate meetings and Father McCarragher will sit in on meetings of the Hall Presidents’ Council.
Greg Weismantel, social commissioner, greeted the Senate with “Well, here I am,” and proceeded to outline the fall social calendar. Weismantel’s ponderous commission (50 members), off to a running start with the Open House, has planned two fall campuswide dances, concerts by the Limeliters and the Brothers Four, a Halloween party, Christmas ball, cabaret party, Roaring 20’s party, as well as the usual victory dances and mixers. Some senators were unhappy over the Social Commission’s policy of refusing senators free access to commission dances, but most concurred with the policy — one step in an over-all tightening of senate finances.
Joe Simoni, international commissioner and Terry McGlinn, student affairs commissioner, gave their reports, following by Mike Harnett, chairman of the Hall Presidents’ Council. Harnett emphasized the new responsibility that is to be placed on the hall governments.
Reports were given by the Blue Circle, Young Christian Students,
National Federation of Catholic College Students and the National Student Association representatives.
Buckley proposed that the Senate pass a list of “house rules.” These rules would allow a senator two excused cuts a semester; all senators would have to wear a coat and tie to the meetings, post a report in their hall after each meeting, and have motions in the Senate office 30 hours before the meeting. The student body president would have the power to dismiss any senator not complying with these rules.
There was much haggling over this motion. Buckley said, “This might seem Mickey Mouse.” Earl Linehan, senior class president, said, “This is Mickey Mouse.” The motion was passed after some confused debate
Back to classes.. prepared for every course with
Over 100 titles
ANTHROPOLOGY ART BUSINESS
DRAMA ECONOMICS EDUCATION
ENGINEERING ENGLISH
HISTORY
Average price $1.50
ON DISPLAY AT YOUR BOOKSTORE
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
due to a lack of knowledge of parliamentary procedure.
The Senate passed a motion moving the freshman elections up to Oct. 24. That ended the first meeting of what Tom Schlereth chose to call “the age of responsibility.”
FOR UNDERCLASSMEN
On Sunday, Oct. 8 and Oct. 15 DOME pictures of all underclassmen will be taken. Juniors should report in suit coat and tie, sophomores in sport coat without tie, and freshmen in sport shirts or sweaters. Consult hall bulletin boards for time and place of hall pictures. In case of rain sophomore and juniors will be posed Oct. 15 and freshmen on Oct. 22.
BARNES & NOBLE COLLEGE OUTLINE k SERIES
famous educational paperbacks perfect for
^learning and reviewing on the following subjects:
LANGUAGES MATHEMATICS MUSIC PHILOSOPHY POLITICAL SCIENCE PSYCHOLOGY SCIENCE SOCIOLOGY SPEECH STUDY AIDS
October 6, 1961
11
Campus Groups Set Up Volunteer Service Program; Student Helpers to Aid at Indiana Children's Hospital
Next Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in room 127 Nieuwland Science Hall there will be a general meeting introducing volunteer service to Notre Dame. The Volunteer Service Project, under the combined auspices of the Aesculapian Club, the Council for the International Lay Apostolate and the Young Christian Students, aims to assist with the care of mentally retarded children at the Northern Indiana Children’s Hospital on the comer of Notre Dame Avenue and Angela Boulevard.
Though the hospital has a professional staff to take care of the physical needs of the children, volunteer service provides the individual attention which the children need to escape the routine of institutional care.
Last year the Indiana Legislature ordered that the hospital be turned
over completely to the care of retarded children. At that time the YCS members of Stanford Hall had already embarked on a limited program of supplying volunteers to help with the care of children already at the hospital. The volunteers, limited to some extent in what they could do, were used most in the Hospital’s Play Program. The program, just before Easter, was opened to the rest of Stanford Hall upon return from the vacation. By the end of the school year there were 24 working in the program, which was termed by hospital officials as “the most efficient group of volunteers we have had.”
With the decree of the Indiana Legislature, the enrollment of retarded children at the hospital has risen from 50 to 150 since last July. In view of the increased enrollment and subsequent need for more volunteers,
SENIORS
Last minute changes for seniors desiring an up to date activities list for the 1962 DOME will be accepted on Wednesday and Thursday, Oct. 11 and 12, or Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 16 and 17. All such alterations should be submitted to the DOME Office from 1 to 5 p.m. on any of the above days.
the program has been expanded to include members of the three sponsoring clubs, the Aesculapians, CILA and YCS, and also certain sociology classes. Anyone interested, however, is invited to attend the general meeting.
At the general meeting a movie on mental retardation will be presented, and a talk by Donald M. Hippensteel, superintendent of the hospital. Visits to the hospital will then be arranged for those eligible, after which they may apply for between one and three hours per week of service.
SIC FLICS
k
KING
SMRM!
“Not only is this a dull party, but I’ve run out of CHESTERFIELDS!”
w
(Ikiai^ettes
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES’ AGED MILD, BLENDED MILD-NOJ FILTERED MILD-THEY SATISFY



12
The Scholastic
o

Avon Art. DannyKayeis America's laugh ambassador. And well he might be. He is one of the few performing comedians who manage to personify humor. He’s not a slapstick Chaplin or a flip Bob Hope: he comes across not as a funny-man but rather as a person . . . you get to feel kinda like you’re laughing at yourself. And that is why I recommend this week’s feature at the Avon very highly. Danny performs in an internationally flavored comedy featuring a chase across France. Two refugee Polish soldiers flee the approaching Nazi horde, you see, and lowly J.L. Jacob-owski deems it an honor to help Colonel Prokoszny—and the Colonel’s sweetie, by all means—make their escape. Though it is done at great risk to his neck by the voluptuous honey, to say nothing of the jealous General and the whole Blitzkrieg. Three sides make an eternal triangle—and you know how wild the French countryside can be. Me and the Colonel: It’s an old show—but Kaye is an old favorite.
And with it... you’ll never guess... The Rikisha Man. Starring Toshiro Mifune. Produced by ToHo Ltd ... in breath-taking Toboscope. Ah, so, made in Japan and as imperial as Japanese baseball. But let’s not forget that Japan is a modem, Americanized country—even if it does sport a very ancient culture. Just the novelty of a neo-oriental picture should justify the time spent. The acting is above par, too: Mifune and Hideko Takamine. But the plot reads seedily: the Rikisha -man is an oriental plug-ugly with a heart of gold and, something like Quasimodo, spends his life pulling a Rikisha, helping little kids, and hitting the saki. The ending is mauflin besides. But then again, Amos and Andy Went over big—why not?
(Week: Colonel 8:00; Rikisha 6:15, 9:50. Sun: Colonel 3:30, 7:50; Rikisha 5:20, 9:00.)
October 6, 1961
Colfax. I know little or nothing about the Scream of Fear other than it stars Susan Strasburg, Ronald Lair and Ann Todd—which array sounds about as illustrious as a Hudson Bay summer stock program. The advertising shows a scene reminiscent of Liz Taylor that fateful day several cannibals ago—and the title only goes to back it up. It sounds curdling, scream-ish and very fearful. I’d like to know a little more about it.
(Scream of Fear 1:45, 3:45, 5:40, 7:35, 9:30.)
Granada. Picture this, if you will: Jack Kerouac with muted horn in the city of sisterly love (Paree). . . . Which makes more sense than you might imagine because that is part of the parcel of Paris Blues—a razz-ma-tazz continental journey of a couple of red-hot-jazz musicians, if just a little beat. (Satchmo puts in his appearance too.) But that is far from being all. There is included, at no extra price, a most complicated love story—which, when considering Paris and jazz and musicians—would be near impossible to keep simple. Paul Newman stars with able assistance from Dianne Caroil and Sid Potier. It’s another of those uninspiring but very enjoyable flics for those who want to stop thinking or are afraid to begin.
A note: the Granada makes a practice of showing a sneak preview the Thursday before a show change. This isn’t an inviolable rule, however, nor is it a certainty that the preview will be the next scheduled show. They’re pretty sneaky previewers. And it’s wise to take advantage... Pennywise!
(Paris Blues 1:10, 3:15, 5:15, 7:20, 9:25.)
River Park. Hayley Mills in Parent Trap. Or should I say Haley Millses... there are two in one, you know. Something only Saint Patrick could (Continued on page 16)
Someday when you have nothing better to do, go down to the Rathskeller and you are sure to hear the cries of “Need a fourth!” “Psyched ’em right out of it, pard!” “Where did you learn how to play? It’s obvious that you must throw in East on the seventh trick, smother his king on the tenth, and double-squeeze him on the eleventh.” These people are not mad; they’re nuts. They are playing a game more dangerous than Russian Roulete, promiscuous lovemaking, drinking in the hall and sports-car racing combined — called bridge.
Contract bridge as we know it today has its roots in the familiar whist and antique auction bridge, and began when Alfred Vanderbilt, the famous American millionaire, invited some of his friends to try out a new game which he had invented upon his yacht. Several days later, they gave bridge to the world and the Commodore had gained a game and lost three friends. The game enjoyed only moderate success at first and it was only by the master of ballyhoo and bridge, Ely Culbertson, that the game found everlasting favor in the eyes of the fad-conscious public. (Remember canasta?) Through his conquests at home and abroad, Ely sold millions of his books on bridge and made trumping a husband’s ace tantamount to adultery.
This column will not be one designed so much for the beginner as for the person already familiar with the game; for those who are interested in learning, there are several good texts, particularly those of Charles Goren, Edgar Kaplan and Sheinwold. Lessons are often offered at the local YMCA, and here on campus the Notre Dame Bridge Club runs duplicate tournaments open without charge to any student of Notre Dame at one-thirty every Sunday.
Through the coming weeks, this column will concern itself with some of the recent developments in the science of bidding and how these (Continued on page 17)
13
BEYOND SPIRIT:
A NEW APPROACH TO MYTH
See, I’m just a freshman and there are a lot of things around here that I haven’t seen, so that was why this whole thing was such a surprise. I thought it was going to be a pretty ordinary evening. I was sitting in my room trying to memorize some marketing tables, but there was a lot of noise outside and I was having a hard time studying because the noise had given me a headache, so I went over to the medicine chest to get an aspirin. I put it in my mouth and then remembered that the water taps didn’t work. (The rector told us that the pressure wasn’t strong enough to send water up to the fourth floor, and that every morning we should go down to the first floor and get a bucket of water, bring it upstairs, and pour it in the sink.) I could have used that water, except that my roommate had just got finished washing some of his, well, some of his jocks in the sink. (The editor told me that I should insert an apology here to Mr. Joe Della Maria, so I’m sorry, Mr. Maria, whoever you are.)
Well, I was standing there in front of the mirror with my mouth open and the aspirin tablet balanced on my tongue and my head was sort of leaning backwards, which would have been all right except that my roommate came through the door just then and since the sink is right behind the door, the door banged into the back of my head and knocked me into the mirror, which broke, incidentally.
I also swallowed the aspirin tablet without any water and was staggering around the room bent over and coughing because it got caught in
my throat. My roommate was concerned. “Watsa matta?” he asked, as he took a large bite out of an apple he was eating. I looked up at him, still coughing, and managed to gasp, “I’m choking.” He nodded.
Now, my roommate is on the football team, and they taught him how to care for injuries, and he knows that when a person is thrown against a hard surface and starts to choke, this can be serious. The only trouble is, that whenever this happens during a football game, the player has usually swallowed his tongue. That is what my roommate thought had happened to me, and he began to treat me for it.
“Lie down,” he said, as he put his leg behind my feet and pushed me in the chest with the hand that wasn’t holding the apple. I lay down. He then stooped down, put his apple aside and reached into my mouth, trying to grab my tongue so that he could pull it out of my throat and stop me from choking. I instantly perceived what he was trying to do and realized that unless I could stop him he might pull my tongue out. I love my tongue, so I bit his hand. Hard.
He jumped up screaming, “I’m bleeding! I’m bleeding! You bit my fingers off,” and ran over to the sink to look at it in the light. He stood there, squeezing his fingers and whimpering softly. Finally, though, I had managed to gulp the aspirin down my throat to the point where I could talk again. I explained to him what had happened, apologized for biting his hand and kissed his finger to make it better. (“My mommy always does it at home,” he said. “Does the coach do it for you here when you get hurt in football?” I asked. “Well, no, but I never get hurt in football. You aren’t allowed to bite people.” He had a point.)
“Anyway,” I went on, why did you come busting in here so fast?”
“Oh yeah,” he said, “I almost forgot. The freshman coach told us that we were all supposed to come to the pep rally tonight and bring our roommates to cheer.”
“Sounds interesting, but what is a pep rally?”
“Gee, I don’t know. The coach didn’t tell us that. But he said we should follow the crowd.”
I looked out the window. “Say, do you suppose that’s why they’re making all the noise down there? See
over there where all those people are running around with torches and drums? I’ll bet that’s a crowd.”
“Let’s follow them,” cried my roommate, clapping his hands together gaily.
We went downstairs and, since it was after seven o’clock, had to sign out an evening permission card at the rector’s office. (This may seem a little strange, especially to upper-classmen, but we live in Cavanaugh Hall and our rector has some unusual rules. Nobody minds, though, because he explained to us that all the students in our hall are regarded as especially important and he has been entrusted with taking extra good care of us.)
After we had signed out, the rector stamped our wrists with a numbered rubber stamp, and we showed the number to the guard as we left the hall. By this time, the crowd had started to move over toward the Main Building and my roommate and I ran towards them.
“Where is the pep rally going to be, Samson?” said L (My roommate’s name was Samson.)
“Over at the Fieldhouse,” he replied.
“But they’re going the wrong way!” Come on. Let’s go tell them how to get there.” And with that I ran off ahead of Samson, who was a lot better at standing in one place than he was at moving around, which was, I guess, why he was such a good lineman.
I finally managed to get in front of the group. I had expected to find one person who was leading the whole thing, but there was just a line of people playing trombones. As a matter of fact, there was practically a whole band up in the front. The noise was terrible. I pulled one of the trombone players by the arm to try to get his attention. He pushed me away, so I grabbed his arm again. It’s awfully hard to play a trombone (Continued on page 17)
The Scholastic
14
TOP: Dapper Paul Charron and Walt Doyle prepare for the 6 o'clock news, while Terry Kollman (in the control room) awaits the signal to go on the air. WSND staffers wear suits at all times to emphasize that WSND is one of the few self-supporting extracur-riculars on campus.
MIDDLE: Dick Burtzhoff, Dave Shavell, and Bob Fulton are among the technical staff assigned to WSND-FM, still in the preparation stage. Here they are working on part of the new transmitter. Dick, Dave, and Bob received special permission to appear in this picture without their suits to emphasize that they are working.
BOTTOM: Jim Malling and Jim Gaede search for a requested record in the extensive WSND record library.
15
October 6, 1961
Get with it, man! You belong in the versatile
Corduroy Three-for-all
This new 3-piece outfit will carry you through the school year in high style! Natural-shouldered jacket lined with Londontown print has narrow lapels, hook vent, lap seams, scored buttons. Vest reverses to velvety Imported Cotton HIS-Suede. Post-Grad slacks are trim, tapered. $29.95 in new colors—at stores that are “with it”! Post-Grad Slacks alone, $6.95

Don't envy H-bS... wear them
’In Town’
(Continued from page 13) explain ... unless Disney is able. This is another “warm and tender” Disney special... made particularly to warm cold cockles and melt gold hearts. (Little kids like it, too.) There are a couple of cute asides about marriage that you might enjoy—and it is funny. . . . Besides which Hayley Mills is quite the up-and-coming young actress. How does she manage to scrunch up her face like that? The picture has points both good and bad . . . and I’d say that it wasn’t meant for a college crowd. It runs ’til the tenth.
THEN, for a big one night stand, comes something that no one should miss. If there is any way to get to Mishawaka — that Rikisha maybe — get there. Because on Wednesday the eleventh the River Park theater is going to run The Ballad of a Soldier — a Russian example of the screen arts with lovely young Shanna Prokhorenko starring. And you think that Russian women are fat and dumpy? Is that your trouble brother? This will give you care to review your manifesto, comrade — and call for another five-year program. Missiles aren’t the only field that the Russians are working on — movies and femi-
Your
SPORTSWEAR
Downtown, Michigan at Washington Open Monday & Thursday Nights
Town & Country Shopping Center Open every evening 'til 9:00
nity too. And what is better news is that this show is but the first of a series of films sponsored by the Indiana University Film Festival which the R. P. people will have on tap for the next few weeks.
The next day, the twelfth, begins a re-run of Ben Hur (a tale of the Christ) with hours and hours of slaving, charioteering and crucifying. These are the things that Matthew, Mark, Luke and John failed to record. If you missed, here is your opportunity to at last catch up.
(Parent Trap: week 6:45, 9:00. Sun. 1:30, 3:45, 6:05, 8:28. Ballad of a Soldier 7:30 — 9:15 on Wednesday, Oct. 11.)
The State. Edgar Allan Poe wrote a story. . . . Richard Matheson wrote a screenplay — and never the twain shall meet. Save, perhaps, in the title: The Pit and the Pendulum. Which is — children, monster devotees and Zacherly fans — a horror show (like thriller). Complete with tortures and screaming and all kinds of things designed to curdle your blood. Barbara Steele plays the female lead, in case your blood doesn’t curdle easily .. . there’s Vincent Price, too. Poe evidently had a good idea but lacked plot for the taste of American International. So, a family conspiracy type story was cooked up — and very artfully too. Edgar would be jealous. But the cast number was thereby increased and the “story-line” added. Which means, in addition, that one has to shiver in a close seat for an hour of ghostly hanky-panky before the pendulum even starts to swing. But then that is the whole idea of the thing — it’s supposed to be very ghastly, I mean. And in that regard it has been given the highest rating by both Famous Monsters and Time magazines. It reeks with the Inquisition and comes fully equipped with a bed of nails, an iron maiden and racks. . . . Pendulums must have gone out with grandfather clocks . • • though this one is plenty suggestive. You must, however, supply your own ear plugs.
(The Pit and P. 1:05, 3:00, 5:00, 7:00, 9:00.)
’Things of Interest Dept.’
Morris Civic Auditorium.
Eileen Farrell and The South Bend Symphony October 15
Ticket Sales the day of performance. Cost: $1.50 to $3.25
Advise and Consent Oct. 17 & Tickets on sale Monday at Office
Engineers Cost: $2.25 to $5.50 (25 per cent student discount on $2.25 seats)
— John McGuire
16
The Scholastic
when someone’s pulling on your arm, so he stopped and asked me what I wanted. I told him that they were all going the wrong way, that the Fieldhouse was off to the left. He just looked at me for a few seconds and then hit me with his trombone. That hurt.
I stumbled backwards, a little dazed, and fell over one of those funny little wire fences that don’t seem to have any purpose and that are all over the campus. I was lying there on the grass, rubbing my head, watching all the people go by and thinking that they could march to St. Mary’s for all I cared, if they wanted to get so rough about it, when suddenly this tall blond-headed fellow wearing saddle shoes and a white suit with little blue circles all over it came running up to me.
“Are you having a good time?” he said, smiling at me.
I stared at him. “Well, if you want to know the truth, I’m feeling a little down-at-the-mouth right now.”
“Then I can help you,” he said. “I’m from the Blue Circle. We help people.”
“Oh, something like the Red Cross, eh? Well, look. Would you mind answering a few questions?”
“Certainly. That’s our motto: Our pleasure to serve, with vigor and verve.”
“Well, why are all those people marching that way when the pep rally is over in the other direction.” i “That’s easy. Before each pep rally, the Band and the Blue Circle ; march around the campus, leading the students in a display of spirit.” :	“Oh. I was under the impression
it was just the Band that led.”
“Well," he said, blushing modestly, “we’re very modest, and we don’t Publicize ourselves the way that crass old Band does.”
“Why do you march around campus?” I asked.
“Silly boy! I told you already that it’s a display of spirit."
“Who do you display the spirit to?” I asked.
“You mean ‘to whom,’ don’t you?” M “Yes, I guess I do. Sorry.”
“That’s all right. The Blue Circle never holds any grudges.”
* “But why do you have this display of spirit?”
“All spirit focuses on one idea: the development of the Christian intellect.”
“Oh.”
“Read the article in last week’s Scholastic. Explains everything very clearly.”
“Thanks. Which way is the Fieldhouse, incidentally? I’d still like to So to the pep rally.”
October 6, 1961
“Come on. I’ll show you the way personally. The Blue Circle helps people, you know.”
Well, as things turned out, we got lost and spent most of the evening wandering through some old tunnel which the nice boy from the Blue Circle called the water vapor tunnel. (He kept mumbling something about us having such a great tradition and then people spoiling it by calling the water vapor tunnels nasty names.) And I couldn’t get back into the hall because all the doors are electrified at twelve o’clock, so the Scholastic people are letting me sleep in their office until my rector finally catches up with me.
— Tom Hodbier
'Kibitzer'
(Continued from page 13) practices evolved over the years. I am sure that some, as well as I, have been playing fairly straight bridge and enjoying moderate success, when along came a pair with an unfamiliar bidding system. Their initial success we tended to attribute to our unfamiliarity, but even after this excuse faded with time, we found that we still could not play them on equal terms. Their bidding when they had the cards seemed a trifle more accurate, but with worthless hands they entered the bidding on the slightest provocation and often left us bewildered and short of our slam or game. This is because defensive bidding these days has become almost as much a science as offensive bidding and the have-nots in bridge have a whole arsenal of weak bids to deprive their opponents of the most out of their cards. Though we feel sympathy with those who have been psyched out of slams and games, we have no comport for them, for these and other obstructive bids are here to stay. To compete, we must learn to use them and to successfully combat them.
Since the writer of this column is not any expert at this game, as demonstrated by his astronomical losses, he is perfectly open to correction and suggestion by the many budding Life Masters who dot the campus. Anyone wishing a given topic to be discussed here has simply to address the feature editor and it will receive my immediate attention. As for my name, I prefer to remain anonymous; I have enough problems at the bridge table without second-guessing myself. Until next week, may all of your finesses go right and all of your losses be little ones. Like anybody who bids a psychic bid, I have had more than my say.
'Repercussions'
(Continued from page 7)
Conservatism and Kerouac to the point of coining the cute but useless word “Buckbeat.” He does not trouble himself to look at the traditional and Christian roots in Buckley’s thinking, for being a status quo and in-group liberal himself, he presumes himself to have a monopoly of the keys to the good life.
If Mr. Clarke finds the contemporaneousness of the Beatniks and Conservatism so pregnant with meaning, he ought to study some works on modem mass movements. He would find that they follow similar patterns from inceptions to decay. And while it is true that many students may flock to conservatism from the same weak motives that caused their parents to wave the liberal banner, this fact does not discredit Conservatism.
For the rest of Mr. Clarke’s article, most would agree that that which is freely asserted may be freely denied. Mr. Clarke’s arguments could only be appreciated by the in-group, status quo liberals who seem congenitally blind to reality.
Frederick J. Wagner 47 Sorin
AND BACK AGAIN Editor:
Wade Clarke is to be commended for his stimulating article on “The Buckbeats.” His careful examination of the facts clearly points out that the majority of Buckleyites and beatniks were nothing but the extreme expression of overconformity prevailing throughout the Eisenhower era. His thought-provoking analysis illustrates the ill-effects of Buckley’s and Kerouac’s influence on the youth of today. We at Notre Dame have much to profit from reading this article.
John Glynn 239 Fisher
WE BLUSH Editor:
Congratulations to you and your staff on the first issue of the Scholastic. Both in content and format you have set high standards for the balance of the academic year. I also like the new print which you have use.
Best wishes for your continued success.
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C.
Executive Vice-President
17
DR. N. F1ZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES
Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477
DOING IT THE HARD WAY by hom
(GETTING RID OF DANDRUFF, THAT IS!)
Napoleon—as you will note—
Kept his band tucked inside of his coat When his friends asked, "Mon Cher, Qu'est-ce-que c'est have you there?" He replied "C’est mon Swingline je tote."
SWINGLINE STAPLER
no bigger than a pack of gum!
Unconditionally Guaranteed • Made in America!
• Tot 50 refills always available!
• Buy it at your stationery, variety or bookstore dealer!
Long Island City 1, Naw York
WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURER OF STAPLERS FOR HOME ANO OFFICE
easier 3-minute way for men: FITCH
Men, get rid of embarrassing dandruff easy as I-2-3 with
FITCH! In just 3 minutes (one rubbing, one lathering, one |i
rinsing), every trace of dandruff, grime, gummy old hair tonic goes right down the drain! Your hair looks hand-somer, healthier. Your scalp \\
FITCH
LEADING MAN'S
SHAMPOO
tingles, feels so refreshed. Use FITCH Dandruff Remover SHAMPOO every week for positive dandruff control. Keep your hair and scalp really clean, dandruff-free!
Fotrrth

SPECIAL COMPLIMENTARY OFFER
FOR COLLEGE MEN
Learn the Pleasures of Fine Tobacco...
Enjoy the Original Extra-Mild Cavendish in the Handy“Poly” Pocket Pouch

Blended in Holland by Douwe Egberts Royal Factories
AMPHORA, is cool, even-burning, long-lasting. Its pleasurable smoking qualities have won loyal friends—it outsells all
other tobaccos in its class! If you haven’t tried AMPHORA, be our guest. Simply fill in the coupon below and mail it. You will receive a complimentary full 2-ounce pouch.
ROMICK’S INTERNATIONAL TOBACCO CO.
11918 Vose Street. North Hollywood, California
Gentlemen: Please send me a complimentary full 2-ounce pouch of AMPHORA. I enclose 10? coin to cover cost of handling and mailing. (PLEASE TYPE OR PRINT)
NAME_____________________________________________
STREET_____________________________________________________
CITY, ZONE. STATE_________________________________________.
UNIVERSITY_________________________________________________
This Offer Expires December 31, 1961
I I I I
I I I I I J
The Scholastic
IRISH FACE BIGGEST TEST AGAINST PURDUE
DiGravio, Hogan Set For Irish Defenders
Fresh from an opening 19-6 victory over an underrated Oklahoma team, Notre Dame’s football squad invades Lafayette, Ind., hoping to avenge last season’s morale-shattering 51 -19 shocker inflicted by the Purdue eleven. Tomorrow afternoon’s game will be the home opener for the always tough Boilermakers, victorious against the defending Rose Bowl champions, Washington’s Huskies, 13-6, in their season’s opener two weeks ago.
In both of the previous two seasons of Irish Coach Joe Kuharich’s tenure, hopes for highly successful years have gone down the drain because of convincing defeats suffered against Purdue.
Passing attack needed. In order to prevent this happening for the third straight year to the first Irish squad which can really be called “Kuharich’s team,” Notre Dame will have to come up with a competent passing attack from the so far untested arms of Daryle Lamonica and soph Frank Budka.
The reason for the required aerial assault is a typically savage forward wall anchored by All-American guard candidate Stan Sczurek. Sczurek, the 208-pound iron man of the Boilermaker squad, received numerous “lineman of the week” awards for his performance in Purdue’s upset victory over national champion Minnesota last season. Helping Sczurek to ham-
STAN SCZUREK
Bulwarks Purdue line
per the Irish rushing game will be senior speedster Jack Elwell and rugged junior Forest Farmer, who were starting ends last fall, and 1960’s sophomore sensation at right tackle, Don Brumm. Other returning line vets include tackle Pat Russ, guard Tom Krysinski, and centers Ed Behanna and Don Paltani.
At the beginning of fall practice, Purdue mentor Jack Mollenkopf had letter winners returning at every position except quarterback. However, this seemingly weak position may turn out to be one of the Boilermaker’s strongest with the development of sophomore passing ace Ron DiGravio. DiGravio has shown great promise in both fall practice and the Washington encounter. Backing up
this high school All-American at this key position are Walter Zingg and running specialist Gary Hogan.
Speedsters back. Purdue is loaded at the halfback position with five returning lettermen. The burning speed of Boilermaker halfbacks has caused many unpleasant moments for the Irish the past two years, and this year’s crop is rated among the fastest seen in Lafayette in recent years.
Speedster Tom Bloom will start at left half for the Boilermakers. Pushing Bloom for the starting position is sophomore Tom Boris, the sensation of last fall’s freshman squad.
Right halfback Dave Miller was slowed by a leg injury last year but has completely recovered his blazing speed this fall. Miller’s running was one of the highlights of the opening Washington game. He capped a fine performance by scoring the winning touchdown for the Boilermakers on a 30-yard romp.
Miller is backed up by Bob Waiter, who helped ignite the bubble-bursting 31-point second quarter against the Irish last fall.
A fall practice injury to powerful TomYakubowski has deprived Purdue of one of its leading ground-gainers for the season. Replacing Yakubowski at fullback is burly Roy Walker.
One of the biggest assets of the Boilermakers is place-kicking specialist Skip Ohl. A reserve guard who has returned to Purdue after two years’ absence, Ohl kicked two field goals of 24 and 33 yards against the Huskies.	—John Bechtold
GOING, GOING GONE . . .
The Boilermakers will have to face the scoring threat of Irish fullback Mike Lind in their quest for a fourth straight victory over Notre Dame in the game at Lafayette tomorrow.
October 6, 1961
19
------------
as m see. it |
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER ^
Jock or Non-Jock
“If we have such a great athletic tradition, why do we refer to those who carry it on as ‘Jocks’?” This question is asked but inadequately answered by Joe Della Maria and Mike Sanderson in their Scholastic article “Beyond Myth: A New Approach to Spirit.” Assistant Football Coach Murphy asked the same question of the freshmen at a pep rally, but answered it himself with a charge that the students do not have enough respect for Notre Dame athletes and the contribution they make to the school.
Both Coach Murphy and Sanderson-Della Maria have a point; Coach Murphy is concerned with the proper respect for athletes, and Sanderson-Della Maria with what they call “spirit.” However, I feel that the reason athletes at Notre Dame are referred to as “jocks” is neither a lack of spirit nor a lack of respect.
Any idea that Notre Dame lacks “spirit,” at least in the athletic sense, should have been dispelled by last Friday’s pep rally, as should any idea that the students lack an appreciation of athletes’ contributions to the school and student life. As far as respect for athletes is concerned, the idea that Notre Dame athletes lack intelligence or scholastic ability has long ago been disproved (see Sports Illustrated, September 18,1961, pp. 28-31); further proof can be seen on the present football squad, in such men as Roy, Buoniconti, Gray, Grau, Burke, Rutkowski, Lehman, Kienast and Pfeiffer.
As I see it “jock,” as it is used at Notre Dame, has a complimentary rather than derogatory meaning. The man saying “I live next to a ‘jock’,” says it not with disgust but with pride in having some association with the Dabieros, Rutkowskis, or Snowdens. It is my opinion that “jock” at Notre Dame has come to be a title of respect rather than an insult....
As Others See It
Jon Arnett: You can’t tell who’s the best running back in the NFL; it takes great linemen to make great running backs, and a good passing attack to set up a running attack.
20
HALFBACK’S EYE VIEW:
ANGELO DABIERO
by ANGELO DABIERO as told to BOB CHIAPPINELLI
“For the most part, I think that the first unit worked very well together; in fact, it was the best team performance that I have seen during my varsity career. The biggest single factor in the game was undoubtedly our line play. I can’t praise those fellows enough. Les Traver, Bob Bill, Nick Buoniconti, Tom Hecomovich, Norb Roy, Joe Carollo and John Powers were giving the backs wide holes and their downfield blocking was the finest that I have had the pleasure of running behind in my Notre Dame career.
“Our first unit, composed of nine seniors and two juniors, had more poise and knowledge of plays than in past years. Particularly impressive was the performance on offense when Oklahoma started to red-dog and slant in on us. Previously, such tactics used to disturb the boys and soon the team would be in a turmoil. But this time the team kept its poise, made the proper adjustments and kept our offense on the go.”
The exceptionally modest Angie then added, “All our backs performed well. Daryle Lamonica’s play selection, George Sefcik’s superb blocking and the threat of Mike Lind’s running helped me a lot.
“Concerning our use of the ground attack, I think that we will stick to the ground as long as we are moving well, but I know that we can move through the air when wre need
“SWEET PEA” IN ACTION
Left: Angelo Dobiero pulls away from Sooner tackler os Bob Bill leads the way. Right: Angie takes off as faked Sooner runs into devastating Irish block.
The Scholastic
fairly long first down yardage, as was evidenced by Daryle’s pass to John Powers early in the fourth quarter. As the season goes on we should start hitting with the long passes too.”
Sweet Pea was also impressed with the work of the second unit and commented, “They were not quite as experienced as the first team and were consequently more excited at the beginning of the game, but they settled down in the second half and did a real fine job. George Williams, Roger Wilke, Bob Lehman and Ed Burke were particularly impressive and the backfield of Minik, Costa, Grey and Budka should move the ball well as the season progresses.”
Although steering clear for the most part of his own feats, Angie did reveal that on his 51-yard scoring run, “George Sefcik, Bob Lehmann, Norb Roy and Jim Kelly all delivered key blocks, which are as satisfying to linemen as touchdowns are to backs.”
“I thought that the turning point of the game was Nick Buoniconti’s block of that field goal try, for shortly after that we scored. The breaks were pretty even and the ones that we did get, we made for ourselves.”
“As far as the Purdue game is concerned, I think that the game will once again be decided in the line, and if we can beat them to the punch there, we should win.”
CARY CALLS ’EM
The second hurdle in this 1961 season awaits the Irish tomorrow when they meet the Purdue Boilermakers. Purdue, in case anyone has forgotten, is the team which annihilated the Irish last Oct. 1, 51-19, a defeat which started Notre Dame on the way to eight consecutive setbacks. You can be sure that the Boilermakers have not forgotten this sweet triumph. Ditto for the Irish. When you lose a game by 32 points and trail at halftime 45-13 as did the Irish last year, you don’t forget this nightmare soon. Instead, you are haunted by it. The onesided Boilermaker win here last year has haunted the Irish for the past year. The only way they can atone for this embarrassment and wipe out the memory of this debacle is to beat the Purdue team tomorrow. Beating the Boilermakers won’t be easy. Purdue has a veteran line which is two deep at most positions. They have a fine fullback in Roy Walker and skilled halfbacks in Tom Bloom, Dave Miller and Dick Boris. In Ron DiGravio and Gary Hogan, two soph quarterbacks, the Purdues have ample field generalship. Make no doubt about it, Purdue will be tough. They want to push the Irish’s noses into the ground some more a la last Oct. 1. Notre Dame will be just as determined to right last year’s wrong. The meeting tomorrow at Ross-Ade Stadium should be an interesting one indeed.
DABIERO AND LIND
The team as a whole was very impressive in the opening 19-6 win over a good Oklahoma eleven. The Irish blocked crisply on offense, as evidenced by the 176 yards gained by the smallish Dabiero and the 121 yards by the bullish Lind. Dabiero on his 51-yard scoring scamper got key blocks from Roy, Sefcik, Lehman and Murphy. Senior end Les Traver eliminated the last Oklahoma defender, Mike McClellan, on Lind’s 23-yard visit to the end zone. The backs also helped by setting up the blockers and waiting for the block to be thrown. On defense, the Irish left something to be desired when confronted with an Oklahoma pass. But most of the Sooner aerials were of the short variety and were not too damaging. The Irish line and linebackers were stout defenders of the ground and often the visitors were restricted to one and two-yard advances. Over-all, the Irish performance was one which gave the fans a good feeling. The rushing offense, which piled up 367 yards, was the most ever against an Oklahoma eleven. Irish eyes had a twinkle and glimmer as they left the stadium. Some were even smiling. It looks like happy days are here again.
THANK YOU, NORBERT
I want to take the time here to thank that Bayou Bruiser, Norb Roy, for the kind words at last Friday’s pep rally. It is quite an honor to be * spoken of in such glowing terms at an assemblage where such revered names as Leahy, Rockne and Father Sorin have been mentioned. Really, I don’t think I deserve to be mentioned in such company, but thanks . anyway, Norb, for the good word.
PICK OF THE WEEK
The Irish like the taste of victory now that Oklahoma has been vanquished. They should continue on the winning path with a 20-10 win over the Boilermakers. Purdue, as usual, will be tough, but the Irish will be tougher. See you at Lafayette.
—Bill Cary
Classified Advertising
NATIONAL COMPANY HAS EXCEPTIONAL OPPORTUNITY FOR TWO COLLEGE STUDENTS FOR PART-TIME WORK. EVENINGS AND SATURDAYS IF POSSIBLE. MUST HAVE CAR. CALL CE. 2-4596 BEFORE NOON MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY.
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
212 S. Michigan
CE 4-4874

Check our
CHRISTMAS
diamond club
invitation list!
□ Jr plan a Christmas engage-
□ I like small down payments and easy terms
□ I demand written guarantees of permanent value
□ I want to deal with Artcarved, the most trusted name in diamonds since 1850
WELL, are you a candidate for the most romantic club in town? If so, get the details today. No obligation, of course.
CANTERBURY SET
Engagement Ring -------....$300.00
Bride's Circlet.........-$ 20.00
Prices Ind Fed. Tex Rings enlarged to show detail
Aulhorixed ArtCaTVCd
October 6, 1961
21
r

? MODEL 22AW
RAH! RAH!

Raleigh bicycles were made for college life and the student body. And speaking of bodies a Raleigh is measured by frame size, not wheel size.
For example: Collegemen over 5'9" specify 23* frames. Men under 5'9* specify 21* frames.
Try a Raleigh out on Campus — You’ll feel better for it — Raleigh you will!!
For all details see your campus Raleigh dealer.
ALBRIGHTS
2720 Lincolnway West Mishawaka
Telephone BL 5-8988

ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE
ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Touch-type, hunt-and-peck, type with one hand tied behind your back—it’s easy to turn out perfect papers on Corrasable. Because you can erase without a trace.
Typing errors disappear like magic with just the flick of an ordinary pencil eraser.There’s never a telltale erasure mark on Corrasable’s special surface.
Corrasable is available in light, medium, heavy weights and Onion Skin. In convenient 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. Only Eaton makes Corrasable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
ND Soccer Takes Hold Due to Echelle's Efforts
Josef Echelle, captain and leader of the Notre Dame Soccer Club, is a young man with a good head for planning and administration, and also the possessor of a fine talent for playing soccer. A native of Yugoslavia and resident of Mansfield, O., since 1952, Echelle took the idea of a Notre Dame soccer team and in one year made it a concrete reality.
Starting at rock-bottom, he recruited players, obtained funds, scheduled games and through publicity received the backing of the Department of Athletics and Student Senate. His efforts have been worthwhile: this fall his booters will play five games, including one in Fort Wayne. Echelle’s big hope, that the club will receive varsity status, largely depends on its performance this season.
The club has received strong financial and moral support from Moose Krause, but the real credit for organization and campus interest must go to Echelle. By contacting the Midwestern Soccer News, Joe was able to get a list of schools which include soccer in their sports curriculum. Meanwhile, he developed a good nucleus for a team in fall and spring practices, and recently procured the services of Mr. Christopher Fagan and Rafael Torella as coaches.
Echelle lists the following international group as the likely representative of Notre Dame Oct. 8, when the Irish meet Washington University of St. Louis: Hans Hermanz (Holland), Hemon Puentes (Latin America), Bob Chou (India), John Makanju (Nigeria), Echelle, Pete Aizupitis, Fran Juda and Bob DuBois (United States).
Practice for the Washington contest here has been held about four times a week since the beginning of school. Games have been scheduled for Sundays at 2:00 p.m., except on November 4 when the duel will precede the Navy game, starting at 10:00 a.m.
What will happen to soccer at Notre Dame when Josef Echelle graduates next June? As it stands now, Echelle believes that the club has enough momentum to keep it going for two years even if nothing is done in the way of publicity, expanding the schedule, or obtaining more money.
The ’61 schedule follows:
Oct. 8 Washington U. at Notre Dame Oct. 15 Purdue at Notre Dame Oct. 21 Indiana Tech (at Fort Wayne) Nov. 4 Goshen College at Notre Dame Nov.ll Ball State at Notre Dame.
The Scholastic
EATON PAPER CORPORATION £e) PITTSFIELD, MASS.
Harriers Open Today Against Strong UCTC
Plagued with graduation losses, inexperience and injuries, the Irish cross-country team of Coach Alex Wilson opens the 1961 season today at Chicago against a rugged and fast Chicago Track Club.
The Irish will be led by Captain Tom Dempsey, a senior, and sophomore Frank Carver, an outstanding prospect. Bob Latsko and Freling Smith are the best of the other harriers.
The outlook for the meet against the Chicagoans is “not too bright,” as Coach Wilson puts it. The Chicago Track Club, always tough, will be even more so today because of their home course advantage and the inexperience of the Irish. In any event, the Chicago meet will provide a good test of the Irish harriers’ capabilities to cover the four and one-quarter mile course in acceptable fashion. If the three starters, besides Dempsey and Carver, can hold their own against the Chicago runners, the meet should be a close one.
After the meet the Irish will have a week to repair their weak spots and get set to take on the Indiana Hoosiers here a week from Saturday.
Tyler Jr.'s Picks of the Week
Tonight
Miami 21; Navy 13 Penn State 26; Boston University 6 Tomorrow
Alabama 17; Vanderbilt 6
Missouri 14; California 7
Kansas 16; Colorado 10
Georgia Tech 13; LSU 12
Cornell 21; Harvard 7 Northwestern 21; Illinois 12 Oregon State 24; Idaho 7 Wisconsin 23; Indiana 9 Oklahoma 17; Iowa State 10 Iowa 35; Southern California 7 Auburn 13; Kentucky 6 Syracuse 20; Maryland 6 Michigan State 28; Stanford 7 Mississippi 17; Florida State 7 Minnesota 20; Oregon 10 Ohio State 21; UCLA 14 Columbia 28; Princeton 13	.
Pittsburgh 14; Washington 8 Texas 34; Washington State 16 Utah State 21; Wyoming 19 Yale 35; Brown 6 Game of the Week Michigan 21; Army 14 Upset of the Week Arkansas 16; TCU 14 Last Week's Results 14 right, nine wrong, two ties 60.9 per cent
October 6, 1961
IRISH BACK OF THE WEEK
Mike Lind and Angelo Dabiero are the co-winners of the award this week. Lind, big junior fullback from Chicago, picked up 121 yards in 18 carries. Dabiero picked up 176 in 11 tries. Lind scored twice, Dabiero once.
ARCHlE SAYS:
My cousin Archie —he thought the electric razor his gal gave him last Christmas was o.k. Then he tried Old Spice Pro-Electric, the before shave lotion. Now the guy won't stop talking, he thinks electric shaving is so great.
ARCHIE SAYS Pro-Electric improves electric shaving even more than lather improves blade shaving. ARCHIE SAYS Pro-Electric sets up your beard by drying perspiration and whisker oils so you shave blade-dose without irritation. ARCHIE SAYS ProElectric gives you the closest, cleanest, fastest shave.
IRISH LINEMAN OF THE WEEK Here we have co-winners also. Tom Hecomovich gets the nod for his steady work at center and for his vital pass interception. Norb Roy played a fine game besides throwing a key block on Dabiero's 51-yard touchdown run.
23
SCRIBBLERS
The Scribblers, a campus discussion group dedicated to those interested in creative writing, announces reorganization. Applications for membership, accompanied by a sample of the applicant’s writing, should be sent to The Scribblers, 305 or 319 Badin Hall.
SPECIAL OFFER...
For 2-Headed
Only
Clip Coupon.
NAME.
and picture of Sir Walter Raleigh from new pouch pack
Shown Approximately % Actual Size
Sir Wolter Raleigh Box 303 Louisville 1, Kentucky
Please send me prepaid ■	-
2-hecded pipe(s). Enclosed is $1 (no stamps, please) and the picture of Sir Walter Raleigh from the box in which the pouch is pocked for each pipe ordered.
Pipe Collectors
Genuine imported hand-carved cherry wood pipe... that really smokes!
This unique two-headed pipe is a real conversation piece...a must for your collection! Hand-carved in the Italian Alps and finished in gay colors. Stands alone on its own tiny legs. Ideal for your desk, mantel, or bookshelf ...mighty good smoking, too! This is a wonderful value! Send for your two-headed pipe today!

NOW
Sir Walter Raleigh in the new pouch pack keeps tobacco 44% fresher!
Choice Kentucky Burley^ Extra Aged 1
Smells grand! Packs right!
Smokes sweet! Can't bite!
----------
Mail Today!
ADDRESS.
CITY.
ZONE____STATE
{ COLLEGE__________________________________________________________________
l This offer good only in (J.S.A. Not valid in states where prohibited, taxed or otherwise restricted. Offer expires June 30, 1962. Allow four weeks for delivery.
FUTURE OPPONENTS
Eight of the nine teams Notre Dame has yet to face played last weekend and this is how they fared: Southern California, Michigan State, Northwestern, Navy, Syracuse, Iowa and Duke won, while Pittsburgh took a 16-13 thriller from Baylor. Tomorrow’s opponent, Purdue, was not scheduled.
Willie Brown, sophomore halfback, sparked Southern California to a 2116 win over Southern Methodist with a 93-yard scamper early in the first quarter.
Michigan State muscled a 20-0 win over Wisconsin in its opener. Spartan fullback Ron Hatcher cracked over from the one the first time State possessed the ball. Reserve fullback George Saimes capped an 80-yard drive with a three-yard smash, then ended the scoring with a 34-yard tally.
Northwestern galloped through Boston College 45-0. The Wildcats unveiled Bill Swingle, sophomore fullback, who scored the first three touchdowns. Swingle rambled over right tackle on a dazzling 95-yard touchdown run setting a team record. Wildcat subs rounded out the scoring, playing most of the last half.
Untested quaterback Ron Klemick passed Navy to a 44-6 win over William and Mary. Klemick hit for touchdown passes of 54 and 25 yards.
Quarterback Ronnie Stanley rallied Baylor in the final period for a 16-13 decision over Pittsburgh. Stanley fired two fourth-down touchdown passes to overcome a Panther lead. With only eight seconds remaining, Pittsburgh elected to try for a touchdown from the twelve and failed. The Panther scores came on a pass interception and a sweep by Fred Cox.
Dave Sarette quarterbacked Syracuse to a 29-14 triumph over stubborn West Virginia. Sarette, a senior, hurled two touchdown passes after the Mountaineers had halted vaunted Ernie Davis’ ground game. However, Davis snared a 26-yarder from Sarette in the fourth quarter to clinch the win.
Iowa made Jerry Burn’s coaching debut a successful one, whipping California 28-7. Quarterback Wilburn Hollis counted twice in the first half on runs of twenty-two and two yards. The second team insured the victory with two touchdowns in the fourth period. Iowa gained 358 yards rushing but was plagued with seven fumbles — one resulting in the Bears’ only touchdown.
Duke demoralized Virginia in the thirteenth annual Tobacco Bowl, 42-0.
The Scholastic
24
by DICK MEECE
“Taxation without Representation,” was one of the foremost rallying cries of the American Revolution. In today’s society, the phrase strikes a responsive chord only because it was drummed into us from the earliest days of our formal education. The general American apathy toward this type of political “evil” is well illustrated by the National Student Association, a federation of some 400 colleges and universities. The constitution of this august body begins with the modest phrase, “We, the students of the United States of America,...” indicating that this federation speaks as the sole representative of some three million college students in America. Actually, the 400 member schools represent but one-third of accredited colleges in this country, with a total enrollment of one million, three hundred thousand students. When a constitutional amendment was presented this summer at the 14th National Student Congress in Madison, Wisconsin, to change this part of the preamble to “We, as students,” the amendment received only the briefest of consideration, and was defeated summarily. The assembled “student leaders” obviously could not care less for the unenlightened schools which have refused to join this federation. After all, NSA would undoubtedly eventually encompass all schools. At its spectacular growth rate of one and one-third new member schools (a net gain of 21 per year since its founding some 14 years ago) it will only take another five centuries before NSA does represent all “the students of the United States of America."
October 6, 1961
Before going further in this study of NSA, several things should be made clear about the author’s views. First, I am a conservative, and a member of the Young Americans for Freedom. Mr. Clark notwithstanding, YAF does have certain positive values — e.g., presenting a forum for college conservatives (and we are growing in numbers, whether the liberal press likes it or not). Secondly, I am not a firm believer in NSA as “the most cherished stronghold of student opinion” as the Village Voice of Greenwich Village, New York, has termed this organization. Third, while I recognize the definite need for a national union of student governments in order to facilitate the exchange of ideas and concrete practical programs for improving student governments of all American campuses, I have serious doubts as to whether or not NSA will be able to fulfill this role in the foreseeable future.
With the author’s position clarified, let us return to the question of “Taxation without Representation.” Tax its members, NSA most certainly does. Whether it adequately represents the member student bodies is an entirely different question. The first observation to be made about NSA is that it is definitely liberal-oriented. This is admitted by all concerned. Fortunately, some liberals in NSA even concede that the organization should at least consider other views. One of the liberal leaders, Tom Haydn of Michigan (editor of the U. of Michigan Daily) went so far as to write in Mademoiselle that “The United States National Student
Association, although liberally oriented, can’t very well become the national center for liberal student sentiment.” He also stated in this article that “Conservative students today feel alienated from the mainstream of political and intellectual America.” While many of us on the right would dispute this, I will admit that the conservatives at NSA felt “alienated from the mainstream” of the National Student Congress. Part of the problem, of course, was due to our idealistic notion that freedom of speech would prevail in an organization that purports to represent all American students. The boos, jeers and hisses that greeted us soon disillusioned us. Interestingly enough, many true liberals found themselves in virtually the same position. A candidate for national affairs vicepresident from Harvard was called a front-man for YAF last year because he dared to propose that moderates and conservatives should at least be given a fair hearing. This year, Notre Dame’s outgoing SBP, John Keegan, was referred to as “a real conservative” by members of the Young People’s Socialist League because of his moderately liberal stand on some issues (though no one who knows John would ever accuse him of not being a liberal politically).
Some argue, of course, that the Congress of the United States might well be liberal at a certain time, but still be representative. Then they will draw the analogy that NSA must also be representative. This ignores the fact that, until this year, no minority reports were ever published. This year’s great constitutional change was
25
to allow minority reports. This represents a definite stride forward, one which took only 14 years to accomplish. Delegations are now also allowed to register their votes in the minutes, if they happen to disagree with the will of the majority. This might also prove effective, once the Association starts printing the minutes of the Congress. But how is the Association unrepresentative, you might ask? To cite just a few examples, the Association in the past has gone on record on these issues: as favoring the riots in Japan that forced Pres. Eisenhower to cancel his visit there; has claimed that all US students are united against the loyalty oath in the National Defense Act; has stated that most American students favor unilateral disarmament for the US; has condemned former President Truman and J. Edgar
“The Notre Dame delegation this year voted 9-2 against abolition of HUAC, and unanimously against the Cuban resolution, yet our school, as a member of NSA, is de facto party to both resolutions . .
Hoover (past recipient of the Notre Dame “Patriot of the Year” award) for suggesting the sit-in movement had strong Communist backing and support. This year the Association called for the abolition of the House Committee on Un-American Activities and condemned US intervention in Cuba. All of this, remember, was done in the name of all American students (i.e., you and I). The Notre Dame delegation this year voted 9-2 against abolition of HUAC, and unanimously against the Cuban resolution, yet our school, as a member of NSA is de facto party to both resolutions (unless someone takes the trouble to go to NSA headquarters in Philadelphia to read the minutes, in , which our vote is recorded). Many would ask, why are such resolutions passed, unless the majority of American students feel this way? A case in point would be St. John’s University in Brooklyn. The St. John’s campus is considered moderately conservative, yet this year, for the first time since their entry into NSA, one conservative delegate attended from St. John’s. The second delegate, a regional officer, was a liberal. A candidate for NSA president from Texas was known as an extreme liberal, yet no one would contend that the Univer
X 26
sity of Texas is a hotbed of liberalism.
The explanation of this liberal orientation of NSA is not a great mystery. In the decade following the second World War, political activists on most campuses were liberals. They were activists because they had a cause to espouse. Thus liberals were virtually the only students that were interested in working for a group such as NSA. Today, we are in the middle of a political renaissance on the college campuses. Today, neither the conservative nor the liberal student is satisfied with the status quo. Each group is striving for a change, each is moving away from the status quo. There are those who argue that the conservatives are moving “back” in time. This is patently inaccurate. This article will make no attempt to define the movement, but notes it as
one of the reasons for the sudden upsurge in conservative interest in NSA. Accepting this movement as a fact, however, points to a need for a drastic change in NSA. This change must be toward representation. But the entrenched liberals in NSA will have none of this. They are in power and intend to stay there. Thus a constitutional amendment calling for popular election of delegates to the Congress on each member campus was soundly defeated. The rationale for the defeat of the amendment was the tremendous difficulties such an undertaking would entail on some campuses. Certainly such an election would present difficulties here at Notre Dame, yet our entire delegation supported such an amendment as the first necessary step towards a truly representative Student Association which would take into account all political philosophies. Only when a conservative of the stature of William Buckley, Jr. can appear at NSA without being called a “racist, militarist, imperialist butcher, representative of the base colonial, repressive slave owning mentality of a facist regime” by the national vice-president of NSA, only then will NSA be a true forum for student opinion. When Mr. Buckley appeared here last
spring, even the most doctrinaire liberals admitted that he was a legitimate representative of a legitimate philosophy which deserved to be heard. Yet at NSA he was forced to speak on the lawn of a hotel, and was then subjected to the aforementioned abuse (which is an exact quotation).
An even more basic problem of NSA is the question of how far the Association should go as “students in their role of students.” As conceived, NSA was to be an agent for the spread of practical student government programs, and a forum for student opinion. In its concern with such current issues as civil rights, NSA has virtually lost its emphasis on practical programs. At the Madison Congress, the eloquent appeals of Denny Shaul and John Keegan for a return to a proper emphasis on practical - programs were heard and promptly forgotten. Instead the Congress concentrated on passing a Berlin resolution based on the fact that the closing of the Berlin border prohibited East German students from attending a West Berlin University. This attempt at circumventing “the student in his role as student” clause in the NSA constitution was so obvious that it was commented on in plenary session by a proponent of the resolution.
The time has come for an “agonizing reappraisal” of Notre Dame’s role in NSA. In the past we have been a leader in the fight for moderation. Dean Robert H. Shaffer of the University of Indiana was quoted in an April article of the Chicago Tribune as giving credit to Fr. Hesburgh for turning the Communists out of NSA in the early ’50s. At the Congress, numerous delegates from many schools begged various Notre Dame delegates to “stay in NSA and fight.” This writer is of the opinion that we have been fighting for 14 years — and have accomplished very little. To paraphrase President Kennedy, the time has come to ask “not what Notre Dame can do for NSA, but what NSA can do for Notre Dame.” Unless this question is answered to our satisfaction — and soon —■ this school must give serious consideration to withdrawing our financial support from the National Student Association. After all, patience is a virtue, but 15 years of patience seems too much to ask of anyone. Remember also, that every student at Notre Dame should be concerned with this problem, because every student here contributes to NSA in his student government fee, and thus should be concerned with this taxation without representation — and without even a reasonable hope for representation.
The Scholastic
Just What You’ve Needed for Your Books!
WUlj
You don’t have to be an engineering major to design and assemble your own bookcases, roomdividers, or TV and Hi-Fi units with Erecta-Shelf. It’s fun . . . simple . . . practical and inexpensive!
So easy...So economical!
ilUIIU
Design it yourself To Fit Your Space and Needs
Countless Units can be designed with these 4 PANEL SIZES
20"
I
By combining just 4 panel sizes in satin black or gleaming brass wrought iron, there’s no limit to the number of arrangements you can design to fit your space and needs. Note that straight panels can be used horizontally or vertically... a nd horizontal panels may be attached at any desired height on the vertical panels.
EASY TO ADD TO OR TAKE APART
Anytime you wish to make your unit taller, longer or deeper simply add more Erecta-Shelf panels . . . or change the arrangement completely. It’s a cinch to disassemble for moving too. Plan your unit (we’ll help you if you wish) and come in for your Erecta-Shelf panels and free detailed brochure.
Vertical Bookcase Consists of 7-20" Panels, 4-30" Panels, 4 Wood Bases. Assembled Size 60" H x 22" L.
Television and Phono Unit/Bookcase Consists of 6-30" Panels, 6-24" Panels, 6-20" Panels, 8 Bases. Assembled Size 3O"H x 72"L.
Horizontal Bookcase Consists of 11-30" Panels, 6 Wood Bases. Assembled Size 30" H x 63" L.
Hi-Fi Bookcase Consists of 11-24" Panels, 6-30" Panels, 4 Wood Bases. Assembled Size 60" H x 26" L.
Corner Step-down Wall Case or Room Divider Consists of 4-20" Panels, 5-24" Panels, 2-30" Panels, 6 Corner Panels, 7 Wood Bases. Assembled Size 50" H x 50" L X 25" L.
Room Divider/Bookcase Consists of 4-20" Panels, 8-24" Panels, 7-30" Panels, 8 Wood Bases. Assembled Size 40" H X 82",L.
ERECTA-SHELF PRICE LIST
Panel Sizes	Satin Black Finish	Gleaming Brass Finish
20" Panel	ea.	ea.
24" Panel	ea.	ea.
30" Panel	ea.	ea.
Corner Panel (24" x 24")	ea.	ea.
Wood Bases	ea.	
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE