
A NEW IDEA IN SMOKING!
Oran Ritter asks:
Does Du Pont
hire men who
have definite
military commitments?

Oran A. Ritter, Jr., expects to receive his B.S. in chemical engineering from Louisiana State University in June 1957. He’s now editorin-chief of the “L.S.U. Engineer,” local president of Tau Beta Pi, and senior member of the Honor Council of his university. Oran’s question is on the minds of many men planning a technical career.
Don Sutherland answers:
Donald G. Sutherland graduated from Virginia Polytechnic Institute in 1953 with an M.S. degree in chemical engineering and an R.O.T.C. commission. He was hired by Du Pont’s plant at Victoria, Texas. After two years in the service, Don returned to his career in engineering, and is now doing plant-assistance work in the technical section at Victoria.
Yes, Oran, we certainly do! We’ve employed quite a number of college graduates with definite military commitments, even when we knew they could work no more than a few weeks before reporting for duty. Take my own case. I was hired in November of 1953 and worked for only four weeks before leaving for the Army. Two years later I returned to Du Pont.
® You see, we’re primarily interested in men on a long-range basis. The fact that they’re temporarily unavailable, for a good reason like military service, isn’t any bar to their being considered for employment. After working only one day, an employee is guaranteed full re-employment rights^that’s the law. And if a man works for Du Pont a full year before entering the service for two or more years, he receives an extra two months’ salary. If he goes into the service for six months, he’s paid a half
December 7, 1956
month’s salary. When he’s entitled to a vacation but doesn’t have time to take it before leaving, Du Pont gives him equivalent pay instead.
Even if present employment is impossible, Oran, we definitely recommend your talking with Du Pont’s representatives as well as those of other companies. The very least you’ll gain will be valuable background and some contacts of real benefit to you when you leave military service.
want to know more about working with DuPont? Send for a free copy of “The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate,” a booklet that tells you about opportunities for work in all departments of the Company. Write to the Du Pont Company, 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.	>
’CS.U.S.PAZO«
BETTES THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING . . . THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Watch “Du Pont Theater” on television
CBSR

The Notre Dame
PROBLEM:
How to get home for the Holidays?
SOLUTION:
Fly United Air Lines speedy Mainliners !
Going Home or planning a holiday vacation? You’ll save valuable vacation time by flying United Air Lines. Fast, dependable service to 80 cities coast-to-coast (including the top ski resorts) and to Hawaii. ’Round the clock schedules. Call or visit your nearest United office or authorized travel agent today!
Scholastic
============J
Vol. 98 December 7, 1956 No. 10
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus

Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Charles McKendrick
Editor
JOE NORTON
Associate Editor
DAVE THOMPSON
Associate Editor
JIM STEINTRAGER ....News Editor >
JAMES McDONALD .....Copy Editor
DAVID KUBAL ...............Feature Co-Editor
JOHN QUAGLIANO ....Feature Co-Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS................Assistant News
JIM DULAN ... JOE HEIMOSKI ... BOB VONDRASEK HARRY McKEE..
Assistant News ;■ .Assistant News J .Assistant News_ft
.Assistant Copy' 7
MARSH PIDGEON..................Assistant Copy
JOHN GLAVIN
Football Review Editor
BOB EARLY.................... Assistant
MIKE FITZPATRICK ......... Assistant
DON STUHLDREHER....Circulation Mgr.
HARRY CONLON ............Business Mgi^
It’s the
1ANS-RINTZSCH Liggaft Shop
for “Personalized” CHRISTMAS GIFTS
Michigan at Colfax
■"RWTURBOW
\pPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated "Bring in the Pieces” EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Games: Bob Early, Carl Skiff, Ray Lescher, Jim Merz, Joe Bride, Jim Goethals, John McMahon, Pat DeFoe, Jack Grady, Joe Norton.
Features: Mike Fitzpatrick, Bob Early, Roger Valdiserri, Bruce Huot, Ed Rohrbach, Joe Doyle.
Photography: Bob Early, Jerrold Hilton, Chick Martin, Angeleno Photo Sen-ice, Los Angeles.	ft''
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated. Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and minimi. j tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad- j dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre 1 Dame, Indiana.	, I
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25ft} "s
"	As
4
Football Review
*------------------------------------------------------
A MODERN HOTEL WITH A COUNTRY CLUB ATMOSPHERE
All Outside Rooms
Completely Air-Conditioned Indiana’s Newest and Finest
92 Rooms
92 Baths
•	TERRACE DINING ROOM
•	PRIVATE FUNCTION ROOMS
•	BEAUTIFUL PATIO
(Delicious ^ood
•	GOLF PRIVILEGES
• CIRCULATING ICE WATER • RADIO IN EVERY ROOM • LARGE PARKING AREA
(Delightful (Drinks
Excellent facilities for Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons, Meetings and Receptions
Prompt Attention Will Be Given Your Reservation Request . . . Sorry, No Public Sale of Rooms for Home Football Week Ends.
Owned and Operated by UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME
ARMAND E. LYSAK, Manager
Best Wishes to the
1956 Fighting Irish
compliments
National Milk Company
Tastee Milk of Superior Quality
921 So. Louise
SOUTH BEND, IND. Phone AT 7-1563 MISHAWAKA, IND.
ELKHART, IND.
MICHIGAN CITY, IND. Phone 6-6277 NORTH LIBERTY, IND.
LAPORTE, IND.

December 7, 1956
YOU CAN TELL BY THAT "EXTRA SERVICE"
Ever walk into a strange restaurant, dressed your “best,” and notice what a difference it makes . . . the extra service you get? That should be proof enough that you should “Dress Right. . . you can’t afford not to!” A good appearance will open any door, and since 90% of what others see of you is the clothes you wear, it’s pretty important, isn’t it? Let the Campus Shop help you “build” a wardrobe, for now and the future!	.
DRESS RIGHT — you can’t afford not to!
On the Campus—Notre Dame
Football Review :
YES, PAY ONE-THIRD IN FEBRUARY.
ONE-THIRD IN MARCH, ONE-THIRD IN APRIL
IF you’re on a budget, and most of us are, being well-dressed also has a financial side. That’s where we come in with the Campus Shop Charge Account. Buy what you need now, pay for it this convenient way . . . beginning in February. Naturally, there is no carrying charge. So, come in tomorrow, buy what you need, charge it the Campus Shop way!	■
DRESS RIGHT — you can't afford not to!
December 7, 1956
TONIC
Grooms your hair while it treats your scalp. Controls loose dandruff. 1.00 plus tax
SHULTON New York • Toronto
Eddie’s Dining Room
Luscious Foods
From Land and Sea
DINNERS
COCKTAILS
AAA Recommended Restaurant
602 South Walnut AT 7-9345 for reservation
________________________________1
8
Football Review
as^gswoi
December 7, 1956
9
10
Football Review
Mustangs Trample Irish
by BOB EARLY
Dallas, Tex., Sept. 22—Notre Dame, rated third in the nation in the preseason polls, took it on the chin tonight 19-13 from a highly spirited Southern Methodist eleven before some 61,000 people here in the Cotton Bowl. The defeat opening the Irish’s 68th football ^season was the second in eight games against the Mustangs and their first initial loss since 1934. It also marked the first time a Notre Dame team has ever been beaten in September.
The story of the game for SMU was their brilliant junior quarterback, Charlie Arnold, who did everything but kick the extra points as he matched Notre Dame’s All-American Paul Hornung on every turn and then went him ®one better with 1:50 remaining to be played, faking beautifully into the line and then handing off to halfback Len Slaughter who cross-bucked 14 yards for the winning touchdown.
The game, played in 87-degree heat, started slowly. Hornung returned the opening kickoff to the 27. Aubrey Lewis
got a first down to the 46, but a 15-yard penalty stopped the drive and the Irish punted. Then after another exchange of punts the Mustangs started a drive from their own 21. Dan Bowden cracked up the middle for a first down on the 32, but then the drive bogged momentarily and SM'U had to kick. The punt rolled into the end zone but the play was nullified by a personal foul and the Texans had new life on the Irish 47. Several plays later Arnold went back to pass from the 31 and hit Boyd Waggoner for the touchdown. Bob Scannell and John McDonnell broke up the extra point attempt.
A penalty put the Mustangs back in a hole as the second quarter started and they punted out to the 40. But again an Irish bid was stopped, this time as Arnold picked off a Hornung pass intended for end Gary Myers and ran it back inside the Irish 20. The defense ’ tightened and the Mustangs tried a field goal, but missed.
The return drive came to an abrupt
AP Wirephoto
COOKE STOPS SHORT GAIN
halt when Leighton Steward crashed through the line and jarred the ball loose from Hornung. Jerry Cornelison recovered on the ND 46, and nine plays later the Mustangs were on the one-foot line, where Arnold went over for the score. This time Tommy Gentry booted the point and the Irish were down 13-0 as the half ended. -
Southern Methodist controlled for the first five minutes of the third period, then kicked to the Notre Dame seven. With third and one Jim Morse bulled for ' the first down on the 17. Lewis picked up 18 on a quick opener and Hornung threw to Morse for ten more. Then on first down Hornung heaved a long pass to Morse who got behind the defenders for the visitors’ first score. The play covered 55 yards.
SMU moved to the Notre Dame 31 late in the period but were stopped when Dick Prendergast batted down a field goal attempt. ‘
As the last quarter started, the Irish had moved to a fourth down three situation on their own 43. Hornung went back to punt but instead ran around right end, faked beautifully to fullback Norm Odyniec at one point, and scampered 57 yards down the side line to tie the score at 13-13. The point attempt by Hornung was wide.
After an exchange of punts SMU started another drive on their 13. Twice, at their 23 and 33, they gambled on fourth down situations, and twice they made it. Arnold flipped a pass to Slaughter who sped 31 yards to the ND 14. Then came the Slaughter scoring plunge and the Irish trailed 19-13. Prendergast again knocked down the placement.
With 28 seconds left to play Al Ecuyer dived on an Arnold fumble on the Notre Dame 41. Lewis ran across Midfield to the 42. Then Hornung went back to pass and hit Morse on the seven yard line, but the time ran out as Morse was tackled, and Notre Dame was beaten.
December 7, 1956
11
Irish Whip Hoosiers, 20-6
by CARL SKIFF ‘
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 6—Two hard running fullbacks, a quarterback who did all things well, a speedy halfback, and a goal line stand provided the excitement as Notre Dame won its first game in two starts this year, 20-6, over a stubborn Indiana eleven.
The two fullbacks were Indiana’s Bob Fee and Jim Yore who were in and out of the Irish defense all afternoon. The quarterback was Notre Dame’s Paul Hornung who scored one touchdown, passed for another, and added two extra points. The speedy halfback was the Irish’s Aubrey Lewis who scored two touchdowns, the last one clinching the game. The goal line stand came in the third quarter and proved to be the turning point of the game.
Playing before a capacity crowd of -58,372, which jammed the Notre Dame stadium on an alternately gray and bright afternoon, the Irish marched 73 yards in six plays for a touchdown the first time they had the ball. They added another touchdown early in the second quarter and led at halftime, 13-6.
But it wasn’t until the Irish defenders stopped a Hoosier drive on the goal line in the third quarter that the tide of the battle shifted to Notre Dame. The Hoosiers took a Notre Dame punt on their own 33-yard line and drove to the Irish one-yard line. A backfield-in-motion penalty set them back to the five yard line but Fee, a 204-pound senior, retrieved three yards before Irish end Gary Myers and safety man Hornung
HORNUNG SNEAKS FOR FIRST IRISH SCORE
stopped him. After fullback Chuck Lima halted the Hoosier fullback for no gain, Lima joined speedy Lewis in running Indiana’s Dave Whitesell out of bounds at the one-yard line. Lewis, Gene Hedrick, and Frank Geremia then thwarted Fee in a fourth down smash.
The Irish then drove all the way down the field to score, covering the 99 yards in 11 plays. Lewis registered his second touchdown with a nine-yard sprint around left end.
Hornung began the afternoon by flipping the ball to Captain Jim Morse, who pitched 20 yards to Ron Toth, one of the six sophomores who started the game for the Irish. Toth brought it to the Irish 46 where Jim Just, also a sophomore who opened at fullback, took a pitchout from Hornung and went to the Indiana 35 yard line.
Hornung drove to the Indiana 10 yard line on a keeper play for a first down. Morse chipped in with five and Hornung smashed over the goal line in two plays, adding the extra point. All this was accomplished in less than six minutes.
Notre Dame scored its second touchdown early in the second period going 43 yards after Hornung had made a fair catch of a punt on his own 47. Hornung then threw a 23-yard pass to Toth. Just added five, then Lewis ran 14 yards around right end.
Hornung went for five on another keeper, then passed to Morse for what appeared to be a touchdown. However, a holding penalty cancelled the play, but
HORNUNG GAINS THIRTEEN
Hornung hit Morse again and then shot a 12-yard pass to Lewis for the score.
Fee and Yore, ably supported by quarterback Tom Kendrick and Whitesell, didn’t get around to manufacturing the only Indiana touchdown of the day until the second period. The 220-pound Yore, who gained 109 yards in 13 carries, was^.: the main factor in the Indiana touchdown. Yore took the kickoff following the Notre Dame second touchdown and moved it down field until Kendrick was finally forced to punt. After Indiana regained possession Kendrick hit end Bernie Grunza with a 30-yard pass. Four plays later, with the ball on the Irish one, Kendrick bulled across.
After the halftime intermission, Indi^', ana started to take the Irish defense1 apart. From their own 35 the Hoosiers crunched out 25 yards on the first play with Fee carrying. Whitesell and Fee slammed all the way to the Irish one yard line where the Irish held, took over the ball, and clinched the game with a 99-yard drive.
Morse started the key Irish drive by bolting to the five. Lewis then grabbed a lateral from Hornung and cut the cor-v ner around right end for 30 yards to the 35. Hornung pitched a strike to Myers on the 49, and Chuck Lima, Hornung and Lewis alternated thrusts to the Indiana 27 for a first down. Hornung then passed 16 yards to Morse on the 11. After Lima got two yards, Lewis outsped the Hoosier defense to the corner of the end zone for the third* and final touchdown. Hornung converter* for a 20-6 lead with less than four minutes left in the third period.
For all practical purposes, that was the ball game. Neither team penetrated closer than 40 yards of the goal line thereafter except in the final minute when Larry Cooke led a reserve unit to the Indiana 32-yard line.
Football Review
12
HORNUNG SMASHES FOR FIRST DOWN
Purdue Spanks Irish
by RAY LESCHER
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 13—Purdue, led by pile driving fullback Mel Dillard and a spirited hard charging line, dumped the Irish 28-14 before 57,778 fans today in the Notre Dame stadium.
Dillard personally sent the Irish down to their second defeat in three games by slashing and bulling his way for 142 yards, more than the entire Irish offense, and by scoring two touchdowns find setting up anothei’ with an intercepted pass. The Purdue front wall ripped holes in the outmanned and outweighed Irish line, allowing the Boilermaker backs to gain 370 yards on the ground, totaling 27 first downs. This aggressive line play allowed Purdue to control the ball for 86 offensive plays in comparison to Notre Dame’s 48.
The Irish, led by Paul Hornung who ^ompleted eight passes in 17 attempts tor 115 yards, gamely fought back with a lightning-like flurry at the start of the third quarter to tie the score 14-14. But the Boilermakers struck back immediately with a 75-yard march of their own and then iced the game with another score in the fourth quarter when they controlled the ball for 10 straight minutes.
f Purdue showed everybody they really meant business by taking the opening kickoff and marching 80 yards in 11 plays for their first score. Len Dawson’s screen pass to Dillard earned Purdue a first down on their own 31. Ken Mikes, Erich Barnes, and Dillard moved the ball to the Purdue 49 in successive ■gttne smashes. Dillard ripped off runs ^f 12, 4, and 18 yards to the Irish 15.
Dawson passed to Mikes for 13 yards to the two from which Dillard knifed over and Dawson kicked the first of four extra points.
Midway through the second quarter Hornung’s fourth down and one gamble failed and Purdue took over on the Irish 49. Eight running plays later Dillard broke through the right side of the Notre Dame line and went in for the touchdown making it 14-0.
Following the kickoff the Irish moved for their first score, moving 70 yards in eight plays. In this drive Hornung contributed a 16-yard jaunt in addition to completing four passes for 50 yards, the final one a seven yarder to end Dick Royer. Hornung’s placement made it 14-7 in favor of Purdue at the end of the first half.
It took the Irish a little over two minutes to tie the score following the second half kickoff. Hornung returned Dawson’s kick from the end zone to the Purdue 41. Frank Reynolds circled right end for nine yards and Jim Morse hit left tackle for eight down to the 23. Chuck Lima bucked for four and Morse swung around left end for eight yards to the 11. After an incomplete pass, Reynolds tore around right end for the score.
Purdue dampened the Irish hopes by returning Hornung’s kickoff to their 25 from where they began a 75-yard march highlighted by a one yard scoring plunge by Bill Jennings. Again Dawson mixed up his running plays, capitalizing on the power of Dillard, Mikes, Fletcher and Jennings. Only once was Dawson
forced to pass and that was complete for 10 yards to end Lamar Lundy.
The Irish were unable to move following the tie-breaking score and Hornung punted to the Purdue three yard line, the only punt of the game. Purdue’s ground attack started right where it had left off, before the Irish were able to stop the Boilermakers on the Notre Dame 18.
Reynolds and Sherill Sipes moved for a first down on the Irish 29. Hornung then passed to Sipes who fumbled and “that man” Dillard picked the ball out of the air on the 30 and raced to the Notre Dame 17. Short bursts by Jennings and Stan Eaton put the ball on the 13. Dawson, maneuvering to his left, suddenly stopped and went the other way, going to the eight where Ed Sullivan, who was all over the field, making nearly 20 tackles, dragged him down. A holding penalty pushed Purdue back to the 28. Fletcher took a pitchout from Dawson and raced down the east sideline for the touchdown.
The Irish again led by Hornung roared back on their final drive, but again the breaks fell the wrong way. Hornung returned the kickoff to the Purdue 38 on a beautiful bit of open field running. Hornung passed to Lima for 20 yards and a first down on the 18. Hornung’s next pass was intercepted on the three by Dick Jardine. Three quarterback sneaks by Dawson ended the game.
Purdue’s offense totaled 417 yards, only 47 of these on passes from Dawson. An old Irish nemesis, Dawson proved himself an able field general, striking the Irish weak spots in the line at the right times for first down yardage. The Irish picked up 251 yards, 129 on the ground and 122 in the air. The victory was Purdue’s seventh in the 35 battles between the two teams.
FLETCHER BOBBLES DAWSON AERIAL
December 7, 1956
13
Spartans Smash Green by JIM MERZ
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 20.—Dismal, threatening weather greeted the Michigan State Spartans as they filed into the mobbed stadium at Notre Dame today, and an overwhelming avalanche of spirit from the stands threatened “upset” in the making for the number two team in the country. But after an inspired Irish team battled the Spartans to a 7-7 tie in the first half, the solid depth and experience of the Spartans finally battered Notre Dame to a 47-14 defeat.
After Notre Dame won the toss, John Matsko kicked to the Irish eight yard stripe, where Reynolds brought it back to the 22. But three plays later the first Irish attack was squelched when Don Gilbert intercepted Hornung’s first pass and raced back to the Notre Dame 47. Wrapped in the delirious screams of the Irish fans, the Spartans couldn’t move the ball, and soon lost it on a fumble from center.
With seconds remaining in the first period, Notre Dame took over on their 17. As the clock ran out, Hornung dashed 35 yards on his favorite option play. The drive continued in the second quarter, sparked by a 19 yard aerial to Morse. Then Reynolds carried Hornung’s pitchout from the five yard line for the first score of the day. Hornung deftly added the point.
REYNOLDS SCORES FIRST IRISH TALLY
Dennis Mendyk grabbed Hornung’s kickoff and started racing 38 yards through the Irish defense, until the lone safety man, Hornung, barely tripped him up on the State 47. In eleven plays “Dennis, the Menace” teamed up with Bob Handloser, Pat Wilson, and Walt Kowalczyk to move to the Irish one foot line in four first downs. Then Wilson slipped over, and Matsko’s conversion tied the score, 7-7.
Minutes later, Peaks, defending against a Hornung pass on the five, grabbed the ball from Morse’s outstretched fingers, and raced back with it to his 25 yard line. Stiff tackling by Sullivan, Hornung, and Lima held the Spartans until Jim Ninowski hit Art Johnson with a 29 yard pass. Johnson tossed to Martin who was brought down on the Irish three yard line when the half ran out.
Michigan State lost no time in the second half, scoring within three minutes. Mendyk, piling up his 15.7 yard average, was the man slipping over left tackle and weaving 62 yards ahead of the Irish secondary for a touchdown. Matsko split the posts to make it 14-7.
Notre Dame could go nowhere, and had to punt after three tries. The Spartans took the kick on their 18 yard line, and began their last sustained field march of the contest. Three pass plays
HINSLEY NABS IT
moved State 55 yards, and short drives brought the ball to the Irish three, where Gilbert squirmed through for the score. After Matsko’s kick the Spartans led, 21-7.
Once again the Irish had to punt the^ ball away, and Michigan State took over-on then* 43 yard line. Mike Panitch ' struck hard through the center of the line, and steamed behind his blockers foi’ 49 yards before Jim Milota desperately nailed him on the ND 18. Mendyk hit Panitch on the Irish three with a sharp aerial, ending the third period.
In the opening seconds of the final stanza, Peaks jimmied the Irish line for the score. A hard charging Irish lint^ . upset the bid for the extra tally, and Michigan State led, 27-7.
But the spirited Irish were not out of it yet. After Reynolds brought Matsko’s kick to his 21, he snared a Hornung pass on the dead run and dashed to the MSU 35 before Peaks caught him , from behind. Two Homung-to-Sipes J passes put the ball on the three yard . line, where Sipes bulled over for thoj^ ; score. Hornung’s boot moved the score -to 27-14.
On the first play after Hornung’s | kickoff, Mendyk raced 67 yards for a > touchdown. Lou Loncaric blocked the । conversion, but the score stood 33-14.
Five plays later the Spartans scored again, as Harding intercepted an Irish pass and streamed 35 yards to score.
After a few quick exchanges between the two clubs, Don Arend cut loose ai-oun'd left end for State, and streaked 65 yards for the fourth Spartan TD of the period. Panitch’s conversion put Michigan State ahead, 47-14. The Irish had one last try left, but, as the game

14
Football Review
LEWIS BREAKS AWAY FROM WOULD-BE TACKLER
Sooner Blitz Wins Easily
•	by JOE BRIDE
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 27—The white-shirted horde of Oklahoma Sooners achieved their football destiny here today by defeating an under-manned Notre Dame squad, 40-0.
Previous to today, the only unfilled page in Sooner football lore was the one reserved for Notre Dame. Oklahoma wiad All-Americans, National Championships, Outland and Heisman trophy winners, a Coach of the Year, Bowl Champions, and Big Seven Conference winners. But, they had lost twice to Notre Dame in two encounters.
Now, they have beaten Notre Dame. For Oklahoma, there is nothing left to do on the gridiron.
The Norman conquerors captured the ^fotre Dame stronghold with amazing ease, scoring at least once in every period by two quarterback sneaks, a pass, a quick opener, and two interceptions.
The precision and ability of Bud Wilkinson’s adept machine surged to I their 35th consecutive victory, a new ; collegiate mark.
' Nothing now seems to stand in the 1 ®vay of the Sooners assault on Notre i Dame’s proud mark of 39 consecutive games without a loss. It is only a matter | of time, when their schedule is com-h pleted, until the Sooners lay claim to g the new mark.
k In addition, the Sooners scored in their H 111th consecutive game, and their feat holding Notre Dame scoreless, was Ig the first time this had been done in
■ December 7, 1956
47 games. The last team to blank Notre Dame was Michigan State by a 35-0 score on Nov. 10, 1951.
From the opening kickoff, the Irish stands had little to cheer about. Clendon Thomas ripped through the middle and Tommy McDonald galloped around the ends, and in nine plays the Sooners moved 55 yards to the ND 13.
On first down, quarterback Jim Harris rolled out to his right, faked a run, and unleashed a 13-yard touchdown heave to right end John Bell. Harris’ conversion was wide and the Sooners led, 6-0.
On the kickoff, Notre Dame took over on the 31, and the Irish began one of their three penetrations into Sooner territory.
Paul Hornung caught the Sooners napping with a single wing shift, and Aubrey Lewis blasted over left guard for a first down.
Lewis galloped down the right sidelines for twelve yards and Hornung smashed through a vacant middle for eight yards. The Irish had their second first down and were on the Sooner 44.
Partisans had visions of a slambang offensive battle, and Hornung and Lewis seemed ready to oblige. Capt. Jim Morse and Lewis picked up three yards over the middle, and on third down six, Morse, using the Sooners patented option run or pass, tossed 14 yards to Lewis who scampered to a first down on the Oklahoma 26.
Here the aggressive Sooner defense dug in. Lewis failed to gain on an
attempted sweep around right end. Hornung’s second down pass to right end Gary Myers was incomplete. Fullback Chuck Lima picked up seven.
On fourth and three, Hornung again called on Lima and the draw, but he was halted after a one yard advance and the Sooners took over.
From here on in the Fighting Irish got stage fright before the national television audience and the game turned into a Sooner romp. The second Oklahoma score came when Sophomore quarterback Bob Williams, in his first game for Notre Dame, received a bad pass from center while attempting to kick. Steve Jennings and Bob Timberlake blocked the boot for the Sooners.
With only two minutes remaining in the first period, Oklahoma had a first down on the ND three. Jay O’Neal cracked over guard for the score. Early in the second quarter, McDonald returned a Hornung punt 25 yards to the Oklahoma 37. Thomas swept left end for eight and took a pass from Harris for eight more.
On four successive plays, McDonald hit over left guard for nine, over left tackle for four, took a pass over center from Harris for 17, and swept right end for six.
With the ball on the Irish eleven, Thomas cracked through the right side of the line, cut back and went for the touchdown.
Before the half ended, McDonald added an insurance score by stealing a pass from the hands of Frank Reynolds and running all by himself, 55 yards for the score. Harris converted and the Sooners led at the half, 26-0.
At the start of the second half it seemed as if ND was going to take command. In eight plays Hornung directed the team to the Sooner 35. But McDonald again stepped in grabbing a deflected pass and stopping the threat. The Sooners then marched for their fifth score.
On first down McDonald passed 49 yards to Thomas on the Irish 34. McDonald then picked up nine and Thomas two for the first down. Harris faked the pitch-out and swept left end for 17 yards to the 5. Thomas bucked to the one, and Harris took it over for the score. Harris again converted.
The final score came in the early minutes of the final period. Thomas, not to be outdone by McDonald, intercepted a Hornung aerial and raced 36 yards for the seventh Sooner tally. Harris converted and the score was 40-0.
Sooner Coach But Wilkinson singled out the play of Ed Sullivan, junior center and defensive linebacker, following the game. He commented that, “Without Sullivan in there for Notre Dame, our job would have been quite a bit easier.”
15
The Weekly Operation
by ROGER VALDISERRI
Mr. Valdiserri, a '5k graduate of the University, has been Coach Brennan's secretary for the last three years. The following are his observations on a typical football week at Notre Dame.
You’ve worked hard and long all week but others have worked longer and harder. Piles of letters, files of replies, tickets, phone calls, practice schedules, injury lists, doctor’s reports, records of diagnoses, treatments and player lists, plane schedules for scouts and scouting
tickets and hotel reservations and more player lists. You’ve assigned work to your- two student assistants, conferred with the football manager, ticket manager, business manager and the omnipresent equipment manager, and you’ve received a hundred calls and placed a hundred more, answered a million questions, read a thousand wires and wired a thousand in return—and more playerlists. You’ve mailed autographed footballs, autographed photographs and you’ve dug through record books to settle a fan’s argument or prove another wrong, and satisfied a hundred more queries.
Ah—and then you’ve welcomed Fri-
DOCTOR GREEN
day because the tempo slackens and the world seems normal again. But wait— you forgot to get a haircut, pick up your suit from the cleaners, your shoes from the shoemaker, buy some groceries and rush to the airport to drive some friends . of the University back to the campus. $
Your Saturday morning tempo was set early with a mad dash to catch a
THE WEEK’S WORK IN ACTION 16	Football Review
^even o’clock Mass, a cup of coffee, and a last minute check with the now hard-to-find equipment manager. You’ve greeted an army of well wishers, friends, alumni, and friends of friends. More phone calls, last minute wires, substitution charts, play charts, another player list and you’re on your way to the stadium. Now you may get a moments rest. But then again you’re Wucky if you do. Rest is something you try not to think of.
If the world outside has seemed like a whirling dervish it’s now a pleasant relief to move among calculating humans. Here there is order and bee-like execution and ant-like seriousness and— finally silence—a deafening silence which prevades the spacious locker room. It’s an arrogant yet commanding quietness Wvhich seems to defy intrusion, dare a spoken word, challenge a dropped helmet or the stripping of adhesive. An aura of gripping tension seeps from the cold, sweating brick walls—walls that have housed and sheltered some of the most famous warriors ever to wear the proud green—and perhaps to those who now prepare for battle these are hallowed walls. It seems to rise out of the ^toried lockers—poor dumb, abused me-Wnorials—and it creates a seriousness of purpose.
Finally the silence is broken by a firm voice and all eyes automatically focus towards the blackboard. X’s and O’s are hastily drawn—short strokes indicating a tackle’s block, longer ones a ball carrier’s path, or a broken one the flight of a pass, modern day hieroglyphics. All assignments have been Reviewed—perfect execution—and now— a few more minutes—and the game’s the thing.
Now the firm voice, now the verbal prodding, now the words of encourage-
ment and now the unanimous affirmation of the day’s goal. Screams and shouts, and frenzied antics, and frantic wavings, striped shirts, a whistle blast and now— the game’s the thing. Your player list has come to life, the X’s and O’s are poised, the ball is kicked and now execution’s the thing. You watch the short strokes strike—or miss—the longer ones arouse you, or, if not long enough depress you. The X’s move or the O’s resist—and the clock moves on and fate toys with emotions of a mad fickle little world raving, jeering, applauding, guided only by standards of skill mea
sured in space by cold, insensible steel, and measured in time by that division of infinity which man has presumed to regulate. But away with this philosophical detachment—the game’s the thing.
The hustle and bustle finally ends and perhaps the day has been good, or bad; perhaps you’ve died a little or rejoiced, but whatever the results and subsequent reactions have been they are short lived because tomorrow there will be more player lists, and—a few days after another game,—and that’s the thing!
IRISH BENCH STANDS FOR KICKOFF
17

Navy Routs Irish, 33-7 by JIM GOETHALS
Baltimore, Md., Nov. 3—With ranks torn and battered by the vicious, crushing onslaughts of two of the country’s football giants back to back, the Fighting Irish tumbled for the fourth consecutive Saturday at the feet of an injury free, determined and aggressive Navy eleven before some 60,000 drenched spectators in Baltimore Stadium.
This game, another in the nation’s longest continuous intersectional series, saw Notre Dame strive valiantly in the mud and rain to end their losing ways, and through outmanned, battle on even terms for two quarters. But the Midshipmen, driven by a victory hunger which had gone unsatisfied for eleven straight years against Irish teams, unmercifully ripped off three touchdowns in the third period and added another as insurance in the fourth to coast to a 33-7 win.
Only a 27-yard dash by Bobby Ward
WARD OFF ON 27-YARD SPRINT
in the third stanza prevented a second straight shutout against Notre Dame.
Navy’s stout defense had little trouble stopping the Irish ground attack as was clearly indicated by the fact that Notre Dame’s total rushing offense amounted to only 50 yards.
Even Paul Hornung, Notre Dame’s biggest single offensive threat, found the going tough in gaining only ten yards in six carries. Yet because of the soft going, he slipped to the turf several times when he tried to run. Even more surprising was the fact that Aubrey
Lewis ended up with a minus six yards in nine tries.
The Middies, on the other hand, payed little heed to the soft turf and rammed the Irish line for 231 yards and added another 122 on 10 pass completions in 16 attempts. Most helpful in the display of Navy’s offensive weapon were speedy halfbacks Ned Oldham and Paul Gober who accounted for 106 yards of the damage to the Irish defense with their slants off tackle and devastating end sweeps.
A nip and tuck affair took place in the first quarter with the Irish failing to capitalize on a 45-yard Hornung to Lewis pass on the first Irish offensive play. Then late in the second period, Dick Lynch fumbled where Navy tackle Bob Reifsnyder recovered on the Notre Dame 18. From this point, it took the Middies just five plays to score the initial touchdown of the game with
Harry Hurst plunging over. Chet Burchett converted to make the score 7-0.
At the opening of the third quarter, Navy again took advantage of a break. Lewis fumbled the hand-off on the first play of the period and another alert defender, Tony Anthony, recovered on the Irish 44 yard line. With incredible speed, Navy knifed through the ND ranks for another score in four plays. Oldham toted the pigskin across with not a finger laid on him and in addition kicked the extra point to boost Navy’s lead to 14-0.
THE END OF THE LINE
The Hrish at this point became aroused and began a bit of a scoring drive of theii' own. A Hornung to Lewis toss good for 38 yards placed the ball on the Navy 27, from which point diminutive Bobby Ward electrified the throng momentarily by scampering off leftc^ f guard 27 yards to paydirt. Hornung^ converted and the Irish trailed 14-7. p
Navy killed the Irish spark by driving ; 65 yards on the ground in eleven plays j after receiving the kickoff to score, f Hard-running Oldham again played the t part of the culprit scoring on a pitch- ; out taken on the six yard line. A key play in this sustained drive was a 14	,
yard Forrestal! to Gober pass. The point after touchdown was wide and th(^ ; score read 20-7.	[
Following the kickoff Hornung attempting to put the Irish back in the game, tossed a first down pass into the awaiting arms of Midshipman Gober who courteously returned it to the Irish 46. The clicking Navy offensive machine then went to work. Headed by quarterback Forrestall who completed three passes in the drive series, th&^. -Middies pounded the Irish defense for^ another tally to make the score 27-7.	.
Again late in the fourth period, ’ Notre Dame was victimized by a miscue of its own doing. Ward’s fumble on a hand-off was promptly pounced on by the Middies on their own 38 yard line. With former Notre Dame freshman Pat Flood directing the Navy charges, Navy’s final tally, was produced at th<^ expense of the white-jerseyed lads. This time it took 12 plays to score with the ; aid of a 15 yard penalty.
After the game-ending gun had sounded, a glance through the misty and murky atmosphere of the stadium in the direction of the scoreboard revealed a true story of the game: Navy 33, Notr^ Dame 7.	*

* Pitt Hands ND Fifth Straight Loss
by JOHN McMAHON
Pittsburgh, Pa., Nov. 10—The Golden Panthers of the University of Pittsburgh today powered theii- way across the _ Notre Dame goal line twice in the second ^period and twice more in the final period to hand the Irish their fifth straight loss of the season with a 26-14 victory.
Pitt’s “Corny” Salvaterra, Ambrose “Bugs” Bagamery, and “Tiger” Joe Walton led the Panthers to victory before a packed house of 61,000, who stayed to the last second of the spirited contest despite 34° temperatures.
Notre Dame’s All-American candidate, ^Paul Hornung, held the Irish spirit intact and paced them to what is probably the best game they have played so far this season.
After a defensive first period, the strength of the Panthers, rated one of the top elevens in the East, overpowered the Irish as they Churned out 72 yards in 10 plays in the opening minutes of the second quarter. The drive ended with quarterback Corny Salvaterra w turning his right end to score from 11 yards out. Bagamery’s kick was wide.
After an exchange of punts by both squads, the Panthers again began stalking the Irish goal. Salvaterra led the attack and this time saw Pitt’s AllAmerican candidate end Joe Walton drift unguarded into the end zone. He fired and Walton’s diving catch netted Pitt another touchdown. Darrell Lewis ^kicked the point.
Behind 13-0, Hornung and the Irish struck back. The Dancing Bear faded for a pass on the midfield stripe and finding no receivers open, shot through the middle of the line, cut to the right
sideline and covered the 50 yards to the Pitt end zone. His kick was wide.
The Panthers began to move again at the beginning of the final period. Jim Theodore punched the Irish defense to score the third Panther touchdown after a 91-yard drive. Bagamery booted the point.
With 3:22 remaining in the game, Bagamery grabbed a pass and stepped in behind a ready-made screen of blockers and raced 44 yards to make the score 26-6. His point attempt was low.
Again the Irish hunter struck back at the Panther. Playing before a hometown crowd, Bobby Ward, 5-8, 160-pound senior from Lamberton, Pa., took the kickoff on his own 16 and broke through the center of the Pitt rushers, headed for the left sideline and raced 84 yards for the TD. It was the first time that the feat had been completed since Notre Dame’s All-American Johnny Lattner went the distance against Pennsylvania in 1953. Hornung converted and the final score read 26-13.
Notre Dame won the toss and Hornung took the opening kickoff out to the Irish 40. Pitt’s defense forced Hornung to punt. After trying the Irish line on three successive plays, Pitt returned the punt.
Williams, who started the game at quarterback, passed on third down, but Salvaterra intercepted on the Pitt 44 and raced for a touchdown. A clipping penalty nullified the score. Five plays later, Dick Shulsen grabbed off a Salvaterra aerial and brought the ball to the Notre Dame 42.
After a Hornung punt, Pittsburgh’s
second quarterback, Darrell Lewis, tossed to Cost, but Notre Dame’s Aubrey Lewis leaped high in the air and stabbed the pass with one hand and carried it 23 yards before being dropped.
The Panthers then took over and punched out four first downs before Walton took Salvaterra’s 10-yard pass in the end zone and the score read 13-0.
Darrell Lewis twice let his kickoffs go out of bounds enabling Notre Dame to take over on the 50. Hornung danced back fox- a pass, but elected to try it alone and he raced the remaining 50 yards almost unmolested. His kick was wide and the half ended with the Panthers ahead 13-6.
Like the first period, the third quarter became a defensive battle. The Irish threatened once during the stanza, driving to the Pitt nine, but the Panthers held.
At the beginning of the fourth period Pitt drove to the Irish four, where Theodore rammed over for the score. Pitt then scored on a screen pass to Bagamery who raced behind a wave of blockers for 44 yards. He kicked the point and the score stood 26-6.
On the kickoff. Ward grabbed the ball, churned his short legs past the Pitt defenders and broke into the clear for his spectacular 84-yard sprint. Hornung missed the point.
Pitt tried to recover and score again on the Irish. The game ended, however, with a Salvaterra pass rolling off the fingers of Walton on the Irish 15-yard line and the score remained the same, 26-13.
December 7, 1956
19
Tarheels Succumb, 21-14
by PAT DeFOE
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 17—With Paul Hornung and Jim Milota, playing in their last home game, Notre Dame’s sophomore dominated football eleven pulled out their second win of the 1956 campaign at the expense of North Carolina’s Tarheels. The game, played before 56,793 fans setting a new five game home attendance record, was in doubt until the closing moments when Hornung bucked over from the one foot line for the winning touchdown and his third of the game. He also kicked three extra points, rolled up 91 yards rushing, and threw four complete passes for an additional 103 yards.
North Carolina took the opening kickoff and marched to the Irish eleven yard line where Lewis made the first of his two interceptions, returning the ball to the ND nine. The Irish were unable to move in three plays so Hornung punted to Sutton on the Tarheel 47. Carolina was forced to punt after three plays and Lewis returned it to the 16. Three downs netted one yard and Hornung dropped back in punt formation but instead he ran the ball around left end and raced to the Notre Dame 48. However the Irish were again stalled and an exchange of punts put the ball on the ND 35 as the period ended.
On the first play of the second quarter Hornung ran to his right, stopped and lofted a long pass to Captain Jim Morse who eluded a NC defender and went to the Carolina seven. Hornung and
SUTTON JARRED BY JUST AND LEWIS
Morse took it to the one, and the big quarterback dived over for the score.
Hornung’s kickoff was fumbled by Ed Sutton and recovered on the 34 by Notre Dame’s Jim Just. Three plays failed to gain, and on a fake field goal attempt Morse passed to Frank Reynolds but he was stopped short of a first down. North Carolina moved to the Irish 20, chiefly on the running of Sutton but Ed Sullivan picked off an Emil DeCantis pass to stop the drive. The Irish were penalized to the seven but on first down Lewis took a handoff, cut outside his own right tackle and raced down the sideline to the Tarheel 15 before being pushed out of bounds. Hornung and Ward got a first down on the three and Hornung ducked over for his second touchdown.
Aftei- the kickoff Carolina moved 63 yards in six plays climaxed by Sutton’s pass to Larry McMullen in the end zone. Blazer kicked the point and the Irish margin was reduced to seven.
Lewis ran the ensuing kickoff to the NC 37 but a Hornung pass was intercepted by DeCantis. Hornung then turned the tables, intercepting a Tarheel aerial as the half ended.
North Carolina fought back to tie the score after Blazer recovered an Irish fumble on the 37. A pass interference penalty gave them a first and ten on the ND 39. DeCantis ran to the 21 and Vale to the 18. Hathaway, the quarterback, bootlegged around left end, then lateralled to Sutton who continued to the
SULLY PICKS ONE OFF
five. DeCantis ran wide around the ■ other end then cut back to go over for the touchdown. Blazer knotted the score with his placement.
Notre Dame received the kick and . moved to the 50 where Kemper recov- r ered Hornung’s fumble.	C
Carolina was held and Notre Dame j took over on its own 42. Another penalty put the ball on the 35 but Hot- [ nung passed to Lewis who ran to the f 19. At that point NC contained the Irish offense and took over on downs. ’
Sutton broke off tackle and raced to the ND 19. He picked up another two yards but then his pass was intercepted i by Bobby Ward on the 17.	|
As the final period opened, sophomore f quarterback Bob Williams took over : for Hornung, who twisted his right ■ thumb, and directed a backfield of Milota, Morse, and Pietrosante to the North Carolina 24 in 16 plays. However on fourth down and five yards to go, Williams rolled out to his right but, finding all his receivers covered he had to run with the ball and was pushed out of bounds inches short of the required yard-® age.
The Tarheels drove from here to the Irish 37 where a fourth down pass attempt failed and with 5:54 showing on the stadium clock Notre Dame took over for their winning drive. Ward scooted for nine on a quick opener. Then it was Lewis carrying around right end four consecutive times, for four, sixQ four and then seven.	'
Hornung interrupted- to carry for three, then it was Lewis again slashing to the 25 and a first down. Milota took over and moved the pigskin to the 13 in three carries and Hornung got five. It was Milota again, barrelling to the two and then to the one foot line from> where Hornung- bolted into the end zone. ~
20
Football Review
Bowl-Bound Hawks Win
by JACK GRADY
Iowa City. la., Nov. 24 — Before •56,632 fans, huddled in below freezing weather, the Rose Bowl-bound Big Ten champions of Iowa scored their first victory over the University of Notre Dame since 1940 when they defeated the battered Irish today by a 48-8 count. In so doing the Hawkeyes closed their most successful season in 35 years. Their 48 markers was the most scored against the Irish this year, also equalling Oklahoma’s 40—point margin of victory.
After receiving the opening kickoff, Iowa wasted no time in showing their offensive and defensive superiority, marching 75 yards in 11 plays to score after only five minutes of playing time had elapsed. Don Dobrino and quarterback Ken Ploen, the only seniors in the Hawkeye backfield, gained anost of the yardage on the initial march, although junior Bill Kappel’s 22-yard run was the long gainer.
The Hawks ran off four consecutive first downs before Ploen scored with his slashing off-tackle drive on a keeper play for 10 yards and the first of many touchdowns.
Hornung took the following kickoff and returned it 18 yards to the Notre Dame 25 yard line.
After controlling the ball for a series of downs in which their total yardage was a minus 19, the Irish were forced to punt from deep in their own end zone. Iowa took over on the ND 29
and following an incompleted pass and five yard loss, Ploen raced to the one. On the next play Dobrino plunged over for the score, Prescott added the point, and Iowa led 14-0 with six minutes left in the quarter.
At this point, Coach Forest Evashev-ski began substituting all his players. With almost a complete new lineup on the field, the Hawkeyes Dick Prescott kicked off to Aubrey Lewis wrho took the ball on his twelve yard line and raced back to the Notre Dame 27 before he was run out of bounds.
Bobby Ward, Chuck Lima and Aubrey Lewis took successive cracks at the big Iowa line but could gain only yard between them. Larry Cooke punted to the Hawkeye 37 yard line and the Black and Gold from Iowa City began another march.
Iowa’s second unit gained most of the yardage in the next drive which was climaxed wdth a 23-yard fourth dowm screen pass in the first ten seconds of the second period. The drive covered 63 yards in 11 plays, Fred Harris scoring on a soft pass from Ploen. The
score was a costly one however, since co-captain Don Suchy, who threw the key block on the TD play, was knocked unconscious and required hospitalization.
After receiving the kickoff, the Irish began to show some signs of life, marching from their own 19 to the Hawks’ 28 in 11 plays, only to have Iowa’s Dick Klein grab William’s hand-off in mid air and return it to his own 37.
Happel squirmed outside end for 15 yards to the 48 of ND and Dobrino banged for seven before Ploen rolled out to his right, decided to keep, and rambled 41 yards for the score. Prescott’s conversion with 5:25 left in the half made it 28-0.
Once again the Irish started to move, this time taking the kickoff on their own twelve and moving it down to the Hawkeye 20, where the drive stalled as the gun ended the half.
After running a series of downs at the start of the second half, the Irish punted to the Iowa twelve, and once again the march was on. This time the Hawks were ignited by Ploen’s 18-yard run outside end. On third down a pair of good blocks sprung Fred Harris loose on an off-tackle play and Iowa had their fifth score of the game with 11:25 left in the third period.
Upon taking the kickoff the Irish put on their most sustained drive of the afternoon. Lews took the kick on his
own three and returned it to the ND 39. 0 Jimmy Morse and Jim Milota combined ' to pick up two consecutive first downs, moving the ball to the Iowa 32. Chuck Lima added six and Milota picked up the third first down on the Iowa 14. However here the Irish drew an offside penalty and the drive came to a halt on the Iowa five, where the Hawks took over on downs. Aftei* an offside penalty moved the Hawkeyes back to their own © one, Frank Geremia spilled Harris in the end zone for a safety, the first of the season for the Irish.
After Harris punted on his free kick from the 20, the Irish needed only eight plays to move 45 yards for a score. Larry Cooke’s pass to Dick Prendergast picked up one vital first down, and on third down at the 14, Cooke pitched up the middle to Bobby Ward, who caught © it on the three and banged over for the lone Irish touchdown. Cooke missed the conversion.
Iowa’s sixth score came iii the fourth quarter on a 53-yard run by Collins Hagler, after Happel had intercepted a Cooke aerial. Hagler also sparked Iowa’s final drive with 8:39 left, though it was Marion Walker who smashed over from nine yards out for the score.
Jubiliant Iowa fans tore down the <0 goal posts just before the end, the officials having to halt the game to clear the field with two seconds remaining.
Notre Dame played most of the contest without the services of their senior quarterback and All-American candidate, Paul Hornung. Hornung reinjured the thumb on his right hand midway through the first quarter and saw little action afterwards.	~
I

22
Football Review
* Irish Lose Finale, 28-20
by JOE NORTON
Los Angeles, Calif., Dec. 1 — The Fighting Irish closed out their most disastrous season in history today as Athey bowed here to the Southern Cali-^fornia Trojans 28-20. The loss gave Notre Dame a final record of two wins and eight losses for the season.
Southern California had just too many guns for the Irish this afternoon and were able to outlast the spirited Notre Dame battle. Led by halfbacks Tony Ortega and Ernie Zampese, the Trojans overpowered the Irish on the ground, — rolling up 314 yards to Notre Dame’s ^112. It was Zampese who sprinted 33 yards over tackle in the fourth quarter to mark up the back-breaking touchdown.
The Trojan line also deserves much of the credit for the victory, especially for their defensive play. The SC forwards constantly hounded Irish quarterback Bob Williams on his passing attempts and thereby protected the valu-Aable eight point lead in the fourth quarter.	’	•
Credit for the greatest individual performance, however, must go not to any of the victorious Southern California stars, but to Notre Dame’s great AllAmerican back, Paul Hornung. Hornung ended 'a brilliant collegiate career here this afternoon, and even though the team had a dismal season, his individual talent cannot be denied. Oper-$ ating today from the left halfback position, Hornung played for 50 minutes with injuries to both hands and still con
tinued to lead the team’s attack and spirit. He ran from scrimmage for 24 yards and caught passes for 26. He returned two punts for a total of 45 yards and punted himself seven times for an average of 38 yards.
Hornung’s most sparkling feat however, was a 95-yard kickoff return in the third quarter after Southern Cal’s third touchdown had blackened the hopes of Irish partisans. Rex Johnston kicked off for the Trojans and Hornung took it on his own five. He swung along the sideline, smashed through a cluster of would be tacklers at the 25, straightarmed a few more and outran the rest all the way to the Southern California end zone to put the Irish right back in the ball game. When he left the field toward the end of the game, Hornung received not only an ovation from the crowd but the praise of the Trojan team.	-
The game was a thrilling contest from the start. Notre Dame kicked off and Troy’s Don Hickman returned to his 34. A sprint by Hickman and a pass from Zampese to Jim Conroy brought the ball to the Irish 29. Hickman and C. R. Roberts banged down to the ten and Conroy then turned right end for the first Trojan score. Ells Kissenger made the placement and at this point it looked as if the Irish were about to suffer another rout.
But the Irish came right back to score one of their own. Bob Ward fumbled on his own 24 but the ball was
WARD DEFENDS
picked off in the air by Irish end Dick Royer who raced down the sideline to the SC 38 yard line. Three running plays and a pass from Williams to Bob Wetoska gave Notre Dame a first down on the 15. Hornung took a pitch-out down to the six and on the next play, Williams burst through the middle for the score. Hornung's kick was wide and the score stood at seven to six.
The Trojans went on the march again however, and Zampese and Ortega moved the ball down to the ND 15 yard line. C. R. Roberts then hit Hillard Hill in the end zone for the score. Rex Johnston kicked the point and Southern Cal led 14-6.
The Irish were not yet willing to abandon this one though, and Bob Williams sharply marshalled his forces into Southern Cal territory. Alternating passes and line smashes by fullback Jim Just, the Irish quarterback moved his team to the Trojan ten and then pitched a strike to Bob Wetoska in the end zone. Hornung kicked the point and the score stood at 14-13 for the first half.
Late in the third quarter the Trojan attack was about to stall on the Irish 16. But 'SC coach Jess Hill sent in Don Voyne with a play and Voyne ended up unmolested in the end zone with a Conroy aerial. Kissinger added the point, to make it 21-13.
Then came Hornung’s electrifying 95-yard sprint and additional PAT to once more keep the Irish in contention.
But the power and depth of the Trojan backfield proved to be too much for the tiring but still fighting Irish team. In the fourth quarter, Zampese bolted over right tackle for 38 yards and the score. Kissinger again added the point. The Irish continued to fight, but time ran out and the final score stood at 28-20.
December 7, 1956
23
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish of 1956
FIRST ROW—(I tor): James Milota, Gene Hedrick, Ed Sullivan, Dean Studer, Paul Hornung, Captain James Morse, John McDonnell, Joseph Bosse, Larry Cooke, Thomas Hughes, George Groble.
THIRD ROW—(I to r): Donald Timm (Mgr.), James Colosimo, Harold Trapp, Donald Lawrence, Ron Toth, Frank Kuchta, Paul Djubasak, Jerry Knippenberg, Donald Costa, James Just, Pete Salsich, Patrick Dolan, Dick Lynch, John McGinley, Dick Shulsen.
SECOND ROW—(I to r): Joe Lauerman (Mgr.), Jim Munro, Gerald Gerami, Bob Gaydos, Aubrey Lewis, Bob Scannell, Lou Loncaric, Thomas Cunningham, Robert Ward, Frank Stanitzek, Pete Noznesky, Dick Prendergast.
FOURTH ROW—(I to r): Charles Lima, Robert Witucki, James Schaaf, William Owens, Carl Hebert, Joseph Budek, Charles Meno, Gary Myers, Richard Loncar, Norm Odyniec, Richard Phelan, Richard Beschen, Robert Williams, Richard Selcer, Joseph King, Charles Frederick, Louis Manzo.
FIFTH ROW—(I to r): Charles Puntillo, Neil Seaman, Tom O'Brien, Angelo Mosca, Nick Pietrosante, Al Ecuyer, Robert Wetoska, Frank Reynolds, Ronald DeNardo, Frank Scott, Bronko Nagurski, Mike Dugan, Jack Murrin, Richard Royer, Dick Ciesielski, Kevin Burke, Eugene Saxon, William Hickman, Frank Geremia.
?
Brennan Answers .. .
Is Paul Hornung the best football player that you have ever coached?
Yes. Paul is a very fine athlete. He is endowed with great natural ability and he works diligently to improve in any way possible. Along with these attributes he has the same fine balance that has been evident in many great athletes.
How did he improve over last year?
I believe that Paul added more finesse to his quarterbacking this season in directing the team. He also showed improvement in his passing. Because of injuries to a good many of our backfield men throughout the season, he was forced to work with a different set of backs almost every week. Yet he made the required adjustments easily.
Will he be a success in the professional football ranks?
Yes. Paul has every requisite to succeed in professional football. He has the necessary speed and size, and he’s an intense worker. There is no doubt in my mind that he will improve steadily and continue to play in the same fine manner that he has in the past.
What position do you think he will play in professional ball?
I would not attempt to presume another coach’s judgment. Perhaps his professional coach will feel that Paul will help more at halfback, fullback or defensive halfback. The final decision on what position he will be at will depend largely upon the needs of the team that he will be playing for and on the available personnel of that team.
How much do you attribute this season’s poor record to the fact that you lost so many seniors due to injuries?
Every team and every player needs confidence to win. Older players naturally have gained more confidence through experience, and it helps when there are a few veterans playing alongside of a younger player. We did not have many seniors to start the season -with this year. And many of these, such as Groble and Scannell, were injured throughout most of the year. A team’s strength is not weakened by one or two inexperienced ball players provided that there are enough experienced men to steady them.
December 7, 1956
How much did the student support actually affect the team this year?
I cannot say enough about the wonderful student support displayed this season. Particularly since the Michigan State game it has been tremendous. It was heart-warming and encouraging, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the entire student body on behalf of our coaching staff and the members of the football team.
What do you think of next year’s schedule in comparison to this year’s?
Next year should be at least as tough and possibly tougher. We add Army, who always is ranked near the top in the East. The other nine ball clubs that we face next year were all tough this year, and we are looking for most of them to be either improved or as good as they were in ’56.
Who was the best team that we played against this year?
We faced a fine football team every Saturday this fall. It would be difficult to single out any of them as the best we met. I would consider anyone of three, Purdue, Michigan State, and Oklahoma, as the best clubs that we played against this year.
Who would you consider the best backs that you faced this year? The best linemen?	■
The best backs we met this year were Tommy McDonald and Clendon Thomas of Oklahoma and Dennis Mendyk of Michigan State. All three had good speed and were difficult to defend against. The best linemen were Jerry Tubbs, Oklahoma’s fine center, and Pittsburgh’s Joe Walton.
How much can the sophomores be expected to improve for next season?
Any ball player will improve to an extent after one year of experience. A young man playing football learns something every day that he is out there. And as you learn and get that needed experience you naturally will improve.
Is there any emphasis on recruiting players from all over the country rather than from one particular area?
We always have had balance in our recruiting. One year we may have ball
COACH TERRY BRENNAN
players from all over the country and the next year a number of them may come from the same area. Our recruiting has never been localized by intention.
How much help do you expect from this year’s freshman team?
There are some good ball players on this year’s freshman team and undoubtedly some of them are going to - become excellent players. We expect some help from them next year, but we will not have to depend on them as much - as we did on last year’s freshmen.
Did the sophomores progress satisfactorily this season?
Yes. A number of them played quite a bit of football for us this year and we are satisfied at what they showed us.
Do you think that at any time this season, the team developed a defeatist attitude?
There was definitely no defeatist attitude on the part of the team throughout the year. We had a good many injuries during- the year. And the young players made mistakes. But no one quit out there.
What will be stressed in spring practice this year?
Fundamentals. In the allotted time that spring, practice is held in, there can’t be too. much. concentration on what may be called the intricacies of the game. Blocking and tackling will be worked on heavily.
.	25
THE ’56 COLLEGE
FIRST ANNUAL
“PLAYER OF THE YEAR”	®
Jim Parker, Ohio State
‘SPORTS EDITORS’
•ALL-AMERICAN
►
(Story on page. 30)
Terry and His Aides
by BRUCE HUOT
Three years age* Terrence Patrick Brennan returned to Notre Dame to guide the football destinies of his alma mater. After three seasons of crowdpleasing football, the youthful Brennan has established himself firmly among the Irish’s top coaching favorites.
Originally appointed to the Notre Dame coaching staff in September of 1953, Brennan’s main job then was tutoring freshmen. He gained this position by coaching Mount Cannel High School of Chicago to three consecutive football championships in 1950, 1951 and 1952. His high school pupils always seemed well-groomed in football fundamentals and were quickly adapted to the tougher college game. Brennan, now 28, accepted the appointment as head coach on February 11, 1954, one day after ill-health caused Frank Leahy’s resignation.
Terry seems to have been born for a football life. He started his career at Marquette High School in Milwaukee. An all-around athlete, he won seven monograms and captained the grid squad his senior year. A knee operation before his freshman year in 1945, fitted Brennan for his first college football season. His knee, however, continued to give him trouble during his four-year stint as a halfback for the Irish. And this is the primary reason why he refused to play pro football. Drafted by the Chicago Cardinals, he v.ras kept on their inactive list until he
JIM FINKS
took over as Notre Dame’s head football coach.
While playing for Notre Dame, Brennan started in 30 of 38 games, scored 21 touchdowns and averaged 4.7 yards per carry. Along with leading the team in scoring and pass receiving in 1946 and 1947, he competed briefly as a pole vaulter and as a junior won the middleweight boxing title of the Bengal Bouts. A graduate from the A.B. College as a philosophy major, he enrolled at DePaul University Law School. After coaching Mount Carmel in the afternoons, he attended night classes and
TERRY BRENNAN
subsequently received his law degree in 1953.
When Brennan took over the Irish grid helm, there were questions of his ability, and whether or not he was too young to handle the job. These queries were answered with a 1954 slate of nine wins and one loss. Key victories came over Michigan State, 20-19, Southern California, 23-17, Navy, 6-0, and a 38-18 drubbing of Iowa.
His task seemed more formidable in 1955 when he had only three returning starters. The Sunday morning quarterbacks said the Irish were on the spot. But again Brennan answered them, this time with eight victories and two defeats. The Irish lost to Michigan State, 21-7, and Southern California, 42-20, but earned victories over highly touted
Miami (Fla.), 14-0, improving Purdue,1); 22-7, and rugged Iowa, 17-14. After the season Brennan was honored as “Coach of the Year” by the Washington Touchdown Club. More honors went to Terry when he was named coach of the East team in the East-West game that will follow the 1956 season.
James E. Finks entered the Notre Dame coaching corps on February 23, . 1956.	0
After a sports career at Salem High School in 'Salem, Illinois, Jim enrolled at Tulsa University. He quarterbacked the Hurricanes from 1946-48. After graduation, Jim turned to pro baseball. Playing-only for one season, he started with Columbia, S.C. in the Sally League and then went to Austin of the Big State League.
In the fall of 1949, Jim joined the( Pittsburgh Steelers as .a defensive hal f-back. From 1951 until joining the Irish coaching staff, he was the Steelers regular T-formation quarterback. In 1955 he led the National Football League in three categories, throwing 344 passes, completing 165 for 2,270 yards.
John L. Zilly, a monogram winner on the Notre Dame national championship teams of 1943 and 1946, is another new addition to the Irish coaching staff. He$. replaced end coach John Druze, now head football coach at Marquette, on February 11, 1956.
After lettering in 1943, Jack served 34 months in ithe Navy and Was discharged a lieutenant jg. Returning to Notre Dame he played first string end on the 1946 National Championship team. Following graduation Jack turned to pro football. He served five^ years with the Los Angeles Rams and ‘' one season with the Philadelphia Eagles as a defensive end. Upon retiring from the pro ranks in 1952, he worked for the Industrial Distributing Corp, of Los Angeles until 1955. In these three years
28
Football Review
he also played bit parts in a few movies. In 1955 Jack returned to football as assistant coach at (Montana State.
It was homecoming for Bill Fischer when he returned to Notre Dame in 1954 as varsity line coach under teammate and now head coach Terry Brennan.
Bill started his football career as a tackle under Hughie Devore at Notre Dame in 1945. The following season Frank Leahy returned from military service to Notre Dame and switched him to guard, where he won All-American honors in 1947 and 1948. At the end of the 1948 season, he was voted the Outland Trophy as the outstanding guard and tackle in college football by the Football Writers Association.
He captained the Irish his senior year and later was named captain of the East j team in its 14-12 victory over the West in the 1949 Shrine game. The next ; August Bill was selected as the out-j. standing All-Star player in the Chicago Tribune’s annual All-Star game.
| Playing five years for the Chicago j Cardinals, Bill was named to the Alli League team twice. He was assistant •1 manager of the Leland Hotel in Aurora, J Ill. for one year before returning to
Notre Dame.
!3 Bernard Frank Witucki came to Notre s Dame as a member of the varsity coach-A ing staff at the beginning of the 1955 season from Tulsa University. He had i just completed two seasons as head foot-w ball coach for the Hurricanes.
Bernie, whose home town is South g Bend, entered Notre Dame in 1930, but | transferred to George Washington Uni-| versity in 1932 and graduated in 1935. | Bernie played football at both schools S as a center. Following graduation, he coached at South Bend’s Washington | £ High School for eight years until 1943,
| December 7, 1956
when he enlisted in the Navy. In 1937, 1939, and 1941 Washington won the mythical state championship.
Returning from the Navy in 1946, Witucki became head football coach for two years at Memorial High School in Evansville, Ind. He resigned to become assistant coach of the now defunct Chicago Rockets of the All-American Conference. After one year in pro football, Bernie moved to Tulsa where he served as assistant coach from 1949 to 1952 and head coach for the 1953-54 seasons.
William Henry Walsh returned to Notre Dame on February 23, 1955 as line coach, primarily tutoring Irish centers and doing a great deal of scouting.
Walsh, Brennan and line coach Bill Fischer were teammates on the 194548 Notre Dame squads. End coach Jack Zilly played with them in 1946 and frosh head Jack Landry in 1948. In four years at Notre Dame, Walsh estab-
JACK LANDRY
lished himself as one of football’s real iron men. He played center in every one of the scheduled 38 games and started 27. The Irish went unbeaten three of Walsh’s four seasons and won two National Championships.
As center for the Pittsburgh Steelers Bill was the starting offensive center in every game of his pro career. Three times he "won All-League honors and the Steelers’ confidence in his durability was so great that they had no other offensive center on the roster while he was a member of the team.
Bill was bora in Phillipsburgh, N. J., and won nine letters at Phillipsburgh High. He captained the football team in his senior year and was an all-state center in football and all-state catcher in baseball.
Before joining Coach Brennan’s crew, John Warren Landry was in government work for four years after graduation from Notre Dame. He took over the freshman coaching job in 1955.
His fine work in the 1948 Northwestern game was instrumental in keeping a three year unbeaten streak alive. Going into the fourth quarter, the Irish trailed 7-6. Then on a 65-yard sustained touchdown drive, Jack earned the ball on nine of 12 consecutive running plays for a 12-7 Irish win.
As a senior in 1950 he was the workhorse of the backfield, carrying the ball 109 times for 491 yards, an average of 4.5 yards a carry. That same year, against Navy, Jack picked up 161 yards in 21 carries to lead the Irish in a 19-10 victory. On the strength of these performances, Jack gained the reputation of being a “mudder.” The Northwestern game of 1948 had been played in the rain, and the Navy contest in snow and rain.
Jack is from Rochester, N. Y., and prepped at Aquinas Institute.
29
The All-American Team
by MIKE FITZPATRICK

The Scholastic’s College
Editors’ All-American football
i
Sports team, is
something completely novel, and we believe it to be every bit as accurate as any All-American poll taken.
The 33 players selected on our poll were chosen by the sports editors of college publications throughout the country, and gives, what we believe, is a true picture of the college student’s All-American team. It was selected on the college campus .where the interest in and knowledge of the teams and players should be the strongest.
Over 275 schools were contacted, ranging from such national powers as Oklahoma and Tennessee to smaller schools like Slippery Rock and Emory College.
We found everyone extremely cooperative and received many fine letters of acknowledgment. We believe that the Sports Editors’ All-American will grow to something quite big, to the place which it deserves.
COACH OF THE YEAR
After building two successful grid empires at Wyoming and Arkansas, Bowden Wyatt returned to his alma mater and in two short seasons moved Tennessee out of the football doldrums and into the national spotlight.
In his first year at Tennessee, last year, Wyatt took mediocre material and fielded a representative team with a 6-3-1 record, including a victory over arch-rival Vanderbilt. This season, the Vols went through ten straight games without a blemish.
Wyatt, who
learned his football at
Although the
offensive abilities of
GLASS
WITTE
SLATER
TUBBS
LEGGETT
MATSKO
Tennessee under the mastei- of the single wing, General Bob Neyland, emphasizes the things that Neyland did—blocking and tackling and an almost super human desire to win.
ENDS
Ron Kramer of Michigan and Joe Walton of Pittsburgh were almost unanimous choices at the ends. Michi-
Lundy ... Cruze ____ Wiggin . Leggett . Slater ... Valentine Matsko .. Brodie ... Brown ... Arnett ... Roberts .
SECOND TEAM
....E_________
____E_________
......T_______
_____T________
____G_________
. C.... ..QB... ..H.B.. ..H.B.. „F.B...
___ Purdue Tennessee
. Stanford ______ LSU ... Army Penn State . Mich. St. .. Stanford
Syracuse ... So. Cal. .... So. Cal.
gan Athletic Director, Fritz Crisler, calls Kramer one of the greatest athletes in Michigan history. The versatile East Detroit performer played both halfback and end for the Wolverines this year. In rushing, he averaged 3.8 yards per carry and at his other position, he caught 18 passes for 353 yards, an average of 19.8. Two of these receptions were for touchdowns.
“Tiger” Joe Walton gets the nod at the other end spot. A deceptively fast man for his size, he was one of the nation’s leading receiver of touchdown passes in both 1955 and 1956.
Walton are more publicized, he is equally tough on defense. Curt Gowdy, NBC announcer, said after the Minnesota game in which the native of Beaver Falls, Pa. starred in a losing role, “That is one of the most spectacular one man shows I have ever seen. Walton will get my vote for All-American.”
Lamar Lundy of Purdue and Buddy Cruze of Tennessee are the second team choices at the flanks. Lundy, who at 6-6 is a giant at end, was a favorite target for Len Dawson’s aerials for the past three years.
Easily the most spectacular pass receiver in Tennessee history, Cruze is the type of player that can break the game wide open on any play. An example of this is the Vols great 6-0 victory over Georgia Tech. On the game winning drive Johnny Majors passed twice to Cruze, the plays good for 61 yards to the Tech one, from where the scoring was but a technicality.
$
TACKLES
John Witte of Oregon State and Mike Sandusky of Maryland were named the first team tackles. In leading the Beavers, Witte merited the praise of every opposing coach. A four monogram man, he averaged over 52 minutes a game this past season.
Sandusky also is big and hard charging, a standout on defense and a playleading blocker. Jim Tatum, who coached Sandusky last year and is now the coach at North Carolina, says Sandusky is one of the best linemen he has ever coached.
CRUZE
ARNETT
ROBERTS
BROWN
BRODIE
$ LUNDY
possible
award in high
about every
school and consequently was one of the most sought after prospects in the country.
.. TCU
... Miami
QUARTERBACKS
Notre Dame’s Paul Hornung takes top honors at the important quarterback slot. Hampered by injured thumbs for the latter part of the season, Hornung
...T....
...G....
..G—.. _.C..... ..QB... ..H.B.. ..H.B.. .F.B...
THIRD TEAM
..E...........  Michigan ...E._........   Auburn .............. Kentucky ... Oklahoma Georgia Tech ... Texas A&M ................. Iowa .............. Purdue .............. Mich. St.
Stanford’s Paul Wiggin and Earl Leggett of Louisiana State are the second team tackles. Wiggin stepped right into a regulai- starting role in 1954 with no previous college experience and has been there ever since. He has proved to be an outstanding blocker, using some styles of blocks which are not orthodox Wbut nevertheless effective.
Leggett, a native of Jacksonville, Fla., was an All-American junior college tackle at Hinds Mississippi Junior College before going to LSU. At 274 pounds he is easily the biggest man on our team.
GUARDS
At the first team guards it is Jim ^Parker of Ohio State and Bill Glass of Baylor. Parker, a huge man at 6-3 and 235 pounds, is our “Player of the Year.” He has been a regular for the Buckeyes since his sophomore year and has improved tremendously each year. Soft spoken and easy going off the field, Parker on the gridiron is a changed man. He constantly makes opponents fumble with his driving tackles and just as consistently opens holes on offense. ©He is also one of the fastest big men in football today.
Glass is another consensus AllAmerican this year, playing better than 60 per cent of the time for the Bears. He has averaged eight tackles and eight assists per game this season.
Running on the second team are Sam Valentine of Penn State and Stan Slater of Army. Valentine, the team captain, a was credited with 25.5 per cent of the wteam’s tackles and was uncanny on pass defense.
Slater is the first Army guard to make the All-American team since Joe Henry made it in 1948. He received
PHILLIPS
WIGGIN

CENTERS
Named to the number one spot at center is hard tackling Jerry Tubbs of Oklahoma. He has played outstanding ball for the Sooners for the past three seasons both as a fullback and as a center. As a sophomore, the 6-2, 205 pound Tubbs was Bud Wilkinson’s number one fullback. At the start of his junior year, the Sooners lacked manpower at the center position, so Tubbs was shifted there
Maentz .. Phillips ... Michaels Gray ...... Ecker ..... Goehring Suchy .... Dawson ..
Peaks ..... Swink .... Bosseler ..
was the best all-around back on college gridirons this season. There is not a thing that Paul cannot do well. He led the Irish in just about every offensive department and was second in the all important defensive department of tackles made.
The big senior from Louisville, Ky.» turned the quarterback sneak into a potent offensive weapon, capable of a touchdown every time it was run. He ran the split-T as if it were made exclusively for him, and he passed well despite the poor protection offered by the Notre Dame line.
John Brodie of Stanford, the nation’s leader in total offense is the second team selection. His uncanny passing has brought him to the top even though Stanford experienced a poor season. Probably the best “off-balance” passer in collegiate football, Brodie consistently threw for long yardage while being chased by two or three charging linemen.
and became one of the finest offensive centers and defensive linebackers in the history of Oklahoma football.
Michigan State’s John Matsko is the second team center. Matsko is certainly one of the finest pivotmen in modern Spartan gridiron history. He started every game this season and handled the kickoff and extra point duties for MSU this year.
HALFBACKS
Two pint-sized speedsters are the selections for the halfback positions. They are Tommy McDonald of Oklahoma and Johnny Majors of Tennessee.
McDonald led all backs in the polling. He was the bread and butter man in-the Sooner’s wide open split-T offense throughout the year. His outstanding play is a run or pass option after taking a pitch from the quarterback. He completed 17 of 24 of these passes in his junior year for a phenomenal 70.6 average.
Tabbed as the best tailback in Tennessee history by General Bob Neyland, Vol athletic director, is the other half of our halfback combination, Johnny Majors. Majors has done everything (Continued on Page 42)
MICHAELS
GRAY
VALENTINE
MAENTZ
Ji
Guiding Forces ...
by ED ROHRBACH
Notre Dame football, which supplies all the other athletic teams at the University with funds for their operation, relies on a complete network of coordinated agencies on campus to make its often times exasperating production a reality.
Each is efficient, each is well staffed and each depends upon the proper functioning of the others for its continued operation. Graphically, this can be seen in the past 1956 season. In July, ticket selling preparations were made for the ensuing campaign and now, in the aftermath of the season, each is already contemplating an even more demanding 1957 football season. Except for the student occupied jobs connected with their operation, all these offices work the year ’round.
With Notre Dame synonymous with football is it any wonder that “behind the scenes,” too, is one of the best in the nation?
PUBLICITY DIRECTOR
For Charlie Callahan, director of Sports Publicity at the University, and his staff, the completion of the 1956 football season at Southern California meant the return to somewhat regular working hours and the already pressing job of preparing for news releases, etc., on the winter basketball season. Though his office also handles the publicity for the ten other major sports at Notre Dame, football by far demands the most time and the handling of it requires a herculean effort by him and his staff. Since mid-August when the football team began pre-season drills, Callahan has had only one day away from his work, and that was a Sunday.
The completed season marks the eleventh for Callahan as director. He stalled in 1946 after being discharged from the Air Force where he took care of public relations and wrote a sports column for the base newspaper. His hectic job at Notre Dame requires the year ’round operation of his office and even in the summer months he is kept busy. One of his tasks then is turning out the Football Preview, or dope book, that awaits the students when they arrive on campus for the fall semester. Besides his publicity work for Notre Dame, which he graduated from in 1938, Callahan writes a weekly sports column for the Sunday Visitor, a widely-read Catholic newspaper* that circulates
throughout the country. Still, among all of these, he considers his most perplexing problem acquiring football tickets for his numerous friends for a game which is sold-out.
An interesting note, especially for this year, is the fact that his office is deluged less for releases, photographs, etc. when the football team is not so good, though an unprecedented season like the past presented him with the added task of helping to explain why the Irish hadn’t comd through in their usual championship form.
One of the main projects of the Sports Publicity Department is the writing of six to eight page sports releases that are sent out every Tuesday to 1100 of the most important radio stations and newspapers in the country. Every spring and fall the 1500 ND monogram winners receive the Monogram News, an informative news sheet concerning athletics at the university. Also, the colorful football programs sold at each home game are put out by Callahan’s office. Then too, Charlie has charge of supplying the sportswriters in the 300 seat Stadium press box with statistics, line-ups, programs and other information during and after the game.
Helping Charlie is a permanent secretary, Dee Robles, and an assistant secretary, Eleanor VanDerHeyden, during the football season. Three student assistants, all juniors, Joe Bride, of Washington, D.C., John McMahon, of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and Don Ruhl, of St. Louis, Missouri, also aid the department plus a group of other students who help in mailing releases, etc.
CHARLES CALLAHAN
ATHLETIC VEEP
Reverend Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., in addition to serving as the Executive Vice-President of Notre Dame, acts as the chairman of the University’s Faculty Board in Control of Athletics.
Father- Joyce was graduated from Notre Dame in 1937 and after his ordination returned to the University as assistant vice-president in charge of business affairs. He became acting vice-fj; president in the spring of 1950 but his duties in this office were interrupted for a year when he traveled to Oxford University in England for advanced study. Upon returning to the University, he resumed his former duties until he was elevated to the post of executive vicepresident in June, 1952.
Possibly the best example of Father Joyce’s feeling toward athletics at Notre^'. Dame can be found in a speech which he ~ gave at the testimonial banquet given for the 1954 Fighting Irish football team. That evening Father stated, “We can indeed be proud of their accomplishments on the gridiron. But what is even more important, the University is proud of the qualities of mind and heart that characterize the vast majority of the boys who wear the Notre Dame monogram on the playing field.”	|Ty
ATHLETIC DIRECTOR
Director of Athletics Edward W. Krause, more popularly known as “Moose,” has been associated with the teams of the Fighting Irish dating back to 1931. In his four years at Notre Dame he became one of the few men in the history of the school to gain AllAmerican honors in two major sports, football and basketball.
After his graduation, “Moose” was appointed Athletic Director and coach of all sports at St. Mary’s College in Winona, Minnesota. After completing five successful years at that position, he switched to a line coaching job at
32
Holy Cross. He returned to Notre Dame in 1942 as a line coach and, that winter, was appointed head basketball mentor.
During the war he spent two years in the Marines, seiwing in the Philippines and the Solomons. He resumed his duties in 1946 and also became Assistant Director of Athletics. Krause continued coaching both football and basketball until his appointment as Director of Athletics was announced in the spring of 1949.
TICKET MANAGER
Football season is the busiest time of the year for most athletic agencies at Notre Dame but Robert Cahill, ticket sales manager, experiences his piece de resistance even before the fall football sason begins. Not that he -isn’t kept occupied during the season and afterwards too, but Cahill has the thankless job of trying to please thousands of alumni and friends who all want tickets on the 50-yard line (there are 222 of them) and many more who just want in to see the game. Each year requests i are made for 500,000 tickets. Notre Dame has only 300,000 to sell. And this season, eight of the Irish’s ten games were sellouts.
The staff used by the office expands into a 14-man working force in July when the ticket applications begin to pour back in. During the season this is pared though even after the football campaign tickets have to be accounted for and a general inventory is taken.
It seems incongruous that a man such • as Cahill, who is so instrumental in s	Notre Dame football, doesn’t often get
j	to see a game. Saturday afternoon the
I	Ticket Manager stays in the box office,
I	attending to any complications that may
I	arise in the seating. It was while he
■	waited -in the office during the first half
a	of the memorable 1952 Oklahoma game
0 a that he received an urgent request for H	Frank Leahy. Since Coach Leahy hap
■	December 1, 1956
pened to be busy directing his charges in the Stadium, Cahill said Leahy was not available.
“Then listen Cahill,” said the man, “you tell Leahy they’re going right through the right side of our line arid he better do something about it.”
Fortunately, the Irish played the second half, much better defensively and won the game. Immediately after the whistle Cahill received another call from the same party saying:
“Cahill, you really told him. You really told him how to win the game.”
Robert Cahill often gets “urgent” requests for tickets from loyal alumni, sometimes in the early hours of the morning. An hour before this year’s Navy game was due to start in Baltimore, he received a telephone call in South Bend asking him to get tickets for a group of men, who were calling from New York.
BUSINESS MANAGER
To Herbert E. Jones, a graduate of the University in 1927, falls the gargantuan task of managing finances and business for all of Notre Dame’s athletic representatives. His official title, Business Manager of Athletics, specifically includes arranging the teams’ trips, ordering sporting equipment supplies, being in charge of the Stadium attendants and making up the school’s various athletic contracts.
To be sure the football team arrives at its destination on time and intact Jones has to arrange schedules, transportation, accommodations and see that the green shirted wrecking crew has the proper food under their belts to bring them up to their peak. The 900 attendants working at home games in the Stadium must be efficient and courteous to hold their positions under the Business Manager’s direction. Buying ath-
EDWARD KRAUSE
ROBERT CAHILL
letic equipment that must suit the demands of the various teams—from fencing and golf to football and wrestling— necessitates a knowledge of where and how this can be acquired for the least without sacrificing quality. His department’s responsibility which lies in the framing of contracts gives Jones and his secretary a year ’round occupation at his office in Breen-Phillips,
BAND
When the invigorating strains of the Victory March pierce the still autumn air at a Notre Dame football game, the student body rises as one, no matter whether the outburst was for an Irish touchdown or to inspire a dejected team waiting for the kick-off.
This fall, the Notre Dame Marching Band, 107 strong, achieved the unbelievable feat of presenting a different halftime show at every home football game and at one stretch worked out a different routine for seven consecutive weeks.
A week is needed to perfect a new routine and Robert O’Brien, director of the band, states that approximately -2500 man hours are put into a new show
In this, their most strenuous season, the Marching Band performed these acclaimed halftime presentations:. “My Fair Lady” (Indiana), “Carmen’’ (Purdue), “Circus” (Mich. State), “Nutcracker Suite” (Oklahoma) and “Tribute to LeRoy Anderson” (N. Carolina). And besides these five home ap-peaiances, they made the student trip to Pittsburgh and played at the half between the Chicago Cardinal-Philadelphia Eagle game in Chicago’s Comiskey Park.	.
The Irish Guard, with eight colorful marchers, that lead the band under the goal posts out onto the field this past season, has been a part of the Marching Band since 1951. Richard Kopituk, of -Linden, N. J., was drum major.
33
jack McAllister
EQUIPMENT MANAGER
To unsuspecting freshman athletes who come to the strange, long counter at the west end of the Fieldhouse, John W. McAllister appears as a wizened old gentleman who barks at them until they almost wonder if making the team won’t be easier than getting outfitted for it. The upperclassmen laugh because they know Jack McAllister, in his 70th year, is doing the same thing he once did to them. And they know too, that as Equipment Manager of the University, McAllister’s capability matches his age.
Still going strong in his 30th year at this post for the Notre Dame athletic department, McAllister has charge of supplying all the school’s teams with clean laundry, shoes and most of all, keeping an attentive eye to make sure everything is positively stationed at its correct place.
Through the Equipment Manager, orders for athletic gear are put into the Business Manager’s office. McAllister oversees the packing of the trunks when the different teams travel and also, in his year ’round job, his department issues footballs, basketballs, etc. for the games.
Helping McAllister disperse the equipment are senior and junior managers who are well schooled in all the phases of the business by the time they begin to supply the spring sports with athletic gear.
TRAINER
Head trainer, Gene Paszkiet, is the man who takes care of the bumps and bruises that the Irish athletic teams suffer during the season. And this football season Paszkiet has been kept more than busy.
34
Paszkiet, who is in his fifth year as head athletic trainer of the Blue and Gold, is a graduate of Notre Dame’s class of 1950. Prior* to returning to his Alma Mater, he served as head trainer for New York University for two years. While still in school he served as a student assistant under Trainer Hugh Burns, whom he succeeded.
His job is a tremendous one. The winding of miles of tape, along with the care and use of diathermy machines, infra-red and ultra violet lamps, whirlpools and other quick healing devices are all part of his job.
MANAGERS
Football at Notre Dame is a big machine. And working diligently behind the scenes of its operation is a group of students entrusted with keeping it in working order. These football managers number about 75, though only a minority of this group devotes their abilities to football at any one time. Each year from a large freshman contingent numbering around 40, the managers are paired off until, as this year, only eleven sophomores, eight juniors and seven seniors remain.
Of the seven seniors, three have charge of the managerial end of the football squad. AH the other student managers, except for the remaining four seniors who have charge of the other major sports, are under their supervision and tutorage. From the ranks of the underclassmen managers they select the students to succeed them.
The first requisite needed for a football manager is an ability to keep the team outfitted with essentials ranging from football cleats to palatable drinking water on plane trips.
MASCOT MIKE FINDS SEASON DIFFICULT
Heading the managerial corps this year is Joe Lauerman, a senior in the Commerce school from Marinette, Wis. Joe is the beneficiary of a full scholarship for his last year at Notre Dame and was the head football manager over the past football season. He was directly responsible for the demanding whims of newsmen, autograph hunters and even spies that regularly descend upon the team. His chief assistant and equip- ’S' ment manager was Don Timm, a senior from Dallas, Tex.
CHEERLEADERS
No one will deny that the spirit of Notre Dame is easy to arouse at a home football game, but for the six student cheerleaders, their job is to regulate it —from igniting the student body into screaming “hold that line” to leading them as they lustily spell out the name of their school. Their implements are simple: several basic cheers and colorful acrobatic maneuvers.
Co-Captain cheerleaders this year are Bill Keegan, senior from Rochester, N. Y. and Ed Healy, another senior from Alexandria, La. Under them are juniors Pete Roberson and Hugh McGuire, sophomore *'Doug Gonzales and freshman Bernie Davitto.
Besides the five home games, members of this leather-lunged group made the trips to the Pittsburgh and Navy encounters.
Three year old pedigree Irish Terrier Shannon Mike III, now with two complete football seasons under his collar as mascot, is also a reflection of this spirit. Make, under the care of Joe ) Dierickx, custodian of the Stadium, rests in his pen there with his three puppies when not prancing on the green Stadium turf.
Football Review
* Final 195G Season Statistics
TEAM
Notre Dame	Opponents
130 ................. Points Scored ............... 289
142 ................. First Downs ................ 193
92 ................... by	Rushing................ 147
46 ................... by	Passing ............     40
$	4 ................. by Penalties ................. 6
1708 ...............   Yards	Rushing ............. 2791
431 .................  Times	Carried ............   548
4.0 ................. Yards per try............    5.0
1264 ................   Yards	Passing ............. 935
167 ................ Passes	Attempted ...........   135
87 ................ Passes	Completed ............. 66
.521 ............. Completion	Percentage .........  489
9 ....'........ Passes Intercepted by ........... 18
160 ...........Yards	Interceptions returned........ 357
Ok 2972 .............. TOTAL OFFENSE ................ 3726
39 .................... Punts ..................   31
1433 ............. Total Yards Punts  ...........  1219
36.7 .............. Punting Average ............   39.3
129 .............Yards Punts Returned............. 173
23 ................... Fumbles	................. 19
13   ................. Ball Lost................   10
RUSHING
Hornung 		TC 	 94
— Lewis 			   59
® Ward 				 38
Lima 				   39
Morse 				 48
Milota 					 25
Just 						   27
Reynolds 				 20
Studer 							:.....	18
Williams 					 22
Royer 					   0*
Pietrosante 				 8
@ Sipes 				
Odyniec 			  6
McDonnell 					  2
Cooke 			  4
Lynch 							 14
Selcer 				 2
Yds. 420 292 170 157 148
99 96 76 63 46 39 27 20 19 10 10 10
6
Avg.
4.5
4.9
4.5
4.0
3.0
4.0
3.6
3.8
3.5
2.0
3.4
4.0
3.3
5.0
2.5
0.7
3.0
Ran with teammate’s fumble.
PASSING
Att. Comp. Had Int. Yds. TD Pct.
Hornung 	 Ill	59	13	917	3	.532
A Williams 	 31	16	4	197	1	.516
Morse 	   7	5	1	68	0	.714
Cooke 	 12	6	0	63	1	.500
Milota 	   2	1	0	19	0	.500
Lewis 		 3	0	0	0	0	.000
Ward 	  1	0	0	0	0	.000
PASS INTERCEPTIONS
No.	Yds.
Lewis 	   3	39
Hornung 	     2	59 " Shulsen 	   1	12
Sullivan 	 1	11
Ward 	-	 1	4
Williams 	 1	30
Lawrence 	 0*	5
* On lateral from Hornung
PASSES BROKEN UP
(Leaders only) Hornung (7), Lynch, Morse, Reynolds, Ward, and Lewis (2).
PASSES CAUGHT		
No.	Yds.	TD
Morse 	 20	442	1
Lewis 		         11	170	1
Lima 		       7	105	0
Royer 	     7	85	1
Ward 	-	 6	77	1
Lynch 	   5	54	0
Wetoska 	     5	57	1
Reynolds 	  4	63	0
Myers 	 4	39	0
Toth 	-	 3 Prendergast 	     3	49 29	0 0
Just 	 3	25	0
Sipes 			-	 3	24	0
Hornung 	 3	26	0
Studer 	   2		0
Munro 	   1	16	0
KICKOFFS RETURNED		
No.	Yds.	TD
Hornung 	   16	496	1
Ward 	-	-	-	 9	195	1
Lewis 	 6	167	0
Morse 		        4	72	0
Lynch 	 2 Williams 	 3	53 45	0 0
Lima 	   3.	36	0
Reynolds 	   2	33	0
McDonnell 		   1	27	0
Wetoska 	„	 1	19	0
Just 	 1	17	0
Milota 	 1	14	0
PUNTING		
No.	Yds.	Avg.
Hornung 	    33	1242	37.6
Cooke 		 4	155	.	38.3
Morse 	     1	36	36.0
PUNTS RETURNED		
.	No.	Yds.	TD
Hornung 	   4	63	0
Lewis 	:	.	.’...	5	46	0
Morse 		    1	12	0
Lynch 	   2	8	0
SCORING		
TD	PAT	Pts.
Hornung 	   7	14	56
Ward 	    3	0	.	18
Lewis 	  -	-	2	0	12
Reynolds 	 .	 2	0	12
Morse 	  1	0	6
Royer- 	 1	0	6
Sipes 	     1	0	6
Williams 	 1	0	6
Wetoska 	  1 Safety vs. Iowa		0	6 2
OPPONENTS’ FUMBLES RECOVERED		
Just (2), Ecuyer, Hedrick, Lewis, Myers,	Royer,	Studer,
O’Brien, and Burke.		
TACKLES		
(Leaders only and includes assists) Sullivan	(79), Hornung	
(55), Nagurski (52), Ecuyer (46), Lewis	(44),	Hedrick"
(41), Shulsen (37), Geremia (35), Reynolds	(26),	Wetoska
(25), Gaydos, Morse and Lima (23), Just and Myers (22),		
Mosca (21), McGinley and Royer (18).		. - -
December 7, 1956
35
TIME OUT
Looking back at the last ten weeks, even the most avid Irish fan has to admit that there hasn’t been too much reason for joy, and perhaps even a little justification for remorse. However, this has not been the case as far as the student body is concerned. I think that everyone connected with the University should be commended on the spirit shown this season, proving that there is really something distinct about the spirit of Notre Dame, and giving ample proof that we don’t back our teams because they are winners but because they are OUR teams. Many people were looking at us this year and I believe’ that we have passed the acid test.
A week after the Oklahoma catastrophe, we received a letter from two girls who had visited the University for the first time. These girls were neither sentimentalists nor radicals about Notre Dame before that weekend. The following is an excerpt from that letter.
“We arrived back safe and sound, but hardly happy to be back. If the University of Notre Dame ever stands in need of a press agent, it has two of the most enthusiastic it can ever find in us. Notre Dame is an experience that every college girl should be allowed to have—it is simply marvelous. We just can’t say what it is about ND—it is just a very warm and glowing atmosphere that permeates the whole University. We can’t remember seeing an unsmiling face—and the enthusiasm, noise and excitement of that rally. Well—I guess you understand what we mean. Then of course we think that the constant awareness of Christ and Our Lady has something to do with it, too. Perhaps you there are so close that you don’t notice it— but even the presence of a crucifix wherever you go is quite a significant thing to an outsider. It somehow symbolizes that unexplainable “feeling” of Notre Dame. I guess that the most logical conclusion that one can draw about this different “feeling” is that the University itself lives and breathes—and every breath it draws is the gift of every one of the wonderful people that is a part of Notre Dame.”
To move from this idea a little, it is Tyler’s opinion that although the schedule is tough next year, the Irish should wind up with a very good record, certainly in the Top Ten. With some 25 lettermen returning Coach Brennan certainly has the nucleus around which to build his ball club. Also in oui* favor is the fact that while the freshman team should give a number of players to the varsity, Brennan will not have to depend on them as he had to depend on last year’s freshman team. We look for next year’s Irish to finish with no worse than an eight and two record.
The brightest spot in our rather drab winter was Paul Hornung. Paul, although hampered by two dislocated thumbs, lived up to his reputation as one of the best in Irish history, even though he was playing on a sub-par Irish squad. As Lany Cooke so aptly put it, Paul graciously dimmed his chances for All-American rating to aid the team in any way possible, playing fullback in the latter stages of the season, although he was unaccustomed to that position. He did this willingly because he thought that it would aid the team. He was undoubtedly the best all-around offensive back in the country and certainly the best defensive back that we have seen this season.
It is hard for us to see how certain national news outlets failed to place Paul on their All-America first team. He did everything that was asked of him and then some. He was outstanding against the best football teams in the country. He was an All-American all the way—John Glavin.
36
Football Review
Weekend Visitors
0
0
ARRIVAL
Karen Buescher and Margie Moore, lovely ladies from Wellesley College, visited Tom Sabo and Jack Seiner, both juniors here at Notre Dame, over the Oklahoma weekend. Their brief stay is presented here in a photographic essay by Bobert J. Early '
IN CLASS
DAYTIME RALLY
38
Football Review
December 7, 1956
39
Varsity Hopefuls
by JIM GOETHALS
With Notre Dame’s varsity facing an O even more rigorous schedule next season, much weight lies on this year’s freshman squad to adequately supply much needed depth and possibly a couple of starters.
In coping with this problem, Jack Landry, freshman coach and former Irish halfback-fullback of 1948-50 has worked diligently out on the practice field for the past three months in an attempt to develop the needed talent. The weekly program for the first year men who number around 40 has, among other things, included practicing the basic blocking and tackling chores, scrimmaging against the varsity both on offense and defense, and many times
FRESHMAN COACH JACK LANDRY
engaging in a full scale intersquad scrimmage of their own on Friday after-O noons.
In sizing them up, Coach Landry is noncommittal as he points out, “It is very difficult to evaluate any group of freshmen who have not known game conditions and pressure and are but three months into their freshman year. That there is talent there will not be known until next September 28 in their a first game.”
“Naturally though,” Landry continued, “we are hoping that this squad really has it, and judging from their improvement in the past three months, they could very well be the group we are looking for to plug the gap.”
An evaluation of talent at each position appears to indicate that the 0 recruits have good size, especially at
December 7, 1956
the tackle and end positions where size is advantageous.
The key position that has to be filled next year is the one vacated by All-American Paul Hornung and his understudy Larry Cooke.
However, one name, that of George Izo, has been frequently mentioned in the past few weeks both on and off campus to possibly relieve Coach Brennan of this worry. Izo, a solid 6-2, 205-pound threat from Barberton, Ohio, is a good passer and runner and as Landry says, “He has tremendous potential and could help us very much next year. We hope he develops into a good football player.” Also listed as top prospects for the signal-calling role are Don White from Haverhill, Mass., and Henry Wilke, a 6-0, 200 pounder from Hamilton, Ohio.
At halfback, the most impressive candidates to date have been Pat Healy, a 6-1, 212-pound prospect from Baltimore, Pat Doyle from Sioux City, Iowa, Tom Healey from Davenport, Iowa, and Tony Sanfilippo from North East, Pa.
The leading candidates at fullback, which has been a problem child for the Irish since the departure of Don Schaefer, are Bob Bini from Cleveland and Jim Crotty, who is a former teammate of Bronko Nagurski, Jr. at International Falls, Minn. High School. Both are under six feet and weigh in at 185 pounds.
Size pretty well describes the best all-around end prospects which include Monty Sickles, a husky 6-4, 220-pounder from1 Poughkeepsie, N. Y., and Mike Graney, the 6-5, 225-pound giant foot-ball-basketball ace from Hammond Noll High School here in Indiana. Providing the stiff competition at this position, however, are Ollie Flor who hails from Seattle, Wash., Joe Biasatti from Dallas, and Mike Lodish from Detroit.
Bolstering next year’s varsity tackle slot will be such timber as Bob Nico-lazzi, 6-2, 215 pounds from Kenosha, Wis., Ken Adamson, 6-2, 200 pounds from Poughkeepsie, N. Y., and Mike pounds from St. George in Evanston, Ill., Mike Gorham, 6-3, 220 pounds from Wilkes Barre, Pa., Don McAllister, 6-3, 225 pounds from St. Xavier in Louisville, and Bob Hughes, 6-2, 220 pounds from Grand Ridge, Ill.
At .the guard slot, where the Irish are especially hurting, the prospects are not quite as big as the tackles but are just as ready and willing and able.
Coach Landry gave special mention of such candidates as Albin Sabal, a 5-11, 205 pounder from Chicago, whose brother played for Purdue this past season, Ed Muehlbauer, standing 5-10 and weighing 220 pounds from Canisius High in Buffalo, N. Y., and Bob Pietr-zak, a 6-2, 215-pound competitor from Detroit. Also deserving mention is Paul Loop, a 6-1, 208-pound prospect from Tulsa, Okla.
A tough battle has been waged for the “best center” role between Dave Hurd and Bob Scholtz. Hurd stands 6-2 and weighs 215 and hails from Three Rivers, Michigan, while Scholtz, a native Tulsan, stands 6-2 at 230 pounds. Also very much in the running for the middle of the line post are Jack Sifferman, a Chicago lad, and Bob Corson, of Manistique, Mich.
The heaviest man on the squad is Gary Steckler from Ville Platte, La., who is a man-sized 260 pounder though only 5-10.
Although these candidates have been given special mention by Coach Landry at this point, this does not mean that the others are completely out of contention. As has been the case in many years at Notre Dame, occasionally a player overlooked as a . freshman develops into a later star.

Two Legs, ho.
SUBURBAN COATS! All Wool Quilted lined Toggle Fastener or Leather Buttons $19.95
100% WOOL FLANNEL SLAX Ivy Model or Regular $10.75
118 So. Mich. St.
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
41
42
No pipe mixture at any price can match ||Q|JQj|Y
We proved it and so can you A sample of Holiday Pipe Mixture in a plain wrapper was shown to the custom blender in a nationally famous tobacco shop. "‘Can you duplicate this tobacco?" he was asked. After careful examination, he said, frankly, that he couldn't. Although he could identify the types of tobacco used and could supply them in a S6 a pound mixture. he couldn't guess the secret of the blend /You can verify Holiday's matchless flavor in a much easier way — smoke a pipeful. Money back for the pouch flap if you don't agree.
LARUS & BROTHER COMPANY, INC., RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
Custom blended
■for mildness
More men
every year switch to
Holiday, because it contains these five famous tobaccos skillfully blended into a mixture of unequalled flavor, aroma and mildness. Each tobacco adds its own distinctive flavor and aroma, to make Holiday America’s finest pipe mixture. Try a pipeful—enjoy its coolness, flavor and aroma— and see for yourself why more and more men are switching to Holiday as a steady smoke.
the nation's NEW pleasure smoke
WIEMCKS FINEST PIPE MIXTURE...Cahada's Finest Ibo!
All-American Team •
(Continued from Page 31) asked of him in leading his team to an undefeated season. Coach Bowden Wyatt’s single wing offense is based around Majors’ ability to successfully run the pass-run option and Johnny has performed it magnificently.
Jim Brown is oui- second team halfback. The Syracuse speedster, who isV* also a starting guard on the Orange basketball team, ranks as the best runner in the East. He scored 109 points on 34 touchdowns and 22 extra points, and averaged 6.2 yards per carry while accumulating 986 yards.
Jon Arnett of Southern California gets the other halfback position. Arnett played in only five of the Trojans games due to the eligibility scandal, but even^ j so, was i-ated one of the best in the nation. His own coach, Jess Hill, says there is none finer than speedy Jon.
FULLBACKS
Paige Cothren of the University of Mississippi certainly deserves his ranking as the numbei- one fullback. Wally Butts of Georgia calls him the best blocking fullback that he has seen in _ many years. This year he tied the mod-^. em college record of six field goals in one season and also tied the single game record with three against Vanderbilt.
Southern Cal’s junioi- fullback, C. R. Roberts gets the second team nod. He is probably the most explosive runner in collegiate football. He led the Trojans in rushing ■with a 6.4 average. He ranked one-two with “Jaguar Jon” Arnett in total offense and was second in scoring with 36 points. He led the club in kickoff returns returning eight for 217 yards.
Following are listed the players who are the honorable mention choices. These men figured heavily in the voting but did not receive enough votes to break into the top three teams.
ENDS: Lopata (Yale), Gilliam (Iowa), Leahy (Colorado), Frick (South Carolina).
TACKLES: Hobert (Minnesota), Kar- 0 ras (Iowa), Pollock (Pitt), Gordy (Tennessee), Vereen (Georgia Tech).
GUARDS: Harris (UCLA), Currie (M'SU), Scorsone (Pitt), Davis (Maryland), Maxime (Auburn), Stapp (Colorado) .
CENTERS: Szvetecz (Anny), Matheny (UCLA), Owseichik (Yale), Whitmire (Navy).	£
QUARTERBACKS: Benham (Columbia), Plum (Penn St.), Pleon (Iowa).
HALFBACKS: Thomas (Okla.), Woodson (Illinois), Wells (Clemson), McKeiver (Northwestern).
FULLBACKS: Herrastein (Michigan), Bayuk (Colorado), Pardee (Texas A&M), Borstad (Minnesota), Pricer . (Okla.), Kyasky (Army).	W
Football Review


rrdG
Girish Open Schedule Against Purdue Sept. 28: Military Academy Returns After Long Absence
, The football schedule for the 1957 sea’ son remains essentially the same as this ; year’s with one exception, Army replac-• ing North Carolina. The order in which ; the games ■will be played also is some-| ^what different.
:	The Irish open their 69th season
at Lafayette, Indiana, Septembei- 28, against the Boilermakers of Purdue. This year the downstate rivals crushed the home town boys by two touchdowns due mainly to the passing of Len Dawson, their brilliant quarterback. Next season Dawson won’t be around, nor ■will his favorite pass catchers, Lamar ^Lundy and Bob Khoenle. The Boiler-^makers will be lacking through the air for the first time since 1950 and the era of Dale Samuels.
Bob Clasey and Ed Voytek, the starting guards this year, also will graduate come spring, leaving three men including Neil Habig, on the line and three men in the backfield as the nucleus of the ’57 squad.
Probably the strongest point of the ^’57 Purdue team will be the backfield.
Tommy Fletcher and Erich Barnes, the halfbacks, have good speed, and Barnes at times this season drove like a fullback. Mel Dillard, playing in the middle of the backfield, can go either way and is a tough man to stop on the third down four-to-go situations.
The home season begins October 5, with the third meeting of the present series with Indiana. The Hoosiers lose ^14 lettermen this year to graduation including standout quarterback Gene “Chic” Cichowski, fullback Bob Fee and end Brad Bomba, and prospects for filling these holes look bleak.
NED OLDHAM
Navy halfback
In what at best could be called a so-so season, Jim Powell seemed to be a bright spot in the backfield. Operating at right half he is very quick and with his 200 pounds poses a threat of the long run every time the Hoosiers break out of the huddle. His counterpart at left half is Willie Jones, a quick little seatback who can run wild in a broken field. Both have that break-away potential, but potential doesn’t win ball games as this year’s squad found out.
In the third game of the season the Irish meet one of their all-time rivals when they play the men from the United States Military Academy. The game will be played in Philadelphia on Oct. 12.
In 34 previous encounters the Irish have won 23, lost 7 and tied 4. Three of those ties in 1922, 1941, and 1946 were scoreless.
Army at times this season showed signs of tremendous power and generally their offense was rated as very good. Their defense however never reached the peak which was expected.
Back at right guard will be Stan Slater starting his third season for the Cadets. Coach Earl Blaik said that; “Slater is one of the finest guard prospects in Army football history.”
Probably the boy the Army will miss most is Ed Szvetecz, their center. A good blocker and a fiery defender he captained the team last year. Look for Army to rank as a national power next season.
The Irish have an open date on the weekend of the 19th, but the following week on October 26, they play Pittsburgh at Notre Dame.
The Jungle Cats lose their whole start-
CLENDON THOMAS
Oklahoma halfback
NEIL HABIG
Purdue center
ing backfield and all but two men on the line. Charlie Brueckman at center and Dan Wisniewski at right guard are the regulars returning.
The biggest losses to the club are the graduations of Corny Salvaterra, considered by some the best quarterback in the East this season, and Joe Walton, their brilliant All-American end.
The Panthers lost heavily from graduation, so next year should be more of a " rebuilding season than a winning one.
On November 2, Notre Dame takes on the United States Naval Academy at home. The Middies lose only five men through graduation, two in the backfield and three on the line.
Chief among those departing are Wilson Whitmire, the center, and Earle Smith, end and captain, but Eddie Erde-latz won’t have to worry about experience. At halfback Ned Oldham will be playing his third year for the Middies. The return of John Kanuch, Tony Anthony, and Tony Stremic keep the left side of the line intact.
The Middies, like the Army, should rank as one of the big powers in the East and the country.
On November 9, the Irish journey to ' East Lansing, Michigan, to engage in battle with the Spartans of Michigan State. The Spartans are always tough on the Irish, having beaten them five times in the last six meetings.
Again next year the Spartans are loaded. From the first two strings of the team which this year beat the Irish 47-14, Coach Duffy Daugherty has sixteen returnees. Also to add to the Notre Dame woes is the report that State has come up with the best freshman team in the Midwest.
The returning lettermen who should
(Continued on Page 46)
December 7, 1956
43
Noire Dome Miniatures for Your Sweetheart
CHRISTMAS 1956
Miniature Notre Dame rings are available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styles. These rings are used as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice or to a feminine member of your family with whom you share the prestige of your association with the University.
The miniature ring design is identical with the official ring, only more delicate in its modulation and construction.
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as an ensemble. These plain and contoured bands are illustrated above.
PRICE LIST—NOTRE DAME MINIATURES AND BANDS
Aquamarine, genuine, faceted top and back....$20.00 Black onyx....................................    17.00
Black spinel No. 1, buff top-faceted back........ 18.00 Blue spinel No. 2, faceted top and back.......... 18.00 Ruby No. 1, synthetic, buff top-faceted back.... 18.00 Ruby No. 2, synthetic, faceted top and back.... 18.00 Sapphire, synthetic, dark blue...................  19.00
Sapphire, synthetic, light blue ...............   19.00
Tourmaline No. 1, buff top-faceted back.......... 18.00 Tourmaline No. 2, faceted top and back........... 18.00
ENGAGEMENT RINGS All-diamond cluster, 10K .................. 150.00
Diamond cluster with oval synthetic sapphire, ruby or tourmaline center ................. 83.00
WEDDING BANDS
Ladies’, Plain or Beaded, Regular ...........$ 6.00
Ladies’, Plain or Beaded, Contour ........    8.00
Man's, Plain or Beaded, Regular  ............ 11.00
Man's Plain or Beaded, Contour ............. 12.00
Add $3.00 to the price of any buff top stone ring for 24k gold encrusted Notre Dame monogram. Tax — Add 10% Federal Tax to the above prices.
Ring Size For Measuring Finger
3456789 1011
ORDER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Notre Dame, Indiana
44
Football Review
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
The News
Is Out!
A Tender 1 lb. Ham Steak cooked just for YOU ... At Frankiers . . . only $1.45 every Monday and Wednesday.
1003 N. Notre Dame Ave. house or pizza
Just 5 blocks from campus	I
FAY'S
QUALITY JEWELERS 111S. Michigan
•
“The store for your most important gift shopping.”
•
“Superb Selection of America’s Foremost Makes of WATCHES of the Latest and most exciting Styles and Patterns.”
Expert Watch and Jewelry Service Our Specialty.
“Make Cyr’s your headquarters for haircuts.”
Call CE 3-0678 for appointment
CYR’S
BARBER SHOP
South Bend’s Leading Barber Shop
100—102 S. MAIN ST.
W. E. CYR, Prep.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches J.TRETHEWEY JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
1957 Football Schedule
(Continued from page 43) give the Irish the most trouble are linemen Arch Matsos, Tony Kolodziej and Pat Burke, and backs Walt Kowalczyk, Don Gilbert and James Wulff.
The Irish then travel to Norman, Oklahoma for their November 16 encounter with Coach Bud Wilkinson’s Oklahoma Sooners.
Gone from the 1956 club who humiliated the Irish at Notre Dame are AllAmericans Ed Gray, Jerry Tubbs and Tommy McDonald. However the Sooners should again be one of the very top teams in the country led by Clendon Thomas, who this year was considered by many to be every bit as good as McDonald. Coach Wilkinson will have only three returning starters back. However
FOREST EVASHEVSKI
Iowa coach
he will have almost the entire “alternate eleven,” the shock troops, who did such a good job for him this year.
The Irish return home for their eighth game of the season, November 23, when they face the Iowa Hawkeyes.
The Hawkeyes will have seven returning starters to face the Irish led by Mike Hagler, a standout two-year letterman from Washington, D.C., and Jim Gibbons, a double monogram winner from Chicago.
Coach Forrest Evashevski will probably stick with his multiple-offense which has caused the Irish so much trouble in the past.
November 30 marks the close of the home football season for the Irish when they face the Trojans of the University of Southern California in the twentyeighth meeting in the long series dating back to 1926.
Hard hit by graduation and the Pa-(Continued on Page 49)
HERE'S YOUR TICKET
For Your 1957
Vacation
®vs ARMY
AT PHILADELPHIA
Saturday, October 12, 1957 FOOTBALL AND THEATRE TOUR New York—4 days 2 Stage Plays Leave Oct. 7—Return Oct. 13 From Chicago or South Bend
;, TEXAS
Saturday, December 7, 1957
NEW ORLEANS
2 Days
DALLAS, TEXAS
2 Days
Leave Chicago December 2
Return Chicago December 9
PETE REDDEN WESTWARD HO TRAVEL BUREAU 1671 Lincolnway East SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Write for Information Reservation Must Be in Early DON’T DELAY
46
Football Review
® Coach Brennan Loses 21 Seniors: Must Replace Hornung, Morse
by JIM MCDONALD AND JIM steintrager
A college football career ended for y^ch of 21 seniors when the gun sounded hiding the Southern California game last Saturday. Of these 21, a number will go down as some of the finest who ever wore the Irish green. Others 'will be remembered as reserves, but all have taken their place among the select few who can boast that, “I played football for Notre Dame.”
Gone will be the leadership of team captain Jimmy Morse. A three-year let-drman, Morse is the first back to captain the team since 1945. Though hobbled by leg injuries throughout his career, Morse was nevertheless the team’s outstanding pass receiver, time and time again making circus catches that thrilled the fans and discouraged the opposition. He was a dangerous runner, and his 72-yard gallop for the winning touchdown against Southern ^California in 1954 will long be remem-’wered.
The name of Paul Hornung will take its place among those of Stuhldreher, Bertelli, Lu jack, Guglielmi and the other great Notre Dame quarterbacks. Selected on numerous All-American teams during i the past two years, Hornung did every-; thing and did it well. Time and time again his runs thrilled capacity crowds as he powered through the opponent’s f$jne. His passes hit the mark, and his Dooming punts and kickoffs kept the opposition deep in the hole. He excelled on defense, and saved many a touchdown by catching an opposing back ; from behind when it seemed he was on | his way.
; Larry Cooke, named the most im-■ \ proved quarterback for his play during spring practice, had the misfortune of j flaying behind Hornung, though he . Showed ability as a defensive player and punter, winning letters in 1955 and 1956.
Coach Terry Brennan had. a dependable pair of halfbacks for three years in Dean Studer and Sherrill Sipes. Studer, alternating between halfback and fullback, won three letters and was always a breakaway threat due to his ability to follow the blockers. Sipes was a teammate of Hornung at Louisville Flaget High School, but was hampered by leg injuries here at Notre Dame. He was particularly effective on defense, and a dangerous runner as well.
John McDonnell and Jim Milota proved to be capable reserves at the halfback positions. McDonnell received the Hering Award as the most improved back in the 1956 spring practice, and starred for the varsity in the Old Timers game. Unfortunately he was hampered by a shoulder injury this year. Though Milota never played high school football, he came on toward the end of this season. A savage tackler and excellent pass defender, Milota played particularly well against Oklahoma.
End Bob Scannell is another of the many seniors handicapped by injuries during the past season. As a result of his fine line play and his 91 average in the College of Liberal Arts, he was named to the preseason Scholastic All-American first team. Against Southern Methodist in his sophomore year, Scannell scored a touchdown by blocking a punt, recovering the ball, and racing 20 yards into the end zone. Since that time, he has been a dependable “swing” man and spent many an afternoon in the opposing backfield.
Lou Loncaric, also sidelined by injuries this year, will best be remembered for his 75-yard run with an intercepted pass in the 1955 North Carolina game. It was the longest scoring run of the season for the Irish. It was his mis-
(Continued on page 48)
Order Now!
THE 1957 FOOTBALL
DOPE BOOK
PUBLISHED IN AUGUST,
the Dope Book is especially prepared for the sports writers, radio and TV announcers and for all the Notre Dame fans seeing or hearing the Fall games.
You’ll find feature stories and action pictures; biogiaphies and pictures of players and coaches; complete schedule and capsule information on the opponents plus Notre Dame’s all-time records and All-Americans since football began at the University in 1887. August, 1957	50c
RESERVE YOUR COPY OF THE 1957 FOOTBALL REVIEW NOW— published in December, 1957, after the season.	50c
BOTH 1957 magazines	$1.00
PUBLICATIONS DEPARTMENT
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breens
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS
EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING
BREEN’S
Jeweler 325 South Michigan Street
Phone AT 7-3630

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
SOUTH BEND COCA-COLA CO.
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
December
7, 1956
47
Brennan Loses 21
YOULL BE MORE POPULAR.
if you join the fun at Arthur Murray’s today
You’ll have the time of your life learning to dance at Arthur Murray’s. There are student-teacher parties all the time and gay, get-together dances, too. It’s the new way, the Murray way, to learn to dance. It’s quicker and easier this w'ay because you start right in dancing. You see, Arthur Murray has discovered a simple, basic step that anyone can master in almost no time. So don’t miss out on fun and popularity that should be yours. Come in or phone the studio now.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne St. CE 2-3339
(Continued from page 47)
fortune to play behind three of the finest centers in Notre Dame history, Dick Szymanski, Jim Mense, and Ed Sullivan. Fans will also remember the sight of End Jim Munro grabbing two touchdown passes against North Carolina in 1954, when only a sophomore. Munr^ ) is another senior who won a Hering Award for his outstanding play at end in spring practice.
Tough luck also dogged Paul Schramm this year. Alternating between end and tackle in 1955, Schramm won a letter and was considered a top candidate for a starting post on this year’s eleven until sidelined by a knee injury.
Former fullback Tom Hughes wa^ switched to guard this year and worketr his way to a starting position against
Navy, one of serves.
Both
Throughout the season, he was Coach Brennan’s capable re-
George Groble and Joe Bosse
Ji
3
‘I
L
yOU
were lost to the team early in the year due to bad knee injuries. Groble received a Hering Award as the most improved tackle in spring practice and won a starting position in the SMl^ game. Bosse missed spring practice because of an operation on his knee. Unfortunately the injury failed to re-
Continued on page 49)
<
<
C
The Huddle
Best Wishes to 1956

Notre Dame Football Squad
01
STOP at the HUDDLE
for that little snack between classes
Ei
K


Football Review

Parker-Winterrowd Inc. TAILORS-CLOTHiERS llSVi-l IZ’A No. Main St. UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.

a

Parker-Wiiterrowd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS 115%-117% No. Main St. UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Consult our campus representative:
JOHN E. KUHN, 366 Alumni
1957 Football Schedule
(Continued from page 46) cific Coast Conference ruling on eligibility, the Trojans will have to rely on untested sophomores and junior college transfers for their 1957 team. Gone through graduation are Jon Arnett, Ells Kissinger and a host of very good Trojan lineman. Although still in school, C. R. Roberts and Karl Rubke are lost to S.C. because of the eligibility scandal.
However things aren’t terribly dismal as the Trojans have a number of sophomores who although they are short on game experience are excellent ballplayers. Ranked first among these men is Tony Ortega, an extremely hard runner, who can play both wingback and fullback. Also a very strong runner is Rex Johnston from Compton, California. In the line Ron Humenuik should help to plug the gap left iby the graduation of Fabian Abram.
On December- 7, Notre Dame travels to Dallas, Texas for the season’s finale against the rugged Mustangs from Southern Methodist. This year SMU tripped the Irish and went on to a very fine season under the tutelage of Woody Woodward. They should be very strong again next year.
Returning from the 1956 squad are a number of veterans paced by the star of this year’s game, Charlie Arnold. Gone will be such standout players as Tommy Gentry and Smitty Keller but they should not be too sorely missed as Southern Methodist is reported to have the best freshman team in the Southwest Conference. Also back from last year’s team will be backs Lon Slaughter and Charlie Jackson, along with a number of veteran linemen paced by center Bill Livingstone.
—Bob Early and Mike Fitzpatrick
Brennan Loses 21
(Continued from page 48)
spond to treatment and prevented him from playing this year.
Jack King, another senior, was sidelined by a back injury.
Four other seniors, Gerry Gerami, Tom Cunningham, Pete Noznesky, and Frank Stanitzek spent most of their football careers battling the varsity on Cartier’s practice field, hardly an enviable task.
Another senior, Bob Mondron, assisted Freshman Coach Jack Landry in coaching the freshman team this year.
'The seniors’ last season was hardly the best in Notre Dame football history, but it wasn’t because men like these weren’t out there trying week after week. Thy played the game the only way they knew how, and that was the Notre Dame way.
Al Smith
INVITES YOU TO SOUTH BENO’S FINEST HI H SOUND STUDIO
Specializing in High Fidelity Systems
Electric Voice	Tuners
University	Amplifiers
National	Enclosures
Phillips of Holland	Changers
Tape Records	and	Supplies
Reck O Kut	Presto
Webcor	Garrard
Colloro	V M
Audiophite Net
AL SMITHS HI H SOUND STUDIO 412 South Michigan Street At. 9-6540
• 1-Year Written Guarantee
• All Watches Tested Electronically
* Specialists in Automatics, Chronographs and Waterproofs
•Indiana Registered Watchmaker— 11 Years Experience
121 W. Washington Ave. CE 4-1311
minus UII1KY aai INK SUP
New. Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
i-3
| December 7, 1956
50
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
I
A Campus-to-Career Case History
He puts communications on the go
Martin Jepson. E.E., Purdue, ’53, is an Engineer in the Radio and Special Services Section of Illinois Bell Telephone Company.
“I help design mobile radiotelephone systems,” says Martin. “We have a wide variety of customers, including trucking firms, railroads and marine traffic of all kinds. Many businessmen, too, want these systems for their private cars. Each customer has his own communications problems, and these are a constant and stimulating engineering challenge.
“Another part of my job is to help set up facilities for conventions,
sports events and the like. Last summer’s Democratic National Convention, for instance, used enough circuits and facilities to serve a small city. There were special circuits for broadcasting, teletypewriters, the ' press, and for inside communications. It was our job to set those facilities up and keep them operating.
“The increase in demand for telephone and related services is phenomenal. It’s this growth that’s creating real career opportunities in the telephone business. Add to this the fact that it’s a stable business, and you’ve really got something!”

Martin Jepson is one of many young men who are finding interesting careers in Bell Telephone Companies, and also in Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. See your placement officer for more information about Bell System Companies.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
*1
Live Modem
smoke modern 11M
Let your taste come alive!
Enjoy the richer flavor of modern I
. . Today—America’s fastest-growing cigarette
©Liggett 4 Myeks Tobacco Co.
Free Yourself of old-fashioned ideas.
FREE UP!
FRESHEN UP YOUR TASTE!



Get ful!, exciting flavor through UN’s Miracle Tip
™e miracle
}
Only the modern miracle of L&M’s pure-white Miracle Tip brings all that flavor through to you.
No other cigarette . . . plain or filter. . . can match it.
L&M tastes Richer . . . draws Easier . . . smokes Cleaner.

