Discs quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 3, 1884.
May.
I walked abroad and felt the happy light Stream in its golden glory round my head, And life was love, and all the earth was bright—
Yoked to its star with radiant reins that led
Thro’ sunny-stillness to the throne of God! zYnd brightly shone the land, a living green;
And children lay upon the shining sod,
And sun and flower and hair a golden sheen, In their commingled brightness, made. And here
I heard the murmuring stillness ’mid the trees;
The chirp of birds and twittering charmed my ear.
I loved the earth; the day I longed to seize,—
But the darkness falling, it faded away: ’Twas onlv a flower for the Queen of the May!
.	T. E. S.
Parliamentary Practice.
RULES GOVERNING PROCEEDINGS IN DELIBERATIVE ASSEMBLIES.
(Conclusion.)
By courtesy, the mover of a resolution is ordinarily permitted to open and close the debate. Each member has the right to speak once, and only once, until all have had opportunity to be heard. Should a member abuse this privilege, by speaking longer than a becoming respect for the rights of others justifies, any other member may rise to a point of order and interrupt him, stating to the chair that he is abusing his privilege. If advisable, the chair may rule him out of order. Where the abuse of privilege is gross, a motion denying him a further hearing may be made; and the incidental question so raised may for the time supersede the consideration of the measure before the house.
Personalities, vulgar language and slang expressions should be avoided. A speaker should not be interrupted unless he abuses the privileges of debate. Matters foreign to the question under discussion are out of order. If a question of order be raised, the speaker must pause until it is settled. Should he, by request, temporarily yield the floor, he would not thereby forfeit his right to resume and finish his speech. To insure this right, however, the attention of the presiding officer should be called to the matter. The better, usage forbids
the mention of names in debate. It is customary and proper to say, c£ the gentleman who preceded me,” “ the gentleman who opened the discussion,” “ the gentleman on my right,” and the like. But should it be impossible by such means clearly to . designate the person meant, it is allowable to name him. Members should not pass between a person speaking and the presiding officer. It is very reprehensible to call out “ Question! ” while a member has the floor and is- speaking. Equally censurable is it to ignore him and ask whether some specified motion is in order. The use of notes and heads of arguments is not only allowable, but often commendable. If it becomes apparent in the course of the debate that a member has been misunderstood, he may rise to an explanation without violating the rule that he must speak but once till all have had a chance to be heard. And by speaking on the main question he does not forego his right to speak again, providing an amendment subsequently made to it gives rise to a new question. So, too, he might speak again, as in the case of the amendment, should a debatable subsidiary motion come before the meeting. When the presiding officer is of the opinion that all have spoken, he may ask, “ Are you ready for the question? ” The debate should close when the vote is ordered, and no member should speak further upon the issues before the house. Nor is it permissible to renew the discussion after the chair announces which side is successful.
Suppression of debate is generally effected by the operation of a special rule providing that speaking shall cease at a designated time. Recent proceedings in the House of Commons have invested the term cloture with a special and peculiar significance in connection with parliamentary practice. This recognizes as inherent in the majority the right to close debate and bring to a vote the question under discussion. As a general rule, two-thirds of the members of a legislative body should agree to that proceeding, but by the operation of cloture a bare majority is deemed sufficient. The adoption of the motion to suppress debate does not preclude subsequent amendments, but that ordering the main question does. Hence it is preferred when the object intended is to close the debate.
The purpose of the previous question is to order the main question to vote, and its form is “Shall the main question be now put?” It is a call for ordering the vote on the question under considera

530	' THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
if
tion. It should be put to vote before the measure to which it relates; and from that fact it derives its name. The order is confined to debatable, amendable and delayable questions, for the others can be brought to vote without it. When a call is made for the previous question, at least a majority must support it. It may be ordered in the consideration of the main question, whether with or without pending amendments; or it may be applied to an amendment or debatable dilatory question, as well as to subsidiary questions growing out of the same. It may likewise be applied to a series of questions. ' The call may be confined to an amendment, but in that case it must be expressly limited to the amendment. In like manner it may be confined to a dilatory motion. Approval of the calk is indicated by seconding it, and not by regular vote. In responding to the call, the president asks, “ Is the call for the previous question seconded ? ” Those who favor it then rise. If they are in the majority, the presiding officer announces the success of the call by saying, “ The main question is ordered! ” If the call for the previous question be defeated, the business of the assembly proceeds without further interruption. Its defeat should remove it and all its effects. The announcement that the main question is ordered cuts off all further amendment and debate, and the question is at once put. The word “ main ” does not necessarily mean the principal question. Not unfrequently it signifies a question subsidiary to the principal one. Rule 17 of the House of Representatives explicitly describes the operation of the previous question. It is as follows:
“There shall be a motion for the previous question, which, being ordered by a majority of the members present, if a quorum, shall have the effect to cut oft’ all debate and bring the House to a direct vote upon the immediate question or questions on which it has been asked and ordered. The previous question may be asked and ordered upon a single motion, a series of motions allowable under the rules, or an amendment or amendments, or may be made to embrace all authorized motions or amendments, ■ and include the bill to its engrossment and third reading, and then, on renewal and seconding of said motion, to its passage or rejection.”	■
Subsidiary motions cannot be applied to the call for the previous question. It cannot be tabled, postponed, committed or amended. The only motion commonly depended upon to supersede it. is that to table the resolution or amendment to which it applies. Where there is nothing before the assembly but the original resolution,' and the question of its adoption is under discussion, the call for the previous question applies solely to that. Were an amendment pending, the call would include it, and the order that the main question be now put, would bring on voting. This would follow the usual course—first upon the amendment, and then upon its principal—unless the mover should expressly restrict its operation to the amendment. • He should designate the question or questions that he desires to have the order- affect, for it becomes exhausted by vote upon the measures to which it applies. When it relates to a series of questions, voting should take place upon each, -according to its rank, until the order is exhausted.
It yields to a privileged main question,- to a question of privilege, and to an incidental question, so as to be put in abeyance by any of them; but it regains its original position and force as soon as such question has been acted upon and removed from consideration.. Should a motion to reconsider be under consideration, and the previous question be called, the order would be restricted to that motion. There is, for instance, pending an amendment to the principal question in such case, a call for the previous question, and it is ordered. Then a vote is taken on the amendment. Thereafter a motion is made to reconsider the vote on the amendment. The latter motion would then be subject to the previously made order, and consequently not debatable. If by means of the previous question the principal one is brought to vote, the order becomes exhausted. In that event a subsequent motion to reconsider would not be subject to the exhausted order; nor would the principal question be so, if again revived by the operation of the motion to reconsider. Sometimes a member calls for the previous question or the “ yeas ” and “ nays ” at the time he offers a resolution. In such case the resolution must be seconded before the call. Though this proceeding is open to censure on account of its apparent aim to suppress debate, still it is so generally sanctioned by usage that it cannot be regarded as unparliamentary.
The closing act of a deliberative body in dealing with a measure is to vote upon it. The methods of taking the vote are numerous. The most informal is called the vote by silent assent. When it is to betaken, the presiding officer states the motion and asks, “Are there any objections?” If none be offered, the vote is deemed unanimous. Even without a motion he may inquire, “ Shall the minutes stand approved?” and the like. If objection be made, a vote must be taken, in order that the majority may decide. When a vote is taken viva voce the affirmative is put before the negative. The forms may be: “ Those in favor of the motion, say aye;” and “those opposed to the motion, say no.” This method of voting may apply to resolutions, orders, bills, and the like, as well as to the election of a person to office. But it is not applicable for this purpose when there is more than one candidate. Sometimes it is moved that a person be “ elected by acclamation.” This is done either to save time or to invest the candidate with a semblance of popularity. But it is irregular. “ Acclamation”'is not recognized15 as a method of voting. It is generally believed that if a motion “ that the candidate be elected by acclamation” is carried, the person named is thereby elected. This is not so. That proceeding merely, fixes the method of voting upon the nomination. Voting by the showing of hands is not unlike the viva voce method. Those who favor the motion are first invited to raise their hands. Such as maintain the negative of the question then do the like. The result is ascertained by counting in turn the uplifted hands. Voting by division is a secondary process of ascer taining the result. It is hardly ever resorted to unless doubt exists as to the issue of a vote taken
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
by one of the methods already described. The presiding officer or any member of the assembly may call for a division. Special rules frequently govern the call for the “ yeas ” and “ nays.” In the absence of such rules, any member may request that the “ yeas ” and “ nays ” be taken down. But if objection be made, a majority must agree to this method of voting, as it is not the customary one. In taking the vote, the clerk calls the roll, and the members answer “ yea ” or “ nay ” as their names are called. In electing- officers it is usual and proper to vote by ballot. Should a county or State cast its vote as a unit in a convention, some member of the delegation may be designated by his associates to cast the vote. But in ordinary societies this cannot be done. Each member has a right to vote, and sound policy forbids the transfer of that right to any other person. Hence it is not proper to move that the secretary be instructed to cast the entire vote of a society, whether in favor of or in opposition to any particular measure. A ballot thus cast by proxy is without legality. It is the right of every member to vote secretly, if so he wishes, and no rule calculated to curtail that right should be countenanced.
The presiding officer of an assembly, taking it for granted that he is a member of the body, is entitled to one vote. He may give it or not, as he chooses. If retained to the last, it may be given as the final vote. But if given at an earlier stage of the balloting, it cannot be repeated or given as the final or casting vote, in case of a tie. If the presiding officer is not a member of the assembly he is not entitled to vote. The Vice-President of the United States and the Lieutenant-Governors of the several States are, however, constitutionally empowered to give the casting vote in case of a tie in the bodies over which they respectively preside, although they are not, strictly speaking, members of the same.
A motion to reconsider may be made by any member who voted with the successful side in adopting the measure. It should be made before any other business intervenes. Once subsidiary motions have been lost, they cannot, as a rule, be reconsidered. And nothing can justify the reopening of a question voted upon and disposed of after a reconsideration. The motion to reconsider is debatable, if that to which it refers was so. Upon such motion the previous question may be called. The motion to table may also be applied, but the tabling of the motion does not table the matter which it is designed to have reconsidered. The effect of a motion to reconsider is to restore the revived question to its former rank. If debatable before the vote by which it was lost, it again becomes so, providing debate was not cut off by an order for the previous question. But if it be a principal question upon which the order was exhausted, the resumption of debate is permissible. The motion to reconsider is subsidiary. It suspends the execution of the resolution to which it applies until it has itself been submitted to vote; though, of course; if tabled, it produces no such result. - A vote to reconsider is not allowable in
practice after the decision has been announced. There can be no reconsideration of a vote to adjourn or suspend the rules. The motion to reconsider cannot be amended, committed or indefinitely postponed. It may, however, be tabled or postponed to a time certain.
When matters of special urgency arise, they are regarded as motions of necessity; and as such they demand immediate attention and put in abeyance everything else. The more urgent such motions are, the higher they rank in privilege. For example, should there be a motion to adjourn pending, with no reference to the time for the next meeting, an additional motion to fix the day to which to adjourn would be regarded as one of necessity; inasmuch as it is of signal importance that the assembly should not be dissolved when the members do not intend to adjourn without day. On the ground of privilege, this motion would supersede the one to adjourn. It would have to be acted upon at once, and without amendment or debate. Afterward the regular motion to adjourn could be put. It may sometimes be of equal urgency to fix upon a place for the next meeting. When necessity does not manifestly exist, as where such matters arise before the motion to adjourn, amendment and debate are in order. In that case they would rank as ordinary main motions, and not be privileged. The motion to adjourn may be made at any time, providing no member is speaking, no privileged question is under consideration, and no time for adjournment, by the chair has already been fixed. But it cannot be made if a similar one has just been voted down by the assembly; nor can it be repeated unless some intervening business has been transacted. The simple motion to adjourn is not debatable. But should it be divisible, as when it is provided “ that the meeting do now adjourn until next Thursday evening,” or “that it do now adjourn without day,” the latter provision would be first in order and debatable. If not divided, it would have the effect of rendering the motion, as a whole, subject to debate. However, if the date of the next meeting had previously-been fixed, a reference to time in the motion to adjourn could be treated as surplusage, and it would not, in that case, have the effect of making it debatable. After the vote, the presiding officer should state his opinion as to the result, saying “The ayes” or “The noes,” as the case may be, “seem to have it,” or he may employ any other expression of like meaning. Should there be no call for a division, he may announce his decision. The members should not rise until he has declared the assembly adjourned. If an assembly become divided into discordant and jarring factions, the motion to adjourn would rise to the grade of highest privilege. If the disorder be too great to admit of action upon the motion, the presiding officer himself may declare the meeting adjourned to the next business day. However, he should instruct the secretary to enter upon the record the reason that actuated him to pursue that arbitrary course. At the next meeting his act would be subject to the approval or disapproval of the members.
532	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Whatever is put in abeyance by a privileged question, comes again before the meeting when such question has been settled. Questions of privilege relate to the rights; protection, authority and dignity of the meeting; as well as to the rights, reputation; deportment and safety of its members. Such questions supersede all others, excepting those fixing the time or place of the next meeting, when offered under circumstances that constitute them motions of necessity; Those relating to the assembly are privileged in a higher degree than those concerning individual members, and hence they must be considered and acted upon first. A question of privilege may be raised at any time, even while speaking is in progress, and it must be disposed of before the regular proceedings can be resumed. If once defeated, its privileged character is lost; and, if renewed, it would not take rank as a privileged question. The question upon the adoption of the minutes is privileged. Though it may be tabled, yet it must be taken up and acted upon before any other motion of like .nature can be entertained. The secretary should attest the minutes after they have been adopted. As the record is subject to correction, motions looking to that end may be made.
Parliamentary practice is founded upon justice and reason; and it may be regarded as generally true that rules which seem violative of right and common sense are without authoritative sanction as a part of the system. It is a symmetrical system, and all its rules' must be consistent with one another. Such as are unjust or unreasonable may safely be viewed in the light of an overruled case or a repealed statute. They are without general recognition and authority. They should have no binding force or sanction.
Versification.
Versification bears somewhat the same relation to poetry that drawing does to artistic painting. The latter requires native genius, the former only industry and perseverance. It is, in fact, an art, in which perfection can be attained by practice. And as drawing has an excellence of its own, apart to its subservience to painting—as the architect— the engineer—can reach the intelligence more effectually by accurate drawings than by mere words, so versification has also an excellence of its own, and its mission to the memory is similar to that of drawing to the understanding-. Listen to a child committing a lesson to memory—whether it be the multiplication table or the Apostles’ Creed;—there is always that sing-song in . the intonation which evidences the rhythmic throbbing of that mighty engine, the human brain. The effort to memorize is an effort to versify. Hence, successful versification greases the wheels of thought. If this were not the case, would such an eminent educator as • Dr; Thomas Kprchever Arnold, otherwise noted as a man of taste as well as of intellect, have thought.it quite en regie to in
troduce such verses as these into his valuable work , bn a Latin Composition”?
.	O never translate, fuer admodum care,
I am going to plough by sum tens ar are; With eo the verb has got nothing to do, Be sum araiurus the Latin for you.
Urged by this consideration, versification has been always an essential part of the classical course in European schools, the form insisted upon being the hexameter and pentameter. But these sound strange to Western ears, and modern thought prefers to step in leisurely iambics. A course of English versification -would be far from a waste of. time; and as artists will be few where drawing is not extensively taught, so poets will waste their sweetness on the desert air, where versification as an art is not generally appreciated.
With this preface we submit the following lines, designed to mnemonicize the rules of penmanship:
Ye who would in calligraphy excel, Read these directions, and then heed them well: Sit near the desk, but do not lean thereon, Your body straight, your feet the floor upon. Let the right forearm with the left one make A right angle, and such position take As on the ulnar muscles light to rest.
The little finger with the third appress’d";
. Support the hand and leave the carpus free.< The right arm to the lines right angled be—-With the left fingers hold the written; page; And let the pen’s position now engage Your chief attention. Let the holder come-Between the two main fingers and the thumbs ’ The corner of the middle finger nail Is one of its supports; nor let it fail .	■
Above the knuckle of the first to rest, (The larger phalanx bears the pressure best) The thumb sustains it opposite the joint, To the right shoulder let the holder point; And both the nibs an equal pressure bear, While not to blot take necessary care.
.	If these directions should not seem quite clear I
Refer you all to B. . . . P. . . . N. . .
Howitt Hertz.
The Homeric Spirit in Walter Scott.
Few European nations"possessrmore than one real epic—some great nations none. The Teii-tonic race had its “ Nibelungen Lied ”; Celtic, its “Fingalian Battle-Songs,” by Oisin (incorrectly spelt Ossian.by McPherson and his school); the,. Middle Ages (vulgarly styled “Dark Ages”) its poems of the Arthurian cycle (which1 Tennyson has made a part of the living literature of-England); Rome, Virgil’s “yEneid ”; Italy, the-“Jerusalem Delivered,” by Tasso; Spain, the heroicballads that cluster round Calderon’s Gid; and. England, though it does not possess a national epic,, according to the Homeric form, yet it has inherited ■ the substance of it in some of Shakespeare’s Histor
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
533
ical plays—especially in “Richard II,” in “Henry V,” and in “ Richard III,” and Milton in his great theological epic—“ Paradise Lost.” Of all modern poets,—Milton not alone excepted—Scott seems, judging from his poems, to have inherited the substance of a national epic, or, more properly speaking, the spirit, according to the Homeric form. This is what I propose to show in the following paper. ’
Dr. Kerchiver Arnold, of Rugby, used to say— and the late Dean Stanley repeated the saying— that “ the world has seen nothing so truly Homeric as those opening lines of the “ Lay of the Lady of the Lake,” in which Scott describes the custom of Branksome Hall,—
•	“ Nine and twenty knights of fame.”
In no poem (some of Thomas Osborne Davis’ and the late lamented Denis Florence McCarthy’s soul-stirring lyrics, or ballads, alone excepted) has the ballad metre risen to the true epic pitch and the concentrated fire and measured tread of those noble stanzas. Nor less in the true heroic style is Scott’s description of Deloraine’s mighty ride—of which Longfellow’s “ Paul Revere’s Ride ” is the lineal descendant—from Branksome to Melrose. What constitutes, it maybe asked, Scott’s greatest charms as a popular epic writer? In answer, thereto, I say, that it is'the very spontaneity—for which his countryman, Robert Burns, was so remarkable—the “absence of all artistic consciousness,” as Frederick Schlegel has it, which forms one of Scott’s greatest poetic charms; compensating for much that might, on merely artistic and literary grounds, be lightly esteemed. And it is this spontaneity, this naturalness of treatment—so predominant a characteristic of Davis’ “ Fontenoy,” and “ Sack,” of Baltimore,”—this absence of effect which marks out Scott’s poetry, like that of his great model, Homer, as belonging essentially to the popular, •and having little in common with the literary, ‘epic, as handed down to us by Dante and his follower, John Milton. This “welling forth of an •overflowing art,” according to Sir John Doyle, Principal Shairp’s predecessor in the Chair of Poetry at Oxford,'“ characterizes the c Lay ’ more than any subsequent poem in the English language, and imparts to it a charm all its own.”
But though the “Lay,” here and there, rises in a truly epic strain, like that of Homer’s “Iliad” or Milton’s “Paradise Lost,” it is in 'Marmion, in my opinion, , that whatever was epic in Scott found its fullest vent, more especially . in his description of the “ Battle of Flodden Field,” the centre or climax of the whole poem. Throughout, the poem has more of epic stateliness, if it wants some other graces of the “ Lay.” That the two poems of Scott which I have in this paper undertaken to show, in the briefest manner possible, are regular epics, as these are defined by the (canons of such critics as Mr. Thomas Arnold, or Prof. Stuart Blackie, no one would contend; but that they abound in the epic element, as no other English poems abound, cannot be gainsaid,—^ttod dcjjwnstrandum est.
H. J. Lloyd.
Books and Periodicals.
Golden Wreath for the Month of Mary: Composed of Daily Considerations on the Triple Crown ot Our Blessed Lady’s Joys, Sorrows, and Glories. With Examples, and Hymns set to Music. Second Edition. Notre Dame, Indiana: “AveMaria” Press. 18S4. 200 pages 321110., cloth. Price, 50 cts.	’
The beautiful devotion of the month of May has taken such deep root in the Christian heart that a “ Manual ” which assists in giving expression - to the feelings which move the soul cannot but meet with a hearty welcome. The above little book is one of the latest “ Manuals of Devotion ” for this month, and is admirably adapted for the purpose intended. The title indicates, to some extent, the plan of the book, and we can well commend it to our readers.
—The May Centtiry gives a portrait of a famous warrior, “Chief Joseph, the Nez-Perce,” whose character and valor are picturesquely described by Lieut. C. E. S. Wood. Of special value among the popular illustrated papers is Julian Hawthorne’s description of “ The Salem of Hawthorne,” which contains much new and valuable biographical analysis. The continuation of Mr. Benjamin’s narrative of the cruise of the Alice May deals with the west of Newfoundland,—“ The Bay of Islands, in Calm and Storm.” A careful series of papers, by Mrs. Schuyler van Rensselaer, on “Recent Architecture in America,” which has long been in preparation, opens in the May numbei’ with a consideration of the merits of many new public buildings. Dr. Charles Waldstein contributes an important archaeological paper on the “Metopes of the Parthenon,” in which illustrations are given of the head in the Louvre, which, as he recently discovered, is a fragment of one of the Parthenon marbles in the British Museum. The poetry is contributed by Austin Dobson, Rose Hawthorne Lathrop, Christina G. Rosetti, Edmund Gosse, Andrew Lang, Lucretia P. Hale, Richard Watson Gilder, John Vance Cheney, Robert Underwood Johnson, Frank Dempster Sherman, and others.
—The tide of immigration setting toward our shores is subject to fluctuations, but there exists no reason to anticipate that during the life of the present generation it will fail to reach the average height of the past ten years; immigration, therefore, continues to be one of the great economic questions of this country, and it involves a political problem of the highest importance, that of naturalization. That our naturalization laws are defective in many respects is notorious, and the demand for their revision will, no doubt, acquire added force from the publication of an article by Justice William Strong, upon that subject, in the North American Review for May. In the same number of the Review, Edwin P. Whipple oflers a candid judgment of Matthew Arnold as a thinker and as a man of letters. Richard A. Proctor, under the title of “A Zone of Worlds,” writes of the vast multitude of the pigmy kindred of the earth, known as the
53+
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
• ■»
asteroids. In “The Railway and the State,” Ger* rit I. Lansing essays to prove that the multiplication and extension of railroad lines, and the establishment of low rates of transportation are hindered rather than helped by governmental interference. Prof. Henry F. Osborn, of Princeton College, has a highly-interesting article on “ Illusions of Memory;” Helen Kendrick Johnson contributes an essay on “The Meaning of Song;” Finally, there is a joint discussion of “ Workingmen’s Grievances”, bjr William Godwin Moody and Prof. J. Laurence Laughlin, of Harvard University.	■
Art, Music, and Literature
—A choice selection from the poems of Cardinal Newman has been made, under the title “ Echoes from the Oratory.”
—About two thousand pictures have been admitted to the Paris Salon. More than three thousand have been refused.
—Gounod is writing an important work to demolish Wagner. It will be divided into three parts: “The Man,” “The Artist,” and “The School.”
—Verdi’s new opera, “ Iago,” with libretto by Boito, is completed. Verdi has asked the painter, Dominico Morelli, to design the costumes and the stage setting.
—Charles Reade left a mass of biographical matter unarranged, including sketches of contemporaries, part of which will be published in the course of the year.
—Hungary has for many years been in search of a national anthem; two competitions have been held, one some years ago, and one just recently, but both with no success.
—Secretary of State Frelinghuysen has received from a prominent European house, manufacturers of mosaics in Venice and London, a handsome mosaic portrait of the late President Garfield, which is intended as a present to the United States.
—The poet Whittier has attempted little literary work of late. At long intervals he stays for a day or two in Boston, but spends most of his time quietly in Danvers. He has long been far from strong, and unless he gains new strength during the summer he will cease writing altogether.
—It may be of interest, to those who make the subject a study, to know that there are only five genuine signatures of Shakspere known to be in existence. One is in the London Library, the other in the British Museum, one attached to his will at Doctor’s Common, and two in possession of private collectors. ,
—It is reported from Washington that Mr. Blaine Is much annoyed by word from his publishers that the sale of his book has been injured by the engraving of ex-President Hayes, to which many object. Authority for this statement says that Blaine is contemplating the advisability of having his publishers cut Hayes’ picture from
future editions of the book, on purely financial grounds.
—The annual literary prize of twenty-five thousand francs, instituted by the King of the Belgians, will, next year, be granted to the author of the best work on the means of popularizing the study of geography and developing it in the different educational establishments. Foreigners may compete equally with the Belgians. The'works of the competitors must be sent to the Minister of the Interior before January i, 1885.
—Orange Judd, editor of The American Agri-'Culturist for some thirty years, has lately retired from its editorial department and located in the West. He desires to gather a complete “Postalcard album of his old readers and friends, and requests them all to send him now a postal, giving their present location and address, naming, also, when convenient, the years in which they were his subscribers. Mr. Judd’s address is Chicago, Ill.
—The Society for the Preservation of the Irish Language recently gave in New York City a very successful music festival, in which national music and songs, many of the latter in their native tongue, were presented. Through the kindness of G. W. Childs, Esq., of the Philadelphia Ledger, Moore’s harp was used on the occasion. This harp was presented to Erin’s bard by the citizens of Limerick in 1823. It is sixteen inches high and made of red sallow. .
—Mr. G. P. A. Healy, the portrait painter, who has had sittings from so many of the most famous men of this generation, has been in Washington this winter, and has made studies and completed portraits of many notables of this epoch. Chief interest centred in the study for the portrait of Presir dent Arthur, which Mr. Healy is to complete at his Paris studio. The portrait is to be full-length, and when finished will be added to the collection of Presidents’ portraits in the White House. .
—A valuable contribution to musical literature is made in the publication of Palestrina’s most famous Mass—that known as the Mass of the Pope -Marcellus (published by Pustet & Co., New York). The Mass was one of those written by Palestrina in the endeavor to reform Church music from the condition into, which it had fallen. It is no less an example to be regarded in our own day than in the one for which it was written. The work is clearly and handsomely printed.— N. 'T. Sun. _	.
—The following are a few expressions taken from the book-notice column of the Philadelphia Call: . “ Any one who wants a good book of this kind can have our copy for 10 cents.” “This writer says that this is bis first attempt; and, if he had added that it would be his last, he would have filled a long-felt want.” “ As most of the dialogue is. carried on in French, the reader who. don’t understand that language will not find the .book unendurable.” “ If the book were sold at 75 cents a copy, with, a dollar bill pasted between the cover and the fly-leaf, one or two editions might be: disposed of.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—According to the Paris Gaulois, the original of Raphael’s celebrated Madonna of Loreto has been discovered in the Museum at Hyeres. This painting has been lost since Loreto was occupied by the French troops in the beginning of this century, and only a copy was brought to the Paris Louvre, where it is numbered and mentioned in the catalogue as a copy. The original is four feet high and three feet wide, and is painted on wood. In this picture the Blessed Virgin is stooping over a cradle containing the Child, and lifts the veil. The Child, resting on a pillow, stretches His little hands towards her, while St. Joseph, leaning on a staff, stands behind.	.
—The Abbd Moigno—the Founder and Director of the well-known Scientific Journal JiOXMOl', Les Mondes, published at Paris—holds a leading place among scientists of the present day. His works have everywhere attracted attention, notably his latest and most magnificent production, entitled “Les S/lendeurs de la Foi” which shows, as its sub-heading indicates, the perfect agreement between Revelation and Science, Faith and Reason. In the current number of The Ave Maria there appears a beautiful extract from this remarkable' work, which will well repay perusal. It is the “First Splendor of Faith,” and concisely and completely resumes the history and reasonableness of devotion to the Mother of God.
College Gossip.
—The grounds of the young ladies’Academy at Notre Dame of Maryland are said to rival the ar-'tistically laid out grounds at West Point.
—Dr. McCosh, President of Princeton College, is making a Western trip in the interests of the college. During the summer vacation Dr. McCosh will go to Europe.
—The.five hundredth anniversary of the founding of the University of Heidelberg occurs in 1886, and preparations are already making for its celebration, which promises to be one of the most imposing ever seen in Germany.
’—The corner-stone of the new Catholic College in Pittsburgh, Pa., was laid on the 20th tilt. There was a large parade of the Catholic societies. Mgr. Capel and many prominent Pennsylvania priests were present.—Boston Pilot.
—Buniy u Nanjio, the young Buddhist priest from Japan, who has been residing at Oxford for the study of English and Sanskrit for more than five years, has been suddenly summoned to return to the monastery at Kioto. Before his departure the luniversity conferred upon him the honorary degree tof M. A.
—Rt. Rev. Dr. Manucy, lately installed Bishop ,of Mobile, accompanied by Archbishop Leray, of New Orleans, recently paid a visit to his Alma Ma-■ ter, Spring Hill College. Addresses were given in Latin, Spanish, French, German and English,
and a Greek chorus was creditably rendered' by the college choir.
—George Munro, of New York, has sent a letter to the Governors of Dalhousie College, Nova
*	• .	o
Scotia, announcing his intention to found a Chair of Metaphysics, nominating Professor Schurman as incumbent of this chair, and Dr. W. J. Alexander as incumbent of the Munro Chair of English Language and Literature thus rendered vacant. Dr. Alexander is a native of Hamilton, Ontario, and is now in Germany.
—A new observatory is being fitted up on the top of the new Law School building of Columbia College. Heavy piers have been set in the main room of the observatory, upon which the Rutherford transit and equatorial will rest. In a short time the observatory will be furnished and in working order. Over the observatory is a large paper . dome, said to be one of the best that has been made. The rooms of the observatory will be lighted by electric lights.	.
—Professor Monier Williams, the famous Professor »of Sanskrit at Oxford, has had a very successful visit in India. . The main purpose of his ’ journey was to obtain funds for his great Indian Institute at Oxford, and more especially endowments for scholarships, and also to collect objects for his Indian Museum. In this latter respect he has been most fortunate, and has received, among other curiosities, two great doors, ornamented with beautiful brass work hammered into the wood.
—President Eliot, of Harvard College, speaking recently before the High School Teachers of Boston on baseball, said:—“I think it a wretched 'game, but as an object of ambition for the youth to go to college really it is a little weak. There are only nine men who can play the game, and there are nine hundred and fifty men in the college, and out of the nine there are only two desirable positions, I understand,—that of pitcher and catcher —so that there is but little chance for the youth to gratify his ambition. I call it one of the worst games, although I know it is called the American national game.”
—Colonel T. W. Higginson said at the recent ‘ meeting of the Massachusetts Association of Classical and High School Teachers:—“In studying at German universities our young' men lose their power of expression. As an antidote to Germany, in the literary point of view, give me Greek. I believe the argument against the study of Greek is weak. There is a tendency in the present age to regard style a matter of straight-forward hitting; but that is not all of style. Why should you object that the literary man should have the graces of art and the surroundings of beauty? That is all we demand, and that is the Greek language. In speaking of the comparative value of literature and science, Colonel Higginson related the story of a literary lady who countered upon a scientist who said there was nothing in literature/er se, by replying that at all events she preferred literature /er se to science purblind,”
536
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, May 3, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the-many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
’ Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.	.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should takeit; and. above all,
Old Students should take it. .
Terms, S1.50 -per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
T. Ewing
J. A. McIntyre, ’84. Elmer A. Otis, ’84.
James Solon, ’84.
Steele, ’84.
W. H. Bailey, ’84.
C. A. Tinley, ’84.
W. H. Johnston,’ 85.
C. F. Porter, ’85.
—Last week, The Catholic Review completed the twelfth year of its existence, and, in celebration of the joyful event, appeared as a twenty-four-page paper, giving therewith a corresponding increase of interesting and instructive reading. We congratulate the esteemed and talented editor, Mr. P. V. Hickey, upon the happy anniversary and the success which has thus far attended his efforts, and we earnestly hope that many a jubilee—silver, golden, diamond, and others, sine fine—may crown the work which he has inaugurated.
o
—Some time ago, the question was generally agitated among the students of making some appropriate Easter offering to President Walsh, as a testimony of esteem and affection. It was happily suggested that the number of Presidents’ portraits in the College parlor was incomplete; and no better mark of esteem could be shown than by adding to the number the portrait of their own President. With characteristic generosity, Signor Gregori volunteered to paint the portrait if the students would supply an elegant frame. The suggestion .was acted upon, sittings were secured, and on last Satufday, immediately after dinner, the students assembled in the large parlor of the
University, and formally presented Rev. President Walsh with the portrait. Mr. P. Warren, of the Senior department, representing the students, read an appropriate address, in the course of which he said:	•
“To direct a large and growing University, to watch over and guard its interests—material, intellectual, and moral—is a difficult task, and usually a thankless one. For three eventful years our University has been under your care, and has now reached astute of prosperity which a few years ago might have well seemed visionary;—a state of prosperity by no means final, but merely the happy presage of still greater and more glorious things in the near future. To your watchful eye, to your guiding hand, Rev. Father, is largely due the happy state of things at Notre Dame; and, recognizing this, we, the students of the University, have come together to offer you this picture, as a token that we are not indifferent nor unthankful for your labors in our behalf and in behalf of the University. Of course, we know that the approbation of men is hot your guiding-star—that you work for no earthly reward; but still to all of us, great and small, it must be pleasant to know that their efforts meet with gratitude from those for whom they toil.”	'
With a few graceful words in conclusion, the speaker offered the painting and retired amid great applause. Master M. Mulkern followed with a poetic address in behalf of the Juniors.
President Walsh was taken by surprise; for, though he had given the artist sittings for the portrait, he did not expect it to be the occasion of such a manifestation of good will and affection on the part of the students. In a few words, he expressed his thanks for the offering and his appreciation of their kind expressions.
The painting is executed in Gregori’s best style and pronounced by competent judges a good likeness. The frame is of masive gold and bronze and elegantly sets off the portrait.
—The Rev. Father Zahm, assisted by the First Physics’ Class, on Monday last, gave his entertainment with the “ Stereopticon,”or “ Magic Lantern.” The evening’s entertainment was first opened by beautiful views of the “Yosemite Valley,” and similar places of note in California. He then proceeded to show his auditory some views of the “Rocky Mountains,” “ Falls of Minnehaha,” with its wonderful waterfalls, some of which, taken all together, are a mile in height, one alone reaching the altitude of 1,000 feet. He next brought us over about 2,500 miles of ground to the “Niagara Falls,” where he showed us the Falls, and described for us the scenes of grandeur and picturesqueness around and about them, more especially those of the “ Rapids,” the fame of whose name has traversed the land far and wide. He next showed us the Capitol, Treasury, Patent Office, and White House at Washington. He then embarked with us for Europe, and, after a perilous voyage, accompanied by the usual ills of sea-sickness and rough and tumble, to which most poor Americans are heirs to, when they make a voyage across the briny Atlantic Ocean, we arrived there safely (alas! poor Yorrick, be it our sad lot to relate!), in the ship--? Imagination! ! ! As soon as we arrived in England, he showed us London, took us to the House of Parliament, on the banks
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
537
of the River Thames; we next saw Windsor Castle, the residence of Regina—in common parlance, Queen—Victoria; Balmoral Castle, her summer resort in Scotland, together with other castles— crowned with hoary antiquity therein.
Proceeding in the same boat, as we left home, we crossed over to France, and found ourselves in its world-renowned capital—Paris, in front of the Tuilleries, the residence of Emperor Napoleon III. We next saw the beautiful Gothic and Romanesque churches of Notre Dame. Having rested a little while, our Rev. cicerone next took us up the Rhine—a strictly temperance River, the people along whose bank drink nothing but Rhenish wine, viz., Adam’s “ Buck Beer,” vulgarly called “ ale,” but technically styled in this country “water” —long celebrated for the beauty of the architecture of the buildings, that like the stars in the firmament bedeck its classic banks.
Our guide brought us next to Mont Blanc and other well-known places in Europe, more especially to Rome and the Vatican with its beautiful art and sculpture galleries “ the wonder and boast of the world.” His views of the “ Statuary ” belonging to the Vatican, we think fullv worthv of the encomiums passed uponi We must not forget to mention in passing, the comic views he showed us, more especially, that of “Mozart and the Rats; ” and the “ Cat’s Stratagem with the Rat in the Bottle,” which caused the younger portion of his auditory to almost break their hearts laughing. After a most pleasant, well-spent—some wag said, “ well-^rcxxefZ almost, Sir, 1000 lbs. to the square inch—evening, the students retired to bed, thoroughly pleased with all they had seen and heard, and expressed a hearty wish that Father Zahm would take them again—even though it was only in imagination—over the ground that he had taken them that evening.
The Glory of the West.
From the '■'■Catholic Chronicle" Bay City, Mich.
A few years ago, on a summer afternoon, there flashed across the continent the startling news that the far-famed University of Notre Dame was in ruins. The intelligence brought sorrow to many all over the country, as they saw with their mind’s eye the patient laboi* of many toilful years reduced in a few hours to nothing. The venerable founder of the University, on his way to France, was reached by a trusty messenger before he had embarked, the sad tidings broken to him, and, his journey postponed, he returned to commence again with renewed ardor, in his old age, the rebuilding of the University founded years before in the first fervor of his manhood. Before the ruins were cold, the’devoted members of the community of . the Holy Cross had begun to clear away the debris. Priest and Professor, artist and student, lent their helping hands to break the spell of desolation and prepare at once for the new Notre Dame, which, bv command of the founder, by the grace of God and the protection of the Queen of Heaven, was
| to rise in a glorious manner from the ashes of the tomb. The ages of faith were renewed in sight of the disaster. Gold poured in from the hands of generous friends; poets placed the product of their graceful pens at the service of the sacred edifice, and lol as if by magic, but really by the hands of angels, the walls of Notre Dame began to rise again. The promises of May saw glorious fulfilment in September* when the new edifice stood with open portals as of old, to welcome the sons of their benign mother. We have stated that the hands of angels raised the walls; yes, angels and saints. The spiritual and the strong; the brave heart and the stout arm of devotion and duty,— labor consecrated by hopeful prayer and the statue of Our Blessed Lady crowned the- dome of her own placid home. Now that much of the necessary work has been done, and the figure of the Immaculate gleams on high, the great wish of the builder is expressed in the hope of covering the immense dome with burnished gold and of crowning the statue with a diadem of electric stars. The crowning of the statue is definitely announced for the 14th of next September, and the generosity of donors is already becoming known.
It is proposed to surround the event with groupings which will partake of the character of a history of the progress of devotion to Our Blessed Lady in America. The walls and corridors of the University under the pencils of Gregori and other artists already glow with the pictured events of Catholic American history; the approaching celebration will present a picture of unrivalled Catholic devotion, and will indelibly record Notre Dame, its spirit and its work as the glory of the West.
Exchanges.
—Th& College Index, from Kalamazoo, is really an excellent journal.
—We are always glad to receive The Monmouth Collegian; a sensibly-written, well-edited paper.
— The Harvard Herald-Crimson is very irregular with regard to its coming, but is generally filled with interesting matter. But say, boys, hadn’t you better revise your list of the “Forty Immortals”? Give a place to Bishop Spalding and J. Gilmary Shea!
— The Wooster Collegian for April has increased its weight to 10,000 pounds. “Idealism,” “The Moral Electric Light,” “Darwinism and the Bible,” “Imperfection of Word-Expression” and “ The Survival of the Fittest” are essays we would be glad to. read and review, but spring-fever is stealing upon us and the examinations are getting alarmingly near.
—By the way, we owe an apology to The Vo-lante, from Chicago. Though its editorial against the young man who changed his residence from the U. of C. to the Northwestern was a very rank thing in its way, still The Volante, as a rule, takes the greatest interest in old students. Indeed, it is rather an organ for the Alumni than for the boys who are supposed to write and to read it. . -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The Niagara Index for April 15th gives up mearly all of its exchange department to a review of •our famous “ Convention.” With commendable modesty, he republishes his own oration in full; an ■honor denied to our friend of The Georgeto-wn Journal. Although at one place he compares us ■to Ariel, he concludes his review by a hint that we are still in knee-breeches; yet he of The Atlantis calls us “ gray-haired.” Truly, the Exchange- man is great!
©
— The Michigan Argonaut for April 19th is full of well-written matter. “The Fortnight” is an interesting department and generally well sustained. “The Eavesdropper”—“a chiel amang you takin’ notes”—is still on deck, smart and spicy as ever! “How I Became a College Man” might have been made very much better. The writer, we fear from the first part of the article, is a disciple of Ouida. Every man to his taste, we suppose. All in all, the Argonaut is a very good paper.
— The Hamilton College Monthly for April has a good word for the Scholastic. Thanks! One thing we admire about the Monthly is that the girls appear to write their own essays; and yet they are, as a rule, on lather dull subjects, and written in a jerky yet stilted style peculiar to this paper. We do not propose to criticize the essays •one by one; this fault is common to nearly all. The essay, “Little Jenny Wren,”—a character sketch from “Our Mutual Friend”—is deserving of praise. So, too, a prose idyll, “ The Leaflet,” which is school-girlish, indeed, but perhaps all the better for that.	. ’
—From The Polytechnic to the Notre Dame Scholastic, greeting:
“One of the first school papers in the country is the Notre Dame Scholastic. It is ably edited and sustained by a corps of excellent writers. The only drawback to its popularity is that it is sectarian. But this feature is unavoidable. The paper of any school tyc/] must represent the feelings of its students. If the school is sectarian, the paper must be. This is what a great many papers cannot understand. So when the Scholastic let off the natural explosion of -wrath against Martin Luther, they immediately began to call it bad names and throw mud [that’s about the sizeofit!]. Only a few adopted a sensible course, and either passed it unnoticed or replied with a sensible argument [very “few,” indeed, of the latter!]. The Notre Dame Scholastic is an excellent paper, but its necessarily sectarian sentiments make it many enemies and throw its true woith rather into obscurity. A college paper, like a man, must not be judged by the party or sect to which it belongs; it must stand entirely upon its [own] merits.”
Poly., give us your claw! You’ve hit the nail on the head, and “don’t you forget it!”
-----The Adelfhian from Brooklyn, New York, has a pretty cover and a generally exquisite makeup. The frontispiece for April is remarkably clever; done, as we believe is the custom, by a student of the Art Department. We flatter ourselves we are able to guess the story the four sketches tell. The literary merit of the paper is higher than usual. “The Dialectic Element in American Literature ” is only a skeleton which we hope its gifted author may next month enlarge upon. “'Art Culture in America” is interesting, and the “Philosophy of Dreams” more or \^ f>hilosof)h-
■ ical. From the exchange-editor we are delighted to learn that, “ Although the Notre Dame Scholastic has entered upon its seventeenth year, no signs of decrepitude are visible,” but can we say the same for a paper that is shameless enough to give forth the following: o	o
“Brilliant Youth (coming down late to breakfast and sadly surveying the remains of a shad): ‘Ma, this makes me think of the three Hebrews in the fiery furnace—Shad-wreck, Make-sick and Abcd-you-go!
Let us weep!
—Hello! Hello! Hello! let us shake hands with The Concordicnsis 1 Here she is for April 21st, with beautiful paper, clear type and interesting matter! The article of the issue—“The Humor and Romance of American Literature, as Illustrated by Hawthorne and Irving”—merits at the same time considerable praise and blame. The subject is not at all adhered to: the essay being hardly more than a rcvic-w of the works of one of the authors. Prescinding from this defect, we can only congratulate the writer upon his cultured taste and graceful style. The rest of the paper is fairly well gotten up; in the local column we notice the following:
“ It is rumored that the business editor of The Concdrdi-ensis was seen, not long ago, lying insensible in front of North College. Upon investigation it was found that one of the students had actually paid him his subscription for the paper, and he [the editor or the student?] was completely overcome. It is thought that he will recover.”
A greater subject for surprise at Notre Dame is for a student not on the Staff—or even one on it, for that matter,—to hand in an essay for the Scholastic. The former has never, to our knowledge, made the experiment; but we fear its result would be frightful. As for The Concordiensis-man, it might be suggested that he had squandered the one lone subscription-money on red paint,—
“ But this subject why pursue? ”
Let us pray!
— The Vidette-Reporter, from Iowa University, is a bright, newsy little paper we were always glad to read and to clip from. We say -were, for of late it has not come to our sanctum. Nor, if we begin to call the roll, do we remember seeing for a good while past Marietta Olio, The Lariat, De Pau-w Monthly, The Virginia University Magazine, Harvard Lamfoon (the worst sinner of all), and a few others whose desertion could be more easily borne. Mailing clerks, please copy! We’re mad! ! !	'
Personal.
—George Haldorn, of ’63, resides in Philadelphia, Pa.
—Rev. E. B. Kilroy, D. D., ’52, is Pastor at Stratford, Ontario.
—Dr. Jos. F. Tuttle, President of Wabash College, Crawfordsville, this State, was a welcome visitor on last Monday.	•
—Frank Phelan, ’70, passed Sunday at the College. He is now conducting a very successful bus- . iness enterprise in St. Louis.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
539
—Mr. M. S. Foote, of Burlington, Iowa, Mrs. Judge Cleary, of Covington, Ky., and Mrs. L. Frazier, of Cynthiana, Ky., were among the welcome visitors of the week.	.
—On the 2 ist ult., Mr. E. McMahon, of 74, and Miss Nora Gordon were united in marriage at Muskegon, Mich., the home of the bride. The groom’s many friends at Notre Dame extend congratulations and best wishes for a long and happy life.
—We regret to announce the death of Mrs. Maria Cochrane, of Chicago, which sad event occurred on the 25th ult. Four sons of the deceased were educated at Notre Dame, and one daughter at St. Mary’s. She was a most estimable lady, well known for her devotion to the Church and her charitable deeds. May she rest in peace!
—The Catholic Chronicle says of Most Rev. P. W. Riordan,’57:	.
“The advent of Archbishop Riordan in San Francisco was marked by the howling of all the sects. Recognizing his greatness and his worth, they still had to show their manners. The great success of the Archbishop in his new field and his striking popularity are shown in the pecuniary results of a lecture, delivered for the benefit of the Catholic schools, which amounted to six thousand dollars.’’
—Very Rev. Father General Sorin returned on Thursday from his trip to the South, whither, as already announced, business of the Congregation had called him. The Very Rev. Father looks well and hearty, and, we are glad to say, has been much benefitted by the journey. He tells of many pleasant meetings with numbers of old friends, and in particular with Col. and Mrs. Otis and family in San Antonio, Texas, in whose house the venerable Father, on the occasion of his visit, said the first Mass.	-
•	Local Items.
—Spring-fever!	•
—Six weeks more!
—Dusters have appeared.
—Competitions next week.
—Look out for the triple competitions!
—Everybody should read “The Life of Haydn.
—The Orchestra is in a flourishing condition.
—“But as for the oysters, we’ll take ours stewed.”
—The June regatta promises to be very exciting.
—Thursday night was “the night of-the big wind.”	‘
—The Juniors take a stroll around the lake every evening.
—Prof. Stace has the thanks of the Juniors for favors received.
—A bouquet of rare flowers was presented one day this week.
—There will be a reunion of the Junior T. A.
U., this evening.	-
—Ducks and snipes on the lower lake attract our local Nimrods.
:—Campus songs are numerous and exhilarating on balmy evenings. .
—Our friend John thinks “it is time for icecream at the store.”
—Beautiful St. Joseph’s Lake is now a favorite resort of the botanists.
—The St. Cecilians will appear about June i6th‘ in Shakspeare’s “ Tempest.”
—The Juniors have some very exciting football: games every evening.
©	J	©	_
—The Junior Crescent Club will discontinue their reunions until June.
—New and handsome cases are being made for the Cabinet of Curiosities.
—Gregori’s portrait of President Walsh is attracting admiring attention. ’	>
© ©
—Very high wind on last Sunday—ye Eastern traveller can certify thereto.
—The Surveying Class is engaged in making a survey of St. Joseph’s Lake.
—Beautiful hyacinths and crocuses are in full bloom in St. Edward’s Park.	.
—The Orpheonics are hard at work practising, for the Commencement Cantata.
—The Dome will be open to. visitors on Commencement Day; perhaps before.
— The trailing arbutus is showing its buds—the pink now appeareth above the green.
—The woodwork in the Exhibition Hall is being painted in imitation of mahogany.
—Our friend John says that “those who have guns should be careful in using them.” © ©
—Hon. John Gibbons, ’68, of Chicago, will lecture before the students during the coming week.
—Ye Horticultural Bureau rejoiceth—the genial rains of the past week have brought out the ’ flowers.
—Last Monday evening the Astronomy Class were viewing the heavens through the large telescope.
—The corridors on the second floor of the College have been hung with pictures, and otherwise decorated. •
—Rev. A. Kirsch, C. S. .C., will lecture in the Rotunda to-morrow evening. Subject, “The Natural Sciences.”
—The Band played on the Campus on the 26th. We hope the regular open-air evening concerts will soon begin.
©
—A grand Cecilian Mass will be sung to-mor-© _____ ©
row, the Feast of the Patronage of St. Joseph, by Prof. Paul’s Choir.
—Prof. Grego ri is engaged in painting a portrait of Cardinal Manning, to be hung in the corridor of the College.	-. .:
—It is said that one of the Juniors caught sixteen fishes in the lake, last Thursday. • We credit this as a “ fish story.”
—The second championship game of baseball, wl^jch was to have been played on Thursday, was postponed on account of rain.	.
—The St. Cecilians and the Columbians, have
54°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
given their closing debates. A full report will appear next week.
—The Prince of Portage Prairie” veteran zouaves will present a fine appearance in Washington Hall on the 14th.
—The Exhibition Hall is now closed for repairs and improvements. The Philopatrians’ play has been postponed to May 14th.
—Washington Hall is being handsomely decorated by B. Frederick. All the frame work has been painted, and the fine new chandelier is in place.
—The efficient Director of the Orpheonics is persevering in his efforts to give good music at Commencement. We shall expect something grand.
—The members of the Composition Class are busily engaged looking up matter for a biography of the great Dr. Brownson—America’s greatest reviewer and philosopher.
—Our champion baseball players have given us several exhibitions of their skill with the ball and bat, and promise us some very interestinggames before Commencement.
—The Crescent Club Vocal Quartette is composed of A. Coll and M. Sykes, 1st Tenor; D. Sav-iers, 2d Tenor; J. Guthrie, 1st Base; C. Kaufman, 2d Base; Prof. Paul, Director.
—The Sorin Association of the Minim departanent, is indebted to Mr. A. B. Miller, of the South-Bend Tribune for the handsome picture of Deo XIII, which adorns their reading-room.
—The Muggletonians will soon begin their sea-iso	o
•son of open-air concerts. “ Ye local ” heard them rehearsing “Babies on Our Block” and “Papa’s Teeth are Filled with Zinc.” “Immense!”—is the word. '
—The Princes make good use of every foot of their six-acre Campus. It would be no exaggeration to say that a pleasanter play-ground or a happier lot of boys could not be found in the State of Indiana.
—Jas. E. Hagerty, of ’76, has presented a handsome gold medal to the Junior Baseball Association, to be awarded at the end of the year to the member having the best record. Jimmie was a member of the “ Mutuals” while here.
.	— “ What is a ship without a sail ?
Adieu 1 my lover, adieu!	.
What is a monkey without a tail?
,. A dude, my lover, a dude! ”
—Ex.
—The 24th regular meeting of the Sorin Li terary and Dramatic Association (Minim department) was held Wednesday, April 23d. Declamations were delivered by Masters J. M. Studebaker, W. McPhee, J. Wright, B. B. Lindsey and J. P. Devereux.
—An aspiring genius in the Composition Class recently sent in the following production to«his teacher: “The Seasons: there are four seasons; Spring, Summer, Autumn, and Winter. Some
people prefer Spring, some, Summer; but as for me, give me liberty or give me death!”
—The May devotions were opened on last Wednesday evening. The students and clergy went in procession from the College to the church, where an eloquent sermon on the devotion of the month was preached by Rev. President Walsh, and followed by Solemn Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament.	'
—A life-size portrait in oil of Cardinal Newman, the greatest living master of the English Language, now rests on Signor Gregori’s easel. The portrait has been ordered by Professor Unsworth, of the Chair of English Literature, and Professor Edwards of the History Department, for presentation to the University.
—We happened to be in the butcher-shop, last Saturday, when the veal arrived for Sunday’s dinner. The man who .brought it presented his bill at the same time, and it amounted to seventy-three dollars. This will give some idea of what it costs to keep up such an establishment as Notre Dame when one item for a single meal costs so-much.
—The members of the boat crews succeeded in capturing a young “cotton-tail” one day last week, and so highly valued their prize as to bear him in triumph to the study-hall, hoping, in the near future, to domesticate the brute. But, alas! for poor Dick! The sudden change of climate was too much for his constitution. He lingered in his gloomy prison for one dreary hour, when death came to his relief.
—The Minims’ branch of the Crescent Club gave a reception last week in honor of their Director, Rev. Father Zahm. Master Willie McPhee read a complimentary address, composed entirely by the little fellow himself, and the sentiments-of affection it contained must have been very gratifying to the honored Director. Good music was discoursed by the Club Orchestra and a sumptuous and elegant collation was served to all present.
—The 10th regular meeting of the Junior Archconfraternity was held Sunday evening, April 27th. After the customary business, Rev. Father Kirsch kindly favored the Society with an account of a visit he had paid to Louise Lateau, the Ec-statica, at Bois d’Plaine. His sketch was exceedingly interesting, and well listened to, and appreciated by the members' Masters J. R. Devereux, J. Monschein, and B. Mulkern were reappointed to' prepare papers for the next meeting. ’
—The Atlantic reserved nine met with their second defeat on last Saturday, at the hands of the Mutual reserves—who have been playing splendidly for the last two weeks. The game was-interesting, as the nines were about equally well up in the art of ball tossing. Tn the eighth inning the score was even. The visitors put in two runs in the ninth inning, giving them a lead of two points, which the Mutuals doubled up by putting in four' runs in their’ half of the last inning. Two men were out, and the bases full, Hetz at the bat. Jakey succeeded in making a three bagger to the right field -fence and afterwards .came home himself on a
THE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC.	541
passed ball. Score 15 to 13. McHenry and McCarthy were the batteries for the Atlantic?, Weiler and Rhodus for. the Mutuals. Umpire, Chas. Kaufman.
—Yesterday morning, Very Rev. Father General was tendered a reception by the Minims to welcome him • on his return from the South. Among those present were Rev. President Walsh, Rev. Father L’Etourneau, Mrs. Judge Cleary and Mrs. L. Frazier. A pleasant impromptu entertainment was gotten up, consisting of speeches, declamations, and music, instrumental and vocal. Though the Very Rev. Father was royally entertained wherever he went in the South, he could not but feel pleased with the welcome he received from his “princes” at Notre Dame. At the close of the entertainment, Father General thanked the “ princes ” for their warm welcome, and said that, since he left Notre Dame, he had not met such excellent boys; but, as noblesse oblige, he hoped they would always show themselves worthy of their title. Appropriate remarks were also made by President Walsh and Rev. Father L’Etourneau.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anchondo, Ancheta, Aguilera, Alvarez, Arce, Banigan, Baca, Brosseau, Barron, Becerra, Bailey, F. Burke, F. Combe, C. Combe, Coll, Carbajal, Cass, Cusack, ■Celia, Callaghan, Creel, Delgado, De Groot, De Wolf, De Haven, A. Dennis, F. Diaz, A. Diaz, Ewing, Feltz, Fogarty, Farrell, T. Fenlon, Frain, Grothaus, Goulding, Gonzalez, •Guthrie, Gutierrez, J. Gallagher, Howard, Hausberg, Ham-lyn, Hotaling, Kavanaugh, Kaufmann,* Kleiber, Lucas, McErlain, McKinncry, Mathers, Marquez, C. Murdock, Mitfendorf, McIntyre, J. McNamara, T. McNamara, Mahoney, Mahon, Norfleet, G. O’Brien, Ott, O’Dea, O’Rourke, Orchard, Otis, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Proudhomme, Pour, Rudge, Rogers, Reach, Rui, Solon, Shea, Steis, Slattery, Spangler, Spencer, Saviers, E. Smith, J. Smith, G. Smith, Sanchez, Uranga, Warren. •
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Arnold, Anchondo, Aguilera, Borgschulze, Barela, Baur, Breen, Cohen, D. Cartier, J. Courtney, Curtis, Chaves, Cavaroc, Cleary, Costigan, Cassilly, Dexter, Ewing, Eisenhauer, Fitzgerald, Fehr, Fendrich, Foote, Finckh, Gimbel, Hagenbarth, E. A. Howard, E. J. Howard, Halligan, Houlihan, Houck, Holman, Hagerty, ‘Jensch, Johnson, Keeler, R. Lewis, G. Lewis, Loescher, Leoni, Luther, Monschein,- Mullane, Miller, Menig, Mason, Mug, Martinez, McDonald J. McGordon, C. McGordon Norfolk, O’Brien, C. Porter, E. Porter, Perley, Parres, J. Proudhomme, E. Proudhomme, Partillo, Rogers, Regan, Reynolds, Ruppe, Ruffing, Shea, Sedberry, L. Scheuerman, Schmauss, Schott, Schaefer, Saunders, Shields, Talbot,' D. Tavlor, G. Tarrant, Uranga, Wabraushek, Weiler, Wilkes.
- MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Adams, J. Addington, H. Adding" ton, Amoretti, A. Arrache, S. Arrache, Boos, Bunken Benner, Brown, Comins, Crawford, Crotty, Cole, Costigan, F. Coad, M. Coad, Cummings, Dirksmeyer, Devine, J-Devereux, A. Devereux, Ernest, Fitzgerald, Fulwiler, P. Gibson, G. Gibson, W. Grimes, A. Grimes, Garrity, Grunsfeld, Henry, Harris, C. Inderrieden, R. Inderrieden, Johns, Jones, E. Kelly, La Tourette, Landenwich, Lewis, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, Loya, W. McCourt, M. McCourt, J. Mc
Grath, E. McGrath, T. McGuire, W. McGuire, McGill,-McPhee, McVeigh, Murphy, Manzanares, Meehan, Morrison, Morgan, F. Mullen, A. Mullen, Noonan, F. Nester’, A. Nester, M. O’Kane, Otis, O’Connor, D. Prindiville, R.-Papin, V. Papin, Paden, Perkins, Quinlin, QuiggleT Quill, Studebaker, Sumner, Stange, Schmitz, Salmon, Spencer, Shbneman, Sokup, L. Scherrer, C- Scherrer, E. Scherrer, Smith, Thomas, Uranga, West, A. Welch, Wright, Weston, C. Young.	*
* Omitted last week by mistake.
Class Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in ail their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Messrs. Mulkern, S. O’Brien, Reynolds, McDonnell, Hagerty, Slattery, J. McNamara, C. Carroll J. Rogers, Ott, W. Cartier, G. O’Brien, Hafner, De Wolf] J. Shea, Wilson, Dexter,* Hamlyn, McLaughlin, McMurray, Wabraushek, P. Johnson, Berthelet.
MINIM DEPARTMENT. .
Masters W. "Welch, Stange, R. Papin, Schmitz, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, Devine, Wright, F. Mullen, Delaplane, Spencer, Kraus, West, Studebaker, M. O’Kane, Otis, F. Nester, Thomas, Meehan, F. Coad, J. Devereux, McPhee, Bunker, McVeigh, J. Kelly, Weston, La Tourette, Cole, Garrity, Amoretti, D. Prindiville, Henry, Fulwiler, Sokup,, E. Scherrer, O’Connor, A. Nester, M. McCourt, Johns, J_ Addington, Noonan, L, Scherrer, C. Scherrer, T. McGuire, B. O’Kane, Crotty, E. McGrath, Quiggle.
* Omitted last month.	’
List of Excellence.
[ The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best ip the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.
PREPARATORY AND COMMERCIAL COURSES.
Reading and Orthography—Messrs. Barclay, Luther, Houck, Hagerty,Norfleet, J. Shields, P.Wagoner,Weiler, L. Anchondo, Major, Hagen, Gonzalez, Delgado,.Creel, Aguilera, Hamlyn; Grammar—Messrs. Ramsay, Gutierez, Lucas, McGordon, O’Connell,^Slattery,Grothaus, Stubbs, Hagertv, McDonnell, D. Cartier, Leony, Aguilera, Ewing, Hamlyn; Geography—Messrs. Gonser, F. Combe, W. Wagoner, R. > Lewis, Houck, McDonald, Holbrook, Breen; United States History—Messrs. Fogarty, De Wolf, F. Combe, W. Wagoner, R. Lewis. Houck, Hagen, Luther, Mulkern, Breen, Rogers, Lane; Arithmetic—Messrs. W. Henry, G. O’Brien, Holbrook, McDonnell, J. Carroll, Baca, R. Aguilera, Gonser, Barnard, Williamson, Cussen, Fox, Muller, Marquez, R. Lewis, Arkins, Gimbel, Wilkes, Fierro; Book-Keeping —Messrs. Ott, G. O’Brien, McLaughlin, Slattery, J. V. O’Donnell, Berthelet; Penmanship—Messrs. A. Moye, Saunders, Trepanier, J. Grunsfeld, W. Wagoner, Moross, Fendrich, Schott; Latin—Messrs. Hagenbarth, Ewing, Callaghan, Kleiber, Sedberry, Lucas, Ancheta, Hausberg; Greek—Messrs. Mathers, Kleiber; Algebra—Messrs. Baca, McDonnell, Gerlach, G. Costigan, Dexter, Aguilera, Slattery, Houck; Christian Doctrine—Messrs. Schmauss, L. Anchondo, Wabraushek, S. O’Brien, Cavaroc, E. Porter, Menig, J. Nester, Ruppe.
For the Dome.	■
A Child of Mary..............................$50.00
Une Enfant de Marie.......................... 50.00
A Child of Mary.............................. 50.00
Dr. W. Gordon, Cairo, Ill..................... 5.00
A devoted Child of Mary...................... 20.00
E. de M...........-.........................   5.00
A Friend...................................... 1.00
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint fflary's Acabemy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The fresh coat of sea-foam paint which now coveis the wood-work of the western halls gives a very agreeable look to the apartments.
—A competition in Geography was held in the Junior Preparatory Class on Friday. The leaders were Jessie English and Mabel Barry.
—A prize was offered in the General Elocution Class for readiness in memorizing “ The Better Land,” by Mrs. Hernans. It was won by Maggie Ducey.
—At the regular Academic reunion, in the Junior department, “ Birthday Gifts ” was recited by Rushia Bailey, and “ The Old Clock on the Stairs” by Ada Shephard. Catharine Lord read a pretty poem from “Excelsior.”
—The most earnest and respectful sentiments of condolence are extended to the bereaved family of Mr. James Cunnea, of Morris, Ill., especially to his two daughters, Mrs. Fitzgibbons, of Chicago, and Miss Catharine Cunnea, both of Class ’70.
—Among the welcome visitors of the week were two “Centennial Graduates”—Mrs. Eleanor Dennehey O’Brien, and Mrs. Agatha St. Clair Ward—both of Class ’76; Mrs. Gavan, of Lafayette, Ind.; and Miss N. McEwen, of Chicago.
—At the regular Academic reunion, St. Mary's Chimes, Vol. IX, No 3 was read. Editresses, Misses Munger, Udall, Danforth, Carney, and Mary Ducey. “ Lady-like Deportment,” appearing in another column of the Scholastic, is taken from its pages.
—The Roman mosaic cross was this week won by Belle Snowhook. Those who drew with her were the Misses Bailey, Brown, Chaves, Cox, Dillon, Fehr, Halsey, Helen, Sybil and Ella Jackson, Keyes, McEwen, Moshier, Malbmuf, Otis, Quill, Richmond, Sheekey, Stumer, Schmidt, Shephard, Van Horn and Vradenburg.
—We had the honor of a visit from Rev. J. M. Connell}’’, D. D., who has just returned from the American College at Rome. He is now assistant pastor of St. Ann’s Church near Baltimore. Most Rev. Archbishop Gibbons has made choice of .Father Connelly to act as his private secretary during the approaching General Council.
Lady-like Deportment.
“Actions speak louder than words,” and however strongly one may boast of superiority in nationality, in pedigree, in acquirements, if deportment gives the lie to the boast, in vain has it been uttered. Most emphatically is this true of manners in young ladies. .	.
To the practised eye, there is little difficulty in distinguishing the true lady, no matter How large or mixed the assemblage in which she may.appear.
A movement, a word, a glance will reveal her claim to the title. On the other hand, it is with equal accuracy that one who forfeits her right to the name may be recognized. The pose of the person, the tone of the voice, the expression of the eye will betray the bold young woman. The virginal heart is not there. Society feels it, and, however much it may pretend to flatter, despises the want of the maiden’s holiest claim. Delicacy of feeling^ refinement of mind, and an unsullied purity of heart, are the indispensable traits which mark the virtuous maiden, while in the bold girl
*_	o
they are totally wanting. To see and to be seen; to hear and to be heard; to attract attention and to be talked of are the main objects of her ambition. How pitifully vain! how utterly selfish! And yet, much as this disposition is despised, how many must plead guilty to the charge when arraigned at the bar of public opinion?
Do not half the distractions from study arise from this mania for being taken notice of? Studious young ladies arc too thoroughly preoccupied; too well employed, to waste their precious time in this manner. Fortunately, the shallow seek the shallow, and, dashed on the rocks of folly, they will evaporate together; while the deep intellect will find its level with the lovers of profound thought,-and earnest, sincere lives, and the strong, pure tide of their existence will keep the even tenor of its way till true success be won.
The great Bishop of Geneva, St. Francis de Sales, styled purity “ the beautiful and white virtue of the soul.” “ See that lily,” he once said; “ It preserves its whiteness and sweetness, even amid briars and thorns, but touch it ever so little, and it will ' fade.” It is the same with that natural outgrowth of purity—maidenly modesty. Once marred, its beauty is tarnished forever. “ The wife of Czesar must be above suspicion; ” so must be a young girl’s reputation. If this be once admitted, what can be thought of those who run after attention, and who are forever forcing their charms, fancied or real, artificial or natural, upon the notice of the world; whose actions, speech and dress are disposed to that effect? Says the Bishop of Geneva: “In dress keep yourself as much as possible on the side of plainness and modesty, which, without doubt, are the greatest ornaments of beauty, and the best excuse for the want of it.” Admirable is that polite reserve of manner which is found in good families who still cling to, and abide by, the Christian customs of the olden time. It protects the young, and, by wise restraints, forestalls the dangers which arise from inexperience, while it throws an indescribable charm over the person which everywhere commands respect.
Certain rules decide the proprieties of social.intercourse. Whatever is not in accordance with these rules is forbidden ground. There is no mistaking right for wrong, or wrong for right, the O O	O 3	O	O'3 -
lines of demarkation are made so clear. The well-bred are those who have from infancy been subjected to these rules. The ill-bred are those who from childhood,have been permitted to ignore them. Shame on old or young.who would lessen
3 *
THE NOTRE DAME -SCHOLASTIC.
543
the power of such wholesome restrictions! Hapless the youth or maiden who has never been required to acknowledge their control!
According to the rules of Christian propriety, it is not permitted to the young to form acquaintances at random. Their associates are selected by parents, guardians, or directors who are better qualified than themselves to judge of their merits. Travelling alone is not permitted a young lady, noris she allowed to appear in public unchaperoned, that is to say, unattended by some older relative or friend. This is not only to protect the youthful heart from any danger, but to shield the good name. If this guardianship be so salutary, so wise that its necessity can be seen at a glance, correspondence on the part of the subjects is no less a proof of sound principles. Circumspection is as necessary to the integrity of the young girl’s reputation as the strong setting is to keep the pure gem unsullied. This unobtrusive prudence is perfectly compatible with every amiable social trait. The most entertaining and accomplished young ladies owe the admiration spontaneously accorded to them in society to the virtues which it has nourished in their hearts. The young girl who is so guarded is judged only by friendly hearts. Her name is above reproach; her associates are the choice of those most interested in her improvement; why should she not be cheerful and happy?
Mark, on the other hand, the misfortunes of one wanting in circumspection. She will talk freely of herself, her friends, etc.; etc., in public places, on the cars, and the like. She exposes herself to the remarks of the unprincipled,—for it is not everyone who travels who may be safely trusted. The circumspect is not talkative in public places. As the sensitive plant recoils from the rude touch, she avoids the notice of strangers. It is invited by no loud tone of hers, no interested glance, no covert freedom of manner. She carries the treasure of her good name, of her pure heart, as one might bear an overflowing vase of some precious liquid up a rough and steep ascent. Every drop is of priceless value. Not one must fall to the ground. How carefully she guards every step, lest it may be wasted!
Once open to suspicion, the golden links of that best of all earthly treasures, a good name, are severed, never again to be reunited. “ Our ideal is is not wounded when a young girl fails in worldly wisdom, but if in grace, in tact, in sentiment; in delicacy, in kindness, she is wanting, we receive an inward hurt.” Thus says one who is'widely versed in the knowledge of human character. We will close in the equally pertinent language of another who declared “ Too much modesty will never be complained of—for if one have modesty as guide, reason as adviser, and truth as controlling principle, he will never have cause to be ashamed of his conduct.”	M. Munger.
An inquirer asks, “ How can I tell classical music ? ” That is easy enough. When you hear everybody applaud and look relieved after the piece is finished, you can know that it is strictly classical.—N^'T. Graphic.
■ Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses Adderly, Beal, Black, Bruhn, Call, Campbell, Cirkel, Cummings, Dunn, J. Duffield, Fuller, Fogerty, Gavan, Ginz, Gove, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon, Hale, Heckard, Kearns, Kearney, Kearsey, Kenny, Leg-nard, Lintner, McHale, McNamara, McCarthy, Mooney, A. Murphy, M. Murphy, Neu, O’Connell, Quill, Reilly, Reynolds, Sheridan, Sheekey, Scully, Steele, Stackerl, Todd, Tynan. 2d Tablet-rdAxs,?,^ A. Babcock, C. Babcock, Calkins, Carney, Dowling, L. English, Fendrich, Horn, Johnson, Keating, King, Platte, Rosing, S. St. Clair, Williams.	.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses Chaves, Best, Bailey, Cox, Durlacher, Dillon, M. Ducey, Eldred, Fehr, B. Halsey, Haney, H. Jackson, E. Jackson, S. Jackson, Keyes, Lord, McEwen, N. Quill, Richmond, Shephard, Schmidt, Stumer, B. Snowhook, Vradenburg. 2d Tablet—Misses I. Allen, Duffield, A. English, Murphy, G. Regan, Roddin, Van Horn.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses E. Chapin, M. Ducey, J. English, L. Johns, V. Johns, M. Lindsey, B. Murray, G. Papin, M. Paul, M. Reynolds, A. Schmauss, S. Van Fleet.
Class Honors.
Graduating Class—Misses B. Johnson, E. Todd.
ist Senior .Class—Misses Call, Gove, Dunn, Ginz; Papin, C. Campbell, J. Duffield, Sheekey, Cummings.
2D Senior Class—Misses Carney, Munger, Danforth, Heckard, Udall, L. English, Rosing, Helpling, Keating, Bruhn, M. Ducey.
3d Sr. Class—Misses O’Connell, Hale, Horn, Kearney, Kearsey, Reynolds. Fuller, McNamara, Morrison, Dillon, E. Sheekey, Stackerl, Adderly, Sheridan, McHale, Keyes, A. Legnard, A. Murphy, Quill, Shephard.	.
ist Preparatory Class—Misses Bailey, Fehr, Halsey, H. Jackson, E. Jackson, Moshier, C. Richmond, Schmidt, Van Horn, Snowhook, Durlacher, Kearns, Gavan, Taylor, Mooney, I. Allen. Wolvin, Lucas, Lintner, Regan, Alice Gordon, B. English, Billings, Addie Gordon, Ryan, C. Babcock, Scully, Peak.
2D Prep. Class—Misses Best, Campeau, S. Jackson, A. English, Leahigh, McCarthy, Hetz, P. Ewing, Roddin, Dowling, Fogerty, King, M. Murphy, Chaves, Malbceuf, Stumer, Otis, Steele, Lord, Barry.
Junior Prep.—Misses Cox, Vradenburg, M. Ducey. Murphy, Quill.	'
ist Jr. Class—Misses Lindsey, Chapin, Paul.
SCHOOL OF DRAWING AND PAINTING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
OIL-PAINTING.
ist Class—Misses Papin, Beal.
2D Class, 2d Div.—Misses E. Sheekey, Udall,. Heckard, Dunn, Stackerl.
3D Class—Misses Chayes, C. Fehr. painting in water-colors. •
Misses A; Duffield, Van Horn, Hale, Dowling, Leahigh, Murphy. ' •
PORCELAIN PAINTING.
Misses Campbell, Papin, Tynan, A. English, Shephard, Fehr, Chaves.
-	DRAWING.
ist Class—Misses Beal, Campbell, Papin. .
2D Class—Misses Udall, Legnard, Ewing, A. English, Shephard, Fehr, Chaves, Danforth.
aD Class—Misses Dillon, Richmond, M. Reynolds, Fuller.	-
GENERAL DRAWING.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	•
Misses C. Babcock, R. Billings.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT;
Misses I. Allen, N, Sheekey, Best, Regan, E. Roddin, Cox, Keyes, E. Jackson, S. Jackson, Moshier, B. Halsey, Wolvin, Bailey, Murphy, Schmidt, Durlacher.
544
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
BUCKENDORF,
FLORIST.
Catholic Music
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
RARE and BEDDING PLANTS
ALWAYS ON HAND.
ALSO,	‘
CUT FLOWERS, DESIGNING, and DECORATING.
GREENHOUSE, 217 JEFFERSON ST.,
SOUTH BEND, IND.
MASSES, VESPERS,
CLASS and CHOIR BOOKS, etc., etc.
The Most Complete Stock
AV EST OF NEW YORK CITY.
Send for Catalogues.
John Church & Co.,
CINCINNATI, O-
EUGENE F. ARNOLD (Class of’7S).	W. IT. LANDVO1GT.
ARNOLD & LANDVOIGT,
Attorneys and Counsellors at Law,
470 Louisiana Avenue, N. W., WASHINGTON, D. C.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 18, 1883, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.04 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.22 a.m.; Cleveland, 1.57 p.m.; Buffalo, 7.36 p.m.
10.54 a-m-» Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.07 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.44 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.
8.41 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line, jkrrives at Toledo, 2.17 a.m.: Cleveland, 6.37 a.m.; Buffalo, 12.46 p.m.
11.53 a.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.12 p.m.; Cleveland, 94 2 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.	-
5.54 p.m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.00 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.07 a.m.; Buffalo, 6.41 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.04a.m., Toledo. Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.56 a.m., Chicago, 5.41 a.m.	.
4.28 a.m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 a.m. . Chicago, 7.51 a.m.
7.11 a.m, Limited Express. Arrives at Laporte, 7.52 a.m. Chicago, 10.11 a.m.	*
1.02 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.02 p.m.; Chesterton, 2.47 p.m.; Chicago, 4:31 p.m.
4.07 p.m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.54 p.m.; Chicago, 7.31 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
■ A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
. W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
-	P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
JOHN NEWELL. Gen’l M’ger, Cleve'and.
TRYWILLSEE BY EXAMINING 1 HIS MAP THAT THE
CHICAGO.ROCKISLMD&PACIFICRT Calls the attention of travelers to the central position of its line, connecting the East and the West by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, Atchison. Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches, Magnificent Horton Reclining Chair Cars, Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri Biver Points. Two , Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St.
Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
A K;-w and Direct Line, via Seneca and Kankakee, has recently been opened between Biehmond, Norfolk, Newport News, Chattanooga, Atlanta, Augusta, Nashville, Louisville, Lexington, Cincinnati, Indianapolis and Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneapolis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
All Through Passengers Travel on Past Express Trains.
Tickets for sale at all principal Ticket Offices in the United States and Canada.	-
Baggage checked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less advantages.	•
For detailed information, get the Maps and Folders of the
CREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE, At your nearest Ticket Office, or address R. R. CABLE,	£. ST. JOHN,
Vice-Pres. & Gen’i Jl'g'r, Gen’l Tkt. 4 Pass. AgL
CHICAGO.