j
"The twenty-fourth would never get here, they thought. But it has arrived finally, and during this week-end, it's Cotillion time on the campus for some 500 sophomores and their guests. Tonight is their night. . .
VOLUME 75 NUMBER 5 OCTOBER 24. 1941
f
7^ OFFICIAL NOTRE DAME RING
Heavily modeled on one shank of this massive ' ring is the tower and dome of the Administration Building. Below appears the ND monogram with crossed torches in the background, an emblem of the ideals and attainment of Notre Dame. The seal of the University stands out in striking relief on the other shank while below it crossed torches bear with those on the other side.
Set in the oval top is a genuine garnet, sapphire, or onyx framed by the letters "University of Notre Dame."
The official Notre Dame ring is an impressive ring symbolizing the strength and dignity that is Notre Dame.
PRICES ON OFFICIAL RINGS
No. 25841 (lightweight I OK)
Onyx, sardonyx, blue onyx, green onyx....$20.00
Synthetic blue spinel, tourmaline, synthetic blue sapphire, synthetic ruby, synthetic emerald ______________________ 22.50
Garnet, genuine amethyst, topaz........... 25.50
No. 29987 (sterling)
Onyx, sardonyx_________________________—9.75
Ruby _____________________________________ 12.25
Amethyst, topaz, garnet_________2_________ 15.00
The above prices are subject to the new taxes on jewelry.
No. 25754 (regular weight I OK)
Onyx, sardonyx, blue onyx, green onyx.... 24.50
Synthetic blue spinel, tourmaline, synthetic blue sapphire, synthetic ruby, synthetic emerald_________________________ 27.00
Garnet, genuine amethyst, topaz........... 30.00
FOR DETERMINING AND RECORDING FINGER SIZE
Take a band of firm paper same size as ring size chart. Wrap it around the finger firmly at the second joint, or around the largest part of the finger if the joints are not prominent. Lay it on the ring size chart to the right to get your exact size.
Ring For Measuring Finger
3456789 10 11
Authorized Campus Representatives: ’	.
JOHN D. REARDON—308 Lyons Hall % ED. DUQUETTE—401 St. Ed’s Hail	FRANK J. STUMPF—313 Morrissey
JACK THORNTON—49 Carroll Hall	• HANS HELL AND—451 Morrissey	KENNETH GEMPEL—107 Howard
, . JACK GARVEY—369 Alumni Hall
L. G. BALFOUR COMPANY
Attleboro, Massachusetts !—	" .	I	-	----
2
COLLEGE PARADE
By ROBERT LeMENSE
Ketchum to Ketchum—Not Quite
The University Daily Kansan was almost responsible for its own news-oddity-of-the-year story. The paper conducted a big contest based on subscription sales, the two winners, a boy and a girl, to get trips to the Rose Bowl game or Sun Valley. Oddly enough, a Kenneth Ketchum won the Bowl trip and the stay in Sun Valley went to Miriam Bartlett. Miss Bartlett’s trip will end at Ketchum, Idaho which is the Sun Valley railway terminal. So Ketchum doesn’t go to Ketchum!
Lucky You
He: “Why is it that the most important fellows on the campus always get the prettiest girl friends?”
She: “Why you conceited thing!”
Your Move
Date—“If you kiss me I’ll scream.”
Big operator—“But there’s no one within hearing distance.”
Date—“Then what are you scared of?” —Nrivy Log
High Finance
“How I Handle a $100,000 Account” will be explained to the Banking and Finance Club at a meeting in 154R at 7:45 o’clock tonight.”
■ —Northwestern Nezvs
Our local expert in Alumni Hall has his own method. Thus:
Debit
Cotillion: imported date _______________$ 75.00
Junior Prom; imported date ______________ 81.63
Senior Ball; imported date ______________ 87.74
Victory dances and other affairs________	95.81
Downtown dates; taxi, dinner, show, etc. 143.67
Miscellaneous  543.58
Total §1,027.43
Credit
Sale of Scrip and Scholastic subscriptions to Freshmen §42.25
Total §42.25
Total brought forward§999,014.82
What Chart?—Different Version
Draftee.
“Next.”
“Who me?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Where born?”
“Russia.”
“What part?”
“All of me.”
“Why did you leave Russia?”
“I couldn’t bring it with me.”
“Where were your forefathers from?”
“I have only one father.”
“Your business?”
“Rotten.”'
“Where is Washington?”
“He is dead.”
“I mean the capital of the United States.”
“They loaned it to Europe.”
“Now do you promise to support the Constitution?”
“Me? How can I? I’ve got a wife and six kids to support.”
—The Daily Lariat
"Now One of America's Outstanding College Maga-
•	_ II ’
zines
Such distinction does the Maroon Bee of the University of Baltimore modestly claim for itself. Here are some of the jokes which it passes off under this claim:
“Was she a good dancer?”
“I call her mustard.”
“Why mustard?”
“Because she was always on my dogs.”
Golfer: Notice any improvement since last year?
Caddy: Had your clubs shined up, haven’t you, sir?
The Opinion Poll Again
The Nassau Sovereign, Princeton U. publication, conducted one of the familiar scientific polls. Question: Do you believe that the United States will be in the . war by the middle of September, 1941?
Yes, 49%; No, 47%; No answer, 4%.
The poll, by the way, was conducted last year among 150 representative Princeton students.
In the same vein as the poll results above we offer this poem.
“WAR EFFORT” BY FRANK J. GETLEIN, JR.
I consecrate my hands, God willing, They shall learn the trade of killing.
My legs I give dind pray they’ll stand . When blood is springing from the land.
I offer too the hopes I had
Before the world went sudden mad.
I consecrate my heart—too late:
My heart can never learn to hotel
—Holy Cross Purple	.
THE WEEK
By JIM O'LAUGHLIN
Top of the Week:
The “eyes” have it: Irish vs. Illini—
Cotillion Capers:
It’s Cotillion time again._Sophs will drag hometown beauties.... Juniors and Seniors will simply drag.... Jimmy Joy will jive._________________nobody will drive (consult Student Manual)_____________correct attire will be overalls, coveralls, or N.D.A.A. sweat pants.... Seniors not eligible for the draft and engineers with a 98% average will be admitted free.... Bill Scanlan had quite a time this afternoon.... his
They hope they'll look like this.
date, a blind one, sent the following message at the last minute: “Oh, I almost forgot to. tell you. I arrive Friday on the New York Central at 2:52 p.m.”.... no description or identifying clews.______ by this time, the “Scoop” has probably been hauled before the Constable for molesting strange women.... That’s almost as bad as the telegram that Bill Fallon received from a gal saying that she would “be delighted to come”.... Bill is very much in the proverbial dark, for he can’t recall inviting “anyone to any Cotillion.”
Men Turned Mice:
Walsh Hallers broke their three year tradition last Saturday. Chief Geharty, Jess DeLois, Sig Wesolowski, Bob Flynn and Harry Flanagan used to boast of their enviable record of not having a date in over three years at Notre Dame. But their remarkable resistance to the local maidens has gone for naught. First of the group to bite the dust was Sig. He succumbed to the charms of a petite St. Mary’s lass. Operator Peg in turn arranged dates for the other members of the “Bachelors Quintet,” and the group attended the Victory Dance. From
4
reports, a good time was had by all and the “Rock” will see more of the boys.
Caf Smoke:
Hank Dahm is accepting candidates for the life-guard’s course which he will personally conduct.... why, haven’t you heard?.... Hank rescued a Rosary College girl (name, Mary; phone, o-0-O-Oh!) from four feet of water.... Bill and his barbers claim “no squawks” about rise in tonsorial fees.... But, tain’t the way we heer’d it, Bill.... It won’t be long now till William Charles Sturbitts dons the khaki—Nov. 12.... shucks, just when we were scouting him for a position on that “Oliver All-American”.... Boner of the Week: cover on last week’s Scholastic —November 4, October 17. — Who’s the one who bribed his draft board for a deferment with promises of football tickets?. ... Well, the board was gullible at the time, but now they want 23 tickets for the Navy game!.... nothing less than 50 yarders either.... John Murray has finally met “South Bend Sue”—poor “Burlington Betsy”. . . . Tea dances, sponsored by Jim Fayette, will liven up the post football season. — Chewing gum in disguise.... “Huddle” is selling Double Mint in Spearmint wrappers nowadays.... Congrats to Jim O’Neal, fourth year pres., who is planning a series of informal dances for N.D. Freshmen and St. Mary’s Belles.... also to our S. A. C. mentor, Gene Schumaker, who is really making the body a Student Council.... you’ll hear more later.
Au Revoir....
The reins of “The Week” will lie in different hands after this issue. We have but one short parting thought:
Happy are we met ' Happy have we been Happy may we part And happy meet again!
Sophomore Lament:
“So little time and so much to do”
❖
Bottom of the Week:
Weather forecast for Indiana....
NEXT WEEK
By John A. Lynch
SATURDAY, OCT. 25:
Sunrise serenade for sophomores.
Illinois vs. Notre Dame, Notre Dame Stadium, Cotillionites still flush, 1:30 p.m.
Movie, “The Letter,” Bette Davis makes murder and gets some, cartoon and news, 6:40 and 8:00 p.m.
Victory Dance, enlarged Indiana Club, music by the Modernaires, sponsored by the Chemists Club, 8:15 p.m.
SUNDAY, OCT. 26:
South Bend goes back to normal with central standard time.
Catholic Action Students meeting, Law Building, 10:00 a.m.
MONDAY, OCT. 27:
Navy Day, Admiral Nimitz, U.S.N., speaking in Washington Hall, freshman classes excused for the hour, all others tune portables to WSBT, 11:00 a.m.
Notre Dame newscast, the grit that’s fit, 4:15 p.m.
Interhall Debate opening, Law Building auditorium, 7:30 p.m.
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 29:
Peoria Club meeting, a new campus organization, 117 Main Building, 7:30 p.m.
Student Commission for Decent Literature meeting, Rockne Memorial Lounge, 4:30 p.m.
THURSDAY, OCT. 30:
College Quiz, thirty minutes of quiz contesting between a South Bend high school and a Notre Dame hall, 4:00 p.m.
Spanish Club meeting, Badin Rec, 7:30 p.m.
Propeller Club meeting, . Room 202, Commerce Building, 7:30 p.m.
FRIDAY, OCT. 31:
Hallowe’en finds still-somewhat-dazed sophomores recalling ghosts of a week ago.
Notre Dame sportscast, 4:00 p.m.
Movie, “The Saint in Palm Springs,” George Sanders as the Saint, March of
Time, 6:40 and 8:00 p.m.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 75
OCTOBER 24. 1941
Number 5
No+re Dame To Observe Navy Day Monday
Admiral Nimitz to Speak
An address by Admiral C. W. Nimitz, U.S.N., at. 11=00 a.m. in Washington Hall will highlight the first Notre Dame Observance of .Navy Day, Monday, Oct. 27. Freshman classes will be suspended and other students who have no class at that hour are urged to attend. Commander F. M. McWhirter of the Indiana Naval Area and Paul E. Fisher, Indiana Navy Day Chairman, will accompany Admiral Nimitz. The party will be the guests of the President of the University, the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., at luncheon following the address. Admiral Nimitz will leave for Indianapolis at 1:00 p.m. to administer the naval oath to men recruited by the American Legion on the steps of the Soldiers and Sailors monument in that city. -
The ceremonies Monday will be the first observance of Navy Day at Notre Dame and-are partly occasioned by the recent establishment of a Naval Gificers Reserve Unit at the University under the command of Captain H. B. Burnett, U.S.N. Monday will also mark the approximate date of the first issue of the new Naval Reserve publication at Notre Dame, The Irish Pennant. Uniforms for the members of the reserve unit are expected to arrive very soon, enabling the corps to parade in full dress.
President Roosevelt will deiver a Navy Day radio address to the nation from
Notre Dame's Navy Base
the Navy Day dinner in Washington Monday evening. The speech will be broadcast over the four major networks at 9:00 p.m. Central Standard Time. The President will be introduced by Col. William J. “Wild Bill” Donovan, and prominent Navy officers will also talk from Washington on the same program. They will send radio greetings to gatherings at other Navy Day dinners throughout the country. President Roosevelt’s message will be preceded by a broadcast over the NBC Blue network from Chicago between 8 and 8:30 pan., Central Standard Time. This program will originate at the Navy Day dinner at the Palmer House, at which Admiral Harold R. Stark, Chief of Naval Operations, will be the principal speaker. Commodore Sheldon Clark will broadcast a radio salute to the Navy, to the gathering in Washington, and to similar groups in other cities.
For the first time since the celebration was started in 1922, Navy Day is being directed from the Midwest, the Ninth Naval District. In former years it has always centered about Washington. It is sponsored annually by the Navy League of the United States, the Navy’s civilian arm. Its purpose is partly to honor the Navy—our first line of defense—but mainly to inform the public in matters pertaining to the fleet, so that popular judgment in broad naval matters will be sound. The celebration
will even extend to between the halves ceremonies at many collegiate football games, all with a view toward making Americans “Navy conscious.”
October 27th has, through 19 years, been selected for the observance of Navy Day for two very fitting reasons. It was on October 27, 1775, that the Congress of the United States made its appropriation for the building of a navy. The birthday of Theodore Roosevelt is also on October 27, and it was during his administration that the American people were first made forcibly cognizant of the extent to which their comfort and safety were dependent upon our first line of defense, the Navy.—Dick Kilmer
STUDENT COUNCIL MEETS
The Student Council of the University met in special session in the Lounge Room of the Rockne Memorial Building on Thursday evening Oct. 16. Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., new prefect of discipline, outlined the purpose of the Council and the required caliber of the students making up this body. “To me,” said Father Burke, “the Student Council is ‘tops’ of all other campus organizations.
“In the effort to obtain the respect of the student body,” he continued, “each members of the council must get rid of his subjective point of view and take an objective one. Each member’must forget his own selfish interests or what personal glory may fall upon him and work for the common good of all students. To make the council what it should be, a governing body, loved, respected and admired by every student at Notre Dame, you must make up your mind to work and if you don’t intend to work the Student Council has no need of you. But if you’ll combine an objective view along with courage and firmness of character the University administration will be more than willing to cooperate with you in your endeavors.”
Brosey Weds Tomorrow
Cliff Brosey, Notre Dame monogram winning tackle as a sophomore two years . ago, who withdrew from school this fall . as a senior to keep a defense industry job, will be married Oct. 25, the day of the Illinois-Notre Dame game. A native -	.
of Ozone Park, L.L, Brosey has been working and living in South Bend.	.
5
The simple majesty of stone on stone—The peaceful cloister of knowledge.
6
ADMINISTRATION
NEW ISSUE OF "REVIEW OF POLITICS”
On Friday last, the first issue for the current year of the quarterly Review of Politics went on sale. The book this year is under the capable editorship of Mr. Waldemar Gurian, associate professor of politics, assisted by Prof. F. A. Hermens, and Prof. Francis J. O’Malley.
The Review of Politics is one of the four professional publications of the University; of these this journal is the most widely circulated and read. It is published in January, April, July and October and its contributors rank among the greatest scholars and thinkers in this country.
The present issue of the Reviezv of Politics contains four articles and a number of book reviews. Among the articles is one by Jacques Maritain of the Catholic Institute in Paris who writes on “The Immortality of Man.”
Mr. Maritain in his essay proves the immortality of man by two methods: man’s instinctive or natural knowledge of immortality and knowledge attained by philosophy. Nothing is more precious than human life, yet nothing is more wasted and exposed to dangers; this is a proof that man instinctively realizes that death is not an end but actually a beginning of life. Even though the intelligence may ignore this instinct, the thought of a new life was unconsciously accepted by man at the dawn of time.
By philosophical arguments, Maritain shows that while the intelligence makes use of the physical attributes of the body, it is purely spiritual in essence and can exist therefore without the body. This self-motivating being, this soul which is necessary as the ultimate cause of thought, in being spiritual insures itself of everlasting life; it is immaterial and cannot be corrupted nor lose its energy as it contains within itself the source of its energy; thus the soul of man is immortal.
Professor Goetz A. Briefs of Georgetown University in “The German Enigma” analyzes two books on the German question, and then presents his own conclusions.
The first, “Europe and the German Question,” by Friedrick Foerster, poses the statement: There is - no Germany. There are two distinct Germanies—the West and South and the West and
North; they are cleanly divided in culture and race. They were further divided by the Reformation, the West and South remaining faithful. The East and North is distinct; it is Prussia. Foerster sees Prussia, situated in the center of Europe, as the embodiment of none of the traditions of the Greco-Latin civilization, more antagonistic to Europe than a
Professor Gurian
member thereof, trusting in force rather than in right, and moved by a missionary urge to dominate rather than serve Europe. “Prussia grew up as the great Lutheran power; the Reformation was its Magna Charta.”
A second book, D’Ou Vient L’Alle-magne, by Gonzague de Reynold, similarly finds this: The German is a materialist, a being which never outgrew primitiveness, and does not aspire to spiritualism. He demands a German Christianity, finds it in Luther. The Reformation was the first stage; National Socialism is the last.
Summing up, Briefs says: “Hitler undertakes the task of unifying the Reich along one identical pattern—Prussia, but a Prussia thoroughly secularized and anxious to identify Germanism with chemically pure anti - Westernism and anti-universalism, leaving only blood and soil as the elements of this Germanism. A biological determination rises with the
pathos of a new national religion — a phenomenon which has occurred but once in history, among the Jews. In this biological determination lies the deepest root of the cleavage between present day (Continued on Pag 23)
Prof. Bender Heads Indiana Academy of Social Science
The Indiana Academy of Social Sciences held its annual convention at Butler University in Indianapolis on Oct. 17 and 18. At this convention, Wesley C. Bender, associate professor of business administration in the College of Commerce, was elected president of the academy for the ensuing year. Not only does this election deservedly honor Professor Bender, one of Notre Dame’s most scholarly and popular faculty members, it also brings additional prestige to Notre Dame, its administrations, and commerce faculty. Previously Mr. Bender had held the officers of director and vice-president of the Academy.
It is worthy of mention that the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences is one of the leading educational societies in this part of the country. Membership is open to all university professors of business administration, economics, government, and sociology, as well as to all those holding state positions in Indiana. Its purpose is to facilitate the exchange of ideas through the presentation of papers and discussions on current research in the four above-mentioned fields.
Among the papers presented during the recent meetings was a very timely one by Professor Bender on “Some Problems Related to United States - South American Trade.” Doctor Hermens of the department of politics also presented a very interesting address dealing with “Proportional Representation.” Other Notre Dame faculty members in attendance at the Indianapolis meetings were Rev. Alfred Send, C.S.C. and Rev. Joseph Kehoe, C.S.C., both of the department of economics. Two university presidents, Doctor Wells of Indiana University, and Doctor Robinson of Butler, attended all the sessions of the convention.
It is to be hoped that at some time in the near future the University of Notre Dame will play host to the members of the Academy.
Our congratulations are hereby most heartily extended to Professor Bender.
—Edmund. A. Smith
7
PROF. HERMENS SPEAKS ON CITY GOVERNMENT
Peter C. Reilly, member of the board of trustees of the University.
—J. H. Johnson
Proportional representation in municipal government is not advisable in the United States, Dr. F. A. Hermens, associate professor • of politics at Notre Dame, told members of the Indiana Academy of Science at a meeting on the Butler University campus last Friday afternoon. Professor Hermens, who is regarded as one of the best informed authorities on this subject and whose book Democracy or Anarchy is accepted as a standard reference, cited numerous instances where the plan has been a complete failure as a form of city administration. Dr. Hermens taught at the Catholic University of America from 1935 until 1938 when he came to Notre Dame.
Besides carrying on his regular duties on the teaching staff, Prof. Hermens is an associate editor of the quarterly Review of Politics, and, among other organizations, is a member of the American- Academy of Political and Social Science.
Proportional representation is that type of city management in which a committee appointed by the various factors of the town takes the place of the executive power of the mayor.
In his speech at Indianapolis, Professor Hermens pointed out the similarity between totalitarian rule in Europe and the so-called “boss rule” of some American cities. He explained that they were based on the rule of the minority. “What is wrong with the world at the present time is the tyranny of minorities, not of the majority. Stalin, Hitler and Mussolini came to the helm by acts of violence, which they would not have needed had the majority of the people been behind them. . . . Similar considerations apply to the problem of boss rule in municipal government. The members of the Tweed ring did not constitute the majority of the voters of New York, and the same applies to the Vare machine in Philadelphia and to the Pendergast machine in Kansas City.”
Professor Hermens went on to enumerate the failure of the proportional representative type of government in a few of the various cities in which it has been tried. Among these cities were: Cleveland, Cincinnati and Ashtabula, Ohio; New York City and Yonkers, New York; and in Wheeling, W. Va. Partial success was experienced in Toledo and Hamilton, Ohio.
In exemplifying the uselessness of proportional represntation after repeated unsuccessful trials, Prof. Hermens quoted Newton D. Baker: “One would
8
not spend a year experimenting to see whether his digestion could be improved by eating soup with a fork.”
Bringing the problem of proportional representation home, the speaker summed up his text: “These matters will soon acquire great practical weight in Indiana. . . . Proportional representation, by its very nature, asks for a collection of
Professor Hermens
minorities rather than for a majority. . . . The remedy, then, for the evils of municipal government is not the attempt to ‘represent minorities’ by the help of ’ such devices as proportional representa-. tion. Instead, let us arouse a majority of the people in our cities to the realization of their civic duties, and the days of machine rule will be gone everywhere and forever!”—Paul Carr
Law Banquet
Five members of the University faculty were present at a banquet given by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Indianapolis during the convention of the American Bar Association held there Oct, 1.
Dean Clarence E. Manion and several members of the law faculty including Prof. William D. Rollinson, Prof. James J. Kearney and Prof. Elton E. Richter were guests, as well as the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, vice-president of the University.
Dean Manion spoke of the aims of the Notre -Dame law school and outlined plans for a similar gathering to be held at future Bar Association Conventions.
A brief address was given by Mr.
Film of Notre Dame
Soon to be Released
Remember the mysterious camera men who invaded the campus last Spring? They were from the Warren Brothers Studio of South Bend and were making real the conception of “The Story of Notre Dame” — a motion picture to portray all phases of life at Notre Dame' with particular emphasis on the religious, intellectual, and entertaining aspects. The Washington Day celebrations and the Spring pep reception-rally for Coach Frank Leahy provided settings for the first shots. The deans and the heads of the various departments cooperated in the choice of material.
Early in the filming, Eduardo Alcay-aga, graduate student from Chile, proposed that a copy of the film be made with Spanish narration. This version was to be used by the six Notre Dame delegates on the Pax Romana tour during the coming Summer and was then to be left in South America for general publicity. As a result a sound picture in Spanish, 45 minutes in length and with the last reel in colors went to South America with the tour. The first showing of the film was at Arequipa, Peru, where Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., who was with the Pax Romana party, presented it to a group of Notre Dame alumni. The second showing was in Cartagena, Colombia. This Spanish version .was further circulated in South America and was returned to Notre Dame just last week.
The idea of the film was to acquaint South Americans with Catholic university life in the . United States, to show that the United States does, have excellent Catholic colleges as exemplified in Notre Dame, and to provide for the interest and pleasure of the Notre Dame alumni in South America.
The completion of the English version was postponed so that the Spanish version could be completed in time to be used on the Pax Romana tour. Now the English picture lacks only narration. The movie will be distributed through the Alumni Office and its Secretary Jim Armstrong.
Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., was chairman of the committee producing the film. Other members of the committee included: Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C., technical adviser; Rev. John Gallagher, C.S.C., continuity, with Eduardo Alcay-aga writing the Spanish transcription; Professor Stanley Sessler, photography; and Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., production.—Charles Kleibacker
FACULTY PORTRAITS
If, at certain times of the day, you walk between the Huddle and Science Hall, and you hear a stream of Spanish interspersed with perfectly good American wisecracks issuing from an open window, say to yourself: “That’s Prof. Gilbert Joseph Coty, teaching Spanish to a group of freshmen and enjoying it.” You could go further and say the freshmen were enjoying it, too.
Professor Coty
Picture a pleasant, bespectacled man in his early forties, with hair not too gray, an elastic step and an irrepressible wealth of humor, and you have the aforementioned Professor Coty. For the struggling student he has an understanding and sympathy that amounts to a sort of camaraderie. Maybe it is because he is an old Notre Dame man himself — Class of ’25. Sometimes he grins engagingly at delinquents, “You can’t get away with that here. I know! I used to do it myself. ...”
Once he gets started in class he’s a veritable whirlwind. He never sits down. Expounding a rule of grammar, he strides back and forth and around, illustrates on the blackboard with an excited scrawl, punctuates lectures with quips, gags, pep-talks. He’s fond of imitating an imaginary, overworked, whining student; screwing up his face into a scowl he raves sarcastically: “Coty? Don’t get in that man’s class! He’s tough; he’ll make you work; he’ll teach you Spanish!”
Tirelessly he will go over a point if a student doesn’t understand. Repeating a rule or an explanation, he inevitably adds a quick, almost indistinguishable “You see?” The student usually does.
When interest bogs down and Spanish seems the dullest thing in the world he gives the boys a pep-talk, rails against Walgreen’s, or St. Mary’s, as foreign, unnecessary elements in an N.D. man’s
life. Seriously, though, he often gives the boys good, honest, man-to-man advice. “After you get that sheepskin, they’re not going to ask whether you got an 80 or a 90 in Spanish, but they’ll hand you a paragraph in Spanish and say, ‘Read that!’”—J. H. Johnston
Japanese Attitude
Dangerous—Prof. Campbell
Last Monday evening, Prof. T. Bowyer Campbell addressed a meeting of the Catholic Forum of South Bend at the LaSalle hotel on the subject, “Japan’s New Order in the East.” Mr. Campbell, a professor of history here at Notre Dame since 1931, has spent a number of years living in the Orient, studying the history, traditions and problems of the Far East. Since then he has been able to keep abreast of the problems and developments there as well as in other parts of the world and so is capable of discussing the Far East and its problems as concerns the United States and the rest of the world.
After presenting a brief explanation of Japan’s aims and ideas for a new order in the Far East, he showed why this order is impossible of realization now or in the future. According to Mr. Campbell several factors limit Japan’s dream: In the first place,-the present war has completely exhausted Japan economically, industrially, and even morally. Secondly, for years now Japan has been trying hard but in vain to keep up the pretense that she. is as strong, or stronger industrially as the United States, Great Britain, Germany or even France. But Mr. Campbell declared that this assumption is entirely false and has misled Japan more than any one else concerned. She has neither resources nor
Professor Campbell
the modem equipment and techniques to be nearly so powerful as she pretends.
The whole security of the Pacific rests in preventing Japan from carrying on her policies of unjustified aggression not only in China but in any other part of-the East; and in Mr. Campbell’s opinion, the duty of preventing this achievement rests with the United States and Great Britain. The stakes are too big, the security too necessary to allow Japan to complete her new order, even though she were otherwise able to overcome her other problems.
The Catholic Forum is an organization of Catholics interested in the problems of the 'day and interested in knowing them and understanding them from a Catholic viewpoint. Founded about nine years ago, it consists of citizens from the various Catholic parishes of South Bend and some members of the faculty of Notre Dame. Its present moderator is Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Father O'Neil Warns of Passive Attitude
“The worst enemies of America today are those citizens who deny that our liberty is based on the inalienable, Godgiven rights of man,” opined the Rev. J. Regis O’Neil, C.S.C., at the meeting of the Professional Women’s Club of Buchanan, Mich., on Monday, Oct. 20.
More airplanes, bombs, ships, and other materials of war can not solve the problems facing the world today. These problems “can be solved only by educating our people to a true understanding and appreciation of the essential truths taught by our forefathers.”
The basis for these “essential truths” are the rights of man as derived from God, the speaker stated. He called for more religious education to safeguard these natural rights as the true values of democracy.
A vivid contrast was drawn by the speaker between the repressed life of the people under totalitarian rule, and -the freedom of the individual under democracy. “Our fear today is the fear that our inalienable rights, which have been granted by the Creator, and recognized by our Constitution, are being encroached upon.”
The speaker asserted that there is just cause for the fears and that it is rooted in the “smug attitude” of those people who ignore the practice of religion and the teaching of God.
Many Americans are but passivley concerned with the preservation of Democracy. They do not realize the importance of the fundamental truths upon which Democracy is based, and for this reason our country’s threat is more from within than from without.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867
John A. Reilly, Editor
Thomas V. Powers .....................Managing	Editor Don Heltzel................................Campus	Editor
William Scanlan............................ Promotion	John A. Lynch............................Photo	Editor
John Dinges ............................Sports	Editor Ed Drinkard ..........................Staff	Photographer
William Baader ____________________________Art Editor Elmer Silha ..................................Advertising
Robert E. Brooks .............  Administration	Editor Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C..............Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 225 Walsh Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
AN APOLOGY
The Scholastic deeply regrets the censure leveled at the University Administration, the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club, and Mayor Jesse I. Pavey of South Bend, as contained in the Editorial, Death Trap, which appeared in the issue of October 17. The criticism was not only inis-directed, but also was based upon false premises. At this first opportunity, therefore, the Editors are desirous of making amends for the injustice of their remarks on the above-mentioned occasion.
TO THE STUDENT BODY
The Student Council is this year composed of a group of men who are all sincerely interested in the task they have to perform. They wish to be an active organization and to promote the general welfare of the students and the administration in both a negative and a positive manner.
In a negative way, the Student Council wishes to protect the interests of the individual student, the student body as a whole, and the name and interest of the University. In a positive manner, the Council will do all in its power to carry out Student Activities, promote new ones, and to help both students and the administration in any manner possible.
To carry out the wishes of the students in the best possible manner, it is absolutely necessary that the Council be in contact with the students themselves. The Student Council feels that in the past, one of the chief obstacles in the path of progress, was precisely a lack of relationship and intercourse between the student body and the Student Council. Therefore, one of the first moves of the Council this year was to secure permission from Father Carey to put in print in the Scholastic the activities of its organization. The purpose of this is to acquaint the students with all activities of the council and to remove the prevalent opinion that the Student Council is a secret organization which functions entirely apart from the rest of the school. The members of the council wish to make their club an integral part of Notre Dame and wish to see it work in harmony with all other activities.
The Student Council wishes to promote, not the selfish opinions of an isolated few, but it wishes to discover the crosssection of feelings and opinions of each and every student. It is in a position to accept any suggestions of the students themselves and to use all its influence in materializing all the sanest of these opinions. Therefore, the students should feel free at all times to present any new ideas or suggestions to the Student Council for consideration. Not only does the Student Council wish to receive various student suggestions, but it urges each and every student to attempt to contribute something to the Council activities.
In this manner the Council will become part of the student body and will be of much more benefit to them. Therefore, all you students who wish to suggest something, promote new ideas—no matter how revolutionary—or have anything else to contribute, kindly get in touch with some member of the Student Council or drop a letter to the president, Gene Schumaker, 315 Sorin hall, and the Student Council promises that it will take genuine interest in all contributions. It will attempt to develop the views and ideas of the students in so -far as such views do not conflict with the established wishes of school authorities. The student Council, with your cooperation, looks forward to a very successful and prosperous year.
—Gene Schumaker, President.
WELCOME, COTILUONITES!
The Scholastic extends a cordial welcome to the Cotillion guests visiting the campus this weekend. We hope you find your stay here an enjoyable one—we know your escorts will.
We suggest that after the pep rally is over you make it a point to drop over to Dillon Court. There the Glee Club will offer stirring harmony against a background of stars and sky—and Dillon. Started for the first time last year, the open-air concerts have quickly established themselves as a part of Notre Dame tradition. We feel sure you will agree with us that they are a very entertaining part of that tradition.
10
CAMPUS NEWS
Cotillion Time at Notre Dame Finds
500 Sophomores Ready for "Their Night"
By Charles J. Patterson
The twenty-fourth would never get here, they thought. But it has arrived finally, and during this week-end, it’s Cotillion time on the campus for some 500 sophomores and their guests. Tonight is their night.
The color and twists and remarks will be smart 1941, but it’s strange how little it all differs fundamentally from the
Carol Gibbons—Cotillion Queen
time sophomores struggled into stiff shirts for the first Sophomore Cotillion. It was over 30 years ago—in November, 1910 — back when Notre Dame men squirmed a little, glanced shyly at her and said:
Oh N. D. girl, petite and coy, With large and glowing eyes;
If I controlled love’s lottery, You’d surely win the prize.
Then she smiled and with syrup in her glance did make reply:
Oh N. D. boy, you’re awful nice ' .
You dhvays make a hit	.	• .
But don’t you think your past success ;
Has made you think you’re it? *
People were dancing the two-step to tunes like—“Call Me Up. Some Rainy Afternoon,” “Abie, Take Example From Your Fadder,” and “I’d . Trust My Husband Anywhere, But I’d • Like to Stick
* Taken from" the files of the 1910 Scholastic.
Around,” or waltzing to “Girl of My Dreams.”
Say the University records: “Due to the fact that the Juniors wanted, to entertain later than in the fall, they allowed the Sophomores to have an opportunity to show they were made of the right stuff, and this they did. About 80 couples gathered at Place Hall. (Now a garage on South Bend’s Lafayette St.) They were students of the University and a few alumni, accompanied by young ladies of South Bend and several fair visitors from out of town. The hall was a veritable summer garden and under a dense covering of southern smilax, they danced to the music of Professor Petersen’s orchestra.”
That’s what happened at the first Cotillion.
Tonight, after the heckling and brave talk of the pep rally, Cotillion-goers will proceed to Dillon court. There the University Glee Club will present school songs and other favorites, in open air.
Then the event of the evening. From nine until one, Jimmy Joy and his band will give out with lilting lullabys in the solid sweet style he’s noted for. Jimmy, incidentally, shoud feel at home in the Notre Dame bandshell, for his real name is James Monte Maloney. Besides that, the lad is a Texas Ranger, and an honorary Kentucky colonel, yes suh! Furthermore, he’s the only bandleader in the country who chews two licorice sticks at the same time with good musical results.
Queen for a night at the Palais will be lovely Carol Gibbons of Lowell, Mass., escorted by James O’Dea, general chairman of the Cotillion, who has been the force behind this week-end’s events. Guest of honor is Miss Barbara Archer of Bexley, Ohio, escorted by Bob Faught, Sophomore class president. Others are expected from Smith College, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods, Rosary College, Stephens, and from St. Mary’s of Notre Dame.
Next afternoon those who attended the Cotillion will add to the rising and falling roar in Notre Dame’s big red bowl, where the team clashes with Illinois. That night ,there will be the Victory
Dance at the Indiana Club, sponsored by the Chemists.
The fair guests will depart, and with them the fanfare, during the lull of Sunday afternoon. Then for the Sophomores there’ll be a room and books and lots of time to write letters.
Barbara Archer—Guest of Honor
Interhall Debates Set For Initial Meets
Heralded by a cough-drop sales increase at the Huddle, the first round of Interhall Debate opens next Monday. The first debates, however, are practical contests; real match debates will begin within a week. These preliminary word parries are important for they give experienced and inexperienced debaters the feel of the platform.
This year the halls are divided into two groups, the Juniors and Seniors together and the Sophomores and Freshmen together. Practice round pairings have been drawn up as follows: Cavanaugh (Neg.) coached by Jim O’Dea vs. Lyons (Aff.) led by Neil McCarty; Badin (Aff.) under Don Casey vs. Morrissey (Neg.) guided by Roger Young; Howard (Aff.) aided by Jack Ryan vs. Sorin (Neg.) under the direction of Jim O’Donohue; Dillon (Neg.) bossed by Mark Lies vs. Alumni (Aff.) advised by Charles Kearney. These will take place Monday. On Tuesday Hal Haley’s Zahm (Aff.) team meets Bob Galvin’s Breen-Phillips (Neg.) aggregation; Jerry O’Dowd sends Walsh (Aff.) against St. Ed’s. (Neg.) under Bill Meier; Bill Talbot-coached Brownson-Carroll drew a bye. All debates will be held in the Law
11
Building; time and room will be announced later.
Each hall team is coached by a member of the Wranglers and each debate is judged by a Wrangler with the exception of the final debate. Stanley Littizette, interhall debate chairman, is coordinator of the entire program. The winner of the final debate will take possession of the new hall trophy donated last year by the Student Council and now held by Alumni. The old trophy went to Howard Hall permanently in 1939 when it won the cup for the third time.
New Members Welcomed At Wranglers Banquet
Formal attire distinguished the first Wrangler banquet from other similar campus-club affairs. Newly elected members were welcomed
at the meeting which was held last night at the LaSalle Hotel. The new men are: William Talbot, sophomore from Louisville, Ky.; Charles Patterson, a sophomore from Gretna, Nebr.; and Donald Casey, senior
from Oshkosh, Wisconsin.
Charles Kearney, Alumni Hall senior, presented the first paper of the year. Mr. Kearney defended the affirmative side of the intercollegiate debate topic. The topic is, “Resolved, that the Federal government should regulate by law all labor rmions in the United States.”
Academy of Politics Holds First Meeting
Tentative plans for the coming year are now being formulated by the Academy of Politics and were discussed at the first meeting, held this week.
A banquet was a feature of this meeting at which new members were introduced. The drive for membership closed Saturday with a greatly increased membership.
It is hoped that they will be able to put on a campus radio show this year, but so far they have not contacted the radio station to find out if that can be arranged.
Meetings will be held twice monthly, but the place that they will be held has not as yet been determined. Among the features being planned are open forums, lectures by members of the Department of Politics, and speeches by some , of the members to be followed by an open discussion of the speech and a rebuttal.
SEE YOU AT THE McALPIN OR THE "PENN"
These words will be the rallying cry for some hundred-odd students leaving next week for the Army game. Traditional meeting places for Notre Dame men in New York, the McAlpin rendezvous and Pennsylvania have become focal points for all students heading for the big city. This year should be no exception with a fast game as a stellar attraction.
Decoration Day Set For S. C. Weekend
Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors will remember the excitement and spirit of competition that accompanied “Decora-* tion Day” last year when the Cornhusk-ers of Iowa invaded Notre Dame. This year it will be much the same with the various halls competing with each other for the best and most original decorations on the campus. Last year a smoker was given to the residents of Morrissey Hall, considered by the judges to have had the best decorations. A similar reward is under consideration this year.
Thus, while the student body as a whole is filled only with thoughts of the events of tonight and tomorrow, the Student Council, led by President Eugene Schumaker, is looking into the future, planning for this year’s “Decoration Day” which has been set for the Saturday of the Southern California game, Nov. 22.—Bill Clarke
Chemists Will Sponsor lllini Victory Dance
At the Indiana Club tomorrow night Notre Dame will celebrate the hoped-for victory over Illinois at a dance sponsored by the Chemist Club. Music will be furnished by the Modernaires. The price of admission, tax included, will be $1.10. All who attend will have an 11:45 permission.
Since a large attendance is expected, the chairman of the dance, John Borda, of the Chemist Club, has made two announcements. They are:
(1)	There will be room to move around for a change at the dance. Not because of a smaller crowd, but because those big tables which took up so much room at previous dances will be removed. Also, the lounge will be open to all dancers. Refreshments will be served there.
(2)	There will be busses running from Notre Dame to St. Mary’s. The busses ■will leave the circle promptly at 7:45 and 8:00, C.S.T.
Committee chairmen are: Walter Cordes, music committee; James Burkhart, ticket committee; William Marshal, arrangement committee.
Ten Students Admitted To Schoolmen Club
Several Juniors and Seniors have been added to the membership list of the Schoolmen, the University’s philosophical organization, it was announced by Santo Belli, secretary of the club. Fred Kunkel, Bob McPadden, Jim Godfrey, Joe Tracy, Hugh Adams, and Tom Milled are the juniors who have been admitted into the club. The new senior members are Stan Litizzette, Charles Tobin, Rog Young, Emmet Griffin, and Don O’Brien.
A meeting was held in the Law Building last week, and tentative plans for symposia with Michigan and Wisconsin were made. Tom Mills, president of the organization, is to arrange and conduct -the symposia. Other officers of the club are Bob MacNamara, vice-president, and Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., moderator.—Rickard Powers
Dance Will Follow lllini, So. Calif., Games
While games with Illinois, Army, Navy, Northwestern and Southern California. remain to be played, only two Victory Dances have been scheduled for the rest of the football season. These will be held after the Illinois game and following the traditional battle with the “Trojans” of Southern California.
The Chemists Club is sponsoring tomorrow evening’s dance at the Indiana Club. Music will be furnished by the popular “Modernaires,” and tickets for the affair may be purchased from Walt Cordes, 415 Walsh at $1.10.
The final Victory Dance of the season will be held after the Southern Califor-nia-Notre Dame game on Nov. 22nd. It will be sponsored by the Notre Dame Decent Literature Committee.-
—Frank Keenan
Aumni Sports writers
Notre Dame alumni are doing all right in one of the big national magazines. Francis Wallace, former publicity director for the Fighting Irish, led off the football season with his predictions. Frank Leahy, 33-year-old- football coach, was featured in last week’s issue. Chet Grant, backfield coach from 1934 until this year and a former star at quarterback, will have an article next month on his old friend, Robert E. (Pete) Vaughan of Wabash college, a Notre Dame graduate.
12
READERS NOTICE ERROR ON LAST WEEK'S COVER
Have you a watch and a copy of last week’s Scholastic handy? Well, get them out and time yourself on finding the mistake on 'the cover.
About eight o’clock last Friday night this reporter found a note slipped under his door from the Editor telling him to interview about 20 men to see how fast they could find the mistake on that day’s cover.	-
So, out he went and, due to a great deal of work in Statistics — the Commerce School bottle-neck — he didn’t have time to go any farther than his own hall.
During the course of the evening, the fastest time changed no less than five times and the average time proved to be about one minute.
The Editor of the Dome, the Scholastic’s greatest rival, had to admit that he had finished reading the issue from cover to cover even’ before the reporter arrived. He had, of course, found the mistake and was even considering sending one of his pohtographers out to get a picture of it.
Among the fastest five men, two were A.B. men, two came from the Commerce school, and one was an Engineer. Another interesting point is the difference in the ideas of the fastest man and the other men.
Jim Byrne, A.B., the fastest man of all, who found the mistake in ten seconds, said, “I’ve seen a lot of college publications and I have yet to see a better one than the Schoastic,” and, in doing so, took a stand directly opposite to all the other men interviewed. .
Let us take for instance the second fastest, Al Oliver, Commerce man who made it in eleven seconds, who said, “It is typical of the small time intellectual status of the Scholastic Editors.” This is an excellent example of the general trend of the ideas of the men interviewed.
The next man, Bill Brady, A.B., found the mistake 'in 14 seconds and didn’t even take that long to provide his sole comment, which was, “Well!!!”
Just to show that all is as smooth as silk in the Scholastic organization, Bob Kuipers, a Scholastic reporter and a Commerce man who found the mistake in 63 seconds, commented that, “It shows the inferior quality of the Scholastic personnel other than myself, and it will be rectified as soon as I’m appointed Editor-in-Chief.”
Ralph Mortensen, a fast Engineer,
took only 15 seconds and said, “This is the first time in three years that I’ve bothered to look at it,” which only proved what a small thing like a mistake can do toward changing a person’s entire life.	’
Other times and comments follow:
Roger Cummings, Commerce, 90 seconds, “Don’t worry about it. No one will notice it anyway.”
Ed Hickey, A.B., 75 seconds, “It overwhelms me. I’m speechless. I’ve nothing to say.”
Tom Richards, Commerce, 185 seconds, “Mistakes should be kept off the cover, at least.”
Bill McCaughey, Commerce, 65 seconds, “If you do a thing at all, you should do it right.”
Jack Gilligan, A.B., 17 seconds, (a Dome editor): “What do I win now?”
Bill. Meier, Commerce, 50 seconds, stood by Byrne and said, “It gets better issue by issue.”
Hal Hunter, A.B., 29 seconds, “Let the lads be a little more careful.”
For those of you readers who still haven’t discovered the momentous mistake in last week’s issue of the Scholastic, this reporter here and now announce that there were, in the lower left-hand corner, two dates, The first item was supposed to read “Number 4” but due to an oversight somewhere along the line, it turned up as “November 4.” Important enough to send a reporter out to interview people about? No, but it was fun to interview “readers” and report on his findings.
K. of C. Alleys Opened
Coach Frank Leahy officially opened the campus bowling season by rolling the first ball aaginst Rev. John M. Ryan, C.S.C., popular rector of the “Men of Walsh,” in the Knights of Columbus recreation room in the basement of Walsh Hall.
He showed the more than 30 students present how to do it so well that many of them suspected that the coach, who is always stressing the importance of practice to his varsity footballers, might have rolled a few warm-up games to insure a perfect demonstration for the opening of the renovated room.
Re-surfaced alleys, new bowling balls and pins, a new lighting system, recovered and recushioned billiard tables, new cues and billiard balls, and new ping pong equipment are only a few of the improvements costing more than $400
that have been made in the recreation hall during the past two weeks.
With the prices of all sporting equipment up because of curtailments in production and the increased demand of the Army camps, Mr. Abraham asserted that it cost a “pretty penny” to completely renovate the recreation hall. -
A mistaken conception that has had most of the campus suffering from false illusions, is that only the Knights of Columbus may use these facilities. This assertion has been denied year after year but to no effect. However, this year, Tom Halligan, manager, hopes that with the many new improvements other students will finally head toward Walsh when they want to bowl a game or two. For this reason he has obtained the sanction of the American Bowling Congress and with it the A.B.C.’s many priviliges.
Open House Is Held By Engineers Club
At their second meeting of the season, on October 17, members of the Engineers Club by the score flocked through the labs in the Engineering building, witnessing innumerable demonstrations and lectures on subjects ranging from gas tube x-rays to atom smashers.
Preceding the open house there was a brief meeting, with Ed Buenger, newly elected president, presiding. Other new officers, who were elected at the first meeting on October 6 are: John Hoelscher, vice president; —Jim Hill, secretary; George Crowley, treasurer; and Jack Wiethoff, junior secretary.
At the meeting tenative plans were made for the organization of bowling, handball, and baseball tournaments, as well as a picnic, skating party, smoker, and dance.
Immediately following the meeting, the engineers split up into groups to visit the exhibits in the various laboratories.
Interesting displays were shown in the metalurgical lab, wood-working shop, machine shop, aeronautical lab, atom smasher lab, mining department, time and motion study lab, drawing room, electrical lab, x-ray department, hydraulic lab, mathematics lab, and various others.	'
When they had finished digesting technical explanations of such things as the principal of polaroid glass or the frequency of complex sound waves, the engineers were given an opportunity to test their digestive powers on ice cream, and cake, served at the end of the meeting.—Jack Anderson
. 11
Radio Programs Stalled
By New Time Changes
Perhaps you have all been wondering when the local radio club is going to take to the air and present the widely publicized programs they have lined up for tliis year.
The real source of delay is the old-time trouble maker: the difference between standard and daylight time. Since WSBT will have to completely revise their daily program when South Bend returns to standard time in the near future, the authorities there do not wish to complicate matters by additional programs. Hence, the local studio must be content for a while with the time given it for its sportscasting and newscasting programs.
However, according to President Bob LeJeune, the club looks for action sometime next week and is busy now completing last minute plans for the first production of "Radio Stage.” Tryouts for parts in this and future plays will take place this week (see announcement). Everyone is invited to try, materials will be furnished by the club, and all will be given an equal opportunity.
The popular weekly play presented by “Radio Stage” will find close competition in the other programs planned for this year. The Notre Dame Round Table discussion of current events is certain to find a vast audience, while the quiz between campus halls and South Bend high schools won’t be far behind. The musical programs will probably be furnished by Jack Molloy and his orchestra, but any individual musicians will be welcomed for tryouts at any time in the studio.—Dan Doivney
Senior Class Jackets?
Jim O’Neal, senior class president, announced this week that a meeting of prominent senior and junioi- class members will be held toward the end of next week to discuss the adoption of an official Senior Class jacket. All arrangements for handling these jackets would be conducted by the Knights of Columbus. All those who have any suggestions to make concerning this class policy should see either Jim O’Neal or Ed Reidy, Grand Knight.
Propeller Club Meets
On next Thursday night, Oct. 30, the Notre Dame Port of the Propeller Club of the United States will hold their regular meeting in Room 202 of the Commerce Building, at 7:30. p.m. This meeting will be dedicated to the observance of Navy Day by the club, which is a branch of the nationwide organization that devoted itself to the further devel
14
opment of our merchant marine in the United States, and the institution of closer cooperation between the persons engaged in the various forms of shipping, overseas marketing, and importexport operations.
Membership in the Propeller Club this year has been opened to any Junior or Senior in the University who is interested in pursuing activities in line with the purposes of the club. Up until last year only students in the College of Foreign Commerce were permitted to participate in the club’s activities. For Tuesday’s meeting an excellent speaker, well known about the campus, will address the members and guests of the organization. In view of the Propeller Club’s close relation to the ideals embodied in the popularization of Navy Day, special emphasis at this meeting will be given to a fitting commemoration of those principles, in both the speaker’s and the officer’s addresses.
Monogram Initiations
After enduring a week of make-believe military discipline and an evening of calisthenics, and such, 13 of the 32 candidates reported for the final rituals of the Monogram Club initiations which were held in the gym Sunday. Cause of the absence of the delinquent candidates was said to be their lack of sympathy with current ritual rites.
Status of these 19 fellows in regard to the bona-fide clubmen was expected to be settled at a meeting scheduled for Wednesday night.
The following men are fully initiated and now entitled to the privileges of the Monogram Club: Jack Bermingham, John Metzger, Jay Gibson, Keith O’Rourke, Ed Walsh, Sebastian Nowicki, John Weitoff, Lou Bowers, Pete Stewart, Joe Campagna, Tony Maloney, Thomas Morrison, Bill Nicholson.
Chicago Club Starts Rolling
The Chicago Club held its first meeting on Wednesday night, Oct. 22, in the auditorium of the Engineering Building'
Under the leadership of Matty “Cy” -Miller an active year was outlined with three formal dances—Christmas, Easter and early summer. There will also be. a few cocktail dances and communion breakfasts during the school year.
There will be no dance in Chicago . over the Northwestern weekend as was tentatively planned. However, all those in Chicago that weekend are going to meet at some rendezvous to be decided upon later.
The other offices of the club are in the capable hands of Don Hogan, vice-president; Don McNally, secretary; and Billy Sullivan, treasurer.
Commerce Forum Hears Studebaker Executive
Members of the College of Commerce were given an insight, this week, into the practical applications of the defense program in an address by Mr. David R. Osborne, chief of the sales training department of the Studebaker Corporation.
Speaking of the special case of the automobile industry, Mr. Osborne stated that the national defense program has given the auto makers an estimated load of four billion dollars worth of orders, $300 for every man, woman and child in America.
Fulfilling these staggering orders for defense material has called into play all the vast resources of technical skills, management experience and mass production methods which the automobile industry has at its command.
Mr. Osborne brought out clearly the way in which the defense contracts allotted to the automotive industry have been distributed over the country. By sub-contracting many of the parts of a complicated machine, the problem of construction resolves itself into one of coordination and assembly. “One manufacturer’s order for medium tanks involved orders for 700 individual companies—in 130 cities—in 20 states,” Mr. Osborne said. “Of 125 parts that go into a certain automatic cannon turned out by an automobile company, 122 were made by outside firms. In making an anti-aircraft gun the automotive company that holds the original contract retains only 20 out of the 195 parts. A maker of surgical supplies, a plow manufacturer, and a cash register company are among makers of parts for the gun.”
Although defense ’will undoubtedly curtail production of automobiles it will be the occasion for the development of new skills and new and more efficient methods of production in the automobile industry. The World War and the depression were the cause of great advances in methods of manufacture. Following the rule that “necessity is the mother of invention” most of the great strides in modern industry have been made under the duress of national emergencies and extraordinary conditions.
Bookmen Choose Library
Books for the club library were chosen Tuesday night at the Bookmen meeting in the Rose Marie Tearoom. The selections are largely from contemporary literature, but the literature of the nineteenth century is also well represented. Professor T. Bowyer Campbell, club moderator, gave a short history of the activities of the club, and a paper was read by Neil; McCarty on The Bourgeois Mind. ..
RELIGIOUS BULLETIN HAS TONED DOWN SINCE THE CRUSADING TWENTIES
Today, on the twentieth anniversary of the Notre Dame Religious Bulletin thousands of copies are going out of Dillon Hall basement to all parts of the world. While the Bulletin is today an established Notre Dame tradition, it was not thus 20 years ago; for the Bulletin has not always been the staid, mimeographed copy that we find at our doors every night.
For the story of the Religious Bulletin goes like this:
Once upon a time the Bulletin was an untamed editorial aimed at student abuses. It was the sensation of the campus.
It all started in the following manner. In the month of October, 1921, there was a Mission on the campus of Notre Dame. But the Mission was not a great success for “there were certain abuses observed on the first day...
To meet the situation a young priest named Father John O’Hara, then prefect of religion, pecked out a few admonitions on his typewriter, entitled the product the Mission Bulletin. There were seven copies of that first issue, one each for the six residence halls, and one for off-campus students. With the close of the Mission, activities of the Bulletin ceased.
They got a crusade aimed directly at themselves. In its attempt to point out the correct religious attitude of students, to cope with student abuses, the Bulletin, named names, swung hard socks at unwary students. And the students loved it. They waited for each issue, waited to see whom Father O’Hara would take a crack at next.
No pussyfooting journal was that early Bulletin but a completely masculine effort on the part of the University administration to adjust student problems. It ridiculed, satirized, censured all who deserved such treatment; it praised the worthy.
There is only one issue of the first Bulletin left, belonging to the University library. The typewriter ribbon off which it came was worn and frazzled and some of the characters are indistinct. Not so the message carried therein: “150 students left the Church before the instructions this morning and continued their meditations before the closed door of the cafeteria.”
Later issues of the Bulletin picked up more steam:
“How rumors spread' around Notre Dame! Just because a half-dozen, half
baked half-wits have planned gin parties for the Frolic and Cotillion the word has gone forth that the Freshmen and Sophomores are going to make Souse Bend look like West End on the nights-dedicated to their respective gayeties.” Pulling no punches and continuing in the same vernacular, energetic. Father . O’Hara shamed the students.
Another example:
“Once upon a time a very profane student came to Notre Dame. He was a hick who had brought the country with him. He ambled here and there, picking up a new word now and then, and growing into a real man of the world. Time dealt gently with him and his vocabulary grew fat. He even got up the nerve to say “Hell” and “damn” to his prefect.. With such little fables the Bulletin prospered.
Having established itself on the campus the Bulletin seemed destined for an easy future until one day a rival entered the field: the “Irreligious Bulletin,” supposedly published by residents of Badin Hall. Platform: anti-Bulletin.
For a merry week the battle raged with the respective sheets taking cracks at each other. Finally, the opponent was backed to the wall, forced to give up all opposition. Though the “Irreligious Bulletin” was supposed to have been published by Badin Hallers there is a well-founded suspicion that tall, ..shrewd . Father O’Hara personally backed the enterprise in a successful endeavor to whip up more interest in his own organ.
Came the day in 1924 when the Bulletin, which for three years had been typed out by its founder, was mimeographed so that more copies could be distributed. A few alumni began asking for it, thus giving intimations that a change in style would later be necessary.
In 1929 the student body asked that the Bulletin be made a daily, be sent to every room on the campus. The University acceded to the request and a mailing list was made up.
Father O’Hara argued against this move. His was not the desire that the
Radio Tryouts
All students interested in trying out for parts in a play to be produced by the Radio Club are asked to report to the campus studios on the third floor of the Engineering Building tonight before supper.
Bulletin be sent from the campus for well he knew the inevitable result: the tone of the paper would have to be softened. No longer would it be possible to speak to students in their own idiom, of their own problems.
Today a quarter of a million persons all over the world read the Bulletin. It goes to the war-torn countries of Europe, to South America where it is translated into Spanish. Never prone to cuddling students, the Bulletin today is carrying on in the O’Hara tradition.
Says Father John Lynch, prefect of religion and present Bulletin editor: “We are not concerned with the outside readers. The Bulletin is still addressed wholly to the students of Notre Dame but it is necessary to remember that there are outside readers.”
Proof that the transition has been effected successfully is the fact that the great majority of Notre Dame students read the Bulletin daily, and pay heed to its words.
. The four editors, who have always conducted their office somewhat anonymous, have faithfully maintained the program of promoting the spiritual life of the students. The first editor, founder of the Bulletin, is the Very Rev. John F. O’Hara, present military delegate. Following Bishop O’Hara was Father John Cavanaugh, (1934-38), present vice-president of the University, who was succeeded by Father Frank Gartland, (1938-40) now editor of the “Youth Page” of the Sunday Visitor. In the fall of 1940, Father John Lynch was appointed to the post. The ideals of the paper are being well maintained and the Bulletin still is part of the Notre Dame tradition, bom spontaneously one fall morning in 1921.
Meeting
There will be a general meeting of the Catholic Action Students at 10:00 a.m., Sunday, Oct. 26, in the auditorium of the Law Building. At this session the nature and technique of specialized Catholic Action will be explained, the current program of the CAS will be described, and an account of Catholic Action work among South American youth, garnered from personal observations, will be rendered. Everyone is invited, particularly first-year men.
Juzwik’s Grandmother Unheard From
Steve Juzwik says that nothing has been heard from his 108-year-old grandmother since Hitler’s forces invaded her native Poland.
15
INTRODUCING
—   -  = By RAY DONOVAN
They said he couldn’t catch a pass, this tall, sturdy Hungarian lad who received his football training in South Bend, but he has proved them wrong. They also predicted that he would fit well into the Notre Dame system; he has borne out this contention.
John George Kovatch, quiet, easy going and good-natured, rose to great heights as a stellar end on Bernie Wi-tucki’s South Bend Washington outstand-i n g grid machine. The Panthers are a comparative new football school, and this dark-haired youth went a long way toward putting his ahna-mater on the map. It was the same Bernie Witucki who influenced Kovatch in choosing Notre Dame for his higher education.
It was this same Coach Witucki who proclaimed that his otherwise proficient end had one great weakness: he could not catch a pass. This is amply borne out by the fact that John caught only one pass during his senior year on the squad — this one for a touchdown. The youth has improved greatly in this department, however, and as figures will prove, his pass-snaring- average is one to be envied. One of Kovatch’s great abilities, however, is that of vicious tackling.
He has rapidly developed into one of the hardest tacklers and most effective blockers on this year’s squad.
All was not football, however, in the high school days of hard-working Kovatch. In his senior year at Washington his classmates elevated John to the class presidency. Another honor which the youth bestowed upon himself, consisted in earning the right to present the valedictorian speech in behalf of the students. He won this honor with a four-year average of 96.4.
The Washington basketball team in 1937, of which the energetic Kovatch was captain, cut quite a figure for itself in local hardwood circles. It was Kovatch who guarded Subby Nowicki in the final game of the sectional tourney — which Washington won — and the effectiveness of John’s efforts against the former Central star depends on
which lad is telling the story. The end’s roommate, Joe Laiber, also played an important role on this championship squad.
An outstanding event during the lad’s career on the Washington machine was a five-day excursion to White Plains, N. Y., to engage the local team in a Thanksgiving Day battle. John boasts that he learned more on that trip than he did in all of his history classes com
bined. Since that trip, however, he has been from coast-to-coast with the Irish eleven.
A fitting tribute was paid Kovatch by one of his high school professors when he said of him that “he is one of the smartest high school athletes I have ever known.” His average while in high school and the enviable record compiled at Notre Dame bears out this statement.
John is a major in Doctor Cooney’s school of journalism and plans to make use of his journalistic knowledge after graduating in June. His chief ambition is to follow in the footsteps of Joe Pet-ritz, as a sports publicity director of some school or organization. He indicated, however, that if a good coaching position were offered him, he definitely would not turn it down.
Amid the pipes of his Sorin-sub room — he brags that there are more pipes
in that room than in any other room on campus—Kovatch good-naturedly mused that he and his roommate must have been born under a lucky star. John missed the second draft registration by 20 days, while Laiber missed it by one day.
This sturdy gridder is not the only athlete in his family. It was his cousin and namesake who roamed the gridiron for Northwestern a few years back. The Notre Dame Kovatch has five brothers, all in different schools; one of these plans to return to Arizona in January.
Coach Leahy is faced with the necessity this fall of resorting to his first two elevens as shock troops in his suicide schedule, which means that these men are faced with the task of taking the brunt of the punishment. Nobody hears John Kovatch complain of this; he thrives on action.
Joe Laiber
Joe Laiber, aggressive guard on the 1941 edition of the Fightin’ Irish, can boast that “I am the first captain Washington high school ever had.” It was he who was chosen as leader- of the “cradle eleven” of this South Bend institution, the team which started Washington on the road to untold football success and Laiber on the road to glory on the gridiron as a member of the current Notre Dame squad.
In his three monogram-winning years on the Witucki-coached eleven, Joe developed into what local football authorities recognize as one of the greatest guards ever to be produced in the South Bend area. His coach talked of the husky lad as a gridder with one of the best competitive spirits he has ever seen.
Joe also graced the lineup of the Green and White sectional championship basketball team. Laiber, along with former gridder Steve Bagarus and John Kovatch, formed the nucleus for Coach Johnn Howe’s high-flying Panthers. Not since this trio graduated has the Washington five managed to survive the tough South Bend sectional tourney.
The blond youth chose Italian as his foreign language elective last year, and hoping to kill two birds with one stone he chose Jim Brutz as his roommate in St. Ed’s. All went well with the pair until the time came for Joe to prepare his first lesson in Italian. Upon approaching James about the subject, he was astounded and much chagrined to learn that Jim could not speak so much as a word of the language. This, however, is not the reason for Joe’s switch in roommates this year. Brutz’s high draft number indicated that he would be performing for the army this year, so Laiber chose his former high school
(Continued on page 27)
16
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
Walsh and Badin Loom As Interhall Titans;
Dillon, Carroll, Breen-Phillips, Zahm Win
Passes and Power Plays Provide Spectators' Thrills
SUNDAY’S GAMES
9:30 a.m.: Brownson-Zahm, Morrissey-Carroll, Dillon-St. Ed’s.
1:30 p.m.: Cavanaugh - Howard, Badin - Lyons, Walsh - Breen-Phillips.
A remarkable array of talent was displayed as another Interhall Football season was ushered in last Sunday with 12 teams battling on historic Cartier field. Even more remarkable was the large attendance which showed evidence of increasing interest on the part of the student body.
League I
In the three closely fought contests Dillon showed the most promise of the six teams in the league. The openers provided victories for Dillon, Carroll, and Zahm. Zahm, a freshman hall, won on first downs when it held the Morrissey Sophs to a scoreless tie.
Dillon, 7; Brownson, 0
After being held on even terms for the first three periods by an inexperienced but gallant Brownson eleven, Dillon hall opened its bag of tricks to score its lone touchdown early in the final stanza and take a well-earned 7-0 victory from the freshman hall.
The counter came as a result of a 13-yard pass from Campagna to Johnson who could have gone the length of the field if necessary. With Campagna doing most of the work, the Dillon squad moved slowly, but with a deal of force, to the Brownson 12 where Brother Pat’s boys were saved by an interception by Mitchell. However, it was not many plays before Dillon took over via the same method and this time the passes were more accurate.
Dillon Power Tells
The difference between the two squads was the superior blocking by the Dillon forward wall. Brownson seemed to lack the necessary experience. During the first half, neither team threatened, but the outcome became more certain with every play of the second part of the game. Some lengthy boots by Mitchell and “Sugar” Kane kept Brownson out of danger most of the time, but the best performance of the day was turned in by “Oklahoma” Turvey, Brownson full
back. “Oklahoma” seemed to be the only player on the field who was a real threat to break away; he also showed the most defensive drive.
Carroll, 6; St. Edward's, 0
In the fourth quarter of a previously stalemated game, Carroll hall launched an aerial attack for which St. Edward’s could find no defense and passed their way to a 6-0 victory.
Carroll, on the defensive the greater part of the afternoon, capitalized on a long pass late in the game. Both of the teams showed surprising effectiveness for their first tilt. They were evenly matched and the outcome was in doubt until the wraning minutes of the game.
N. D. Shift Beats "T"
St. Ed’s, running plays out of the “T” formation, displayed a varied assortment of reverses and wide end sweeps, while Carroll, using the Notre Dame shift, also performed sundry tricks. Garvey, St. Ed’s bruising safety, was the outstanding man of the Blue. His charging and elusiveness carried his team many times to within striking distance of the Carroll goal. The outstanding players from the Carroll viewpoint were McDonough and Shaefer. The latter threw the pass that O’Malley caught for the only tally of the game.
The first half passed quickly without
Action in Interhall Game
either side gaining an advantage. But in the second half the teams began to open up, each team penetrating the other’s defense. St. Ed’s was in the Carroll territory frequently but was unable to capitalize on its advantages. The end came when Carroll’s O’Malley raced down the field, fell, got up and caught a pass and streaked for the lone score.
League II. — The afternoon league showed the expected strength and weakness. Walsh, picked here as top interhall team, crushed stubborn Cavanaugh; surprisingly powerful Badin took the measure of Howard, while Breen-Phillips was eking out a 5-4 first-down-victory, to break a 0-0 deadlock with Lyons.
Walsh, 25; Cavanaugh, 0
Walsh Hall found itself off to a flying start in league competition by virtue of a smashing 25-0 win over a dedetermined but outclassed Cavanaugh team.
The “Gentlemen” began immediately to show their power by blocking Cavanaugh’s first punt and continued in complete mastery, with a few minutes exception, down to the final gun.
Walsh Has What It Takes
The end of the first quarter found Walsh on Cavanaugh’s five yard line due to Daigler’s accurate passing. Here a field goal was attempted, but Cavanaugh forward wall, led by Casey, broke through to block the kick. This was all the prodding Walsh needed to start driving, Jess DeLois and “Mama” Clark
17
smashing their opponent’s line, with DeLois getting by at least five would-be tacklers on a three-yard touchdown run around his own right end.
Here Cavanaugh began marching, with their Hoben and “Nebraska” Robertson doing most of the work, but the halftime intermission intervened.
The third quarter opened as a punting duel, but Byrne, Daigler, and DeLois finally combined to bring the ball to the one-foot line from where McKay plunged over center for an additional six points. Again the conversion attempt failed.
With the game rapidly drawing to a close, after another Walsh touchdown, this time by Daigler, Cavanaugh brought out their razzle-dazzle attack, picking up huge chunks of yardage, which was lost on fumbles more rapidly than it was made. Walsh stopped the drive on the midfield stripe. DeLois, McKay, and Daigler then took turns lugging the leather, McKay again literally plunging over center for the fourth marker. A lateral was good for the extra point, and one play later the game ended, with the splendid play of Walsh’s line being a big factor in their victory.
Breen-Phillips, 0; Lyons, 0
With 30 seconds of play remaining in the Breen-Phillips and Lyons game and the score deadlocked at 0-0, Stello of the freshman team went around end and picked up the first down which proved to be the margin of victory for Breen-Phillips. The break came with both teams having four first downs, after a desperate Lyons pass had been intercepted.
Both teams were evenly matched and fine defensive play featured the battle. The only time either outfit threatened to score came in the second period. With the ball in Lyons’ possession, on the Breen-Phillips 2% yard line, their drive was suddenly stopped, after the Sullivan to Donadi, Clark and Gaffney passing attack had carried it there. In two plays the strong Breen - Phillips line forced Lyons back to the 19 yard line, where they took over possession of the ball.
The play of Kerschen of Breen-Phillips at guard drew high praise while the running of Myers, Stello and Hendrick, and the passing of Giaghleatti showed flashes of brilliance. The Lyons line lacked an outstanding performer as all played fairly steady ball for the season’s opener.
Badin, 26; Howard 0
Utilization of a successful passing attack when their running plays, failed carried Badin Hall’s footballers to a 26-0 victory over a spirited Howard aggregation. Howard fought doggedly and stopped the Badin running attack inside (Continued on Page 26)
JCOOP’N JILINTLIf
FROM THE PKEJT OCX
BY BILL SCANLAN
BIRTHDAYS FEW FOR TOM BROCK
Birthdays are few for James Elden Brock—Tom to everyone but his professors— because he actually celebrates but once every four years. . . . The Leap Year Baby was born Feb. 29, 1920. . . . First name of Chuck McNeil, fullback who played against Carnegie Tech as friends from Midland, Pa., watched Saturday, is Edward. . . . Chuck’s dad played baseball for Connie Mack’s Philadelphia Athletics in 1913. . . . Tomorrow's stadium crowd gets an extra display of color with Cotillion guests in the stadium. . . . Welcome, guests and guestettes.
MAKING THE NUMBERS COUNT
George Murphy and Bob McBride are doing a fine job sustaining their numbers in the limelight. . . . Murphy wears No. 18, same made famous by Marchy Schwartz a decade ago. . . . Chuck Sweeney, Pro league official and all-American end, wore No. 47, McBride’s current gift from Custodian of Equipment J. W. McAllister. . . . Biggest disappointment of the Carnegie weekend wasn’t the low score, it was Ray Ebli’s bruised hip injury at the final practice Thursday night which made the Pittsburgh trip impossible. . . . Angelo Bertelli struck home on four of six pass attempts. . . . Season record, 26 completions in 41 tries, 393 yards.
DR. HANDY ADEPT AT THROWING HAMMER
Dr. Elvin R. Handy, energetic “Judge Landis” of Notre Dame’s Interhall football extravaganza, placed second in the hammer event in the National Intercollegiate track championships at Chicago 17 years ago. . . . Competing for Iowa, he also threw the shot, discus and javelin. . . . Now in his 11th year at Notre Dame. . . . Irish band not expected to make Army trip this year—first time in several seasons. . . . But will be around to help chase Navy Blues away at Baltimore. . . . And they may be needed.
GIPP, TWOMEY TOPS — ELMORE
Harry Elmore, South Bend’s golfing-photographer who is Notre Dame’s official picture-taker, rates George Gipp and Ted Twomey the best back and lineman, respectively, he’s ever seen. . . . And he’s been watching Irish gridders since 1914. . . . His files include 20,000 negatives, including 150 different poses of Rockne. . . . Holes-in-one aren’t unusual for him. ... He bagged five. . . . Following the teams he has traveled from Minnesota to Georgia, New York to California.
IRISH BASKETEERS MAY PLAY SERVICE TEAM
The Army and Navy have long been athletic rivals, but Notre Dame may add another Service team to the sports schedule this year—The Great Lakes Naval Reserves basketbailers. . . . Mike Crowe, of the famous Crowe family at N. D., recently advanced to the rank of corporal at Fort Benjamin Harrison. . . . John Hart, loquacious end on Coach Bill Cerriey’s B squad last year, is currently at the U. S. Naval Air Station, Corpus Christi, Tex., learning how to fly. . . . Hank Halpin, track star of recent years, was a weekend visitor of Coach Bill Mahoney. . . . Team of the week—Carnegie Tech, for the grand showing at Pittsburgh, showing up self-appointed critics who suggested cancelling the N. D. game.
FOOTBALL POET DESCRIBES LEAHY
Tim Cohane, author of the current SatEvePost feature on Coach Leahy, gained acclaim a few years ago as director of sports publicity at Fordham when he issued a football booklet which began and ended with verse. . . . The Post item title changed three times. . . . Cohane, who has been working on the article for two years, first planned its release when Frank was at B. C. . . . Titles in order were: “Leahy of Boston College,” “Leahy of Notre Dame,” and finally, “Rockne Picked Him.” . . . Cohane writes sports for the New York World-Telegram. ... He was one of Leahy’s closest friends at Fordham when the latter was Ram line mentor.
NO LOSS FOR COTILLION GUESTS
Notre Dame 26, Illinois 6.
18
IRISH PICKED TO BEAT ILLINOIS BUT ZUPPKE’S LADS ARE TRICKY
Tomorrow afternoon, before an estimated crowd of some 40,000 football fans, Frank Leahy’s Fighting Irish will trot on to the green sward of Notre Dame Stadium, to risk their four-game victory skein against Bob Zuppke’s Fighting Illini. The contest will be the fifth between the two clubs since 1898, the Irish boasting three victories with one game ending in a scoreless tie.
That the game promises to pack more action than a four-reel Western thriller, can be attested to by the comparative evenness of the offensive strength of both teams; Notre Dame rolling up 93 points in four games, while the Illini have two less for three games. Then too, the rival coaches both have a flair for the unexpected and like to experiment with football trickery. Each has built a passing attack around two outstanding flingers; Leahy around Angelo Bertelli, soph sensation of the Irish, who has connected 26 times in 41 attempts for 393 yards, an average of .634 to date; and Zuppke around Dick Good, former South Bend Riley star, who last year led all the tossers in the Big Nine -with an average of .544.
Juzwik and Evans Are Irish Stars
However, though passing is bound to be a big feature of the game, the Irish hope to get their ground -attack started again after a temporary bogging in the mud at Carnegie Tech last week. Thus far, “Dippy” Evans, with 258 yards in 57 tries, and Steve Juzwik with 184 in 41 attempts, have led all the groundgainers, with an average of 4.5 per try. These boys also run 1-2 in the Irish .scoring column, Juzwik holding a slight advantage at the moment, 29 points to 24 for Evans. In adition to his ballcarrying capabilities, the “Dipper” has done most of the punting for the Irish this season, averaging 36.4 per boot, while Juzwik is Bertilli’s favorite passreceiver, having caught eight strikes for a total of 185 yards.
Illini Line Is Weak
Woefully lacking in manpower up front, Coach Zuppke has been forced more than ever to rely on speed and deception as the basis for his attack. Handling his spinners and tricky reverses are a quartet of backs who can really carry the mail, namely: the aforementioned Good, passer extraordinary; Don Griffin, brilliant sophomore ball-carrier; Jimmy Smith, a good punter who spent most of last season on the sidelines with a knee injury; and Myron Pfeiffer, a powerful line-plunger and. a good defensive back. In reserve are Liz As-
troth and Jimmy Easterbrook who saw quite a bit of service last year. Up front the ranks are sadly depleted and Zuppke has a real problem on his hands, but with such fine boys as Capt. Joe Turek,
On paper, Notre Dame has the edge...
Joe Palowski, Bob Cherry, Dave Dillon, Ken Cheeley, and Elmer Engel forming the nucleus of his line, the most distressing item is that lack of reserve strength to spell the regulars.
N. D. Should Win
On paper Notre Dame would appear to have the edge, but football games aren’t settled on paper, and for the Irish to emerge victorious they will have to outplay and outscore a very smart Illini eleven. The fact that they were able to come back after that 34-6 drub
’5M.ow»©
autumn days are made to order for tweeds, Shetlands, flannels—and we have all of these fine materials in a variety of colors, MADE TO ORDER for you — or ready-made — or custom tailored.
We have your size in our large stock of READY-TO-WEAR suits and coats. We have oyer one thousand swatches of various colors and fabrics from which you may select your own garment — MADE-TO-YOUR-MEASURE or CUSTOM TAILORED.
Authorized representatives for Naval Cadet uniforms through D. Klein & Brothers.
PARKER-WINTERROWD
1151/2 - 11714 N. Main Street (Upstairs) ?
Visit our upstairs shop or see our campus representatives:
CAPTAIN PAUL LILLIS	LARRY KELLEY	NEIL J. McCARTHY
321 Alumni Hall	233 Walsh Hall	115 Sorin Hall
3. Red Grange of Illinois scored against Michigan with five touchdowns in one afternoon, one each time he took the ball. His runs were for 95, 67. 56, and 45 yards in the first quarter, and 15 yards in the last quarter.
bing they suffered at the hands of Minnesota’s powerhouse two weeks ago, and wallop a good Drake team 40-0 last Saturday, shows that the boys are made of the right stuff, and are capable enough to cause any team trouble.
This is a “must” game for both teams. The Irish have to win in order to erase the memory of last week’s meager score, and the Illini have to win in order to “save” their season. Most everyone knows of Zuppke’s ability to raise his men to the heights for at least one game a year, and with a conference championship already out of sight, what would give him more pleasure than to upset the Fighting Irish?
Sophs and their Cotillion dates will get an added thrill, when the 175-piece University of Illinois band, rated as one of the best in the country, cuts capers before the game and during the half, along with our own 100-piece Notre Dame band.
The probable starting line-ups are as follows:
Notre Dame: L.E., Dove; L.T., Brutz; L.G., Maddock; C., Ziemba; R.G., Crimmins; R.T., Lillis (Capt.); R.E., Murphy; Q.B., Wright; L.H., Bertelli; R.H., Juzwik; F.B., Evans.
Illinois: L.E., Grierson; L.T., Engel; L.G., Wilson; C., Cheeley; R.G., Pawlowski; R.T., Genis; R.E., McCarthy; Q.B., Good; L.H., Griffin; R.H., Smith; F.B., Correll.
Kick-off: 2:00 p.m., Central Daylight Saving Time.—James A. Clemens
la
DISC-CUSSION
By this time everyone between here and Little America has heard at least one of the 12 different popular recordings of Tschaikowsky’s Concerto in B Flat; but this week a new recording of it, called “Tonight We Love” by Freddy Martin, who started it on its way to popularity, was issued by Bluebird. The new recording is the first experiment of its kind in music history; that is, the issuing of a vocal rendition by the same orchestra bf a record that is already a best seller. The new recording easily comes up to the standard of the old one, a thing that is very hard to do. On the back is “Carmen Carmela,” which is very good and although a Spanish melody, reminds the listener of “Make-Believe Island.”
Victor has finally released Sammy Kaye’s “Modern Design,” which is already very popular in the East and is drawing as many requests from Kaye as his “Daddy” did. A take-off on that too-often used cigarette add, the number is very cleverly done and he even gives the listener a chance to join in on the fun during the last chorus. Backing it up is “When Winter Comes,” the third tune with the same title, in typical Kaye style with Tommy Ryan’s vocal.
The Ink Spots have a recording of “I Don’t Want to Set the World on Fire” that, although not so good as Horace Heidt’s, nevertheless is satisfactory. On the reverse, however, is a snappy novelty number called “Hey Doc” in which the popular quartette reaches new heights. You’ll like both sides of this one. (Decca)
“A Pretty Co-ed Has Gone To My Head,” a number written by Paul Fogarty, a Notre Dame graduate, has been recorded by Tony Pastor. It runs along the “Betty Co-ed” idea and should prove popular among college students throughout the country. Coupled with it is a completely different one, “The Bells of San Raquel,” that is a follow-up in the same tempo and style as Pastor’s “Maria Elena.” Presented with a rich, full orchestra and a smooth vocal.
Dinah Shore comes up with a really fine recording of that new number, “Is it Taboo?” Sung in that excellent Shore manner, it contains a “Beguine” background that sets it off as one of Dinah’s best. On the reverse will be found a recording that brings' to life that old number, “Miss You.” This is one of the best records in many weeks. (Bluebird)
Bob Crosby released a number last week that should gain popularity as time goes along, “The Angels Came Through.” On the back is “Elmer’s Tune” which everyone has become familiar with. (Decca)
29 .
SHORE DINNERS
(Served with Rolls, Butter and choice of Beverage)
BROILED WHOLE LIVE LOBSTER_______________________________ 1.75
Melted Butter, Shoe-string Potatoes and Cole Slaw
BAKED WHOLE MAINE LOBSTER, THERMIDOR_____________________ 1.75
Julienne Potatoes, Pickled Beet Salad
FRIED DEEP SEA SCALLOPS__________________________________ 1.00
With Bacon, Remoulade Sauce, Idaho Baked Potato
COMBINATION SEAFOOD FRY__________________________________ 1.00
Consisting of Fillet of Sole, Scallops and Shrimps with Bacon, Tartar Sauce, Baked Potato and Cole Slaw
BROILED SALMON STEAK, ANCHOVY BUTTER_____________________ .90
Parsley Potato and Chef's Salad
PLANKED FRESH LAKE TROUT OR WHITE FISH STEAK............ 1.00 Garnished with Assorted Vegetables, Idaho Baked Potato and Marinated Tomatoes
FRESH GULF SHRIMP A LA NEWBURG IN CASSEROLE ..............85
Melba Toast, Shoestring Potatoes
FILLETS OF HALIBUT_______________________________________ .85
Saute in Butter with Sliced Mushrooms and Julienne Potatoes
FISH RECEIVED FRESH DAILY
0Uue^ Jlotel Room
WHAT ABOUT SPORTS?
By "Red" Lonergan
About 17 years ago Walter Camp’s selection of the year’s best team, the All-Americans, was the last word in the judgment of the nation’s finest players. Today, however, there are almost as many All-American teams as there are players. Going on the notion, or whatever the philosophers want to call it, that there is safety in numbers, we herewith present those who we think may come near being All-Americans.
In the East the publicity king seems to be one James Blumenstock, a hard running and crashing back from Fordham. A certain Bill Busik is the bulwark of the entire Navy offense. We suspect that he would like to take an Irish scalp back to Annapolis this season. After the threat from Navy comes a knight from Temple in the person of Andy Tomasic, a name familiar to anyone interested in sports. Mickey Connolly is the best aerial man in the East holding down O’Rourke’s position at Boston College.
Down Dixie way, where football and cotton are twin kings, is another crop of top-flight ball toters. We put Georgia’s 190 pounds of dynamite and throwing arm, George Sinkwich in as our first nomination. There is another chap who goes by the name of Moffat Storer in the same part of the country. He is a one man explanation of Duke’s success. Ole Miss has a real problem in the back
field. It seems that Johnny Hovious and Merle Hapes are so evenly matched that the coach doesn’t even know which one to start. There is a fellow called Jimmy Nelson who is the boss of the roost at Tuscalusa.
Our next stop is in the land of oil, cattle, and men who hate sheep-raisers. Somehow Dana X Bible has separated his team from all the pretty girls and is going places. The Longhorns are led by Jack Crain, first cousin to the rabbit that no one can shoot. He has competition on his own team in Pete Layden the boy "who defeated A. and M. last year. The hard-luck man, Jack Wilson, has found a four leaf clover and is now taking the boys from Baylor on a tour of the opposition territory. We also hear much of Preston Johnston at Southern Methodist.
From the Far West comes news of Stanford. The “T” is now offering two backs in Frankie Albert and Pete Kmelo-vic. The jack-of-all trades from Oregon, “Busy” Bob Dethman, is a big reason why Oregon may entertain a Rose Bowl audience. Santa Clara has a one-man backfield in Ken Casanega, a super man.
We shall finish the circuit in the home section. Bruce Smith is at Minnesota. Then William Hillenbrand threatens to make Indiana something to be feared. Maybe he’ll succeed next year. Michigan has not suffered much over the loss of Tom Harmon. At present Bob Westfall is doing very well. There isn’t much to be said about three “bests” named Ber-telli, Evans and Juzwik. We shall only
say that it is too bad they are all on the same team, for the canon of geographical distribution will prevent all three being chosen.
In all fairness we must go on to • Northwestern and mention a new name, We think that Otto Graham is going to out-do Bill DeCorrevont. It is true that DeCorrevont was not given the chance he deserved, but we think that Otto Graham has ability to spare. Dick Kieppe is doing his best, which is pretty good, for Michigan State. Now that we’ve all heard of Marquette, did you know that Jimmy Richardson is their strong man? This winds up our selection. If you’re angry because we left out the fellow who went to school with you, just write his name at the bottom of this column and try to forgive us.
QUESTIONS FOR THE WEEK
1.	When was the first forward pass attempted ?
2.	What is considered the greatest number of substitutions made in one .game and by whom was it done?
3.	What is considered the greatest feat performed by any back in the same afternoon? Hint— a Mid-West back.
4.	Who scored the highest number of points in one season and was officially recognized as the highest scorer in football?
5.	How much does it cost to uniform a' player in big league ball (approximately) ?
6.	Can you fill in the missing name in these famous pass combinations?
a)	Friedman to -------------
b)	Howell to---------
How do you rate?'
Six correct —--------------------------------------------.Athletic Director Five correct _---------------------  Coach
Four correct_________________________________Player
Three correct ------------------------.Substitute
. Two correct-----------------------------Water Boy
One correct---------------------------Cheer Leader
None correct---------Monday Morning Quarterback
(Answers will be found in advertising)
We carry not only HOLLYCOURT, ROYAL DEMUTH, DR. GRABOW and FRANK MEDICO PIPES
But also KAYWOODIE, YELLOW BOLE, DUNHILL, SASIENI and many others.
BRUGGNER'S CIGAR STORE
HON. MAIN STREET (Opposite Oliver Hotel)
2. Generally it is considered that Notre Dame’s hundred and forty-five substitutions against Navy in 1930 is the record for substitutions. Notre Dame won, 26 to 2.
tfi’ZZMEDICO*
FILTERED 3
Sjj ABSORBENT FILTERS!
see
00
^■■^■>RBE^ I SflMRE H1TBB f[» MEDICO WfS
66 Baffle Filter whirl-coolssmoke; traps juices,flakes and nicotine in pipes, cigarette and cigar holders. FINEST BRIAR MONEY CAN BUY
Soccer Plans Progress;
St. Louis Club Riding High
Under the direction of Mr. Scannell of the Physical Education department, an inter-hall soccer league is being formed on the campus. It is hoped that a good deal of interest will be created, and any hall that organizes a team, or the team of any club in the University, will be admitted into the league. Competition among the freshman halls begins next Sunday on the Biology Building field, and the coaches of these teams, sophomores in Physical Education, have organized several potent teams. In preceding years, soccer teams have been unable to find fields for practicing, since inter-hall football has dominated the scene, but the Athletic Association has promised to remedy the situation. At any rate, if enough enthusiasm is shown, an official campus champ will be crowned this year.
Almost since the time of Father Sorin,
21
^Or MEOfij


the St. Louis club has led Notre Dame soccer, and for the last five years they have won the championship. Another super soccer team will represent the club this year, coached by none other than Tom Hennigan, who is topping off four
fOM HOPKlHS
DRUG STORE
Your friendly DRUG Store in the Oliver Hotel.
•
STUDENTS!
Make us your Off-Campus Headquarters
Try our delicious food at budget prices.
5. Over eighty-five dollars for one complete outfit.
Need DRUGS? Prices to meet your purse.
THE
H U D D Lt
A Variety of Pipes — A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow ____________$1.50
YeRo-Bole Regular______ 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial ___ 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ___ 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor __ 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran _ 5.00.
Hollycourt ____________ 3.50
Comoy _______________   6.00
Corncobs_________10c and 25c
brilliant years by coaching the club this season. According to Coach Hennigan, the St. Louis club is practically invincible, with a veteran team of Bellinger, Dacey, Dahm, Denati, Funsch, Henn, Manglesdorf, Mueller, Dan Murphy, O’Neal, Jack Scherer, and Wilson carrying the laurels for the down-river aggregation. As a matter of fact, Coach Hennigan makes the following challenge public: every team that plays the St. Louis club must pay SI, and any team that beats the club receives §5. Any team wishing to knock this chip off its shoulder may contact “J. P. Morgan” Hennigan at 131 Alumni hall. If there is any sporting blood on the campus, the old soccer field should witness some mighty curdling encounters.
—Arthur Hayes
Harriers Harry Tomorrow;
Fall Handicap Next Week
Tomorrow the Notre Dame cross-country team meets Michigan Normal at Ypsilanti. The N.D. harriers have prospects of a fine team, but Michigan Normal, an opponent of unknown ability, may be a stumbling block.
Annual Fail Handicap
Track coach, Bill Mahoney, announced that the outdoor practice sessions would finish next week with the running of the Annual Fall Handicap Meet, Wednesday and Thursday, Oct. 29 and 30. Indoor practice will start in early December.
This handicap is open to all students of the University, from the Varsity letter-men down to the freshest freshman. The better men in each event will start from scratch, and all other entrants will be given a handicap by Coach Mahoney. Medals will be awarded for first, second, and third place in each event.
In the past this meet has been a feature of the fall athletic program at Notre Dame. Many heretofore unknowns have won medals, and the track coach has often discovered some fellow possessing latent ability in these meets.
Events in which an entrant may double will be well spaced. A bulletin will appear soon in all halls listing the events and the day for each—Bill Rogers
Frosh Mound Star Signs With Cubs
Notre Dame’s best freshman pitcher, Eddie Hanyzewski, who held the Chicago Cubs to a 2 to 0 victory in an exhibition game in South Bend last summer, is reputed to have signed with the Cubs. He has withdrawn from school and he plans to marry a South Bend girl next Nov. 22. Hanyzewski, a right-handed fireball hurler, fanned 13 of the Bruins.
N. D. SOUVENIRS ...
Pennants_____15c to $1.25
“Campus Muts” in N. D.
colors.....$1,00 to $1.75
N. D.‘ Blankets...$13.50
(72x64, with Chenille monogram)
Other Souvenir Items:
Luggage Stickers N. D. Postcards and Pictures suitable for framing.
Mail Orders carefully filled.
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
Burger in a BASKET 25c
A Tasty Hamburger on a Toasted Bun, Smothered with French Fries, and surpassed by none.
HARPER'S KEWPEE HAMBURGERS
328 N. Michigan Street
Listen to “Prep School Grid Edition”— Every Wednesday at 6:30 o’clock, WSBT
1. Carolina beat Georgia on a foul forward pass in 1895. ■
22
RECORDS, 15c
7 for $1.00
All Big Bands and Artists Large Selection
POP’S RECORD SHOP
232% S. Michigan, 2nd floor
First Class
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner
All work done promptly and at reasonable prices.
Next to the HUDDLE
AFTER THE GAME
Dance to the Music of
EDGAR DRAKE AND HIS HOTEL SCHROEDER ORCHESTRA
at the
PALAIS ROYALE
9:00 to 12:00, Saturday, Oct. 25
Admission 50c
For that great occasion . . .
BE PHOTOGRAPHED!
A Memoir of the Big Affair of the Season .... The Sophomore Cotillion.
The McDonald Studio
116 W. Colfax Phone 4-8891
Attention Students
Reduced prices at all times to students!
AL WISH’S PLAYLAND ROLLER RINK
Open every night except Monday.
Matinee Sunday — 2 to 5 p. m.
Make money on your parties here.
Cagers Start Scrimmage
This Week; First Game 29th
Varsity basketball practice is just getting under way. For about three weeks the members of the squad have been shooting and tossing basketballs around, still getting to the feel of the ball, and accustoming and hardening their feet to the floor. Although Coach George Keogan and Assistant Ray Meyer have been watching the progress of the practice with great interest, they say that it is yet too early to determine which men will compose the starting team. Starting this week, real work will begin on shooting and learning plays, and the first scrimmage will be held. The squad at present numbers about 23 players, and about that many will be carried throughout the season. According to Coach Keogan, the team will approach a playing peak just about time for the first game on Nov. 29 with Franklin College.
Frosh Squad Cut, and How!
Meantime, from the 150 men who came out for freshmen basketball, the squad has been cut to 23 players. First practice took place last Tuesday, and it is still much too early to make any predictions about the freshman team. The upstairs gym in the field house is being repaired to accommodate freshman, practice. The first-year men do not play any outside teams, but scrimmage with the Varsity and pick up the fundamentals of Notre Dame basketball. At present, the frosh squad, under the tutelage of Al Del Zoppo and Ray Meyer, includes the following men: Croddock, Creeney, Davis, Duffy, Fierstein, Foley, Gallagher, Klein, Leahy, Long, Mahon, Mahoney, Newbold, Nolan, O’Brien, O’Connell, Favela, Reed, Rutledge, Schwinn, Sobek, Sheehan, and Whalen.
REVIEW OF POLITICS
(Continued from page 7) Germany and Europe. The foundation of the Occident is spiritual, personalistic; a belief in the common brotherhood of man. There is no bridge between the two patterns of life. National Socialism right from its start knew it; the rest of the world was too much addicted to materialism, individualism and belief in anonymous forces and collectivities to grasp the existential difference. Therefore it was caught napping.”
John U. Nef of the University of Chicago in his “Civilization at the Crossroads discusses the problems of the “moral and intellectual crisis,” “the collapse of standards,” “the encroachment of scientific methods on thought and art” and “economic welfare and general welfare.” David A. McCabe of Princeton University answers the question on
“Governmental Control or Labor Representation?”
“Contemporary China” by Harley McNair is a review of Paul M. A. Line-barger’s The China of Chiang Kai-Shek. Thomas V. Power’s Anatomy of Betrayal seeks to assimilate ideas from the French book, La Grande Crise de la Republique Francaise by Professor Yves Simon of our University. The editor of the Re-vietu of Politics,.Mr. Gurian reviews Peter Viereck’s Hitler Via Wagner.
.—Paul Carr
... ao Husky
Comfort with Distinction
Deceptive is their handsome ruggedness. For behind it there’s built-in flexibility and a glove-like ankle fit that makes PRE-FLEX Shoes a comfort delight from the first step. Authentic in fashion. Enjoy that PRE-FLEX thrill . . . Try on your pair now.
4. Jim Thorpe of the Carlisle Indians scored 187 points in one season, almost four touchdowns per game.
120 S. Michigan St.
28
MAX ADLER
“ON THE CORNER”	Michigan at Washington
All Men Are Alike? ...
Look at ’em! Tall, skinny, squat, plump! But it doesn’t faze us—in our Arrow Shirt family you’ll find collars to suit all male shapes and tastes.
It's ADLER'S for Arrow
over the campus. By actual
survey, two out of three
college men prefer Arrows! Every Arrow has a smart new Arrow collar (sloped for comfort); every Arrow has Mitoga figure-fit (for trimness); and every one is Sanforized-shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than 1%). Get some today! 32, up. Spruce up with Arrow ties that harmonize. 81, 81.50.
ARROW SHIRTS
Your Bulletin Reaches
Many Thousands More
It is only a single sheet of paper, but it goes out to 6,500 people and organizations throughout the world, for approximately 39,000 Religious Bulletins are mailed from the University every week during the school year.
This is a huge job in itself, for each Bulletin must be folded and addressed. Some 20 students are occupied in this job under the direction of Bob McKee, a senior who has been engaged in the distribution of Bulletins for four years. As he handles most of the correspondence, Bob gets more than his share of mail. He recounts that he gets many letters from girls who want to know more about Notre Dame, and would like to correspond with Notre Dame men. He is a little reluctant to divulge what happens to these letters. One fellow wanted to sell his body to the University after his death for medical purposes, but this request was turned down.
Before the "war, the Bulletin -went to many of the countries in the world; to Canada, Mexico, Alaska, Puerto Rico, half a dozen South American countries, England, Hawaii, Norway, Sweden, Italy, France, Poland, India, Germany, and China. How much of total circulation going to Europe ever reaches its true destination now is problematical, but it is doubtful that any of the Bulletins get into the actual occupied areas.
This year the mailing list of the Bulletin was revised and brought up to date. It was discovered, after post cards had been sent out asking those on the previous list if they still desired to receive the Bulletin, that in some instances the Bulletin was being mailed to people who had been dead for over a year. Still on the list are such prominent Americans as Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, James Farley, Postmaster General Frank Walker, members of the American hierarchy, and quite a few non-Catholics.
The influence of the Bulletin is hard to estimate accurately, but that it is considerable cannot be doubted. In many Catholic schools it is posted, and in some schools the Newman Clubs mimeograph copies and distribute them to members. Also, most chaplains receive them and use them in the Army. As there is no charge for the Bulletin, it must be supported by donations. A donation of §1.50 barely covers postage, and this does not include the expenses of clerical work, plates, and the paper.
Usually the Bulletin is mimeographed on the machine in the Main Building, but for special occasions it is printed. This work was formerly done in South Bend at one of the printing firms, but the
24
new Ave Maria building has the facilities to print them there.
A special knack is required to fold and. stuff the Bulletins, and if a boy is all thumbs he is put on delivering them to the halls. There is a fine spirit among those engaged in the various jobs connected with the Bulletin and they consider themselves as a sort of a club, and have parties two or three times a year to which the hall mailmen are usually invited. The Bulletins are addressed in the Dillon Hall basement, their “Glory Hole.”—Bill Welch
New Heat, Power Lab
Now Nearing Completion
North of the new Ave Maria Building, in a portion of the campus rarely visited by the average student, lies the recently-completed Heat and Power Laboratory. A fine green fuzz of grass is beginning to sprout from the grounds; the handsome two-story structure fairly glistens with newness.
The building was constructed for the use of two departments in the College of Engineering: the Department of Aeronautical Engineering, of which Mr. Frank Brown is the head, and the Department of Mechanical Engineering, under Mr. Carl C. Wilcox.
Classes have been held in the laboratory since the opening of the schoolyear, although much of the equipment either lias not yet been received, or is in the process of installation. The delay is attributed to difficulty in obtaining machine parts, which are vitally important in the current defense program. It is believed, however, that all equipment will be received and mounted by December.
Embryo engineers, after the theory is propounded in the classroom, gain valuable experience in actual work on machines, engines and motors of all types. Heretofore students had gained this experience by trips through industrial plants in South Bend.
Students of aeronautical engineering work in a special laboratory for internal combustion machines; here they are thoroughly trained in the structure and functions of this type of engine.
Steam laboratory equipment for mechanical engineers includes a high pressure boiler, steam turbines, steam engines and other allied hydraulic and steam machinery.
The building is situated near St. Joseph’s Lake and the power plant of the University, which assures utility service and an ample supply of water for the steam and hydraulic equipment.
—J. H. Johnston
£ BOTTLES OEC
STOCK UP FOR THE WEEK-END • *
plus deposit
MAX
SELECTED by COLLEGE STYLE BOARD
He's Wearing a
COVERT
UNIVERSITY
Here's the fingertip reversible college men "go for"! On one side, covert cloth, sensational fabric of fine finish and soft texture. On the other, bleached bone gabardine. Both sides showerproofed by Cravenette. Finger-tip length, covert-faced lapels, fly front, set-in sleeves, slash pockets, railroad stitching. Sizes 32 to 44. Regulars or longs.
Bob Quentel!—So. California
ADLER
South Bend, Indiana
John H. Sanders......Cornell
Wm. B. Smith...........Duke
Daniel H. Huyett.__Michigan
William Belden.........Texas
25
On many of the defense projects encountered by the Bell System, the work sheets—showing telephone facilities needed and time allowed—would make a good, conservative engineer’s hair stand on end.
For example, take the Navy’s huge new air base near Corpus Christi, Texas, which covers 14,500 acres, includes 29 .separate flying fields and 481 buildings. Closely connected with the base are Defense Housing projects for 1700 families.
Imagine the complex problems involved in planning tele* phone facilities for this new "city” where formerly there were sand dunes—in obtaining and installing miles and miles of wire and cable, switchboards, telephones by the thousand.
But telephone engineers and construction men took hold —proceeded to shatter records—completed their huge task in seemingly impossible time. For men with the "will to do,” there’s a real thrill in such Bell System work!
INTERHALL FOOTBALL (Continued from page 18) their 20 yard line, but lack of pass defense lost the game.
Badin kicked off and took the ball from Howard on downs. They marched from their own 30 to the Howard 20 where Howard held for two downs. On the third down Kermit Rousseau passed to Andy Murphy for a touchdown. Murphy converted for the extra point.
In the second quarter Howard marched 50 yards to the Badin 20 only to lose the ball on downs. On the next play Cedarwall intercepted a Badin pass and ran to Badin’s 25. Four Howard passes failed and Badin took the ball as the half ended.
The teams battled evenly throughout the third quarter. Fumbles on both sides marred the play. As the quarter ended Friend intercepted a Howard pass and ran to the Howard one yard line.
Badin was penalized five yards fox* taking too much time in the huddle. In three line smashes Badin advanced only three yards. Then Badin caught Howard flatfooted as Rousseau passed to Murphy for another score.
A Howard fumble which was recovered by Badin led to the third score. After three passes had failed, Grant passed to Fitzgerald to score. Murphy converted to make the score 20-0. With two minutes to play, Howard lost the ball to Badin on downs, and Grant immediately passed to Murphy for the final score of the game.
Shakespeare To Open Campus Theatre
Those on the campus interested in theatrical classics will have something to look forward to in the production of The Merry Wives of Windsor. Rev. Matthew Coyle, C.S.C., who is directing the play, hopes to have it ready fox' presentation in early December.
Very few plans are definite as yet. Rehearsals are to be held every night in Washington Hall. No parts have been definitely assigned, but very probably the coveted role of Sir John Falstaff will be played by Bill Hickey, a senior. Also due for one of the leading parts is Dave Curtan, who has figured prominently in the productions of the Radio Club as well as plays on and off the campus.
Bridge Oddity
A bridge oddity occurred in Alumni hall Sunday night as more than three hours of play involving three rubbers resulted in a stalemate with 2,970 points .being scored by each set of partners. Bob Beaumont, Tom Degnan, Frank Brehl and Joe Spohr were the men experiencing the . inconclusive but unusual evening. .
26
INTRODUCING
(Continued from page 16) teammate to share his “palace of pipes” in Sorin-sub.
The sturdy guard can boast to be a champion steer rider in the deep southwest. On the way back from last year’s coastal struggle with Southern California the boys stopped off for a few days to tour the vast deserts of Arizona, and it was on this excursion that Joe proved to be a steer-rider comparable to seasoned veterans at the game.
Coach Leahy missed by a few minutes facing the necessity of conducting a search for a new guard this fall. While working at a local automobile plant, Laiber arrived early one morning in order to get in his hours for that day. Before anyone else had arrived, Joe made a slip and found himself pinned against some blocks by a two-ton truck. Twenty minutes elapsed before help arrived, just in time to save the youth’s life.
Laiber is a member of the physical education school, and as you can probably guess the gridder is preparing for a coaching career. It is his ambition and hope that he return to his alma mater to aid his former- mentor in developing-winning teams at Washington.
The athlete claims the distinction of being one-half of the Washington high representatives still attending the University. The original contingent consisted of Laiber, Kovatch, Steve Bagarus and Pete Marko. Bagarus is now a corporal in Uncle Sam’s armed forces and doubles as a member of a Pacific coast professional football squad on Sundays. Marko developed a bad knee in his freshman year and was forced to retire from the gridiron. Another member to the select group was added this year, however, when Eddie Taiboom, powerhouse fullback on last year’s Washington squad, reported for freshman football.
Laiber and his roommate performed against two members of the current Irish squad while cavorting for Washington. George Murphy, junior right end, starred for Central a few years back, and Dippy Evans gained his gridiron reputation at Riley. They will all be playing against one of the Dipper’s high school teammate when Good takes the field for Illinois Saturday.
The Irish have a tough assignment ahead of them for the rest of the season. The chips will be down. 'At right guard, Coach Leahy can boast a man who plays his best brand of ball under these conditions— Joe Laiber.
SEE THE GA®!
CONVENIENT DIXIE HOTEL
the for
650 OUTSIDE ROOMS — EACH WITH PRIVATE BATHROOM ANO RADIO
50 I DOUBLE
w IN NOH (SHOE BEDS)
the Restaurant. Best of all you’ll like modest prices! See your Travel Agent reservations now—or write The Dixie!
Daily Rates from

MAKE YOUR^ FOOTBALL HEADQUARTERS THE POPULAR-PRICED.
YOU’LL like the Dixie’s convenience . . . only a half block from Times Square Express Subways to the Game ... in the center of New York’s gay night life!
You’ll like your cheerful room . . . and the Southern hospitality in the Cocktail Lounge, the Coffee Shop, the Dickens Bar,
DIXIE HOTEL
250 WEST 43rd STREET
TIMES SQUARE • NEW YORK
27
"MODERNAIRES" ORCHESTRA TOURS COUNTRY UNDER LEADERSHIP OF BOB RICHARDSON
The “Modernaires,” the official Notre Dame dance band, was organized in 1936, but previous to that time they had been dispensing jive in and about the campus under the name “The Jugglers.” While under the leadership of Karl Hunn, the band first received national acclaim in a tiff with Paul Whiteman over the use of the name “Modernaires.” As a result of a very successful engagement at the Glenn Island Casino in New Rochelle, N. Y., the “Modernaires” received a fullpage “spread” in one of the country’s leading music magazines proclaiming them one of the best known and most capable of the college dance bands. At that particular time Whiteman had a group of singers whom he called the “Modernaires”; hence the conflict over the use of the name.
Since then the local musicians have played at such places as the Hotel Statler and Wade Park Manor, both in Cleveland, in addition to many one-night stands in central Illinois and Michigan summer resorts. For two successive years they moved into the swing conscious “Illinois Valley” to Ottawa, Ill., home of Maestro Bob Richardson and piano man, Bob Sinon, to set the tempos for the gala St. Patrick’s Dance. The lads established some sort of a record by drawing some 3,000 swing enthusiasts at their first engagement in Ottawa. For the two “Bobs” the theme of the evening, “local boys make good,” was ■working out nicely until sax-tootin’ “Rich” walked across the temporary bandstand set up in the spacious armory, stepped on a loose plank, and disappeared up to his hips, sax and clarinet in hand. Formal announcement was made that the gym team had not accompanied the band, and no further acrobatics ensued.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Bob Richardson, senior lawyer from Ottawa, Ill., has led the orchestra since Hunn’s graduation. “Rich” has been a dance musician for 12 years and organized his first band when he was 17 and in high school. He fronts the band from his lead spot in the four-way sax section besides handling the vocal assignments. While the Modernaires were disbanded for the past summer and ■went their respective ways to all parts of the country, Bob held down a chair with another college unit hailing from the campus of Knox College, Galesburg, Ill., and played a summer engagement at a country club near home.
Jim O’Laughlin, senior economics major from Washington, D.C. is business manager and “contact man” for the orchestra this year and apparently seems to be doing right well by the boys. Jim upholds a reputation of being one of the
• Buy yourself The University Gab—a brand new LEE Water-Bloc* that costs only $5. You’re in one of the smoothest hats you ever wore (with matching gabardine hand and brim binding) . . . you’re in style with your hat and in clover with the gals!
LEE HATS
358 Fifth Avenue, New York
foremost of that indefinable class known as “campus operators.” He has secured various local jobs for the outfit to date and has promised that a few surprises
are in store for “Modernaires’ ” fans.
Ted MacDonald, drummer-man, a Sor-inite, is a commerce senior who hails from Lafayette, Ind. Ted has “beat the skins” for several of Purdue University’s better bands. He frowns upon drummers whose only desire is to “flash” and gives justification to his contention by really kickin’ a solid beat. Besides his duties on the bandstand Ted keeps busy by handling his job as head cheerleader.
Bob Sinon, Alumni Hall, freshman lawyer from Ottawa, Ill., plays a lot of piano. Bob is a “boogie” man from way back but he especially waxes sentimental when on a “shuffle” beat—giving out with an infectious grin that begins on the downbeat and widens into a climatic “Yeah!” on the tune’s final note.
“Black Joe” Sullivan, a Sorin Hall,
* Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our op^n laboratory.
/
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Found only at ... .
1 V FOR MEN AND ft VrOtWG MEN
MAIN AT COLFAX
28
senior A.B. man, plays third sax and comes from Sheffield, Ill. “Black Joe” is notorious for arriving on a job two minutes before the first time and modestly disclaims his recognition as Casanova of the band.
Norm Hasser of Lyons Hall and Hartford, Conn., is another of the more experienced men in the band. Norm played first tenor for several orchestras beforedeciding upon a college career in mechanical engineering. Norm played with a local band in one of Hartford’s night spots this summer.
Joe Fitzpatrick’s book is labeled first trombone and he hangs his hat in Alumni Hall. “Fitz” is a college edition of T. Horsey and his trombone is plenty on the sweet side. “Fitz” hails from Ellicottville, N. Y. and is looking forward to a civil engineering job following graduation in June.
Dick Bechtold lives in Dillon Hall, is also a civil engineer and holds down the ' third trumpet chair in the brass choir. Dick is called on for the “sweet” solos.
Three South Bend boys round out the band: Jim O’Reilly, first trumpet, handles the “ride” stuff in the brass department and is responsible for a solid section; Lou Bailie, second trumpet, shines on the sweeter “pops” and shares the first book with Jim; Ray “Lindy” Linderman, fourth tenor, to whom chords and progressions are second nature and who once had an offer to play with Harry James’ crew.
THE HOME CARTON
The “Modemaires” and their “Music in the Modem Manner” offer “Sea Breeze” as an original theme. The band boasts of a complete library—both sweet and swing are plentiful. Although the band inclines toward sweet tunes of a slow or moderate four, it has a jive repertoire that will take back seat to none. Original arrangements include such tunes as “Pagan Love Song,” “Liza,” “Blues on Parade,” “One O’Clock Jump” and “Woodchopper’s Ball.”
V-I66

Have fun-be friendly
Treat yourself and others to fresh-tasting Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum The Flavor Lasts

$

MUSIC
By J. R. C.
For the season of 1941-42, the NBC Symphony Orchestra will be without the leadership of its world famous conductor, Arturo Toscanini who “expressed the wish not to undertake, at present, any further commitment,” as he feels the need for rest. Until the temper-
H ,4
* * '3 i 7"
? . ‘ $
/?'
'J
1

29
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS
E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 South Michigan Street
DRIVE SAFELY AND SAVE A LIFE
Patronize the Advertisers
mental maestro decides again to give National Broadcasting audiences the superb interpretations for which he is noted, the Orchestra will be conducted by a series of guest conductors. The first concert of the season opened on October seventh with Dimitri Mitropoulos conducting. These programs are broadcast each Tuesday evening from 8:30 to 9:30 P. M., CST over the Blue Network from station WJZ. Prominent among the conductors to appear for the coming programs is Leopold Stokowski who will direct the orchestra on November 4th, 11th, 18th, and 25th.
In the past five or six years, Woody Herman has risen to the top in both popularity and quality but lately, one of these items has fallen a bit: popularity. As if to convince popular music followers that he is still a strong bid, he has recorded in the past month or two, on Decca disks, several top numbers. Among them is a recording of his famous theme song, “Blue Flame,” with its somewhat heavy, sweetly sinister beat and its provocative tones. Another equally good number is his newer “Bishop’s Blues” with quite a different tempo and theme—a nice mixture of boogy and blues. The reverse sides of these two, “Fur Trapper’s Ball” and “Woodsheddin’ with Woody” are also nice tho’ bordering on madness at times. Also: “G’bye Now,” a little bit older perhaps; and newer: “Love Me a Little” with the reverse, “The Angels Came Through.”
Another colorful number is Charlie Spivak’s “Minka.” The vocal, too, is worth while but the trumpet has risen to a new high. On the other side, Spivak collaborates with the Stardusters in a Latin tune that extols the benefits of “A Weekend in Havana.”
Glenn Miller has a new number, “The Man in the Moon.” One could listen to Glenn all night and in the morning his tunes would still sound just as smooth and soothing.
Dick Todd has a new record, “In the Middle of a Dance.” The melody is very ordinary, the lyrics are very ordinary and Dick’s style is just as ordinary. Artie Shaw’s “This Time the Dream’s on Me” starts out very much like J. Scott Trotter but turns out to be a good “Shaw” with cute vocals. “Blues in the Night” on the reverse settles down to nice blues as only the Negro dialect can settle them. Harry James comes through with, “You Made Me Love You” and, reverse, “A Sinner Kissed an Angel,” Leo Reichman’s orchestra has to its credit for October, among other numbers, the “Moonlight Sonata” which is handled very well and which shouldn’t bother even Beethoven.
“Z DROPPED it!” “WHAT?” “My WATCH.”
PETERS. Wafch Maker 102% N. Michigan Street Over Clark’s Restaurant
CHANGE OF SCHEDULE
Effective October 26
Effective Sunday, October 26, South Shore trains will operate on . . . CENTRAL STANDARD TIME . . . instead of Daylight Saving Time.
All trains will continue to operate as before except that they will leave and arrive on Central Standard Time.
NEW TIME TABLE
For complete information on rates and schedules call
C. W. VEACH
City Passengei* Agent Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111
Chicago, South Shore and South
SOU™nsehoR[
30
KEEP FIT FOR FOOTBALL and SPORTS OF ALL KINDS
By wearing Shoes that give you comfort — The Perfect Shoe for the Imperfect Foot
Health Spot Shoe Store
209 W. Colfax Ave.
(Next to the Colfax Theater)
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 J.M.S. Bldg.	South Bend, Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING '
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
314 J.M.S. Building	Telephone 4-360
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON,
M.D.	M.D.
Phone 3-2805	Residence 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
X-RAY EXAMINATION 609 J. M.S. BUILDING HOURS BY APPOINTMENT SOUTH BEND, 1ND.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard' A. Rose, d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s.
~ Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 SHERLAND Bldg. South Bend
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Bldg.	Phone 3-2574
Veit New Fencing Captain;
Practice Now Underway
Candidates for the Varsity fencing team held an organization meeting Tuesday, Oct. 21, under the direction of Coach Walter Langford, in which plans for the coming campaign were mapped out.
The captaincy, which had been left vacant by the beckoning finger of Captain-Elect Lou Peck’s local draft board, was decided by the toss of a coin between Frank Veit and Mike Humphreys, with Veit coming out on top. The ballots that had been cast earlier in the meeting had resulted in a tie between Humphreys and Veit, but since co-captains are not permissible on the University athletic teams, the coin was resorted to.
As to the prospects for the coming season Coach Langford stated, “We will greatly miss the services of such men as Gaither and Harris, who together carried the team to a near perfect season.” Coach Langford points with pride to last season’s record of seven wins and two losses and particularly to the victory over the University of Chicago which until that meet had been undefeated for 5 years.
Speaking of records, Notre Dame fencing teams over a period of 7 years have won 50, lost 18 and tied 2. Of the 15 teams Notre Dame has met in this period, only 4 hold the edge over the Irish, while 7 opponents have never had the honor of defeating N.D. Prof. Pedro de Landero introduced fencing to Notre Dame in 1934, remaining as coach until 1939 when Mr. Langford, the present instructor, took charge.
Practice for the current squad will begin next Thursday, Oct. 23, and will be held every Monday through Friday for the rest of the season.
Exhibition of Water Colors
By Francis J. Hanley
An exhibition of 20 watercolors by Francis J. Hanley of the Department of Fine Arts at the University is currently being displayed at the Alvemia School Gallery, Chicago. The exhibition is a traveling watercolor show and an extensive itinerary has been arranged comprising many Catholic colleges and schools throughout the Midwestern and Eastern states.
During the next two months the paintings will be displayed at Mundelein College in Chicago as well as in Cincinnati and Pittsburgh.
For the most part the pictures concern the sea and the old New England fishing ports. In addition to marine scenes there are such novel items as ballet design sketches interpreting musical compositions by Ravel and Debussy.
The Golden Voices of the World’s Greatest Singers are on VICTOR
SRECORDS
Kirsten Flagstad—Tristan und Isolde—Love Death (JTagner). 2 sides.
Lauritz Melchior—Parsifal and Lohengrin Arias—(JFagner). 4 sides, in album.
Dorothy Maynor—Ave Maria-Gretchen at the Spinning Wheel (Schubert). 2 sides.
The World’s Greatest Artist* are on Victor Records. To hear Victor Records at their best, play them on the new RCA f^ictrola.
★
SPECIAL Gift OFFER!
The makers of Victor Records are celebrating the greatest year in their history with this sensational gift offer on these two Victor Red Seal Records, No. 18221 and No. 18223.
Buy Either One For Get The Other One
FREE
Two for the Price of One!
Both brand new 12" Victor Bed Seal Rec* ords.This offer is for a limited time only.
No. 18221. "OPATMAMA” Sung by
ROSE BAMPTON famous American-born star of the Metropolitan Opera
Md "CELESTE MM” Sung by
BEMMHNO GIGLI _two beautiful arias from Verdi’s great opera, Aida
No.18223. "WHENIWASALAD” from Gilbert and Sullivan’s "H. M. S. Pinafore”
and “THERE IS NO DEMIN’* Sag by
JOHN CtiMLEsTHO MAS
Two stirring selections by one of America’s finest voices
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings
RODINS
132 N. MICHIGAN ST.
6. a) Oosterband; b) Hutson.
31
Try a couple of packs. We feel sure you’ll be coming back for more... because Chesterfield’s right combination of the world’s leading cigarette tobaccos makes them so much Milder, Cooler and BetterTasting that more smokers are turning to them every day.
Yes, the approval of smokers is the big thing that’s pushing Chesterfield ahead all over the country.
EVERYWHERE
YOU GO
Copyright 1941. Liccett & Mtebs Tobacco Col.