
Send Mom acare Satisfaction
Pack.a e· ·Send her the FTD Swee.!Surprise guarant~ed.
• for Mother's Day (May 12th). 
We can promise you some ofthe most satisfying 
Sweet Surprise,
arranged, · moments ofyour week. ·· usually available 
Ifyou are able to spend
for less than 
some 'time helping people who need your help. · Can you spare even a few hours a week? · Call the Voluntary· , . ' ..-·--~-~--' Action Center in your town. · ·· ·. ; ..·; . . Or write: ., ' 
. . .
' . 
.. ·. . ' . -_, ·:~_: ·. . . . 
"Volunteer;• Washington, · 
· · Sweet Surprise, 
planted, . · D.C:20013. . 
. . usually available for less than 
r,;;,_ ,,. J. ;Pi _-_ .
·•
S d"ttd It &>.lh~ ,.'t¥1w ').$1250• ci~ld~'t beaf~sier. ~'· 
· · · *k, an independent 


Volunteer.
Just call or visit businessman, each your nearby FTD Florist. Tell him F1D Merrber Florist · · ·The National Center 
· .. · sets his own prices.-·· 
.-. · for Voluntary Action.
you want the FTD Sweet Surprise:" 
' c 1974 Florists' .:
One's all flowers ... the other, growing plants with flower acce.nts. Both : . · · A Publ~ Seivicealhis~r ffl'II come in dainty hand-painted ceramic . & The Advertising Council ~, 
· flower buckets. An Extra Touch'"' 
.~ 
. gift she'll love. Your FTD Florist can 
VOLUNTEER CAMPAIGN
send your Swe,et Surprise almost · 
NEWSPAPER AD NO. 74-243 . 
. anywhere in the U.S. ~r Canada. "Your Extra Touch Florist• 60LINES (1 col.x 41/J.•l 





Editor 
James Grcsser 
Art Director 
Bill Weyland 
Production Manager 
John Phelan Managing Editor ;, . Sally Stanton 
News Editor 
Jane Thorton 
Aris Editor 
Katy Sullivan 
Sports Editor 
Bill Delaney 
Assistanf-Art Director 
Thomas Waldoch . · . 
Business Manager· 
Sarah Bartzen 
Circulation 
Frank Zaletel 
Facully Advisor 
Frank O'Malley 
Staff 
Paul. Bolduc, Kevin Dockrell, Betsy Dwyer, Leo J. Mulcahey, Mary Siegel, Jim Purvis, Steve Shea,-Jean McQuillan, Eileen O'Grady, Tom Bursic, John Whalen, Sean McLinderi, Tary Cary; Jorge Lopez; Jack Hanzel,• Pat Fanning, Pat Dillon, Bill Murray, Frank Coughlin, John Moore,. George Sibley, Craig Spengel, ·Pat Hanifin, Dave Dreyer, Tom Paulius, Doug Kenyon. 
Art & Photography Ted Kerin, Mark Luppino, Tom Burke, Mike Budd, Ed Earle. 
The opinions expressed· in the SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the · SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student hotly. 
· Ind. 46556, . The magazine is represented for national advertising by National· Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC .. is printed.at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 · 
. a year and back numbers are available from the SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manu­scripts to .the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC•. 
copyright© 1974 Schola;tic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be re­produced without permission 

Seholastie 
Volume 115, No, 13 May 3. 1~74 Notre Dame, Indiana 
HEADLINER 

7 Catholicism at Notre Dame ,. -A discussion with Fr. Burtchaell and a brief history of the question. 
FEATURES 

4  Drinking in Indiana - Dealing with ·the problem of the  
new law and its effect on ND.  
14  Student  Government  - Introducing  the  new  student  
administration.  
16  Edward C. Sanna - A look at one of the unseen men  
who affect everyday life at ND.  
- -,  .  - 
18  Prisons - Demanding a closer look at the inadequacies  
of our penal system.  
20  Ivan Mestmvic ­ The life of the genius sculptor whose  
works ended at ND.  ·  
22 ·  The Great Gatsby - A review of the new movie based  
on Fitzgerald's classic.  ·  
·: ·24  The Reporter As Artist ­ A review of the book by Ron­ 
ald Weber.  ·  
28  Athletic Top. Ten ­ A list of the top ten athletic events  
at Notre Dame in the past year.  ··  ·  

"REGULARS 
12 Week in Distortion. 
13 Coming Distractions. 
15 People at ND. 
27 Irish Sport Sh.orts. 
30 The Last Word. 

Illustrations: Cover by Bill Weyland /. Photo on 3 by Bill Weyland./· Photos on 4, 5 courtesy of The· Observer / Photo on 7 courtesy of Information Services / Photos on 10, 11 by 
:Bill Weyland / Photo on _15 by Chris Smith/ Photo on 15 by _Jim Hunt/ Photo on 16 courtesy of Ave Maria Press/ Illustration on 19 by Tom Burke / Photos on 22, 23 courtesy· of Art. Gallery / Photos on 25 by Bill Weyland / Photos on 27, 28 from Scholastic Sports Dept. / Illustration on 28 by Tom Paulius. 
' 
lnqiana's New Liquor'LaW--­Changing Notre Dame. 
· According to Dr. Faccenda the decision threatens with a court suit anyone who knows of a drinking minor and does not act. Accord­ing to Dean Macheca the decision requires strong enforcement of drinking · rules by the University. According to Fr. Griffin it may wipe out all of' Notre Dame's recent lib­eralizations. The decision which has startled the administration and shocked the students suddenly gives Indiana's drinking law long arms and sharp claws, but there are some ways to fight it. 
The ,decision handed ·down two weeks· ago by the Indiana Court of Appeals was a civil action arising from. a traffic acciden_t caused by a possibly ( only possibly) intoxicated $250,000 in damages. 
The ·case· has grave; and as yet not completely. understood implica­tions for the University and its students since Notre Dame is the only school in the state which recog­nizes drinking. Although there are ambiguities in the case, the Univer­sity · is relying on the interpretation of its · general counsel, Dr. Philip Faccenda. "The key point of the case·is the cou~es. decision that no active participation is needed to violate the· law's ban on giving ·alcohol to minors. The sister did not even invite her brother in, but she was held responsible because she knew what he was doing and did not try to prevent it. As I read the case .it turns on aquestion of knowledge 
minor. The surprising fact was that·· and 'premises; if we know,· or rea­

·~ the damages were levied against the minor's adult sister. The young man, 20 years old, had entered his sister's house uninvited while she was out and helped himself to some beer and rum. His sister, returning home, watched .him finish his drink and drive away without trying to stop him. Since three family heads were killed in the accident, damages were far beyond what the youth's insur­ance could cover. The court then went beyond him and held his sister liable for negligence, assessing her 
.sonably should know, that a minor is 
drinking, on our premises we must 
act," Faccenda explained. 
SBP -Pat McLaughlin stated that 

some members of the Law School he had consulted thought that Fae­cenda's interpretation might be too• conservative. "They feel that the case may _turn more on the ques~ tion of owning the alcohol than upon whose premises it is drunk," said McLaughlin. "But they also . told me that as--general counsel of_ the University, Faccenda has to take· 
Robert Griffin 
a conservative view of the ambigui~ ties to protect the Univei:sity endow­ment." · Faccenda's interpretation . might .also protect students .. from people who want to get at a slice of the endowment (more than $75 million) by suing them. . 
In any case the University will follow Faccenda's advice and create rules accordingly. "For. now ._ ·at least," Faccenda said, "these are the assumptions we will have to go · on." ·He· is currently trying· to dis:­cover if any appeal is planned or_ if cases of a similar nature ~e being litigated. 
-"In this one case," Faccenda went on, "the court-has taken In_diana's dramshop law (laws dealing with t~e responsibility of distributors. ,_of liquor -by sale or otherwise ·.;_ for acts people commit under the_ in: fluence of the drinks) from. fifty ye~rs behind such states as Illinois . and New York to about 25 years ahead.'' Illinois, for instance, makes intoxication, not age, the test 'of responsibility. But now .Indiana, whose legislature repealed its act in ,the twenties, may hold a.distributor responsible if a minor has only one drink, even if the "distributor" really did not provide any liquor at all but merely let the minor drink 
on _his premises. · · · · · : : : The result of all this is tha~ if th,e . University or its . officials. know about a violation of the liquor·1aw they must prevent it. Further, if the­drinking is blatant enough,·. then knowledge. is imputed, .that-· is; the University cannot turn its back and pretend. that nothing is' happening · •if it could "reasonably" be ex­pected to :know'.""what is going on. A rector _caimot spend the night in his room; and pretend he does ·not know about the hall party. in the lobby. All this; of, ·course,. requires a great change in University policy and places the hall. staffs in an ·ex­tremely difficult position. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 



Dean of Students Johri Macheca explained the _po~ition of his. office. "We. can• no longer have ariythirig to do with organizing parties,and .we will strictly • enforce the regula­tion against public drinking ou.t~ide the halls.. Other than that, \lie will handle ,cases from within halls _which. the rector ,of that hall sends to ,us. and any very. major. ·and blatant cases." 
Macheca explained that technical­ly any violation of a.University r~g­ulation comes under his jurisdiction but "we have an understanding with­the rectors that they .will handle minor matters in most cases and that major probierns will normally be referred to us." Violation within .a hall which would not be noticed by the rector would not be likely to come to the Dean's attention. Macheca expects n~ difficuities. over jurisdiction within the halls. ''We 

The SLC has amended the drink-are working. these things out. by ing regulations'to make them apply mutual agreement with the rectors only to students 21 or over. Drink-as a group." ing by students under 21 is prohib-. The rectors and hall staffs are put ited by University regulation in in a somewhat hypocritical position. accordance with 'state law; ,There is They 'know that drinking·.occurs in one salvaging. factor: if the drink-their. halls but they can condone ing and partying is done quietly and this if .they do not know ,of any does. not come to the attention of specific instance of drinking. ,"What any university official in the''normal. it comes down to," Fr: Terry Lally, pursuit of his· duties, then the Uni-. , · assistant dean of students and as­versity. cannot be held . responsib~e •· sistarit rector of Stanford, said; "is and therefore such.· quiet drinking .· enforcing a• no public drinking rule. will not be interfered with. . If you· are going to have a. small 
·. Phillip Facccrida 


. MAY 3; 1974 , 
party, don't tell your rector or R.A.'.' Fr.. Griffin, rector of Keenan, stated .that he "plans no detective work-,­I am not going out of .my way to hunt for violations.'' Kathy . Cekan­ski,·rector of Breen-Phillips,. argued that "what, goes on . behind closed doors_js none of my business." Most re~tors hope to. be. able to handle· the situation ,in ,their. own hall with­out . referring cases to the Dean's office.: "I do not expect any diffi­culties," Cekanski continued, "the women in•: my hall are mature enough to handle the situation. until the end of the year, but if, anything major does come up I will handle it on a one-to-one basis myself.'' 
Another problem . arises for stu­dents over 21 who supply liquor for anyone younger.· If the younger stu­dent becomes · involved in an acci­dent the adult student may be. liable as, well.. "One thing that-I· . .would like_ to impress. on students in this regard," said: Faccenda, .''is that if you do :_not .have -any money now the courts will wait uritil you do, then take that. It can take three or four •years Jo get a final decision ·in a case and the . courts· can attach income for several more years so a 21-year~old s_tudent may be paying until he is thirty or more." The Uni­versity would also be ·liable .if one of, its officials knew about the sup­plying . (which violates, University regulations as well as state law) although such knowledge · is, as Macheca says, · "highly unlikely.'' And, of course, ,in .an acc.ident it, is the s_tudent who is liable first before his supplier or the University enter into it. 
Despite..rumors .that the, Univer­sity is using ,the court's decision as an excuse :-to . move. backward, the case has been.as great a disappoint~ ment and. surprise for the.Student Affairs Office as 'u has b?en for .the students. "We are thrown back to about·. the same position we were in ~ast y~ar,'.' Faccenda · lamented. "I almost • feel , like we have , wasted a year's .effort..": Macheca· agreed• that 
· the decision was .'.'extreinely··disap­pointing and wipes out many ofour more positiv~· programs : aimed, at making .things more ,realistic." Fr. Griffin suggested that rin a way· the situation may be worse.,than that of a-r while· back· since ,then. you. had· some,: tacit : recognition ·'.of some, 'drin~ing• ·outside· rooms,· but now there is the' danger of a·court:suit hanging · over your" head, and, of course;' the court suit would hurt the student who drinks "more than it would hurt the rector." Macheca emphasized the· need to do every­tping that can· be done to prevent any more gains from · being lost. · 

But exactly what can be done· to change the situation we are now in? Both students and administrators can help, and they: are getting to 

work.• . . The most valuable ·student tactic is· lobbying and pushing the·· issue · in the upcoming election. • SBP Mc­. Laughlin has contacted the various other universities in the state, ·par­ticularly IU, Ball State, and Pur­due, fo create a combined program to ·reduce the drinking age. In· this he continues· the work of H-Man. Ori the suggestion of Chuck Nau, a law student and R.A. in Keenan who has a long record· of campaign­ing, McLaughlin and the student government have begun work on a massive registration drive for the upcoming primary. The SBP has contacted the •Bayh· and Brademas campaigns for assistance in a door­to-door registration program · on campus before· the May 7 primary. Student government is preparing a list of candidates · and their posi­tions on the drinking age. "The ones we have talked to, so far," Mc·­Laughlin said, "are favorable but not·strongly '.so." · "If we prepare and·distribute that list and: get _the students to vote it," ·Nau argued, "we can have a major effect on the elections in this area. It may seem petty to make your v'ote rest on one issue but' this is the . most important·• issue, the only really important issue· for us. Not only does the high· drinking age hurt the students; it could really damage our University if a suit is brought." Nau proposed·. canvassing other areas :_in St. Joseph_ County and -coordinating. the. program with other universities, especially those in·' the sou~hern· . part.·• of. · the. state "which is much more opposed to a change." · The University · administration ha·s ·not been idle· either, though it · cannot ·· directly · lobby ·or ·cam­
paign without · forfeiting Notre Dame's · tax-exempt · status. "The University· intends _to· do all it pos­sibly can within the law :to• explain 

· the critical nature of the problem. we face to the Indiana government, especially pointing out the unique · position of Notre Dame ·as a·_ uni­ve_rsity with a nationwide student body; 75% of whom are used to legal drinking in their home states, and also as a university very' close to the Michigan border." Faccenda explained that it is permissible to "acquaint the legislative and ·execu­tive. branches through public hear­ings and testimony of the grievous harm the decision does us." He also pointed out that individuals con­nected with the University, except­ing only the top officers, could lobby as individuals. Everyone currently working on· a solution to the problem is trying to channel student displeasure into constructive projects. "We do not ·nee·d a public confrontation," Fae­
· · · 

NOW IN ~TOUCHSTONE PAPERBACK. 
THE 



MOUNTAIN PEOPLE 
by Colin M~ Turnbull 
author of The Forest People · 
"A beautiful arid terrifying book 
of a people that have become monstrous beyond belief." -Margaret M,ead, Newsday 
"An anthropological shocker 
... frightening iri its implications for us all.''-:-Ro_bert Ardrey, . ' · Saturday Review · ·· 
' ," . ' 

$2,95 • ~ Touchstone Book Published by S}_MON AND SCHUSTER 
. .. . . 

THE SCHOLASTIC-­
cenda . explained. "Something like a massive beer party on the quad would force the, University to act and only alienate legislators." Mc­Laughlin hopes to mob~lize student efforts behind a drive to lower the age law rather than wasting energy on anything "uselessly hotheaded." Appealing for • student support Macheca pointed out that there .are only two more weeks of school. "We are trying-to regroup after this shock and makeit through the rest of the year so we· can concentrate on changing things over the sum·­
: mer." McLaughlin~ too,· plans to spend the summer _here and is ask­ing for aid of anyone else who is staying. "We can solve this prob­lem," he said, "but ·it will take a lot of· work." '-Pat Hanifin ·-Sean McLinden 


1-Iow Catholic 
Are w·e? 

"And what greater calamity can fall upon a nation than the loss of worship? Then all things go to de-: , cay. Genius leaves the temple to. haunt the senate or the market. Lit­erature becomes frivolous. Science is cold. The eye of youth is not lighted by; the hope of other worlds, . and age is without honor . .Society lives to trifles, _and when men .die we do not mention them.". 
-Ralph ·Waldo Emerson 
"The _Divinity School Address" 

"Why listen, lady," said l\lister Shiftlet with a grin of delight,."the monks of old slept in their coffins." 
"They wasn't as advanced as we are," the old woman said . . -Flannery, O'Connor "The Life You Save May be Your Own" . 
Though no two may have defined the word .the same, every student knew that Notre Dame was a Cath­olic university wheri he applied to come here. Pass it off to high school­ish naiv,ete or what have you, every student considered.that.aspect of this place and still decided to enroll. He considered it theri and by his continued presence here, he must consider it now. 
There may seem to be very_little in common among a discussion in a chemical engineering class, a stu­dent coriversatiori on drug rules, a mass, a focitbaH game, a test, a hall party ~nd a camping trip for the kids at Logan Center, but the fact is that in ·an these activities, and in. almost all other activities you could think of; there is the potential for· confrontation of Catholic values .... What does Catholicism mean to in-. stitutional Notre Dame? to the lives~ of its administrators and faculty?· and most importantly to the lives of its students? 
Perhaps the best source for a gen­eral perspective on this important question of identity is Fr:James Burtchaell, university provost.•: Fr. Burtchaell feels that there are two major factors that cause Notre Dame to be a Catholic. place. "The first is-its public commitment, and this is terribly important, to are-,. ; ligious tradition, officially stated and accepted by the community.!' The second, he said, "is a Catholic., -.: · faculty." These two factors allow a · university to label itself Catholic but, "That doesn't tell you what . kind of Catholic university you've got. 
·<'A: good Catholic university," Burtchaell said, "must be free.'' He said that this freedom takes on a special role in relation to the aca­demic study in the University arid the current situation of the church..· He feels that the Notre Dame com­munity. is ,'very much a· part of the · church and, as such, chooses to ad­here to her values and moral atti-· tudes; its people choose to pe· Catholic. The University grows within the tradition and serves it as a developmental force. The Univer­sity should not only be a true . reflection of the contemporary . church, but should also serve to .· bring the church more closely to the fulfillment of its task. 
Burtchaell said, "We are like the church in that we have its features," . and one of those features is the in­

tellectuai,positio~·of scholarly fr~e­dom., Iie:poirited-~ut that Not're .. Dam~ is really piore free aca-. demically than many 'state institu­tions'and many.sectors of the aca­den1ic ·world; where there ~re only a few accepted. methods arid theories, and:ii-iiolerarice ·of others. Burtchaell believes:that"many other academic. institutions ·ca:n be ··•very. dogmatic_. and narrow," while "our tolerance ' should be partof our being Catholic.''. 
As a Catholic university, Notre ... Dame cari exercise this broad, . freedom and utilize it for the bene­fit of th'e church and the world. In its special role, the University can and should lead the church in its growth and contribute.to its tradi~ tion. As aCatholic university, it is committed to the .Catholic tradition. It must be free "in order to allow for better form~ "of Catholicism to make theirway;" 
· Burtchaell. believes that it is the role of the administration to protect that freedom for development in the tradition, with the understanding that though peopie may have tre­mendous disagreements within the tradition, "It wiU right itself, with 
God's help.'' . . 
7. 
Another aspect of the fully Catho­lic university is the adherence to moral values in the daily lives of the community members. :Burtchaell -. stressed the role of the faculty in making Notre Dame fully Catholic . 

· in this respect. He feels that the .. faculty plays a role of utmost im0 ·. ; portance in the communication of . niciral values to the students. With~­out the aspect of moral education the Catholic university will have< ' failed· in its obligation to the edi.tca~ · tion of the··total huri1ari' being: He· _feels 'that much of that moral educa~ tiori occurs in the classroom. Many'' courses deal with moral 'questions· . directly1but Burtchaell feels:that' students learn a great deal'about' the moral values·of aperson rega~di less of his'subjectmaher. "Stltdents do perceive the integrity of aperson even in alecture ; they see a scholat stand for truth, exactitude, · fulfiliing commitments." .. The Provost says this kind 'of . value communication from.the faculty is"an' acceptable mininitirn,i' but that'at Notre D·ame ''we shouldn't settle for that." He said .. that the factiltY is expected to, arid. for the most part does give· more' . than.thatminimum• rriciral conimuni~ ·cation'in'theirpe:rsorial.and aca-·: ,. demic contact with the students'.. He agreed that there is a: d~firiite rieed to develop 'further strategies for the faculty to share their values with the· students, but' cautioned aware~ ness of the enormous work load the faculty is un.der already. He said,· !'We ask them to be scholars and teachers," and added that this is a · "very grueling task in itself." It would be unrealistic, Burtchaell said, to ask the faculty to play "nursemaid" to every student. Burtchaell said that even in the 
... "THE GREATEST BENE-. FICIARIES ARE THE .STU­DENTS. THEY ARE INTRO­DUCED INTO THE OLDEST TRADITION IN THE .WES':t, WHICH IS. ALSO THE ONE TOUCHED BY DIVINE REV-. ELATION." 
ordinary, daily exchanges between 
a faculty member and a student. there are many opportunities for . personal sharing. ·,While he admits the possibility of a student going 
through four years here and never 
establishing a personal·relationship 
with a teacher, he feels that this re­
sults more from a decision by the 
student than unavailability of the • 
faculty. 

In this ongoing process ofeducat­
ing the total person, Burtchaell said; 
"the greatest beneficiaries are the 
students. They are introduced into 
the oldest tradition in the West, 
which is also the· one touched by 
divine revelation.'' He explained that 
students may at times rebel against 
that tradition, because college years 
are a. time ''when people are trying 
to,figure out what they should be 
morally... ; There will always be 
a certain measure of dissidence.'' 
.He feels that college.presents the 
opportunity for many people, who :­
have been dependent on their par-: 
~nts for so ·1ong, to assert them-· . 
selv~s. This asserUon can'often be 
by rejectingtheir religious tradition. 
Burtchaell believes,thatthis is part 
of growing .tip and must be seen as 
such, not as new, apocalyptic re-· 
hellion. 
Burtchaell also· commented on the Christian nature of-the communify · as seen in the quality of relation­ships among the students. Burtchaell agreed that often stu­dents are unwilling to give of them~ selves to others or to go really out of their way for someone else; and that the sometimes show; lack of concern and respect-for communal' rights and property; He added that tolerance does not niean giving a · free hand to those whose purpose is to deny the Christian stature of the institution;. He cited the misuse of · the term Christian Community 'to.:· 
· ple'an a disregard for maintenance of certain essential standards.. 
Christian Commiuiity does not-; mean no one will stand up against those who wold destroy it:: 

Part of the concern that especially needs to be fostered among students, . he said, is a sensitivity to the plight of)he poor and suffering ofthe­world. "You can't be educated without being educated about the world and its needs.'' 
Yet putting the situation in a · larger perspective, he said that , ·, while there is visible selfishness at· · , Notre Dame, in relation to fellow '• students and the ·rest of the world; the situation·is "better here than· elsewhere/' In his experience of-· other colleges and universities,.::· '.' Burtchaell said that he has not seen' the same amount of interpersonal·.. : concern.thathe sees here at Notre · Dame. In.a general view, "What we have here is'just remarkable.'' .:' 
Burtchaell expressed a greaf,:7, difficulty he finds in any discus~. sion of the Catholicism of Notre Dame students. He said th~t most 

· · · discussions.b_ecome a question of emphasis. ,To those who· feel the school is headed toward the cor­ruption of Gomorrah, the tendency is _to emphasize how really Catholic the University and its students are. 
THE SCHOLASTIC
8 



Four years later, irfthe summer of 1971, an article appeared in Insight:· Notre Dame, written by · Fr. Burtchaell, which dealtwith the 
;· . 
question: ' "Notre Dame: How . · Catholic Is It?" This topic; ii.Isa the official topic for all the Universal· Notre Dame Nights at alumnr clubs .. throughout the nation that year; was becoming one of much co'ncer·n. · '· 
Alumni were growing very· con~ cerned about the type of Catholic · education that their successors, for:. many also. their sons;:were ·receiving' at Alma Mater/:Much of the rigid·· disciplinary atmosphere of the '. school had dissipated by this·time and the reports had it that Nofre Dame was falling apart as a Catholic institution of higher·learning. · ·· ·· 
In his articles, Fr.' Burtchaell ex-· plained that while many of the old·· manifestations of Catholicisrri were 

... "ALL THAT WE CAN DO IS PROVIDE THAT THE PREDOMINATING INSPIRA­
TION . AND ·. l\lEl\lBERSHIP 
OF· OUR FACULTY ARE 
CATHOLIC AND CHRIS­
TIAN". 

.not as visible as before and that 
there was always work to be done 
to retain the Catholic character of 
the place, on the other hand, he: 
said that in many real ways Notre 
Dame was more Catholic than ithad 
ever been before. He cited the 
concern students were showing for . 

the war-torn nations of the world,' as 
well as the fortune torn of the 
South Bend area:·the poor, th~ 
uneducated, the retarded. 
In that article, Burtchaeli discussed 
a facet of the Catholic university . . 
that he would contimie to discuss 
for years to come: the faculty. H~ 
stated then that in order to keep 
Notre Dame Catholic a·.faculty must 
be sustained which collectively and·. 
personally maintains and nourishes 
the Catholictradition. "All that we 
can do i~ provide that the predom­
inating inspiration and membership 
.of our faculty are Catholic and -Christian.'' 
Representing the University, · · Burtchaell·further developed and . expressed his concern that Notre 
Dame continue the balance between 
.the notions of a great and a Catholic 
·. university; when he addressed. the ' 
faculty atthe'beginning of the 1972­
73 academic year: He said that 
while Notre Dame, in its quest for 
academic excellence should not ig­
nore competent scholars who do not 
profess Catholicism, there should 
be a conscious. effort on the part of 
the faculty members and the depart­
ments to attract competent Catholic 
scholars to become apart of the· · 
University;s effort to rernain fully 
Catholic. · · · · · "If'discrimination·has a· sinister sense, arid it surely does, in the · . maintenance of oGr own tradition of belief in search of understanding there is a high and urgent ~ense in which we do well to be di~crimiriat­
./-· 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


ing. Learning is a-heritage both precious and fragile; Learning teamed with faith is all the more so, since it is -God's -~are~ gift as well as man's achievement.... At Notre Danie ~e have ~o task mor~ important than to recruit and invite into our, midst men and women who 
. beyond their bei~g ·rigorously given ' over to the profession oflearning, are likewise·dedicated to a life of . intelligent beiief. If we are to be a Christian university, we must have a critical mass of Christian teachers .. If Notre Dame is to remain Catholic the only institutional way for as-.. ' suring this is to secure a £acuity . with prominent representation of. : committed and\irticulate be'iievers ­who purposefully seek the comrade­ship of others to weave'theirfaith into the full fabric of their intellec­
tual life."· · · 
One year_ later, at tlieoperiing of the 1973-74 academic year, Burt­chaell addressed himself to asimilar 
question:_ what is the role of'the ­faculty in the moral education of their students? H~ called the faculty to become witnesses to truth both by getting to' the bottom of acaden1ic questions and by coming into con­tact with questions that ar~-bottom~ 
less. · · Burtchaell quotes CardinarsU:-. hard: "It has been well said that to. 
be a ·witness does not ·mean· to spread propaganda or even· to create an· impressio11, but to create a mystery. 
It means living in such a way that one's life would be inexplicable; if God did not exist." 
The concern for retaining the Catholic character of Notre Dame probably· came to a·head ·with the publication ·of the Committee on 
University Priorities' report ori Notre Dame's Catholic character which appeared in the December, 197;3 issue of Notre Dame Magazine. · 
The committee, composed of ­fourteen members of the faculty and 
administration and only one stu­
:~::•;~7;~~:.;::: !:~;::;.;:o::
search for knowledge, at Notre 
Dame, "we willingly stand ... in a religious tradition, and if this com­mitment is not steadfastly fulfilled, nothing else we do will be at its best. The University's highest and also its most distinctive priority is to understand and to adhere to its evolving Catholic character. To · survive without its unique place in · the minds of believers, and without ' its Catholic witnessin the larger -_
1'· 

pluralistic society would be riot to · survive as Notre Dame." · · 
The report'emphasizes the aca-_ demic nature of Catholicism at Notre Dame and says that' as a place of · study and scholarship its Catholic commitment is primarily intellec~ tual. It discusses the rieed for a.cac" demic freedom, the preservation ·of : the ·catholic tradition, and the com: muriication'of values through:aca-. demic life. · -' · ; 
Italso states, "in away we could hardly describe as secondary;" that Catholic character should permeate the life of the campus outside the classroom: "The life in mir residence halls, and the interchanges between faculty, students, administrators and alumni must not give the lie to the faith which is false if not· verified by love;" ­
What this brief history of the dis-
r:'~~y .:~._.. ~-:r~ =~ .,--~~
(~%~J.t ~ ~,~~ : -:· ff~~-·~~~, tl 

· ·rF"~; ~Y'""~:f]•.:· ··· fl;..
w,..:,:.: \ -~, ..\·. . . ~ 
i' ;:~: ·.i ~· ---·i ~ ::· · e';13.._ • 
:";Ii \ )if .,,.,...,. 
1.. ·-.,//. ·--::. .}.:.· ·· ~~-_; ·J
g-(l~. • i_.,.,..;.~.... 

;,-1j~ · ·_· ~,:::r:...:.:$.1"1 
• \ • ,¥.-,..$&"' ~l,,tc..::.:.:•·-:-. ~ 

~: _::_'. .;_'ti.~4'::·:-:~£~-". ~~-;:~~ 

~ ~ --·-~::~~2,:::::--~~:~ 
cussion shows is that this university and the people who comprise it can­not exist without coming to grips with it the Catholicism they pro~ fess. A very delicate balance must be maintained betweenremaining Catholic in both the academic and ­communal sense and going down the road of the ·"great" university: -To overemphasize. the latter would be · to take the course chosen· by places · like Harvard, in which all religious. affiliation is lost in order to achieve academic excellence. 
Many people at Notre Dame feel that in denying a religious tradition, a university actually closes itself off to a very real way of knowing and · in so doing in fact sacrifices its aca­defuic excellence; They would say·. that for us to deny our religious · tradition would be to cut ourselves off from all those who.Went before us. While maintaining the tradition ­in these modern times might seem to be.an impossible task, not to : ·, maintain that tradition would bring even a more tragic fate. 
Those.who come to Notre Dame . • know that it is_ a-Catholic place. As. an· institution it must try to ·grow in spite of the seemingly apparent 
· conflict between academic freedom: ; and commitment to a tradition. : Both the students and faculty who chose. to live and work here realize ­that they thereby chose to be :part• ofthat growth in tradition. 
. --:--,James Gresser , 

\ 
Getting a pink slip because your last test wasn't included 
Not having keggers 


'Week ill Distortion 

This is · my last . Week in Dis­
tortion column. 
Yup, unless they . finally catch up with me, I'm going· to be admiring the Golden • Dome. in my, rearview mirror in a few days, diploma clutched tightly in my .sweaty little hands. Traditionally, last columns have been a place for graduating seniors · to ··.wax poetic . and .. turn 

• tearful. That's a lot of effluvia. 
· As: an alumnus or ,alumna, you 
are going to be subjected to an. in~ 
tense effort by Notre Dame to obtain 
something from you (Hint: A--·.. 
and · his --are soon -.-). The 
carrot-and-stick technique is gen~ 
erally. · used; the stick · being the 
threat of the. loss of football: ticket 
privileges and ·the •carrot . being 
glossy-paged, el e g an fly crafted, 
award~winning•_ publications remind­
ing you of the fun times you had as 
a student. The ·.University prints 
these· on paper so expensive · you 
can practically · see .your reflection 
in it, and yet · has trouble · digging 

up enough money to keep a student . bi-weekly in existence. 
It's . a well-designed . advertising campaign.· Just rem em b er one thing; ·whether it's mouthwash or political·· candidates· or universities being advertised, it's you that's real­ly being sold. Up the river. 
. Simply keep in· mind what it was 

really like. In years to come, this · list.may jog your memory: 
Detex cards Refrigerator fines Tacos The ACC management Room picks ' · 
Indiana politicians .. The spring monsoon season The surnm~~-nionsoon season The fall "morisoon season .. 
The winter blizzard season ~ Long-standing _unwritten. rules "Rehabilitative. discipline" Off-schedule shuttle buses South.Bend· police . 
· South Bend inhab_itarits ..· South.Bend The Knaked Klunker interdiction Getting your umbreila ripP.ed. off in 
the dining hall · Waiting in line .to die at the in­fumacy .. · •.• 
. Getting gunnea down by a ~prillkler· on the south quad 
Being asked over and ovi;r on a foot­ball . weekend. where : · the book­store is . 
The bookstore : Long ·l_ines : • Being able to paint your room only 
. with O'Brien paint; in approved colors · · Lack of refuse containers on the quads John Macheca · (and all his works and pomps) Parietals (anything · to do . with · parietals) Cigarette smokers next to you· in class. Pink slips 
Not dancing in the hallways Rectors Getting kicked off campus .and find­
. ing out what it really means to live at a "residential university" Reading Father Burtchaell's expla­
nations -of anything Father Burtchaell Father Lally -" ·: Mrs. Black: · Breakfast at'the Dining Hall Lunch at the Dining f!all Dinner at the'Dining Hall 
12:15 lines at the Dini rig Hall 
8:00 classes · 15-minute car limit . on carripus Soup scum in your cereal bowl ObseriJer editorials "Last Words" in Scholastic Buildings by Ellerbe 
The.ratio . ' Forced Jriples.' · Social probation · Calendar' disputes 
.Supercilious'· administrators . 

-Administrators· .. who claim ' new dorm~. ar~ not :'necessacy .after scaring ,,or kicking everyone· off campus· 
Ex post facto pronouncements on 
human sexuality . . · · Missing socks 'and shrunken shirts . Small~print . waivers of. rights .. in 
. ro'oming contracts. . . ... Robert Gordon an·d ''temporary" di~­ciplinary c'6aes . . . 
' • ' ,' . .,· ".';! •: 
25c per day library.fines . Suga~ Bowl.·ticket sci:ew~ups Cockroaches· Moving.·yout· car out of the p~rking 
. lot every football weekend . Emil T. quizzes Black Tuesdays . . The loudmouth freshmen down the 
hall . Ray Capp posters : .. The /'long-awaited La.Fort~ne reno~ 
vation" . : -' . . . . . . 
• /, , . .' \ 
J. Arthur Pears SMC chicks 

Keep this list. Make your own . additions or' subtractions and, .wheri . ·. the dunning • notices come . around; 
refer back to it. If you stiU feel like giving money, send it to a worth­while cause, _like the Clinton-Mc­Keown fund 'to build a coed dorm on campus. 
· Happy trails .... -T. J. Clinton 

.THE. SCHOLASTIC. . , 
.,, 

Coming Distr~etions 
SATURDAY (May 4th) MONDAY (6th) 
Medical College Admission Test, 8 :00 a.m., Engineering Chicago Symphony String Quartet with Louis Sudler, Auditorium. baritone; Library Auditorium and Lounge, 8:15 p.m. 
Blue & Gold Game, 1:30, Notre Dame Stadium.' · TUESDAY (7th) 
The Beggar's Opera, ND/SMC Production -John Gay's AFROTC Lecture Series, Library Auditorium and ribald musical romp-' directed by F. W. Syburg, Lounge, 4 :00 p.m; O'Laughlin Auditorium, 8 :30 p.rri. 
:, .•, · WEDNESDAY (8th) to Wednesday (15th) St. Joseph's Hospital Charity Ball; A&CC, 9 :00 p.m. Final Examinations · . · · SUNDAY (5th) .to Saturday (11th) 
SATURDAY (18th) and Sunday (19th) 25th International Science arid Engineering Fair, open to the public May 9 and 10, A&ce: ND Commencement Weekend 
l\lONDAY (20th) to Tuesday (Aug. 27th) Summer 
-John A,,Harding 

E·xams 
SPRING SEMESTER 1973-74 FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE 
Wednesday  . Thursday  Friday  Saturday  .  Monday  .  Tuesday  
May8.  _May 9.  May 10  May 11  Mc;;y'l3  May 14  
8:00  A.M.  1:15 M  ·· 9:05 TU  8:00 TU  3:25 TU  1:15 TU  10:10 TU  
to  ARCH.251  ROTC (~ll)  ' ARCH ·144  
10:00  A.M;  MET 225  
10:30  A.M.  · 2:20 M  9:05M  8:00 M  3:25 M  10:10 M  11:15 M  
·  ,.  to  ··  .. .  MGT 490M  EE :222  
12:30 , P.M.  CHEM ·1161  
. 4:30 M  11 TU  PHYS .112  ML 112, i22 (ALL)  MATH  .· FS 180  
12.ni . .. .  .  .·.:·... '  PHIL 101  .  EASC 102, 112, 122 CHEM 113, 116  MLFR 132 CLLA 112  ALL lOO's & 226 FIN 360  ENGL 109 SEM 181-186  
. HIST 110, 112, 114,  THEO 114, 116, 117,  BIOL 102  EG 120, 126, 236  .  HUM 186  
1:30  P.M.  .  '  116  · 119, 123  ·  UNSC 102, 112 ABC FIN 361  
tci :  soc 112, 114, 116  
3:30  P.M.. ANTH 110  .  
· PSY lll  
··  ECON 102, 121  SMC  SMC  SMC  SMC  SMC  
. ·, ·-·  EE 242 , ·  ENLT 103,.104 .  ENLT 264  MLFR 102.  . PSYCH 156, 327  POSC  152  
. ; ,BIOL,104  .. MLlT 102  soc 209  .  .  
BUEC 202  MLSP )02,. 112  
·  . · :'EG'328  ECON 224  ...  EG321  PHYS 126, 142·  2:20 TU  :-' 4:30 rti  
.·, "  . BA 2~5, 340  EG 121  FIN 231  BIOL 104  
EASC 142  ACCT 222  
. 7:00 ·• P.M. '  12 M  MARK 231  EG 331  
:  ·. to '  ··  SMC '< :_'  SMC·  SMC-SOC 153  SMC ­ ENLT 202  
9:00  P.M.  . HIST 102, 104  MLFR 106, 108,  ·  . :ENLT 204  
HUST 32L  110,. 112  ·  HUST 464  
soc 203  .  ·  MLSP H6 .· .  
. MGP.464  
. ART,152.:  




Student AdministratiOn 
Since his election last month Student Body Presis dent Pat McLaughlin has wasted no time in establish­ing his administration and preparing it for smooth operation when the fall semester begins in 1974. 
Immediately following the election Pat and Vice­President Frank Flanagan announced that they would hold open interviews for ·anyone interested in any· student government position or activity. No special re­quirements concerning experience or class status were: necessary for consideration and each of the one hun­dred-plus students who signed up .were interviewed personally by McLaughlin and Flanagan. From these interviews appointments were made to the seven stu­dent government commissions and their respective sub­committees. "What we tried to do," explained Mc­Laughlin, "was to place each individual in the posi­tion or area where he or she could be most effective." 
This type of selection resulted in a wide representa­tion among the appointees. The list of new· commis-.. sioners ranges from freshmen to juniors and includes newcomers as well as those already experienced in stu­dent government. A list of the new · commissioners and their respective positions appears ·as follows: 
Off-Campus Commissioner-Paul McEvily... Director of Research and Publication-Stan ··cardenas. Director of Legal Services and Community Relations-
Dick Stroba. 
Ombudsman-Bill McLean. 
Campus Li/e Commissioner-Ray Capp. Social Coordinator,---Ralph Pennino. 
Co-Ex Commissioner_:_Blake Wordal. 
Judicial Commissioner-Brian McGinty. Director. of Rule Revision and Student Legal Advice­Ed Rahill. 
Human Affairs Commissioner-Elaine Marshall. 
Frosh Orientation Chairman-Drew Costarino: 
Minorities Commissioner-Joe Garza. 
Volunteer Services Director-Andy Winiarczyk. 
Activities Director-Mike Davis. · 
Academic Commissioner-Jim Ambrose. 
Admi.nistrative Commission 
Student Government Provost-Herb Thiele. 
Research and Development Commissioner-Lionel Phil­
lips. Administrative Commissioner-Jan Huber. • Director of Social Projects and Services-Vin Moschella. 

Many of the commissioners have already. started work on projects which they hope to implement before the end of the current semester or earIY: next fall. 
The Off-Campus Commission's research and pub~ . lication director Stan Cardenas has recently released, in conjunction with InPIRG, a comparative price list of thirty-five commodities regularly purchased by off­campus students. The publication of the price list is the first step in the commission's effort to help the stu­dents living off campus lower the cost of· food. Stan explained that "The end result will hopefully be a food co-op but there are still many problems to be worked out before we can make the co-op a reality. In the interim, however, we hope t!} aid the students in lower­ing prices by methods such as the price list and whole­sale distribution." 
The commission. also has pians for the publication of an information pamphlet and a legal tenet handbook.· Contained in the information pamphlet would be a_ list• of all services available to off-campus students through the University and the community. 
In an effort to keep a closer contact between itself 
.and the off-campus students the commission will dis­tribute questionnaires during seconci°~semester registra~ tion. Information from these questionnaires will -be used to gather reactions from the students concerning off-campus life and to get an idea of what it costs the average sudent. 
On the social front Ray ,Capp's Campus Life Com­mission !J.as been working on several projects :.with primary emphasis being placed on ·th~ establishment of the LaFortune coffeehouse. ,The coffeehouse; under the direction of Ralph Pennino·, would be,located in the LaFortime Rathskellar and would feature local talent, 
. refreshments, and a place to relax.. Financing of the house would hopefully be done with funds raised through the sponsoring of movies, Ray Capp feels that the establishment of the coffeehouse would be the first step towards making LaFortune a true. student center. He commented that ·"Not until people· demonstrate that they are willing·to use LaFortune will thef (the administration) put any money into it." 
In addition to the coffeehouse Capp hopes to es­tablish a committee on special ·parties; to sponsor 
T.G.I.F. parties (Thank God It's. Friday). and a CO· exchange picnic with St. Mary's; unde!' the direction of Blake Wordal. The committee on special parties would be established to help cut the red tape students. must go through to have a party approved. Capp cautioned; "This project and the T.G.I.F. parties are currently up in the air with the new liquor ruling." 
Judicial Coordinator Brian_McGinty's efforts this spring and next-fall will be directed primadly towards 
THE SCHOLASTIC· 
giving the students a greater amount of judicial op­tions. McGinty hopes to achieve this by building a foundation of strong hal~ judicial boards which would be able to effectively handle cases arising· in. the ·hall. In conjunction with this· effort Ed Rahill, the _director of rule revisions and legal advice, is working to have the_ University policy revised so.that more cases could be referr:ed back to the hall judicial boards.. 
. -~ . ,, ·, 

McGinty would also like to have the opportunity to brief students before they enter the judicial process so that they may be more. aware of what's involved and which avenue would be·the most beneficial to follow. 
·Judging from the quality of the personnel and the projects already underway, it is apparent that next fall should prove to be both a promising and productive one for student government. · -Tom Birsic 
.'>if 

PeopJe at ND 
. News at Notre Daine! Father--• The. Bike-A-Thon, sponsored by Hesburgh' has been voted by a U. S. · · the Indiana State Teachers Associa­News an4 ·World: Re'f)ort survey as tion;. raised close to $30,000, the of the "most influential"-people in goal of the drive. It was estimated the ·field of education. U. S. News .that as many as 3,000 people rode asked a number of people in various· in the campaign. Jay Niederman, a fields .to 'list three men or women senior sociology major, was the they .felt-.to be important forces in main .•-coordinator. for the Notre their fields. On the basis of these Dame_. campus. Klem· Bartosik, .Jay questionnaires, -the magazine com-Long,· Sue Maud and Bob _Brennan piled,the following list of educators: were :highly instrumental •in the .. · 1. : ,. Clark . Kerr, chairman of -the ride's success. Many campus _organ­Carnegie Council on Higher· Edu-izations heiped, but . perhaps the cation,-_,··,; central .organizing._ force ,was the 
·. 2. o. Caspar.Weinberger, Secretary ND /SMC Council for the Retarded. of HEW;,:: . · 3;-Roger Heyns, president of the -American Council on Education, 
4. ~. Kingman Brewster, president of .Yale,. Dr; John F..Santos, professor of 
5.:•,Father_ Hesbitrgh. psychology, and Dr. Bobby J. Far­row, associate professor and director of the-Social· Science ..Training Lab­oratory, will-be in_ Denver at the Rocky · Mountain Psychological · As­sociation Meeting to.present a paper, ."The: Influence of Recall and Test-· Retest · Reliability of; .Autcikinetic Perception." 
Dr. Joseph Duffy of the English Department, is returning -from a two-year · leave of absence.. He will be teaching a ,four-hundred-level English . course, · Tragedy-I, next 
·semester. 


The · 25th International Science and 'Engineering Fair will be on Campus in the ACC May 5 through May 11. Dr. Emil T. Hofman was highly influential in bringing the fair to Notre Dame. Nearly 500 high school students, each having won a 

· regional science and engineering fair, are . expected to exhibit their projects here. · 
·A few _changes are taking place in 

· Notre Danie . administration. Mr. Philip Faccenda and Father James Flanigan are resigning their posi­tions. Brother Just Paczesny will be the ne\V. vice-president of Student Affairs. 

Another change -Ms.· Kathy Cekanski of Breen-Phillips is leav­ing her position as rector next year. 
The valedictorian.. of the · senior class is a resjdent assistant' on the third floor· of'Farley· Hall. Marianne O'Connor is a metallurgy major in the Engineering College and will· be working ·for Union Carbide -· next year. 
...:..Leo J. Mulcahey 

People Deltiud ND 
Ed Sanria-­Master Printer· 


The written· word of about sixty 
percent of du Lac, St. Mary's arid 
Ave Maria Press. publications · is 
printed under the-management··of . 
Mr. Edward C~ S<!nJ!a. at the Av_e · 
Maria Press. Combining almost a · · 
half-century of printing experience 'with a thorough knowledge of the operational procedures _of the graph~ jc arts field. Mr. 'Sanna is a top pro7 fessional with . ·a common, warrri 'touch. He is truly one of the men bE!'­. hind the scenes who ~akes Notre 
Dame whatit is. 
Sanna was born . in ·, Brooklyn 
and began his career in printing in 
1926. It was during the-time hewas 
•employed .. by .the Brooklyn Eagle . Press in · their commercial printing plant th.at_he_l>ecame skilled in__ th~ intricacies of the printing business. After leaving ·the Eagle , he joined Arco Manifold where he was pro­duction, manager, and from there he 
· went on , to manage the printing plant at Belmont Race Track. Under. his direction at the,Belmont plant the daily programs and other printed · pieces for 1'lew. York State's four thoroughbred tracks · were printed (Belmont, . Saratoga, Aqueduct, · and the.. now-gone-Jamaica). In 1957, Sanna-ran the Stevenson Printing Company in ·Glen Cove; New York and while there he -was -offered work.: iri· .the Chicago ,area ·· but turned• iL-down..When· the Holy Cross : Fathers <(owners· of .·. Ave Maria Press), looking for -a man t(! improve the production 'and effi­ciency of their plant, approached Sanna with the offer of the manag-. 

·.'Under his management Ave-Maria Press has added ari offset printing facility· and· this,• plus the: addition of a mechanized bindery, a ,-promo:. 
•tion mailing facility,· a 'duplicating department,· and even a coinputer­ized extra-save, cutting and .trim­ming machine; has improved 'the effi~ ciericy and quality of the plant's s'er­·vice; The ·commercial printing· done 

er's position, he accepted. So he_. for. the University of Notre Dame moved with his wife and three child-and St.-Mary's College is.:quite var­ren·,to .the-chilly Indiana.plains to:::: ied, ranging from student·,publica­rrieet yet another challenge )n· the tions to posters to football progz:ams. business· he knows so well.·· Reaching a quantity of 80,000 pieces 
When asked ·what ·enticed .him a printing, the Notre.Dame Maga­to come out· to Notre ;Dame: he ·zine is.the iargest work.handleif°for replied, ·"I··,was. especally,•attrac:ited. ·. :the University.-by 'Ave Maria, and 
· by the-University ·and the oppor­tunity' of .a· good college -education for rriy children,,, he continued, "and it's paid off." Sarina· and his wife Geraldine .are very proud· of their . oldest daughter, Rosemary, who has her college degree as a teacher, their son, Thomas, who has a master's -in business . and. is. asso­ciated 'with, Ford Motor Company, and their young~st daughter, . Geri, who received-her.. master's:degre~ in special education and is teaching in 
_this pubiication has' won numerous awards:.for its content and produci 
tion. ~.-·< :_ . _ . _·_ .._. [ 
Sanna· has ,_about· fifty employees · ·under his control at the plant com~ · plex. working two . eight-hour shifts 
..and his own: boss ··is Father· john :,:Iieedy; c.s.c.•._ '.'The· best man I have ever worked ·for,'' he sincerely told · me. Guaranteeing ·a suc:icessfulprintl ing operation for Sanna'an·d Reedy. <are·four adept.foremen of~the .var~ 'icius· · departm~nt: iJamef<Cook-:--1 ·­
the South. Bend area. . .: : : .. camera . 'and':-platemaking/ Harold 
~ -. . ---:--.~---__,_ -­
-~ 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

Hatten---{!omposing room, Ed· Jan­kowski-pressroom, Brother Valery -bindery, and Mr. Sanna's assistant, Del Singleton. 
The rapid rise in prices and the increasing scarcity of •materials plague Ave Maria as they do every other business. "Everything is going up, there is , no bottom to it," la­mented Sanna, "but we are fortu­nate to have a tie-in with a paper mill which helps to keep our operat­ing costs down." He told me how he. would place an order for materials due for shipment in three months· and by -the time· the order would arrive the prices would be increased . 10 to 20%. · 
· Each ~chool year Sanna works 

with· the. editors· of student publi­
cations ot both colleges and staff 
employees. He enjoys his work, but 
difficulties do arise. He explained, 
"In a usual printing and publication 
plant, the cliei:itele is steady year af­
ter year, and· they are experienced 
with the various printing procedures 
for good production. But here edi,tors 
and: staffs, have such ·a .tremendous 
changeover and every year I have 
to constantly break .in new people 
and teach them the techniques . of 
printing .production.'' He ~ent on ·10 
say that his. job is made: so much 
easier because students and the staff 
aiike '.'have been . very .. cooperative. 
The prii:ited. piece is the product of 
many ded~cated persons. 
· •The Ave Maria Press manufac-. 
tures many pamphlets, paperbacks, 
books arid• much promotion material 
for its publications· department. 
,. This semester; in conjurictionwitli · 

the. ·uitiversity of . Notre . Dame, . 
Sanna is' conducting a. 15-session . 
weeklycourse entitled "Elements of 
Printing' ·and the Printing. Pz:ocess.'' 
In .. this course, . which. is .geared to . 
aid the' newly set up Pub_lications, . 
Office. under · Mr. Ron Parerit, ·Di­
rector, and others· of the Notre Dame 
family engaged in the ordering and · 
production of printed matter, Sanna ' · explains' and demonstrates the basic . . skills of the printing industry. . 
[,, 

: · So, with unlimited patience, in­comparable know-how, and a will­ingness to ;help others. achieve their best, Ed . Sarina continues to work on· at the Ave Maria-Press. He is truly a precious part of the Notre Dame community. · 
-Frank· Coughlin 
( 


Introducing Overland 
Europe . Africa . Asia . South ·America with 
TRAIL FINDERS, LTD. 
OVERLAND. THKYOUNG WAY 
You've always wanted to travel ... Your way, no guided tours or ladies with red umbrellas .. . with time to explore the byways. and villages .. . to get to know a few people ... share a pint in a pub ... Find the real world, hidden behind the tourist buses. · 
TRAIL FINDERS, LTD., specializes in travel for people like you. Last year we sent 10,000 young men and women on Overland Expeditions. It's travel as it should be; small interna­tional groups; transportation by Land Rover or mini-bus; camping along the way; under the desert stars, behind the Iron Curtain, or the African jungle. 
OVERLAND TRAVEL takes an.adventurous spirit and very little money. If you're the individualist · .we think you are, we'll point you in the way of. new people, help with passports and·visas, and advise on low,air fares. 
Call or write our U.S. Representatives for full , • .information. We have listed a few of our great Overland programs. We do advise you to book as · far in advance as possible on all expeditions . . : 
WESTERN EUROPE ........ 6 ·weeks ,.::... : ....... ,.:, ....... · ..... $393.00 
.. RUSSIA and GEORGIA .... 29 days ..... : .. ,:.c.,.., ........ ,:.: ... $305.00 (rd. trip air to, Krakow from-London): .., SPAIN, ·PORTUGAL,·_ MOROCCO,· ·FRANCE, ., .. :.: ......... $344.00 . 
. (inc, sea cruise to Spain) : . · · AFGHANISTAN/PAKISTAN· ............ : .... ' .... ; ... :., ......... , .... $430.00 · . (15 days high adventure..... :···:Kyber Pass..:,..... .Lon; ..... , ..... ;air) 
Clip and mail to: 
Skyline Travel, Inc: · 1754 East 86th St. Indianapolis; In~. 4624Q. · 
. . . ... -­
Please send me... :.,: ............. AIR INFORMATI?N~:·oVERLAND 
;;,· 

INFORMATION ...................... . 
NAME .. · ........-.... ' .............. ·· ·. ·...... ·.. ·....:· ·..... · ... :.. :· :-.· ······:· ......... · ... 
. ADDRESS ... ; ............. , ........... :·:....... , .... , .. :··:.CITY•···:·····:··············:····· 'STATE-........ : ·.. ·-;_ ;·.· ...... ·_-·.· ··: ...·...-•:.ZIP ..... : .... · . : ...... ·:.. · ...... ·· . 


Prison.s 




The.Necessity Of·Reform 
Injustice has often been the cause of American pro~ and recidivism have many. causes, some personal, others test. The American Revolution was prompted by in-inherent in the system itself. Imagine a young man, justices perpetuated upon the colonists by the govern-age nineteen, who has recently been convicted of car ment of George III. The Dred· Scott'Decision· unleashed theft:· He is sentenced and sent to a maximum security the cries of injustice from "the Negro·slave. The Civil . institution. Upon arrival he is assigned a cell, and Rights and Women's Liberation movements have re-begins his term "inside." Barring major exceptions he sulted directly from wrongs perpetrated against hu-is allowed to associate freely with the other inmates. man beings simply because of their sex or the color Nonselectively, he is exposed fo others whose offenses of their skin. During the 1960's protest against these are more serious than his own, whose outlooks·on life injustices erupted in violent passion across the face of are pessimistic, and whose _skills a.s ·criminals have America. Watts, Newark, and Detroit-were only a few· b·een perfected by long years of practice. In this type of the c;ities marred by days· of rioting. On the college of environment. .is it any· wonder that-this nineteen-campuses protest also turned to violence and signal year-old may commit a second offense? fires of burning buildings warned of an impending Furthermore, inmgine that this young man is re-danger ·beginning to sweep across the United· States.· leased after serving his sentence .of about a year. ·As However, little has been said about the prison system he .leaves the walls and guards behind him he is filled in this country. During the turbulent· sixties ·these· . with optimism and hope. However, his attitude quick­institutions remained strangely silent, and it was not . ly changes. Branded forever by the haunting word _until the seventies that revolt found a major place in "convict," he is unable to find work. The trades he the American penal system. Revolts at Attica and . learned in prison are too .menial _to help .himfind_a 
. other prisons across the country called attention to good, well-paying job; and the pessimistic predictions , the plight of the prisoner. For some, it has now be-of his former companions stiU "inside'' ring mockingly come a conscious problem. Unfortunately, it seems that in his·ears. Itjs at this point;·in the ·midst of his des­penal institutions are always the last noticed, the rriost pair that the young man acts. Disgusted at both. him-in need of change, and the least able to secure aid. self and the world; he lashes. out bY the only means The problems facing these institutions are grave. The available-he commits another crime. He is_ again extent which we, as Americans, work to alleviate the caught, tried, convicted, and.sentenced. , By this time many injustices now inherent in them. will be the ex-the chances that h_e niay "go straight" are rather slim. 
.tent to which we may claim the rights to our own Crime has become a way of life, ·and the prison has humanity and worth. become a home. · · . Many people speak of the "habitual criminal":-Living in prison'.results in serious problems other the person who simply cannot stay out of jail. Often than recid.ivism·. Homosexuality,· causing violent sex-he is degraded, typified as a "no-good" and finally uat assaults·, has led to many deaths in prisons during ostracized from the community and family. However, the last few years.· In one instance, a seventeen-year-. the blame for criminal behavior cannot be placed on old boy was both sexually assaulted and murdered while the criminal alone. Society and the penal institutions a prisoner in Dade County, Florida. The safety of the play major roles in the breeding <:>f recidivists. Crime prisoners is_being,questioned by many, yet little is being 
18 

THE SCHOLASTIC 
\ i 
done. When asked about this young man's death, the warden in the Florida institution said that he was deeply sorry, and he promised to conduct an investi­gation. He also _added, "These things happen." The county was shocked by the death of the boy. Yet the majority of the people in the United States don't know, or what is worse, don't care about the conditions which lead to such deaths in our "correctional institutions." Perhaps prisons are not correctional institutions at ali. Rather,· they may be seen as gigantic cages pro­tecting society from the "aberrant animals" residing behind bars. One might venture to say, however, that few people would resorLto such a categorization. Yet 'the analogy· might not be too far from wrong. Job fraining is poor. Many· prisoners must evefr furnish their: own;equipment and tools if they want to learn 
a . trade,· and the opportunities for. work in prison. are. still not very great. Faced with this situation, what do·es the prisoner have to lciokforward to? The prison . then becomes a veritable cage: Unable to aid the cor-· rectional process, the prison .serves only as a barrier between the prisoner and society; a barrier which is sooner or'later broken, and which releases the pitiful, groping figure on an insensitive and unsuspecting world. 
The faults are many and the redeeming values few to justify .the role prisons now play in our society. If they are of any use, it is in the protection of the law­abiding citizen; for inside the walls of the prison, the prisoner is unable to harm the public. · However, mere protection is not enough. The value of the human being should be sufficient to warrant a major effort to correct the criminal tendencies· of those in prison. Society owes them the chance of hope, and to possibly make a change. This chance to change is the least we can offer. I_t is our moral responsibility. 
There is much to be done in prison. Many injustices need correction. Recidivism•· cai.ISed .by the prisons themsel\'.es, mu~t be eliminated. Ex-prisoners must be given the opportunity to secure jobs and to feel that they live in ·a country dedicated to the worth of the individual.' Yes, there is still much to be done. THe American public must.be made aware· of·the conditions and abuses within the· prison system. If this is ac­complished, and effective change is made, then perhaps seventeen-year-old boys won't die in prisons, and .the effectiveness of correction will give reassurance to the minds and hearts of men. 
.-Doug Kenyon 



Ivan Mestrovic-the Maestro, as In 1911, · Mestrovic had his first . tion, the artist continued working. his stu_dents affectionately called him exhibition. Reflective of his deep --with charcoal and butcher paper -spent the last seven years of his religiosity were the subjects of his smuggled to him by cooperative life at the University of Notre Dame. · work_:_Crucifixes and Madonnas, etc. guards, Mestrovic made the prepara­The works of this great sculptor.will -• August Rodin praised Mestrovic in tory studies for his Pieta, which now be featured in a special exhibition· at these early years as "the greatest stands in Sacred Heart Church. the University Art Gallery. The. phenomenon among the sculptors of Through the · intercession of the show, which opened April 28 and · the world." Both the .Victoria and Vatican, Mestrovic was released arid will run through June 23, will in--Albert Museum iri London and the sent to Rome. While there he did a elude the works of Mestrovic pres-Metropolitan.Museum of Art in New terra cotta plaster of the Pieta. ently ori campus and various others:·. York broke precedent by giving Mes-Again in flight, this time because of Perse-phone and Dionysius, an early trovic the ,first one-man shows ac-Mussolini, Mestrovic went to Swit­self-portrait. from 1917, the 1500-·:· corded to a living artist. _ · zerlimd. Returning to Rome at the end pound marble Croation Rhapsody, a · Undercutting the exhilaration of of World War II, he started working work entitled My Mother, and some success. which his work brought ·... on ·.a. seven~ton block of carrar.:t eight-foot drawings from Madame him were the frustration" and ·dis-marble.In.1947, Mestrovic completed Mestrovic's private collection. illusionment which C ensued because . his Pieta and; unlike most sculptors , Mestrovic arrived at Notre Dame of his political convictions. An _operi who give the job to their assistants;' in 1955 at the age of 72: He brought proponent of the liberation ofhis ·. hand-polished every · inch. of the with him a history of art.istic success · · native.Yugoslavia, he was forced into ~asterpiece·himself. . and human tragedy. Born in 1883 in exile and eventual imprisonment. At" After the coinpletion of .the Pieta, Vrpolji in the·Sava Valley of Croatia, the outbreak of World War I he left · Mestrovic came to the United States he was the son of a stonecutter and · · from .his ·ho~eland in an '. unhappy and_ accepted a position as• Professor spent his·childhood among the poor, ·flight which took him through one · of Sculpture.in the Syracuse Univer­illiterate peasants. Because of his European city after another. . .· .. sity School o~ Art. During his nine displayed ability to sculpt and carve, ·· Able to return to Yugoslavia after · years at Syracuse, he was as prolific he . traveled to Vienna as an ado: ··the War;·. Mestrovic spent several ·__ as he had been and would be all his lescent and · eventually . managed to .happy productive. years .. there. But,· .• life. His frenetic productivity resulted enter the Academy of Art. While this man 'dedicated to freedom -found from his firm belief that the. most there he was an isolate; ·unteachable; himself imprisoned ·by Hitler's puppe( ' essential quality' of· an -artist is his 
· Mestrovic had a vision of his own. government in 1941; Even during.his willingness to· work, to, work con-and he w_ould not turn his head. four and a half months of incarcera-stantly and tirelessly. When asked 
THE' SCHOLASTIC 

what he did during his spare time, f"'.'7 
~=p~i:~~e.~~:1~ for a moment, then r , 
:;.

Mestrovic, desiring to express his · /'. :_ deep religious beliefs through his ....,. work, found a suitable atmosphere at t-A~ 
Notre Dame. Brought here in. 1955 ,:,·,:·t­through the efforts of Reverends · . ,/ff/­
Anthony Lauc_k·, Director of . the Notre Dame Art Gallery, and Theo­dore Hesburgh, he offered an excite­ment to this University. Mestrovic offered that excitement associated with greatness, the kind of greatness that is the ability to communicate truth and beauty and a full sense of humanity. Ivan Mestrovic's presence rejuvenated the Art Department and inspired and-edified all those young artists who ha(! the0 privilege of be~ ing his· pupils;' 
While at Notre Dame, Mestrovic did some of his most brilliant work, work which was the continual con­cretization of his .. intense religious commitment. In 1957, he completed his -over-life sized• bronze group en­titled Christ· and the Samaritan Woman at.Jacob's Well; His mastery of gestures, poses, 'form and human 
. \ :3.: 
, . 
~f 
W 

·~v--. ;::.};·,j 
·~: .... ct~ 
: ~-. "--~;3
·. · > ·. : ·~ 
i~ 
.··~ 
., ..


'-_j/~· 
.;:'.~ 
,·'.~ 

~~_.,,.. -1 
• 
tural group into a splendid composi­tion.' For the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception in-Washing­ton, D.C., he created a limestone re­lief of Mary the Immaculate Queen of the Universe. One of the most is the mahogany crucifix which he 
m~!e;;;o~:;s~:~!~:~:sds!:l~back . h
by a stroke. Though his s1g t was 
dimmed and his strength failing, the 
familiar figure with tattered beret 
and ever-present Pall Mall cigarette could still be found working daily ·in. the studio which Ignatius A. ·· O'Shaughnessy built for him adja­cent to O'Shaughnessy Hall. One morning in February 1962, though feeling ill, Mestrovic insisted on com­.ing to his studio. He suffered a sec­ond stroke while working and died 
that same evening. 
Ivan Mestrovic once remarked 

that, "sculpture and art in general 
should contribute to·human progress 
and mankind's · spiritual develop­
ment." He was an artisiwho, ·amidst 
the distractions of modernism, was 
able to remain in touch with that 
which is constant in human experi­
ence. ·ms art is art which communi­
cates, not ju~t to other artists, but 
to anyone who will care enough to 
seek the truth and beauty and deep 
faith in Mestrovic's expression.' .. 


Movie RevieW" 



The Great Gatsby 
.n 


The Great. Gatsby .is a. tei'ld~r 'and The frequent narrative insets of voice is';high and shrill-Fitzgerald 
moving . film.. Given much of the Nick ·constantly express avery sober writes that C'her voice was.a death­
vicious and sour criticism the'movie and penetrating analysis of the char.;. less song"-yet Mia Farrow's voice 
has polled to· date, such astatement acters and action: Indeed, the juxta.;. -·-seems not quite melodic enough.· Al­
may seem . outlandish and .without position . between Nick ·and Gatsby, though·-portraying the dividedness of 
virtue. • Yet The ·Great·_ Gatsby·· de-Tom,· Daisy arid· Jordan Baker bring Daisy well, she . could be more arro­
serves praise and, _indeed, audiences, . the. scenic confrontations into their gant and distant. At times-Gatsby's 
for the film is: a flawed masterpiece. mos~ revelatory. focus as a dialec_tic party for example-she comes on as 
· For the viewer familiar. with_ the of., persons. Far_ from the . spoken too much the hip teenage hussy .who 
novel, the director and actors achieve language of the. characters being finally gets to go·-to the· ball. Also, 
the translation from. the writteri "stuffy," the. dialogue, Daisy's in she often . neglects her greed, un~ 
word to the cinema with great'suc-particular, intimates that beneath mindful-of her lifelong noserub in 
cess.: Nick-Carraway (Sam Water-the extremely · facile surface· there the filthy lucre. She does, however, 
son) mediates between the ·action lurks a fierce uncertainty concerning turn·in a believable and serviceable 
on screen and the viewer on this side their existence. as human beings. In rendering of. a very difficult. role. ·. 
of ·the celluloid. Just as the ·book · this regard, the stilted quality of. · Robert Redford's Gatsby is prob­
succeeds bec:ause Nick communicates. Daisy's.rhetoric -and the reticence of lematic although better than one 
his insight, . so also . does the film , Gatsby's elocution suggest· an impli-!llighUnitially suspect. His problem 
succeed in large measure .for his cit personal recognition that the is perversely unavoidable-how can 
ability to induct the viewer to share style of life in _which they engage is one_forget that he is Robert Redford 
his perspective. Opti~ and point of not ·only ''careless" but also• ·con-and, therefore, self-assured· and 
view, t}:lerefore,~are extremely im-structs. _an unbridgeable divide~ to eternally composed. If the moon 
portant, If the god-like obtrusive-achieving their reunion. . In this shone blue, Redford might seem 
ness ·of the billboard-eyes of T. J. sense, the film might best be de-idealistic and naive but not before. 
Eckelburg links the action -of the scribed· iri terms of a collection of So if Gatsby s~ould at times appear 
movie to. the scrutiny of the divine, isolated, almost solipsistic indi-· . plodding and even· ·stupid,. Redford 
then the frequent close-ups of Nick's . viduals (Nick ·not includ~d) who · , generally. seems.· anything; but plod­
face reveal the _emotions'. behind the wish to work.out their lives in a sel-ding and is as stupid as an encye!lo-. 
voice; :A :Sense · of ,the_ profoundly fish, egocentric fashion, desiring:to . -pedia; ·: Somehow he .. ultimately human and the_ synipa$etic emerges · make reality conform to their self-transcends ~the ·hazards of his repu­. as.Nick becomes a 0camera" through··_. centered dr~anis;,G~tsby's is i•great;" tatJon and portrays the mystery, the which the viewer's . emotions are · in one sense·, insofar as he dares:to · · obsession and the embattled. human­
gauged. Iri this regard, the-~osffm-• dream the'. greatest dream...::..:..the re-'itf.of Jay_ Gatsby; 
portant . scenes in the movie are . gaining of the past. . . . : ' Thi! processio~ of _character in 
scenes of confrontation and, hence, :_ • Mia Farrow's characterization of .' Gatsby. proceeds_ from ideality--to 
revelation. · · · · . , Daisy Buchanan •• is · adequate. Her : · reality. He :begins .utterly affected 
, • • 4 • : • • • • • • • ·-. • -;~; ~-' ~ • ' ' 
,--THE: SCHOLASTIC
22 

but, in the end, turns out "all right." , Gatsby's style of speech intimates to the audience that he is more than the metaphorically self-made man. On the contrary, his self-conception 
springs from his "platonic" image of himself. From this base in ideal­ity, Gatsby progresses from a facile phoniness to a sympathetic human­ity whereby he willingly sacrifices himself for Daisy who, for the first time, needs him. The film, therefore, might be succinctly characterized as the humanization of Gatsby. 
Bruce Dern is. stunning as Tom Buchanan/ emanating a mixture of the insensitive, primal beast . and filthy rich self-righteousness: 
As a · whole,' The Great Gatsby starts strongly, shifts to a lower gear as the screenwriter attempts to "flesh-out" the narrative in the middle, and ends strongly and sus­pensefully as the fates conspire. to consummate the sacrifice of Gatsby. The film captures the raging euphor­ic· bubble of post-World War· I America with the parties and . the song, the ·:waste and the. loneliness. The movie also displays· the dark shad0W:-WOrld on tiie fringes of the 

-e ~(~.
.'~' L~ ·t.' ,':J , 
" f/ .,,:,1 · 
fh. ~·\ 
:·;" '!
: ~,
.. ;',:,; 

)1:H
,;{n



:1rJ 
)-'f '"-A
' -.,1::,-: ';;;,1 .
,,'t~. ~~, 

social· fabric. This is the nightmare world of the Wilsons in which es­cape is chimera; it is a world of degradation and tears, ashes and the 
despair. 
; The. Great Gatsby ·is a splendid movie. !'am disappointed that I can no longer leave it up to professional movie critics to tell me what is good. It is a grave setback in my quest for incubation and mindless security. It could. carry me to the edge of neu­rosis to have to make up my own mind about such matters. It is dread­ful to suspect that the emotional and entertainment life·.· of Americans might no longer be directed by week­ly news magazines and independent newspapers which fall in line with horrid reviews quicker than elemen­tary school children respond to· the sound of a bell. After the first time I saw The Great Gatsby, I thought that the movie, however flawed, was so good that I could not believe the critical discrepancy. Having seen the movie twice now, I wonder if some critics might need to see T. J. Eckleburg for a new set of· glasses. 
-Jack Wenke · 
) 


Book ReVieW 

Ron"\Neber on The New Journalisffi 
By Madonna'·-C. ·Kolbenschlag
.-. . ... . . . . . ·, ..... . . . ' . 
Horrors! The New Jou;nalisxh. ,Gay Talese, Truman> Capote, and. accuse Tom Wolfe~of having "the has reached the age· of self-con-· . due h~mage is · paid to Norman~ -social conscience of ari ant." It ex­sciousness and aesthetic angst! Mailer.) Popularized by the Esquire plairis why Gay Talese does riot like Ronald· Weber, in his latest book, styleof the 60's, the'New Journal-direct· quotations or first . person, The Re])Orter as Artist, has col-ism is essentially a counterstyle, a and why Norman. Mailer does: ·n lected some of the most pertinent departure from the dry-as-dust for.: explains · the visual precision and commentaries in the .writers' kitch-mula article of the preceding era. saturation research of a Truman en debate that has been going on in In spite of Wolfe's insistence that Capote; the scenic construction and the magazines for the last few it sprang full-blown from the head flashy "wordsmithing" of · a Tom years~ It is the first significant col-of his typewriter, it is a style that Wolfe. Norman Podhoretz insisted lection of the .navel-gazing genre was bound to happen. The myth of . · as early as 1958 that what the.novel 
·and, will serve as an expert guide objectivity in .reporting had been ·.. had abdicated. the magazine writer to the topography of ihe subject. maintained at the expense. of con-· fiad greedUy claimed for himself. True scholar and gentleman that he text, realistic detail and personal . Buf.there are ·those who insist is, Mr. Weber has refrained from resonance. It . was, in:._effect, the also that a ToinWolfe .:::.._ a reporter indulging in the histrionics repre-myth of the "value-free" style. Even~ as artist ~-with his double adjec­sented by some of the by-lines. that if Mailer, Wolfe and Talese had · tivals a11d . murderous metaphors, appear in the . index: .Tom Wolfe, never been borri, personalistic,· par~ impaies his subjects like butterflies George Plimpton, Jack Newfield, ticipatory, advocacy journalism·was and sucks the life out ~f phenomena Seymour Krim, Wilfrid Sheed, Nat inevitable iri the 60's and 70's. There by reducing it to a.set of highly sub­Henthoff, to name a few. (One would .still be .the Stones, the Roy-jective impressions. The fascinating ,wishes perhaps .that some of the kos, the Wickers, the Henthoffs, the lure of a journalism in which "facts muted . footnotes had been elevated Breslins. . . . are less important than the truth" is to the level ·of interpolated com-.• In his comprehensive introduction . a deceptive Lorelei to many editors. mentary. But after all, the book is Mr. Weber makes an important dis-Several of the essays in the ·coilec­designed to be a resource text rather tinction. He notes that the journal-tion (those by Rivers, · Arlen, than a critique.) ism of "involvement" is really oniy : Markel, Grant,:Balz) discuss the in~ 
A more fundamental motive, sug-one half of .·the phenomenon.· The fectious contamination that the N.J. gested by.the editor's introduction, other basic trend identified with the ~style represents for the. inexpe~ seems to be.to transform the name-new journalists is the application of ··rienced journalist; Imitations have calling . over •the journalistic· back the literary techniques of realist and often produced shoddy, fluffy writ­fences into an articulate and mean-naturalist ·fiction' to · non-fiction -· ing and disastrous reporting. As ingful debate. The New Journalism fiction demythologized, dragged . Balz puts it, "Articles aren't being ... is an epidemic phenomenon; it de-from the ivory tower into the 'written' any .rriore now than they serves . analytical · . and · diagnostic ''sweatshopII of street. . reporting; were under the shackles of 'old jour­treatment. This illuminating observation ex-nalism,''but nowtheyare filled with 
A descriptive paradigm emerges plains some of the strange bedfel-· ail kinds of literary sidelights which from ·these. essays. (The master-lows that have been given the N.J. often add only words and .wasted ,_ craftsmen are all here: Tom Wolfe, label, and ~why Jack Newfield can space. Stories are written fraction-
THE SCHOLASTIC 
"' 

·-...·· 
ally-a good . lead here, some flour­
ish in the·body there, occasionally. a 
thoughtful,. conclusive ending; but 
rarely are there threads of continu-· 
ity that show thought from begin­
ning to end. It is, I'm afraid, the old 
journalism with a few frills being 
passed off as the new." 
The New Journalism, while it pro­vides an , alternative to "muzalc prose," can ·often blur the compre­hensive presentation of information .. Pauline ~ael's question hangs · omi­nously in the air: "Is the New Jour­nalism· to be trusted with real his~ tory? Or· does its natural tendency to personalize issues and to over­value the reporter's own experience confine its usefulness to small units of material?" Gail Sheehy's reportage about a prostitute named. Redpants -a composite of several persons----:or Norman Mailer's ego~filtered views of scientists and engineers:' do these fictional liberties-in reporting repre~ sent a. crucial distortion? More im.: portantly, are we mesmerized by the naturalness of the illusion into for-. getting that it is artifice?'. . . ·... 
Mr. Weber does not ·offer ii~y pro-. . ~--·.. -. . . ·. --.. crustean views on the . subject, but . _ . he does suggest that the New Jour~ . the-new journalists needs more ex-:-sonal writing for an age of personal­nalism is finally m9re ·of a styie thari .'amination than a collection. of this ism. All about us'_ ego seems loosed an· aesthetic; that it belongs to the· ·sort.· permits. McDonald touches a · into the cultural air as never. be­popular culture tradition, as a.kind nerve iri the ;-controversy. fore.'; There are other voices in. Tlie of hybrid of the journalistic feature · One of the rewards of sashaying. Reporter as Artist, however, who and the pulp magazine story, over-through The Reporter· as Artist, _in ·suggest that· it may be a syndrome laid with the sophisticated veneer serial fashion, is the pleasure of the of a lost sense of individuality, a of the :realistic novel. . . pu_re verbal acrobatics 'Of a Seymour rear~view mirror projection of mass.: · In one of the most provocative es-Krim · or a Wilfrid Sheed, or the man. Inevitably we wonder, too, says in the collection, Dwight Mc-·__ aesthetic snobbery of a -Benjam,n _ whether N.J. is a desperate solipsism, Donald-that Olympian critic of the . DeMott. The .New. Journalism-a counterinsurgency against the in­popular arts-rails against the N.J~, ·. whatever it is-is lively, egotistical, creasing homogenization of the news as "parajournalism"-"a .: bastarcl _ and disturbing. There's. e','.en a token media via the wire services arid mul­form, having it both ways, exploit.:._ woman -Gloria Steinem:.... in the ti.:.corpoi:-ate press ownership-a re­ing -the factual authority of journal-collection (VVomen'are s·carce among :jection of the Newsweek syndrome ism and the atmospheric license of the new journalists_:.._ as they are ·which anonymously grinds out a fiction,'' He is the only. author in the -among the ranks of the streakers -. bland, mutilated mess of facts from bookto observe the affinity that the no· doubt because they are less prac~ second~ and third-hand sources:' 
·N~J. · has--with• the status-seeking, ticed in the 'arts of-public exhibition-· · : Mr; .Weber is to be congratulated class-conscious taste ·ot'-the newly ism!). ··· 'l:,_ for contributing an important criti­educated •middle class. Tom Wolfe's More 'important · are:· the -casual ·. cal resource to one of the most un­style, as· he·points out, is a -kind of questions which'the book leaves in criticized genres in America today. kitsch-chic,:full·•of·celebs and name:. the minds. of the curious and the And ,after.. the ·navel-gazing, what? dropping, focused: on ''in" subjects concerned: ·why the. New -Journal-Already the p'arodists smirk ·arid and scenes,:loaded with sophisticated ism now? Mr.. Weber says that "One snigger in: the wings, strutting'.iin catchwords. The connection· between :way ·of thinking.. abotit 'the .:popular-their :white suits,· waiting to· devour the· cultural precocity. ._.of. the new: ity of the Ne~· Jo·urnalism is to say _ the Wolfe-pack and the Mailerlings tennis court set·11nd the conjuring of it's· 'I' writing .. for-an ·'I' time, per~ ...~!;, -.• :,-:.,, ••.:. ,.,­


National Campaign Chainnan . Ara·• Parseghian, . ,, Asks You To .Join Everybody's Fight:.'
--. 



Athletes vs. MS 
l\lultiple Sclerosis is a neurological disease-:-a disabling affliction of the 
_central nervous system. In MS, the_ substance caned myelin, which in-.. sulates the nerve fibers, disinte-.. grates and-is replaced by scar tissue. 
. This distorts or.. blocks nerve im­pulses which control such functions as walking, talking, seeing, etc. It is not a mental disease, _nor is it contagious. The disease is unpre­dictable. Not all patients experience the same sympfoms, and improve-· ment can occur lasting for limited or extended periods of time. It is estimated that 500,000 Americans suffer from MS and related diseases. Volunteer. support of the Nl\lSS, in . any form, gives hope through re­search that the cause, prevention and cure of MS will be found. Such ­support helps_your localchapter to 

serve the patient, family and:com­-munity. Many local chapters have· programs of friendly visiting, rec­
reation and referral service, and 
may also supply equipment to pa­
tients inelegible for other com-,,. 
munity or. governmental_ assistance. 
If you need help, want information . 
about multiple sclerosis, or wish_to 
join in the fight against MS, call or 
write to your nearest C~apter.. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
e 


The Irish Ruggers, the. most traveled of the Notre Daine teams, has had an outstanding spring season with_ a 13-1 record., A trip to Ireland during the Spring Break (where the team finished with· a 2-2 record against teams having superior players. and the funda­mentals to excel),. made the key contribution to the team's _performance this· spring. The ruggers, unde­feated. in their first seven ,matches, have defeated pe­rennial powers such as John Carroll, Illinois, and West­ern Michigan, and have only lost to Ohio State. Scrum 1 Tom Masenga and Backs Joe Hafner and Eddie Fish­bourne.. have. kept the Irish one. of the more powerful teams in the Midwest, ·and their season ]:>ears this out. With. many veterans returning, the future certainly looks bright for the Titans of the campm;.:_the Notre 
Dame Rugby Team.•' -· . . . ' 
Flagpole sitting, goldfish swallowing, and panty 

raids were a part of the good ·old days, but there is a 
new craze that is taking the nation's top colleges and 
universities by storm ..._concrete canoe races. 
The Floating-Fighting-Irish are.hoping for a bright, 

clear, sunny day as they take to the waters of their 
home port (St. Joseph's Lake) for, the fourth annual 
Concrete , Canoe Race, which. they are hosting this year. 
· More than twenty~nine schools win enter . this 

year's race, .with all trying to paddle their way to the 
finish . line before .their opponents. The paddlers must 
be.undergraduates of Civil Engineering or Naval Archi­
tecti:tre who have actively participated in the design and 
construction of the canoe, and are not members of a 
varsity sculling, rowing, kayak, canoe or similar teams. 
The paddlers of the winning team will receive 

plaques, and the school will receive a trophy. Awards 
for the best carioe will be presented and an award for 
the best-looking canoe will also be made. The prize 
which has to be the least sought ·after is the one 
awarded to the team _that finishes last ... a concrete 
life preserver. r . 
MAY 3, 1974 . , 
· A spokesman for one of the universities said that this year's race is sure to be one of the most exciting races that he has ever seen. And a spokesman for Notre· Dame said that he doesn't expect to see any streaking other than that of the canoes headed for the finish line. Besides, how could anyone streak a canoe race? 
Gary Novak; the co~captain for the Fighting Irish Basketball Team was recently awarded an NCAA post graduate scholarship to study medicine at Loyola.Uni­versity's Med School. Goose was the school's 12th lead­ing scorer, and had a 12.9 average in 85 contests. Some of the finest basketball performances displayed during my two years here have been by this class guy. He is a credit to the school, but more importantly, his ability in mixing academics and athletics in the way he did is a tribute to his determination. Gary, you're a greatguy, and we'll really miss you. 
The 1974 edition of the Notre Dame Tennis Team will celebrate its golden anniversary of competition this year, in Coach Tom Fallon's 17th year as head _coach. The Irish have 11 players returning from. last year's squad, including five monogram winners. 
· This year's team features many players capable of attaining. national prominence in tennis, and with the . schedule the netters play, some success is inevitable. Included in the scramble for the starting. positions are Brandon Walsh, the premier tennis player in Jamaica, . John Carrico, the man with the cannonball serve and Rick Slager, a quarterback: for the Fighting Irish foot­. ball team. With these fine 'players competing for the top spots ·on the team, big things ·. will .be heard during the rest of the spring from the Irish tennis team. 
_;_Bill Delaney · 


J 
! r-.·· 

l ND . Athletic 
1-. . . ._:_:::.-<-: .. _:-. 

I Notre Dame's victory over Alabama _24-23 in the Sugar Bowl on New Year's. Eve. As a result of this victory, Notre Dame was awal'.ded the National -Championship of CollegiatE! Football. 
JI . -"'l 

71-70. Richard "Digger" Phelps brought Notre Dame into national prominence · agairi with his victory over "the Walton.Gang" of John Wooden's UCLA team. With .· 2:33 left to play· 19-the game,· John Shumate arid 
· "Digger's Crew" held UCLA scoreless, while scoring 12 points of its· own, to come from-. a 70-59 deficit to a 71-70 victory.-• 
. m 

John McKay :vowed he'd never lose to: ·another-Notre 
Dame team after his hu-miliating defeat a· few years back. The Irish-have come close, buthaven'tdefei:ited .the Trojans for the past seven years. 'Indeed it was time to scratch "the-seven-year itch," ..arid ; Bobby Thomas' heroics on a misty rainy day ·gave us''the victory, 23-14..Tom Clements' passing'· gaine'\vas picture perfect~-and his quarterback sneak,' led .. by Frank Pomarico and Steve Neece brought tisfrevenge! ! 
,, .. ·.• ' !": •.. 

i 
,,, ·rv 
.t~<~-John Shumate, "the;Physical Specimen," has 'decided to 
... ·:.-~ . ·.i 
give up his. remciining year of eligibility to turn pro~ fessional. ·He has rewritten ·many of the records here at Notre. Dame, .but· his_ main accomplishrri~nt ~as his . .:~ ~~-...-_·., . ability to grab the campus and mike :it. parf of-'the '.. . . '.' .... '.. ~ ; '. ;. team. _There's a· lot· more you. can _say about_ John 
Shumate;.but ;I'll erid this-with •one word~ Thanks. 
,.'"~~~~,,j 
~ . . . . . ·. ' ­
V 

Fifth on this list has to·be devoted to·the niembers;of 
' the. Freshrrian · Class in the Athletic Program here· at 
Notre.Dame. Luther Bradley and Ross Browner were 
indispensable to''the foot~ili' team. Adria~ t:~antley arid 
Billy Paterno helped Digger)<> go '26~3, with key-:vic~ 
fories over UCLA' and Marquette. Brian Walsh stepped. into ·Lefty Smith's hockey program; and · was . votecf Rookie of the Year in the WCHA.: Terry Mcconville arid. Sa~my Difiglio were 'i~valuahle· to Mike DeCicco's fencel'.S; Eddie· Fellows, another. freshman, achieved tlie status of :All~Arrierican in fencing. -All -in a.ii, it paid io be a freshman· this year; · · · · · 
.'·.~ .• . . ~-. ~ : . : • . ! . -~ -' 
THE SCHOLASTIC





Top Ten-1974 
. -.. . . . ·-. 

-·. :-.. •. ·:;.-:. -•::·· -_: VI .'·-_. -. . 
The Hockey Team's victory over Wisconsin in the key game, .of _._th~. year, gave .the Irish the__ opportunity· to . enter. the: WCHA Playoffs. Sparkling play by Ian Wil­liams, Eddie Bumbacco arid-Paul Clarke; aided by Mark Krqi:iholm's, cons.i.stent .goaltending, attempted to fire up the,Irish, but their defeai"in the first found against Michigan Tech . eliminated them. from the· Playoffs: The 
. 

team flash_ed sig1:1s. of power as the year went on, indi­cating a:strong team for.coach Lefty Smith'riext year. · 
. ;•· . . . . .• . . ,. ,,-,.. . ·• 
. VII­
·--· ,·; 

Notre. Dame's rout of Miami by the score of ·44-o· gave · ·.. .the frish their~first undefeated, untied season in twenty­five:years.· ,The .''Era .of.Ara" concludeci· its· first decade with :this ..brilliant game,. featuring, a massive offensive attack ied by Tom Clements. Despite a seventh-place prediction, by Sports Illustrated .and a cover picture.on ­that magazine's front page after our victory over USC, ­_the Fighting Irish ended their season on the same note' 
· as what was to h,appen in the Sugar Bo~l. · -· · 
··,• ·. 

:· :··.,.:· VIII,, ,,.-_ -We·didn'texpect to lose to Michigan in the regionais of the NCAA's; we· had continually• improved, game after · game,· showing ·America .thaLNotre Dame· basketball :was for-real. John• Shumate had imp·•.ressed..ev.ery·body-.. -i •'~ ··-· 
--·~c.... -.. '" 
throughout the season, and Adrian Dantley had proved ' q •.,J.~_;;z~ 1, ;;io::r,l that· a freshman could play for. a: major college team/' i'. . . (,'1 '°~:;!~tff-!:'.1~1.{f~ What-hippenied·was Campy Russell'---es,,irj,thlng he _f;,.~ ~-°'r.. ·f, • 
.__ 0 :. -~

threw up seemed to go in, and we lost. ~ ~'.' · :'.· I_ ·•''"'J> . :_,_ .. _. . •..____ .. ,:• ..·•······i ·· ..-. Don't·despair ,for Digger and his crew will be back · · l:<'l.1••·....:'.'"'~~1,~::-_,.,, -~ -" ,. ' .::411.0:-•-'··1,,--­
' tz;....,:;.~~,--~--. • ·1· :". -· 
.for ·ario~h.er season, and it'll be Notre Dame all the way. ..·. · · .· .. .'-=. :},.' · t .. , ·""" . .,_· ·,:_ , ... 
:. ·.·. :·i. _,-.·· .-. ~. · .. .~:: ..,:·: ·. :-'.f -~ .: jf/I'~ ~-.'/i.:J:.•/1•· ,. 
The Fencing Team finished 22-1. this•season,.the best ~ ,, .. · ,. .·.t in its· history. Virtually unknown, the team practices ;: ;: :-;-·:,,. _};, ·r· 1 ·-• the ·year 'round; and its records' over :the years· bear• · [,;,,. ,, . ··· · ·· ' · out what' it can do.. For Mike DeCicco,, coach:of the ;'_:'. 
o,t L:· . 
;;~~~f~~:;r~~~~:: .~·:;,~../~~~~-;· .:~ .. 
:goOd ItiCk with ·your ·program, one· of ·the·· ]east-known~-••-~· · · of the Notre Dame Athletic Program.. ' 
}:'.\h~~e:y~~·:ii~ed.my,T~~ ~en; ~~ny ~f.th~-~~~i_ti~is could be rearranged. Many thanks to Vfo Dorr; Greg
. 

Corgan,.,Father, :Riehle, Bob Best, and. my broth.~r Joe ._!, 1.,,: for Jheir help in these selections. Yes, all in all, it ~as : ; a.verygoodyear... -, 
. •.C ~Bill Delaney .'.,, :>;;;:,,_ .. ;r{ _ .. / ____. .,·... ··-·-·•· _, .-·~--.~·-·--' _:_:_. 
MAY.3, .1974 29 



'1·[:  
After four years at Notre Dame  must 'make new friends, . they must  
it is time to leave. That was the plan. . grow. up, they must change.  



·when you signed up. Now it's all Though _many commencement happening, right on schedule. speakers might choose· to deny it, . : It's time now to think of all that . graduation is an end as well as a be­
.. ginning. Four years of your life are
has happened to you since yciu first 
· came here as a freshman. You can most definitely over, c1:nd practi~ally look over your transcript to see how . speaking you probably· '\Vill not see you have changed academically;' bu( many of the·. people you knew here _ 
perhaps there has been. a much more too · much more in your life.' After 'important change that no one. has· all, Notre Dame's whole purpose im­written down anywhere.· . . . . plies that you leave it. · -There is, however, a:·: fllp' side to
·. Xou probably feel that _over. the 
this somewhat depressing talk. You 
. last few years you have made many 
have learned. You have met some of
friends. Most of the ones you made 
the finest people around; Notre Dame
in 'high school you. probably don't 
by Jim.Gresser 

Q) 
.c ·. 
. ·.__ 
I­

seems'to attract them somehow. You 
see too much anymore;·.-they went to _different schools, they got married, have learned from them and are. ex­
they have different interests. When. tremelylucky to_ha~e done so; Right you came to Notre Dame you. were~ ·now y~u can thmk of many people thrown together with .a bunch of you . wish you could ha_ve known people in your hall that:at first you better. That wiH always_be t~e case . . had little in common with, except for· Perhaps. be~ause of the specific ·na­the fact that ari. anonymous adminis-: .ture . of _this . ~la~e, as oppos~d to trator somewhere saw fit ·10·put you _ other umversities, you have seen the ali in the same section of the same . value. of people who try to lead de­
dorrri; . . cent hves. Though you ~ay not h~ve · · · · · · · -· · · _.made-permanent :relationships. with 
·_ ~ach year since th~n, ·due.to iot-· . many of those-. people,; they .have teries _and. grade pomt .. variatio~s, ··taught-you something ofgreat value. you have f~und_yourself-probably m. _Also, ·the chances are that .. you ~ new section, on a new. floor, e_ven may have.· in fact developed a fewt· _a new dorm. ~ou've .ma~e new , ·1ong~lasting relatio~ships;. On_e ··· or riends.. The stay ha~l _syste~ may... two really good. friends are great h~v~ given you ~ome _sense of, b~~-gifts. There is no need to,tell you longmg to a specific place, but it 1s . how lucky you are if you have a· few ~nable to stop the ~onstant, changes people that yciu have grown close to . 111 the people you d:1fted tow!!;rd and and that you feel you will remain 
· _from whom you drifted away. close to. · ·. .., There is a popular misconception ' Graduation is a·. very. important that a person makes most .of his• time. It should not be. marred with lasting, close personal 'relationships .silly,. ·.boring, reminiscent. gripes during the. college years; Experience · about-parietals, alcohol, security and just'. doesn'.t seem to bear that out. the_ like. Al( these: things·are -im­. The University is a. transient com-portant· and have their place, but at munity. The only thing you can graduation perhaps it is better to pretty much· bet on wheri··you first ·· look at all-the people around you and come here is that you're ·going to be ,.thankful for what you·,·have ·-• have to leave. Any personal relation~ learned persmglly and intellectually ships, then, begin and. develop. in; a._· from _the. students and teachers ·you curious tension. You want them to · have lived with for _the past four _be as meaningful as possible and you years. For all. the people you· wish-~ disdain.' the superficial, --but -you· :you knew-better, be· thankful you must also realize that-after a while saw the good things that_ attracted. ·. they are most probably going to end. ·. you to them iri the-first place.·· People must graduate,· they must'go · '" Especially cherish the feir good back to_ different parts of the coun-friends that you have made here and ~ry, they must get marrie·d, they·· _will. take away-with you. 
30 

THE SCHOLASTIC 

r ·. But there is a· way to make it somewhat easier. .· Our way•. The. Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship. Program. It won't soften t(,e demands of your professors, or those you make upon yourself -but it may free you from those financial problems -which, understandably, can put a crimp _in your 
concentration: · . -: ·· .. 
If you qualify, our scholarship program will cover the costs of your medical education. More, you'll receive a good monthly allowance all through yourschooling. . . . 
But what happens after you graduate? . . 
br;~;;; o1sy~u~e~~~c~a~~uof!i,<;~r i~ b~~f~~1i~~~ 
environment that is . challenging, stimulating . and 
satisfying; -· · · An environment which keeps you in contact with practically au medical specialties. Which gives you
the time to observe_ and learn before you decide on your specialty. Which may presentthe opportunity to train in that specialty. And to practice it. ·. 
You may also. find some of the. most advanced medical achievements happening right where· you work. Like at the Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio, Texas, long noted for its Burn Treat-· 
ment Center. Or the home of Flight Medicine, the famed ·Aerospace Medical Division, also in San 

Antonio. Or the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland, recognized worldwide for its · work iri Medical Resea·rch. ·. -_ 
And if you've read this far, you may be interested in the details. Just send in the coupon and we'll supply them. ·

r---------~---•-----~----,
I t'!'~ Forces Scholarships . _ · . . · Z-CN-44 I Universal City, Texas 78148 . I · t desire Information for the following pro11ram; Army B
I Navy . Air Force a Medicat/Osteopath,c . Oentat
1· Veterinary• o POd,atry o Other (please specify) _. 
I Nam,~---,-----,,-,p1,-ea,..,se..,....,.pr"'in"'t1,------­I -soc. sec.#
I ------------­I Addre~-------------­I .. City
I -----,----------­
I Stat~--------~tp_______ 
I Enrolled.aI ---,------,,::-:sc"'h:::00'"11,-------­I To graduate tn_,_=,----=,--,--=---..,...­
I Date of birt <monthl -(year) (degree) I 1monthl (day) (year> I •veterinary not available In Navy Program. ..
L-----------------------.1 
·. ARMED FORCES HEALTH-CARE. 
DEDICATED TO MEDICINE AND THE PEOPLE WHO PRACTICE IT 




It's easy-when you finish with your books, trade them in for ~ash! Then 
putthe money down on·a ticketfor your summer vacation: . . . .. 
Whether you fly first doss or t~urist dep.ends on how ma~y books you'~e 
got to selt what condition they're in, and whether or not t_hey'II be used . . ; again n~xt term. . . . . . . . 
. . 

Whatever you w~nt t6 use the money for it will•sure beat just letting .them lie around collecting dust: So bring your bo.oks over to the profes­sional book buyers at the bookstore now, while your book is worth the most . it will ever b~; · ·.· ,._ ' · · :i' :.,:. · · · 
Wait too_ long and chances are that what ·you get for your-books willbe 
for the birds! · 
,_ . 

sell·them for';cash at. 
Hammes-Notre D_~,n~ ·e~t>kstore··· University ~F N~tre· Dame 
MAY 8-10· 









