i
THE NCTKE I AHE
SCHOLASTIC
---:----NOTRE liHI. IND.  
Marquette
Professor Staunton to be Commencement Speaker
5
Vol. 83, No. 13 Feb. 76, 7945
ARMY
ENLIST NOW
’ Assigned to Princeton

2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 83
FEBRUARY 16. 1945
NO. 13
Professor Staunton to Address Graduates
Dr. Bull To Speak For St.
Joe Section of A. Ch. S.
The 190th meeting of the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society will be held at 8:00 p.m. Wednesday Feb. 21, in the Engineering auditorium.
The Society is fortunate in obtaining Dr. Arthur W. Bull, manager of the Tire Engineering Department of the Tire Division of the United States Rubber Co. Dr. Bull will speak on the very timely subject of “Tire Problems — Old and New.” Dr. Bull will discuss many problems of rubber manufacturers and show how the tire industry has been able to make tires of adequate quality from synthetic rubbers.
Dr. Bull’s talk will be illustrated with slides and with demonstration experiments.
A graduate of Cornell, Dr. Bull obtained his Ph.D from that University in 1922. He spent several years with the Don- Company-Engineers and joined the staff of the United States Rubber Company in 1928.
Dr. William S. Calcott, of the DuPont Company, who was originally scheduled to speak, has had to cancel his speaking engagements due to the press of special war work.
Extra SCHOLASTICS
Extra copies of this issue of the Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC will be on sale at the N. D. Book Store, the Cafeteria, and the Huddle.
Price 10 cents
The next issue will be published March 16th.
Prof. Staunton, who will address graduates in Washington Hall.
Gurian Banquet Speaker
The Commerce Forum held its semester banquet last Tuesday evening, Feb. 13.
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of politics, arid editor of the Review of Politics, was the principal speaker. His topic was “The Future of Germany After the War.” During the discussion period, Dr. Gurian was tireless and interesting in his usual scholarly fashion.
Mike Garry, publicity director, served as toastmaster. Other speakers were Dean James E. McCarthy, professor Edmund A. Smith, retired president Jim Donnelly, and president-elect, Frank Linehan.
The special Commerce Forum Award (in memory of the late Lieut. James Taylor Connell, ’40 of Newport, R. I.) for the best address of the year was presented by Faculty Moderator Smith to Robert Riordan, Commerce senior from Solomon, Kans. Professor Smith presented other speech awards to Jim Donnelly, Mike Garry, Frank Linehan, Dick Sadowski, and Harry Walters. Testimonials for distinguished service to the Forum were also tendered to President Donnelly and the publicity director, Garry.
Thirty-Seven Degrees To Be
Conferred Wed., Feb. 28
Mr. Henry Staunton, professor of English, will deliver the convocation address at the graduation ceremonies in Washington hall, Wednesday evening, Feb. 28, at 8:00 p.m.
Following the graduation exercises, 37 degrees will be conferred upon the graduates. Degrees will be awarded to five members of the Graduate school; nine from the College of Arts and Letters; eight from the College of Science; five from the College of Engineering; three from the College of Law, and nine from the College of Commerce. Seven NROTC’s will also be commissioned as ensigns in the United States Navy.
The commencement day program will begin at 8:00 a.m. with Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, in the absence of the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, celebrating a low Mass in the rear chapel of Sacred Heart church. Immediately following at 8:30 a.m., Rev. Thomas P. Irving will conduct the traditional farewell visit to the main church. At 9:30, the seniors will gather in the University dining hall for the Communion breakfast.
Continuing the program in the afternoon, the seniors will meet in the Rockne Memorial Lounge at 4:00 p.m. where a reception will be held for the graduates and their families. This reception is a relatively new addition to the graduation program, as it originated at the October graduation of 1944.
Classes Resume March 6
According to official word received by the Scholastic from the Office of the Director of Studies, classes will begin definitely on March 6 at 8:00 a.m.
Rumors circulating to the contrary are not to be taken too seriously.
3
^he ^Notre Qame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
fy&dkm New-
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND ROBERT RIORDAN BILL WADDINGTON BOB O'TOOLE AL KUENZLI
Nervy Associate Editor
Managing Editor - Sports Editor Circulation Manager Advertising Manager
Robert Riordan, present managing-editor of the Scholastic, will assume the duties of editor-in-chief at the beginning of the new term, according to word received from the Publications Department of the University. Mr. Riordan will succeed Al Lesmez who, for the past three semesters, has served the news-weekly in that capacity.
Other new assignments on the editorial staff include the names of George Despot, who will succeed Robert Riordan as managing-editor; and that of James Regan who becomes the new sports editor, succeeding Bill Waddington who will be commissioned an ensign in the United States Navy.
Bob O’Toole, veteran promotion-manager, will continue in that capacity. Gene Diamond is retained as associate editor for the Navy V-12 staff; and Al Kuenzli continues as advertising-manager. Lieut. S. L. Beatty, USNR., will continue his column “Observations,” containing pertinent Navy information, while John Power and Harry Walters are retained to write the columns, “Green Banner,” and “College Parade.”
The Scholastic will lose a number of writers through graduation and draft calls. Applications to replace these men are now being received at the Publications’ Office in the Administration Building, Room 140. Another call for new writers will be sent out at the beginning of the new term.
COLUM N ISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY JOHN POWER HARRY WALTERS GEORGE KRAUSER ART WAGNER
Observations - The Green Banner The College Parade Splinters from the Press Box Swabbies Log
CONTRIBUTORS
HARRY SIEMONSMA ROBERT MOLNAR FRANK GRIMALDI
TACK McGRANE
ENRIQUE LULLI BOB COCHRAN JACK MILES TOM McNALLY JIM CAREY
RALPH HAYMAN RON BYERSMITH TOE BRESLAW TOHN FEENEY
PHOTOGRAPHY
CHARLES RENAUD
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C.
FRANCIS GUIDO
Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York CXty—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre flame, Indiana.
"Politicians11 Excuse Corrected
In last week’s issue of Scholastic, it was stated somewhat facetiously that “because of the acute coal shortage, certain difficulties arose concerning the heating of the Rockne Memorial two nights consecutively, and because of earlier commitments to the Knights of Columbus Ball, they were given preference,” the Sorin Politicians’ Hop was cancelled.
The truth of the matter is that the heating of the Rockne Memorial had nothing at all to do with the cancellation of the proposed dance. The affair was called off because of a failure of civilian students to buy tickets—and for no other reason. In deference to the Office of the Prefect of Discipline, no less than to the University Administration, the Scholastic, believes it proper to make this statement.
Elsewhere in last week’s issue, comment was made on the question of the Sorin-St. Edward’s athletic standing. The “feud in the hills” paragraph referred to the question of which hall had the greater number of athletes, and in no way meant to cast aspersions on inter-hall good will, mutual regard, or friendly feelings. The Scholastic suggests a meeting of the stalwarts to determine superiority, and will gladly arrange the time and details for the event.
4
NROTC Ball; Resplendent With Memories;
Makes Big Hit With Walsh Hall Battalion
In less than two weeks, the second graduating class of Notre Danie’s Naval ROTC will step forward to receive their commissions as ensigns, but for those 80-odd individuals who will be recipients of the gold braid, there will linger in their memory, the thought of the Seventh Naval Ball held last Friday night.
The Servicemens’ Center was never decked out in more royal splendor than was the setting for last week’s gala affair. With a touch of typical atmosphere for the about-to-be ensigns, a battleship silhouette acted as a backdrop for Bernie Cummins and his band with protruding-guns from the turret projecting over the orchestra. Adding to this masterpiece of construction which was done by Chairmen Jack Cassidy and John Kramer and their diligent crew, there was a very reasonable facsimile of an officers' club on the mezzanine where the ROs and their dates enjoyed their cokes to the tropical strains of a five-piece all-girl Hawaiian ensemble. Complete with laes, grass skirts and all the rest of the pe
NROTC Ball Committee and their dates at the Seventh Naval Ball last Friday night. Left to right: (first row) William Waddington, Miss Dorothy Edwards, John Mack, Miss Patricia McCaffery, John Caron, Miss Patricia Glavin, Rudy Anderson, Miss Beau Quinn; (second row) Frank Gilligan, Miss Margaret Woodhouse, Jack •Cassidy, Miss Jo Ann Welch. Miss Helen Berner, John Kramer.
culiarities of the islands, the scene was most apropos.
For the first time in the history of the seven events, there was a continuous flow of music, for when Bernie Cummins and his band were not rendering the refrains in the main ballroom, there was the added entertainment upstairs. John Caron and John Mack, co-chairmen of the evening, had much to do with the overall success of such an undertaking. Rudy Anderson’s “connections” enabled the Walsh battalion to find the dancing much to their liking—every request number was turned into instrumental reality. Jack Kearney, finance chairman, reports the all important fact—it was a financial success. Frank Gilligan, whose capacity as odds-and-ends chairman caused him to exert extensive effort, did more than a capable job of arranging for those things that are often taken for granted. Then, of course, there was the Saturday a.m. clean-up committee who braved the beckoning bed to go down and clean up the mess. But as one committeeman put it, “When the ROs put on a dance, it’s work, but when it’s over, it’s worth it!”
Bulk of V-12 to Princeton and Ft. Schuyler Schools
After weeks of speculation, scuttlebutt, and impatient laments on the part of deck officer candidates in their final term in the program, the orders for midshipman school assignments for the departing brethren finally arrived in the course officer’s office on Thursday, Feb. 8, resulting in frenzied stampedes for the bulletin boards at noon muster.
On every tongue was the impetuous cry “Asbury,” derived from the location of the Naval Pre-midshipman school at Asbury Park, N. J. and trainees were elated with the prospect of direct assignment to middies’ school as they were informed that no assignments had been listed for Asbury Park.
Their hope was short-lived, however, as they learned that the school at Asbury Park had been discontinued and, in its place, a new naval training school had been inaugurated at Princeton, N.J. and that the Princeton school would be the destination of the largest draft of men from Notre Dame. Forty-seven men will report there on the sixth of March to begin schooling much along identical lines of Midshipmen school.
For 24 men, reassignment meant nothing more than a short jaunt across the quadrangle where they will begin classes in the Notre Dame school on March 12. Among those assigned to the Notre Dame school were Regimental Commander Hanson, former Regimental Commander Bosler, Ben Depauw of the regimental staff, Carey, and Broscha.
Supply candidates numbering a total of 1-5 men were assigned to the Naval Supply Operational Center at the Bayonne, N. J. Supply Depot.
The second largest draft was transferred to the midshipmen school at Fort Schuyler, N. Y., now in the second term since its inception. A total of 29 men must report to the Bronx school on 8 March.
Other large drafts will be sent to the Naval Midshipmen Schools at Columbia university in New York City and Cornell university in Ithaca, N. Y. Eighteen men will report to Columbia on March 12 including Art Archer, wrestling champion in the heavyweight division for three semesters. Thirteen men will be transferred to the Cornell school including Ken Muening of the track team.
Also announced this week was the assignment of four men who have completed their pre-medical course to the Naval Hospital at Great Lakes, Ill.
Due to these and other later transfers, the unit will be reduced to a size to be accommodated in Dillon hall only.
—Gene Diamond
5
N. D. Band Closes Season With Concert;
Hopes for Next Semester Promising
BY OCTAVE EMOND
Last night the campus concert brought to a close another fruitful season for the Notre Dame band. On Wednesday evening, the day before their last concert of the semester, the band came out “en force” to contribute to the spirit during a basketball game between the “Irish” and the “Seahawks.” Yesterday evening it presented a special concert for the students and their guests, thus writing .the last lines in the current chapter of its already voluminous history.
Although this band may not have been the most outstanding unit in the country, certainly it ranked with the best. To be sure, this band is decidedly the best heard here in recent years, and it is reported the best playing unit in the history of the school. In any event it has contributed greatly to the musical heritage of the University, and its achievements assume even more lustre when war-time difficulties and uncertainties
Inaugurate New System of Weekly Inspections
A new system of weekly inspections has been inaugurated in Dillon and Alumni halls whereby barracks and room inspections are held every week to supplement the monthly over-all inspections of barracks and personnel.
The system was first instituted in Alumni hall and under its provisions, each company area .as well as each individual room is thoroughly inspected by either the specialist serving as company instructor or the Barracks Officer. Each trainee is subject to person'1.! inspection when leaving on week-end leave or liberty. Friday night before each Saturday inspection are devoted to field days during which time each trainee is expected to get his own room in order and to serve on any other cleaning details to which he may be assigned.
A familiar Friday night scene is closely analogous to a convention of charwomen and scrubmaids as the entire Dillon and Alumni entourage discards slide rule, Nautical Almanacs, and biology drawings in favor of mops, brooms, scrubpails, and wax in serving to give the respective V-12 abodes a high gloss before morning.
Cleaning details are assigned to all
are considered.
Two weeks after Christmas and the resumption of hostilities (classes) the Notre Dame band scored one of its greatest triumphs. The quality of the concert was aptly indicated by the warm response and hearty ovations offered by the 3,000 persons who braved winter’s bitter blasts to hear the musicians. Many messages of congratulations were extended and numerous persons were eager to know the date of the groups’ next public performance.
The outlook for next semester, although uncertain, is bright. Many of the outstanding musicians who have been members of the band during this semester, expect to be back, and little trouble is anticipated in acquiring another well-balanced organization. With this in mind, Mr. Hope has laid plans for next semester which, if they materialize, should surpass even this semester’s performances.
doorways, heads and passage ways throughout the building and are under the direct supervision of the company masters at arms and, in some cases, by assistant M.A.’s who serve, temporarily, in the direction of a group of stations. Cleaning detail commitments, like watch bills, are arranged on a rotational basis among companies living on the same deck.
Notre Dame Spirit Again
■ As the Seahawks fell before the Irish basketeers recently, a flash of spirit that reminds one of the Notre Dame of past years was present.
Sinatra-like shrieks filled the gym as little Johnny Dee calmly sidestepped; spun, flipped it in, and then bowed to the two charming young ladies in the first row.
There were sudden flare-ups by ‘the students as the Irish staged a rally and the cheering shook the rafters.
The band did more than its part with a clever rendition of “Boogie Woogie” and, of course, the Victory March.
Many an old grad witnessed the event and remarked upon the spirit that has not changed since way back when.
Good Start-
Poor End!
While the Knights of Columbus Ball was a success regarding the decorations and the dancing, the work of the committee men, under the direction of Ben Mammina, chairman of the ball, was not
so satisfactory regarding the removal of decorations on Saturday morning. According to information received at the office of the prefect of discipline, the Navy V-7 was greatly inconvenienced in that they were unable to use the building for scheduled classes. No one from the Knights of Columbus dance committee had reported to remove the decorations, as had been requested by Mr. John Scannell, in charge of Rockne Memorial activities.
V-12 Contributes $248
To Navy Relief Society
Collections were conducted throughout the V-12 unit on Monday for voluntary contributions to the Navy Relief Welfare Fund. The fund took on especial importance this year, as the obligations and payments made by the Navy Relief Society have taken on far broader scope as the war progresses.
A total of $248.17 was contributed by the V-12 unit. This is an average of 32 cents per man, and the unit was complimented by the commanding officer- for its showing.
The largest contribution, by any single company, came from Company J of Alumni hall, who by virtue of their contributions join the ranks of honorary companies along with Company B, leaders in the War Bond Drive; Company C, leaders in the War Relief Drive; and Company A, leaders in the March of Dimes campaign. These four companies deserve special commendation for the winter semester.
The drive for funds is being conducted throughout the country. The Society is the Navy’s own organization for the alleviation of financial or other difficulties among its personnel and their dependents. All financial assets of the organization are contributed on a voluntary basis.
6
ScUolaAiic PneAeMiA,
The Graduating Class of February 1945
RICHARD J. J. AMES, Bachelor of Arts and Letters, the campus Caruso who has unassumingly risen to top posts in politics, hails from St. Paul, Minnesota. Past activities read: Wranglers and Bookmen; Bengals, '42; Interhall football, '41, '42, '43; swimming, '41; Glee Club, since '42; SCHOLASTIC, '43: Student Council, '41, '44; Freshman class president ; President of Bookmen; Secretary of Wranglers; Campus editor of SCHOLASTIC; Vice-President of Glee Club, '43. At Notre Dame, Dick has maintained a magna cum laude average in English. He plans to do graduate work at the University of • Minnesota, after which his choice of career lies between teaching and journalism.
years with everything from interhall basketball and softball to the presidency of the Bookmen, one of the campus literary clubs. He also took enough time out from his work in Political Science to be elected a member of the Wranglers, honorary forensic society, to play horn with the marching band during the '43 football season, and to hold a chair on the Stu- _ dent. Council during his last semester.
We’ll all remember that laugh of his. and his ever-ready supply of cigarettes. Frank plans to work in some essential industry for the duration of the war, after which he will enter Iowa Law School.
EDWARD HYDE BALL, JR., (Business Administration). Born in Winnetka, Illinois, and is a grad of New Trier High School. Later attended Portsmouth Priory (1942). He is a member of the elite social group of U.S.S. WALSH. He is also a member of Economic Round Table, and is known for his excellent discussions of economic affairs. Ed is a true NJ), man and a friend admired by the entire regiment-
BROTHER ROBERT BELLARMINE, C.S.C., B.S. in Physical Science, Watertown, New York.
Richard Jerome eAmes
FREDRICK JOSEPH BIGGS. Bachelor of Science in Business Administration. South Bend, Ind.—"Bud” to his friends, is a member of the Villagers, and his favorite hobbies are golf, swimming, and on rainy days, bridge. He hasn’t made any definite plans, but he is just waiting for opportunity to knock at his door.
Frederick Joseph Biggs
BROTHER CALLISTUS, C.S.C., A.B. in English, Philadelphia. Pennsylvania.
WILLIAM MARSHALL CLEMENCY. (Physical Education). Born in God’s Country, which is his affectionate classification of Brooklyn. He is an ardent fan of the Dodgers. Bill was graduated from Townsend Harris High School, and was a member of the swimming team. Here at Notre Dame. Bill has participated in all interhall activities. He is a member of the Knights of Columbus. Later, Bill hopes to become a teacher in athletics. He is known as “Muscles” and often called “Maw” Clemency by the N.R.O.T.C. set in Walsh.
Brother Robert Bellarmine, C.s.C.
C. FRANCIS FITZGIBBONS, Bachelor of Arts. “Fitz” has filled his Notre Dame
Brother Callistus, C.S.C.
7
BROTHER VINCENT FERRER, C.S.C., hailing’ from Coronado. California, is a Bachelor of Arts and Letters, taking his degree in English. He was born in New York State in a town too small to appear on the map. Brother graduated from St. Joseph’s High School in New York City. He received an R.N. degree from the Department of Nursing Education in New York State after being graduated from St. Vincent’s Hospital in New York City. Brother Vincent's chief activities have been confined to helping Brownson Hall Freshmen with difficulties in Spanish grammar and English themes. He has patched up many locker-room casualties sustained in scrimmage between the Brown-sonites and Carrollites After graduation Brother expects to teach in a high school conducted by the Congregation of Holy Cross.
“Paul Ernesto Castro
JOHN PETER FLEAKA. Bachelor of
Science in Business Administration. Youngstown, Ohio—Affectionately known in the Dining hall as “Napoleon." Received a monogram in freshman baseball, member of the football squad, and concert band, boxer in the Bengal Bouts, and a member of the Commerce Forum—Says he appreciated good music and good women —likes golf, tennis, basketball, and watching football. As to the future, he says it’s either “Work or fight 1”
GERALD LEROY FREELAND. Bachelor of Science in Commerce. Michigan City. Indiana—"Round Boy” is a feared man in local bridge circles although his hobby is going to Michigan Citi-. He is a member of the Villagers Club and the Commerce Forum. — Rather secretive about his proposed future, but he did hint th;it he might be the next Studebaker representative in Tibet.
BROTHER GENARD, C.S.C., A.B. in
John “P. Fleaka
‘Brother ‘‘Vincent de ‘Paul, C.S.C.
Music. Los Angeles. California.
• Qeraid Leo Freeland
‘Brother “Vincent Ferrer, C.S.C.
Charles Francis Fitzgibbons
“Brother Qenard, C.S.C.
8
brother Kieran, C.S.C.
John Francis Lawson
BROTHER HUMBERT. C.S.C.. Bachelor of Science in Commerce: a major in the department of accounting. He was horn in Cincinnati. Ohio, and attended Roger Bacon High School and Business College there. Prior to his studies here. Brother was Assistant Treaurer in the University Treasurer’s Office for a period of four years. Immediately after graduation Brother expects to teach accounting in one of the schools conducted by the Congregation of Holy Cross. He is delighted with the prospect of being able to “dish it out” after four years of taking the huge assignments from the professors in the local accounting department.
JOHN JOSEPH KEARNEY (Mathematics) was horn in Woodhaven, N. Y. On campus, he is looked upon as a truly essential part of the N.R.O.T.C. swimming team. He was medal winner in interhall competition. Often called “The Dealer." he is a graduate of the Bishop Loughlin High School in Brooklyn, where he starred in swimming. In the U.S.S. WALSH he is looked upon with awe as one of the few surviving members of the Metropolitan Club at Notre Dame. For music he likes Benny Goodman. The Esquire touch to his uniform is his Windsor knot.
BROTHER KIERAN. C.S.C., Ph.B. in Commerce, Chicago. Illinois.
JOHN ROBERT KINNEY. B.S. in Business Administration. Born in Oil City, Pennsylvania, Jack now lives in Bradford. Pennsylvania, from whence he came to join the ranks of Notre Dame men in the fall of ’-12. He enrolled in the College of Commerce and the Naval R.O.T.G. Between the Navy and majoring in accounting Jack was kept busy, but his efforts have borne fruit. When he is graduated he will be commissioned an ensign in the Navy. Whatever the future brings we know that it will be as successful as have been Jack’s years at Notre Dame.
JAMES LONDERGAN LAMB (Political Science) calls Bismarck, North Dakota, the homestead. An active part of the N.D. Rifle and Pistol Teams. “Los Oyos" he
I ; ''
William J. ZMc^eil
Robert ^adraic ^Morrissey
Robert- eAlfred Oberfell
Patrick Francis 0>cBrien
9
is generally called by his friends. He has a high regard for the present Commanderin-Chief. Spends his leisure time playing cards and writing to the "one and only" in Ames. Iowa.
JOHN FRANCIS LAWSON. Bachelor of Science (Pre-mediral) and cum laudc, Ticonderoga. N. Y. — Member of the Biology Club, Academy of Science, and the Chemistry Club. — Likes bridge, golf, and is good at both. — After graduation he intends to study at the University of Pennsylvania Medical School.
William Joseph O’Connell
JOHN GRANT MACK, JR.. (Business Administration). Born in South Bend, now “resides" in Niles. Michigan. A grad of Niles High School in 1942, he was commander of 2nd NROTC company, which was the Color Company, in his junior year. He is a member of the Wranglers. Was co-chairman of the 1945 Winter Naval Ball. Known as “Kitten" to his more intimate friends of Walsh Hall. Favorite duly is “Sack Duty.”
Theodore ^Michael ^yan
ROBERT P. DUNSTAN MORRISSEY— Transferring from Monmouth College in his Junior year, "the Count" entered the College of Arts and Letters as a Political Science major, and has come through his Notre Dame work with a rnagna cum laude general average. Bob is a member of Theta Chi and Sigma Aau Delta, national and honorary fraternities which he entered while at Monmouth. He has been a member of the Bookmen and the Student Council during his two years at Notre Dame. Planning graduate work at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. Bob intends to make the foreign service his career.
John Richard T^oscher
ROBERT A. OBERFELL, Bachelor of Laws. “Young Abe." as his fellows call him. is from South Bend. The arsenal for republican propaganda, Bob is president in the St. Joseph County Young Republican Club. Add to this, treasurer in the Law Club, editor of the LAWYER and a key for a job well done on the LAWYER’S stall, and you have the makings of a successful lawyer in the not too distant future. Bob has kept the law .school on wheels for the past two years. He has his eyes minus glasses on a certain local lass.
Robert ‘Donald Single
Robert Tierghoff ^timely
10
PATRICK F. O’BRIEN. Bachelor of Science and an Accounting major, Chicago, Ill.—“Pat” is reputed to be a fair golfer, and although bridge is his second love, we can’t issue a statement as to his ability. Doesn’t know what he will do after graduation, but he is hoping for a lucky break.
BROTHER VINCENT DE PAUL,
C.S.C., A.B. in English, Chicago, Illinois.
WILLIAM J. O’CONNELL, Bachelor of Laws. Hailing from the south side of Chicago, “Oc" as his friends call him, was Vice-President of the Bookmen, member of the Wranglers ,and competed in interhall basketball. He has also earned a key for his excellent writing ability on the Notre Dame LAWYER. Genial, likeable. Bill is a typical and true Notre Dame man. His present ambition is to be top man in his profession.
Joseph TJernon Walker
N.R.O.T.C. Graduates
ROBERT BERGHOFF RUMELY. Bachelor of Science (Pre-medical), La Porte, Ind. "Berg" is an officer of the Biology Club and a member of the Chemistry Club. — Only known hobby is reading, and even then, refuses to s:iy what he reads. — Intends to study medicine and eventually psychiatry.
Edward Hyde ^all
THEODORE M. RYAN, Bachelor of Science. From the far west, Seattle, Washington. comes this Ambassador of good will. Around Law school and Georges, they call him "haba haba.” Ted. Co-chairman of the last Lawyer’s Ball. Vice-President and President of the Law Club, also has earned a key for his fine writing ability on the LAWYER’S staff. Good na-tured. great party man, Ted wants most of all to live up to his Father’s expectations.
ROBERT D. SINKLE. Bachelor of Arts. Bob has maintained a cum laude average as an English major during his four years at Notre Dame. Extra-curricular activities include three years with the band and membership in the Wranglers. “Sink” comes from Youngstown. Ohio, and plans to continue his education at Harvard Law School.
WILLIAM ROBERT WRAPE. H, (Mechanical Engineering). Hails from Little Rock, Arkansas, and has the distinction of being an Ensign and a N.D. graduate at the age of 19. Graduated from Little Rock High School in 1942 and received the Basch and Lomb Science Medal for highest science average. Entered N.D. in May. 1942, and in his junior year, received NROTC Gold Medal Award of the CHICAGO TRIBUNE for academic standing and Naval aptitude.
William Marshall Clemency
James Londergan Lamb
John Qrant £Mack
John Robert Kinney	John Joseph Kearney	William Robert Wrape
11
ROTC, After Taking Campus Crown, 50*32, Go on to Win No. 15, Beating Middies, 52-27
K H’l
Notre Dame’s NROTC, who have been running rampant in the local basketball wars, closed their season with a very loud bang last Wednesday evening in a pre-lim game to the N.D.-Seahawk tilt with a one-sided win over the Midshipmen champions of the first battalion, 5227.
This ROTC representative which originally played as a unit team, winning four' games before disbanding because they were unable to use a court on the the campus for their games, later split up, and with the majority of the members in the second company, they went on to win the V-12 and campus championships, winning 10 straight. The last win over the Middies this week made it 11 and a sum total of 15 wins as chalked up against no losses for the season.
Hany Gilligan, who played with a bum ankle, racked up 13 points for the winners with teammate Lee Graber close behind with 12. Denny Scully got eight, and Jim Cassidy six. Al Wade, the ROs versatile center potted seven while Tom Devine added four, Jim Griffin ending the tallying with two. For the losers,
Diers was high with six, the scoring being equally divided thereafter.
Running up a record of nine consecutive wins in the garnering of the V-12 basketball championship, the NROTC Company 2 went on to achieve further laurels, the campus championship, by winning their tenth straight. This time it was the top civilian quintet that suffered, 50-32.
In winning the V-12 honors, the ROs ran up the record score of 76-34 in one of their early games while in the playoff series which necessitated three games on their part, they amassed a total of 116 points for an average of 38.7 while their opponents in the three games, companies F and I, were limited to 80 counters in three tilts for a per game average of 26.7. In the preliminary stages from which the RO champs emerged victors from their own hall, they won six straight, averaging nearly 50 points per game in the sextet of encounters.
In a game that started slowly, the civies jumped off to a lead of 6-1 and before the quarter was over, a 9-8 mar-(Continued on page 19)
Track Squad, Back fror <
at Michigan, Head for'
BY JACK
"Scholastic"
ri
cC
po
NROTC Campus Basketball Champions, left to right (first row) Lee Graber, Harry Gilligan, Tom Devine, Bill Waddington, coach: (second row) Bob Fitzke, Al Wade, Denny Scully, and Ken Mellinger.
Scoring victories in the three-quarter mile relay and shot put, Notre Dame’s showing was better than average in the Michigan Relays at Ann Arbor last Saturday. Although no team championship was awarded, the Irish squad finished high among the eight topflight entries.
The team leaves again today, this time for Champaign, Ill., where they will encounter the Fighting Illini and Ohio State’s Buckeyes in a triangular tussle. Coach “Doc” Handy, hoping to improve upon the splendid showing made at Ann Arbor, expects his boys to have their biggest test of the season there.
Sully Scores
George Sullivan, Irish shot artist, made his best heave of the year to win his specialty with 47 feet, four inches, while .teammate Joe Kelly was close behind in third place.
Dave Murphy was Notre Dame’s stellar performer, however, competing in two relays and one individual event, and, placing in all. Dave anchored the three-quarter mile quartet of Fred Jones, Steve Provost, Dick Janson and himself to victory over Michigan State in 2:20.8. The same foursome, except for Schriner running for Janson, easily won their mile relay heat but were only awarded third place on a comparative time basis with the other more hotly contested heats.
Murphy topped off a busy day with a fifth place in the 60-yd. dash.
Oh, Those Humes
Bill Tully ran a fine race to wind up second behind Bob Hume of Michigan in the three-quarter mile run in 3:12.8. Tully, along with Colver, Prosche and Muening finished second in the distance medley.
In the hurdles, Notre Dame’s only in- I dividual place winner was Bill O’Neil, j who copped fifth place in the 65-yard highs but an Irish team of Walsh, Enttrikin, McConville and O’Neil took third ; in the 240 yard shuttle hurdles.	<
Vossburg went on to garner third place. in the pole vault after teammate Struble!
1 < c
1 I ( A 1 t 1 X t s t
I 1: n g b
I I
xx a fi f< h t< xx E 21
si s< a] f<
12
Ilf
0,1 Successful Week-end I (
•r riangle-Meet at Illinois
LCK
;tic"
cGRANE
□oris Writer
er j’s he it-ip ed
ne n-lio le. ve in g-
st, in
2S,
>e-
el-vo id, :e-2S, ilf .8. er ile rd th
up in .8. nd ce
n-
n-
rd ;
ce.
ile^
a
had gone out with a sprained ankle, the result of a bad fall.
The squad returned to South Bend on Sunday with a satchel full of the fine wallets which were given as prizes. They are stamped with the University of Michigan seal and with the name of the event for which each was awarded.
Irish Annex No. 13 By Topping Seahawks, 51-38
After trailing the Iowa Pre-Flight School Seahawks much of the first half, Notre Dame’s highly successful cage team tightened its defense and threw its offense into high gear to sweep past the startled Cadets, 51-38. The contest was played Wednesday night on the Irish maples and marked the first appearance of the N.D. squad here since its 79-56 walk-away over Marquette on Jan. 16. In their string of tilts on foreign courts the Blue and Gold beat Great Lakes, Kentucky, Northwestern, and New York while losing only to mighty DePaul. All told, the record now reads 13 victories and four setbacks, two of which have been avenged.
Against the Cadets Johnnie “Scooter” Dee initiated proceedings by potting a lay-up in the first 16 seconds. The phenomenal Billy Hassett, Clem Crowe’s aggressive and fire ball guard, made it 4-0, but in the rapid play that ensued the Hawks soon drew even, and lanky Joe Holland put the lowans in front, 14-12, with 12 minutes gone. Wayne Weaver and Holland collaborated for the next five tallies and the Westerners were comfortably ahead. They stayed in this happy position until Dee brought his club to the fore, 24-23. Holland’s side shot with four seconds remaining sent the Hawks into their half-time advantage of 28-26.
The final 20 minutes saw the Irish shine as they added 25 points to their score while presenting a nearly invulnerable defense that limited the Hawks to four baskets in 37 shots at the hoop in (Continued on page 19)
Hoopsters Trim Violets 66 - 60 Before 18,120
By JOHN FEENEY "Scholastic'' Sports Writer
Clem Crowe’s Notre Dame eagers registered their 12th win of the season last Saturday night as they outplayed and outscored New York University’s not-so-gentle Violets, 66-60, before a turnaway gathering of 18,120 in New York’s huge Madison Square Garden. The N.D.-N.Y. U. clash was the second of a twin bill in the opener of which Brooklyn College romped on St. Francis, 58-41.
Big Vince Boryla, the locals’ brilliant freshman center, and equally classy George Ratterman spearheaded an Irish attack that produced 29 goals from the court and eight from the gift line. Boryla busied the mesh with 11 buckets before going out on personals. He also potted a pair of free tries. Ratterman
George Rattennan
had a similar record with an identical total of 24 points. Next high for the South Benders was Billy Hassett, the blonde basket-bombardier, with five connections from the court and a brace of free-for-nothing efforts. He also left with five personal violations midway in the second half.
The Irish thoroughly surpassed all of N.Y.U.’s attempts in the first and piled up a 42-25 advantage at half time with only their amazing accuracy at the free throw line keeping the Violets in the contest. All told they hit on 20 of 24 while N. D.’s record was eight for ten.
Early in the second period the winners increased their margin to 23 points but when Hassett went out on fouls N. Y. U. staged a fast but futile comeback that netted the Easterners 25 tallies to
N.D.’s 10. Boryla’s loss further crippled the Blue and Gold but 60-54 was as close Howard Cann’s charges were able to press the Irish. In the closing minutes the two quints traded baskets with Notre Dame maintaining its six point guarantee.	.
Al Grenert, N. Y. U. flashy forward, holder of this year’s Garden scoring record—he rammed home 26 against St. Francis—was limited to 11 points; however, team mate Ad Schayes made 16 on five fielders and six charity tosses to pace the losers.
Saturday’s triumph was Notre Dame’s tenth in the 12 games series with the Violets and gave N.D. tenancy of the George Keogan Memorial trophy for another year. The cup is awarded annually to the victor the traditional intersectional battle. Following Saturday’s contest it was presented by Joe Byrne, prominent Notre . Dame alumnus.
Cogers Near Card's End With Marquette on Sot.
After trouncing Iowa Preflight for the second time, Notre Dame’s eagers will continue on tomorrow against the Hilltoppers of Marquette in a meeting at Milwaukee tomorrow night. In going after Bill Chandler’s club for the second time this season, the Irish will not only be out for their second win over the dairyland quintet, having beaten them earlier on the local hardwood, 79-56, but they’ll also be knocking on the door for number 14.
The 20 game card that Notre Dame started out with, hitting the first five foes with a scoring speed which was truly amazing, has now dwindled down to the point where there are only three tussles left—the one tomorrow, Northwestern here a week from Tuesday and then the finale with the University of Detroit in the fieldhouse, March 6.
Marquette, which has been tossed around the midwestern sector without mercy by the big clubs this season, is, nevertheless a formidable threat. Despite Notre Dame’s 29 wins as against ten losses in the long span of years that the series has existed, there have been many occasions when fewer, than five points separated the two teams when the final horn sounded. Last year, after beating the Hilltoppers here, 52-46, the Blue and Gold reciprocated at Milwaukee, losing, 60-43.
Of course, Bill Chandler, Marquette mentor, will heavily count on Bill Jr. and Pedro Prado in the scoring column, as well as Bob Meyer.
13
O~ NROTC Men Await
'JA	Commissions and Degrees
According to latest reports emanating from the U. S. S. Walsh, 85 members of the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps are rated as First Classmen, and are eligible for commissions in the U. S. Navy carrying the rank of Ensign. At the same time, these men have completed requirements of the University sufficient to warrant their receiving the newly created bachelor of naval science degree.
Captain J. Richard Barry, USN, commandant of the local naval station will award the commissions at special ceremonies at a time not yet determined upon by Navy officials. Another academic ceremony under
the supervision of University officials will find seven of the new ensigns receiving degrees from the University in those colleges which the seven entered on their arrival at Notre Dame, eight semesters ago.
After the graduating ceremonies, most of the young ensigns will be at liberty to enjoy a brief leave, after which they will report to their various assignments in the line of duty. -
In 1941, the NROTC was established at Notre Dame, being the first Naval unit on the campus; the first group of ensigns being commissioned in February of 1944.
LEFT TO RIGHT, FIRST ROW: William A. Bracken, Robert L. Pajuc, Robert P. Cronin, Kenneth S. Thomas, Jules J. Cattie, Edward K. Handlan, James W. Braun, John G. Brozo, Harold C. Smith, John J. Elliott, John G. black, Robert K. Griffin, William H. Klem. SECOND ROW: Donald S. Cisle, William A. Pfister, John R. Laver}-, Dennis B. Hartnett, Calvin L. Hendershott, James J. Johnson, Charles R. Turner, John J. O’Brien, Bertram J. Dully, Aloysius J. Wrape, Robert L. Veeneman, Henry A. Hoover. THIRD ROW: James W. Guerin, William F. .Grant, William R. Waddington, Donald L. Fauser, Arthur J. Nolan, Louis F. Lauth, Leland D. Graber, Joseph P. Fisher, Patrick J. Lynn, Jean R. Brauweiler, Robert H. Maurer. John F. McGrane, John J. L. Johnson. FOURTH ROW: Thomas M. Car-mod}-, LeRoy R. Broun, David J. Champion, Robert A. Erkins, Bernard E.
14
Gotta, William M. Clemency, Vincent G. Laurita, Charles T. Hastings, James L. Lamb, Edgar H. Stroot, Thomas F. Mulhern, Francis J. Milligan, William J. Obermiller. FIFTH ROW: John E. Cassidy, Monroe A. Johnson, Don H. Claeys, William R. Wrape, Donald A. Current, John J. Kearney, Francis M-Ahern. Arthur G. Haas, Herbert C. Daiker, Harry E. MacLaughlin, Daniel W. Long, Terry E. Wilson. SIXTH ROW: WiUiam M. Perry, Vernon S. Hecht, Mark A. Cronin, Robert W. Snee, Arthur B. Connors, Joseph D. Usina, Gerard J. O’Brien, Benjamin C. Grosscup, Henry J. Pisanko, John R. Clary, Charles R. Lugton, Harry J. Gilligan, Henry A. Slamin, Arthur C. Hiemenz. SEVENTH ROW: Edw-ard H. Ball, Francis J. Gilligan, David R. Cartwright, William A. Nelson, John R. Kinney, Michael J. Cutt, Robert S. O’Brien, Desmond P. Currier, John A. Kramer, Alfred A. Wade, William J. Emblom, Richard R. Young.
"IN MEMORIAM"
As a result of certain incongruencies between several N.D. V-12 trainees and the U. S. Navy, a few “shipmates” have departed and our ranks have been slight- ’ ly depleted.
In the rehash of the tales answering, “Where is so and so today?” we have:
A picture of Charley Lapp on Company B’s bulletin, captioned, “In mem-oriam—he left his room too often.”
A service star adorns the sturdy oaks of the entrance to Jimmy McTigue’s room. They say that he closed his eyes too often.	.
On one fellow’s door plate is a formal notice: “Gone to the University of Great Lakes for a post graduate course.”
Others simply say that their buddy has been studying pretty hard lately and that the Navy has given him a vacation at the Great Lakes Resort for Battle-tired Sailors.
TWELVE WEEK'S DEFICIENCY LIST PUBLISHED: FINAL EXAMS NEAR
Judging from the length of that deficiency list of the 12 week's grades recently published, the theme “sob” of a whole fistful of guys around here might be:
filtrated, menu. For instance, brightly colored straws have replaced the old dull yellow ones. Every so often a band plays, and everyone chews in time with the rhythm and gulps only between numbers.
Speaking of bands, one of the “most-bestest” and successful organizations to ever attempt to “glamorize” the chow hall food is George Finn and his allcampus band. That is a band to top all other campus bands—past or present, and will be hard to beat in the future.
FEW PERSONALITIES USED BECAUSE OF COLORED FACTS
For quite some time now we have been writing a little column with comments about this and that and have been using most of the time impersonal sailors as characters—any resemblance to persons living or dead is purely coincidental, and all that. The reason for this is not that we want you to think that we figure ou all these bright (?) remarks ourselves; nor are we afraid to give the other fellow a plug. The whole plot is—we’ll reluctantly confess — that we developed a “naughty” habit of slightly coloring the facts, for your amusement, and therefore hesitate mentioning the originator of the idea; besides this, most of our dope echos
from one company and we hate to appear to be playing favorites. Mark Twain’s advice to a young writer eases our conscience quite somewhat: “Young man, first get your facts; then distort them as you please.”
Right now we’ll try to catch up on our debts of gratitude for the ideas and inspirations used in past issues. We don’t remember them all, but Company B’s “Singin’ Sam,” John H. Samson to the Navy, was the basis for “Trainees Follow Limping Cadence Caller.” David “Mac” MacFarlane came forth with the “Snap Course.” He still claims it was better the original way he told it, “obviously a premed,” than the way we had it colored. And of course this column will be at a complete loss for copy in the absence of the antics of one Charley Lapp, ex-squad leader (because he is tall) of Company B.
ANOTHER SEMESTER ENDS AND WE TAKE A BLOW
We are now going to sign off for about four weeks and take a b(l)ow. Some of you may not return to Notre Dame, in fact, we can't be too positive about what our address will be four weeks hence.
To those who are shoving off for new “pastures” (perhaps some may be a little damp), we wish lots of luck where-ever you are going, and hope the chow is as good there as it is here. Thanks for your company; we enjoyed it; hope we meet again.
To those who will return to the bitter battle of Notre Dame after a few days recuperation: “Be seein’ you!” We’ll probably all be in the same “boat,” the good ship Dillon hall of Notre Dame.
Wai- conditions compel Indiana University to abandon plans for formal celebration of its 12-5th. anniversary this year.—Associated Collegiate Press
The iveeks are passing, The headaches I’ve got. The weeks are passing, And I am not.
DIGESTION OF CHOW HALL FOOD AIDED BY "GLAMORIZED" DIVERSION
The digestion of the chow hall food has been a long standing problem, not because it isn’t the best, but trainees insist on gulping it down in typical chow hall fashion, without really chewing or tasting it.
The chow hall girls furnish some diversion whenever they start a fight or break a glass. But lately special efforts have been made to “glamorize” eating without changing the iron-clad, and in-
15
Qfneen
AFTER THE BALL
Well, the K. of C. Ball is over; the • queens have departed; and the Knights, so everyone readily admits, put on a real, honest-to-goodness party—the best civilian affair in many a moon. Only the bills are yet to be paid.
It is too bad that more of us did not support the project; for the Scholastic is given to understand there will be no more treats on the grand scale for the very good reason that there are not enough civilians in school who are sufficiently interested to support a gala, A-l evening, with a first-rate orchestra. The K.C.’s are to be commended for their mighty effort to elevate the taste of the civilian group. We, on the other hand, are to be censured for our failure to support the only Ball attempted. Frankly civilians are quick to suggest, but slow to cooperate. Obviously, we, as a group, are not capable of the Notre Dame dance tradition. Any thing over and beyond the $1.20 per evening “Hop” is above our taste and interest—which is hardly complimentary.	.
Let no one charge that our social life is denied opportunity of expression. We confess it is indifference, rather than a lack of opportunity. And we regret this shoddy departure from the old N.D. way of life—a way that begot both pride and participation in first-rate dances.
We commend the Knights for their valiant effort, and their pride in Notre Dame tradition and way of doing things. It is a pity that the others did not support them, thereby displaying a lack of both taste and interest in a project that deserved much better consideration from all civilians.
❖
CLOSING THE BOOKS
Chalk up another semester on the calendar and let it go at that. Some of us have contemplated graduation for a long time but have given up in despair. However the “chosen few” will escape once and for all on the 28th of this month.
Not only will such characters abdicate Sorin Hall but along with this graduation many downtown “clubs” will go into bankruptcy. Who will eat at Rosie’s if Joe Walker, Jack Lawson, and Bob Morrissey can no longer provide entertainment for the gala throngs. Another “club” will be disabled without the aid of Frank Fitzgibbon to promote business. Fitz is in and out of there more often than Eleanor is in and out of the White House. Boob Sinkle feels like forgotten Fala when Fitz is not around and about. No matter who may suffer. Can you imagine George’s on a Saturday night without Bill O’Connell and Ted Ryan raising the rafters. And if the dining hall gals throw potatoes at you this week, it’s only because they are mad because Johnny Fleaka is graduating. John is to the dining hall gals, what Sinatra is to the rest of the bobby sockers. So to the aforementioned gang plus Vince Cushing, John Roscher, Bob Oberfell, Dick Ames and Pat O’Brien, the “Banner” says “Here’s good fortune, good luck and Godspeed.”
As a result of graduation, there will once more be weeping and wailing over at St. Mary’s. Last semester as a parting gesture to Jim Casey, one gal held her teeth in her hand and gnashed them furiously as the mascara dripped from here eyelashes. Others who cared not for Jim’s caustic comments made him dance with each of the hostesses. Such Torture! So be carefull, Sunday, lads, lest you forget and follow the St. Mary’s—“This Way” signs. After four years though,
Interhall in Finals
of Boxing, Handball
Interhall activities give no promise of a story this week. The basketball tourney is history, and handball has progressed slowly, although it had a tendency to speed up during the past week. The tourney will have reached the semi-finals by tomorrow, if all goes well.
As is the case in handball, the results will not be available for this final issue, but in the first issue of the next term, a complete list of results for events which were completed during the recess will appear, as will a list of the novice boxing winners. And don’t forget, early next term there will be the Bengal Bouts.
how can you forget. They should linger forever in scrap books as “Memories and Nightmares of a Lifetime.”
SIGHT OF THE WEEK
Mr. Ford pointing an accusing finger at the head chef and crying; “Who killed Cock Robbin?”
“Superb” was the good word of the lads who took in the K. of C. Ball last week. The gals as usual had to beg, borrow or steal to get here. They arrived on everything from coach to baggage car. One gal, came via Railway Express. There were a lot of blind dates from St. Mary’s and after the dance, Notre Dame imported 50 seeing eye dogs, trained to be indifferent to the scent of “Follow Me” as worn by the Dixie Belles.
The time has come to dust off the books and maybe even open them. Bill Gran-field has gone back to his old love.... The racing game. He is now engaged in racing to catch up on his law briefs and bringing up ponies by the millions; Exams are nothing more than the calm before the storm (I keep telling myself) and better days are coming.
To all the guys and gals who have taken a ribbing here and there throughout the past semester, we hope there’s no hard feelings, ’cause we don’t and never did mean a word of it. It’s all in good fun......HOnest!!!!
A 3
16
Six Boxing Finals in Fieldhouse Tonight
The Novice Boxing tournament, in progress for the last four weeks, with practice sessions under the supervision of Specialist J. P. Durdach of the V-12 physical training staff, has reached its final stages with the determining of novice champions in the final bouts, tonight, in the boxing room of the old gym.
Eliminations were conducted last week and semi-final battles saw much spirited action as contenders worked toward berths in the finals. The vigor of the action was especially notable in the heavier weight divisions. Both of the heavyweight semi-finals failed to go the full
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
Brines end social mc» cess depend on youthful, vigorous appearance. Let our trained graduates examine your hair and scalp •••treat the real cause of receding hairline. Free examination. Treatments
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN’,S SHOP
Notre Dame BOOKS for Notre Dame Men
Campus Centenary Publications
An abiding gift with the flavor of the campus. Order today!
NOTRE DAME — 100 YEARS $4.00
COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L. O'DONNELL. C.S.C. $2.50
The Set — $5.00 •
These books mailed in an attractive box. Direct orders to:
PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame, Indiana
distance as Funk of the NROTC stopped Martin and Cash stopped Stolberg. Standout bout of the semis found Sinca-vich outpointing Debevec after three furious rounds. Other spirited bouts saw Polich top Burke in the 155 pound class and Pete Ridge getting the nod from Lou Almasi in the 135 pound class.
The tournament is under the supervision of Dr. Scannell, head of the University department of physical education assisted by Lt. (jg) Brewbaker, V-12 physical training officer. Winners of tonight’s bouts will be awarded silver medals with bronze medals going to the runnersup.
Pairings for the finals:
127 pounds: Ridge (Dillon) vs. Pas-querella (Dillon).
135 pounds: Diamond (Dillon) vs. White (Alumni).
145 pounds: Horty (Zahm) vs. Snider (Breen-Phillips).
155 pounds: Polich (Dillon) vs. Hamill (Dillon).
175 pounds: Sincavich (Breen-Phillips) vs. Gondert (Cavanaugh).
Heavyweight: Funk (Walsh) vs. Cash (Zahm).
Creighton Miller Takes
New Grid Post at Yale
Creighton Miller, erstwhile football star at Notre Dame and All-American halfback in ’43 as a member of the Notre Dame National Champions that year, has accepted a new grid job at Yale University as backfield coach.
He will become assistant- to head coach Howie Odell at the New Haven, Conn., campus and at the same time will take up further law studies at Yale. Miller’s home is in Wilmington, Del.
CONGRATULATIONS!
to the
Notre Dame Graduates
May every success be yours in coming years.
KRAUSS JEWELRY CO.
207 N. Michigan St.
Always a wide selection of attractive gifts.
Old Time Regulations Contrast with Present
BY FRANK BUCKLEY
A change in the living habits and customs of people have been the cause for a much broader outlook of matters of discipline by University officials. This fact has been brought out by the examination of the rules in the Twenty-Second Annual Catalogue of the University. A few of the rules which contrast sharply with present ones are:
1. All the students of this Institution are required to attend the exercises of public worship with punctuality and decorum. They shall assist at Mass on Sundays and Wednesdays. Catholic stu-
• Greeting Cards
• Artists’ Supplies
• Picture Framing
I.	W. Lower Co
DECORATORS
128 North Michigan Street
Sincerest Best Wishes
to the
Notre Dame Graduating Seniors
Best of luck to you, graduates, in the war and then the peace.
Corsages Cut Flowers
WILLIAMS
West of the Oliver Hotel PHONE 3-5149
17
dents shall go to confession every month.
2.	As soon as the bell announces the beginning or end of a college exercise, everyone shall repair in silence to the discharge of that duty to which he is called.
3.	The time of recreation excepted, silence must be inviolably observed in all places.
4-5. Students must show themselves obedient and respectful towards the Professors and Prefects of the Institution—
Appropriate GIFTS for EASTER April 1st
Traditionally .
The place where Notre Dame men meet
Delicious Italian and American Food
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
You'll enjoy our prompt, courteous service and the collegiate atmosphere. Plan to meet your friends here often.
never absenting themselves from the place in which they ought to be, without permission from the proper authority.
6.	Students must carefully avoid every expression in the least injurious to religion, their professors, prefects, or fellow-students.
7.	Students are not permitted to visit private rooms.
8.	The use of tobacco is forbidden.
9.	Compensation for all damage to the furniture or other property of the University will be required from the person or persons causing such injury.
10.	No one shall leave the University grounds without the permission of the president or vice-president.
11.	Whether in class or in recreation, when permitted to converse at table, or during their walks, students should endeavor to improve the purity of their language and cultivate urbanity of manners.	•
12.	No one shall keep in his possession any money, except what he receives weekly from the treasurer on Wednesday at 10 o’clock a.m.
13.	In winter, on Saturday, at 4 o’clock p.m., the students must wash their hair. In summer, this regulation is rendered unnecessary by the rule which requires the students to bathe in common twice a week in St. Joseph’s Lake.
14.	On Sunday and Wednesday mornings, the students must place upon their beds, wrapped up in a bag, their soiled linen of the previous half-week. On Monday mornings, the students of the Senior and Junior departments repair, in ranks and in silence, to their dormitories, whence they take their Sunday clothes and carry them to their trunks. And on Saturday, at half past three o’clock, they go in the same manner to the trunk room and bring their Sunday clothes to their dormitories. The pupils of the Minim department change as often as they find a change on their beds. The Sisters take charge of their wardrobe. The students will be reviewed on Sunday and Wednesday mornings, with special reference to their personal neatness.
15.	Students who may have failed to give satisfaction in the classroom or who
shall have been guilty of a misconduct or breach of rule will be sent to the detention room during recreations or promenades, and required to prepare their lessons, or perform such tasks as shall be assigned to them.
16.	Those students who read sufficient-
For
Notre Dame Men!
The
New Notre Dame Scapular Medal
$1.95
with chain
Beautifully made in every detail by expert workmanship. You'll want one for yourself or as an attractive gift for a friend. Come in today!
Notre Dame
BOOK STORE
Badin Hall
PHONE 3-0678 . for reservations
Notre Dame Jackets	Golf Clubs
Sweat Shirts	Hand Balls
Pennants	and Gloves
SONNEBORN'S SPORT SHOP
121 W. Colfax	Phone 3-3702
18
ly well and audibly. . . . will read for one day. ... at dinner and supper. At the end of each meal, any student is liable to be called upon to give an account of what he has heard read.
17.	Every month, all the students must write to their parents or guardians, and have their letters corrected by the secretary of the faculty previous to their being mailed. All letters sent or received may be opened by the president or vicepresident.	•
Editor’s note: Rules and regulations in the same period at Georgetoivn as featured in the Georgetoivn “Hoya,” were:
1.	“Students are allowed pocket money at a limit of 12 cents per week.
2.	“Those pupils who are addicted to the tobacco habit are requested to cease this habit.
3.	“The daily routine involves rising at 5:30, Mass, and an hour’s study before breakfast, declaiming in Latin or French, frugal meals and lights out at 8:30.”
Twenty ordnance officers of the Chinese Army ranging in rank from captain to colonel, have just arrived at Northwestern university for an 8-week course of training in management and manufacturing methods.—Associated Colle-giated Press.
ROTC CAMPUS CHAMPS (Continued from page 12) gin held in favor of the ROs. After plenty of shots by both sides, shots that never connected although some happily did hit, the score rolled around to being 22-17 at half time with the sailors in command. The civies tightened up things at the outset of the second half and until the cessation of the period, five points was the largest margin at any stage of the third quarter.
Fourth quarter action found the ROs beginning to find the hoop and they rolled away from their foes, limiting them to just four points in the final period, while they were tossing in 18 to run their total to 50 by the time the final gun sounded with losers having only 32.
WELCOME MIDSHIPMEN!
For a pleasant evening, you are cordially invited to visit
The LaSalle Dining Room in the LA SALLE HOTEL
Enjoy dinner music Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday evenings rom 6:30 - 8:00 p. m.; Sundays 12:00 - 3:00 p. m.
In less than two weeks, Gilligan, Wade, Graber, and Harry Cronin, all heavy contributors to this year’s “success” team, will be commissioned as ensigns in the United States Naval Reserve.
IRISH TOP SEAHAWKS (Continued from page 13) addition to two free throws. Chief contributors to the N.D. total during this period were Vince “Bullets” Boryla with nine, Hassett with six, and George Ratterman with five.
High scorer for the evening, however, was Dee who totaled 14 points, 13 before intermission. Boryla and Hassett made 12 and ten, respectively. Ratterman’s production was seven, and Frank Gil-hooley, the other regular, netted five.
Parker - Winterrowd
115^2 N. Main Street (Upstairs)
★ ★ ★
Offers future Officers at Notre Dame the Finest Custom Tailored Uniforms
All Garments Tailored to Your Measure and Fitted in Our Own Fitting Rooms
THE COMMODORE CAP, expressly styled by Parker-Winterrowd, with genuine Beaver crown and 4% gold chin strap, 10 carat gold and silver device, with two Van Husen white crowns, at SI8.50
South Bend's Oldest Custom Tailors
19
NTEPS
FROM THE
sRESS BOX
BY UM BEGAN
Notre Dame’s highest scoring basketball team in history will be attempting to maintain its 60 plus per game average tomorrow night when they face Marquette University in Milwaukee. Not counting the game Wednesday with Iowa Preflight, the Irish had an average of 61.06 points per game, scoring 977 points in 16 games. The record of 1071 points for one season set by the 1942-43 Notre Dame five will certainly be eclipsed by this year’s combine.
Notre Dame does not lack individual scorers either, for Vince Boryla, Johnny Dee and George Ratterman all have averaged above 10 points per game for the first 16 games of the schedule. Boryla is the leader with 244 points, an average of 15.25 points per game. Dee has netted 185 points while Ratterman has scored 176 points. Billy Hassett is fourth in the Irish individual scoring ranks with 141 markers. Boryla needs 50 points in the games against Iowa Preflight, Mar-uette, Northwestern and Detroit to break the single-season scoring mark set by Leo Klier last year of 293 points.
When Vince Boryla and George Ratterman each scored 24 points against N. Y. U. in the Garden last Saturday they nearly tied two records. The modern Notre Dame scoring record for a single game is 26 points set by Bobby Faught in Madison Square Garden in 1942 and tied this year by Boryla. The scoring record for a single game in the Garden this year is also 26 points.
Al Grenert of N. Y. U. is the holder
SILVER’S
RECORD SHOP
106 N. Main—Entrance to J.M.S. Bldg. Phone 2-2424
“Symposium of Swing”.....$3.68
ALBUM—(4 12-inch records).
Commodore ...............$1.65
“Downtown Cafe Boogie’’—“Uptown Cafe Blues”—Edmond Hall Sextet.
“A Good Man Is Hard to Find”— Commodore Jam Session.
Savoy ....................................$ .85 “Body and Soul”—“Talk to Me”— Cozy Cole's All Stars. “On the Sunny Side of the Street”— “Jersey Jump Off”—Cozy Cole’s All Stars.
of this season’s scoring record in the Garden. Besides scoring 26 points against St. Francis, Grenert also scored 19 and 18 points in other Garden encounters. Grenert, a discharged Marine, has been offered a contract by the Boston Red Sox and the Brooklyn Dodgers. He plays shortstop and third base in baseball.
Attending the Notre Dame-New York University game was Lieut. Gregory Rice of the U. S. Merchant Marine, the greatest distance runner developed at Notre Dame. Among other former N. D. athletes at the game were Lieut. Don Smith and Lieut. Tom Jordan, both monogram winners in basketball.
The Notre Dame track team will participate in a tri-meet tomorrow at Champaign with Illinois and Ohio State. The following Saturday the Irish will be host to Purdue and Iowa Preflight. Notre Dame’s team finished in second place behind Michigan last week in the Michigan Relays.
Individuals who placed for Notre
IFAcm you’re down-town . . .
Books
Stationery Greeting Cards Gifts
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment

114 South Michigan Street
Flowers for Every Occasion . . .
Always appreciated on any occasion is a gilt of beautiful flowers. You'll always find here a wide selection of cut flowers, corsages, and potted plants.
South Bend
Phone 3-8227
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. .For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
20
Dame were Bill Tully, second in the % mile run; George Sullivan, first in the shot put; Joe Kelly, third in the shot put; and Vosberg, third in the pole vault. The distance medley relay team of N. D. finished second. The 40 yard shuttle hurdle relay quartet and the one mile relay team finished third. The one relay team of the Irish to break the tape first was the %-mile team of Jones, Provost, Janson and Murphy.
Last week Columbia defeated Fordham 73 to 58 in a game played with three proposed rule changes in effect. The changes were: three points for a field goal scored from 21 feet from the basket or beyond; two points for a foul shot, if player takes option of shooting free throw from 21-foot line; and widening of the foul lane from six to 12 feet thus limiting the value of height under the basket because of the three-second rule.
The changes were met with some approval but the only rule which appears to have any possibility of acceptance is the widening of the foul lane. The changes in the scoring rules will probably be rejected because they place too much emphasis on individual play thereby detracting from team play.
DuPont Company Offers Research
Fellowships to 35
Thirty-five postgraduate fellowships at 29 universities are offered by E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. for the academic year of 1945-46, it was announced here today. Five of the fellowships are in chemical engineering and 28 in chemistry.
Two changes have been made in the fellowship plan this year. First, in order to equalize the value of fellowships
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE
at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
among the various universities, where tuition rates differ, the company is paying the tuition in addition to the stipend. And second, the amount of the stipend has been increased from $750 to $1000.
IT'S ADLER'S for ARROWS
AHen, Co-.
ON THE CORNER... MICHIGAN 4 WASHINGTON
Homer Flunked Out!
NO wonder...he couldn’t keep up with his assignments. His domestic duties kept him too busy!
Homer’s chief trouble was buttons ... unfaithful, elusive little perforated disks that kept coming off his shirts (which weren’t Arrows). While other guys burned the midnight oil, Homer spent his time nimbly thimbling a needle.
Homer should have known about Arrow Shirts with anchored buttons! They never come off! They’re as permanent as the fine style and fit of all Arrow Shirts. $2.24 up.
Arrow Ties too! $1 and $1.50.
Women as well as men are eligible, and selection of the recipients and the subjects of their researches are left to the universities. Holders of these fellowships are not restricted in any way in their
Use our lay-away plan.
FSHIKTS gWTIESq
21
choice of position when the fellowship expires.
It is expected that a number of veterans, returning to school after discharge from the armed services, will be eligible for the fellowships this year.
Eight universities were added to the fellowship list this year and the subjects in which the fellowships are offered follow: Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute, chemistry; Carnegie Institute of Technology, chemical engineering; University of Indiana, chemistry; University of Iowa, chemistry; University of Nebraska, chemistry; University of Notre Dame, chemistry; University of Rochester, chemistry; and University of Texas, chemistry.	.
The other universities and the fellowships to be granted at each are as follows: Columbia University, one each in chemistry and chemical engineering; Massachusetts Institute of Technology, one each in chemistry, chemical engineering and physics; University of Chicago, one each in chemistry and physics; University of Michigan, one each in chemistry and chemical engineering; University of Wisconsin, one each in chemistry and chemical engineering.
One fellowship in chemistry is being offered at each of the following: California Institute of Technology, Cornell
University, Harvard University, Johns Hopkins University, Northwestern University, Ohio State University, Pennsylvania State College, Princeton University, Purdue University, Stanford University, University of California, University of Illinois, University of Minnesota, University of Pennsylvania, University of Virginia, and Yale University.
Lt. Northrop Leaves
Lieut. James H. Northrop, chief of naval personnel, has recently received his orders which transfer him to the V-12 unit at Bethany College, Bethany, W. Va. Lieut. Northrop will be the new executive officer at Bethany College upon his arrival there.
Lieut. Northrop entered the service on April 26, 1943 and was sent to Fort Schuyler indoctrination school in the Bronx, N. Y. Since that time, he has seen mine sweep and convoy duty in the Atlantic, Mediterranean, and Caribbean.
Lt. Northrop, whose home has been in Babylon, L. I. is married and has one child.
Highlands university students last year borrowed an average of 13.39 library books as compared with a national average of 12.—Assoc. Collegiate Press
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 X M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON, M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, d.d.s.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D. D. s.
PETER J. ROSE, D. D. S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.
SOUTH BEND, IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING
PHONE 3-2574
Let’s all refresh... Have a Coca-Cola
... or being friendly along the way
The camaraderie of the open toad is slimmed up in the words Have a Coke. At stops, everyone steps up to the familiar red cooler for the friendly refreshment of ice-cold Coca-Cola. Wherever you go, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,—a. symbol of friendly refreshment.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
22
N. D. Receives Sports Broadcasters' Award
Head Coach Ed McKeever and University publicity director, Walter Kennedy, returned to the campus this week, after being in the East on University business, during which time they accepted the presentation of the Sports Broadcasters’ Association award to the college having the best radio facilities and public relations service.
120 Voices for Long Tom
Walter Kennedy
The award was made at a luncheon meeting of the Association at the Hotel Capitol in New York City. Stan Lomax of New York, president of the organization, made the presentation and both Mr. McKeever and Mr. Kennedy spoke in accepting the honor for the University.
The University of Cincinnati observatory was the first erected in the United States with public funds.—Associated Collegiate Press.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan.St. Phone 4-8251
10NG TOMS — blasting unseen targets — are
J directed by voices flashing through this artil- "' leryman’s radio telephone "switchboard.” His FM set can operate on 120 crystal controlled channels, any ten selected instantly by push-buttons. Using its many channels,he connects the battalion commander with spotters up front and in planes; then with battery commanders who focus tremendous firepower. He’s helping soften the hard road ahead.
As the nation’s largest producer of communications and electronic equipment, Western' Electric turns out vast quantities of telephone, radio and detection devices for all branches of our armed forces. Many college graduates—men and women — are helping us put these weapons in our fighters’ hands.
Buy all the War Bonds you can-—and keep them!
& Western Electric
|5| IN PEACE...SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR THE BELL SYSTEM. Fvl IN WAR.".ARSENAL OF COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.
23
Chesterfield
Here you sit
and in I walk and say
And that’s a mighty happy picture. Chesterfields never fail to fit in with your plans ... to add to your pleasure.
Chesterfield’s exceptional Mildness, Better Taste and Coolness arc built on the only foundation you can depend on in a cigarette . . .
RIGHT COMBINATION * WORLD’S BEST TOBACCOS
Copyright 1915, Liggett & Mi ers Tobacco Co.