·-.:.' 
-:.·1:-:~­
f. 


' . ./
·r 
t<. 
~ 
<. 
Scholastic Hall Representatives 
Breen-Phillips,  Sarah McGrath  Stanford,  Mike Dugan  ~owa.rd,  
Cavanaugh,  . Dan Mulholland  Zahm,  Jeff Mousseau  Lyons,  
Farley,  Kate Meagher  Alumni,  Mike Cassidy  Morrissey,  
Flanner,  Bob Castello  Badin,  Katie Moo\ Pangborn,  



Grace, Greg D'Alessandro Carroll, · Jay McCann Sorin, John Nicholi~ Fisher, Joe Wehner Dillon, Greg Higgins Walsh, Amy Se~J.. 
'. -·~t 
. ,·:1

Lewis, Patti Kozlovsky Holy Cross, Jim McConnell 
·~:~-i;:{ 
; 
' _·)'.'; 
. 4 
t ~It· 
·:_1:-;.:. 
t.../i, 
-;:,":/:
--~~ 
L 
I j.
,,.
: / j; . . t\ 
i 

i. 
•';; ; 
1.;,,;. ..,., ' 

Wanted: 
Ambitious individuals to fill 
illustrious positions on 
our layout staff 
Call: 
Chuck Wood, 8421 
Tina Terlaak, 277-0799 
2 
Scholastic: is Seeking 
A new busine~s manager for the second semester. If interested leave your name... and 
/ 

number at the Student Activities Office, LaFortune Center 
Editor 
chuck Wood 
A5sistant to the Editor 
Anthony Walton 
Managing Editor 
Jim Sommers 
production Manager 
Clay Malaker 
Layout Editor 
Tina Terlaak 
Art Director 
Michael Gazzerro 
photography Editor 
Eileen O'Meara 
News Editor 
:Andrew Jwerneman 
'Fiction Editor 
Mark Traverso 
'copy Editors 
"baniel Moore ·oonna Teevan 
Culture Editor 
Ken Scarbrough 
Sports Editor 
Tom O'Toole 
St. Mary's Editor 
Mary Pigott 
Business Manager 
Rosemary Abowd 
Distribution Manager 
Joe Pheifer 
Staff 

Cathy Chopp, Denise Grether, Lois Ken­nedy, Bill Kolb, Teresa Reichert, Mike Zusi, Mark Sullivan, John Davenport, Dan Kevsal, Mary Link, Shelly Hendrickson, lizann Welk, Jeny Kucenic, Shea Watkins, Susan de Carvalho, Barbara Bridges, Anne Barsanti, Ed Kelly, Brian Crouth,. Pat Call ans 
Illustrations: p. 6, Giselle Batacan p. 9, 10, 
Kay Tepas; p. 11, Andy Poorrit; p. 1s, Jeff Ripple; p. 17, Marc Murphy; p. 36, Michael Molinelli 
Photographs: p. 7, Sue Thornton; p. 11, 13, Christine McCrory, P. S.; p. 14, Sue Thorn­.ton; p. 22, 23, Peter Romzick, C.S.; p. 24, 25, Eileen O'Meara; p. 27, Mark Gerson; 
p. 29, Eileen O'Meara; p. 31, Scholastic Archives; p. 32, 33, D.G.; p. 37, Christine ~cCrory; p. 38, Christ Kennedy; p. 39, Eileen O'Meara 
Front Cover: Christine McCrory Back Cover: Eileen O'Meara; Scholastic Archives 
Advisory Board Elizabeth · Christman Mario Pedi, James Robinson, Doug Kin~ey 
:N"OVEMBER 



SCHOLASTIC 
Vol. 122, No. 3, November, 1980 Notre Dame, IN 
FEATURES 
4  Photo Essay/Volunteer Services  Eileen O'Meara  
6  Rich Man, Poor Man-And Those In Between  Fr. Austin Fleming  
11  Controversy over Catholicism  Andrew J. Zwerneman  
14  Nuclear Strategy for the 80': Countervalue vs. Counterforce  Nikolas Nikas  
24  Paul Roche: The Orchestration of Language Towards Maximum Perception  Elizabeth Blakey  
36  Behind Bars-A True Confession  Debbie Elliot  
37  Throating It Out  Donna Teevan  


REGULARS 
8 Perspective/Is There Still a Foundation for Hope? Kay Tepas 16 Fiction/Under the Ornament Mark Traverso 18 Poetry/Frustration/Self Termination Roses Have Thorns Joe Pheifer 19 Fiction/An Epiphany in Brooklyn Fran Cryan 
20 Gallery Francoise Poinsatte 22 Sports/"Concrete" and "Stoney'': A "HARD" Act to Catch . Tom O'Toole 26 Books/Rites of Passage . Ken Scarbrough 29 Books/Religion and Philosophy: Collected Essays Prof. Edward McGlynn Gaffney, Jr. 30 Cinema/Ordinary People, Extraordinary Performance Liz Ann Welly Keith Caughlin 
32 Music/Springsteen: Worth the Wait 39 The Last Word Chuck Wood 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student body. 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published monthly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $7.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. copyright © 1980 Scholastic / all rights reserved I none of the contents may be repro­duced without permission. 




. ,-.[


Volunteer 


Locations
of some 
Notre Dame-

St. Mary's College 
Volunteer Work: 
(clockwise from 
top right), 

Sr. Marita's Primary 
Day School, 

South Bend Convalescent 
Home, Cardinal 
Nursing Home, 
logan Center, 
Sr. Marita's 
Primary Day 
School. 

N"OVEMBER 


~ 
Rich Man Poor Man 




And Those In Bet\'veen 


C· 
I 
Once there was a rich man who dressed in purple and linen and feasted splendidly every day. At his gate lay a beggar named Lazarus who was covered with sores. Lazarus longed to eat .the scraps that fell from the rich man's table. The dogs even came. and licked his sores. Eventually the beggar died. He wa.;s carried by angels to the bosom of Abraham. The rich man lilcewise died and .was buried. Fr<YTn the abode ,.
•·· of the dead where he u;as in torment, he raised his eyes ancl saw Abraham 
afar off, and Lazarus resting in his bosom. 
l (Luke 16:19-22) 
The baptized know this story well. The contrasting images carve them­selves deep within us: the diseased flesh of a beggar, the finery of pur­ple and linen; desperate hunger, daily feasts; a gutter for a bed, a porticoed home. The images are keen, cutting through with double­edged precision. The tale's real craft lies in the subtle invitation to iden­tify with one of its characters. Rich man, poor man? 
Our first inclination is fo identify with Lazarus. He is obviously the winner and to him belongs the happy ending. We shrink back, in horror, for his oozing sores, but are naturally drawn to the peaceful re­ward of his suffering. Yet, a nagging voice within demands, "How can you identify with the reward if you re­ject the suffering?" Efforts to ignore the inner voice are suppressed by the rich man's fate. What to do with this business of suffering? What is my claim to identity with Lazarus' poverty? 
"Well, I don't dress in purple or linen!" (The worn collar above my alligator shirt becomes a badge of honor.) "Feast splendidly every day?" (Dear God, please join me for lunch in the south dining hall...) "My checking account is overdrawn and the bills are piling up. There's a good chance I'll be unemployed next summer! Me? Rich? Hey, you wanna see wealth? I'll show you were the 
6 
bucks are! Take a ride down Madi­son Ave. or Rodeo Drive. Read People magazine. Check out those industrial tycoons and oil barons. That's where the real money is. Me? I'm sweatin' this economy just like everyone else. I'm just a poor slob trying to get an education so I can make a living some day. Charity be­gins· at home and I need some as much as the next guy."
* * -x--* 

For many of us poverty and wealth are states of being relative to the life-style we presently enjoy. We readily spot the very wealthy; the media parade them before us daily. As long as there exists a class 
,-¢_. 
of folks with wallets fatter than o{i own, we perceive ourselves as tliej "poorer than." Our fantasy of wealthz collides with the reality of b~ statements, and the dividend :ii} envy; the comparative form droP,5,; its suffix, and we are left with .t~j absolute: poor. :Jf In locating ourselves on the poofi to-wealthy scale, we tend to trai~) our vision on those who have mort than we. "Richer than" becomes our, point of refer~nce arid compariso_1ff The·situation is ironic and deceptiv.e;, we quickly name the wealthy fe'),{ and fail to recognize the millions g~ poor. , . .--, None of us is ·destitute and few ~t 
SCHOLAS~ 
;·:;::; 
"~,:ii 

us are millionaires. We form that great midsection whose anatomical counterpart creeps over the belt line of so many Americans. That paunch is a symbol of moderate amounts of guaranteed work supplying food and !Jeer to spare. Master Charge bills and dining hall food notwithstand­ing, we must admit to tipping the scales on the side of wealth. One hundred percent wool or K Mart polyester; Moonraker or McDon­ald's; plush single or crowded quad­in the global village we are clothed, fed and housed daily with nary a care for the 'morrow. The truth be told, we are more kin to the rich man than to Lazarus.,.. 
* * * * 
The parable now becomes a pre­dicament. We are faced with the single alternative. of identity with the rich man and his tortuous re­ward. Suddenly the dynamic is in reverse. While we are tempted by the comfortable life, we have no taste for eternal flames. A desperate voice inquires from within, "Can't we make a case for the rich man? Was he really such a bad guy?" Let's re­view the evidence. 
Ladies and gentlemen of the jury: wealthy man who lived, admittedly, a comfortable life. The evangelist is also witness to a certain beggar named Lazarus who lay at this man's gate. Further testimony reveals that Lazarus had his eye on the scraps which fell from the rich man's table. 
Ladies and gentlemen of the jury: the prosecution has offered no proof that the rich man ever met Lazarus or even knew of his existence! A man of wealth with a fine home most likely employed a household staff to insure his own comfort and leisure. Is it unreasonable to suggest that the servants would shelter their master from the sight of a leprous beggar? Certainly they would clear the gate area of such trash as the master came to and from his home! Luke tells us that Lazarus "longed for the scraps" of the rich man's feasting. I suggest that the hired help did indeed offer these leftovers to the poor man if only to quiet a beggar's complaint. Should we not consider that the shade of the mas­ter's gate and the scraps from his table helped Lazarus to live as long as he did? 
In conclusion I ask you, 'Can we, beyond a shadow of a doubt, convict a man of neglecting a beggar when no evidence has been introduced to even suggest a relationship between the defendant and this starving
leper?' 
* * * * 

Perhaps a court of law would vin­dicate the rich man. Let us leave that decision to law school haunts. Our case is being heard in the gospel forum where culpability is a some­times fine and subtle decision. The gospel holds us accountable for those we see and for those who live beyond and outside our immediate line of vision. We are responsible not only for our relationship with others but also for the systems and struc­tures which enable or prevent us from serving others. Societal struc­tures nourish or inhibit the flower­ing of justice; we are the architects and maintenance personnel for these structures. Churchill once noted that we build buildings and then they be­gin to shape our lives. 
The rich man's attorney presented a well-argued case but it falls apart in confrontation with the gospel's law of love. The God of Christians is a Father of mercy; he is also the "Lord who hears the cry of the poor." Thus, the objections are over­ruled, the verdict sustained: guilty as charged. 
Nothing new or startling has been revealed in these reflections. The analogies drawn have been as bold and as simple as the parable itself. Circumstances have changed little in 2,000 years. The rich get richer and the poor get poorer. We are the ones who never worry about surviving this .day's hunger; the choices of tomorrow's menu will sustain us. The structures of our community serve us well and perhaps too well. Are we sheltered from human lives wracked in pain? Who longs for the scraps of our feasting? Do we know who lies at our gates? 
Nothing new here, just the old gospel story. We baptized know this story well. Do you remember its conclusion? 
From his torment in Hades the rich man cried to Abraham, "Father, I beg yo11., to send Lazarus to my father's house since I have five broth­ers, to give them warning so that they do not come to this place of torment too." "They have Moses and the prophets," said Abraham, "7,et them listen to them." "Ah no, father Abraham," said the rich man, "but if someone comes to them from the dead, they will repent." Then Abra­ham said to him, "If they will not listen either to Moses or the proph­ets, they will not be convinced even if someone should rise from the dead." 
(Luke 16:27-31) 0 
Fr. Austin Fleming is an associate di­rector of campus ministry. 
7 
i -­


.··• r1r~-;~i~~..1
-rn1i
' .T""'l "-/'; 
·1:::1:]tJ ~rr
-:, J:,r
I . ·. .,. 
i \~:ff": 
l , ;_ r-,
i 

I . 
l :' .:. :1:·: 
!,!,lit
,1,}?1:t 
~, ·} r.l~Id :0 l 



~t~t 
lt 11 1 
·t.i ~~ 
1jH., ... ~ 
:M ~I
''l ~i 

~~-~~l

iji-~'. 
'if 

, · :~it\ •'iH 
,1 .• ' ).: ,, 
.\u:J! ~i,;
:•f' ~1.j.. 
-i~~;tr·
· .'u,vpl



:\'ti:i~
._r--,,.1.. ~~c,._..i_.-i .: ::! 
{ ::--·: 
'I 
.! 
Ii 
j! ! 
\ 
' 
l 

} 
t-~..1 
g·,
,'.! 
i{ 
}i 
~· 
lt~, 
f 
~i 


:.; 
1.·,, 
. '. ~-1 



Is There Still a Foundation for Hope? 
-One out of every five human beings lives in absolute poverty, leading a life "so limilecl by mal­nutrition, illiteracy, disease, high infant mortality, and low life ex­pectancy as to be below any ra­tional definition of human de­cency." 
-Incidents of terrorism related to political purposes have risen 400% since 1970. 
-2.4 billion people, over half the world's population, still do not have access to clean water:* 
Bit by bit my wall of optimistic hope for the future of mankind, which I had erected in my childhood, has crumbled. The wall kept in all the goodnes::. I saw in my surround­ings and blocked out any misery or hate that might lurk in the world. It was easy to be joyful and full of hope as I grew up in American sub­urbia, living in the big house that Dad built with my six siblings. I as­sumed that all fathers got raises like my father and that all nations got bigger and better like my suburb did. I first questioned progress when a bulldozer took away the field where I used to feed chopped apples to soft­muzzled horses. But the fresh homes soon filled with young families ex­cited to have made it to the wealthy suburb on the lake -and this meant new friends for me. 
I grew up to have a fierce patriotism for my country, the land where all men's dreams could be fulfilled and anybody could be president. America was the biggest, best, and strongest of all nations and we were growing 
8 

bigger, better, and stronger every day -or so my grade-school texts and the TV commercials seemed to say. Wars and death were not considered, because they had not pierced my wall and entered my private world. It was a long time before I under­stood Vietnam and even though the Kent State riots took place less than two hours away, I had always as­sumed they were someplace very dis­tant, like California. 
A few spatters of ugliness did stain my edifice: the gun salute to J.F.K.'s death; my third-grade teach­er's cry when she learned that "they got dear Bobby too!"; Sherry's tears on gym .day because Nancy called her an elephant and would not pick her for the team; and the discovery that Rose did not have a father be­cause her parents hated each other and had gotten a divorce. 
When I worked with a Glenmary missionary in the most impoverished area of my state for 22 days the stones began to fall. I saw an 80­year-old woman living in a foul­smelling shack half-obscured by weeds. She had no running water or electricity and could hardly walk. Another family's home had been burnt to the ground, their chickens poisoned and their cows shot because the family's skin was black. A 13­year-old runaway confided to me that her mother hated her and had given her fifty dollars to disappear. I would not believe that any mother could hate the child she had nur­tured within her womb for nine months. But when I met the mother I was chilled to realize that the child spoke the truth. 
It has been during my last four years, while being educated at Notre 
0 

by Kay Tepas 
Dame with a major in social work· that my wall of childish hopes com­pletely caved in. I chose social work . as a career because I thought that social workers could put the world back together again. I no longer can believe that. In the first chapter cii my first social work text I learned that the whole United States welfare system was created in response to; the breakdown of the family. Thiif breakdown is illustrated by grand~: parents living in nursing homei,• young children going to day-care cen:.; ters, divorced parents fighting ovef their children, and unwed mothe# raising their fatherless babies. Th( breakdown is also revealed in the! rejection of traditional·family strucf tures and the inability of parents to: pass on their moral value systems;: Later, when I did internships withi~' the United States social aid systemt I was frightened to see how little th_e government tax money made up fofi the lack of family. Even if the social. services were enough to meet the' basic material needs of the recipients,: they had great difficulty making up) for .the love and security families_1 once provided. ;' 
In other classes I lost my bling; trust of the rest of the Americaii system. Watergate and white-collat crime, followed by the dirt dug up; against the Kennedys caused me tot wonder if there was ever a righteou~; politician. Politics appeared quite confusing and I pondered whether: big business, the press or the speec~,: writers ruled the United States/ Maybe anybody can still grow up to, be president (if they are rich enougij:'. and are in the right party at the~ right time), but I do not want to be: president anymore. I also learned 
LC 
SCHOLASTIC 


that capitalism has a few flaws, one of them being the necessity for con­tinual growth and expansion. The trick is to convince people they need \\'hat they do not need to keep the money flowing. A manufacturer will even intentionally build a defect into his product so the consumer will have to buy a new one in a few years. The capitalist system will crash eventually when its need for continual growth encounters a limit. 
Now I am learning that all the "altruistic" aid our nation gives to the developing nations has strings attached. We intend to benefit both economically and politically from the money we dole out. In fact, many of the countries we give aid to are un­grateful if not antagonistic toward us. Not everybody loves America as the hostage situation too vividly il­lustrates. The aid itself is only 0.22% of our national GNP at $4.8 billion a vear. We spend six times that much on alcoholic beverages ($30.9 bil­lion) .-:f 
The inequity statistics, growing 
dissatisfaction of the developing countries and their obtainment of nuclear weapons indicate that we may soon have a disaster on our hands. That is, if lhe national prob­lems of energy shortages, pollution, unstable economics, rising crime rates and the deterioration of the family do not destroy America first. As one of my professors said after a very depressing lecture which high­lighted the tensions and problems in the world -"It is only by the grace of God that we have maintained our precarious balance and not plunged into ruin long ago." 
Looking at the monstrosity of a mess we have created for ourselves, I strain my brain to think of a true solution. The only one I can think of which can completely solve the so­cial, political and economic confusion of our time is charity: the second greatest commandment of Christ. If men could learn to love one another selflessly our problems of war and starvation would dissolve. If man­kind's hearts would undergo a mas­
sive attitudinal change as com­manded by Christ, this world would experience some real "progress." 
A11 interesting side benefit of this solution is lhat the givers will re­ceh·e along with the recipients of the ch:-trity. By loving, a man can gain some meaning and purpose in life. I must believe that my life has worth before I can continue living. Knowing that I added joy to an­other's life-be it by baking choco­late chip cookies for my brother Joe or listening to a frail old woman tell me with pride about her son-gives me a sense of importance. It feels very good to know that I may be needed by another in this world. 
The only problem with my all-en­compassing solution t0 the world's problems is that it does not look like it will ever happen. I am painfully aware of how difficult it is to get just one person (myself) to start loving others as Christ loved me. I can hardly forgive my sister for grabbing the biggest piece of birth­day cake, and cannot envision for­

9
N'OVEMBER 
C,1 




II :rs•~r!


f;{!
11 

: ~I' I
I I 

I I ~ I·! I
I ·-. l{ -~ 
•, i.~-. ~~ 
. -I'/, ..:
; -. . \.' r:
I, ,•'y•!J 

:(i1l
1f 
i!1ll 
/{1 ·. :l~ 
, ' ,,,, >! " l1 

;:; / ;J ,: -~; a .i 't' ·f t
Ufi
, i~1 ~h-1 r:lttr-_;
::l?-'.r~I: i 
-L:f':'H: i 
/d;/1;; -.-:I 
:i / ,:~, : , -~; 



g1vmg someone who would crucify me unjustly. I believe there are many people who desire to be loving, but if they are anything like me, charity usually comes after eating two meals a day, seven hours of sleep, being prepared for classes and getting in some good wholesome rec­reation. I volunteered to tutor fresh­man year but quit because it was interfering with studies and the all­famous -"I was not getting any­thing out of it." If I could love self­lessly it would not matter whether or not I received anything back in return. 
The type of love needed to patch up the world requires the willingness to reduce myself to the bare mini­mum of material existence (if that much). Like the widow in the gos­pels I need to be able to give up my last penny. And furthermore, I need to be willing to step up on the cross to help the worst of my enemies. If my hope is to be in man's ability to love his fellowman, mankind's his­tory of war and greed and my in­grained selfishness indicate that my hope is slim indeed. 
However, I am not giving up on the world quite yet. I am just taking man off his pedestal and examin­ing my Christian faith further. Christ commanded us to love. Would Christ command the impossible? In one sense of the word . . . Yes! Christ commanded Lazarus to rise from the dead. The fact that Lazarus was obedient cannot be explained through Lazarus' own powers (how much power can a dead man have?), but through the power of God. Like­wise when we are commanded to love one another we must humbly admit the impossibility of such a response on our own and call upon our God's strength. (It is not all that absurd to compare the human race to a dead man.) 
I have come to see that Christian­ity is much more than a value sys­tem. God did not send His Son to the earth just to say, "Love your neighbor" and then ascend back into heaven. For the Jews already knew that they had to love their neighbor (Leviticus 19:18). It is true, how­ever, that Jesus Christ gave a new twist to the command by giving the example of the cross as the perfect manifestation of love. But I miss some essential aspects of my faith if I see the cross simply as an ex­ample of the ultimate Christian vir­tues. There is also power and hope in the cross. 
As Christ commanded us to love he also promised to "clothe us with power from on high" (Lk 24:49). For those who are willing to become dead to themselves he promises to make alive in Himself. Christ, God Himself, will live within us and give us the strength (like Lazarus) to do as He commands. The fruits of the spirit which I memorized in grade school: love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, fidelity, gentle­ness and self-control are the mani­festation of God dwelling in power 
.·mt: 
( 
-~.' 
• 'l 
\j 

within those who ask for his pres­ence in their lives. 
This is the key to the miraculous and endless source of love seen in modern-day saints such as Mother Teresa of Calcutta. But I also have found that Notre Dame students like myself can ask for and rely on this same source of strength and power. I used to find some sense of worth in life when I acted "charitably" to­ward someone, until I realized how shallow and small my charity was. 
Now I claim worth because God, for some mysterious reason, loved me enough to create me. If I, by His power and love within me, can self­lessly· love another, it is God's worthiness, not mine, that is proven. ·. 
In the final analysis of myself and . the rest of my fellow human beings · I must conclude that we are indeed . a fallen race. Yet I must not abandon mankind in despair but work to bet­ter the world in any way I can. We must increase our ·acts of service, asking in humility for the wisdom · and strength of God so that these.•· actions may have a lasting effect. In this way it would be "possible" to have enough men die to themselves · on personal crosses and accept God's · power to repair the mess we have· already created. However, I cannot realistically expect this to happen. And even the actions of perfect love· may not be capable of clearing up the environmental problems and the ·. energy shortages, hence I cannot hope to see heaven on earth. Yet I now realize that my Christian faith speaks of another more glorious type . of hope for man. This hope is rooted·•. solely in the mercy of God. Christ embraced the cross, not just to set,c; an example of the virtues we must imitate, but to release us from the.· bonds of our sins because we NEEI> a savior. I have a foundation for a· great hope because "God so loved". the world that he sent his only be-· gotten Son that whosoever believes in Him should not perish, but have · everlasting life" (Jn 3:16) ! 
Bit by bit, as the wall of optimis­
tic hopes erected in my childhood " crumbled, I refounded my hope in the structure erected on Calvary: the cross. For it is the cross that is the perfect example of the necessary virtues. It is the cross that must be · embraced to receive power to love on earth. And finally it is the cross, as an act of God's mercy, that gives us hope for the undeserved eternal life. 0 
*All statistics are from The United States and World Develop­ment Agenda 1980. John W. Sewell and the staff of the Overseas Devel­opment Council. New York:Prager 
. Publishers, 1980. · 
Kay TePas is a senior Sociology/' Social Work major, and would ap­preciate any remarks or concerns re­lated to her article. 
B 
C 
T 
a1 
11'. 11'. 
pl a 
H cl tl g1 
CE 
ol 
aJ 
cc 
pl 
, 
N

SCHOLASTIC '• 
Controversy over Catholicism 
On October 17, Fr. Richard Mc­rien was inaugurated as the rowley-O'Brien-Walter Professor of heology, an endowed professorship t Notre Dame. During the cere­1onies the newly appointed chair­1an of the Theology Department resented a paper entitled "Toward 
Definition of Catholicism: The :ans Kling Case" in which McBrien mllenges the Vatican's handling of 1e ex-Catholic theologian. More :!nerally, he discusses questions con­irning Catholic orthodoxy and Cath­lic identity, and he uses his own :1swers to "complement, refine, and )rrect" Kling's solutions to the roblems facing the Church today. 
It is appropriate that Fr. McBrien :!gin his professorship and chair-
C 
manship at Notre Dame with a paper dealing with this topic. For solving the problem of Catholic identity to­day is at the heart of Fr. McBrien's contribution to the Church. 
Fr. McBrien is perhaps recognized most for his commentaries on Vati­can events for CBS. He is also former President of the American Theologi­cal Society and past recipient of the John Courtney Murray award for distinguished contributions to theol­ogy. Before coming to Notre Dame he was Director of Boston College's Institute of Religious Education and Pastoral Ministry. 
Currently; McBrien is being talked about for his two-volume book, Catholicism. According to Notre Dame Magazine (Oct. 1980) McBrien 

0 

by Andrew J. Zwernerman 
attempts in his book to solve the cur­rent problem of how "to reconcile pre-and post-Vatican II Catholi­cism." 
McBrien has received much praise for his massive work, and some feel 
" ... one of the most important Catholic books published since the Second Vatican Council." 
it is destined to be a classic of our times. Denise Stankovics of The Catholic Transcript and Fr. Alfred McBride of St. Norbert Abbey liken Catholicism to a modern-day Summa. Robert Blair Kaiser of the New York Times describes the book as a grace­ful "dance" through theology and history, and Msgr. George C. Higgins in the Chicago Catholic calls Cathol,­icism "one of the most important Catholic books published since the Second Vatican Council." Other re­viewers such as Fr. Avery Dulles, S.J., in America, Fr. Thomas C. Wid­ner in The Criterion, and Fr. Ray­mond E. Brown, S.S., in.the Chicago Catholic salute McBrien for his style, scholarship, and comprehensiveness. 
Indeed Fr. McBrien's book is a "great" work; Catholicism has al­ready influenced many people, and undoubtedly it will influence many 
more.  However, there  seems  to  be  
some  controversy  surrounding  the  
book.  While  some  reviewers  have  

praised McBrien for his objectivity and for the usefulness of his book to Catholics, others challenge him on these very points. 
For example, Msgr. Higgins says he would be surprised and "deeply disappointed if anyone ... questions Father McBrien's objectivity or ac­cuses him of loading the dice," and Robert Blair Kaiser says "it is evi­dent that Father McBrien's Catholi­cism has 'a radical openness to all truth and every value.' " Others ac­claim McBrien for his ability to present, without bias, all sides of the issues. 
However, in the Sept. 28 issue of the Visitor, Russell Shaw says this about Catholicism: " ... it is a mani­festo. McBrien is usually irenic but hardly impartial. He takes a revi­sionist line on central points of Cath­olic Faith. And Catholicism itself constitutes an extended apologia for a view of theology which would have the effect of conferring teaching authority in the Church upon theo­logians." Earlier, Shaw, who is with the National Conference of Catholic Bishops and the United States Cath­olic Conference (the two official organizations of Roman Catholic Bishops in the U.S.), states that the pendulum-like debate on teaching authority in the Church has swung "in the direction of the theologians. The result has been a movement to accomplish a de facto transfer of teaching authority-from Pope and bishops to academicians. Catholicism exemplifies and celebrates this pro­cess." 
It is on this same point that a. re­cent statement by the Australian Bishops Conference was based. Ca­tholicism was recommended to the Australian Bishops as a medium to be used in Catholic schools. The following was included in the Bish­ops' statement: 
"Catholicism has some strong features, but it also has real weak­nesses. 
For example, it puts side by side two things which cannot be equated: -The Church's authentic teaching. -The opinions of theologians, some of them quite radical ones. 
The result can easily be confusion about what the Church really teaches. 
Therefore, this book needs to be read with discrimination and an alert critical sense. This would require adequate theological training. 
For this reason, we do not recom­
. mend Catholicism to primary or sec­ondary school teachers, even as a reference or resource book. 
For this same reason, we do not 
recommend it to the ordinary lay­
man or laywoman as a book in which 
to look up some point of Catholic 
teaching.'' 

Yet, in an advertisement by the Notre Dame Press Alumni Book Club, Fr. McBrien was asked "why he thought his book belonged in the home of everyone who had already been exposed to one of the leading centers of Catholicism in the coun­try" (Notre Dame). McBrien replied: "My book is an up-to-date compen­dium of Catholic theology that tries to link the past to the present. People who have attended Notre Dame and who are at all serious about their Catholicism should read it." 
McBrien seems to include in his audience a vast range of individuals. Most of them have probably not had "adequate theological training," par­ticularly if they have graduated from Notre Dame in recent years and if they rely on the theological training received while at this University. One might have ignored the statement of the Australian Bishops and claimed that such a foreign proclamation is irrelevant to the Church in America. However, Russell Shaw, who is writ­ing for the Bishops in America, con­firms the Australians' concern. 
It is interesting to note one par­ticular point commonly found in the positive articles about McBrien's book. That is, Catholicism is a book well-suited for and needed in "this time" in the Church's history. For instance, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, President of Notre Dame, says that Catholicism "comes just at the right time. Encyclopedic in character, this book probably could not have been written much earlier than now, but neither could we have afforded to wait much longer for it. The need for such a resource has been growing since the Council, and this book meets that need exactly. Its appear­ance is a significant publishing event. More than that, however, it may be a landmark in the life of the con­temporary Church." 
Indeed, Fr. McBrien's writing in both Catholicism and other works is directed towards solving the prob­lems and issues specifically impor­tant in today's Church. In his article for Christian CENTURY, entitled "The Roman Catholic Church: Can It Transcend Its Crisis?", McBrien 
.•~ 
if 
' 

says "There is no single formula for t Catholic progress, to be sure. But if f 
any human instrument stands above the rest, it is a reform of the process by which pastoral leaders are formed[­selected and evaluated.'' ·· ,:; 
McBrien proposes several steps fcif'. the Church to take. For example, h{ sees a need for a new kind of pastof ral leadership in American Catholf;I, cism. He recommends that men like{ Fr. Hesburgh be placed in key pa.~ toral positions (i.e., make Hesburgh.i "cardinal-archbishop of a major U.S~ diocese like New York or Chi~ cago...."). }f · McBrien is hopeful about several' contemporary American bishops 'who; show promise in leading the movt for progress. McBrien mentions, Archbishop Rembert Weakland of-: Milwaukee as one of those bishops.;.' Weakland, for example, proposes 
the·.. elimination of "sexist" language in· Catholic liturgies. ·. McBrien also suggests stronger'. 
" ... Catholicism 
do


itself constitutes 
(

an extended 
hai


apologia for a view 
WO 
dis;


of theology which 
II I

would have the 
tov


effect of confessing 
Al! the Mc:
teaching authority 


in the Church upon 
the


theologians." 
out lasl 
. ·.-~:J: 
·Bri 
j·~ 
. ·•-;t..:p 
ica
}~iJ 
der Po1 nor
ell 
"at

support of the women's movemeft.ij 
of

and thinks that the movement's suc'-5 
Wh 

cess might determine the "forwro'gJ 
Ch1 

course of Catholicism for the next! 
"m1

several decades." He says in tli~ 
for

Catholic Transcript that the issueNJ 
sid1

women's equality is the "greates~ 
j

single challenge facing the Churl!~} 
Ver

today, not because it's more imporj1 
Syr

tant than war or poverty, but b!!1_ 
Qui 

cause it's a question the Church ~f ·.~-!:~ 
:.··-~
:·~i 
::I 

SCHOLAS~~ 
(.?, 


something about." :oncerning the papacy, McBrien ; generally been critical. On the men's issue he points out with appointment that Pope John Paul promises little progress in moving rnrds the ordination of women. ;o, James Hitchcock explains in , National Catholic Register that Brien was antagonistic toward i Pope when the Holy Father came : with a letter on the Eucharist t spring. Hitchcock names Mc­en as one of the prominent Amer­ns who "fell all over themselves 1ouncing the document." When Je John Paul II indicated "proper ·ms" for liturgies and pointed out mses" he saw in the celebration the Eucharist, McBrien defended at he calls the "American 1rch.'' McBrien insisted that ost American Catholics are com­table with things the Vatican con­~rs abuses." ~nother example of McBrien's ad­se attitude concerns the recent ~od in Rome. Archbishop John R. inn proposed a change in the way the Church enforces its ban on birth control. In the U.S. News & World Report McBrien admits that the Vat­ican probably will not accept Quinn's proposal, at least not immediately, but, says Mc-Brien, "'That doesn't mean the American church can't follow it.' " 
In both the Hitchcock article and the U.S. News & World Report article McBrien displays a certain attitude of independence. Greater regard is paid to the will of Fr. McBrien and the "American church" than to the authority of the Church's leadership. 
Many reviewers, academicians, and clergymen have acclaimed Cathol­icism as a great work, and Fr. Mc­Brien's arrival at Notre Dame has been trumpeted by many members of the University community. He has been heralded as an outstanding scholar, and indeed he is. 
However, in light of the criticisms noted in this article from authorities who are concerned over McBrien's exalted view of the theologian's role in the Church, one should heed the words of the Pope. Last year while visiting America, Pope John Paul II spoke at Catholic University. In his address he dealt with these all-im­portant issues of teaching authority and the role of theologians in the Roman Catholic Church. He said: "The theologian's contribution will be enriching for the Church only if it takes into account the proper func­tion of the bishops and the rights of the faithful. It devolves upon the bishops of the Church to safeguard the Christian authenticity and unity of faith and moral teaching...." 

Fr. McBrien says he wrote Catholi­cism as "a work of constrµctive the­ology, not one more exercise in con­troversy...." Yet, his views seem to be in sharp contrast with those of the Church. 
Some may be excited at the outset to have the author of Catholicism at Notre Dame as the head of the theology program, but it remains to be seen what McBrien's real contri­bution to Catholicism is. 
Andrew Zwerneman is the News Edi­tor of Scholastic. 
13 
~! ~ 
.~-J 
~I





;h: t 
'.L: 
}J 1~. 
( .. ~j 
, . i1 ,i 
·· iHt 
.. Vi\ 
. :[{{ 
<:l•­
-.:!1­
. )!,. 
jl 
..,": 
f 
J 
11 
.< 
' 
ij'i 
. ~, ; 
'·I; 
.. 
.' ; 
,··' 
::; ...·, 

Countervalue 
vs 


Counterforce 
by Nikolas Nikas 
In the approximately thirty-five years since the dawn of the nuclear age one major issue has dominated much of the literature in interna­tional relations studies. This topic is the possibility of a nuclear conflict between the United States and the Soviet Union; or more specifically, how to prevent a nuclear exchange between the two superpowers. The answers to this crucial problem have been voluminous, and out of this huge mountain of writing a sophisti­cated theory of nuclear deterrence has emerged. 
An important debate is going on today (and has been going on for years) concerning the best strategy for implementing the theory of nu­clear deterrence. This debate is com­monly known as the "countervalue­counterforce" controversy and deals with the issue of whether U.S. stra­tegic forces (i.e., intercontinental ballistic missiles, bombers, and sub­marine-launched ballistic missiles­America's Triad) should have as its primary targets the enemy's popula­tion and industrial centers ( counter­value) or its military forces, espe­cially its missile launches and com­mand and communication facilities (counterforce). This debate has had added significance since the an­nouncement in late July of this year that the United States' official nu­clear strategy has been switched from "countervalue" to "counter­force" by President Carter's Presi­dential Directive 59. While a com­plete elaboration of the current de­bate is beyond the scope of this essay, a review of the salient argu­ments will be helpful .in understand­ing this important issue. 

From approximately the fate 1960s to 1980 the United States' nuclear strategy was a countervalue strategy known as "mutually assured destruc­tion"-M.A.D. This strategy is based on the assumption that any aggressor who launched an initial nuclear at­tack would suffer an equally dev­astating counterattack: thus, the as­surance of a massive retaliatory re­sponse would deter any initial ag­gression involving nuclear weapons.· Mutually assured destruction in­volves two important concepts: The first strike and the second strike. 
The first strike is simply the ini­tial attack, on one superpower by the other, with nuclear weapons. The second strike is the retaliatory coun­terattack by the nation which suf­fered the first strike on the aggres­sor nation. The second strike is the linchpin of M.A.D. For a nation to be deterred from launching a first strike it must be convinced that the attacked nation will have enough of its strategic forces left to deliver an unacceptable second strike. Thus a credible second strike force is the 
Nikolas Nikas 

essential element needed by bott sides so as to deter a first strike am: thus insure a nuclear stalemate OJ balance. In other words, as long m both sides believe that they will no1 escape massive damage in a nucleai counterattack, there will not be nu, clear war. 
From this view, it can be seer how the countervalue strategy is the logical policy for mutually assurec destruction. If both sides target eacJ­other's cities and industries, ther both sides would be deterred frorr attacking for fear of having a totall; unacceptable loss of life and genera destruction of their civilizations in­flicted by a second strike. In effect countervalue strategy holds eacJ­sides' cities as hostages; hostage! which would be immediately annihf lated if aggression were initiated. P. direct corollary resulting from thi! strategy is the view that nuclear wai is "unwinnable" and that both side, understand this and thus are com mitted to a countervalue strategy. 
Critics of countervalue strategj however, argue that the assumptior that both sides are committed tc a countercity policy is only half; that is, the strategic policy of thE Soviet Union is counterforce anc that the Soviets are planning in thE event of a nuclear war to win it.' They argue that the U.S. shouk (and as of July it did) switch to 2 
SCHOLASTIC 


counterforce strategy so as to be in a position to deter any Soviet ag­gression. The proponents of counter­force argue that the Soviet policy makes vulnerable U.S. nuclear forces and thus puts in grave doubt the theory of mutually assured destruc­tion. The scenario is usually ex­plained as follows. 
The Soviet Union launches a first 
strike against U.S. nuclear forces 
(counterforce) and destroys 90% of 
our ICBMs and a sizeal:ile proportion 
of our bombers and subs. The U.S. 
launches a second strike in retalia­
tion with its remaining strategic 
forces. The targets of the counter­
attack are Soviet cities. The Soviets, 
however, and this is the key argu­
ment, then would be in a position to 
finish off the U.S. with an awesome 
third strike. Thus, the "inevitability 
of a Soviet third strike would keep 
the U.S. from launching a retaliating 
second strike which is supposed to 
deter a Soviet first strike."2 The U.S. 
leadership (or whoever would be in 
command) after a Soviet first strike 
would be faced with the unaccepta­
ble choice of either "capitulation or 
suicide."3 
The solution to this no-win situa­tion, counterforce proponents argue, is to "recreate an effective U.S. sec­ond strike which would deter the Soviets from a first strike."2 This credible second strike capability would be a counterforce strike against the remaining Soviet nuclear forces which would make it impos­sible for the Soviets to launch a third strike and thus would deter them from any first strike. 
To more fully grasp the essentials of this debate, one must analyze the basic working assumptions of both strategies and show how they sup­port their specific strategy. 
The most important assumption of a, countervalue (i.e., M.A.D.) strat­egy is the belief that the enemy (in this case the Soviet Union) under­stands the theory and accepts it as a viable and useful theory. For such a statement to be true, the Soviet Union must accept the remaining as­sumptions of American nuclear strat­egy. 
The first assumption of U.S. coun­tervalue strategy is that nuclear weapons are qualitatively different from all other existing weapons. That is, the development of nuclear weapons has "accomplished a com­plete revolution in warfare."1 The destructive potential of nuclear weapons .puts them in a class by themselves. The fact that a distinc­tion is made between conventional 
NOVEMBER 

(i.e., nonnuclear) and nuclear wea­pons highlights this point. 
The second assumption of counter­value strategy is the belief that in a nuclear exchange between the super­powers there would be no winner. If the potential for complete destruc­tion by nuclear weapons is guaran­teed by their inherent nature then a nuclear exchange between the super­powers would only be an exercise in mutual suicide. For a nation which has just had tens of millions killed and 25-50% of its industry destroyed to label itself ,the victor of the war is madness. 
The third assumption that the utilization of nuclear weapons is not a rational policy option follows from the second. If the use of nuclear weapons would lead to the inevitable destruction of both sides then to argue that nuclear weapons could be a possible option for a nation's pol­icy is both extremely dangerous and utterly irrational. While Clausewitz's dictum that war was just an exten­sion of politics might have been ac­ceptable in the prenuclear age, any belief in suchc a policy now should be clearly ruled out, if one hopes to survive,1 
(cont. on p. 34) 


15 
·.1.· ... ,,,-·?11.. '""r.· ·.· t ;,··· ''\tj,,; r,1 f,~ 
.... ­. 1·. '"1 •I·'.:,
I "_'. 
'.•.' :-::,;1
i ·.... ;mi; 
,; .·-I ,,~ i.:l
" • •-:,, 
~
: I -'1', 
I -",)
I . :~ l't''' ~-i: .~ ~~ . ' ,J,,I.~
. ' -1, 



,,!. .!f~ 
:i 
··IH1'3 ,: 
,, ,··1~,~";i,; 
.. ,) ~tti• 
. ;~ 1t~· 

:}l;ik
~~-M 
~,J ~1 ~ -:: <l~;
1.:,l 
i!~?
"i ;ii t,( :~f J 1f 
./~
~,I~( 
·:;lj, 
_:r1; 
:r1 ~­
'J:i 


liiJ~:,
:ti~~
·(t ;:,;· 
j ·,;; .ii
) f.('. ' 
~ ·~f -~ 
j .,,, · l' 
;;; ' 
i.:l ·, 




I 
Ji?letl()Il
! 

Under the Ornament 

C 
The cigarette butt fell submis­
sively to the pavement, flickering a 
last sign of burning life before being 
crushed vigorously underfoot. 
Fine droplets of perspiration lined 
Phillip Keller's forehead as he 
glanced up from his work. The 
onrush of the impending evening 
had already pushed the long rows 
of shadow up to the balcony of his 
twelfth-floor east side apartment. He 
set his brush and palette on the work 
table, resigning himself to the 
fading twilight with mixed feelings: 
on the one hand he loved the softly 
blending colors and cool evening air 
that made up the appealing sensual 
menagerie; but on the other hand he 
silently cursed the natural timetable 
that continuously changed the light­
ing and shadow surrounding the 
skyline. Painting was difficult 
enough, he thought, without having 
to rush through a scene before the 
sun changed position too much. 
He was hungry, but with his wife 
out of town he had not been eating 
very regularly. He walked through 
the glass sliding door and across the 
floor to the kitchen. He reached into 
the refrigerator and pulled out an 
apple and a can of beer, washed the 
apple, and returned to the balcony. 
The vibrant colors of the sunset made him think of his ex-teacher, George Andre. As an art student, Phillip had studied long hours under him in the technical aspects of color blending and transition. As an artist, Andre made a good teacher; he had never won any contests, nor even entered any, as far as Phillip knew. And now that Phillip's skills had · surpassed those of the old man he really didn't see Doctor Andre much anymore. Once in a while Phillip would stop in his studio to say hello, but only as a courtesy, rarely to get advice. Phillip didn't need him 
anymore. 
16 

by Mark Traverso 
"Hey, now that is a beautiful 
scene." 

Phillip jumped at the sound of his 
wife's voice, not realizing that she 
had come home. He watched as her 
eyes panned the scene, her lips 
parted in awe as she window-shopped 
among the trees, buildings and 
shoreline in the distance. She sighed, 
leaned her shoulder into the frame of 
the half-open door, and flashed him 
a smile. His stoic face softened under 
her pleasant disposition. 
"How was your trip?" 
"Great. Four days of sunshine and relaxation and we closed the deal on top of it." At twenty-nine, Doris Keller was a year older than her husband. And yet Phillip often thought that she had the youthful exuberance of a·twenty-one-year old. 
"That's nice." 
He was looking away from her, out towards the city. She moved against him and kissed his cheek. 
"It's good to be home," she said. 
"Good to have you." 
Phillip bent and kissed her fully 
on the lips, then moved away. "I got in almost forty minutes today." "Forty minutes of what?" she inquired teasingly. · 
"The light," he explained, sweep­ing his hand towards the greying silhouette of the skyline. "When the sun drops behind the tops of the buildings it forms an interesting pattern of shadows. But it only lasts for a little while before the sun sets." 
"You're still doing that skyline scene?" 
Phillip picked up the cigarette lighter from the table and examined it. 
"I just started on it a few days ago. I gave up on the other one." 
"You gave up the other painting?" 
He took a large bite of the apple, 
chewed it thoroughly, and swa110We<llr· 
"I didn't like the way that it was .: 
turning out."  :  
"But you weren't even finished  ·.  
with it," she began to protest.  1  

It had been one of her favorite · paintings, even in its earliest stages,.1: He sipped on his beer before looking,,. 
at her. · ··: 
She brightened. "I'm sure the .-~{ other one is good, anyway. Can I see:i 
. 

"t .,,, ·. :. 
. 

I • . _,', 
"Like I said, I haven't been work~.) ing on it very long," he said as he ji lifted the cloth from the easel. He~}i eyes took in the scene at a glance./{; 
~•It looks like one of those im-;;f: possible drawings from my high j~ school geometry book," she teased;J Phillip turned on the balcony lamp/,S and returned to study the canvas :':? closely. He set his apple on the <. table. They studied the unfinished \:-.. painting together, trained and un-·:'. trained observers, both recognizing;' the crisp lines and distinct divisions? of color which jumped off the canvas: at them. He smiled as he noted the·::( unambiguous clarity of the scene. •· ::~ Phillip waited for her reaction as she_;:, 
studied the unfamiliar form. Even/ 
with her limited knowledge of art \t 
she could see that the scene was ij 
· stripped of any ornamentation. It};· was a painting of a skyline she knew.% well, yet a city she had never seen. It} was, in the purest sense, unemo-\½ tional, rigid, and totally out of .i~: character for Phillip. )} 
"I don't like it." \:,f "I knew that you wouldn't,".he ,::-.-;, responded, covering the canvas. t 
In the three years that they had·/ been married this was the first time? that he had deviated from his usuaF\\ style of painting-a style that had < earned him a modest income and =.'" 
mixed critical reviews. · · 
"The contest is next weekend," h~~ offered. <:'. The Metropolitan Art Fair was a.,} yearly event in the city, and it . ;.'. attracted some of the finest artists t/ on the· coast. Besides a week-long i-:/ exhibit of the various paintings, O;: sculptures, and drawings, the Fair ·;:::;­featured a contest in which all the•.o:;, competing artists were assigned the} same subject. The subject for this ::) year's painting competition was ·, c "Urban Skylines: the cityscape as }{ art." It was a natural for Phillip; 11¢{ had used city architecture as a ,::} subject often when in school-it had: been one of Andre's favorite sub-).:
jects. 
· · He looked out over the city intensely. , "I know that I can win. That is, if I can get enough late afternoon .·; 
ScHOLASTid}
~l 

daylight in the·next week." "Can't you just pretend that the shadows line up right?" "Are you crazy?" he snapped, in a voice not unfamiliar to either of them. 
The phone rang, breaking the tensions before a conflict arose. Phillip was glad. He hated fighting;­with his wife. It was too complicated. 
As was the custom, Doris ran to answer the phone. It was probably for her. Phillip carried the half-eaten apple and empty beer can to the kitchen wastebasket and returned to the balcony for his palette and brushes. On his way inside he turned out the light and closed and locked the door behind him. He thought it was funny that balcony doors had locks on them when they were twelve stories off the street. His supply cabinet was meticulously organized. Phillip prided himself on his organization. He put the brushes and palette in their proper places and returned to the kitchen. 
His wife was off the phone. "Who was it?" he asked, not really caring one way or the other. 
"Jack Swanson. He wanted to remind me about the party they're throwing tomorrow night." 
"Oh. Well, am I invited too?" 

"Of course. It starts at nine o'clock." 
Doris had been unusually quiet on the way to the party. "What inspired you to try that new form?" 
O.K. This was it. 

"Basically, I was tired of failing. 
Andre's whole premise that perfec­
tion is the unreachable ideal of 
emotional involvement has left me 
frustrated. It was either change or 
q uil as far as I was concerned." 
She looked away impassively. He 
was not deterred in the least. 

"Lately I've come to realize that 
the only perfect work is one which 
can represent real life without all of 
the idealizations. I've got to strip · away the imaginative ornament and 
get to the bare meaning of reality." 
Doris disliked philosophical con­
versations-especially when she was 
not well versed on the subject-but 
he had sparked her. 

"But how can reality possibly 
exist in the absence of the day-to­
day emotions and struggles? That's 
what life is all about." 

"Reality is nature in its purest, 
most uncomplicated form. The best 
work of art should depict that 
reality unambiguously," he nodded 
emphatically. 

"You're full of shit," she re­
marked, laughing to herself. "You're 
really full of it." 

Phillip turned somber. "It can be 
perfect. This contest means too much 
for me to settle for anything less." 
"A work can only be perfect if you let it be perfect." The profound impact of her statement was lost on him-its timeless implications diluted in his swirling thoughts. He changed the topic more out of apathy than disapproval. 


N°OVEMBER 
"Just for once I hope that a party 
can avoid being superficial." 
Doris cast a comforting glance. 
"Relax. It'll be great." 
"You know how I hate parties." 
Jack and Kathy Swanson were the 
type of friends that the Kcllers saw 
rarely, yet they regularly attended 
the others' social gatherings. For 
Doris these consisted mostly of 
small, intimate dinner parties. But 
the Swansons never did anything 
small, and this was no exception. 
"We're not staying late," Phillip 
insisted, just before walking in. 
Once he was inside and had a few 
drinks Phillip started to loosen up. 
Many of the guests were part of the 
artistic community, so he had been 
able to discuss some of the different 
exhibits that would be coming to the 
Art Fair. Doris had settled in by the 
piano and was displaying her vocal 
talents to a receptive gathering. 
The gin was beginning to have an 
effect on Phillip, so he looked for a 
place to sit and take a break. He 
noticed an open spot on one of the 
couches, next to an attractive woman 
of about his own age. As he got 
closer he recognized her as a fellow 
graduate of the art school. They had 
had some classes together. 
"Hi. I'm Phillip Keller. I recog­nized you from a few years back in art school." 
They remade acquaintances quickly, and as the night wore on they rehashed countless old stories. Phillip was slowing down his con­sumption, but still feeling quite drunk. 
As it grew late, just as Phillip was planning to leave, her mood turned solemn. "Did you hear what hap­pened to old Doctor Andre?" 
"No." Phillip was not sure what to make of the question and he shifted uneasily in his chair. · 
"He had a heart attack. They buried him about six weeks ago." 
He heard the words, but he did not comprehend. "That's too bad. I guess everybody's number comes up some­time." He regretted the words as soon as they left his mouth. He was surprised more by his concern over death than by Andre's death itself. He looked for Doris and could not find her. The car was gone, too. At least his coat was still there. He phoned for a cab, and went to wait on the porch. His head was still spinning, so he sat on the step. A red and white taxi pulled into the Swansons' driveway fifteen minutes later and Phillip climbed into the 
(cont. on page 18) 
17 




:i1 ·1,i:r~t~i 
•··. !Wrt'.~ 
! ! '-i:l
I ; ··r r 
I . Ii· 
I .· .. It 
._ ij)~_[ih\ 

. . +•I••.


·.. ii~: 

Jfo: 
!!l 
~J j 

;nr1·1 i 

;;_::f_r}\~ H· 
>Cr:.11 
:, . !' -1 
·I'l,
. l·O•:· Cf~ 
;,<;ij_lJq


·tJfr 
.1{,Ji .. ,;;,:/1,~bl';: 
~ 

~, i -~ 
~ (/ i~ fr : . : 






·PqCtfy 
. 
-Frustration I ' .·.. . .•.. ,.: . .Roses Ha~e 
Thorns 
·.·.: . ·.--:C ... SelfTermjnatio.·n 
.. · ·· •. · · . r·feel an emptines~ ·. 0, , 
Friisitilifoh.fiiiman.ui\kriin.i,; ~~r 
..I'l}f~;41t~°:\';Ji"c,· 
:: .·•/\,.•, c-:/ because-thereis·nos6ltitfoii 
..,:.,. ·:•t•~ ·• :};\/··· r;·.{ •.~1r/.fl.~otvtei.~hne~~r/.1_;,s!ofam}u/ac.~h\a········fI/_· 
i:•..::·:~/~-'.\;\­

. ,,,.... .· th.at I c~nnot 1?tr;y ;° ._ 
. ~:·).·'"_.~ 
:>:n ca.hi perrneate the;plastic pa~~icin ·, . ; ]''· ·" '. . 
. . . that stupid modern fashion: · .. ' . So now I'll take my life . ,< \. 
C, :Tweirfy' Valium shoti~d do'alrighh, . . I a:m too tired to fight anymore'•' ; . They say love hi.irts • -\Shut1:_he doqr/turn out the lighf-. ,· ·.· 7now Fundersta.11d{ 
. . tum ori somerriusic/a glass of wp.ter >a ,short letter., gopdnigllt. . . . . 
(cont. from page 17) 
wide back seat. He suppressed an 
intense urge to lay down. 
"Where to, Buddy?" 
Phillip thought about it. · 
"1645 East Orchard," he re­
sponded, "and if you don't mind, 
I don't feel much like talking." 
Just getting outside made him feel 
much better. He rolled down the car 
window and sat back in the seat. The 
cool breeze felt good against his 
warm, dry face. 

He glanced out the window as the 
car drove past the public beach. A 
young couple drifted along the shore 
in a rowboat, their silhouettes 
framed against the canvas of the 
starlit horizon. The colors of the 
scene blended as Phillip closed his 
eyes. The sounds of the late night 
traffic were muffled by the low hum 
in his head. Somehow, Andre's voice 
filtered through this congestion­
his words echoing persistently 
through the corridors of Phillip's 
memory: 

You can be as good as you want, · Keller. It will take hard work and patience, but you've got real talent. 
You're a good man, Andre. I know 
that you will go along with my 
decision to·experiment in a new 
form. Probably. 

Phillip leaned his head back against the seat. The lecture con­tinued: 
As artists we must convert con­
cepts to images, using the canvas as 
our podium of expression. 
Not bad for someone who couldn't 
paint. It's coming back to me now. 
Of course, through interest and experience we will each develop our own style and form. 
I've been trying it my way-your way-for three years. 
But the true aesthetic essence of art is that the form evolves freely as the work progresses. 
The work was not taking shape as I had hoped. 
You must give it your full atten­tion. Never doubt whether or not it will be worth your time. 
"That'll be three-fifty without tip." The driver's voice snapped him out of it. Phillip reached into his wallet and gave him a five-dollar bill. 
"Keep it." "Thank you. Good night." He drove off. 
His head was feeling much clearer by the time he reached the apart­ment door. He slid the key in the lock and opened the door quietly, so as not to wake Doris. It didn't matter. She was standing in the· middle of the living room looking, nostalgically, at a painting-the one that she liked so much and he had never finished. She covered the easel as he came into the room. 
"f 
\'. 
·•·..·.:·····1 
i 
I
} 
< •.\. 
·.....,·
.,::;Jk 
.::1;
--~¥ . '.. /··;_ 7;if: -~ 
<> 
. • . . !.':X:i ·,
·i·. J;\ 
... ; ''•Al~: 
. •!·~· t. 
.·,,:;''•~~\.I 
. •"-.·\':, 

"Why didn't you tell me that _ 
Doctor Andre had died?" she asked.\ 
"It wasn't important." ·~ 
Doris searched the green shag carpeting for the right words. .­
"Just what is important to you?":: 
"I don't know." He went to the _"; 
closet and hung up his coat. .,J 
"We should visit his grave." She sighed. "I think it would be nice to bring flowers." 
"All right." Phillip started toward the balcony\ 
door. "I need some fresh air. Do you want to come out for a while?" 
"No. I'm tired." She tightened hed robe and started towards the bed­room. "Good night." 
He stepped out on the balcony and <, breathed in the. cool night air. It felt:' good. He kicked some crushed cigarette butts off the balcony and ,,.. 
leaned against the railing. In the :/ 
quiet of the early morning, looking 
~ out over the city from his twelfth-.. floor balcony, Phillip Keller thought I a lot about painting. And he thought{ about his wife. He turned and looked) back through the sliding door. The apartment was dark. Tomorrow he would kiss her. In the morning, he thought. Yes, tomorrow morning he) would kiss his wife. D . L 
Mark Traverso, a Senior in American} Studies, is the Scholastic Fiction ~-: Editor. 
...
' ' 

SCHOLASTIC'. 
j. 
-, l-~ 

An Epiphany In Brooklyn 

When I was seventeen years old I .vas, of course, wise and wonderful. ['d lived all of my short life in that ,vell-protected, almost shrouded .vorld of middle-class suburbia. We 1ad more to complain about than the normal middle-class American family which consisted of 2.2 ~hildren. My six brothers and sisters md I occasionally wore, of all things, 1and-me-downs. But we succeeded in 1ever wearing the same outfit twice in one week. Dinners never consisted )f filet mignon, but each of us c1sually managed two servings of the meat, potatoes and vegetables ;erved, although no one ate the lima Jeans. And leftovers were carefully ~reserved. Generally my parents mcceeded in instilling in us a sense )f respect and concern for others, md they attempted to inspire us to ~are for the important things of life, md to strive for high ideals. 
I was certain that I lived accord­ing to these guidelines. I knew that [ was socially concerned. Mostly I .vas sure that life was good and ~eople were good and I was free and 1appy. Even school was acceptable. [n fact, I liked school. I could do no .vrong there. I'd been told often mough that I was one of those Jright children, one of the cream of :he crop. It seemed that from every mgle I was led, almost lured, into a :angible sense of comfort and ,ecurity. 
When did that become a false ;ense of security? When did school Jecome a waste of time, and home )ecome a bed of contention? When 1id my parents, brothers and sisters, friends, start to move in and out of :ocus? Time went too fast, too slow. Nhen? How? Why? There was no :atastrophic or even memorable Nent that announced the beginning )f my journey. That clouded time vas marked by an uneasy feeling of 1uestioning and not finding answers. c\ll my senses were affected. A very ·eal feeling of sliding away per­neated even my dreams. It is only :oday that I see that a visit to a 'riend's home was an integral part of :hat moment. It did not mark the >eginning of my growth, or the end, 

deliberate journey down from my 
tower. Or perhaps was it up from 
the clouds? I still am not certain. 
Her name is Pat. Actually our 
friendship began when I still re­
ferred to her as Sr. Pat. Yes, she is a 
nun. She is a sister who befriended 
me when I was fourteen years old. 
After that year she moved out of 
wonderful suburbia, into the dark 
forests of Brooklyn; for reasons I 
know she tried to explain, but which 
I did not understand. But we kept up 
a somewhat labored correspondence 
for a few years. With apparently 
perfect timing, Pat invited me to 
spend a weekend, a funny sort of a 
vacation, with her and five sisters in 
a tenement house in Brownsville, 
where they lived and worked. I 
looked forward to seeing Pat after 
three years, to telling her of my high 
school adventures, my plans for 
college, and all that important stuff. 
I arrived at about 9 :00 p.m., in a 
tan corduroy blazer, carrying my 
Samsonite bag. Pat laughingly said 
to ignore the roaches; they moved 
too fast anyway. She'd told me to be 
prepared for another kind of world, 
but it did not seem so different. I 
had not seen much of Brooklyn on 
my way in; we'd walked quickly 
from the car to the tenement. Some­
where inside me I knew that I 
should be taking things in, looking 
at this different environment. But it 
was cloaked in darkness, overcome 
with tense quiet. Or was that tension 
coming from within me? I did not 
want to know. 
We walked the streets of Man­
hattan the next day. We'd left early 
so as to see the museums and the 
artists on the sidewalks, and Central 
Park. I lost myself in our talks of 
plays and art and other such items 
of culture. But this part of New 
York was not what I had come to 
see. We both knew that. I was scared -then, deep inside me. We both 
knew this visit was important. Pat 
in her wise, gentle way, and I in my 
very slow, vague way. 
The car took us, as if by instinct, or in accord with some plan, back to Brownsville, to the city my mind did not want to see, but to the place that seemed to be my heart's destination. We did not talk in the car. I stared out the window at the 
by Fran Cryan 
neighborhoods we passed. Could I 
call them that? I was barely catch­
ing glimpses of that world when Pat 
sighed and finally broke the silence. 
Did I w·ant to walk for a while, she 
asked with a hesitancy in her voice 
that told me immediately that she 
did not want to hold me back, but 
she feared that I would not be able 
to look at it. Would I be able to see? 
I instinctively hoped not, knowing 
that I would not like what I saw, but 
also knowing that I had to look. 
We walked for a while and talked 
together quietly until we came to 
a rubble-filled lot. What should have 
been a no-man's-land was filled 
with signs of life. They were not 
hopeful signs. Here lived human 
beings who could not live anywhere 
else. There were makeshift shanties, 
seattered pieces of clothing and 
other evidence of habitation. I 
wanted to turn away but something 
held me fast. A surge of feeling, 
something akin to warmth, went 
through me. I knew they were good 
people. Why here? My thoughts and 
feelings moved too quickly. My eyes 
turned all around me, but my mind, 
and my heart, could only see bits at 
a time. As I tripped through the 
rubble of burned-out tenements, past 
the shanties and the tent structures, 
I wanted to yell out, to hurl some­
thing far into the sky, to cry. But it 
was not for them I cried. Not for 
them who suffered, but for me. I 
could not cry for them yet, I had to 
feel the hurt for myself first. 
The clean linens burned when I finally made my way home and into my bed. It took days for me to get interested in school again. And then everything seemed to relate to that experience. And it's funny. I don't know why, but I wanted to cry about the silliest things! I was still scared. I fought for everything to be the same, but it couldn't be. The smile of the child playing in the lot is indelibly printed into my mind. I don't know how long it took me to realize that it was a smile of hope. Shaky hope, yes. But if he could smile, so could I. 
Fran Cryan i.s a sophomore Hi.story/ 
Education major hailing from Com­mack, N.Y. 
>r even the midpoint. But it was a dgnificant time interval that at its ery least portrayed the leaden, yet 
'iOVEMBER 

19 
\ ' . . . ~ ' . ~ , -:· . . .-.__ .... . ' ' ~ '. . -·. 
• • l • 

by Francoise Poinsatt<



Gallery 
"The aesthetic elements of line, color, and form inherent in nature have always been a fascination for me. The subjects that exemplify these elements can range from organic plants and nude figures to vibrant movements in water. However, my primary interest is not the replication of natural elements but rather the interpretation of them. In each paining or drawing it is my intention to convey a feeling or mood. This I hope to achieve through a variety of ways. For example, it could be through the expres­sion of gesture in my figures, the psychological impact of certain colors or composition, or through the de­liberate distortion of line or shape. I choose to draw the human· figure to a great extent because I find it the most direct revelation of the human emotion I wish to express." 


SCHOLAS'I
20 
\..: ' ·, 
' 
..!~ 
:, ' 

~;-,:;.J 
.J ;:I 
,• i"o.' \ ......:,~~1­
.;)~r 
}j_.:* 
•~!\~ 
lfl
t:3!1i fl
;j:
f?; 
.';[ 
'\ 
f:~;} 
":~ 
\ij: • 

>" ): 1 
~ /:~• 
.f-~.­
NOVEMBER 

I 

"Concrete" & "Stoney"
i 

Ii ~ .
A ~-11A12U~~ ACT TO CATCti 
"Closeness is a great thing in foot­ball. Next to a St. Jude medal, it's about the most important." 
Coach Devine 
At the start of this football sea­son, no man knew that after its first seven games the Irish would be un­defeated and indisputably ranked #1. At least, no sportswriter did, for the preseason polls had Notre Dame ranked anywhere from sev­enth to twentieth and lower. Sports Illustrated wouldn't even resenre us a spot in their top 25. But now, after Mississippi State's turning of the "Tide," we find our team passion­ately, if not permanently at the pinnacle of college football. Pri­marily, this is due to the perform­ance of players at our tailback posi­tion, precisely where the preseason pollsters supposed us to be weak. "The running game," they said, "will surely suffer after the loss of 'All Everything' Vagas Ferguson." But· as much of a favorite Ferguson was with the writers and fans, they have already found not one but two men who have proved worthy to "carry" on our great running tradition. 
The first man tabbed to fill Fer­
. guson's shoes at tailback was the hard-running sophomore, Phil Car­ter, affectionately dubbed "Con­crete" by at least one sportswriter thus far this season. Although they cheered "Phil Vi/ho?" at the start of the year, after Phil rushed for over 100 yards in each of our first three games, including 254 in his last start, the fans had quickly caught on, and cries such as "Carter for President" began to take over. .And it wasn't "Jimmy" they were talking about. THAT came later. For after having surpassed Vagas' one­game rushing record in the Michi­gan State game, Carter was viciously tackled for a loss that not only cost him the record, but an indefinite amount of playing time, as he left limping with an injured thigh. Fer­guson's heir-apparent had been found, only to be lost so soon, and the situation again got hairy. For our next foe was Miami, who boasted 
22 

the nation's #1 defense against the rush, and their players were doing a little boasting themselves, saying they ate inexperienced backs like ours for lunch, and would crush Notre Dame's fabled ground game convincingly. So as our huddled masses gathered inside Stepan Cen­ter that Friday to rally around their fallen hero, Mr. Carter calmly told the people not to worry, and offered these prophetic words of comfort. 
"My injury won't matter tomor­row," he predicted. "The tailback position will be capably filled by Jim Stone." But despite his roommate's 
.-. 
.,j 
by Tom O'Too,li~ 
. ,s-.,....:..·· 
"Stoney," and from that mo~lK)1 Jim knew he would be all right. /:ti Phil was right, for Miami ~ciorti found they couldn't mess around). with Jim either. Notre Dame ~as_ilyi blew the Hurricanes away, as Stone,i rolled for 224 yards alone; includii:igi an electrifying last-second touch? down to put him over 200. Stont didn't stop there though. He con} tinued to gather no moss (that is to say, he kept rolling) in his next,. three games, getting at least lOO'f yards in each of them to break the_;! consecutive 100-yard game record{'t So after seven games of what has·i 


C 
Actually, the Carter and Jimmy story began long before this season. It was during a senior year of high school visit here that Concrete first met Stoney, when Jim was assigned to be his escort around the ND campus. Though he was sought after by many schools, Carter called Notre Dame's recruiting tactics "by far the most honest." While many colleges were offering him easy courses _and under-the-table riches, Notre Dame recruited him only once a week (in accordance with NCAA rules) and promised him nothing except that academics would be his primary focus. But Phil had already found a friend in Jim, and on this he based bis choice. Carter received no Cadil­lac when he came here, but got a "Stone" instead. But this Stone turned out to be quite a "Rock." Not the type of rock Charlie Brown would receive on Halloween, but more in the St. Peter (or Knute Rockne) sense-a steadfast friend whom he could count on to get him through the rough times that every "green back" has. 
And yet, it was really no surprise that Stone became such a settling in­fluence on Carter, for the same thing had happened to him when he was a new recruit. Then it was Jerome Heavens and later Vagas who took Jim in under their wing. Certainly, it was their closeness to Stoney that enabled Jim to get through the long years on the bench. But whether second or third string, Jim continued to give his all, awaiting his senior year and his chance at starting and stardom, only to have his upstart roomm_ate take it all away ... after ALL he'd done for him ... but Jim didn't pout. He never doubted his coach's decision, but congratulated and encouraged Carter, and con­tinued to push himself (and thus Phil) even harder in practice, just as he had done with Jerome and Vagas the three years previous. But as in Harry Oliver's case, persistence paid off, and after Carter's injury Stone high-stepped into the starting role, as well as an instant stardom that few have ever known. 
"One of the reasons why guys like Harry and me have been able to step in and do so well is because of Coach Devine's philosophy ... that we always have to be ready. No one knows when that time will come, so he tells us to just practice our hard­est so if something happens . . . I could be walking down the stairs, turn my ankle, and someone else would be ready to step in and take rny place. Because if we all hadn't worked so hard this spring . . . we 
l'foVEMBER 

'V 
-; .. : -. ' -~ -_.-.....--~ 
Jim Stone 
wouldn't be where we are now." 
But BEING #1 this early in the campaign brings on other com­plications. For how do you relieve the pressure of constantly pushing yourselves and each other to be the best? 
For Phil and Jim, this quest to stay cool but play hot at the same time leads them to friendly kinds of competition off the field as well. In 
.one of these "friendly competitions" the two strip down to their shorts, take out a deck of cards'----8.nd do push-ups! The first player simply picks the top card from the deck, then quickly does the amount of push-ups that correspond, at which point the other player picks and does push-ups, until the deck and players are exhausted. Sounds easy? Well, I forgot to add that face cards are "passes," so you have to keep add­ing· ten to the next card until you pick · a plain one. So if you draw three or four face cards in a row toward the end of the deck ... but at this point Phil grunted, and I took it as a cue to move on. 
Still, through games such as these, the players can keep their minds as 
· well as their muscles loose. And while staying loose is important to staying close, it's ESSENTIAL to staying on top. Actually, Jim has a lot less trouble staying close than most, for besides his adopted son Phil, he has two younger brothers on 
the team with him, making the Stones the only other family trio on campus besides this sportswriter's own. But while my sister "Mo" and brother ·Larry's names almost force us to be nicknamed after the "Three Stooges," the Irish players feel that its talented threesome should at least keep up with the "Joneses," and has nicknamed the Stones after Texas' famous football family. So Notre Dame now has the services of Jimmy "Jam" Stone, Dan "Ham" Stone, and Chris "Lamb" Stone. I stated that "Lamb" Stone sounded almost like a contradiction in terms, but Phil seemed to think it still 
better than "Concrete" Carter. 
Perhaps more important than Stone and Carter's closeness on and off the field is the nearness of their career plans, and their readiness for the "outside" world. Thanks to his astounding performances in his last fantastic four games, Stone will un­doubtedly be given a shot with the pros, and he hopes to make the most of it. But the senior Communications major has also been taking many business courses and is prepared for a career in either of these areas, or perhaps a combination of both com­munications and athletics. And Jim may just be the rare type of person who could pull it off, as he did dur­ing one "How To" speech in speech 
(cont. on page 28) 
23 


Paul Roche: 


The Orchestration of Language Towards Maximum 


Perception 

by Elizabeth Blakey 
The Ode begins-
The late-summer trees are heavily shawled. The campus boulevards strum with boys and girls. 
A clock chimes, the church bell tolls. 
There is shade for the flowers in Brownson Hall, And a chipmunk scrabbles dapper to his hole ...• 
Oh how to be truthful and not offend? 
How to be true and not pretend? How to be real and yet transcend? 
Far away and near, the minutes make amends Towards some act of history-and everywhere 
Potency hangs in the atmosphere. 
The Black Prince prances through the English ranks As the French and Italian bowmen stand 
Drawn and taut elsewhere And the forenoon trails to the fields of Cressy 
But here in the West in another land, Before noon of the fight near Bunker Hill, The same testing moves to another end And what is taut and drawn is destiny. . How to be true and not pretend? 
24 

Paul Roche is a poet from En­gland. He is poet in residence at Notre Dame this semester and a renowned translator of Greek trag­edy. Edith Hamilton, the noted classics scholar, said that his "trans­lations from Aeschylus are the best 
I. have ever read." Both his Aeschy­lus and Sophocles translations are being sold in our bookstore. He wrote the screenplay for a cinema production of Oedipus the King star­ring Christopher Plummer and Orson Welles. Paul Roche is also the careful observer who wrote "An Ode to the Ineluctabe Encounter of Such Sweet Flesh," a poem about the Purdue game (and much more), which he read at his "The Breaking Open of Words," a talk about poetry and poetry reading. 
Can a man from another country, a man who says, "My ignorance of American football is monumental," write a poem about a Notre Dame football game? Not only write it, but carry it off successfully? Yes. He can because he is a poet. He can because he doesn't write about foot­ball. His is not an ode to a Harry O.-however worthwhile such might be, Roche writes about the pregame excitement by linking it to the ten­sion of famous battlefields. He writes about, in his own analysis, "all that glorifies and all that threatens the human animal (in his prowess and God-given sexuality) on his way to testing and fulfillment." Roche uses 
Paul Roche 

the game as a symbol of all the life,~ 
of man. -->-: 
He celebrates "the exquisit~{ vitality, innocence, and arrogance of.;~ youth poised on the brink of triumpliW or tragedy as the incarnation of ;(I• more than human spark, which must~ burst into flame and burn through'J to the final illumination," which -is1( that "every moment is fraught witli~t its own surreality, and this includesi the humble awareness that triumplfj, and tragedy are indistinguishable,,,:;r' 
I am sure that none of us thought-f of the Purdue game quite that way;) We need the poet to show us wha(j he sees, what is there. Roche says.t that "the poet should have a single{ vision, not asking that you believ~; him, but that you see and feel what; he does, what it is like to have a_·!_ complete vision. People are so frag7(: mented." _:· .•­
During his talk, Roche spoke of} how he came to be a poet. He wa'sj, educated at Gregorian University in:i, Rome and graduated in Philosophy,.; but he wanted to escape from theI abstractions and universals of meta.;;.·; physics. "Not that metaphysics i{I not necessary, it is. But it is terrible} dehumanization. So, I went off in a) ten-foot foldboat." .,·; 
Alone in the boat for two and a:c half months, he sailed from Nice/} France, to Barcelona, Spain. "I was·i amazed by the ubiquity of naturei7 The sun, the sea, the wind. I was} forced to write poetry." :·. 
SCHOLASTIC'£ 


Paul Roche teaches a poetry class in the General Program Department. One Monday afternoon in his class, a tremendous thunderstorm erupted. I{e exclaimed, "Oh, we must stop and watch. Open the window wide and turn off the lights, someone, please." It became dark, inside and out, and students in the class periodically interjected comments ·on the storm. "If anyone wishes to write a poem about this, please do so. But no generalities like 'There was a lot of rain and wind.' Give precise im­ages." 
Roche believes that "poetry is the incantation of exact experience that seizes the heart and mind. It is the 

-apprehension of being through the beauty of words, an arrangement of words to produce a resonance beyond the meaning of words. It is the orchestration of language towards maximum perception." 
He also believes that everyone can write poetry. We all speak poetically to a certain extent. Every cliche at one time was a "leap of free associa­tion." And are not such free associa­tion leaps being spoken daily? An exercise that Paul Roche uses to help people begin to write poetry goes like this: put an everyday object in front of you and write down any­thing that comes to mind. "Jot it down whatever it is-the banal, the senseless, the obscene; speed is the thing. When you have done so, -read them all out. You'll be amazed at the wealth of buried imagery inside you." You will then have the be­ginnings of a poem. The imagery, form, .and sound are there and only need some shaping. During his lec­ture "The Breaking Open of Words," he read a poem which he wrote using this method. It is called "The Brick." Here is the beginning of that poem­



N°OVEMBER 

By itself and from a distance its redness is cinnabar and hard 
contusing the air It thrusts away space with a small 
brute displacement And yet it is there-contained: 
It lines with and against 
and in the great box of the sky through all the unperceived 
laminations of reality 
Put it nearer and it impinges on the air with angular assertion 
Another poem he has written this way is called "The Spent Match­stick." One of its stanzas contains a striking ( ! ) image. 
Sucked in: an aged tit that nourished flame supined: memorial of the devouring and the dance and her one flare. 
Roche's "The Coca-Cola Bottle (Empty)" was also written this way. It begins: 
Vertically glaucous with greenish lines trapping the light a magpie of hues It stands neither squat nor tall with its hard vitreous rind. 
Nozzling upwards the O of its empty mouth annuleted with a high double collar It will clink against its kind but elsewhere voices only a dull chime. 
We are not all going to write poetry like this, but this method does give a good beginning. 
Paul Roche calls poetry "the orchestration of words," because the "sound comes first, then the sense." The sound of a poem can tell so much more. 
Half a Glass Of 

Half a glass of burgundy And a green grass bank Half a glass of green grass And a bank of burgundy Half a grass bank And burgundy in ai green glass Half a bank of grass And a glass of green burgundy Half a grass of blurgundy And a green brass blank 
Half a glass of clean grease And a blink of glurgundy 
Heelf a brass gleenk And blurgundy in a grass gleese Herlf a grease of glank And a glunk of blast gree gundy Half a bank of grass glass And a green of glargundy Half a glass of Burgundy And a green grass bank. 
Paul Roche is a poet using his five senses consciously. During his lec­ture, he discussed what he termed the "problem of poetry and the intel­lectual." He said that "poetry seldom appeals directly to the intellect. It works through the senses. That is not to say that it cannot sometimes deal with the loftiest of ideas." 
Winter Solstice 
The starling-egg sky Is cold, clear of birds 
Or clouds. No swift or swallow Throws its shuttle through 
The transparency up there Where a man's soul 
Is as clearly not seen As the shining space 
Roche knows that poetry says things faster than prose, "contrary to what most people think." It would take an infinite number of words to say in prose what Shakespeare ex­presses in fourteen lines or to say in an article what Paul Roche tells us in a poem. D 
Elizabeth Blakey is a sophomore in the General Program. This is her first contribution t~ Scholastic. 
25 
f 
i i 




Books 

Inside Golding's Leviathan 
Bites of Passage 
Rites of Passage by William Golding Farrar, Straus, Giroux; 278 pp. $10.95 
The eternal gates terrific porter lifted the northern bar: Thel enter'd in & saw the secrets of the land unknown; She saw the couches of the dead, & where the fibrous roots Of every heart on earth infixes deep its restless twists: A land of sorrows & of tears where never smile was seen. -Blake; from "The Book of The!" 
For many a junior high school class, the reading of William Gold­ing's L9rd of the Flies serves as a frightful but nevertheless poignant awakening. One may assert that the 12-or 13-year-old who reads the Golding classic. for the first Ume finally "bites fully into the apple." Who can forget the initially enig­matic title, the gradual unravelling of the idyll on the island, Simon's vision, and the nefarious actions of Jack and Roger? Part of the power of this Golding novel exists in its skillful retelling of an old story: Genesis 3.1 Certainly, most of us can recall the reading of Lord of the Flies as a powerful experience of early adolescence. Part of the nov­el's greatness lies in its expansion of meaning as we grow older and read more. 
Well, Golding has just published a novel which continues his search info that fallen nature which ex­poses itself so frightfully in Lord of the Flies. Although the recently re­leased Rites of Passage possesses a setting, style, and mood quite differ­ent from Golding's first novel, it serves as a continuation of his quest into the nature of man. Lord of the Flies explores the results of the Fall; Rites of Passage examines that ex­
. perience of sudden alienation, shame, and despair that was/is the Fall. Although not a novel of Lord of the Flies' stature, Rites of Passage, like 
26 

the earlier novel, echoes Mr. Kurtz's cry of "The Horror! The Horror!" 2 in Heart of Darkness. As we shall see, Conrad's short novel has more than a casual relationship with Rites of Passage. 
As the novel opens, we find our­selves within the journal of Edmund Talbot, a young aristocrat who is making a voyage from England to the Antipodes sometime after the Napoleonic wars 'to assist a gov­ernor in the administration of one of His Majesty's colonies" (p. 4). Over the next 277 pages, Talbot will re­veal to his patron-godfather the events of the microcosmic society upon the aging ship. All types of men and women are present, and the "policeman" of civilization is pres­ent in the ship's Captain Anderson and parodied by the ludicrous char­acter of Mr. Prettiman. 
Within this situation, Talbot un­dergoes two "rites of passage": the first, his initiation into the life of the sea as expressed in his learning the language of sailing, "Tar­paulin"; the second, his relationship with the Rev. Colley, a young An­glican minister who experiences the true "rite of passage" in the novel. Through Colley's fall from his ideals into the abyss of self-degradation and shame, Talbot realizes that he has participated in this experience with Colley and must share in the shame: 
Immediately, Talbot finds himself within a world less insular and well ordered than the life of an aristo­crat: 
Well then, to resume, I am aboard. I climbed the bulging and tarry side of what once, in her young days, may have been one of Brit­ain's formidable wooden walls. I stepped through a kind of low doorway into the darkness of some deck or other and gagged at my first breath. Good God, it was quite nauseous! ... A fellow who announced himself as my servant conducted me to a kind of hutch 
by Ken Scarbrough 
against the vessel's side, which he assured me was my cabin.... "My good man," said I, ''what is this stink?" He stuck his nose up and peered round as if he might see the stink in the darkness rather 
1 

than nose it. "~tink, sir? What stink, sir?" "The stink," said I, my hand over my nose and mouth as I gagged, "the fetor," the stench, call it what you wili !" ... "Lord, sir!" said he. "You'll soon get used to that!" (p. 4). 
Soon after; Talbot and the other pas­sengers suffer the common enemy of all unaccustomed to the sea: nausea. Talbot's description of the ship's ac­tion in the ocean reflects his wit and learning: "But this ship has more strings than a violin, more than a lute, more I think than a harp, and under the wind's tuition she makes a ferocious music.... (the mon­strous vessel has become "she" as a termagant mistress)'' (pp. 17 & 19). However, Talbot's wit and learning become mere pretension when he throws in a quotation in Classical Greek to a deckhand who mistakes it for French. 
From within all of this discom­fort, Talbot has an encounter with the Rev. Colley on deck during a storm and later with a ship's lieu­tenant, Mr. Cumbershum, who pro­vides Talbot and the reader with a description of the character and view_s of the ship's captain: 
"A chaplain, sir? We have no chaplain!" "Believe me, I have ,, seen him. . . . Come, come Mr. Cumbershum! Are not seamen no­toriously superstitious? Do you not require the occasional invoca­tion of Mumbo Jumbo?'' "Captain Anderson does not, sir. Nor did the great Captain Cook, I would have you know. He was a notable l 
atheist and would as soon have taken the plague into his ship as a parson" (p. 21). 
The basic conflict within the novel is 
SCHOLASTIC 
established; from this point, the parson will suffer increasing aliena­tion. Talbot asks Cumbershum how a ship without a chaplain maintains order; he dodges the question by an­~wering that Anderson would never ;111ow his ship to have a chaplain. 
Of course, the headings of Talbot's journal entries begin with day one and progress sequentially. Soon after, however, Talbot begins to lose his sense of time and begins to give his journal headings titles such as "X," which does "its algebraic duty and represents the unknown" (p. 46), and various letters from the Greek alphabet. During the "X" en­,try, the reader meets most of the characters who will play a role in the fall of Rev. Colley and Talbot. 
The key figure in Colley's demise, Billy Rodgers, remains for descrip­tion within Colley's letter to his sis­ter which Talbot will later repro­duce in his journal. Among the other characters are Mr. Prettiman, "the inveterate foe of every super­stition" (p. 56), whose main desire is to shatter certain perceived notions about Mr. Coleridge's famed alba­tross, and Miss Zenobia, a simul­taneously repulsive and attractive young woman who lures Talbot into his first experience of shame on board the vessel: "I must rouse my­self from too dull a view of the farmyard transaction by which our wretched species" is lugged into the daylight" (p. 92). When Talbot as­serts that Prettiman "demonstrates to the thoughtful eye how really ir­rational a rationalist philosopher can be!" he provides the context for the remaining events of his journal's narrative (p. 73). 
NOVEMBER 

In a journal entry entitled "n," Talbot remarks to his godfather that this must be "the last scene"; noth­ing more, except disaster from the weather, can occur (p. 104). Life on the ship becomes like a Greek play, but more a farce than a trag­edy (p. 104). The Rev. Colley en­gages in drunken abandon and be­comes a "Punchinello." The parson becomes excessively inebriated, os­tensibly commits only a social mis­demeanor and then, with temerity, proceeds to bless his onlookers. Col­ley's behavior remains inexplicable until we later read his letter which describes the mental and physical torture he is subjected to by various members of the crew and the abso­lute indifference and disdain with which Captain Anderson treats him. For the rest of the narrative, Colley remains bedridden with shame and guilt. 
The Captain learns of the journal that Talbot is keeping and, knowing it is intended for influential eyes, attempts to exonerate himself from responsibility in the Colley affair. Talbot possesses other ideas: Ander­son must speak to the stricken Col­ley and, in a sense, finally acknowl­edge his existence as a parson. Of course, the Captain does not. In­stead, he searches for anyone aboard the ship who might either cure Col­ley or pronounce a convenient cause of illness. A certain Brocklebank, an artist who studied medicine for one year, is called in to assist. After learning of Colley's death, Anderson begins his search for an excuse for the death. Standing outside Colley's cabin, the drunken Brocklebank, "Silenus" in Talbot's eyes, claims: "I know you all, . . . all, all! I am an artist! The man is not dead but shleepeth! He is in a low fever and may be recovered by drink-'' (p. 177). The Captain now p,ossesses his 
excuse. 
After Colley's death, we read the letter that exposes his alienation, torture, and suffering. Talbot at­tempted twice to speak with Colley after his drunken revelry, but "each time only silence. greeted him. After the second visit, Talbot came away with the writing that. indicts Cap­tain Anderson, exposes Colley's shame and guilt, and places Talbot in shame. Before his fall, Colley sensed brotherhood in Talbot but re­ceived only distance from him. To­tally forlorn, Colley committed a single transgression which filled him with such remorse that he willed his 
own death. 
Like Mr. Kurtz, Colley's fall in­volves loss of his "Intended," "sta­tion," "career," and "ideas.":1 Al~ though the similarities between Kurtz and Colley generally end here, both descend from missionary zeal into self-degradation. Whereas Kurtz's legacy of "unspeakable rites" is carried out over a period of time deep within the Congo, Colley's de­scent into sin occurs in one moment. He succumbs shortly after he sings with drunken lust a tune whose mel­ody and "words [are] well enough known: . . . 'Where ha)l)e y01t been all the day, Billy Boy?' " (p. 115). Although Colley's "Intended" is his church, his sister resembles, in func­tion, Kurtz's fiancee. As the novel ends, Talbot intends to write Colley's sister a letter concerning her broth­er's actions and death without ex­
posing the truth. 
Symbolically, all of the guardians of civilization are present within the confines of the ship. Colley's expe­rience exposes the ultimate inability of either civil, military, or religious institutions to control the propensity towards evil that lies within the crew members' and passengers' "hearts." Terror and violence emerge in Heart of Darkness and Lord of the Flies partially because the "po­liceman" of civilization is not pres­ent to regulate the instinctual. In Rites of Passage, the "policeman" is present and is completely ineffectual. Hiding under a facade of rationality, the Captain allows his passengers and crew to isolate Colley and to subject him to a degrading night­mare performed by some of the ship's officers. As God's representa­tive, Colley becomes the foe, "a low, filthy fellow [who] must be sham­poo'd" (p. 238). This unwillingness 
27 
I 
I 
I I I 1 
I 
~ 
j'. 
" 
I 
1l fl.;.li H,I 
.. ) ~1 ' , llM 11: 

11 .::1
·t4 ~-l 

(cont. from page 27) 
-and/or inability of the Captain and of Talbot to do anything to prevent the parson's isolation illustrates a comment Golding has made concern­ing Lord of the Flies: 
The theme is an attempt to trace the defects of society back to the defects of human nature. The moral is that the shape of a soci­ety must depend on the ethical nature of the individual and not on any political system however apparently logical or respectable.4 
Because Rites .of Passage presents each human as fallen, stranded be­tween the "heights of complacent austerity" and the "lowest hell of self-degradation,'' we cannot hope in an ultimate ethical change in man that is not accompanied by some­thing greater than man (p. 278). However, as in Lord of the Flies, Rites of Passage does not present an ultimately effective means for that salvation. The boys on Coral Island reject the enigmatic Simon, a "messianic-like" boy who attains the revelation of ·true human char­acter from that grotesque pig's head 
(cont: from page 23) 
class. His· subject was the art of 
jump roping, and much to the sur­
prise of several classmates, Stone did 
his tiring tricks during the entire 
ten-minute talk. 
Phil was ·now laughing _at the un­
usual versatility of his roommate, so 
I put the same question to him. "A 
pro football career," he said as easily 
as if breaking a tackle. 
"But barring that?'' Carter 
shrugged. 
"A garbage man." 
But pushing the usual questioning 
further, I found out that Phil was 
also a Communications major, and 
hoped to use his degree to find a job 
And being a team leader, he cer­
tainly has been getting a lot of prac­
tical experience. 
Listening to this discussion, it is easy to see why Carter and Stone feel this team wins so many close ones. It's because tliere are so many "close ones" on the team. "You don't .often see freshmen hanging around seniors around campus," observed Stone, "except if they're on the foot­ball team." "And you won't find too many players on other teams, com­peting for the same position, as close as me and Phil. I think that the suc­cess we've had has an influence on 

impaled on a stick. As a frail and quixotic representative .of religious belief, Colley is rejected by the crew and passengers. In Lord of the Flies, those like Ralph who· attempt to es­tablish a rational, "respectable" so­ciety fail soon after they begin their attempts; in Rites of Passage, an apparently well-ordered, rational, and authoritarian society is actually a thinly cast "veil'' that hides all sorts of heinous and uncontrollable instincts. Need we remember that Jonestown was a very well-ordered society? 
Some have remarked that in his literary career,. William Golding has "baited his hook for the Levia­than/'5 In Rites of Passage, Gold­ing's characters reside squarely within the belly of that great mon­ster, and that beast resides directly within the characters. The implicit hope in this novel would be in a "Jonah-like" capacity for "rebirth" from within this setting of chaos, slime, and filth. The possibility of salvation would partially lie in the capacity of those who have fallen from innocence to be aware of the Beelzebub that resides within man. Unlike Blake's Thel who retreats in 
the younger players. They see we're friends, so they're not afraid to be friendly with us, or each other. Until it doesn't matter what age you are or what color you are or what religion you are.· Like Phil and me, they'll be ready to· do whatever's necessary for the good of the team." 
"This is beginning to sound a little like Brian's Song," I said in all sincerity. 
"Yeah, but at least we never have to· play in the SAME backfield," quipped Phil. 
Despite Carter's· sarcasm, Stoney's point was well made. After last s_ea­son, sportswriters said that .Vagas' successor would have a hard.act to follow. But eyen after witnessing the overwhelming encore ·Phil and · Jimmy have put on for us thus far, I will not make the same mistake. Instead, I shall call them "a·hard act to catch." And if you don't believe · me, ask any defensive back, and I'm sure sure he'll agree. Perhaps . be-· cause they are so used to putting .each other down off the field, it makes it hard for the unfamiliar de­fensemen to put them down when they're on it. But even in the event that ·both become injured, or nave been brought down to earth for the last time, they can rest. assured knowing men like Moriarty, Mosley, 
--~-~·--~::~ 
, ?~l 

horror after viewing the world::~tl 
experience, man must accepL his'; 
fallen position on earth. 
Rites of Passage is a story of twif.,, 
men and their awakening to the true··_ 
nature of much human experience 
This novel continues a legacy of a\ 
writer who has unflinchingly gaiec1'. 
I 
at the Leviathan, that "impenetrab1i{i 
darkness' that one looks at as)f.he;. 
w~re "peering down at a man -'r:g~;~i
lymg at the bottom of a pr~ip ·" 
where tne sun ~J~~hines."0 ··.};;'j 
1 William R. Mueller, "An\( Story Well Told," in William:, ·, ing, Lord, of the Flies, caseboqk/ 
....,...

tion, ed., by James R Baker '&,·Ai;:¥ 
thur P.· Ziegler (New York:··:tt:.e't 
Putnam's Sons, 1964), p. 249i' )I:tf, 
2 Joseph Conrad, Heart of :DrirM-,Jil, ness and The Secret Sharer Jij~i_}l'­
York: New American Library/,r 1910), p. 147. ..• .. _:·;; 3 Il>id., p. 146. ·:.. ··:·.:_ , 
0 1 
·1 Mueller in Golding, p. 251. :'·. ·j:;f 5 Stanley Edgar Hyman; quoted inf Herbert Mitgang, "Bookends":. "Wil!t liam Golding's World," The New.i: York Times, November 2, 1980,. ~~-? 7, p. 47. c. ::it 
·°Conrad, p. 147. :)}:';,:fl. 
Bell and Adell are ready, 
ready, to take over. 
And yet, as solid as our g:ro 

game is, one wonders if it · · 
enough to keep us #1. For onet 
pects that someday, the Irish, wli 
feats have been almost solely ort· 
ground, must come to pass, arid : .. 
it well and perhaps often, to beat:tli~j 
best. I mean, Blair HAS F1air/.bu~ 
when it comes to moving us throug~ 
the air, is• Kiel for real? ,; '?ta 
"The passing attack will be ready;} 
when we need it," said Stone so.corut1 
fidentiy he made it sound like a forerJ. 
gone conclusion. "But you win witlif; 
your strength," he added, leaving_rig~ 
more room for uncertainty. iVi:f: 
So after seven games, we can noW;i 
. . ·-"'" 
see how the team stands. Our rwf · ning game, led by Concr~te artg"' Stoney, or Sfoney and Concref_--: 
(~ince ~he): ~e__ too close to_caU·#ntt 
a· leader::_ over the other), 1s r~d~i 
and willing, behind an offensive lliiet! 
that always hblds together, if som&,i 
times too: often. '!'hen .there is ~~l 
defense ··that denies, but nevetj 
doubts;· arid of: course. the kickm,t; 
gruµe, led by Harry and· St Maqj 
is in the. best hands it has ever been; ·. 
. . 

-
Which, added together, can all meall£ only one thing. . : :::~ We must save our St. Jude med~j for the quarterbacks. ' · 0£ ...~::tfi SCHOLASTI~.J 
-...::{i 
-~i~ 


:11TNITT~ 
• •·-..·{;_,_; i_-tt_~J_J_i_• 
. 



r-:::t t 
I ·1' ,,},: ,;, 
I 
.,1-, -~-' {f1; 
j ' ·~ :

A Wise Man's Gift to 
... a 
.:.:;::I ii ;,_ 



Those Who FollovV 
}litl J • ~! 


by Professor Edwarc! McGlynn Gaffney, Jr. 
:FRITZ MARTI, RELIGION AND 
~ -~ . 

.PHIWSOPHY: COLLECTED 
;; :,f/ ESSAYS ( ::-~ 
!..? 
;

. (Washington, D.C.: University Press ::;· 
;--.,_ 
of America, 1979). 
:_ -~· ,~ .::; 
~ . . '. 
:, . ',:_· 

Although written over a period of ~ .· /:t_:"-·four decades, the papers in this an­thology are well selected, forming a coherent book on religion and philos­I' · 
LW~rl! 

ophy. This volume is now available --~· <'F:. ~~ 7~: ~ 
in paperback at the Hammes Book­:';{, !; i\! 
store. Taken as a whole, the papers ·_ reflect the life of a fruitful and 
·patient scholar who for over half a witliout religion is empty, and· reli­phers could and ·.did; read French, century (in 1923 Marti joined the gious experience without philosophic German and Dutch?). It is interest­faculty at the University of Oregon verification is blind." ing to. note that in this collection of _and in 1974 retired as professor If it appears strange that a phi­essays, Marti• shows complete famil~ emeritus at Southern Illinois Uni­losopher is so overtly •interested in iarity with his sources; providing his \rersity) has provided philosophical religious experience, Marti suggests own translations rather.than relying .· guidance to students who, in his that the very strangeness is itself on published translatiop,s .. arid . sec­
•words, have been "baffled by the symptomatic of an age in which ondary literature. verbiage of religion." "the language of traditional religion Although intended as a document All of us, I suspect, have experi­has lost the vitality with which it of Marti's major essays for his for­
enced that sort. of bafflement at one would assail everyone." mer students and for his son and 
time or another; and Marti insists In such an age, however, neither five daughters (one of whom, Moira 
that we cannot drop the matter "the religious revivalism nor its secular Marti Geoffrion, is a.noted sculptor 
way college students drop a course counterparts, rationalism and scien­on the faculty of the art depart­
they think they cannot handle." He tism, will do. All of these isms are ment), Religion and Philosophy is a 
offers no easy solution in these es­reductionist, too simple to be of help gift of a wise man for all of us at 
says for those for whom God is in a world where.faith, reason, and Notre-. Drune. 
truly a question or a problem, nor science need one another. For. administrators at an institu­
does he think it is enough for con­As a guide for his journey of tion attempting to defy Shaw's fa­
temporary persons to express naive philosophic exploration, Marti has mous quip that a Catholic university
confidence in the mythic or poetic chosen Friedrich Schelling ( 1775-is a contradiction in terms, Marti 
form in which religious truths are 1854); who forged an important link provides living witness to the possi­encapsulated. Not that Marti is out between the major German philoso~ bility of serious interdisciplinary ·to abolish the myth. To the con­phers of the 18th and 19th centuries reffection. trary, with Vico and Jung he repu­(Kant, Fichte, and·. Hegel), . but is For ·the rest of us, students and diates the equation· of myth and perhaps the least well known of all faculty alike; Marti shows that the fake, and he draws attention to the of them in the English-speaking life of a scholar has its own rewards,profound significance and superhu­world. Only two of Schelling's works reflec:ted not only in the perceptive man power of myth in human life. have been published in America. (Of . essays in this yolume (including the 
Marti then suggests that those who Human Freedom in 1936, and The narration and interpretation of a re­Would mature in their thinking must Ages of the World in 1942), but cent dream of Marti's in the elilogue,attend to philosophical discourse as a Schelling _is cited in virtually every in which God appears as a white-hot 
':'ay of translating religious truths essay of this volume. rectangular iron which withoututter­into nonmythological language. In One of Marti's . complaints about ing a word "would consume . . . short, this volume argues that Jeru­his American colleagues in philos­everything, and especially everysalem and Athens have much to do ophy is their innocence of foreign word ever said or written about 
With one another, that religion and languages (would Berkeley be domi­God"), but also in the penetratingPhilosophy are mutually interrelated, nated by linguistic analysis and log-·· eyes of the gentle man depicted at or in Marti's words, "that philosophy ical positivism if American philoso-the end of the volume. · D 
!-fOVEMBER 



Cinema 
Ordinary People, Extraordinary Performance 

The J arretts are ordinary people, if by ordinary we mean a middle class family that subscribes to the values associated with that class. They enjoy the comforts of subur­ban livirig. There is an external order and predictable pattern to.their lives. Nothing threatens their view of themselves as ordinary people until something unpredictable and uncon­trollable occurs. Because their ado­lescent son, Conrad (Timothy Hut­ton), is unable to deal with feelings of responsibility for the accidental boating death of his brother, he at­tempts suicide. As a result, each member of the family is made to realize, to different degrees, that there are feelings and emotions that have to be expressed and dealt with at the risk of destroying the family's image of itself as ordinary. The film focuses on the different responses of the individual members ofthe family to that realization. 
The realization that the members of a family cannot survive in isola­tion from one another is forced upon Conrad because of the intensity of his feelings of grief and of responsi­bility for the death of his brother, Buck. In realizing that he cannot carry the burden of his grief alone, Conrad recognizes the fundamental senselessness of sacrificing genuine communication for the appearance of order, the appearance of an ordi­nary household. Conrad understands 
that he cannot return to the normal existence he led before Buck's death because he is not the same person he was before. Fragmented not only by the need to share his feelings with his mother and father but also by his fear of rejection, Conrad at­temped suicide. In recognizing the loneliness and frailty that led him to the despair of suicide, Conrad has taken the first step necessary for communication with others -self­confrontation. 
When Conrad tells Karen, a friend 
from the hospital, that he misses it there because "nobody hid anything there," he discovers an important element about himself. In order to reveal anything of himself Conrad needs an atmosphere of openness and honesty. Conrad is frustrated by the recognition of the sharp contrast between the hospital and the re­pressed and strained atmosphere of his own home. Gradually Conrad comes to feel the same ease that he felt in the hospital with his psychi­atrist, Dr. Berger (Judd Hirsch). Be­cause Dr. Berger is authentic, Conrad is able to share his feelings with him. It makes perfect sense in light of Conrad's need for honesty that, when he. learns of the death of a friend, he reaches out to Dr. Berger rather than to his parents. 
Conrad's need for friendship with genuine and authentic people is clearly revealed in his relationship with Jeannine. Jeannine is all that Conrad wants to be. She is warm, open, and spontaneous. She does not restrict her thoughts or conversation to what is usually considered "proper territory." She gently treads on often untouched and sensitive areas. She is the first person other than a doctor to ask Conrad about his suicide at­tempt. When she is embarrassed by an uncomfortable silence in their conversation, she bluntly remarks on the difficulty with which people talk to each other for the first time. 
She helps Conrad see the liberating quality of self-expression. 
The mother, Beth (Mary Tyler Moore), is entirely unable to deal with the disruption in her life caused by her son's attempted suicide. Her only concern seems to be "to get back to normal." Blindly, she prefers to live her life ignorant of the pain in which her family is enmeshed. The demands and burdens of love are too many for Beth. Love is im­perfect and disorderly. Because she cannot control the pain that is tear-
by Liz Ann WeJli 
ing her family apart, she tries:'.tc impose an external order on tllei1 world. She plays golf on Tuesdayi and Thursdays. Her house is immac: ulate, perfectly ordered, and c·old Her appearance is always impeccablE and appropriate for the occasion She prefers artificial Christmas treei to real ones. Her commitment tc remaining ordinary-like everyoni else in the neighborhood-does no­allow her to examine the contents o: her soul. Because she is afraid tha· her thoughts may be inappropriatE or indecorous, she hides her feelingi behind a mask of forced gaiety. 
Beth's concern for social appear ance can be seen in her adamanl refusal to allow others to share ii the family's pain. She refuses to bi a part of family therapy because ii her participation she would be ·aJ mitting that there is someth_ini wrong, that her family is diffet~111 -out of the ordinary. Beth has) similar reaction when her husbaiic Cal. (Donald Sutherland) tells. j friend that Conrad is seeing a psy­chiatrist. She is outraged by whai she considers to be a violation oJ privacy. How can the family be con: sidered ordinary when Conrad... ii seeing a psychiatrist? Her concerr for appearances is also stronglj evidenced when she vents her ange1 at Conrad for not telling her he cju!I the swim team. She is upset not be· cause he quit, but because a neigh bor told her the news. Certainly shE never deals with the fact that Con: rad could not tell her because shi is not able to listen. , . 
When sensitive response and deeI emotion are called for, Beth is mi· able to provide any warmth, Becaus,E she cannot bear the responsibility oJ loving Conrad, • she physically inc emotionally cuts him off. The despaii and attempted suicide of an adoles' cent son do not fit into the orcli' nary pattern of one's life in LakE Forest. Beth cannot even bear tc 
SCHOLASTIC 
:r 
r 
i 
i 
I 
,
' 
,I 
~tand next to him during a family picture. The emotional cutoff is best elucidated in the scene in which Con­rad finds her alone in Buck's room. Both Conrad and Beth are in deep pain at that moment, but they are unable to share the heavy burden of their grief. The silence is awkward. The only words that Beth can pro­duce are senseless and meaningless. 

. She can only tell him that she has bought him two new shirts. 

The father responds to the crisis in his family in the only way he knows how-the ordinary way. Cal tries to help Conrad achieve some l.: sense of normalcy by encouraging !. him to participate in activities that t__ ,.·1 he thinks will make Conrad h appy­[. ordinary activities-the swim team, t.:ci football in the yard with friends. He 
becomes very excited when he learns '\~:, Conrad is riding to school with his < friends. Cal is limited in his under­,, standing of Conrad's need, but this t-:' limitation is not due to his lack of ~1 interest or patience. !} It is not until Cal confronts his .,,c% own feelings that he begins to under­'fr] stand his son. When Cal goes to Dr. ~ Berger's office, he discovers that he 
not only came to talk about Conrad,~1 but also to talk about his whole [_i family. At this time he begins to Lf articulate many of the feelings he ;t':.1has repressed. He tells Dr. Berger that he sees that Beth cannot for­~;~ give Conrad. He feels that perhaps it is because they are too much alike. 
i:i Neither ·of them cried at Buck's q funeral. While he is at the psychi­;.-jr; atrist's office, Cal begins to question ··' some of the wasted effort the familytl expends in trying to create a super­} ficial calm. In a scene of rare and 
-. painful self-confrontation, he asks 
t: Beth, "Why was it so important 
:~_,_· what I wore on the day of. our son's funeral?" Cal has begun to sense the
i: 
tragedy of their lives. They are lonely

W. 
people living together. ';; Cal does not realize that Beth is~I incapable of loving until the scene inl; Which she is totally unable to re­


spond to Conrad's warm and clumsy ~; hug. She is so desperately out ofIt. touch with her feelings that she can­
~r not possibly give of herself in a rela­!;~ tionship. Cal realizes that beneath ltf the mask of calm Beth wears is a 
S, 
woman who is weak, alone, and afraid. He discovers that Conrad is strong because he possesses the raw­est kind of courage needed to exam­ine the contents of one's own heart. When Cal tells Beth that he does not know if he loves her anymore, we become aware of the depth of his strength. Cal has begun that painful and constant task of self-reflection and expression. It is in that begin­ning-the advent of real communi­cation among the Jarretts-which marks the end of the film. 
Director Robert Redford has left us with only a beginning in the am­biguous results of the Jarretts' at­tempt at renewal. We do not know if Cal will ever be able to love Beth again. The family has only just begun the painful process of sharing the thoughts and feelings that have remained deep in their hearts for so long. Despite all the pain and suffer­ing the family has endured, Redford makes it difficult for us to blame any one of the persons involved. There are no villains in the world Redford has created. They are simply ordi­nary people trying to love each other. 
The film's impact lies not in the originality of its insight, but rather in the simple and sensitive way it explores man and the human con­dition in many of its complexities. We come to understand Redford's Ordinary People through his use of simple language and delicately sug­gestive, progressive details. We quickly come to understand that the efficiency with which Beth runs her house is a substitute for the disorder in her personal life. We come to real­ize that the calm patience Cal exhib­its finds its source in deep strength. Finally, we see that Conrad and his family are strugglingcnot only for themselves, but also for all families contending with the responsibilities of familial love. Robert Redford ac­complishes all this with uncompli­cated scenes, terse dialogue, and a delicate understanding of the quality of ordinary human lives. 
The film is most extraordinary in its ordinariness. Even if we cannot personally identify with the immedi­ate circumstances in which the film evolves, we are all familiar with the underlying tensions that surge be­neath the superficial calm of the Jarrett household. We have all felt isolated and alone in our pain, and yet have been afraid to share that pain. Yet often those emotions and common experiences that we want most to share remain the most in­effable. Ordinary People overcomes that difficulty of expression. It gently invites us into the sphere of the un­spoken and inexpressible. D 
Liz Ann Welly is a junior English major from Toledo, Ohio. This is her first contribution to Scholastic. 
',. 
'' 
i' 
i.;
! . 
;! 
/ I i:i-:-' 



' 
I 
I 
I I 
I 
,-··­
·>.-:~-: 
....~!-







Musie 

Springteer1: Worth the Wait 
by Keith Caughlin 
In 1975 I remember sitting in my high school library. The weekly supply of magazines had just come in. It was lucky if you got to see the magazines before guys would rip out the pages. On the cover of both Time and Newsweek was the same face, Bruce Springsteen's. I read the arti­cles but words can't tell you what a sound is like so I forgot ·about it. Three years later I saw Bruce Springsteen in the ACC. Then I heard the sound and I liked it. Lis­tening to his albums the week before the concert it sounded like Mr. Springsteen was singing with mashed potatoes in his mouth. But after seeing the intense four-hour show I knew that Bruce Springsteen was rock and roll in human form. It was music, but inore than that it was sounds of emotions. I .began to wait for the next time I could hear those sounds. 
Last year the rumors started: "It will be out before Christmas." "There is a disagreement in price but the albums are in the boxes." "It's coming in February." Everyone had their own version of the new album story. With the release of the No Nukes album anticipation mounted. Would the album, could the album live up to people's expectations? Would there be live cuts, perhaps a new sound 011' the album? I waited. 
I waited until October 13. On that day I called River City Records and was told the album would arrive in the early afternoon. After inquiring weekly, I had received the answer I was hoping for; it was here. I drove to the record store at one o'clock. A box stood near the counter: "Re­served for Bruce Springsteen's new album" the sign read. The cashier said the manager would return at three . o'clock with the shipment. Another wait. It would be worth it. 
At three o'clock twenty people milled around the store. More cus­tomers were coming in and fewer · 
32 

were leaving. Two Saint Mary's girls camped themselves in front of the cash register, a line loosely formed. High school kids buying Van Halen tickets wondered what was going on. The clerks counted their change and watched the clock. The shipment was late-the line looked at the clock and expectantly back at the clerks. A car arrived at 4:45, a big guy rushed in carrying the boxes; he threw them on the counter: The albums were here, inside those boxes. The line got quiet. He ripped open the boxes and the blue grey album peeked through; taking a stack of albums out he gave them to the girls in front. They took 
. their thick copy off and passed the rest to me; I ·lifted mine off and passed on the stack. Like a teacher passing out exams or a priest Com­munion the album distribution con­tinued. The huge face on the cover looked gloomy but not nauseous like the cover of Darkness on the Edge of T<YWn. 
Walking to the car I flipped the album over and looked at the back cover. It was a photo of items on a dime store shelf.. There were paper decorations: grooms and brides, an eagle, a flag, a liberty bell. 'Geez, you'd think he was going to sing about marriage or independence." I drove quickly back to school. "But Officer, I just got this new album ... ," I pictured myself saying. The stylus · touched the vinyl and the sound came out. 
The River is a noble work. It is 
· the product of a more mature Springsteen. He has gone from boy/ man to man, the singer's self-image shows this. From his first album, Greetings from Asaury Park, "I could walk like Brando straight into the sun" to the recognition in The River that, "Once I spent my tiine playing tough guy scenes/But I was living in a world of childish dreams." The River is very powerful and cu.I­

minates a trilogy according tq: ij}7 
Springsteen. Born to Run, Dar'hiiea'rf. 
on the Edge of Town and• this alb~ 
are thematically connected. The·ever; 
present darkness, a rebelliousness' 
beyond and within conformity, work/cl 
~riving, angelic images_ and redempfl 
tive love are themes which are strung( 
throughout the eight album sidesA 
The locales of the songs are noi-' 
more universal. A trend, startiri£' 
with Born to Run, of broadening th€ 
scope of the lyrics is continued. Thai 
New York and Jersey Shore flavoi 
of Greetings and Wild and t~)lTY 

nocent no longer dominates and)i 
been replaced with rural, small~f images. · ~: 
Words can not capture sounds 
can only hope to surface some tfrin~~ 
I picked out and themes such,,/~~ 
linked images. Mr. Springsteen is,~gu(!
',.........

looking for the best way to cohveyf his feelings through music. He. hijf changed and will continue to; go~e!; are the grating guitar solos ,fP.J!Y mumbled vocals. The River has,:iaf much cleaz:er, more distinct sowjii~ You have to listen for you~-~ . though. '<~ti While there is a thematic contif 
nuity in the last three albums theri( 
are many contradictory statemen,t( 
within The River itself. These clashes; 
are purposely effected through th~ 
albums' programming. For example,} 
Mr. Springsteen begins side one wi@ 
"The Ties That Bind" and ends<~ 
with "Independence Day." The first'£ 
emphasizes the importance of bo11$'~ 
links to others through relationship~.~ 
"Now you can't break the ties tha., 
bind/You can't forsake the tieg. 
that bind," the singer advises. '.1.'h.!!f. 
second is based on an opposing; 
stance, one must sever the bond. Th(fi:: 
son in "Independence Day" mu~ij; 
regardless of whether he wants .td/f
break the paternal ties that bind( 
This is the same relationship w~~~ 
began on Darkness with "AdiiJPJ 
raised a Cain." In this earlier . woi:~ 
SCHOLAS~~ 
':)}'f 
the father and son live, "with the same hot blood burning in our veins." Later on "Independence Day" the son realizes that, "There was just no waY the house could hold the two of us/I guess that we were too much of the same kind." The darkness in 
•'Adam raised a Cain," where the son can be called by his true name, has grown larger in "Independence Day." It now includes his house and the town, "a darkness in this house that got the best of us/There's a dark­ness il1 this town that's got us too." 
A second conflict within a side of an album is on side two. In "I Wanna Marry You" tmd "The River" two opposing viewpoints on marriage are portrayed. In the first song the singer proposes to a lady with chil­dren. ;The love he feels for this wo­man would make a home, a family. He knows "true love can't be no fairy-tale," but he feels it can happen if she wears his name. In "I Wanna Marry You" true love is manifest in marriage. The marriage in the second song, "The River," does not hold this ideal. The past love and caring is forgotten between the singer and his girl once the marriage takes place. On its ·own "The River" is a very strong song weaving the same pic­tures and musical tapestries as "Racing in the Street" or "Meeting Across the River." The themes of marriage and independence are por­trayed ironically like a cardboard centerpiece trying to capture the beauty of a bride and groom or a paper eagle and flag trying to cap­ture the spirit of independence. 

One way of characterizing the songs on this album is through the labels of "party" and "serious." Each side has a couple of rockers which break up the ballads. The party songs which everybody and their brother (The New York Times, The Village Voice and The Observer) have called "frat rock," "trash rock," and "junk rock" are fun to listen to. The ultra­powerful, "turn up the volume" guitar solos have been replaced by Danny Federci's organ and Clarence Clemons' saxophone. Frederci's key­boards do everything except whistle Dixie on most of the songs. I think the lack of a guitar sound is due either to Mr. Springsteen and Miami ~teve Van Zandt paying more atten­~ion to producing rather than play­ing. On the other hand, it may be due to the many complaints that guys were acting stupid at parties Pretending to play imaginary guitars to the music. 
One party song which deserves a s~ecial .listen is "Cadillac Ranch." ~ 1~e the other songs in this category it is fun to listen to, but when listen-
NoVEMBER 

ing with an attentive ear, one con­siders it more seriously. The cadiilac he is singing about, "long and dark, shiny and black," is a hearse. The Cadillac Ranch referred to, rein­forced by the lyric sheet photo, is a graveyard. Where else could James Dean, Burt Reynolds, his pa and his aunt all meet except in the afterlife. The hearse greets a workingman · when his day is done. The singer's body will be thrown in the back of a hearse when he dies. All these little clues are in the lyrics on this charged-up song. The cadillac is said to "Ride just like a little bit of Heaven here on earth." Well of course it has a smooth ride, how many bumps in a road can a corpse feel? 
If you listen to the album the first time in one sitting, the serious songs begin to sound alike. Most of them begin with an organ and percussion introduction. They are all tight works broken into sections by a chorus and they shy away from the free form, long song style of the early albums. The lyrics on the "front-runner" songs are very cap­tivating, "Point Blank," "Ties That Bind," "The River," "Independence Day" are the obvious pieces. 
One song which grows on you and is a definite must for the next Springsteen show, is "Drive All Night." The lyrics on paper seem 
most ordinary considering the themes of the trilogy: a guy, a girl, a car, something on the edge of town, a couple of angels. The singing of these lyrics is unbelievable. Even from the studio there emerges a concert-like intensity. Emotions not pictures are drawn out of the lis­tener. Here I go again trying to write about sounds, sounds charged with feeling; you can't read about them -you have to hear them. The weak lyrics serve to let the expression of them overwhelm the ears. "I swear I'd drive all night just to buy you some shoes" is not the most pictur­esque oath of love ever vowed, but when Mr. Springsteen sings it, you know he means a lot more than a trip to Thom McAn's. The quiet screaming of "Heart and soul" and the natural adversities ("Through the wind, through the rain, the snow") compounds the depth and the endurance of his love. There have not been vocals like this since "Jungleland." 
I like the album. Thirty years from now, when there is a special col­lector's edition of Springsteen songs released on television (order before midnight tonight), many of these songs will be on that set. I'm just waHing to see him in concert. I've heard some rumors.... 
Keith Caughlin is an English/phi­losophy major from Detroit, MI. 
33 


(cont. from page 15) 

The final assumption is really de­rivative from the first three, that is, that no leader would rationally ini­tiate any actions that might well lead to his country's cities being bombed with nuclear weapons. To 
U.S. supporters of countervalue strategy no sane human being would allow this to happen (and thus de­terrence occurs). This position is perhaps best expressed by the fol­lowing: 
In the real world of real political leaders -whether here or in the Soviet Union -a decision that 
c would bring even one hydrogen bomb on one city of one's country would be recognized in advance as a catastrophic blunder; ten bombs on ten cities would be a disaster beyond history; and a hundred bombs on one hundred cities is un­thinkable.3 
Opponents of countervalue strat­egy (i.e., proponents of counterforce) argue that for a countervalue strat­egy to succeed as a deterrent both sides must hold the same view on the matter. Counterforce adherents argue that the Soviet Union does not accept the basic assumptions of a countervalue strategy, thus making such a strategy incapable of deter­ring. 
First of all, the argument begins, nuclear weapons in the Soviet view are not qualitatively different, but quantitatively different. That is nu­clear · weapons to the Soviets 'are, simply, "bigger bombs." As Richard Pipes puts it for the Soviet Union: 
the atomic weapon had not in any significant manner altered the sci­ence of warfare or rendered obso­lete the principles which had guided the Red Army in its vic­torious campaigns against the Wehrmacht.1 

While some could argue from 1945 through 1949 that the Soviet Union held this view because they had no nuclear weapons and "it was not in its interests to seem overly im­pressed by a weapon on which its rival enjoyed a monopoly,"1 this· view today is clearly not.the case. 
Thus, Soviet strategists, it is ar­gued, while recognizing that nuclear weapons have deeply altered war­fare, "deny that nuclear weapons have altered its essential quality."1 Therefore, Soviet strategists repu­diate U.S. claims that Clausewitz is no longer applicable. As the great Russian strategist V. D. Sokolouskii stated, "It is well known that the· 
34 

essential nature of war as a con­tinuation of politics does not change with changing technology."1 
With this view of nuclear weapons 
·it is a simple step to the Soviet view that a nuclear war is not necessarily a "no-win" situation. In fact, the Soviets believe such a war could be won: "the country better 1ffepared for it and in possession of a superior strategy could win and emerge a viable society."1 
Finally, countervalue critics argue that even the sacrosanct assumption that no sane person would expose his country's cities to nuclear attack is not a guaranteed fact. They argue that to a country like the Soviet Union, which experienced approxi­mately twenty to thirty million cas­ualties in W.W.II and perhaps as many as thirty million killed in Stalin's purges, the possibility of a nuclear attack on huge population centers is not as paralyzing a horror as it is to U.S. minds. They also pre­sent the fact that the Soviet Union studied the effect massive bombing had on cities during World War II and came to the conclusion (which the data supports) that bombing of cities does not bring about the ene­mies' surrender but only stiffens his will to fight on.1 Thus Soviet strat­egy, the argument concludes, is plan­ned to attack the war-waging cap­abilities of an enemy, not his cities. 
Along with the Soviet rejection of the basic assumptions ·of counter­value strategy, counterforce propo­nents argue that countervalue strat­egy is defective for some technical reasons. First, it is argued, that countervalue strategy is a misnomer, since as a strategy "it ceases to be useful precisely where militarystrat­egy is supposed to come into effect: at the edge of war."1 Secondly, coun­tervalue strategy wants to insure that each side has· an effective sec­ond strike capability and once this is accomplished it attempts to freeze ·the balance (e.g., S.A.L.T. I). Critics argue that this strategy does not . allow for technological advance­ments in nuclear weaponry;· ad­vances which could cancel out an opponent's capability for a second strike. Thus a countervalue strategy 
· does not guarantee that one's de­terrent will exist indefinitely. Finally, countervalue strategy, critics argue, 
constitutes passive defense which usually leads to defeat. It threat­ens punishment to the aggressor after he has struck, which may or ~ay not.deter him _from striking; 1t cannot prevent him from carry­ing out his designs.1 
For all of the above reasons then.. countervalue critics argue that.~· countervalue strategy is not capable of deterring nuclear war and that a counterforce strategy is the correct strategy for the United States. With· these criticisms as a base, counter:· force proponents present their game plan. 
While the intricacies and nuanJai of counterforce strategy fill volumei1~ several main asumptions manifesf themselves. First, proponents '"·:cijJ counterforce strategy argue that)li~ Soviet Union's nuclear strategy\i clearly counterforce and thaF.tliisl implies an offensive use of nucleiifl weapons. Specialists quote Sqvie~ strategists and publications as prdob of this claim. For example, the· S~ viet officers' handbook flatly statei; "Soviet military doctrine is offensiv€ in nature"2 and also that "the prime" task [of nuclear strategy] is pr~; paring for waging war."2 This being'; the case the United States' strategy to defend against this threat is a· counterforce option. The second as-­sumption is that if the Soviet Union launched a first strike (surprise pi,;i:.i emptive attack) at the U.S. a devas;: tatingly high precentage of our land;, based ICBMs would be destroyeil.l This virtual destruction of one , anrit of our triad would occur becausei~t the vulnerability of the inissilesi:(flli strategic parlance-Minuteman Vuiij nerability). A recent New Yaffi Times article highlighted this dii~ 
cern: 


~ffi 
For the first time, Mr. Brown1 (Secretary of Defense) said lastI month, the Soviet Union mig@'. now be able to destroy all 1,05~~ of the Air Force's land-based mis~ siles in their underground · silos iii{ a surprise nuclear "first strike/!~f 
Thirdly, if the United States' ~ff'. sponse to such an attack was t, countervalue second strike· the ·So;: viet Union would still have the cai>~1 bility to launch a third strike at aut1 cities; thus the U.S. would be pa~~1 lyzed into not launching a retali~~ tory attack because of the fear of;JF third strike (i.e., the S.U.'s seco~~ attack at the U.S.). The fourth a.~7-i'. sumption is that a United State~ counterforce second strike wow~i completely wipe out all remaininl; Soviet missiles, thus removing th§ threat of a third strike. Finally, i:t:if~ herent in counterforce strategy:.:~ the idea that nuclear weapons wouJ,~{ be used as part of a controlled, ra~.;1 tional response by the United Statet~ 
. . ·:··,:;,; 
to a Soviet attack. . .L;,~ Criticisms of these assumptio~} 
SCHOLAS~~{ 
:h 
~:ji 
C 
r 
( flow readily from the pens of coun­
\ tervalue proponents. Starting with I the first counterforce assumption i critics argue that while they accept.the tact that Soviet nuclear policy 
is counterforce they strongly dis­{ aaree that this implies that the So­( vfet Union is planning an offensive 
' first strike designed to insure a soviet victory. Opponents of coun­terforce argue that the Soviet Union accepts the reality of mutual de­terrence and only use the rhetoric of winning a nuclear war to legitima­ctze their military expenditures and power. In reality the argument con­tinues, the Soviets do everything they possibly can to prevent a nu­clear war. Typical of this view is the argument made by Raymond L. Garthoff, U.S. Ambassador to Bul­garia. Garthoff quotes in support of this thesis, the late Russian Major General Nikolai Talensky, an out­spoken Soviet military theorist, who 
.emphatically stated:

l 
In our days there is no more dan­gerous illusion than the idea that thermonuclear war can still serve as an instrument of politics, that it is possible to achieve political aims by using nuclear weapons and still survive.5 
Finally, critics also argue that the Soviet Union's signing of the S.A.L.T. I treaty was an implicit acceptance of mutually assured destruction and thus the Soviet Union is not plan­ning to initiate a nuclear war re­gardless of their counterforce strat­egy. They quote a statement made by the Soviet delegation and cleared by high government and military leaders in Moscow which states: 
Even in the event that one of the sides were the first to be subjected to attack, it would undoubtedly retain the ability to inflict a re­taliatory strike of crushing power. Thus, evidently, we all agree that war · between our two countries would be disastrous for both sides. And it would be tantamount to suicide for the ones who decided to start such a war.5 
Critics also attack the second as­sumption to counterforce; the al­leged vulnerability of a majority of our missiles is a fallacy. Opponents argue that counterforce strategy is b_ased on certain technical assump­tions, the correctness of which are highly doubtful. They make a clear distinction between "theoretical ac­curacy" and "likely performances" of the Soviet ICBMs.a As James Fallow, Washington editor of the 
NOVEMBER 

Atlantic Monthly magazine, argued in an article on U.S. defense postures, 
No one doubts, despite all the in­accuracies and foibles, that the United States and the Soviet Union, with 15,000 strategic nu­clear warheads between them, could come close enough to de­stroy cities and annihilate people. But very few who understand the mechanics of nuclear weaponry consider the perfect timing, pre­cise coordination and pinpoint ac­curacy of the first strike scenario as anything more 'than a frighten­
. ing, but unrealistic fantasy.3 
This same reasoning is used to show that a U.S. counterforce strategy would be just as unlikely to destroy all of the Soviet ICBMs on a second strike, as a Soviet counterforce at­tack would be on a first strike. (Thus the fourth assumption is also criti­cized with the second.) 
Criticism of the third assumption is aimed not at the assumption itself but at a hidden corollary that stems logically from it. The assumption it­self, as mentioned above, states that the United States would not launch a retaliatory second strike attack on the Soviet cities for fear of a Soviet third strike on the United States cities. Implicit in this reasoning is the notion that the Soviet Union would be willing to risk all of its major cities to a devastating U.S. second strike. That is, if their rea­soning failed and the threat of a Soviet third strike did not keep the United States from launching a counterattack they would be willing to sacrifice their cities. This possi­bility critics argue is totally un­believable and absurd; no one, in­cluding the Soviet Union, would open up its major population centers to extinction. To argue that the So-· viets would accept fifty to one hun­dred million of its people killed so it could get in a third strike is ri­
diculous. Critics also argue that any effective U.S. counterforce second strike has the potential to be a very threatening U.S. first strike. They argue that during a crisis the Soviet Union, fearing a preemptive coun­terforce strike might itself launch a preemptive first strike to "beat the 
U.S. to the punch": the so-called "itchy trigger finger syndrome."2 
Finally, critics reject the fifth as­sumption of a counterforce strategy; that of a controlled U.S. response to a Soviet nuclear attack. They cite statistics that indicate that even in a Soviet Union counterforce first strike the United States would lose some ten to twenty million casual­
ties-so-called "collateral damage."5 · With that many dead Americans, critics reason the United States could not be sure that the Soviet's first strike was not a countervalue attack. What if a Soviet warhead mistakenly landed on a major popu­lation center? Would the U.S. be able to exercise and maintain ra­tionality and restraint? Even more significant, critics argue, is the idea that the U.S. would approach nu­clear war like a chess game; that is, by allowing the Soviet Union to com­plete one move and then the U.S. responding in a controlled manner, and then the S.U. moving j:lgain, etc. They argue that if U.S. early-warn­ing radar picked up two hundred in­coming missiles headed for the ICBM sites in the Midwest then it is highly unlikely that the U.S. would allow them to hit their targets and much more likely that we would "launch on warning."=1 Therefore, our silos would be empty when the Soviet missiles detonated and the entire concept of a controlled re­sponse would be useless. Thus, for this and the above reasons, counter­force strategy is deficient and should be countervalue. 
The debate goes on and on. Each side criticizing the other side's argu­ments while extolling the virtues and logic of their own reasoning. There are good arguments on both sides. Who one believes usually is determined by what one's views are on many complex sociopolitical is­sues and on what expert opinions one is willing to accept. While the thought of nuclear war is horrifying and consequently hardly a usual topic of discussion, it is an issue that affects all our lives and which deserves our full consideration. O 
Nikol(J,S Nik(J,S is a second-year grad­uate student in Political Theory. 
1. 
Richard Pipes: "Why the Soviet Union Thinks It Could Fight and Win a Nuclear War," Commen­tary, July 1977, pp. 21-34. 

2. 
The Economist, Aug. 16, 1980, pp. 9-10. 

3. 
Jaines Fallow, "The Muscle-Bound Superpower," Atlantic Monthly, Oct. 1979, pp. 59-78. . 

4. 
Richard Burt, New York Times, pg. 1. 

5. 
Raymond L. Garthoff, "Mutual Deterrence and Strategic Arms Limitation in Soviet Policy." 



rn 
. . {ii 

!-~
~'­
1 • -­

Ben1ncf B~a1;s ---ll 


A True Confession 
by Debbie Elliot 
It's a Wednesday night, we're hav­ing a special on this gross drink called "Husky Piss," it's 10 :30, and no one's here. Where is the Senior Class? It's Senior Year-the Big One! They must have accepted an overload of nerds in 1977. A couple of guys stroll in. They have on those ridiculous painter pants in the winter. It's a wonder they didn't get hit by a car, blending into the snow like that. They order two beers and shove the twenty cents change into their queer painter pants pock­ets. 
Thank God the TV is on. It's like an oasis in the desert because after some of these yoyos order a beer, they don't have anything to talk about. I wish I were at home pretend­ing that I was studying or making a long-distance call with a fake billing number. Customers creep into the bar like a drippy faucet. Some total nerd with a "Ball U" tee shirt on hugs the wall. The only girl he prob­ably knows is his mother. A hopeful big tipper wants quarters for some dumb, space game machine. The "Husky Piss" is not selling. 
It begins to get crowded. The li­brary must have closed or they ran out of books. I scurry around serv­ing drinks. The first two guys are still sitting in front of my tap; ordering two beers ; keeping the change; and discussing, problem by problem, their engineering test. There is a slight back-up at my bar while I restock glasses. Suddenly, some girl who wouldn't lend me a pen in class becomes my best friend. Of course she wants a fast drink. Of course I immediately become deaf. Finally, it's her turn. I pour her beers. Lites. She weighs seventy-two pounds. 
"What are you doing for break?" she asks, flipping her hair. "I'm going to Boston," I reply. 
36 

"Why there?" she asks like I was going there to have an abortion. I decided to humor her, "For the springtime--I'm staying there with some friends and they've got lots of room." 
She looks at me,funny. 
"Get it-the song!" I plead. 
"Oh yeah," she says dumbfounded. 
Why bother? Why waste my time 
on people like her? I thought it was funny. 
Someone puts on a "Police" tape. No one recognizes the band. Sorry boys, the Barry Manilow tape drowned in a fire. Where the hell is the Senior Class? The fun class of classes-the blowoffs of school-the partiers? Maybe we started break, and I don't know it. The TV is still on. The music is blaring. I· have a headache. 
"Hi!" 
I look over expecting Paul New­
man. It's a nerd. And why not. 
"It's my birthday," he says mat­ter-of-factly. 
"Oh, well, happy birthday," I said. 
"Do I get my bithday drink? I have my coupon." 
I made the birthday drink really strong and hoped he'd pass out, throw up, and leave me alone, not necessarily in that order or at my bar. Don't ask me why. The maximum occupancy at my bar is thirty eight. There are about a hundred people jammed into it. It's crowded as all hell, and I notice someone brought his parents here. The mother's lynx coat is wet from flying beer, and it looks as though the dead, wet animal's seventy pounds are weights on her shoulders. She hates her son, not to mention his classmates. 
Two birthday drinks and four strong seven and sevens later, the birthday nerd is still feeding my tip jar. The Tonight Show comes on, and he'swatc~\~g i/t. So are twenty other 
:; 
'· 

' 
< 
people. It's tremendously crowdecti:f wonder if the Nerd Party is toriigJiff but remember it was last weekf Someone orders ice water. A bunch of football players had their ·three~ beer limit and started stumbling alt ' over like trees in the Enchanted ­Forest; I have to go to the bathroom( I notice two guys whispering an&' they finally approach me. · i. 
"Do you know what a slow, coin4 fortable screw is?" one of them asksi "Yeah, orange juice, Souther.ii; Comfort, and sloe gin," I answer:.'~~t There faces fell. The joke . wa&f over. Where is the Senior Class?A:! wonder. I guess this is it. Cl}e~P;! entertainment. It's still crowded! People are shouting things at :hi;i "What's in a Husky Piss?" "Doj,gµ} have watermelon shots?" "Turri·ojfg the music -Orson Bean is on' tli~ 
.;•~·~ 
Johnny Carson Show." J '''1 Finally, I call last call. By thif time everyone had his limit and:w~sj\ ordering chips and popcorn. I wa~ counting my money when in strolledJ the birthday nerd with two friends~ "Can I have a birthday kiss?" he.I. slurred. c:::" "No kisses," I apologized. whi~­
me? ·.· 'f "Please?" Did he think I wasi Miss America? · <r "Sorry, someone please res~~ij me!" I yelled. :_ -.,ti: -~ A fellow bartender came over,:pll~i his arm around me and said to th~~ 
birthday nerd, "Excuse us whil~ }'{j make out." I laughed it off. .-:~~­I punched out. 3 :12. I don't hay~ to work until next Saturday. We'rft having a special on "Nerd Punch1:} it's nonalcoholic. Thank God. Qi:
:·.1~:· 
, C 

:~4: 
,___ 

,:::·~ ":..>;,~ 
Debbie Elliott is a pseudonym foi~i St. Mary's senior who bartended f.lJ, Senior Bar. ,~ 
SCHOLASTIW 
~ •;+
.·{l-~ 


Throating It Out 

by Donna Teevan 

·' You probably know one. You 1might even be one yourself -a "throat," that is. A throat is the person in your Jock 001 class who ·finds copies of the course's tests from the last ten years, starts study­ing a week in advance for a minor quiz, and even then must pull an all-nighter just to get a "decent" grade. The throat often has superior academic ability and a good grade point average ( G.P .A.), yet every time you talk to him he is on the :verge of "flunking out." Though the throat is often the object of campus humor, he is also the object of : . campus resentment. His existence ( proves the presence of, and per­
· petuates, a destructive strain of aca­! demic competitiveness that is found . in every college and department of : the University. 
Students who have succumbed to this competitive madness ultimately ~ pursue high grades without really thinking about the social, emotional, . physical, and spiritual damage they may incur along the way. They limit their collegiate experience and edu­cation to those courses and activities for which grades (preferably high ones) are given or which hold prom­ise of future monetary rewards. These supercompetitors may be overly concerned about how others are doing in a class, since they want to be sure they are on top. In addi­tion, they usually have an exag­
1 gerated and unfounded fear of fail­ure, which is probably due to their ' own inflated definition of failure. 
The throat himself suffers the most because of his attitude. He comes away from what should be a well-rounded educational experi­

• ence with little more than knowledge r of lecture and textbook material, in­. stead of a broader and more sensitive 
Understanding of himself and the . World around him. He misses the · Unique fun of collegiate camaraderie. 
N°OVEMBER 


His health may be in poor shape be­cause his studies leave him no time for the basic necessities of food and sleep. 
Perhaps the greatest harm of fierce competitiveness is the damage done to the self-esteem of the com­petitor. His self-esteem is constantly unstable, since it is almost com­pletely intertwined with his G.P.A. What happens to one's self-image when the grades are not good or when there are no grades? Surely self-esteem should not be dependent on any one evaluation. Unfortunate­ly, grades can easily become the measure of personal worth for the . throat. 
The deleterious effects of the throat's µnrelenting competitive drive are not confined to the throat alone, but extend to everyone around him as well. From his distorted per­spective, the overly grade-conscious student sees his time as better spent on homework, than on listening to a troubled hallmate or working for volunteer services. He does not have many friends, because the people who know him sense that they are secon­dary to his competitive devotion to academics. They may feel his ani­mosity toward them if they do better in their coursework than he does. Courses that attract the most in­tense competitors get a reputation for being "throaty," which dis­courages other students with inter­est in these courses from taking them. 
It is essential to remember that not everyone who is hardworking and making good grades is a throat. Some students desire to excel purely for the sake of achieving excellence itself. This kind of student wants to do well in everything-athletics, classes, parties, volunteer work. To him excellence is independent of the progress of others. He realizes that high grades do not always truly in­dicate excellence and that poor grades do not necessarily represent failure. 
There are also students who have an intense interest in learning and simply enjoy acquiring knowledge. 
(cont. on page 38) 
37 
/· 
f,~ '.\j ( .:il 
-. -:) 
:: ~ (i 
. . ' . . 
·t... 
;~ 
~-.' 
,·. 
(cont. from page 37) 

Some of them may not desire an ac­
tive social life or extracurricular ac­
tivities. This type of student can be 
distinguished from the throat be­
cause his goal is to learn, not to 
have the highest grade. 

Then, of course, there are the stu­
dents who study hard constantly 
and never seem to do better than 
average, though they labor longer 
than the average number of hours. 
On the surface they resemble 
throats, but they lack the cutthroat 
instinct. The only throats they want 
to cut are their own after they re­
ceive yet another dismal grade for 
their diligent efforts. They do not 
want to be the best, they would just 
like to see the results reflect their 
efforts. c. 

These students, however, are in a 
precarious position: they may be­
come more and more obsessed with 
grades until they finally degenerate 
into throats. The important idea for 
them to remember is that the real 
value is in the effort itself-the dis­
cipline and learning-not in their 
grade or position in the curve. 

The prevalence of academic com­
petitiveness at the University causes 
one to wonder where and when this 
attitude originated. Much of it un­
doubtedly stems from the typical ­
Notre Dame student's high school 
experience. Every year a few poor 
freshmen are shocked to discover 
that ma_ny of their classmates were 
also high school valedictorians, news­
paper editors, varsity football team 
captains, or head cheerleaders. Sud­
denly, being selected "Teen of the 
Century" in high school is not quite 
the honor it once seemed. 

When highly successful high school students find themselves together in c?llege there is bound to be rivalry, smce none of them are willing to re­linquish their status of academic superiority. Not everyone can get the A's to which he is accustomed. Some students have difficulty in making this transition and soon become throats, desperate to continue their high level of achievement. 
Perhaps their competitive drives began earlier, in high school or even grade school, which may account for their great success in high school. Many of the students who come here are not only good students but com­petitive ones, making for a tense situation from the start. 
Students do not create academic pressure all by themselves, however. Parental expectations are powerful shapers of a student's attitude. Some parents expect their Notre Dame son or daughter to reach the same de­gree of success they achieved in high 
school. They too are used to a high 
level of academic performance. 
Moreover, professional schools are sources of pressure. Pre-meds are · legendary because of the sometimes fanatical drive with which they push toward_ -their goal of being accepted into medical school. Students aspir­ing to law and graduate schools are also haunted by the specter of re­jection from these institutions. Their futures seem to rest on their grades, and so they give them their utmost attention. 
... being selected "Teen of the Century" is not quite the honor it once seemed 
It is easy enough to bemoan the existence of academic competitive­ness or "throatiness" at Notre Dame but it is more difficult to find solu~ tions to the problem. In a way, the problem is inevitable at a university such as Notre Dame, because it at­
tracts good students and has h: 
admissions standards. (It is not, he 
ever, a situation unique to No 
Dame.) 

Perhaps the first step is to bemc the existence of competitiveness the University -to realize that problem does exist. In doing so must acknowledge that it is not j1 someone else's problem, but our o· as well. There is a little bit of 1 throat in each one of us. If we rec« nize this tendency in ourselves can then work to eradicate it ~r, least to control its destructivenesi our own lives. We must understai both intellectually and emotionai that life cannot be measured bj 
G.P.A. Only then can will we bei to appreciate the small wonders' each day, the happiness friendsi brings, the simple pleasure of a 1 laxing evening, the importance sharing time and talent without E pecting anything in return, and_ t true value of our Notre Dame ei cation. 
Donna Teevan is a junior Engli major from Memphis, TN. and Co Editor of Scholastic. ·. 
SCHOLASTl 
; '·.' : 
./:~: ·, ·_ 
, i' . ' ,· ' :­
: . ',.: :. ,. 
·r:~ 
'l





~! The 
l . 

)!~J-Last 
: a! 
Wf 
llSt 
~ word 
)g; 

Vf~ 
af 

ih 
by Chuck Wood

id; 1,Y:
'.,'.:a 
I wonder what there is about the unreasonably re­~ii• mote hours of the morning that brings out the philoso­of phers in students. At two or three o'clock in the c iip': morning, there are three kinds of students: those who re:; are asleep, those who wish they were, and those who gJ. have the irresistible need to talk to anyone who will !X; · listen.he Once, after I had been studying much too long, I lit~ met someone who needed to talk. It was just after 
0 2:30 a.m.~ I believe, and I was going west toward Pang­
•i born. My trip from the meeting of an underground 

;{" study club in one of the science buildings was unevent­ful until I saw a tilted silhouette ahead of me. I caught up in front of the bookstore and saw that it was a fellow "'Bornian." He had his backpack hitched with one strap over his shoulder. His pack was so weighted down with books, it seemed to make him lean to one 

'. side as he walked. 
Whether the tilt of his body was imaginary or not, the disgusted, I-resign-from-the-world scowl on his face was not. Mumbling "hello" with an edge that dared me to say anything back, he nevertheless allowed me to walk with him. I thought that was some concession, considering his frame of mind. As it turned out, though, he really wanted to share his philosophical reservo_ir. He just was not ready to do so right away. 
I wanted to take up his dare and cheer him up at the same· time. "Pretty good sunset we had, wasn't it?" was the best I could come up with. 
"Sure was," he answered; the edge was sharper. "All those glorious colors brought to you courtesy of the chemicals drifting downwind from the Gary mills! 
·1.-See these?" He shook his backpack, "I've been bookin' · since that sunset, and I'm still playin' catch-up." ­c\; Then we reached the Pangborn steps, and he finally 


said what was on his mind. "What's the use of all this work, anyway? Won't be long until everything is used up and comes apart. There won't be anything left for us to apply all the stuff we learn." 
Well I couldn't think of a thing to say since I hadn't been pondering apocalypses then. But I could empathize With him. It is too easy to get caught in a cycle of burning ourselves out through both studying too long and partying too hard. And even when we suspect that this cycle is absurd, we continue because we assume our future careers will give it some meaning. 
My philosophical friend couldn't even believe the future would compensate for the absurdity. Admit: tedly, most of us never become as pessimistic as that, but now and then we probably worry about the value of what we are doing. And yet even when we worry ~ve assure ourseives that the future will get us out of 1t. I'm afraid that, unless we begin to find ways to 
NOVEMBER 


break. the cycle now, our future careers and responsi­
bilities will simply provide new forms of the cycle. 
One way to get out of the cycle is to be rnore con­cerned about the present and doing things that can be valuable within the scope of the years we are at Notre Dame. We have to take advantage of the present. Working with a volunteer service group, such as those highlighted in our photo essay, can be a very good use of time. There one receives a little real world ex­perience and can learn from the association with a wide variety of people beyond the campus community. And the service given as tutors, mental health aides, just as visitors, or in numerous other capacities can bring some hope to those served. I think that more students (myself included) should try to do some work with a service group on campus before they leave. 
But if we go into any volunteer service thinking about how much of a sacrifice we are making and how much we are going to help mankind with our talents, there will be a shallowness to what we accomplish. We might see the people we serve as objects to boost our egos and soothe our consciences. 
That which can add depth to such work reflects another way to use the present in a valuable way. What I mean is that those who call themselves Christians should care about developing that Christianity in per­sonal and practical ways. In the specific case of vol­unteer actions, this service can be a concrete response to the challenge of Jesus' teachings and his life, a way to take our religion out of the realm of dogma and abstract concepts. 
Further, I believe that in a general sense one of the best uses of the time here is to begin to discover how the gospel message we hear can affect our whole lives. It is common to hear spiritual discussions of charitable work for others, but how. often do we find people discussing the more personal aspects of Chris­tianity? The most common times for conversations on spiritual matters such as these are those remote hours when deep thoughts abound. This is unfortunate if it reflects a separation of faith from the rest of our lives. I say "unfortunate" because it seems that putting our faith off to one side robs it of any power to get us out of the absurd cycles we find ourselves in. Such power is, of course, rooted in a hope for the future, a hope in something that will endure even if "everything is used up and comes apart.'' But this power also lies in the way a Christianity with day-to-day applications can give value to the present. The work of_ exploring faith in personal, concrete forms, then, is not just an­other kind of work that will be made meaningful by future events; it can be applied to our lives now, pro­viding the challenge and the ability to change them. D 

~:i~1W.w_;1~';;t..·:·:·~_!.u-:~::r\·L::-· --'~-<~~· .,:t,,..:.,.~~·~~~e~::(~ :.-..;..)~ ,f,-!.:~·-F ·: .-:·\,:;,:,::.::<'·/,:~::~¥...~?e:-~t-~~ --~::'.·~f;;¥#~:,2:~--·:-..~;r...,~::!·;,-:.~---~¥~· 1½!:'"'J.~h~-2fii 
---... ,••, . ~·· .. ···-• -.­

l1 / 
,_/,-,1 Hrw/.: 4 






