Dotre Dame Scholastic
•DI5Ce9VASI-S^mPei2-VICTVRVS- -VIVG^VAShCRAS-MORITVRVS:-
Vol. XXXVI. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA,. Commencement Number, 1903. No. 37.
Class Poem—1903.
Baccalaureate Sermon.*
PATRICK MacDONOUGH, PH. B.
ThPHEN the Creator’s work was done VV ' And wrought was every sphere and star, Enthroned above the regal sun
The Father viewed this earth afar;
In all the universe no place
Was meeter for the human race.
Here, fashioned at the dawn of Time, Men soon forgot their Father’s name;
They turned to deeds of war and crime And fell from glory down to shame;
Until at last the Christ was born
And darkness fled before the moral
So runs the tale of our forbears, To write a brighter page be ours; ‘
High are our hopes, tho’ grave our cafes, Before us rise triumphal towers
That beck us on to manly life, To worthy deeds, to noblest strife.
Our minds refreshed, our hearts made strong, • The tinselled from the true we know;
With purpose high we spurn the wrong
That worked in Eden overthrow;
Not lust of gold shall bar the way That leads to purer, perfect day.
In sanctuary, forum, field,—
, Where’er we_be, whate’er we prize—
Be this emblazoned on our shield:
Help we our fellowmen to rise ;■
So strive we for the common .good ‘ In closest league, in brotherhood.
Amid these shrines ’neath heaven's arch, We sought eternal gain, not loss, '
And now, while Duty calls, we march
The chasm of the years to cross By ways the saints, the heroes trod, To reach that end, our home in GOD.
N Saint Paul’s Cathedral, London, there is a simple tablet erected to the memory of him-who built it and on the stone are engraved the words: “If you seek his
monument look around you.” And as we walk through the aisles of that vast cathedral and feast our eyes on its beauty and its grandeur we feel that no more eloquent epitaph could, have been written; that the work of the architect is, indeed, his best monument. I have been invited to address my words to ybu, who, having finished your work in academic halls; stand at the gateway of active life. prepared to enter on your careers. What better thought can I give you, what more wholesome thought can you cherish, than that a man’s . life, his work is his monument, and it lasts for eternity. There are few among you who have formulated any definite plan of life, of views or theories which shall guide you. Nevertheless, conscious or unconscious, we all have our theories, and these underlie all dur scheming and our dreaming. On the view we take of life, its meaning and its ends, will depend the whole trend of our life. Our practice will correspond with our theory. Most important is it to have a correct and worthy view; for according to this will dur ; course through the world be shaped and our. destiny proceed.
Here, at the very outset, I would remind you, my dear young friends, that any view of life from which God and the soul are eliminated; is false and in its results most deplorable. 5 Our .life has a supernatural cause: it springs :
* Delivered June 14, in Sacred Heart Church, Notre.-. . Dame, by Reverend John P. Quinn, B. A., ’83., Pastor - -L of St. John’s Church, Peoria, III.
*	■	•-	‘	. i
606	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
from a power beyond the horizon of this material universe, and is meant to have a supernatural aim. It is just as absurd to suppose that this world was made and is governed by chance as to suppose that each individual has not a divine destiny. To fulfil our destiny, to do the work designed for us in the mind of the Creator, should be our aim and ambition. We can ’’do this only by the proper cultivation and uses of the gifts of mind and of heart which God has given us. Whether the work before you, young men, be great or small, whether you are destined to write your names in the world’s roll of / distinguished men or to be forgotten, if your high destiny be your guiding star and reflect its light on all you do, you shall have lived and labored to good purpose. .	-
Through a score of years it has been the mission of parents and teachers to prepare you step by step for life’s battle. In these university halls you have been taught how to ' enrich your minds with the learning which has come down to you from all generations of the past. It has been your great privilege * • to have your minds cultivated in an institution where science has not swept God from the pulpit and the class-room. Here you have been the recipients rather than the dispensers of moral and intellectual benefits. At each stage of your progress you have found kind hearts to lead you and strong arms to lift you. Henceforth you are to be givers rather-than receivers. What will you give out? Will the world be made better by you?
These are times which call for strong men; , men of moral and intellectual worth; men cast in heroic mould. Error stalks abroad presumptuous as Goliah; evil and wrong are strongly entrenched, and we need men in this generation, who, against corruption and error, will wield the sling of David and swing the hammer of Thor.' We need men to-day of wide knowledge, illuminated by faith and men of upright lives. I do not mean to reflect on the glory of our age. It stands • unrivalled for its progress along many lines and for the new and undreamed-of forces it has placed in our hands. Compared with our own, past ages are, in a sense, ages of ignorance. But when character, says a modern thinker, is.held to be the only sufficient test of enlightenment ours will indeed be called a dark age. In spite of nineteen centuries of Christianity, what countless numbers are in the dark, drifting, floundering like a ship in the fog.
I have heard a traveller tell how in Switzerland he stood, one day, on an Alpine ridge eight thousand feet above the level of the sea. At the base of the mountain nestled a little village surrounded by a panorama of beauty that was simply indescribable. Suddenly, at a distance perhaps of two thousand feet below him, the clouds gathered and. shut out the entrancing view. His eye could rest now only on a vast, a boundless sea of gray cloud. At that moment a little girl, who, from that dizzy height had also been looking down at the Alpine village and admiring its incomparable beauty, came to his side and said, “And can those people down there no longer see the sun?” And he answered, “No.” “And can they no longer see these beautiful heights and snow-capped ridges and overhanging sky?” Again the traveller answered, “ No, my child, the clouds have intervened; they are in the shadow.” And in her childlike way the little one exclaimed: “Isn’t it too bad!”
Over man, vast as the blue dome of heaven, broods the eternal realities.. Yet it seems as if he had not mind to imagine, faith to realize, nor heart to understand. There are men who live as though they had no souls, as though no God had made them, no Saviour had died for them. They live ‘little better than the beasts that perish: a spiritless life, without purpose, without effort, without nobility. To-day the clouds of materialism shut out the face of God from countless human souls, and with the little child on the mountain ridge we are moved to exclaim: “Isn’t it too bad! ”
We live in an age, it is well said, when young men prattle about protoplasm and young ladies in gilded salons unconsciously talk atheism. The scientist to-day, whether he explores vast realms of space tracing the courses and weighing the bulks of its mighty orbs, or whether he analyzes the minutest atoms of matter, is slow to recognize the Deity behind the atom or the orb. This is a utilitarian age also; an age of the keenest competition in all departments, in which success waits only on brilliant attainments and tireless application. As a result, men are tempted to devote their whole attention and study to the mastery of their business or profession, and neglect higher things. What numbers of men we meet in active life with gifted minds whose energies are wholly centred in the things that perish! The test of life to-day is social and financial success. Wealth and place are the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
two powerful incentives put before young men to-day to fire their ambition and to stimulate their energies. The blighting curse of this age is absence of serious thought about the great hereafter. Be not deceived, young men, by the atmosphere which you will be forced to breathe in these days of intense commercialism. Your training here has taught you to look to something higher and more enduring than the world can give. You have learned that the development of the spiritual in man is the highest and the noblest work. Everything else is secondary. Whatever worldly or material success may be yours, it will be worthless if the soul be dwarfed or its spiritual growth stunted. You have learned much in your-years of study, much more you might have learned by which you will never profit; but there is one lesson, I trust, which has so permeated your souls that it will never be forgotten, and that is, that life without God is life without joy, without happiness, without hope. You will go forth into the world, your' lives will be very various: some of you will be rich, others poor; some will be prosperous, others sorrowful,—these things are of little moment; but the difference between the holy and the unholy life, between the life with God and the life without God, that is the difference between the noon of a burning summer and a midnight without stars. “A sunless universe is not more cheerless than a godless soul.” “One who believes not in God,” says a Catholic Bishop, “must cherish a thousand lies to save himself from despair.” How can he have a great mind or a loving heart who in all and above all sees not God?
One great result of your knowledge and your faith should be to make you good men; men of high moral principles and noble aims. It is not the lack of knowledge, but the lack of character which brings about the ruin of nations and individuals. God has given us an intellect to know Him, but He has also given us a will’ to serve Him. We have the power of choice, and who can weigh its tremendous responsibilities? How many young men have perverted their splendid abilities in order to fling away the fetters and restraints of conscience and divine law? The world’s highway is strewn with these human wrecks.
I charge you above all, be conscientious. It is by listening to conscience that you will learn your work in life. In these days it is asked, sometimes wearily, sometimes cynically: “ Is life worth the living? ” I tell you it is serving
God which makes life worth the living. It is this which moulds a man to the perfection of grace and nobility. It is this alone which can enable him to await the eternal future with calmness and to bear present ills with patience. God has assigned to every one of you a work to perform, and whether * your future be spent in the duties of some profession, in the counting-house, in the workshop or on the platform, labor so as to make heaven and earth meet. This is man’s true aim in life. . The world will readily crown you with its laurel wreath for brilliant success without stopping to inquire your moral'worth, but the highest eulogy is for men to say: here is a true man, a man whose presence makes me ashamed of all that is mean and vile, who brings out the' best in me, out of whose presence I go feeling a better and a stronger man; a man in whom is the spirit of the most high God. We need such men to-day, upright, conscientious men, incorruptible, trustworthy men, men of integrity, who dare do what is right, who would rather die than violate the claims of right and truth or fail in their allegiance to God.	.
Knowledge of the world and of men will soon convince you that the meaning of the word honesty has been degraded. To-day it means, not honor or equity, but • doing nothing which is technically illegal. One-result of this is to breed in the public mind the most unscrupulous methods of moneymaking and building of capital; methods subversive of every principle of honor and which strike at the very base of public ,char-acter. I warn you against dishonesty, because I know no commandment which to-day is so universally violated and so seldom repented of than the commandment: “Thou shalt not steal.” Be so absolutely, scrupulously honest . that your transactions will bear not only man’s approval, but the sunlike scrutiny of God’s all-seeing eye.
Be not an idler. Idleness means loss. He who trifles, with the passing golden moments will one day come to the husks. Wait not for opportunities, create them. Whether necessity demands it or not, keep busy. Be something, do something, aim at something— something good and serviceable to the race. Have a fixed purpose and strenuously pursue . it. Idleness is the mother of many vices. It is the idleness of our aristocracy of wealth in America to-day which has reduced it to such degeneracy as to merit the castigation of the <
,6o8-	NOTRE DAME
pulpit and the press. The industrious are the moral and the industrious are the successful. Industry, coupled with your education and your moral culture, will qualify you for useful, noble and worthy careers.
Be unselfish in your daily life and work. In that is the essence of godliness and good citizenship. Selfishness is the bane of society. It leaves a man heartless and drives him to ungodliness. To have no God is to worship other gods; and so we find the selfish and the heartless worshippers at the shrines of mammon and of pleasure.' We find them utterly indifferent to the agonies of humanity; utterly indifferent that the stream of gold which rolls into, their bursting coffers is wet with the tears of women and red with the blood of men; utterly indifferent that their bestiality has driven to shame, to agony and to death poor women for whom Christ died. To be selfish is to be ignoble. There is not one misery or shame of which it is not the source. Unselfishness is the product of Christianity and the noblest and divinest mark of Christian manhood. To live for others, to be interested in their happiness and welfare, to extend sympathy and a helping hand to the needy, this is the spirit which Christ wishes to prevail and which Christianity aims to keep . in the world. Help to make this an age of brotherhood. Love thyself, love thy fellowman sincerely and the blessings which will follow will be as blossoms opening under the cheerful warmth of the sun.
Young men, the twilight, of your lives has passed away. You stand in the dawn of manhood and the great day of life is before you. Aim to be men. Approach life’s problems as decent, God-fearing, law-abiding, honor-loving, justice-doing men. Remember religion does not dwarf any of the impulses of your young, vigorous manhood, but guides you aright. It seeks hot to make your development one-sided, not to prevent your being a man; but it sees that, in the fullest sense, you are a man and a good man. Do not expect to have all victory in life. The future is sometimes carved in rough places. Shadows are as inseparable in life as are the shadows in the perfect painting of the great artist. 'Have a lofty ideal, an ideal which appeals to the infinite in the soul, and endeavor, under all circumstances, in adversity and prosperity, to live it out.	.
Michael Angelo was once walking with some friends. through an obscure street in
SCHOLASTIC
Florence when he discovered a block of marble lying neglected, half-buried in the dirt. Regardless of his holiday attire he fell to work upon it and lifted it from the mire in which it lay. His companions in astonishment asked him what he wanted'with that worthless piece of rock. “ Oh,” said he, “ there’s an angel in the stone and I must get it out.” He removed it to his studio, and with patient toil, vzith mallet and with chisel, he let the angel out. What to others was an unsightly mass of stone, to his educated eye was the buried glory of art, and by his labor and his ■ genius he gave it value for ages to come. Within each of us is an angel which by faith and love and patient, upward striving we can develop. I mean the glory and beauty of true manhood. Will you try to get the angel out?
You stand in the dawn; and life in its dawn is like a bare canvas on which we may inscribe what we will. We may paint in the dark and sombre colors of ignorance and sin. We may put upon that canvas a' picture of ruins: a ruined life and a ruined soul; or we may dip our brush into the .pure gold of love and paint in golden colors. May you be inspired to make your lives golden by giving to God the service due to Him : the service of your intellect, your will and your heart— your intellect by' living above the clouds of ignorance and sin ; your will by choosing and pursuing a high and holy purpose in life; your hearts’ best love by union with God and consecrating your energies to the service of of humanity. “He only is truly great who feels that his life belongs to the race and whose reliance on truth, on virtue, on God is most unfaltering.” ----------------- ----------
There is deep truth in the idea of Socrates that we. can teach only those who love us. Is not this implied in the command of the Saviour that His disciples love Him and one another? If minds are to be fertilized, they must receive the seed of truth from sympathetic minds. We can improve only those whose confidence and good-will we have gained; and a radical defect in teachers is the lack of sweetness and mildness, of the gentle and persuasive force which goes forth from an open mind and kindly heart. Even the indignation which stupidity and heedlessness arouses must be softened by the conviction that weakness rather than perverseness, leads us astray and delivers us into the power of our baser	Spalding.
I
I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
609
Bachelors’ Orations: The Louisiana Purchase and Its Results.
I.—The Political Consequences.*
ROBERT J. SWEENY, A. B.
O theatre of human activity has been more prolific in great events and changes since the fourth of July, 1776, than the United States of ■America. Upon the inspiriting soil of the New World
have been enacted some of the most stirring dramas of history. A century has seen this country from a population of three millions of people and from a narrow, circumscribed area along the Atlantic coast, grow into a magnificent nation of eighty millions and a vast, almost boundless territory, with tributary islands lapped by tropic seas. The series of events which have led to this great culmina-o
tion are among the most interesting on history’s recorded page; but one in particular stands prominently forth both in interest and in its result — the Louisiana Purchase.
' The effects of the Louisiana Purchase have been felt in the whole course of our subsequent national life. It determined, first of all, that ours should be an expansive instead of a stationary national policy. It defined and put to the first severe test the powers of our Constitution. It strengthened the Federal union and following in its train and directly traceable to it we may clearly see such events of national importance as the Missouri Compromise, the annexation of Texas, the Dred Scott Decision, and the great Civil-War itself, while it gave a reassuring precedent for our more recent immense territorial acquisitions.
Fitting indeed then it is that our country, which owes to the Louisiana Purchase her commanding position in the front rank of nations, should . celebrate its centenary with national pride and individual rejoicing. Appropriate, too, that in her grateful festivities, the United States should invite the older nations of the world to participate, since to two of them in particular the great states and territories carved out of the purchased wilderness, owe their discovery and early civilization.
The opening pages of Louisiana’s history are a romance of Spanish and French hardihood
* Orations appear in the order of delivery.
and daring. The first intrepid pioneer to tread the virgin forests of the Mississippi valley and to gaze with awe-stricken, wondering eyes upon the mighty Father of Waters, was the brave but unfortunate Hernando de Soto. Less than a century and a half later France was in the field, and Robert La Salle planted at the river’s mouth the holy cross and took possession of the country in the name of Louis XIV. .
When Spain, by treaty, received the land from France in 1763, the American country on the east bank of the Mississippi was practically a vast, unexplored, tenantless wilderness. Hardy, indeed, was the pioneer whose foot trod that giant, wild land; but soon after the Revolution, bold American woodsmen had the whole valley of the Ohio in their hands. At once the question how these people were to find commerce with the outer world became of the most vital importance. Transportation over the mountains was not to b.e thought of, Their only highway was the Mississippi River, and in this natural necessity arose the exciting force which reached its climax in the Louisiana Purchase. If the use of the river were free nothing better could be asked, but this unfortunately was not the case. Spain owned the western bank and the Floridas, and Spanish authorities obstinately refused our right to the free navigation of the river, but were active in promoting seditious schemes ‘ and fomenting discontent among the people of Kentucky and Tennessee.
However, in 1795, Spain became so far complicated in European wars that she consented to a treaty by which, among other things, the rights of free navigation and deposit at New Orleans were assured to. the United States for a term of three years. The concession was regarded by the people of Kentucky arid Tennessee as a makeshift. Sensational projects for taking forcible possession of the mouth of the Mississippi continued to be agitated.
This was the state of affairs when rumors reached the United States that Louisiana had experienced another change of masters and at the same time our amicable arrangement with the Spanish authorities at New Orleans was
6io	NOTRE DAME
reported withdrawn. The secret treaty of San Ildefonso gave a new phase to the matter The whole nation received with alarm the prospect of French contiguity. Memorials were sent to Congress by the dissatisfied settlers in the states east of the Mississippi River, and measures of the most warlike and radical character were presented in that body. There was need on the part of the Executive of sagacity and statesmanship lest the infant republic be plunged into war with the foremost military nation of the day. In this crisis, Jefferson was not found wanting.. He appeased public turmoil by commissioning Monroe minister extraordinary to co-operate with Livingstone, our minister to, France for the purchase of New Orleans and the Floridas.
Meanwhile, in France events of most vital importance were shaping themselves. There had stepped upon the stage of Europe the most tremendous figure bf modern times— Napoleon Bonaparte. This restless genius, seized with the desire of colonial empire, early determined upon the acquisition of Louisiana; and with Napoleon to determine was to obtain. As a first step, however, in 'his scheme of American colonization and as a base for his operations in the New World, which indeed we have since learned were designed to touch most closely the very independent existence of our nation, he dispatched to the island of San Domingo, with a great fleet and army, one of his favorite lieutenants, General le Clerc.
The awful disasters from warfare and disease which there overtook that brilliant expedition was one of the causes why a remarkable decision was soon reached by the First Consul. But other and graver reasons were not lacking. The treaty, of Amiens was at an end. The dark cloud hovering over Europe might break at any moment. For the war already determined with England funds were needed, and* it was Napoleon’s conviction that a war with England would result in the loss of Louisiana. Moreover, we have every reason to believe that the great Frenchman always cherished a desire to upbuild : this nation at the expense of England. Whatever the motives, the decision, so startling and unexpected, was quickly reached. On Easter Sunday morning, 1803, to the astonished disapproval of his. family and ministers, Napoleon directed Talleyrand to begin immediate f negotiations; with the American minister, for the sale of Louisiana.
On being asked what the United States
SCHOLASTIC
would give for the whole of Louisiana, Livingstone disclaimed any idea of our purchasing ‘such a vast tract of unexplored country. His instructions dealt only with a narrow strip • along the eastern bank of the Mississippi. Fortunately, however, for -America’s future, Livingstone was a man of splendid courage and sagacity. He hazarded not the- delay of communication with the home government, but perceiving the priceless opportunity and reinforced by the arrival of Monroe, he reached the decision to buy, without one line of instruction or authorization, a country larger by half than his own native state. The treaty so important to our future prominence, nay even independent existence, reached the hands of the astonished Jefferson and Madison about the middle of the summer. Serious scruples were entertained by the President, a strict Constructionist, concerning the constitutional authority to purchase Louisiana. He had said: “The Constitution has made no provision for our incorporating foreign nations into our Union;” but wisely putting aside his own opinion at the wish of the nation, he summoned an extra session of Congress which sanctioned, October 19, 1803, America’s first and most important step towards territorial greatness.
In reading the records of these transactions we must feel that, wise and foresighted as these men were, they builded far wiser than they knew. And yet there has come down to us from two men, both great though in different degree and in different lines, sayings so pregnant with truth; already so completely fulfilled that they amount almost' to prophecies.
Robert R. Livingstone affixed his signature to this priceless document and then turning to the illustrious, company there present gave expression to these remarkable sentiments: “We have lived long but this is the noblest work of our whole lives. . . . The instrument which we have just signed will cause no tears to be shed; it prepares ages of happiness for innumerable generations of human creatures. The_ Mississippi and the Missouri will see them succeed one another and multiply truly worthy the regard and care of Providence in the bosom of equality under just laws, freed from the errors of superstition and the scourges of bad government.” Barbe-Marbois, the Minister for France, has chronicled utterances of the great Dictator; so truly Napoleonic and so full of : sagacity and political insight
NOTRE DAME SCMOLacMIC.	6n
as to fill us with lasting wonder at the superhuman genius of this marvelous man. Already seeing with prophetic eye the daring splendor of the rising Republic he said: “This accession
' of territory strengthens forever the power of the United States. I have given to England a rival that sooner or later will humble her pride.” “Perhaps,” he continued, “it will be objected that the Americans will become too powerful for Europe in two or three centuries. But my foresight takes no account of terrors at a distance. Moreover, you may look to the future for dissensions in the bosom of the Union. The Confederations which call themselves perpetual only endure until one of the parties to the contract finds reason to break it.” - These were prophetic words, indeed, and they shadowed forth with startling distinctness, events yet hidden in the womb of time; but Livingstone and Napoleon Bonaparte saw but dimly and through half-shut eyes the myriad glories they had unveiled.
The Louisiana Purchase is the broad . foundation upon which America’s greatness is laid. Upon this strong base American genius and American enterprise, so aptly typified by the pioneer of the Mississippi Valley, have erected a fair and enduring edifice. Its political consequence was most- momentous, most vital both upon our own growth and upon the history of the world.
A new principle was. placed in the textbooks of statecraft. Our fathers by preserving the freedom and strength of their government intact under the process of expansion controverted the well-assured- opinion of the world to the contrary. Thereafter a people might expect to grow great and prosper while still preserving freedom and equality in their land.
The annexation of territory was accepted as a legitimate exercise of constitutional authority, and the way was open for our expansion toward the Pacific. The importance to the United States of such expansion can not well be overestimated. For the marketing of goods, for the possessions of seaports, for material wealth and progress, for the very . solidity, even existence of the Union, the value of the. Pacific slope is incalculable. Into the vast, untrod continent the Louisiana '	Purchase cut a great wedge which the vibrat-
(	ing force of American enterprise and daring
' drove ever farther until now the shores of the -।	■- Republic are laved by either sea, while from her
1 busy ports go forth rich argosies to every land.
Out of the tangled wilderness of 1803 have
been carved fourteen states and territories .	.
abounding in wealth, sheltering millions of inhabitants, the very heart and core of the nation. ’ Perhaps we might realize most vividly the tremendous import of the Purchase	•
upon our subsequent history by viewing for	' ‘
a moment what would most probably have happened if it had not been effected. Had . the young Napoleon, flushed with the jyine. . of victory, endeavored to maintain his Anier-ican empire, in all human probability the territory west of the Mississippi would have fallen under British sway. English fleets.'in; : the West Indies and English troops in. Canada’ ‘ were ready at the first rupture to descend'	. -
upon Louisana. In such a case imagine- the . condition of the weak American Republic.
Hemmed in - on North and West by hostile English, on the South by-jealous Spanish, on the East by'booming Atlantic, how long could . it hope to subsist independently? Optimism . views with complacency such a situation. It says that the American pioneer would have . -overcome such obstacles; but we must remem- , / ber that in such a case bur -growth would have been a slow process. No such alluring prospects would have been held out to the down-trodden and the oppressed of foreign •* lands as after the Purchase caused such a stream of immigration. The kinetic energy in . serried ranks of the bold and daring of every ' land would have been lacking, and without its helps the Mississippi might have always remained a hostile barrier.	.
With another Canada on our Western . border, the stronghold of a prospective foe, we have every reason to believe that the . ascendency in both Americas would not have been transferred to the young Republic; that the Monroe Doctrine—that splendid procla- ’ mation unique in modern times, would never have been promulgated; that the fair lands in' both hemispheres which have come to- us as ■ corollaries of this great acquisition, would have poured their treasures into foreign, perhaps . hostile laps.	,	\ ?
This deed; of the pen was the turning-of	.
the road which opened to our view a century of achievements never before equaled by any people in the history of mankind. It assured to ■ the American nation a freedom and strength.	5
unrivalled throughout the world. By the corisummation of the Louisiana Purchase American . energy and brawn make the song of a hundred .	.
marts; their handiwork fill the ships on every	.	.
sea. The golden harvest bends to the wooing	' ,
breeze, the wilderness blossoms like a rose, ,. j great cities stir and bustle in the suri, and	7
through the fair, peopled land the Great	<
Father of Waters moves in majesty, an aid .	/
instead of a barrier. Truly, “the Louisiana - : " Purchase has caused no tears to flow,” truly “it ’ ’ has prepared ages of happiness for innumerable^	)
generations of the human race.” ; V- - :	"N-N-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
H.—Economic Developments of the Louisiana Purchase.
ROBERT E. HANLEY, PH. B.
N the wealth of a nation is based its material civilization, and according to the wealth that it possesses must it take its rank among the powers of the earth. When estimating the glory and the worth of
peoples, we reckon their achievements in diplomacy and war, in esthetic, intellectual and religious advancement; yet in none of these ways can a nation normally develop unless it is fortified and sustained by economic prosperity. Hence the state is properly called the commonwealth; for no people, unless they look to their material prosperity, can successfully pursue their common and individual aims in the 'quest of the higher and npbler objects of desire. To obtain that degree of peace and justice, which will enable men in security and certainty of the future to acquire wealth, was the state, the commonwealth, founded. It is, therefore, worth our .while this evening to consider what has been the economic results to our country of the acquirement of the territory of Louisiana. For these economic results are the ultimate foundation of our satisfaction and pride in the addition of this vast domain to the territory of the United States.
The economic benefits which the Republic derived from the Louisiana Purchase can be considered in a threefold light: first, the actual territory acquired; second, the territory
lying to the west of Louisiana, which through the Purchase, inevitably fell to the United States; and third, the great and growing trade in the Orient which we acquired through the control of the Pacific slope.
By the treaty of April 30, 1803, we. acquired over • a million square miles of the richest and most fertile territory on the American continent, a region exceeding by over two-hundred thousand square miles the then entire territory of the Republic. Well might Napoleon remark to Livingstone: “A magnificent bargain: an empire for a mere trifle.” Out of this vast region twelve states and two territories have been organized, stretching from Louisiana on the south to' Montana on . the north; In 1803, the population of the
United States was five and a half' millions, while to-day these twelve states and two territories harbor within their borders a population of over fifteen millions, or nearly thrice the population of the Union at the time of the Purchase. Owing to the remoteness of this territory from the Atlantic seaboard, and the imperfect means of transportation in those early days, this region has, with the exception of Louisiana and Missouri, been settled, developed and exploited practically within the past fifty years. To illustrate this fact it may be noted that in 1850 the total population of the Union was twenty-three millions, and of that number but one-twentieth resided within the Louisiana Purchase. In 1900 the population within the acquired territory was fifteen millions, or nearly one-fifth the then total population of the United States.
The economic development of the Louisiana Purchase is therefore a matter of the past fifty years, and the question as to what it will add to the material strength and power of the United States is still for us, in many respects, matter of speculation; but certain ascertainable results have been achieved on which we can dwell with pride. This vast territory, whatever the future may develop within it of wealth; has been, to a certain extent, exploited in its agricultural and pastoral possibilities. With the increasing population which the coming years will see settled upon its lands, its production of wealth through the agency of these extractive industries, will greatly increase; yet, even as it stands to-day, the wealth of this region is one of the greatest and strongest factors in the material advancement of our people.
The foundation of all wealth and the ulti-
, mate source of the power of a nation is in the production of the food supply. Upon this depend its manufacturing industries; upon this its commerce, in the last analysis, is based. Therefore, in viewing the economic advantages to the United States arising from the Louisiana Purchase, properly should we consider the agricultural development of the territory then acquired. Upon an area which is one-third of the total area of the United States is found one-fourth of the agricultural population of the entire nation. One-third of the occupied farm lands and one-third of the improved farm area, lie within this territory, and thereon is raised annually farm products to a value of fifteen million dollars, being one-third of the total value of all
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
farm products of the Union. Taking the two great cereals, wheat and corn, one-half of the amount raised within the United States is grown upon the lands of the Louisiana Purchase. In 1900, the bushels of wheat • and corn drawn from its fertile plains are: of wheat, three hundred and thirty-nine millions, and of corn, one thousand two hundred and fifty-one millions. The value of the live stock is one thousand two hundred and seventy-five millions,—one-half the value of all of the live stock of the United States. When we turn to the animal products that enter into the food supply of the world we see that this region produces them to the value of three hundred and sixteen millions, being one-third the value of all the animal products of this country. Most significant are these figures when we consider that this vast development has taken place within fifty years; and the possibilities of the increase in the future may be reckoned, when we reflect that there are still great areas within the limits of the Purchase which the coming years will see exploited.
I need not dwell on the beneficent results to the manufacturing industries of the United States that have followed from this superabundant and ever-increasing food supply, nor on the vast internal commerce of the Union which arises from the transportation and sale for consumption within our own limits of these, great agricultural staples. It suffices to merely glance at the effect of this great production on our external commerce. Of the exportsr-of the United States in 1902, one-half consisted of corn, wheat and animal products, and we have seen that fully one-half of all siich products, yielded within the United States, are grown within the limits of the Louisiana Purchase.
What the future may unfold in the development of this great granary of the world, we can not tell; but the results of the past fifty years are sufficient to enable us to see to how great an extent these fertile plains west of the Mississippi have, through the industry of their great and growing, population, contributed to the wealth and strength of the. Union. While the acquirement and .possession of the Louisiana territory has, through its actual development, added to the strength of the United States in the past, and will undoubtedly bring even larger results hereafter, nevertheless, there have already followed consequences of even greater importance.
The addition of Louisiana was the first step in the commercial expansion of this nation. In 1803 we were confined to the ^regions east of the Mississippi, and the possessions of France effectually barred our progress to the Pacific slope. The Louisiana Purchase, how- ‘ ever, had the effect definitely to secure for us Texas, New Mexico, California, and the country “where rolls the Oregon.” The wealth . of this region to the west of the land of Louisiana is largely a matter of history. Not alone in its agricultural possibilities, but in its abounding mineral resources and its wonderful forests, did the United States-gain a marvelous addition to its national wealth. These states contain mines of gold, silver, lead and copper whose products form a large * part of the mineral wealth of the country; In 1900 the value of their lumber profits amounted to fifty-seven millions of dollars. With these magnificent resources at our back we .stood on the shore of the greatest oceain on the globe in secure and permanent possession of a coast line affording us harbors whence our commerce might be carried to the countries of the far East.
The lands whose coasts are washed by the waters of the Pacific are the seats, of large and populous empires containing within their limits the greater portion of the human race. -They are lands whose splendor and whose wealth, as told by those who first journeyed to them, excited the wonder and inflamed the desires of our fathers in Europe, and the quest of which led them to the discovery of this continent. We were situated on the1 western borders of our land at the threshold of this ancient and mighty world, and to-day we have : reached out across the Pacific to share in the-commerce of the Orient To appreciate properly* the magnitude of these dormant, fields of commerce, it may be stated that the Eastern Sphere of Trade includes countries having an area of ten million square miles, and containing a'population of over eight hundred million inhabitants. We have now acquired a goodly share in this vast.eastern trade; and we may well say as ’ did our President but recently, that we can rightfully assert a claim to control the destinies ofythe Pacific. This, the last and greatest result-;bf the Louisiana Purchase, possesses countless ' possibilities in enriching and strengthening the Republic, and of the trade with the Orient . it is hardly within the power of language, to. speak too glowingly.	.
xotRe DAME SCHOLASTIC
There is a tide in the affairs of nations, as of men, which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune. To the United States opportunity was offered in 1803, and fortune stood ready to speed our people on the road to national greatness. We know how useless it is to dwell on the possibilities of history, yet it is a subject on which men often speculate. If Thomas Jefferson had hearkened to his scruples as to the right and wisdom of expanding bej^ond our olden boundaries, it is doubtful whether our nation 'would ever have acquired the proud place that it holds to-day. Whether retained by France or appropriated by England, the. immense territory of Louisiana
would have effectually confined the Republic within its original limits. Happy was it for the nation, that despite his doubts, Jefferson accepted the rich prize and started the Union upon its career of commercial expansion. . First and foremost, the expansion upon which he launched us, won for us the actual territory of Louisiana; secondly, the great territories of the Pacific coast; and lastly, it gave us the opportunity which we are now entering upon, of attaining in commerce the supremacy of the Pacific Ocean. Truly, may we declare with Mr. Gladstone that the United States now has a natural basis for the greatest continuous empire ever established by man.
HI.—The Educational Opportunities.
J. LEONARD CARRICO, LITT. B.
awed and conquered and ruled the world; nothing from all their glories of battle and martial prestige; but we do enjoy, and the nations after us will enjoy, their treasures of thought and art and refinement.	,
Nations are made up of men. They are often, too often, considered otherwise; but the fact is no less a fact for all that. And just as that man is a failure whose highest and only ambition is money, whose whole mind and muscle are bent unceasingly upon material success, so the nation, or the race, whose loftiest ideals are material prosperity and political importance. So far are we from depreciating the , value of wealth and influence, that we could almost with Oliver Goldsmith nominate them the necessary conditions of national pre-eminence, but they alone can never constitute greatness. Morality makes the man; morality makes the nation, and nothing short of morality can produce either. A nation is just what the individuals who compose it are; and it can be great and good just so far as and no farther than its citizens are great and good. We need no demonstration for these propositions. Wealth of mind and soul are not poorly esteemed by the American people. In our theory, and despite our zest for. wealth, intellectual and moral worth are standard values, and if we but look around we may find a goodly proportion of those articles in common currency.	....	■
• When we speak, as\we have a right to do, of the: matchless resources, the thrift and strength,; of the marvelous commercial, in-
OU have heard from the speakers before me a not exaggerated statement of the economic and political consequences of the Louisiana Purchase. There is little danger now, I think, of over-
rating the value of the empire which we purchased from Napoleon but a century ago for three cents an acre; and as little danger of over-appreciating the political significance of that transaction in the making of the American nation. Truly may it be said that in wealth and promise, in richness and variety of resource, in fact and in possibility, there is no land like our great West; and with every reason may we believe that without the strength and influence of that territory the American Republic would not be, and would probably never have been, what it is.
All, however, has not been said. It would be an injustice to the subject were we to ignore another and a higher consideration — the consideration that must give value to those of wealth and power: What has the Louisiana Purchase done for this nation educationally ?
For those who believe that there is something better than either material prosperity or political grandeur we need not emphasize the importance of this point of view. Greece and Rome were rich and mighty once. But what part of their wealth and power has survived them ?.' What have we inherited as;the symbol of their civilization ? Not even a: fig from all their luxury; not one tittle Lof the power that .
NOTRE DAME, SCHOLASTIC

dustrial and political development of our Western territory, the world asks: Are these the best things you have ? Do they constitute your chief claim to greatness ? Where are the mental and moral products of that prosperous land ? Where your science ? your art ? your religion ? We need not seek to avoid these questions, for taking all into account, the educational progress of the Louisiana territory has been quite as remarkable as its growth in other respects.
In vindication of the assertion, let us review briefly what the West has accomplished in education in the past, what it is doing at present, and then see what is promised for the future. We employ the term education, not in any narrow sense but in its complete and proper signification — as physical, mental, and moral development.
Father Marquette, La Salle and his companions were the first educators to see the broad country to the west of the Mississippi. It was not theirs, however, to build cities, or to found churches and colleges, but they came with the Cross to Christianize the savage, and to claim first for God the land that was awaiting the genius of civilization.
During the period of French and Spanish dominion little was done, as, indeed, little could be done, in education. The few and poor settlements on, the Lower Mississippi formed the whole population; and the only show of intellectual or spiritual life was that made by the Jesuit and Capuchin Fathers, and the Ursuline nuns in New Orleans. Their efforts were earnest, even to heroism, but owing to circumstances which they could not improve, their work was not progressive.
When in 1803 the deal was made with Napoleon for the unexplored, unrefined wilderness to the west of the Great River, the world thought, and the best statesmen declared publicly, that it would take one thousand years to people and civilize that vast territory. Scarcely had we taken possession, however, , when there set in a general rush of enterprising people, not merely from Eastern America, but from almost every part of the European world. Only nine years after the event of purchase, Louisiana asked and was admitted to the Union. Eleven other states since then have each added a star to our national flag.
When we recall that a century is but a day in the life of a nation, and a short day in its period of development, we can not. but be amazed at the growth of Western America.
What was but yesterday the wild, primeval forest, claimed only by the savage, is to-day the beautiful home of a thrifty, civilized -people. The splendors of that land are the reward of a people that knew how to use the hand, but the marvels of development to be . -found there could have been wrought only by a hand directed by strong intelligence. Wherever that people, vigorous in blood; and stout at heart, planted themselves, they planted „ _. there their church and school. One of the J first efforts of each of the new States was to. . provide education for its youth. ’Many, or most of their school buildings were but rude — structures of logs and daubing, but they were . . fair beginnings. In the cities were founded the high schools, and in each state a university, none of them as large or as^well provided as ‘ some in New England, but they were the best ' the times could afford ; and they were signifi- . cant as an expression of popular demand for enlightenment. True, the public schools have -never been what we could wish them, and we must even object to the principle upon which the system is based, but we can not share in that wholesale denunciation in which some indulge. The state schools do not effect all the good they might; yet a large part of Western culture would doubtless have been .	.
left unaccomplished without them. /
But there was another movement, in a sense more important, more efficient, than ,the efforts of the State. In front, in the middle, and in : the rear of that line, of immigrants that went to seek or rather to make a home in the forest, went companies of men and women led thither by a nobler purpose than the’ rest. The Bene-dictiues, the Jesuits, Dominicans, Franciscans, . . Trappists, Lazarists, Passionists, Redemptorists, - ,	/
Paulists, Christian Brothers, and numerous . orders of nuns, all came, not to seek fortune -	•
and influence, not because they could not find ready homes elsewhere, but they came to < J upbuild that great country intellectually and . morally. In every settlement they preached, . . and taught, and labored unselfishly for God,- / Country, and Truth. The hundreds of successful missions,.marked to-day by churches and - / ' schools, the flourishing institutions of higher / learning—Immaculate Conception and Holy / Cross Colleges in New Orleans, St. Joseph’s / / College in St. Paul, St. Thomas’ in Dubuque,
St. Benedict’s and St. Mary’s in' Kansas, and .	:
the University of St. Louis are proper nionu- . ments to their zeal and sacrifice in the cause -of education. Others, there are, colleges and
6i6
1MOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
academies, more humble but dignified in their humility, which contribute more than a mite to the welfare of the people and the nation.
The parochial and Catholic high schools are sharing a most important part in the training of the West. Despite their disadvantages, they are raising their standard year by year, so that they already compete successfully with the State high schools. Nor may we think lightly of that multitude of Western journals, educational periodicals and magazines which are spreading instruction, and exercising a broadening influence upon the thought and action of the people.
The success of the Church in the Western States during the nineteenth century is one of the most marvelous in all her long history. Where but one hundred years ago her name had scarcely been sounded, she has now a noble hierarchy of four archbishops and no less than twenty bishops.
Finally, we might cite the prominence given education and art in the programme of the St. Louis Exposition as an evidence that there is an intellectual activity in the West other than a- desperate struggle for wealth and power.
, Before attempting to forecast the future of the West in education, it would be worth our while to observe something of the condition that has so favored its development heretofore. Happily, I think, has the West been called “the most American part of America.” The phrase may be variously interpreted, but its truest meaning is that the principles of American democracy—the principles of freedom and equality—have been more ardently professed and more literally practised there than in any other portion of the . Union. There are to be found in New England and Southern history some instances of prejudice, bigotry, and social and political discrimination that are not a credit to Columbia. But in the Western States the terms liberty and equality mean just what they say—“equal rights to all, special privileges to none.” Especially sacred have , been held the liberties of thinking and teaching. It has become an axiom of industrial and commercial America that competition is the life of trade: Western Americans seem to entertain much the same idea of education. They persecute no system that is not plainly subversive of public order, believing that what is, of itself, the best and strongest will survive and triumph. In consequence of this tolerance the Louisiana States with a sixth of the population of the United States furnish one-fourth of the
country’s teachers, and contribute one-fifth of its instruction. It is largely in virtue of this tolerance that the Catholic Church and school have been able to advance so rapidly.
That liberty of teaching, which, if left unguarded, is apt to be abused, has been in reality to the various classes of educators a great incentive to give the most and the best they could. They had to build from the ground, but-their hearts were not smaller than their task. They toiled for years with the wolf at the door, with no encouragement other than their own achievement; but well did they know that every time they developed a mind and formed a character they were placing a name on the nation’s roll of honor, and contributing a tithe to Christianity and civilization.
Considering all, especially the briefness of their history and the disadvantages that necessarily attend early settlement, they have done as much, I dare say, in the cause of science, civilization, and religion as the thirteen original States ; and if American liberties ever become critically endangered by political selfishness or socialism, if the Republic is ever carried, as it might be by immorality and irreligion, to the verge of dissolution, we may confidently expect the rightly- educated people from the West to come in for a lion’s share in the rescue.	.	'
The intellectual and religious development of Western America has not reached its completion. The future is as promising as the present is satisfactory or the past heroic. We are well aware that evils exist; that bad influences are a£ work there as elsewhere; we know, too, that the good a century has wrought might be obliterated in half the time by corruption and vice; but the present conditions argue admirably for what is to come. So long as liberty is used, and not abused; so long as religion and science co-operate to save men from ignorance and depravity; so long as the Western people study along with the art of money-making and power-getting the art of right-living, the West will push farther along the way of progress to greatness and splendor; nor will material interests ever lag when led on by an enlightened, liberty-loving, God-fearing people.
When guests enter the room their entertainers rise to receive them; and in all meetings men should ascend into their higher selves, imparting to one another only the best they know and love.—Spalding. .
NOTRE DaME SCHOLASTIC.	61?
Commencement Address
BY THE HON. JOHN M. GEARIN, B. S., ’/b M- S., ’/4-
HIS occasion and these exercises in which I have been permitted to bear a part bring back to my mind very vividly, indeed, another Commencement—here almost on this
very spot—when there was another parting and farewell that took me, a youngster then, away from Notre Dame, bearing with much pride my diploma which dear old Father Sorin handed to me, on a bright June day, as this is, just thirty-two years ago next Sunday.
Thirty-two years is a long while when you come to lay the measure of time along the lines of a human life. It doubtless seems very long to you, young gentlemen, just starting now, as I started then, with life so full of hope and promise and allurement,—all before you. It won’t seem so long thirty-two years from now when you are looking back, as’ I am looking, along the road over which you have travelled. The years pass quickly as all of us learn, and life at its longest is but a unit of time at its shortest—at best but a rounded day in the eternal calendar of the ages. For me, now, the morning of that day has long since passed, and here in the early waning afternoon, with the evening shadows just beginning to gather, I am looking backward, picking up here and there as I may, a memory, a result, an experience into each of which I may put a tongue to say to you, on this occasion so eventful in your lives, some of the ..things that life and its labors have taught me. To you who have completed your course here and earned and received your diploma I extend my hearty congratulations, and join with your Alma Mater in wishing you Godspeed on the journey ,upon which you are just starting, and success and good fortune unbounded in whatever field of . labor, choice or Fate or circumstances may direct the expenditure of your energies and your talents. The events of to-day mark for you the parting of the ways in life. Yesterday you were children yet and subject to authority. To-day and henceforth you are men taking upon yourselves, because the time has come when it should be so, the duties and responsibilities of manhood. To the discharge of these duties and to the bearing with honor
these responsibilities you are bringing the best equipment that the world has ever offered to any one: the education and culture' and finish given to you by a University equal to the best, and, in my judgment, excelled in its methods and their results by no educational institution in the world. A great university is the most important human institution in the civilized world to-day. If there ever was a time when it was even a debatable question whether a collegiate education was desirable, whether it paid- or not, that time has long since passed. This is an age of great intellectual activity, of invention, of discovery, of investigation and the application of the truths of abstract science to the practical administration of the affairs of life. While it is true that the pursuit of wealth, and the things that wealth stands for, largely occupies men’s minds in these morning years of the twentieth century, yet it is none the less true that in such pursuit where there is a contest for supremacy, the contest is a contest of brain against brain, where the fully developed intellect wins the victory; and intellectual development is the result' of education and of education only.
Education in its truest sense is the impart--ing of knowledge in its broadest sense. It means mental and moral discipline; it means intellectual and spiritual development. It means not only the gathering together of certain truths, but the deep realization of the force and grandeur and potentiality of all truth. Education to the mind of youth is as the sculptor’s chisel to the quarried marble,' as the painter’s brush upon the unfinished canvas—the touch of the hand of Divinity upon the clay of mortality lifting up and ennobling man’s highest hopes and grandest aspirations. If there were no other results to follow and flow from the mental and moral discipline of a college course, the widening of the field of rational enjoyment and happiness/ the unlocking of the vaults of the treasure houses of knowledge from whose opened doors shines the light that illumines the record of the buried past and forecasts the . inexhaustible possibilities of the unborn future, would-be reward sufficient for all the toil and application and restraint incident to student-life and necessary to its completeness. But there are other results that follow.
In all the complex relations of commercial and industrial life, in all the myriad forms and conventions • that direct and control the
6i8
NOTHE DAME SCHOLASTIC
governmental affairs of the world, in all the vast and varied systems of finance and business enterprise that support and sustain modern progress and development, the potent force that builds, constructs, perfects and shapes into a harmonious whole the diverse and discordant elements of human endeavor and human accomplishment, is the educated and developed brain of man. All progress is the result of endeavor, and every step in advance in the world’s history, by whomsoever made, whether by discovery, or invention, or the development of old forces through new methods and for new purposes, is a step directed by the education of the schools acting upon a trained intelligence correlating forces and controlling their application, working out little by little through the fleeting years the destinies of the imperishable race.
The educated man is the finished man, capable not only of understanding the advantages to be derived from a betterment of conditions, but competent because of his education to do the things that bring about a material prosperity resulting in a betterment of conditions. And, if it be true that all over this broad territory of ours our people are prosperous to • a degree never surpassed before; if it be true that from ocean to ocean labor reaps the reward of its toil, and capital receives the profit of its investment; if it be true that in this marvelous age, marked at every turn by the triumphs of American industry, American enterprise and American genius, our country has advanced along the lines of national greatness so that it has become the wonder of the • modern world, the beneficiaries of all this industrial, material and national prosperity may take off their hats »to-day to the colleges and universities of America from whose portals have come forth, year after year, the young college graduates, the finished'product of educational endeavor through whose' efforts and achievements greatly, if not principally, all these things have become possible.
A college commencement day is a day to be remembered, and that is remembered by all who either participate in the exercises, or honor by their presence the efforts of those who do. The fathers and mothers who are sitting in this audience will remember this day and the honors conferred on their sons long after they shall have forgotten the sadness and the loneliness the boys left behind them in the old homes when they came here. These young graduates will remember it; and though
honors may come thick upon them in afterlife—and I pray God they may—they will keep to their dying day the parchment they are now holding in their hands, and prize it more and more as the years pass away, when the future has taught them, as time teaches us all, that the-discipline, restrain and subjection to authority imposed upon our youth, severe though it may seem at times, is but the pruning and cultivation of the tree of knowledge that it may grow and bud and blossom and bear fruit later on in the wisdom and accomplishments that may adorn our age.
I am expected in this address, I believe, to give advice to the graduates. It is a task I am utterly unable to discharge — few men are, I believe, and those few would rather not try. Youth is hard to advise, and age, not infrequently, is so much in need of advice itself that it has none to" give away. In the exuberance of their young spirits they doubtless would not hear my voice if I should try, or hearing would not heed it. But there are other voices calling you to-day, young 'gentlemen, as you stand upon the threshold of the new life you are about to enter. I pray you hear and heed them. There is the voice of your Alma Mater, tender, solicitous, touched with pride and quivering with hope. The very air in this Hall is vibratory with it. I can hear it now as I heard it thirty-two years ago, and as I have heard and tried to heed it every day and hour since. It is saying to you now, as it said to me- then: “You have worn my colors with credit • and honor to yourselves through''your school life, wear them so to the end.” It is saying to you that for fifty-eight years, year after, year, Notre Dame has sent into the world Jier graduates to compete in generous rivalry in the broad arena of the world’s affairs with the best product of other and older universities, and thus far Notre Dame is satisfied • with her work. And she says to you now that wherever you go and whatever you do in the new life opening up to you, let your record be such that there never may come a day when the moral tone of this.University may have ceased to be the guiding principle of your life and of your conduct. That voice is saying to you now, as it will whisper to you when' your diplomas are handed to you, and as it will cry out to you in; thunder tones loud enough to reach you wherever you may be on the face of the broad earth if you ever need the reminder: “This is your badge of heraldry
NOTRE - DAME SCHOLASTIC.
619
and mine. Wear it, my son, so that never, at any time or place, or under any circumstances or conditions, there may fall across its quarterings the slightest shadow of dishonor.”
There is another voice calling to you fed. by the fuel of honest ambition and toil
to-day—a voice higher than my voice, higher than the voice of any of your teachers in the past, higher than the voice of any living man—the voice of duty and of conscience. I pray you heed that voice now and in the future. You will need to heed it. You are going into a world that will be to you very much what you make it. You will see vice in all its forms, and sin with all its allurements, and temptations will beset your path, and at times it will appear to you that the cockle in life’s wheat field has been sown thicker than the wheat and that no man has an equal chance. I would not have you run away from these things; I would not have you afraid of them. Do not be afraid of anything, living or dead, in all the world—except yourself. The danger in this world, the- only danger that ever culminates in disaster, is never from without; it is always from within. When I spoke a moment ago of the moral discipline of university life, I meant the discipline of precept and example, the moral atmos-\ phere, the breathing in of which is to the soul like oxygen in the lungs to the blood in the arteries: purifying the spiritual side of man and . building up and perfecting what we call character—good character—the best thing in all this world, and the one thing we may all have without purchase and without price, if we wish it. It is the one thing that will remain when wealth
and power and social position and all else . to ashes on the lips. No good can come of it is gone. Guard it well, young gentlemen, this -to yourselves; no honor to those you. love.
• character that has grown strong and straight here under the guidance and direction of those in ' authority in this University. You will know what it means to you later on. Ah, my friends, we think little enough about .it, most of us, when the fires of youth are in our blood, but we think more about.it as the years go by and experience brings us wisdom. Life is like a great ocean lashed to storm or lulled to calm by unseen forces we know not of. When we are young, in the little boats of our - little experience, we venture heedlessly among-the waves, fearing nothing, knowing nothing.
- -There are no storms in our skies and we ride lightly to the anchor of our safeguards thinking there never will be any. But let the storms come and break over us, as they break over every man sometime in life, and the only
thing on God’s earth that will stand the strain and hold us to our moorings is the sheet anchor of a good character, shaped and unalterably forged at the furnace of discipline,
and the unceasing efforts and self-denial of . our youth.
And while I am speaking of this. good character and this voice of conscience and of duty that is calling to you to-day, let me ask you to hearken to the message and the warn- . ing that it is ringing out to you; a message and a warning that is-backed by the experience of all the generations of men since the dawn of civilization on earth: Be temperate. Avoid intemperance as you would a pestilence. It is a pestilence—a moral pestilence. In the world of industry it is a consumer, always a destroyer, and produces nothing. It is the nightmare of governmental economy and an outlaw against governmental authority. It is so insidious in its approach, so shameless in its depravity, so far-reaching in its evil effects as to be, in my judgment, the most dangerous evil of the hour that threatens the education, the civilization and the Christianity of the twentieth century. Avoid intemperance, my young friends, and avoid the occasions of it and the places of it. Keep out of saloons; don’t spend your time there. Every. hour spent tfiere is an hour you may count as lost. Every companionship you form there is a companionship to your discredit. Every pleasure you anticipate there is bu^a vain and foolish thing. Every success you dream of from such associations is but dead-sea fruit that ever turns
Character grows foul and depraved there instead of pure and noble. Every noble " impulse is crushed out there. Every base ' passion is fed and fanned .into a flame, and the trail of the serpent is over it all. The high aspirations and noble purposes of youth wither and die there. Manhood brings no ambition and old age no honor, and the end finds the gray-haired man where the youth stood so many years befote, weakened in intellect, stricken in health, without ambition and without hope, ever
“Dropping buckets into empty wells and growing old in drawing nothing out.” .	.	..
Success in life .never has come, never will come,-never can come, to the intemperate; Success in this world is achieved by labor, and . nothing that is of value is achieved without
620
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
labor. And success may mean many things— the definition depending upon the aims, the objects, the ideals of the one who makes it. The honest ambition of every man, and particularly of you, young graduates, should be • to do something, to do some one thing better if possible than anyone else can do it, to be a representative man in the community, to be an active force in the intellectual atmosphere that surronnds, supports and gives life to material progress and prosperity. This is the meaning I would give to the word success. It does not necessarily mean the accumulation of money, although the acquiring of wealth, if it is the result of intelligent effort and honest endeavor, may be itself success. Money is not “the root of all evil” unless we make it so. To pretend to despise wealth, or those who have it, is an affectation of superior righteousness that is entitled to little consideration. Make money, young gentlemen, honestly, uprightly, laboriously, if necessary, and—do good with it. Don’t regard it as the end of life’s endeavors, however, but rather as a means to the attainment of the end. When you have honestly earned it, it is yours to do as you please with it. Don’t hoard it in avarice, and don’t squander it in folly. Spend it like a gentleman in response to the promptings of the heart and instincts of a gentleman. Spend it in the discharge of duty. Spend it in the cause of charity. Spend, some of it at least, in doing the many little graceful things of life that will bring brightness into some one’s eyes, that will bring the flush of pleasure into some one’s cheeks, that will start some one’s heart throbbing with rapture, that will flood your pathway with sunshine as you journey through life making other people happy by your kindly - consideration and yourself happy in doing so. The man who endows a university to promote the cause of education and because he has the, money to spare spends his money wisely. The.man who builds a hospital that the poor who need it may be treated free of charge spends his money wisely.. The man who has the money and can afford it, who buys a basket of roses at Christmas, that he may give them to some one who loves him, spends his money wisely, too. It is not extravagance. Nothing is extravagant that you can afford, and you can afford anything that will bring sunshine and joy and happiness into the lives of those who love you. These are among the true uses of money, and when
used for the accomplishment of these ends money is the most potent factor for good that may ever come under man's control. You may never get rich, but you need not worry about that. Fortune may elude you, try as you may. Wealth may be ever just within sight but ever just beyond your reach. But though success may never follow effort on your part, remember that the highest measure of all success is to honorably deserve it. Be honest in all things. Life for all of us is burdened with responsibilities—responsibilities that must be met and discharged; responsibilities to ourselves, to our families, to the community; responsibilities we may not put aside, beset though we may be by the allurement of gain.or the temptations of opportunity. You may never do the things you are starting out to do, young gentlemen; you may never realize .your ideals, but you may each lead such a life that the world will be better,for your having lived in it, such a life that it wilbadd no single moment of sorrow to * the burdens of any human being who is ever brought within the sphere of its activity. And you can accomplish this by doing earnestly and honestly and with kindness of heart the many, very many, little things that fall to the lot of all of us from the rising to the setting of the sun on every day of our lives as the years run round.
: Be earnest and self-reliant. Do your work thoroughly whatever it is. Remember that whatever is worth doing at all is worth doing well. Be kindly in your realations with others and charitable in your judgment of men. Don’t go through the world finding fault with things, but rather try to find some good in all things. Gather the flowers along life’s pathway as you go and enjoy their fragrance, and if there are noxious weeds you will not see them. Be modest in your hours of victory and brave in your hours of defeat. Be not cast down by misfortune. Trouble will come sometimes and misfortune can not always be averted, and shame may mantle the brow of one born fo better things, but these troubles are but the incidents of life and the. heritage of man. Never lose heart and never give up. Though the clouds of adversity gather swiftly at times and darken the horizon of your life’s endeavors, yet stand to your duty steady; there are beckoning stars in the higher skies— look up. The storm that blows the clouds up will blow them away again. And though your eyes be heavy with grief some day they will
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	621
smile on the morrow, and the furrows of care will'be turned into dimples of joy, and hope, like a splendid star, will again lead you on; and in the light of its promise you shall see the vision of its fulfilment, and the burden of your care, which seemed to heavy to be borne, shall be lifted and the troubled heart be at peace.	.
There is still another voice calling to you, young gentlemen, in this first flush of your young manhood — the voice of patriotism and of country. I pray you hear and heed that voice. Your place in the world will be among the workers, the men who do things, who achieve something. You will be expected to be representative men, to be among the leaders of the best thought and sentiment of the community in which you reside, wherever it may be. Whether you go into commercial or professional life, or whatever pursuit may command your talents and your ambition, you will discover, sooner or later, what every American citizen discovers: that you are and will be, whether you wish it or not, a part of the great national life of the Republic. This is a country where the people are the government, and each individual is a part of the government; where public opinion is the power that shapes the destinies of the nation. You will have to bear your part in moulding that public opinion, controlling its extravagances and directing its course. You will have that duty to perform when those who are now doing it shall have passed from the sphere of life’s activity. You are coming on the stage at a period in our national history that calls for patriotism and patriotic effort and broad and intelligent statesmanship. For the first one hundred years of our existence as a nation our efforts' and endeavors were directed to a great extent, if not altogether, to internal affairs—to the building up of our own systems and exploiting our own theories, paying little heed to whether or not they were in step with the corresponding systems, and theories in other parts of the world. In the last few years that has all been changed, arid changed suddenly. The force of events has carried us out of our isolation. We have become, without our seeking, but for weal or woe to remain so, a world power; and upon our people and our government rest the burdens and responsibilities of the position to which Fate and the destiny of nations have called us. New questions have arisen because of the change, and there are new
conditions to be considered arising out of the change. Governmental problems, new in our history and vexatious in their newness, force themselves upon our attention. You will be called upon to consider these questions and aidz in the solution of these problems.
For one hundred and twenty-three years the flag that was unfurled at Philadelphia floated over American soil on the American continent alone. But it is so no longer. On this 17th of June, 1903, from Puerto Rico in the Antilles to Luzon in the Philippines, the flag flies . in testimony of the physical presence and authority of the Republic—the stars upon its field of blue flashing back to the - blue and the stars above, this pleasant summer night, the message and assurance that the map of the world has changed again, that the Eagle of -our Republic has preened his wings and taken another flight, and that in all countries and in all places wherever the flag flies, on land or sea—in our new possession as well as in the old—all is well with the American Republic. In this new situation what will be the duty . of the American citizen of the future? The question must be answered sooner or later, and , soon at the latest; and the best way to prepare to answer it properly is to endeavor to understand it. And the answer will come, young gentlemen, from you and the young manhood of the nation. You will be advised, I know, to keep out of politics altogether. I am not going to tell you that. I don’t approve of the sentiment thus broadly stated. I believe that your duty to yourselves, to the community and to the State demands that you become a factor in the political movements that shape the policy of the government. If it be true that politics is at times a “filthy pool” it is so because, and only because, those whose duty it is and whose business it ought to be to attend to the cleansing of this pool neglect that duty and permit the continuance of a condition that right-minded people so much decry. The politics of the country should be directed by the brain, the intelligence, the honesty and the patriotism of the country.	.
It is one of the peculiarities of our form of government that we must have political parties, and those parties must formulate their principles into platforms, and the people must approve or disapprove1 and be given the opportunity to approve or disapprove of the declarations in those platforms. And the. r management and direction and control of these political parties is what is called •
VOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“politics.” And while a good deal of it is humbug, of course, yet, underlying it all, supporting it and correcting its dangerous tendencies, is a strong patriotic motive struggling toward the light, striking blindly at times at shadows, reasoning frequently in circles, ’ but always and ever aiming at one object, common to the hearts of all: the welfare and best interest of the American Republic. And while I would not have you, young gentlemen,, make a business, a profession of politics, I do say to you that your country expects, and has a right to expect, . the benefit of your advice, your education and your moral support in the conduct of public affairs. Let your aim in this, as in all things, be along the lines of purity of thought and honesty of purpose and righteousness. Love of country is the mighty force that has planted the flower of liberty in the desert and crowned the mountain tops of civilization with a luminous glory. And love of country is patriotism. And it is the voice of patriotism that is calling to you to-day, young gentlemen. That voice that rang out in clarion notes at Valley Forge and Bunker Hill and Yorktown; a voice that was heard again smothered in sobs, but true to the key in those awful days of sorrow and anguish that swept like a scorching fire over this nation from 1861 to 1865; a voice heard only' in love songs for thirty years or more, that suddenly rang out again, clear as the notes of a trumpet call, speaking to all the nations of the earth in 1898; a voice that called from the hill-top and echoed through the canyons; a voice that was heard high above our heads from ^Santiago to Manilla Bay—the voice of loyalty to our country and our country’s institutions. It is that voice that the loyal American citizen hears all the time. It may sink to a murmur sweet and low as a mother’s lullaby to her child, or rise to the martial notes of the bugle call that goes down the line or over the heads of wheeling columns or fighting squadrons, but it is never absent. It is the one rapturous melody forever running in and out among the chords of our National Anthem, whether of. victory or thanksgiving, bearing a message heard always and everywhere—here to-day, and now—one flag, one country, one government and civil and religious liberty to all. ~	-
And .now, my friends, my part in these ceremonies is over, and it remains but to -say good-bye. I thank you for the attention you have shown me in patiently listening to an
address altogether too long, I know. But we lawyers, especially Western lawyers, do not often get a chance at such an audience as this, and when we do and are bidden to speak, although we often do not know how to start right, we never know how to quit at all. I have another address to make to-morrow, over at the Convent, and a few moments ago, when you seemed to be bearing your punishment gracefully, and in fact pleased with it, I was thinking that now I had got started that I would go right on and deliver the other speech too, now and here; but I have concluded not to do so. So, you see, things might really have been worse. Besides, I came a long distance to torment you and for that reason, if for ho other, should be entitled to do as I please. I have done so, anyway, and your sufferings are, in the language of the law, Damnum absque injuria. I am not sure that I pronounce that right, and' I don’t particularly care. The rust of over thirty. years has gathered on my Latin, and if one of these youngsters says to me it ought to be pronounced some other way I’ll agree with him.
I wish you, my friends, a long life to enjoy the good things that time and good fortune may bring to you. I wish you happiness to make all things seem good, and may the memory of this day’s exercises be not the least of the happy recollections of a happy life. And to you, young gentlemen, of the graduating class I would say in conclusion: Go into the world with hearts throbbing with noble impulses and inspired by an exalted ambition to loyally earn and proudly wear the laurel wreaths that Fate and the future may have in store for you. . And when the years of your youth have slipped away, as’ mine have,, and the battle of life has left its scars on you, as it has on me, you will come back some day, and, standing here perhaps before another audience upon some other Commencement day, say, as I do now for you and for myself, fervently, honestly and with my whole heart in the words — God bless you, Notre Dame. May God’s blessings rest upon, the work you are doing and the men whose lives are consecrated to that work. May your future greatness fully realize the golden promises of your youth. In the marvelous growth of this young Republic may you too bear a part. And when the historian of the future shall compile the annals of this wonderful twentieth century upon which we are entering, and shall record its triumphs and achievements and the intellectual and moral forces that inspired and brought about the splendid result which we can already see shadowed in the horoscope xof the years to come, may there appear written upon that record and flaming from the pages of its splendor, high, above all other names, the name of Notre Dame University.
’i
I
i i i
I
NOTRE DAME SCHOtAStlC.
Valedictory.
FRANCIS J. BARRY, A. B.
IGHT REV. BISHOP, Rev.
Fathers, Members of the Faculty, ladies and gentlemen: To-day marks the completion of another year in Notre Dame’s history, and to-day
the class of 1903 assembles for the last time as students within these walls. We are glad that this moment has come, for it has been the goal of our ambition during the past four years. And yet we feel a twinge of pain in all our gladness, for now we must say farewell to Notre Dame and to one another.
The avenue we must tread from Notre Dame to-day is not a primrose path. It is a hard and rugged highway. It is the highway where the throngs of the world rush and jostle, where men are trampled on and crushed. But with all its austerity, the world is not entirely cruel. It respects honesty and earnestness and it rewards merit. We ought to have little reason to fear the rushing throngs. Notre Dame has trained, us for the encounter; she has opened our eyes to the pitfalls, and if we prove to be men of character we shall not fail. Cowards, then, should we be if we hesitated or wavered. The world has a place for us all. There is work to be done and we are willing to do it. None of us may become epoch-makers, but we shall all find something useful to do, and in the doing there is the basis of a happy and helpful life.	.
Honour and shame from no conditions rise.
Act well your part, there all the honour lies.
Man usually builds up his own greatness, and when he is educated and builds with honesty, the structure he rears is bound to command respect. But he must temper his work with patience, for greatness achieved suddenly or by accident is rare. Indeed success too easily gained loses its sweetness, while, on the other hand, success that has been the crown of long, patient struggling and striving, is doubly sweet when we enjoy-it while contemplating the heart-aches : and the suspense that have been its purchase money. Let patience, then, be our watchword, and the rewards we reap shall be the rarest gifts that life bestows.	'	.
My friends, the moments press upon us; the time of parting is at hand. To you, Rev. Fathers and gentlemen of the Faculty, we owe whatever equipment we have, and you we wish to thank heartily and sincerely. There were times during the last four years when tasks became irksome to us; but you would not let the golden moments be wasted; there were times when by our listlessness we taxed your patience, but you did not lose interest in us. For these things we wish to thank you. Because of your good example, your counsels, and your unselfishness, we esteem you. Because you have been noble and kind and true, we have learned to love you; and because we love you we find it hard now to say farewell.
FellovV-students, comrades of our college days, to you we are bound by many a loving link. Happily, at Notre Dame, friendship stops at no distinction of departments or classes. The engineer and the lawyer,’ the little Minim from St. Edward’s Hall and the dignified upper class man, students of every grade and rank meet upon a common plane of friendship, and affections spring up which . oh occasions of parting like this touch the heart. .Our parting fo-day is not from students with whom we have had only a nodding acquaintance, but from comrades. Though we leave to-day, my comrades, we shall not let our friendship or interest lapse. We know that Notre Dame’s reputation in the immediate future will be nobly sustained by you. We shall therefore anxiously watch your efforts and rejoice at your victories. With the assurance that the friendship that has sprung up and flourished under the shelter of the Dome shall not soon fade from our hearts, we sincerely bid you a fond farewell! _	-	.
Arid now, my fellow-classmates, the end. of our college days has come. I fear indeed that with this moment passes the gladdest time of our lives. We that have worked together so long must now work independently and take our posts among strangers. We have no new pledges to make that we have not made over and over again during the last month. In twenty-four hours thousands of miles will have separated us, but .we shall all be bound to dear old Notre Dame with' bonds of eternal friendship. Let us, then, in saying adieu to one another, bid Notre Dame one last farewell. Reverend Fathers, Professors, Students, Comrades, all, Farewell!
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame, Indiana, June 20, 1903.
Published every Saturday during Term Time at Notre Dame University.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame. Ind
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. Notre Dame,Indiana.
The Board of Editors.
			
	PATRICK J. MacDONOUGH, 1903.		
FRANCIS	F. DUKETTE,	1902	H. EWING BROWN, I9O2
ROBERT	J. SWEENY,	1903	CHARLES A. GORMAN, I9O3
BYRON -V	r. KANALEY,	1904	FRANCIS J. BARRY, I9O3
ROBERT	E. HANLEY,	1903	ROBERT E. LYNCH, I9O3
EDWARD	F. QUIGLEY,	1903	THOMAS D. LYONS, I904
FRANCIS	MCKEEVER,	1903	J. PATRICK O’REILLY, I905
G. A. FARABAUGH,		I9°4	CHAS. L. O’DONNELL, I905
Fifty-Ninth Annual Commencement.
^^^HIS year the Commencement exercises ■/ began on Sunday, June 14, the morning Ik7 following the date of the final examinations for the graduates. At eight o’clock the whole student-body attended solemn High Mass which was celebrated by the Very Reverend President Morrissey, assisted by the. Rev. Vice-President French as deacon and Rev. M. J. Regan as subdeacon, with Father Connor, master of ceremonies. The graduating class, in cap and gown, occupied the seats near the altar, on each side of the main aisle. When the Gospel was. chanted, the Rev. John P. Quinn, of Peoria, Ill., a graduate of the class of’83, preached what was freely-conceded to be the ablest baccalaureate sermon heard in many years at Notre Dame. His words will be found in the first columns of this number and will well repay perusal. They, are themselves the best tribute to the speaker’s ability, wisdom, and earnestness.
After Mass the graduates assembled in the University parlor where they were addressed by Father Morrissey. He expressed his pleasure oh being able to make the unique announcement that every student of the Senior class who had been looking forward to a degree, was voted successful by the unanimous voice of the Faculty. This announcement was all the more creditable to the: students, considering the searching
nature of the oral examinations held the day previous. He congratulated all on their success, and told them of his satisfaction at the work they had done during their long, pleasant years at the University. He informed them of further changes to be made in the curriculum and promised that no effort would be spared to maintain a very high standard of scholarship at Notre Dame. The architectural improvements would go on as far as funds permitted, and the Faculty and trustees would continue to labor zealously to meet the demand for the best intellectual and moral training.
At two o’clock the students were present at Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament, and in the evening, in keeping with a time-honored custom, they gathered to witness a splendid boat-drill on St. Joseph’s lake. The University band, which a short time before gave a pleasant half-hour concert on the quadrangle, added to the entertainment at the lake by contributing a series of well-rendered selections. This was the last item on the day’s programme.
On Monday the friends of the graduates began to pour in and their presence made all feel still happier. Among them were many former Notre Dame students. To convey an idea of the cosmopolitan body of visitors we may mention that they came from all over the Union and even from Mexico. ■ At three o’clock in the afternoon, members of the senior class of Electrical Engineers gave an exhibit which consisted of a display of the various apparatus used in the laboratories together with an illustration of the principles of their functions. The very instructive explanations of Messrs. Baer, Petritz, Arana and Mulcrone were much appreciated by all who attended. The following is a summary of the display which was conducted under the supervision of Professor Green: In the telephone room were a three-station telephone exchange with American express type switch-board and several subscribers’ sets; a .microphone which illustrates the principle of the transmitter for telephoning. Here, too, were telegraph circuits with the necessary, instruments. In a case were specimens of the latest types of high tension insulators, some for pressures as high as 70,000 volts. An adjoining room contained a rack on which were placed the latest types of transformers; one 140 cycle Fort Wayne single phase alternator which was driven by
I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
a Commercial io horse-power motor and . which supplied the alternating current for the transformers at 1000 volts. The arc-lamps on exhibit were of the latest types made by the Fort Wayne Electric Co. and others. Besides these a Fort Wayne direct current constant potential lamp was exhibited and a । Nernst lamp, which is one of the latest ini • ventions in electric lighting appliances. The ! latter was a fifty-candle power lamp, single •	glower. In contrast with this modern pattern
j was one of the old thirty-two-candle power it Edison incandescent lamps, and the striking ■ difference between them was the fact that ■	while the fifty-candle-power Nernst consumed
only 107 watts, the thirty-two-candle Edison consumed 135.	■
The fan motors displayed comprised the latest as well as all the old types. The electric machinery consisted of one General Elect. Co. half-horse-power, single-phase, self-starting motor with condensator compensator; one 15 horse power Armington and Simms horizontal engine, driving Edison 10 kilowatt generator, and also Fort Wayne arc light generator. In the same department was an old type of Van Deopall .series generator. The Van Deopall machine supplied current to the armature of a separately excited motor b which had a peculiar motion running a short time in one direction and then reversing.
The instruments on exhibit included a Fort ! Wayne Integrating wattmeter; a Fort Wayne Duncan meter; a Westinghouse Shallenberger ampere-meter; old types of Edison ammeters; switch-board transformers; lightning arrester; exciter Rheostat and fuse cutouts; a Weston standard portable alternating and direct current voltmeter; a Hoyt direct reading wattmeter for alternating and direct currents; a Thompson indicating wattmeter; two Thompson alternating current ammeters and volt ' meters; a Shanley Electric Co. hot wire am-•	meters; and Weston standard volt meter and
!	ammeters.
1	Tuesday, the graduates had little else to
J • occupy them than the agreeable task of I	entertaining their friends, but the other
I *	students were engaged with the more serious
’	work of their examinations which extended
1	throughout the first three days of the week.
A.	Every train brought its contingent of visitors
S	all of whom were the welcome guests of
&	Notre Dame. As in past’years they were
i	provided with rooms in the college buildings.
1	The priests were assigned to Corby Hall, the
laymen to Sorin, and the; ladies were cared for by the Sisters of Holy Cross in the comfortable apartments of the College Infirmary. This generous arrangement on the part of the University is much appreciated by the students and their visiting friends. It places -relatives or members of the same family within easy reach of one another and not infrequently enables them to" sit together at the same table in the college refectories, It also affords visitors a much better opportunity of inspecting the many halls, other buildings, interesting landmarks and surroundings that may be seen at Notre Dame. • Here and there in the corridors, laboratories, and library were groups viewing the paintings, apparatus, books and curios ; other companies were to be found in the Church of the Sacred Heart admiring the mural decorations, beauti- -ful statues and paintings, or communing with the Almighty before the - altar. A large number paid a visit to the grave of: Dr. Brownson who is buried in the basement of the church. The weather was particularly favorable for exploring the University grounds, and the visitors were not slow to avail themselves of this condition. They were unanimous . in the opinion that Notre Dame possesses natural advantages unexcelled by any educational institution in America.
The last of the examinations for the year was over at half-past nine Wednesday morning, and at ten o’clock, the hour set for the annual regatta, all footsteps turned to St. Joseph’s Lake. For the previous five or six weeks four crews were in training in preparation for the events. So evenly matched were the crews and so faithfully had they worked, . that no one could forecast the result of the races with any degree of certainty. The junior crews were: Evangeline — E. C. Ruiz, No. 1; L. J. Dwan, 2; L. R. Staley, 3; L. S. DeLone, 4; E. C. Canedo, 5 ; F. R Sweeny (Captain) 6; and A. A. Kotte, Coxswain. ’ Minnehaha—M. F. Williams, No. I; J. K. Stack, 2; J. J. Litzelmann, 3; R. -F. Scott, 4; J. A. Coughlin, 5; K. C. Quinn (Captain) 6; and D. J. Padden, Coxswain. Sweeny’s crew was the first to get away and maintained the lead until -the end when they won . by a length. This race was close and well-contested, but much better form was shown in the succeeding one, run by the following senior crews: Golden . . Jubilee—C. J. Mulcrone, No. 1; D. C. Dillon, 2;
P. W. O’Grady, 3; M. L. Fansler, 4L.: J. .
Salmon, 5;, F. J. Kasper (Captain) 6; and L \
626
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
J. O’Connor, Coxswain. Silver Jubilee—F. J. Lonergan, No: 1; D. L. Murphy, 2; J. J. Cullinan, 3; J. I. O’Phelan’ 4; T. A. Toner, 5; D. K. O’Malley (Captain) 6; and G. F. Ziegler, Coxswain. After the first buoy was rounded, Captain Kasper forged ahead, but Ziegler’s clever work at the helm overcame this advantage at the second turn and both crews began the race anew. Kasper’s men, however, demonstrated their superiority by crossing the line two lengths to the good. The prizes awarded were beautiful gold anchors which were gracefully distributed among the successful contestants by Miss Agnes Ewing Brown of South Bend. The judges and other officials were Drs. John A. Stoeckley and E. J. Lent; Messrs. F. J. Shaughnessy and H. J.McGlew.
At two o’clock began the closing exercises for the Minims of St. Edward’s Hall, and in response to the cordial invitations extended by the Sisters in charge' there was a large attendance of friends of the Minims. The remarkable proficiency which these little fellows showed in vocal and instrumental music and elocution elicited the heartiest applause from the audience and reflected most satisfactorily the efficiency of their instructors. The Very Reverend President who always takes a most lively interest in the welfare of the Minims, was present and assured his audience that, the late examinations of the boys of this department, which were conducted in his presence, were fully, in keeping with the afternoon’s exhibition. A well-deserved tribute to the Sisters of Holy . Cross by the Commencement orator, Mr.
Gearin, brought the subjoined programme to a close:	,	•
. * ' f 1
Chorus—“A Greeting to Our Friends”.....Wistle
.	.	. The Minims,
Accompanied by Master L. Robinson . Piano—“Adieu for a While”.... —.......Rayjiald Masters F. Baude and A. Farwell.
“Game Song ”......................... .Rodes
* Little boys,
. ; Accompanied by Master A. Farwell. Recitation—“ Rough Riders ’’—Masters A. Robinson, G. Cornelius, W. Upman, C. Von Phul, E. Connolly, - H. Symonds, F. Baude, H. Farrell. ■ Piano—Camellia....... .a. .. .<...Fieldhouse
.	Master W. Kasper.
Chorus—“Come Fairies, Trip it on the Grass”—Parry MastersMcDowd, Sabin, H.. Farrell, A. Farwell, . Baillargedn, Hennessy, Quinlan, Brown, Kasper, R. ~ Farnell,. Mooney, Baude, Brennan, J..‘Brennan, Gallart, Brenah, Conklin, Powell, L.„Symonds, Walsh, t F.reese,; Crourise, . McGill, McGinn, McFarland, :	i \ Connolly, Munson and Kelly. .	7.
Recitation—“A Brave Woman ”. ..Master G.Freese Sit Nomen Domini.......................Caglino
Vocal Class.
. Accompanied by Master F. J. Baude. Distribution of Premiums. • Closing Remarks.
The most pleasant incident of the evening was the arrival of the Right Reverend Bishop Alerding of Fort Wayne. The interest he has always taken in Notre Dame, his genial disposition, and friendliness toward rhe students make his visits always welcome. Accompanied by the Provincial of Holy Cross, Very Rev. Dr. Zahm, Very Reverend President Morrissey, the Faculty and a large number of prominent ecclesiastics and laymen, he entered Washington Hall at half-past seven when the exercises for the evening began. The seating capacity of the amphitheatre and gallery was fully taxed by the number of students, alumni' and visitors, and the entertainment and instruction furnished by the musicians, graduates and Commencement orator were not unworthy of such a large and distinguished audience. The subject of the bachelors’ discourses was “The Louisiana Purchase and its Results,” which was treated from three standpoints — political, economic and educational.	.
Mr. Robert J. Sweeney was the first speaker. His brilliant course at college led his friends to expect much of him and they were not disappointed in their expectations. His fine delivery, timely gestures, earnestness and enthusiasm evoked rounds of applause. “The Political Consequences of the Louisiana Purchase” was his theme.
The next on the programme was Mr. Robert E. Hanley whose oration dealt with “The Economic Developments of the Louisiana Purchase.” As / may . be learned from the present number of this paper, his speech shows deep thought and is admirably composed. It did not lose anything through his --interpretation on the platform. His words were clear and distinct and were delivered with great ease and effect.
. The last of the. trilogy was contributed by Mr. J. Leonard Carrico. “The Educational Opportunities Afforded by the Louisiana' Purchase” furnished his theme. Though somewhat less confident a.nd forceful than’ Messrs. Sweeny and Hanley he showed perhaps more individuality, and was followed with very close attention by the audience who repeatedly applauded his remarks. L;
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
In the intervals between the orations, the University band, under the direction of Prof. Petersen, and a vocal quartette, composed of Messrs. McCauley, Wimbe.rg, Norman and Gavin, gave some well - rendered selections. Especially well received were the violin solos by Mr. Louis J. Carey and the piano accompaniments of Mr. Francis F. Dukette.
The intellectual treat for which the audience , particularly yearned was the address of the Hon. John M. Gearin of Portland, Oregon, the orator for the occasion. Mr. Gearin graduated at Notre Dame a long thirty-two years before, and his reputation as an orator extends much farther than the two thousand miles that, separate his home from his Alma Mater. That reputation was never more fully established before an audience than on Wednesday night. His speech was, without doubt, one of the ablest ever delivered by a Commencement orator. He began his address in an easy, conversational manner, and after a few sentences all were convinced that a man of unusual ability, character and eloquence was speaking. His delivery was entirely free from-mannerisms; his voice clear, resonant and well modulated, and his gestures perfect. But . all these were of light account compared with the inspiring message he had to convey.
The graduation exercises came to a close on Thursday morning. Shortly before eight o’clock the members of the graduating class met-in the college parlor, and, preceded by the gentlemen of the Faculty, went in procession to Washington Hall. Here they gathered for the. last time. The Right Reverend Bishop Alerding, through whose hands degrees, diplomas and honors were to be given, sat in the centre of the first row on the platform. . Oh his right and left were prominent officials of the University including the Very Reverend President, the Reverend Vice-President and many of the professors. In the seats to the back were the_;candidates for degrees and in the body of the hall was a large attendance composed of visitors and students. After a few numbers by the University orchestra, the class poem was read by Mr. Patrick . J. MacDonough; The next item on- the programme was the valedictory by Mr. Francis J. Barry. Mr. Barry gave his address in a very finished manner. He spoke with deliberation -and much, feeling and very admirably voiced , the sentiments, of his fellows. Then followed the conferring of degrees and the awarding of diplomas.and honors. .
When these functions were completed all were very agreeably astonished by the. announcement of the Very Reverend Dean : O’Brien of Kalamazoo, Michigan. It was his . -privilege, he said, to announce that Michigan University had conferred the degree of Doctor of Laws on Notre Dame’s President . who would be known henceforth as the Very Reverend Dr. Morrissey. Michigan, he.added,	•
is very conservative in conferring honorary . degrees, President Morrissey being the thirty- . second to receive an honorary doctorate, a .. fact that added much to the distinction. The thunderous applause which greeted the'Dean’s words testified to the pleasure felt by all present at the well-merited honor done . . Father Morrissey by Michigan, one of the . largest universities in the United States. v -Though President Morrissey was taken entirely unawares, he very gracefully and cordially acknowledged the honor, and afterward said a few parting words to the graduates, students and visitors. He congratulated those who had obtained degrees, diplomas and medals, and in conclusion wished all a very happy and successful future. This ended the commence- ' ment exercises, and soon the class of 1903	.
had left the hall to receive the felicitations of their friends and to attempt a realization ' . ' of their hopes.	.	.
We regret that space does not permit : a complete list of the old students and other L'L.-welcome visitors who were with us at Com-, mencement. The attendance included the following whose names are given in the order . in which they appear on the register:	.
Rt. Rev. Bishop Alerding, Fort Wayne, Ind.; .	. -
Very Rev. Thomas Hickey, V. G , Rochester, .
N. Y.; Very Rev. Dean O’Brien, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Very Rev. John O’Rourke, Louisville, .	.
New York; Revs. L. J. Evers and T. F. Owens, N. Y. City; Hugh O’Gara McShane, Chicago, ' Ill.; Thomas O’Gara, Wilmington, Illinois;.
D. Duehmig, Avilla, Ind.; Charles Guendling, ; Lafayette, Indiana; Father Cassimir, C. P., St. . Louis, Mo.; James Flannigan, Cullom, HL; P.
Dillon, Peru, III.; John Heany, Mendota,. III.; . . D. J. Mulcahy and Thomas Conroy, Anderson, L Ind.; P. F. Roche, Fort Wayne, Ind.; John	/
McCann; Elgin, Ill.; C. J. Anderson, O. C. C.,	L
Chicago, HL; W. A. Hogan, Dunkirk, Indiana;
Father Messman, Laporte, Indiana; James . , Fitzpatrick, Goshen, Ind.; T. Moore, Hume, , ..L'V HL; Timothy O’Sullivan, Chicago, HL; Edward : J X-L Mungovan, Fort Wayne, Indiana; Thomas A. LL Mungovan, Indiana Harbor, Indiana; J.'C.'X-LLML
628
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Wakefer, Dunkirk, Ind.; George Schramm, Laporte, Ind=; P. J. Gormley, Huntley, Ill.; William Murtagh, Sheffield, Ill.; John De Groote and P. Johannes, C. S. C., South Bend, Indiana; Father Ryan, Pontiac, Michigan; T. McNamara, Canton, Miss.; Gerald P. Coghlan, Philadelphia, Penn.; M. Durham, Union City, Ind.; Brother Constantius, Memphis, Tenn.
The Hon. John M. Gearin, Portland,Oregon; Mr. and Mrs. P. O’Grady, Glens Falls, New York; Mr. and Mrs. Neeson, Philadelphia, Pa.; Mr. Joseph Gorman, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Mrs. Krug and Mr. Albert Krug, Dayton, Ohio; Mr. Orrin A. White, University Park, Oregon; Miss I. Hunt, Warren, Ill.; Mrs. Charles Sweeny, Master Sweeny (West Point Military Academy), and Miss Sweeny, Spokane, Washington; Mr. and Mrs. T. J. Sullivan, Pierce, Ind.; the Misses McCaffrey, Peru, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. A. Stephan and Mr. A. Stephan, Scales Mound, Ill.; Mr. George Nestor, Chicago; Mrs. K. J. Hanley, Wardner, Idaho; Mr. Thomas B. McKearney, Montpelier, Ind.; Mr. M. B. Hartnett, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. W. P. Breen, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Mrs. and Miss Nelson, Chicago; Mr. Charles Nestor, Detroit; Miss Barry, Chicago; Mr. Geo. Clarke, Mr. E. Vanderhoof, the Hon. T. E. Howard and Mrs. Howard, Mrs. and Miss Brown, Dr. and Mrs. Berteling, Mr. Tong, Mrs. and Miss Tong, Dr. and Mrs. Stoeckley South Bend; Mr. J. Abercrombie and Miss Marion Abercrombie, Chicago; Mr. Rodolfa Garza,Mr. and Mrs. Yrisarri, New Mexico; Mrs. Burkitt, Texas; Mrs. Gavigan, La Junta, Col.; the Misses Barret, Grand Rapids; Mr. M. C. Nolan, Trenton, N. J.; the Misses Meenech, Seattle, Wash.; Mr. and Mrs. Yorke, Cum-matte, O.; the Misses Jones, Dowagiac, Mich.; Mrs. Walter Smith, Virginia ; Mrs. Plunkett, Mrs. Crimmins and Miss Plunkett, Blissfield, Mich.; Messrs. M. Bromberg, P. J. Kasper, Joe Kasper, C W. Dumphy, E. Coleman, F. Upman, T. Smith (Editor, Angelus), Chicago.
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on Dr. Martin F. Coonies, A. M., M. D., Louisville, Kentucky.
Constantius M. Graham, A. M., Memphis, Tennessee.-'
Very Rev.T. F. Hickey,V. G.,Rochester, N.Y.
John M. Gearin, B. S., M. S., Portland, Or.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on	.
Francis J. Barry, Chicago, Illinois.
Robert Emmet Lynch, Chicago, Illinois. Charles A. Gorman, Brooklyn, New York. Robert J. V. Sweeny, Spokane, Washington. Emiel Peter De Wulf, Mishawaka, Indiana. The Degree of Bachelor of Letter^ was conferred on
Francis Hugh McKeever, Ireton, Iowa. Dominic Kern O’Malley, Wannakee, Wis. Matthew James Walsh, Chicago, Illinois. J. Leonard .Carrico, Raywick, Kentucky.
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy was conferred on
Patrick J. MacDonough, New York City, New York.	.
Robert E. Hanley, Wardner, Idaho.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on Joseph Augustine Fahy, Rome, Georgia. Francisco’ Rincon, Mexico City, Mexico. Patrick Wilbert O’Grady, Glens Falls, N. Y. Paul Francis Rebillot, Louisville, Ohio. Edward C. Wurzer, Detroit, Michigan. John Henry Neeson, Philadelphia, Penn. Harry V. Crumley, Cincinnati, Ohio.
The Degree of Mechanical Engineer was conferred on
Francis A. Smoger, South Bend, Indiana. The Degree of Mechanical Engineer in Electrical Engineering was conferred on
Frederick Ludwig Baer, Wilkesbarre, Penn. Frank J. M. Petritz, Rockford, Illinois.
Victor M. Arana, Lima, Peru, South America. The Degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist was ' conferred on
Rafael Urbano Gali, Sancti Spiritus, Cuba.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on
Dennis T. Keeley, West Bend, Wisconsin. Vitus G. Jones, Dowagiac, Michigan.
George Francis Ziegler, Milwaukee, Wis. Peter John McNamara, Worcester, Mass. Edward Francis Quigley, Greenfield, Ind. William Patrick Higgins, Boston, Mass. John William Dubbs, Mendota, Illinois. Raymond Vitus Stephan, Scales Mound, Ill. Edward- Daniel Collins, Boston, Mass. Francis P. Burke, Richwood, Wisconsin. Francis Bertram Hughes, West Point, Neb. Omer David Green, Lagro, Indiana. Harold H. Davitt, Saginaw, Michigan.
The Degree of Graduate in Pharmacy was conferred on
Lawrence H. Luken, Richmond, Indiana.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Oscar Pierre George, Michigan City, Indiana.
Francis J. Shaughnessy, Amboy, Illinois.
Edward Vincent Gavigan, La Junta, Col.
Certificate in Short Course of Electrical Engineering was awarded to
Charles J. Mulcrone, St. Ignace, Michigan.
Commercial Diplomas.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to Maurice J. Riley, Thayer,- West Virginia. Santiago F. Villanueva, Celaya, Mexico. B. Augustine, Notre Dame, Indiana. Richard A. Benson, McLeansboro, Illinois. Thomas H. Cahill, Chicago, Illinois. Robert J. Dannemiller, Canton, Ohio.
J. Emmett Dougherty, Park River, North Dakota.
B. Gabriel, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Karl L. Krotz, Defiance, Ohio.
Frederick T. Juergens, Petersburg, Illinois. Herman C. R. Piper, Stillwater, Minnesota. Ray F. Johnson, Grand Rapids, Michigan. Anthony F. McCaffrey, Logansport, Indiana. B. Daniel, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Matthew S. Quinliven, El Paso, Texas. Henry W. Wenter, Chicago, Illinois. Mark A. Walsh, Maple Park, Illinois. John A. Coughlin, Chicago, Illinois.
B. Aiden, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Prize Medals.

The Quan Gold Medal, presented by Mr. Henry Quan of Chicago, for the student having the best record in the Classical Course, senior year, was awarded to
Emiel Peter De Wulf, Mishawaka, Indiana.
The Mason Gold Medal, presented by Mr.
George Mason of Chicago, for the student of Carroll Hall having the best record for the scholastic year, was awarded to
' Harold P. Fisher, Paducah, Kentucky.
The Meehan Gold Medal for English Essays, presented by Mrs. James Meehan, Covington, Kentucky, was awarded to J. Leonard Carrico, Raywick, Kentucky.
629
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, donated ■ by the Hon. William P. Breen, LL. D., of Fort Wayne, was awarded to
Thomas D. Lyons, Carthage, South Dakota.
The Chicago Alumni Association Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Sorin Hall was awarded to
Anton C. Stephan, Scales Mound, Illinois.
The Ellsworth C. Hughes Gold Medal, presented by Mr. A. S. Hughes, Denver, Col., for the best record in Mathematics (Civil Engineering Course) was awarded to Joseph A. Fahy, Rome, Georgia.
The Gold Medal for Christain Doctrine in Moral Course A was awarded to James R. Record, Paris, Texas.
The Gold Medal for Ghristian Doctrine in Moral Course B, 1st Division, was awarded to Addis E. Lally, Denison, Iowa.
The Fitzsimmons Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course B, 2d Divison, presented by the Rev. M. J. Fitzsimmons, Rector of the Holy Name Cathedral, was awarded to
William D. Jamieson, Chicago, Illinois.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course B, 3d Division, was awarded to
J. Emmett Dougherty, Park River, North Dakota.
The Mooney Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll Hall, 1st Course, presented by Reverend Nathan J. Mooney, ’77, Rector of St. Columbkill’s Church, Chicago, was awarded to
William N. Bosler, Louisville, Kentucky.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral
* Course B, 4th Division, was awarded to Robert R. Clarke, Chicago, Illinois.
The Barry Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll Hall, 2d Course, presented ’ by the Reverend F. J. Barry, Chancellor of the Archdiocese of Chicago, was awarded to
Daniel T. Kelly, East Las Vegas, New Mexico.	.
The Commercial Gold Medal for the best record in Senior Class, Commercial Course, was awarded to
Matthew S. Quinliven, El Paso, Texas.
Seventy-Five Dollars in Gold, presented by the Hon. Clement Studebaker, South Bend, Indiana, for debating work was awarded as follows:	'
630	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Forty Dollars to Byron V. Kanaley, Weedsport, New York.
Twenty Dollars to Gallitzen A. Farabaugh, Chambersburg, Pennsylvania.
Fifteen Dollars to Maurice Griffin, Toledo, 0. The Barry Elocution Medal in the Collegiate Department, donated by the Hon. P. T. Barry of Chicago, was awarded to
Louis E. Wagner, Chicago, Illinois.
The Gold Medal for Elocution in the Preparatory Course was awarded to
Wesley J. Donahue, Chicago, Illinois.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
The Elocution Gold Medal was awarded to Clarence J. McFarland, Wapakoneta, Ohio.
The Gold Medal for Letter-Writing was awarded to
Edward L. Mooney, Minneapolis, Minn.
The Gold Medal for Composition was awarded to Leo C. Robinson, Chicago, Ill.
The Gold Medal for Penmanship was awarded to Franklin E. Sabin, Belvidere, Illinois.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to
. Charles H. Kelley, Duluth, Minn.
The Gold Medal for Improvement in Piano was awarded to
William H. Kasper, Chicago, III.
The Gold Medal for Vocal Music was awarded to Edwin J. McDowd, Chicago, Ill.
The Abercrombie Gold Medal for Politeness was awarded to
William F. Gasman, Chicago, Ill.
The Silver Medal for Letter-Writing was awarded to
Robert J. McGill, Detroit, Mich.
First Honor Awards.
[First Honors are awarded to students of Sorin, Corby and Brownson Halls who have attained an average of at least 90 per cent, for scholarship and deportment during the scholastic year. The first honor awarded for the first year takes the form of a diploma; that awarded for two years of satisfactory work is a gold medal. This medal may be renewed from year to year.]
SORIN HALL.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to
Lawrence M. Antoine, Somonauk, Illinois (renewal).
Francis P. Burke, Richwood, Wisconsin.
Thomas L. K. Donnelly, Bay City, Michigan.
: Benjamin R. Enriquez, Chihuahua, Mexico. Joseph A. Fahy, Rome; Georgia.
Gallitzen A. Farabaugh, Chambersburg, Penn, (renewal).
Walter M.Daly, Madison, South Dakota.
John H. Neeson, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (renewal).
Patrick W. O’Grady, Glens Falls, New York. John D. Quinn, Scranton, Penn, (renewal). Arthur E. Steiner, Monroe, Mich, (renewal). Anton C. Stephan, Scales Mound, Illinois, (renewal).
Michael J. Shea, Holyoke, Massachusetts.
Raymond V. Stephan, Scales Mound, Illinois Edward C. Wurzer, Detroit, Michigan.
Harry W. Zolper, Mendota, Illinois.
CORBY HALL.
First Honor Gold Medal was awarded to James R. Record, Paris, Texas.
BROWNSON HALL.
First Honor Gold Medal was awarded to Clarence J. Kennedy, Chicago, Ill. (renewal).
SORIN HALL.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to Evaristo R. Batlle, Manila, P. I.
Robert E. Hanley, Wardner, Idaho, Joseph M. Jenkins, Uniontown, Kentucky. Joseph J. Meyers, Carroll, Iowa.
CORBY HALL.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to
J. Emmett Dougherty, Park River, North Dakota,
Arthur S. Funk, La Crosse, Wisconsin.
Karl L. Krotz, Defiance, Ohio.
Henry M. Kemper, Chicago, Illinois.
H. Meyer Lynch, West Bend, Wisconsin.
BROWNSON HALL.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to Louis S. Villanueva, Celaya, Mexico. John Worden, Ossining, New York.
Deportment Prize Medals.
[Gold Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll and St. .Edward’s Halls who have spent two full years at Notre Darhe and, whose deportment-during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
CARROLL HALL
• Gold Medals for Deportment were awarded to 4 Grover F. Casey (renewal), John F. Berteling j (renewal), Bernard. J. Mulligan (renewal), J Edward L. -Rousseau (renewal),August J..	®
Hackman (renewal), Leo F. Keiler, Daniel T. Kelly,' Matthew J; Kenefick, Charles T. B McDermont, Macelino G. Rubio, Walter J.

NOTRE. DAME ' SCHOLASTIC.
Spengler, Augustin P. Villanueva, George C. Zeibold, Gerald Shannon, Henry D. Donahue (renewal).	;
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Gold Medals for Deportment were awarded to Howard F. Farrell, Raymond A. Farrell, Carol A. Von Phul, Walter F. Upman, Joseph E. Quinlan, E. Leon Knight.
[Silver Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll and St. Edward’s Halls who have spent two full years at Notre Dame and whose deportment has given general satisfaction.]
CARROLL HALL.
Silver Medal for Deportment was awarded to Richard R. Benson.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Silver Medals for Deportment were awarded to Francis J. Kroth, Enni Frossard, Earl H. Wilson, Francis J. Maginn, George A. Rempe, Porter W. Munson, Royal O. Bassett.
Deportment Certificates.
[Certificates are awarded to those pupils of Carroll and St. Edward’s Halls who have followed the courses of the University at least two terms, and whose deport-■ ' ment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
CARROLL HALL.
William N. Bosler, Mortimer B. Carraher, Charles E. Cole, Daniel A. Cullinan, Harold.P. Fisher, Herbert L. Daschbach, Robert Goeke, Francis W. Hartzer, Edward M. Kennedy, William R. Katterjohn, Thomas J. Keenan, Hugh E. Miller, Michael C. Murphy, William McKearney, William P. McKenna, Aloysius J. O’Donnell, Thomas J. Popp, Albert Pfeiffer, Charles J. Reilly, Ector R. Rocheford, Claude A. Sorg, Paul A. Weisse, Cebert J. Baillargeon.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
William Cotter, Francis Schick, Enrique Esquino, Irving Loewenthal, Clarence Kelly, Charles Bennett Marr, Charles E. Plunkett, Jacobo J. Yrissarri, Eduardo C. Yrissarri, Louis Mishkowsky, -Randolph A. Lewes, John A. Baillargeon, Jos. Symonds, Andrew Symonds, Clemens U. Brinkmann, Edward W. Coleman, Arthur F. Farwell, Henry 0. Luhr, John R. Hall, John McD. Fox, Lorenzo Crounse, James A. Sturgeon, William J. Hennessy, Paul C. Quinlan, Everett S. Robinson, Houston L. Walsh, James H. Branen, Charles E. Branen, Juan B. Gallart, Harry W. Meenach, J. Ward McCormack, Vincent J. Brown, Paul Powell, 'Roscoe Conklin, Francis Maginn, Walter Smith.
Premiums*
■■
ST. EDWARD'S HALL.	-
Baillargeon, John—Premium in Vocal Music, Grammar and Arithmetic. .
Bassett, Royal—Premium in Piano, Arithmetic and
Grammar.	'
Baude, Francis—Premium in Geography, United States .
History and Piano.	•	.
Branen, James—Premium in Arithmetic, Algebra and Reading.
Branen, Charles—Premium in Piano, Arithmetic and
Orthography.	_
Brennan, Francis—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and Orthography.	.
Brennan, Joseph—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and Orthography.
Brinkmann, Clemens—Premium in Orthography and
I
Reading.
o
Brown, Vincent—Premium in
Arithmetic, Grammar
and Piano.
Bromberg, Reading.
Bromberg, Arithmetic.
Louis — Premium
in Arithmetic
and
George—Premium
in Orthography
and
Cartier, Antoine—Premium in Orthography Reading.
and .
Carette, Arnold—Premium in Piano, Geography and Grammar.
Commack, Ward—Premium in Arithmetic, History and Grammar.
Coleman, Edward—Premium in Arithmetic, Geography . and Orthography.	.
Conklin, Roscoe—Premium in Arithmetic, Reading and Orthography.
Connolly, Edward-Premium in Arithmetic, Orthography and Reading.
Connolly, Cassius—Premium in Arithmetic, Reading and Orthography.
Conover, Huntington—Premium in Grammar, Reading . and Orthography.
Cornelius, George — Premium in Arithmetic, United
States History and Grammar.	t
Cotter, William — Premium in Orthography and Reading.
Crounse, Lorenzo—Premium in Arithmetic, Geography and Elocution.	‘
Dean, John—Premium in .Orthography and Reading.
Dinan, Robert — Premium in United States History, Orthography and Penmanship.
Dunfee, Calvin—Premium in Piano, Orthography and Reading.	.
Dunnebeck, Joseph —Premium in Orthography and Reading.
Emery, Robert—Premium in United States History, Arithmetic and Grammar. -	.
Esquino, Enrique—Premium in Orthography and
Spanish-English.	■	..
Fowler, Francis—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and Reading, ,	.
Farrell, Raymond— Premium in Algebra, Arithmetic and Elocution.	.	.
Farrell, Howard—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and Orthography. •	'	-	,
Farrell, George—Premium, in Orthography.	.
i
J
1
■x
$


622	HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
- Farwell, Arthur—Premium in Grammar, Geography and Piano.
Felix, Glenn—Premium in Orthography and Reading.
Freese, George—Premium in Arithmetic, Piano and Reading.
. Frossard Emil — Premium in Grammar, Geography and Piano.	.
Fox, John — Premium in Arithmetic, United States History and Piano.
Gallart, Juan—Premium in. Orthography and Penmanship. -
Gasman, William — Premium Algebra, Orthography • and Penmanship.
Greene, Clarence— Premium, in Orthography and Reading.
Hall, Robert—Premium in Arithmetic and Orthog.
Hennessy, William—Premium in Arithmetic, Algebra
and . Orthography.	-
Johnston, Edward — Premium in Piano, Arithmetic and Grammar.
Jones, Walter—Premium in Orthography and Reading.
Kasper, William—Premium, in Algebra, Grammar and Reading.
Kasper, Simeon—Premium in Piano and Reading.
Kelly, Clarence—Premium in Arithmetic, Piano and
Reading.	5
Kelley, Charles—Premium in Geography, Algebra and Arithmetic. .	•
' Katz, Leroy—Premium in Arithmetic and Reading.
Keily, Francis—Premium in Reading, Orthography and Latin.
Knight, Leon—Premium in Arithmetic, United States
History and Piano. ‘	.
Kroth, Francis—Premium in Arithmetic and Reading.
Langendorf, Samuel—Premium in Penmanship.
Lyon, David—Premium in Mandolin and Orthography.
Lewes, Randolph;—Premium. in Orthography and
Reading.	.	. '	.
, Lewes, Robert—Premium in Orthography.
. Loewenthal, Irving—Premium in Arithmetic, United States History and Grammar.	_
Luhr, Henry —Premium in Piano and Arithmetic.
Mason, Edwin — Premium in Orthography and
Reading.	.	.	’
Maginn, Francis—Premium in Arithmetic, Penmanship, and Grammar. .	,	'
. Maginn, John—Premium in. Christian Doctrine aind .
Arithmetic. •-	•/•	. . '
: Marr, Charles—Premium, in Arithmetic, and Reading. Meenach, Harry—Premium in Grammar, Arithmetic
. and Orthography.	-
' fMishkowsky, Louis—Premium in Piano, Arithmetic and Grammar.	:	. J
. . Mooney, Edward L.—Premium in Grammar, Reading and Penmanship., ,	’ L .
;	Morrisoh./Pattdh—Premium'in Arithmetic, Grammar
and Orthography.	’	. . = . ; ? :	:
Murisori,' Porter—Premium in United States History >
. and 'Penmanship.- .	\ -’/-',/ ' ;	- r' '	<>
i , ?; McDermont, Chapman-^Premium jh.-Arithmetic and
- Grammar.	'■
; . ■: ? jicDowd;'; Edwin^Prem^ -Arithmetic, ' Reading / and Vocal/Music./ .
..McFadden,TEdma>^Premium'in Piano and Reading.
McFarland, Clarence—Premium in Algebra, Grammar and Reading.
McGill, Robert—Premium in Arithmetic, Geography and Grammar.
Plunkett, Edward—Premium in Christian Doctrine and Orthography.	-	’
Powell, Paul—Premium in Arithmetic and United States History.
Prada, Jose—Premium in Arithmetic, Penmanship and Grammar.	.
Quinlan, Joseph—Premium in Algebra, Grammar and
Orthography.	.
Quinlan, Paul —Premium in Arithmetic, Christian
Doctrine and Grammar.	'
Rempe, George—Premium in United States History, Orthography and Christian Doctrine.
Rempe, Lester—Premium in Arithmetic and Orthog.
Robinson, Everett — Premium in Violin, Arithmetic and Grammar.
Robinson, Leo—Premium in Piano, Arithmetic and
Grammar.	■
Roe, Benjamin — Premium in Orthography and
Grammar.	' .	.
Rudolph, William—Premium in Orthography.
Rudolph, Marshall—Premium in Orthography.
Sabin, Franklin—Premium in Arithmetic, Vocal Music and Elocution.
Schonlau, Claire—Premium in Arithmetic and Gram.
Shannon, Clarence—Premium in Orthography and Christian Doctrine. ..	.
Schick, Francis^—Premium in Reading and Orthog.
Small, Emmett—Premium in Orthography.
Smith, Walter—Premium in Orthography and Arith.
Smith, Dickerson—Premium in Orthography.
Spengler, E. Francis—Premium in Arithmetic and Piano. ,
Strong, Lyman—Premium in Arithmetic and Reading.
Sturgeon, James—Premium in Piano, Arithmetic .and Grammar. ;
Sullivan,:Robert—Premium in Arithmetic, Christian Doctrine and Grammar.
Symonds, Henry—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and Elocution. .	.
Symonds, Lawrence—Premium in Arithmetic, Algebra and Latin.	.	.
Tillett, Grover—Premium in Arithmetic, Orthography and. Penmanship. • . -	/,	.....	. .
Upman, Walter—Premium in Piano,; Arithmetic and
Orthography. .	.	•
. Van/ Zandt, Everett —Premium in Arithmetic and
Reading.. : r	‘	.
Von Phul, Carol—Premium in Arithmetic, Grammar and/Orthography.	./'/ r '
Wilson,'Leroy—Premium in Reading. /.	. .
Woods,-James—Premium in Arithmetic and Reading. . . Walsh, 'Houston — Premium in Arithmetic, Orthog-. raphy and Geography. .	- s ;
Whiteley, Harry W.—Premium in Orthography.’ ■. '.Whiteley,.Thomas D.—Premium in Orthography. / ? Whiteley, John E.—Premium in Orthography.	.
i'r.'- Yrissafri, Jacobo—Premium in Piano and Arithmetic..
Yrissarri, Edwardo—Premium in Piano and Arithmetic.
r