Real flavor-that'sWINSTON !
LIKE A
SHOULD!
WINSTON
TASTES GOOD/
;\\insk
R. J. Reynolds Tob. Co.. Winston-Salem. N. C.
Smoke WINSTON the filter cigarette America enjoys most of all!
E
R
F 1 F L
F>N f'r


Join the switch to WINSTON and enjoy filter smoking!
■ If you haven’t tried w mstons yet, you have a most pleasant surprise in store. This filter cigarette tastes good—like a cigarette should! No wonder Winston is already America’s first choice among dll filter cigarettes.
Winston brings you full, rich, tobacco flavor. What’s more, the exclusive Winston filter works so well the flavor really gets through to you. Try Winston!



CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY . . .

NO CARRYING CHARGE
USE YOUR CAMPUS SHOP JUNIOR EXECUTIVE CHARGE ACCOUNT
The easy way to dress well is with Gilbert’s Campus Shop Junior Executive Charge Account. Buy what you need now . . . suits, sport coats, slacks, furnishings . . . and pay for it this way: one-third in June . . . one-third in July . . . one-third in August. Nothing to pay until then . . . and no interest or carrying charges, of course. Get what you need now. . . . Just say, “Charge it, on my Junior Executive Account.”
^GILBERTS
( sZZl	ZXl ft
Ipril 27, 1956
INDIVIDUALITY IS YOURS IN GILBERT'S BIG SELECTION OF FINE CLOTHES
We don’t try to “type” you at Gilbert’s. Our huge selection of famous brands is more than just a list of “names.” Each designer . . . each manufacturer, has lais own authentic but individual way of interpreting the style . . . and one of these variations is bound to look better on you than another. Come in and see for yourself the advantages of a selection . . . how the Campus Shop can better serve your individual needs.
^GILBERT'S
Home of Skipper Sportswear
The Scholastic
by William M. Malloy

rafel mahee amek zabi almit
AS WE predicted {Entree’s predick tions have been 100% accurate;
latest prediction: U.S. Steel, up 3.7 by next Wednesday) in the February 24 issue of the Scholastic Adlai Stevenson has won the Mock Convention through the effort of several scores of mumbling fumblers, spearheaded by the mighty Dixon (not Nixon) who was glaringly absent from class (upset stomach) on the day of the final politickin’.
" Through an undeviating effort we managed to miss the depredatory preliminaries. Not so the finals. We do not wish to imply that all such things as mock conventions are worthless; quite the contrary; but when it results in such violence as was demonstrated by William Slavick in his letter in last week’s Repercussion . . . well after all, is it really worth it? Of course “government is everybody’s business” and all that, but B we don’t see how such worthy objects as
Dr. Bartholomew, the Scholastic, or the Republican Party can survive the wrath of the fearful young graduate from the English department. (Not to mention that kindly old friend of the farmer, Paul Harvey). If such an exaggeratedly misconstrued notion of politics is prevalent then perhaps we should substitute for mock conventions an effort at teaching “the Great Commandment, the Ten Commandments, the Seven Virtues, and the Eight Beatitudes,” placing spe-" cial emphasis upon those laws concerned with name-calling, and petty slander (doubtless the zenith of political immaturity) and beginning this effort at the English graduate level, whence came:
“Not only is Nixon typical of the new generation of smooth-talking demagogues for whom any end jus, tifies any means and all realities are i shed in the outer chambers of tele' vision studios, but there was no explain nation indicating that this was the first of a series of articles on Machia-1 vellian politicians or dishonorable careers or etc.” (etc. added).
To have such a fiasco coming from a member of a University which can boast of a publication as politically mature as the Review of Politics is too much.
Small wonder then that there were seven policemen, one Deputy Sheriff, four State Troopers, one Chief Petty Officer, U.S.N., a fire chief, a Sergeant at Anns of the convention, and a whole posse of Blue Circle gentlemen (whose organization, as everyone knows, is the executive arm of the Student Senate).
However ordei- was not maintained. Talking was going on while people were giving speeches. Dirty words were exchanged between the delegates from West Virginia and Iowa. A window was broken. Dogs managed to get in and play havoc with the Kefauver raccoon tails. Delegates walked out early; after all, that’s not playing the game!
Mr. Robert Guthrie, student Sergeant at Arms of the Convention reported two cases of ungentlemanly conduct:
1.	One of the delegates who was making it quite clear that he was for Stevenson had a difference of political opinion with a delegate who was no less obviously for Truman. Violent rhetoric ensued during which the Truman delegate ripped off the Stevenson’s delegate badge. Indignated at this official in-nudement the Stevenson fan hit his adversary in the eye. Sergeant Guthrie was almost immediately present to perform his duty, and after a firm reprimand, the offender in a woebegotten voice pleaded, “Well, will I get to have another badge?”
2.	On Tuesday of convention week a delegate from Delaware was enjoying himself at the expense of the State sign poles. He seemed to take a diabolical joy in ripping them- down. Again Sergeant Guthrie was Johnny-on-the-spot. Upon questioning his purpose the Delawarian broke out in tears. Guthrie, not wholly unaware of progressive education, decided to “let the man be.”
Bad conduct was not reported from all officials, thank goodness. Deputy Sheriff Walter M. Phillips and his sidekick, Officer Joseph A. Tschida, were pleased in general with the cooperation of the students. Said Sheriff Phillips: “This is educational,” and Officer Tschida added that all at the convention was “okie dokie.”
During the second roll call we were invited to talk into a special-looking telephone.
“Hello?” we ventured.
“Yes?”
“Hello, who’s there?”
“Who is this please?” we reiterated.
“Bob Whearty.”
“Where are you?” we asked, looking around the Field House for the other end of the connection.
“Where do you think? I’m at the radio station. What do you want (irritation) ?”
“Are you .for Stevenson?”
“I’m a Republican. What do you want and who are you?”
“Ah . . . how’s it coming in?” we asked desperately.
“Oh. Well it’s coming in fine. You know this is the most mikes we’ve ever had working at once on a main feed. Had some trouble with the hookups but finally made it. We’ve been on the air for over fifteen hours. The tie-ins are a little rough. . . .”
“Yes,” we said, losing interest. •
There was a blast not unlike the dying gasp of a harpooned whale. It was issued from some would-be-Roland, a Mr. Bud Toepp, with the aid of a French auto horn that used to fancy a 1920 Rennault. Toepp explained that it was a definite aid in the Stevenson campaign.	'
By this time it was our bed time. On our way out we ran into Ed Pistey. But when we asked him for the musician’s point of view at the convention he was unable to think of anything to say.
April 27, 1956
Mule Kicks
Editor:
Mr. William Slavick is confused, but understandably so. In last week’s Repercussion (April 20), he accused the Scholastic of an unjustified and ill-advised article on Richard Nixon. He also charges Dr. Paul Bartholomew with “string pulling” in the Mock Conventions, particularly the last one.
The reason for Mr. Slavick’s confusion is pardonable, but obvious. He simply doesn’t have all the facts, which are these: The recent Scholastic article was in no sense a piece exclusively on Nixon, as any reader could determine. It was simply a survey of Republican election-year politics and at that time any such survey necessarily involved a full treatment of Nixon. The writer of that story is no admirer of Nixon and it was assuredly not his intent to write “an article on Richard Nixon.” I know this because I wrote the article. My opinion of Nixon, which is decidedly lower than that expressed in Mr. Slavick’s letter, was not fit for expression in that article. Personally, I believe Nixon to be a thoroughgoing opportunist and the worst sort of political hack but I had no right nor desire to express that opinion.
As for the other matter, I happen to know that Dr. Bartholomew had nothing whatsoever to do with the selection of Paul Harvey as a speaker in the Mock Convention. We of the Academy of Political Science, who made the selection, were well aware of both Mr. Harvey’s personal political opinions and his abilities as a speaker. It seems that there were quite a few honorable Democrats, myself included, who were interested in what Mi-. Harvey had to say.
Dr. Bartholomew was the Faculty Advisor for the Mock Convention. He did a truly outstanding job and we are all greatly indebted to him for his considerable help and advice. Not once in our past eight months of close association with Dr. Bartholomew did I or anyone else detect even the slightest attempt at “string pulling” on his part. As a matter of fact, Dr. Bartholomew is notorious for (Continued on page 30)
SPECIAL STUDENT
RATES
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Eighth Year
•	1,000 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•	Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•	No Deposit for ND Students
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
INVENTORY Entree ......................    5
Repercussion ..................  6
View .......................     7
Campus Scene.....................9
Folio .....................     13
At a Glance ................    20
Showcase .....................  22
Irish Scene ..............      25
Time Out.....................  .26
Back Page __________________    34
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including tux shirt, $55.50
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend Tn the Oliver Hotel
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 97 APRIL 27, 1956 No. 21
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JOHN ADAMS Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE
Associate Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK ... News Editor
ED JOYCE .......................Copy Editor
BOB KAUFMAN.............Production Manager I
DAVE KUBAL ..................Assistant	News
DAVE THOMPSON ...............Assistant	News
james McDonald ........Assistant News JIM STEINTRAGER ...__________Assistant	News
JIM O’BRIEN .................Feature	Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator RICHARD NAVIN ....................Art	Editor
HARRY CONLON .............Business Manager NORB RADZIWON Circulation Manager JIM FITZGERALD. ....Photo Co-ordinator । JOE NORTON ...............Sports	Editor^
JOHN GLAVIN ..............  Assistant	Sports *-
RAY LESCHER ................Assistant	Sports
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Biedka, R. Lee Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomas Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Has-ley, Joe HeimoskT, Greg Kilduff, Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Harry McKee, John McMahon, Joe Mo-carski, Dave Noland, Bob Plante, Terry Plunkett, Marsh Pidgeon, Joe Schaefer, Mike Schofield, David Schwartz, Louis Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, Ray Walsh. SPORT STAFF: John Barthel, Andrew Carnazola. Patrick DeFoe, Robert Early, John Grady, Russell Hopkins, James Langford, James Merz, Robert Parnell, Edward Rohrbach, James Short, Carl Skiff.
BUSINESS STAFF: Bob Parker and Loran Sheffer. —
Member of Catholic School Press Association,_ Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.
ON THE COVER Photographer Bruce Harlan captures something of thej panorama of demonstrations, deals < and demagoguery at the Notre Dame ' Mock Convention.
6
The Scholastic

SMC
WSND
For the final two sessions of the recent Democratic Mock Convention on campus we tuned in WSND for the vote-by-vote broadcast. Now we don’t claim to be an ^^expert in the field of radio, but we do think that WSND f^should be commended for an excellent, professional-like job. I Campus radio has come a long way since it was first originated by a group of “hams” in one of the residence halls. That was nine years ago. These radio enthusiasts got their first recognition when the University provided them with some makeshift equipment and studio space on the second floor of the Fieldhouse. Another long jump, and Bthe local station was comfortably situated in its present studios “high in the O’Shaughnessy tower.”
WSND boasts a new master control and Studio “B” this year. Its installations produce excellent broadcast quality. ^Remote broadcasts can be done from any point within the United States.
Plans call for the completion of a new transmission system which should be in operation by next fall. It has taken three years to design and test this system that will be the first of its kind.
A survey of its potential audience indicated that 68.4 percent of all radio listening time on campus is devoted to WSND. This high audience appeal is undoubtedly the result of WSND’s efforts to “give the student the type of listening he prefers.” A well-received innovation has been the continuous morning music via FM. The first student-par-Aticipation show, “Kampus Kwiz,” has met with wide ac-^claim. Local listeners hear educational and entertaining programs, such as “Insights into Music,” “Focus,” and “Speaking of Books.” WSND also features up-to-the-minute coverage of all campus and national events.
WSND has proved it can stand on its own two feet. Its sales are the highest in college radio. Competing with over 100 other similar stations, it won the Intercollegiate Broadcasting System’s “Success Story” contest.
From a sort of plaything which witty disk jockeys used as a handy medium for taking pokes at St. Mary’s, WSND has matured into a full-fledged enterprise. Being one of the foremost campus extracurricular activities it provides its ^staff members with invaluable training and experience.
We think the University can be justifiably proud of WSND, for we feel it certainly deserves its rating as the “First in College Radio.”—?. L.
April 27, 1956
IN another part of this issue of the Scholastic there is an article on Notre Dame-St. Mary’s relations, a subject long ignored, objectively, by our publication. Much good-natured ribbing has been directed at St. Mary’s and its institutions over the years by various columnists and writers for the Scholastic—in most cases this has been taken for what it is worth by both sides and has even been met by some retaliation. This, I think, has gone to make up a healthier relationship all the way around.
But there are a few people, on the ND side of the Dixie, who consider these comments just more fuel for the fire, just supplementary data for a pre-conceived prejudice against the young ladies from St. Mary’s. The proportions that this prejudice assumes in some cases is really monumental. I have even heard some fellows say that they wouldn’t think of letting their sisters go to St. Mary’s, if they had anything to say about it, because she might turn into “a St. Mary’s girl.” Not many of the SMC opponents are that vehement, fortunately, but it is not uncommon to hear someone say that he won’t date a St. Mary’s girl because St. Mary’s doesn’t boast of anyone worthwhile to date or that all St. Mary’s girls are snobs or that all St. Mary’s girls have too much money, and so on.
The really unjust aspect of this whole situation is that in most cases the “facts” upon which these judgments are made are second-hand at best and even range as far down the line as fourth-hand—the rest are invariably prefaced by, “I went over there once in my freshman year and I got fixed up with this blinder . . .” Generalizations grow out of particulars like weeds on a prairie.
Not even the most avid St. Mary’s proponent would deny that a lot of fellows from ND have gotten some pretty raw deals from St. Mary’s, but let’s take a look through the other end of the telescope. How many times has a guy from ND stood up his date or walked out on a “fix-up” when she didn’t pan out as expected? How many times have some of the “real fellows” booed the SMC contingent at a pep rally or something of that sort? How many times has the ND guy asked for the miniature back after a long relationship? How many times has a miniatured fellow from this side of the highway gone home and gone out, on a wholesale basis? It’s a rather thin pancake that doesn’t have two sides, I’d say.
A lot of fellows will take one look at this and say. “Yeah, but what about . . .” Yeah, what about it? The fact of the matter is that the very fellows who are always clamoring for more social life are the first ones to take a jab at St. Mary’s, and in spite of the percentages not all of the girls have dates a month in advance for Friday and Saturday nights. I think it’s safe to say that SMC has more than its share of personality, looks, and brains, too—and a lot of it remains untapped week in and week out.
And so, to the fellows who would really like to go out on weekends but who have rabbit ears for all this scuttlebut, wake up—you too can have a social life under the Dome. -J. A.
7
HERS
"1
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Dick IFalsh (right) discussing carrier equipment ivhich will provide many additional long distance circuits out of Philadelphia.
“There's opportunity in a growing company”
As an Engineer in the Transmission Section of Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania, Richard M. Walsh plans for the future.
"Our group’s responsibility,” says Dick, “is to see that we have sufficient facilities to handle present and future needs. Telephone usage is growing every year, and we keep up with this growth by keeping ahead of it.
“For instance, to meet the increasing demand for communication circuits in our area, we’re adding 70,000 new channel miles this year alone, at a cost of §3,500,000. Laying new cable will give us 40,000 of those channel miles, and we’ll get the other 30,000 through use of carrier equipment, which lets us send a
number of long distance calls on each pair of wires simultaneously.
“Thus, though a cable might have only 300 pairs of wires, we can, with carrier, make it carry over 3000 telephone calls at one time. Using carrier equipment to get extra circuits out of cable—which is expensive to make and lay—is an example of how we engineer to give high-grade service at the lowest possible cost.
“Before I graduated from college I had interviews with twenty-eight companies. Out of all these I chose the telephone company because it had the most to offer in the way of interesting work, training and opportunity. This certainly turned out to be true. In a growing business your opportunities grow, too.”
I	Dick Walsh graduated in 1953 from the University of
I	Delaware with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering. There
j	are many interesting career opportunities in other Bell
I	Telephone Companies, and in Bell Telephone Labora-
t	lories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. Your
।	placement officer can give you more information about
|	all Bell System Companies,
i
I______________________________________________________________________
Bell Telephone System
___________________I
8
The Scholastic
JUNIORS REMINISCE TONIGHT AMIDST MARTERIE MELODIES
Weekend Memories Begin With Prom in Drill Hall; Dinner, Dance, Breakfast to Complete 'Moments'
The collection of “Moments to Remember” will be started by 600 juniors and their dates tonight at the Junior Prom in the Navy Drill Hall from 9:30 p.m. to 1:30 a.m.
Ralph Marterie’s band, no newcomer to Notre Dame, will provide the dance music for the occasion.
k Queen of the Prom will be Miss Mary-lin Jeffson of Waukegan, Ill., date of
John Reardon, general chairman.
One feature of the Prom is the importation of orchids from Hawaii which will be made into corsages. The memory books will feature a cover drawing by Don Flock in a pictorial story of the weekend.	.
Chaperones for the Prom . are the junior instructors of the ROTC units .and their wives.
’ Car permissions for the affair will last
from noon today until noon Sunday. Prom-goers must arrive before 10:30
MISS NANCY McNAMARA
To dine with.
p.m. and may not leave until 12:30 a.m.
Tomorrow evening a dinner-dance at the South Bend Country Club will be held for 200 couples. Dining to piano music from 6 to 8:30 p.m. will precede dancing from 8 to 11:30 p.m. to the music of Ed Pistey’s combo.
Honored guests at the dinner-dance will be Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C. and Rev. Daniel O’Neil, C.S.C.
Reigning as queen of the dinner dance will be Miss Nancy McNamara, a junior at St. Mary’s College from West Palm Beach, Fla., and date of Bud Malloy, dinner-dance chairman.
Sunday morning, following the 8 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church, a Communion Breakfast in the East Dining Hall will bring the weekend’s activity to a close. Rev. Edward Duncan, director of the Newman Foundation at the
University of Illinois, will be the featured speaker at the breakfast.
Chairmen for the weekend are: John
Reardon, general chairman; Bud Malloy, dinner-dance; Terry Conway, Communion breakfast; Norris Harding, refreshments; Don Flock, decorations; Bill Maddux, hotel reservations; Bill Garvin, entertainment; Ed Keenan, tickets; Dan Kelly, business; Bill Reeve, memory book; and Pat Williamson, publicity.
STUDENT LOANS
All graduating seniors who have received student emergency loans are reminded that these loans must be re-paid by May 15. If they are not re-paid by this date, senior credits will be frozen and degrees at the June graduation exercises will be withheld.
Payments may be made in Room 122, Main Building, between the hours of 9-12 and 1-5, Monday through Friday.
MISS MARYLIN JEFFSON
To dance with.
Bishop Sheen to Give Keynote Speech Here
Bishop Fulton J. Sheen will deliver the keynote address at the tenth annual Vocation Institute to be held here July 12-15, it was announced here recently by Rev. John J. Doherty, C.S.C., director of the Institute.
Widely known for his weekly television series, Bishop Sheen is national director of the Society for the Propagation of the Faith and serves as an Auxiliary Bishop of New York. He will speak at the Institute’s first business session the morning of July 13.
An outdoor evening Mass at the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes on the Notre Dame campus will mark the formal opening of the Institute July 12. Bishop Leo A. Pursley, apostolic administrator of the Diocese of Fort Wayne, will celebrate the Mass and preach the sermon, Father Doherty said.
Several speakers featured at Institute sessions during the past decade are being invited to address this year’s tenth anniversary meeting. They will review developments of recent years in the work of fostering religious vocations and suggest new methods and techniques. More than 200 priests, brothers, sisters and laymen engaged in vocation work are expected to attend the Institute sessions. Attendance will be augmented by others ■ attending the regular Notre Dame summer session.
9
April 27, 1956
Towards “most successful” year—programming . . . public relations . . . management.
Corkill Named to Manage WSND for '56-'57; List Department Heads in Annual Turnover
Fred Corkill of New Canaan, Conn., was named station manager of WSND for the coming school year according to 211 announcement made last Wednesday night. He succeeds the present manager, Pat McCartan, who headed the selection board composed of J. A. Fallon, moderator, and all retiring department heads.
Corkill, a junior in the program for administrators of the College of Commerce, has been with the campus station for three years. Presently, he is serving as the business manager of WSND, moving to that post from the position of traffic manager.
Bert Allen and Jerry Slater were selected for program director and business manager, respectively. Allen, an arts and letters junior from Ravenna, O., also has had three years of experience on the staff. Slater, a sophomore -student in the program for administrators was traffic manager the past year. He comes from Houston, Tex.
Technical director for next year will be Bob Borchers, an Evanston, Ill., sophomore physics major. He has been helping chief engineer Charlie Casale in the construction of the new transmission system.
The new public relations director will be Jim Meagher, a journalism major from Rock 'Island, Ill. Meagher is the present news director.
Succeeding Meagher is George Van Kula, a sophomore English major from Detroit, Mich., while Don Zeifang, an AB sophomore from Niagara Falls, N. Y., will be the chief announcer.
Continuity Director Jim Scherer, from
Griffith, Ind., is the new traffic manager while Bill Chesson, of Pittsburgh, Pa., has been named sports director. Both are Arts and Letters sophomores.
A commerce sophomore, Jerry Pas-tula, of Detroit, was selected sales manager and Paul Flattery, of Jamaica, N. Y., is the new production engineer. Flattery is a junior in electrical engineering.
It was also announced that several other appointments, to complete next year’s staff, will be made soon.
Manager McCartan, in announcing the selections, said, “On the basis of Fred Corkill’s radio experience and the fine staff which will surround him, WSND’s next broadcast year should be its most successful ever.”
Pizza Party Scheduled For Tonight in Center
The Senate is sponsoring a Pizza Party in the Student Center from 7:30 to 11 p.m. tonight. Tickets are $.75 each, and may be purchased in the Student Center from 5 to 6 p.m. this afternoon. There will be no ticket sales at the door. Stags will be admitted.
Special attraction of the evening will be a film short of Bing Crosby’s 1955 summer golf tournament, in which top name movie stars participated. The movie will be shown continuously every half hour in the amphitheater, starting at 8 p.m. Hot pizza will be served about 8:30; refreshments will also be available. Records will provide dance music. Greg Devers and Tom Carroll are the co-chairmen of the party.
A dance will be held in the Student Center tomorrow night from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. Admission is $1 per couple.
St. Mary’s College Glee Club will present a special concert in the Student J Center Sunday. Admission is free, and®4*, coat and tie are required.
NSA Delegates Meet At Oberlin Tomorrow
The Ohio-Indiana region of the United States National Student Association will hold its spring regional convention at Oberlin College, at Oberlin, 0., Saturday and Sunday. A five-man delegation from® Notre Dame will be present at the con- -* vention.
Featuring Stan Glass, president of NSA, as keynote speaker, the two-day program will include conferences of j newspaper editors, student body presidents, and NSA coordinators, as well as discussions on international programming, selected student problems, student court systems, and the issue of academic freedom.
In addition to this, a special subcommission on Student Press will be held.^ One of the main topics to be discussed will be the relationship between the press and the student government. Student services, social, cultural, educational, and entertainment aspects of extracurricular programs, and fund-raising devices will be other possible topics for discussion.	'
Election of next year’s regional officers ‘ will also take place. At the present time, Notre Dame holds down two of the; six regional offices. Pete Sturtevant and® Tom Shehan are both regional vice-presidents in charge of international and educational affairs, respectively.
10
The Scholastic
Senate to Inaugurate Spring Festival May 4; To Stress Religious, Academic, Social Life
An outline of events for the first Spring Festival, which will be held from May 4-12, has been announced by Gep Durenberger, general chairman.
A Student Senate President Tom Cre-han originated the idea and through coordination with various colleges and universities a Festival was worked out to evolve around the three basic aspects of Notre Dame life: religious, academic, and social.
Beginning with the Frosh Frolic next Friday night, the festivities continue with a stage production in the Drill Hall ^with a big-name entertainer featured. WEd Pistey and his orchestra ■will also
be present.
A Communion Breakfast in the ris Inn for members of student
Mor-
gov-
eminent is scheduled for Sunday morning, May 6. Hall presidents, new and old members of the Student Senate, and the Blue Circle will attend the breakfast.
On Sunday afternoon, golf ■ and tennis tournaments will be staged for all . members of the student body. Trophies ^^will be presented the winners.
On Monday, May 7, there will be a
Bradford, Casey Gain Win In Campus Bridge Tourney
campus pilgrimage to the Fatima Shrine where an outdoor Mass will be said. A golf exhibition featuring Jackie Burke and Jimmy Demaret is set for Tuesday.
A clown basketball game on the courts behind the bookstore, a twilight concert by the Glee Club on the library lawn, and a costume party in the Student Center have been scheduled for Wednesday, May 9. The costume party has the theme of the “Gay Twenties” and those attending must have appropriate attire. Wednesday evening will also feature the opening of Finian’s Rainbow in Washington Hall. The University Theatre’s spring musical will continue until that Saturday.
For Ascension Thursday, May 10, a Eucharistic procession and outdoor High Mass have been scheduled for the morning’s activities. In the afternoon, there will be hall and club outings.
Academic displays by various colleges under the supervision of the college senators will feature Friday’s activities with a stein party in the Center set for that night.
The concluding day of the Spring Festival will feature the Old-Timers game
in the afternoon and the Monogram Ball in the evening. The Ball will now be traditionally held in the spring after the Old-Timers game rather than in the fall.
Center Manager Plan Heads Senate Agenda
Campus clubs legislation, a study of the graduate student situation, a possible change in the number of stay senators, and a new Student Center management policy, head the list of topics which are presently under consideration by the Student Senate according to President Tom Crehan.
Pending a report from the Campus Club Commission, the Senate will enact legislation concerning the classification, rules and regulations of the clubs on campus. Charters will also be issued.
The Senate is undergoing a study of the policies concerning the Graduate Student Association and the Senate, which will include the facilities in the Center presently given to the Association, a financial charge for the services they use, and the floral service the Senate is considering giving to them.
Crehan announced that openings for general and sales managers, labor foreman, and the work crew for the summer storage concession, to be run by the Senate, are available. He also announced that formal inauguration of the new Senate will take place in the Centerballroom on Sunday, May 6.
The final important topic set to come before the Senate is the new student manager plan which will go into effect next year. It provides for a seniormanager assisted by two juniors and a junior labor foreman.
The bridge tournament to determine
the pairs championship of the University was held last weekend in the Stu-kdent Center. The permanent trophy, donated by Mr. and Mrs. James Gerity, Jr., of Adrian, Mich., -will bear the names of Pat Bradford and Jack Casey
1 of Sorin Hall as the first winners of the 1 event. In addition, they received individual trophies and two master points.
Second place went to Jim Jacoby and Ron Vardiman, who won a fountain pen desk set and one master point. Steve Barrett and Pete Volante, of Badin Hall, collected a desk clock and one-half a _ master point.
V The trophies won by the contestants were also the gifts of Mr. and Mrs. Gerity. After being engraved, they will be formally presented at a later date.
The regular Sunday duplicate tourney will be held Sunday in the Student Center at 2 p.m.
The Interhall team-of-four is scheduled for May 13, in the Center. This event is included in the competition for the President’s Cup. In addition, individual trophies will be awarded to each Amember of the winning team. Jack ' Steinthal, of Morrissey Hall, is chairman of the event, and is now accepting entries for the tournament.
April 27, 1956
“And so I sez to him, you can’t touch me, I’m in the ROTC.”
11

Seniors Receive 'Engineer of Year' Awards; Honor Massey, Carroll, Gill, Mason, Krembs
Five seniors received the Technical Review's “Engineer of the Year” awards last Friday in the initial phase of the 1956 Engineering Open House. The students were presented the awards by Mr. Raymond Schubmehl, assistant dean of engineering.
Winners, selected by junior members of the Technical Revieiv staff on the basis of outstanding work and achievement in the engineering school, were James Massey, Richard P. Carroll, Walter J. Gill, James A. Mason and George Krembs.
Massey, a senior from Ottawa, Ill., is valedictorian of the Senior Class, the first engineer in the history of Notre Dame to achieve this honor. He was named to “Who’s Who in American College and Universities,” was chairman of the Senior Retreat, head of the YCS-Engineering Group, secretary of the Association of International Electrical Engineers, and a member of the NROTC unit. Following his duty with the Navy, Massey plans to do graduate work at the University of Illinois on a National Science Foundation Grant.
Can-oil, mechanical engineer from Springfield, Mass., is editor of the Technical Review this year. Also a member of “Who’s Who,” he is chairman of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and a member of the engineering advisory board. He will graduate cum laude and will work with Kaman Aircraft near Hartford, Conn., after graduation.
Walter J. Gill, of Denver, Colo., is chairman of the Aeronautical International Engineers on campus, a staff member of the Technical Review, and
chairman of the 1955 Electrical Engineers Open House. Gill attended Notre Dame in his freshman year on a scholarship of the Denver club and in his junior year won the General Electric Engineering Scholarship. He plans to do graduate work at the University of Southern California on a Hughes Fellowship. He is a member of the AFROTC unit and the engineering advisory board.
Mason, a mechanical engineer from Belleville, Ill., attended Notre Dame on a St. Louis Club scholarship. He is president of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and was a representative to the ASME convention. Mason served as chairman of the Engineer’s Ball and aided in forming the freshman advisory system for engineers.
Krembs, an electrical engineer from Merrill, Wis., will graduate in June magna cum laude. A member of the Blue Circle, he was chairman of the freshman orientation program last fall. Krembs is a member of the AIEE. He will continue his studies at Stanford University on a National Science Foundation Fellowship.
The awards are presented annually by the Technical Review.
Circle Picks New Members
Last Monday evening the Blue Circle approved 23 new members for next year’s membership. Nine freshmen, nine sophomores, and five juniors were named.
The freshmen are: Greg Devers, Dan Ferrone, Jerry Gorman, Mike Halpin, Frank Kennedy, Neal Lamping, Bill Me-
..........................
CORRECTION	I U
An error appeared in the report of The Foundation Drive in the April 20 issue of the SCHOLASTIC. The amount of money contributed to The Foundation during the past nine «I years should have read $17 million. | ..........................(£ Cullough, Jim Short, and Larry Wentz. I The sophomores accepted were: Joe 0 Bride, Gary Cooper, John Hirschfeld, || John McCarthy, Rick Ninneman, Walt ml Smithe, Juan Torruella, George Van II Kula, and Harry Wasoff. The new I junior members are: Roger Bennett, Dan I Bergen, Terry Crowley, Jack Crutcher, | and Paul Krapp............||
--------
Lawyers Dance Tonight	[
At Spring Semi-Formal	|
The annual Spring Law Ball of the Notre Dame Law School will be held J tonight from 9:30 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the South Bend Country Club. The Spotlighters will supply the music for the f semi-formal dance.
Senior law students Gene Volk and Dean Jennings are co-chairmen of the dance committee. Miss Betty Meskimen, of Benton Harbor, Mich., the date of Jennings, and Miss Claire Cleveland, of Rosary College, River Forest, HL, the date of Volk, will be crowned queens of the Ball by the co-chairmen.
Favors will be given out. No corsages will be worn.	JL
Other members of the dance commit- .w tee are: Jack Rosshirt, tickets; Pat Fo- J ley, publicity; Otto Hilbert, transportation; and Tim O’Hara, blind date bureau.
TOP ENGINEERS KREMBS, CARROLL, MASON, MASSEY, GILL Slide-rulers win coveted awards.
12
The Scholastic
The convention sits in deceptive calm through opening speeches.
conventional chaos
by BOB SEDLACK—photos by BRUCE HARLAN
une, 1920. The Republican Convention in Chicago heard Harry Daugherty coin the phrase that has become synonymous with American politics — “In a smoke-filled room in some hotel.” Since then, many things have changed but politics and, more specifically, conventions, haven’t. They are still the same smoky, noisy altercations that they were then.
, Last week, for four days, Notre Dame V held its own Democratic Mock Conven-\ tion in the Navy’Drill Hall, which had U (Appropriately been decorated with gaudy ' ounting, state delegation signs, and pictures of recent Democratic presidents. Interest and enthusiasm had been building up for several months as the Acad; emy of Political Science arranged dele-। gation caucuses and rallies for particu-, lar candidates.
The time finally arrived. At 7:20 '\	Monday night, Caspar R. Taylor, Presi-
j‘	dent of the Academy of Political Sci-
»	ence, and Chairman of the National
^Committee, hammered the speaker’s ^fetand with the wooden gavel for the first •• time and the festive participants quieted ’ for the invocation. Presentation of col-■ April 27, 1956	1
ors and the national anthem followed. Chairman McCartan gave a brief welcoming speech and was succeeded by Miss Mary Dahm who greeted the St. Mary’s girls at the largest mass-mixer in recent months. Fr. Hesburgh, Tom Crehan, and Mayor Voorde followed with welcoming addresses.
Half an hour after it began, the convention got down to business as James R. Ullrich, Mock Secretary, declared the apportionment of delegates by states. Edward J. Robinson, temporary Chairman, delivered the keynote address attacking the archaic and outmoded government of the Republican Party and presented the views of the Democratic Party on the important issues now facing the country. He appealed to all the American people, the farmer, the working man, the small business man, to “put the first team back in office — the Democratic Party.”
Paul M. Butler, alumnus of Notre Dame and present Chairman of the Democratic National Committee, then addressed the “youthful Democrats” in the convention. He appealed to their party loyalty as the oldest party in the
United States and the one which in the past has produced the greatest chief executives. “Inertia ' and mediocrity have replaced action and mastery in the White House,” he said referring to President Eisenhower, “especially now in his enfeebled condition.” He also touched upon critical issues of the day and criticized the present administration for its narrowminded catering to “big business” alone. He ended by comparing the two parties and by showing that the Democrats have always attempted to follow a philosophy of “placing the general welfare of our country first—a philosophy which the Republican Party has failed to understand.”	’
Mr. Butler finished his speech about 9:30 and immediately thereafter, the Rules and Procedure Report governing the convention rubrics was submitted to the body of delegates for approval. The rest of the evening was consumed in discussion, revision, or approval of various committee reports.
A slight difficulty arose when a minority report from the Alaskan chairman asked that the outlying territories of
13
1
Camera and WSND capture drama of Riley's empassioned plea.

the United States be included in the alphabetical roll call, and not at the end. However, this was rejected.
The reports of the Permanent Orga
nization Committee and the Credentials
Conunittee were immediately okayed by a vote of acclamation. The next bit of business was the Party Platform.
A minority report opposed the traditional party antagonism towards the Taft-Hartley Law. A roll call vote was necessary and, upon completion, a large majority was found to be favorable to the Law. As a result, that plank in the platform was revised.
This dispute lasted until 11 o’clock and the convention adjourned until the following evening.
Tuesday night the call to order was
sounded at 7:16 p.m. by Ed Robinson. The customary invocation, presentation, and national anthem followed. Then a “Small Keynote address” was given by Pat McCartan, Permanent Chairman. McCartan dusted off the quadrennial criticisms of both parties. He emphasized the financial blundering of the Republicans which caused the stock market crash in 1929 and excused the three wars of the last fifty years—each when a Democrat was chief executive— by claiming that an honorable peace was impossible at those times.
Next, Paul Harvey of the American Broadcasting Company spoke to the convention. He gave the usual criticisms and approvals. During the course of his speech he proclaimed that “a high kicking donkey has a better chance to avoid political strife than an overfed elephant.”
After Mr. Harvey’s speech, a twenty minute recess was called and the convention hall really began to come to life. The two-for-a-nickel-wholesale, one-for
a-dime-retail cigars were quickly sold out
as the delegates anticipated the demagogic speeches by which presidential candidates would be nominated. The first state called, Alabama, passed to the chairman from Illinois who, ably assisted by superlatives, nominated Senator Richard Russell of Georgia. A confetti, noisemaker, ban?., sign-waving demonstration followed. Chairs were overturned, the aisles were swept by marching Russellites, confusion became chaos and the Chair kept pounding for order. “Will the Sergeant-at-Arms please
Russell rooters rouse for demonstration.
clear* the aisles,” became a nronotonou^ t chant in the cluttered 'hall. Undoubtedly,. : it was during one of these post-nomina-. tion riots that James Robinson made the observation, “Political campaigns are designedly made into emotional orgies which endeavor to distract attention from the real issues involved, and they / actually paralyze what slight powers of j cerebration that men can normally! muster.”
Some twenty minutes later the tumult had somewhat exhausted itself and norni- ' nations continued. Six more candidates
were nominated, seconded, and acclaimed by fresh demonstrators—Lyndon John
son, Estes Kefauver, Adlai Stevenson, George Leader, Frank Lausche, and Stuart Symington. At 10:53, Pat Mc-Cartan announced that the convention i would reconvene to finish nominations af^ I 3:30 the following afternoon. Just J after 11:00, the Kentucky delegate mo- M tioned for adjournment and the motion A was passed by a viva voce vote.	11
On Wednesday afternoon a somewhat 'I smaller number of delegates was present I for the continuation of presidential	A
nominations. At this time, six more	1
candidates, Harry Truman, Frank Clem- <1 ents, “Soapy” Williams, Hubert Humph-reys, Mike Mansfield, and Averill Har- W^ riman had their assorted hats thrown
into the ring. The succeeding demon
strations were slightly less turbulent than those of the previous evening. At 5:30 the afternoon session adjourned for supper. (At this point it was quite evident that another night would be required to finish the balloting for nominations. Later that evening an announcement was made from the Chair that the convention could use the field house to, conclude activities on Thursday night/i if necessary).
Wednesday night, seconding speeches took up the first half hour after the
Ci
Sturdy
backbone Johnson bloc.
Lone Star staters
BE a
V OTf

usual preliminaries had been concluded. At 7:41, the Chairman notified the states using the unit rule and reminded them for which ballots they had adopted it. A five minute recess was called. The voting was about to begin.
Here and there throughout the crowd, knots of men gathered; supporters of favorite sons sought out the campaign managers of the more powerful candidates to find out what they had to offer. Walkie-talkies became important pieces of equipment for finding out how many signs the other candidates could set up. The political hierarchy began to deal in votes. Speculations were many and
varied—which, way would the ‘ states go—how long would they with favorite sons—what about South, now split between Johnson Russell—whom would the farm
big” stay the and bloc
support?
7:55. The first ballot for the choosing of a Democratic presidential candidate began. When it was completed, it proved little. Most of the states had gone "with favorite sons, Michigan—Williams; New York—Harriman. The South was split; Johnson, on his western strength, had 244 tallies and was leading the pack. Russell had 187. Mike Mansfield, a Montana “son” was surprising with 103 first ballot votes. Two other “big” names, Stevenson and Kefauver had only 94 and 46 votes respectively.
8:42. The second ballot was started. When all the states and territories had been polled, a trend was noticeable. In
the ultimate corners and the huddled knots, the favorite sons were swinging votes to the other candidates. Johnson gained about 30 votes to up his leading total to 277; Russell was losing out in the South. Kefauver had but one vote —he conceded on the second ballot. Stevenson more than doubled his total from 94 to 220. A few other favorites stayed constant but Williams and Humphreys lost all their backers. Mike Mansfield kept moving, from 103-170.
9:52. The third ballot was taken. Shortly after 11:00, when all the tabulations were in, still no candidate had the necessary majority of 50% plus 1 or 687 votes. The favorite sons were almost eliminated. Russell dropped from 178 to 2 votes; Leader plunged from 74 to 1 (as the chair-man of the Pennsylvania delegation read a telegram from Gov. Leader to the effect that Stevenson should get his votes); Symington’s 79 fell to 2; Clements lost all of his 60 backers; Mansfield, swinging some of his votes to Johnson, polled only 16 of his former 170 votes; only adamant New York still backed Harriman. Deals became more overt—New York was caucusing and so were the farm states— as the evening ended with Johnson (552) and Stevenson (532) the only two men yet in contention. At 11:18 the motion for adjournment was passed and shortly thereafter the members of the Academy of Political Science began the task of transporting convention equipment into the field house.
• 7:25. The final evening began with the now familiar rituals. Six minutes later the first balloting of the night in the less-convention-type atmosphere of the field house began. On this first trip around, a number of states passed, waiting to see what the big states—especially New York—would do. Trying to force the convention to choose a dark horse, the Empire State cast its 98 votes behind Truman. Dealing reached a fever pitch. The consensus was anti-Truman but some of the states that had passed did swing to Truman. As the totals were counted, Johnson still led with 515, Stevenson second with 491, and Truman a distant third—but coming on i-apidly— with 284. Could Truman do it? Campaign managers began promising VicePresidents to the South and Western Veeps to the West. Non-smokers were chewing cigars, non-drinkers were spied swigging Cokes, covertly.
8:50. The fifth ballot did it. Johnson backers fell away from that “lean, brown, Texan” and gave Adlai a 7 vote margin—694—over the necessary. Johnson was runner-up with 344, Truman (Continued on page 33)


Victory vindicates Stevenson support.
Bartholomew, Harvey join the fun.
A ghost of yesterday, but still the most famous of them all, Ford’s folly, the sturdy Model T.
photos by STEVE FOX

/
*
open door to the future j
i
Buick power minus grease. Porcelain and chrome models reveal the innards of the modern Roadmaster engine.
{Right) Chrysler
presents an old-fashioned
experimental model (with steering wheel), the Flight Sweep I.
(Below) With a mystified air, the editors watch a probable Chemical Engineer prepare for silverplating, stop watch reaction, or even fluid bed catalyst.


thus
beams are split by a crystal and photographed.
Part of the group prize-winning display of the Metallurgy department shows the process by which X-ray
(Right) Tomorrow, theme and aim of today's engineers, is aptly illustrated by the Ford Company’s experimental FX-Atmos, not on sale just yet.
(Above) Individual prize winner John Jeglic, of the Class of '57, with his design model for three level traffic exchange to be use on Chicago’s Congress St. Expressway.




TRI-LEVEL
interchange
JOHN JEGLIC

Jacob s display
Ladder, a flashy and


familiar
by the Electrical Engineering,
features a traveling spark and a varied gap, and . . . ZAP!
problems in the past
by JACK BELL
The song that enjoyed popularity twenty years ago, “When She Went to Old Saint Mary’s and I Went to Notre Dame,” could never have been thought of, much less written, in the early days of these two schools. Though the priests and the Sisters of Holy Cross who administered the two schools owed their allegiance to a common founder, the reverend Father Basil Moreau, their policies of discipline were based on the principle of an isolation ward. The North and South Poles were no farther apart than were the students of a century ago.
While the priests from Notre Dame offered Mass and gave sermons at Saint Mary’s, or joined the few lay professors in an occasional lecture, the Notre Dame students had no part in widening the girls’ social horizons. Even bona fide relatives came to call only by special permission in the post Civil War days. Toward the turn of the century, boys at Notre Dame who had sisters at Saint Mary’s went over to Saint Mary’s every Sunday afternoon to pay a two hour call while cousins enjoyed this rare privilege once a month. This extra-mural innovation was restricted to a large sewing room in the convent, where the girls awaited their- kin amid Singer- sewing machines, flanked by two wooden kitchen chairs, the floor resplendent from its recent scrubbing. Needless to say, quite a number of pseudo-relatives made their
way across the dusty road. The conversation was probably as stilted as the straight backed chairs, but how incomparably better than none at all.
About that time, a girl was expelled for writing notes to a person, not her brother or cousin, who came across the
road at night to retrieve the note hidden under a geranium in the tall marble urns that graced the academy landscape. The Sisters were rarely caught napping. In fact, when students entered the academy, their parents provided a list of persons to whom their daughters might write. Anyone not a close relative was frowned upon; one outside the family circle was taboo. Saint Mary’s was a place for serious study and not a “correspondence school.”
Letters incoming and outgoing were
subject to inspection, as was the custom in all select boarding schools of that day. An unopened letter from home that reached any girl was an infallible sign that she was a completely trusted student.
. Freshmen were required to write their weekly letter home on Sunday after Mass. It went into a copybook for the English teacher’s blue pencil. On Wednesday, the free day, this same letter, carefully revised, was copied for mailing. A brief consideration of this “operation letter-writing” will point up the lack of spontaneity those much copied letters must have suffered.
We mentioned Wednesday as a free day. Both schools had classes on Saturday, with the oasis of so-called leisure in mid-week. But Notre Dame chose Thursday, while Saint Mary’s free day was Wednesday. The collusion was obvious, and even openly admitted. There would be no chance of casual meetings, deviously arrived at, between students of the two schools if the administrations could prevent them. However, the age-
old “slip twixt the cup and the lip” flourished even then. Boys climbing up
the steep river bank to the old summerhouse on Saint Mary’s west campus achieved the impossible. Walks to near- | P by Haney’s farm with an understanding I Sister chaperoning a favored group of-T I ten culminated in the most “unexpected” 5^ meetings. There were always ways!	11
Though now-famous Saint Mary’s-Notre J Dame romances were not in flower fifty ■ years ago, there were times when love ■ found a way.	I
In earlier days, Saint Mary’s was I known as “the Academy,” Notre Dame I as “Father Sorin’s College.” The at-mospheric pressures of changing social amenities, and the strong pull of ac-' quaintances among “non-relatives,” gradually had their- effect. The dusty road that separated the two campuses, with the old stile in the Notre Dame
fence taking the place of a gate for pedestrians, was replaced by a paved highway soon to be a north and south arterial known as Dixieway 31. Saint ' Mary’s College came into its own, as r T Notre Dame University began its bril- ' liant expansion.	£ B
After World War I the whole world j was changing. So were the policies of ] these two schools which were, through , the years, gradually to take on many y aspects of a co-educational program,	{|
with many of the benefits but none of	j
the difficulties of such an actual arrange-ment.	I
The first breach in the social wall j1 came in 1919. This was the first appear- i ance of Saint Mary’s girls at a Notre Dame football game. However, only the^flk’ Saint Mary’s girls who had relatives IL' coming to South Bend for the game; I could attend it. On November 15, 1919, I not only did Notre Dame beat the Michi- ; j I gan Aggies 13-0, but a new tradition in? i I Saint Mary’s-Notre Dame relations was/” born—the famous white hankie section? 11 of Saint Mary’s.	j ■
Also in 1919, the administrations- if f I somewhat changed the restrictions at both schools. They permitted the Notre.-fl-’ Dame Glee Club to give concerts acrossJI^O,iB; the Dixie. After the concerts, the Saint A Mary’s girls held dances in St. Angela’s * hall for the membei-s of the Glee Club. ■
(Continued on page 31)	!■
18
The Scholastic
You know it’s a funny thing the way guys and gals are about each other.
I mean, like in the way they talk about each other for public consumption.
Come with me into a typical dormitory bull session, where maybe five of the handsome khaki-and-T-shirt—(from Gilbert’s, where else?)— clad gents are lounging on desks or chairs or sprawled on the beds, and listen quietly for a moment while they divest themselves of erudite opinions on everything from Malenkov to Mantle.
Then suppose that a lull falls on the conversation, and maybe an announcer becomes audible with an announcement concerning the belles of St. Mary’s.
“St. Mary’s girls!” A sneering voice poses the question.
Then, “Gad, what an out-of-it crowd!” “Please, I just et.”
“Man, what a motley crew they are.” Interesting opinions, wot? But don’t run away mad, please m’am, and folks. Remember this is all for the public and tradition and all that sort of thing. Let’s mosey around and talk to some of the troops individually and see how this holds up on a singular basis.
The first interviewee is a curley-headed blond with a sort of dazed look in his eyes.
“I think they’re a great crowd,” he babbles, “I really do. Oh, a few in every
the voice of the male
by BILL GRIFFETH
crowd, you know, but . . .” (Background information reveals that he presently goes steady with one of said subjects, so we swallow a few grains of NaCl and turn to his roomie, an engineer).
Says the slide-rule mind:
“For a casual date, okay, fine. But to go with—unnh-uh.” As we leave the first blond is making a joking remark about our future engineer having gotten the old heave-ho from one of our young ladies, so we abandon this room of prejudice and stop a stocky, crew-cut dynamo in “young-executive” flannels.
“I’m not too fond of ’em. I think they take advantage of their situation, their monopoly. Say a guy takes a girl out; he has a great time with her, she has a great time, too—but she still makes him sweat to get another date . . . What? Oh, about three or four dates over the last couple of years.”
He barrels off, and we question a meandering citizen from Dakota.
“Take advantage? You bet they do. Can’t blame ’em—they can afford to be choosy, and they are. But it is kind of hard to make a big hit with a girl at the Center or a show.”
We fall in step with a serious-looking, “I-am-intelligent” type guy and pose our question to him. He whips off the old horn-rims and peers at us intently before answering.
“Bad opinions? Preposterous. They’re based on ignorance and/or subscription to majority opinion.”
A freshman stops grinding long enough to back this up when we drop in on his hall.
“No dates with them myself, but the general opinion does seem to be that they’re pretty ‘scaggy’. Don’t think anybody has anything real to base it on though; most guys haven’t dated them— those that have, liked them okay.” We bow politely towards the wall with the life-sized picture of the gal-he-left-be-
hind, and betake ourselves to an upperupper class hall, where a bleaiy-eyed veteran of much elbow-bending opines:
“Well, I must admit that my first impression was that they gave scholarships to girls Nature forgot, but since that time I have noted much evidence to the contrary, and in my old age hold only the highest opinions.”
On leaving we ran into a lanky Texan . holding up a lamp-post, and in his sweet 1’il ole drawl he “reckons it’s something like an inter-city rivalry, where you judge the whole passel by an individual you once met.”
A couple of “Me-Tarzan” joe-athletes allow in passing that our girls are “pretty classy, but kind of stuck on themselves,” so we lasso a campus VIP and ask him about this (“. . . in 25 words oi' less”).
He replies, with dramatic gestures: “I like a lot of girls over there. The girls can, and should be, reserved. . . . They are on a bit higher level of maturity probably than the high school girls most guys go with back home, which may work against them.”
Time runs out on us now though, so we pay our last call to a spacious-single with four windows, and the hermit who unbars the door removes his ear-plugs long enough to summarize for us, we think, the whole works:
“The guys who complain about the girls are the guys who beef about the food, the beds, the roomie’s taste in shirts, ad infinitum. All in all, they’re pretty much all right. In fact, they are dam nice”!
So take heart, gals from across the way; really, we love y’all; guys are just funny that way.
April 27, 1956
19
At a Qlance
STATE

AVON
Gaby (Friday and Saturday); MGM; starring Leslie Caron and John Kerr. The movie is scheduled to be released today, so if the Avon can get it on the screen, you’re to be among the first “critics” to view the film.
Cockleshell Heroes (Sunday on) ; starring Jose Ferrer and Trevor Howard. A good pix.
COLFAX
Meet Me in Las Vegas (Friday through Thursday). Lavish is the word that correctly describes this musical comedy. Dan Dailey is the male lead, but takes a back seat to the trained and talented hoofing of Cyd Charisse, who also proves she has a talent for creating effective humor. The two, one a rancher and one a ballerina, combine to raise havoc with the men under the green shades at the gambling tables of Las Vegas. F. Laine, Lena Horne, Deb Reynolds, F. Sinatra, and Elaine Stewart all appear on unbilled brief shots.
GRANADA
Man in the Gray Flannel Suit (all week). This xvill be one of the outstanding pictures of 1956. Starring Jennifer Jones and Gregory Peck, two experienced and finished performers, the film deals with the rising and typical young member of the bourgeoisie. The two hours and 32 minutes of celluloid is rather long, but completely entertaining and not the least boring. Life magazine trumpeted this movie in a recent review—endorsement unquestioned.
PALACE
The Creature Walks Among Us (through Wednesday) ~A-2. The third of the “Creature Series” gives the audience a better look at the Creature, with the purpose of evoking shrieks and glazed stares of fright. However successful this attempt may prove, U-I studios will keep the monster coming back for more box office licks, just as they capitalized on the “Kettle” and “Francis” series. As usual, there is a woman involved, looking unusually beautiful next to the monster, and she (the woman) is the cause of dissension among the scientists. In the end, the monster stalks into the Everglades, but don’t fret, he’ll be back.
Crashing Las Vegas (on same bill) is the latest Bowery Boys attempt to create mass hysteria. If this follows its catalogued predecessors, Leo Gorcey will effectively alter the King’s English in his pedantic manner, while Satch stumbles clumsily around making jokes and becoming enamoured with slinky fems.
RIVER PARK
Lady and the Tramp (Friday and Saturday). A touching Disney full-length cartoon feature about dogs. Southwest Passage is on the same bill.
I’ll Cry Tomorrow (Sunday through Wednesday) A-2. Starring Susan Hayward in a highly emotional role, the film has the service of a “shocker-type” story, stark reality, and human interest. The acting is tremendous as Lillian Roth’s autobiography appears on the screen as a moral for others to follow.
Love is a Many Splendored Thing (Thursday) B. The picture which was granted an Academy Award for the Best Song, the title song, is an excellent musical starring W. Holden and Jennifer Jones. Point of information: brilliance is synonymous with “splendour.” Just thought that tidbit would be interesting.
Three Coins in a Fountain (same bill) received the same award as above but a year earlier. A good double bill for musical enthusiasts.
A Lawless Street (through Saturday) B. Believe it or not, Randolph Scott used to make other than western pictures. But here he is again cast in the familiar role of sheriff in a western town. Everything, gunfights, saloons, women, all happen right on schedule ex- । cept, for the first time, Randy gets | nicked in the head with some varmit’s w lead and is incapacitated for a few scenes. No sweat here though, our hero doesn’t fail to grab the gal, galoots, and guns before the film ends.	,
Mystery of the Black Jungle. Les I Barker has finally managed to shed Tarzan’s leopard-skin sarong, but he just can’t seem to get out of the jungle. With ' an eye on rescuing a fetching “explore- J ress” Les bumps into some truth serum, wild natives, and a poor critic’s review. Don’t bother with this mediocrity.
Phenix City Story (Sunday through Tuesday) B. The men in black berets, sunglasses, and canvas chairs heralded this as “stark realism, and unbridled vice.” Ignoring these habitually pregnant and luring come-ons, we find they are not exaggerated this time. The good part of it (for the viewers at least) is J that this movie presents a true story of a recent happening in the aforemen-tioned place in Alabama. The movie hides nothing of the truth that was somewhat masked in newspaper headlines. The corruption and crime of this city has been filmed, on the spot. A “must” for adult citizens.
The Return of Jack Slade (same bill). The sequel to another movie, this stars a couple of nonentities, who manage to put this semi-historical western across quite favorably. It’s all about guns and ™ shooting.
—Reviews by Terry Plunkett
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM
Wednesday, May 2, 3:30 and 7:30, admission 25c. The Graduate school presents the third in its series of films, Pepe Le Moko, an inimitable portrayal of the Parisian underworld. It is the hard-hitting story of a gangster, exiled from the free loving and free-swinging city he has come to love, and deals with his ill-fated attempt to return to his home.
CENTER AMPHITHEATRE
Sunday, April 29, shows at 1:00, 3:00, 6:30 and 8:30. No admission charge. John Steinbeck’s great novel Of Mice And Men in an excellent translation to the screen, starring Burgess Meredith. Scholastic choice for best free movie of the year. No introduction is needed for this tragic story of two men whose love for one another brings about a sequence of events both beautiful and tragic to behold. A real western!
20
The Scholastic
brass,
by JIM O’BRIEN
grace, and assorted notes
HE ENTERTAINMENT WORLD is booming', but many of the seniors are 1 •aken up with a peculiar form of entertainment (depending upon one’s point of view) known as comprehensive examinations. This has variation in terms of thesis, senior project, etc. It is so allembracing that every other form of ac-। tivity seems to pale into insignificance. I But, gad! The opportunities which I are being wasted. Her regal highness, ' princess Grace, ex post facto queen of ^pcholastic reviews, gave her farewell appearance on the screen of the Grand Nada theater. Report from traveling informant: bad! But then, he wasn’t filled with the journalistico-romantic illusions which pervade the Farley office.
। Other and various divertments. The Chicago Symphony Brass Ensemble presented a program in the acoustically curious confines of Washington Hall, but the unsophisticated reviewer was not the ?25ess pleased because of these collateral effects.
There is something about the brass sound (as the bopsters say) which is emotionally irresistible. There is something about a small group (the ensemble was a quintet) which makes the whole program rather intimate, as though the audience could reach out and help turn । the pages. The combination of effects « was most pleasing, to end with a hideous LS^nticlimax.
g The whole affair (we trust) was an-I other triumph of modern low pressure g advertising. Of the (almost) 300 pres-i ent, almost one-half were faculty mem-| bers or relatives of the trombone player. 1 I would not venture to suggest that I musical interest is at such a low ebb that g not even 200 students could be drawn. I Perhaps most’were in bed early to be I sharp for those Saturday morning J classes. But carpe diem, you guys; A after all!
GERITY GOLF TOURNEY
Information concerning a campuswide golf tournament is available in the Golf Shop at the rear of the Rockne Memorial. The tournament will be match play in flights of ;	16, with first, second and consola-
I tion trophies offered for each flight. The tourney is sponsored by the James Gerity Foundation. Qualify, ^ing scores must be submitted in the Golf Shop before Monday, April 30.
Another roving reporter trundles recently in with report of St. Mary’s production of Antigone. The characters and rough approximation of the plot of the ancient Greek drama of Sophocles (to settle authoritatively the several arguments I have had. Now it’s in print!) are converted to modern dress, and an analogy with modern problems, by the brilliant French dramatist, whose name we can’t spell. Vei-y fine, saith the re-
porter, who has something of a reputation in critical circles.
Out of the far distant past comes a series of first hand reports on the concert band tour through the Southwest, leaving a trail of mutual good feeling due to the musical artistry of the band, and the famed “make-welcome” attitude of the southland.
“Southern hospitality sure is somethin’,” declared a sun-freckled band member. Southern fried chicken, sizzling barbecues and plenty of sun were constant highlights for the Fifing Irish during the concert band’s recent toui- of the Mississippi Valley and Gulf Coast.
“Musically speaking,” said Jack Gue-guen, vice-president of the band, “It was the most successful tour in the last several years.”
After the Arkansas State College concert in Jonesboro, Ark., the Jonesboro Evening Star reported, “. . . loud and prolonged ovations (showed) that the listeners were thrilled by the beautiful program presented by this splendidly trained band.”
Another, rated as a first in the band’s history, was the concert in Opelousas, la. The band played to a crowd of 1500 in a rodeo arena. “The acoustics weren’t
the best,” said Gueguen, “but the surroundings sure were different.”
A ■warm reception greeted them in Corpus Christi, Tex., where the band bus was escorted into town by a sound truck and police cars. The procession stopped at the City Hall and the band was honored with the key to the city. After- their performance, the musicians were treated to a Mexican dinner, complete with floor show.
At present, the band is oiling slides, valves, etc., for a lawn concert at St. Mary’s and the farewell performance for the graduates and their- guests during the early June weekend.
We are unfortunately less well supplied with information regarding the spring tour of the Glee Club, which headed off in the other direction, to bring a nostalgic note of college days into the heart of the East.
Added to the Glee Club’s traditionally rather formal concert, featuring more or less standard chorus repertoire and a few polyphonic efforts for Brubec fans, was a large “production number” whatever that means. This being a precis of college life at Notre Dame, student written. The Club doffed tails and donned the new and rah rah blazers, spiced the following skits liberally with humor on all levels, and such college favorite songs as are well calculated to stir the hearts of the many. Ending with the triple threat medley on the theme: God, Country, Notre Dame, featuring Divine Praises, This is My Country, and the Victory March, only the most stony-hearted could deny the club the highest accolade of showmanship.
A parting shot. Every year, the Scholastic editorial page features a declamation with regards to the grass, and why one ought not to walk on it. This year, this tradition vanishes with all the rest. Please address comments to Department of Internal Revenue, Washington, L.A.
STEIN PARTY
The Student Senate will present “A Stein Party—N.D. Style” next Friday night. May 11, in the Student Center Rathskeller from 8 to 11 p.m. Tickets will be sold on May 10 and 11 from 5 to 7 p.m. in the basement of the Student Center. Tickets, priced at $.50 per couple, will not be sold at the door. The Ed Pistey Combo will be featured at the party.
April 27, 1956
Showcase
by MORT KEILTY
The Smoke HUNG like a bluish-gray curtain over the ceaseless babble of voices. Glasses clinked. Over in the far corner to his right someone screamed with laughter. The laughter ceased as abruptly as it had started, melting back into the noise from which it had arisen. Everywhere he looked there was electrifying color—the orange dress of the creole woman at a front table, the blue suit of her dark escort. The bouncer, Slippers Brown, standing in the back of the hall, had on a red and white polo shirt, very little of which showed because his huge arms were folded against his chest. He was sweating, and when he lowered his arms a dark, large target of wetness was evident in the middle of his chest. All of this color moved in the smokey atmosphere like tiny tropical fish in an aquarium he had once seen.
“I am glad I work here,” the boy thought to himself as he moved back toward the bandstand.
He loved the noise and the color and the people of this place, and he had forsaken a job uptown for the chance to play at Ponce’s, this little tonk on the corner of Rampart and Canal. He was getting so he could really blow up a storm, and he wanted to play for the people he loved. Furthermore, this was Hazely’s band, and when you played for them you’d arrived.
He climbed back up on the gaudily tinseled bandstand and sat on the rickety chair which earlier he had disliked because of its unsteadiness. But now it had begun to feel comfortable, to fit him. He reached down and picked up the cornet. The polishing he’d given the old instrument the night before made it glisten with greenish-golden warmth. It felt natural and good in his hands. He whipped out a red handkerchief and started to polish the beloved object again.
The rest of the band moved back to their instruments now. Boogus to his drums, Willy to his clarinet, and Hazely to the pink upright piano. They had no music. They needed none. For they played straight from their souls and, despite the fact that none of them had ever taken a lesson, they blended well. And they blended well in appearance, too. All four were thick-lipped and frizzy-headed. Moreover, not one of them owned a suit and so they all wore
hot and cool
unmatched pants and the broad-lapelled coats common at the time.
The place quieted a little so they began to play. It was a real hot Dixieland number called “Soppin’ Wet.” The crowd chose not to chatter for a while and sat appreciating these four men.
You forgot about their unmatched outfits when they played. They were good!
They rode out the Dixieland, and the crowd began to rumble again, even after they started the Blues. He’d find out later that crowds were like that—hot for you one minute and cold the next. He was too busy right then to worry much about it. They were halfway through the number when Hazely yelled, “Take it, Kid!” That meant him.
He cracked right down on that first note and talked the Blues into his horn, soul-rending and tragic-beautiful. Boo-
by JOHN BELLAIRS
Although someone (I forget who) has told me that there are no reserved places in the dining hall, I have come to the almost positive conclusion that, for the past two semesters, I have been sitting across from the same two (sometimes three) people who are always engaged in the same conversation; either they have been sitting there all year and have kept their place by squatters’ rights, or they crouch behind the garbage cans every day, waiting to spring into position when I sit down. In any event, the conversation never
gus brushed behind him for effect, bu'^C|| otherwise it was him all by his lone- ^ some. He reached for the high notes and wailed into that battered cornet until he had them cheering. A young white girl, white with powder except for ' a crimson blotch of lipstick where her mouth should have been, screamed and ; threw up her arms with delight.	|
He was finished now, and he pulled^^ out his handkerchief and wiped hisW ■ sweat-streaked face. Then he stood for a moment longer, just letting the applause sweep over him. The band started playing again without him, letting him enjoy his success, and suddenly he was conscious of the fact that he was still standing and he sat down, embarrassed a,t his pleasure.	’
When they finished the tune he turned to Hazely and said, “Man, it’s hot ii-^ I here!” to cover up his pride.
Hazely nodded. He knew the kid was proud. He also knew the kid was good. f He was happy with his performance, but i he knew the boy wouldn’t be with him i long now. This was the way it was. A 1 kid came along, was a natural, blew hot in a second-rate tonk for a little bit, then, when he acquired a rep, was j snatched by the high-paying big bands. jJ A lot of good boys had played with himdp|| —Bechet, Oliver, and many others.^* They’d all moved up to something bigger.
The kid was still sweating. But he was still blowing cool even though it was 4:30 in the morning. He wanted to । please Hazely, even if it meant blowing his brains out. Music was his whole life ।
and he was in heaven playing with this strange, silent pianist. All he had to look forward to was the coal cart at nine, so he might just as well play till he lathered.	।
And sitting at the upright, Nat Hazely was thinking to himself, thinking how good this kid Louie Armstrong was and wondering how long it would be before he’d leave.
permanent residents
varies basically, and is likely to run A something like this:	'•
“Hey, Art, who was da broad I saw ya wid lasweekenl wen I was out wid Sally?”
“Yas, she’s a real dish, ain’she? Ya gotta meeter nextime.”
“Hey, wad tha prof givya for a mark onnat las test? Dawasa real rough one.”
“Aah, got a *%*ce% 65. WythaheP-didn’t he tell us about that co-ordinaie stuff?”
“Damiflknow; oughta mark onn^v curve, doncha think?”
“Boy, am I gonna be glad ta get outa
22
The Scholastic
OFFICIAL
Class Rings
University of Notre Dame
Manufactured exclusively by the L. G. Balfour Co.
the Authentic mark of a Notre Dame Alumnus
available only at the
Notre Dame Bookstore
dis dump; how many weeks left, Hah?’’ “Hell, yer gonna hafta work yer head off ta pass this year.”
“Aw, I got plennya time; Hey, ya goin’ downtown tanite?”
(enter cultured member of group).
“Hey, our prof sez we oughta read up on da Saddy R’vue a Littchur. ’Sall I c’n do ta keep up on tha cartoons outa tha Noo Yawker.”
“Hey I gotta run, old crome-dome throws a fit wen I come stompin’ in late.”
“Seeya. Comeon, finish up will ya, HEY, SUGAR DOWN HERE!”
This is usually embellished by more details about “da broads” and “Hank’s exam schedule,” all being done in a tone usually associated with tough guys in B movies; as a matter of fact, upon looking closely at one of these fellows, I noticed that his mouth was sewn shut, except for a small opening at each corner. That this same fellow was able to ask for sugar in a voice which set the chandelier swinging was always a source of wonderment to me.
I have spotted these boys in othei-spots on campus: They are always in front of me in the movies, except when they are behind me; they also walk about two blocks away from me on the Main Quad, or elsewhere, although I can hear them talking quite plainly. One of them seems to have the best line of jokes on campus, judging by the response.
I am working on a plan now to discover whether or not they are the ones who stand under my -window and talk at about 11:15 every night (this makes me think they are not freshmen as they would have used up their midnights long ago). I plan to hide next to the window, and when they start I will thrust my head out the window and shout, “Is that you?” If they answer “Yes” I will have proven my theory. They have been observed passing the window of a friend of mine, Edgar Liederkranz, at about 11:25 each evening, although Edgar lives in 311 Breen-Farley. It’s not that I want to -wreak vengeance on them; I’d just like to meet them for once and have a good talk. (Note: I can’t talk to them across the table without an introduction. Regulation 4.002.)
1LASWEEKEN: late Anglo-Indian-Scandinanvian, from Norwegian “lasve-ken” or Dutch “latsweekentenje”.
PUBLICATIONS BANQUET
The annual Publications Banquet will be held at 6:30 p.m. Thursday May 3 at Alby’s Restaurant. The banquet is open to the members of the SCHOLASTIC and Juggler staffs. The banquet for the Tech Review and Dome staffs will be May 10.
University of Notre Dame BLAZERS
• Lightweight Wool
• Custom Tailored
• Full Range of Sizes
Just the thing to wear at your Dances and Parties
Notre Dame Bookstore dH-Ut&-camfud
23
April 27, 1956
All the pleasure comes thru
£
Mi'
||m

Here’s the best in filtered smoking—Filter Tip Tareyton, the filter cigarette that gives you true tobacco taste and Activated Charcoal filtration. And Filter Tip Tareyton smokes milder, smokes smoother, draws easier. All the pleasure comes thru... the taste is great!
FILTER TIP
TAREYTON
PRODUCT OF

AMERICA’S LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES ©A. T. CO.
24
The Scholastic
J^Uk Scute
SCHEDULE TOUGHENS FOR DIAMOND SQUAD
I •Ohio and Michigan Next in Line for Klinemen; Bretting and Bujnowski Hurl Against Bobcats
I The Notre Dame baseball team hopes to go into high gear after their weekend split with Iowa, as they travel to Athens
i tomorrow to play Ohio University. At \ Iowa, the Irish lost 6-1 on Fridaj7 and ^came back Saturday to win 5-4.
j Tuesday down at Lafayette the Kline-; men ran into more tough luck as they ; dropped a 4-3 decision. The Irish put on a valiant late inning effort to almost *	tie the score but couldn’t get the vital
!	marker across in the ninth. Tom Buj-
! nowski absorbed the loss.
The Wednesday afternoon home game with Northwestern was called because of rain.
1 Ohio University is annually among the leaders of the Mid-American Association and has been in the District Four
play-offs three of the last four years. These play-offs precede the finals in the N C A A tournament.
Coach Kline of the Irish named sopho-I more Henry Bretting to start the first game with Tom Bujnowski on the mound Saturday. Bretting so far this season has two wins and no setbacks. Buj-1‘F^iowski has one loss. Backing up the | Starters will be John Hammet and Ron
Battery mates strength
Jebavy today and probably Charlie Sym-eon tomorrow.
Tom Jaeb will still be at third base for the Irish in place of Don Sniegow-ski who has been bothered with a bad arm.
The left field spot is still uncertain. There is a definite lack of speed in the outfield and the throwing is weak making the defense very sloppy. Bob Senecal might be the answer to this problem. Out for the team only a week and a half he pinch hit at Iowa and drove in the winning run. However, Bill Teschke, Joe Yeager, Joe Ahearn, and Joe Brennan have all been in left so far this season, and the spot is still open.
Against Michigan the Irish hope to get even for a five to two loss earlier this season. The Wolverines have a good pitching staff which carries the team, their hitting and fielding being just fair. Heading Coach Ray Fisher’s mound staff is Don Poloskey, a senior speedbailer and letter-man.
Earlier this season Poloskey defeated the Quantico Marines who have a very good club. So far in two games he has
DON POLOSKEY
of Wolverine attack.
struck out 17 men giving up only 11 base hits.
Another veteran firebailer is Bill Thurston who had a four and two record last year. He has exceptional control striking out 18 and walking only two in 17 innings so far this year. Both he and Poloskey are right handers.
Sophomore Dean Finkbeiner, a lefty from Detroit, will probably be the number three man on the staff although to date he has not had much experience. He has just recovered from a broken aim and it is somewhat doubtful if he will be ready for next Thursday.
With Gene Snider behind the plate the Wolverines are well set in the catching department. A capable receiver, the husky football center has shown increasing proficiency at bat. He is a junior letter-man.
Steve Boros, whose brilliant fielding and hitting attracted major league scouts from practically every club down south, has hit .448 in 27 times at bat, including four triples and a double. He is fast and has very quick hands.
The outfield is sparked by Bruce Fox who is second in team batting with a .375 percentage and Al Sigman who played tackle on the football team. In Michigan’s opening game against Central Michigan, Sigman clouted a homer.
Home Weekend Action Scheduled for Netmen
Coach Charlie Samson’s tennis team will attempt to extend a two match winning-streak as they meet two formidable opponents today and tomorrow on the Notre Dame courts.
This afternoon the Irish netmen will oppose Tennessee A. and I. in a match which will consist of only four singles and two doubles matches instead of the usual six singles and three doubles encounters. Coach Samson is hoping that his racquet men will show the same form that they have in winning six of nine matches so far this season. The match is scheduled for 3:30.
Tomorrow the Irish play host to a powerful Northwestern squad. Wildcat Coach Paul Bennett will invade the Irish courts with an experienced team paced by Keith Anderson and former Big Ten Singles Champion, Al Kuhn. Coach Samson rates the Wildcats as “a tough team” but he adds, “if the boys play up (Continued on page 28)
April 27, 1956
25
By unpopular request and insistence of the editor, TIME OUT has returned! It wasn’t really gone in the first place but the sports section has been suffering from lack of pages due to an abundance of advertisements, and I thought it advisable to devote such meager space as there was to more important things, like the Father Baldwin Fishing Tournament fish and other things like that. Along that line of reasoning I was preparing to devote these two columns to the Badin Hall Opens Jacks Tournament when our beloved leader came along and put up a stink. It was imperative, he said, that I desist from running only informative sports news and that I must come up with a sparkling, stimulating, critical analysis of the sports world that would revitalize the sports section, the Scholastic, the student body, and the world in general.
The Need For A Good Reliefer
This meant that I had to write an editorial. The reason for my having to write an editorial is hardly mystifying. The magazine has slipped lately and there is rumor that we won’t make it through the season. The fans have been giving us a rough time all year and last week we finally had to throw in the towel and let the Engineers call the signals for the cover play. They came up with something strange but it evidently got across in their own park and we broke even. But for the glory of the cause and to take the pressure off the shabby efforts of some of our other editorialists, I shall begin my commentary.
' At first I had intended to comment on the fact that almost half of the football team at .a nearby midwestern university in Milwaukee has fallen by the wayside, but then that would be cruel.
So this week I will turn my attention to hunting. Hunting is a very popular attraction among some circles and last week it found great favor here on campus; on the Freshman side of the campus, of course.
Now hunting has never had much of an appeal for me and I have no particular liking for hunters. To fortify oneself with a large gun and pockets full of dum-dum bullets and go foraging throughout the countryside terrifying small rabbits and squirrels seems anything but sporting. I don’t even think it would be sporting to terrify large rabbits and squirrels. But to get back to the issue at hand.
Freshmen vs. Raccoon
Last week the Scholastic ran a story describing a large raccoon hunt that occurred near Cavanaugh Hall. The raccoon wasn’t large, but the hunting party entailed 350 Freshmen. Now admittedly it is that time of year for the Freshmen and it is inevitable that they must at one time or another break loose from their cloisters and vent their wrath on someone or something.
But for 350 Freshmen to unite against one, harmless, minding his own business raccoon is carrying the idea a bit too far! Three hundred fifty strong they poured out of their cubicles armed with knives, clubs, and throwing-missiles, to unleash their vengeance on this poor defenseless little animal. I wouldn’t be surprised if the S.P.C.A. placed Notre Dame under interdict for this shameful conduct.
It’s a wonder the P. of D. didn’t nail them for climbing the University trees and chopping off the branches.
The warriors chased the raccoon to the lake, where it had the nerve to turn and bite one of their fearless number. They finally subdued it in a sportsmanlike manner by clubbing it with an oar. Such bravery!
Of course, I’ll leave it up to you to draw your own conclusions about this sort of athletic endeavor. (I think it’s a rotten shame and that all the Freshmen should be made to turn in their knives, but that isn’t being a judicious editorialist.)
But look for TIME OUT again next week, fans; it’ll be here. I may be gone but TIME OUT will be here. Yes, it will.
Congratulations, Margaret.—J. N.
Touring Cindermen Enter “ Drake Relays Tomorrow
Tomorrow afternoon, Notre Dame will enter another group of thinclads in the famous Drake Relays at Des Moines, Iowa. Some of the top teams that will compete in the university relays are . Kansas, Oklahoma A&M, Duke, Iowa,। Michigan State, Syracuse, Rice and Mis-^' souri.
Notre Dame’s distance medley quartet captured the only first place ribbon for the Irish in the wind-swept Ohio Relays at Columbus last Saturday afternoon. Besides the lone triumph, ND also notched two seconds and two third place finishes while battling against some of the country’s top track and 3 field athletes.	■	OT
The distance medley team consisted of^ Bill Keegan, quarter mile run, Dale Vandenburg for 880 yards, Dick Di Camillo "added a three-quarter mile jaunt and Bill Squires came home with his mile specialty as the Irish powered to their victory in the distance medley.
Big Byron Beams’ 53' 2" shot put heave, his best ever, dropped slightly less than a foot shy of giving the Purpie and Gold a second victory but still<M| took second place honors.	।
Bernie Allard slumped to only 6’2” in the high jump that netted third place. Tom Sanfacon successfully switched to I the hop, step and jump and landed less । than two feet behind the winner with	<
45’9” for second place. ND’s Jack Cote	’
finished fourth.	।
The 440-yard foursome of Frank Hall, Joe Foreman, Alex Pestrichella and Aubrey Lewis darted home a close third in their event. This same group, except^ for Keegan running in Pestrichella’s spot gained third in the 880-yard relay.
Highlight of the meet was Air Force man Thane Baker’s world record shattering :29.4 spring for 300-yard run.
Lemire, Mooney Score Wins in Calloway Golf
Bill Lemire’s gross 75 and Tom / Mooney’s 91-21-net 70 captured the firstly place prizes in the Calloway Golf Tour- w nament held last week on the Burke Golf course.	'
Lemire got some tough competition ’ from Wayne Vercellotti who posted a 76 and Jim Murphy who fired a 77 in win- j ning gross honors. Lemire won three golf balls for his victory.
Mooney also found himself in rough company as Fred Miller and Tony Popp both posted gross 71’s to tie for secorn. 1 place. Bill McNally and Pat Kiley tiecW^ I for third place with gross 72’s. Mooney'-- 'I picked up a trophy plus a set of head covers for his victory.
26
The Scholastic
Toledo Edges Irish 'A' To Cop Kegler Crown
Dillon Teams Dominate InterhaD Softball Hay; Detroit, Toledo, Rochester Score Club Wins
The Kampus Keglers wrapped up play last week with the end of regular league action and the running of the annual Campus Tournament.
x In the late Wednesday division, To-’^ledo edged the Delaware Valley Club to finish in first place. Jim McLaughlin of Delaware Valley copped the individual championship of the league with a 170
average.
Chicago, led by Nick Ranieri, took I the Wednesday night league title. Ranieri posted a 161 average to capture I individual league honors. The California Club swept past the Accountants to ^^place second to Chicago in the final ^standings.
In the early Thursday division, the :	Irish “A” team earned the title by
| edging the La Raza Club entry. Bill | DeBot of the Wisconsin Club was indi-| vidual league champion as he tallied a |	161 average.
1 The Met Club came from behind to B pass the Irish Air Society in the final K	week of play and thus gain the title
F -<Un the late Thursday league. Dick Torda ’ jjfcf the Knights of Columbus posted a final average of 173 to run away with the individual title of the league.
The first two teams in each league became eligible for the campus tournament. In the finals of the tournament. Toledo sneaked past the Irish “A” Club by only 19 pins in two games to gain the
Torda had
tire
campus crown. Dick
TOLEDO KEGLERS—CAMPUS CHAMPIONS
L. ro R. Thees, Torda, Francis, Fitzsimmons, Silk, Pilliod.
The Club and Hall Softball Leagues, comprising some 41 teams in all, are currently swinging into their second full week of action. The various contests are held south of the tennis courts, with the starting time of 4:30 p.m.
The variety of Dillon Hall teams are dominating play in Interhall softball play. In the Red League under the Interhall league caption, Dillon Red, Dillon White, Morrissey and Pangborn all presently hold single victories tying for first place. The Dillon Red squad managed by Marty Angelino pushed across the largest total of runs of the top teams with a 20-10 romp over Howard on opening day.
In the Gold circuit, only three games have been recorded to date. Dillon Black topped Dillon Gold 8-3 in one tilt, while Walsh under field general Bill Kelliher humbled Cavanaugh 18-1. Alumni and
highest average in the tournament, a torrid 224.
The Keglers officially closed their sea
son last week as they held their first annual banquet at the K. of C. Hall in South Bend. Rev. Tom Brennan was the guest speaker at the banquet which was highlighted by the presentation of awards to the best bowlers of the season.

Badin both drew blanks in a double forfeit in the other game.
Another Dillon squad, Dillon Green, seemed to be doing well at this early stage of the schedule. Dick Schiller’s Dillonites hold the league lead with a 10-3 victory over Cavanaugh and a forfeit win over- Howard. Vetville remains closely behind with a single win over Dillon Purple by a 10-4 count. This same Dillon Purple team had earlier -notched a forfeit victory to now give them an even 1-1 record.
Bob Early’s Howard squad was edged by Dillon Blue 15-14 in the only game officially played in the Blue League to date. Breen-Phillips also holds a victory under its belt with a forfeit win over Off-Campus. ■
High scoring ballgames highlighted the first week of play in the Club Softball League. Three teams have a grip on first place in the Red circuit with a victory apiece. Rochester edged St. Louis 8-7 behind Jerry Curran’s steady pitching. Pittsburgh tripped Geology 5-3, and the mighty Phy. Ed. team, bossed by Mike Kearns, clobbered Cincinnati 29-17. In another game, St. Louis bounced back to drop two-time loser Cincinnati 17-10.
In Blue League play also, three individual teams hold down first place with single wins each. On opening day, Detroit slid by New England 17-16, Toledo whipped the Italian Club 20-6, and Ray Lescher’s Press Club won by forfeit over American Chern.
Only one game has. been played in the Gold League, and that played to a 13-13 tie by La Raza and Buffalo, captained by Alberto Depreda and Art Connor respectively. Capitol District has notched a pair of wins by forfeit to lead the league.
Sailing Team Notches Second As Michigan Wins Invitational
The Notre Dame sailing team placed a close second in their own eight school Invitational Meet held last Sunday on Eagle Lake. The University of Michigan managed to squeak by the Irish 89 points to 83 for first place honors. Xavier also had a close call in winning third place by piling up 78 points to 73 for I.I.T. of Chicago, III.
The Irish were led by Ron Meissner and Bernie D’Almeida. Meissner won the class A division worth 39 points, while D’Almeida came in second in the class B division picking up another 33 points towards the Irish cause.
27
April 27, 1956
Banquets for your Clubs
Special Rates For Notre Dame Students ----- featuring -
Steaks Chicken Swiss Steak Spaghetti Call Early For Reservations
Albano
Restaurant 415 N. Michigan St.
Phone CE 3-0903
Why Not?
Drive a '56 Chrysler or Plymouth home this Summer! Save the cost of freight to your home town.
BUY NOW!
See Jack Moulder, '38
Moulder Motor
215 So. Lafayette, South Bend Chrysler—Plymouth—Imperial
DR. N. FIZDALE OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
28
Golfers Split Opener; Play Glenview Today
Notre Dame’s promising but inexperienced golfers toured the green turfs with standard bearer's from Purdue and Indiana in the first match of the season for the Irish on April 21 at Bloomington, Indiana. Purdue easily emerged victorious with a team score of 747 in the 36 hole medal play duel. The Irish turned in a 776 to Indiana’s 792.
In the dual matches, Purdue outclassed Notre Dame 29% to 6% and Indiana 27% to 8%. The Irish dumped the Hoosiers 20% to 15%. Only two seniors on the Notre Dame squad, Joe Mulflur, and Capt. Leo Matt, had ever engaged in intercollegiate competition before. Senior Leo Linbeck and sophomores Charlie Thurn, Lloyd Syron, Joe Grace, Tom Garside, and Joe Leslie all made their debuts at Bloomington.
Purdue’s Campbell Tough
A strong wind and fast greens added a few strokes to everyone’s totals. Without a doubt, Purdue’s junior ace Joe Campbell turned in the day’s best performance by shooting a 75 and a one under par 71 for a total of 146. “Campbell is one of the outstanding collegiate golfers in the United States and definitely the top man in the Midwest,” according to Notre Dame golf mentor, Father Holderith. Wayne Etherton of Purdue finished with 148, and his teammate, Tom Schafer from South Bend, registered a respectable 152.
Charlie Thurn, another South Bender, came through with the top Irish effort by shooting a 76-77 for a 153 score. Close behind him was Joe Grace’s 77-77 for a 154. Indiana’s most efficient swingers were Jack Rouhier from South Bend who shot a 150 and Johnson who made the rounds in 153.
Glenview Next
Today, the clubbers tangle with the fliers at the Glenview Naval Air Station at Glenview, Illinois. Notre Dame beat Glenview by 8 points last season. How good Glenview will do against us this year is uncertain because of their ever shifting personnel for better or for worse.
The Irish host Louisville and Western Illinois on Notre Dame’s links Monday. The local boys edged both of these teams last year. Western Illinois has taken six out of seven matches so far this season and promises to be rough indeed. Louisville brings a bunch of steady veterans to tackle the Irish. The Cardinals have almost theii- entire 1955 group back —losing the services of only two through graduation.
Burke, Demaret to Play Exhibition Here Moy 8
Jack Burke, Jr., recent winner of famed Masters Tourney, and Jimmy Demaret, one of the most colorful pro golfers of this generation, will appear at the University of Notre Dame for a golf exhibition on Tuesday afternoon, May 8.
The exhibition by Burke and Demaret, which is being sponsored by the Notre Dame Student Senate, will be played over the University’s 18-hole Burke Memorial course, beginning at 1 p.m. The public is invited and all the profits will go to the Babe Zaharias Cancer Fund.
Burke reached the peak of his 16-year golfing career three weeks ago when he came from far back on the final day of the Masters and recorded a 289 to snatch the crown away from amateur Ken Venturi in one of the most exciting finishes in Masters history. Jack had been runnerup in the 1952 Masters.
Demaret has been playing professional golf for almost 30 years and in that period has proven himself one of the finest and most exciting golfers of the era. Three times he has won the Masters tourney, a record equalled only by Sam Snead. Jimmy won the Masters crown in 1940, 1947, and 1950. In the 1948 National Open, he carded a 278, second lowest score in Open history, but lost out to Ben Hogan, who came in with a 276, the lowest Open score ever recorded.
Burke and Demaret, both from Houston, Texas, have long been close golfing associates. Both are now affiliated as club pros at the Concord Hotel, Kiame- J sha Lake, N. Y.	1 r
Net Men Play Here
(Continued from page 25) to their capabilities, we can take them.” Last Friday the Irish swept all six singles and two of three doubles matches to whip Marquette, 8-1, at Milwaukee, i Wis. The entire starting team of Harry | Smith, Chuck Vanoncini, Dean Richards, Jim Rich, John Metz, and Bill O’Connor picked up victories in the sin- . j gles while the doubles teams of Smith-Vanoncini and Metz-Rich defeated their^ur ! Hilltopper rivals.	I
Last Saturday found the Irish taking ; their sixth win of the season against three defeats, as they downed Wisconsin, 7-2, at Madison, Wis. The meet was , much closer than the score indicates,
the Irish winning all but one of their points in long, hard three-set matches. Smith, Vanoncini, Rich, and Metz again led the Irish attack by winning their singles matches, and teaming to capture the doubles. O’Connor picked up the( other Irish victory. Smith leads the' netmen with seven victories in nine matches.
The Scholastic
* JACOBY’S BRIDGE
NORTH
Spades Hearts Diamonds Clubs
EAST
Spades	Q 8	7	6 4
Hearts	9 2
Diamonds 7 2
Clubs	10 7	6	4
A 2
K 10 7 4 3
A 10 5
A 5 3
WEST
Spades	K 9 5 3
Hearts	Q 6
Diamonds	J 9 8 4
Clubs	K 9 2
SOUTH
Spades	J 10
Hearts	A J 8 5
Diamonds K Q 6 3
Clubs Q J 8
Bidding:
South	East	North	West
1H	P	3D	P
4D	P	4H	P
P	P
Opening lead: 7 of diamonds.
This hand was played last Saturday in the first session of the Notre Dame championship tournament. The hand points up one fact: When you are playing- at a trump contract, you do not gain any tricks by trumping in the hand that has the most trumps. Today’s declarer could very easily have drawn trumps, then played out three rounds of diamonds, trumping the last diamond in the North hand. However, being well gi-ounded in the rudiments of the game, he was aware that this would gain him
nothing. He therefore looked for another
way to make one more trick than anybody else on the hand, and, thanks to his opponents’ carelessness, he found it.
South won the opening lead, then played two rounds of trumps, ending in his own hand. He now led the Queen of clubs,
and West won the King. It was here that A the defense slipped. West returned a low spade, South’s ten forced East’s Queen, and the Ace won in dummy. |H South now cashed all his club tricks and III all his hearts. On the last heart lead |g from the North hand, West was squeezed H between the King of spades and his three H of diamonds. If West pitched a dia-Ig mond, South would discard the Jack of {g spades, and eventually his low diamond ■ would be good. If West played the King || of spades, South’s Jack becomes good, \\ and declarer will discard a losing low ■V diamond. West probably should lead a |:^club back after winning the King, but i if he must give way to this predilection for spades, leading the spade King will prevent him from being squeezed at the
finish.
COLUMNISTS WANTED
Anyone interested in writing a humor column, or one similar to the ‘Back Page’ should submit three separate manuscripts before May 20 to the Scholastic, Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind.
Any suggestions concerning format changes will be considered.
Advantage, You
SpaldinG
SETS THE PACE IN SPORTS
You’ll make more fine shots with these rackets than any in their class.
The reason? Both the Spalding kro-bat® and the Spalding-made Wright & Ditson davis CUP® deliver the “feel” you must have for full power and better control.
Both come in every weight and grip size far belter tennis, match after match.
Use Spalding-made tennis balls. They’re official for more major tournaments than all other brands combined.
Joe Nabieht’s
Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
Our Specialty
"Chicken In the Rough” ^2 Golden Brown Fried Chicken
Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
91.15
FISH, STMIS, CHOPS
At Prices You Will Appreciate
For Coming Proms . . .
Louie’s Tuxedo Rental
222 Laurel
Special Student Rates
April 27, 1956
29
See how you can select a 3-pair Peters
WESBOROWARDROBE
for as little as $2695
As advertised in EMPIRE
•Slightly higher in Smith * West
for class and sports wear, style W 672, 8.95*
Now you can have the proper shoe for every occasion—a complete shoe wardrobe—for the price you’d expect to pay for a single pair! See the hundreds of Wesboro styles at your dealer’s. Also makers of fine City Club shoes... from $8.95 to $19.95.
for leisure time, style W 602.
•.95*
Repercussion
(Continued from page 6)
the scrupulous impartiality which he consistently displays. We respect him for his opinions and for the fact that he never attempts to impress his opinions on impressionable young minds.
Mi-. Slavick’s charge of widespread lack of impartiality is manifestly not supported by the facts. Indeed, the exact opposite is true. Admittedly, political discussion and activity on the college campus are touchy items. The situation is apt to be aggravated by uninformed and unfounded criticism of that legitimate political activity which does take place.
Robert E. O’Malley
245 Alumni	।
NROTC Group Establishes Naval Institute Organization
A campus chapter of the U. S. Naval Institute was recently organized by members of the Navy ROTC unit.
The objective of the Chapter is the advancement of professional, literary, and scientific knowledge of naval affairs.
Meetings are held twice monthly in^ the Drill Hall. They consist of talks ' given by guest lecturers and discussions of current topics in Proceedings, the magazine of the U. S. Naval Institute.

kJ
Excellent facilities for Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons, Meetings and Receptions
92 ROOMS ALL WITH BATHS
DELIGHTFUL DRINKS
DELICIOUS FOOD
GOLF PRIVILEGES LARGE PARKING AREA
BEAUTIFUL PATIO RADIO IN EVERY ROOM CIRCULATING ICE WATER
TERRACE DINING ROOM—Air Conditioned PRIVATE FUNCTION ROOMS—Air Conditioned
SORRY, NO PUBLIC SALE OF ROOMS FOR HOME FOOTBALL WEEKENDS PROMPT ATTENTION WILL BE GIVEN YOUR RESERVATION REQUEST



An Ideal Place to Stay When Visiting at Notre Dame
Open to the Public
Owned and Operated by University of Notre Dame
ARMAND E. LYSAK, Manager
30
The Scholastic

Study in Europe Two Semesters of Study and Travel Through 8 Countries . . . $1780
For those Ameiican students who aspire to a broader education through foreign study and travel, the Institute of European Studies dedicates its program.
Students live in Austrian homes and attend the English taught courses offered by the University of Vienna.
Price cosers: round trip ocean passage. Room and board in Vienna, and while travelling. Travel costs. Tuition and registration fees at the University of Vienna for two semesters. Travel through: Holland, Belgium. France. Italy. Germany, Spain, Morocco and Austria.
Sailing date: September 8, 1956. SS Zuider-kruis, from New York.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: June 15. 1956
For free brochure explaining this program, send this coupon to:
name
address
city
school
The Institute of European Studies 7325 South Maryland Avenue Chicago 19, Illinois
zone slate
For Your “Crew Cut”
kru*kut
HAIR TRAINER
WITH LANOLIN
If you have stubborn hair to comb, KRU-KUT will keep it in place. At Drug Stores and Barber Shops.
Problems in Past
(Continued from page 18)
St. Angela’s hall, also used for a gymnasium, had a sloping floor that caused the couples to dance on a diagonal.
The Palais Royale was the site for Notre Dame-Saint Mary’s dances in 1926. Of course, the boys couldn’t call on the girls at school and escort them to the dance. Chaperones accompanied the girls to South Bend in cabs. After the dance, the girls, under the watchful eye of their chaperones who had spent the evening in the balcony, would say good-bye to their dates and start back to school.
Even though these disciplines seem very strict to us today, both Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame were in the van of up-to-date schools, and the Sisters reluctance to give their girls more freedom was in keeping with the amenities of the time.
When Sister Madeleva became president of Saint Mary’s in 1934, the social relations improved steadily until they reached the status they have today. The student governments at both schools were also largely responsible for this improvement. Students at both schools have elected joint-social boards to study existing relations, and to improve them if possible. Their immediate aim is to get permission for Saint Mary’s girls to attend Notre Dame activities during the week, while their long range goal is to have informal activities on a small group basis. The Notre Dame Student Center has also helped to improve relations between the schools. It is quite an improvement dancing to the music of Ray Anthony in the Student Center over dancing on the sloped flooi- of St. Angela’s hall to the records of Paul Whiteman. The Student Center also serves as a common meeting place for the students of both schools.
Relations between Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame have steadily improved since the “relative” era because both schools have joined together to work out their problems. Relations will continue to improve if this co-operation is maintained in the future.
‘FROLIC’ TICKETS
Tickets for the Freshman Frolic May 4 may be purchased tonight and Saturday in Room 332 of Breen-Phillips Hall, it was announced by Dance Chairman George Hahn. The dance will be from 9 p. m. until 1 a. m. in the Student Center. Car permissions and 2 a.m. residence will be given and a special rate on summer tux will be available for the formal dance.
Opportunities in Operations Research . . . For Seniors and Graduate Students in ENGINEERING, PHYSICS, and MATHEMATICS . . .
Current staff vacancies at THE JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY Operations Research Office, in Washington, D. C., operating under contract with the Department of the Army, provide exceptional opportunities for graduating seniors and graduate students in the rapidly expanding and increasingly important career field of Operations Research.
These positions will appeal to student-scientists who prefer the challenge of complex operational problems of unusual scope and diversity to routine analysis and development work, and who desire a degree of research freedom not ordinarily found in industrial positions.
Our current research program includes problems in tactics, strategy, weapons systems, intelligence, communications, logistics, and militaryapplications of game theory. Studies in these areas are normally carried on by mixed teams of scientists, each of whom is expected to contribute as a specialist to a synthesized solution.
Among the many other attractions and advantages of working at ORO are:
... Selected opportunities for two-year overseas assignments in Germany or Japan.
. . . Liberal employee benefits and leave privileges.
. . . Rapid advancement for demonstrated capabilities.
... A competitive salary scale.
Your inquiries are invited. Write to:
Dr. Lincoln Hanson.
Research Personnel Officer, 7100 Connecticut Avenue Chevy Chase 15. Maryland.
Or arrange for an interview with our Representative who will visit the campus on
April 30
minus UBURY aid INKSlir
We Sell Truth New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
yours at
CE 3-OW
Italian food like you’ve never had before . . .
April 27, 1956
31

so distinctively Brooks Brothers OUR POPULAR "346" TROPICALS
Our good-looking “346” tropicals, featuring 8-oz. worsteds in Dacron* and wool or all wool, are available in attractive solid shades, pin stripes and brown or grey Glen-urquhart plaids. In addition, we have suits and Odd Jackets in a wide choice of lightweight Summer fabrics including cotton, Dacron and cotton and blends of rayon acetate and other fibers. Catalogue upon request.
*Du Pont’s fiber
ELGART DANCE
The Student Senate will Sponsor a dance in the Drill Hall, Saturday May 19, featuring the music of Les Elgart against the same background as the Senior Ball. Tickets for the dance will be on sale May 7, 8,	7
and 9 in the Student Center, price is $3.00 for couples only. ’
ESTABLISHED 1B1B
glen's furnishings, Hats «r ^hoes
74 E. MADISON ST. NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
Tutors Made Available For Science Students
Tutoring service is now available to all freshmen and sophomores in the College of Science, according to a joint announcement from Mr. Edward R. Quinn, head of the department of tes^ ing and guidance, Dean Lawrence H? Baldinger of the College of Science, and Paul Krapp, president of the Y.C.S.
Students desiring tutors may apply at the Dean’s office for necessary forms. All tutors and students must have permission of professors before extra classes may begin. The fee will be $1.50 an hour.
Freshmen and sophomores in the College of Commerce and the College oj Arts and Letters may apply for tutoring at the department of guidance in the Main Building. Engineering freshmen and sophomores can receive further- information at their Dean’s office between 3 and 4:30 p.m. on Mondays, and 1:30 and 3 p.m. on Tuesdays and Fridays.
At the request of the department of guidance, the Y.C.S. will set up a campuswide tutoring system to begin opera- * tion next fall. The system will coordinate all tutoring services.	rf h
Friendship Photos
Silk Finish Photos 2>/2x3% in. 20 photos from your picture, or 25 photos from your negative. Minimum order $1.00
WALLET PHOTOS, Box 470, Fostoria, Ohio
Sunny Italy Cafe
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 North Niles Avenue
Architecture Dept, to Stage European Tour in Summer
The department of architecture will sponsor a European Tour this summer from June 15 to August 6 under the direction of Mr. David L. Ardito.
The tour is designed to provide an analysis of the historical art and architecture, urban design and the more con-tempoi-ai-y trends in European countrie*>‘ The tour will cover Sweden, Denmark-Holland, Belgium, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, France and England. The total cost will be $1175, which includes meals, accommodations, air travel and transportation throughout Europe.
In addition to the historical excursion, portions of the tour will consist of visits with persons associated in many professional architectural associations, including the Royal Institute of Archi-

8

tecture in England, and the Danish and Swedish cooperative housing develo^\«< ment and utility societies.	I
Additional information may be ob- U tained by contacting Mr. Ardito.	H
32
The Scholastic
^Pre-Meds Will Hold Election; Spring Banquet to End Year
The Aesculapians will hold their annual elections for club officers on May 3. Members who wish to run for office must present a petition signed by 10% of the club members to the club secretary by this Sunday to have their name entered bon the list of nominees.
F The Aesculapians will close the year on May 10 with the annual spring banquet at the K. of C. Hall. The main speaker of the evening will be Dr. Donald Chalkley. Installation of next year’s officers wall take place at this time.
Dr. Harry M. Weber, head of the department of diagnostic roentgenology at the Mayo Clinic, spoke to the members of the Aesculapian Club April 25. Dr. ^Weber, who recently appeared on the television program “Medical Horizons” in connection with his field, talked about the value of pre-med courses and the requirements and opportunities for post graduate medical education. After the lecture, the floor was opened for ques. tions and discussion.
Convention
(Continued from page 15)
third with 302, and everyone else was fourth. The Democratic Mock Convention had chosen Adlai Stevenson to run against Ike in November. (In a personal telephone interview, he later accepted the nomination and hoped that it would be prophetic of the nomination next summer). As a mere formality and a symbol of closed ranks, the support for Stevenson was proclaimed unani-^nous.
Everyone was tired, worn out by four nights of convention excitement. The St. Mary’s contingent began to file out despite the usual protests and an announcement that they could stay until 11:00.
9:45. Nominations for Democratic Vice-Presidential candidate were opened. A Florida delegate asked that the nominating speeches be omitted and the veep be chosen by popular acclamation. His request was turned down.
* The roll call of states began; few of these nominations were lengthy or stentorian. Favorite sons were entered and seconded, some weren’t. On the first ballot the race became a two man affair —between Russell and John Kennedy of Massachusetts. Then Kennedy began to r eamroll. The Vice-Presidential nomi-r.ition was his with a comfortable margin of 820 to Russell’s 384.	'
11:08. The convention ended its four day tenure with a resolution of thanks all the people that made the convention possible. Needless to say, this final resolution was passed unanimously.
!----------------------------------------------------
t J. Paul Sheedy* Was An Udder Failure Till Wildroot Cream-Oil Cave Him Confidence
The boys were having a bull session in Sheedy’s room. "It’s no yoke,” beefed Sheedy. "Heifer-y girl I ask for a date turns me down flat.” Then Sheedy’s roommate spoke up: "There’s good moos tonight J. Paul. Try some of my Wildroot Cream-Oil on those cowlicks.” Sheedy did and now he’s the cream of the campus. Wildroot keeps his hair handsome and healthy looking the way Nature intended...neat but not greasy. Contains the heart of Lanolin, the very best part of Nature’s finest hair and scalp conditioner. Get Wildroot Cream-Oil, America’s largest selling hair tonic. In bottles or unbreakable tubes. Gives you confidence...you look your best. There’s no udder hair tonic like it. ’
* of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Cream-Oil gives you confidence
(•OOMS fMf Mill
•WlwtS ClTMtt
■mom loose 0AN3VUH
LANOLIN
for the very finest
STEAKS and CHOPS
EDDIE'S STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
D*RWTURB0W \OPTOMETRIST
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS --
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces?’ --- EYES EXAMINED ---
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends.
Only $4.00
Nationally Advertised
Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
April 27, 1956
33
Back Pay*
a Few good freedoms*
by Curt Matthews
all shot through
During the Mock Convention last week we all heard quite a bit about “the principles our nation was founded on.” No one quite got around to saying just what these principles were since the business at the time was more concerned with promising that they would be upheld. However, I think, this oversight can be forgiven since anyone who gets as far as the Gettysburg Address in grade school probably has a pretty good idea of just why we have this institution called the United States of America.
According to Mr. Lincoln’s battlefield speech the most fundamental principle to which our country is dedicated is that of freedom. This has been so ever since Thomas Jefferson, and a few other men, were able to draft, a solid and workable philosophy out of the hodge-podge of revolutionary and liberal thought of the late 1700’s.
Through the years this philosophy has been broadened, applied and sometimes even warped. Freedom has come to mean many things to many people. Jefferson and his colleagues started with four rather basic ones: Freedom of Press, Freedom of Worship, Freedom of Speech, and Freedom to Congregate.
But as history, that is, time, place, •and prudential judgment, has demanded, more freedoms have appeared: Freedom of Conscience, Freedom from Want, and Freedom from Fear. (Personally I can’t see just what is meant by these latter-•day freedoms since it seems to me that when conscience ceases to be free it is no longer conscience and that fear and want •are part, and rightly so, of man’s mature. Unless, of course they are meant to imply freedom from unjust fear and want.)
Along with the Gettysburg Address there’s something else we should have learned in grade school about freedom—
if not before. That is the meaning of the word. Freedom does not mean the right to do as you please. It means rather the right to act under the law. That is the right to do as you ought.
To understand freedom in this way, as the right to do as you ought, is essential to an understanding of what freedom means in the practical order, that is, to the everyday man in the everyday situation. Too often people are content to look upon freedom as an end in itself. Something for which you go to war, to preserve. Something that makes a good star-ting and ending point in a political speech.
But, freedom is not an end—it’s a means. The means by which man is able to realize his full physical, intellectual and spiritual potential. Freedom: the right to do. I think that is the reason Jefferson had such a solid and fundamental notion of freedom. He seemed to have such a good notion of what should be done—how one ought to act.
With this idea of freedom in mind we can also see the importance of education for those who wish to be free. If freedom is the right to do as you ought then he who knows best how he should act is most free. The better we understand the uses of speech the better we can exercise our freedom of speech. This goes for all freedoms.
Since Jefferson defined those few fundamental freedoms—of speech, of press, of congregation and of worship—they have slowly fallen into misuse. Due not only to the misunderstanding of what freedom really is but also to a misunderstanding of the function of speech, press, worship, and congregation.
Freedom of speech is not, though it sometimes seems as such, a license to display stupidity. It means you may speak as you ought according to who

you are. It means a politician should not be making statements more properly suitable to a longshoreman in a street fight. As a public figure the politician has a whole new set of standards determining his freedom of speech. Freedom: the right to do as you ought.
The violation of the freedom of the. press is more widespread and in a sensef more subtle, than almost any of the other violations of our fundamental freedoms. Freedom of press to many seems to mean the right to prostitute the press. It seems to mean we are justified in sending nine reporters to Monaco when only four covered the Normandy invasion.
It means we can run a front-page story on the social standing of a French -poodle named Oliver. It means we car* be more concerned with selling what we print than with responsibility and moral integrity. Freedom: the right to do as you ought.
We hear very little about our freedom to congregate. However, judging from its recent uses, it seems to give the right to congregate in order to throw bricks through plant windows. To force others through crowd psychology to act against their will. To mill and mingle on the . verge of mob violence. It seems also t(" give the right to meet behind closed doors and fix prices. Freedom: the right to do as you ought.
Freedom of worship probably makes the headlines more than any other freedom. Some seem to think that freedom of worship means you are free to protest the use of the word “God” in schools supported by dollars upon which is written “In God We Trust.” It means you can be a militant atheist—not just ai atheist. Freedom of worship mean'
freedom to actively discourage worship. Freedom: the right to do as you ought.-.
34
PRINTED A’ AVE MARIA PRC'S
Just look around campus. You’ll see that the “custom” details of this Arrow University shirt are definitely “college correct.” The box pleat, the soft-roll button-down collar, and the back button are basic requirements. In 9 solid colors, this is the oxford shirt for you. Wear it with comfortable Arrow Bermuda shorts. They’re poplin, and available in 6 colors. Shirts, $5.00. Tie, $2.50.Shorts, $5.00.
From any angle — it says "College man'
—first in fashion
SHIRTS • TIES • SLACKS
LOOK AT IT THIS WAY
Our Arrow University shirts offer all . the features the college man wants. What’s more, these smart-looking oxford shirts come in 8 solid colors. Also, 5 authentic tartans — same style — in a cool gingham fabric. To dress right for most any occasion, you’ll need a few of these fine Arrow shirts. $5.00 in oxford, $5.95 in gingham plaids.
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS
(Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend)
The more perfectly packed your cigarette, the more pleasure it gives... and Accu-Ray packs Chesterfield far more perfectly.
lips... mild yet deeply satisfying to the taste — Chesterfield alone is pleasure-packed by Accu-Ray.
t __
Firm and
_J pleasing to the
To the touch ... to the taste, an Accu-Ray Chesterfield satisfies the most... burns more evenly, smokes much smoother.
5s
Satisfy Yourself with a Milder, Better-Tasting smoke packed for more pleasure by exclusive Accu-Ray

tOB*CCOCQ.
KING SIZE & REGULAR

f
CHESTERFIELD