
· Paid Advertisement 

Tuesday, November 24 2~6 p.m . 
. EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR FROM THE MAIN CIRCLE TO MICHIANA REGIONAL. 
~-~ 

·HAVE A GREAT· THANKSGIVING BREAK ! ! ! 
FROM YOUR FRIENDS IN · 


tic 
Notre Dame·s Student Magazine November 17, 1987 

Departments 
4/Week In Distortion: What a Day for a Daydream by John Coyle 
5/On Other Campuses: Other Campuses are Sleeping, Drinking, and Eating by Doug Anderson 
22/Music: 1987's Best? by Tim Adams 
23/Final Word: Constitutional Questioning 
by Mike Yeager 
News 
18/A Toast t~ Hell by Carole Cooper 


Student Life 
6/No Place Like Home by Chris Dauer 

Cover 
8/Back in the Right Key by Kathleen McKernan 
12/Digging It by Marty Burns 
15/On Your Marks, Get Set .... by Terry Lynch 


Sports 
11/Sportsweek 
Scholutic ie published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation period ¦ at Notre Dame; IN -'6556 and printed at Tho Papan, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The 1ul>Kription rate ie $20.00/year and back issues are available $1.00/copy. The opinions ~dfa Scholutic are thia of the authors and editon and do not nece11arily repre,ent the opinion, oC the entire editorial board o,. Scholastic or tha Univenity of Notre Dame, its adminietration, faculty or atudent body. Bditoriala repreaent the opinion of a ~ority of the editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unaolicited material become the property of Scholutic. Scholastic ia r9pn!Nnted nationally by CASS Communications, Inc. Cl 1987 Scholutic magazine. All rishb l'IIMn'ed. Reproducuon in whole or part without permission is prohibited. 
November 19, 1987 
1 
Editorial 
Forums 


Flawed 
University President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy's Task Force forums last week were a great idea. A great idea that failed. Getting student input throughout the dorms is a crucial step before making major policy changes. But the forums would have been much more suc­cessful if the forums had been more of a truly open forum with an unbiased task force. As it is now, after the forums, it is difficult to believe that the administration does not have at least beginnings of a plan already formalized to alter the present alcohol policy; and it doesn't appear that that alteration will result in any loosening whatsoever. 
Simply from the wording of the questions the task force presented to students, it is clear that the force members approached the student forums with precon­ceived notions of what they wanted to find from the stu­dents. That fact is especially annoying considering the force's insistence to the contrary. Apparently, the appear­ance of asking for student opinion was desired more than the student opinion itself. 
Students now should be prepared for a policy with even tigher alcohol restrictions. Only this time, instead of simply "dropping a bomb" on the students, the administra­tion can say that it asked for student opinion and created a policy taking that opinion into consideration. While there is still time to effect any sort of change, students should voice their concerns; and, this time, the administration should pay more than lip service to suggestions and obser­vations. 
Scholastic 
Scholastic 
·/ 
Paid Advertisement 

Thursday, Nov. 19 

Catch one of the hottest bands to hit the Notre Dame campus... THE BOTTOM LINE!!! Doors open at 9 p.m., Showtime is 

$2 all you can eat! · 

HAPPY THANKSGIVING!! 
THEODORE'S will be closed Nau. 26-29 . 
Week in Distortion/John Coy le 
What A Day For A Daydream 
Finally, "The Secret Life of John Coyle" is revealed 


Now 'Mr. Excitement' veers left
... -,antasy, it gets the 

not have bananas for breakfast 
leaving Michael Jordan foolishly
best of me. when 

again this morning", say I with 
in his path. Artis Gilmore is the
__;d · I'm sailing." 

my best you-know-what eating
' 

only one left to beat. Coyle
. 1 Okay, I may 
grin. 

moves left, takes off from the
like Christopher 

My 10: IO class is normally the 
top of the key and I don't believe · 
.... ~ . Cross about as 

spot for the second daydream of 
it, a 720 degree Vanilla Thunder
much as a glass of warm prune 

the day. Having had it with the 
Slam. With a short wave to his
juice and it's true that I'm not 

theory of monopolistic competi­
adorning fans and a quick flick
exactly Dennis Conner when it 

tion, I throw on my leather 
of his hair, the rookie from out
comes to sailing. But I am big on 

jacket and scream out "I don't 
of nowhere races back on
fantasy, especially that of the 

want to go to school no more." 
defense."
daydreaming variety. 

The geek next to me, who only a 
Watching David Letterman
Daydreaming for me, starts 

minute ago was hard at work 
provides the inspiration for the
the moment I wake up in the 

picking his nose, is now sporting 
last dream of the day. "It's 'Late
morning. So if I'm caught up in 

a mohawk and bellows, "Can't 
Night with John Coyle,"'
one of those dreaded hygiene 

make me go, no way Daddio." 
kicks the shower is usually the 

. announces the emcee. I break
Obviously, I'm no longer in 
location for the first of my many 

into my traditional opening
103 O'Shag. I'm in the middle of 
daydreams. Suddenly, I'm no 

monologue. "I shot an elephant
a Stray Cats video and little old 
longer rub-a-dub-dubbing with 

in my pajamas this morning.
me is the lead singer. I jump on 
cockroaches for showermates in a 

What an elephant was doing in
top of my professor's desk, shake 
cold, fungus covered stall. No, 

my pajamas I'll never know."
my booty, swivel my hips and 
it's me and Brooke Shields shar­

And then "it was so hot today
jump into the first verse. 
ing a celestial waterfall on some 

that I saw a dog chasing a cat and 
"It's the stray trut. I'm a stray
isolated tropical island with wild 
they both were walking."

cat. It's a swinging casanova, cat 
birds flying overhead and a soft 

The studio is deafened by the
that's where I'm at," I sing as I 
mist filling the warm dawn air. 

laughter. "Stop, stop, my side is
storm out the door to "get my 
"Brookie (my little pet name 

splitting," "oh this guy kills me,"
dinner from a garbage can." 
for her)," I say as we frantically 

and "too funny, just too dairtn
It's early evening now and as I 
rub aloe leaves all over bodies, 

funny" the crowd manages to say
head to the "Rock" to play some 
purely, of course, for its medici­

when they finally catch their
basketball I know I am ripe for 
nal value of soothing sunburn 
breath.

another daydream. Fantasy 
pain, "What do you say we try to 

Well, the day has drawn to a
strikes when I make a quick steal 
build a dingy to see if we can get 

to prevent what seemingly was a 
close; consequently, the time for 
back to civilization?" 

sure basket and I start the long 
daydreaming is over. So I climb 
"I don't want to go back to 

into my bed, wrap myself up in
drive towards my own hoop. In 
the · real world 'my little 

my head I hear Marv Albert, the 
my comforter, fall asleep and all 
landshark,' then I'd have to share 

voice cif the New York Knicks, 
of a sudden I'm back in the mid­
you with all those other women. 

describing the action. 
dle of another dream, hosting a 
No, I never ever want to leave", 

"This young Coyle is some­
cocktail party with me and the 
replies my fellow Blue Lagoon 

thing else. With his trademark 
Mrs. at the Whitehouse. Who 
resident. 

lightning quick speed, he blows 
needs reality?¦ 
"Oh well, if you do stay, let's 

the doors off three defenders. 

Scholastic
4 
Other Campuses Are Sleeping, Drinking, and 


Eating 
What else is there? 
The entire student government of 
the University of Chicago has been ousted in wake ·of a political scandal. According to the College Press Service, all 50 of the university's student officers have either resigned on their own or been forced to leave. Within less than two weeks, the student body president has admitted_ to ballot-stuffing, the vice president has been forced to leave because he was not 
· enrolled as a student, and new elections have been ordered to replace all the officers. The ex­. president admitted to stuffing ballot boxes while serving as a poll watcher because she was retali­ating for what she considered election violations by the vice president. 

Brown University's "Weekend of 
Choice," a student government attempt to encourage students to find alternatives to drink­ing, seems to have been a success. However, not everyone agreed with the spirit of the weekend. The Association of Fraternity Presidents saluted the weekend with a moratorium on keg parties. 
_ Many fraternity fans were angry with the AFP for the moratorium. According to the Brown Daily Herald, these students --when asked if the "Week_end of Choice" had changed their drinking habits --slurred phrases like 'not at all' and 'I made my choice about ten months ago.' One Brown student commented that the week­end was really a choice between $9.90 Busch and $10.35 Budweiser. 

Shallow breathing seems to lead to 
better classroom results, according to a report by a West Virginia· researcher. The National On­Campus Report stated that the professor con­

-~ 
.i ~ 
ducted a two-year study of students' breathing 
rates in both normal class setting and before 
tests were administered. The results of the test 
indicate that the students who breathed less than 
normal received better grades. Their study 
hypothesized that shallow breathing causes more 
blood to flow to the brain and ears, increasing concentration and· hearing acuity. In addition, -. ·shallow breathing is a sign of relaxation. One 
professor commented, "Silly me. I always 
thought that the students that were breathing 
less in my class were asleep." 


Non-kosher food is being served to 
students at Brandeis University for the first time. The University, which was founded by Jews but is presently non-sectarian, decided to try to create an atmosphere that was more attractive to non-Jews. "The rationale behind the decision is that the additional foods will make non-Jews and non-observant Jews more comfortable, and encourage more students to come here," stated John Krasner, editor of the school's newspaper. The reaction of the student population, which is two-thirds Jewish, is mixed. Quotes Michael Raphaeli "Ideally Bran­deis should be comfortable for Jews and not uncomfortable for non-Jews. But right now it isn't comfortable for either." In a diplomatic move, several Notre Dame students have offered to send their dining-hall pork dinners to Bran­deis. 
EDITED BY DOUG ANDERSON 

November 19, 1987 






No lace 
Like Home 
BY CHRIS DAUER 


otre Dame was founded in 1842 and became coeducation-al in 1972. The possi­bility that the 
University was considering going coeducational had been made pub­lic and was a hotly debated topic nationally, as well as on the home campus; so when the final decision was announced no one was caught off-guard. Similarly, Howard Hall, founded in 1924, had long since been established as a male dorm. Without any significant notice, however, the University announced that Howard Hall would be converted to a women's dorm in the Fall, 1987. 
The period leading up to finals is a naturally trying time for everyone. In addition to the nor­mal anxieties, Howard residents were confronted with the informa­tion that come the fall their home was to be their home no longer. They were given no alternatives other than to find a new place to live, and quickly. Senior Eric Zagrocki summed up the general feelings of the Howard residents: "To begin with" he said, "every­one was just really really pissed ... and the timing couldn't have been worse·-exams were coming up, guys going to London 
were looking for housing ... it was just a mess." 
Surprisingly, there seems little ill will about the change left today. It helps that Howard is one of the smallest dorms on campus. The transition would not have been as smooth in a larger dorm. With a population of only 167 people, not only were there less people to get upset, it was easier to relocate that number to other places. 
It was easy to fill up that number with incoming freshmen girls. In fact, they were hardly needed; girls requesting transfers to Howard was in no way uncom­mon. The large number of singles in Howard made it attractive to many upperclass women especially those from P.E., P. W. and Lewis, dorms with few such rooms. Mary 
O'Neill, a senior who came to Howard for more than just a sin­gle, is happy with the switch. "You get to know a lot of people you wouldn't have otherwise-it's a nice situation. There's no tradi­tion here right now, but that's something tha.t's starting," accord­ing to O'Neill. 
Scholastic
6 


Beginning a tradition at Howard is something that will have to be done slowly, and those at Howard show no interest in artificially speeding things along. The election of section representa­tives, for example, took place early in the year, but hall officers were not elected until this past week. Said assitant rector Kate Sullivan, "We wanted to establish a foundation first, so people would feel comfortable with each other before we began to develop our personality." 
The RA's of Howard assumed much of the responsibility for establishing that tradition. The potential resident assistants applied for the spots in their own dorms, and were then interviewed for Howard. Sullivan said that these RA's had unique challenges at Howard: "It was definitely harder, because with people com­ing from all over, it was work to get to know everyone. So, everyone's done a lot of group social stuff to bring people together." Now that dorm presidents --Angela Ammond and Beth Healy --have been elected, they can begin to aid in that pro­cess as well. High on the list of priorities is to furthur delegate responsibility, by appointing com­missioners for the liturgy, social events, and other facets of dorm life. 
Howard, the women's dorm, has come together fairly well. They managed to put together a football team to compete in interhall, and while they did not win the championship, the mere fact that one was formed is to their credit. The recent formal was 
attended by only thirty five members of the dorm, but Sullivan points out that in terms of percen­tage, that number was compatible 
with Lyons, the dorm which co­sponsored the dance. Other fac­tors she pointed out for the rela­tively small turnout were the home football weekend, the fourth such weekend in a row, and the fact that the ticket price was high, even for a Notre Dame formal. 
Having to start from nothing is not a new idea to freshmen, so it's not surprising that freshmen seem to notice least any difference liv­ing in a previously male dorm. Melody Horne is a freshmen this year at Howard, and while aware of its history, she says she has not sensed anything radically different at Howard than any other girl's dorm. Horne said, "It seems nor­mal here to me-it's not strange at all ... maybe it's sort of awkward when alumni come to see their old 


:ooms, but that's the only thing; and they don't act too awkward." Sullivan said that the freshmen girls are in a "special position, and they're really psyched to be here for four years." 
As the alumni have adjusted, so too have the expelled male residents of Howard. O'Neill said that the only problem she notices now is that "guys are sometimes upset that their rooms are pink now." Stephen Polansky is a former Howard resident who now lives in St. Ed's. Polansky says that the biggest problem last year was lack of time: "Nothing would have been changed of course, but 
we could have made choices. . . 
this way, we were all in limbo." 
Nevertheless, Polansky is quite 
happy where he is now, saying 
"I'm doing great". 
Zagrocki is another h,aildling 

the change well, now living in 
Campus View. "It's nice over 
here;" he said, "there's more 
room, and it does prepare you for 
real-life ... paying the bills, cook­
ing your own meals, and so on. 
What you lose is the feeling of 
community that you get on campus 
--and Howard was one of the few 
dorms where everyone knew 
everyone else. A lot of guys 
wanted to give something back to 
the dorm-to be R.A.'s, for 
instance." Zagrocki was most 
upset over the lack of warning 
given. "At least Carroll was given 
a couple of years," he pointed out. 
"Now, it's really just best ~ot to 
think about it." 
A current resident, Junior Carole Cooper, agrees that it's pointless to dwell on the past. "Any tension there was is gone now," she said, "as well as the idea that everyone living Jn Howard is a misfit or something. I felt bad for the guys last year --I wouldn't have liked it either. . . but I moved because I wanted a change --Howard's a beautiful dorm, and the South Quad is a lot prettier this year because of aff the construction on No~th." Cooper, who formerly lived in P.E., pointed out that people changing halls is not uncommon, and the switch to Howard is similarly an unspectacular one. 
Most of the current women's dorms had to undergo the same changes that Howard is undergo­ing this year. Perhaps a Ii ttle more sensitivity on the administration's part would have made the initial change easier. Nevertheless, the Howard of today appears to be ready to face the next 62 years with its own sense of tradition. ¦ 
November 19, 1987 



·, 

RIGHT KEY 
After sitting out all of last year, Proposition 48 victim Keith Robinson gets in tune for the college game 
BY KATHLEEN MCKERNAN bigwigs without a 660-740 com­player and someone tells you that 
bined score on the SAT. Robinson you can't practice with your coach 
hen Keith Robin-went for a full season without or teacher for a year," Irish head 
son drapes his 6-9 playing or practicing with the coach Digger Phelps says. "When
W

frame across the basketball team, so he may be a you pick it up again, you're going 
institution-style touch, so to speak, out of tune. to be a bit flat." ­bed in his Dilllon Hall home, he's 
"It's like if you're a violin But while Robinson was losingsurrounded by a few friends who hang around --literally --his room. One of his posters features rapper LL Cool J, who also makes a "big and der• contribution to the musical world Robinson has created. "I like all kinds of music, quiet music, too," Robinson says. Vanity is also there for more, um, aesthetic reasons. ("She can't sing though," he adds.) But at the very foot, the Sultans of Slam poster is a reminder of the type of music the former Mr. Basketball of New York wants to make on the basket­ball court of the JACC, after a year devoted exclusively to academic pursuits. 
Robinson fell victim to Propos­tion 48 (now bylaw 5-1 (j)) and his spectacular high school numbers of 30 points and 22 rebounds per game meant nothing to NCAA 
Robinson, and teammates such as 
Kevin. Ellery and Tony Jackson [shown here flanking him], will have to fill Donald Royal's shoes under the Irish boards. 


November 19, 1987 g 
--~~--------------~------­
~ J ~ '> ~ , I -! "' / ~ 1. -• °':, • 

a bit of his courtly harmony, he was honing his classroom skills. Unfortunately, though, while Robinson worked (he is now debating whether to be a history or sociology major), roommate Tony Jackson lost his eligibility for this semester. Even so, Robin­son claims his own troubles are behind him, and that the limited study time caused by basketball has not affected him academically. But for the first time in his life, he is having to play a little bit of catch up on the practice floor. 
"He is behind defensively with the terminology and with the 

concepts," Phelps says. "I see it because [fellow sophomores] Tony Jackson and [Scott] Paddock have improved so inuch in the last year. I've seen how far they have come, and I can tell that Keith needs time, too." 
For Robinson, the pressure is definitely on, and Phelps is straightforward about what he wants out of his newest big man. "Keith Robinson has got to become a better rebounder," he says. "With the loss of [Donald] Royal up front, we'll need him inside." Royal, last year's co­captain, averaged seven rebounds and 15.8 rebounds per game to pace the Irish. Sunday in the Blue-Gold game Robinson dropped in eight points and grabbed eight boards in the annual 20-minute exhibition. 
"Coach wants me to do more rebounding," says Robinson, "and what I'm really lacking in is my defense. It's those little things on defense that I need to really work 

, on." Phelps may disagree about how "little" those defensive techniques are. Robinson is definitely a major project of Phelps', and it's almost as if Phelps is trying to make up for lost time. There's no question Robinson will get the attention he missed last year and more. "He's got a lot of talent, but he hasn't put it together yet," Phelps says. "For example, in the Yugoslavia tour [over the summer] he played well in spurts but then he'd get in foul trouble or you wouldn't even know he was out there on the court. That goes back to intensity and concentration." Robinson didn't · have much need for concentration in his high school days, but his potential is enough to motivate any coach, with or without a carnation in his lapel, to put in a little extra. A four-year letterman in basketball at Buffalo's Grover Cleveland High School, Robinson did not have to concentrate. In high school Robinson did everything just about effortlessly. In addition to his 30 points and 22 boards as a senior, he averaged five assists. 
four blocked shots and two steals. And, as even Phelps admits, "He's a solid shooter for a player his size." 
Phelps is not the only one watching Robinson. The Sporting News ranked him number-two among Proposition 48 casualties with the best chance to contribute immediately to his team's drive for an NCAA bid. And the likelihood of his matching Royal's numbers is the standard for weighing Irish hopes. 

"When I was in high school they compared me to James Worthy," Robinson says. "He's one of my favorites now. I like his style, the penetrating and driving to the basket." The current Laker standout and former North Caro­lina great has his place on Robinson's wall along with the other NBA leapers, as well as those musicians who play in the record­ing studio rather than on the hard­wood. "I like music," Robinson says as his boyish face lights up. Then his eyes sparkle with amuse­ment and he adds dryly, "I make a point of listening to a little every day." . 

With the artists staring him in the face every morning, he'd find it hard not to avoid music. And with Robinson's potential staring Phelps and the rest of the Irish faithful in the face, it's hard to. ignore him as he strives to find the proper chord between the Irish game plan and academia. Ill! 

10 Scholastic 


ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 
AMY WHITE



orts"W'eek 
White, a freshman from Mishawaka, 
·l:r::::;:::i.:::::1::1:~::::~ 
appeared in all 11 matches over the 
,, 
,._;,: 
weekend for the vol­
. . . e .. 
leyball team, setting 
for 10 of them. She 
averaged 9.27 assists 
a1:2s:El.··· 
ihci••·•:tli~•••·E. 
per game over the weekend, and hit
J/;l:,tiiieci 
.474 in the last two matches. Normally
~()()~ta.rd••• 

.BECKY a right side hitter, White switched posi­tions and accumulated 102 assists in the three match period. 
WOMEN'S cRoss·•couNTRY' 

.•·•·•·.•·t11i vJ6ri1e11·•.l:>1~c:~~•14{~ iriJfre~c~· /J:>.is~ri<:t•IY ¥\!.et la.~t.1ye~}\!11cl i11;~lpplllirii;' .. ·····.:t1r;··a~)iievi~e;·•. t)i~ir ~qal 6f}a.fiJ?..1?\fini~?. 
·••.·:-inythex.regionals, .ffhei•Irish improye<iifroi:n ,::-,s•or.•· ·.1~Lrear•s·•••2()th-plac~ rihiiih;}utiiplrig:frdril, Ju·w1+ •··~~2,poi*ts .t§~.1;2:i)·•···• t :••· Jn:1 iir,ti•••· 
. , ..THERESA>RICE set i Not ame 
f~~grd 1~tl·•····t~~.. •··5·;6~0,-ni~t~r f~ce• ~ithI~;ii:.~·f 
~11is?·•·· 711dylim~.~1••··fr?m·•.. llefi98~frjla.e:e··~if 
eto.;••·· . isll;ofa.•·.•yea.r ag<>••totfini~lj/25th> 'l'F}RRX' last••: IH!3Ef ~'I'I~····t~rneti11 if i:1¥~~.tc~.e~ts~\m~ ?.fIid ~~riior•••(:P;A:UL······ ·J~:f3J····••·mark/ng· ·• ~?eiS.\!f.0Il4····•~tr~fglt~;;!lle.~t· iip~Jcis''mat~fr f<>I' tha.t··. slle .·.. h~.. Il<>tihed ·•.a car~er. ~.es.t:·•·~espite QAJf!\Xi ·. ··. IErof'T . m1s~111g<.··s\!yen ~eek~···r<>f<••·t.?e ~~as~HY 
TEAM OF THE WEEK 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 





Markezlch O'Connor 
Paced by top three runneni in DAN GARRETT, RON MARKEZICH and MIKE O'CONNOR, the men's cross country team ran to a third-place finish in the District IV Meet last Saturday in Bowling Green, OH, and earned a berth in the NCAA Championships next Monday in Charlottesville, YA. 
The Irish have not been to the NCAAs since 1984, when they finished 19th in the 22-team field. The last time the team won the NCAA crown was in 1957. Last Saturday the Irish finished behind Indiana and Wisconsin. Garrett finished fifth overall (30:19), Marke11ich finished eighth (30:29) and O'Connor came in 20th (31:06). Freshman PAT KEARNS (31:42) finished 39th. 
Kibelstis •••·•and •·•·senior·• JULIA.MERKEL 

respectively; 
. VOLLE)'BALL 

·. ·•···•···· ..... •···· .. TM <Iri~lli ·•. (2?~) fi~isll!'d . : tlleir.J)h<>ine .. '·• seascin with three wins ov~r ¥arqu~ttt(st 
.OJ;\;'a.lpar~i~<>··· •. (S;"l) d~ndu .~ic~jgari.:)$tat~i 
•·.(3.Ll): . .'I'hey·••Willplayithis· ~eekena•·;~itlie· North Star.·conference.Touri:uunen.t: ini:CliiB 
f\;,iig,··•····H6piI1e;i tq:<•re~e~t·•:~ f~hr~~Jb.t 
A!:ichafopiop.•.· Notr~>D.a.me•h'.~)a 5:.0 recqrd•. iii .the North ··stKF confef~ilce t1:i1;••~·e\tidri'.i·.·••· .:··•·· 
••:·1~11ibl'·····~*NE!'l't\~EN~~'rffi! ~Mif~g!~• 

.{~lkills P~r•·game. in the}as~ sbc:•.111~tcheii~ while •.• MARY KAY WALLER recorded i·:t.6 ·. ,,·······seif+i~~; .i.t~J' iniJhe·•}liist }~ve~'S~it<:he~) 
:\ii: C:.8kL~f~.•••'jJAGNEJl\hacl w~M~~~R:ii~K:1.~ kill.s •....•. ~gainst>Valgar~iso, ·• ~l<>11g r,'i~? tiglit ... • ag~n~t;~ichigari·• State·· and se..,.in; ag;inst
Marqtl.ette... . .............. 
,.,'."''' '''.' _,.,,. 



<i L·tbMiriir,:iiv RRX.LYN.CHi 

two at you, pointing out last year's Irish upsets over North Carolina, Duke and DePaul. Then he would have reminded you that he's the coach (which you would agree with since he's the one with the . 700 winning percentage), and then he'd finish you off with his sarcastic trademark "Thanks." 
But this is a different Digger these days. And you really want to know what's going on. Now that there's all that snow on the roof, has he grown staid? Has all that classical music he gets piped into his office softened him up? Has Digger, gasp, mellowed with age? 
Naaaah. More likely Phelps' easy-going manner these days can be attributed to the pleasant memory he still holds of last year's 24-8 campaign, one in which he performed one of his better coach­ing feats and silenced many of the critics who figured his Irish for dead after early losses to Western Kentucky and Indiana. And this . year's 1987-88 version, which opens its season tonight in an exhi­bition at the ACC against Yugosla­



•
IDg 
It 

Even with Indiana, Louisville and DePaul await­
ing his young 1987-88 squad, Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps feels star guard David Rivers will lead the Irish to another NCAA tourney 
BY MARTY BURNS 


omething is wrong with the picture. It's a Friday afternoon under the dome of the JACC, and 
as the sound of Michael Jackson's "I'm Bad" belts out through the air, the Notre Dame basketball team shuffles through its practice warm ups. Irish head coach Digger Phelps rests calmly, much too calmly, on the back of a chair, arms folded, looking up into the stands, looking much too content. 
He shoots no icy stares, spews no invective, makes no cutting retorts. And this is strange, con­sidering you just asked the 46­year-old Phelps how his 1987-88 Irish team could possibly hope to live through its murderers' row of December opponents --Indiana (Dec. 1), Louisville (Dec. 5) and DePaul (Dec. 12), all on the road. 
There was a day long ago, way back, about two years ago, when Phelps would have bristled a bit at your suggestion. He may have snapped off a harsh comment or 

12 Scholastic 


tournament. 
"I look at last year when we lost to Western Kentucky and Indiana, and we're 0-2 and everybody says, 'It's going to be a long winter.' 
Phelps hopes Rivers can fly high again this year. If he does, the Irish will soar into their fourth straight NCAA tournament. 
Well, you all talk about it and all we do is show up in March when it counts." 
Phelps may very well get the chance to serve critics some crow once again this season. Thanks to senior guard David Rivers and a schedule which features Prairie View A&M, Hardin-Simmons and a dozen other vastly inferior opponents, all at home, Notre Dame should manage its fifth con­secutive 20-win season and its fourth straight NCAA tournament bid. 
But with the graduation of big forward Donald Royal and guard Scott Hicks, who combined to average 26 points and 11 rebounds per game last year, the Irish may not match last year's Final 16 showing in the tournament. After the splendid Rivers, Phelps has only two veteran regulars, 6-9 center Gary Voce and 6-6 forward Mark Stevenson. Voce averaged over four points and six rebounds per game, while the underrated Stevenson chipped in with 10.6 ppg. and four rebounds. Add to this the first-semester loss of 6-6 sophomore Tony Jackson to academic probation, and you have a team notably different than the one which gave some of the NCAA's best such a hard time last year. 
"This is a very young team, especially defensively," Phelps noted. "We have to be a team that gets better through game experi­ence, like last year's team. If we can win some games, and keep improving, there's no doubt in my mind that come March we'll be a good basketball team. So I'm not 
worried about what we do in December, just where we'll be in March." 
November 19, 1987 


How far the Irish can ride Rivers come March will be deter­mined by the play of three newco­mers, each of whom must contri­bute in some significant way immediately. Led by 6-9, 200­pound Keith Robinson, a sopho­more who sat out all of '86-87 as a Proposition 48 casualty (see story on page 8), the trio also consists of freshmen Tim Singleton (a 6-1 guard from New Orleans) and Kevin Ellery (a 6-5 forward and former Mr. Kentucky). Robinson, as the only real big man besides Voce, must emerge as a dominant rebounding force or else opponents will feast away inside. 
"Robinson will play a key role if he becomes a better rebounder and leams the defensive con­cepts," said Phelps. "Ellery and Singleton, · meanwhile, are both solid players who will get playing time. Ellery will help us where we need it on the front line or at second guard, and Singleton will allow Rivers to play off at the second guard when we want him there." 
For now, at least, it appears 
that Robinson and Singleton will start along with Rivers, Voce and Stevenson. Junior forward Sean Connor (5.9 ppg.) will start at for­ward when Phelps needs someone who can shoot over a zone, freeing Stevenson for the back court. Sophomore Scott Paddock, meanwhile, and sophomore guards Jamere Jackson and Joe Frederick, will chip in off the bench. Junior · guard Michael Smith also · could contribute, once the badly twisted ankle which has sidelined him indefinitely heals well enough to 
allow him to play. 

Yet while Phelps questions the 
development of his young players 
defensively, stating that he's "not 
sold completely on our defense 
and we need to control teams defensively," he harbors no such doubts about the leadership of his irrepressible floor leader, Rivers. Phelps knows that no matter how 
. outmatched his team could be, Rivers provides him with one weapon his opponent cannot match. 


"David did it all for us last sea­son and, looking at that first month of the year, he's going to have to do it again this year," Phelps says of his senior play­maker, who averaged 15.7 ppg, and dished out 163 assists last year despite playing at less than full strength. "He's going to have to score more and to take more shots. Nothing against anybody else on the team, but if he's that good, that creative, then we'll use him to open things up;" 
But if fans are hoping to see Phelps pull the reins completely off Rivers and Co., they shouldn't get too carried away. While Sin­gleton and Stevenson probably wouldn't mind Rivers turning the tempo up a notch, Phelps remembers that the slow-down approach kept his club in the game against teams with deep benches like North Carolina. 
"We won't go out there to impress people, just to win," Phelps states flatly. "The score· last year was 60-58, there were 5,000 students on the floor, and nobody cared about the score. The fact was we had beaten No. I North Carolina. Now if we had played transition with Carolina, we would have been buried. 
"You've got to play to your strengths and make the other team play to your strength. That's how we won 24 games last year." 
Phelps, quite clearly, likes to think back on last year. But with his star Rivers returning, as well as a cast of developing talent, he also likes to muse about the possi­bility of recreating some of the magic he found in 1986-87. Even with Indiana, Louisville, and DePaul looming on the horizon. "Those teams don't bother me," he says. "You've got to play them sometime, so you may as well say, 'Let's go,' and find out what you've got. And then you take it from there. From that standpoint, I think we'll be fine." 
Then Digger Phelps smiles and calmly walks off to get his basketball team ready for another season opener. II 

14 Scholastic 







On Your Marks,
Get . Set... 
and watch the 
ND women's 
basketball team run 
at its opponents -­
and away.from last 

year. 
A 
BY TERRY LYNCH 
side from all the last­minute defeats, the fall 
from a somewhat lofty 
23-8 record and the 
diminishing memory of an NIT 
Tournament bid two years ago, the 
losses of the Notre Dame women's 
basketball team last winter went 
beyond the loss column. As the season wore on, the players wore out. Anyone who had a team photo could virtually mark the passing of each month by the loss of another player to injury or defection; 
It started with a knee injury to Lisa Kuhns. that sidelined the key player before the season even began; Along the way, captain Lavetta Willis walked off the· team, freshman Julie Garske departed for her home state of Wisconsin, Kathy Brommeland left and Beth Morrison went down with a knee injury. It· ended on April 21 with the biggest loss of all: head coach Mary DiStanislao departed for Northwestern to pur­sue a master's degree in business administration. 
On the surface, it looked as 


November 19, 1987 


though DiStanislao's departure was the first time in history that some­one sought sanity and stability in 
graduate school. Still, the· 
announcement came as a surprise 
to most. Just over a month before 
her departure, DiStanislao had ral­
lied the remainder of her team to 
end the season with six straight 
wins. and a second-place finish in 
the North Star Conference. This 
all came out of a team that was 6­
15 on Valentine's Day after an 
embarrassing 90-55 blowout at the 
hands  of  eventual-NCAA  cham­ 
pion Tennessee.  
"I'd  like  to  start  next  season  

right now," said DiStanislao in March. "It's not often you end the season wishing you had another half-dozen games left." 
"We played awfully well the last three weeks [of the season], and that's a credit to our players. We had more than our share of adversity this season, but the kids always hung tough. And it really paid off. It's always too soon to quit, but it's never too late to be a winner." 
Y ct one month later, DiStan­islao called it quits. And that's the way the reign of Mary D. ended -­not with a bang, but a cliche. 
*** 
So what happens now? If you thought last year's ending was unexpected, just wait until you hear about this year's beginning. The women have a new head coach who has known nothing other than Eastern-style basketball --Phillyball, to be precise. That means Big Five basketball. To the uninitiated, it means zones, traps, and presses on defense. On offense, it means the one thing that can beat that kind of defense --the fast break. So throw out all the diagrammed post-up plays, the 40-minute ·body-banging contests of Midwestern-style one-on-one defense, and lace up the Air Jor­

dans. There's a new kid in town. 
Her name is Muffet McGraw, she comes from the top women's job at Lehigh, she played at St. Joseph's (Philadelphia) and she has a dream: somehow, some way, the Fighting Irish are going to run. Now wait a minute. The Irish are gonna run? There's a coach who dares breathe the words "fast break" in the Land of Digger -­even in the same building? 
"We're hoping to run a lot," says McGraw, with the kind of earnestness that makes all of this just about serious. "That's the big­gest change for [the players]. Last year I guess they didn't run too much. It's a big mental transition for them to play 94 feet instead of a half-court game." 
"It's starting to come along now, and I'm hoping it'll be ready for our first game. Right now, I don't know if it will be or not." If last Sunday's intrasquad game revealed · anything, it was that McGraw has her schemes in place, and it's up to her players to per­form. As is par for intrasquad games; the schemes looked a little better than the players did. Even so, at least it was something, well, different. 
·"We didn't execute tonight the way we can," said senior guard Mary Gavin about the new style of play. "But we have the type of 

16  Scholastic  
~-­ -~_. ~  ~ -~  ' ~  ~ •  • ---• - ~­,~  _....  -•  >• •r  ~  --~ • -:__ ; •• •  ---~  ~  J  

girls who can do it, and I think we'll be better off in the long run." But the long run may not come easily for the half court­minded Irish. "It's slow going," says McGraw of the transition. "We look like we're running uphill a lot. It's just a mental thing of getting them thinking, 'We're going to get the rebound. Let's get out and down the floor.' They have a tendency to stand around a lot." 
The running game will get a big boost from Karen Robinson, a 5-6 freshman from Turnersville, NJ. During Sunday's intrasquad game, 
Loyola. 30 NOR.TI{ 
.4~5 Phoenix Classic\: .i}:•.·· < . . (Green Bay,iWI) .

.. 90AKLA.ND / f2 s:r. •.AMBROSE . n· < .. 19VALPARAIS6 • · .· •. i.J 
· 21Indiana<· · . · .. •· .•·. .. .. . . >: f.8~.. f9. Wildcat•••Ghristmas .. CJassic· .. : (l'hifa., PA). 
Virgi· :rvtia .. · NOR SYRACUS 
20DePalll ··· 24 Michigan S 26MJ\RQUE 


FEHR.UAR 
... JT~NNESS 
···•6Duke 
11·bETR.6I 
\A~.• :qA~:i:p
;•··•:·1·1:cret"ti1artd 




~,j'.f,,i~:
:~ffi~i!i. 

··.···bI§;G.· ····th~i-n\l•iiiin 
.·.n \:· ,., \,> 
.',.,,.,'.·,·,:<'•''•'.,,,·,,·:: 
. :··::i:i..:;:Hi\j]I·: 

November 19, 1987 
she scored 10 points, six of them 8 coming on two three-point plays .! late in the game. "Karen Robinson ~ is like a blessing for us," says .., McGraw. "I would have definitely looked at her if I was recruiting. She beat everyone down the floor." Robinson's speed has run her not only into McGraw's heart, but into her backcourt as well: Gavin and she will start at guard for the Irish. 
But if you accuse McGraw of trying to play Eastern-style basketball with Midwestern players, she will be the first to plead guilty. For all of her plans, McGraw is a realist, and is blunt about her defensive plans: "We have to play zone. We're too slow." Indeed, McGraw starts her first season without any of her own recruits. "Usually I recruit players that can run," she says. "That's the main thing I look for, and now I have maybe [only] 10 players that can. I have to change my style a little bit to adapt to theirs." 
Yet a lack of speed is not a one-way ticket to McGraw's bench. Of all her players, she is highest on 6-2 senior Sandy Bot­ham, who was named to the first team all-North Star Conference team for the second straight year after last season. "I like Sandy a lot," says McGraw. "She's strong inside. She's probably the slowest person on the team, but she can rebound, and you can't run if you 
don't rebound. She's good in the post, and she can come outside and shoot the ball." Joining Botham on the boards will be junior Heidi Bunek, whose 14.4 points per game led the Irish last year. 
Botham sees a change not only in the style of play, but in the atti­tude of the team as well. "It's really good right now --very upbeat. It'.s so much of a relief. The attitude is very different; especially in practice. She 

Botham has a shot at being ND's most dominant player . 
[McGraw] doesn't get on you for the little things. She's got a good attitude, and always has something good to say. When I walk back from practice, I can feel good even though I know I have a lot to work on. There's not as much pressure on me before this season compared to last season." 
McGraw hopes that the new style will translate into more than just an improved team attitude, even though she faces a brutal schedule with 17 road games and just I I home dates, one of them being a Feb. 3 rematch with Tennessee. "We'll attract some fans [with the new attack]. We have to be exciting or we're not going to get anyone to see us play. And winning will be great, too. If we can do that, it'll be good." ¦ 



Toast To Health 
Task 
BY CAROLE COOPER 

L.
ast week the Task Force 
on the Whole Health and 
the Use and Abuse of 

Alcohol established by University President Father Edward Malloy turned its atten­tion to the Notre Dame student body. A series of open forums from Nov. 8 to Nov. 12 were held at several locations across campus. Students were encouraged to attend the forums and speak out about the current and future alcohol policy. 
"I was curious to see what the turnout (for these meetings) would be," said Mike Gordan, a Flanner 

Force solicits student op1mon the Alcohol Policy 
R.A. "This is the students' chance to voice their opinions instead of just complaining about it among themselves." 
The Task Force has been assigned to examine the current Alcohol Policy at Notre Dame, four years after it was first esta­blished. Father Malloy charged the following mandate to his person­ally assembled task force: "(i) to examine the issue of use and abuse of alcohol in contem­porary American society, with special attention to the college and university environment, 
(2) to provide an appropriate frame of reference for the analysis 
on 

of the ethical, social, personal and legal significance of alcohol use and abuse, 
(3) 
to determine the University's educational responsibility with regard to alcohol, 

(4) 
to review present University policies concerning the availability and consumption of alcohol as they apply to all segments of the University community." 


The final report and recom­mendations of the Task Force will be · presented to the President by March 15, 1988. The Task Force is made up of a cross-section of the University community and includes students, class officers, 

18 Scholastic 
residence hall rectors, resident assistants and University depart­mental staff, all appointed by Mal­loy. 
The Task Force is gathering 
information about the attitudes concerning the current policy from a wide spectrum of the Notre Dame family. Meetings have been held with various groups of people affected by the policy, including Father Malloy, Notre Dame secu­rity officials, residence hall rec­tors, members of the administra­tion, student government leaders, alumni representatives, and residents of the Northeast neigh­borhood. 
"The need for more education has been expressed in all the meet­ings," said Sr. Joris Binder, a member of the Task Force and rectress of Pasquerilla East Hall. She also cited the need for greater respect from Notre Dame students for the Northeast community. Sean Cullinan, another. member of the Task Force,. refused comment when asked about the meetings. 
Concern was expressed by stu­dents over the possibility that the Task Force had already formed an opinion on the subject and that the student meetings were a mere for­mality in the decision making pro­cess. Steve Newton, the forum moderator, put this fear to rest when he stated, "To date the Task Force has no opinion. Right now we want input, advice, and ideas about how to reach our mandate. Students ask whether we're out just to make the policy stricter." He said that right now, the Task Force's final recommendation could be for a stricter or a less confining policy. 
The panel raised eight questions (see box), listened to and took notes on students reactions, but offered no opinions themselves. Attitudes and views of students attending the meetings were varied. StronR areas of concern were the problems of drunk driv­ing and off-campus parties. 

"(Now that) I am a junior, none of my friends socialize on campus. It seems like the stricter the policy is, the more the alcohol problem is being pushed off campus and left for the Indiana State Police to deal with," said Jim Grace. Mike Diegel, a Campus View resident, stated, "Some peo­ple think of Campus View as just an underage bar. Underclassmen go there with no real destination, just the attitude that there must be some place to drink." 
Other issues were raised in the forums as well. Complaints about across-campus enforcement incon­sistencies were voiced, as well as the fact that the current policy does nothing to help the alcoholic that quietly drinks in his or her. room. There was disagreement among the students as to whether or not there is valid justification to have an alcohol policy incon­sistent with Indiana state law. Strong support for the continuance of the traditional SYR's was voiced. Students also spoke about the current policy's weakness in the area of alcohol education and awareness. 
There was no shortage of opinions; throughout the meeting, discussion was facilitated by a receptive attitude on the part of both the students and the members of the forum. Newton said he thanks the students for the interest exhibited by their presence and their comments at the forums. 
Members of the Task Force stated that their real work, assimi­lating all pertinent information, would now begin. None of the members who were contacted would release any information about meetings they held other than the student forums. 
Eric Emerson, co-president of Flanner said, "I think people need to realize that there will be no black or white answer. The Task Force is faced with the difficult responsibility of coming up with a suitable compromise for all involved. Not everyone will be satisfied no matter what the final outcome is." 

Coming Distractions COMPILED BY ROSABELLE WHITE 
·,··· .. , ,· ,:,. 
.· ·.•.··.·· ...· i illl···• 


r: 

tiiiuRs··· • 
adieli of

E;ti~s'•· 
1'1' &/I' Coi~iglicio:ec1;}our,. ·13us Trip .. 
·•· Stgpa~:cientgr 


-. : . . . . . . . . . .
···

C: Etjgin11eering Auditorium <sp.rn. ··· ·•.· E:cluJ~tion 
, 1, 9, 11 p.m. 
.·. Examinati

·••:.$2 ... . . . 
...... i~~it:i:i.fuovEM.~ER:i1 ::. fl~.terin 
t·· ''Des.ti:uctive•Engagement'' , CCE Auditorium 

. : ; • F.ree (S9uth .African .. hropeari ~acai.. so Intern 
:PECIAL E
:: :1:ao Jtlll: .. 
... Biko Film SElries) . 
gineeririg A,udito nights of g .rii, > ·· ·.· ·. ·. . .. <5:9 p.rrL


:,w~I~At N()V~BER 20 
.. SlJNDA'v',

j;FIIMS<i. 
., .. 
CONCERTS
;,;:,;Europ 
·'.. ·.:· . 

. Engine •., :NotreDli.fue:lltPerinState· .· NotriDa
'1;fo;: , '.12:10.EsT cas\ .. <sacre····· 
$2:; ·.•:i(Awlly){ •··. . . . . . . .·>··:;: s p..•· 
SW t I ~ 
coming soon! ~ ,. ~ leprechaun swatches 
~ swat I -==--­

straightfromthe 11 ~ swatch company ----=:. in switzerland


@W@fr©[n)~ %,, 
madeespecia/lyfor
% 

notre dame! 
~(1~fb. · ,~ 0 .d. wear"/ 
~LI\:::7U Uc "i0 ut 
c:,o.\l.<JJ'<''~~o\l.' ~ ft,,ge\ ~ 

corning soon\ do,. 


/////



t hi 







:si1NT~Arti·~ ·••·· ;Ttrn·c;fiiffi1gbi116:Smaii W6fl{s .bri Piipi/ 
· · LitUeiTheatreGaU~ry > · · 
until Dec io . . .. ..·. 

[~liStJ,;o!?],J/it#(J)tiC• 
!f~f]its1zi' ·" 
LJiivxisi
Lia~itkt JiR~j\jf ·•.• 

:.ri~itt~;~~;i1{, .•• 
' . 7:46 and 9j45 p;m. 
> '.'.~ik~)J'a{hef9ke Son? ···• .. ·· 



n~iill~~t'····· 
r·));~i~t~· ti·~ci~i,,<·}.i:·••··'.'IC'••
; ?i'7;•~.11a~·p;~i:/;i.••·•>i; : 
••·'fl,3ev¢rlf}iill~popll''. . 
ifsdiWi:l(9:so••i:>:4.>· ft~Viii~i#;titi•.~~ii•:. 

t~~;ij~~~C,t·
''Ru~Jkiesj! <i<••••.'c··.··.••.·..···:., •· ··. 
f:js~~~{,1s),:iri:/ •>•· ·.• iUNIVERSITY'.J>ARK EA.SI' . 
1t~t~!Ndil1ilif. 
; '/J:le~J.~hah.z~ffir>r···
r7:30aricl •9:30 p.m}.••·••·
t9f!fft~!Ill·~ttT'.•·····••··••···· 
i+~~~Wi~:~if~., .··
cit~~~di~tiri;#:•·•···•/··• ··· · i,4~J1~t9~6a~t3·i<•·•
rsbrii+t$i)X.t-t ;;.•>•· ·/•· •··•


t·~~t~a~ili~··~t. ;c /.. }t ··•· •.·.· 
i''}yte~~~'.'"'!t•····•·c·</•..•i•>··•· .. 
7:)~ll~·•··\):3Q·P:m'.·.···.it<lWNANo\'.:o'i.JNii11·: ·.· ... 
iltlllflijft~\/~f;,i 


"The Beast From the East" 

FREE DELIVERY!!! 
271-0SUB 
A GOOD HAIRCUT IS HARD­TO FIND ... 
UNLESS YOU GO TO KEN'S DEN. 
** BEAUTY SUPPLIES ** HAIR CARE AND MANICURES ** WALK-INS OR BY APPOINTMENT ** ACROSS FROM THE 700 CENTER 
703 Lincolnway West 

· Mishawaka, IN 46544 

255-8608 

Your Personal Image Salon 

21 



Music/Tim Adams 




l 987's Best? 
The Non-Guide to the Year in Music 

""'I  .,... ' m  still  receiving.  the  
occasional  crank  call  
from you lovely students,  
which I guess signals that  
some  people  seriously  
.....  ~  have nothing better to do  

with their time, or were somehow absent when the gods 
traire, I think the fellow is quite pathetic --but on the other hand this kind of "entertainment" doesn't pass anyone's way very frequently, and his stage perfor­mance and the resultant crowd reactions are both real and scary. I've been to at least a hundred Horsemen, Christmas, and Lydia Lunch. Each issue also has its share of weird fiction and art, plus hundreds of record, concert, video and book reviews. Acidic in the best sense, though not up to its peak levels of I 986, this again is worth the dough. 

were handing out secure egos.  concerts, and I can honestly say  Rounding out these is The  
But, as I said, I'm not taking this  that very few of them will  Offense Newsletter (P.O. Box  
whole thing half as seriously as  remain etched in my memory the  12614/ Columbus, OH 43212),  
people probably think, so it's not  way GG's set will.  which actually is the "nicest" of  
as if I'm losing a whole lot of  · This was also an excellent  the three despite its moniker,  
sleep over it. Anyway, this is my  year for the underground press,  which focuses on some of the  
last column of the year, and I  especially with respect to fan­ more ethereal English grouP.S  
know you're gonna be inundated  zines. Spin couldn't hack it and  (Cocteau Twins, Wolfgang Press,  
with "Best Of'' lists in the next  Rolling Stone seems content  Wire) around today. Editor TKA  
few weeks, so I thought I'd beat  goil}g for that Guess jeans  changes things around with each  
the rush and submit my admit­ market, so there's really no other  issue, so you can see a long run­ 
tedly short and idiosyncratic  place to turn for biting, no­ down of recent records to come  
account of what struck me as  holds-barred commentary about  out, an interview with the owner  
cool in 1987.  music. A way From the Pulse beat  of 4AD Records, letters from his  
First off, GG Allin, "The  ($5 to Art Black/ P.O. Box  readers, or tlie results of his  
Wildman of New Hampshire" as  MI842/ Hoboken, NJ 07030),  annual readers poll in any one  
people call him. Other nicknames  which comes out at a. rate of  copy.  
to grace this character include  approximately once a year, is  And last, there were some  
"The Legend," "The Animal,"  arguably the best-made and  good records that came out this  
and "The Only Real Rock 'n'  well-written of the lot. Covering  year. No, can't say I spent much  
Roller Alive." Undoubtedly,  groups like Killdozer, Celibate  time on the new U2, Bruce, or  
most Notre Dax.ne students have  Rifles, Saqqara Dogs, and  REM albums, so don't expect to  
never heard of him, and that's  Nomads, its most recent issue  find 'em here. But these artists  
just as well 'cuz the guy's des­ was jam-packed with insightful  put out worthy albums, in my 
tined to die on stage sometime  record reviews (over 200 of 'em),  oh-so-informed opm1on: 
really soon. GG's stage shows,  concert reviews, and a discussion  Dinosaur, Phantom Tollbooth,  
most of which only last 15  of shock magazines and movies,  the Primitons, Vomit Launch, 
minutes, consist of him pummel­ plus the editor was kind enough  and Big Black.  
ing his entire face with a micro­ to include a free 7" single f eatur­ And, · yes, I did see my fair  
phone, rolling around in broken  ing a song apiece by the Celibate  share of good bands in concert,  
glass, defecating into his hand·  Rifles and Saqqara Dogs. Well  too. Here are just a few: The  
and throwing it every which way  worth it.  Beastie Boys, Die Kreuzen, Bla­ 
but loose, sticking the mike into  Another biggie is Forced  tant Dissent, the Descendents,  
his nether regions (a real crowd­ :Exposure ($3 to P.O. Box 1611/  the Membranes, and Naked Ray­ 
pleaser), and basically doing  Waltham, MA 02254), which  gun, etc. etc. You get the drift.  
everything that normal humans  seems almost prolific at · two  Not too lame a year for music, if  
wouldn't. No, I don't quite  issues a year. In the past, this one  you're into the good stuff.  
endorse GG's lifestyle -­au con- has given coverage to the Divine  

Scholastic
22 

.. 


Final Word 
Questioning the 
Constitution 

his semester 
marks the begin­
ning of my fourth 
year at the 
University of 
Notre Dame; it 

marks as well, the beginning of my fourth year of active public service to the Notre Dame com­munity. Dynamic involvement in the student government has been my predominant mode of service although I have never held an elected position in the University pf Notre Dame stu­dent government; yet, my close contact over the years with both elected and appointed individuals has provided me with a tremen­dous resource of knowledge. 
During the course of my tenure of service, I have been exposed to the phenomenal responsibilities accepted by the volunteers that comprise the stu­dent government. Also I have been exposed to repeated accounts of so-called scandal, supposedly demonstrated by the various members of this organi­zation. Recently I became, in the perception of a significant · number of students, recognized as the originator of the perceived scandal; the sole conspirator in an effort to bring attention to this supposed scandal. 
On Monday, November 2nd, I· submitted a report to the Student Senate concerning operations currently under the immediate jurisdiction of the Student Union Board. The result of my presen­tation was a · public statement recognizing certain violations of the Constitution of the Under-
BY MIKE JAEGER 

graduate Student Body of the 
University of Notre Dame. I 
must admit now, to all con­
cerned, a deep regret for the 
resultant preoccupation with this 
notion of "scandal." 
In the spring of 1985, and 

again in the spring of 1986, in a 
continuance of a recognized need 
for change, individuals active in 
student government founded. 
committees to address directly 
the problems recognized in the function of the organization. It was the documant that defines the structure and delineates the function of the various assem­blages composing student government, the Constitution, that became their ultimate con­cern. This concern was not new, in fact, it had become almost traditional; the results, however, were new. 
The Constitution was recog­nized by the committees as inherently flawed and seriously · problematic; consequently, the committees set forth on their mission to clarify the functions of student government, espe­cially in those cases which could be popularly misconstrued as scandal. In their attempt to rec­tify the problematic nature of the document, the committees saw sweeping changes and the formulation of new constructions as the the most pragmatic solu­tions; therefore, new constitu­tions were proposed. The com­mittees themselves then became the manifestation of scandal. The effect of their proposals was a heightened political sensitivity; consequently, the various assem­

blages within student govern­ment became adversaries in a battle over the distribution of power. 
Lost in the perception of these committees was the original mis­sion. Concerns for program­ming, voicing of student con­cern, protection of students rights, and a better overall environment took a back seat to the battle over new construc­tions. As scandal resulted, and sensitivities were enhanced, compromise became impossible. Embittered factions became solidly entrenched in their own "unique ideologies." The result was little or no change, and an ill-feeling between the various segments of student government. 
As the spring term of 1987 advanced, the concern for the problems with the Constitution was still very real and, yet, another commission was formed. This time, under the leadership of an experienced Brian Holst, district 1 student senator, with an all-encompassing evaluation team, the representatives of trad­itionally warring camps were brought together in one forum. Since the project initially stated no intent for a new constitutional document, the air was free of scandals past. Now all felt free. to air their own concerns about the operation of student govern­
I
I, I 
ment. Reason prevailed, which inevitably resulted in under­standing and acceptance; the remnants of the feudal past were buried. 
I am, nonetheless, concerned. My worry is that no effort has been made to reach a full under­standing of the implications of the agreements reached by the most recent committee; thus, no action has been taken to formally accept them. In order that the work of this committee be preserved, I began a campaign for public awareness and under­standing of the need for signifi­cant constructional changes to effect the preservation of the agreements reached. 
I therefore drew up and delivered the presentation to the senate on November 2nd. The primary intention was not to call attention to the violations; it was to call to the attention of the public the need for change and to demonstrate the spirit of cooperation within the Student, Government Evaluation team. 
With this goal in mind, I again express regret for having caused the feeling in certain individuals that they had been "dragged through the mud." I herewith declare my deep respect for those who have volunteered, and con­tinue to volunteer, such a signifi­cant portion of their time and energy in the service of the stu­dent body., 
I would, as well, like to express the fact that the presen­tation to the senate has brought some very positive r.esults. The Student Union Board accepted the responsibility and took almost immediate action to rectify the perceived problem areas. I maintain that this is the most positive result in the past three years, as it provides the inclusion in the problem solving process of a group previously indifferent to solution. Nonethe­less, this is only a new beginning. The problematic situations inherent in the Constitution, the real culprits of concern, have only begun to be resolved. I maintain that the inclusion of the issues in th public forum of the student senate is a correction of the mistakes of the past. It is my sincere hope that the. proper, constructional inclusiop. of the public forum will result m genuine affirmative change. (in italics) Michael Jaeger is stu­dent government chief of staff and a senior in pre-professional studies. 1111 

LECTURE BY GEORGE PLIMPTON December 1, 1987 8 p.m. at Washington Hall Tickets: $2, available at M-F starting Nov. 16 (3-5 p.m.) for more info, call 239-7757  ______AT&T___---,-,--__ D Q ESE~ TS November 20 p.m. at Stepan Center Tickets: $7 for students, $8 for public , on sale at the Cellar SPONSORED BY SUB  

ii-le CAR,OOr,J TI-\AT 
1--\AS TO GO STAtJO 
1.i \\-IE. Colh.JE.R­
;:; 0 

m +" 
..... 
CD 
-.I 

l"Hf. SHRIMP MS. ~t-)(X.i)-lT-1\1,,L.. TI-\E.. FAT K\O THE. CHE.P.Tfg 







-------···---··--··----------Jf---­



7"1:-,f.t-)Ewk\O S\CkL':::? 








