Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVI. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 16 1882.	No. 2
An Undesired. Prefix.
The decoration of the acrobat, The negro-minstrel’s boast, the shoe-black’s handle.
Claimed by each clown that learns to “ skin the cat,” Each expert playing games not worth the candle!
Was it for this I burned the midnight oil?
Called aorists my friends, and oft would dally
With sines and tangents until what was toil
Seemed pleasure? though Dame Nature, outraged, rally Her rebel forces, led astray by mental application,—
Strike me with shattered nerves, As such neglect deserves, And drive me out to take vacation.
The title once, indeed, seemed‘hard to gain,
And hence the strain;
But unto him who titles would refuse,
’Tis harder far to lose:
In vain I flee to parts unknown,—
Debauch my tongue with current slang,—
Scarce seven days have o’er me flown
Ere some well-meaning friend
Some letter or some postal-card will send—
May such go hang!—
From the address they cannot doff
That odious prefix “ Prof.”
Great Henry Wadsworth, borne on spirit wings From thy long fellowship with earthly things!
In that bright sphere which now thou call’st thine own— Than which Excelsior shall ne’er be known—
In that bright sphere, say, do they ape the lesser And outrage spirit ears by calling thee “ Professor ?”
I pause for a reply;
If “aye,”
Then I
Shall hesitate to die!
Justin Thyme.

Hate idleness and curb all passions. Be true in all words and actions. Deliver not your opinion unnecessarily; but when you do, let it be just, well considered, and plain. Be charitable and ever ready to forgive injuries done to yourself, and be more pleased to do good than to receive good.
Leisure is sweet to those who have earned it, but burdensome to those who get it for nothing.
Our Colleges and their Discipline.
A writer in the American Catholic ^icarterly for July says that “wise and experienced heads find the problem of economic management so difficult, that for this and other reasons they forecast a dark future for our colleges.” The reason al-leged is, that the day for boarding-schools is past; that the tendency among parents is to keep children at home, and that.it is only as day-schools that our colleges can succeed. Why this should be so is not stated. The writer, however, does not adopt entirely this pessimistic view of college organization as it exists. He thinks the very exigencies of the times require boarding-schools to fill what without them would be an embarrassing want; and if boarding-schools, then, in a special manner, Catholic boarding-schools. “Now, as in the remote past, is there a demand for public institutions of learning, in which youth, away from the distractions of home-life, may give themselves more exclusively to study, and acquire the intellectual force and the robustness of character which are the outcome of the healthy training of large numbers together, and which insure a complete development of one’s energies.”
The truth of the latter remark must be obvious not only to parents, but even to students that are capable of judging what circumstances are and what are not favorable to studv. Some laugh-able instances—fictitious, apparently, from their grotesque situations, but containing too much that is true in the experience of students residing at home to be regarded as entirely imaginary—have often been given in the college papers. We know but too well, from experience, that the two traits which that model of law students, Frederic Ozanam, modestly attributed to himself in youth— irresolution and frailty—are characteristic of home students, at the present day particularly; and that to cultivate their natural talents, to draw out and expand the powers of the mind, isolation from home and society is frequently indispensable. If the young Christian philosopher—a philosopher while yet a student, and who, notwithstanding the tirades of the Sir Oracles of the college press nowadays, could write admirable essays on the most abstruse metaphysical subjects—who at the age of seventeen drew his virgin sword so successfully against the St. Simonians, and before he was
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
twenty had originated the programme of the now . famous Conferences at Notre Dame de Paris, and founded the Society of St. Vincent de Paul—if Frederic Ozanam, the Christian hero of the Sorbonne, could find reason to accuse himself of irresolution and frailty, in 1831, how much more may not the student of to-day do so 1 This era of morning papers, of evening parties, and social gatherings, is anything but conducive to study, . and the hopes and aspirations of many a promising young student have been wrecked on these Scyllas and Charybdises of students. •
But where to find a college that with the advantages :of home-life couples those of study is the . question. The advice of Quintillian, to “ choose the school in which the masters are most saintly and the discipline severest,” may seem at first rather repulsive to American students; but the soundness of the advice cannot be questioned, and, coming from a pagan, it is certainly remarkable. That of Pliny the Younger, although more moderate in expression, is no less striking, when he tells a Roman mother to send her .son to the school in which good discipline, great modesty, and purity of morals exist. “ Jam studia ejus extra limen proferenda stmt; jam circumspiciendus rhetor latimes^ cujus s choice see er it as, pudor imprimis castitatis constet” The discipline of our Catholic colleges is undoubtedly superior to that of the best of the State colleges, but for home comforts the former are not so conspicuous. Our colleges are as yet too poor for these, and the spirit of wealthy Catholics slumbers in their regard. Not so poor, certainly, as in the Oxford fare of old, which called forth the remark of Sir Thomas More, when in reduced circumstances; but stricter in one . sense than when “ anybody who failed to return by bedtime that day received a flogging, while any who absented themselves beyond the next day were deprived of their scholarships.” (History - of Eton College, p. 153.) The floggings are things of the past, but there can be little question that the expulsions of to-day are more painful as . -well as more disgraceful. On this question of discipline the writer in the Quarterly makes some pointed remarks. “ It is objected,” he says, “ that . the discipline of our colleges is too severe. Now we should distinguish between discipline and discipline. The discipline that keeps students in a constant purgatory, either by that espionage that seems to dare them • to do wrong, or those petty persecutions that irritate; the discipline that - sees in human nature nothing but total depravity, that is always suspecting, that knows only co- ercive measures, such discipline is unworthy of the name and of the manhood of him who exercises it, as it is unjust to those who are its victims. But there is a discipline that works upon the student’s finer feelings; it appeals to his honor; it speaks to his sense of self-respect; it stirs up . within him a laudable pride; it regulates his ambition and wins his love. It is the discipline That is exercised by the judicious mind, just in its rulings, fair towards all, and prudent in its dealings; that is mild, yet firm; that seeks to bring home to
the student the conviction of right-doing rather than the makeshift method of doing right then and then only. This is the discipline that begets methodical habits, exactness, and precision in work, promptness in meeting engagements, and close attention to study. This is the discipline that moulds the character into complete manhood. Under such, there need be no apprehension that the student shall be carried into opposite excesses. The student so carried would indulge in excesses still more extravagant if raised without any discipline. There are youths with characters so weak that they do not possess any self-control, any the least breath of temptation carries them away; they are their own greatest enemies, and to be saved at all they must be saved from themselves. Without some restraining influence they are carried straight to destruction. It is certainly a great charity to extend to them a helping hand, to teach them how to control themselves, to weaken their predominant passions, and to subject them to a rule and discipline till they come to find both rule and discipline no longer a burden.” This supposes a good will on the part of the student, of course; should this be lacking, and the student in his restlessness continually getting into one scrape or another, and drawing others, better disposed, into these scrapes—which are sometimes of a serious character, as was seen last year at many of our non-Catholic Colleges—there is no alternative but expulsion; disgraceful though it be, the welfare of the College requires it. There can be no question that contact with such students is dangerous. Spoiled by over-indulgent parents, ■ they are very often “ jolly, good fellows,” well supplied with money and possessing a natural kindness of heart and bonhomie that ingratiates them with others. Hence it is that Catholic colleges employ the double guard of expulsion and the awarding of college honors on a basis compounded of scholarship and gentlemanly deportment. That the latter expedient necessarily lowers the standard of scholarship cannot be conceded, although ex-President Woolsey, of Yale, thought so, and rather than resort to it he said he would “ prefer to plant cannon before the buildings and blow them down.” Catholic educators think otherwise; hence, we may suppose, the difference in deportment and morals at Catholic and nonCatholic colleges. “ If one of the two must be in a measure sacrificed,” say the managers of the former, “ morality must be conserved at all hazards.” President Woolsey’s plan would undoubtedly be the proper course with men of mature judgment, but the bulk of college students are under twenty, when, the writer in the American Catholic ^tiarterly tells us, “their characters are still unformed, their good habits not yet confirmed; they are not penetrated with that overmastering sense of duty; away from the wholesomely restraining influence of their families, they do not feel the sense of responsibility; they imagine they may for the moment lose their self-respect without compromising relatives, and, led on by a few reckless spirits, they rush headlong into habits of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	19
vice and self-indulgence that drag them down to ruin. This is no fancy sketch,” he continues. “A prominent public man, in presence of the writer, told off on his fingers’ ends youth after youth whom' he had known and seen return to their homes from one of our leading universities, blighted—wrecks in body and soul—from habits of excess, and all sinking into a premature grave. Lines of wholesome restraint must. be drawn somewhere. Thoughtful non-Catholic fathers have long ago consulted the best interests of their daughters and sent them to convent schools; they now feel forced to send their sons to our Catholic colleges, where they are convinced their hearts will be cultivated as well as their intellects.” All which tends to confirm the truth of Dr. Newman’s assertion, that “intellect is helpless, because ungovernable and self-destructive, unless it be regulated by a moral rule and by revealed truth.”
There is not so much difference as at first might seem in the character of some of the young men who, togged out in the latest styles of the fashion, go to American colleges, and the student mentioned by Dr. Newman, who went to Heidelberg “ with nothing but a great coat and a pair of pistols on him.” While duelling is the favorite sport of the one, cane-rushing, hazing and similar barbarities seem to be equally popular with his American confrere. We hope these and the “petty persecutions that irritate ” will pass out of existence together. The sooner the better.
In his sketch of ex-President Woolsey, of Yale, in the Century Magazine, Mr. Fishei* says: “There are two classes of teachers. The one seems to be born for nothing else. They are pedagogues from centre to circumference. Highly qualified they may be for their work, but it is plain they could do nothing else. Their manners take their hue from their wonted and predestined occupation. The other class is made up of the smaller number, who were men before they were schoolmasters. They wear the impress of a large contact with society and the world. It is evident that even if they have not left a broader and more public arena, they would be at home elsewhere than in the recitation-room. A certain hisrh-bred air and tone, it may be, indicates familiarity with an atmosphere more ample than that in which their daily work lies. The gentleman is not lost in the scholar. . . . From such a man the student on leaving college does not part. He does not look upon him as merely a companion adapted to his needs. He recognizes him as a peer, a guide and example, through his whole career.” This class of teachers is idealized in Frederick Ozanam, the brilliant young philosopher of the Sorbonne, whom we have just glanced at as a law student—who swayed the masses of young men that crowded his lecture-hall as if they were mere puppets instead of fire-eating young Frenchmen of the Voltairean school. At his advent as a lecturer, it was nearly half a century since the voice of a Christian teacher had been heard in the Sorbonne. Its halls had during that entire period echoed to the false and fantastic doctrines of the rationalistic schools that had
set France in a. blaze.* At the age of seven and twenty the founder of the St. Vincent de Paul Society’- took his seat amongst the veteran professors of the proud old University, and electrified young and old by the splendor of his eloquence and. the manly boldness of his Catholic heart. “ He dealt in no compromise; he made no concessions to the susceptibility of his hearers,” writes his biogra-pher.f “ The sceptics heard him in astonished admiration; the Catholics applauded with a sense of victory.” • “ Athens listened,” says the equally eloquent Pere Lacordaire, “as she would have listened, to Gregory or Basil, if, instead of returning to the solitude of their native land, they had poured out at the foot of the Areopagus, where St. Paul was preaching, those treasures of science and taste which were to illustrate their names.” I venture to say that no professor ever swayed the hearts of his pupils as' did Frederick Ozanam. Nor was' this owing to the “ certain high-bred air and tone ” that Prof. Fisher imagines in his ideal teacher. Ozanam was undoubtedly gifted with the characteristics of a gentleman—the well-bred French gentleman—but it was more the fitness for. his position and the innate simple kindness of his great Catholic heart that took his pupils by storm. To dulness, as to poverty in every shape, Ozanam was gentle, condescending, even respectful; and it sometimes happened at the St. Stanislaus’ College, where he taught before his appointment to the Sorbonne, that under his fostering influence pupils
* M. Lenormant, who occupied the chair of M. Guizot at the Sorbonne, was like the others, at the beginning of his career, a sceptic, and a very popular lecturer, but on becoming a Catholic he was not backward in proclaiming his convictions. At the instigation of MM. Michelet, Quinet, and other of the old philosophers (?), who, like our modern shriekers, clamored for liberty only when they were opposed, but denied it to others, the freethinking students of .the Sorbonne organized a plan to “stamp down” Prof. Lenormant at the recommencement of the session. Accordingly,, the Professor had no sooner begun to speak than his voice was drowned in hootings and blasphemous cries. Ozanam was present; and, unable to contain his indignation, leaped up beside the lecturer, and stood for a moment surveying the tumult with proud defiance. This courageous action drew forth an instantaneous salvo of applause for the hero; but, with a scornful gesture, he commanded silence, and proceeded to tell the assembly what ' he thought of their behavior, and what value he. set on their plaudits. He spoke -with a fiery vehemence that startled all into attention; he adjured them in the name of liberty, which they so loudly invoked, to respect liberty in others, and to allow every man the freedom of-his conscience. The effect of the harangue was magical; :the tumult ceased, and Prof. Lenormant continued, or rather began his lecture, and finished it without interruption.
-j- It once happened, during the noisy days of the Lenormant riots, when the learned Sorbonne was transformed into a battle-field, that some person, meaning to be witty, . scratched out the words “Litterature Etrang'ere" after Ozanam’s name on the door, and wrote over them “ Theologies Ozanam was informed of it as he was entering : the hall. He said nothing until he had finished his lecture, and then, as he was about to descend from his chair, remarked incidentally, in a tone of great dignity, “ I have not the honor to be a theologian, gentlemen, but I have the happiness to believe, and the ambition to place my whole soul with all my might at the service of truth.”—^Frederick Ozanam, Prof, at the Sorbonne: His Life and Works"p by Kathleen O'Meara.	.
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
who had failed with other professors unexpectedly developed latent talents. But with all this kindness he was exceptionally severe as a Professor. As an examiner it is said that he gave no quarter. The mistrust of his natural tendency to indulgence drove him to the opposite extreme, and especially towards candidates in whom he took a personal interest. A pupil whom he had taken special pains to prepare for his examination was within an ace of being dismissed, owing to the merciless rigor of Ozanam’s interrogations. In discipline he was mild but firm. On taking the professor’s chair at St. Stanislaus, he said to his pupils: “I shall never punish you; I mean to treat you as men, to do my best for you, and to trust to your doing the same. If you do not agree to this, if you behave like rude boys, I will not lose my time with you.” In the Academy of pagan Rome, frequented by students from various nations, if a pupil was refractory, or disgraced himself, he was publicly flogged, and shipped off at once to his own country; and the writer in the American Catholic Quarterly tells us that a similar rule prevailed in mediaeval Oxford; but there can be no doubt that as good discipline is maintained today in. our Catholic colleges by milder rules, and with resort to expulsion only for grave offences, as there was in either Rome or mediaeval Oxford. Our Catholic colleges seem to occupy a happy position between the rigor of the past and the licentiousness of many of the other colleges of the present day.
Sophomore.
Art at Notre Dame.
From the Chicago Tribune.
About .two years ago Signor Luigi Gregori, then a resident of Chicago, left here for Notre Dame, Ind., for the purpose of devoting his entire time and talents to the execution of the elaborate decorations which the Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Superior-General of Notre Dame, was desirous of having placed upon the church and University of that place.* Signor Gregori was especially recommended to Father Sorin while in Rome as an artist fully competent, by reason of natural talent and a long course of training and experience in the best - art schools of Europe, to undertake so important and arduous a work. As the result of Prof. Gregori’s two years of labor is to be seen the finished interior of this beautiful church, a standing monument of his wonderful resources.
* The writer here makes a slight misstatement. It was during the year 1S74 that Father Sorin, while in Rome, secured the services of Signor Gregori, who came the same year to Notre Dame and began his great work on the Church. In this he was engaged for five years, up to the summer of ’79, when, as the Church was still unfin. ished, he went to reside temporarily in Chicago. Upon the rebuilding of the College, after the fire, the Signor was recalled to take charge of the Art department, and perfect the decorations which the writer so well describes. —[Ed. Schol.]
An ability to conceive, a mind to plan, and a hand to execute a work of such dimensions and difficulties is something rare. The church edifice is built in the shape of a cross, and the light glowing and breaking through the many windows of stained glass upon the magnificent altar-piece and manifold decorations of the panelled sides and Gothic ceiling of the large interior building gives an impression of brilliancy and gorgeousness that is almost oppressive. It is said to be without any exception the finest church interior in this country. The altar is the famous one that was manufactured in Paris for the Centennial Exposition, and was brought here free of duty, costing $10,000. It is of gilt, and the numerous hanging lamps and censers of silver swinging over it, some of them studded with jewels, seem to enhance its richness. . If one glances up at the ceiling, every arched space contains the face of an angel or a saint; and although eighty feet above the spectator at the highest point, so strong and rich is the coloring that one might almost imagine he was watched over by friends, so strangely familiar do some of these faces appear. Upon either side of the church at regular intervals are hung the Stations of the Cross, consisting of panels in massive Gothic frames, upon which are depicted scenes from the life of Christ. A great deal of work and skill has been expended upon these stations, of which there are fourteen, and each is a finished picture, containing numerous carefully-drawn and finely-colored figures.
Directly in front of the organ hangs a portrait of Pope Pius IX, painted from life sittings by Prof. Gregori, and filling the space at the right of the organ is a large heart-shaped painting, showing Christ stilling the waters. At the left of the organ is another scene identical in size with the first, and illustrating the Bible account of the raising by Moses of the brazen serpent in the wilderness. The decorations in the church are completed. There are several large examples of pure fresco, put on while the plaster was wet, and so incorporated into the walls, as it were, that there is no limit to their durability, and their colors will hold to the end of time. Two of these frescoes are placed upon the outside of the edifice, and it is said that neither sunshine nor rain, nor cold nor heat can ever cause them to fade or change.
Prof. Gregori is now engaged upon what is perhaps the most interesting portion of his great .work, the magnificent historical paintings founded upon incidents in the life of Christopher Columbus. These frescoes adorn the vestibule, corridor and rotunda of the main University building, and when completed will be well worth a journey from Chicago to inspect. As one enters the grand vestibule he sees upon the wall at his right a full-length portrait of Queen Isabella, young and beautiful as she then was, standing in her royal robes, and bearing in her hands the casket of jewels that she sold to obtain money with which to equip Columbus upon his voyage of discovery. The expression of her face is sympathetic and lovely, and the whole , picture is bordered by a conventional de

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	21
sign somewhat resembling the figures and reproducing the colors of a Turkish rug, the whole effect being decidedly graceful and unique. Upon the left of the vestibule, and facing Isabella, is the figure of Columbus, one hand containing a scroll and the other resting upon a globe of the world. This is surrounded by a border similar to that of the opposite painting.
Upon a panel of the spacious corridor is the largest completed painting, measuring 10x20 feet. This represents the reception of Columbus at the Court of Ferdinand and Isabella, and contains a great many figures, all of them bearing such exact relation to each other, so admirably grouped, and harmoniously colored that the impression produced upon the beholder is an exceedingly pleasant one. There is absolutely nothing in the composition to jar upon the feelings. Ferdinand and Isabella are seated upon a throne, led up to by several steps. Before them stands Columbus, presenting to them the Indians he has brought back with him. These are life-size, and are artistically grouped at the left of the painting. In the foreground are seated two native West Indians in charge of the beautiful birds of rare plumage and the other presents intended for royalty. Back of the King and Queen are people of their Court, adding interest and life to the scene. The whole is surrounded by a border of the same design as the other frescoes.
The fourth painting is the one upon which Prof. Gregori is now engaged and is only sketched in charcoal. . . . The University is in possession of a few old and very valuable paintings. A genuine Van Dyke is one of their treasures, and is valued at $50,000. It is 32x48 inches, and pictures the Crucifixion.
Prof. Gregori’s work in the main University building is but fairly begun. When he shall have finished the Columbus series upon the corridor panels there remains to be executed the decoration of the rotunda and dome, in which are to be introduced frescoes representing scenes and episodes in American history, among other works being portraits in oil of all the Presidents of the United States. It will thus be seen that the founders and directors of Notre Dame have entered upon a a scheme of art embellishment really magnificent in scope and extent. The Fathers of the Holy Cross, who have in charge this great educational establishment, have already far surpassed all other institutions of learning in America in their recognition of art as an auxiliary in the work of education and culture; and when their grand scheme of embellishment shall have been fully executed, Notre Dame, as an art repository, will be well worth a pilgrimage from all parts of the American Continent.
An old Japanese author says: “All the soldiers of a great army can be captured; but the thoughts of the most vulgar person cannot be arrested,”
Our Culinary Department.
We have been induced to inaugurate this new department with a special view to the needs of the young ladies of St. Mary’s Academy; and we have devoted considerable time to ascertaining the composition of those dishes which we often hear mentioned but rarely taste,—which are, so to speak, on everybody’s lips but in no one’s mouth.. Among the principal of these is	,
elephant’s ear on toast. ’
Take your ear and cut it into long strips like tripe. Pound it in a mortar until tender, or you may run it through a threshing-machine if there is one in the neighborhood. Then have a gridiron, not too o	o’
hot, over a slow fire. The whites of six eggs and the yelks of four, with a piece of butter about the size of your ear, beat up to a jelly, with, a little chopped onion, where this is relished, willimpart an additional flavor. Have your toast carefully crimped and serve with mint sauce.
BILED OWL.
Take your owl and stir up his bile by poking fun at him. When he is riled he is sufficiently biled. Off with his head; and, after having carefully removed the feathers, place him in a moderately hot oven, until thoroughly done. Season with ginger and saleratus, and serve as dessert. : 00	7
HOG ON ICE.
See that your ice is perfectly pure and sweet, Ice is adulterated nowadays with quartz, aquamarine, plate glass and nitrate of potash. To test it,, place it in the neighborhood of a hot fire, and all that does not eventually thaw may be rejected, as spurious. Then take .your hog, and having secured his independence, give him a warm mash, until choked. Scrape clean, and serve up with-, out delay.	'
A PRETTY KETTLE OF FISH.	■
Whale 1 doz. salt-herring 1 pt. octopus 3 gals, brook trout, enough to give the requisite flavor. Boil down until a fork stuck in will come out. quite clean and bright. Then stir in. a school of -porpoises, a shark or two and a few Portuguese , men-of-war. Season with cayenne pepper to taste, and bring to table in the kettle, which may be decorated with smilax or myrtle, according to the; occasion. * Some like the electrical eel, but it should not be introduced unless called for. -
BUFFALO BILL.
Take tlje bills of sixteen buffaloes and the daws of four. Steep in aquafortis until soft, and beat-up to the consistency of ice-cream. It should then be fried like doughnuts, with a sprig of parsley here and there. It makes a very nice appetizer for picnics, etc. Enough for one hundred and' thirty-two (132) persons.
Upferall Day. j
The chief trouble with the age in which we live is that it believes too much in varnish and : veneer, and too little in solid wood. '	' '.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—Wagner has sold the score of “Parsifal” to the Mayence publishers for $47,500.
—Sullivan and Gilbert’s new opera will not be’ produced during the present year. It at present bears the title “Princess Pearl,” but the name will probably be altered^ It will be produced at or about the new year, simultaneously in New York and London.
—The celebrated John Baptist Rossi, called the Christopher Columbus of the Catacombs on account of his great discoveries in subterranean Rome, was to have received on the 24th of June a gold medal, prepared for him by public subscriptions. This testimonial will not be presented till November.' The album of subscribers—his admirers in all parts of the world—could not be closed, as names continued to pour in. The list remains open till October 31st.
—The colossal statue of “ Liberty Enlighten. ing the World,” which is to be erected near New ■ York, in commemoration of the War of Independence, will weigh about 150 tons; its height from head to foot will be about no feet, and from the end of the torch raised in the right hand to the feet, 140 feet. The cost of execution will exceed $140,000, and the work will require five years for completion. A short time ago, the designer, M. Bartholdi, entertained a party of his friends at luncheon on which occasion the table was laid in the lower folds of the drapery of the figure. It is considered a great thing in the statue of St. Charles Borromeo at Lake Maggiore that one can sit - comfortably on its nose; but it is quite another matter in the case of the Liberty. Twenty persons can stand upon the big toe which extends beyond her robe.
—The Aion (The Century), a Greek paper of Athens announces an archaeological discovery in the northern part of Euboea. At St. Georges they have discovered a marble column mutilated at the base, with the names of the donors and the amount of money given by them for the reparation of the temple and statue of • Artemis. The upper part of the column bears the names of thirty-five subscribers, as we would call them. Farmers excavating near the column found the foundation of a temple, with many large tiles, an earthen lamp with rough ornamentation, and the statue of an animal, perhaps a dog, having a letter A carved at the base. These articles, especially the column, are very interesting, as they fix the situation of the Temple of Artemis and the Ar-temisian promontory where the great naval fight . took place between the Greeks and Persians during the Median wars. According to the opinion of modern scholars, the celebrated cape is two leagues from the place where the column with the inscription was found—that is, at Pale'ocastro, near the village of Castri.—New York Sun.
—On the 7th of August, a singularly gifted lady died at the Hospital of St. Agnes, Baltimore,
in the person of an humble religious of the Visi-itation Order. Her name in religion was Sister Mary Agnes. She possessed one of the most remarkable voices ever heard in America, and her pupils in vocal culture are scattered all over the coun- ' try. Before taking the veil her name was Louise Gubert. Her mother, the oldest sister of the late W. Milnor Roberts, the civil engineer, who died last year in Brazil, married Mr. Gubert, a Frenchman and a Catholic, and soon after that event became a convert to the faith. Both the parents of Louise were gifted with fine voices, and years ago led a church choir in Philadelphia as soprano and tenor. Louise entered the convent at Georgetown, and, after making her profession, was transferred to Mt. de Chantal Academy, in Wheeling. While at this institution she was visited by many noted vocalists. Here it was the late Parepa Rosa first heard Sister Agnes sing, and frankly acknowledged that her voice was the sweetest she had ever heard. Gottschalk, the great pianist, recorded in his journal, published some time since, that at Wheeling he had heard the greatest cantatrice known to the world. Sister Mary Agnes was the eldest and the sole surviver of a family of twelve children. Her voice was a wonderfully high, pure ,and strong soprano, and she had, besides, almost a genius for musical composition. So rare a combination of the qualities of a great vocalist have seldom been found in one person. If she had not been a nun, she would have been a prima donna. Her taste was peculiarly delicate, and many of the favorite exercises of her pupils were compositions of their teacher. She was about 45 years of age at the time of her death. Reqtdescat in ^ace.
—J. R. G. Hassard, in his contribution to the Century upon Wagner’s Operas, pointedly attacks his growing immorality and lack of reverence for things held sacred. Mr. Hassard, it will be remembered, is the author of a “ Life of Pope Pius IX.” “In Parsifal the remoteness of the personages from whatever touches the heart of mankind is absolute. They are the vaporous symbols of a mystical and ill-defined idea. That an opera should be unsympathetic is, according to Wagner’s own principles, a terrible blemish. But this is not the only evil consequence of his devotion to the myth. As he has gradually withdrawn himself from the atmosphere of reality to muse over gods and volsungs and abstractions, he has lost a great deal of that perception of the existing conditions of society— in other words, that common sense, which the dramatist must preserve if his works are to be acted. In dim legendary periods certain actions were tolerable which our civilization does not willingly look at. Wagner has always been prone to forget this. Some of the stage directions in Tannhauser could not be obeyed, at least in their spirit, in any American or English theatre. As for the gross divinities and incestuous heroes of the Nibelung, they are now and then unfit for decent company. But the most appalling example of Wagner’s growing insensibility to causes of offence is seen in Parsifal.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
23
We have there a ceremony of baptism; we have a Magdalene wiping Parsifal's feet with her hair; but the dramatic motive and culminating scene of o _______________________________________ the work is the celebration of the Eucharist. The knight, as has already been observed, is not installed until he has been tempted. . . . The cancan and the Holy Communion are represented on the same boards, without a thought that there can be an impropriety in acting either.”—American Art Journal.
Books and Periodicals.
The Outline of Standard Phonography. By Andrew J. Graham. New York: Published by Andrew J. Graham, 744 Broadway.
This is a new and improved edition of Mr. Graham’s “Little Teacher” and will prove a very convenient pocket companion to the student of Mr. Graham’s modification of the Pitman phonography. It is divided into four parts: (1) the Outline, giving a general view of the system, well adapted to impress upon the mind the leading principles of the art; (2) the Little Reader, consisting of short reading exercises on each section of the Outline; (3) Writing exercises, in common print, forming a key to the stenographic reading exercises; and (4) a supplement of word-signs and contractions in the corresponding style of writing. The tables of prefix and affix signs at the end of the book show at a glance the rules for the formation and correct writing of such signs. The “Little Teacher” is neatly bound in cloth, with embossed title.
—St. Nicholas for September presents a pleasing divertisement in stories, beautiful pictures, puzzles, etc., for the young folks. Older people, too, who have had a glimpse of the earlier chapters of Mrs. Mary Mapes Dodge’s story of “ Donald and Dorothy ” will undoubtedly follow it to the conclusion, which will be next month. Don is in Europe, endeavoring to solve the mystery of Dorry’s identity—to ascertain whether the little shipwrecked girl is Dorry or Delia—and Japhet, in search of his father, did not run after noses with greater pertinacity than Don after traces of the nurse among the many Ellen Lees to be met with in Europe. Clara Erskine Clement’s ninth paper of the “ Stories of Art and Artists ” is instructive and pleasant reading, arid beautifully illustrated, with views of Brunelleschi’s dome at Florence, the Ghiberti Gates, and Donatello’s Dancing Chil-dren and statue of St. George. “The Doll that Couldn’t Spell her Name,” and “ The Marlborough Sands” are for girls and boys respectively, and cannot fail to please them. The frontispiece —“ What makes it go ? ”—designed by Merrill and engraved by Cullen, is a masterpiece. The natural history sketches—this, tirne the elephant—are handsomely illustrated.
—The American Catholic Quarterly for July comes laden with a rich freight of intellectual matter. Each succeeding number of this periodical has of late risen in the scale of excellence until now we sit down to it with as much pleasure as we did formerly to the Dublin, The Edinburgh, and the best among the Old-World periodicals. Since the Scholastic began to call attention to The North-American, The Century, St. Nicholas and other magazines we have noticed their appearance in many of our college contem- '■ poraries. We would wish they would now add to these the treat that is stored up in the pages of The American Catholic Quarterly. It has been said of The Dublin Review that it was as popular among the non-Catholics of England as among those of the faith in whose interest it was published, for the reason that when they wished to know the position and tendency of Catholic thought and Catholic Philosophy a sure indication • of this was to be found in its pages; the samemay also, in a measure, be said of The American Catholic Quarterly, and those who would be rightly informed should not fail to avail themselves of the knowledge it imparts. The leading article of the current issue, “ What is the Outlook for our Colleges ? ” gives a glimpse of what they have been in the past, of their condition now, and the position they hold with regard to the interests of the public. Text-books are also alluded to. “King James I of England,” by R. M. Johnston, explains why a convert had “ to part from the inno- • cent veneration which our childhood paid to one to whom in our simplicity we believed that next to God we owed the gift of the Book of Life.” The life of James, the in grate and apostate son of Mary Queen of Scots, is reviewed xat length. Joseph A. Nolan, Ph. D., gives a sketch of a charac- . ter far different from the preceding, that of “Robert Southwell, S. J.,” priest and poet, who, simply because he was a priest, was hanged at Tyburn in the reign of Elizabeth. “ Garibaldi and the Revolution in Italy” is by John McCarthy; “Protestant Churches- and Church-goers,” by . John Gilmary Shea, LL. D.;—the names of this writer is sufficient security for thoughtful writing and good reading. “Nearing the Pole,” by A. de G., evolves strange truths in its parallels between religion and modem scientific teachings. « The Decline of Painting as a Fine Art,” by Arthur Waldron, shows rare artistic perception and genius in the writer,—a very interesting article for readers of taste and culture; “The DeisticRevelation of Spiritism,” by Rev. J-. F. X. Hoefler, S. J., is the continuation of a subject hitherto noticed in these pages. “ Michael Davitt’s Scheme for Nationalizing the Land ” is a thoughtful article by George D. Wolff, editor of The Catholic Standard; Correspondence—“Religious Dissensions in England—Anglicanism—Ritualism— Scepticism,” is from an Oxford Graduate. The Quarterly is for sale by Catholic booksellers generally at" $1.2 5 a number.. Published by Hardy & Mahony, 505 Chestnut st., Philadelphia, at $5 a year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WlMlWfSClIWE.
Woiare Dame, September 1 Os 188,2.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is 'called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.	’
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by then-general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,	•
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.^o for Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who nfay have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—Classes were begun promptly on the first Tuesday of September, about two hundred students being in attendance in all the departments, but as the opening day this year came so near the Feast of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin-, on Friday, the 8th, it was decided to postpone the opening Mass to that day. Classes on Tuesday and Wednesday were limited to half an hour each. On Friday, at eight o’clock, a solemn High Mass of the Holy Ghost was celebrated in the church at 8 o’clock, Rev. Vice-President Toohey being the celebrant, with the Rev. Nicholas Stoffel and Rev. Stanislaus Fitte as deacon and subdeacon. Rev. President Walsh delivered a very impressive discourse to the students on the opening of the scholastic year, dwelling particularly on the duty that devolved on them to begin well an epoch on which so much depended, and from which so much was expected by their parents, by themselves, and by their AlmaMaier. The labors of the year were placed under the protection of the Blessed Virgin, the Mother of God, on this the Feast of her ^Nativity, to ask her to obtain for all the grace to fulfil in a proper manner the duties that devolved upon them. They were then beginning one of the most important matters in life, to lay the foun
dation of a structure on which the success of their entire after-life might in a great measure depend, and it should be borne in mind that “ unless the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it.”
They had all recently left much-loved homes for a time, and to justify such a , sacrifice on the part of their parents and themselves, some reason of undoubted importance must have impelled them. Looking at the matter from a mere worldly and exterior point of view, it might be said that their object was the acquisition of a certain amount of practical knowledge to be of service to them in after-life. This was, unquestionably, an important object; and it became their duty to make the most of the advantages by which they would be surrounded during the coming year.
But important as was the acquiring of practical knowledge, it was not their only object in coming to Notre Dame. It was necessary to consider education in a broader sense. Man is not intellect alone, and the improvement of his intellect does not constitute the sum and substance of the education which he is capable of receiving. The polishing- of his manners and the strengthening of his moral nature are matters fully as important as the mastering of a certain amount of book-knowledge. The cultivation of all their faculties, and not simply of one, was the view taken of education at Notre Dame, and in this sense they would be frequently invited to consider it during the year. Viewing the matter from this standpoint, they could not fail to look upon the privileges which they enjoyed as of inestimable value, and they must consider the proper employment of the time at their disposal as one of the most sacred and ennobling duties that they owed to God, to their parents and to themselves. It was a duty to God, because the means by which He wished them during the coming year to advance the common end of all His creatures, i. c., the sanctification of their own souls, was a proper attention to the work of their education. Their heads and their hearts were the soil on whifch they were to labor; and it should be remembered that without hard and unremitting labor ho, harvest, .either of learning or of virtue, would ever be brought forth.
It was a duty which they owed their parents because the voice of nature alone would tell them that the}’ should do all in- their power to gratify the wishes and realize the hopes of those to whom under God they owed all that they had- and were.	-	'
Finally, it was a duty to themselves; because they were now at that stage in life in. which the seed for future good or evil, for lasting benefit or lasting ruin must be sowed. They were at an age when the mind and heart could not receive too much attention and care, and the means at their disposal would be such as to prepare them to meet and triumph over all the dangers and difficulties that awaited them in after-life.
' Among the particular advantages to be met with would be the constant attention of those around them to supply their every want. The spirit under
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
25
lying the rule of government' here was that of friends who had nothing more at heart than their advancement. The discipline was strict but not severe, and all were expected to conform to the rules laid down for the general good. Upon this would depend their personal and mutual happiness. The disciplinary code to which they would be subjected would stamp upon their characters the impress of qualities which would serve to enhance the value of the learning and virtue that they were at such pains to acquire. The Rev. speaker in conclusion said: “ By doing your duty faithfully you will become men of whom society, your Alma Mater, and your friends will be proud. Time and eternity depend on the performance of duties: resolve therefore to do your duty to God, to your parents, and to yourselves. Place your resolutions under the protection of Heaven, and the year spent at Notre Dame will be one of the happiest and most profitable you may ever expect to spend on earth.”
—Our readers may remember that some time last May there appeared in the columns of the Scholastic a poetic address in Latin to Pope . Leo XIII, from the Faculty and students of the University. At the same time" a description was given of its mechanical execution: showing it to be printed on silk, in beautifully illuminated characters,, with a dedication, and the representation of the Papal arms. It was intended that it should be presented to the Holy Father by Very Rev. Father Sorin, who was at the time in Rome. But unavoidable delays occurred, so that its presentation did not take place until last month.- Very. Rev. Father Pietro Battista, Procurator-General of the Order of the Holy Cross at Rome, was commissioned to present it to the Holy Father, and in a letter lately sent to Father Sorin he describes the manner in which it was received. We present the following extract:
“ Last Saturday-1 was granted a private audience with the Holy Father, who received me with paternal kindness. I presented the beautiful souvenir which tire University of Notre Dame du Lac had sent me to lay at the feet of His Holiness. The Holy Father read in my presence a part of the address, and expressed himself as greatly pleased,.saying that he would not fail to read the whole carefully at a more convenient time. His Holiness admired the beautiful work and commissioned me to thank you in his name.
“The Holy Father blesses all the innrates of the University, as well as the Congregation of the Holy Cross in general. He remembers distinctly the audience he granted you last May, and on receiving your souvenirt he said: ‘ Tell your Superior-General that you have given me the beautiful present from the University of Notre Danre.’ .1 will not tell you all the kind attention I received from His Holiness. Brother Achille, who is here at present and who accompanied me to the Vatican, was astonished at such a reception, but for my part I can but repeat, Non nobis, Domine, non nobis sed nomini tuo da gloriam'.
“ Accept, Rev. Father, my sincere thanks for the great honor you have bestowed upon me, in selecting me to be the bearer of the beautiful souvenir which expressed so admirably the sentiments, which the University of Notre Dame ever bears His Holiness.
* “-The Holy Father enjoys excellent health;” -	'
i	-
—We learn with pleasure that a new edition, of the works of the late Orestes A. Brownson, LL. D., is in course of preparation by his son, Henry F. Brownson, of Detroit, and will soon be published -by Thorndike Nourse, of that city-. The value of ‘ such a publication cannot be over-estimated. As a philosopher, the reputation of Dr. Brownson is world-wide, and his writings on vital questions of the day, and other topics have made his name a household word in his -own land. No better proof •could be given of the deep impress which he has left on the minds of his countrymen than the frequent inquiries which have been made for his writings and which have been so general on the part of the public as to suggest the thought of the present work. Many of Dr. Brownson’s writings are out of print, many others are scattered through different periodicals, and those that can be obtained are held at so high a price as to be inaccessible to a large number that would wish to possess them. Brownson? s Quarterly Review, containing only about one-half of the works to be published in the new edition, is sold for $200' or over, and even at that price is not complete, the first volume beingwanting. The new edition will be in 17 volumes octavo, 500 pages to the volume, and will be published at $3 a volume, with 20 per cent, discount to wholesale dealers and to subscribers that pay in advance for the entire set. The first volume is now in press, and will be ready in November; the succeeding volumes will appear at intervals of three months or less. The writings will be arranged under the heads of Philosophy, Modern Science, The Relations of Church and Society, Religious Controversy, Theology, Literature, and Politics at Home and Abroad, with a full Alphabetical Index in the last volume. Any volume may be ordered separately before its publication, and any particular work, as the Essay in Refutation of Atheism, The Spirit-Rapper, etc., may be ordered beforehand, and will be sold at a price: proportioned to the size. We regret to learn that the edition will be limited by the number of subscribers ordering before publication; those intending to subscribe, should, to make sure of the work, send their orders without delay, either to the editor or publisher.	.
Exchanges.
—The Detroit Free Press, always welcome, has been doubly so during the dog-days, to the stay-at-home members of the Scholastic editorial corps. .Its gossipy little siipplement, The Household, is just the thing to take the fancy of ladies, if we may judge from the number of letters that come’to it from all sections of the Union and upon all manner of subjects, but as our taste doesn’t run in the direction of crotchet-work and that kind of thing, we will not attempt to read The Household for the sake of giving an opinion, even if, in the words of “ Sans Souci,” wecc lose a gread deal ” by letting.it go, . But the Free Press proper is—un-
.	• j
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
mense. Funny paper! Of course it is. The editor need not say it isn’t, because he will not be believed. The editor probably doesn’t know what fun is, when he sees it or hears it. “Petroleum V. Nasby,” of the Toledo Blade, some time ago said the Free Press wasn’t as funny as it used to be; perhaps not, but a fair share of humor’still lurks in its pages,—that is, if we know what fun is, and we think we do.
—Among the papers that come to us is The Oriental Casket, of Philadelphia, edited by Emerson Bennett. Notwithstanding that it is handsomely printed, and on toned paper, we don’t like the Casket. The stories we do not read; they may be good enough, for aught we know, but the tone of the excerpta in the department entitled “ Rays of Mirth ” is anything but good. Anecdotes of sharp tricks, especially those that militate against a manful honesty, seem to be peculiarly attractive to the editor. The following is an instance:
“ Please, sir, here’s a five-cent piece I found on the floor.” The broker looked at Theodore a moment, and then said: “ You found that on the floor, did you? And you are hungry, aren’t you?” “Yes, sir,” replied Theodore. “Well, give it to me and get out. I was looking around for a partner; but a boy who doesn’t know enough to buy bread when he is starving to death would make but a sorry broker. No, boy, I can’t take you into the firm.” And Theodore never became a great broker. Honesty is the best policy, children, but it is not indispensable to success in the brokerage business.
It is needless to say that we advise young people —and old, too,—to let The Oriental Casket severely alone until it adopts a better code of morals.
—Amons late foreign Catholic College ex-changes we welcome The Oscotian, a monthly magazine of 48 pages, published at St. Mary’s College, Oscott, England, and *from the same country the St. Bedds College Gazette,—also monthly,— from St. Bede’s, Manchester. Also, Frondes Silvulce, a little magazine published monthly at the Salford Catholic Grammar School. The Os-cotian will compare favorably, we think, with the best of our American college magazines. The tone and scholarship of its poetry is certainly far superior to the average run in our magazines, and the prose essays will hold their own in comparison. Our English friends seem to court the muse ; more than their' American cousins, judging from the fact that no less than six ' pieces of poetry adorn the number of The Oscotian now before us,—one of these in German, another in French. “ Marley-in-the-Mud ” is a readable sketch, of the Thackeray an school, with not a little of Newman’s learned humor intermingled. The essay on “The Vedanta Philosophy” would probably be characterized as heavy by our college critics, but the fact of our having drifted to such an opposite extreme in college literature is not to our credit. The tourist who wrote his “ Impressions of Bot-zen ” cannot be much enamored o.f the American character if he judges it by the Yankee who accompanied him across the Channel, and “who, having forty-eight hours to spare, thought he
would just run over and do Paris in that time!” We hope however, our English friend will not rashly judge us as a nation.
Personal.
—J. M. Armstrong, of ’60, is in the real estate business, in Chicago.
—Chas. V. Larkin (Com’l), of ’79, is engaged in business at Wheeling, W. Va.
—Douglas J. Cook, of ’59, is Secretary of the St. Louis Mining Co., St. Louis, Mo.
—Frank Carroll, ’77, of Charlestown, Mass., enjoyed a trip over the Rocky Mountains during vacation.
—-J. B. Runnion, ’58, is connected with the Chicago Tribtme. He has already become celebrated as a dramatic author.
—Albert Rohrbach (Com’l), ’81, holds a position in the wholesale clothing establishment of his uncle, at 49, 3d st., Philadelphia.
—Robert Parkington (Com’l), of ’75, is employed as Accountant for the Traveller’s Accident Insurance Co., at Indianapolis, Ind.
—-James Connor (Com’l), of ’62, is foreman with H. H. Schufeldt & Co., Chicago, and is rapidly becoming a prominent business man.
. —F. P. Leffingwell, of ’72, is now practising law with great success in Chicago. He visited the University last week, bringing with him a younger brother to school.
—Among the most welcome visitors during the CJ	__ o
vacation were the Very Rev. T. J.. Johnston, Vicar-General of the Diocese of San Antonio, Texas, and his brother J. T. Johnston, one of the most prominent business-men of Detroit, Mich., and an old and valued friend of Notre Dame.
—Frank Upman, of ’69, late proprietor of Up-man’s Hotel, St. Paul, Minn., is at present the genial host of the Briggs House, Chicago. He paid a short visit to the College last week, bringing a companion who entered as a student. Frank looks as strong and hearty as when, in days of yore, his voice rang through the College halls.
—We were pleased with a call, last week, from Mr. B. Eisenhauer, of Huntington, Ind., who came to Notre Dame with his sons, and other young gentlemen of his neighborhood now attending the College. Mr. Eisenhauer is a genial Catholic gentleman of the genuine stamp—one whom it is a pleasure to meet and converse with.
—T. , W. Ewing, founder of the Columbus Herald, has been appointed Consul to Annaberg, Saxony. We congratulate our friend upon this public recognition of his merits. Tom will prove a valuable officer of Uncle Sam.—Catholic Columbian, Columbus.
Mr. Ewing graduated with the class of ’69. We join with the Columbian in tendering our congratulations on his new appointment.
—During the latter part of the vacation Notre Dame was visited by the Rev. Father Semmes, of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,	. 27
Pio Nono College, Ga., a gentleman of genial manners, extensive learning and solid worth. We hope that when he comes North again he will be able to pay us a longer visit. Father Semmes is a cousin of the famous Southern Admiral, and was a surgeon in the Confederate Army during the late war.	■
—“ The Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S. C., of Notre Dame University, arrived yesterday at the Clifton with a party of students from Denver, Col. Among the young students are many of the first families of Denver and other parts of the Centennial State. They came through from Denver on a special palace car, and do not look at all fatigued after their long journey. They leave on this , morning’s train for Notre Dame, all in the best of health and spirits.”—Chicago Tribune, Sept. 9th.
—The Daily Herald, of Dubuque, Iowa, pays Prof. P. F. McSweeny a high compliment for ability and personal worth on the occasion of his resigning the chair of Philosophy at St. Joseph’s College, in that city, to take the chair of Natural Sciences at the University of Notre Dame. The Herald editorial represents Prof. McSweeny as a man of broad culture and wide information, and speaks of his departure as a loss to St. Joseph’s College and Dubuque. Prof. McSweeney completed his studies in Rome, and obtained there, among other honors, the degrees of Doctor of Science and of Philosophy.
—The Republican Convention of the 13th Congressional district of Indiana has chosen, by a unanimous vote, the Hon. Lucius Hubbard, of ’60, as its candidate for Circuit Judge. The men of ’60 (please don’t pun upon this) will be glad to learn of Mr. Hubbard’s high standing o	00
with his party, for we have been told he was also popular among his college mates. Hon. Lucius Hubbard is considered one of the ablest lawyers in Indiana, and is not unknown to the boys of today, he having lectured for us, not long since, in Phelan Hall. All, irrespective of party, wish the old Notre Dame boy success.
Local Items.
—Chihuahua!
—Glad to see you back!
—The Juniors scored the first hundred.
—The third 100 was reached on Wednesday.
—The St. Cecilians were the first to reorganize.
—The Graduates have had to annex another table.	.
—The “most beautiful coat” has been given o
away.
—The Euglossians will appear in full force on the 13th.
—Our friend John says that that break was tricherous.. ’
—-A beautiful new fountain has been put up in front of the “ Palace.”
—Competitions will begin two weeks hence in the Preparatory department.	-	•,
—The new mural painting of “Columbus in * Chains ” will soon be completed.	,
—Classes were inaugurated on the .5th inst., and are now in good running order, o	o	.
—The societies are reorganizing rapidly. Lists of officers will be published next week..
—Our “box” will be found in the printingoffice, on the right of thefirst entrance.
—A Band in the Juniors and a Total Abstinence Society are matters now on the tapis.
—The cabinet makers are busy at work making fine cases, desks, etc., for the new library room.
—The attendance this year is as much an improvement on last year as that was on former years. ,
—The Roll of Honor will be found in this . issue. Class Honors will be published two weeks hence.
—Though there has been quite an exodus from the Juniors, yet they keep the lead in point of numbers.
—Our friend John has applied for a position on the “Staff.” We have taken the matter under advisement.	■	'
—Trapezes, validores and other gymnastic appurtenances are going up at a-lively rate on the Minims’ Campus.	"	.
—The College has the largest Graduating Class since ’74. There are eight in the Classical Course and four in the Scientific.
—The old members of the Band displayed commendable zeal and activity in reorganizing so speedily after their return.	.	.
—We call attention to the article from the Chicago Tribune, entitled “Art at Notre Dame,” which appears in this issue.	.
—On dit that students should enter as soon as • they come upon the College grounds; for there is a day of reckoning. Verbum sap. ’
—The new refectory, study-hall and dormitories are admired by all visitors. The wing is certainly a thing of beauty as well as of convenience.
—Very Rev. Father General, assisted by-Rev. Father Granger, Rev. President Walsh and others of the Fathers, blessed the New Minim Hall, on; the 14th.	.
-—One who knows says: “The St. Cecilians. are lively; the Philopatrians expect to bear off the palm; the Euglossians have made themselves heard already.”
—The two beautiful little rooms in the front part of the Academy of Music have been placed at the services, one of the Graduating Class and the other of the Field Clubs.
-Twenty-four old Thespians responded to roll- . call. The genial President says that never, since-the foundation of the Society, was there such a ‘ ; large gathering at any first meeting.	. -
28	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The Curator of the Museum thanks Prof. Ackerman for a contemporary portrait of the Indian warrior Tecumseh. It makes a valuable addition to the collection of Indian relics.
—The services of un chef de cuisine have been engaged. To remove all anxiety and suspense, we are authorized to announce that he will begin operations on the xst of October.
—Prof. Edwards returns thanks to Master McConnell, of Des Moines, Iowa, for a large collection of coins; and to Master Baca, of Albuquerque, N. M., for photographs of Mexican scenery.
—There is a big boom this year for German and Phonography in the selection of studies. The new tutor would do well to betake himself to Notre -Dame as soon as possible and get his hand in.
—The Right Rev. Bishop of Fort Wayne passed a few days at the College last week. His Lordship was in good health, and manifested his usual kind interest in the welfare of the students.
—Those who have seen the New Minim Hall say that it far surpasses the description given in the previous number of the Scholastic. That the Minims are happy in it there can be no doubt.
•—There is every prospect of a fine musical department. The directors confidently assei'Lthat, instrumentally and vocally, music at Notre.. Dame will this year reach a standard of excellence never - before attained.
Prof. Paul is very enthusiastic about the Band. Most of the members are old and skilled players, and no doubt will produce such music as was never heard' here before. We impatiently await the first public performance.
—The contest for Medals in several of the classes—notably, the Senior Classical, the Junior Scientific, the Junior Classical and the Freshman Classical—promises to be very close and exciting. May the best man win!
—Our friend John wrote to us during vacation and thus expressed himself: “Societas est intensa, exterius exterior, quoquius quoque. Saltatio quo-■ tidie ab octava hora usque ad mediam noctem.
Saltavine ego? SubrideremT
” —The phenomenal increase of the Minim department is exciting the admiration of everybody. It is confidently expected that before October they will number one hundred (100) and thereby secure their grand Parisian dinner.
—It has been decided to remove the Minims’ play-hall some fifty feet, so that it may be on a line with the main building. It will be considerably enlarged and improved in order to satisfy the imperative demands of the rapidly increasing number of little ■princes. ' -
—Work on the new Gymnasium is progressing rapidly. When completed it will be a fine building. Its dimensions will be 145 ft. long, 45 ft. wide, and 25 ft. in height. We understand that there will be an annex in which will be found the confectionery store and barber shop.
—Father Zahm reports himself as more than
pleased with his stay at Chihuahua. The Governor of the State, whom he expects to pay a visit to Notre Dame during the coming year, he pronounced to be one of the most genial and accomplished gentlemen that he has ever met.
—The Juniors enjoyed an ice-cream festival last Wednesday evening. Choice music was furnished by the Crescent Club Orchestra, under the direction of Prof. Paul. Master Schott, of Fort Wayne, contributed not a little to the pleasure of the occasion, by his fine performance on the piano.
—We were pleased to receive a visit from the Rev. P. W. Condon, who dropped in on his way from Canada to Watertown, Wis., the seat of his mission. The Rev. gentleman looks the picture of health, and was warmly greeted by his friends of the Facuity and many of the old students whom he used to direct in days of yore.
—Last Saturday evening the members of the Crescent Club held their first sociale in the reading-rooms, under the new Washington Hall, in the Academy of music. Rev. President Walsh, Vice-President Toohey, and several members of the Faculty, together with all the old students, and many new ones, were present.
—A portion of the lower floor of the Academy of Music has been transformed into reading-rooms for the students. They have been well fitted up, wainscoted, calcimined, and made as convenient and comfortable as possible. They will be supplied with all the valuable exchanges that come to The “Ave Maria^ and Scholastic.
—The arrival of the Denver delegation was one of the most awe-inspiring and, at the same time, picturesque events of the season. The outriders on burros, Grand-MarshalShickey with wand of office in hand, the dusky-hued Chihua-huans, and the manly; auburn-locked figure of the officer of the day, made a scene long to be remembered by all observers..
—Thursday, the Feast of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross, was the 41st anniversary of Very Rev. Father Sorin’s first landing in New York. The occasion was a happy one for himself as well as his friends. The members of’ the Sorin Literary and Dramatic association presented him a beautiful and touching address, congratulating him on the wonders God had enabled him to do in the two score years that he has been in America.
—Mr. Mason, President of the Excelsior Iron Works, Chicago, and father of Master Carlyle Mason, of the Junior department, has kindly promised to donate a valuable Gold Medal to the Junior department, for some purpose to be agreed upon between him and the President of the University. Mr. Mason is entitled to the gratitude of the Juniors, and we are confident that his liberality will be the occasion of exciting a laudable emulation among the students.
—We are happy to announce that we have a rich treat in store for our readers. We shall, in a short time, publish a new play, written expressly for.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
29
the Dramatic Association, by Prof. A. J. Stace. The mere mention of the name of the writer precludes all necessity for comment upon the literary and dramatic excellence of the work. The play is entitled “ Romulus and Remus,” and is based upon the historico-mythological legend of the building of the city of Rome. The first act is now completed, and it has been our privilege to peruse it. The second act is in course of preparation, and it is said will be “terrifically solemn.” We hope that when the time comes, it will be produced with all the “accessories” befitting its excellence as a drama.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Armijo, Bailey, Bowers, Brady, Brown, Chelini, Castenado, Craig, Clements, Campbell, Celia, Conway, J. Donohue, Drover, Dorsey, M. Donohue, Eisenhauer, Eaton,' Freese, Farrell, Fitzgerrard, Fitzgerrell, Fleming, Gray, Grever, Guthrie, Golonski, Grange, Wendell, Hofstetter,! Jones, Johnston, Kelly, Kolars, Kimmell, Koehler, Kuhn,: Kavanagh, Lease, Larkin, McErlaine, Marlett, McCarthy, J. McNamara, T. McNamara, Molloy, Mullen, McIntyre, C. Murdock, S. Murdock, H. Noble, Neeson, Noonan, O’Neill, Otis, O’Reilly, Pour, Parrot, Peery, Quinn, Ratterman, Rhodius, Rodgers, Ryan, Sturla, Solon, Stover, Smith. Steele, Seitz, Stull, Saviers, Wendell, Warren, Warner, Wheatley, Whalen, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Armijo, Auston, Ackhoff, Allen, Baurmann, Brice, Browne, Berthelet, Bacon, Bush, Brewster, Courtney, Courtney, Currier, Cassilly, Coover, Droste, Danielson, Dupke, Devereux, Dolan, Dickerson, Dorenburg, Dillon, De Haven, Donnersberger, Dwenger, Dunn, Dean, Eisen-hamer, M. Foote, H. Foote, Fehr, Farrelly, Fraine, Ferguson, Fendrich, Fishel, Goldsmith, Grothaus, Gerlach, Henderson, Hornaday, Hibbeler, Hess, Herrmann, Halligan, Hellebush, Hetz, Hanavin, Holbrook, Hagan, Johnson, Jeannot, Kahman, Kerndt, Katz, Kengel, Livingston, Lund, Leffingwell, Ludewig, McCawley, Mug, T. McGrath, J. McGrath, Mason, Muller, Miller, Metz, T. Mc-Gordon, McDonald, Morris, Murphy, J.' O’Donnell, D. O’Connor, Ohneck, M. O’Connor, Peery, Peters, Pick, Roper, Rhodus, Rothschild, Schott, Schillo, Smith, Seegers, Schaefer, Smeeth, Sanford, Talbot, Taylor, Violette, Warren, Warner, White, Walsh, Worcester, Wagoner, Wilkenson, Wile, Zaehnle, Zeigler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Adams, Beall, Bunker, Bannantine, G. Costigon, E. Costigon, Chaves, Colwell, Cummings, Coad, Devereux, Dirksmeyer, F. Dunford, G. Dunford, H. Dyer, J. Dyer, Harris, Hynes, Huestis, Hopkins, Johnson, Kellner, Keeffe, Kraus, Luther, Landerwich, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, Lare, J. J. McGrath, Moss, Morrison, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, Masi, McGordon, Metz, McPhee, McGuire, F. Otis, A. Otis, T. Otis, Pick, W. Prindiville, Papin, D. Prindiville, Quinlin, Rebori, Rea, Roper, Roberts, Sommer, Stange, Spencer, Studebaker, Smith, Schmitz, Thomas, Unger, Warner, Walsh, Whitney, Welch, L. Young, C. Young.
Every man is fond of striking the nail on the head; but, when it happens to be the fingernail, his enthusiasm becomes wild and incoherent.
One Mile TPest of Notre Dame University.
—Monday morning found the study-halls full of bright,'intelligent pupils, eager to take advantage of the coming ten months of study.
—A large number of distinguished visitors from all parts of the Union are daily to be seen enjoying the landscapes and other beautiful accessories of St. Mary’s.
—Father General has already given two excellent sermons in presence of the young ladies; the first at the close of the Mass on Friday, and another on Monday morning, in the Chapel of Loretto.
—The following post-Graduates have visited St. Mary’s this summer: the Misses. M. Shirland, I. Bennett, M. Brady, A. O’Connor, A. Walsh, S. Moran, I. Fisk, R. Netteler, N. McGrath, A. Gordon, M. Usselman, C. Clafiey and S. Walsh.
—At eight o’clock on Friday, the Feast of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, a solemn High Mass was celebrated by Very Rev. Father General, assisted by Rev. Fathers Shortis and~ Saulnier. It was the Mass of the Holy Ghost, which, in accordance with the usual custom, always marks the formal opening of the scholastic : year.
—A veritable donkey from the breezy-mountain heights of Colorado has been furnishing much amusement to the Junior and Minim departments. The imperturbable quadruped seems to take the vrass and clover of the lawns surrounding the O	•	o
Academy as his “inalienable right.” Some note him as a visitor, others as an acquisition; his little friends and travelling-companions wish him to take up hi's permanent residence here.
Obituary.
—The many friends of Miss Catharine Hackett, of Watertown, Wis., Class ’81, will be grieved to hear of her early death. Like a tired child going to sleep, she passed away calmly and peacefully, after a lingering illness, on the beautiful Feast of the Assumption. No day could be more appropriate than the one decreed by Divine Providence for the departure from earth of this lovely and beloved child of Mary. Requiescat in face!
It is said that in some parts of Turkey, whenever a shopkeeper is convicted of telling a falsehood, his house is at once painted black, to remain so for a month. If there was such a law in force in this country, what a sable and gloomy appearance some people’s houses would present!
3°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
(Selections from “Rosa Mystica” and “ St. Mary’s. Chimes,” monthly MS. papers edited by the young ladies of the Senior Department.)
The Nativity of the Blessed Virgin.
How tenderly above the vales
The wealth of morning spreads;
The air is fresh with cheering gales, And on their odorous beds
The flowerets, radiant with bright dew, Seem welcoming the light
That merges from the skies of blue To scatter shades of night.
But light, and flowers, careering breeze, And golden autumn air
Which floats above the date-palm-trees To linger softly there,
Are now transfused with blissful charms Earth ne’er before hath seen,
Since Anna holds within her arms The saints’ and angels’ Queen.
’Tis Blessed Mary’s natal day;
What birthday is so bright?
The Cherubim their ranks array In homage at the sight.
There, set apart as “ full of grace,”
The peerless babe reclines;
Celestial beauty from her face Beams forth in all its lines.
We may not speak of gifts that reign In her unequalled mind,
With powers undimmed by primal stain, And grand as God designed;
But this we know, that on that morn (Blest be the grace to know)
The sinners’ truest friend was born, In Satan’s deadliest foe.
Azure Skies and their Cloud-Drapings.
The sacred painters dealt in supernatural subjects exclusively, and, as an almost invariable accessory to their pictures, we find ethereal, rolling clouds. These great artists delighted in boundless space, in mysterious, infinite distances. Deeply must they have been impressed with the sublimity of the huge, white undulations of vapor, or the dark rolling masses of changing mist, for the}’- have communicated to their works that which inspires a reverential awe in the beholder. In their pictures they have peopled each fold with the faces of cherubs and angels, wondrous in beauty, and so lifelike in form that we can almost hear the rustling' of their wings.
Chrysostom, the “Homer of Christian Orators,” the “ Augustine of the Greeks,” the “ Golden Mouth,” has beautifully expressed the charms of cloudland, comparing it with earth. “ There is,” says he, “ a meadow on the earth, and a meadow, too, in the sky; there are the various flowers of the stars; the rose below, the rainbow above. Look
up to heaven,” he says, “and see how much more beautiful it is than the roof of palaces! The pavement of the palace above is much more grand than the roof below.”
Clouds have been called the “ angels of the sea,” sent to refresh the earth which would be so dreary and lifeless without their cheering ministrations. Lovely, indeed, are they, as they rest in the mild embrace of the blue summer sky; they spread a regal throne for the sun at day-dawn, and no crimson from the looms of India could equal their splendor. As the “ glorious king of day ” advances, clouds are stretched, before him, and form soft, level avenues, adorned with drapery of dazzling rose-color, blended with purple, deftly shaded off into mellow amber tints, which imperceptibly fade in the fathomless blue.
Clouds catch unnumbered hues to drape the heavens when night is drawing on and the sun is setting; and when the moon and stars come out, their silvery radiance is scarcely less brilliant. Who does not feel humbled before the majestic revelation of nature in the clouds, so far beyond the reach of man’s most lofty superstructure ? Even the great artist, as he watches the light on the summer fields, or through the “ trellised branches of the *	o	e
trees,” or as he gazes on the floods of liquid fire that surrounds the sun in his western glory, is baffled in portrayal, blushes at his efforts, and is confounded before the work of the Divine artist. Many, it is true, pass unheeded these wonders of the sky; but if some have failed to admire and appreciate, others are not so insensible to these vapory blossoms of ether.
Clouds are unshrouded in mystery which not only enhances their beauty, but makes a deeper, and more lasting impression on the human heart. We, also, are mysterious in our natures, and in our destiny, surrounded by clouds which hide from our mortal view the “ unseen glories of immensity.”
Human happiness consists in contemplating mysteries, and we are well content to find an opening between the clouds, or a glimpse through the misty film by which we may discern substantial things. The great charm of life lies in the uncertainty of the future. Should we see all that lies before us, we might, in our human weakness, shrink from the ordeal—from .the sorrows and responsibilities of life.
A. celebrated author has written: “Between earth and man rose the leaf; between heaven and man the cloud, his life being partly as the fallen leaf and partly as the flying vapor.”
The clouds are but a prototype of the life of man; they are to us a book of infinite wisdom. Watch their delicately-chiselled outlines against the cold blue background of the sky. They appear like mountain-chains of solid rock suspended in mid-air; approach them and they fade into vapor. Thus every object of human pursuit, however desirable it may appear at a distance, when within the grasp, fades away. The insecurity of earthly things drives us to seek the only immutable Good.
H. B.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. -
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 7, 1881, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.30 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.05 p.m.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
9.27 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a.m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m.
12.38 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
6.35 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.25 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
4.48 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.45 a.m. Chicago, 8.20 a.m.
7.40 a.m., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte, 8.44 a.m. Chesterton, 9.40 a.m.; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
1.17 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte 2.15 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m.; Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
4.26 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.18; Chesterton, 6.07 p.m.; Chicago, 8 p.m.
F. C. BAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup’t., Cleveland.
Watah, St Louis & Pacific Rwy.
St Mary’s Academy,
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC, AND SCHOOL OF DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE. (Notre Dame P. O., Indiana,) Conducted by the Sisters of-the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course is thorough in the Preparatory, Academic. and Classical grades.
The institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes.
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular course of academic studies.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a large Music Hall, aud twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition.—A large Musical Library in French, German, English, aud Italian. Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony.
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE.
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe, drawing and painting from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English, French, German. Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design. Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address	-
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Noire Dame P. O., Ind.
The Popular Passenger Route of America I
Chicago and Alton R. R.
Smooth Track, Steel Rails, and Elegant Equipment serve to make a
TRIP OVER THE WABASH
Safe, Rapid, and Pleasant I!!
*** Special Tickets Sold to Students attending Notre Dame University.
Tourist Tickets to all Summer Resorts throughout the Country, at Greatly Reduced Rates, for Sale by all Agents of the Great Wabash Route.
Special inducements offered to Colonist, LandSeeking, and Emigrant Parties.
IF YOU AKE CONTEMPLATING
A JOURNEY IN ANY DIRECTION you should apply either in person or by letter to the nearest Agent of
The Great Wabash Route
and obtain full information, Tickets, etc.
Rates always as Low as other Lines, and facilities for ease and comfort far superior.
F. A. Palmer, Pass, and Ticket Agent, Indianapolis, 40 W. Washington St.
J. M. Hall, Gen’l. Eastern Agt., Toledo, O.	’
F. E. Snow, Gen’l. Agt., Detroit, Mich.
B. F. Tichnor, Gen’l. Agt., Pass. Dept., 85 Clarke St., Chicago.
H. C. Townsend, Gen’l. Pass, and Ticket Agt., Saint Louis, Mo.
Robt. Andrews, Gen’l. Supt -	.
Jno. C. Gkautt, ad Vice-Prest., St. Louis, Mo.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Care, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Care andPullman Palace	•
Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
Vo extra charge for eeats in the finest Seclining Chair Palace Cars ta the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KAN SAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA.
The Best and Quickest Route from. Chicago to
MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VTA ST. LOUIS.
Tlie Siiort Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Ne braska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the .North and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and Information apply at any coupon Ticket Office •_ in the United States and Canada, or to	.
James Charlton,	J. C. McMullin,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Manager.
20 Dearborn at^ near cor. of Adama, Chicago.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Minim Department
This is a separate Department in the Institution of Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in Reading, Writing, Spelling, Arithmetic, Geography, Grammar, and United States History, is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—8125, per Session of Five Months. German, Latin, Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano-free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 1«, 1879.
UMAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUN*
TRYWILLSEE BY EXAMINING 1 HIS MAP THAT THE
	-Mail	♦Day Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -Mich City-“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo -*• Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p. m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a m 11 13 l- 12 15 p.m 1 40 4 05 •• 6 30 “
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo - ■ “ Niles - - - -“ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago		7 CO a. m 10 20 - 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ G 50 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 29 “ 7 40 “
•Kal. Accoro.	+ AHnnlic bxpreei*	tNighl Express.
4 (<! v.n.	5 15 p m	9 10 p n>
6 35 “	7 40 “	11 30 “
8 05 "	9 00 “	12 48 a m
9 50	10 28 “	2 28 “
	12 50 a.m	5 00 -
	3 35 “	S 00 “
•Jackton	+ Pacific	+Even’g
Express.	Express	Express.
5 55 p. m	9 50 p m.	810 p.m
	12 45 a.m.	115 “
4 50 a. m	2 43 “	1 38 a.m
b 50 “	415 “	3 30 “
8 f'8 “	5 30 “	4 55 “
10 35 “	8 00 “	7 30 “
Wlies and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 7'3 p.m. “ N. Dame—8 52 “ 6 15 “
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “ 715 “
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m.
“ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
cmnnuimciFim Calls the attention of travelers to the central poai-tion of its line, connecting the East and the West by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, Atchison, Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with aU the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches, Magnificent Horton Reclining Chair Cars, Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri River Points. Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
A New and Direct Line, via Seneca and Kankakee, has recently been opened between Richmond, Norfolk, Newport News, Chattanooga, Atlanta, Augusta, Nashville, LouisviUe, Lexington, Cincinnati, Indianapolis and Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneapolis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
All Through Passengers Travel on Fast Expreoa Trains.
Tickets for sale at aU principal Ticket Offices in the United States and Canada.
Baggage checked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less advantages.
For detailed information, get the Maps and Folders of the
GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE,
At your nearest Ticket Office, or address
R. R. CABLE, E. ST. JOHN,
Vice-Prw. & Gen’l M'g'r,	Gen’l Tkt. * Pass. Agt,
CHICAGO.

•Sunday excepted. tDaily. tSaturday and Sunday excepted.
O. W. Ruggles,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill. Gen’l Manager, Detroit. Midi. G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend. Ind.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
BY MAURICE J?. JSGfAJN.
Published to Am in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
.Price, $1, postpaid.
A ddress	x
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Crowned With Stars,
An Exquisite Volume of Poems in Honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven,
BY
Eleanor C, Donnelly.
Published to Aid in Placing on the Dome of the New University of Notre Dame, Indiana, a Colossal
Statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Crowned with Twelve Stars.
Price, -	-	• - gilt, $1.25; plain, $1.00.
Address STUDENTS’ OFFICE,
Notre Dame, Indiana.